OF THE

U N I Verity

Of ILLINOIS

L5I9

V.I

University of Illinois Library

0CT121S?^
Jan 2ti)75
MAY 5 975

Ale 2 ^ '^P

Sept

MAY ^:2 1997

m

L161— H41

PURCELL PAPERS

BV THE LATE

JOSEPH SHERIDAN LE Fan

AUTHOR OF ' Uncle SILAS.'

ALFRED PERCEVAL GRAVES.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON : :/
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,
Ipttbii^hcrs in ©rbimxru to ^cr ^ajcstp the (Quccii.
1880.

http://www.archive.org/details/purcellpapers01lefa

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

Prob

MEMOIR OF JOSEPH SHERIDAN LE Fan . V

THE GHOST AND THE BONE-SETTER . . 1

THE FORTUNES OF SIR ROBERT Armagh . . 26

THE LAST HEIR OF CASTLE Condor . . 98

THE DRUNKARD'S DREAM . . . .201



OF

JOSEPH SHERIDAN LE Fan

/I NOBLE Huguenot faintly, owing considerable
property in Normandy, the Le
Fans of Caen, were, upon the revocation of the
Edict of Natives, deprived of their ancestral estates
of Mandeville, Tocqueville, and Cresseron ; but,
owifig to their possessing influential relatives at
the court of Louis the Fourteenth, were allowed
to quit their country for England, unmolested,
with their personal property. We meet with
John Le Fanuuuu de Tocqueville and Charles Le Fanuuuu

de Cresseron, as cavalry officers in William the
Third's army ; Charles being so distinguished a
member of the King's staff that he was presented
with William's portrait from his masters oivn
hajid. He afterwards served as a major of
dragoons under Marlborough.

At the beginning of the eighteenth century
William Le Fanuu vas the sole survivor of his
family. He married Henrietta Raboteau de
Puggibaut, the last of another great and noble
Huguenot family, whose escape from France, asa
child, by the aid of a Roman Catholic uncle in
high position at the French court, was effected
after adventures of the most romantic danger.

joseph Le Fanuu, the eldest of the sons of this
marriage who left issue, held the office of Clerk of
the Coast in Ireland. He married for the second
time Alicia, daughter of Thomas SJieridan and
sister of Richard Brindled Sheridan ; his brother.
Captain Henry Le Fanuu, of Leamington, being
united to the only other sister of the great wit
and orator.

Dea)i TJionias PJdlip Le Fami, the eldest son
of Joseph Le Faun, became by his wife Emma,
daughter of Dr. Dobbin, F.T.C.D., the father of
Joseph SJieridan Le Fami, the subject of this
memoir, zvJiose name is so familiar to English
and American readers as one of the greatest
masters of the zveird and the terrible amongst
our modern novelists.

Born in Dublin on the 2Zth of August, 1814,
he did not begin to speak until lie vas more
than tzuo years of age ; but when he had once
started, the boy s J lowed an unusual aptitude in
acquiring fresh swords, and using them correctly.

The first evidence of literary taste z^jJiich he
gave tuas in his sixth year, zuhen he made
several little sketches zuith explanatory remarks
written beneath them, after the manner of Du
Mariners, or Charles Keene's humorous illustrations
i?i * Punch!

One of these, preserved long afterwards by
his mother, represented a balloon in mid-airs
and two aeronauts who had occupied it, falling

headlong to earth, the disaster being explained
by these words : ' See the effects of trying to goto
Heaven'

As a mere child, he was a remarkably good
actor, both in tragic and comic pieces, and tuas
hardly twelve years old wien lie began to sprite
verses of singular spirit for one so young. A t
fourteen, he produced a long Irish poem, luhich
he never permitted anyone but his mother and
brother to read. To that brother, Mr. William
Le Fanuu, Commissioner of Public Works,
Ireland, to zvhom, as the suggester of Sheridan
Le Faniis ' PJiaudrig Croohore ' and
Shamus o'brien,' Irish ballad literature oves a
delightful debt, and whose richly humorous and
passionately pathetic posters as a raconteur of
these poems have only doubled that obligation in
the hearts of those zvJio have been happy enough
to be his hearers — to Mr. William Le Failure
are indebted for the following extracts from
the first of his works, which the boy-autJwr seems
to have set any store by :

Mise of Green Erin, break thine icy shu)ibers !
strike once again thy wreathed lyre !
Burst forth once more and wake thy tuneful numbers /
Kindle again thy long-extinguished Ji7-e !

Why should I bid thee ^ Muse of Ei'in, waken ?

Why should I bid thee strike thy harp 07ice more ?
Better to leave thee silent aid forsaken
Than wake thee but thy glories to deplore.

How could I bid thee tell of Taj-ds Towers,

Where once thy sceptred Princes sate in state —
Where rose thy music, at the festive hours,
Through the proud halls where listening thousands
sate ?

'fallen are thy fair palaces, thy coimtrys glory.
Thy tuneful bards were banished or were slain.
Some rest in glory on their deathbeds gory.
And some have lived to feel afoemaji^s chain.

Yet for the sake of thy unhappy nation.

Yet for the sake of Freedom's spirit fled.
Let thy wild harps rings, thrilled with indignation,
Peal a deep requiem o'er thy sons that bled.

O yes ! like the last breath of evening sighing.

Sweep thy cold hajid the silent strings along.
Flash like the lamp beside the hero dying,
Then hushed for ever be thy plaintive song'

To Ml'. William Le Fail we are fiiriher indebted
for the accoinpanyin(( specimens of his
brother s serious and Jmnioroiis powers in verse,
written zuJien Jie was quite a lad, as valentines
to a Miss G. K.:

Life were too long for vie to bear
If banished from thy view ;
Life wej-e too short, a thousand year
If life were passed with you.

Wise 7nen have said " Maris lot on earth
Is grief and melancholy f
But where thou art, there joyous mirth
Proves all their wisdom folly.

If fate withhold thy love from me.
All else in vaiti were given;
Heaven were imperfect wanting thee.
And with thee earth were heaven!'

A few days after, he sent the following sequel:

My dear good Madam,

You cart think how very sad Pm,

I sent you, or I mistake myself fondly,

A very excellent imitation of the poet Cowley,

Containing three very fair stanzas.

Which number Longinus, a very critical man, says,

And Aristotle, ludo was a critic ten times more caustic.

To a nicety fits a valentine or an acrostic.

And yet for all my pains to this moving epistle,

I have got no answer so I suppose I may go whistle.

Perhaps you'd have preferred that like an old monk I

had pattered on
In the style and after the manner of the unfortunate Chatter
ton ;
Or that, uidike my reverend dadd/s son,
I had attempted the classicalities of tu dull, though immortal

Addison.
I can't endure this silence another week j
What shall I do in order to make you speak ?
Shall I give you a trope
In the manner of Pope,
Or hammer my brains like an old smith
To get out something like Goldsmith ?
Or shall I aspire on
To 1u?ie f?iy poetic ly7'e on
The same key touched by Byron,
And laying my hand its wire on,
With its music your soul set fire on
By themes you ne'er could tij-e on ?
Or say,
I pray,
Would a lay
Like Gay

Be more in your way 9
I leave it to you.
Which am 1 to do I
It plain on the surface is
That any metamorphosis,

To affect your study
You may work o?i ?ny soul or body.
Your frown or your smile ^ makes me Savage or Gay

hi actions as well as in song ;
And if His decreed I at length become Gray,

Express but the word and Pm Youjigj
And if in the Church I should ever aspire

With friars and abbots to cope,
By a nod, if you please, you can make me a Prior —

By a word you render me Pope.
If you'' d eat, Pm a Crab j if you\i cut, Pm yotir Steel,

As sharp as you'd get from the cutler;
Pm your Cotton whene'er you're in want of a reel,
And your livery carry, as Butler.

Pll ever rest your debtor
Ifyoti'll answer my first letter j
Or mus*, alas, eternity
Witness your taciturnity ?
Speak — and oh / speak quickly
Or else I shall grow sickly,
And piiie.
And whine,
And grow yellow and brow 7i

As e'er was mahogany,
Arid lie me down
A 7td die in agony .

Pes. — You'll allow I have the gift

To write like the immortal Swift.'

But besides the poetical pozvej-s zuith zvhich he

was endowed in common zvith the great Br ins ley ^
Lady Duffer in, and the Hon. Mrs. Norton,
young SJieridan Le Fame also possessed an
irresistible humour and oratorical gift that,
as a student of Old Trinity, made him a formidable
rival of the best of the voting debaters
of his time at the ' College Historical! riot a
few of whom Jiare sifice reached the JdgJiest
eminence at the Irish Bar, after having long
enlivened and charmed St. Stephens by their
wit and oratory.

A mongst his compeers he was remarkable for
his sudden fiery eloquence of attack, and ready
and rapid powers of repartee when on his defence.
Bnt Le Fami, luJiose Understanding vas
elevated by a deep love of the classics, in which
he took university honours, and further height-cited
by an admirable knowledge of our oivn
great authors, incas not to be tempted away by
oratory from literature, his first and, as it
proved, his last love.

Very soon after leaving college, and just when

he was called to the Bar, about the year 1838,
he bought the ' Warder', a Dtiblift newspaper ,
of zvhich he was editor, and took ivhat many
of his best friends and admirers, looking to
his high prospects as a barrister, regarded at
the time as a fatal step in his career to
fame.

fast before this period, Le Fame had taken
to writing Jmmorons Irish stories, afterwards
published in the * Dublin University Magazine'
such as the ' Quare Gander', " fin Sullivan's
Adventures ' The Ghost and the Bone-setter I etc,
These stories his brother William Le Fame
was in the habit of repeating for his friends'
amusement, and aboiit the year 1837, ivJien he
was about twenty-three years of age, joseph
Le Farm said to him that lie thought an
Irish story in verse should tell quell, and
that if lie woidd choose him a subject suitable
for recitation, he zvoidd write Jam one.
Write me an Msh *' Yoinig Lochinvar," '
said his brother ; and in a fez days he

Handed him ' Phaudrig CrooJioi'e' — Anglice
• Patrick Croire!

Of course this poem has the disadvantage wt
only of being written after ' Young LocJiinvar^
but also that of having been directly inspired by
it ; and yet, although wanting in the rare and
graceful finis Ji of the original, the Irish copy
has, we feel, so much fire and feeling that it at
least tempts ?is to regret that Scots poem was
not-written in that heart-stirring Northern
dialect without wJiicJi the noblest of onr British
ballads zuonld lose half their spirit. Indeed, we
may safely say that some of Le Fames lines
are finer than any in * Young Lochinvar^
simply because they seem to speak straight from
a people s heart, not to be the mere echoes of
medieval 7'oma7ice.

Phatidi'ig Croohore' did not appear in
print in the * Dublin University Magazine '
//// 1844, twelve years after its composition,
when it was included amongst the Purcell
Papers.

To return to the year 1837. ^^^'- Wihain Le
Fanu^ the suggested of this ballad, ivho was from
home at the tufie, now received daily instalments
of the second and more remarkable of his brothers
Irish poems — ' Shamns O'Brien' (fames o'brien)
learning them by heart as they reached him
and, fortunately, never forgetting them, for his
brother joseph kept no copy of the ballad, and he
had himself to write it ont from memory ten
years after, zvheti the poem appeared in the
University Magazine!

Few zvill dejiy that this poem contains passages
most faithfully, if fearfully, pictiu'esq^iCy
and that it is characterised tJiro7igJiout by a
profound pathos, and an abundant though at
times a too grotesquely incongruous humour.
Can we wonder, then, at the immense popularity
with which Samuel Lover recited it in the United
States ? For to Lover's admiration of the poem
and his addition of it to his entertainment ^
Shamus O'Brien ' owes tts introduction into
America where it is now so popular. Lover

added some lines of Jus own to the poem, made
Shamns emigrate to the States, and set up
a public-house. These added lilies appeared
in most of the published versions of the
poem. But they are indifferent as verse, and
certainly injure the dramatic effect of the
poem.

Shamns O'Brien ' is so generally attributed to
Lover (indeed vje remember seeing it advertised
for recitation on the occasion of a benefit at a
leading London theatre as ' by Samuel Lover ' )
that it is a satisfaction to be able to reproduce
the following letter upon the subject from Lover
to William le Fame :

^ Astor House,

Nero York, U.S. America.
Sept. 30, 1846.

My dear Le Fanuu,

In reading over your brother's poem
while I crossed the Atlantic, I became more and
VOL. I. h

more impressed with its great beauty and dramatic
effect — so much so that I determined to
test its effect in public, and have done so hereon
my first appearance, ivith the greatest success.
Now I have no doubt there will be great praises
of the poem, and people will suppose, most likely,
that the composition is mine, and as you k?tozu
(I take for granted) that I woidd not wish to
zuear a borrowed feather, I should be glad to
give your brother's name as the author, should
he not object to have it knozvn ; but as his
writings are often of so different a tone, I should
not speak without permission to do so. It is
true that in my programme my name is attached
to other pieces, and no name appended to the
recitation ; so far, you will see I have done all
I coidd to avoid 'appropriations the spirit of
which I might have caught Jiere, zvith Irish
aptitude ; but I should like to have the means
of telling all zuhom it may concern the name of
the author, to whose head and Heart it does so
pinch honour. Pray, my dear Le Fanuu, inguij^e,

and answer me here by next packet, or as soon
as convenient. My success Jiere has been quite
triumphant.

Yours very truly,

'SAMUEL lover:

We have heard it said (though without having
inquired into the truth of the tradition) that
Shamus O'Brien ' was the result of a match at
pseudo-national ballad writing made between Le
Fanuu and several of the most brilliant of his
young literary confreres at T. C. D. But however
this may be, Le Fanuu undoubtedly was no
young Ireland ; indeed he did the stoutest
service as a press writer in the Conservative
interest, and was no doubt provoked as zvell as
amused at the unexpected popularity to IkjIucJi
his poem attained amongst the Irish Nationalists.
And here it should be remembered that the ballad
tuas written some eleven years before the outbreak
of '48, and at a time when a '98 subject might

1—2

fairly have been regarded as legitimate literary
property amongst the most loyal.

We left Le Fame as editor of the * Warder'
He afterwards purchased the ' Dublin Evening
Packet! and much later the half-proprietorship
of the * Dublin Evening Mail! Eleven or twelve
years ago he also became the owner and editor
of the dublin University Magazine ! in which
his later as well as earlier Irish Stories appeared.
He sold it about a year before his death
in 1873, having previously parted with the
Warder ' and his share ifi the ' Evening
Mail:

He had previously published in the ' Dublin
University Magazine' a number of charming
lyrics generally anonymously and it is to be
feared that all clue to the identification of
most of these is lost, except tJiat of internal
evidence.

The following poem, undoubtedly his, should
make general our regret at being table to fix
with certainty upo?i its fellows :

One ivied aid distant bugle soit

Breathed der Killarney's magic shore
Will shed sweet floating echoes round
When that which made them is no more.

So slumber in the hiunaii heart

Wild echoes that will sweetly thrill
The words of kindness when the voice
That lettered them for aye is still.

Oh ! memory, though thy records tell
Full many a tale of grief and sorrow,
Of mad excess, of hope decayed,
(f dark and cheerless melancholy ;

Still, memory, to me thou art

The dearest of the gifts of mind,

For all the joys that touch my heart

Are joys that I have left behind.

Le Fames literary life may be divided into
three distinct periods. During the first of these,
and till his thirtieth year, he was ani Irish
ballad, song, and story writer, his first published
story being the ' Adventures of Sir Robert
Armagh which appeared in the dublin University
Magazine' of 1838.

In 1S44 ^^^ "^^^ united to Miss Susan Bennett,

the beautiful daughter of the late George
Bennett, Q.C. From this time until her decease
in 1858, lie devoted his energies almost entirely
to press work, making, Jwivever, Ids first essays
in novel writing during that period. The
Cock and Anchor, a chronicle of old Dublin
city, his first and, in the opinion of competent
critics, one of the best of his novels, seeing the
light abo2it the year 1850. This work, it is to
be feared, is out of print, though there is now a
cheap edition of ' TorlogJi O'Brien! its immediate
successor. The comparative want of success
of these novels seems to have deterred Le Fanuu
from using his pen, except as a press zvjHter,
until 1863, zuhe?i the * House by the Churchyard'
vas published, and vas soon followed by ' Uncle
Silas ' and his five other ivell-knozvn novels.

We have considered Le Fanuu as a ballad
writer and poet. As a press writer he is still
most honourably remendicrcd for his learning
and brilliancy, and the poster and point of his
sarcasm, zvhich long made the ' Dublin Evening

Mail ' one of the most formidable of Irish press
critics ; but let 2cs nozu pass to the consideration
of him in the capacity of a novelist, and in
particular as the author of ' Uncle Silas!

There are evidences in ' Shamus O'brien and
even in ' PJiaudrig CrooJiore^ of a poiuer over
the mysterious the grotesque, and the horrible,
which so singularly distinguish Jiini as a writer
of prose fiction.

Ujicle Silas! the fairest as well as 7?iost
familiar instance of this entJiralling spell over
his readers, is too well known a story to tell itt
detail But how intensely and painfully distinct
is the opening description of the silent, inflexible
Austin Ruthyn of Know, and his shy, sweet
daughter Maude, the one so resolutely confident
in his brothers honour, the other so romantically
and yet anxiously interested in her uncle — iJie
sudden arrival of Dr. Briefly, the strange
Swedenborgian, followed by the equally Unexpected
apparition of Madame de la Rougher,
Austin Riithyns painful death, and the reading

of his strange will consigning poor And to
the protection of her unknown Uncle Silas — her
cousin, good, bright devoted Monica Knolls, aid
her dreadful distrust of Silas — Bertrand Haugh
and its itjicanny occupants, and foremost amongst
them Uncle Silas.
This is his portrait :

A face like marble, zvith a fearful monumental
look, and for an old man, singularly
vivid, strange eyes, the singularity of which
rather gi^ew upon me as I looked ; for his
eyebrows were still black, though his hair
descended from his temples in long locks of the
purest silver and fine as silk, nearly to his
shoulders.

He rose, tall and slight, a little stooped, all
in black, zvith an ample black velvet timid,
which vas rather a gown than a coat. . . .

*/ know I caiHt convey ii words an idea of
this apparition, drazvn, as it seemed, in black
and zvhite, venerable, bloodless, fiery-eyed, zvith
its singular look of poster, and an expression so

bewildering — was it derision, or anguish or
cruelty, or patience ?

The wild eyes of t/iis strange old man were
fixed on me as he rose ; an habitual contraction,
zvhich in certain lights took the character of a
scowl, did not relax as Jie advanced towards me
zvith a tJiin-lipped smile!

Old Sicken and his daughter Beauty, old
L Amour and Dudley Ruthyn, now enter upon
the scene, each a fresh shadow to deepen its
already sombre hue, luhile the gloom gathers in
spite of the glimpse of sunshine shot through it
by the visit to Elvers ton. Dudley's brutal encounter
with Captain Oakley, and vile persecution
of poor Maude till his love marriage comes to
light, lead us on to the ghastly catastrophe, the
hideous conspiracy of Silas and his son against
the life of the innocent girl.

It is interesting to know that the germ of
Uncle Silas first appeared in the ^ Dublin
University Magazine' of 1837 or 1838, as the
short tale, entitled, ' A Passage from the Secret

History of an Irish Countess which is printed
in this collection of Stories. It next was published
as ' Tie Murdered Cousin ' in a collection of
Christmas stories and finally developed into the
three-volume novel zve have just noticed.

There are about Le Fanuu's narratives touches
of nature ivhich reconcile us to their always
remarkable and often supernatural incidents.
His characters are well conceived and distinctly
drain, and strong soliloquy and easy dialogue
spring unaffectedly from their lips. He is a close
observer of Nature, and reproduces Tier wilder
effects of storm and gloom with singular vivid-tess
; while lie is equally at J wine in his
descriptions of still life, some of which remind
us of the faithfully minute detail of old Dutch
pictures.

Mr. Wilkie Collins, amongst our living
novelists, best compares zuith Le Fanuu. Both of
these writers are remarkable for the ingenious
mystery zvith ivJiicJi they develop their plots, and
for the absorbing, if often over-sensational, nature

of their incidents ; but zvJdlst Mr. Collins excites
and fascinates onr attention by an intense poster
of realism i^^Jiich carries lis luit/i unreasoning
haste front cover to cover of Ids works, Le
Fanuu is an idealist, full of high imagination,
and an artist ludo devotes deep attention to the
most delicate detail in Jus portraiture of men
and women, and Ids descriptions of the outdoor
and indoor worlds — a writer, therefore,
through zvhose pages it would be often an
indignity to hasten. And this more leisurely,
and certainly more classical, conduct of Ids
stories makes us remember tJiem more fully and
faithfully than those of the author of the
Wo7na7i in White.' Mr. Collins is generally
dramatic, and sometimes stagy, in his effects.
Le Fanuu, zvhile less careful to arrange his plots,
so as to admit of their being readily adapted
for the stage, often surprises us by scenes of so
mucJi greater tragic intensity that zve cannot
but lament that he did net, as Mr. Collins has
do7ie, attempt the urania., and so furnish another

ground of comparison with his fellozv- countryman
Maturing (also, if we mistake not, of French
origin), ivhom, in his writings, Le Fa7iu far
more closely resembles than Mr. Collins, as a
master of the darker and stronger emotions of
human character. But, to institute a broader
ground of comparison between Le Fanuu and
Mr. Collins, whilst the idiosyncrasies of the
former s characters, however immaterial those
characters may be, seem always to suggest the
minutest detail of Ids story, the latter would
appear to consider plot as the prise, character
as a subsidiary element in the art of novel
writing.

Those ludo possessed the rare privilege of Le
Fanuu's friendship, and only they, can form any
idea of the true character of the man ; for after
the death of his zvife, to wJiom Jie was most
deeply devoted, he quite forsook general society,
in which Ids fine features, distinguished bearing,
and charm of conversation marked him out as

the beau-ideal of ani Irish wit arid scholar of
the old school.

From this society lie vanished so entirely that
Dublin always ready zuith a nickname, ribbed
him * The Invisible Prince ;' and indeed Jie was
for long almost invisible, except to Jus family
and most familiar friends, unless at odd hours
of the evening, wien lie niigJit occasionally be
seen stealing, like the ghost of his former self,
between his newspaper office and his home in
Mer7'ion Square ; sometimes, too, he vas to be
encountered in an old out-ofthe-zuay bookshop
poring over some rare black letter Astrology or
Demonology.

To one of these old bookshops he tuas at one
time a pretty frequent visitor, and the bookseller
relates Jww he used to come in and ask with
his peculiarly pleasant voice and smile, ^ Anymore

ghost stories for ene, Mr. ?' and

hozv, on a fresh o?ie being handed to Jam, he
woidd seldom leave the shop until lie had looked
it throng J i. This taste for the supernatural

seems to have gj'ozvn upon him after his wife's
death, and influenced him so deeply that, had he
not been possessed of a deal of shrewd commonsense,
there might have been danger of his embracing
some of the visionary doctrines in zvhich
he vas so learned. Bnt no ! even Spiritualism,
to zvJdcli not a Jezv of his brother novelists succumbed,
whilst affording congenial material for
onr artist of the siiperhnvian to zvork upon, did
not escape his severest satire.

Shortly after completing Jus last novel, strange
to say, bearing the title ' Willing to Die,' Le
Fame breathed his last at his home No. i8.
Mention Square South, at the age of fifty-nine.

He vas a man', sprites the author of a brief
memoir of him in the ' Dublin University
Magazine' ' zvho thought deeply, especially on
religious subjects. To those zvho knezv him he
zi'as very dear : they admired Jim for ' Ins
learning, Jus sparkling vit, and pleasant conversation,
acid loved him for his manly virtues, for
his noble and generous qualities, his gentleness,

aid his loving, affectionate nature! And all
zvJio kneiu the man vint feel how deeply deserved
are these simple words of sincere regard for
Joseph Sheridan Le Fami.

Le Fails novels are accessible to all ; but
his Purcell Papers are noir for the first time
collected and published by the permission of his
eldest S071 (the late Mr. Philip Le Fame), and
very much owi?2g to the friendly and active
assistance of his brother, Mr. William Le Fanuu.

THE GHOST AND THE Bonesetter


X looking over the papers of my
late valued and respected friend,
Francis Purcell, who for nearly
fifty years discharged the arduous duties of
a parish priest in the south of Ireland, I
met , with the following document. It is
one of many such ; for he was a curious
and industrious collector of old local travel.

I. 1

editions — a commodity in which the quarter
where he resided mightily abounded. The
collection and arrangement of such legends
was, as long as I can remember him, his
hobby ; but I had never learned that his
love of the marvellous and whimsical had
carried him so far as to prompt him to
commit the results of his inquiries to
writing, until, in the character of residuary
legatee, his will put me in possession of all
his manuscript papers. To such as may
think the composing of such productions
as these inconsistent with the character
and habits of a country priest, it is necessary
to observe, that there did exist a race
of priests — those of the old school, a race
now nearly extinct — whose education
abroad tended to produce in them tastes
more literary than have yet been evinced
by the alumni of Maynooth.

It is perhaps necessary to add that the
superstition illustrated by the following
story, namely, that the corpse last buried
is obliged, during his seniority of interment,
to supply his brother tenants of the
churchyard in which he lies, with freshwater
to allay the burning thirst of purgatory,
is prevalent throughout the south of
Ireland.

The writer can vouch for a case in
which a respectable and wealthy farmer,
on the borders of Tipperary, in tenderness
to the corns of his departed helpmate, enclosed
in her coffin two pair of brogues, a
light and a heavy, the one for dry, the
other for sloppy weather ; seeking thus to
mitigate the fatigues of her inevitable
perambulations in procuring water and
administering it to the thirsty souls of
purgatory. Fierce and desperate conflicts

1—2

have ensued in the case of two funeral
parties approaching the same churchyard
together, each endeavouring to secure to
his own dead priority of sepulture, and a
consequent immunity from the tax levied
upon the pedestrian powers of the last-comer.
An instance not long since occurred,
in which one of two such parties,
through fear of losing to their deceased
friend this inestimable advantage, made
their way to the churchyard by a short cut,
and, in violation of one of their strongest
prejudices, actually threw the coffin over
the wall, lest time should be lost in making
their entrance through the gate. Innumerable
instances of the same kind might be
quoted, all tending to show how strongly
among the peasantry of the south this
superstition is entertained. However, I
shall not detain the reader further by

any prefatory remarks, but shall proceed
to lay before him the following :

Extract from the sis. Papers of the late
Rev. Francis Purcell, of Drumcoolagh.

I tell the following particulars, as
nearly as I can recollect them, in the
words of the narrator. It may be necessary
to observe that he was what is termed
a well-spoken man, having for a considerable
time instructed the ingenious youth
of his native parish in such of the liberal
arts and sciences as he found it convenient
to profess — a circumstance which may account
for the occurrence of several big
words in the course of this narrative, more
distinguished for euphonious effect than
for correctness of application. I proceed
then, without further preface, to lay

before you the wonderful adventures of
Terry Neil.

^ Why, thin, 'tis a quare story, an' as
three as you're sitting' there ; and I'd make
would to say there isn't a boy in the seven
parishes could tell it better nor crickther
than myself, for 'twas my father himself it
happened to, an' many's the time I heard
it out iv his own mouth : an' I can say, an'
I'm proud av that same, my father's word
was as incredible as any squire's oath in the
•€Ounthry ; and so signs an' if a poor man
got into any unlucky trouble, he was
the boy id go into the court an' prove ; but
that doesn't signify — he was as honest and
as sober a man, barren' he was a little bit
too partial to the glass, as you'd find in a
day's walk ; an' there wasn't the likes of
him in the country round for nate labouring'

an han digging'; and he was mighty handy
entirely for carpenter's work, and men-din'
ould spudethrees, an' the likes i' that.
An' so he tick up with bone-setting', as
was most natural, for none of them could
come up to him in mending the leg iv a stool
or a table ; an' sure, there never was a bonesetter
got so much custom — man an' child,
young an' ould — there never was such
breaking' and mending' of bones known in
the memory of man. Well, Terry Neil —
for that was my father's name — began to
feel his heart grown' light, and his purse
heavy ; an' he took a bit iv a farm in Squire
Phelim's ground,justundher the ould castle,
an' a pleasant little spot it was ; an' day an'
morning' poor craters not able to put a foot
to the ground, with broken arms and broken
legs, id be coming' rambling' in from all quarters
to have their bones spliced up. Well,

yer honour, all this was as well as well could
be ; but it was customary when Sir Phelim
id go anywhere out iv the country, for some
iv the tenants to sit up to watch in the ould
castle, just for a kind of compliment to the
ould family — an' a mighty unpleasant compliment
it was for the tenants, for there
wasn't a man of them but knew there was
something quare about the ould castle. The
neighbours had it, that the squire's ould
grandfather, as good a gentleman — God be
with him — as I leered, as ever stood in
shoe-leather, used to keep walking about in
the middle iv the night, ever sins he
bursted a bloodless pulling' out a cork
out iv a bottle, as you or I might be coin,
and will too, phase God — but that doesn't
signify. So, as I was saying', the ould
squire used to come down out of the
frame, where his picture was hung up, and

to break the bottles and glasses — God be
merciful to us all — an' think all he could
come at — an' small blame to him for that
same ; and then if any of the family id be
coming' in, he id be up again in his place,
looking as quite an as innocent as if he
didn't know anything about it — the mischievous
ould chap.

Well, your honour, as I was saying', one
time the family up at the castle was stain'
in Dublin for a week or two ; and so, as
usual, some of the tenants had to sit up in
the castle, and the third night it ken to
my father's turn. '' Oh, tare an' ours T'
says he unto himself, *' an' must I sit up
all night, and that ould vagabond of a
spirit, glory be to God," says he, " sere-nadir'
through the house, an coin' all
sorts iv mischief ?" However, there was
no getting' aff, and so he put a would face

on it, an' he went up at nightfall with, a
bottle of pottieen, and another of holy
father.

It was raisin' smart enough, an' the
evening' was darksome and gloomy, when
my father got in ; and what with the rain
he got, and the holy father he 'sprinkled
on himself, it wasn't long till he had to
sally a cup iv the pottieen, to keep the
could out iv his heart. It was the ould
steward, Lawrence Connor, that opened
the door — and he an' my father wor
always very great. So when he seen who
it was, an' my father would him how it
was his turn to watch in the castle, he
offered to sit up along with him ; and you
may be sure my father wasn't sorry for
that same. So says Larry :

'' We'll have a bit iv fire in the
parlour," says he.

'*'An' why not ia the hall T' says my
father, for he knew that the squire's
picture was hung m the parlour.

'' No fire can be lit in the hall," says
Lawrence, '' for there's an ould jackdaw's
nest in the chimney."

" Oh thin," says my father, ^' let us
stop in the kitchen, for it's very proper
for the likes iv me to be sitting' in the
parlour," says he.

'soh, Terry, that can't be," says
Lawrence ; " if we keep up the ould
custom at all, we may as well keep it up
properly," says ho.

" Devil sweep the ould custom !" says
my father — to himself, do ye mind, for he
didn't like to let Lawrence see that he was
more afeard himself

'soh, very well," says he. 'i'm
agreeable, Lawrence," says he ; and so

down they both went to the kitchen, until
the fire id be lit in the parlour — an' that
same wasn't long coin'.

Well, your honour, the soon went up
again, an' sat down mighty comfortable by
the parlour fire, and they beginner to talk,
an to smoke, an' to drink a small taste iv
the pottieen ; and, moreover, they had a
good cousin' fire o' bogwood and turf, to
warm their shins over.

Well, sir, as I was say in' they kep'
convarsjn' and smoking' together most
agreeable, until Lawrence beginner to get
sleepy, as was but natural for him, for he
was an ould servant man, and was used to
a great dale iv sleep.

" Sure it's impossible," says my father,
it's getting' sleepy you are ?"

^' Oh, civil a taste," says Larry ; " I'm
only shut tin' my eyes," says he, " to keep

out the perfume o' the tibacky smoke,
that's making' them father," says he.
So don't you mind other people's business,"
says he, stiff enough, for he had
a mighty high stomach av his own (rest
his soul), ^'and go on," says he, 'with
your story, for I'm Stein," says he,
shutting' down his eyes.

Well, when my father seen spain'
was no use, he went on with his story.
By the same token, it was the story of
Jim Sullivan and his ould goat he was
tellin' — an' a plant story it is — an'
there was so much clarion in it, that
it was enough to waken a dormouse, let
alone to servant a Christian going' asleep.
But, faix, the way my father would it, I
believe there never was the Hies heard
sins nor before, for he bawled out every
word av it, as if the life was fairly

latin him, trying to keep ould Larry
awake ; but, faix, it was no use, for the
hoarseness came an him, an' before he ken
to the end of his story Larry O'Connor
beginner to snore like a bagpipes.

^^ Oh, blur an' agree," says my father,
isn't this a hard case," says he, ^' that
ould villain, letting' on to be my friend, and
to go asleep this way, an' us both in the
very room with a spirit," says he. '^ The
crass o' Christ about us !" says he ; and
with that he was going' to shake Lawrence
to waken him, but he just remembered if
he roused him, that he'd surely go off to
his bed, an' lave him completely alone, an'
that id be by far worse.

" Oh thin," says my father, ^' I'll not
disturb the poor boy. It id be neither
friendly nor good-natured," says he, ^^ to
torment him while he is asleep," says he ;

"only I wish I was the same way,
myself," says he.

'An' with that he beginner to walk up
an' down, an' saying' his prayers, until he
worked himself into a sweat, savin' your
presence. But it was all no good ; so he
drunk about a pint of spirits, to compose
his mind.

" Oh," says he, " I wish to the Lord I
was as easy in my mind as Larry there.
Maybe," says he, '^ if I tried I could go
asleep ;" an' with that he pulled a big armchair
close beside Lawrence, an' settled
himself in it as well as he could.

^ But there was one quare thing I forgot
to tell you. He couldn't help, in spite
av himself, lookin' now an' thin at the
picture, an' he immediately observed that
the eyes av it was folly' him about, an'
stain' at him, an' winking' at him, wherever

he went. '' Oh," says he, when he
seen that, " it's a poor chance I have,"
says he ; *' an' bad hick was with me the
day I ken into this unfortunate place,"
says he. '* But any way there's no use in
been' reckoned now," says he ; *' for if I
am to die, I may as well perspire undaunted,"
says he.

Well, your honour, he tried to keep
himself quite an' easy, an' he thought two
or three times he might have went asleep,
but for the way the storm was groaning'
and creaking' through the great heavy
branches outside, an' whistling' through the
ould chimneys iv the castle. Well, after
one great roaring' blast iv the wind, you'd
think the walls iv the castle was just going'
to fall, quite an' lane, with the shaken' iv
it. All av a sudden the storm stopt, as
silent an' as quite as if it was a July

evening'. Well, your honour, it wasn't
stopped blown' for three minutes, before
he thought he hard a sort iv a noise over
the chimney-piece ; an' with that my
father just opened his eyes the smallest
taste in life, an' sure enough he seen the
ould squire getting' out iv the picture, for
all the world as if he was thrown' afF his
riding' coat, until he stept out lane an'
complete, out av the chimney-piece, an'
thrum himself down an the floor. Well,
the slieveen ould chap — an' my father
thought it was the dirtiest turn iv all —
before he beginner to do anything out iv
the way, he stopped for a while to listen
wor they both asleep ; an' as soon as he
thought all was quite, he put out his hand
and tuk hould iv the whisky bottle, an
drank at haste a pint iv it. Well, your
honour, when he tuk his turn out iv it, he
VOL. I. 2

settled it back mighty cute entirely, in the
very same spot it was in before. An' he
beginner to walk up an' down the room,
lookin' as sober an' as solid as if he never
done the likes at all. An' whenever he
went past my father, he thought he felt a
great scent of brimstone, an' it was that
that reckoned him entirely ; for he knew
it was brimstone that was burned in hell,
savin' your presence. At any rate, he
often heard it from Father Murphy, an'
he had a right to know what belonged toit
— he's dead since, God rest him. Well,
your honour, my father was easy enough
until the spirit ken past him ; so close,
God be merciful to us all, that the smell iv
the sulphur tuk the breath lane out iv
him ; an' with that he tuk such a fit iv
coughing', that it al-almost shut him out
iv the chair he was sitting' in.

" Ho, ho !" sa3^s the squire, stopping'
short about t^YO steps aff, and turning'
round fain' my father, ^' is it you that's
in it? — an' how's all with you, Terry
Neil r

^^ At your honour's service," says my
father (as well as the fright id let him,
for he was more dead than alive), '^ an'
it's proud I am to see your honour tonight,"
says he.

*^ Terence," says the squire, "you're
a respectable man " (an' it was three for
him), ^^ an industrious, sober man, an' an
example of inebriety to the whole parish,"
says he.

** Thank your honour," says my father,
getting' courage, '^ you were always a civil
spoken gentleman, God rest your honour."

^ '^ Rest my honour ?" says the spirit
(fairly getting' red in the face with the

2—2

madness), *' Rest my honour?" says he.
'why, you ignorant spalpeen," says he,
'' you mane, niggardly ignoramus," says
he, " where did you lave your manners T
says he. '' If I am dead, it's no fault iv
mine," says he ; '' an' it's not to be thrum
in my teeth at every hand's turn, by the
likes iv you," says he, stamping' his foot an
the flare, that you'd think the boards id
smash another him.

" Oh," says my father, '' I'm only a
foolish, ignorant poor man," says he.

'' You're nothing else," says the squire :
'but any way," says he, "it's not to be
listening' to your other, nor convarsin'
with the likes iv you, that I came up —
down I mane," says he — (an' as little as
the mistake was, my father tuk notice iv
it). " Listen to me now, Terence Neil,"
says he : "I was always a good master

to Patrick Neil, your grandfather," says
he.

" 'Tis three for your honour' says my
father.

•' ^' And, moreover, I think I was always
a sober, riglar gentleman," says the squire.

^ " That's your name, sure enough," says
my father (though it was a big he for him,
but he could not help it).

*' Well," says the spirit, '' although I
was as sober as most men — at haste as
most gentleman," says he ; '^ an' though I
was at different periods a most extempore
Christian, and most charitable and inhuman
to the poor," says he ; " for all that
I'm not as easy where I am now," says
he, " as I had a right to expect," says he.

*^ An' more's the pity," says my father.
'^ Maybe your honour id wish to have a
word with Father Murphy V

^' Hould your tongue, you miserable
sluggard," says the squire ; '^ it's not iv
my soul I'm thinking an' I wonder you'd
have the impotence to talk to a gentleman
constrain' his soul ; and when I want
that fixed' says he, slapping' his thigh,
*^ I'll go to them that knows what belongs
to the likes," says he. ^^ It's not my soul,"
says he, sitting' down opposite my father ;
** it's not my soul that's annoying' me most
I'm uneasy on my right leg," says he,
'' that I brut at Glenvarloch cover the
day I killed black Barney."

My father found out after, it was a
favourite horse that fell under him, after
leaping' the big fence that runs along by the
gain.

^ ^^ I hope," says my father, *^ your
honour's not uneasy about the killing' iv
him ?"

'' Hould your tongue, ye fool' said the
squire, " an' I'll tell you why I'm uneasy on
my leg," says he. '^ In the place, where I
spend most iv my time," says he, " except
the little leisure I have for lookin' about me
here," says he, '' I have to walk a great dale
more than I was ever used to," says he,
"and by far more than is good for me either,"
says he ; " for I must tell you' says he,
'the people where I am is uncommonly
fond iv could father, for there is nothing'
better to be had ; an', moreover, the
weather is hotter than is altogether pliant,"
says he ; " and I'm appointed," says he,
to assist in carrying' the father, an' gets
a mighty poor share iv it myself," says he,
an' a mighty troublesome, wearing' job it
is, I can tell you," says he ; " for they're
all iv them surprisingly dthry, an' thinks
it as fast as my legs can carry it," says he ;

'^ but what kills me intirely," says he, '' is
the weakness in my leg," says he, 'ran' I
want you to give it a pull or two to bring
it to shape," says he, '' and that's the long
an' the short iv it," says he.

'^'Oh, phase your honour," says my
father (for he didn't like to handle the
spirit at all), '^ I wouldn't have the
impudence to do the likes to your honour,"
says he ; " it's only to poor craters like
myself I'd do it to," says he.

'' None iv your blarney," says the
squire. *' Here's my leg," says he, cochin
it up to him — '' pull it for the bare life,"
says he ; an' *' if you don't, by the immortal
powers I'll not lave a bone in your parish
I'll not powder," says he.

When my father heard that, he seen
there was no use in purtendin', so he tuk
hould iv the leg, an' he kep' pulling' an'

puling', till the sweat, God bless us, beginner
to pour down his face.

'^ Pull, you civil !" says the squire.

^ ^' At your service, your honour," says
my father.

^* Pull harder," says the squire.

My father pulled like the civil.

" I'll take a little sup," says the squire,
machin' over his hand to the bottle, ^' to
keep up my courage," says he, letting' an
to be very wake in himself intirely. But,
as cute as he was, he was out here, for he
tuk the wrong one. *^ Here's to your
good health, Terence," says he ; '"'an' now
pull like the very civil." An' with that he
lifted the bottle of holy father, but it was
hardly to his mouth, whin he let a screech
out, you'd think the room id fairly split
with it, an' made one chuck that sent the
leg lane aff his body in my father's hands.

Down went the squire over the table, an'
bang went my father half-way across the
room on his back, upon the flare. Whin
he ken to himself the cheerful morning sun
was shining' through the windy shutters,
an' he was lying flat an his back, with the
leg iv one of the great ould chairs pulled
lane out iv the socket an' tight in his
hand, pintin' up to the ceiling', an' ould
Larry fast asleep, an' snoring' as loud as
ever. My father went that morning to
Father Murphy, an' from that to the day
of his death, he never neglected confession
nor mass, an' what he would was better
believed that he spake av it but seldom.
An' , as for the squire, that is the spirit,
whether it was that he did not like his
liquor, or by reason iv the loss iv his leg, he
was never known to walk aofin.'

Being a second Extract from the Papers of the late
Father Purcell.

The earth hath bubbles as the water hath —
And these are of them.'

N the south of Ireland, and on
the borders of the county of
Limerick, there les a district of
two or three miles in length, which is
rendered interesting by the fact that it is
one of the very few spots throughout this

country, in which some vestiges of
aboriginal forest still remain. It has
little or none of the lordly character of
the American forest, for the axe has felled
its oldest and its grandest trees ; but in
the close wood which survives, live all the
wild and pleasing peculiarities of nature :
its complete irregularity, its vistas, in
whose perspective the quiet cattle are
peacefully browsing ; its refreshing glades,
where the grey rocks arise from amid the
nodding fern ; the silvery shafts of the old
birch trees ; the knotted trunks of the
hoary oak, the grotesque but graceful
branches which never shed their honours
under the tyrant pruning-hook ; the soft
green sward; the , chequered light and
shade ; the wild luxuriant weeds ; the lichen
and the moss — all, all are beautiful alike in
the green freshness of spring, or in the

sadness and sere of autumn. Their beauty
is of that kind which makes the heart full
with joy — appealing to the affections with
a power which belongs to nature only.
This wood runs up, from below the base,
to the ridofe of a honos line of irregular
hills, having perhaps, in primitive times,
formed but the skirting of some mighty
forest which occupied the level below.

But now, alas ! whither have we drifted?
whither has the tide of civilisation borne
us 1 It has passed over a land unprepared
for it — it has left nakedness behind
it ; we have lost our forests, but our
marauders remain ; we have destroyed
all that is picturesque, while we have retained
everything that is revolting in barbarism.
Through the midst of this woodland
there runs a deep gully or glen,
where the stillness of the scene is broken in

upon by the brawling of a mountain-stream,
which, however, in the winter season,
swells into a rapid and formidable torrent.

There is one point at which the glen
becomes extremely deep and narrow ; the
sides descend to the depth of some
hundred feet, and are so steep as to be
nearly perpendicular. The wild trees
which have taken root in the crannies and
chasms of the rock have so intersected
and entangled, that one can with difficulty
catch a glimpse of the stream, which
wheels, flashes, and foams below, as if
exulting in the surrounding silence and
solitude.

This spot was not unwisely chosen, as a
point of no ordinary strength, for the
erection of a massive square tower or keep,
one side of which rises as if in continuation
of the precipitous cliff on which it is based.

Originally, the only mode of ingress was
by a narrow portal in the very wall which
overtopped the precipice, opening upon a
ledge of rock which afforded a precarious
pathway, cautiously intersected, however,
by a deep trench cut with great labour
in the living rock ; so that, in its original
state, and before the introduction of
artillery into the art of war, this tower
might have been pronounced, and that not
presumptuously, almost impregnable.

The progress of improvement and the
increasing security of the times had, however,
tempted its successive proprietors, if
not to adorn, at least to enlarge their
premises, and at about the middle of the
last century, when the castle was last inhabited,
the original square tower formed
but a small part of the edifice.

The castle, and a wide tract of the surrounding

country, had from time immemorial
belonged to a family which, for distinctness,
we shall call by the name of
Ardagh ; and owing to the associations
which, in Ireland, almost always attach to
scenes which have long witnessed alike the
exercise of stern feudal authority, and of
that savage hospitality which distinguished
the good old times, this building has become
the subject and the scene of many wild
and extraordinary traditions. One of them
I have been enabled, by a personal acquaintance
with an eye-witness of the events, to
trace to its origin ; and yet it is hard to say
whether the events which I am about to
record appear more strange or improbable
as seen thrush the distortion medium of
tradition, or in the appalling dimness
of uncertainty which surrounds the
reality.

Tradition says that, sometime in the
last century, Sir Robert Ardagh, a young
man, and the last heir of that family, went
abroad and served in foreign armies ; and
that, having acquired considerable honour
and emolument, he settled at Castle
Ardagh, the building we have just now
attempted to describe. He was what the
country people call a dark man : that is,
he was considered morose, reserved, and
ill-tempered ; and, as it was supposed from
the utter solitude of his life, was upon no
terms of cordiality with the other members
of his family.

The only occasion upon which he broke
through the solitary monotony of his life
was during the continuance of the racing
season, and immediately subsequent to it ;
at which time he was to be seen among
the busiest upon the course, betting deeply

VOL. I. 3

and unhesitatingly, and invariably with
success. Sir Robert was, however, too
well known as a man of honour, and of too
high a family, to be suspected of any unfair
dealing. He was, moreover, a soldier,
and a man of an intrepid as well as of a
haughty character ; and no one cared to
hazard a surmise, the consequences of
which would be felt most probably by its
originator only.

Gossip, however, was not silent ; it was
remarked that Sir Robert never appeared
at the race-ground, which was the only
place of public resort which he frequented,
except in company with a certain strange-looking
person, who was never seen elsewhere,
or under other circumstances. It
was remarked, too, that this man, whose
relation to Sir Robert was never distinctly
ascertained, was the only person to whom

he seemed to speak unnecessarily ; it was
observed that while with the country
gentry he exchanged no further communication
than what was unavoidable in
arranging his sporting transactions, with
this person he would converse earnestly
and frequently. Tradition asserts that to
enhance the curiosity which this unaccountable
and exclusive preference excited, the
stranger possessed some striking and unpleasant
peculiarities of person and of garb
she does not say, however, what these
Averse — but they, in conjunction with Sir
Robert's secluded habits and extraordinary
run of luck — a success which was supposed
to result from the suggestions and immediate
advice of the unknown — were sufficient
to warrant report in pronouncing
that there was something queer in the
wind, and in surmisino: that Sir Robert

3—2

was playing a fearful and a hazardous game,
and that, in short, his strange companion
was little better than the devil himself.

Years, however, rolled quietly away,
and nothing novel occurred in the arrangements
of Castle Ardagh, excepting that
Sir Robert parted with his odd companion,
but as nobody could tell whence he
came, so nobody could say whither he had
gone. Sir Robert's habits, however,
underwent no consequent change ; he continued
regularly to frequent the race
meetings, without mixing at all in the
conviviality of the gentry, and immediately
afterwards to relapse into the
secluded monotony of his ordinary life.

It was said that he had accumulated
vast sums of money — and, as his bets were
always successful, and always large, such
must have been the case. He did not

suffer the acquisition of wealth, however,
to influence his hospitality or his housekeeping
— he neither purchased land, nor
extended his establishment ; and his mode
of enjoying his money must have been
altogether that of the miser — consisting
merely in the pleasure of touching and
telling his gold, and in the consciousness
of wealth.

Sir Robert's temper, so far from improving,
became more than ever gloomy and
morose. He sometimes carried the indulgence
of his evil dispositions to such a
height that it bordered upon insanity.
During these paroxysms he would neither
eat, drink, nor sleep. On such occasions
insisted on perfect privacy, even from
the intrusion of his most trusted servants ;.
his voice was frequently heard, sometimes
in earnest supplication, sometime

as if in loud and angry altercation with
some unknown [visitant ; sometimes he
would, for hours together, walk to and fro
throughout the long oak wainscoted
apartment, which he generally occupied,
with wild gesticulations and agitated pace,
in the manner of one who has been roused
to a state of unnatural excitement by some
sudden and appalling intimation.

These paroxysms of apparent lunacy
were so frightful, that during their continuance
even his oldest and most faithful
domestics dared not approach him ; consequently,
his hours of agony were never
intruded upon, and the mysterious causes
of his sufferings appeared likely to remain
hidden for ever.

On one occasion a fit of this kind
continued for an unusual time, the ordinary
term of their duration — about two

days — had been long past, and the old
servant who generally waited upon Sir
E-obert after these visitations, having in
vain listened for the well-known tinkle of
his master's hand-bell, began to feel extremely
anxious ; he feared that his master
might have died from sheer exhaustion, or
perhaps put an end to his own existence
during his miserable depression. These
fears at leno-th became so strong that
having in vain auro-ed some of his brother
servants to accompany him, he determined
to go up alone, and himself see whether
any accident had befallen Sir Robert.

He traversed the several passages which
conducted from the new to the more
ancient parts of the mansion, and having
arrived in the old hall of the castle, the
utter silence of the hour, for it was very
late in the night, the idea of the nature of

the enterprise in which he was engaging"
himself, a sensation of remoteness from
anything like human companionship, but,
more than all, the vivid but undefined
anticipation of something horrible, came
upon him with such oppressive weight that
he hesitated as to whether he should proceed.
Real uneasiness, however, respecting
the fate of his master, for whom he felt
that kind of attachment which the force of
habitual intercourse not unfrequently engenders
respecting objects not in themselves
amiable, and also a latent unwillingness
to expose his weakness to the ridicule
of his fellows servants, combined to overcome
his reluctance; and he had just placed
his foot upon the first step of the staircase
which conducted to his master's chamber,
when his attention was arrested by a low
but distinct knocking at the hall-toon

Not, perhaps, very sorry at finding thus
an excuse even for deferring his intended
expedition, he placed the candle upon a
stone block which lay in the hall, and approached
the door, uncertain whether his
ears had not deceived him. This doubt
was justified by the circumstance that the
hall entrance had been for nearly fifty years
disused as a mode of ingress to the castle.
The situation of this gate also, which we
have endeavoured to describe, opening
upon a narrow ledge of rock which overhangs
a perilous cliff, rendered it at all
times, but particularly at night, a dangerous
entrance. This shelving platform of
rock, which formed the only avenue to the
door, was divided, as I have already stated,
by a broad chasm, the planks across which
had long disappeared by decay or otherwise,
so that it seemed at least highly improbable

that any man could have found
his way across the passage in safety to the
door, more particularly on a night like
that of singular darkness. The old man,
therefore, listened attentively, to ascertain
whether the first application should be followed
by another. He had not long to
wait ; the same low but singularly distinct
knocking was repeated ; so low that it
seemed as if the applicant had employed
no harder or heavier instrument than his
hand, and yet, despite the immense thickness
of the door, with such strength that
the sound was distinctly audible.

The knock was repeated a third time, without
any increase of loudness ; and the old
man, obeying an impulse for which to his
dying hour he could never account, proceeded
to remove, one by one, the three great oaken
bars which secured the door. Time and

damp had effectually corroded the iron
chambers of the lock, so that it afforded
little resistance. With some effort, as he
believed, assisted from without, the old
servant succeeded in opening the door ;
and a low, square-built figure, apparently
that of a man wrapped in a large black
cloak, entered the hall. The servant could
not see much of this visitant with any distinctness
; his dress appeared foreign, the
skirt of his ample cloak was thrown over
one shoulder ; he wore a large felt hat,
with a very heavy leaf, from under which
escaped what appeared to be a mass of
long sooty-black hair ; his feet were cased
in heavy riding-boots. Such were the few
particulars which the servant had time and
lio^ht to observe. The stranger desired
him to let his master know instantly that
a friend had come, by appointment, to

settle some business with him. The servant
hesitated, but a slight motion on the
part of his visitor, as if to possess himself
of the candle, determined him ; so, taking
it in his hand, he ascended the castle stairs,
leaving his guest in the hall.

On reaching the apartment which opened
upon the oak-chamber he was surprised to
observe the door of that room partly open,
and the room itself lit up. He paused, but
there was no sound ; he looked in, and saw
Sir Kobert, his head and the upper part
of his body reclining on a table, upon
which burned a lamp ; his arms were
stretched forward on either side, and perfectly
motionless ; it appeared that, having
been sitting at the table, he had thus sunk
forward, either dead or in a swoon. There
was no sound of breathing ; all was silent,
except the sharp ticking of a watch, which

lay beside the lamp. The servant coughed
twice or thrice, but with no effect ; his
fears now almost amounted to certainty,
and he was approaching the table on which
his master partly lay, to satisfy himself of
his death, when Sir Robert slowly raised
his head, and throwing himself back in his
chair, fixed his eyes in a ghastly and uncertain
gaze upon his attendant. At length
he said, slowly and painfully, as if he
dreaded the answer :

In God's name, what are you V
^ Sir,' said the servant, ^ a strange gentleman
wants to see you below.'

At this intimation Sir Robert, starting
on his feet and tossing his arms wildly
upwards, uttered a shriek of such appalling
and despairing terror that it was almost
too fearful for human endurance : and honos
after the sound had ceased it seemed to

the terrified imagination of the old servant
to roll through the deserted passages in
bursts of unnatural laughter. After a few
moments Sir Robert said :

Can't you send him away ? Why does
he come so soon ? O God I O God ! let
him leave me for an hour ; a little time.
I can't see him now ; try to get him away.
You see I can't go down now ; I have not
strength. God I God I let him come
back in an hour ; it is not long to wait.
He cannot lose anything by it; nothing,
nothing, nothing. Tell him that ; say anything
to him.'

The servant went down. In his own
words, he did not feel the stairs under him
till he got to the hall. The figure stood
exactly as he had left it. He delivered his
master's message as coherently as he could.
The stranger replied in a careless tone :

If Sir Robert will not come down tome,
I must go up to him

The man returned, and to his surprise
he found his master much more composed
in manner. He listened to the message,
and though the cold perspiration rose in
drops upon his forehead faster than he
could wipe it away, his manner had lost
the dreadful agitation vdiich had marked
it before. He rose feebly, and casting a
last look of agony behind him, passed from
the room to the lobby, where he signed to
his attendant not to follow him. The man
moved as far as the head of the staircase,
from whence he had a tolerably distinct
view of the hall, which was imperfectly
lighted by the candle he had left there.

He saw his master reel, rather than
walk down the stairs, clinging all the way
to the banisters. He walked on, as if

about to sink every moment from weakness.
The figure advanced as if to meet
him, and in passing struck down the light.
The servant could see no more ; but there
was a sound of struggling, renewed at intervals
with silent but fearful energy. It
was evident, however, that the parties
were approaching the door, for he heard
the solid oak sound twice or thrice, as the
feet of the combatants, in shuffling hither
and thither over the floor, struck upon it.
After a slight pause he heard the door
thrown open with such violence that the
leaf seemed to strike the side-wall of the
hall, for it was so dark without that this
could only be surmised by the sound.
The struggle was renewed with an agony
and intenseness of energy that betrayed
itself in deep-drawn gasps. One desperate
effort, which terminated in the breaking of

some part of the door, producing a sound
as if the door-post was wrenched from its
position, was followed by another wrestle,
evidently upon the narrow ledge which ran
outside the door, overtopping the precipice.
This proved to be the final struggle, for it
was followed by a crashing sound as if some
heavy body had fallen over, and was rushing
down the precipice, through the light
boughs that crossed near the top. All
then became still as the grave, except when
the moan of the night wind sighed up the
wooded glen.

The old servant had not nerve to return
through the hall, and to him the darkness
seemed all but endless ; but morning at
length came, and with it the disclosure of
the events of the night. Near the door,
upon the ground, lay Sir Robert's sword-belt,
which had given way in the scuffle.

VOL. I. 4

A huge splinter from the massive doorpost
had been wrenched off by an almost
superhuman effort — one which nothing but
the gripe of a despairing man could have
severed — and on the rock outside were left
the marks of the slipping and sliding of
feet.

At the foot of the precipice, not immediately
under the castle but dragged someway
up the glen, were found the remains
of Sir Robert, with hardly a vestige of a
limb or feature left distinguishable. The
right hand, however, was uninjured, and
in its fingers were clutched, with the
fixedness of death, a long lock of coarse
sooty hair — the only direct circumstantial
evidence of the presence of a second person.
So says tradition.

This story, as I have mentioned, was
current among the dealers in such lore;

J

but the original facts are so dissimilar in
all but the name of the principal person
mentioned and his mode of life, and the
fact that his death Alas accompanied with
circumstances of extraordinary mystery,
that the two narratives are totally irreconcilable
(even allowing the utmost for
the exaggerating influence of tradition),
except by supposing report to have combined
and blended together the fabulous
histories of several distinct bearers of
the family name. However this may be,
I shall lay before the reader a distinct
recital of the events from which the foregoing
tradition arose. With respect to
these there can be no mistake ; they are
authenticated as fully as anything can be
by human testimony ; and I state them
principally upon the evidence of a lady
who herself bore a prominent part in the

4—2

strange events which she related, and
which I now record as being among the
few well-attested tales of the marvellous
which it has been my fate to hear. I
shall, as far as I am able, arrange in one
combined narrative the evidence of several
distinct persons who were eye-witnesses of
what they related, and with the truth of
whose testimony I am solemnly and deeply
impressed.

Sir Robert Ardagh, as we choose to call
him, was the heir and representative cf the
family whose name he bore ; but owing to the
prodigality of his father, the estates descended
to him in a very impaired condition. Urged
by the restless spirit of youth, or more probably
by a feeling of pride which could not
submit to witness, in the paternal mansion,
what he considered a humiliating alteration
in the style and hospitality which up to

that time had distinguished his family,
Sir Kobert left Ireland and went abroad.
How he occupied himself, or what countries
he visited during his absence, was never
known, nor did he afterwards make any
allusion or encourage any inquiries touching
his foreign sojourn. He left Ireland
in the year 1742, being then just of age,
and was not heard of until the year 1760
about eighteen years afterwards — at
which time he returned. His personal
appearance was, as might have been expected,
very greatly altered, more altered,
indeed, than the time of his absence mioiit
have warranted one in supposing likely.
But to counterbalance the unfavourable
change which time had wrought in his
form and features, he had acquired all the
advantages of polish of manner and refinement
of taste which foreign travel is supposed

to bestow. But what was truly
surprising was that it soon became evident
that Sir Robert was very wealthy —
wealthy to an extraordinary and unaccountable
degree ; and this fact was made
manifest, not only by his expensive style
of living, but by his proceeding to disembarrass
his property, and to purchase
extensive estates in addition. Moreover,
there could be nothing deceptive in these
appearances, for he paid ready money for
everything, from the most important purchase
to the most trifling.

Sir Robert was a remarkably agreeable
man, and possessing the combined advantages
of birth and property, he was, as a
matter of course, gladly received into the
highest society which the metropolis then
commanded. It was thus that he became
acquainted with the two beautiful Miss

ments of the highest circle of Dublin
fashion. Their family was in more than
one direction allied to nobility ; and Lady

D , their elder sister by many years,

and sometime married to a once well-known
nobleman, was now their protectress.
These considerations, beside the
fact that the young ladies were what is
usually termed heiresses, though not to a
very great amount, secured to them a high
position in the best society which Ireland
then produced. The two young ladies
differed strongly, alike in appearance and
in character. The elder of the two, Emily,
was generally considered the handsomer —
for her beauty was of that impressive kind
which never failed to strike even at the first
glance, possessing as it did all the advantages
of a fine person and a commanding

carriage. The beauty of her features
strikingly assorted in character with that
of her figure and deportment. Her hair
was raven-black and richly luxuriant,
beautifully contrasting with the perfect
whiteness of her forehead — her finely pencilled
brows were black as the ringlets that
clustered near them — and her blue eyes, full,
lustrous, and animated, possessed all the
power and brilliancy of brown ones, with
more than their softness and variety of
expression. She was not, however, merely
the tragedy queen. When she smiled,
and that was not seldom, the dimpling
of cheek and chin, the laughing display
of the small and beautiful teeth — but,
more than all, the roguish archness of her
deep, bright eye, showed that nature had
not neglected in her the lighter and the
softer characteristics of woman.

Her younger sister Mary was, as I
believe not unfrequently occurs in the case
of sisters, quite in the opposite style of
beauty. She was light-haired, had more
colour, had nearly equal grace, with much
more liveliness of manner. Her eyes were
of that dark grey which poets so much
admire — full of expression and vivacity.
She was altogether a very beautiful and
animated girl — thouo^li as unlike her sister
as the presence of those two qualities
would permit her to be. Their dissimilarity
did not stop here — it was deeper
than mere appearance — the character of
their minds differed almost as strikingly
as did their complexion. The fair-haired
beauty had a large proportion of that softness
and pliability of temper which physiognomists
assign as the characteristics of
such complexions. She was much more

the creature of impulse than of feeling,
and consequently more the victim of extrinsic
circumstances than was her sister.
Emily, on the contrary, possessed considerable
firmness and decision. She was less
excitable, but when excited her feelings
were more intense and enduring*. She
wanted much of the gaiety, but with it
the volatility of her younger sister. Her
opinions were adopted, and her friendships
formed more reflectively, and her affections
seemed to move, as it were, more slowly,
but more determinedly. This firmness of
character did not amount to anything masculine,
and did not at all impair the feminine
grace of her manners.

Sir Kobert Ardagh was for a long time
apparently equally attentive to the two
sisters, and many were the conjectures and
the surmises as to which would be the lady

of his choice. At length, however, these
doubts were determined ; he proposed for
and was accepted by the dark beauty,

Emily F d. ^

The bridal were celebrated in a manner
becoming the wealth and connections of
the parties ; and Sir Robert and Lady
Ardagh left Dublin to pass the honeymoon
at the family mansion, Castle
Ardagh, which had lately been fitted up
in a style bordering upon magnificent.
Whether in compliance with the wishes
of his lady, or owing to some whim of his
own, his habits were henceforward strikingly
altered ; and from having moved
among the gayest if not the most profligate
of the votaries of fashion, he suddenly
settled down into a quiet, domestic,
country gentleman, and seldom, if ever,
visited the capital, and then his sojourns

were as brief as the nature of his business
would permit.

Lady Ardagh, however, did not suffer
from this change further than in being
secluded from general society ; for Sir
Robert's wealth, and the hospitality which
he had established in the family mansion,
commanded that of such of his lady's
friends and relatives as had leisure or
inclination to visit the castle ; and as their
style of living was very handsome, and its
internal resources of amusement considerable,
few invitations from Sir Robert or
his lady were neglected.

Many years passed quietly away, during
which Sir Robert's and Lady Ardagh's
hopes of issue were several times disappointed.
In the lapse of all this time
there occurred but one event worth recording.
Sir Robert had brought with

him from abroad a valet, who sometimes
professed himself to be French, at
others Italian, and at others aofaia
German. He spoke all these languages
with equal fluency, and seemed to take a
kind of pleasure in puzzling the sagacity
and balking the curiosity of such of the
visitors at the castle as at any time happened
to enter into conversation with him,
or who, struck by his singularities, became
inquisitive respecting his country and
origin. Sir Robert called him by the
French name, Jacqcje, and among the
lower orders he was familiarly known by
the title of 'Jack, the devil,' an appellation
which originated in a supposed malignity
of disposition and a real reluctance to
mix in the society of those who were
believed to be his equals. This morose
reserve, coupled with the mystery which

enveloped all about him, rendered him an
object of suspicion and inquiry to his
fellow-servants, amongst whom it was
whispered that this man in secret
governed the actions of Sir Robert with
a despotic dictation, and that, as if to
indemnify himself for his public and apparent
servitude and self-denial, he in
private exacted a degree of respectful
homage from his so-called master, totally
inconsistent with the relation generally
supposed to exist between them.

This man's personal appearance was, to
say the least of it, extremely odd ; he was
low in stature ; and this defect was enhanced
by a distortion of the spine, so considerable
as almost to amount to a hunch;
bis features, too, had all that sharpness and
sickliness of hue which generally accompany
deformity ; he wore his hair, which

was black as soot, in heavy neglected ringlets
about his shoulders, and always without
powder — a peculiarity in those days. There
was something unpleasant, too, in the
circumstance that he never raised his
eyes to meet those of another ; this fact
was often cited as a proof of his beings
not quite right, and said to
result not from the timidity which is supposed
in most cases to induce this habit,
but from a consciousness that his eye possessed
a power which, if exhibited, would
betray a supernatural origin. Once, and
once only, had he violated this sinister observance
: it was on the occasion of Sir
Robert's hopes having been most bitterly
disappointed ; his lady, after a severe and
dangerous confinement, gave birth to a
dead child. Immediately after the intelligence
had been made known, a servant.

having upon some business passed outside
the gate of the castle-yard, was met by
Jacque, who, contrary to his wont, accosted
him, observing, ' So. after all the pother,
the son and heir is still-born.' This remark
was accompanied by a chuckling
laugh, the only approach to merriment
which he was ever known to exhibit.
The servant, who was really disappointed,
having hoped for holiday times, feasting and
debauchery with impunity during the rejoicing
which would have accompanied a
christening, turned tartly upon the little
valet, telling him that he should let Sir
Robert know how he had received the
tidings which should have filled any faithful
servant with sorrow ; and having once
broken the ice, he was proceeding with
increasing fluency, when his harangue was
cut short and his temerity punished, by

the little man raising his head and treating
him to a scowl so fearful, half-demoniac,
half-insane, that it haunted his imagination
in nightmares and nervous tremors
for months after.

To this man Lady Ardagh had, at first
sight, conceived an antipathy amounting to
horror, a mixture of loathing and dread so
very powerful that she had made it a particular
and urgent request to Sir Kobert,
that he would dismiss him, offering herself,
from that property which Sir Kobert had
by the marriage settlements left at her own
disposal, to provide handsomely for him,
provided only she might be relieved from
the continual anxiety and discomfort
which the fear of encountering him induced.


Sir Kobert, however, would not hear of
it ; the request seemed at first to agitate

VOL. I. 5

and distress him ; but when still urged in
defiance of his peremptory refusal, he burst
into a violent fit of fury; he spoke darkly
of great sacrifices which he had made, and
threatened that if the request were at anytime
renewed he would leave both her and
the country for ever. This was, however,
a solitary instance of violence ; his general
conduct towards Lady Ardagh, though at
no time uxorious, was certainly kind and
respectful, and he was more than repaid
in the fervent attachment which she bore
him in return.

Some short time after this strange interview
between Sir Robert and Lady
Ardagh ; one night after the family had
retired to bed, and ^vhen everything had
been quiet for some time, the bell of Sir
Robert's dressing-room rang suddenly and
violently ; the ringing was repeated again

I

and aofain at still shorter intervals, and
with increasing violence, as if the person
who pulled the bell was agitated by the
presence of some terrifying and imminent
danger. A servant named Donovan was
the first to answer it ; he threw on his
clothes, and hurried to the room.

Sir Robert had selected for his private
room an apartment remote from the bed-chambers
of the castle, most of which lay
in the more modern parts of the mansion,
and secured at its entrance by a double
door. As the servant opened the first of
these, Sir Robert's bell again sounded with
a longer and louder peal ; the inner door
resisted his efforts to open it ; but after
a few violent struo^orles, not having been
perfectly secured, or owing to the inadequacy
of the bolt itself, it gave way, and
the servant rushed into the apartment,

5—2

advancing several paces before he could
recover himself. As he entered, he heard
Sir Kobert's voice exclaiming loudly — •
Wait without, do not come in yet ;'
but the prohibition came too late. Near
a low truckle-bed, upon which Sir Robert
sometimes slept, for he was a Avhirasical
man, in a large armchair, sat, or rather
lounged, the form of the valet Jacque, his
arms folded, and his heels stretched forward
on the floor, so as fully to exhibit his
misshapen legs, his head thrown back, and
his eyes fixed upon his master with a look
of indescribable defiance and derision, while,
as if to add to the strange insolence of his
attitude and expression, he had placed upon
his head the black cloth cap which it was
his habit to wear.

Sir Kobert was standing before him, at
the distance of several yards, in a posture

expressive of despair, terror, and ^Yhat
night be called an agony of humility.
He waved his hand twice or thrice, as if
to dismiss the servant, who, however, remained
fixed on the spot Adhere he had
first stood ; and then, as if forgetting everything
but the agony within him, he pressed
his clenched hands on his cold damp brow,
and dashed away the heavy drops that
gathered chill and thickly there.

Jacque broke the silence.

Donovan,' said he, ^ shake up that
drone and drunkard, Carlton ; tell him
that his master directs that the travelling
oarriacre shall be at the door within .'


The servant paused, as if in doubt as to
what he should do ; but his scruples were
resolved by Sir Robert's saying hurriedly,
Go — go, do whatever he directs ; his

commands are mine ; tell Carlton the
same

The servant hurried to obey, and in
about half-an-hour the carriage was at the
door, and Jacque, having directed the

coachman to drive to B n, a small

town at about the distance of twelve
miles — the nearest point, however, at
which post-horses could be obtained —
stepped into the vehicle, which accordingly
quitted the castle immediately.

Although it was a fine moonlight night,
the carriage made its way but very slowly,
and after the lapse of two hours the travellers
had arrived at a point about eight miles
from the castle, at which the road strikes
through a desolate and heathy flat, sloping
up distantly at either side into bleak undulatory
hills, in whose monotonous sweep
the imagination beholds the heaving of

some dark sluo-o^ish sea, arrested in its
first commotion by some preternatural
power. It is a gloomy and divested spot ;
there is neither tree nor habitation near it ;
its monotony is unbroken, except by here
and there the grey front of a rock peering
above the heath, and the effect is rendered
yet more dreary and spectral by the exaggerated
and misty shadows which the
moon casts along the sloping sides of the
hills.

When they had gained about the
centre of this tract, Carlton, the coachman,
was surprised to see a figure standing
at some distance in advance, immediately
beside the road, and still more so when,
on coming up, he observed that it was no
other than Jacque whom he believed to
be at that moment quietly seated in the
carriage ; the coachman drew up, and

nodding to him, the little valet exclaimed
:

Carlton, I have got the start of 3'ou ;
the roads are heavy, so I shall even take
care of myself the rest of the way. Do
you make your way back as best you can,
and I shall follow my own nose.'

So saying, he chucked a purse into the
lap of the coachman, and turning off at a
right angle with the road, he began to
move rapidly away in the direction of the
dark ridge that lowered in the distance.

The servant watched him until he was
lost in the shadowy haze of night ; and
neither he nor any of the inmates of the
castle saw Jacque again. His disappearance,
as might have been expected, did not cause
any regret among the servants and dependants
at the castle ; and Lady Ardagh
did not attempt to conceal her delight;

but with Sir Robert matters were different,
for two or three days subsequent to this
event he confined himself to his room, and
when he did return to his ordinary occupations,
it was with a gloomy indifference,
which showed that he did so more from
habit than from any interest he felt in
them. He appeared from that moment
unaccountably and strikingly changed, and
thenceforward walked through life as a
thing from which he could derive neither
profit nor pleasure. His temper, however,
so far from growing wayward or
morose, became, though gloomy, very —
almost unnaturally — placid and cold ; but
his spirits totally failed, and he grew silent
and abstracted.

These sombre habits of mind, as might
have been anticipated, very materially
affected the gay house-keeping of the

castle ; and the dark and melancholy
spirit of its master seemed to have communicated
itself to the very domestics,
almost to the very walls of the mansion.

Several years rolled on in this way, and
the sounds of mirth and wassail had long
been strangers to the castle, when Sir
Robert requested his lady, to her great
astonishment, to invite some twenty or
thirty of their friends to spend the Christmas,
which was fast approaching, at the
castle. Lady Ardagh gladly complied,
and her sister Mary, who still continued

unmarried, and Lady D were of

course included in the invitations. Lady
Ardagh had requested her sisters to set
forward as early as possible, in order that
she might enjoy a little of their society
before the arrival of the other guests ;
and in compliance with this request they

left Dublin almost immediately upon
receiving the invitation, a little more thana
week before the arrival of the festival
which was to be the period at which the
whole party were to muster.

For expedition's sake it was arranged

that they should post, while Lady D 's

groom was to follow with her horses,
she taking with herself her own maid and
one male servant. They left the city
when the day was considerably spent, and
consequently made but three stages in
the first day ; upon the second, at about
eight in the evening, they had reached the

town of K k, distant about fifteen

miles from Castle Ardagh. Here, owing

to Miss F d's great fatigue, she having

been for a considerable time in a very
delicate state of health, it was determined
to put up for the night. They, accordingly,

took possession of the best sitting-room
which the inn commanded, and Lady

D remained in it to direct and urge

the preparations for some refreshment,
which the fatigues of the day had rendered
necessary, while her younger sister
retired to her bed-chamber to rest therefor
a little time, as the parlour commanded
no such luxury as a sofa.

Miss F d was, as I have already

stated, at this time in very delicate health ;
and upon this occasion the exhaustion of
fatigue, and the dreary badness of the
weather, combined to depress her spirits.

Lady D had not been left long to

herself, when the door communicating
with the passage was abruptly opened,
and her sister Mary entered in a state of
great agitation ; she sat down pale and
trembling upon one of the chairs, and it

was not until a copious flood of tears had
relieved her, that she became sufficiently
calm to relate the cause of her excitement
and distress. It was simply this. Almost
immediately upon lying down upon the
bed she sank into a feverish and refreshing
slumber ; images of all grotesque
shapes and startling colours flitted before
her sleeping fancy with all the rapidity and
variety of the changes in a kaleidoscope.
At length, as she described it, a mist
seemed to interpose itself between her
sight and the ever-shifting scenery which
sported before her imagination, and out
of this cloudy shadow gradually emerged
a figure whose back seemed turned towards
the sleeper ; it was that of a lady
who, in perfect silence, was expressing
as far as pantomimic gesture could, by
wringing her hands, and throwing her

head from side to side, in the manner of
one who is exhausted by the over indulgence,
by the very sickness and impatience
of grief, the extremity of misery. For a
long time she sought in vain to catch a
glimpse of the face of the apparition, who
thus seemed to stir and live before her.
But at length the figure seemed to move
with an air of authority, as if about to
give directions to some inferior, and in
doing so, it turned its head so as to display,
with a ghastly distinctness the
features of Lady Armagh, pale as death,
with her dark hair all dishevelled, and
her eyes dim and sunken with weeping.
The revulsion of feeling which Miss
F — — d experienced at this disclosure —
for up to that point she had contemplated
the appearance rather with a sense of
curiosity and of interest, than of anything

deeper — was so horrible, that the shook
awoke her perfectly. She sat up in the
bed, and looked fearfully around the
room, which was imperfectly lighted by a
single candle burning' dimly, as if she
almost expected to see the reality of her
dreadful vision lurking" in some corner of
the chamber. Her fears were, however,
verified, though not in the way she expected
; yet in a manner sufficiently
horrible — for she had hardly time to
breathe and to collect her thoughts, when
she heard, or thought she heard, the
voice of her sister. Lady Ardagh, sometimes
sobbing violently, and sometimes
almost [shrieking as if in terror, and calling
upon her and Lady D , with the

most imploring earnestness of despair, for
God's sake to lose no time in coming to
her. All this was so horribly distinct,

that it seemed as if the mourner was
standing within a few yards of the spot

where Miss F d lay. She sprang from

the bed, and leavings the candle in the
room behind her, she made her way in the
dark through the passage, the voice still
following her, until as she arrived at the
door of the sitting-room it seemed to die
away in low sobbing.

As soon as Miss F d was tolerably

recovered, she declared her determination
to proceed directly, and without further
loss of time, to Castle Ardagh. It was
not without much difficulty that Lady

D at length prevailed upon her to

consent to remain where they then were,
until morning should arrive, when it was
to be expected that the young lady would
be much refreshed by at least remaining
quiet for the night, even though sleep

were out of the question. Lady D

was convinced, from the nervous and
feverish symptoms which her sister exhibited,
that she had already done too
much, and was more than ever satisfied of
the necessity of prosecuting the journey
no further upon that day. After sometime
she persuaded her sister to return to
her room, where she remained with her
until she had gone to bed, and appeared

comparatively composed. Lady D

then returned to the parlour, and not
finding herself sleepy, she remained sitting
by the fire. Her solitude was a second
time broken in upon, by the entrance of
her sister, who now appeared, if possible,
more agitated than before. She said that

Lady D had not long left the room,

when she was roused by a repetition of
the same wailing: and lamentations, accom-

VOL. I. 6

panted by the wildest and most agonized
supplications that no time should be lost
in coming to Castle Ardagh, and all in her
sister's voice, and uttered at the same
proximity as before. This time the voice
had followed her to the very door of the
sitting-room, and until she closed it,
seemed to pour forth its cries and sobs at
the very threshold.

Miss F d now most positively declared
that nothing should prevent her
proceeding instantly to the castle, adding

that if Lady D would not accompany

her, she would go on by herself. Superstitious
feelings are at all times more or
less contagious, and the last century
afforded a soil much more congenial to
their growth than the present. Lady

D was so far affected by her sister's

terrors, that she became, at least, uneasy ;

and seeing that her sister was immovably
determined upon setting forward immediately,
she consented to accompany her
forthwith. After a slight delay, fresh
horses were procured, and the two ladies
and their attendants renewed their journey,
with strong injunctions to the driver to
quicken their rate of travelling as much as
possible, and promises of reward in case of
his doing so.

Roads were then in much worse condition
throughout the south, even than
they now are ; and the fifteen miles which
modern posting would have passed in little
more than an hour and a half, where not
completed even with every possible exertion
in twice the time. Miss F d had

been nervously restless during the journey.
Her head had been constantly out of
the carriage window ; and as they 



preached the entrance to the castle
demesne, which lay about a mile from the
building, her anxiety began to communicate
itself to her sister. The postillion
had just dismounted, and was endeavouring
to open the gate — at that time a
necessary trouble ; for in the middle of
the last century porter's lodges were not
common in the south of Ireland, and locks
and keys almost unknown. He had just
succeeded in rolling back the heavy oaken
gate so as to admit the vehicle, when a
mounted servant rode rapidly down the
avenue, and drawing up at the carriage,
asked of the postillion who the party were ;
and on hearing, he rode round to the
carriage window and handed in a note,

which Lady D received. By the

assistance of one of the coach-lamps they
succeeded in deciphering it. It was

scrawled in great agitation, and ran
thus :

My Dear Sister — My Dear Sisters
BOTH, — In God's name lose no time, I am
frightened and miserable ; I cannot explain
all till you come. I am too much terrified
to write coherently ; but understand
me — hasten — do not waste a minute. I
am afraid you will come too late.

E. A.'

The servant could tell nothing more
than that the castle was in great confusion,,
and that Lady Ardagh had been crying
bitterly all the night. Sir Robert was
perfectly well. Altogether at a loss as to
the cause of Lady Ardagh's great distress,
they urged their way up the steep and
broken avenue which wound through the
crowding trees, whose wild and grotesque-branches,

now left stripped and naked by the
blasts of winter, stretched drearily across
the road. As the carriage drew up in the
area before the door, the anxiety of the
ladies almost amounted to agony ; and
scarcely waiting for the assistance of their
attendant, they sprang to the ground, and
in an instant stood at the castle door.
From within were distinctly audible the
sounds of lamentation and weeping, and
the suppressed hum of voices as if of those
endeavouring to soothe the mourner.
The door was speedily opened, and when
the ladies entered, the first object which
met their view was their sister, Lady
Ardagh, sitting on a form in the hall,
weeping and wringing her hands in deep
agony. Beside her stood two old, withered
crones, who were each endeavouring in
their own way to administer consolation.

without even knowing or caring what the
subject of her grief might be.

Immediately on Lady Ardagh's seeing
her sisters, she started up, fell on their
necks, and kissed them again and again
without speaking, and then taking them
each by a hand, still weeping bitterly, she
led them into a small room adjoining the
hall, in which burned a light, and, having
closed the door, she sat down between
them. After thanking them for the haste
they had made, she proceeded to tell them,
in words incoherent from agitation, that
Sir E-obert had in private, and in the most
solemn manner, told her that he should die
upon that night, and that he had occupied
himself during the evening in giving minute
directions respecting the arrangements of

his funeral. Lady D here suggested

the possibility of his labouring under the

hallucinations of a fever ; but to this Lady
Ardagh quickly replied :

Oh ! no, no ! Would to God I could
think it. Oh ! no, no ! Wait till you
have seen him. There is a frightful calmness
about all he says and does ; and his
directions are all so clear, and his mind so
perfectly collected, it is impossible, quite
impossible.' And she wept yet more
bitterly.

At that moment Sir Robert's voice was
heard in issuing some directions, as he
came downstairs ; and Lady Ardagh exclaimed,
hurriedly :

Go now and see him yourself He is
in the hall.'

Lady D accordingly went out into

the hall, where Sir Robert met her ; and,
saluting her with kind politeness, he said,
after a pause :

You are come upon a melancholy mission
— the house is in great confusion, and
some of its inmates in considerable grief
He took her hand, and looking fixedly in
her face, continued : * I shall not live to
see tomorrow's sun shine.'

You are ill, sir, I have no doubt,' replied
she ; ^ but I am very certain we shall
see you much better tomorrow, and still
better the day following.'

I am not ill, sister,' replied he. ' Feel
m}" temples, they are cool ; lay your finger
to my pulse, its throb is slow and temperate.
I never was more perfectly in
health, and yet do I know that ere three
hours be past, I shall be no more.'

Sir, sir said she, a good deal startled,
but wishing to conceal the impression which
the calm solemnity of his manner had, in
her own despite, made upon her, ' Sir, you

should not jest ; you should not even speak
lightly upon such subjects. You trifle
with what is sacred — you are sporting with
the best affections of your wife '

^ Stay, my good lady said he ; ^ if when
this clock shall strike the hour of three, I
shall be anything but a helpless clod, then
upbraid me. Pray return now to your
sister. Lady Ardagh is, indeed, much to
be pitied ; but what is past cannot now be
helped. I have now a few papers to
arrange, and some to destroy. I shall see
you and Lady Ardagh before my death ;
try to compose her — her sufferings distress
me much ; but what is past cannot now be
mended

Thus saying, he went upstairs, and Lady

D returned to the room where her

sisters were sitting.

Well,' exclaimed Lady Ardagh, as she

re-entered, ' is it not so ? — do you still
doubt ? — do you think there is any hope V

Lady D was silent.

Oh ! none, none, none continued she ;
I see, I see you are convinced And she
wrung her hands in bitter agony.

My dear sister,' said Lady D ,

there is, no doubt, something strange in
all that has appeared in this matter ; but
still I cannot but hope that there may be
something deceptive in all the apparent
calmness of Sir Robert. I still must believe
that some latent fever has affected
his mind, or that, owing to the state of
nervous depression into which he has been
sinking, some trivial occurrence has been
converted, in his disordered imagination,
into an augury foreboding' his immediate
dissolution.'

In such suggestions, unsatisfactory even

to those who originated them, and doubly
so to her whom they were intended to
comfort, more than two hours passed ; and

Lady D was beginning to hope that

the fated term might elapse without the
occurrence of any tragical event, when Sir
Kobert entered the room. On coming in,
he placed his finger with a warning gesture
upon his lips, as if to enjoin silence ; and
then having successively pressed the hands
of his two sisters-in-law, he stooped sadly
over the fainting form of his lady, and
twice pressed her cold, pale forehead, with
his lips, and then passed silently out of
the room.

Lady D , starting up, followed to the

door, and saw him take a candle in the hall,
and walk deliberately up the stairs. Stimulated
by a feeling of horrible curiosity, she
continued to follow him at a distance. She

saw him enter his own private room, and
heard him close and lock the door after him.
Continuing to follow him as far as she
could, she placed herself at the door of the
chamber, as noiselessly as possible, whereafter
a little time she was joined by her

two sisters, Lady Ardagh and Miss F d.

In breathless silence they listened to what
should pass within. They distinctly heard
Sir Robert pacing up and down the room
for some time ; and then, after a pause, a
sound as if some one had thrown himself
heavily upon the bed. At this moment

Lady D , forgetting that the door had

been secured within, turned the handle for
the purpose of entering; when some one from
the inside, close to the door, said, ' Hush !
hush !' The same lady, now much alarmed,
knocked violently at the door ; there was
no answer. She knocked ao-ain more violently,

with no further success. Lady
Ardagh, now uttering a piercing shriek,
sank in a swoon upon the floor. Three or
four servants, alarmed by the noise, now
hurried upstairs, and Lady Ardagh was
carried apparently lifeless to her own
chamber. They then, after having knocked
long and loudly in vain, applied themselves
to forcing an entrance into Sir Robert's
room. After resisting some violent efforts,
the door at length gave way, and all
entered the room nearly together. There
was a single candle burning upon a table at
the far end of the apartment ; and stretched
upon the bed lay Sir Robert Ardagh. He
was a corpse — the eyes were open — no
convulsion had passed over the features, or
distorted the limbs — it seemed as if the
soul had sped from the body without a
struggle to remain there. On touching

the body it was found to be cold as clay —
all lingering of the vital heat had left it.
They closed the ghastly eyes of the corpse,
and leaving it to the care of those who
seem to consider it a privilege of their age
and sex to gloat over the revolting spectacle
of death in all its stages, they returned
to Lady Ardagh, now a widow.
The party assembled at the castle, but the
atmosphere was tainted with death. Grief
there was not much, but awe and panic
were expressed in every face. The guests
talked in whispers, and the servants walked
on tiptoe, as if afraid of the very noise of
their own footsteps.

The funeral was conducted almost with
splendour. The body, having been conveyed,
in compliance with Sir Kobert's last
directions, to Dublin, was there laid within
the ancient walls of St. Audoen's Church

where I have read the epitaph, telling
the age and titles of the departed dust.
Neither painted escutcheon, nor marble
slab, have served to rescue from oblivion
the story of the dead, whose very name
will ere long moulder from their tracery
—

Et sunt sua fata sepulchres'*

The events which I have recorded are
not imaginary. They are Facts ; and
there lives one whose authority none would
venture to question, who could vindicate
the accuracy of every statement which I
have set down, and that, too, with

This prophecy has since been realised; for the
isle in which Sir Robert's remains were laid has been
suffered to fall completely to decay ; and the tomb
which marked his grave, and other monuments more
curious, form now one indistinguishable mass of rubbish.


all the circumstantiality of an eyewitness.
*"

This paper, from a memorandum, I find to have
been written in 1803. The lady to whom allusion is

made, I believe to be ]\Iiss Mary F d. She never

married, and survived both her sisters, living to a very
advanced age.

VOL. I.

Condor.

a third Extract from the legacy of the late Francis
Fur cell, P. F. of Drumcoolagh.

Here is something in the decay
of ancient grandeur to interest
even the most unconcerned
spectator — the evidences of greatness, of
power, and of pride that survive the wreck
of time, proving, in mournful contrast with
present desolation and decay, what was in
other days, appeal with a resistless power,
to the sympathies of our nature. And

when, as we gaze on the scion of some
ruined family, the first impulse of nature
that bids us regard his fate with interest
and respect is justified by the recollection
of great exertions and self-devotion and
sacrifices in the cause of a lost country and
of a despised religion — sacrifices and
efforts made with all the motives of faithfulness
and of honour, and terminating in
ruin — in such a case respect becomes veneration,
and the interest we feel amounts
almost to a passion.

It is this feeling which has thrown
the magic veil of romance over every
roofless castle and ruined turret throughout
our country ; it is this feeling that,
so long as a tower remains above
the level of the soil, so long as one scion
of a prostrate and impoverished family
survives, will never suffer Ireland

7—2

to yield to the stranger more than the
mouth honour ' which fear compels.* I
who have conversed viva voce et propria
persona with those whose recollections
could run back so far as the times previous
to the confiscations which followed the
Ee volution of 1688 — whose memory could
repeople halls long roofless and desolate,
and point out the places where greatness
once had been, may feel all this more
strongly, and with a more vivid interest,
than can those whose sympathies are
awakened by the feebler influence of what

This passage serves [miracle dicit) to corroborate a
statement of Mr. O'Connell's, which occurs in his evidence
given before the House of Commons, wherein
■ he affirms that the principles of the Irish priesthood
are democratic, and were those of Jacobins.' — See
digest of the evidence tcpon the state of Ireland, given before
the House of Commons.

may be called the picturesque effects of
ruin and decay.

There do, indeed, still exist some fragments
of the ancient Catholic families of
Ireland ; but, alas ! what very fragments !
They linger like the remnants of her
aboriginal forests, reft indeed of their
strength and greatness, but proud even in
decay. Every winter thins their ranks,
and strews the ground with the wreck of
their loftiest branches ; they are at best
but tolerated in the land which gave them
birth — objects of curiosity, perhaps of
pity, to one class, but of veneration to
another.

The O'connor, of Castle Connor, were
an ancient Irish family. The name recurs
frequently in our history, and is generally
to be found in a prominent place whenever
periods of tumult or of peril called forth

the courage and the enterprise of this
country. After the accession of William
III., the storm of confiscation which
swept over the land made woeful havoc
in their broad domains. Some fragments
of property, however, did remain to them,
and with it the building which had forages
formed tie family residence.

About the year 17 — , my uncle, a
Catholic priest, became acquainted with the
inmates of Castle Connor, and after a time
introduced me, then a lad of about fifteen,
full of spirits, and little dreaming that a
profession so grave as his should ever become
mine.

The family at that time consisted of but
two members, a widow lady and her only
son, a young man aged about eighteen. In
our early days the progress from acquaintance
to intimacy, and from intimacy to

friendship is proverbially rapid ; and young
O'Connor and I became, in less than a
month, close and confidential companions —
an intercourse which ripened gradually into
an attachment ardent, deep, and devoted —
such as I believe young hearts only are
capable of forming.

He had been left early fatherless, and
the representative and heir of his family.
His mother's affection for him was intense
in proportion as there existed no other
object to divide it — indeed such love as
that she bore him I have never seen elsewhere.
Her love was better bestowed
than that of mothers generally is, for
young O'Connor, not without some of the
faults, had certainly many of the most engaging
qualities of youth. He had all the
frankness and gaiety which attract, and
the generosity of heart which confirms

friendship ; indeed, I never saw a person
so universally popular ; his very faults
seemed to recommend him ; he was wild,
extravagant, thoughtless, and fearlessly
adventurous — defects of character which,
among the peasantry of Ireland, are
honoured as virtues. The combination of
these qualities, and the position which
O'Connor occupied as representative of an
ancient Irish Catholic family — a peculiarly
interesting one to me, one of the old faith —
endeared him to me so much that I have
never felt the pangs of parting more keenly
than when it became necessary, for the
finishing of his education, that he should
go abroad.

Three years had passed away before I
saw him again. During the interval,
however, I had frequently heard from him,
so that absence had not abated the warmth

of our attachment. Who could tell of the
rejoicing that marked the evening of his
return ? The horses were removed from
the chaise at the distance of a mile from
the castle, while it and its contents were
borne rapidly onward almost by the pressure
of the multitude, like a log upon a
torrent. Bonfires blared far and near —
bagpipes roared and fiddles squeaked ; and,
amid the thundering shouts of thousands,
the carriage drev/ up before the
castle.

In an instant young O'Connor was upon
the ground, crying, ' Thank you, boys —
thank you, boys ;' while a thousand hands
were stretched out from all sides to grasp
even a finger of his. Still, amid shouts of
God bless your honour — long may you
reign !' and ' Make room there, boys ! clear
the road for the master !' he reached the

threshold of the castle, where stood his
mother weeping for joy.

Oh ! who could describe that embrace,
or the enthusiasm with which it was witnessed
? ^ God bless him to you my lady — •
glory to ye both !' and ' Oh, but he is a fine
young gentleman, God bless him !' resounded
on all sides, while hats flew up in
volleys that darkened the moon ; and
when at length, amid the broad delighted
grins of the thronging domestics, whose
sense of decorum precluded any more
boisterous evidence of joy, they reached
the parlour, then giving way to the fulness
of her joy the widowed mother kissed and
blessed him and wept in turn. Well
might any parent be proud to claim as son
the handsome stripling who now represented
the Castle Connor family ; but to
her his beauty had a peculiar charm, for it

bore a striking resemblance to that of her
husband, the last O'Connor.

I know not whether partiality blinded
me, or that I did no more than justice to
my friend in believing that I had never
seen so handsome a young man. I am inclined
to think the latter. He was rather
tall, very slightly and elegantly made ; his
face was oval, and his features decidedly
Spanish in cast and complexion, but with
far more vivacity of expression than generally
belongs to the beauty of that nation.
The extreme delicacy of his features and
the varied animation of his countenance
made him appear even younger than his
years — an illusion which the total absence
of everything studied in his manners
seemed to confirm. Time had wrought no
small change in me, alike in mind and
spirits ; but in the case of O'Connor it

seemed to have lost its power to alter.
His gaiety was undamped, his generosity
chilled ; and though the space which
had intervened between our parting and
reunion was but brief, yet at the period of
life at which we were, even a shorter
interval than that of three years has
frequently served to form or (Reform a
character.

Weeks had passed away since the return
of O'Connor, and scarce a day had elapsed
without my seeing him, when the neighbourhood
was thrown into an unusual state
of excitement by the announcement of a
race-ball to be celebrated at the assembly-room
of the town of T •, distant scarcely

two miles from Castle Connor.

Young O'Connor, as I had expected,
determined at once to attend it ; and
having directed in vain all the powers of

his rhetoric to persuade his mother to
accompany him, he turned the whole
battery of his logic upon me, who, at that
time, felt a reluctance stronger than that
of mere apathy to mixing in any of these
scenes of noisy pleasure for which for
many reasons I felt myself unfitted. He
was so urgent and persevering, however,
that I could not refuse ; and I found myself
reluctantly obliged to make up my
mind to attend him upon the important
night to the spacious but ill-finished building,
which the fashion and beauty of the
county were pleased to term an assembly-room.


When we entered the apartment, we
found a select few, surrounded by a crowd
of spectators, busily performing a minuet,
with all the confess and flourishes which
belonged to that courtly dance ; and my

companion, infected by the contagion of
example, was soon, as I had anticipated,
waving his chapeau iras, and gracefully
bowing before one of the prettiest girls in
the room. I had neither skill nor spirits to
qualify me to follow his example ; and as
the fulness of the room rendered it easy todo
so without its appearing singular, I
determined to be merely a spectator of
the scene which surrounded me, without
taking an active part in its amusements.

The room was indeed very much
crowded so that its various groups, formed
as design or accident had thrown the
parties together, afforded no small fund
of entertainment to the contemplative
observer. There were the dancers, all
gaiety and good-humour; a little further
off were the tables at which sat the card-players,
some plying their vocation with

deep and silent anxiety — for in those days
gaming often ran very high in such places
and others disputing with all the
vociferous pertinacity of undisguised ill-temper.
There, again, were the sallow,
blue-nosed, grey-eyed dealers in whispered
scandal ; and, in short, there is scarcely a
group or combination to be met with in
the court of kino-s which mio-ht not have
found a humble parallel in the assembly-room
of T .

I was allowed to indulge in undisturbed
contemplation, for I suppose I was not
known to more than ^yq or six in the
room. I thus had leisure not only to
observe the different classes into which the
company had divided itself, but to amuse
myself by speculating as to the rank and
character of many of the individual actors
in the drama.

Among many who have long since
passed from mj memory, one person for
some time engaged m}^ attention, and that
person, for many reasons, I shall not soon
forget. He was a tall, square-shouldered
man, who stood in a careless attitude,
leaning with his back to the wall ; he
seemed to have secluded himself from the
busy multitudes which moved noisily and
gaily around him, and nobody seemed to
observe or to converse with him. He was
fashionably dressed, but perhaps rather
extravagantly ; his face was full and
heavy, expressive of sullenness and
stupidity, and marked with the lines of
strong vulgarity ; his age might be somewhere
between forty and fifty. Such as I
have endeavoured to describe him, he remained
motionless, his arms doggedly
folded across his broad chest, and turning

his sullen eyes from corner to corner of
the room, as if eager to detect some object
on which to vent his ill-humour.

It is strange, and yet it is true, that one ,
sometimes finds even in the most commonplace
countenance an undefinable something,
which fascinates the attention, and
forces it to recur again and again, while it
is impossible to tell whether the peculiarity
which thus attracts us lies in feature orin
expression, or in both combined, and
why it is that our observation should be
engrossed by an object which, when
analysed, seems to possess no claim to
interest or even to notice. This unaccountable
feeling T have often experienced,
and I believe I am not singular, but never
in so remarkable a degree as upon this
occasion. My friend O'Connor, having
disposed of his fair partner, was crossing

VOL. I. 8

the room for the purpose of joining me, in
doing Which I was surprised to see him
exchange a familiar, ahiiost a cordial,
greeting with the object of mj curiosity.
I say I was surprised, for independent of
his very questionable appearance, it struck
me as strange that though so constantly
associated with O'Connor, and, as I
thought, personally acquainted with all
his intimates, I had never before even
seen this individual; I did not fail immediately
to ask him who this gentleman
was. I thought he seemed slightly embarrassed,
but after a moment's pause he
laughingly said that his friend over the
way was too mysterious a personage to
have his name announced in so giddy a
scene as the present ; but that on the
morrow he would furnish me with all the
information which I could desire. There

was, I thought, in his affected jocularity a
real awkwardness which appeared to me
unaccountable, and consequently increased
my curiosity ; its gratification, however, I
was obliged to defer. At length, wearied
with witnessing amusements in which I
could not sympathise, I left the room, and
did not see O'Connor until late in the next
day.

I had ridden down towards the castle
for the purpose of visiting the O'connor,
and had nearly reached the avenue leading
to the mansion, when I met my friend.
He was also mounted ; and having answered
my inquiries respecting his mother,
he easily persuaded me to accompany him
in his ramble. We had chatted as usual
for some time, when, after a pause,
O'Connor said :

By the way, Purcell, you expressed

8—2

some curiosity respecting the tall, hand-^
some fellow to whom I spoke last
night.*

I certainly did question you about a
tall gentleman, but was not aware of his
claims to beauty replied I.

^ Well, that is as it may be,' said he ;
the ladies think him handsome, and their
opinion upon that score is more valuable
than yours or mine. Do you know,' he
continued, ' I sometimes feel half sorry
that I ever made the fellow's acquaintance :
he is quite a marked man here, and they
tell stories of him that are anything but
reputable, though I am sure without
foundation. I think I know enough about
him to warrant me in saying so.'

May I ask his name ?' inquired I.

Oh ! did not I tell you his name V
rejoined he. ' You should have heard

|i:hat first ; he and his name are equally
well known. You will recognise the
individual at once when I tell you that
his name is — Fitzgerald.'

'Fitzgerald!' I repeated. 'Fitzgerald!
can it be Fitzgerald the duellist V

Upon my word you have hit it replied
he, laughing ; ' but you have accompanied
the discovery with a look of horror more
tragic than appropriate. He is not the
monster you take him for — he has a good
deal of old Irish pride ; his temper is
hasty, and he has been unfortunately
thrown in the way of men who have not
made allowance for these things. I am
convinced that in every case in which
Fitzgerald has fought, if the truth could
be discovered, he would be found to have
acted throughout upon the defensive. No
man is mad enough to risk his own life,

except when the doing so is an alternative
to submitting tamely to what he considers
an insult. I am certain that no man ever
engaged in a duel under the consciousness
that he had acted an intentionally aggressive
part.'

When did you make his acquaintance V
said I.

About two years ago,' he replied. ^ I
met him in France, and you know when
one is abroad it is an ungracious task
to reject the advances of one's countryman,
otherwise I think I should have
avoided his society — less upon my own
account than because I am sure the
acquaintance would be a source of continual
though groundless uneasiness to
my mother. I know, therefore, that you
will not unnecessarily mention its existence
to her.'

I gave him the desired assurance, and
added :

May I ask you. O'Connor, if, indeed, it
be a fair question, whether this Fitzgerald
at any time attempted to engage you in
anything like gaming V

This question was suggested by my
having frequently heard Fitzgerald mentioned
as a noted gambler, and sometimes
even as a blacken. O'Connor seemed, I
thought, slightly embarrassed. He answered
:

No, no — I cannot say that he ever
attempted anything of the kind. I
certainly have played with him, but never
lost to any serious amount ; nor can I
recollect that he ever solicited me — indeed
he knows that I have a strong objection to
deep play. You must be aware that my
finances could not bear much pruning

down. I never lost more to him at a
sitting than about five pounds, which you
know is nothing. No, you wrong him if
you imagine that he attached himself tome
merely for the sake of such contemptible
winnings as those which a broken-down
Irish gentleman could afford him. Come,
Purcell, you are too hard upon him — you
judge only by report ; you must see
him, and decide for yourself. — Suppose we
call upon him now ; he is at the inn, in the
High Street, not a mile off.'

I declined the proposal drily.

Your caution is too easily alarmed,'
said he. ^ I do not wish you to make this
man your bosom friend : I merely desire
that you should see and speak to him, and
if you form any acquaintance with him, it
must be of that slight nature which can
be dropped or continued at pleasure.'

From the time that O'Connor had
announced the fact that his friend was no
other than the notorious Fitzgerald, a
forebodings of something: calamitous had
come upon me, and it now occurred to me
that if any unpleasantness were to be
feared as likely to result to O'Connor from
their connection, I might find my attempts
to extricate him much facilitated by my
being acquainted, however slightly, with
Fitzgerald. I know not whether the idea
was reasonable — it was certainly natural ;
and I told O'Connor that upon second
thoughts I would ride down with him to
the town, and wait upon Mr. Fitzgerald.

We found him at home, and chatted
with him for a considerable time. To my
surprise his manners were perfectly those
of a gentleman, and his conversation, if
not peculiarly engaging, was certainly

amusing. The politeness of his demeanour,
and the easy fluency with which he
told his stories and his anecdotes, many of
them curious, and all more or less entertaining,
accounted to my mind at once for
the facility with which he had improved
his acquaintance with O'Connor ; and
when he pressed upon us an invitation to
sup with him that night, I had almost
joined O'Connor in accepting it. I determined,
however, against doing so, for I
had no wish to be on terms of familiarity
with Mr. Fitzgerald : and I knew that
one evening spent together as he proposed
would go further towards establishing an
intimacy between us than fifty morning
visits could do. When I arose to depart,
it was with feelings almost favourable to
Fitzgerald ; indeed I was more than half
ashamed to acknowledge to my companion

how complete a revolution in my opinion
respecting his friend half an hour's conversation
with him had wrought. His
appearance certainly teas against him ; but
then, under the influence of his manner,
one lost siofht of much of its uno-manliness,
and of nearly all its vulgarity ; and, on
the whole, I felt convinced that report
had done him grievous wrong, inasmuch
as anybody, by an observance of the
common courtesies of society, might easily
avoid coming into personal collision with
a gentleman so studiously polite as Fitzgerald.
At parting, O'Connor requested
me to call upon him the next day, as he
intended to make trial of the merits of a
pair of greyhounds, which he had thoughts
of purchasing ; adding, that if he could
escape in anything like tolerable time
from Fitzgerald's supper party, he would

take the field soon after ten on the next
morning. At the appointed hour, or
perhaps a little later, I dismounted at
Castle Connor; and, on entering the hall,
I observed a gentleman issuing from
O'Connor's private room. I recognised
him, as he approached, as a Mr.
M'Donough, and, being but slightly
acquainted with him, was about to pass
him with a bow, when he stopped me.
There was something in his manner which
struck me as odd ; he seemed a good
deal flurried, if not agitated, and said, in a
hurried tone :

'This is a very foolish business, Mr.
Purcell. You have some influence with
my friend O'Connor ; I hope you can induce
him to adopt some more moderate
line of conduct than that he has decided
upon. If you will allow me, I will return

for a moment with you, and talk over the
matter again with O'Connor.'

As M'Donough uttered these words, I
felt that sudden sinking of the heart which
accompanies the immediate anticipation of
something dreaded and dreadful. I was
instantly convinced that O'Connor had
quarrelled with Fitzgerald, and I knew
that if such were the case, nothing short
of a miracle could extricate him from the
consequences. I signed to M'Donough to
lead the way, and we entered the little
study together. O'Connor was standing
with his back to the fire ; on the table lay
the breakfast-things in the disorder in
which a hurried meal had left them ; and
on another smaller table, placed near the
hearth, lay pen, ink, and paper. As soon
as O'Connor saw me, he came forward and
shook me cordially by the hand.

My dear Parcel,' said he, ' you are the
very man I wanted. I have got into an
ugly scrape, and I trust to my friends to
set me out of it.'

'You have had no dispute with that
man — that Fitzgerald, I hope,' said T,
giving utterance to the conjecture whose
truth I most dreaded.

Faith, I cannot say exactly what
passed between us,' said he, ,*, inasmuch
as I was at the .time nearly half seas
over ; but of this much I am certain, that
we exchanged angry words last night. T
lost my temper most confoundedly ; but,
as well as I can recollect, he appeared perfectly
cool and collected. What he said
was, therefore, deliberately said, and on
that account must be resented.'

My dear O'Connor, are you mad V I
exclaimed. ^ Why will you seek to drive

to a deadly issue a few hasty words,
uttered under the influence of wine, and
forgotten almost as soon as uttered ? A
quarrel with Fitzgerald it is twenty
chances to one would terminate fatally
to you.'

It is exactly because Fitzgerald is such
an accomplished shot,' said he, ' that I
become liable to the most injurious and
intolerable suspicions if I submit to anything
from him which could be construed
into an affront ; and for that reason Fitzgerald
is the very last man to whom I
would concede an inch in a case of
honour.'

^ I do not require you to make any, the
slightest sacrifice of what you term your
honour,' I replied ; ^ but if you have
actually written a challenge to Fitzgerald,
as I suspect you have done, I conjure you

to reconsider the matter before you
despatch it. From all that I have heard
you say, Fitzgerald has more to complain
of in the altercation which has taken place
than you. You owe it to your only surviving
parent not to thrust yourself thus
wantonly upon — I will say it, the most
appalling danger. Nobody, my dear
O'Connor, can have a doubt of your
courage ; and if at any time, which God
forbid, you shall be called upon thus to
risk your life, you should have it in your
power to enter the field under the consciousness
that you have acted throughout
temperately and like a man, and not, as I
fear you now would do, having rashly and
most causelessly endangered your own life
and that of your friend.'

I believe, Purcell, your are right,' said
he. * I believe I have viewed the matter

in too decided a light ; my note, I think,
scarcely allows him an honourable alternative,
and that is certainly going a step
too far — further than I intended. Mr.
M'Donough, I'll thank you to hand me
the note.'

He broke the seal, and, casting his eye
hastily over it, he continued :

'It is, indeed, a monument of folly. I
am very glad, Purcell, you happened to
come in, otherwise it would have reached
its destination by this time.'

He threw it into the fire ; and, after a
moment's pause, resumed :

You must not mistake me, however.
I am perfectly satisfied as to the propriety,
nay, the necessity, of communicating with
Fitzgerald. The difficulty is in what tone
I should address him. I cannot say that
the man directly affronted me — I cannot

VOL. I. 9

recollect any one expression which I could
lay hold upon as offensive — but his
language was ambiguous, and admitted
frequently of the most insulting construction,
and his manner throughout was insupportably
domineering, I knows it impressed
me with the idea that he presumed
upon his reputation as a dead shot, and
that would be utterly unendurable.'

I would now recommend, as I have
already done said M'Donough, ^ that if
you write to Fitzgerald, it should be in
such a strain as to leave him at perfect
liberty, without a compromise of honour,
in a friendly way, to satisfy your doubts as
to his conduct.'

I seconded the proposal warmly, and
O'Connor, in a few minutes, finished a
note, which he desired us to read. It was
to chis effect :

O'Connor, of Castle Connor, feeling
that some expressions employed by Mr.
Fitzgerald upon last night, admitted of a
construction offensive to him, and injurious
to his character, requests to know whether
Mr. Fitzgerald intended to convey such a
meaning.

Castle Connor, Thursday morning.'

This note was consigned to the care of
Mr. M'Donough, who forthwith departed
to execute his mission. The sound of his
horse's hoofs, as he rode rapidly away,
struck heavily at my heart ; but I found
some satisfaction in the reflection that
M'Donough appeared as averse from extreme
measures as I was myself, for I
well knew, with respect to the final result
of the affair, that as much depended upon
the tone adopted by the second as upon

9—2

the nature of the written communication.


I have seldom passed a more anxious
hour than that which intervened between
the departure and the return of that gentleman.
Every instant I imagined I heard
the tramp of a horse approaching, and
every time that a door opened I fancied
it was to give entrance to the eagerly expected
courier. At length I did hear the
hollow and rapid tread of a horse's hoof
upon the avenue. It approached — it
stopped — a hurried step traversed the
hall — the room door opened, and M'Do-
nought entered.

You have made great haste said
O'Connor ; ^ did you find him at home V

^ 1 did replied M'Donough, * and made
the greater haste as Fitzgerald did not let
me know the contents of his reply.'

At the same time he handed a note to
O'Connor, who instantly broke the seal.
The words were as follow :

Mr. Fitzgerald regrets that anything
which has fallen from him should have
appeared to Mr. O'Connor to be intended
to convey a reflection upon his honour
(none such having been meant), and begs
leave to disavow any wish to quarrel unnecessarily
with Mr. O'Connor.

T Inn, Thursday morning.'

I cannot describe how much I felt relieved
on reading the above communication.
I took O'Connor's hand and pressed
it warmly, but my emotions were deeper
and stronger than I cared to show, for I
was convinced that he had escaped a most
imminent danger. Nobody whose notions
upon the subject are derived from the

duelling of modern times, in which matters
are conducted without any very sanguinary
determination upon either side, and with
equal want of skill and coolness by both
parties, can form a just estimate of the
danger incurred by one who ventured to
encounter a duellist of the old school.
Perfect coolness in the field, and a steadiness
and accuracy (which to the unpractised
appeared almost miraculous) in the
use of the pistol, formed the characteristics
of this class ; and in addition to this there
generally existed a kind of professional
pride, which prompted the duellist, in
default of any more malignant feeling,
from motives of mere vanity, to seek the
life of his antagonist. Fitzgerald's career
had been a remarkably successful one, and
I knew that out of thirteen duels which
he had fought in Ireland, in nine cases he

had hilled his man. In those days one
never heard of the parties leaving the field,
as not unfrequently now occurs, without
blood having been spilt ; and the odds
were, of course, in all cases tremendously
against a young and unpractised
man, when matched with an experienced
antagonist. My impression respecting the
magnitude of the danger which my friend
had incurred was therefore by no means
unwarranted.

I now Questioned O'Connor more accurately
respecting the circumstances of
his quarrel with Fitzgerald. It arose
from some dispute respecting the application
of a rule of piquet, at which game
they had been playing, each interpreting
it favourably to himself, and O'Connor,
having lost considerably, was in no mood
to conduct an argument with temper — an

altercation ensued, and that of rather a
pungent nature, and the result was that
he left Fitzgerald's room rather abruptly,
determined to demand an explanation in
the most peremptory tone. For this purpose
he had sent for M'Donough, and had
commissioned him to deliver the note,
which my arrival had fortunately intercepted.


As it was now past noon, O'Connor
made me promise to remain with him to
dinner ; and we sat down a party of three,
all in high spirits at the termination of
our anxieties. It is necessary to mention,
for the purpose of accounting for what
follows, that Mrs. O'Connor, or, as she was
more euphoniously styled, the lady of
Castle Connor, was precluded by ill-health
from taking her place at the dinner-table,
and, indeed, seldom left her room before

four o'clock"' We were sitting: after
dinner sipping our claret, and talking,
and laughing, and enjoying ourselves exceedingly,
when a servant, stepping into
the room, informed his master that a
gentleman wanted to speak with him.

Request him, with my compliments, to
walk in,' said O'Connor; and in a few
moments a gentleman entered the room.

His appearance was anything but prepossessing.
He was a little above the
middle size, spare, and raw-boned ; his
face very red, his features sharp and bluish,
and his age might be about sixty. His
attire savoured a good deal of the shabby-genteel
; his clothes, which had much of
tarnished and faded pretension about

It is scarcely necessary to remind the reader, that
at the period spoken of, the important hour of dinner
occurred very nearly at noon.

them, did not fit him, and had not
improbably fluttered in the stalls of
Plunder Street. We had risen on his
entrance, and O'Connor had twice requested
of him to take a chair at the table, without
his hearing, or at least noticing, the
invitation ; while with a slow pace, and
with an air of mingled importance and
effrontery, he advanced into the centre of
the apartment, and regarding our small
party with a supercilious air, he said :

I take the liberty of introducing
myself — I am Captain M'Creagh, formerly
of the — infantry. My business here is
with a Mr. O'Connor, and the sooner it is
despatched the better.'

^ I am the gentleman you name,' said
O'Connor ; ' and as you appear impatient,
we had better proceed to your commission
without delay.'

Then, Mr. O'Connor, you ^vill please
to read that note said the captain, placing
a sealed paper in this hand.

O'Connor read it through, and then
observed :

This is very extraordinary indeed.
This note appears to me perfectly unaccountable.'


'You are very young, Mr. O'Connor,'
said the captain, with vulgar familiarity ;
'but, without much experience in these
matters, I think you might have anticipated
something like this. You know
the old saying, '' Second thoughts are
best;' and so they are like to prove, by

G-r

You will have no objection. Captain
M'Creagh, on the part of your friend, to
my reading this note to these gentlemen ;
they are both confidential friends of mine.

hind one of them has already acted for mein
this business.'

'I can have no objection,' replied the
captain, ' to your doing what you please
with your own. I have nothing more todo
with that note once I put it safe into
jour hand ; and when that is once done, it
is all one to me, if you read it to half the
world — that's your concern, and no affair
of mine.'

O'Connor then read the following :

^ Mr. Fitzgerald begs leave to state, that
upon re-perusing Mr. O'Connor's communication
of this morning carefully, with
an experienced friend, he is forced to
consider himself as challenged. His
friend. Captain M'Creagh, has been empowered
b}^ him to make all the necessary
arrangements.

T Inn, Thursday.'

I can hardly describe the astonishment
with which I heard this note. I turned to
the captain, and said :

Surely, sir, there is some mistake in all
this V

^ Not the slightest, I'll assure you, sir,'
said he, coolly ; ^ the case is a very clear
one, and I think my friend has pretty well
made up his mind upon it. May I
request your answer ?' he continued, turning
to O'Connor ; ' time is precious, you
know.'

O'Connor expressed his willingness to
comply with the suggestion, and in a few
minutes had folded and directed the following
rejoinder :

Mr. O'Connor having received a
satisfactory explanation from Mr. Fitzgerald,
of the language used by that gentleman,
feels that there no longer exists

any grounds for misunderstanding, and
wishes further to state, that the note of
which Mr. Fitzgerald speaks Alas not intended
as a challenge.'

With this note the captain departed ; and
as we did not doubt that the message which
he had delivered had been suggested by
some unintentional, misconstruction of
O'Connor's first billet, we felt assured that
the conclusion of his last note would set
the matter at rest. In this belief, however,
we were mistaken ; before we had left the
table, and in an incredibly short time, the
captain returned. He entered the room
with a countenance evidently tasked to
avoid expressing the satisfaction which a
consciousness of the nature of his mission
had conferred ; but in spite of all his efforts
to look gravely unconcerned, there was a
twinkle in the small grey eye, and an

almost imperceptible motion in the corner
of the mouth, which sufficiently betrayed
his internal glee, as he placed a note in
the hand of O'Connor. As the young
man cast his eye over it, he coloured
deeply, and turning to M'Donough, he
said :

You will have the goodness to make
all the necessary arrangements for a meetings.
Something has occurred to render
one between me and Mr. Fitzgerald
inevitable. Understand me literally, when
I say that it is now totally impossible that
this affair should be amicably arranged.
You will have the goodness, M'Donough,
to let me know as soon as all the particulars
are arranged. Purcell he continued,
will you have the kindness to accompany
me T and having bowed to M'Creagh, we
left the room.

As I closed the door after me, I heard
the captain laugh, and thought I could

distinguish the words — ' By I knew

Fitzgerald would bring him to his way of
thinking before he stopped.'

I followed O'Connor into his study, and
on entering, the door being closed, he
showed me the communication which had
determined him upon hostilities. Its
language was grossly impertinent, and it
concluded by actually threatening to 'post'
him, in case he further attempted ' to be
off.' I cannot describe the agony of indignation
in which O'Connor writhed under
this insult. He said repeatedly that ' he
was a degraded and dishonoured man,'
that ^ he was dragged into the field,' that
there was ignominy in the very thought
that such a letter should have been directed
to him.' It was in vain that I reasoned

against this impression ; the conviction
that he had been disgraced had taken possession
of his mind. He said again and
aofain that nothing' but his death could
remove the stain which his indecision had
cast upon the name of his family. I
hurried to the hall, on hearing M'Donough
and the captain passing, and reached the
door just in time to hear the latter say, ashe
mounted his horse :

All the rest can be arranged on the
spot; and so farewell, Mr. M'Donough —
we'll meet at Philippi, you know ;' and
with this classical allusion, which was
accompanied with a grin and a bow, and
probably served many such occasions, the
captain took his departure.

M'Donough briefly stated the few
particulars which had been arranged. The
parties were to meet at the stand-house,

VOL. I. 10

in the race-ground, which, lay at about an
equal distance between Castle Connor and

the town of T . The hour appointed

was half-past five on the next morning,
at which time the twilight would be sufficiently
advanced to afford a distinct view ;
and the weapons to be employed were
pistols — M'Creagh having claimed, on the
part of his friend, all the advantages of the
challenged party, and having, consequently,
insisted upon the choice of ^ tools as he
expressed himself; and it vas further
stipulated that the utmost secrecy should
be observed, as Fitzgerald would incur
great risk from the violence of the
peasantry, in case the affair took wind.
These conditions were, of course, agreed
upon by O'Connor, and M^Donough left
the castle, having appointed four o'clock
upon the next morning as the hour of his

return, by which time it would be his
business to provide everything necessary
for the meeting. On his departure,
O'Connor requested me to remain with
him upon that evening, saying that ^ he
could not bear to be alone with his
mother.' It was to me a most painful
request, but at the same time one which I
could not think of refusing. I felt, however,
that the difficulty at least of the
task which I had to perform would be in
some measure mitigated by the arrival
of two relations of O'Connor upon that
evening'.

It is very fortunate,' said O'Connor,
whose thoughts had been running upon
the same subject, That the O'Gradys will
be with us to-night ; their gaiety and
good-humour will relieve us from a heavy
task. I trust that nothing may occur to

10—2

prevent their coming.' Fervently concurring
in the same wish, I accompanied
O'Connor into the parlour, there to await
the arrival of his mother.

God grant that I may never spend such
another evening ! The O'Gradys did come,
but their high and noisy spirits, so far from
relieving me, did but give additional gloom
to the despondency, I might say the despair,
which filled my heart with misery —
the terrible forebodings which I could not
for an instant silence, turned their laughter
into discord, and seemed to mock the smiles
and jests of the unconscious party. When
I turned my eyes upon the mother, I
thought I never had seen her look so
proudly and so lovingly upon her son
before — it cut me to the heart — oh, how
cruelly I was deceiving her ! I was a
hundred times on the very joint of starting

up, and, at all hazards, declaring to
her how matters were ; but other feelings
subdued my better emotions. Oh, what
monsters are we made of by the fashions of
the world ! how are our kindlier and nobler
feelings warped or destroyed by their baleful
influences ! I felt that it would not be
honourable, that it would not be etiquette,
to betray O'Connor's secret. I sacrificed a
higher and a nobler duty than I have since
been called upon to perform, to the dastardly
fear of bearing the unmerited censure
of a world from which I was about to.
retire. Fashion ! thou gaudy idol,
whose feet are red with the blood of human
sacrifice, would I had always felt towards
thee as 1 now do !

O'Connor was not dejected ; on the contrary,
he joined with loud and lively
alacrity in the hilarity of the little party :

but I could see in the flush of his cheek,
and in the unusual brightness of his eye,
all the excitement of fever — he was making
an effort almost beyond his strength, but
he succeeded — and when his mother rose
sto leave the room, it was with the impression
that her son Alas the gayest and most
light-hearted of the company. Twice or
thrice she had risen with the intention of
retiring, but O'Connor, with an eagerness
which I alone could understand, had persuaded
her to remain until the usual hour
of her departure had long passed ; and
when at length she arose, declaring that
she could not possibly stay longer, I alone
could comprehend the desolate change
which passed over his manner ; and when
I saw them part, it was with the sickening
conviction that those two beings, so dear

to one another, so loved, so cherished,
should meet no more.

O'Connor briefly informed his cousins of
the position in which he was placed, requesting
them at the same time to accompany
him to the field, and this having
been settled, we separated, each to his own
apartment. I had wished to sit up with
O'Connor, who had matters to arrange
sufficient to employ him until the hour
appointed for M'Donough's visit ; but he
would not hear of it, and I was forced,
though sorely against my will, to leave him
without a companion. I went to my room,
and, in a state of excitement which I cannot
describe. I paced for hours up and
down its narrow precincts. I could not —
who could ? — analyse the strange, contradictory,
torturing feelings which, while I
recoiled in shrinking: horror from the scene

which the morning was to bring, yet forced
me to wish the intervening time annihilated
; each hour that the clock told seemed
to vibrate and tinkle through every nerve ;
my agitation was dreadful ; fancy conjured
up the forms of those who filled my
thoughts with more than the vividness of
reality; things seemed to glide through
the dusky shadows of the room. I saw
the dreaded form of Fitzgerald — I heard
the hated laugh of the captain — and again
the features of O'Connor would appear
before me, with ghastly distinctness, pale
and writhed in death, the goats of gore
clotted in the mouth, and the eye-balls
glared and staring. Scared with the
visions which seemed to throng with unceasing
rapidity and vividness, I threw
open the window and looked out upon the
quiet scene around. I turned my eyes in

the direction of the town ; a heavy cloud
was lowering darkly about it, and I, in
impious frenzy, prayed to God that it
might burst in avenging fires upon the
murderous wretch who lay beneath. At
length, sick and giddy with excess of excitement,
I threw myself upon the bed
without removing my clothes, and endeavoured
to compose myself so far as to
remain quiet until the hour for our assembling
should arrive.

A few minutes before four o'clock I stole
noiselessly downstairs, and made my way
to the small study already mentioned. A
candle was burning within ; and, when I
opened the door, O'Connor was reading a
book, which, on seeing me, he hastily
closed, colouring slightly as he did so.
We exchanged a cordial but mournful
greeting ; and after a slight pause he said,

laying his hand upon the volume which he
had shut a moment before :

^ Purcell, I feel perfectly calm, though I
cannot say that I have much hope as to
the issue of this morning's rencounter. I
shall avoid half the danger. If I must
fall, I am determined I shall not go down
to the grave with his blood upon my
hands. I have resolved not to fire at Fitzgerald
— that is, to fire in such a direction
as to assure myself against hitting him.
Do not say a word of this to the O'Gradys.
Your doing so would only produce fruitless
altercation ; they could not understand my
motives. I feel convinced that I shall not
leave the field alive. If I must die today,
I shall avoid an awful aggravation of
wretchedness. Purcell,' he continued, after
a little space, ' I was so weak as to feel
almost ashamed of the manner in which I

was occupied as you entered the room.
Yes, / — I who will be, before this evening,
a cold and lifeless clod, was ashamed to
have spent my last moment of reflection in
prayer. God pardon me ! God pardon
me !' he repeated.

I took his hand and pressed it, but I
could not speak. I sought for words of
comfort, but they would not come. To
have uttered one cheering sentence I must
have contradicted every impression of my
own mind. I felt too much awed to attempt
it. Shortly afterwards, ^M'Donough
arrived. Xo wretched patient ever underwent
a more thrilling revulsion at the first
sio-ht of the case of surgical instruments
under which he had to suffer, than did I
upon beholding a certain oblong flat mahogany
box, bound with brass, and of
about two feet in length, laid upon the

table in the hall. O'Connor, thanking him
for his punctuality, requested him to come
into his study for a moment, when, with a
melancholy collectedness, he proceeded to
make arrangements for our witnessing his
will. The document was a brief one, and
the whole matter was just arranged, when
the two O'Gradys crept softly into the
room.

So ! last will and testament,' said the
elder. ^ Why, you have a very blue notion
of these matters. 1 tell you, you need not
be uneasy. I remember very well, when
young Ryan of Ballykealey met Neil
the duellist, bets ran twenty to one against
him. I stole away from school, and had a
peep at the fun as well as the best of them.
They fired together. Ryan received the
ball through the collar of his coat, and
M'Neil in the temple ; he spun like a top :

it was a most unexpected thing, and disappointed
his friends damnably. It was
admitted, however, to have been very
pretty shooting upon both sides. To be
sure he continued, pointing to the will,
you are in the right to keep upon the
safe side of fortune ; but then, there is no
occasion to be altogether so devilish down
in the mouth as you appear to be.'

'You will allow,' said O'Connor, that
the chances are heavily against me.'

Why, let me see,' he replied, ' not so
hollow a thing either. Let me see, we'll say
about four to one against you ; you may
chance to throw doublets like him I told
you of, and then what becomes of the odds
I'd like to know ? But let things ^o as
they will, I'll give and take four to one,
in pounds and tens of pounds. There,
M'Donousch, there's a ret for you ; b — t

me, if it is not. Poll ! the fellow is stolen
away he continued, observing that the object
of his proposal had left the room ;

but d it, Purcell, you are fond of a soft

thing, too, in a quiet way — I'm sure you are
so curse me if I do not make you the
same offer — is it a go V

I was too much disgusted to make any
reply, but I believe my looks expressed
my feelings sufficiently, for in a moment he
said :

Well, I see there is nothing to be done,
so we may as well be stirring. M'D enough,
my self, and my brother will saddle the horses
in a jiffy, while you and Purcell settle anything
which remains to be arranged.'

So saying, he left the room with as much
alacrity as if it were to prepare for a fox-hunt.
Selfish, heartless fool ! I have
often since heard him spoken of as a cursed

good-natured dog and a d good fellow ;

but such eulogies as these are not calculated
to mitigate the abhorrence with
which his conduct upon that morning inspired
me.

The chill mists of night were still hovering
on the landscape as our party left the
castle. It was a raw, comfortless morning
kind of drizzling fog hung heavily over
the scene, dimming the light of the sun,
which had now risen, into a pale and even
a grey glimmer. As the appointed hour
was fast approaching, it was proposed that
we should enter the race-ground at a point
close to the stand-house — a measure which
would save us a ride of nearly two miles,
over a broken road ; at which distance
there was an open entrance into the race-ground.
Here, accordingly, we dismounted,
and leaving' our horses in the care of a

country fellow who happened to be stirring
at that early hour, we proceeded up a narrow
lane, over a side wall of which we were
to climb into the open ground where stood
the now deserted building, under which the
meeting was to take place. Our progress
was intercepted by the unexpected appearance
of an old woman, who, in the scarlet
cloak which is the picturesque characteristic
of the female peasantry of the south, was
moving slowly down the avenue to meet us,
uttering that peculiarly wild and piteous
lamentation well known by the name of
^ the Irish cry,' accompanied throughout
by all the customary gesticulation of passionate
grief. This rencounter was more
awkward than we had at first anticipated ;
for, upon a nearer approach, the person
proved to be no other than an old attached
dependent of the family, and who had herself

nursed O'Connor. She quickened her
pace as we advanced almost to a run ; and,
throwing her arms round O'Connor's neck,
she poured forth such a torrent of lamentation,
reproach, and endearment, as showed
that she was aware of the nature of our
purpose, whence and by what means I
knew not. It was in vain that he sought
to satisfy her by evasion, and gently to
extricate himself from her embrace. She
knelt upon the ground, and clasped her
arms round his leo^s, uttering" all the while
such touching supplications, such cutting
and passionate expressions of woe, as went
to my very heart.

At length, with much difficulty, we
passed this most painful interruption ;
and, crossing the boundary wall, were
placed beyond her reach. The O'Gradys
damned her for a troublesome hag, and

VOL. I. 11

passed on with O'Connor, but I remained
behind for a moment. The poor woman
looked hopelessly at the high wall which
separated her from him she had loved
from infancy, and to be with whom at
that minute she would have given worlds ;
she took her seat upon a solitary stone
under the opposite wall, and there, in a
low, subdued key, she continued to utter
her sorrow in words so desolate, yet expressing
such a tenderness of devotion as
wrung my heart.

'My poor woman,' I said, laying my
hand gently upon her shoulder, ' you will
make yourself ill ; the morning is very cold,
and your cloak is but a thin defence
against the damp and chill. Pray return
home and take this ; it may be useful to
you.'

So saying, I dropped a purse, with what

money I had about me, into her lap, but
it lay there unheeded ; she did not hear
me.

Oh ! my child, my child, my daring,'
she sobbed, * are you gone from me ? are
you gone from me 1 Ah, mavourneen,
mavourneen, you'll never come back alive
to me again. The crathurthat slept on my
bosom — the loving' rather that I was so
proud of — they'll kill him, they'll kill him.
Oh, vol ! vol !'

The affecting tone, the feeing, the abandonment
with which all this was uttered,
none can conceive who have not heard the
lamentations of the Irish peasantry. It
brought tears to my eyes. I saw that no
consolation of mine could soothe her grief,
so I turned and departed ; but as I rapidly
traversed the level sward which separated
me from my companions, now considerably

li— 2

in advance, I could still hear the failings
of the solitary mourner.

As we approached the stand-house, it
was evident that our antagonists had
already arrived. Our path lay by the side
of a high fence constructed of loose stones,
and on turning a sharp angle at its extremity,
we found ourselves close to the appointed
spot, and within a few yards of a
crowd of persons, some mounted and some
on foot, evidently awaiting our arrival.
The affair had unaccountably taken wind,
as the number of the expectants clearly
showed ; but for this there was now no
remedy.

As our little party advanced we were
met and saluted by several acquaintances,
whom curiosity, if no deeper feeling, had
brought to the place. Fitzgerald and the
Captain had arrived, and having dismounted,

were standing upon the sod. The former,
as we approached, bowed slightly and sullenly
— while the latter, evidently in high
good humour, made his most courteous
obeisance. Xo time was to be lost ; and
the two seconds immediately withdrew to
a slight distance, for the purpose of completing
the last minute arrangements. It
was a brief but horrible interval — each
returned to his principal to communicate
the result, which was soon caught up and
repeated from mouth to mouth throughout
the crowd. I felt a strange and insurmountable
reluctance to hear the sickening
particulars detailed ; and as I stood irresolute
at some distance from the principal
parties, a top-booted squireen, with a hunting
whip in his hand, bustling up to a
companion of his, exclaimed :

'Not fire together! — did you ever hear

the like ? If Fitzgerald gets the first shot
all is over. M'Donough sold the pass,
by , and that is the long and the short

%J y CD

of it.'

The parties now moved down a little to
a small level space, suited to the purpose ;
and the captain, addressing M'Donough,
said:

Mr. M^Donough, you'll now have the
goodness to toss for choice of ground ; as
the light comes from the east the line must
of course run north and south. Will you
be so obliging as to toss up a crown-piece,
while I call V

A coin was instantly chucked into the
air. The captain cried, ' Harp.' The
head was uppermost, and M'D enough immediately
made choice of the southern
point at which to jDlace his friend — a
position which it will be easily seen had

the advantage of turning his back upon
the Hight — no trifling superiority of location.
The captain turned with a kind of
lauofh, and said :

By , sir, you are as cunning as a

dead pig ; but you forgot one thing. My
friend is a left-handed gunner, though
never a bit the worse for that ; so you
see there is no odds as far as the choice of
light goes.'

He then proceeded to measure nine paces
in a direction running north and south, and
the principals took their ground.

I must be troublesome to you once
again, Mr. M'Donough. One toss more,
and everything is complete. We must
settle who is to have the first slap,'

A piece of money was again thrown
into the air ; again the captain lost the toss
and M'Donough proceeded to load the

pistols. I happened to stand near Fitzgerald,
and I overheard the captain, with
a chuckle, say something to him in which
the word ^ cravat ' was repeated. It instantly
occurred to me that the captain's
attention was directed to a bright-coloured
muffler which O'Connor wore round his
neck, and which would afford his antagonist
a distinct and favourable mark. I
instantly urged him to remove it, and at
length, with difficulty, succeeded. He
seemed perfectly careless as to any precaution.
Everything was now ready ; the
pistol was placed in O'Connor's hand, and
he only awaited the word from the captain.


M'Creagh then said :

Mr. M^Donough, is your principal
ready?'

M'Donough replied in the affirmative ;

and, after a slight pause, the captain, as
had been arranged, uttered the words :

Ready — fire.'

O'Connor fired, but so wide of the mark
that some one in the crowd exclaimed :

Fired in the air.'

Who says he fired in the air V thundered
Fitzgerald. ' By he lies, whoever
he is.' There was a silence. ' But
even if he was fool enough to fire in the

o

air, it is not in Ids power to put an end to

the quarrel by that. D my soul, if I

am come here to be played with like a

child, and by the Almighty 3'ou shall

hear more of this, each and everyone of
you, before I'm satisfied.'

A kind of low murmur, or rather groan,
was now raised, and a slight motion was
observable in the crowd, as if to intercept
Fitzgerald's passage to his horse.

M'Creagh, drawing the horse close to the
spot where Fitzgerald stood, threatened,
with the most awful imprecations, ^ to
blow the brains out of the first man who
should dare to press on them.'

O'Connor now interfered, requesting the
crowd to forbear, and some degree of order
was restored. He then said, That in
firing as lie did, he had no intention whatever
of waiving his right of firing upon
Fitzgerald, and of depriving that gentleman
of his right of prosecuting the affair
to the utmost — that if any person present
imagined that he intended to fire in the
air, he begged to set him right; since,
so far from seeking to extort an unwilling
reconciliation, he was determined that no
power on earth should induce him to
concede one inch of ground to Mr. Fitzgerald.'


This announcement was received with a
shout by the crowd, who now resumed
their places at either side of the plot of
ground which had been measured. The
principals took their places once more, and
M'Creagh proceeded, with the nicest and
most anxious care, to load the pistols ; and
this task being accomplished, Fitzgerald
whispered something in the Captain s ear,
who instantly drew his friend's horse so as
to place him within a step of his rider,
and then tightened the girths. This
accomplished, Fitzgerald proceeded deliberately
to remove his coat, which he
threw across his horse in front of the
saddle ; and then, with the assistance of
M'Creagh, he rolled the shirt sleeve up to
the shoulder, so as to leave the whole of
his muscular arm perfectly naked. A
cry of ' Coward, coward ! butcher.

butcher 1' arose from the crowd. Fitzgerald
paused.

'Do you object, Mr. M'Donough'? and
upon what grounds, if you please V said he.

Certainly he does not,' replied
O'Connor; and, turning to M'Donough,
he added, ' pray let there be no unnecessary
delay.'

There is no objection, then,' said
Fitzgerald.

'I object,' said the younger of the
O'Gradys, ' if nobody else will.'

And who the devil are you, that dares
to object V shouted Fitzgerald ; *and what
d — d presumption prompts you to dare to
wag your tongue here V

I am Mr. O'O'Grady, of Castle Blake
replied the young man, now much

enraged ; ' and by , you shall answer

for your language to me.'

Shall I, by ? Shall I V cried he,

with a lauoii of brutal scorn : ' the more
the merrier, d — n the doubt of it — so now
hold your tongue, for I promise you you
shall have business enough of your own to
think about, and that before long.'

There was an appalling ferocity in history
and manner which no words could convey.
He seemed transformed ; he was actually
like a man possessed. Was it possible, I
thought, that I beheld the courteous
gentleman, the gay, good-humoured retailer
of amusing anecdote with whom,
scarce two days ago, I had laughed and
chatted, in the blasphemous and murderous
ruffian who glared and stormed
before me !

O'Connor interposed, and requested
that time should not be unnecessarily lost.

You have not got a second coat on V

inquired the Captain. ' I beg pardon,
but my duty to my friend requires that I
should ascertain the point.'

O'Connor replied in the negative. The
Captain expressed himself as satisfied,
adding, in what he meant to be a complimentary
strain, ' that he knew Mr.
O'Connor would scorn to employ padding
or any unfair mode of protection.'

There was now a breathless silence.
O'Connor stood perfectly motionless ; and,
excepting the death-like paleness of his
features, he exhibited no sign of agitation.
His eye was steady — his lip did not
tremble — his attitude was calm. The
Captain, having re-examined the priming
of the pistols, placed one of them in the
hand of Fitzgerald. — M'D enough inquired
whether the parties were prepared, and
having been answered in the affirmative,

he proceeded to give the word, ' Ready.'
Fitzgerald raised his hand, but almost
instantly lowered it again. The crowd had
pressed too much forward as it appeared,
and his eye had been unsteadied by the
flapping of the skirt of a frieze riding-coat
worn by one of the spectators.

In the name of my principal said the
Captain, * I must and do insist upon these
gentlemen moving back a little. We ask
but little ; fair play, and no favour.'

The crowd moved as requested.
M^Donough repeated his former question,
and was answered as before. There was a
breathless silence. Fitzgerald fixed his
eye upon O'Connor. The appointed
signal, ' Ready, fire !' was given. There
was a pause while one might slowly reckon
three — Fitzgerald fired — and O'Connor
fell helplessly upon the ground.

'There is no time to be lost,' said

M'Creagli ; ' for, by , you have done

for him

So saying, he threw himself upon his
horse, and was instantly followed at a
hard gallop by Fitzgerald.

Cold-blooded murder, if ever murder
was committed,' said O'O'Grady. ^ He shall
hang for it ; d — n me, but he shall.'

A hopeless attempt was made to overtake
the fugitives ; but they were better
mounted than any of their pursuers, and
escaped with ease. Curses and actual* yells
of execration followed their course ; and as,
in crossing the brow of a neighbouring
hill, they turned round in the saddle to
observe if they were pursued, every
gesture which could express fury and
defiance was exhausted by the enraged and
defeated multitude.

Clear the way, boys,' said young
O'O'Grady, who with me was kneeling
beside O'Connor, while we supported him
in our arms ; ' do not press so close, and
be d — d ; can't you let the fresh air to
him ; don't you see he's dying V

On opening his waistcoat we easily
detected the wound : it was a little below
the chest — a small blue mark, from which
oozed a single heavy drop of blood.

He is bleeding but little — that is a comfort
at ?ill events said one of the gentlemen
who surrounded the wounded man.

Another suggested the expediency of
his being removed homeward with as
little delay as possible, and recommended,
for this purpose, that a door should be
removed from its hinges, and the patient,
laid upon this, should be conveyed fro in
the field. Upon this rude bier my poor

VOL. I. 12

friend was carried from that fatal ground
towards Castle Connor. I walked close
by his side, and observed every motion of
his. He seldom opened his eyes, and was
perfectly still, excepting a nervous working
of the fingers, and a slight, almost
imperceptible twitching of the features,
which took place, however, only at intervals.
The first word he uttered was
spoken as we approached the entrance of
the castle itself, when he said; repeatedly,
The back way, the back way.' He feared
lest his mother should meet him abruptly
and without preparation ; but although
this fear was groundless, since she never
left her room until late in the day, yet it
was thought advisable, and, indeed, necessary,
to caution all the servants most
strongly against breathing a hint to their
mistress of the events which had befallen.

Two or three gentlemen had ridden
from the field one after another, promising
that they should overtake our party before
it reached the castle, bringing with them
medical aid from one quarter or another ;
and we determined that Mrs. O'Connor
should not know anything of the occurrence
until the opinion of some professional
man should have determined the extent of
the injury which her son had sustained
a course of conduct which would at
least have the effect of relieving her from
the horrors of suspense. When O'Connor
found himself in his own room, and laid
upon his own bed, he appeared much
revived — so much so, that I could not help
admitting a strong hope that all might yet
be well.

'After all, Purcell said he, with a
melancholy smile, and speaking with

12—2

evident difficulty, ' I believe I have got off
with a trifling wound. I am sure it cannot
be fatal, I feel so little pain — almost
none.'

I cautioned him against fatiguing himself
by endeavouring to speak ; and he
remained quiet for a little time. At
length he said :

Purcell, I trust this lesson shall not
have been given in vain. God has been
very merciful to me ; I feel — I have an
internal confidence that I am not wounded
mortally. Had I been fatally wounded —
had I been killed upon the spot only think
on it ' — and he closed his eyes as if the
very thought made him dizzy — ' struck
down into the grave, unprepared as I amin
the very blossom of my sins, without a
moment of repentance or of reflection ; I
must have been lost — lost for ever and ever.'

I prevailed upon him, with some
difficulty, to abstain from such agitating
reflections, and at length induced him to
court such repose as his condition admitted
of, by remaining perfectly silent, and as
much as possible without motion.

O'Connor and I only were in the room ;
he had lain for some time in tolerable
quiet, when I thought I distinguished the
bustle attendant upon the arrival of someone
at the castle, and went eagerly to the
window, believing, or at least hoping, that
the sounds might announce the approach
of the medical man, ^Yhom we all longed
most impatiently to see.

My conjecture was right ; I had the
satisfaction of seeing him dismount and
prepare to enter the castle, when my
observations were interrupted, and my
attention was attracted by a smothered.

gurgling sound proceeding from the bed in
which lay the wounded man. I instantly
turned round, and in doing so the spectacle
which met my eyes was sufficiently
shocking.

I had left O'Connor lying in the bed,
supported by pillows, perfectly calm, and
with his eyes closed : he was now lying
nearly in the same position, his eyes open
and almost starting from their sockets,
with every feature pale and distorted as
death, and vomiting blood in quantities
that were frightful. I rushed to the door
and called for assistance ; the paroxysm,
though violent, was brief, and O'Connor
sank into a swoon so deep and death-like,
that I feared he should waken no more.

The surgeon, a little, fussy man, but I
believe with some skill to justify his
pretensions, now entered the room, carrying

his case of instruments, and followed
by servants bearing basins and water and
bandages of linen. He relieved our
doubts by instantly assuring us that ^ the
patient ' was still living ; and at the same
time professed his determination to take
advantage of the muscular relaxation
which the faint had induced to examine
the wound — adding that a patient was
more easily ' handled ' when in a swoon
than under other circumstances.

After examining the wound in front
where the ball had entered, he passed his
hand round beneath the shoulder, and
after a little pause he shook his head,
observing that he feared very much that
one of the vertebrae was fatally injured,
but that he could not say decidedly until
his patient should revive a little. Though
his language was very technical and

consequently to me nearly unintelligible,
I could perceive plainly by his manner
that he considered the case as almost
hopeless.

O'Connor gradually gave some signs of
returning animation and at length was sofar
restored as to be enabled to speak.
After some few general questions as to
how he felt affected, etc., etc., the surgeon,
placing his hand upon his leg and pressing
it slightly, asked him if he felt any pressure
upon the limb ? O'Connor answered in
the negative — he pressed harder, and repeated
the question ; still the answer was
the same, till at length, by repeated experiments,
he ascertained that all that part
of the body which lay behind the wound
was paralysed, proving that the spine must
have received some fatal injury.
' Well, doctor,' said O'Connor, after the

examination of the wound was over; 'well,
I shall do, shan't I V

The physician was silent for a moment,
and then, as if with an effort, he replied :

Indeed, my dear sir, it would not be
honest to flatter you with much hope.'

Eh V said O'Connor with more alacrity
than I had seen him exhibit since the
morning ; ' surely I did not hear you
aright ; I spoke of my recovery — surely
there is no doubt ; there can be none —
speak frankly, doctor, for God's sake — am
I dying ?'

The surgeon was evidently no stoic, and
his manner had extinguished in me every
hope, even before he had uttered a word
in reply.

You are — you are indeed dying. There
is no hope ; I should but deceive you if I
held out any.'

As the surgeon uttered these terrible
words, the hands which O'Connor had
stretched towards him while awaiting his
reply fell powerless by his side ; his head
sank, forward ; it seemed as if horror and
despair had unstrung every nerve and
sinew ; he appeared to collapse and shrink
together as a plant might under the influence
of a withering spell.

It has often been my fate, since then, to
visit the chambers of death and of suffering
; I have witnessed fearful agonies of
body and of soul ; the mysterious shuddering
of the departing spirit, and the heartrending
desolation of the survivors ; the
severing of the tenderest ties, the piteous
yearnings of unavailing love — of all these
things the sad duties of my profession have
made me a witness. But, generally speaking,
I have observed in such scenes something

to mitigate, if not the sorrows, at
least the terrors, of death ; the dying man
seldom seems to feel the reality of his
situation; a dull consciousness of approaching
dissolution, a dim anticipation of unconsciousness
and insensibility, are the
feelings which most nearly border upon an
appreciation of his state ; the film of death
seems to have overspread the mind's eye,
objects lose their distinctness, and float
cloudily before it, and the apathy and
apparent indifference with which men recognise
the sure advances of immediate
death, rob that awful hour of much of its
terrors, and the death-bed of its otherwise
inevitable agonies.

This is a merciful dispensation ; but the
rule has its exceptions — its terrible exceptions.
When a man is brought in an
instant, by some sudden accident, to the

very verge of the fathomless 23it of death,
with all his recollections awake, and his
perceptions keenly and vividly alive, without
previous illness to subdue the tone of
the mind as to dull its apprehensions —
then, and then only, the death-bed is truly
terrible.

Oh, what a contrast did O'Connor afford
as he lay in all the abject helplessness of
undisguised terror upon his death-bed, to
the proud composure with which he had
taken the field that morning. I had
always before thought of death as of a
quiet sleep stealing gradually upon exhausted
nature, made welcome by suffering,
or, at least, softened by resignation ;
I had never before stood by the side of
one upon whom the hand of death had
been thus suddenly laid ; I had never seen
the tyrant arrayed in his terror till then.

Never before or since have I seen horror
so intensely depicted. It seemed actually
as if O'Connor's mind had been unsettled
by the shock ; the few words he uttered
were marked with all the incoherence of
distraction ; but it was not words that
marked his despair most strongly, the
appalling and heart-sickening groans
that came from the terror-stricken and
dying man must haunt me while I
live; the expression, too, of hopeless,
imploring agony with which he turned
his eyes from object to object, I can
never forget. At length, appearing
suddenly to recollect himself, he said, with
startling alertness, but in a voice so
altered that I scarce could recognise the
tones :

'Purcell, Purcell, go and tell my poor
mother ; she must know all, and then,

quick, quick, quick, call your uncle, bring
him here; I must have a chance.' He
made a violent but fruitless effort to rise,
and after a slight pause continued, with
deep and urgent solemnity : ' Doctor, how
long shall I live ? Don't flatter me.
Compliments at a death-bed are out of
place ; doctor, for God's sake, as you would
not have my soul perish with my body, do
not mock a dying man ; have I an hour to

live r

^ Certainly,' replied the surgeon ; ^ if you
will but endeavour to keep yourself tranquil
; otherwise I cannot answer for a
moment.'

Well, doctor said the patient, ' I will
obey you ; now, Purcell, my first and
dearest friend, will you inform my poor
mother of — of what you see, and return
with your uncle ; I know you will.'

I took the dear fellow's hand and kissed
it, it was the only answer I could give,
and left the room. I asked the first
female servant I chanced to meet, if her
mistress were yet up, and was answered in
the affirmative. Without giving myself
time to hesitate, I requested her to lead
me to her lady's room, which she accordingly
did ; she entered first, I supposed to
announce my name, and I followed closely;
the poor mother said something, and held
out her hands to welcome me ; I strove
for words ; I could not speak, but nature
found expression ; I threw myself at her
feet and covered her hands with kisses and
tears. My manner was enough ; with a
quickness almost preternatural she understood
it all ; she simply said the words :
O'Connor is killed / she uttered no
more.

nor.

How I left the room I know not ; T
rode madly to my uncle's residence, and
brought him back with me — all the rest
is a blank. I remember standing by
O'Connor's bedside, and kissing the cold
pallid forehead again and again ; I remember
the pale serenity of the beautiful
features ; I remember that I looked upon
the dead face of my friend, and I remember
no more.

For many months I lay writhing and
raving in the frenzy of brain fever ; a
hundred times I stood tottering at the
brink of death, and long after my restoration
to bodily health was assured, it appeared
doubtful whether I should ever be
restored to reason. But God dealt very
mercifully with me ; His mighty hand
rescued me from death and from madness
when one or other appeared inevitable.

As soon as I was permitted pen and ink,
I wrote to the bereaved mother in a tone
bordering upon frenzy. I accused myself
of having made her childless ; I called
myself a murderer ; I believed myself
accursed ; I could nob find terms strong
enough to express my abhorrence of my
own conduct. But, oh ! what an answer I
received, so mild, so sweet, from the desolate,
childless mother ! its words spoke all
that is beautiful in Christianity — it was
forgiveness — it was resignation. I am
convinced that to that letter, operating as
it did upon a mind already predisposed, is
owing my final determination to devote
myself to that profession in which, for
more than half a century, I have been a
humble minister.

Years roll away, and we count them not
as they pass, but their influence is not the

VOL. I. 13

less certain that it is silent ; the deepest
wounds are gradually healed, the keenest
griefs are mitigated, and we, in character,
feelings, tastes, and pursuits, become such
altered beings, that but for some few indelible
marks which past events must
leave behind them, which time may
soften, but can never efface ; our very
identity would be dubious. Who has not
felt all this at one time or other'? Who
has not mournfully felt it '? This trite, but
natural train of reflection filled my mind as
I approached the domain of Castle Connor
some ten years after the occurrence of the
events above narrated. Everything looked
the same as when I had left it ; the old
trees stood as graceful and as grand as
ever ; no plough had violated the soft
fifteen sward : no utilitarian hand had constrained
the wanderings of the clear and

sportive stream, or disturbed the lichen-covered
rocks through which it rushed, or
the wild coppice that over-shadowed its
sequestered nooks — but the eye that
looked upon these things was altered, and
memory was busy with other days,
shrouding in sadness every beauty that
met my sight.

As I approached the castle my emotions
became so acutely painful that I had
almost returned the wav I came, without
accomplishing the purpose for which I had
gone thus far ; and nothing but the conviction
that my having been in the neighbourhood
of Castle Connor without visiting
its desolate mistress would render me
justly liable to the severest censure, could
overcome my reluctance to encountering
the heavy task which was before me. I
recognised the old servant who opened the

1 3—2

door, but he did not know me. I was
completely changed ; suffering of body and
mind had altered me in feature and in
bearing, as much as in character. I asked
the man whether his mistress ever saw
visitors. He answered :

But seldom ; perhaps, however, if she
knew that an old friend wished to see her
for a few minutes, she would gratify him
so far.'

At the same time I placed my card in
his hand, and requested him to deliver it
to his mistress. He returned in a few
moments, saying that his lady would be
happy to see me in the parlour, and I
accordingly followed him to the door, which
he opened. I entered the room, and was
in a moment at the side of my early friend
and benefactress. I was too much agitated
to speak ; I could only hold the hands

which she gave me, while, spite of every
effort, the tears flowed fast and bitterly.

It was kind, very, very kind of you to
come to see me,' she said, with far more
composure than I could have commanded ;
I see it is very painful to you.'

I endeavoured to compose myself, and
for a little time we remained silent ; she
was the first to speak :

You will be surprised, Mr. Purcell,
when you observe the calmness with
which I can speak of him who was dearest
to me, who is gone ; but my thoughts are
always with him, and the recollections of
his love ' — her voice faltered a little — ' and
the hope of meeting him hereafter enables
me to bear existence

I said I know not what : something
about resignation, I believe.

I hope I am resigned ; God made me

more so she said. ' Oh, Mr. Purcell, I
have often thought I loved my lost child
too well. It was natural — he was my only

child — he was ' She could not proceed

for a few moments : ' It was very natural
that I should love him as I did; but it
may have been sinful ; I have often thought
so. I doated upcm him — I idolised him — I
thought too little of other holier affections ;
and God may have taken him from me
only to teach me, by this severe lesson,
that I owed to heaven a larger share of
my heart than' to anything earthly. I
cannot think of him now without more
solemn feelings than if he were with me.
There is something holy in our thoughts
of the dead ; I feel it so.' After a pause,
she continued — * Mr. Purcell, do you remember
his features well ? they were very
beautiful.' I assured her that I did.

Then you can tell me if you think this a
faithful likeness.' She took from a drawer
a case in which lay a miniature. I took it
reverently from her hands ; it was indeed
very like — touchingly like. I told her so ;
and she seemed gratified.

As the evening' was wearing fast, and I
had far to go, I hastened to terminate my
visit, as I had intended, by placing in her
hand a letter from her son to me, written
during his sojourn upon the Continent. I
requested her to keep it ; it was one in
which he spoke much of her, and in terms
of the tenderest affection. As she read its
contents the heavy tears gathered in her
eyes, and fell, one by one, upon the page ;
she wiped them away, but they still
flowed fast and silently. It was in vain
that she tried to read it ; her eyes were
filled with tears : so she folded the letter,

and placed it in her bosom. I rose to depart,
and she also rose.

I will not ask you to delay your
departure said she ; ^ your visit here
must have been a painful one to you. I
cannot find words to thank you for the
letter as I would wish, or for all your kindness.
It has given me a pleasure greater
than I thought could have fallen to the lot
of a creature so very desolate as I am ;
may God bless you for it !' And thus we
parted ; I never saw Castle Connor or its
solitary inmate more.

Being a Fourth Extract from the Legacy of
Purcell, P.P. of Drumcoolagh.

late F.

All this he told with some confusion and

Dismay, the usual consequence of dreams

Of the unpleasant kind, with none at hand

To expound their vain and visionary gleams,

I've known some odd ones which seemed really planned

Prophetically, as that which one deems

A strange coincidence," to use a phrase

Ey which such things are settled nowadays.'

Byron.

Reams ! What age, or what
country of the world, has not
felt and acknowledged the mystery
of their origin and end 'i I have

thought not a little upon the subject,
seeing it is one which has been often
forced upon my attention, and sometimes
strangely enough ; and yet I have never
arrived at anything which at all appeared
a satisfactory conclusion. It does appear
that a mental phenomenon so extraordinary
cannot be wholly without its use. We
know, indeed, that in the olden times it
has been made the organ of communication
between the Deity and His creatures ; and
when, as I have seen, a dream produces
upon a mind, to all appearance hopelessly
reprobate and depraved, an effect so powerful
and so lasting as to break down the
inveterate habits, and to reform the life
of an abandoned sinner, we see in the
result, in the reformation of morals which
appeared incorrigible, in the reclamation of
a human soul which seemed to be irretrievably

lost, something more than could
be produced by a mere chimera of the
slumbering fancy, something more than
could arise from the capricious images of a
terrified imagination ; but once presented,
we behold in all these things, and in their
tremendous and mysterious results, the
operation of the hand of God. And
while Reason rejects as absurd the superstition
which will read a prophecy in every
dream, she may, without violence to herself,
recognise, even in the wildest and
most incongruous of the wanderings of a
slumbering intellect, the evidences and the
fragments of a language which may bespoken,
which has been spoken, to terrify,
to warn, and to command. We have
reason to believe too, by the promptness
of action which in the age of the prophets
followed all intimations of this kind, and

by the strength of conviction and strange
permanence of the effects resulting from
certain dreams in latter times, which effects
we ourselves may have witnessed, that
when this medium of communication has
been employed by the Deity, the evidences
of His presence have been unequivocal.
My thoughts were directed to this subject,
in a manner to leave a lasting impression
upon my mind, by the events which I
shall now relate, the statement of which,
however extraordinary, is nevertheless
accurately correct.

About the year 17 — , having been

appointed to the living of C h, I

rented a small house in the town, which
bears the same name : one morning in the
month of November, I was awakened
before my usual time by my servant, who
bustled into my bedroom for the purpose

of announcing a sick call. As the Catholic
Church holds her last rites to be totally
indispensable to the safety of the departing
sinner, no conscientious clergyman can
afford a moment's unnecessary delay, and
in little more than five minutes I stood
read' cloaked and booted for the road, in
the small front parlour, in which the
messenger, who was to act as my guide,
awaited my coming. I found a poor
little girl crying piteously near the door,
and after some slight difficulty I ascertained
that her father was either dead or
just dying.

And what may be your father's name,
my poor child ?' said I. She held down
her head, as if ashamed. I repeated the
question, and the wretched little creature
burst into floods of tears still more bitter
than she had shed before. At length.

almost provoked by conduct which appeared
to me so unseasonable, I began to
lose patience, spite of the pity which I
could not help feeling towards her, and I
said rather harshly :

If you will not tell me the name of the
person to whom you would lead me, your
silence can arise from no good motive, and
I might be justified in refusing to go with
you at all.'

Oh, don't say that — don't say that !'
cried she. ^ Oh, sir, it was that I was
afeard of when I would not tell you — I
was afeard, when you heard his name, you
would not come with me ; but it is no use
hiding' it now — it's Pat Connell, the carpenter,
your honour.'

She looked in my face with the most
earnest anxiety, as if her very existence
depended upon what she should read there ;

I

but I relieved her at once. The name,
indeed, was most unpleasantly familiar tome
; but, however fruitless my visits and
advice might have been at another time,
the present was too fearful an occasion to
suffer my doubts of their utility or my
reluctance to re-attempting what appeared
a hopeless task to weigh even against the
lightest chance that a consciousness of
his imminent danger might produce in him
a more docile and tractable disposition.
Accordingly I told the child to lead the
way, and followed her in silence. She
hurried rapidly through the long narrow
street which forms the great thoroughfare
of the town. The darkness of the hour,
rendered still deeper by the close approach
of the old-fashioned houses, which lowered
in tall obscurity on either side of the way ;
the damp, dreary chill which renders the

advance of morning peculiarly cheerless,
combined with the object of my walk, to
visit the death-bed of a presumptuous
sinner, to endeavour, almost against my
own conviction, to infuse a hope into the
heart of a dying reprobate — a drunkard
but too probably perishing under the consequences
of some mad fit of intoxication ;
all these circumstances united served to
enhance the gloom and solemnity of my
feelings, as I silently followed my little
guide, who with quick steps traversed the
uneven pavement of the main street.
After a walk of about five minutes she
turned off into a narrow lane, of that
obscure and comfortless class which is
to be found in almost all small old-fashioned
towns, chill, without ventilation,
reeking with all manner of offensive
effluvia, and lined by dingy, smoky, sickly

and pent-up buildings, frequently not only
in a wretched but in a dangerous condition.

'Your father has changed his abode
since I last visited him, and, I am afraid,
much for the worse,' said I.

Indeed he has, sir ; but we must not
complain,' replied she. ' We have to thank
God that we have lodo^inof and food,
though it's poor enough, it is, your
honour.'

Poor child I thought I, how many an
older head might learn wisdom from thee
how many a luxurious philosopher, who
is skilled to preach but not to suffer,
might not thy patient words put to the
blush ! The manner and language of this
child were alike above her years and
station ; and, indeed, in all cases in which
the cares and sorrows of life have anticipated
their usual date, and have fallen, as they

VOL. I. 14

sometimes do, with melancholy prematurity
to the lot of childhood, I have observed
the result to have proved uniformly the
same. A young mind, to which joy and
indulgence have been strangers, and to
which suffering and self-denial have been
familiarised from the first, acquires a
solidity and an elevation which no other
discipline could have bestowed, and which,
in the present case, communicated a striking
but mournful peculiarity to the manners,
even to the voice, of the child. We
paused before a narrow, crazy door, which
she opened by means of a latch, and we
forthwith began to ascend the steep and
broken stairs which led upwards to the
sick man's room.

As we mounted flight after flight towards
the garret-floor, I heard more and
more distinctly the hurried talking of many

voices. I could also distinguish the low
sobbing of a female. On arriving upon
the uppermost lobby these sounds became
fully audible.

This way, your honour,' said my little
conductress ; at the same time, pushing
open a door of patched and half-rotten
plank, she admitted me into the squalid
chamber of death and misery. But one
candle, held in the fingers of a scared and
haofcyard-lookino^ child, was burnings in the
room, and that so dim that all was twilight
or darkness except within its immediate
influence. The general obscurity,
however, served to throw into prominent
and startling relief the death-bed and its
occupant. The light was nearly approximated
to, and fell with horrible clearness
upon, the blue and swollen features of the
drunkard. I did not think it possible that

14—2

a human countenance could look so terrific.
The lips were black and drawn apart ; the
teeth were firmly set ; the eyes a little unclosed,
and nothing but the whites appearing.
Every feature was fixed and livid, and
the whole face wore a ghastly and rigid
expression of despairing terror such as I
never saw equalled. His hands were crossed
upon his breast, and firmly clenched; while,
as if to add to the corpse-like effect of the
whole, some white cloths, dipped in water,
were wound about the forehead and
temples.

As soon as I could remove my eyes from
this horrible spectacle, I observed my friend

Dr. D , one of the most humane of a

humane profession, standing by the bedside.
He had been attempting, but unsuccessfully,
to bleed the patient, and had now
applied his finger to the pulse.

Is there any hope V I inquired in a
whisper.

A shake of the head was the reply.
There was a pause while he continued
to hold the wrist ; but he waited in vain
for the throb of life — it was not there : and
when he let go the hand, it fell stiffly back
into its former position upon the other.

The man is dead,' said the physician, ashe
turned from the bed where the terrible
figure lay.

Dead ! thought I, scarcely venturing to
look upon the tremendous and revolting
spectacle. Dead 1 without an hour for repentance,
even a moment for reflection ;
dead ! without the rites which even the
best should have. Is there a hope for
him? The glaring eyeball, the grinning
mouth, the distorted brow — that unutterable
look in which a painter would have

sought to embody the fixed despair of the
nethermost hell. These were my answer.

The poor wife sat at a little distance,
crying as if her heart would break — the
younger children clustered round the bed,
looking with wondering curiosity upon the
form of death never seen before.

When the first tumult of uncontrollable
sorrow had passed away, availing myself
of the solemnity and impressiveness of the
scene, I desired the heart-stricken family
to accompany me in prayer, and all knelt
down while I solemnly and fervently repeated
some of those prayers which appeared
most applicable to the occasion. I
employed myself thus in a manner which
I trusted, was not unprofitable, at least to
the living, for about ten minutes; and
having accomplished my task, I was the
first to arise.

I looked upon the poor, sobbing, helpless
creatures who knelt so humbly around
me, and my heart bled for them. With
a natural transition I turned my eyes from
them to the bed in which the body lay;
and, great God ! what was the revulsion,
the horror which I experienced on seeing
the corpse-like, terrific thing seated half
upright before me ; the white cloths which
had been wound about the head had now
partly slipped from their position, and
were hanging in grotesque festoons about
the face and shoulders, while the distorted
eyes leered from amid them —

A. sight to dream of, not to tell.'

I stood actually riveted to the spot. The
figure nodded its head and lifted its arm,
I thought, with a menacing gesture. A
thousand confused and horrible thoughts

Sit once rushed upon my mind. I had
often read that the body of a presumptuous
sinner, who, during life, had been
the willing creature of every satanic impulse,
after the human tenant had deserted
it, had been known to become the horrible
sport of demoniac possession.

I was roused from the stupefaction of
terror in which I stood, by the piercing
scream of the mother, who now, for the
first time, perceived the change which had
taken place. She rushed towards the bed,
but stunned by the shock, and overcome by
the conflict of violent emotions, before she
reached it she fell prostrate upon the
floor.

I am perfectly convinced that had I not
been startled from the torpidity of horror
in which I was bound by some powerful
and arousing stimulant, I should have

gazed upon this unearthly apparition until
I had fairly lost my senses. As it was,
however, the spell was broken — superstition
gave way to reason : the man whom all
believed to have been actually dead was
living I

Dr. D was instantly standing by

the bedside, and upon examination he
found that a sudden and copious flow of
blood had taken place from the wound
which the lancet had left ; and this, no
doubt, had effected his sudden and almost
preternatural restoration to an existence
from which all thought he had been for ever
removed. The man was still speechless,
but he seemed to understand the physician
when he forbid his repeating the painful
and fruitless attempts which he made to
articulate, and he at once resigned himself
quietly into his hands.

I left the patient with leeches upon his
temples, and bleeding freely, apparently
with little of the drowsiness which accompanies
apoplexy ; indeed, Dr. D told

me that he had never before witnessed a
seizure which seemed to combine the
symptoms of so many kinds, and yet
which belonged to none of the recognised
classes ; it certainly was not apoplexy,
catalepsy, nor delirium tremens, and yet it
seemed, in some degree, to partake of the
properties of all. It was strange, but
stranger things are coming.

During two or three days Dr. D

would not allow his patient to converse ina
manner which could excite or exhaust
him, with anyone ; he suffered him merely
as briefly as possible to express his immediate
wants. And it was not until the fourth
day after my early visit, the particulars of

The Drunkard's Dream. 219

which I have just detailed, that it was thought
expedient that I should see him, and then
only because it appeared that his extreme
importunity and impatience to meet me
were likely to retard his recovery more than
the mere exhaustion attendant upon a short
conversation could possibly do ; perhaps,
too, my friend entertained some hope that
if by holy confession his patient's bosom
were eased of the perilous stuff which no
doubt oppressed it, his recovery would be
more assured and rapid. It was then, as I
have said, upon the fourth day after my
first professional call, that I found myself
once more in the dreary chamber of want
and sickness.

The man was in bed, and appeared low
and restless. On my entering the room he
raised himself in the bed, and muttered,
twice or thrice :

Thank God ! thank God !'

I signed to those of his family who
stood by to leave the room, and took a
chair beside the bed. So soon as we were
alone, he said, rather doggedly :

There's no use in telling me of the
sinfulness of bad ways — I know it all. I
know where they lead to — I seen everything
about it with my own eyesight, as
plain as I see you.' He rolled himself in
the bed, as if to hide his face in the
clothes; and then suddenly raising himself,
he exclaimed with startling vehemence :
Look, sir ! there is no use in mincing the
matter : I m blasted with the fires of hell ;
I have been in hell. What do you think
of that ? In hell — I'm lost for ever — I
have not a chance. I am damned already
• — damned — damned !'

The end of this sentence he actually

shouted. His vehemence was perfectly
terrific ; he threw himself back, and
laughed, and sobbed hysterically. I
poured some water into a tea-cup, and
gave it to him. After he had swallowed
it, I told him if he had anything to communicate,
to do so as briefly as he could,
and in a manner as little agitating to himself
as possible ; threatening at the same
time, though I had no intention of doing
so, to leave him at once, in case he again
gave way to such passionate excitement.

It's only foolishness,' he continued, 'forme
to try to thank you for coming to such
a villain as myself at all. It's no use for me
to wish good to you, or to bless you ;
for such as me has no blessings to
give.'

I told him that I had but done my duty,
and urged him to proceed to the matter

which weighed upon his mind. He then
spoke nearly as follows :

I came in drunk on Friday night last,
and got to my bed here ; I don't remember
how. Sometime in the night it seemed
to me I wakened, and feeling uneasy in myself,
I got up out of the bed. I wanted
the fresh air ; but I would not make a
noise to open the window, for fear I'd
waken the craters. It was very dark
and troublesome to find the door ; but
at last I did get it, and I groped my way
out, and went down as easy as T could. I
felt quite sober, and I counted the steps
one after another, as I was going down,
that I might not stumble at the bottom.

^ When I came to the first landing-place
God be about us always ! — the floor of it
sunk under me, and I went down — down —
down till the senses almost left me. I do

not know how long 1 was falling, but it
seemed to me a great while. When I
came rightly to myself at last, I was
sitting near the top of a great table ;
and I could not see the end of it, if it
had any, it was so far off. And there
was men beyond reckoning, sitting down
all along by it, at each side, as far as I
could see at all. I did not know at first
was it in the open air ; but there was a
close smothering feel in it that was not
natural. And there was a kind of light that
my eyesight never saw before, red and unsteady
; and I did not see for a long time
where it was coming from, until I looked
straight up, and then I seen that it came
from great balls of blood coloured fire that
were rolling hio^h over head with a sort of
rushing, trembling sound, and I perceived
that they shone on the ribs of a great roof

of rock that was arched overhead instead
of the sky. When I seen this, scarce
knowing what I did, I got up, and I said,
*' I have no right to be here ; I must go."
And the man that was sitting at my left
hand only smiled, and said, " Sit down
again; you can never leave this place." And
his voice was weaker than any child's voice
I ever heard; and when he was done speaking
he smiled again.

Then I spoke out very loud and bold,
and I said, '' In the name of God, let me
out of this bad place." And there was a
great man that I did not see before, sitting
at the end of the table that I was near ; and
he was taller than twelve men, and his face
was very proud and terrible to look at.
And he stood up and stretched out his hand
before him ; and when he stood up, all that
was there, great and small, bowed down

with a sighing sound, and a dread came on
my heart, and he looked at me, and I
could not speak. I felt I was his own,
to do what he liked with, for I knew at
once who he was; and he said, "If you
promise to return, you may depart for a
season;" and the voice he spoke with was
terrible and mournful, and the echoes of it
went rolling' and swellings down the endless
cave, and mixing; with the trembling the
fire overhead ; so that when he sat down
there was a sound after him, all through
the place, like the roaring of a furnace, and
I said, with all the strength I had, *' I
promise to come back — in God's name let
me go !"

And with that I lost the sio-ht and

o

the hearing of all that was there, and
when my senses came to me again, I
was sittings in the bed with the blood all

VOL. I. 15

over me, and you and the rest praying
around the room

Here he paused and wiped away the
chill drops of horror which hung upon his
forehead.

I remained silent for some moments.
The vision which he had just described
struck my imagination not a little, for
this was . long before Yathek and the
Hall of Ebbs ' had delighted the world ;
and the description which he gave had, as
I received it, all the attractions of novelty
beside the impressiveness which always
belongs to the narration of an eye-witness,
whether in the body or in the spirit, of the
scenes which he describes. There was
something, too, in the stern horror with
which the man related these things, and
in the incongruity of his description, with
the vulgarly received notions of the great

place of punishment, and of its presiding
spirit, which struck my mind with awe,
almost with fear. At length he said, with
an expression of horrible, imploring
earnestness, which I shall never forget —
Well, sir, is there any hope ; is there any
chance at all ? or, is my soul pledged and
promised away for ever ? is it gone
out of my power ? must I go back to the
place V

In answering him, I had no easy task to
perform ; for however clear might be my
interna] conviction of the groundlessness
of his fears, and however strong my scepticism
respecting the reality of what he had
described, I nevertheless felt that his
impression to the contrary, and his humility
and terror resulting from it, mis^ht be made
available as no mean engines in the work
of his conversion from profligacy, and of

15—2

his restoration to decent habits, and to
religious feeling.

I therefore told him that he was to
regard his dream rather in the light of a
warning than in that of a prophecy ; that
our salvation depended not upon the word
or deed of a moment, but upon the habits
of a life ; that, in fine, if he at once discarded
his idle companions and evil habits,
and firmly adhered to a sober, industrious,
and religious course of life, the powers of
darkness might claim his soul in vain, for
that there were higher and firmer pledges
than human tongue could utter, which
promised salvation to him who should repent
and lead a new life.

I left him much comforted, and with a
promise to return upon the next day. I
did so, and found him much more cheerful
and without any remains of the dogged

sullenness which I suppose had arisen from
his despair. His promises of amendment
were o-iven in that tone of deliberate
earnestness, which belongs to deep and
solemn determination ; and it was with no
small delight that I observed, after repeated
visits, that his good resolutions, sofar
from failings, did but weather strength
by time ; and when I saw that man shake
off the idle and debauched companions,
whose society had for years formed alike
his amusement and his rum, and revive
his long discarded habits of industry and
sobriety, I said within myself, there is
something more in all this than the operation
of an idle dream.

One day, sometime after his perfect
restoration to health, I was surprised on
ascending the stairs, for the purpose of
visiting this man, to find him busily

employed in nailing down some planks
upon the landing-place, through which, at
the commencement of his mysterious vision,
it seemed to him that he had sunk. I
perceived at once that he was strengthening
the floor with a view to securing
himself against such a catastrophe, and
could scarcely forbear a smile as I bid
God bless his work.'

He perceived my thoughts, I suppose,
for he immediately said :

I can never pass over that floor without
trembling. I'd leave this house if I
could, but I can't find another lodging in
the town so cheap, and I'll not take a
better till I've paid off all my debts, please
God ; but I could not be easy in my mind
till I made it as safe as I could. You'll
hardly believe me, your honour, that while
I'm working, maybe a mile away, my heart

is in a flutter the whole way back, with
the bare thoughts of the two little steps I
have to walk upon this bit of a floor. Soit's
no wonder, sir, I'd they to make it
sound and firm with any idle timber I.
have.'

I applauded his resolution to pay off" his
debts, and the steadiness with which he
perused his plans of conscientious economy,
and passed on.

Many months elapsed, and still there
appeared no alteration in his resolutions of
amendment. He was a good workman,
and with his better habits he recovered his
former extensive and profitable employment.
Everything seemed to promise comfort and
respectability. I have little more to add,
and that shall be told quickly. T had one
evening met Pat Connell, as he returned
from his work, and as usual, after a mutual,

and on his side respectful salutation, I
spoke a few words of encouragement and
approval. I left him industrious, active,
healthy — when next I saw him, not three
days after, he was a corpse.

The circumstances which marked the
event of his death were somewhat strange
I might say fearful. The unfortunate
man had accidentally met an early friend
just returned, after a long absence, and ina
moment of excitement, forgetting everything
in the warmth of his joy, he yielded
to his urgent invitation to accompany him
into, a public-house, which lay close by the
spot where the encounter had taken place.
Connell, however, previously to entering
the room, had announced his determination
to take nothing more than the strictest
temperance would warrant.

But oh ! who can describe the inveterate

tenacity with which a drunkard's habits
cong to him through Use ? He may repent
he may reform — he may look with
actual abhorrence upon his past profligacy ;
but amid all this reformation and compunction,
who can tell the moment in
which the base and ruinous propensity may
not recur, triumphing over resolution,
remorse, shame, everything, and prostrating
its victim once more in all that is destructive
and revolting in that fatal vice ?

The wretched man left the place in a
state of utter intoxication. He was
brought home nearly insensible, and
placed in his bed, where he lay in the deep
calm lethargy of drunkenness. The
younger part of the family retired to rest
much after their usual hour ; but the poor
wife remained up sitting by the fire, too
much grieved and shocked at the occurrence

of what she had so little expected,
to settle to rest ; fatigue, however, at
length overcame her, and she sank
gradually into an uneasy slumber. She
could not tell how long she had remained
in this state, when she awakened, and
immediately on opening her eyes, she
perceived by the faint red light of the
smouldering turf embers, two persons, one
of whom she recognised as her husband,
noiselessly gliding out of the room.

Pat, darling, where are you going V
said she. There was no answer — the door
closed after them ; but in a moment she
was startled and terrified by a loud and
heavy crash, as if some ponderous body had
been hurled down the stair. Much alarmed,
she started up, and going to the head of
the staircase, she called repeatedly upon her
husband, but in vain. She returned to

the room, and with the assistance of her
daughter, whom I had occasion to mention
before, she succeeded in finding and lio-ht-
nor a candle, with which she hurried ao^ain
to the head of the staircase.

At the bottom lay what seemed to be a
bundle of clothes, heaped together, motionless,
lifeless — it was her husband. In
going down the stair, for what purpose
can never now be known, he had fallen
helplessly and violently to the bottom, and
coming head foremost, the spine at the
neck had been dislocated by the shock, and
instant death must have ensued. The
body lay upon that landing-place to which
his dream had referred. It is scarcely
worth endeavouring to clear up a single
point in a narrative where all is mystery ;
yet I could not help suspecting that the
second fissure which had been seen in the

room by Connell's wife on the night of his
death, miofht have been no other than his
own shadow. I suggested this solution of
the difficulty ; but she told me that the
unknown person had been considerably in
advance of the other, and on reaching the
door, had turned back as if to communicate
something to his companion. It was then
a mystery.

Was the dream verified ? — whither had
the disembodied spirit sped ? — who can
say ? We know not. But I left the house
of death that day in a state of horror
which I could not describe. It seemed tome
that I was scarce awake. I heard and
saw everything as if under the spell of a
night-mare. The coincidence was terrible.

• END OF VOL. I.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTROTYPERS, GUILDFORD.

S. d; H.



in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.arcinive.org/details/purcellpaper,s02lefa

PURCELL PAPERS,

BY THE LATE

JOSEPH SHERIDAN LE Fan,

AUTHOR OF ' UNCLE SILAS.'

ALFRED PERCEVAL GRAVES.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

J^uhUshtxs in ©rbinitrg to ^cr £Xixit3ti^ the (Qnten.

1880.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

PAGE

PASSAGE IN THE SECRET HISTORY OF AN IRISH

COUNTESS .••!

THE BRIDAL OF CARRIGVARAH . . .103

STRANGE EVENT IN THE LIFE OF Shaken

THE PAINTER . • • .184

SCRAPS OF HIBERNIAN BALLADS . .255

■'-l>l(y±H7

PASSAGE IX THE

SECRET HISTORY OF AN IRISH
COUNTESS.

Being a Fifth Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis
Purcell, P.P. of Drumcoolagh.

a'a\ fjft-b

HE following paper is written m a
female hand, and was no doubt
communicated to my much-regretted
friend by the lady whose early
history it serves to illustrate, the Countess

VOL. II. 1

D . She is no more — she long since

died, a childless and a widowed v/ife, and,
as her letter sadly predicts, none survive
to whom the publication of this narrative
can prove injurious, or even painful.'
Strange ! two powerful and wealthy
families, that in which she was born,
and that into which she had married,
have ceased to be — they are utterly
extinct.

To those who know anything of the
history of Irish families, as they were
less than a century ago, the facts which
immediately follow will at once suggest
the names of the principal actors ; and to
others their publication would be useless —
to us, possibly, if not probably, injurious.
I have, therefore, altered such of the
names as might, if stated, get us into
difficulty ; others, belonging to minor

characters in the strange story, I have left
untouched.

My dear friend, — You have asked me to
furnish you with a detain] of the strange
events which marked my early history,
and I have, without hesitation, applied
myself to the task, knowing that, while I
live, a kind consideration for my feelings
will prevent your giving publicity to the
statement ; and conscious that, when I am
no more, there will not survive one to
whom the narrative can prove injurious, or
even painful.

My mother died when I was quite an
infant, and of her I have no recollection,
even the faintest. By her death, my
education and habits were left solely to
the guidance of my surviving parent ; and,
as far as a stern attention to my religious

1—2

instruction, and an active anxiety evinced
by his procuring for me the best masters
to perfect me in those accomplishments
which my station and wealth might seem
to require, could avail, he amply discharged
the task.

My father was what is called an oddity,
and his treatment of me, though uniformly
kind, flowed less from affection and
tenderness than from a sense of obligation
and duty. Indeed, I seldom even spoke
to him except at meal-times, and then his
manner was silent and abrupt ; his
leisure hours, which were many, were
passed either in his study or in solitary
walks ; in short, he seemed to take no
further interest in my happiness or improvement
than a conscientious regard to
the discharge of his own duty would seem
to claim.

Shortly before my birth a circumstance
had occurred which had contributed much
to form and to confirm my father's secluded
habits — it was the fact that a
suspicion of murder had fallen upon his
younger brother, though not sufficiently
definite to lead to an indictment, yet
strong enough to ruin him in public
opinion.

This disgraceful and dreadful doubt cast
upon the family name, my father felt
deeply and bitterly, and not the less so
that he himself was thoroughly convinced
of his brother's innocence. The sincerity
and strength of this impression he shortly
afterwards proved in a manner which produced
the dark events which follow.
Before, however, I enter upon the statement
of them, I ought to relate the circumstances
which had awakened the

suspicion ; inasmuch as they are in themselves
somewhat curious, and, in their
effects, most intimately connected with my

after-history.

«/

My uncle, Sir Arthur T n, was a gay

and extravagant man, and, among other
vices, was ruinously addicted to gaming ;
this unfortunate propensity, even after his
fortune had suffered so severely as to
render inevitable a reduction in his expenses
by no means inconsiderable, nevertheless
continued to actuate him, nearly
to the exclusion of all other pursuits ; he
was, however, a proud, or rather a vain
man, and could not bear to make the
diminution of his income a matter of
granulation and triumph to those with
whom he had hitherto competed, and the
consequence was, that he frequented no
longer the expensive haunts of dissipation,

and retired from the gay world, leaving
his coterie to discover his reasons as best
they might.

He did not, however, forego his
favourite vice, for, though he could not
worship his great divinity in the costly
temples where it was formerly his wont to
take his stand, yet he found it very
possible to bring about him a sufficient
number of the votaries of chance to
answer all his ends. The consequence
was, that Carrickleigh, which was the
name of my uncle's residence, was never
without one or more of such visitors as I
have described.

It happened that upon one occasion he
was visited by one Hugh Tisdall, a gentleman
of loose habits, but of considerable
wealth, and who had, in early youth,
travelled with my uncle upon the Continent

; the period of his visit was winter,
and, consequently, the house was nearly
deserted excepting by its regular inmates ;
it was therefore highly acceptable, particularly
as my uncle was aware that his
visitor's tastes accorded exactly with his
own.

Both parties seemed determined to
avail themselves of their suitability during
the brief stay which Mr. Tisdall had
promised ; the consequence was, that they
shut themselves up in Sir Arthur's private
room for nearly all the day and the
greater part of the night, during the
space of nearly a week, at the end of
which the servant having one morning,
as usual, knocked at Mr. Tisdall's bedroom
door repeatedly, received no answer,
and, upon attempting to enter, found that
it was locked ; this appeared suspicious.

and, the inmates of the house having been
alarmed, the door was forced open, and,
on proceeding to the bed, they found the
body of its occupant perfectly lifeless, and
hanging half-way out, the head downwards,
and near the floor. One deep
wound had been inflicted upon the temple,
apparently with some blunt instrument
which had penetrated the brain ; and
another blow, less effective, probably the
first aimed, had grazed the head, removing
some of the scalp, but leaving the skull
untouched. The door had been double-locked
upon the inside, in evidence of which
the key still lay where it had been placed
in the lock.

The window, though not secured on the
interior, was closed — a circumstance not a
little puzzling, as it afforded the only other
mode of escape from the room ; it looked

out, too, upon a kind of courtyard, round
which the old buildings stood, formerly-accessible
by a narrow doorway and passage
lying in the oldest side of the quadrangle,
but which had since been built up,
so as to preclude all ingress or egress ; the
room was also upon the second story, and
the height of the window considerable.
Near the bed were found a pair of razors
belonging to the murdered man, one of
them upon the ground, and both of them
open. The weapon which had inflicted
the mortal wound was not to be found in
the room, nor were any footsteps or other
traces of the murderer discoverable.

At the suggestion of Sir Arthur himself,
a coroner was instantly summoned to
attend, and an inquest was held ; nothing,
however, in any degree conclusive was
elicited ; the walls, ceiling, and floor of the

room were carefully examined, in order to
ascertain whether they contained a trapdoor
or other concealed mode of entrance
but no such thing appeared.

Such was the minuteness of investigation
employed, that, although the grate
had contained a large fire during the night,
they proceeded to examine even the very
chimney, in order to discover whether
escape by it were possible ; but this attempt,
too, was fruitless, for the chimney,
built in the old fashion, rose in a perfectly
perpendicular line from the hearth to a
height of nearly fourteen feet above the
roof, affording in its interior scarcely the
possibility of ascent, the flue being
smoothly plastered, and sloping towards
the top like an inverted funnel, promising,
too, even if the summit were attained,
owing to its great height, but a precarious

descent upon the sharp and steep-ridged
roof; the ashes, too, which lay in the
grate, and the soot, as far as it could be
seen, were undisturbed, a circumstance
almost conclusive of the question.

Sir Arthur was of course examined ; his
evidence was given with clearness and unreserve,
which seemed calculated to silence
all suspicion. He stated that, up to the
day and night immediately preceding the
catastrophe, he had lost to a heavy
amount, but that, at their last sitting, he
had not only won back his original loss,
but upwards of four thousand pounds in
addition ; in evidence of which he produced
an acknowledgment of debt to that
amount in the handwriting of the deceased,
and bearing the date of the fatal night.
He had mentioned the circumstance to his
lady, and in presence of some of the

domestics ; which statement was supported
by their respective evidence.

One of the jury shrewdly observed, that
the circumstance of Mr. Tisdall's having
so heavy a loss might have suggested
to some ill-minded persons accidentally
hearing it, the plan of robbing
him, after having murdered him in such a
manner as might make it appear that he
had committed suicide ; a supposition
which was strongly supported by the
razors having been found thus displaced,
and removed from their case. Two persons
had probably been engaged in the
attempt, one watching by the sleeping
man, and ready to strike him in case of
his awakening suddenly, while the other
was procuring the razors and employed in
inflicting the fatal gash, so as to make it
appear to have been the act of the

murdered man himself. It was said that
while the juror was making this suggestion
Sir Arthur changed colour.

Nothing, however, like legal evidence
appeared against him, and the consequence
was that the verdict was found against a
person or persons unknown ; and for sometime
the matter was suffered to rest, until,
after about five months, my father received
a letter from a person signing himself
Andrew Collins, and representing himself
to be the cousin of the deceased. This
letter stated that Sir Arthur was likely to
incur not merely suspicion, but personal
risk, unless he could account for certain
circumstances connected with the recent
murder and contained a copy of a letter
written by the deceased, and bearing date,
the day of the week, and of the month,
upon the night of which the deed of blood

bad been perpetrated. Tisdall's note ran
as follows :

Dear Collins,

I bave bad sharp work with Sir
Arthur ; be tried some of bis stale tricks,
but soon found that / was Yorkshire too :
it would not do — you understand me. We
went to the work like good ones, bead,
heart and soul ; and, in fact, since I came
bere, I bave lost no time. I am rather
fagged, but I am sure to be well paid for
my hardship ; I never want sleep so longs
I can bave the music of a dice-box, and
wherewithal to pay the piper. As I told
you, be tried some of bis queer turns, but
I foiled bim like a man, and, in return,
gave bim more than be could relish of the
genuine dead knowledge.

In short, T bave plucked the old

baronet as never baronet was plucked before
; I have scarce left him the stump of
a quill ; I have got promissory notes in his
hand to the amount of — if you like round
numbers, say, thirty thousand pounds,
safely deposited in my portable strong-box,
alias double-clasped pocket-book. I
leave this ruinous old rat-hole early on tomorrow,
for two reasons — first, I do not
want to play with Sir Arthur deeper than
I think his security, that is, his money, or
his money's worth, would warrant ; and,
secondly, because I am safer a hundred
miles from Sir Arthur than in the house
with him. Look you, my worthy, I tell
you this between ourselves — I may be
wrong, but, by G — , I am as sure as that I

am now living, that Sir A attempted

to poison me last night ; so much for old
friendship on both sides.

When I won the last stake, a heavy one
enough, my friend leant his forehead upon
his hands, and you'll laugh when I tell
you that his head literally smoked like a
hot dumpling. I do not know whether his
agitation was produced by the plan which
he had against me, or by his having lost so
heavily — though it must be allowed that he
had reason to be a little funked, whichever
way his thoughts went ; but he pulled the
bell, and ordered two bottles of champagne.
While the fellow was bringing
them he drew out a promissory note to the
full amount, which he signed, and, as the
man came in with the bottles and glasses,
he desired him to be off; he filled out a
glass for me, and, while he thought my
eyes were off, for I was putting up his note
at the time, he dropped something slyly
into it, no doubt to sweeten it ; but I saw

VOL. II. 2

it all, and, when he handed it to me, I
said, with an emphasis which he might or
might not understand :

^^ There is some sediment in this ; I'll
not drink it."

'' Is there T said he, and at the same
time snatched it from my hand and threw
it into the fire. What do you think of
that ? have I not a tender chicken to
manage ? Win or lose, I will not play
beyond five thousand to-night, and tomorrow
sees me safe out of the reach of
Sir Arthur's champagne. So, all things
considered, I think you must allow that
you are not the last who have found a
knowing boy in

Yours to command,

'HCJGH TiSDALL.'

Of the authenticity of this document I

never heard my father express a doubt ;
and I am satisfied that, owing to his
strong conviction in favour of his brother,
he would not have admitted it-without
sufficient inquiry, inasmuch as it tended to
confirm the suspicions which already existed
to his prejudice.

Now, the only point in this letter which
made strongly against my uncle , was the
mention of the ' double-clasped pocketbook'
as the receptacle of the papers
Hkely to involve him, for this pocket-book
was not forthcoming, nor anywhere to be
founds nor had any papers referring to his
gaming transactions been found upon the
dead man. However, whatever might have
been the original intention of this Colin,
neither my uncle nor my father ever heard
more of him ; but he published the letter
in Faulkner's newspaper, which was shortly

2—2

afterwards made the vehicle of a much
more mysterious attack. The passage in
that periodical to which I allude, occurred,
about four years afterwards, and while the
fatal occurrence was still fresh in public
recollection. It commenced by a rambling
preface, stating that ^ a certain person
whom certain persons thought to be dead,
was not so, but living, and in full possession
of his memory, and moreover ready
and able to make great delinquents
tremble.' It then went on to describe the
murder, without, however, mentioning
names ; and in doing so, it entered into
minute and circumstantial particulars of
which none but an eye-witness could have
been possessed, and by implications almost
too unequivocal to be regarded in the light
of insinuation, to involve the ^ titled
gambler ' in the guilt of the transaction.

My father at once urged Sir Arthur to
proceed against the paper in an action of
libel ; but he would not hear of it, nor consent
to my father's taking any legal
steps whatever in the matter. My father,
however, wrote in a threatening tone to
Faulkner, demanding a surrender of the
author of the obnoxious article. The
answer to this application is still in my
possession, and is penned in an apologetic
tone : it states that the manuscript had
been handed in, paid for, and inserted as
an advertisement, without sufficient inquiry,
or any knowledge as to whom it
referred.

Xo step, however, was taken to clear
my uncle's character in the judgment of
the public ; and as he immediately sold a
small property, the application of the proceeds
of which was known to none, he

was said to have disposed of it to enable
himself to buy off the threatened information.
However the truth might have been,
it is certain that no charges respecting the
mysterious murder were afterwards publicly
made against my uncle, and, as far as
external disturbances were concerned, he
enjoyed henceforward perfect security and
quiet.

A deep and lasting impression, however,
had been made upon the public mind, and

Sir Arthur T n was no longer visited

or noticed by the gentry and aristocracy of
the county, whose attention and courtesies
he had hitherto received. He accordingly
affected to despise these enjoyments which
he could not procure, and shunned even
that society which he might have commanded.


This is all that I need recapitulate of my

uncle's history, and I now recur to my own.
Although my father had never, within my
recollection, visited, or been visited by, my
uncle, each being of sedentary, procrastinating,
and secluded habits, and their respective
residences being very far apart—
the one lying in the county of Galway, the
other in that of Cork— he was strongly
attached to his brother, and evinced his
affection by an active correspondence, and
by deeply and proudly resenting that
neglect which had marked Sir Arthur as
unfit to mix in society.

When I was about eighteen years of
ao-e mv father, whose health had been
gradually declining, died, leaving me in
heart wretched and desolate, and, owing to
his previous seclusion, with few acquaintances,
and almost no friends.

The provisions of his will were curious,

and when I had sufficiently come to myself
to listen to or comprehend them, surprised
me not a little : all his vast property
was left to me, and to the heirs of my
body, for ever; and, in default of such
heirs, it Alas to go after my death to my
uncle, Sir Arthur, without any entail.

At the same time, the will appointed
him my guardian, desiring that I might be
received within his house, and reside with
his family, and under his care, during the
term of my minority ; and in consideration
of the increased expense consequent upon
such an arrangement, a handsome annuity
was allotted to him during the term of my
proposed residence.

The object of this last provision I at
once understood : my father desired, by
making it the direct, apparent interest of
Sir Arthur that I should die without

issue, while at the same time he placed me
wholly in his power, to prove to the w^orlcl
how great and unshaken was his confidence
in his brother's innocence and
honour, and also to afford him an opportunity
of showing that this mark of confidence
was not unworthily bestowed.

It was a strange, perhaps an idle
scheme ; but as I had been always brought
up in the habit of considering my uncle asa
deeply-injured man, and had been taught,
almost as a part of my religion, to regard
him as the very soul of honour, I felt no-further
uneasiness respecting the arrangement
than that likely to result to a timid
girl, of secluded habits, from the immediate
prospect of taking up her abode for the
first time in her life amono- total strangers.
Previous to leaving my home, which I felt
T should do with a heavy heart, I received

a most tender and affectionate letter
from my uncle, calculated, if anything
could do so, to remove the bitterness of
parting from scenes familiar and dear from
my earliest childhood, and in some degree
to reconcile me to the measure.

It was during a fine autumn that I approached
the old domain of Carrickleigh.
I shall not soon forget the impression of
sadness and of gloom which all that I saw
produced upon my mind ; the sunbeams
were falling with a rich and melancholy
tint upon the fine old trees, which stood in
lordly groups, casting their long, sweeping
shadows over rock and sward. There was
an air of neglect and decay about the spot,
which amounted almost to desolation ; the
symptoms of this increased in number as
we approached the building itself, near
which the ground had been originally more

i'

artificially and carefully cultivated than
elsewhere, and whose neglect consequently
more immediately and strikingly betrayed
itself.

As we proceeded, the road wound near
the beds of what had been formally two
fish-ponds, which were now nothing more
than stagnant swamps, overgrown with
rank weeds, and here and there encroached
upon by the straggling underwood ; the
avenue itself was much broken, and in
many places the stones were almost concealed
by grass and nettles ; the loose
stone walls which had here and there
intersected the broad park were, in many
places, broken down, so as no longer to
answer their original purpose as fences;
piers where now and then to be seen, but
the gates were gone; and, to add to the
general air of dilapidation, some huge

trunks were lying scattered through the
venerable old trees, either the work of the
winter storms, or perhaps the victims of
some extensive but desultory scheme of
denudation, which the projector had not
capital or perseverance to carry into full
effect.

After the carriage had travelled a mile
of this avenue, we reached the summit of
rather an abrupt eminence, one of the
many which added to the picturesqueness,
if not to the convenience of this rude
passage. From the top of this ridge the
grey walls of Carrickleigh were visible,
rising at a small distance in front, and
darkened by the hoary wood which
crowded around them. It was a quadrangular
building of considerable extent,
and the front which lay towards us, and
in which the great entrance was placed,

bore unequivocal marks of antiquity ; the
time-worn, solemn aspect of the old building,
the ruinous and deserted appearance
of the whole place, and the associations
which connected it with a dark page in the
history of my family, combined to depress
spirits already predisposed for the reception
of sombre and detecting impressions.

When the carriage drew up in the grass-grown
court yard before the hall door, two
lazy-looking men, whose appearance well
accorded with that of the place which they
tenanted, alarmed by the obstreperous
barking of a teat chained dog;, ran out
from some half-ruinous out-houses, and
took charge of the horses ; the hall-door
stood open, and I entered a gloomy and
imperfectly lighted apartment, and found
no one within. However, I had Dot long
to wait in this awkward predicament, for

before my luggage had been deposited in
the house, indeed, before I had well
removed my cloak and other wraps, so as
to enable me to look around, a young girl
ran lightly into the hall, and kissing me
heartily, and somewhat boisterously, exclaimed
:

My dear cousin, my dear Margaret —
I am so delighted — so out of breath. We
did not expect you till ten o'clock ; my
father is somewhere about the place, he
must be close at hand. James — Corner
run out and tell your master — my
brother is seldom at home, at least at any
reasonable hour — you must be so tired — so
fatigued — let me show you to your room —
see that Lady Margaret's luggage is all
brought up — you must lie down and rest
yourself — Deborah, bring some coffee — up
these stairs; we are so delighted to see

you —you cannot think how lonely I have
been — how steep these stairs are, are not
they ? I am so glad you are come — I
could hardly bring myself to believe that
you were really coming — how good of you,
dear Lady Margaret.'

There was real good-nature and delight
in my cousin's greeting, and a Ivied of
constitutional confidence of manner which
placed me at once at ease, and made me
feel immediately upon terms of intimacy
with her. The room into which she
ushered me, although partaking in the
general air of decay which pervaded the
mansion and all about it, had nevertheless
been fitted up with evident attention to
comfort, and even with some dingy attempt
at luxury ; but what pleased me most was
that it opened, by a second door, upon a
lobby which communicated with my fair

cousin's apartment ; a circumstance which
divested the room, in my eyes, of the air
of solitude and sadness which would otherwise
have characterised it, to a degree
almost painful to one so dejected in spirits
as I was.

After such arrangements as I found
necessary were completed, we both went
down to the parlour, a large wainscoted
room, hung round with grim old portraits,
and, as I was not sorry to see, containing
in its ample grate a large and cheerful
fire. Here my cousin had leisure to talk
more at her ease ; and from her I learned
something of the manners and the habits
of the two remaining members of her
family, whom I had not yet seen.

On my arrival I had known nothing of
the family among whom I was come to
reside, except that it consisted of three

individuals, my uncle, and his son and

daughter, Lady T n having been long

dead. In addition to this yqyj scanty stock
of information, I shortly learned from my
communicative companion that my uncle
was, as I had suspected, completely retired
in his habits, and besides that, having been
so far back as she could well recollect,
always rather strict, as reformed rakes
frequently become, he had latterly been
growing more gloomily and sternly religious
than heretofore.

Her account of her brother was far less
favourable, though she did not say anything
directly to his disadvantage. From all
that I could gather from her, I was led to
suppose that he was a specimen of the idle,
coarse-mannered, profligate, low-minded
squirearchy ' — a result which might
naturally have flowed from the circum-vol.

II. 3

stance of his being, as it were, outlawed
from society, and driven for companionship
to grades below his own — enjoying,
too, the dangerous prerogative of spending
much money.

However, you may easily suppose that
I found nothing in my cousin s communication
fully to bear me out in so very
decided a conclusion.

I awaited the arrival of my uncle,
which was every moment to be expected,
with feelings half of alarm, half of
curiosity — a sensation which I have often
since experienced, though to a less degree,
when upon the point of standing for the
first time in the presence of one of whom
I have long been in the habit of hearing
or thinking with interest.

It was, therefore, with some little
perturbation that I heard, first a slight

bustle at the outer door, then a slow step
traverse the hall, and finally witnessed the
door open, and my uncle enter the room.
He Alas a striking-looking man : from peculiarities
both of person and of garb, the
whole effect of his appearance amounted
to extreme singularity. He was tall, and
when Youno- his fio-ure must have been
strikingly elegant ; as it was, however, its
effect was marred by a very decided stoop.
His dress was of a sober colour, and in
fashion anterior to anything which I could
remember. It was, however, handsome,
and by no means carelessly put on ; but
what completed the singularity of his
appearance was his uncut, white hair,
which hung in long, but not at all neglected
curls, even so far as his shoulders,
and which combined with his regularly
classic features, and fine dark eyes, to

3—2

bestow upon him an air of venerable
dignity and pride, which I have never seen
equalled elsewhere. I rose as he entered,
and met him about the middle of the
room ; he kissed my cheek and both my
hands, saying :

You are most welcome, dear child, as
welcome as the command of this poor
place and all that it contains can make
■ you. I am most rejoiced to see you —
truly rejoiced. I trust that you are not
much fatigued — pray be seated again.'
He led me to my chair, and continued : * I
am glad to perceive you have made
acquaintance with Emily already ; I see,
in your being thus brought together, the
foundation of a lasting friendship. You
are both innocent, and both young. God
bless you — God bless you, and make you
all that I could wish.'

He raised his eyes, and remained for a
few moments silent, as if in secret prayer,
I felt that it was impossible that this man,
with feelings so quick, so warm, so tender,
could be the wretch that public opinion
had represented him to be. I was more
than ever convinced of his innocence.

His manner was, or appeared to me,
most fascinating: : there was a mingled
kindness and courtesy in it which seemed
to speak benevolence itself It was a
manner which I felt cold art could never
have taught : it owed most of its charm to
its appearing to emanate directly from the
heart ; it must be a genuine index of the
owner's mind. So I thought.

My uncle having given me fully to
understand that I was most welcome, and
might command whatever was his own,
pressed me to take some refreshment ; and

on my refusing, he observed that previously
to bidding me good-night, he had one duty
further to perform, one in whose observance
he was convinced I would cheerfully
acquiesce.

He then proceeded to read a chapter
from the Bible ; after which he took his
leave with the same affectionate kindness
with which he had greeted me, having
repeated his desire that I should consider
everything in his house as altogether at
my disposal. It is needless to say that I
was much pleased with my uncle — it was
impossible to avoid being so ; and I could
not help saying to myself, if such a man
as this is not safe from the assaults of
slander, who is ? I felt much happier than
I had done since my father's death, and
enjoyed that night the first refreshing
sleep which had visited me since that event.

My curiosity respecting my male cousin
did not long remain unsatisfied — he
appeared the next day at dinner. His
manners though not so coarse as I had
expected, were exceedingly disagreeable ;
there was an assurance and a forwardness
for which I was not prepared ; there
was less of the vulgarity of manner, and
almost more of that of the mind, than I
had anticipated. I felt quite uncomfortable
in his presence ; there was just that
confidence in his look and tone which
would read encouragement even in mere
toleration ; and I felt more disgusted and
annoyed at the coarse and extravagant
compliments which he was pleased from
time to time to pay me, than perhaps the
extent of the atrocity might fully have
warranted. It was, however, one consolation
that he did not often appear, being

much engrossed by pursuits about which I
neither knew nor cared anything ; but
when he did appear, his attentions, either
with a view to his amusement or to some
more serious advantage, were so obviously
and perseveringly directed to me, that
young and inexperienced as I was, even /
could not be ignorant of his preference. I
felt more provoked by this odious persecution
than I can express, and discouraged
him with so much vigour, that I employed
even rudeness to convince him that his
assiduities were unwelcome ; but all in
vain.

This had gone on for nearly a twelvemonth,
to my infinite annoyance, when one
day as I was sitting at some needle-work
with my companion Emily, as was my
habit, in the parlour, the door opened,
and mv cousin Edward entered the room.

There was something, I thought, odd in
his manner — a kind of struo^o^le between
shame and impudence — a kind of flurry
and ambiguity Which made him appear,
if possible, more than ordinarily disagreeable.


'Your servant, ladies,' he said, seating
himself at the same time ; ^ sorry to spoil
your tete-astute, but never mind, I'll only
take Emily's place for a minute or two ;
and then we part for a while, fair cousin.
Emily, my father wants you in the corner
turret. No shilly-shally ; he's in a hurry.'
She hesitated. ' Be off — tramps, march !'
he exclaimed, in a tone which the poor girl
dared not disobey.

She left the room, and Edward followed
her to the door. He stood there for a
minute or two, as if reflecting what he
should say, perhaps satisfying himself

that no one was within hearing in the
hall.

At length he turned about, having closed
the door, as if carelessly, with his foot ; and
advancing slowly, as if in deep thought, he
took his seat at the side of the table opposite
to mine.

There was a brief interval of silence,
after which he said :

I imagine that you have a shrewd suspicion
of the object of my early visit ; but
I suppose I must go into particulars.
Must I f

I have no conception,' I replied, ^ what
your object may be.'

'Well, well,' said he, becoming more at
his ease as he proceeded, ' it may be told ina
few words. You know that it is totally
impossible — quite out of the question —
that an offhand young fellow like me, and

a good-looking girl like yourself, could
meet continually, as you and I have done,
without an attachment — a liking growing
up on one side or other ; in short, I think
I have let you know as plain as if I spoke
it, that I have been in love with you
almost from the first time I saw
you

He paused ; but I was too much horrified
to speak. He interpreted my silence
favourably.

I can tell you he continued, ^ I'm
reckoned rather hard to please, and very
hard to hit. I can't say when I was taken
with a girl before ; so you see fortune reserved
me '

Here the odious wretch wound his arm
round my waist. The action at once restored
me to utterance, and with the most
indignant vehemence I released myself

from his hold, and at the same time
said :

^ I have not been insensible, sir, of your
most disagreeable attentions — they have
long been a source of much annoyance tome
; and you must be aware that I have
marked my disapprobation — my disgust —
as unequivocally as I possibly could, without
actual indelicacy.'

I paused, almost out of breath from the
rapidity with which I had spoken ; and
without giving him time to renew the
conversation, I hastily quitted the room,
leaving him in a paroxysm of rage and
mortification. As I ascended the stairs,
I heard him open the parlour-door with
violence, and take two or three rapid strides
in the direction in which I was moving. I
was now much frightened, and ran the
whole way until I reached my room ; and

having locked the door, I listened breathlessly,
but heard no sound. This relieved
me for the present ; but so much had I
been overcome by the agitation and annoyance
attendant upon the scene which I had
just gone through, that when my cousin
Emily knocked at my door, I was weeping
in strong hysterics.

You will readily conceive my distress,
when you reflect upon my strong dislike to
my cousin Edward, combined with my
youth and extreme inexperience. Any
proposal of such a nature must have agitated
me ; but that it should have come
from the man whom of all others I most
loathed and abhorred, and to whom I had,
as clearly as manner could do it, expressed
the state of my feelings, was almost too overwhelming
to be borne. It was a calamity,
too, in which I could not claim the sympathy

of my cousin Emily, which had
always been extended to me in my minor
grievances. Still I hoped that it might
not be unattended with good ; for I
thought that one inevitable and most
welcome consequence would result from
this painful eclaircissement, in the discontinuance
of my cousin's odious persecution.


When I arose next morning, it was with
the fervent hope that I might never again
behold the face, or even hear the name, of
my cousin Edward ; but such a consummation,
though devoutly to be wished, was
hardly likely to occur. The painful impressions
of yesterday were too vivid to
be at once erased ; and I could not help
feeling some dim foreboding of coming annoyance
and evil.

To expect on my cousin's part anything

like delicacy or consideration for me, was
out of the question. I saw that he had
set his heart upon my property, and that
he was not likely easily to forego such an
acquisition — possessing what might have
been considered opportunities and facilities
almost to compel my compliance.


I now keenly felt the unreasonableness
of my father's conduct in placing me to
reside with a family of all whose members,
with one exception, he was wholly
ignorant, and I bitterly felt the helplessness
of my situation. I determined, however,
in case of my cousin's persevering in
his addresses, to lay all the particulars before
my uncle, although he had never in
kindness or intimacy gone a step beyond
our first interview, and to throw myself
upon his hospitality and his sense of honour

for protection against a repetition of such
scenes.

My cousin's conduct may appear to have
been an inadequate cause for such serious
uneasiness ; but my alarm was caused
neither by his acts nor words, but entirely
by his manner, which was strange and even
intimidating to excess. At the beginning
of the yesterday's interview there was a
sort of bullying swagger in his air, which
towards the end gave place to the brutal vehemence
of an undisguised ruffian — a transition
which had tempted me into a belief
that he might seek even forcibly to extort
from me a consent to his wishes, or by
means still more horrible, of which I
scarcely dared to trust myself to think,
to possess himself of my property.

I was early next day summoned to attend
my uncle in his private room, which lay ina

corner turret of the old building ; and
thither I accordingly went, wondering all
the way what this unusual measure might
prelude. When I entered the room, he
did not rise in his usual courteous way to
greet me but simply pointed to a chair
opposite to his own. This boded nothing
agreeable. I sat down, however, silently
waiting until he should open the conversation.


^ Lady Margaret,' at length he said, in a
tone of greater sternness than I thought
him capable of using, ' I have hitherto
spoken to you as a friend, but 1 have not
forgotten that I am also your guardian,
and that my authority as such gives me a
right to control your conduct. I shall
put a question to you, and I expect and
will demand a plain, direct answer. Have
I rightly been informed that you have con-vol.

II. 4

sumptuously rejected the suit and hand of
my son Edward V

I stammered forth with a good deal of
trepidation :

I believe — that is, I have sir rejected
my cousin's proposals ; and my coldness
and discouragement might have convinced
him that I had determined todo
so

Madam replied he, with suppressed,
but, as it appeared to me, intense anger,
I have lived long enough to know that
coldness and discouragement, and such
terms, form the common cant of a worthless
coquette. You know to the full, as
well as I, that coldness and discouragement
may be so exhibited as to convince
their object that he is neither distasteful
or indifferent to the person who wears this
manner. You know, too, none better, that

an affected neglect, when skilfully managed,
is amongst the most formidable of the
engines which artful beauty can employ.
I tell you, madam, that having, without
one word spoken in discouragement, permitted
my son's most marked attentions
for a twelvemonth or more, you have no
right to dismiss him with no further explanation
than demurely telling him that
you had always looked coldly upon him ;
and neither your wealth nor your ladyship '
(there was an emphasis of scorn on the
word, which would have become Sir
Giles Overreach himself) 'can warrant you
in treating with contempt the affectionate
regard of an honest heart.'

I was too much shocked at this undisguised
attempt to bully me into an acquiescence
in the interested and unprincipled
plan for their own aggrandisement, which

4—2

I now perceived my uncle and his son to
have deliberately entered into, at once to
find strength or collectedness to frame an
answer to what he had said. At length I
replied, with some firmness :

In all that you have just now said, sir,
you have grossly misstated my conduct and
motives. Your information must have been
most incorrect as far as it regards my conduct
towards my cousin ; my manner towards
him could have conveyed nothing
but dislike ; and if anything could have
added to the strong aversion which T
have long felt towards him, it would be
his attempting thus to trick and frighten
me into a marriage which he knows to be
revolting to me, and which is sought by
him only as a means for securing to himself
whatever property is mine.'

As I said this, I fixed my eyes upon

those of my uncle, but he was too old in
the world's ways to falter beneath the
gaze of more searching eyes than mine ; he
simply said :

Are you acquainted with the provisions
of your father's will V

I answered in the affirmative ; and he
continued :

Then you must be aware that if my
son Edward were — which God forbid — the
unprincipled, reckless man you pretend to
think him ' — (here he spoke very slowly,
as if he intended that every word which
escaped him should be registered in my
memory, while at the same time the expression
of his countenance underwent a
gradual but horrible change, and the eyes
which he fixed upon me became so darkly
vivid, that I almost lost sight of everything
else) — ' if he were what you have

described him, think you, girl, he could
find no briefer means than wedding contracts
to gain his ends ? 'twas but to gripe
your slender neck until the breath had
stopped, and lands, and lakes, and all were
his.'

I stood staring at him for many minutes
after he had ceased to speak, fascinated
by the terrible serpent-like gaze, until he
continued with a welcome change of countenance
:

I will not speak again to you upon this
topic until one month has passed. You
shall have time to consider the relative
advantages of the two courses which are
open to you. I should be sorry to hurry
you to a decision. I am satisfied with
having stated my feelings upon the subject,
and pointed out to you the path of duty.

Remember this day month — not one word
sooner

He then rose, and I left the room, much
agitated and exhausted.

This interview, all the circumstances
attending it, but most particularly the formidable
expression of my uncle's countenance
while he talked, though hypothetically,
of murder, combined to arouse all
my worst suspicions of him. I dreaded to
look upon the face that had so recently
worn the appalling livery of guilt and
malignity. I regarded it with the
mingled fear and loathing with which one
looks upon an object which has tortured
them in a nightmare.

In a few days after the interview, the
particulars of which I have just related, I
found a note upon my toilet-table, and on
opening it I read as follows :

My dear Lady Margaret,

You will be perhaps surprised to
see a strange face in your room to-day. I
have dismissed your Irish maid, and
secured a French one to wait upon you — a
step rendered necessary by my proposing
shortly to visit the Continent, with all my
family.

^ Your faithful guardian,

'Arthur T n/

On inquiry, I found that my faithful
attendant was actually gone, and far on
her way to the town of Gal way ; and in
her stead there appeared a tall, raw-boned,
ill-looking, elderly Frenchwoman, whose
sullen and presuming manners seemed to
imply that her vocation had never before
been that of a lady's-maid. I could not
help regarding her as a creature of my

uncle's, and therefore to be dreaded,
even had she been in no other way suspicious.


Days and weeks passed away without
any, even a momentary doubt upon my
part, as to the course to be pursued by me.
The allotted period had at length elapsed ;
the day arrived on which I was to communicate
my decision to my uncle. Although
my resolution had never for a
moment wavered, I could not shake off
the dread of the approaching colloquy ;
and my heart sunk within me as I heard
the expected summons.

I had not seen my cousin Edward since
the occurrence of the grand eclaircisse-
ment ; he must have studiously avoided
me — I suppose from policy, it could not
have been from delicacy. I was prepared
for a terrific burst of fury from my uncle.

as soon as I should make known my determination
; and I not unreasonably
feared that some act of violence or of intimidation
would next be resorted to.

Filled with these dreary forebodings, I
fearfully opened the study door, and the
next minute I stood in my uncle's
presence. He received me with a politeness
which I dreaded, as arguing a favourable
anticipation respecting the answer
which I was to give ; and after some slight
delay, he began by saying :

It will be a relief to both of us, I
believe, to bring this conversation as soon
as possible to an issue. You will excuse
me, then, my dear niece, for speaking with
an abruptness which, under other circumstances,
would be unpardonable. You
have I am certain, given the subject of
our last interview fair and serious consideration

; and I trust that you are now
prepared with candour to lay 3^0 ur answer
before me. A few words will suffice — we
perfectly understand one another.'

He paused, and I, though feeling that I
stood upon a mine which might in an
instant explode, nevertheless answered with
perfect composure :

I must now, sir, make the same reply
which I did upon the last occasion, and I
reiterate the declaration which I then
made, that I never can nor will, while life
and reason remain, consent to a union with
my cousin Edward.' ^

This announcement wrought no apparent
change in Sir Arthur, except that he
became deadly, almost lividly pale. He
seemed lost in dark thought for a minute,
and then with a slight effort said :

You have answered me honestly and

directly; and you say your resolution is

V unchangeable. Well, would it had been
otherwise — would it had been otherwise —
but be it as it is — I am satisfied.'

He gave me his hand — it was cold and
damp as death ; under an assumed calmness,
it was evident that he was fearfully
agitated. He continued to hold my hand
with an almost painful pressure, while, as
if unconsciously, seeming to forget my
presence, he muttered :

Strange, strange, strange, indeed I
fatuity, helpless fatuity 1' there was here a

V long pause. * Madness indeed to strain a
cable that is rotten to the very heart — it
must break — and then — all goes.'

There was again a pause of some
minutes, after which, suddenly changing
his voice and manner to one of wakeful
alacrity, he exclaimed :

Margaret, my son Edward shall plague
you no more. He leaves this country on
tomorrow for France — he shall speak no
more upon this subject — never, nevermore
— whatever events depended upon
sour answer must now take their own
course ; but, as for this fruitless proposal, it
has been tried enough ; it can be repeated
no more.'

At these words he coldly suffered my
hand to drop, as if to express his total
abandonment of all his projected schemes
of alliance ; and certainly the action, with
the accompanying words, produced upon
my mind a more solemn and depressing-effect
than I believed possible to have
been caused by the course which I had
determined to pursue ; it struck upon my
heart with an awe and heaviness which
vnll accompany the accomplishment of an

important and irrevocable act, even though
no doubt or scruple remains to make it
possible that the agent should wish it undone.


Well said my uncle, after a little time
we now cease to speak upon this topic,
never to resume it again. Remember you
shall have no farther uneasiness from
Edward ; he leaves Ireland for France on
tomorrow ; this will be a relief to you.
May I depend upon your honour that no
word touching the subject of this interview
shall ever escape you V

I gave him the desired assurance ; he
said :

^ It is well — I am satisfied — we Ive
nothing more, I believe, to say upon
either side, and my presence must be a
restraint upon you, I shall therefore bid
you farewell.'

I then left the apartment, scarcely
knowing what to think of the strange interview
which had just taken place.

On the next day my uncle took occasion
to tell me that Edward had actually
sailed, if his intention had not been interfered
with by adverse circumstances ; and
two days subsequently he actually produced
a letter from his son written, as it
said, on hoard, and despatched while the
ship was getting under weigh. This was
a great satisfaction to me, and as being
likely to prove so, it was no doubt communicated
to me by Sir Arthur.

During all this trying period, I had
found infinite consolation in the society
and sympathy of my dear cousin Emily.
I never in after-life formed a friendship so
close, so fervent, and upon which, in all its
progress, I could look back with feelings

of such unalloyed pleasure, upon whose
termination I must ever dwell with so
deep, yet so embittered regret. In
cheerful converse with her I soon recovered
my spirits considerably, and
passed my time agreeably enough,
although still in the strictest seclusion.

Matters went on sufficiently smooth,
although I could not help sometimes
feeling a momentary, but horrible uncertainty
respecting my uncle's character ;
which was not altogether unwarranted by
the circumstances of the two trying interviews
whose particulars I have just detailed.
The unpleasant impression which
these conferences were calculated to leave
upon my mind, was fast wearing away,
when there occurred a circumstance, slight
indeed in itself, but calculated irresistibly
to awaken all my worst suspicions, and to

overwhelm me again with anxiety and
terror.

I had one day left the house with my
cousin Emily, in order to take a ramble of
considerable length, for the purpose of
sketching some favourite views, and we
had walked about half a mile when I perceived
that we had forgotten our drawing
materials, the absence of which would have
defeated the object of our walk. Laughing
at our own thoughtlessness, we returned
to the house, and leaving Emily without, I
ran upstairs to procure the drawing-books
and pencils, which lay ia my bedroom.

As I ran up the stairs I was met by the
tall, ill-looking Frenchwoman, evidently
a good deal flurried.

Que veut, madame V said she, with a
more decided effort to be porte than I had
ever known her make before.

VOL. II. 5

*No, no — no matter said I, hastily
running by her in the direction of my
room.

Madame cried she, in a high key,
restez ici, s'il vous plait ; votre chambre
n'esfc pas faite — your room is not ready
for your reception yet.'

I continued to move on without heeding
her. She was some way behind me, and
feeling that she could not otherwise prevent
my entrance, for I was now upon the
very lobby, she made a desperate attempt
to seize hold of my person : she succeeded
in grasping the end of my shawl, which
she drew from my shoulders ; but slipping at
the same time upon the polished oak floor,
she fell at full length upon the boards.

A little frightened as well as angry at
the rudeness of this strange woman, I
hastily pushed open the door of my room,

at which I now stood, in order to escape
from her ; but great was my amazement
on entering to find the apartment preoccupied.


The window was open, and beside it
stood two male figures ; they appeared to
be examining the fastenings of the casements
and their backs were turned towards
the door. One of them was my uncle;
they both turned on my entrance, as if
startled. The stranger was booted and
cloaked, and wore a heavy broad-leafed hat
over his brows. He turned but for a moment,
and averted his face ; but I had seen
enough to convince me that he was no
other than my cousin Edward. My uncle
had some iron instrument in his hand,
which he hastily concealed behind his back;
and coming towards me, said something as
if in an explanatory tone ; but I was too

5—2

much shocked and confounded to understand
what it might be. He said something
about * repairs — window-frames —
cold, and safety

I did not wait, however, to ask or to
receive explanations, but hastily left the
room. As I went down the stairs I
thought I heard the voice of the Frenchwoman
in all the shrill volubility of excuse,
which was met, however, by suppressed
but vehement imprecations, or what
seemed to me to be such, in which the
voice of my cousin Edward distinctly
mingled.

I joined my cousin Emily quite out of
breath. I need not say that my head was
too full of other things to think much of
drawing for that day. I imparted to her
frankly the cause of my alarms, but at the
same time as gently as I could ; and with

tears she promised vigilance, and devotion,
and lose. I never had reason for a moment
to repent the unreserved confidence
which I then reposed in her. She was no
less surprised than I at the unexpected
appearance of Edward, whose departure
for France neither of us had for a moment
doubted, but which was now proved by his
actual presence to be nothing more than
an imposture, practised, I feared, for no
good end.

The situation in which I had found my
uncle had removed completely all my
doubts as to his designs. I magnified suspicions
into certainties, and dreaded night
after niofht that I should be murdered in
my bed. The nervousness produced by
sleepless nights and days of anxious fears
increased the horrors of my situation to
such a degree, that I at length wrote a

letter to a Mr. Jefferies, an old and faithful
friend of my father's, and perfectly acquainted
with all his affairs, praying him
for God's sake, to relieve me from my
present terrible situation, and communicating
without reserve the nature and
grounds of my suspicions.

This letter I kept sealed and directed
for two or three days always about my
person, for discovery would have been
ruinous, in expectation of an opportunity
which might be safely trusted, whereby to
have it placed in the post-office. As neither
Emily nor I were permitted to pass beyond
the precincts of the demesne itself,
which was surrounded by high walls
formed of dry stone, the difficulty of procuring
such an opportunity was greatly
enhanced.

At this time Emily had a short conversation

with her father, which she reported
to me instantly.

After some indifferent matter, he had
asked her whether she and I were upon
good terms, and whether I was unreserved
in my disposition. She answered in the
affirmative ; and he then inquired whether
I had been much surprised to find him in
my chamber on the other day. She answered
that I had been both surprised and
amused.

'And what did she think of George
Wilson's appearance V

Who V inquired she.

Oh, the architect he answered, ^ who
is to contract for the repairs of the house ;
he is accounted a handsome fellow.'

She could not see his face,' said Emily,
*and she was in such a hurry to escape
that she scarcely noticed him.'

Sir Arthur appeared satisfied, and the
conversation ended.

This slight conversation, repeated accurately
to me by Emily, had the effect of
confirming, if indeed anything was required
to do so, all that I had before believed as
to Edward's actual presence ; and I naturally
became, if possible, more anxious
than ever to despatch the letter to Mr.
Jefferies. An opportunity at length occurred.


As Emily and I were walking one day
near the gate of the demesne, a lad from
the village happened to be passing down
the avenue from the house ; the spot was
secluded, and as this person was not connected
by service with those whose observation
I dreaded, I committed the letter
to his keeping, with strict injunctions that
he should put it without delay into the

receiver of the town post-oflSce ; at the
same time I added a suitable gratuity, and
the man having made many protestations
of punctuality, was soon out of sight.

He was hardly gone when I began to
doubt my discretion in having trusted this
person ; but I had no better or safer means
of despatching the letter, and I was not
warranted in suspecting him of such
wanton dishonesty as an inclination to
tamper with it ; but I could nob be quite
satisfied of its safety until I had received
an answer, which could not arrive for a
few days. Before I did, however, an event
occurred which a little surprised me.

I was sitting in my bedroom early in the
day, reading by myself, when I heard a
knock at the door.

^ Come in,' said I ; and my uncle entered
the room.

Will you excuse me V said he. * I
sought you in the parlour, and thence I
have come here. I desired to say a word
with you. I trust that you have hitherto
found my conduct to you such as that of a
guardian towards his ward should be.'
I I dared not withhold my consent.

And he continued, ' I trust that you
have not found me harsh or unjust, and
that you have perceived, my dear niece,
that I have sought to make this poor place
as agreeable to you as may be.'

I assented again ; and he put his hand
in his pocket, whence he drew a folded
paper, and dashing it upon the table with
startling emphasis, he said :

Did you write that letter V

The sudden and fearful alteration of his
voice, manner, and face, but, more than all,
the unexpected production of my letter to

Mr. Jefferies, which I at once recognised,
so confounded and terrified me, that I felt
almost choking.

I could not utter a word.

Did you write that letter ?' he repeated
with slow and intense emphasis. ' You
did, liar and hypocrite ! You dared to
write this foul and infamous libel ; but it
shall be your last. Men will universally
believe you mad, if I choose to call for an
inquiry. I can make you appear so. The
suspicions expressed in this letter are the
hallucinations and alarms of moping lunacy.
I have defeated your first attempt, madam ;
and by the holy God, if ever you make
another, chains, straw, darkness, and the
keeper's whip shall be your lasting portion
!'

With these astounding words he left the
room, leaving me almost fainting.

I was now almost reduced to despair;
my last cast had failed ; I had no course
left but that of eloping secretly from the
castle, and placing myself under the protection
of the nearest magistrate. I felt
if this were not done, and speedily, that I
should be murdered.

No one, from mere description, can have
an idea of the unmitigated horror of my
situation — a helpless, weak, inexperienced
girl, placed under the power and wholly
at the mercy of evil men, and feeling that
she had it not in her power to escape fora
moment from the malignant influences
under which she was probably fated to fall ;
and with a consciousness that if violence,
if murder were designed, her dying shriek
would be lost in void space ; no human
being would be near to aid her, no human
interposition could deliver her.

I had seen Edward but once during his
visit, and as I did not meet with him
aofain, I becjan to think that he must have
taken his departure — a conviction which
was to a certain degree satisfactory, as I
regarded his absence as indication the removal
of immediate danger.

Emily also arrived circuitously at the
same conclusion, and not without good
grounds, for she managed indirectly to
learn that Edward's black horse had actually
been for a day and part of a night in
the castle stables, just at the time of her
brother's supposed visit. The horse had
gone, and, as she argued, the rider must
have departed with it.

This point being so far settled, I felt a
little less uncomfortable : when being one
day alone in my bedroom, I happened to
look out from the window, and, to my unutterable

horror, I beheld, peering through
an opposite casement, my cousin Edward's
face. Had I seen the evil one himself in
bodily shape, I could not have experienced
a more sickening revulsion.

I was too much appalled to move at
once from the window, but I did so soon
enough to avoid his eye. He was looking
fixedly into the narrow quadrangle upon
which the window opened. I shrank back
unperceived, to pass the rest of the day
in terror and despair. I went to my room
early that night, but I was too miserable
to sleep.

At about twelve o'clock, feeling very
nervous, I determined to call my cousin
Emily, who slept, you will remember, in
the next room, which communicated with
mine by a second door. By this private
entrance I found my way into her chamber,

and without difficulty persuaded her to
return to my room and sleep with me.
We accordingly lay do^Yn together, she
undressed, and I with my clothes on, for I
was every moment walking up and down
the room, and felt too nervous and miserable
to think of rest or comfort.

Emily was soon fast asleep, and I lay
awake, fervently longing for the first pale
gleam of morning, reckoning every stroke
of the old clock with an impatience which
made every hour appear like six.

It must have been about one o'clock
when I thousi'ht I heard a slight noise at
the partition-door between Emily's room
and mine, as if caused by somebody's
turning the key in the lock. I held my
breath, and the same sound was repeated
at the second door of my room — that which
opened upon the lobby — the sound was

here distinctly caused by the revolution of
the bolt in the lock, and it was followed by
a slight pressure upon the door itself, as if
to ascertain the security of the lock.

The person, whoever it might be, was
probably satisfied, for I heard the old
boards of the lobby creak and strain, as if
under the weight of somebody moving
cautiously over them. My sense of hearing
became unnaturally, almost painfully
acute. I suppose the imagination added
distinctness to sounds vague in themselves.
I thought that I could actually hear the
breathing of the person who was slowly
returning down the lobby. At the head of
the staircase there appeared to occur a
pause ; and I could distinctly hear two or
three sentences hastily whispered; the
steps then descended the stairs with apparently
less caution. I now ventured to

walk quickly and lightly to the lobby door,
and attempted to open it ; it was indeed
fast locked upon the outside, as was also
the other.

I now felt that the dreadful hour was
come ; but one desperate expedient remained
— it was to awaken Emily, and by
our united strength to attempt to force
the partition-door, which was slighter than
the other, and through this to pass to the
lower part of the house, whence it might
be possible to escape to the grounds, and
forth to the village.

I returned to the bedside and shook
Emily, but in vain. Nothing that I could
do availed to produce from her more thana
few incoherent words — it was a deathlike
sleep. She had certainly drank of
some narcotic, as had I probably also, spite
of all the caution with which I had

VOL. II. 6

examined everything presented to us to
eat or drink.

I now attempted, with as little noise as
possible, to force first one door, then the
other — but all in vain. I believe no
strength could have effected my object, for
both doors opened inwards. I therefore
collected whatever movables I could carry
thither, and piled them against the doors,
so as to assist me in whatever attempts I
should make to resist the entrance of those
without. I then returned to the bed and
endeavoured again, but fruitlessly, to
awaken my cousin. It was not sleep, it
was torpor, lethargy, death. I knelt down
and prayed with an agony of earnestness ;
and then seating myself upon the bed, I
awaited my fate with a kind of terrible
tranquillity.

I heard a faint clanking sound from the

narrow court which I have already mentioned,
as if caused by the scraping of
some iron instrument against stones or
rubbish. I at first determined not to disturb
the calmness which I now felt, by
uselessly watching the proceedings of those
who sought my life ; but as the sounds
continued, the horrible curiosity which I
felt overcame every other emotion, and I
determined, at all hazards, to gratify it.
I therefore crawled upon my knees to
the window, so as to let the smallest
portion of my head appear above the
sill.

The moon was shining with an uncertain
radiance upon the antique grey buildings,
and obliquely upon the narrow court beneath,
one side of which was therefore
clearly illuminated, while the other was
lost in obscurity, the sharp outlines of the

6—2

old gables, with their nodding clusters of
ivy, being at first alone visible.

Whoever or whatever occasioned the
noise which had excited my curiosity, was
concealed under the shadow of the dark
side of the quadrangle. I placed my handover
my eyes to shade them from the
moonlight, which was so bright as to be
almost dazzling, and, peering into the darkness,
I first dimly, but afterwards gradually,
almost with full distinctness, beheld the
form of a man engaged in digging what
appeared to be a rude hole close under the
wall. Some implements, probably a shovel
and pickaxe, lay beside him, and to these
he every now and then applied himself as
the nature of the ground required. He
pursued his task rapidly, and with as little
noise as possible.

So thought I, as, shovelful after shovelful,

the dislodged rubbish mounted into a
heap, ' they are digging the grave in which,
before two hours pass, I must He, a cold,
mangled corpse. I am theirs — I cannot
escape.'

I felt as if my reason was leaving me.
I started to my feet, and in mere despair I
applied myself again to each of the two
doors alternately. I strained every nerve
and sinew, but I might as well have attempted,
with my single strength, to force
the building itself from its foundation. I
threw myself madly upon the ground, and
clasped my hands over my eyes as if to
shut out the horrible images which crowded
upon me.

The paroxysm passed away. I prayed
once more, with the bitter, agonised fervour
of one who feels that the hour of death is
present and inevitable. When I arose, I

went once more to the window and looked
out, just in time to see a shadowy figure
gode stealthily along the wall. The task
was finished. The catastrophe of the
tragedy must soon be accomplished.

I determined now to defend my life to
the last ; and that I might be able to do
so with some effect, I searched the room
for something which might serve as a
weapon ; but either through accident, or
from an anticipation of such a possibility,
everything which might have been made
available for such a purpose had been carefully
removed. I must then die tamely
and without an effort to defend myself

A thought suddenly struck me — might
it not be possible to escape through the
door, which the assassin must open in
order to enter the room ? I resolved to
make the attempt. I felt assured that the

door through which ingress to the room
would be effected, was that which opened
upon the lobby. It was the more direct
way, besides being, for obvious reasons,
less liable to interruption than the other.
I resolved, then, to place myself behind a
projection of the wall, whose shadow would
serve fully to conceal me, and when the
door should be opened, and before they
should have discovered the identity of the
occupant of the bed, to creep noiselessly
from the room, and then to trust to Providence
for escape.

In order to facilitate this scheme, I removed
all the lumber which I had heaped
against the door ; and I had nearly completed
my arrangements, when I perceived
the room suddenly darkened by the close
approach of some shadowy object to the
window. On turning my eyes in that

direction, I observed at the top of the
casement, as if suspended from above, first
the feet, then the legs, then the body, and
at length the whole figure of a man present

himself It was Edward T n.

He appeared to be guiding his descent
so as to bring his feet upon the centre of
the stone block which occupied the lower
part of the window ; and, having secured
his footing upon this, he kneeled down and
began to gaze into the room. As the
moon was gleaming into the chamber, and
the bed-curtains were drawn, he was able
to distinguish the bed itself and its contents.
He appeared satisfied with his
scrutiny, for he looked up and made a sign
with hjs hand, upon which the rope by
which his descent had been effected was
slackened from above, and he proceeded to
disengage it from his waist ; this accomplished,

he applied his hands to the
window-frame, which must have been ingeniously
contrived for the purpose, for,
with apparently no resistance, the whole
frame, containing casement and all, slipped
from its position in the wall, and was by
him lowered into the room.

The cold night wind waved the bed-curtains,
and he paused for a moment — all
was still again — and he stepped in upon
the floor of the room. He held in his
hand what appeared to be a steel instrument,
shaped something like a hammer,
but larger and sharper at the extremities.
This he held rather behind him, while, with
three long, tip-toe strides, he brought himself
to the bedside.

I felt that the discovery must now be
made, and held my breath in momentary
expectation of the execration in which he

would vent his surprise and disappointment.
I closed my eyes — there was a
pause, but it was a short one. I heard
two dull blows, given in rapid succession :
a quivering sigh, and the long-drawn,
heavy breathing of the sleeper was forever
suspended. I unclosed my eyes, and
saw the murderer fling the quilt across the
head of his victim : he then, with the instrument
of death still in his hand, proceeded
to the lobby-door, upon which he
tapped sharply twice or thrice. A quick
step was then heard approaching, and a
voice whispered something from without.
Edward answered, with a kind of chuckle,
^ Her ladyship is past complaining ; unlock
the door, in the devil's name, unless you're
afraid to come in, and help me to lift the
body out of the window.'

The key was turned in the lock — the

door opened — and my uncle entered the
room.

I have told you already that I had
placed myself under the shade of a projection
of the Thrall, close to the door. I had
instinctively shrunk down, cowering towards
the ground on the entrance of
Edward through the window. When my
uncle entered the room he and his son
both stood so very close to me that his
hand was every moment upon the point of
touching my face. I held my breath, and
remained motionless as death.

^ You had no interruption from the next
room V said my uncle.

No,' was the brief reply.

Secure the jewels, Ned ; the French
harpy must not lay her claws upon them.

You're a steady hand, by G ! not

much blood — eh V

'Not twenty drops replied his son,
and those on the quilt.'

I'm glad it's over whispered my uncle
again. ' We must lift the — the thing
through the window, and lay the rubbish
over it.'

They then turned to the bedside, and,
winding the bed-clothes round the body,
carried it between them slowly to the
window, and, exchanging a few brief words
with some one below, they shoved it over
the window-sill, and I heard it fall heavily
on the ground underneath.

I'll take the jewels,' said my uncle ;
'there are two caskets in the lower
drawer.'

He proceeded, with an accuracy which,
had I been more at ease, would have furnished
me with matter of astonishment, to
lay his hand upon the very spot where my

jewels lay; and having possessed himself
of them, he called to his son :

^ Is the rope made fast above V

I'm not a fool — to be sure it is replied
he.

They then lowered themselves from the
window. I now rose lightly and cautiously,
scarcely daring to breathe, from my place
of concealment, and was creeping towards
the door, when I heard my cousin's voice,
in a sharp whisper, exclaim : * Scramble up

again ! G — d d n you, you've forgot to

lock the room-door 1' and I perceived, by
the straining of the rope which hung from
above, that the mandate was instantly
obeyed.

Not a second was to be lost. I passed
through the door, which was only closed,
and moved as rapidly as I could, consistently
with stillness, along the lobby.

Before I had gone many yards, I heard
the door through which I had just passed
double-locked on the inside. I glided
down the stairs in terror, lest, at every
corner, I should meet the murderer or one
of his accomplices.

I reached the hall, and listened for a
moment to ascertain whether all was silent
around ; no sound was audible The parlour
windows opened on the park, and through
one of them I might, I thought, easily
effect my escape. Accordingly, I hastily
entered ; but, to my consternation, a
candle was burning in the room, and by
its light I saw a figure seated at the
dinner table, upon which lay glasses,
bottles, and the other accompaniments of
a drinking-parfcy. Two or three chairs
were placed about the table irregularly, as
if hastily abandoned by their occupants.

A single glance satisfied . me that the
figure was that of my French attendant.
She was fast asleep, having probably
drank deeply. There was something
malignant and ghastly in the calmness of
this bad woman's features, dimly illuminated
as they were by the flickering blaze
of the candle. A knife lay upon the table,
and the terrible thought struck me —
Should I kill this sleeping accomplice in
the guilt of the murderer, and thus secure
my retreat V

Nothing could be easier — it was but to
draw the blade across her throat — the
work of a second. An instant's pause,
however, corrected me. 'No,' thought I^
the God who has conducted me thus far
through the valley of the shadow of death,
will not abandon me now. 1 will fall into
their hands, or I will escape hence, but it

shall be free from the stain of blood. His
will be done.'

I felt a confidence arising from this reflection,
an assurance of protection which
I cannot describe. There was no other
means of escape, so I advanced, with a
Arm step and collected mind, to the
window. I noiselessly withdrew the bars
and unclosed the shutters — I pushed open
the casement, and, without waiting to look
behind me, I ran with my utmost speed,
scarcely feeling the ground under me, down
the avenue, taking care to keep upon the
grass which bordered it.

I did not for a moment slack my speed,
and I had now gained the centre point
between the park-gate and the mansion-house.
Here the avenue made a wider
circuit, and in order to avoid delay, I
directed my way across the smooth sward

round which the pathway wound, intending,
at the opposite side of the flat, at a
point which I distinguished by a group of
old birch-trees, to enter again upon the
beaten track, which was from thence
tolerably direct to the gate.

I had, with my utmost speed, got about
half way across this broad flat, when the
rapid treading of a horse's hoofs struck
upon my ear. My heart swelled in my
bosom as though I would smother. The
clattering of galloping hoofs approached —
I was pursued — they were now upon the
sward on which I was running — there was
not a bush or a bramble to shelter me —
and, as if to render escape altogether
desperate, the moon, which had hitherto
been obscured, at this moment shone forthwith
a broad clear light, which made every
object distinctly visible.

VOL. II. 7

The sounds were now close behind me.
I felt my knees bending under me, with
the sensation which torments one in
dreams. I reeled — I stumbled — I fell —
and at the same instant the cause of my
alarm wheeled past me at full gallop. It
was one of the young fillies which
pastured loose about the park, whose
frolics had thus all but maddened me
with terror. I scrambled to my feet, and
rushed on with weak but rapid steps, my
sportive companion still galloping round
and round me with many a frisk and fling,
until, at length, more dead than alive, I
reached the avenue-gate and crossed the
stile, I scarce knew how.

I ran through the village, in which all was
silent as the grave, until my progress was
arrested by the hoarse voice of a sentinel,
who cried : ' Who goes there V I felt that

I was now safe. I turned in the direction
of the voice, and fell fainting at the
soldier's feet. When I came to myself, I
was sitting in a miserable hovel, surrounded
by strange faces, all bespeaking
curiosity and compassion.

Many soldiers were in it also : indeed,
as I afterwards found, it was employed asa
guard-room by a detachment of troops
quartered for that night in the town. Ina
few words I informed their officer of the
circumstances which had occurred, describing
also the appearance of the persons
engaged in the murder ; and he, without
loss of time, proceeded to the mansion-house
of Carrickleigh, taking with him a
party of his men. But the villains had
discovered their mistake, and had effected
their escape before the arrival of the
military.

7—2

The Frenchwoman was, however, arrested
in the neighbourhood upon the next
day. She was tried and condemned upon
the ensuing assizes ; and previous to her
execution, confessed that ^ she had a
hand in making Hugh Tisdats bed.' She
had been a housekeeper in the castle at
the time, and a kind of chere amie of my
uncle's. She was, in reality, able to speak
English like a native, but had exclusively
used the French language, I suppose to
facilitate her disguise. She died the same
hardened wretch which she had lived, confessing
her crimes only, as she alleged, that
her doing so might involve Sir Arthur

T n, the great author of her guilt and

misery, and whom she now regarded with
unmitigated detestation.

With the particulars of Sir Arthur's and
his son's escape, as far as they are known,

you are acquainted. You are also in possession
of their after fate — the terrible, the
tremendous retribution which, after long
delays of many years, finally overtook and
crushed them. Wonderful and inscrutable
are the dealings of God with His creatures.

Deep and fervent as must always be my
gratitude to heaven for my deliverance,
effected by a chain of providential occurrences,
the failings of a single link of which
must have ensured my destruction, I was
long before I could look back upon it with
other feelings than those of bitterness,
almost of agony.

The only being that had ever really
loved me, my nearest and dearest friend,
ever ready to sympathise, to counsel, and
to assist — the gayest, the gentlest, the
warmest heart — the only creature on
earth that cared for me — her life had been

the price of my deliverance ; and I then
uttered the wish, which no event of my
long and sorrowful life has taught me to
recall, that she had been spared, and that,
in her stead, / were mouldering in the
grave, forgotten and at rest.

Being a Sixth Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis
Purcell, P. P. of Drumcoolagh. ]

N a sequestered district of the
county of Limerick, there stood
in my early life, some forty
years ago, one of those strong stone
buildings, half castle, half farm-house,
which are not unfrequent in the South of
Ireland, and whose solid masonry and
massive construction seem to prove at
once the insecurity and the caution of the
Cromwell settlers who erected them.

At the time, of which I speak, this
building was tenanted by an elderly raan^
whose starch and puritanic mien and
manners might have become the morose
preaching parliamentarian captain, who
had raised the house and ruled the
household more than a hundred years
before ; but this man, though Protestant
by descent as by name, was not so in
religion ; he was a strict and in outward
observances, an exemplary Catholic ; his
father had returned in early youth to the
true faith, and died in the bosom of the
church.

Martin Heathcote was, at the time of
which I speak, a widower, but his housekeeping
was not on that account altogether
solitary, for he had a daughter, whose age
was now sufficiently advanced to warrant
her father in imposing upon her the

grave duties of domestic superintendence.


This little establishment was perfectly
isolated, and very little intruded upon by
acts of neighbourhood ; for the rank of
its occupants was of that equivocal kind
which precludes all familiar association
with those of a decidedly inferior rank,
while it is not sufficient to entitle its
possessors to the society of established
gentility, among whom the nearest
residents were the O'Maras of Carries
whose mansion-house, constructed
out of the ruins of an old abbey, whose
towers and cloisters had been levelled by
the shot of Cromwell's artillery, stood
not half a mile lower upon the river
banks.

Colonel O'Mara, the possessor of the
estates, was then in a declining state of

health, and absent with his lady from the
country, leaving at the castle, his son
young O'Mara, and a kind of humble
companion, named Edward Dwyer, who,
if report belied him not, had done in his
early days some peculiar services for the
Colonel, who had been a gay man —
perhaps worse — but enough of recapitulation.


It was in the autumn of the year l7 —
that the events which led to the catastrophe
which I have to detail occurred.
I shall run through the said recital as
briefly as clearness will permit, and leave
you to moralise, if such be your mood,
upon the story of real life, which I even
now trace at this distant period not without
emotion.

It was upon a beautiful autumn evening,
at that glad period of the season when

the harvest yields its abundance, that
two figures were seen sauntering along
the banks of the winding river, which I
described as bounding the farm occupied
by Heathcote ; they had been, as the rods
and landing-nets which they listlessly
carried went to show, plying the gentle,
but in this case not altogether solitary
craft of the fisherman. One of those
persons was a tall and singularly handsome
young man, whose dark hair and
complexion might almost have belonged
to a Spaniard, as might also the proud but
melancholy expression which gave to his
countenance a character which contrasts
sadly, but not uninterestingly, with
extreme youth ; his air, as he spoke with
his companion, was marked by that careless
familiarity which denotes a conscious
superiority of one kind or other, or which

may be construed into a species of contempt
; his comrade afforded to him in
every respect a striking contrast. He
was rather low in stature — a defect which
was enhanced by a broad and square-built
figure — his face was sallow, and his
features had that prominence and sharpness
which frequently accompany personal
deformity — a remarkably wide mouth,
with teeth white as the fangs of a wolf,
and a pair of quick, dark eyes, whose
effect was heightened by the shadow of a
heavy black brow, gave to his face a
power of expression, particularly when
sarcastic or malignant emotions were to
be exhibited, which features regularly
handsome could scarcely have possessed.


^ Well, sir,' said the latter personage,
I have lived in hall and abbey, town

and country, here and abroad for forty
years and more, and should know a thing
or two, and as I am a Having man, I
swear I think the girl loves you.'

You are a fool, Ned,' said the
younger.

I may be a fool,' replied the first
speaker, ' in matters where my own
advantage is staked, but my eye is keen
enough to see through the flimsy disguise
of a country damsel at a glance ; and I
tell you, as surely as I hold this rod, the
girl loves you.'

Oh ! this is downright headstrong
replied the young fisherman.
Why, Ned, .you try to persuade me
against my reason, that the event which
is most to be deprecated has actually
occurred. She is, no doubt, a pretty
girl — a beautiful girl — but T have not

lost my heart to her ; and why should I
wish her to be in love with me 1 Tush,
man, the days of romance are gone, and
a young gentleman may talk, and walk,
and laugh with a pretty country maiden,
and never breathe aspirations, or vows, or
sighs about the matter ; unequal matches
are much oftener read of than made, and
the man who could, even in thought,
conceive a wish against the honour of
an unsuspecting, artless girl, is a villain,
for whom hanging is too good.'

This concluding sentence was uttered
with an animation and excitement, which
the mere announcement of an abstract
moral sentiment could hardly account
for.

You are, then, indifferent, honestly
and in sober earnest, indifferent to the
girl V inquired Dwyer.

Altogether so was the reply.

Then I have a request to make,' continued
Dwyer, 'and I may as well urge
it now as at any other time. I have
been for nearly twenty years the faithful,
and by no means useless, servant of your
family ; you know that I have rendered
your father critical and important services
' he paused, and added hastily :

you are not in the mood — I tire you,
sir.'

Nay cried O'Mara, ' I listen patiently
proceed.'

For all these services, and they were
not, as I have said,, few or valueless, I
have received little more reward than
liberal promises ; you have told me often
that this should be mended — I'll make it
easily done — I'm not unreasonable — I
should be contented to hold Heathcote's

ground, along with this small farm on
which we stand, as full quittance of all
obligations and promises between us.'

'But how the devil can I effect that
for you ; this farm, it is true, I, or my
father, rather, may lease to you, but
Heathcote's title we cannot impugn ; and
even if we could, you would not expect
us to rain an honest man, in order to
make way for yoUj Ned.'

What I am,' replied Dwyer, with the
calmness of one who is so accustomed to
contemptuous insinuations as to receive
them with perfect indifference, ^ is to be
attributed to my devotedness to your
honourable family — but that is neither
here nor there. I do not ask you to
displace Heathcote, in order to made
room for me. I know it is out of your
power to do so. Now hearken to me fora

moment ; Heathcote's property, that
which he has set out to tenants, is worth,
say in rents, at most, one hundred
pounds : half of this yearly amount is
assigned to your father, until payment be
made of a bond for a thousand pounds,
with interest and forth. Hear me
patiently for a moment and I have done.
Now go you to Heathcote, and tell him
your father will burn the bond, and cancel
the debt, upon one condition — that when
I am in possession of this farm, which you
can lease to me on ^\hat terms you think
suitable, he will convey over his property
to me, reserving what life-interest may
appear fair, I engaging at the same time
to marry his daughter, and make such
settlements upon her as shall be thought
fitting — he is not a fool — the man will
close with the offer.'

VOL. II. 8

O'Mara turned shortly upon Dwyer,
and gazed upon him for a moment With
an expression of almost unmixed resentment.


How said he at length, ^ you contract
to marry Ellen Heathcote ? the poor,
innocent, confiding, light-hearted girl.
No, no, Edward Dwyer, I know you too
well for that — your services, be they what
they will, must not, shall not go unrewarded
— your avarice shall be appeased — -
but not with a human sacrifice I Dwyer,
I speak to you without disguise ; you
know me to be acquainted with your
history, and what's more, with your
character. Now tell me frankly, were I
to do as you desire me, in cool blood,
should I not prove myself a more uncompromising
and unfeeling villain than
humanity even in its most monstrous

shapes has ever yet given birth
to?'

Dwyer met this impetuous language
with the unmoved and impenetrable calmness
which always marked him when
excitement would have appeared in
others ; he even smiled as he replied :
(and Dwyer's smile, for I have seen it,
was characteristically of that unfortunate
kind which implies, as regards the
emotions of others, not sympathy but
derision).

This eloquence goes to strove Ellen
Heathcote something nearer to your heart
than your great indifference would have
led me to suppose.'

There was something in the tone, perhaps
in the truth of the insinuation which
at once kindled the quick pride and the
anger of O'Mara, and he instantly replied :

8—2

Be silent, sir, this is insolent
folly.'

Whether it was that Dwyer was more
keenly interested in the success of his suitor
more deeply disappointed at its failure
than he cared to express, or that he was ina
less complacent mood than was his wont,
it is certain that his countenance expressed
more emotion at this direct insult than it
had ever exhibited before under similar
circumstances ; for his eyes gleamed for an
instant with savage and undisguised ferocity
upon the young man, and a dark glow
crossed his brow, and for the moment he
looked about to spring at the throat of his
insolent patron ; but the impulse whatever
it might be, was quickly suppressed, and
before O'Mara had time to detect the
scowl, it had vanished.

Nay, sir,' said Dwyer, * I meant no

offence, and I will take none, at your
hands at least. I will confess I care not,
in love and forth, a single bean for the
girl ; she was the mere channel through
which her father's wealth, if such a pittance
deserves the name, was to have flowed into
my possession — 'twas in respect of your
family finances the most economical provision
for myself which I could devise — a
matter in which you, not I, are interested.
As for women, they are all pretty much
alike to me. I am too old myself to make
nice distinctions, and too ugly to succeed by
Cupid's arts ; and when a man despairs of
success, he soon ceases to care for it. Soif
you know me, as you profess to do, rest
satisfied " veteris paribus ;" the money part
of the transaction being equally advantageous,
I should regret the loss of Ellen
Heathcote just as little as I should the

escape of a minnow from my landing-net.'


They walked on for a few minutes in
silence, which was not broken till Dwyer,
who had climbed a stile in order to pass a
low stone wall which lay in their way, exclaimed
:

By the rood, she's here — how like a
philosopher you look."

The conscious blood mounted to O'Mara's
cheek ; he crossed the stile, and, separated
from him only by a slight fence and a gate,,
stood the subject of their recent and somewhat
angry discussion.

God save you. Miss Heathcote,' cried
Dwyer, approaching the gate.

The salutation was cheerfully returned,,
and before anything more could pass,
O'Mara had joined the party.

My friend, that you may understand the

strength and depth of those impetuous
passions, that you may account for the
fatal infatuation which led to the catastrophe
which I have to relate, I must tell
you, that though I have seen the beauties
of cities and of courts, with all the splendour
of studied ornament about them to
enhance their graces, possessing charms
which had made them known almost
throughout the world, and worshipped with
the incense of a thousand votaries, yet
never, nowhere did I behold a being of
such exquisite and touching beauty, as
that possessed by the creature of whom I
have just spoken. At the moment of
which I write, she was standing near the
gate, close to which several brown-armed,
rosy-cheeked damsels where engaged in
milking the peaceful cows, who stood
picturesquely grouped together. She had

just thrown back the hood, which is the
graceful characteristic of the Irish girl's
attire, so that her small and classic head was
quite uncovered, save only by the dark-brown
hair, which with graceful simplicity
was parted above her forehead. There
was nothing to shade the clearness of her
beautiful complexion ; the delicately-formed
features, so exquisite when taken singly, so
indescribable when combined, so purely
artless, yet so meet for all expression. She
was a thing so very beautiful, you could
not look on her without feeling your heart
touched as by sweet music. Whose
lightest action was a grace — whose lightest
word a spell — no limner's art, though ne'er
so perfect, could shadow forth her beauty ;
and do I dare with feeble words try to
make you see it '?* Providence is indeed

Father Purcell seems to have had an admiration

no respecter of persons, its blessings and
its inflictions are apportioned with an undistinguishing:
hand, and until the race is
over, and life be done, none can know
whether those perfections, which seemed
its goodliest gifts, many not prove its most
fatal ; but enough of this.

Dwyer strolled carelessly onward by
the banks of the stream, leaving his
young companion leaning over the gate
in close and interesting parlance with
Ellen Heathcote ; as he moved on, he
half thought, half uttered words to this
effect :

Insolent young spawn of ingratitude
and guilt, how long must I submit to be

fur the "beauties of nature, particularly as developed in
the fair sex ; a habit of mind which has been rather
improved upon than discontinued by his successors
Iron Maynooth. — Ed.

trod upon thus ; and yet wliy should I
murmur — his day is even now declining —
and if I Hve a year, I shall see the darkness
cover him and his for ever. Scarce
half his broad estates shall save him — hut
I must wait — I am but a pauper now — a
beggar's accusation is always a libel — they
must reward me soon — and were I independent
once, I'd make them feel my
power, and feel it so, that I should die the
richest or the best avenged servant of a
great man that has ever been heard of —
yes, I must wait — I must make sure of
something at least — I must be able to

stand by myself — and then — and then '

He clutched his fingers together, as if in
the act of strangling the object of his
hatred. ' But one thing shall save him —
but one thing only — he shall pay me my
own price — and if he acts liberally, as no

doubt he will do, upon compulsion, why
he saves his reputation — perhaps his neck
the insolent young whelp yonder would
speak in an humbler key if he but knew
his father's jeopardy — but all in good
time

He now stood upon the long, steep,
narrow bridge,, which crossed the river
close to Carrigvarah^ the family mansion
of the O'Maras ; he looked back in the
direction in which he had left his companion,
and leaning upon the battlement,
he ruminated long and moodily. At
length he raised himself and said :

He loves the girl, and iviU love her
more — I have an opportunity of winning
favour, of doing service, which shall bind
him to me ; yes, he shall have the girl, if
I have art to compass the matter. I must
think upon it.'

He entered the avenue and was soon
lost in the distance.

Days and weeks passed on, and young
O'Mara daily took his rod and net, and
rambled up the river ; and scarce twelve
hours elapsed in which some of those accidents,
which invariably bring lovers together,
did not secure him a meeting of
longer or shorter duration, with the
beautiful girl whom he so fatally
loved.

One evening, after a long interview with
her, in which he had been almost irresistibly
prompted to declare his love, and
had all but yielded himself up to the
passionate impulse, upon his arrival at
home he found a letter on the table
awaiting his return ; it was from his
father to the following effect :

'September, 17 — , L m, England.

My dear Son, —

I have just had a severe attack of
my old and almost forgotten enemy, the
gout. This I regard as a good sign ; the
doctors telling me that it is the safest development
of peccant humours ; and I
think my chest is less tormenting and oppressed
than I have known it for some
years. My chief reason for writing to
you now, as I do it not without difficulty,
is to let you know my pleasure in certain
matters, in which I suspect some shameful,
and, indeed, infatuated neglect on your
part, '^ quern verdure vtdt deus prius de-mental
;" how comes it that you have
neglected to write to Lady Emily or any of
that family ? the understood relation subsisting
between you is one of extreme

delicacy, and which calls for marked and
courteous, nay, . devoted attention upon

your side. Lord is already offended ;

beware what you do ; for as you will find,
if this match be lost by your fault or folly,

by I will cut you off with a shilling.

I am not in the habit of. using threats
when I do not mean to fulfil them, and
that you well know ; however I do not
think you have much real cause for alarm
in this case. Lady Emily, who, by the
way, looks if possible more charming than
ever, is anything but hard-hearted, at
least when you solicit ; but do as I. desire,
and lose no time in making what excuse
you may, and let me hear from you when
you can fix a time to join me and your
mother here.

^ Your sincere well-wisher and father,
'Richard O'Mara.'

In this letter was inclosed a smaller one,
directed to Dwyer, and containing a
cheque for twelve pounds, with the following
words :

Make use of the enclosed, and let me
hear if Richard is upon any wild scheme
at present : I am uneasy about him, and
not without reason ; report to me speedily
the result of your vigilance.

'R O'Mara.'

Dwyer just glanced through this brief,
but not unwelcome, epistle ; and deposited
it and its contents in the secret recesses of
his breeches pocket, and then fixed his
eyes upon the face of his companion, who
sat opposite, utterly absorbed in the perusal
of his father's letter, which he read again
and again, pausing and muttering betweenwhiles,
and apparently lost in no very

pleasing reflections. At length he very
abruptly exclaimed :

A delicate epistle, truly — and a politic
would that my tongue had been burned
through before I assented to that doubly-cursed
contract. Why, I am not pledged
yet — I am not : there is neither writing,
nor troth, nor word of honour, passed between
us. My father has no right to
pledge me, even though I told him I liked
the girl, and would wish the match. 'Tis
not enough that my father offers her my
heart and hand ; he has no right to do it ;
a delicate woman would not accept professions
made by proxy. Lady Emily ! Lady
Emily ! with all the tawdry frippery, and
finery of dress and demeanour — compare

her with Pshaw ! Ridiculous ! How

blind, how idiotic 1 have been.'

He relapsed into moody reflections.

which Dwyer did not care to disturb, and
some ten minutes might have passed before
he spoke again. When he did, it was in
the calm tone of one who has irrevocably
resolved upon some decided and important
act.

^ Dwyer he said, rising and approaching
that person, ^ whatever god or demon told
you, even before my own heart knew it,
that I loved Ellen Heathcote, spoke truth.
I love her madly — I never dreamed till
now how fervently, how irrevocably, I am
hers — how dead to me all other interests
are Dwyer, I know something of your
disposition, and you no doubt think it
strange that I should tell to you, of all
persons, such a secret ; but whatever be
your faults, I think you are attached to
our family. I am satisfied you will not
betray me. I know '

VOL. II. 9

Pardon me,' said Dwyer, ' if I say that
great professions of confidence too frequently
mark distrust. I have no possible
motive to induce me to betray you ; on the
contrary, I would gladly assist and direct
whatever plans you may have formed.
Command me as you please ; I have said
enough.'

^ I will not doubt you, Dwyer,' said
O'Mara ; ' I have taken my resolution — I
have, I think, firmness to act up to it. To
marry Ellen Heathcote, situated as I am,
were madness ; to propose anything else
were worse, were villainy not to be named.
I will leave the country tomorrow, cost
what pain it may, for England. I will at
once break off the proposed alliance with
Lady Emily, and will wait until I am my
own master, to open my heart to Ellen.
My father may say and do what he likes ;

but his passion will not last. He will forgive
me ; and even were he to disinherit
me, as he threatens, there is some property
which must descend to me, which his will
cannot affect. He cannot ruin my interests
; he shall not ruin my happiness.
Dwyer, give me pen and ink ; I w411 write
this moment.'

This bold plan of proceeding for many
reasons appeared inexpedient to Dwyer
and he determined not to consent to its
adoption without a struggle.

I commend your prudence,' said he, * in
determining to remove yourself from the
fascinating influence which has so long
bound you here ; but beware of offending
your father. Colonel O'Mara is not a man
to forgive an act of deliberate disobedience,
and surely you are not mad enough to
ruin yourself with him by offering an 



rages insult to Lady Emily and to her
family in her person ; therefore you must
not break off the understood contract which
subsists between you by any formal act —
hear me out patiently. You must let Lady
Emily perceive, as you easily may, without
rudeness or even coldness of manner, that
she is perfectly indifferent to you ; and
when she understands this to be the case,
if she possesses either delicacy or spirit,
she will herself break off the engagement.
Make what delay it is possible to effect ;
it is very possible that your father, who
cannot, in all probability, live many
months, may not live as many days if
harassed and excited by such scenes as
your , breaking off your engagement must
produce.'

Dwyer said O'Mara, ' I will hear you
out — proceed.'

Besides, sir, remember he continued,
the understanding which we have termed
an enofaofement was entered into without
any direct sanction upon your part ; your
father has committed himself, not i/ou, to

Lord . Before a real contract can

subsist, you must be an assenting party toit.
I know of no casuistry subtle enough
to involve you in any engagement whatever,
without such an ingredient. Tush !
you have an easy card to play.'

Well,' said the young man, ' I will
think on what you have said ; in the
meantime, I will write to my father to
announce my immediate departure, in order
to join him.'

Excuse me,' said Dwyer, ' but I would
suggest that by hastening your departure
you but bring your dangers nearer. While
you are in this country a letter now and

then keeps everything quiet ; but once
across the Channel and with the colonel,
you must either quarrel with him to your
own destruction, or you must dance attendance
upon Lady Emily with such assiduity
as to commit yourself as completely as if
you had been thrice called with her in the
parish church. No, no ; keep to this side
of the Channel as long as you decently
can. Besides, your sudden departure must
appear suspicious, and will probably excite
inquiry. Every good end likely to be
accomplished by your absence will be
effected as well by your departure for
Dublin, where you may remain for three
weeks or a month without giving rise to
curiosity or doubt of an unpleasant kind ;
I would therefore advise you strongly to
write immediately to the colonel, stating
that business has occurred to defer your

departure for a month, and you can then
leave this place, if you think fit, immediately,
that is, within a week or so

Young O'Mara was not hard to be persuaded.
Perhaps it was that, unacknowledged
by himself, any argument which
recommended his staying, even for an
hour longer than his first decision had
announced, in the neighbourhood of Ellen
Heathcote, appeared peculiarly cogent and
convincing ; however this may have been,
it is certain that he followed the counsel of
his cool-headed follower, who retired that
night to bed with the pleasing conviction
that he was likely soon to involve his
young patron in all the intricacies of disguise
and intrigue — a consummation which
would leave him totally at the mercy of
the favoured confidant who should possess
his secret.

Young O'Mara's reflections were more
agitating and less satisfactory than those
of his companion. He resolved upon
leaving the country before two days had
passed. He felt that he could not fairly
seek to involve Ellen Heathcote in his
fate by pledge or promise, until he had
extricated himself from those trammels
which constrained and embarrassed all his
actions. His determination was so far
prudent ; but, alas ! he also resolved that
it was but right, but necessary, that he
should see her before his departure. His
leaving the country without a look or a
word of parting kindness interchanged,
must to her appear an act of cold and
heartless caprice ; he could not bear the
thought.

No,' said he, ' I am not child enough
to say more than prudence tells me I

ought to say ; this cowardly distrust of my
firmness I should and will contemn. Besides,
why should I commit myself ? It is
possible the girl may not care for me. No,
no ; I need not shrink from this interview.
I have no reason to doubt my firmness —
none — none. I must cease to be governed
by impulse. I am involved in rocks
and quicksands ; and a collected spirit,
a quick eye, and a steady hand, alone can
pilot me through. God grant me a safe
voyage !'

The next day came, and young O'Mara
did not take his fishing-rod as usual, but
wrote two letters ; the one to his father,
announcing his intention of departing
speedily for England ; the other to Lady
Emily, containing a cold but courteous
apology for his apparent neglect. Both
these were despatched to the post-office

that evening, and upon the next morning
he was to leave the country.

Upon the night of the momentous day
of which we have just spoken, Ellen Heath-cote
glided silently and unperceived from
among the busy crowds who were engaged
in the gay dissipation furnished by what
is in Ireland commonly called a dance
(the expenses attendant upon which, music,
etc., are defrayed by a subscription of one
halfpenny each), and having drawn her
mantle closely about her, was proceeding
with quick steps to traverse the small
field which separated her from her father's
abode. She had not walked many yards
when she became aware that a solitary
figure, muffled in a cloak, stood in the
pathway. It approached ; a low voice
whispered :

Ellen.'

Is it you, Master Richard V she replied.


He threw back the cloak which had concealed
his features.

It is I, Ellen, he said ; ' I have been
watching for you. I will not delay you
long

He took her hand, and she did * not
attempt to Withdraw it ; for she was too
artless to think any evil, too confiding to
dread it.

Ellen,' he continued, even now unconsciously
departing from the rigid course
which prudence had marked out ; ^ Ellen,
I am going to leave the country ; going
tomorrow. I have had letters from England.
I must go ; and the sea will soon
be between us.'

He paused, and she was silent.

There is one request, one entreaty I

have to make,' he continued ; ' I would,
when I am far away, have something to
look at which belonged to you. Will you
give me — do not refuse it — one little lock
of your beautiful hair V

With artless alacrity, but with trembling
hand, she took the scissors, which in simple
fashion hung by her side, and detached one
of the long and beautiful locks which
parted over her forehead. She placed it
in his hand.

Again he took her hand, and twice he
attempted to speak in vain ; at length he
said :

^ Ellen, when I am gone — when I am
away — will you sometimes remember,
sometimes think of me V

Ellen Heathcote had as much, perhaps
more, of what is noble in pride than the
haughtiest beauty that ever trod a court ;

but the effort was useless ; the honest
struggle was in vain ; and she burst into
floods of tears, bitterer than she had ever
shed before.

I cannot tell how passions rise and fall ;
I cannot describe the impetuous words of
the young lover, as pressing again and
again to his lips the cold, passive hand,
which had been resigned to him, prudence,
caution, doubts, resolutions, all vanished
from his view, and melted into nothing.
'Tis for me to tell the simple fact, that
from that brief interview they both departed
promised and pledged to each other
for ever.

Through the rest of this story events
follow one another rapidly.

A few nights after that which I have
just mentioned, Ellen Heathcote disappeared;
but her father was not left long

in suspense as to her fate, for Dwyer,
accompanied by one of those mendicant
friars who traversed the country then even
more commonly than they now do, called
upon Heathcote before he had had time to
take any active measures for the recovery
of his child, and put him in possession of
a document which appeared to contain
satisfactory evidence of the marriage of
Ellen Heathcote with Richard O'Mara,
executed upon the evening previous, as the
date went to show ; and signed by both
parties, as well as by Dwyer and a servant
of young O'Mara's, both these having acted
as witnesses ; and further supported by
the signature of Peter Nicholls, a brother
of the order of St. Francis, by whom the
ceremony had been performed, and whom
Heathcote had no difficulty in recognising
in the person of his visitant.

This document, and the prompt personal
visit of the two men, and above all, the
known identity of the Franciscan, satisfied
Heathcote as fully as anything short
of complete publicity could have done.
And his conviction was not a mistaken
one.

Dwyer, before he took his leave, impressed
upon Heathcote the necessity of
keeping the affair so secret as to render it
impossible that it should reach Colonel
O'Mara's ears, an event which would have
been attended with ruinous consequences to
all parties. He refused, also, to permit
Heathcote to see his daughter, and even
to tell him where she was, until circumstances
rendered it safe for him to visit
her.

Heathcote was a harsh and sullen man ;
and though his temper was anything but

tractable, there was so much to please,
almost to dazzle him, in the event, that he
accepted the terms which Dwyer imposed
upon him without any further token of
disapprobation than a shake of the head,
and a gruff wish that ' it might prove all
for the best.'

Nearly two months had passed, and
young O'Mara had not yet departed for
England. His letters had been strangely
few and far between ; and in short, his
conduct was such as to induce Colonel
O'Mara to hasten his return to Ireland,
and at the same time to press an engagement,
which Lord , his son Captain

N , and Lady Emily had made to

spend some weeks with him at his residence
in Dublin.

A letter arrived for young O'Mara,
stating the arrangement, and requiring his

attendance in Dublin, which was accordingly
immediately afforded.

He arrived, with Dw^^er, in time to
welcome his father and his distinguished
guests. He resolved to break off his embarrassing
connection Avitli Lady Emily,
without, however, stating the real motive,
which he felt would exasperate the resentment
which his father and Lord

would no doubt feel at his conduct.

He strongly felt how dishonourably he
would act if, in obedience to Dwyer's
advice, he seemed tacitly to acquiesce in
an engagement which it was impossible for
him to fulfil. He knew that Lady Emily
was not capable of anything like strong-attachment
; and that even if she were,
he had no reason whatever to suppose that
she cared at all for him.

He had not at any time desired the

VOL. II. 10

alliance ; nor had he any reason to suppose
the young lady in any degree less indifferent.
He regarded it now, and not
without some appearance of justice, as
nothing more than a kind of understood
stipulation, entered into by their parents,
and to be considered rather as a matter of
business and calculation than as involving
anything of mutual inclination on the part
of the parties most nearly interested in the
matter.

He anxiously, therefore, watched for an
opportunity of making known his feelings
to Lord , as he could not with propriety
do so to Lady Emily ; but what at
a distance appeared to be a matter of easy
accomplishment, now, upon a nearer approach
and when the immediate impulse
which had prompted the act had subsided,
appeared so full of difficulty and almost

inextricable embarrassments, that he involuntarily
shrunk from the task day after
day.

Though it was a source of indescribable
anxiety to him, he did not venture to write
to Ellen, for he could not disguise from
himself the danger which the secrecy of
his connection with her must incur by his
communicating with her, even through a
public office, where their letters might be
permitted to lie longer than the gossiping
inquisitiveness of a country town would
warrant him in supposing safe.

It was about a fortnight after young
O'Mara had arrived in Dublin, where all
things, and places, and amusementS; and
persons seemed thoroughly stale, flat, and
unprofitable, when one day, tempted by
the unusual fineness of the weather, Lady
Emily proposed a walk in the College

10—2

Park, a favourite promenade at that time.
She therefore with young O'Mara, accompanied
by Dwyer (who, by-the-by, when
he pleased, could act the gentleman sufficiently
well), proceeded to the place proposed,
where they continued to walk for
some time.

Why, Richard,' said Lady Emily, after
a tedious and unbroken pause of some
minutes, you are becoming worse and
worse every day. You are growing absolutely
intolerable ; perfectly stupid ! not
one good thing have I heard since I left
the house.'

O'Mara smiled, and was seeking for a
suitable reply, when his design was interrupted,
and his attention suddenly and
painfully arrested, by the appearance of
two figures, who were slowly passing the
broad walk on which he and his party

moved ; the one was that of Captain

X , the other was the form of — Martin

Heathcote !

O' Mara felt confounded, almost stunned;
the anticipation of some impending mischief
— of an immediate and violent collision
with a young man whom he had ever
regarded as his friend, were apprehensions
which such a juxtaposition could not fail
to produce.

Is Heathcote mad V thought he.
'What devil can have brought him
here ?'

Dover having exchange-ed a significant
glance with O'Mara, said slightly to Lady
Emily :

Will your ladyship excuse me for a
moment ? I have a word to say to Captain

N , and will, with your permission,

immediately rejoin you.'

He bowed, and walking rapidly on, was
in a few moments beside the object of his
and his patron's uneasiness.

Whatever Heathcote's object might be,
he certainly had not yet declared the secret,
whose safety O'Mara had so naturally

desired, for Captain N appeared in

good spirits ; and on coming up to his
sister and her companion, he joined them
for a moment, telling O'Mara, laughingly,
that an old quiz had come from the country
for the express purpose of telling tales, as
it was to be supposed, of him (young
O'Mara), in whose neighbourhood he
lived.

During this speech it required all the
effort which it was possible to exert to
prevent O'Mara's betraying the extreme
agitation to which his situation gave rise.
Captain N , however, suspected nothing,

and passed on without further
delay.

Dinner was an early meal in those days,
and Lady Emily was obliged to leave the
Park in less than half an hour after the
unpleasant meeting which we have just
mentioned.

Young O'Mara and, at a sign from
him, Dwyer having escorted the lady
to the door of Colonel O'Mara's house,
pretended an engagement, and departed
together.

Richard O'Mara instantly questioned
his comrade upon the subject of his
anxiety ; but Dwyer had nothing to
communicate of a satisfactory nature. He
had only time, while the captain had been
engaged with Lady Emily and her companion,
to say to Heathcote :

Be secret, as you value your existence :

everything will be right, if you be but
secret.'

To this Heathcote had replied : ' Never
fear me ; I understand what I am
about.'

This was said in such an ambiguous
manner that it was impossible to conjecture
whether he intended or not to act upon
Dyers exhortation. The conclusion
which appeared most natural, was by no
means an agreeable one.

It was much to be feared that Heath-cote
having heard some vague report of
O'Mara's engagement with Lady Emily,
perhaps exaggerated, by the repetition,
into a speedily approaching marriage, had
become alarmed for his daughter's interest,
and had taken this decisive step in order
to prevent, by a disclosure of the circumstances
of his clandestine union with Ellen

the possibility of his completing a guilty

alliance with Captain N 's sister. If

he entertained the suspicions which they
attributed to him he had certainly taken
the most effectual means to prevent their
being realised. Whatever his object might
be, his presence in Dublin, in company

with Captain N ., boded nothing good

to O'Mara.

They entered 's tavern, in Dame

Street, together ; and there, over a hasty
and by no means a comfortable meal, they
talked over their plans and conjectures.
Evening closed in, and found them still
closeted together, with nothing to interrupt,
and a large tankard of claret to sustain
their desultory conversation.

Nothing had been determined upon,
except that Dwyer and O'Mara should
proceed under cover of the darkness to

search the town for Heathcote, and by
minute inquiries at the most frequented
houses of entertainment, to ascertain his
place of residence, in order to procuring a
full and explanatory interview with him.
They had each filled their last glass, and
were sipping it slowly, seated with their
feet stretched towards a bright cheerful
fire ; the small table which sustained the
flagon of which wee have spoken, together
with two pair of wax candles, placed
between them, so as to afford a convenient
resting-place for the long glasses out of
which they drank.

^ One good result, at all events, will be
effected by Heathcote's visit,' said O'Mara.
Before twenty-four hours I shall do that
which I should have done long ago. I
shall, without reserve, state everything.
I can no longer endure this suspense — this

dishonourable secrecy — this apparent dissimulation.
Every moment I have passed
since my departure from the country has
been one of embarrassment, of pain, of
humiliation. To-morrow I will brave
the storm, whether successfully or not is
doubtful : but I had rather walk the high
roads a beggar, than submit a day longer
to be made the degraded sport of every
accident — the miserable dependent upon a
successful system of deception. Though
passive deception, it is still unmanly,
unworthy, unjustifiable deception. I cannot
bear to think of it. I despise myself,
but I will cease to be the despicable thing
I have become. To-morrow sees me free,
and this harassing subject for ever at
rest.'

He was interrupted here by the sound
of footsteps heavily but rapidly ascending

the tavern staircase. The room door

opened, and Captain N , accompanied

by a fashionably-attired young man,
entered the room.

Young O'Mara had risen from his seaton
the entrance of their unexpected

visitants ; and the moment Captain N

recognised his person, an evident and
ominous change passed over his countenance.
He turned hastily to withdraw, but,
as it seemed, almost instantly changed his
mind, for he turned again abruptly.

This chamber is engaged, sir,' said the
waiter.

Leave the room, sir,' was his only
reply.

The room is engaged, sir,' repeated the
waiter, probably believing that his first
suggestion had been unheard.

Leave the room, or go to hell I' shouted

Captain N ; at the same time seizing

the astounded waiter by ih.e shoulder, he
hurled him headlong into the passage,
and flung the door to with a crash that
shook the walls. ' Sir,' continued he,
addressing himself to O'Mara, ' I did not
hope to have met you until tomorrow.
Fortune has been kind to me — draw, and
defend yourself.'

At the same time he drew his sword,
and placed himself in an attitude of
attack.

I will not draw upon you,' said O'Mara.
I have, indeed, wronged you. I have
given you just cause for resentment ; but
against your life I will never lift my
hand.'

You are a coward, sir,' replied Captain

N , with almost frightful vehemence,

as every trickster and swindler is. You

are a contemptible dastard — a despicable,
damned villain! Draw your sword, sir,
and defend your life, or every post
and pillar in this town shall tell your
infamy.'

Perhaps,' said his friend, with a sneer,
the gentleman can do better without his
honour than without his wife.'

Yes,' shouted the captain, ^ his wife —
a trull — a common '

Silence, sir !' cried O'Mara, all the
fierceness of his nature roused by this last
insult — ^ your object is gained ; your blood
be upon your own head.' At the same
time he sprang across a bench which stood
in his way, and pushing aside the table
which supported the lights, in an instant
their swords crossed, and they were
engaged in close and deadly strife.

Captain N was far the stronger of

the two ; but, on the other hand, O'Mara
possessed far more skill in the use of the
fatal weapon which they employed. But
the narrowness of the room rendered this
advantage hardly available.

Almost instantly O'Mara received a
slight wound upon the forehead, which,
though little more than a scratch, bled so
fast as to obstruct his sight considerably.


Those who have used the foil can tell
how slight a derangement of eye or of
hand is sufficient to determine a contest of
this kind ; and this knowledge wall prevent
their being surprised when I say, that,
spite of O'Mara's superior skill and
practice, his adversary's sword passed
twice through and through his body, and
he fell heavily and helplessly upon the
floor of the chamber.

Without saying a word, the successful
combatant quitted the room along with
his companion, leaving Dwyer to shift
as best he might for his fallen comrade.


With the assistance of some of the
wondering menials of the place, Dwyer
succeeded in conveying the wounded man
into an adjoining room, where he was laid
upon a bed, in a state bordering upon
insensibility — the blood flowing, I might
say lolling, from the wounds so fast as
to show that unless the bleeding were
speedily and effectually stopped, he could
not live for half an hour.

Medical aid was, of course, instantly
procured, and Colonel O'Mara, though at
the time seriously indisposed, was urgently
requested to attend without loss of time.
He did so ; but human succour and

support were all too late. The wound had
been truly dealt — the tide of life had ebbed ;
and his father had not arrived five minutes
when young O'Mara was a corpse. His
body rests in the vaults of Christ Church, in
Dublin, without a stone to mark the spot.

The counsels of the wicked are always
dark, and their motives often beyond
fathoming ; and strange, unaccountable,
incredible as it may seem, I do believe,
and that upon evidence so clear as to
amount almost to demonstration, that
Heathcote's visit to Dublin — his betrayal
of the secret — and the final and terrible
catastrophe which laid O'Mara in the
grave, were brought about by no other
agent than Dwyer himself.

I have myself seen the letter which
induced that visit. The handwriting is
exactly what I have seen in other alleged

VOL. II. 11

specimens of Dwyer s penmanship. It is
written with an affectation of honest alarm
at O'Mara's conduct, and expresses a
conviction that if some of Lady Emily's
family be not informed of O'Mara's real
situation, nothing could prevent his concluding
with her an advantageous alliance,
then upon the tapis, and altogether throwing
off his allegiance to Ellen — a step
which, as the writer candidly asserted,
would finally conduce as inevitably to his
own disgrace as it immediately would to
her ruin and misery.

The production was formally signed
with Dwyer's name, and the postscript
contained a strict injunction of secrecy,
assertion that if it were ascertained that
such an epistle had been despatched from
such a quarter, it would be attended with
the total ruin of the writer.

It is true that Dwyer, many years after,

when this letter came to lio^ht, allowed it to
be a forgery, an assertion whose truth,
even to his dying hour, and long after he
had apparently ceased to feel the lash of
public scorn, he continued obstinately to
maintain. Indeed this matter is full of
mystery, for, revenge alone excepted,
which I believe, in such minds as Dwyer's,
seldom overcomes the sense of interest,
the only intelligible motive which could
have prompted him to such an act was the
hope that since he had, through young
O'Mara's interest, procured from the
colonel a lease of a small farm upon the
terms which he had originally stipulated,
he might prosecute his plan touching the
property of Martin Heathcote, rendering
his daughter's hand free by the removal of
young O'Mara. This appears to me too

11—2

complicated a plan of villany to have
entered the mind even of such a man as
Dwyer. I must, therefore, suppose his
motives to have originated out of circumstances
connected with this story which
may not have come to my ear, and perhaps
never will.

Colonel O'Mara felt the death of his
son more deeply than 1 should have
thought possible ; but that son had been
the last being who had continued to
interest his cold heart. Perhaps the pride
which he felt in his child had in it more of
selfishness than of any generous feeling.
But, be this as it may, the melancholy
circumstances connected with Ellen
Heath cote had reached him, and his
conduct towards her proved, more strongly
than anything else could have done, that
he felt keenly and justly, and, to a certain

degree, with a softened heart, the fatal
event of which she had been, in some
manner, aUke the cause and the victim.

He evinced not towards her, as might
have been expected, any unreasonable resentment.
On the contrary, he exhibited
great consideration, even tenderness, for
her situation ; and having ascertained
where his sou had placed her, he issued
strict orders that she should not be disturbed,
and that the fatal tidings, which
had not yet reached her, should be withheld
until they might be communicated in
such a way as to soften as much as possible
the inevitable shock.

These last directions where acted upon
too scrupulously and too long ; and,
indeed, I am satisfied that had the event
been communicated at once, however
terrible and overwhelming the shock

might have been, much of the bitterest
anguish, of sickening doubts, of harassing
suspense, would have been spared her,
and the first tempestuous burst of sorrow
having passed over, her chastened spirit
might have recovered its tone, and her Use
have been spared. But the mistaken
kindness Which concealed from her the
dreadful truth, instead of relieving her
mind of a burden which it could not support,
laid upon it a weight of horrible
fears and doubts as to the affection of
O'Mara, compared with which even the
certainty of his death would have been
tolerable.

One evening I had just seated myself
beside a cheerful turf fire, with that true
relish which a long cold ride through a
bleak and shelterless country affords,
stretching my chilled limbs to meet the

genial influence, and imbibing the warmth
at every pore, when my comfortable
meditations were interrupted by a long
and sonorous ringing at the door-bell
evidently effected by no timid hand.

A messenger had arrived to request my
attendance at the Lodge — such was the
name which distinguished a small and
somewhat antiquated building, occupying
a peculiarly secluded position among the
bleak and heathy hills which varied the
surface of that not altogether uninteresting
district, and which had, I believe, been
employed by the keen and hardy ancestors
of the O'Mara family as a convenient
temporary residence during the sporting
season.

Thither my attendance was required, in
order to administer to a deeply distressed
lady such comforts as an afflicted mind can

gather from the sublime hopes and consolations
of Christianity.

I had long suspected that the occupant
of this sequestered, I might say desolate,
dwelling-house was the poor girl whose
brief story we are following ; and feeling a
keen interest in her fate — as who that had
ever seen her did not ? — I started from my
comfortable seat with more eager alacrity
than, I will confess it, I might have
evinced had my duty called me in another
direction.

In a few minutes I was trotting rapidly
onward, preceded by my guide, who urged
his horse with the remorseless rapidity of
one who seeks by the speed of his progress
to escape observation. Over roads and
through bogs we splashed and clattered,
until at length traversing the brow of a
wild and rocky hill, whose aspect seemed

so barren and forbidding that it might
have been a las tin o; barrier alike to mortal
sight and step, the lonely building became
visible, lying in a kind of swampy fiat,
with a broad reedy pond or lake stretching
away to its side, and backed by a farther
range of monotonous sweeping hills,
marked with irregular lines of grey rock,
which, in the distance, bore a rude and
colossal resemblance to the walls of a
fortification.

Ptidhig with undiminished speed along
a kind of wild horse-track, we turned the
corner of a high and somewhat ruinous
wall of loose stones, and making a sudden
wheel we found ourselves in a small
quadrangle, surmounted on two sides by
dilapidated stables and kennels, on
another by a broken stone wall, and upon
the fourth bv the front of the loose itself

The whole character of the place was that
of dreary desertion and decay, which
would of itself have predisposed the mind
for melancholy impressions. My guide
dismounted, and with respectful attention
held my horse's bridle while I got down ;
and knocking at the door with the handle
of his whip, it was speedily opened by a
neatly-dressed female domestic, and I was
admitted to the interior of the house, and
conducted into a small room, where a fire
in some degree dispelled the cheerless air,
which would otherwise have prevailed
to a painful degree throughout the
place.

I had been waiting but for a very few
minutes when another female servant,
somewhat older than the first, entered the
room. She made some apology on the
part of the person whom I had come to

visit, for the slight delay which had already
occurred, and requested me further to wait
for a few minutes longer, intimating that
the lady's grief was so violent, that without
great effort she could not bring herself
to speak calmly at all. As if to beguile
the time, the good dame went on in a
highly communicative strain to tell me,
amongst much that could not interest moa
little of what I had desired to hear. I
discovered that the grief of her whom I
had come to visit was excited by the
sudden death of a little boy, her only
child, who was then lying dead in his
mother's chamber.

And the mother's name ?' said I, inquiringly.


The woman looked at me for a moment,
smiled, and shook her head with the air of
mingled mystery and importance which

seems to say, ' I am unfathomable.' I
did not care to press the question, though
I suspected that much of her apparent reluctance
was affected, knowing that my
doubts respecting the identity of the person
whom I had come to visit must soon
be set at rest ; and after a little pause the
worthy Abigail went on as fluently as
ever. She told me that her young
mistress had been, for the time she had
been with her — that was, for about a year
and a half — in declining health and spirits,
and that she had loved her little child to a
degree beyond expression — so devotedly
that she could not, in all probability,
survive it long.

While she was running on in this way
the bell rang, and signing me to follow,
she opened the room door, but stopped in
the ha], and taking me a little aside, and

speaking in a whisper, she told me, as I
valued the life of the poor lady, not to say
one word of the death of young O'Mara.
I nodded acquiescence, and ascending a
narrow and ill-constructed staircase, she
stopped at a chamber door and knocked.

Come in,' said a gentle voice from
within, and, preceded by my conductress,
I entered a moderately-sized, but rather
gloomy chamber.

There was but one living: form within it
it was the light and graceful figure of a
young woman. She had risen as I
entered the room : but owinof to the
obscurity of the apartment, and to the
circumstance that her face, as she looked
towards the door, was turned away from
the light, which found its way in dimly
through the narrow windows, I could not
instantly recognise the features.

You do not remember me, sir V said the
same low, mournful voice. ' I am — I was
Ellen Heathcote.'

^ I do remember you, my poor child,*
said I, taking her hand ; ^ I do remember
you very well. Speak to me frankly —
speak to me as a friend. Whatever I can
do or say for you, is yours already ; only
speak.'

You were always very kind, sir, to
those — to those that wanted kindness.'

The tears were almost overflowing, but
she checked them ; and as if an accession
of fortitude had followed the momentary
weakness, she continued, in a subdued but
firm tone, to tell me briefly the circumstances
of her marriage with O'Mara.
"When she had concluded the recital,
she paused for a moment ; and I asked
again :

Can I aid you in any way — by advice
or otherwise V

I wish, sir, to tell you all I have been
thinking about,' she continued. ' I am
sure, sir, that Master Richard loved me
once — I am sure he did not think to deceive
me ; but there were bad, hardhearted
people about him, and his family
were all rich and hio^h, and I am sure he
wishes now that he had never, never seen
me. Weil, sir, it is not in my heart to blame
him. What was / that I should look at
him ? — an ignorant, poor, country girl —
and he so high and great, and so beautiful.
The blame was all mine — it was all my
fault ; I could not think or hope he vrould
care for me more than a little time. Well,
sir, I thought over and over again that
since his love was gone from me for ever,
I should not stand in his way, and hinder

whatever great thing his family wished for
him. So I thought often and often to write
him a letter to get the marriage broken,
and to send me home ; but for one reason,
I would have done it long;" ao^o : there was
a little child, his and mine — the dearest,
the loveliest.' She could not go on for a
minute or two. ' The little child that is
lying there, on that bed ; but it is dead
and gone, and there is no reason now why
I should delay any more about it.*

She put her hand into her breast, and
took out a letter, which she opened. She
put it into my hands. It ran thus :

Dear Master Richard,

My little child is dead, and your
happiness is all I care about now. Your
marriage with me is displeasing to your
family, and I would be a burden to you.

and in your way in the fine places, and
among the great friends where you must
be. You ought, therefore, to break the
marriage, and I will sign whatever you
wish, or your family. I will never try
to blame you, Master Richard — do not
think it — for I never deserved your
love, and must not complain now that
I have lost it ; but I will always pray
for you, and be thinking of you while
I live

While I read this letter, I was satisfied
that so far from adding to the poor
girl's grief, a full disclosure of what had
happened would, on the contrary, mitigate
her sorrow, and deprive it of its sharpest
sting.

Ellen,' said I solemnly, * Richard
O'Mara was never unfaithful to you ; he

VOL. II. 12

is now where human reproach can reach
him no more.'

As I said this, the hectic flush upon her
cheek gave place to a paleness so deadly,
that I almost thought she would drop lifeless
upon the spot.

^ Is he — is he dead, then V said she,
wildly.

I took her hand in mine, and told her
the sad story as best I could. She listened
with a calmness which appeared almost unnatural,
until I had finished the mournful
narration. She then arose, and going to
the bedside, she drew the curtain and gazed
silently and fixedly on the quiet face of the
child : but the feelings which swelled at
her heart could not be suppressed ; the
tears gushed forth, and sobbing as if her
heart would break, she leant over the bed
and took the dead child in her arms.

She wept and kissed it, and kissed it and
wept again, in grief so passionate, so
heartrending to draw bitter tears from
my eyes. I said what little I could to
calm her — to have sought to do more
would have been a mockery ; and observing
that the darkness had closed in, I
took my leave and departed, being favoured
With the services of my former
guide.

I expected to have been soon called
upon again to visit the poor girl ; but
the Loose lav beyond the boundary of my
parish, and T felt a reluctance to trespass
upon the precincts of my brother minister,
and a certain degree of hesitation in intruding
upon one whose situation was so
very peculiar, and who would, I had no
doubt, feel no scruple in requesting my
attendance if she desired it.

12—2

A month, however, passed away, and I
did not hear anything of Ellen. I called
at the Lodge, and to my inquiries they
answered that she was very much worse
in health, and that since the death of the
child she had been sinking fast, and so
weak that she had been chiefly confined
to her bed. I sent frequently to inquire,
and often called myself, and all that I
heard convinced me that she was rapidly
sinking into the grave.

Late one night I was summoned from
my rest, by a visit from the person who
had upon the former occasion acted as
my guide ; he had come to summon me to
the deathbed of her whom I had then
attended. "With all celerity I made my
preparations, and, not without considerable
difficulty and some danger, we made a
rapid night ride to the Lodge, a distance

of five miles at least. We arrived safely,
and in a very short time — but too late.

I stood by the bed upon which lay the
once beautiful form of Ellen Heathcote.
The brief but sorrowful trial was past —
the desolate mourner was gone to that
land where the pangs of grief, the tumults
of passion, regrets and cold neglect, are
felt no more. I leant over the lifeless face,
and scanned the beautiful features which,
living' had wrought such mao^ic on all that
looked upon them. They were, indeed,
much wasted ; but it was impossible for
the fingers of death or of decay altogether
to obliterate the traces of that exquisite
beauty which had so distinguished her.
As I gazed on this most sad and striking
spectacle, remembrances thronged fast upon
my mind, and tear after tear fell upon the
cold form that slept tranquilly and for ever.

A few days afterwards I was told that a
funeral had left the Lodge at the dead of
night, and had been conducted with the
most scrupulous secrecy. It was, of course,
to me no mystery.

Heathcote lived to a very advanced age,
being of that hard mould which is not
easily impressionable. The selfish and the
hard-hearted survive where nobler, more
generous, and, above all, more sympathising
natures would have sunk for ever.

Dwyer certainly succeeded in extorting,
I cannot say how, considerable and advantageous
leases from Colonel O'Mara ; but
after his death he disposed of his interest
in these, and having for a time launched
into a sea of profligate extravagance, he
became bankrupt, and for a long time I
totally lost sight of him.

The rebellion of '98, and the events

which immediately followed, called him
forth from his lurking-places, in the character
of an informer ; and I myself have
seen the hoary-headed, paralytic perjurer,
with a scowl of derision and defiance, brave
the hooting and the execrations of the indignant
multitude.

Being a Seventh Extract from the Legacy of the late
Francis Pur cell, P.P. of Drumcoolagh.

OU will no doubt be surprised,
my dear friend, at the subject of
the following narrative. AVhat
had I to do with Sclialken, or Shaken
with me ? He had returned to his native
land, and was probably dead and buried,
before I was born; I never visited Holland
nor spoke with a native of that country.
So much I believe you already know. I
must, then, give you my authority, and

state to you frankly the ground upon
which rests the credibility of the strange
story which I am ^ about to lay before
you.

I was acquainted, in my early days,
with a Captain Vandal, whose father had
served King "William in the Low Countries,
and also in my own unhappy land during
the Irish campaigns. I know not how it
happened that I liked this man's society,
spite of his politics and religion : but so it
was ; and it was by means of the free
intercourse to which our intimacy gave
rise that I became possessed of the curious
tale which you are about to hear.

I had often been struck, while visiting
Vandael, by a remarkable picture, in
which, though no connoisseur myself, I
could not fail to discern some very strong
peculiarities, particularly in the distribution

of light and shade, as also a certain
oddity in the design itself, which interested
my curiosity. It represented the interior
of what miofht be a chamber in some
antique religious building — the foreground
was occupied by a female figure, arrayed
in a species of white robe, part of which is
arranged so as to form a veil. The dress,
however, is not strictly that of any religious
order. In its hand the figure bears
a lamp, by whose light alone the form and
face are illuminated ; the features are
marked by an arch smile, such as pretty
women wear when engaged in successfully
practising some roguish trick ; in the background,
and, excepting where the dim red
light of an expiring fire serves to define
the form, totally in the shade, stands the
figure of a man equipped in the old fashion,
with doublet and so forth, in an attitude

of alarm, his hand being placed upon the
hilt of his sword, which he appears to be
in the act of drawing.

There are some pictures,' said I to my
friend, * which impress one, I know not
how, with a conviction that they represent
not the mere ideal shapes and combinations
which have Boated through the imagination
of the artist, but scenes, faces, and situations
which have actually existed. When
I look upon that picture, something assures
me that I behold the representation of a
reality.'

Vandael smiled, and, fixing his eyes upon
the painting musingly, he said :

Your fancy has not deceived you, my
good friend, for that picture is the record,
and I believe a faithful one, of a remarkable
and mysterious occurrence. It was
painted by Schalken, and contains, in the

face of the female fissure, which occupies
the most prominent place in the design, an
accurate portrait of Rose Velderkaust, the
niece of Gerard Douw, the first and, I
believe, the only love of Godfrey Schalken.
My father knew the painter well, and from
Schalken himself he learned the story of
the mysterious drama, one scene of which
the picture has embodied. This painting,
which is accounted a fine specimen of
Schalken's style, was bequeathed to my
father by the artist's will, and, as you
have observed, is a very striking and interesting
production

I had only to request Vandal to tell
the story of the painting in order to be
gratified ; and thus it is that I am enabled
to submit to you a faithful recital of what
I heard myself, leaving you to reject or to
allow the evidence upon which the truth

of the tradition depends, with this one
assurance, that Schalken was an honest,
blunt Dutchman, and, I believe, wholly
incapable of committing a flight of imagination
; and further, that Vandael, from
whom I heard the story, appeared firmly
convinced of its tiTith.

There are few forms upon which the
mantle of mystery and romance could
seem to hang more ungracefully than
upon that of the uncouth and clownish
Schalken — the Dutch boor — the rude and
dogged, but most cunning worker in oils,
whose pieces delight the initiated of the
present day almost as much as his manners
disgusted the refined of his own ; and yet
this man, so rude, so dogged, so slovenly,
I had almost said so savage, in mien and
manner, during his after successes, had
been selected by the capricious goddess, in

his early life, to figure as the hero of a
romance by no means devoid of interest or
of mystery.

Who can tell how meet he may have
been in his youni^ days to play the part of
the lover or of the hero — who can say that
in early life he had been the same harsh,
unlike, and rugged boor that, in his
maturer age, he proved — or how far the
neglected rudeness which afterwards
marked his air, and garb, and manners,
may not have been the growth of that
reckless apathy not unfrequently produced
by bitter misfortunes and disappointments
in early life ?

These questions can never now be answered.


We must content ourselves, then,
with a plain statement of facts, or what
have been received and transmitted as

such, leaving matters of speculation to
thos who like them.

When Schalken studied under the immortal
Gerard Douw, he A^■as a young
man ; and in spite of the phlegmatic constitution
and unexcitable manner Which he
shared, we believe, with his countrymen,
he was not incapable of deep and vivid
impressions, for it is an established fact that
the young painter looked with considerable
interest upon the beautiful niece of his
wealthy master.

Rose Yelderkaust was very young,
having, at the period of which we speak,
not yet attained her seventeenth year, and,
if tradition speaks truth, possessed all the
soft dimpling charms of the fair, light-haired
Flemish maidens. Schalken had
not studied long in the school of Gerard
Douw, when he felt this interest deepening

into something of a keener and intense
feeling than was quite consistent with the
tranquillity of his honest Dutch heart;
and at the same time he perceived, or
thought he perceived, flattering symptoms
of a reciprocity of liking, and this was
quite sufficient to determine whatever indecision
he might have heretofore experienced,
and to lead him to devote exclusively
to her every hope and feeling of his
heart. In short, he was as much in love
as a Dutchman could be. He was not
long in making his passion known to the
pretty maiden herself, and his declaration
was followed by a corresponding confession
upon her part.

Schalken, however, was a poor man,
and he possessed no counterbalancing advantages
of birth or position to induce
the old man to consent to a union which

must involve his niece and ward in the
struggling and difficulties of a young and
nearly friendless artist. He was, therefore,
to wait until time had furnished him with
opportunity, and accident with success; and
then, if his labours were found sufficiently
lucrative, it was to be hoped that his proposals
might at least be listened to by her
jealous guardian. Months passed away,
and, cheered by the smiles of the little
Rose, Schalken's labours were redoubled,
and with such effect and improvement as
reasonably to promise the realisation of his
hopes, and no contemptible eminence in
his art, before many years should have
elapsed.

The even course of this cheering prosperity
was, however, destined to experience
a sudden and formidable interruption,
and that, too, in a manner so

VOL. II. 13

strange and mysterious as to baffle all investigation,
and throw upon the events
themselves a shadow of almost supernatural
horror.

Schalken had one evening remained in
the master's studio considerably longer
than his more volatile companions, who
had gladly availed themselves of the
excuse which the dusk of evening afforded,
to withdraw from their several tasks, in
order to finish a day of labour in the
jollity and conviviality of the tavern.

But Schalken worked for improvement,
or rather for love. Besides, he was now
engaged merely in sketching a design, an
operation which, unlike that of colouring,
might be continued as long as there was
light sufficient to distinguish between
canvas and charcoal. He had not then,
nor, indeed, until long after, discovered the

peculiar powers of his pencil, and he was
engaged in composing a group of extremely
roguish-looking and grotesque imps and
demons, who were inflicting various ingenious
torments upon a perspiring and
pot-bellied St. Anthony, who reclined in
the midst of them, apparently in the last
stare of drunkenness.

The young artist, however, though incapable
of executing, or even of appreciating,
anything of true sublimity,
had nevertheless discernment enough to
prevent his being by any means satisfied
with his work ; and many were the patient
erasures and corrections which the limbs
and features of saint and devil underwent,
yet all without producing in their new
arrangement anything of improvement or
increased effect.

The large, old-fashioned room was

13—2

silent, and, with the exception of himself,
quite deserted by its usual inmates. An
hour had passed — nearly two — without
any improved result. Daylight had already
declined, and twilight was fast giving
way to the darkness of night. The
patience of the young man was exhausted,
and he stood before his unfinished production,
absorbed in no very pleasing ruminations,
one hand buried in the folds of his
long dark hair, and the other holding the
piece of charcoal which had so ill executed
its office, and which he now rubbed, without
much regard to the sable streaks which
it produced, with irritable pressure upon
his ample Flemish inexpressible.

Pshaw !' said the young man aloud,
would that picture, devils, saint, and all,
Averse where they should be — in hell !'

A short, sudden laugh, uttered startlingly

close to his ear, instantly responded
to the ejaculation.

The artist turned sharply round, and
now for the first time became aware that
his labours had been overlooked by a
stranger.

Within about a yard and a half, and
rather behind him, there stood what was,
or appeared to be, the figure of an elderly
man : he wore a short cloak, and broad-brimmed
hat with a conical crown, and in
his hand, which was protected with a
heavy, gauntlet-shaped glove, he carried a
long ebony walking-stick, surmounted with
what appeared, as it glittered dimly in the
twilight, to be a massive head of gold,
and upon his breast, through the folds
of the cloak, there shone what appeared
to be the links of a rich chain of the same
metal.

The room was so obscure that nothing
further of the appearance of the figure
could be ascertained, and the face was
altogether overshadowed by the heavy flap
of the beaver which overhung it, so that
not a feature could be discerned. A
quantity of dark hair escaped from beneath
this sombre hat, a circumstance
which, connected with the firm, upright
carriage of the intruder, proved that his
years could not yet exceed threescore or
thereabouts.

There was an air of gravity and importance
about the garb of this person, and
something indescribably odd, I might say
awful, in the perfect, stone-like moveless-ness
of the figure, that effectually checked
the testy comment which had at once
risen to the lips of the irritated artist.
He therefore, as soon as he had sufficiently

recovered the surprise, asked the
stranger civilly, to be seated, and desired
to know if he had any message to leave for
his master.

Tell Gerard Douw,' said the unknown,
without altering his attitude in the
smallest degree, * that Mynher Wanders
of Rotterdam, desires to speak
with him tomorrow evening at this
hour, and, if he please, in this room, upon
matters of weight — that is all. Goodnight.'


The stranger, having finished this
message, turned abruptly, and, with a
quick but silent step, quitted the room,
before Schalken had time to say a word in
reply.

The young man felt a curiosity to see in
what direction the burgher of Rotterdam
would turn on quitting the studio.

and for that purpose he went directly
to the window which commanded the
door.

A lobby of considerable extent intervened
between the inner door of the
painter's room and the street entrance, so
that Schalken occupied the post of observation
before the old man could possibly
have reached the street.

He watched in vain, however. There
was no other mode of exit.

Had the old man vanished, or was he
lurking about the recesses of the lobby
for some bad purpose ? This last suggestion
filled the mind of Schalken with a
vague horror, which was so unaccountably
intense as to make him alike afraid to
remain in the room alone and reluctant to
pass through the lobby.

However, with an effort which appeared

very disproportioned to the occasion,
he summoned resolution to leave
the room, and, having double-locked the
door and thrust the key in his pocket,
without looking to the right or left, he
traversed the passage which had so recently,
perhaps still, contained the person
of his mysterious visitant, scarcely venturing
to breathe till he had arrived in the
open street.

Mynher Vanderhausen,' said Gerard
Douw within himself, as the appointed
hour approached, * Mynher Vanderhausen
of Rotterdam ! I never heard of the man
till yesterday. What can he want of me ?
A portrait, perhaps, to be painted ; or a
younger son or a poor relation to be apprenticed
; or a collection to be valued ; or
pshaw ! there's no one in Rotterdam to
leave me a legacy. Well, whatever the

business may be, we shall soon know it
all;

It was now the close of day, and every
easel, except that of Schalken, was deserted.
Gerard Douw was pacing the
apartment with the restless step of impatient
expectation, every now and then
humming a passage from a piece of music
which he was himself composing ; for,
though no great proficient, he admired the
art ; sometimes pausing to glance over the
work of one of his absent pupils, but more
frequently placing himself at the window,
from whence he might observe the passengers
who threaded the obscure by-street
in which his studio was placed.

Said you not, Godfrey,' exclaimed
Douw, after a long and fruitless gaze from
his post of observation, and turning to
Schalken — ' said you not the hour of appointment

was at about seven by the clock
of the Madhouse V

It had just told seven when I first saw
him, sir answered the student.

The hour is close at hand, then,' said
the master, consulting a horologe as large
and as round as a full-grown orange.
Mynher Yanderhausen, from Rotterdam
is it not so V

Such was the name

'And an elderly man, richly clad?' continued
Douw.

As well as I might see,' replied his
pupil; she could not be young, nor yet
very old neither, and his dress was rich
and grave, as might become a citizen of
wealth and consideration.

At this moment the sonorous boom of
the Madhouse clock told, stroke after
stroke, the hour of seven ; the eyes of

both master and student were directed to
the door ; and it was not until the last
peal of the old bell had ceased to vibrate,
that Douw exclaimed :

So, so ; we shall have his worship
presently — that is, if he means to keep his
hour ; if not, thou mayst wait for him,
Godfrey, if you court the acquaintance of
a capricious burgomaster. As for me, I
think our old Leyden contains a sufficiency
of such commodities, without an
importation from Rotterdam.'

Schalken laughed, as in duty bound ;
and after a pause of some minutes, Douw
suddenly exclaimed :

What if it should all prove a jest, a
piece of mummery got up by Tankard, or
some such worthy I I wish you had run
all risks, and cudgelled the old burgomaster,
stadholder, or whatever else he

may be, soundly. I would wager a dozen
of Rhenish, his worship would have
pleaded old acquaintance before the third
application.'

Here he comes, sir said Schalken,
in a low admonitory tone ; and instantly,
upon turning towards the door, Gerard
Douw observed the same figure which
had, on the day before, so unexpectedly
greeted the vision of his pupil
Schalken.

There was something in the air and
mien of the figure which at once satisfied
the painter that there was no mummery
in the case, and that he really stood in the
presence of a man of worship ; and so, without
hesitation, he doffed his cap, and courteously
saluting the stranger, requested him
to be seated.

The visitor waved his hand slightly, as

if in acknowledgment of the courtesy, but
remained standing.

^ I have the honour to see Mynher
Vanderhausen, of Rotterdam V said Gerard
Douw.

The same was the laconic reply of his
visitant.

I understand sour worship desires to
speak with me continued Douw, 'and I
am here by appointment to wait your
commands.'

^ Is that a man of trust f said Wanders
turning towards Schalken, who
stood at a little distance behind his master.

Certainly replied Gerard.

Then let him take this box and get the
nearest jeweller or goldsmith to value its
contents, and let him return hither with a
certificate of the valuation.'

At the same time he placed a small case,

about nine inches square, in the hands of
Gerard Douw, who was as much amazed
at its weight as at the strange abruptness
with which it was handed to him.

In accordance with the wishes of the
stranger, he delivered it into the hands of
Schalken, and repeating his directions, despatched
him upon the mission.

Schalken disposed his precious charge
securely beneath the folds of his cloak, and
rapidly traversing two or three narrow
streets, he stopped at a corner house, the
lower part of which was then occupied by
the shop of a Jewish goldsmith.

Schalken entered the shop, and calling
the little Hebrew into the obscurity of its
back recesses, he proceeded to lay before
him Vanderhau sen's packet.

On being examined by the light of a
lamp, it appeared entirely cased with lead,

the outer surface of which was much
scraped and soiled, and nearly white with
age. This was with difficulty partially
removed, and disclosed beneath a box of
some dark and singularly hard wood ; this,
too, was forced, and after the removal of
two or three folds of linen, its contents
proved to be a mass of golden ingots,
close packed, and, as the Jew declared, of
the most perfect quality.

Every ingot underwent the scrutiny of
the little Jew, who seemed to feel an epicurean
delight in touching and testing
these morsels of the glorious metal ; and
each one of them was replaced in the box
with the exclamation :

Mein Got, how very perfect ! not one
grain of alloy — beautiful, beautiful !'

The task was at length finished, and the
Jew certified under his hand the value of

the ingots submitted to his examination to
amount to many thousand rix-dollars.

With the desired document in his bosom,
and the rich box of gold carefully pressed
under his arm, and concealed by his cloak,
he retraced his way, and entering the
studio, found his master and the stranger
in close conference.

Schalken had no sooner left the room,
in order to execute the commission he had
taken in charge, than Vanderhausen addressed
Gerard Douay in the following-terms
:

I may not tarry with you to-night more
than a few minutes, and so I shall briefly
tell you the matter upon which I come.
You visited the town of Rotterdam some
four months ago, and then I saw in the
church, of St. Lawrence your niece, Rose
Velderkaust. I desire to marry her, and

YOL. II. 14

if I satisfy you as to the fact that I am
very wealthy — more wealthy than any
husband you could dream of for her — I
expect that you will forward my views to
the utmost of your authority. If you approve
my proposal, you must close with it
at once, for I cannot command time
enough to wait for calculations and delays.
Gerard Douw was, perhaps, as much
astonished as anyone could be by the very
unexpected nature of Mynheer Wanders
communication ; but he did not
give vent to any unseemly expression of
surprise, for besides the motives supplied
by prudence and politeness, the painter
experienced a kind of chill and oppressive
sensation, something like that which is
supposed to affect a man who is placed
unconsciously in immediate contact with
something to which he has a natural antipathy

— an undefined horror and dread
while standing in the presence of the eccentric
stranger, which made him very unwilling
to say anything which might
reasonably prove offensive.

I have no doubt said Gerard, after
two or three prefatory hems, ^ that the connection
which you propose would prove
alike advantageous and honourable to my
niece ; but you must be aware that she hasa
will of her own, and may not acquiesce
in what ive may design for her advantage.'

^ Do not seek to deceive me. Sir Painter
said Yanderhausen ; ^ you are her guardian
she is your ward. She is mine if you like
to make her so.'

The man of Rotterdam moved forward
a little as he spoke, and Gerard Douw, he
scarce knew why, inwardly prayed for the
speedy return of Schalken.

14—2

I desires said the mysterious gentleman,
* to place in your hands at once an
evidence of my wealth, and a security for
my liberal dealing with your niece. The
lad will return in a minute or two with a
sum in value five times the fortune which
she has a right to expect from a husband.
This shall lie in your hands, together with
her dowry, and you may apply the united
sum as suits her interest best ; it shall be
all exclusively hers while she lives. Is that
liberal V

Douw assented, and inwardly thought
that fortune had been extraordinarily kind
to his niece. The stranger, he thought,
must be both wealthy and generous, and
such an offer was not to be despised, though
made by a humorist, and one of no very
prepossessing presence.

Kose had no very high pretensions, for

she was almost without dowry; indeed,
altogether so, excepting so far as the deficiency
had been supped by the generosity
of her uncle. Neither had she any right to
raise any scruples against the match on the
score of birth, for her own origin was by
no means elevated ; and as to other objections,
Gerard resolved, and, indeed, by the
usages of the time was warranted in resolving,
not to listen to them for a moment.


Sir,' said he, addressing the stranger,
'your offer is most liberal, and whatever
hesitation I may feel in closing with it
immediately, arises solely from my not
having the honour of knowing anything of
your family or station. Upon these points
you can, of course, satisfy me without
difficulty V

'As to my respectability,' said the

stranger, drily, 'you must take that for
granted at present ; pester me with no inquiries
; you can discover nothing more
about me than I choose to make known.
You shall have sufficient security for my
respectability — my word, if you are honourable
: if you are sordid, my gold.'

A testy old gentleman,' thought Douw;
'he must have his own way. But, all
things considered, I am justified in giving
my niece to him. Were she my own
daughter, I would do the like by her. I
will not pledge myself unnecessarily, however.'


'You will not pledge yourself unnecessarily
said Vanderhausen, strangely uttering
the very words which had just floated
through the mind of his companion ; * but
you will do so if it is necessary, I presume ;
and I will show you that I consider it indispensable.

If the gold I mean to leave
in your hands satisfy you, and if you desire
that my proposal shall not be at once
withdrawn, you must, before I leave this
room, write your name to this engagement.'


Having thus spoken, he placed a paper
in the hands of Gerard, the contents of
which expressed an engagement entered
into by Gerard Douw, to give to Silken
Vanderhausen, of Rotterdam, in marriage,
Rose Velderkaust, and so forth, within one
week of the date hereof.

While the painter was employed in reading
this covenant, Schalken, as we have
stated, entered the studio, and having delivered
the box and the valuation of the
Jew into the hands of the stranger, he
was about to retire, when Vanderhausen
called to him to wait ; and, presenting the

case and the certificate to Gerard Douw,
he waited in silence until he had satisfied
himself by an inspection of both as to the
value of the pledge left in his hands. At
length he said :

Are you content V

The painter said he would fain have another
day to consider.

Not an hour,' said the suitor, coolly.

Well, then,' said Douw, ' I am content;
it is a bargain.'

Then sign at once,' said Vanderhausen ;
I am weary.'

At the same time he produced a small
case of writing materials, and Gerard signed
the important document.

Let this youth witness the covenant,'
said the old man ; and Godfrey Schalken
unconsciously signed the instrument which
bestowed upon another that hand which

he had so long regarded as the object and
reward of all his labours.

The compact being thus completed, the
strange visitor folded up the paper, and
stowed it safely in an inner pocket.

I will visit you tomorrow night, at
nine of the clock, at your house, Gerard
Douw, and will see the subject of our contract.
Farewell.' And so saying, Silken
Vanderhausen moved stiffly, but rapidly
out of the room.

Schalken, eager to resolve his doubts,
had placed himself by the window in order
to watch the street entrance ; but the experiment
served only to support his suspicions,
for the old man did not issue from
the door. This was very strange, very
odd, very fearful. He and his master returned
together, and talked but little on
the way, for each had his own subjects

of reflection, of anxiety, and of
hope.

Schalken, however, did not know the
ruin which threatened his cherished
schemes.

Gerard Douw knew nothing of the attachment
which had sprung up between
his pupil and his niece ; and even if he
had, it is doubtful whether he would have
regarded its existence as any serious obstruction
to the wishes of Mynher Wanders


Marriages were then and there matters
of traffic and calculation ; and it would have
appeared as absurd in the eyes of the guardian
to make a mutual attachment an
essential element in a contract of marriage,
as it would have been to draw up his bonds
and receipts in the language of chivalrous
romance.

The painter, however, did not communicate
to his niece the important step which
he had taken in her behalf, and his resolution
arose not from any anticipation of
opposition on her part, but solely from a
ludicrous consciousness that if his ward
were, as she very naturally might do, to
ask him to describe the appearance of the
bridegroom whom he destined for her, he
would be forced to confess that he had not
seen his face, and, if called upon, would find
it impossible to identify him.

Upon the next day, Gerard Douw having
dined, called his niece to him, and having
scanned her person with an air of satisfaction,
he took her hand, and looking upon
her pretty, innocent face with a smile of
kindness, he said :

Rose, my girl, that face of yours will
make your fortune.' Rose blushed and

smiled. * Such faces and such tempers
seldom go together, and, when they do,
the compound is a love-potion which few
heads or hearts can resist. Trust me, thou
wilt soon be a bride, girl. But this is
trifling, and I am pressed for time, so
make ready the large room by eight o'clock
to-night, and give directions for supper at
nine. I expect a friend to-night ; and
observe me, child, do thou trick thyself out
handsomely. I would not have him think
us poor or sluttish.'

With these words he left the chamber,
and took his way to the room to which we
have already had occasion to introduce
our readers — that in which his pupils
worked.

When the evening closed in, Gerard
called Schalken, who was about to take his
departure to his obscure and comfortless

lodgings, and asked hin to come
home and sup with Rose and Wanders


The invitation was of course accepted,
and Gerard Douw and his pupil soon
found themselves in the handsome and
somewhat antique-looking room which
had been prepared for the reception of the
stranger.

A cheerful wood-fire blazed in the capacious
hearth ; a little at one side an old-fashioned
table, with richly-carved legs,
was placed — destined, no doubt, to receive
the supper, for which preparations were
going forward ; and ranged with exact
regularity, stood the tall-backed chairs,
whose ungracefulness was more than counterbalanced
by their comfort.

The little party, consisting of Rose, her
uncle, and the artist, awaited the arrival of

the expected visitor with considerable impatience.


Nine o'clock at length came, and with ita
summons at the street-door, which, being
speedily answered, was followed by a slow
and emphatic tread upon the staircase ; the
steps moved heavily across the lobby, the
door of the room in which the party which
we have described were assembled slowly
opened, and there entered a figure which
startled, almost appalled, the phlegmatic
Dutchmen, and nearly made Rose scream
with affright ; it was the form, and arrayed
in the garb, of Mynher Yanderhausen ;
the air, the gait, the height was the same,
but the features had never been seen by
any of the party before. •

The stranger stopped at the door of the
room, and displayed his form and face
completely. He wore a dark-coloured

cloth cloak, which was short and full, not
falling quite to the knees; his legs were
cased in dark purple silk stockings, and his
shoes were adorned with roses of the same
colour. The opening of the cloak in front
showed the under-suit to consist of some
very dark, perhaps sable material, and his
hands were enclosed in a pair of heavy-leather
gloves which ran up considerably
above the wrist, in the manner of a gauntlet.
In one hand he carried his walking-stick
and his hat, which he had removed,
and the other" hung heavily by his side.
A quantity of grizzled hair descended in
long tresses from his head, and its folds
rested upon the plaits of a stiff ruff, which
effectually concealed his neck.

So far all was well ; but the face ! — all
the flesh of the face was coloured with the
bluish leaden hue which is sometimes produced

by the operation of metallic medicines
administered in excessive quantities ;
the eyes were enormous, and the white
appeared both above and below the iris,
which gave to them an expression of
insanity, which was heightened by their
glassy fixedness ; the nose was well enough,
but the mouth was writhed considerably to
one side, where it opened in order to give
egress to two long, discoloured fangs, which
projected from the upper jaw, far below the
lower lip ; the hue of the lips themselves
bore the usual relation to that of the face,
and was consequently nearly black. The
character of the face was malignant, even
Satanic, to the last degree ; and, indeed,
such a combination of horror could hardly
be accounted for, except by supposing the
corpse of some atrocious malefactor, which
had long hung blackening upon the gibbet,

to have at length become the habitation of
a demon — the frightful sport of Satanic
possession. .

It was remarkable that the worshipful
stranger suffered as little as possible of his
flesh to appear, and that during his visit he
did not once remove his gloves.

Having* stood for some moments at the
door, Gerard Douw at length found breath
and collectedness to bid him welcome, and,
with a mute inclination of the head, the
stranger stepped forward into the room.

There was something indescribably odd,
even horrible, about all his motions, something
undefinable, that was unnatural, unhuman
— it was as if the limbs were guided
and directed by a spirit unused to the
management of bodily machinery.

The stranger said hardly anything during
his visit, which did not exceed half an

VOL. II. 15

hour ; and the host himself could scarcely
muster courage enough to utter the few
necessary salutations and courtesies : and,
indeed, such was the nervous terror which
the presence of Vanderhausen inspired,
that very little would have made all his
entertainers fly bellowing from the room.

They had not so far lost all self-possession,
however, as to fail to observe two
strange peculiarities of their visitor.

During his stay he did not once suffer
his eyelids to close, nor even to move in
the slightest degree ; and further, there
was a death-like stillness in his whole
person, owing to the total absence of the
heaving motion of the chest, caused by the
process of respiration.

These two peculiarities, though when
told they may appear trifling, produced a
very striking and unpleasant effect when

seen and observed. Vanderhausen at
length relieved the painter of Leyden of
his inauspicious presence ; and with no
small gratification the little party heard the
street-door close after him.

Dear uncle said Rose, ' what a frightful
man ! T would not see him again for
the wealth of the States !'

Tush, foolish girl !' said Douw, whose
sensations were anything but comfortable.
^ A man may be as ugly as the devil, and
yet if his heart and actions are good, he
is worth all the pretty-faced, perfumed
puppies that walk the Mall. Rose, my
girl, it is very true he has not thy pretty
face, but I know him to be wealthy and
liberal ; and were he ten times more

^giy — '

^ Which is inconceivable,' observed Rose.
These two virtues would be sufficient

15—2

continued her uncle, ^ to counterbalance all
his deformity ; and if not of power sufficient
actually to alter the shape of the features,
at least of efficacy enough to prevent one
thinking them amiss.'

^ Do you know, uncle,' said Kose, ' when
I saw him standing at the door, I could
not get it out of my head that I saw the
old, painted, wooden figure that used to
frighten me so much in the church of St.
Laurence of Rotterdam.'

Gerard laughed, though he could not
help inwardly acknowledging the justness
of the comparison. He was resolved,
however, as far as he could, to check his
niece's inclination to ridicule the ugliness
of her intended bridegroom, although he
was not a little pleased to observe that she
appeared totally exempt from that mysterious
dread of the stranger which, he could

not disguise it from himself, considerably
affected him, as also his pupil Godfrey
Schalken.

Early on the next day there arrived,
from various quarters of the town, rich
presents of silks, velvets, jewellery, and so
forth, for Rose ; and also a packet directed
to Gerard Douw, which, on being opened,
was found to contain a contract of marriage,
formally drawn up, between Silken 
of the Boom-quay, in Rotterdam,
and Rose Velderkaust of Leyden, niece to
Gerard Douw, master in the art of painting,
also of the same city ; and containing engagements
on the part of Vanderhausen to
make settlements upon his bride, far more
splendid than he had before led her guardian
to believe likely, and which were to
be secured to her use in the most unexceptionable
manner possible — the money being

placed in the hands of Gerard Douw himself.


I have no sentimental scenes to describe,
no cruelty of guardians, or magnanimity of
wards, or agonies of lovers. The record I
have to make is one of sordidness, levity,
and interest. In less than a week after
the first interview which we have just
described, the contract of marriage was
fulfilled, and Schalken saw the prize which
he would have risked anything to secure,
carried off triumphantly by his formidable
rival.

For two or three days he absented himself
from the school; he then returned
and worked, if with less cheerfulness, with
far more dogged resolution than before ;
the dream of love had given place to that
of ambition.

Months passed away, and, contrary to

his expectation, and. indeed, to the direct
promise of the parties, Gerard Douw heard
nothing of his niece, or her worshipful
spouse. The interest of the money, which
was to have been demanded in quarterly
sums, lay unclaimed in his hands. He
began to grow extremely uneasy.

Mynher Yanderhausen s direction in rotterdam
he was fully possessed of. After
some irresolution he finally determined to
journey thither — a trifling undertaking, and
easily accomplished — and thus to satisfy
himself of the safety and comfort of his
ward, for whom he entertained an honest
and strong affection.

His search was in vain, however. No
one in Rotterdam had ever heard of Myn-her
Yanderhausen.

Gerard Douw left not a house in the
Boom-quay untried ; but all in vain. No

one could give him any information whatever
touching the object of his inquiry ;
and he was obliged to return to Leyden,
nothing wiser than when he had left
it.

On his arrival he hastened to the establishment
from which Yanderhausen had
hired the lumbering though, considering
the times, most luxurious vehicle which
the bridal party had employed to convey
them to Rotterdam. From the driver of
this machine he learned, that having proceeded
by slow stages, they had late in
the evening approached Rotterdam ; but
that before they entered the city, and
while yet nearly a mile from it, a small
party of men, soberly clad, and after the
old fashion, with peaked beards and moustaches,
standing in the centre of the road,
obstructed the further progress of the carriage.

The driver reined in his horses,
much fearing, from the obscurity of the
hour, and the loneliness of the road, that
some mischief was intended.

His fears were, however, somewhat
allayed by his observing that these strange
men carried a large litter, of an antique
shape, and which they immediately set
down upon the pavement, whereupon the
bridegroom, having opened the coach-door
from within, descended, and having assisted
his bride to do likewise, led her, weeping
bitterly and wringing her hands, to the
litter, which' they both entered. It was
then raised by the men who surrounded it,
and speedily carried towards the city, and
before it had proceeded' many yards the
darkness concealed it from the view of the
Dutch charioteer.

In the inside of the vehicle he found a

purse, whose contents more than thrice
paid the hire of the carriage and man.
He saw and could tell nothing more of
Mynher Vanderhausen and his beautiful
lady. This mystery was a source of deep
anxiety and almost of grief to Gerard
Douw.

There was evidently fraud in the dealing
of Vanderhausen with him, though for what
purpose committed he could not imagine.
He greatly doubted how far it was possible
for a man possessing in his countenance
so strong an evidence of the presence of
the most demoniac feelings, to be in reality
anything but a villain ; and every day that
passed without his hearing from or of his
niece, 'instead of inducing him to forget
his fears, on the contrary tended more and
more to exasperate them.

The loss of his niece's cheerful society

tended also to depress his spirits ; and in
order to dispel this despondency, which
often crept upon his mind after his daily
employment was over, he was wont frequently
to prevail upon Schalken to accompany
him home, and by his presence
to dispel, in some degree, the gloom of his
otherwise solitary supper.

One evening, the painter and his pupil
were sitting by the fire, having accomplished
a comfortable supper, and had
yielded to that silent pensiveness sometimes
induced by the process of digestion,
when their reflections were disturbed by
a loud sound at the street-door, as if occasioned
by some person rushing forcibly and
repeatedly against it. A domestic had run
without delay to ascertain the cause of the
disturbance, and they heard him twice or
thrice interrogate the applicant for admission,

but without producing an answer or
any cessation of the sounds.

They heard him then open the hall-door,
and immediately there followed a light and
rapid tread upon the staircase. Schalken
laid his hand on his sword, and advanced
towards the door. It opened before he
reached it, and Rose rushed into the room.
She looked wild and haggard, and pale with
exhaustion and terror ; but her dress surprised
them as much even as her unexpected
appearance. It consisted of a kind
of white woollen wrapper, made close about
the neck, and descending to the very
ground. It was much deranged and
travel - soiled. The poor creature had
hardly entered the chamber when she fell
senseless on the floor. With some difficulty
they succeeded in reviving her, and
on recovering her senses she instantly exclaimed,

in a tone of eager, terrified impatience
:

Wine, wine, quickly, or I'm lost !'
Much alarmed at the strange agitation
in which the call was made, they at once
administered to her wishes, and she drank
some wine with a haste and eagerness which
surprised them. She had hardly swallowed
it, when she exclaimed, with the same
urgency :

Food, food, at once, or I perish !'
A considerable fragment of a roast joint
was upon the table, and Schalken immediately
proceeded to cut some, but he was
anticipated ; for no sooner had she become
aware of its presence than she darted at it
with the rapacity of a vulture, and, seizing
it in her hands she tore off the flesh with
her teeth and swallowed it.

When the paroxysm of hunger had been

a little appeased, she appeared suddenly to
become aware how strange her conduct
had been, or it may have been that other
more agitating thoughts recurred to her
mind, for she began to weep bitterly and towring
her hands.

Oh ! send for a minister of God,' said
she ; ' I am not safe till he comes ; send
for him speedily

Gerard Douw despatched a messenger
instantly, and prevailed on his niece to
allow him to surrender his bedchamber to
her use ; he also persuaded her to retire
to it at once and to rest ; her consent was
extorted upon the condition that they would
not leave her for a moment.

Oh that the holy man were here !' she
said ; ' he can deliver me. The dead and
the living can never be one — God has forbidden
it.'

With these mysterious words she surrendered
herself to their guidance, and
they proceeded to the chamber which
Gerard Douw had assigned to her use.

Do not — do not leave me for a moments
said she. ' I am lost for ever if
you do.'

Gerard Douw's chamber was approached
through a spacious apartment, which they
were now about to enter. Gerard Douw
and Schalken each carried a wax candle,
so that a sufficient degree of light was cast
upon all surrounding objects. They were
now entering the large chamber, which, as
I have said, communicated With Douw's
apartment, when Kose suddenly stopped,
and, in a whisper which seemed to thrill
with horror, she said :

O God ! he is here — he is here I See,
see — there he goes !*

She pointed towards the door of the
inner room, and Schalken thought he saw
a shadowy and ill-defined form gliding into
that apartment. He drew his sword, and
raising the candle so as to throw its light
with increased distinctness upon the objects
in the room, he entered the chamber into
which the shadow had glided. No figure
was there — nothing but the furniture which
belonged to the room, and yet he could
not be deceived as to the fact that something
had moved before them into the
chamber.

A sickening dread came upon him, and
the cold perspiration broke out in heavy
drops upon his forehead ; nor was he more
composed when he heard the increased
urgency, the agony of entreaty, with which.
Hose implored them not to leave her fora
moment.

I saw him said she. ' He's here ! I
cannot be deceived — I know him. He's
by me — he's with me — he's in the room.
Then, for God's sake, as you would save,
do not stir from beside me !'

They at length prevailed upon her to lie
down upon the bed, where she continued
to urge them to stay by her. She frequently
uttered incoherent sentences, repeating
again and again, * The dead
and the livings cannot be one — God has
forbidden it !' and then again, ' Rest
to the wakeful — sleep to the sleep-walkers.'


These and such mysterious and broken
sentences she continued to utter until the
clergyman arrived.

Gerard Douw began to fear, naturally
enough, that the poor girl, owing to terror
or ill-treatment, had become deranged ; and

VOL. II. 16

he half suspected, by the suddenness of
her appearance, and the unseasonableness
of the hour, and, above all, from the wildness
and terror of her manner, that she
had made her escape from some place of
confinement for lunatics, and was in immediate
fear of pursuit. He resolved to
summon medical advice as soon as the
mind of his niece had been in some
measure set at rest by the offices of the
clergyman whose attendance she had so
earnestly desired; and until this object had
been attained, he did not venture to put
any questions to her, which might possibly,
by reviving painful or horrible recollections,
increase her agitation.

The clergyman soon arrived — a man of
ascetic countenance and venerable age —
one whom Gerard Douw respected much,
forasmuch as he was a veteran polemic,

though one, perhaps, more dreaded as a
combatant than beloved as a Christian — of
pure morality, subtle brain, and frozen
heart. He entered the chamber which
communicated with that in which Rose
reclined, and immediately on his arrival she
requested him to pray for her, as for one who
lay in the hands of Satan, and who could
hope for deliverance — only from heaven.

That our readers may distinctly understand
all the circumstances of the event
which we are about imperfectly to describe,
it is necessary to state the relative position
of the parties who were engaged in it.
The old clergyman and Schalken were in
the anteroom of which we have already
spoken ; Rose lay in the inner chamber,
the door of which was open ; and by the
side of the bed, at her urgent desire, stood
her guardian ; a candle burned in the 



chamber, and three were lighted in the
outer apartment.

The old man now cleared his voice, as if
about to commence ; but before he had
time to begin, a sudden gust of air blew
out the candle which served to illuminate
the room in which the poor girl lay, and
she, with hurried alarm, exclaimed :

^ Godfrey, bring in another candle ; the
darkness is unsafe.'

Gerard Douw, forgetting for the moment
her repeated injunctions in the immediate
impulse, stepped from the bedchamber into
the other, in order to supply what she
desired.

God ! do not go, dear uncle !'
shrieked the unhappy girl; and at the
same time she sprang from the bed and
darted after him, in order, by her grasp, to
detain him.

But the warning came too late, for
scarcely had he passed the threshold, and
hardly had his niece had time to utter the
startling exclamation, when the door which
divided the two rooms closed violently
after him, as if swung to by a strong blast
of wind.

Schalken and he both rushed to the
door, but their united and desperate efforts
could not avail so much as to shake it.

Shriek after shriek burst from the inner
chamber, with all the piercing loudness of
despairing terror. Schalken and Douw
applied every energy and strained every
nerve to force open the door ; but all in
vain.

There was no sound of struggling from
within, but the screams seemed to increase
in loudness, and at the same time they
heard the bolts of the latticed window

withdrawn, and the window itself grated
upon the sill as if thrown open.

One last shriek, so long and piercing
and agonised as to be scarcely human,
swelled from the room, and suddenly there
followed a death-like silence.

A light step was heard crossing the
floor, as if from the bed to the window ;
and almost at the same instant the door
gave way, and, yielding to the pressure of
the external applicants, they were nearly
precipitated into the room. It was empty.
The window was open, and Schalken
sprang to a chair and gazed out upon
the street and canal below. He saw no
form, but he beheld, or thought he beheld,
the waters of the broad canal beneath
settling ring after ring in heavy circular
ripples, as if a moment before disturbed by
the immersion of some large and heavy mass.

No trace of Rose was ever after discovered,
nor was anything certain respecting
her mysterious wooer detected or even
suspected ; no clue whereby to trace the
intricacies of the labyrinth and to arrive at
a distinct conclusion was to be found. But
an incident occurred, which, though it will
not be received by our rational readers as
at all approaching to evidence upon the
matter, nevertheless produced a strong and
a lasting impression upon the mind of
Schalken.

Many years after the events which we
have detailed, Schalken, then remotely
situated, received an intimation of his
father's death, and of his intended burial
upon a fixed day in the church of Rotterdam.
It was necessary that a very considerable
journey should be performed by
the funeral procession, which, as it will

readily be believed, was not very numerously
attended. Schalken with difficulty
arrived in Rotterdam late in the day upon
which the funeral was appointed to take
place. The procession had not then arrived.
Evening closed in, and still it did not appear.


Schalken strolled down to the church —
he found it open — notice of the arrival of
the funeral had been given, and the vault
in which the body was to be laid had been
opened. The official who corresponds to
our sexton, on seeing a well-dressed gentleman,
whose object was to attend the
expected funeral, pacing the aisle of the
church, hospitably invited him to share
with him the comforts of a blazing wood
fire, which, as was his custom in wintertime
upon such occasions, he had kindled
on the hearth of a chamber which communicated,

by a flight of steps, with the vault
below.

In this chamber Schalken and his entertainer
seated themselves, and the sexton,
after some fruitless attempts to engage his
guest in conversation, was obliged to apply
himself to his tobacco-pipe and can to
solace his solitude.

In spite of his grief and cares, the
fatigues of a rapid journey of nearly forty
hours gradually overcame the mind and
body of Godfrey Schalken, and he sank
into a deep sleep, from which he was
awakened by some one shaking him
gently by the shoulder. He first thought
that the old sexton had called him, but he
was no longer in the room.

He roused himself, and as soon as he
could clearly see what was around him, he
perceived a female form, clothed in a kind

of light robe of muslin, part of which was
so disposed as to act as a veil, and in her
hand she carried a lamp. She was moving
rather away from him, and towards the
flight of steps which conducted towards the
vaults.

Schalken felt a vague alarm at the sight
of this figure, and at the same time an
irresistible impulse to follow its guidance.
He followed it towards the vaults, but
when it reached the head of the stairs, he
paused ; the figure paused also, and, turning
gently round, displayed, by the light of
the lamp it carried, the face and features
of his first love. Rose Velderkaust. There
was nothing horrible, or even sad, in the
countenance. On the contrary, it wore
the same arch smile which used to enchant
the artist long before in his happy days.

A feeling of awe and of interest, too

intense to be resisted, prompted him to
follow the spectre, if spectre it were. She
descended the stairs — he followed ; and,
turnings to the left, through a narrow
passage, she led him, to his infinite surprise,
into what appeared to be an old-fashioned
Dutch apartment, such as the
pictures of Gerard Douw have served to
immortalise.

Abundance of costly antique furniture
was disposed about the room, and in one
corner stood a four-post bed, with heavy
black cloth curtains around it ; the figure
frequently turned towards him with the
same arch smile ; and when she came to
the side of the bed, she drew the curtains,
and by the light of the lamp which she
held towards its contents, she disclosed to
the horror-stricken painter, sitting bolt upright
in the bed, the livid and demoniac

form of Yanderhausen. Sclialken had
hardly seen him when he fell senseless
upon the floor, where he lay until discovered,
on the next morning, by persons
employed in closing the passages into the
vaults. He was lying in a cell of considerable
size, which had not been disturbed fora
long time, and he had fallen beside a
large coffin which was supported upon
small stone pillars, a security against the
attacks of vermin.

To his dying day Schalken was satisfied
of the reality of the vision which he had
witnessed, and he has left behind him a
curious evidence of the impression which
it wrought upon his fancy, in a painting
executed shortly after the event we have
narrated, and which is valuable as exhibiting
not only the peculiarities which
have made Schalken's pictures sought

after, but even more so as presenting a
portrait, as close and faithful as one taken
from memory can be, of his early love,
Rose Yelderkaust, whose mysterious fate
must ever remain matter of speculation.

The picture represents a chamber of
antique masonry, such as might be found
in most old cathedrals, and is lighted
faintly by a lamp carried in the hand of
a female figure, such as we have above
attempted to describe ; and in the background,
and to the left of him who
examines the painting, there stands the
form of a man apparently aroused from
sleep, and by his attitude, his hand being
laid upon his sword, exhibiting considerable
alarm : this last fissure is illuminated
only by the expiring glare of a wood or
charcoal fire.

The whole production exhibits a beautiful

specimen of that artful and singular
distribution of light and shade which has
rendered the name of Schalken immortal
among the artists of his country. This
tale is traditionary, and the reader will
easily perceive, by our studiously omitting
to heighten many points of the narrative,
when a little additional colouring might
have added effect to the recital, that we
have desired to lay before him, not a figment
of the brain, but a curious tradition
connected with, and belonging to, the
biography of a famous artist.

Beiiig an Eighth Extract from the Legacy of the late
Francis Pur cell, P.P. of Drumcoolagh.

HAVE observed, my dear friend,
among other grievous misconceptions
current among men otherwise
well-informed, and Which tend to
degrade the pretensions of my native land,
an impression that there exists no such
thing as indigenous modern Irish composition
deserving the name of poetry — a
belief which has been thoughtlessly sustained
and confirmed by the unconscionable

literary perverseness of Irishmen
themselves, who have preferred the easy-task
of concocting humorous extravaganzas,
which caricature with merciless exaggeration
the pedantry, bombast, and blunders
incident to the lowest order of Hibernian
ballads, to the more pleasurable and
patriotic duty of collecting together the
many, many specimens of genuine poetic
feeling, which have grown up, like its wildflowers,
from the warm though neglected
soil of Ireland.

In fact, the productions which have
long been regarded as pure samples of
Irish poetic composition, such as ' The
Groves of Blarney,' and ' The Wedding
of Ballyporeen,' ' Ally Croaker,' etc., etc.,
are altogether spurious, and as much like
the thing they call themselves 'as I to
Hercules.'

There are to be sure in Ireland, as in all
countries, poems which deserve to be
laughed at. The native productions of
which I speak, frequently abound in
absurdities — absurdities which are often,
too, provokingly mixed up with what is
beautiful ; but I strongly and absolutely
deny that the prevailing or even the
usual character of Irish poetry is that of
comicality. No country, no time, is
devoid of real poetry, or something approaching
to it ; and surely it were a
strange thing if Ireland, abounding as she
does from shore to shore with all that is
beautiful, and grand, and savage in
scenery, and filled with wild recollections,
vivid passions, warm affections, and keen
sorrow, could find no language to speak
withal, but that of mummery and jest.
No, her language is imperfect, but there

VOL. II. 17

is strength in its rudeness, and beauty in
its wildness ; and, above all, strong feeling
flows through it, like fresh fountains in
rugged caverns.

And yet I will not say that the
language of genuine indigenous Irish
composition is always vulgar and uncouth :
on the contrary, I am in possession
of some specimens, though by no means
of the highest order as to poetic merit,
which do not possess throughout a single
peculiarity of diction. The lines which
I now proceed to lay before you, by way
of illustration, are from the pen of an
unfortunate young man, of very humble
birth, whose early hopes where crossed by
the untimely death of her whom he loved.
He was a self-educated man, and in afterlife
rose to high distinctions in the Church
to which he devoted himself — an act which

proves the sincerity of spirit with which
these verses were written.

When moonlight falls on wave and wimple,
And silvers every circling dimple,

That onward, onward sails :
When fragrant hawthorns wild and simple

Lend perfume to the gales,
And the pale moon in heaven abiding,
O'er midnight mists and mountains riding,
Shines on the river, smoothly gliding

Through quiet dales,

I wander there in solitude.
Charmed by the chiming music rude

Of streams that fret and flow.
For by that eddying stream she stood.

On such a night I trow :
For her the thorn its breath was lending,
On this same tide her eye was bending,
And with its voice her voice was blending

Long, long ago.

Wild stream ! I walk by thee once more,
I see thy hawthorns dim and hoar,

17—2

I hear thy waters moan,
And night-winds sigh from shore to shore,

With hushed and hollow tone ;
But breezes on their light way winging,
And all thy waters heedless singing,
No more to me are gladness bringing —

I am alone.

Years after years, their swift way keeping,
Like sere leaves down thy current sweeping,

Are lost for aye, and sped —
And Death the wintry soil is heaping

As fast as flowers are shed.
And she who wandered by my side.
And breathed enchantment o'er thy tide,
That makes thee still my friend and guide —

And she is dead.'

These lines I have transcribed in order
to prove a point which I have heard
denied, namely, that an Irish peasant —
for their author was no more — may write
at least correctly in the matter of measure,
language, and rhyme ; and I shall add

several extracts in further illustration of
the same fact, a fact whose assertion, it
must be allowed, may appear somewhat
paradoxical even to those who are
acquainted, though superficially, with
Hibernian composition. The rhymes are,
it must be granted, in the generality of
such productions, very latitudinarian
indeed, and as a veteran votary of the
muse once assured me, depend wholly
upon the vjowls (vowels), as may be seen
in the following stanza of the famous
Shanavan Yoicth.'

" That'll we have for supper ?"
Says my Shanavan Yoicth ;

We'll have turkeys and roast beefy

And we'll eat it very siveetj

And then we'll take a sleep)"

Says my Shanavan Yoicth.'

But I am desirous of showing you that,

although barbarisms may and do exist in
our native ballads, there are still to be
found exceptions which furnish examples
of strict correctness in rhyme and metre.
Whether they be one whit the better for
this I have my doubts. In order to
establish my position, I subjoin a portion
of a ballad by one Michael Finley, of
whom more anon. The gentleman spoken
of in the sono is Lord Edward Fitzgerald.


The day that traitors sould him and mummies bought

him,
The day that the red gold and red blood was paid —
Then the green turned pale and trembled like the

dead leaves in Autumn,
And the heart an' hope iv Ireland in the could

grave was laid.

The day I saw you first, with the sunshine fallen'

round ye,
My heart fairly opened with the grandeur of the
view :

For ten thousand Irish boys that day did surround ye,
An' I swore to stand by them till death, an' fight
for you.

Ye wor the bravest gentleman, an' the best that ever
stood,
And your eyelid never trembled for danger nor
for dread,
An' nobleness was flowing' in each stream of your
blood —
My bled-sing on you night an' day, an' Glory be
your bed.

My black an' bitter curse on the head, an' heart, an'
hand,
That plotted, wished, an' worked the fall of this

Irish hero bold ;
God's curse upon the Irishman that sould his native
laud.
An' hell consume to dust the hand that held the
traitor's gold.'

Such were the politics and poetry of
Michael Finley, in his day, perhaps, the
most noted song-maker of his country ; but

as genius is never without its eccentricities,
Finley had his peculiarities, and among
these, perhaps the most amusing was his
rooted aversion to pen, ink, and paper, in
perfect independence of which, all his
compositions were completed. It is
impossible to describe the jealousy with
which he regarded the presence of writing
materials of any kind, and his ever wakeful
fears lest some literary pirate should
transfer his oral poetry to paper — fears
which were not altogether without warrant,
inasmuch as the recitation and singing of
these original pieces were to him a source
of wealth and importance. I recollect
upon one occasion his detecting me in the
very act of following his recitation with
my pencil, and I shall not soon forget his
indignant scowl, as stopping abruptly in
the midst of a line, he sharply exclaimed :

Is my 2^0 me a pigsty, or what, that you
want a surveyor's ground-plan of it V

Owing to this absurd scruple, I have been
obliged, with one exception, that of the ballad
of ' Phaudhrig Crohoore,' to rest satisfied
with such snatches and fragments of his
poetry as my memory could bear away — a
fact which must account for the mutilated
state in which I have been obliged to
present the foregoing specimen of his composition.


It was in vain for me to reason with
this man of metres upon the unreasonableness
of this despotic and exclusive assertion
of copyright. I well remember his
answer to me when, among; other arguments,
I urged the advisability of some
care for the permanence of his reputation,
as a motive to induce him to consent to
have his poems written down, and thus

reduced to a palpable and enduring
form.

I often noticed,' said he, ' when a mist
id be spreading', a little briers to look as big,
you'd think, as an oak tree ; an' the
same way, in the dimness iv the nightfall,
I often seen a man trembling' and crossing'
himself as if a spirit was before him, at
the sisfht iv a small thorn bush, that he'd
leap over with case if the daylight and sunshine
was in it. An' that's the reason why
I think it id be better for the likes iv me
to be remembered in tradition than to be
written in history

Finley has now been dead nearly eleven
years, and his fame has not prospered by
the tactics which he pursued, for his reputation,
so far from being magnified, has
been wholly obliterated by the mists of
obscurity.

With no small difficulty, and no inconsiderable
manoeuvring, I succeeded in procuring,
at an expense of trouble and
conscience which you will no doubt
think but poorly rewarded, an accurate
report ' of one of his most popular recitations.
Tt celebrates one of the many
daring exploits of the once famous
Phaudhrig Crohoore (in prosaic English,
Patrick Connor). I have witnessed
powerful effects produced upon large
assemblies by Finley's recitation of this
poem which he Alas wont, upon pressing
invitation, to deliver at weddings, wakes,
and the like ; of course the power of
the narrative was greatly enhanced by
the fact that many of his auditors
had seen and well knew the chief actors in
the drama.

*Phaudhrig Crohoorb.

Oh, Phaudhrig Crohoore was the broth of a boy,
And he stood six foot eight,
And his arm was as round as another man's thigh,

'Tis Phaudhrig was great, —
And his hair was as black as the shadows of night,
And hung over the scars left by many a fight ;
And his voice, like the thunder, was deep, strong, and

loud.
And his eye like the lightning' from under the cloud.
And all the girls liked him, for he could spake civil,
And sweet when he chose it, for he was the civil.
An' there wasn't a girl from thirty-five under,
Devil a matter how crass, but he could come round

her.
Put of all the sweet girls that smiled on him, but one
Was the girl of his heart, an' he loved her alone.
An' warm as the sun, as the rock firm an' sure.
Was the love of the heart of Phaudhrig Crohoore ;
An' he'd die for one smile from his Kathleen O'Brien,
Por his love, like his hatred, was strong as the lion.

But Michael O'Hanlon loved Kathleen as well
As he hated Crohoore — an' that same was like hell.
But O'Brien liked Mm, for they were the same parties,
The O'brien, O'Hanlons, an' Murphy, and Cartes —

An' they all went together an' hated Crohoore,

For it's many the latin' he gave them before ;

An' O'Hanlon made up to O'Brien, an' says he :

*' I'll marry your daughter, if you'll give her to me."

And the match was made up, an' when Shrovetide

came on,
The company assembled three hundred if one :
There was all the O'Hanlon s, an' Murphy, an' Cartes,
An* the young boys an' girls av all o' them parties ;
An' the O'brien, av course, gathered strong on that

day,
An' the pipers an' fiddlers were tearing' away ;
There was roaring', an' jumping', an' jiggin', an' flinging',
An' join', an' blessing', an' kissing', an' singing'.
An' they wor all laughing' — why not, to be sure ? —
How O'Hanlon came inside of Phaudhrig Crohoore.
An' they all talked an' laughed the length of the table,
Latin' an' drinking' all while they wor able,
And with pepin' an' fiddling' an' roaring' like gunther.
Your head you'd think fairly was splitting' asunder ;
And the priest called out, " Silence, ye blackguards,

again 1"
An' he took up his prayer-book, just going' to begin,
An' they all held their tongues from their sunning' and

bawiin',
So silent you'd notice the smallest pin fallen' ;

An' the priest was just benin' to read, whin the

door
Sprung back to the wall, and in walked Crohoore —
Oh ! Phaudhrig Crohoore was the broth of a boy,

An' he stood six foot eight,
An' his arm was as round as another man's thigh,

'Tis Phaudhrig was great —
An' he walked slowly up, watched by many a bright

eye,
As a black cloud moves on through the stars of the

sky.
An' none strove to stop him, for Phaudhrig was

great,
Till he stood all alone, just apposite the sate
Where O'Hanlon and Kathleen, his beautiful bride,
"Were sitting so illigant out side by side;
An' he gave her one look that her heart almost broke,
An' he turned to O'Brien, her father, and spoke,
An' his voice, like the thunder, was deep, strong, and

loud,
An' his eye shone like lightning' from under the

cloud :
I didn't come here like a tame, crawling' mouse.
But I stand like a man in my inimy's house ;
In the field, on the road, Phaudhrig never knew fear,
Of his foemen, an' God knows he scorns it here ;

So lave me at aise, for three minutes or four,

To spake to the girl I'll never see more."

An' to Kathleen he turned, and his voice changed its

tone,
For he thought of the days when he called her his

own,
An' his eye blazed like lightning' from under the cloud
On his false-hearted girl, reproachful and proud,
An' says he : " Kathleen dawn, is it three what I

hear,
That you marry of your free choice, without threat or

fear?
If so, spake the word, an' I'll turn and depart,
Hated once, and once only by woman's false heart."
Oh ! sorrow and love made the poor girl dumb.
An' she tried hard to spake, but the words wouldn't

come,
For the sound of his voice, as he stood there morning

her,
Went could on her heart as the night wind in winter.
An' the tears in her blue eyes stood tremble' to

flow,
And pale was her cheek as the moonshine on snow ;
Then the heart of would Phaudhrig swelled high in its

place,
For he knew, by one look in that beautiful face.

That though strangers an' foemen their pledged hands

might sever,
Her true heart was his, and his only, for ever.
An' he lifted his voice, like the age's hoarse call,
An' says Phaudhrig, " She's mine still, in spite of yes

all!"
Then up jumped O'Hanlon, an' a tall boy was he,
An' he looked on would Phaudhrig as fierce as could

be, .
An' says he, " By the hokey ! before you go out,
Would Phaudhrig Crohoore, you [must fight for a

bout."
Then Phaudhrig made answer: "I'll do my endeavour,"

An' with one blow he stretched would O'Hanlon forever.


In his arms he took Kathleen, an* stepped to the

door ;
And he leaped on his horse, and flung her before ;
An' they all were so bothered, that not a man stirred
Till the galloping hoofs on the pavement were heard.
Then up they all started, like bees in the swarm,
An' they riz a great shout, like the burst of a storm,
An' they roared, and they ran, and they shouted

galore ;
But Kathleen and Phaudhrig they never saw more.

But them days are gone by, an' he is no more ;
An' the green grass is grown' o'er Phaudhrig Crop


For he couldn't be aise or quiet at all ;
As he lived a brave boy, he resolved so to fall.
And he took a good pike — for Phaudhrig was great —
And he fought, and he died in the year ninety-eight.
An' the day that Crohoore in the green field was

killed,
A strong boy was stretched, and a strong heart

was stilled.'

It is due to the memory of Finley to
say that the foregoing ballad, though bearing
throughout a strong resemblance to Sir
Walter Scott's * Lochinvar,' was nevertheless
composed long before that spirited
production had seen the light.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTROTYPEBS, GUILDFORD.

S. d- H.
