n

Iii

am



mm

m

■ ■ .

OF THE
U N Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

i>

/

~}

^7

KING OR KNAVE ? By R. E. Francillon. 3 vols.
EVERY INCH A SOLDIER. By M. J. Colquhoun.

3 vols.

THE PASSENGER FROM SCOTLAND YARD. By

H. F. Wood, i vol.

THE HEIR OF Line. By Robert Buchanan, i vol.

IN EXCHANGE FOR A SOUL. By Mary Linskill.
3 vols.

SETH'S BROTHER'S WIFE. By Harold Frederic.
2 vols.

PINE AND PALM. By Moncure D. Conway. 2 vols.

ONE TRAVELLER RETURNS. By D. Christie

Murray and Henry Herman, i vol.

OLD BLAZER'S HERO. By D. Christie Murray.

1 vol.

A PHYLLIS OF THE SIERRAS, etc By Bret Harte.
1 vol.

THE DEEMSTER. By Hall Caine. i vol.
RED SPIDER. By the Author of ' Mehalah.' 1 vol.
Pastor CAREW. By E. Lynn Linton, i vol.
A ROMANCE OF THE QUEEN'S HOUNDS. By
Charles James, i vol.

LONDON : CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY.

A romance of Scottish pft

BY

JOHN K. Less

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

HLotttfou
CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY

[The right of translation is reserved]

/MP
t>.l

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

I. THE FIRST LETTER
II. THE SECOND LETTER
III. THE THIRD LETTER
IV. THE FOURTH LETTER

V. THE SHIP SETS SAIL
VI. A NEW EXPERIENCE
VII. A SUNDAY IN GLASGOW -
VIII. THE ROARING GAME
IX. THE END OF THE SESSION
X. ARROCHAR -
XI. A RIVAL -
XII. 'YOU MUST GIVE ME AN answer'

PAGE









12(3




23-2

PROLOGUE.— FOUR LETTERS.
Chapter I.

THE FIRST LETTER.

Hubert Blake to Sophy Meredith.

The Castle Farm, Muirburn,
Kyleshire, KB., Sept. 12, 187-

My dear Sophy,

I only arrived here last night, so you
see I am losing no time in redeeming my
promise. I can hardly tell you what I think
of my new cousins ; they are not to be known
in a day, I can see that much. As for the
country and its inhabitants generally — well,
they are as different from an English county and

vol. i. 1

English country-folks as if they were in different
continents, and that is all I can say at present.
I left the railway at a tiny station called
Kilmartin, and found ' the coach ' waiting in
the station yard. It was not a coach, but a
queer dumpy omnibus, about two-thirds of
the size of a London 'bus, with three big, raw-boned
horses harnessed to it. I was lucky
enough to get a seat in front beside the driver.
It was just a little before sunset ; and I wish
I could put before you in words the freshness
of the scene. We were ascending a rising
ground in a very leisurely fashion. On either
side of the road was a steep bank thickly
clothed with crows foot and wild thyme.
Above us on either side stretched a belt of
Scotch firs. The sunset rays shone red on
the trunks of the pines, and here and there
one could catch through them a sight of the
ruddy west, showing like a great painted
window in a cathedral. The air was soft, and
laden with the sweet smell of the firs, and yet
t was cool and exhilarating.

As soon as we got to the top of the ridge
we began to rattle down the other side at a
great rate. It was really very pleasant, and
thinking to conciliate the weather-beaten
coachman at my side, I confided to him my
opinion that of all species of travelling coaching
was the most delightful.

Specially on a winter's night, wi' yer feet
twa lumps o' ice, an' a wee burn o' snow-water
running' toon the nape o' yer neck !' responded
the Scotch Jehu.

I laughed, and glanced at the man sitting
on my right, a big, brown-faced, gray-haired
farmer, in a suit of heavy tweeds, who sat
leaning his two hands on the top of an enormous
stick. He was smiling grimly to himself,
as if he enjoyed the stranger being set
down.

1 Fine country,' I remarked, by way of conciliating
him.

1 Ay,' said he, with a glance at the horizon
out of the sides of his eyes, but without moving
a muscle of his face.

1—2

1 And a very fine evening,' I persisted.

1 Ay — might be war.'

Upon this I gave it up, lighted a cigar, and
set myself to study the landscape. We had
got to a considerable elevation above the sealevel
; and in spite of the glorious evening
and the autumn colours just beginning to
appear in the hedges, the country had a
dreary look. Imagine one great stretch of
pasture barely reclaimed from moorland, with
the heather and stony ground cropping up
every here and there, divided into fields, not
by generous spreading hedgerows, but by low
walls of blue stone, built without mortar. The
only wood to be seen was narrow belts of firs,
planted here and there behind a farmhouse, or
between two fields, and somehow their long-bare
stems and heavy mournful foliage did
not add to the brightness of the scene, though
they gave it a character of its own. But the
country is not all moor and pasture. It is
broken every now and then by long, deep,
winding ravines, clothed with the larch and

the mountain ash, each one the home of a
bright brawling stream.

We had travelled for half an hour in
silence, when the farmer suddenly spoke.

Ye'll be frae the sooth, I'm thinking

He was not looking at me, but contemplating
the road in front of us from under a
pair of the bushiest eyebrows I ever saw.
For a moment I thought of repaying his bad
manners by giving him no answer, but thinking
better of it I said ' Ay,' after the manner
of the country.

Ye'll no hae mony beasts like they in
England, I fancy,' said he.

We were passing some Ayrshire cows at
the time, small, but splendid animals of their
kind ; and I soothed the old man's feelings by
admitting the fact.

Are ye travelling saur V he asked.

Not much farther, I believe.'

Ye're no an agent, are ye V

No,' I answered.

1 Nor a factor V

'No.'

(He was evidently puzzled to make out what
an Englishman was about in his country, and
I determined not to gratify his curiosity.)

Ye'll maybe be the doctor V

'No. 1

Sharply ye're no the new minister V he
exclaimed with an expression of unfeigned
alarm.

I calmed his fears, and again we proceeded
on our way in silence.

When we had gone perhaps some seven or
eight miles from the railway station, I noticed
a stout dog-cart standing at the corner of a by-road,
under a tall, straggling thorn hedge.
The youth who was seated in it made a sign
to the coachman to stop, and I was made
aware that the dog-cart had been sent for me.
I got down, and as I bade good night to the
cross-questioning farmer, I observed a grim
smile of triumph on his firmly compressed lips.
He evidently knew the dog cart, and would
now be able to trace the mysterious stranger.

I and my portmanteau were finally left on
the side of the road, and the young man in
the dog-cart civilly turned the vehicle round
(with some difficulty on account of the narrow
road), and drew up beside me, to save my
carrying my luggage a dozen yards. At first
I was a little uncertain whether I had one of
my third (or fourth, which is it ?) cousins
before me, or simply a young man from Mr.
Lindsay's farm. He was dressed in very
coarse tweeds, and his hands were rough, and
spoke of manual labour, and he breathed the
incense of the farmyard ; but I thought his
finely-cut features and sensitive lips bespoke
him to be of gentle blood, and, luckily, I
made a hit in the right direction.

1 You are one of Mr. Lindsay's sons, I thick
that is to say, one of my cousins,' I said, as
I shook hands with him.

The youth's face lighted up with a blush
and a pleasant smile as he answered that he
was, and held open the apron of the dog-cart
for me to get in. In another moment we

were off, the sturdy old mare between the
shafts carrying us along at a very fair pace.

There are some people, Sophy, who wear
their characters written on their faces, and
Alec Lindsay is one of them. I could see,
even as we drove together along that solitary
lane in the autumn twilight, that his was a
frank, ingenuous nature, shy, sensitive, and
reserved. I mean that his shyness made him
reserved, but his thoughts and feelings showed
themselves in his face without his knowing it,
so little idea had he of purposely concealing
himself. Such a face is always interesting ;
and besides, there was an under expression of
dissatisfaction, of unrest, I hardly know what
to call it, in his eyes, which was scarcely
natural in so young a lad. He could not
be more than eighteen or nineteen.

After half an hour's drive we approached
the little town, or village — it is rather too
large for a village, and much too small to be
called a town — of Muirburn. It consists of
one long double row of two-storied houses

built of stone and whitewashed, with one or
two short cross streets at intervals. The
houses had not a scrap of garden in front
of them, nothing but a broad footpath, the
playground of troops of children. The lower
part of these dwellings had a bare, deserted
appearance, but I found that they were used
in almost every case as workroom, being
fitted up with looms. In one or two of the
windows a light twinkled, and we could hear
the noise of the shuttle as we passed.

In the middle of the village stood a large
square building, whitewashed all over, and
provided with two rows of small square
windows, placed at regular intervals, one
above and one below.

What is that building V I asked.

4 The Free Church,' answered my companion,
with a touch of pride.

A church ! Why, it was hardly fit to bea
school-house. A mean iron railing, which
had been painted at some remote epoch, alone
protected it from the street. It was the very

embodiment of ugliness ; its sole ornament
being a stove-pipe which protruded from one
corner of the roof. Never, in all my life,
whether among Hindoo, Mahometan, or
Irish peasants, had I seen so supremely ugly
an edifice dedicated to the service of the
Almighty.

1 That's the United Presbyterian one,' said
Alec, pointing with his whip to a building
on the other side of the street, similar to
the one we had just passed, but of less
hideous aspect. It was smaller, and it could
boast a front of hewn stone, and neat latticed
windows, while a narrow belt of greensward
fenced it off' from the road.

Just then we passed a knot of men, perhaps
ten or a dozen, standing at the corner of one
of the side streets. All had their hands in
their pockets, all were in their shirt-sleeves,
and all wore long white aprons. They were
doing nothing whatever — not talking, nor
laughing, nor quarrelling, but simply looking
down the street. At present our humble

equipage was evidently an object of supreme
interest to them.

1 What are these men doing there V I asked.

'They're weavers,' answered Alec, as if the
fact contained a reason in itself for their
conduct. ' They always stand there when
they are not working, in all weathers, wet
and dry ; it's their chief diversion.'

Diversion !' I repeated ; but at that moment
the sweet tinkle of a church-bell fell upon
my ears. I almost expected to see the people
cross themselves, it sounded so much like the
Angelus. It is the custom, I find, to ring
the bell of the parish church at six in the
morning and eight in the evening, though
there is no service, and no apparent need
for the ceremony. I wonder if it can be
really a survival of the Vesper-bell ?

The bell was still ringing as we passed the
church that possessed it. This was 'the
Established Church,' my companion informed
me — a building larger than either of its
competitors, and boasting a belfry.

What does a small town like this want
with so many chapels ?' I asked my cousin.

I could see that I had displeased him,
whether by speaking of Muirburn as a small
town, or by inadvertently calling the 'churches'
chapels, I was not sure. As he hesitated for
an answer I hastened to add :

You are all of the same religion — substantially,
I mean V

'Well, yes.'

Then why don't you club together and
have one handsome place of worship instead
of three very — well, plain buildings V

What V exclaimed Alec, and then he
burst into a roar of laughter. ' That's a
good joke,' said he, as if I had said something
superlatively witty ; ' but I say,' he
continued, with a serious look in his bonny
blue eyes, ' you'd better not say anything of
that kind to my father.'

Why not V I asked, but Alec did not
answer me.

His attention was attracted by a child

which was playing in the road, right in
front of us. He called out, but the little
one did not seem to hear him, and he
slackened the mare's pace almost to a walk.
We were just approaching the last of the
side streets, and at that moment a gig, drawn
by a powerful bay horse, appeared coming
rapidly round the corner. It was evident
that there must be a collision, though, owing
to Alec's having slackened his pace so much,
it could not be a serious one.

But the child % Before I could cry out,
before I could think, Alec was out of the trap
and snatching the little boy from under the
horse's very nose. I never saw a narrower
escape ; how he was not struck down himself,
I cannot imagine.

The next moment the gig, which had brushed
against our vehicle without doing it much
damage, had disappeared down the road ; and
a woman, clad in a short linsey petticoat and a
wide sleeveless bodice of printed cotton, had
rushed out of the opposite house and was

roundly abusing Alec for having nearly killed
her child. Without paying much attention to
her, Alec walked round to the other side of the
dog-cart to see what damage had been done,
and muttering to himself, ' I'm thankful it's no
worse,' he climbed back into his place, and we
resumed our journey, while the young Caledonian
was acknowledging sundry tender
marks of his mother's affection with screams
like those of a locomotive.

Another half-hour's drive brought us to a
five-barred gate which admitted us to a narrow
and particularly rough lane. We jolted on fora
few minutes, and then the loud barking of
several dogs announced that we had arrived at
the farm. But I must keep my description of
its inhabitants for my next epistle. I am too
sleepy to write more. Good-night.

Your affectionate cousin,

Hubert Blake.

THE SECOND LETTER.

Hubert Blake to Sophy Meredith.

The Castle Farm, Muirburn, Neb.
September 15.

Dear Sophy,

I think I shall like this place, and shall
probably stay till the beginning of winter. I
have begun a large picture of a really beautiful
spot which I found close by two days ago, and
I should like to see my painting well on to
completion before I return, lest I should be
tempted to leave it unfinished, like so many
others, when I get back to town.

I had a very hospitable welcome from Mr.
Lindsay on the night I arrived. He met meat
the door — a tall, broad-shouldered, upright
man, perhaps sixty years of age, with the

regular Scotch type of features, large nose, and
high cheek-bones. I could see, even at first,
that he is the sort of man it would not be
pleasant to quarrel with.

He led me into a wide passage, and thence
into a large low-roofed kitchen with a stone
floor. Here there were seated two or three
men and as many women, whom I took to be
farm-servants. There was no light in the place,
except that which came from a bit of ' cannel '
coal, stuck in the peat fire. The women were
knitting ; the men were doing nothing. No
one took the trouble of rising as we passed,
except one of the young men who went to look
after the mare.

After crossing the kitchen we passed through
a narrow passage, and entered a pleasant and
good-sized room in which a large coal fire and
a moderator lamp were burning.

Did you ever see a perfectly beautiful woman,
Sophy ? I doubt it. I never did till I saw
Margaret Lindsay. I was so astonished to see
a lady at the Castle Farm that I positively

stared at the girl for a moment, but she came
forward and shook hands with the utmost self-possession.


I'm afraid you have had a cold drive, Mr.
Blake,' she said ; and though she spoke in a
very decidedly Scotch accent, the words did
not sound so harshly from her lips as they had
done when spoken by her father. For the
first time I thought that the Doric might have
an agreeable sound.

I will try to tell you what Margaret is like.
She must be nearly twenty years of age, for she
is evidently older than her brother, but her
complexion is that of a girl of sixteen, by far
the finest and softest I ever saw. She is tall,
but not too tall for elegance. Her eyes are
brown, like her father's, and her hair is a dark
chestnut. Her features are simply perfect —
low forehead, beautifully moulded eyebrows,
short upper lip — you can imagine the rest.
You will say that my description would fit a
marble bust nearly as well as a girl of nineteen,
and your criticism would be just. Margaret's

vol. 1. 2

face is rather wanting in expression. It is calm,
reserved, not to say hard. But her deliberate
almost proud manner suits her admirably.

I can see you smiling to yourself, and saying
that you understand now my anxiety to get
my picture finished before I leave the farm.
All I can say is, you never were more mistaken
in your life. I am not falling in love with this
newly-discovered beauty, and I certainly don't
intend to do anything so foolish. But I could
look at her face by the hour together. I
wonder whether there are any capabilities of
passion under the cold exterior.

I took an opportunity when Alec was out of
the room to narrate our little adventure by the
way. and just as I finished my recital the hero
of the story came in.

1 So you managed to get run into on the
way home, Alec,' said his father, with a look
of displeasure. ' I should think you might
have learned to drive by this time.'

The lad's face flushed, but he made no
answer.

1 Is the mare hurt V asked the old man.

'No, she wasn't touched,' answered his son.
1 One of the wheels will want a new spoke ;
that's all.'

And is that nothing, sir V

No one could possibly have avoided the
collision, such as it was,' said I ; l and I've
seldom seen a pluckier thing than Alec did.'

The old man looked at me, and immediately
changed the subject.

When tea (a remarkably substantial meal,
by the way) was over, the farm-servants and
the old woman who acts as housemaid were
called into the large parlour in which we were
sitting for prayers, or, as they call it here,
worship.' I can't say I was edified, Sophy.
I dare say I am not a particularly good judge
of these matters, but really there seemed tome
a very slight infusion of worship about
the ceremony. First of all Bibles were handed
round, and Mr. Lindsay proceeded to read
a few lines from a metrical version of the
Psalms, beginning in the middle of a Psalm

2—2

for the excellent reason that they had left off
at that point on the preceding evening. Then
they began to sing the same verses to a strange,
pathetic melody. Margaret led the tune, and
it was a pleasure to listen to her sweet unaffected
notes, but the rough grumble of the
old men and Betty's discordant squeak produced
a really ridiculous effect. Then a
chapter was read from the Bible, and then we
rose up, turned round, and knelt down. Mr.
Lindsay began an extempore prayer, which
was partly an exposition of the chapter we had
just heard read, and partly an address to the
Almighty, which I won't shock you by describing.
At the end of the prayer were
some practical petitions, amongst them one on
behalf of 'the stranger within our gates,' by
which phrase your humble servant was indicated.
The instant the word ' Amen ' escaped
from the lips of my host, there was a sudden
shuffling of feet, and the little congregation
had risen to their feet and were in full retreat
before I had realized that the service was at

an end. I fully expected that this conduct
would have called down a reproof from Mr.
Lindsay, but it seemed to be accepted on all
hands as the ordinary custom. Half an hour
afterwards I was in bed, and sound asleep.

I awoke next morning to a glorious day.
The harvest is late in these parts, you know,
and the ' happy autumn fields some half cut,
some filled with ' stooks ' of corn, were stretching
before my window down to a hollow,
which I judged to be the bed of a river.

After breakfast I had an interview with my
host, and managed to get my future arrangements
put upon a proper footing. Of course
I could not stay here for an indefinite time at
Mr. Lindsay's expense ; and though at first he
scouted the proposal, I got him to consent
that I should set up an establishment of my
own in two half empty rooms — the house is
twice as large as the family requires — and be
practically independent. I could see that the
old man had a struggle between his pride and
his love of hospitality on the one hand, and

the prospect of letting part of his house to
a good tenant on the other ; but I smoothed
matters a little by asking to be allowed to
remain as his guest until Monday. Poor man,
I am sorry for him. He used to be a well-to-do
if not a wealthy ' laird,' and owned not
only the Castle Farm, but one or two others.
Now, in consequence of his having become
surety for a friend who left him to pay the
piper, and as a result of several bad seasons,
he has been forced to sell one farm and
mortgage the others so heavily that he is
practically worse off than if he were a tenant
of the mortgagees. This ' come down ' in the
world has soured his temper, and developed
a stinginess which I think is foreign to his
real nature. I fancy, too, he had a great loss
when his wife died. She was a woman, I am
told, of education and refinement. It must
have been from her that Margaret got her
beauty, and Alec his fine eyes.

But I have not told you what the neighbourhood
is like. Well, the farmhouse is

built on the side of a knoll, and at the top is
a very respectable ruin. The castle, from
which the farm takes its name, must have been
a strong place at one time. The keep is still
standing, and its walls are quite five feet
thick. Besides the keep, time has spared
part of the front, some of the buttresses, and
some half ruined doorways and windows. But
the whole place is overgrown with weeds and
nettles. No one takes the slightest interest
in this relic of another age : nobody could tell
me who built it, or give me even a shred of
a legend about its history.

As I was wandering about the walls of the
ruin, trying to select a point from which to
sketch it, I was joined by Alec Lindsay.
He had one or two books under his arm ; and
he stopped short on seeing me, as if he had
not expected to find anyone there.

{ Don't let me interrupt you,' I said, beginning
to move away. ' You make this place
your study, I see.'

1 Sometimes I bring my books up here,' he

replied. ' There is a corner under the wall of
the tower which is quite sheltered from the
wind. Even the rain can hardly reach it, and
I have a glorious view of the sunset when I sit
there on fine evenings.'

1 1 should like to see the place said I, anxious
to put the lad at his ease ; and he led me to a
corner among the ruins, from which, as he
said, a wide view was obtained.

Near at hand were pastures and harvest-fields.
Beyond them was the bed of the river,
fringed with wood, and the horizon was
bounded by low moorland hills.

i From the top of that one,' said Alec, pointing
to one of the hills, ' you can catch a glint
of the sea. It shines like a looking-glass. I
would like to see it near at hand.'

Have you never been to the seaside V I
asked.

I must have betrayed my surprise by my
voice, for the boy blushed as he answered :

No ; I have been to Glasgow once or twice,
but I have never been to the salt water.'

(The seaside is always spoken of as ' the
coast ' or ' the salt water ' in this part of
the country.) ' I have never been beyond
Muirburn, except once or twice, in my life,' lie
added, as the look of discontent which I
fancied I had detected in his face grew
stronger.

'May I look at your books?' I asked, byway
of changing the subject.

1 Oh yes ; they're not much to look at,' he
said with a blush.

I took them up — a Greek grammar, and a
school-book containing simple passages of
Greek for translation, with a vocabulary at
the end of the volume.

Is this how you spend your leisure time V
I asked.

1 Not always — not very often answered
Alec. ' Often I am lazy and go in for Euclid
and algebra — I like them far better than
Greek. And sometimes,' he added with hesitation,
as if he were confessing a fault — ' sometimes
I waste my time with a novel

I would not call it wasting time if you
read good novels said I. ' What do you
read V

Only Sir Walter and old volumes of Blackwood
; they are all I have got.'

You could not do better, in my opinion,'
said I emphatically. ' Such books are just
as necessary for your education as a Greek
delectus.'

Do you think so V said the lad, with
wondering eyes. ' These are not my father's
notions.'

Shall I leave you to your work now ?' I
asked, rising from the heather on which we
were lying.

I like to have you to talk to,' said Alec,
half shyly, half frankly. ' I seldom do get
anyone to talk to.'

1 You have your sister,' I said involuntarily.

1 Margaret is not like me. She has her own
thoughts and her own ways ; besides, she is a
girl. Will you come and see the " Lover's
Leap 1" It's a bonny place.'

Where is it V

1 Only half a mile up the Logan.'

You mean the stream that runs through
the valley down there V

1 No ; that's the Nathan. The Logan falls
into it about a mile farther up.'

We were descending the knoll as we talked;
and on our way we saw a field where the
reapers were at work. As we approached, we
saw a tall form leave the field and come towards
us. It was Alec's father.

I think, Alec,' said the old man, ' you
would be better employed helping to stack the
corn, if you're too proud to take a hand at the
shearing, rather than walking about doing
nothing.'

The lad blushed furiously, and made no
answer.

1 Alec meant to have been at work over his
books,' said I ; ' but he was kind enough to
show me something; of the neighbourhood.
It doesn't matter in the least, Alec ; I can
easily find my way alone.'

Oh, if you have any need for the boy,
that's another matter,' said Mr. Lindsay.

I protested again that I could find my way
perfectly well, and moved off, while Alec
turned into the field with a set look about
his mouth that was not pleasant to see.

The cause of the discontent I had seen in
the lad's face was plain enough now. He is
treated like a child, as if he had no mind or
will of his own. I wonder how the boy will
turn out. It seems to me a toss-up ; or
rather, the chances are that he will break
away altogether, and ruin himself.

I went on my way to the bank of the
river, by the side of a double row of Scotch
firs. It was one of those perfect September
days when the air is still warm, when a thin
haze is hanging over all the land, when there
is no sound to be heard but now and then
the chirp of a bird, or the far-off lowing of
cattle — a day in which it is enough, and more
than enough, to sit still and drink in the
silent influences of earth and heaven, when

anything like occupation seems an insult to
the sweetness and beauty of nature. Across
the little river was a large plantation of firs,
growing almost to the water's edge ; and 1
could feel the balmy scent of them in the
air.

As I reached the river I overtook Margaret
Lindsay, who was walking a little way in
advance of me. She had a book under her
arm, an old volume covered in brown leather.
We greeted each other, and I soon found that
she was bound, like myself, for the ' Lover's
Leap.'

i I will show you the place,' she said ; ' we
must cross the river here.'

As she spoke she stepped on a large flat
stone that lay at the water's edge ; and I
saw that a succession of such stones, placed
at intervals of about a yard, made a path by
which the river could be crossed. The current
was pretty strong, and as the water was rushing
fast between the stones (which barely
showed their heads above the stream), I

hastened to offer Margaret my hand. But
the girl only glanced at me with a look of
surprise, and with the nearest approach to a
smile which I had seen in her face, she shook
her head and began to walk over the steppingstones
with as much composure as if she had
been moving across a floor. Now and then
she had to make a slight spring to gain the
next stone, and she did so with the ease and
grace of a fawn. I followed a little way
behind, and when we had gained the opposite
side we walked in single file along the riverbank,
till we came to the spot where the
Logan came tumbling and dancing down the
side of a rather steep hill to meet the larger
stream. The hill was covered with brushwood
and bracken, and a few scattered trees ;
but a path seemed to have been made through
the bushes, and up this path we began to
scramble. Once or twice I ventured to offer
Margaret my hand, but she declined my help,
saying that she could get on better alone.
After a few minutes of this climbing,

Margaret suddenly moved to one side, and
sprang down to a tiny morsel of gravelly
beach, at the side of the burn. I followed
her, and was fairly entranced by what I saw.
A little way above us the gorge widened,
allowing us to see the trees, which, growing
on either side of the brook, interlaced their
branches above it. From beneath the trees
the stream made a clear downward leap, of
perhaps thirty or forty feet, into a pool —
the pool at our feet — which was so deep that
it seemed nearly as black as ink. The music
of the waterfall filled the air so that we could
hardly catch the sound of each other's words ;
and if we moved to the farther end of the
little margin of beach, we heard, instead of
the noise of the waterfall, the sweet babbling
of the burn over its stony bed.

Do you often come here V I asked, as we
stood at the edge of the stream, some little
distance from the fall.

4 Yes, pretty often when I wish to be alone,
or to have an hour's quiet reading.'

As you do to-day,' said I ; ' that's as
much as to say that you want to have an
hour's quiet reading now.'

So I do said the girl calmly.

Or, in other words, that it is time for me
to take myself off.'

I did not mean that,' said Margaret, with
perfect placidity. ' Would you like to go upto
the top of the linn V

1 Very much,' said I, and we scrambled up
the bank to the upper level of the stream,
and gazed down upon the black rushing water
and the dark pool beneath, with its fringe of
cream-coloured foam.

So this is the " Lover's Leap," I remarked.


Yes,' said Margaret. ' They say that once
a young man was carrying off his sweetheart,
when her father and brothers pursued them.
The girl was riding on a pillion behind her
lover. As the only way of escape, he put
his horse at the gap over our heads — it must
have been narrower in those days than it is

dow — missed it, and both himself and the
lady were killed in the fall.'

Dreadful !' I exclaimed.

Of course it isn't true,' pursued Margaret
tranquilly.

1 Why not V I asked.

Oh, such stories never are ; they are all
romantic nonsense.'

1 How different your streams are from those
in the south,' said I, after a pause ; ' Tennyson's
description of a brook would hardly suit
this one.'

What is that V she inquired.

Don't you know it V I asked, letting
my surprise get the better of my good
manners.

1 No, I never heard it, : she said, without
the least tinge of embarrassment ; so I repeated
the well-known lines, to which Margaret
listened with her eyes still fixed on the
rushing water.

They are very pretty,' said the girl, when
I had finished ; ' but I should not care for a

vol. 1. 3

brook like that. I should think it would he
very much like a canal, wouldn't it % — only
smaller. I like my own brook better ; and I
like Burns's description of one better than
Tennyson's.'

Has Burns described a brook ? I wish
you would quote it to me,' said I.

Surely you know the lines,' said Margaret ;
they are in " Hallowed." '

I assured her I did not, and in a low clear
voice she repeated :

Whyles owe a linn the burnie plays,

As through the glen it "wimples ;
Whyles round a rocky scar it strays ;

Whyles in a will it dimples.
Whyles glittering' to the noontide rays,

Wi' bickering', dancing' dazzle,
Whyles cooking' underneath the braes,

Below the spreading hazel.'

I think they are beautiful lines, so far as I
understand them,' was my verdict. ' What
is " cooking," for example ? I know it does
not mean frying, or anything of that kind,
but '

I stopped, for the girl looked half offended

at my poor little attempt to be funny at the
expense of a Scotch word.

4 There is no word for it in English, that I
know of,' she said. ' It means crouching
down, contentedly, in a comfortable place. If
you saw a hen on a windy day under a stook of
corn, you might say it was " cooking " there.'

1 Thank you,' I replied ; ' I won't forget.
And now I must be off, for I know you came
here to read.'

If in my vanity I had hoped for permission
to remain, I was disappointed. Nothing of
the kind was forthcoming.

I hope you have got an interesting book,'
said I, wondering what the old brown-leather
volume could be.

You might not think it very interesting,'
answered Margaret, raising her lovely eyes to
mine, as tranquilly as if she had been speaking
of a newspaper. ' It is only a volume of old
sermons. Good-bye till dinner-time, Mr.
Blake ;' and so saying she turned to seek her
favourite nook, at the side of the waterfall.

3—2

Old sermons !' I exclaimed to myself as
I left her. ' What a singular girl she is.
Fancy '

But my reflections were cut short, for
I ' lifted up mine eyes ' and saw a mountain
ash — they call them 4 rowan trees ' here — full
of berries.

Sophy, such a tree is the most beautiful
object in nature ; there is no way of describing
it, no way of putting its beauty into
words. If you doubt what I say, look well at
the next one you see, and then tell me if I am
wrong. Good-night.

Ever yours affectionately,

Hubert Blake.

Pes. — I mean to get M. to sit for her
portrait tomorrow ; but I see that in order
to gain this end I shall have to use all my
skill in diplomacy, both with the young lady
and with her respected father.

H. B.

THE THIRD LETTER.

Hubert Blake to Sophy Meredith.

The Castle Farm, Muikburn, Neb.,
September 17.

My dear Sophy,

It did not occur to me, when I agreed
to consider myself Mr. Lindsay's guest until
to-day, that the arrangement would entail my
spending the greater part of a glorious autumn
day within the walls of the Muirburn Free
Kirk — but you shall hear. I suspected, from
something which fell from my host at breakfast,
that the excuses which I intended to
offer for my not accompanying the family to
church would not be considered sufficient ;
but when I ventured to hint at something of

the kind my remark was received by such
a horrified stare (not to speak of the look of
consternation on Margaret's beautiful face),
that I saw that to have made any further
struggle for freedom would have been a positive
breach of good manners. I submitted,
therefore, with as good a grace as I could ;
and I was afterwards given to understand that
to have absented myself from ' ordinances '
that Sunday would have been little short of a
scandal, seeing that it happened to be ' Sacrament
Sunday.'

If you ask a Scotchman how many sacraments
there are, he will answer, if he remembers
the Shorter Catechism, two. If,
however, he is taken unawares, he will answer,
one. Baptism is popularly considered to be a
mere ceremony, of no practical importance to
the infant recipient of it. It is regarded
chiefly as an outward sign and token of the
respectability of the parents, since it is only
administered to the children of well-behaved
people. ' The Sacrament ' means the Lord's

Supper, which is administered in Presbyterian
churches generally four times, but in country
places often only twice a year. This, as it
happened, was one of the ' quarterly ' Communions,
and as such popularly considered as
of less dignity than those which occur at the
old-fashioned seasons of July and January.

We set off about a quarter past ten in the
heavy, two-wheeled dog-cart which brought
me here. I manifested an intention of walking
to the village, and asked Alec to accompany
me, but Mr. Lindsay intervened and
protested strongly against my proposal. He
said it would not be ' seemly,' by which I
suppose he meant that it would be inconsistent
with the dignity of the family, if a guest
of his house were to be seen going to church
on foot ; but I could not help suspecting that
he envied Alec and myself the sinful pleasure
which a four-mile walk on so lovely a morning
would have afforded us.

I can see that my elderly cousin (three
times removed) is one of those people who are

thoroughly unhappy unless they get their own
way in everything, and never enjoy themselves
more than when they have succeeded in
spoiling somebody's pleasure. I mentally resolved
to have as little to do with the old
gentleman as I possibly could, and mounted to
the front seat of the dog-cart, which, as the
place of honour, had been reserved for me.

As the old mare trotted soberly along, I
could not help noticing the silence that seemed
to brood over the fields. I have remarked the
same thing in England, but somehow a Scotch
Sunday seems even more still and quiet than
an English one. Is it merely a matter of
association and sentiment ? Or is it that we
miss on Sundays hundreds of trifling noises
which on week-days fall unconsciously upon
our ears ?

Presently we began to pass little knots of
people trudging along churchyards. The old
women carried their Bibles wrapped up in
their pocket-handkerchiefs to preserve them
from the dust, along with the usual sprig of

southern-wood. The men, without exception,
wore suits of black, shiny broadcloth. They
seemed to be all farmers. Very few of the
weavers or labourers have any religion
whatever (so far as outward rites go), anymore
than your unworthy cousin ; and I can't
help thinking that the necessity for shiny
black clothes has something to do with it.
The women are different ; as usual in all
countries, and in all creeds, they are more
devout than the men.

On the way we passed a group of young
women just inside a field not far from the
town, who were sitting about and stooping in
various attitudes. I could not conceive what
they were about, and turned to my host for
an explanation.

He gravely informed me that they were
putting on their shoes. Being accustomed
throughout the week to dispense with these
inventions of modern effeminacy, they find it
extremely irksome to walk for miles over
dusty roads in shoes and stockings. They

therefore carry them in their hands till they
reach some convenient field near the town
which is the object of their journey, and then,
sitting down on the grass, they array themselves
in that part of their raiment before
going into church.

We were now close to the town, and the
sweet-toned little bell which I had heard on
the evening of my arrival, along with a larger
one of peculiarly strident tone in the belfry of
the United Presbyterian Kirk, were ' doing
their best.' There were whole processions of
gigs or clog-carts such as that in which we
were seated. No other style of vehicle was to
be seen.

I was rather amused to see that the corner
at which on week-days the weavers stand in
their shirt-sleeves was not left unoccupied.
The place was crowded with farmers, most of
them highly respectable-looking men, clad in
long black coats and tall hats. As to the hats,
by the way, they were of all shapes which
have been in fashion for the last twenty years,

some of them taller than I should have supposed
it possible for a hat to be.

We alighted at the door of an inn, and I
noticed that the inn yard was crowded with
'machines i.e., dog-carts and gigs, which I
thought pretty fair evidence of the prosperity
of the country. Then we proceeded to our
place of worship. In the little vestibule was
a tall three-legged stool covered with a white
napkin, and upon this rested a large pewter
plate to receive the contributions of the faithful.
Two tall farmers, dressed in swallow-tail
coats, tall hats, and white neckties of the old-fashioned,
all-round description, were standing
over the treasury, and in one of them I recognised
my acquaintance of the coach. I was
prepared to nod him a greeting, but he preserved
the most complete immobility of countenance,
and kept his gaze fixed on the horizon
outside the church door, as if no nearer object
were worthy of his attention.

I found the church filled with dreadfully
narrow pews of unpainted wood, and facing

them an immensely tall pulpit, with a subsidiary
pulpit in front of the other at a lower
elevation. There were carpets on the staircase
which led up to the pulpits, and the desks
of both were covered with red cloth, with
elaborate tassels. From either side of the
upper pulpit there projected slender, curving
brass rods about two feet long, terminating in
broad pieces of brass, fixed at right angles to
the rods. What the use of this apparatus was
I could not imagine. A steep gallery ran
round three sides of the little building ; and in
front of the pulpit was a table covered with a
white cloth.

I was not so uncharitable as to suppose that
those who came here to worship were guilty of
any intentional irreverence, but certainly they
carried out the theory that no reverence ought
to be paid to sacred places very completely.
No male person removed his hat till he was
well within the doors ; and in many cases men
did not uncover themselves till they were comfortably
seated. No one so much as thought

of engaging in any private devotions. I was
surprised to see that the congregation (which
was, for the size of the building, a large one)
was composed almost entirely of women and
children ; but as soon as the bells stopped
ringing, a great clatter of heavy boots was
heard in the vestibule, and the heads of
families, whom I had seen standing at the
corner, poured into the place. Like wise men,
they had been taking the benefit of the fresh
air till the last available moment.

Hardly had the farmers taken their seats
when a man appeared, dressed entirely in black,
carrying an enormous Bible, with two smaller
books placed on the top of it. Ascending the
pulpit stairs, he placed one of the smaller books
on the desk of the lower pulpit ; and then,
going a few steps higher, he deposited the
other two volumes on the desk of the higher
one. He then retired, and immediately the
minister, a tall, dark man, with very long
black hair, wearing an immense gown of
black silk, black gloves, and white bands

such as barristers wear, entered the church
and ascended to the pulpit. He was followed
by an older man dressed in a stuff gown,
who went into the lower pulpit. Last
of all came the door-keeper, who also went
up the pulpit stairs and carefully closed the
pulpit door after the minister. The man in
the stuff gown was left to shut his own door,
and he did so with a bang, as if in protest at
the want of respect shown to him, and his
inferior position generally.

The ritual part, as I may call it, of the service
being over, the minister rose and gave out
a psalm, just as old Mr. Lindsay does at
prayers ; and as he did so, the man in the stuff
gown got up, and pulling out two thin blackboards
from under his desk, he skilfully fixed
one of them on the end of the brass rod which
projected from the right-hand side of the pulpit ;
and then, turning half round, he fixed the other
upon the similar rod on the left-hand side. On
each of these boards I read, in large gilt letters,
the word ' Martyrdom I could not imagine,

even then, the meaning of this ceremony ; but
Alec informed me afterwards that it was meant
to convey to the congregation the name of the
tune to which the psalm was to be sung, so that
they might turn it up in their tune books, if
they felt so inclined.

When the minister had read the verses
which he wished to have sung, he gave out
the number of the psalm again in a loud voice,
and read the first line a second time, so that
there might be no mistake. He then sat
down, and the little man beneath him, rising
up, began to sing. I very nearly got into
trouble at this point by rising to my feet,
forgetting for the moment that the orthodox
Scotch fashion is to sit while singing and to
stand at prayer. (I am told that in the towns
a good many churches have adopted the habit
of standing up to sing and keeping their seats
during the prayer ; but older Presbyterians
look upon this custom, as, if not exactly
heretical, yet objectionable, as tending in the
direction of ritualism, prelacy, and other

abominations.) For a line or two the precentor
was left to sing by himself, then one or
two joined in, and presently the whole body
of the congregation took up the singing. I
was surprised to find what a good effect
resulted — it was at least infinitely better than
that of an ordinary choir of mixed voices led
by a vile harmonium or American organ.
Many of the voices were rough, no doubt ;
and the precentor seemed to make it a point
of honour to keep half a note ahead of everybody
else ; but, in spite of this, the general
effect of so many sonorous voices singing in
unison was decidedly impressive.

As soon as the four prescribed verses had
been sung, the minister rose up to pray, and
everybody got up at the same time. You
know I am not easily shocked, Sophy ; and
hitherto, though I had seen much that was
ludicrous and strange, I had not seen anything
that I considered specially objectionable ; but
1 must say that the behaviour of these good
folks at the prayer which followed did shock

me. They simply stood up and stared at
each other ; perhaps I noticed it more particularly
because I, being a stranger, came in
for a good share of attention. Many of the
men kept their hands in their pockets ; some
were occupied taking observations of the
weather, through the little windows of plain
glass, half the time. The minister, I noticed,
kept his hands clasped and his eyes tightly
closed ; and some of his flock, among whom
were my host and his daughter, followed his
example ; but the majority, as I have said,
simply stared around them. They may have
been giving, meanwhile, a mental assent to
the truths which the minister was enunciating
; I dare say some of them were ; but as
far as one could judge from outward appearances
they were no more engaged in praying
than they were engaged in ploughing. The
prayer lasted a very long time ; when it was
over we heard a chapter read, and after another
part of a psalm was sung the sermon began.
This was evidently the event of the day, to
vol. 1. 4

which everything said or done hitherto had
been only an accessory ; and everybody settled
himself down in his seat as comfortably as he
could.

From what I had heard of Scotch sermons
I was prepared for a well-planned logical
discourse, and the sermon to which I now
listened fulfilled that description. But
then it was, to my mind at least, entirely
superfluous. Granting the premisses (as
to which no one in the building, excepting
perhaps my unworthy self, entertained the
slightest doubt), the conclusion followed as a
matter of course, and hardly needed a demonstration
lasting fifty minutes by my watch.
I was so tired with the confinement in a
cramped position and a close atmosphere that
I very nearly threw propriety to the winds
and left the building. Fortunately, however,
just before exhausted nature succumbed, the
preacher began what he called the 4 practical
application of the foregoing,' and I knew that
the time of deliverance was at hand. And I

must say that, judging from the fervour with
which the concluding verses of a psalm were
sung, I was not alone in my feeling of relief.
As soon as the psalm was ended everybody
rose, and the preacher, stretching out his arms
over his flock, pronounced a solemn benediction.
The ' Amen ' was hardly out of the good man's
mouth when a most refreshing clatter arose.
Xo one resumed his seat. Everybody hurried
into the narrow passages, which were in an
instant so crammed that moving in them was
hardly possible. Here, again, I am convinced
that there was no intentional irreverence ; it
was merely a custom arising from the extremely
natural desire of breathing the fresh
air after the confinement we had undergone.
As we passed out I overheard several casual
remarks about the sermon, which was discussed
with the utmost freedom.

Maister McLeod was a wee thocht dry the
day,' said one farmer.

1 But verra guide — verra soon,' responded
his neighbour.

I thocht he might ha' made rather mair
o' that last pint,' said the first speaker.

Weel — maybe,' was the cautious reply.

We went over to the inn for a little refreshment,
and in three-quarters of an hour the
bells began to jangle once more. This was
more than I had bargained for ; but there was
no help for it. I could not offend my host by
retreating ; and besides, I was desirous of
seeing for myself what a Scottish Communion
Service was like.

After the usual singing of a few verses of a
psalm, and prayer, the minister descended
from the pulpit, and took his place beside the
table beneath, on which tiers had now been
placed two loaves of bread, and four large
pewter cups. From this position he delivered
an address, and after it a prayer. He then
took a slice from one of the loaves of bread
which were ready cut before him, broke off a
morsel for himself, and handed the piece of
bread to one of several elderly men, called
4 elders,' who were seated near him. This

man broke off a morsel in the same way, and
handed the remainder of the bread to another,
and so on till all the elders had partaken.
Four of the elders then rose, and two went
down one side of the church, and two down
the other side, one of each pair bearing a
plate covered with a napkin, and holding
a loaf of bread cut in slices, which they
distributed among those of the congregation
who were sitting in the centre of the
church, and who alone were about to
take part in the rite. The ceremony is, in
fact, very much, or altogether, the same
as the ' love-feasts ' among the Methodists ;
except that the Methodists use water while
the Presbyterians use wine. There is nothing
of the sacramental character left in the ordinance
; it is avowedly a commemorative and
symbolic rite, and nothing more.

In the meantime perfect silence reigned in
the little building. There was literally nota
sound to be heard but the chirping of one
or two sparrows outside the partly-opened

windows. Have you ever noticed how impressive
an interval of silence is at any meeting
of men, especially when they are met
together for a religious purpose ? Silence is
never vulgar ; and it almost seems as if any
form of worship in which intervals of silence
form a part were redeemed thereby from
vulgarity. Whatever may have been the
reason, this service impressed me, I must
confess, in a totally different way from that
in which the long sermon in the morning
had done.

Suddenly a gentle falsetto voice fell upon
my ear ; and looking up, I saw that the
elders, having finished their task, had returned
to the table, and that a little white-haired
man had risen to address the people.
He wore no gown, but he had on a pair of
bands, like his friend Mr. McLeod, which
gave him a comical sort of air. This, however,
as well as the curious falsetto or whining
tone in which his voice was pitched, was forgotten
when one began to listen. The old

man had chosen for his text one of the most
sacred of all possible subjects to a Christian ;
and no one who heard him could doubt that
he was speaking from his heart. A deeper
solemnity seemed to fall upon the silent
gathering. I glanced round, but whatever
emotions were excited by the touching address,
none of them were suffered to appear
on the faces of the people. On Alec Lindsay's
face, alone, I noticed a look of rapt
attention; his sister's beautiful features seemed
as if they had been carved in marble.

Before the old minister sat down he raised
one of the large cups (which had been previously
filled with wine from a flagon), and
handed it to one of the elders, who, after
drinking from it, passed it to his neighbour.
After the ministers and elders had tasted the
wine, two of the latter rose, and each proceeded
down one of the passages, bearing
a large pewter cup, while he was followed
by one of his fellows carrying a flagon. The
cups were handed to the people still sitting

in the pews, exactly as the bread had been,
and circulated from one to another till all
the communicants had partaken of the wine.
Then followed another address, from the black-haired
gentleman this time ; and with a prayer
and a little more singing the ceremony came
to an end.

As we emerged into the afternoon sunshine,
and waited for ' the beast to be put
in,' as the innkeeper called it, I could not be
sorry that I had sacrificed my inclinations
and had seen something of the practice of
religion in this country.

But I dare say you have had enough of
my experiences for the present — so, goodnight.


Your affectionate cousin,

Hubert Blake.

THE FOURTH LETTER.

Hubert Blake to Sophy Meredith.

The Castle Farm, Muirburn, Neb.
Oct. 5, 187-.

My dear Sophy,

Yesterday there was a ' feeing fair '
at Muirburn, and under Alec's guidance I
paid a visit to the scene of dissipation.

But, first of all, I wish to tell you of a
curious Scotch custom that fell under my
notice the evening before. Alec and I were
returning from a short ramble in the ' gloaming,'
i.e., the twilight, when we happened to
meet a young couple walking side by side.
As soon as they caught sight of us they
separated, and walked on opposite sides of

the road till we had passed. This, it seems,
was according to local ideas of what is proper
under such circumstances. As we went by I
glanced at the girl, and saw that she was one
of Mr. Lindsay's farm servants.

So Jessie has got a sweetheart,' I remarked.

Very likely,' said Alec, with a laugh ; ' but
I don't think Tom Archibald is her lad. He
is only the " black-frit." '

< The what f

'The " black-fuit." Dae ye no ken — I
mean, don't ye know what that is V

On confessing my ignorance, I learned that
the etiquette of courtship, as understood
among the peasantry of south-west Scotland,
demands that no young ploughman shall
present himself at the farm on which the
young woman who has taken his fancy may
happen to be employed ; if he did so, it would
expose the girl to a good deal of bantering.
He invariably secures the services of a friend,
on whom he relies not only for moral support,
but for actual assistance in his enterprise.

At the end of the working-day, when the
dairymaid, as we should call them in
England, have ' cleaned themselves,' and are
chatting together in a little group at the door
of the byre, John, the friend, makes his appearance,
and presently contrives to engage
the attention of Jeanie, who is the object of
his friend's devotion. The other girls good-naturedly
leave them alone, and John suggests
that ' they might tak' a bit danger as
far as the yet ' (i.e., the gate). Jeanie
blushes, and picking up the corner of her
apron as she goes, accompanies the ambassador
to the gate and into the lane beyond.
There, by pure accident, they meet Archie,
and he and John greet each other in the same
way as if they had not met each other for a
week. The three saunter on together, under
the hawthorn, till suddenly John remembers
that he will be ' expect hame,' and takes his
departure, leaving Archie to plead his cause as
best he may.

I declared my conviction that the custom

sprang from unworthy fears of an action for
breach of promise ; but Alec was almost
offended by this imputation on the good faith
of his countrymen, and assured me most
seriously that that kind of litigation was unheard
of in Kyleshire.

Next day we went to the fair. The object
of this gathering is to enable farmers to meet
and engage their farm-servants, male and
female ; it takes place twice a year, the
hiring being always for six months.

The village, or •' the toon,' as they always
call it here, was in a state of great excitement.
There was quite a crowd in the middle of the
street, chiefly composed of young women in
garments of many colours, in the most
enviable condition of physical health ; and
young giants of ploughmen in their best
clothes, with carefully oiled hair. On the
outskirts of the crowd (which was as dense as
four hundred people could possibly make it),
were a few ques, i.e., young cows, and a few
rough farm-horses. The public-houses were

simply crammed as full as they would hold.
There was a swing, and a merry-ground,
and a cheap Jack. There was also a sort of
lottery, conducted on the most primitive principles.
You paid sixpence, plunged your hand
into a little wooden barrel revolving on a
spindle, and pulled out a morsel of peculiarly
dirty paper bearing a number. This entitled
you to a comb, or an accordion with three
notes, or a penny doll, as the case might be.

What chiefly impressed me was the sober,
not to say dismal, character of the whole thing.
I saw no horse-play, no dancing, no kiss-entering,
or games of any kind. One might have
thought it was an ordinary market-day, but for
the crowd and the cracking of the caps on the
miniature rifles with which the lads were shooting
for nuts. This, in fact, was the only
popular amusement ; and, as all the boys and
young men took part in it, and all held the
muzzle of their weapon within twelve or fourteen
inches of the mark, I perceived that
every proprietor of a nut-barrow would have

been ruined if he had not secured himself
against bankruptcy by prudently twisting the
barrels of his firearms.

There was, by the way, one other amusement
besides the shooting for nuts : every
young man presented every girl of his acquaintance
with a handful of nuts or sweetmeats,
the degree of his regard being indicated
by the quantity offered. I convinced myself
that some of the prettier and more popular
girls must have carried home several pounds'
weight of saccharine matter.

We did not leave the village till it was
getting dark and the naphtha lamps were
blazing at the stalls. Probably the fun was
only beginning, but we did not stay to witness
it. Happily, the drinking seemed to be confined
to great, large-limbed farmers, on whom
half a bottle of whisky seemed to make not
the slightest impression, beyond loosening
their tongues. As the night advanced, however,
a change must have occurred, for I was
told afterwards that Hamilton of Barefoot (my

friend of the coach and of the offertory) had
been seen sitting upright in his gig, thrashing
with all his might, and in perfect silence, a
saddler's hobby-horse, which some wag had
put between the shafts in place of his steady
old ' roadster.'

On the way home Alec and I had some confidential
conversation as to his future.

Mr. Blake,' he began, ' what do you think
I ought to be V

How can I tell, Alec V I answered ; l what
would you like to be V

4 That's just what I don't know,' said the
lad gloomily. ' I don't know what I am fit
for, or whether I am fit for anything. How
can I tell, before I have seen anything of the
world, what part I should try to play in it V

You have no strong taste in any direction
V

No ; I can't say that I have. I like the
country, but I am sick of the loneliness of my
life here. I long to be out in the world, to be
up and doing something, I hardly know what.

You see, I know so little. What I should like
is to go to college for the next three or four
years — to Glasgow, or Edinburgh — and by
that time I would have an idea what I could
do, and what I should not attempt.'

But do you think.' I said, with some
hesitation, ' that you are ready to go to
college V

1 Why not ? Don't you think I am old
enough ? I am almost nineteen. I dare say
you think I am too ignorant ; but there are
junior classes for beginners. I can do Virgil
and Cicero, and I think I would manage
Xenophon and Homer.'

What is the difficulty then V

My father thinks it would be wasting
money to send me to college, unless I were
to be a minister or a doctor, and I don't want
to be either the one or the other.'

1 But you must be something, you know.'

Yes, but I won't be a minister. Do you
know that I was once very nearly in the way
of making my fortune through paraffin oil.

and lost my chance through an ugly bull-pup
V

4 Really ? How was that V

4 Mr. Lindsay of Drumleck '

1 Is he a relation of yours V I interposed.

(It was a surprise to me to hear that I
was, ever so distantly, related to a millionnaire.)


He is my father's uncle,' said Alec. ' Well,
last year he sent for me to pay him a visit,
and he had hinted to my father that if I
pleased him he would " make a man of me. 1 '
I didn't please him. The very day I went to
his house, I happened to be standing near a
table in the drawing-room on which there was
a precious vase of some sort or other. There
was a puppy under the table that I didn't see ;
I trod on its tail, and the brute started up
with a yowl and flew at my leg. I stooped
down to drive it off, and managed to knock
over the table, vase and all. You should
have seen the old man's face ! He very
nearly ordered me out of the house. I don't

vol. 1. 5

believe he particularly cared for the thing,
but then you see he had given flve-and-
twenty pounds for it. It ended my chances
so far as he is concerned at any rate ; and,
to tell the truth, I wasn't particularly sorry.
I shouldn't care to spend my life in making
oil.'

But, my dear fellow, it seems to me you
are too particular. Take my advice, and if
you have an opportunity of getting into
your grand-uncle's good books again, don't
lose it.'

Oh ! he has taken another in my place, a
fellow Semple — I don't think much of him.
He is a grand-nephew, too. I shouldn't
wonder if he makes him his heir ; and I
don't care. I don't want to be a Glasgow
merchant, any more than I want to be a
Kyleshire farmer.'

Ah ! Alec, are you smitten too V I said.
You want to climb, and you will not think
that you may fall. I didn't know you were
ambitious.'

4 1 want to go into a wider world than this
one ;' said the lad, and his eyes flashed, and
his voice trembled with excitement. ' I want
to learn, first of all ; then I want to find what
I can do best, and try to make a name for

myself. I want to rise to the level of oh !

what am I talking about V

He broke off abruptly, as if ashamed of his
own enthusiasm.

For my own part I felt sorry for him. I
always do, somehow, when I see a brave
young spirit eager to meet and conquer fortune
— a ship setting sail from port, colours
all flying, guns firing, crowds cheering. How
many reach the harbour % How many founder
at sea ?' One is wrecked in this way, another
in that. One gallant bark meets with head-winds
nearly all the way ; another is run
down by a rival and is heard of no more ; a
third, after baffling many a wintry gale, goes
down in smooth water, within sight of land.
How many unsuccessful men are there in the
world for every one who succeeds \ And of

5—2

those who gain their heart's desire, how many
can say, 1 1 am satisfied ' ?

October 29.

I was fairly amazed to find this unfinished
letter, begun three weeks ago, between the
leaves of my blotter this morning. Another
example of my incurable laziness !

My stay here is almost at an end. My
large picture is nearly completed. My portrait
of Margaret is finished ; and though it
is not what I would like it to be, I think it is
the best thing I have done yet. I leave tomorrow
morning, and hope to be with you ina
day or two. Alec goes with me as far as
Glasgow, for he has persuaded his father to
send him to college — or rather, the old man
has yielded to the lad's discontent, backed by
my expressions of the high opinion I hold of
his abilities. I fancy Mr. Lindsay thinks his
son will yet be an ornament to the Free Kirk,
but, if I am not very much mistaken, Alec
will never change his mind on this point.

We had a regular family council, at which
the matter was settled. The old man sat on
his chair, bolt upright, his hands folded before
him. Alec sat near by while his future was
being decided, carelessly playing with a paperknife
on the table. Margaret was, as usual, at
her sewing ; but I could tell by little signs in
her face, that for once her composure was more
than half assumed.

You had your chance a year ago,' said the
old man in a harsh unyielding tone, ' and you
threw it away. Why should I stint myself,
and go back from my task of buying back the
land, to give you another one V

1 I don't wish you to stint yourself,' said the
boy half sullenly.

1 I don't want to injure your sister,' said his
father, in the same tone.

4 Do you think / wish Margaret injured ?
If you cannot spare five-ands twenty pounds
without inconvenience, there's an end of it.'

It's not the first winter only,' began Mr.
Lindsay.

But I can support myself after that,' interrupted
Alec ; ' I can get a bursary ; I can
get teaching '

You'll have to give up idling away your
time over Blackwood then,' said the old man,
with a grim smile.

Alec's face Hushed, and he made no reply.

Then, having proved that Alec's wish was
wholly unreasonable and impracticable, Mr.
Lindsay gave his consent to the proposal, and,
to cut short further discussion, told Margaret
to bid the servants come to ' worship.'

I was rather surprised that Margaret had
said nothing on her brother's behalf, and a
little disappointed that she had not declared
that her own interests ought not to stand in
the way of her brother's education ; but I
found that I had misjudged her.

Well, I owe this to Margaret,' said Alecto
me. as soon as we found ourselves alone
together.

To your sister V I said, with some surprise.


Yes ; my father thinks more of her
opinion than he does of anybody else's, and
I know she has been urging him to let me
go. As for that about injuring her, it is
all stuff. Do you think I would take the
money, if I didn't know my father could
afford it perfectly well 1 ?'

I hardly knew what reply to make to this,
and Alec went on :

1 There will be a row between them one of
these days. My father will want her to marry
Semple. I know he is in love with her ; and
Margaret won't have him.'

I should think not, indeed !' I exclaimed.

I had seen this young fellow, and I confess
I took a violent dislike to him. He came
over to the farm one afternoon, and I thought
I had never seen a more vulgar creature. He
was dressed in the latest fashion — on a visit
to a farmhouse, too ! He had a coarse,
commonplace face, a ready, officious manner,
and the most awful accent I ever heard on the
tongue of any human being. I cannot say I

admire the Scotch accent ; it is generally harsh
and disagreeable ; but when it is joined to an
affectation of correctness, when every syllable
is carefully articulated, and every r is given
its full force and effect, the result is overpowering.
The young man was good enough
to give me a considerable share of his attention,
and I could hardly conceal my dislike of him.
He patronized old Mr. Lindsay, was loftily
condescending to Alec, and treated Margaret
as if she ought to have been highly flattered
by the admiration of so fine a gentleman.

Your respected cousin seemed to me as if
he were greatly in need of a kicking,' I said
to Alec.

1 If he gets even a share of Uncle James's
property he will be a rich man,' said Alec
thoughtfully. 'My father would think it a
sin for Maggie to refuse a man with a hundred
thousand pounds.'

So would a good many fathers, I suppose,'
said I.

I am sorry to see Alec's attitude to his

father ; yet I fear he judges the old man only
too accurately.

For the last few days we have had nothing
but rain. Rain, rain, rain, till the leaves
were fairly washed off the trees, and the very
earth seemed as if it must be sodden to the
rocks beneath. Yesterday afternoon I felt
tired of being shut up in the large bare
room which I have been using as a studio,
so I put on a thick suit, and went out fora
stretch in the midst of a perfect deluge.
I crossed the river by a stone bridge, about
a mile lower down, as the stepping-stones were
covered, and soon I got to a wide expanse of
country, composed of large sodden green fields,
barely reclaimed from the moor, and even now,
in spite of drains, partly overgrown with
rushes. There were no fences ; and the hardy
cattle wandered at will over the land.

It was inexpressibly dreary. There was
little or no wind — no clouds in the sky —
only a lead coloured heaven from which the
rain fell incessantly. There was not a house,

not a tree, not a hedgerow in sight ; and the
rain-laden atmosphere hid the horizon.

Suddenly I heard the noise of singing, the
singing of a child. I was fairly startled, and
looked round, wondering where the sound
could come from. I was on the border
between the moor and the reclaimed land ;
and there was literally nothing in sight but
the earth, the sky, and the rain, except what
looked like a small heap of turf left by the
peat cutters. Could some stray child be
hidden behind it ? If so, I thought, its life
must be in clanger.

I hurried up to the mound of seats, and as
1 did so, the sound of the song became
stronger. Then it ceased, and the little
singer began a fresh melody :

Behind yon hills where Sugar flows,
'Man muir an' mosses mony, 0,
The wintry sun the day has closed '

He stopped suddenly as he caught sight of
me, and a fine collie which had been lying
beside him made a dash at me.

1 D0011, Swallow ! Lie toon, sir !' cried
the child, and the dog obeyed at once.

It was not a heap of seats, as I had supposed,
but a tiny hut, just large enough to
hold a boy sitting upright, ingeniously built
of dry seats. It was open to the east, the
lee side, and was quite impervious to the
weather. The little fellow seemed to be
about twelve years of age, a stout, rosy-cheeked
laddie, clad in an immense Scotch
bonnet and a tattered gray plaid ; and his
little red bare feet peeped out beneath his
corduroys.

What on earth are you doing here, child V
I exclaimed.

Eh V asked the boy, looking up in my
face with surprise.

Why are you here ? Why are you not at
home V

1 Man, I'm herding.'

1 Herding what V

1 The skye.'

At that moment some of the young cattle

took it into their heads to cross the ditch
which separated their territory from the moor,
and the boy with a ' Here, Swallow F sent
the dog bounding after the ' sticks.'

1 And do you stay here all alone V

'Ay.'

All day long V

Ou, ay.'

Poor little fellow !' was on my lips, but
I did not utter the words. The child was
healthy and strong, and not, apparently, unhappy.
He held a ' gully ' in one hand, and
a bit of wood, which he had been whittling
while he sang, in the other. Why should I,
by expressing my pity for his solitary
condition, make him discontented with his
lot?

Fortunately I had in my pocket a few
coppers, which I presented to him. You
should have seen the joy that lighted up
the child's face ! He looked at the treasure
shyly, as if afraid to touch it, so I had to
force it into his hand. I don't think I ever

saw before such an expression of pure unalloyed
delight on a human countenance.
He was so happy that he forgot to thank
arne.

What will you do with them V I
asked.

He opened his hand and pointed to the
pennies one after another.

I'll buy sweeties wi' that ane, an' — an'
boots wi' that ane, an' — an' — an' a petrie wi'
that ane ; an' I'll give ane to Annie, and I'll
lay by twa !'

'Prudent young Scotchman,' said I; 'and
pray, what are " boots "? Marbles, I suppose.
And what is a " petrie "?'

The boy thought I was laughing at him.

1 Div ye no ken that V he asked, with some
suspiciousness and a dash of contempt.

I assured him I did not.

1 Ye tient up wi' a string, an' billet on the
road, an' it gangs soon' soon' asleep.'

Oh, a top you mean.'

1 A petrie,' persisted he.

1 Ah, well ; it's the same thing. Good-day,
my boy,' said I.

The little fellow got up, draped as he was
in his ragged plaid, and putting one hand
with the precious pennies into his pocket,
solemnly extended to me the other.

I dare say,' said 1 to myself, as I looked
back and saw the child counting over his
treasure once more with eager eyes, ' I daresay
there isn't a happier creature this day
between Land's End and John Groats, than
this herd-boy, in his lonely hut on the sodden,
dreary moorland !'

And so it is, all the world over. I should
think myself very hardly used by fortune,
if I had to live alone in a grimy city for six
months on five-ands thirty pounds, and had to
get up every day before dawn to grind away
at Latin and Greek ; yet here is young Lindsay
with his blue eyes ready to leap out of
his head with excitement and delight at the
bare prospect of it ! It is a curious world.
But I must look after my packing ; for in

order to reach Glasgow tomorrow, we must
be stirring long before daylight. Till we
meet, then,

Your affectionate cousin,

Hubert.

THE SHIP SETS SAIL.

A sudden change in the weather had whitened
the fields of the Castle Farm, and covered the
puddles in the narrow lane with thin clear
sheets of ice. Little or nothing was said at
the breakfast table ; but as Alec Lindsay went
into the empty kitchen to fasten a card on his
little cow-hide trunk, his sister followed him,
and stood over him in silence till one of the
men came in, lifted the box, and carried it
away.

1 You will write home every week, won't
you, Alec V she said.

Every week, Maggie ! what in the world
shall I get to say V

■ Tell us what your life is like, whether

your lodgings are comfortable, what sort of
people you take up with.'

1 Well ; all right.'

1 And, Alec, you had better write to father
and me time about ; and when you write tome
you can send a little scrap for myself as
well.'

That you needn't show to anybody ? I
thought that was against your principles,
Meg. Don't mind me, I was only making
fun of you,' he added, suddenly throwing his
arms round his sister's neck ; ' of course I will
send you a little private note now and then.
Don't cry, Maggie

1 I'm not crying

Yes, you are.'

1 It will be very lonely without you, Alec,
all the long winter.'

1 I almost wish I weren't going, for your
sake ; but I know you have helped me to get
away. Maggie, and it was awfully kind of
you.'

Here Mr. Lindsay's voice was heard calling

vol. i. 6

out that the travellers would miss the coach if
they did not set off at once.

Nonsense ! We shall only have to wait
at the roadside for twenty minutes,' said Alec
under his breath. But he gave his sister
a last hug, shook hands with his father, and
mounted the back-seat of the dog-cart, where
his trunk and Blake's portmanteau were already
deposited.

In another minute they were off; and Alec,
looking back, saw the light of the lantern
shine on the tall figures of his gray haired
father and his sister, framed in the old stone
doorway as in a picture.

The stable was passed, the long byre where
the cows were already stirring, the stack-yard,
the great hay-rick, the black peat-stack hanging
the outmost gable ; and as each familiar
building and well remembered corner faded in
turn from view, Alec in his heart bade them
good-bye. He felt as if he would never seethe
old place again — never, at least, would it
be to him what it had been. When he came

again it would be merely for a visit, like any
other stranger. The subtle, invisible chains
that bind us to this or that corner of mother
earth, once broken, can hardly be reformed ;
aod Alec felt that no future leave-taking of
the Farm would be like this one ; henceforth
it would belong not to the present, but to the
past.

As the travellers had foreseen when they
set out, they had a good twenty minutes to
wait at the corner of the lane till the coach
came up ; then came the long, monotonous
drive, the horses' hoofs keeping time to ' Auld
Lang Syne ' in Alec's head all the way ; then
the railway journey. Blake had, as a matter
of course, taken a first-class ticket. Alec had,
equally as a matter of course, taken a third-class
one. When this was discovered, Blake
took his seat beside his friend, laughing at the
uneasiness depicted on Alec's face, and declined
without a second thought the lad's
proposal that he too should travel first-class
and pay the difference of fare. But the

6—2

incident caused Alec acute mental discomfort,
which lasted till they reached Glasgow.

When the train steamed into the terminus,
it seemed as if it were entering a huge gloomy
cavern, where the air was composed of smoke,
mist, and particles of soot. The frost still
held the fields in Kyleshire ; but here the rain
was dripping from every house-top, and the
streets were covered with a thick layer of
slimy mud.

Blake shuddered.

I've got nothing particular to do, Alec,' said
he ; ' let me help you to look for lodgings.'

But Alec had no mind to let his friend seethe
sort of accommodation with which he
would have to content himself ; and the artist
saw that the lad wanted to decline his offer,
without very well knowing how.

1 Or perhaps you'd rather hunt about by
yourself ? continued Blake. * Well, in that
case, I think I'll be off to Edinburgh at once,
and go to London that way. Anything to be
out of this.'

He stopped suddenly, and hoped that his
companion had not heard his last words.
They took a cab to Queen Street ; and after
seeing his friend off to Edinburgh, Alec set
out od his quest of a shelter. A few steps
brought him to the district north of George
Street, where, in those days, the poorer class
of students had their habitations. The streets
were not particularly broad, and the houses
were of tremendous height, looking like great
barracks placed one at the end of another,
though their hewn stone fronts saved them
from the mean appearance of brick or stucco
exteriors. After a good deal of running up
and down steep staircases (for these houses are
built in flats), Alec at last pitched upon a
narrow but lofty sitting-room, with a still
narrower bedroom opening from it. For this
accommodation the charge was only eight
shillings a week.

After a peculiarly uncomfortable meal, Alec
Lindsay set out for ' The College.'

The University of Glasgow, founded by

a Bull of one of the mediaeval Popes, had in
those days its seat in the High Street, once
the main thoroughfare of the city, but long
since fallen from its old estate. The air
seemed thicker, more full of smoke and soot,
of acid vapours and abominable smells, in this
quarter, than in any other part of the town.

An ancient pile of buildings faced the street;
and a quaint gateway gave access to the outer
quadrangle or ' first court,' as Alec soon
learned to call it. Here a solid stone staircase,
guarded by a stone lion on one side and
a unicorn on the other, led to the senate-room
above ; and an archway led to a quadrangle
beyond.

But Alec had scarcely time to observe as
much as this. Hardly had he set foot within
the gateway, when a gigantic man wearing
a huge black beard stalked up to him, and
without more ado caught him by the arm,
while a small crowd of half a dozen lads of his
own age, wearing gowns of red flannel, swarmed
round him on the other side.

I say !' exclaimed the big man ; ' you're
going to matriculate, aren't you V

4 Of course ; that's what I came here for.'

And where were you born V

Where was I born V asked Alec, in bewilderment.


Yes ; be quick, man. Do you come from
Highlands or Lowlands, or from beyond the
Border ?

Why do you want to know ¥

1 He comes from the county of Clackmannan
; I know by the cut of his hair !'
yelled a red-haired, freckled youth of some
seventeen summers.

Get out, you unmannerly young cub !'
cried the big man, making a dash at the
offender, without releasing his hold of Alec's
arm.

'Are you Transporting V cried another.
\ Oh, say if you're Transporting, like a good
fellow, and don't keep us in suspense.'

'He's Rothseiana! I know it!' bawled out
a fourth.

At this point a little man in spectacles
darted from a low doorway on the left with a
sheaf of papers printed in red ink, which he
began to distribute as fast as he could.
Instantly the men who had fastened upon
Alec left him, and rushed off to secure one
of the papers, and Alec followed their example.


After some little trouble he got one, and then
elbowing his way out of the crowd, began to
read it. He found it was a not very comical
parody of ' Come into the garden, Maud,' the
allusions being half of a political, half of an
academical character.

Looking up with a puzzled air, Alec encountered
the gaze of a man ten or twelve
years his senior, who was regarding him with
a look of mingled interest and amusement.
He was considerably over six feet high, and
broad in proportion. He wore a suit of
tweeds, a blue Scotch bonnet, and a reddish-brown
beard. He had the high cheek-bones
and large limbs of the true Highlander, and

one of his eyes had a slight cast. When he
smiled, he had a cynical but not unkindly
expression.

I wish you would tell me what all this
nonsense is about said Alec.

1 What nonsense would ye like to pe informed
afoot V inquired the other in a strong
Highland accent — ' the nonsense in that bit
paper 1 Or the nonsense o' these daft
callant ? Or the nonsense o' this hall
thing V and he waved his thick stick round
the quadrangle.

1 What is all this stir about ? ■ Why were a'
these fellows so anxious to know where I was
born V

One question at a time, my lad,' answered
the big Highlander. ' They are election' a
Lord Rector ; the ploy will gang on for a
week or ten days yet. And they vote in
"nations," according to the part o' the
country they belong to. I was born in the
Duke's country, and consequently my vote is
worth considerably more than that o' yon

wee spectacled callant who was kittled in the
Gorbals, for example.'

I was born in Kyleshire,' said Alec.

Then you're Rothseiana,' said the stranger,
1 and your vote's worth more than mine. I'd
advise ye to choose at once, and put down
your name at one club or the other, or they'll
tease your life out.'

But who are the candidates V

1 Mr. Sharpe, and Lord Dummieden, of
course.'

Alec knew Mr. Sharpe's name as that of an
ex-Cabinet Minister on the Liberal side, who
had the reputation of being a scholar, but who
had never written anything beyond two or
three pungent articles in The Debater.

And who is Lord Dummieden V

What !' answered the Highlander ; 'is it
possible that you have never heard of the
History of the British Isles before the Roman
Invasion," in sixteen volumes, by the Right
Honourable James Beattie, Viscount Mummies
of Crumlachie ¥

Alec gave an incredulous look, and the
other laughed outright.

Don't be offended,' said the Highlander.
1 Have you matriculated yet % No ? Come
wa' then, and I'll show you the way.' He
passed his arm through Alec's as he spoke,
and led him to a tiny office in a corner of
the quadrangle which was half filled with
students.

What is your name V asked Alec's new
friend, as they stood waiting their turn to
enter their names in the volume kept for the
purpose. Alec told him. 'Mine's Cameron
Duncan Cameron. I'm a medical. This is
my third year. Have you got lodgings V

1 Yes ; at No. 210, Hanover Street.

1 Does your landlady look a decent body ?
I'll come round and see if she has a room to
spare for me,' he added, without waiting for an
answer.

Presently Alec obtained, in exchange for one
of his father's one-pound notes, a ticket bearing
his name, and the words ' Civis Univerdtatis

Glasguenis' printed in large letters underneath.


That's all right,' said Cameron ; ' now come
along, and I'll show you the Professors' Court.
You have to call on the Latin and Greek
professors, and get your class-tickets. The
fee is three guineas each.' He led Alec
through an archway into a second and
larger quadrangle, then across it and through
another archway into a third. ' That's the
museum,' said Cameron, pointing to a building
with handsome stone columns ; ' and
that's the library,' he added, pointing to a
narrow structure, built apparently of blackstone,
on the right.

The two young men turned to the left,
passed through an iron gateway, and found
themselves in a gloomy and silent court,
formed by the houses of the various professors,
which, like the library, were black with smoke
and soot-flakes.

After the professors of ' Humanity ' (as
Latin is called in the north) and of Greek

had been duly interviewed, Alec and his friend
returned to the High Street without going
back to the quadrangles ; and in a few minutes
they pulled Mrs. Macpherson's brightly-polished
bell-handle.

- I've brought a friend, a fellow-student,
who wants to know if you have any more
rooms to let,' said Alec.

I Is he a medical V asked the good woman,
knitting her brows.

I I am proud to say that I am,' said
Cameron.

Then this is no the place for you ava.'

An' what for no V

1 I've had eneuch, an' mair than eneuch, o'
the misguide callant, wi' their banes, an'
their gases, an' their gruesome talk, an' their
singing sangs, an' playing cards, an' drinking',
till twa, or maybe half-past on a Sabbath
morning'. Na, na ; I'll hae nae mair o' the
tribe, at no price.'

But this opposition made Cameron determined
that under that roof and no other

would he take up his abode for the winter.
He bound himself by a solemn promise to
introduce neither bones, human or animal, nor
chemicals of any kind, upon the premises, and
to behave himself discreetly in other respects.
He then remembered that his aunt's husband's
cousin was a Macpherson ; and when it
came out that the landlady's ' forbears ' came
from Mackintosh, which was within a day's
sail of the island where the Cameron s
had their home, all objections were withdrawn.


A large dingy sitting-room, with a ' concealed
bed ' constructed in a recess, so that
the room could also be used as a bedroom,
was pronounced by Cameron to be too grand ;
and on Mrs. Macpherson saying that all her
other rooms were let except an attic, he asked
if he might see that apartment. They climbed
up a steep and narrow staircase, and presently
stood in a long narrow room, right under the
slates, so low in the ceiling that Cameron
could only walk along one side of it. It was

furnished with a narrow bedstead, a small
deal table, and two or three stout chairs.

1 First-rate !' exclaimed Cameron. ' The
very thing ;' and going to the skylight, he
pushed it open and thrust out his head and
shoulders. ' Plenty of air here — not fresh,
but better than nothing. What is the rent V

The rent was five shillings and sixpence a
week, and after a vain effort to get rid of the
sixpence, and an elaborate agreement on the
subject of coals, the bargain was concluded.

c That's settled,' said Cameron ; ' and now
I'm off to the Broomielaw to get my impedimenta
foot 0' the Dolly Castle. Will ye
come V

Having nothing better to do, Alec readily
acquiesced ; and the two young men walked
down Buchanan Street with its broad wet
pavements, and through the more crowded
Argyle Street and Jamaica Street, till they
reached the wharf.

Here all was damp and dismal. Coal-dust
covered the ground ; water, thick with coal-dust

and mud, dripped from the eaves of
the huge open sheds ; a smell of tar filled all
the air. To Alec, however, nothing was
dismal, nothing was depressing. All was new,
strange, and interesting. A few vessels of
light burden lay moored at the opposite side
of the narrow river ; a river steamer, her
day's work ended, was blowing off steam at
the Broomielaw.

f You will hardly believe it, Cameron,' said
Alec, gazing with all his eyes at these
commonplace sights, i but I never saw a ship
or a steamer before.'

Hoots, man replied his companion ; ' I've
been on the salt water ever since I can remember
; but then, till I came here three
years sin', I had never seen a railway train —
I used to spend hours at one of the stations
watching them — and, what is more, I had
never seen a tree.'

Never seen a tree !'

f No ; they won't grow in some of the
islands, you know, at least not above five

or six feet high. But there's the Dunolhj
Castle.'

There lay the good vessel which had so lately
ploughed the waters of the Outer Hebrides, a
captive now, bound fast by stem and stern.

Cameron jumped on board, and soon reappeared
dragging a full sack behind him,
while a seaman followed with a heavy wooden
box on his shoulder, and a big earthenware
jar in his left hand. Several porters with
big two-wheeled barrows now proffered their
services. Cameron selected one, and having
loaded the barrow with a sack of oatmeal, a
small barrel of salt herrings, two great jars
which Alec rightly conjectured to contain
whisky, and the wooden box, he proceeded to
pilot the porter to Hanover Street.

Tak' care o' the jars !' he cried out in
some alarm, as the porter knocked his barrow
against a corner. ' They're just the mast
precious bit o' the hall cargo ; and if ye
break ane o' them, she'll break your head, as
I'm a leefin' man f

vol. 1. 7

Why do you bring your provisions instead
of buying them here ? Is it any cheaper V
asked Alec.

Cheaper ! Fat the tell do I care for the
cheapness ? I prefer my own whisky, and
my own oatmeal, I tell you ; it is better
than any you can buy here,' answered the
proud and irate Highlands.

But when Alec and he were better acquainted,
he acknowledged that the oatmeal
and whisky were presented to him by relatives,
as aids to the difficult task of living for six
months on twenty pounds.

Next morning Alec woke to a blinding,
acrid, yellow fog, which the gaslight faintly
illumined. It was still dark when he emerged
into the street and took his way to the College,
with a copy of one of Cicero's orations and a
note-book under his arm. As he reached his
destination the clock struck eight, and immediately
a bell began to tinkle in quick,
sharp, imperative tones.

The junior Latin class, he found, met in

the centre of a long narrow hall, lit by a
few gas-jets flaring here and there. On both
sides of the hall were tall windows, outside
of which was the yellow cloud of fog. There
was no stove or heating apparatus whatever.
A raised bench ran along one side of the long
room, and there were black empty galleries
at either end. In the centre stood a pulpit,
raised about two feet above the floor, and in
this the Professor was already standing.

About two hundred men and boys were
seated in the benches nearest the pulpit,
some wearing the regulation red gown, and
some without it, while beyond them the black
empty benches stretched away to the farther
end of the hall, which lay in complete darkness.


All was stillness, but for the tinkling of
the bell. Suddenly it stopped, and that
instant a janitor banged the door, shutting
out late comers inexorably.

Everybody stood up, while the Professor
repeated a collect and the Lord's Prayer in

7—2

English. Then he began to call the roll in
Latin, and as each student answered ' Adsum !'
he was assigned a place on one of the benches,
which was to be his for the rest of the session.
Alec's place was between a stout little fellow
of sixteen, son of a wealthy Glasgow merchant,
and a pale overworked teacher, who had set
his heart on being able to write ' M.A.' after
his name.

The work of the class then began. The
Professor gave a short explanation of the
circumstances under which the oration which
he had selected was made. He read and
translated a few lines, explaining the various
allusions, the nature of a Woman trial, and
the meaning of the word ' judices.' He then,
by way of illustrating the method of teaching,
called on one of the students to construe
a few lines, and proceeded to ask all sorts of
questions, historical and philological, passing
the questions from man to man and from
bench to bench. He then prescribed a piece
of English to be turned into Latin prose.

Before he had ceased speaking the clock
struck ; the bell began to ring ; the Professor
finished his sentence and shut his book. The
lecture was at an end.

The next hour Alec spent chiefly in wandering
round the College Green, a kind of
neglected park thinly populated with soot-encrusted
trees, which lay at the rear of the
College buildings. At ten o'clock the junior
Greek class met ; and Alec entered a small
room crammed with students, who were
sitting on narrow, crescent - shaped benches
raised one behind the other, aud fronting a
semicircular platform at the lower end of
the room. The book-boards, Alec noticed,
were extremely narrow, and neatly bound
with iron. The procedure here was much
the same as it had been in the Latin class,
except that there were no prayers, the
devotions being confined to the classes which
happened to meet earliest in the day.

At eleven there was another hour of Latin,
Virgil being the text-book this time ; and then

lectures were over for the day, so far as Alec
was concerned.

All day long the committee-rooms of the
rival Conservative and Liberal Associations
were filled with men, consulting, smoking,
enrolling pledges, and inditing ' squibs ' and
manifestoes ; and as a Liberal meeting in support
of Mr. Sharpe was to be held that evening
in the Greek class-room, Alec determined to
be present, hoping to hear some arguments
which might help him to decide how he ought
to vote on this momentous occasion.

In this expectation, however, he was disappointed.
Before he came in sight of the
lighted-up windows of the class-room he heard
a roar of singing — the factions were uniting
their powers to render a stanza of ' The Good
Rhine Wine ' with proper emphasis. The
place was packed as full as it would hold, the
Professor's platform being held by the 
of the Liberal Association. As
soon as the song was ended, a small man in
spectacles was voted into the chair. He

opened the proceedings by calling upon a Mr.
Macfarlane to move the first resolution, and
(like a wise man) immediately sat down.

Mr. Macfarlane, a young man of great size
with a throat of brass, was not popular. Cries
of ' Sit down, sir !' 'Go home, sir !' ' Speak
up, sir !' were mingled with volleys of peas,
Kentish fire, cheers for Lord Dummieden, and
the usual noises of a noisy meeting.

The little man in spectacles got up, and,
speaking in a purposely low voice, obtained a
hearing. He reminded his Conservative
friends that the Liberals had not spoiled the
Conservative meeting on the previous evening,
and said it was only fair that they should have
their turn. This was greeted with loud shouts
of ' Hear ! hear !' and Mr. Macfarlane began a
second time. But soon he managed to set his
audience in an uproar once more. His face
was fairly battered with peas. Men got up
and stood on the benches, then on the book-boards.
One fellow had brought a policeman's
rattle, with which he created a din so intolerable

that three or four others tried to deprive him
of it. One or two stout Conservatives came
to the rescue, and finally the whole group slid
off their narrow foot-hold on the book-boards,
and fell in a confused heap on the floor, amid
loud cheers from both parties.

After this episode order was restored, and a
fresh orator held the attention of the audience
for a few minutes. Unfortunately he stopped
for a moment, and the pause was immediately
filled by a student at the farther end of the
room blowing a shrill, pitiful blast on a child's
penny trumpet. The effect was comical enough ;
and everybody laughed. At that moment a
loud knock was heard at the door, which had
been locked, the room being already as full
as it could possibly hold. The knock was
repeated.

I believe the perambulator has come for
the gentleman with the penny trumpet,' said
the chairman in gentle accents.

This sally was greeted with a Loud roar of
laughter ; and when it died away, comparative
silence reigned for five minutes.

Then came more cheers, songs, and volleys
of peas ; and when everybody was hoarse the
meeting came to an end, the leading spirits
on both sides adjourning to their committee-rooms,
and afterwards to the hotels which
they usually patronized.

These meetings were continued for about
ten days, and then the vote was taken. The
four ' nations ' had each one vote. Two voted
for Mr. Sharpe, and two for Lord Dummieden.
And then the Chancellor, in accordance with
old established practice, gave his casting vote
in favour of the Conservative candidate.

It was over. The manifestoes and satirical
ballads were swept away ; and the twelve
hundred men and boys settled down to six
months' labour.

A NEW EXPERIENCE.

For the next six weeks Alec Lindsay's life
was one unvarying round of lectures, and
preparation for lectures. For recreation he
had football on the College Green, long walks
on Saturday afternoons, and long debates
with his friend Cameron. The debates,
however, were not very frequent, for the
Highlander was working twelve hours a
day.

1 1 mean to get a first-class in surgery,'
he said to Alec one Saturday night, as the
two sat over their pipes in Alec's sitting-room
; ' and then perhaps the Professor will
ask me to be an assistant. If he does, my
fortune is made, for I know my work.'

'Ay, that's the great thing,' said Alec
absently. l Don't you ever go to church,
Cameron V he added abruptly.

1 As seldom as I can said the other, with a
side look at his companion ; ' but don't take
me for a guide.'

I can't help it,' replied the lad, still gazing
into the fire ; ' we all take our neighbours for
guides, whether we acknowledge it or not.'

More or less, no doubt'

Don't you think one ought to go to
church V

How can I tell ? Every man for himself,
my lad.'

That won't do,' answered Alec, rousing
himself and facing his friend ; ' right's right,
and wrong's wrong ; what is right for one
man must be right for every man — under
the same circumstances, I mean.'

1 Will you just tell me,' said Cameron, half
defiantly, ' what good going to church can dome
? I know the psalms almost by heart, and
I know the chapters the minister reads almost

as well. As for the prayers, half of them
aren't prayers at all, and the other half I
could say as weel at hame, if I had a mind.
And the sermons ! — man, Alec, ye canna say
ye think they can do good to any living
creature.'

Some of them, perhaps.'

When I find a minister that doesna tell us
the same thing over, and over, and over again,
and use fifty words to say what might be said
in five, to spin out the time, 111 reconsider the
pint,' said Cameron.

But you believe there's a God,' said
Alec.

That's a lang step ferret,' said the other.

But do you V

1 Well, I do, and I cinna. I don't believe
in the Free Kirk God. It's hard to think
this war could mak' itself' : but I hae my
toots.'

Then you're an Agnostic ?'

What if I am ? Are ye sauntered V*

Disgusted.

No — and yet '

Or what if I should tell you I have chosen
some other religion 1 Why should I be a
Presbyterian ? Because I was born in Scotland.
That's the only reason I've been able
to think of, and it doesn't seem to me to be
up to much.'

Alec was secretly shocked, though he thought
it more manly not to show it.

I believe in the Bible,' he said at last.

That doesna help you much,' said Cameron,
with some contempt. ' Baptists, Independents,
Episcopalians, the very Papists these's, and
the half-heathen Russians, wad tell ye that
they believe in the Bible. Ye might as weel
tell a judge, when he cared on you for an
argument, that ye believe in an Act o' Parliament.'


Hae ye an atlas V he continued after a
pause. ' Here's one.'

He turned to a ' M creator's projection' at
the beginning of the volume, and scratched
the spot which represented Scotland with his

pencil. He then slightly shaded England, the
United States, and Holland, and put in a few-dots
in Germany and Switzerland.

There !' he said, as he pushed the map
across the table ; ' that's your Presbyterian
notion o' Christendom. There's a glimmering'
in England and the States, but only in bonny
Scotland does the true licht shine full and
fair. As for Germany, Holland, an' Switzerland,
they're unco dry, do tae say did
branches. The rest o' mankind — total darkness
!'

But you might have said the same thing
of Christianity itself at one time, and of every
religion in the world, for that matter,' protested
Alec.

Nae coot,' retorted Cameron, ' but that
was at the beginning. This is Christianity,
according to the gospel o' John Knox and
Company after nineteen centuries ! A poor
show for nineteen hunter' years — a mighty
poor show !'

He got up as he spoke, and knocking the

ashes out of his pipe, prepared to move to his
own quarters.

Let's change the subject,' said Alec. ' Here's
a letter I got this morning, and I don't know
how to answer it.'

1 What's this V said the older man, taking
the thick sheet of paper between the tips of
his fingers. ' " Mr. James Lindsay presents his
compliments to Mr. Alexander Lindsay, and
requests the pleasure of his company at dinner
on Tuesday the 27th inst., at Jialf-past six.
Blythswood Square, December, 187- " Is
this old James Lindsay o' Drumleck ?'

< Yes.'

1 Are you a connection of his V

1 Grand-nephew.'

And why can't you answer the note V

I don't want to go. I haven't been brought
up to this sort of thing, and I don't care to go
out of my way to make myself ridiculous in a
rich man's house. Besides, I don't want to goto
the expense of a suit of dress clothes. And
then, my uncle and I were not particularly

smitten with each other when I saw him
last.'

1 Don't be a fool, Alec,' said Cameron
quietly. ' You can't afford to throw away
the friendship of a man worth twenty thousand
a year.'

That phrase always reminds me,' remarked
Alec, ' of what one of the Erskine — I don't
remember which of them it was — once said,
when some one said in his company that so-and-so
had died worth three hundred thousand
pounds — " Did he indeed, sir ? And a very
pretty sum, too, to begin the next world
with." '

Cameron smiled grimly.

You'll have to go, Alec,' he repeated ; ' and
you needn't be afraid of appearing ridiculous.
Do as you see others do, and keep a lown sail ;
better seem blate than impudent.'

1 My father would be in a fine way if he
heard that my uncle had invited me, and that
I had refused the invitation,' said Lindsay.

And quite right too,' rejoined Cameron.

1 Besides, Alec, the old man is your father's
uncle, and you ought to show him some
respect.'

• That wasn't the reason you put in the forefront,'
said Alec slyly.

For reply Cameron, who had reached the
door, picked up a Greek grammar, flung it at
his friend's head as he muttered something in
Gaelic, and banging the door behind him,
ascended to his own domicile.

Exactly at the appointed hour Alec presented
himself at his grand-uncle's house in
Blythswood Square. The square had once been
fashionable, and was still something more than
respectable, because the houses were too large
to be inhabited by people of moderate means ;
but the situation was dull and gloomy to the
last degree. Within, however, there was a
very different scene. Entrance-hall, staircase,
drawing-room, were all as brilliant as gas-jets
could make them. The walls, even of the
passages, were lined with pictures, good, bad,
and indifferent. Every landing, every corner,
vol. 1. 8

held a statue, or at least a statuette, or a bust
upon a pedestal.

When Alec was ushered into the drawing-room,
he could hardly see for the blaze of
light ; he could hardly move for little tables
laden with china, ormolu, and bronzes. Fortunately,
Sir Peter and Lady Colquhoun were
entering the reception-room just as Alec
reached it, so that he made his entrance in
their wake, and, as it were, under their lee.

The room was already pretty well filled, and
more guests were continually arriving. On
the hearth-rug stood a little old man, with a
mean, inexpressive face, scanty hair which
was still gray, thin gray whiskers, small eyes,
and a fussy consequential air. When he
spoke, it was in a high-pitched, rasping voice ;
and he invariably gave one the impression
that he was insisting upon being noticed and
attended to.

This was Mr. Lindsay of Drumleck. He
stared at Alec for an instant, then gave him
his hand in silence, and, without addressing a

word to him, continued his conversation with
the Lord Provost's wife. Alec's face flushed.
His first impulse was to walk out of the room,
and out of the house ; but on second thoughts
he saw that that course would not even be
dignified. He retreated to a corner, and set
himself to watch the company.

For the most part they sat nearly silent —
fat bailies and their well-nourished wives
hard-featured damsels of thirty or forty
summers, in high-necked dresses and Brussels
lace collars — one or two stout ministers — such
was the assembly. Alec was astonished. He
had expected, somehow, that he should meet
people of a different type.

Take one or two dozen people from behind
the shop-counters in Argyle Street,' he said to
himself (with boyish contempt for the disappointing),
or even a few Muirburn ploughmen
and weavers, give them plenty of money,
and in three weeks they would be quite as fine
ladies and gentlemen as any I see here.'

As the thought passed through the boy's

8—2

mind, the door was thrown open, and the
names of ' Professor Taylor and Miss Mowbray
' were announced. A tall, lean man,
with long hair and crumpled old-fashioned
garments, entered, and beside him walked a
young lady with her eyes on the ground.

She was dressed in a cream-coloured
costume, with just a fleck of colour here and
there. She was indeed remarkably pretty,
and possessed a soft, childlike grace which was
more captivating than beauty alone would
have been. She had a small, well-rounded
figure — a little more and it would have been
plump — abundant dark-brown hair, and a soft,
peach-like complexion. Her eyelashes were
unusually long ; and when, reaching her host,
she half-timidly raised her eyes to his, Alec
(who was sitting in the background) felt a
little thrill of pleasure at the mere sight of
their dark loveliness.

She was the first lady, the first young lady,
at least, whom he had seen, and he looked at
her as if she were a being to be worshipped.

But Laura Mowbray was indeed pretty enough
to have turned the head of a more experienced
person than the laird's son.

Professor Taylor and his niece moved to
one side ; her dress almost brushed against
Alec. She glanced at him for an instant ;
without intending it he dropped his eyes, and
the girl ]looked in another direction with a
little inward smile.

In three or four minutes dinner was announced,
and Laura fell to the care of James
Semple (the cousin who had taken Alec's
place at the oil works), who had just come in.
There were more men than women in the
party, and Alec and one or two of the less
wealthy guests were left to find their way into
the dining-room by themselves at the end of
the procession. Fortune, however, favoured
Alec. When he took his seat, he found that
he was sitting between a pale, inoffensive-looking
youth and — Laura Mowbray.

He literally did not dare to look at her,
much less to address her ; he was not sure,

indeed, whether the rules of society allowed
him to do so in the absence of an introduction.
In a little time, however, his shyness
wore off ; he watched his opportunity ; but
before he found one, his neighbour remarked
in her soft English accent, and in the sweetest
of tones :

What dreadful fogs you have in Glasgow !'
Alec made some reply, and the ice once
broken, he made rapid progress.

Everybody I meet seems to be related to
somebody else, or connected with some one I
have met before,' said Miss Mowbray. ' You
have all so many relations in this part of the
country, and you seem never to forget any
of them. In London it is different. People
seldom know their next-door neighbours; and
it is just a chance whether they keep up
cousinship, and so on, or not.'

Really ? I think that is very unnatural.'
Oh ! so unnatural ! Life in London is so
dreadfully conventional and superficial. Don't
you think so V

I dare say ; but I have never been in
London.'

Have you, Mr. Semple V she asked of the
gentleman on her left.

1 No, I haven't,' he answered shortly.

He did not approve of Miss Mowbray paying
any attention to Alec, regarding her as
for the time being his property. On this
Laura left off talking to Alec, and devoted
herself to the amusement of Mr. Semple.

Soon, however, she took advantage of his
attention being claimed by the lady on his
left, to turn again with a smile to Alec.

Mr. Semple tells me you are at College.
My uncle is a professor there, but he has
hardly any students, because history is not a
compulsory subject in the examinations. How
do you like being at College V

Alec was grateful for her interest in him,
and gave her his impressions of College life.
Then she turned once more to her legitimate
entertainer, who was by that time at
liberty.

Alec had already had far more intercourse
with his lovely neighbour than he had dared
to hope for ; but the dinner was a long one ;
and as Mr. Semple's left-hand neighbour
happened to be a maiden aunt with money,
she was able to compel his attention once
more before the close of the meal.

You live in a beautiful part of the country,
I believe,' Miss Mowbray remarked to Alec.

I don't know ; I like it, of course ; but I
don't know that it is finer than any country
with wood and a river.'

Oh, you have a river ? I am so passionately
fond of river scenery.'

Yes, and we have a castle,' replied Alec ;
and before the ladies rose he had described
not only the castle, but the moorland and the
romantic dell which was his sister's favourite
retreat, to his much-interested neighbour.


When at length the ladies followed Miss
Lindsay — a distant relation who superintended
Mr. Lindsay's establishment — out of the room,

Alec felt as if the evening had suddenly come
to an end.

Semple, who had vouchsafed him rather a
cool nod in the evening, tried in vain to
make him talk.

1 How do you like College V

Pretty well.'

Dreadful underbred set. Why don't you
go to Oxford V

Alec made no reply.

1 Or Edinburgh — they are a much better
class of men at Edinburgh, I'm told.'

And Mr. Semple turned away to join a
conversation about 'warrants,' and 'premiums
and ' vendor's shares,' ' corners,' ' contangos,'
and ' quotations,' which to Alec was simply
unintelligible.

At the other end of the table a conversation
of another character was in progress — one
hardly less interesting to those who took
part in it, and hardly more interesting to an
outsider. It seemed that a wealthy congregation
of United Presbyterians had built

themselves an organ at considerable expense,
without obtaining the sanction of their coreligionists
; and an edict had gone forth that
the organ must be silent on Sundays, but
might be used for the delectation of those
who attended the prayer-meeting on Wednesday
evenings.

I look upon it as the thin end of the
wedge,' said the Eeverend Hector Mac-ravish,
D.D., striking bis fist on his knee.
You begin with hymns, many of them wish-wash
trash, some of them positively unscriptural.
Then you must have a choir for
the tunes, as if the old-fashioned long metre
and common metre were not good enough ;
then comes an organ ; then the Lord's Prayer
is used as a part of the ritual — mark you, asa
part of the ritual — I have no objection to
the Lord's Prayer when it is not used on
formal, stated occasions. After that, you
have a liturgy.'

'No, no, Doctor; you are going too fast,'
murmured one of the audience.

And I maintain that with a liturgy there
is an end to the distinctively Presbyterian
form of worship.'

But where would you draw the line V
inquired a mild, sallow-faced young man who
had imbibed his theological opinions at Heidelberg,
and was in consequence suspected of
latitudinarianism, if not of actual heresy.

4 Where our fathers drew it, at the Psalms
of David !' thundered Mr. MacTavish, striking
his unoffending knee once more.

Then I fear you render Union impossible,'
said the young minister.

1 And what if I do, sir ¥ said Dr. Mac-ravish
loftily ; ' in my opinion we Free
Churchmen are ferry well as we are, and
need no new lights to illuminate us.'

The young man received the covert sneer
at his German training and his liberal ideas
with a smile ; and Alec listened no longer,
but relapsed into dreamland. The dispute,
however, continued long after most of the
men had returned to the drawing-room, and

Alec rose from his chair while an animated
discussion was in progress on the point whether
the use of an organ was favourable to spiritual
worship or tended to sensuousness, and whether
the fact that the New Testament was silent
on the subject, condemned the organ and its
followers by anticipation.

When Alec entered the drawing-room, Miss
Mowbray was singing. He retreated to a
corner and stood as one spell-bound. He
watched for an opportunity of speaking to
her again, but there was none ; however, on
passing him on her way to the door on her
uncle's arm, she gave him a little bow and
smile, which he regarded as another proof of
her sweetness of disposition.

The theologians had not finished their
disputations, and were continuing them in a
corner of the drawing-room, when Alec took
his departure.

He walked back to his poor and empty
room with his head among the stars. She
had talked with him, smiled upon him, treated

him as an equal. He would find out where
she lived, and contrive to meet her again.
How lovely she was, how sweet, how pure,
how good ! The wide earth, Alec Lindsay
was firmly convinced, contained no mortal
fit for one moment to be compared with the
girl whose soft brown eyes and gentle, almost
appealing, looks still made his heart beat ashe
remembered them.

A SUNDAY IN GLASGOW.

Well, Alec, how did you get on last night ¥
asked Duncan Cameron of his friend, when
they met as usual the day after the dinner at
Blythswood Square.

Oh, all right. It was rather a stupid
affair. '

Father stupid — not quite worth the trouble
of attending ? And yet you were half afraid
of going ! Don't deny it.'

I said it was stupid ; and so it was,' said
Alec, reddening. ' Nobody said anything
worth listening to, so far as I heard

That means nobody took much notice of
you, eh V

1 What an ill-conditioned, sneering fellow

you are, Cameron,' replied Alec tranquilly.
1 You'll never get on in the world unless you
learn to be civil.'

1 It isn't worth my while to be civil to you
said Cameron. ; Wait till I'm in practice and
have to flatter and humour rich old women.
What did your uncle say to you V

1 Hardly anything — just a word or two, as I
was coming away.'

You ought to cultivate him, Alec'

1 wish you wouldn't speak like that,
Duncan,' said Alec roughly. ' Do you think
I'm the sort of fellow to flatter and fawn upon
an old man I don't like, simply because he is
rich ?'

1 There's no need for flattering and fawning,'
replied Cameron ; ' but you've no right to
throw away such a chance at the very outset
of your life.'

1 Do you think, then, that it's manly or
honourable to visit a man as it were out of
pure friendship, when your only object is to
make him useful to you V

There's no question of friendship, ye gowk ;
he's your relation, and the head of your house.
It's your duty to pay him your respects
occasionally.'

1 Paying my respects wouldn't be of much
use,' retorted Alec. ' You're shirking the
question. Is it honourable to — I don't know
the right word — to try to ingratiate yourself
with anyone in the hope of getting something
out of him V

1 Why not V

It's not honourable ; and I would not
respect myself if I were to do such a thing,'
said Alec, with much dignity.

Cameron laughed inwardly, but he made no
response, and there was silence for a few
minutes between the two friends. The older
man was thinking how absurd the boy was,
and how a little experience of life would rub
off his ' high-fantastical ' notions. Then he
wished that he had a grand-uncle who was a
millionnaire. And then he fell to wondering
whether, on the whole, it was best to despise

wealth, as Alec Lindsay did, or to acquire
it.

I suppose it is too late now to take another
class V said Alec, half absently.

1 1 should think so,' responded his friend.
What class did you think of taking ? Mathematics
V

'No; History.'

1 History ! That isn't wanted for a degree.
What put that into your head V

1 Oh, I don't know. I only thought of
it

Cameron did not know that the learned
Professor of History had a niece named Laura
Mowbray.

That evening about ten o'clock, when the
medical student went down to his friend's
room, as was his custom at that hour, he found
Alec poring over some papers, which he pushed
aside as Cameron entered.

Come in,' he cried, as the other paused in
the doorway. 'I'm not working.'

The Highlander took up his usual position,

vol. 1. 9

standing on the hearth-rug with his back
to the fire, and proceeded to light his
pipe.

They tell me you're doing very well in
the Latin class — sure of a prize, if you keep
on as you're doing,' he said, after smoking
for a minute in silence.

Oh, it's no use ; I can't do Latin prose
answered Alec discontentedly. ' How can I ?
I've never had any practice. Just look at
this — my last exercise — no frightful blunders,
but, as the Professor said, full of elegancies ;'
and he handed his friend a sheet of paper
from his table as he spoke.

Cameron took the paper, and regarded it
through a cloud of smoke.

What's this V he exclaimed. ' Poetry, as
I'm a living' Husbandman ! Just listen !' and
he waved his hand, as if addressing an
imaginary audience.

Alec's face burned, as he rose and hastily
snatched the paper from his friend's grasp.
Cameron would have carried his bantering

further, but he saw that in the lad's face
which restrained him.

Already !' he muttered, as he turned away
to hide his laughter.

Are you going home for the New Year V
asked Alec, when his embarrassment had subsided.


1 Me % No ! We have only a week's
vacation, or ten days at most. The Dolly
Castle sails only once a week in winter ; and
if the sailing didn't suit, I should have hardly
time to go there before I had to come away
again. And if a storm came on I should be
weather-bound, and might not get south for
another week.'

It must be very dreary in the north in
winter,' said Alec.

1 Ay — but you must come and see for yourself
some day.'

Alec was silent ; he was thinking that he
should like to ask his friend to spend the
vacation week with him at the Castle Farm ;

9—2

but he did not care to take the responsibility
of giving the invitation.

The following Sunday was one of those
dismal days which are common in the west of
Scotland during the winter months. It was
nearly cold enough for snow, but instead of snow
a continuous drizzle fell slowly throughout the
day. There was no fog ; but in the streets of
Glasgow it was dark soon after midday.

Alec Lindsay went to church in the forenoon
as usual ; then he came home and ate
a cold dinner which would have been very
trying to any appetite less robust than that
of a young Scotchman.

Finding that he had a few minutes to spare
before setting out for the afternoon service
(which takes the place of an evening service in
England), he ran upstairs to his friend's room.

1 1 wish you would come to church with me,
Duncan he said, as he seated himself on the
medical student's trunk.

The invitation implied a reproach ; but
Cameron was not offended at this interference

with his private concerns. In the north a
man who ' neglects ordinances ' is supposed to
lay himself open to the reproof of any better-disposed
person who assumes an interest in
his spiritual welfare. For reply he muttered
something in Gaelic, which Alec conjectured,
rightly enough, to be an exclamation too
improper to be said conveniently in English.

1 Fat can ye no leaf a man alone for V he
said aloud, reverting, as he did when he was
excited, to his strong Highland accent.

Alec said no more ; but Cameron, whose
conscience was not quite at rest, chose to
continue the subject.

'I go to the kirk when I'm at home,' he
said, ' an' that's enough. I go to please my
mother, an' keep folk from talking — but it's
weary work. I often ask myself what is the
good of it ? — the whole thing, I mean. There's
old Mr. Macfarlane, the parish minister of
Menstrual — we went to live on the mainland
two years ago, you know. He's a decent mana
ferry decent man. He ladles foot castor

oil an' cod-liver oil as occasion requires, to
the hall parish, an' the next ane tae, without
fee or reward. He's a great botanist, and
spends half his time in his garden — grows a'
sorts o' fruit — even peaches, I've been told.
When the weather's suitable he gangs fishing'.
On Sabbath he has afoot forty folk in his big
barn o' a kirk. He talks tae them for an
or, an' lets them gang. He's aye ready to
baptize a wean, or pray wi' a dein' botch,*
but it's seldom he has the chance. I'm no
blaming' the man. It's no his faut that the
folk gazed over bodily to the Free Kirk at the
Disruption, an' left him, a shepherd wi' ne'er
a flock, but a wheen auld rams, wha '

But there's the Free Kirk,' interrupted
Alec, ' and it's your own kirk, I suppose.'

No,' said Cameron. ' If anything, I belong
to the Establishment. Save me, is my daily
an' nightly prayer, frae the bitter birr o' the
Dissenters.'

Alec laughed, and the other went on :

° Old man.

1 There's Maister Macpherson, the Free
Kirk minister. He's a wee, soon, black-advised
crater, wi' a wife an' nine weans. Hoo
he manages to gie them parritch an' milk I
can not imagine. He's just eaten up wi' envy
an' spite that the parish minister has the big
loose, and he has the wee ane. He mak's his
sermons double as lang to let folk see that he
does a' the work '

A very good reason for not belonging to the
Free Church,' interposed Alec ; * but I don't see
what all this has got to do with the question.'

4 I'm only showing that the religious system
of this country is in a state of petrifaction,'
said Cameron, abandoning the Doric — l fossilization,
if you like it better. '

Alec laughed.

A pretty proof,' he cried.

'Oh, of course, the state of religion in one
corner of the Hieland is only an illustration ;
but it's much the same everywhere. I don't
see, to put the thing plainly, that we should
be very much worse off without any kirks,

and what we want with so many is a mystery
to me. What was the use of building a new
one in every parish at the Disruption, I should
like to know V

You know as well as I do,' answered Alec.
A great principle was at stake.'

1 " The sacred right o' the note* to chuse
their ain herd," as Burns puts it,' interposed
Cameron.

1 Not only that ; the question was whether
the Church should submit to interference on
the part of the State,' said Alec.

And by way of showing that she never
would submit, she rent herself in twa, and one
half has spent the best part of her pith ever
since in keeping up the fight wi' the tither
half. What sense is there in that, can ye tell
me?'

That's all very well,' said Alec, ' but it
seems to me that if a man finds a poor religion
around him, he ought to stick to it as well ashe
can till he finds a better one.'

Cattle.

1 There's sense in that, Alec said Cameron ;
1 and I'll no just say I've no had my endeavours
to find a better.'

I Where can ye find a better V asked Alec,
shocked at this latitudinarianism.

I I diana say I had succeeded, did I ? But
I've tried. I went a good deal among
the Methodists in my first year at College. I
was wonderfully taken with them at first —
thought them just the very salt of the earth.
But in six months, I found they groaned and
cried " Amen " a little too often — for nothing
at all. Then, my next session, I wandered
about from one kirk to another, and then I
stayed still. Sometimes I've even gone to
the Catholics.'

The Catholics !' exclaimed Alec, with
horror. If his friend had said that he had
occasionally joined in the rites of pagans, and
had witnessed human sacrifices, he could
hardly have shocked this son of the Covenanters
more seriously.

Hoots, ay !' said the Highlander, with a

half-affected carelessness. ' There's a lot o'
them in Menstrual.'

At home ? Tn the north V asked Alec, in
astonishment.

1 Yes ; in out-of-the-way corners there are
many Catholics. In some parishes there are
but few Protestants.'

How did they come there V

1 They have always been there.'

It was news to Alec, Scotchman as he was,
that there are to this day little communities of
Catholics hidden among the mountains of Ross
and Inverness, living in glens so secluded that
one might almost fancy that the fierce storms
of the sixteenth century had never reached
them.

Wondering in his heart how it was possible
that even unlettered Highlanders should have
clung so long to degrading superstitions, Alec
descended from his friend's garret, and set off
alone for St. Simon's Free Church. The Free
Churchmen in the Scotch towns frequently
name their places of worship after the Apostles,

not with any idea of honouring the Apostles'
memory, but solely by way of keeping up a
healthful and stimulating rivalry with the
Establishment. Thus we have ' St. Paul's,'
and 'Free St. Paul's '— ' St. John's,' and 'Free
St. John's ' — and so forth.

Alec set out alone, and he felt very lonely
as he made his way over the sloppy pavements.
Among all these crowds of respectably-dressed
people, there was not one face he knew, not
the least possibility that anyone would give
him a greeting. He would much rather have
stayed at home over a pipe and a book, like
Duncan Cameron ; but his conscience would
have made him miserable for a month if he
had been guilty of such a crime. The jangling
of bells filled the murky air. Most places of
worship in Scotland have a bell, but very few
have more than one. There is, therefore, no
reason why each church should not have as
large and as loud a bell as is consistent with
the safety of the belfry.

In a short time Alec reached ' Free St.

Simon's,' a building which outwardly resembled
an Egyptian temple on a small scale,
and inwardly a Methodist chapel on a large
scale. In all essential points the worship was
exactly a counterpart of that to which he had
always been accustomed at Muirburn ; but the
details were different. Here the passages were
covered with matting, and the pews were
carpeted and cushioned. Hassocks were also
provided, not for kneeling upon, but for the
greater comfort of the audience during the
sermon.

The tall windows on either side of the pulpit
were composed of painted glass. There were
no idolatrous representations in the windows ;
only geometrical figures — Alec knew their
number, and the colour of each one of them,
intimately.

At Free St. Simon's the modern habit of
standing during psalm-singing had been introduced.
The attitude to be observed at
prayer was as yet a moot question. Custom
varied upon the point. The older members

of the congregation stood up and severely
regarded their fellow-worshippers, who kept
their seats, propped their feet on their hassocks,
put their arms on the book-boards, and
leant their heads upon their arms. This
posture Alec found to be highly conducive to
slumber ; and he had much difficulty in keeping
awake, but he did not care to proclaim
himself one of the ' unco guide ' by rising to his
feet, and protesting in that way against the
modern laxity of manners.

The prayer was a very long one, but at last
it was over ; and then came a chapter read
from the Bible, another portion of a psalm,
and the sermon. The preacher was both a
good man and a learned one, but oratory was
not his strong point ; and if it had been, he
might well have been excused for making no
attempt to exert it at such a time and under
such circumstances. The text, Alec remembered
afterwards, was * One Lord, one Father
of all,' and the sermon was an elaborate
attempt to prove that the Creator was in no

proper sense the ' Father ' of all men, but of
the elect only. The young student listened
for a time, and then fell to castle-building,
an occupation of which he was perilously
fond.

When the regulation hour-and-a-half had
come to a close, the congregation was dismissed
; and Alec Lindsay went back to his
lodgings, weary, depressed, and discontented.
After tea there was absolutely nothing for him
to do. He did not feel inclined to read a
religious book ; and recreations of any kind
were absolutely forbidden by the religion in
which he had been brought up. After an
hour spent in idling about his room, he set
out to find a church at which there was evening
service, thinking that to hear another
sermon would be less wearisome than solitude.

Wandering through the streets, which at
that hour were almost deserted, he at last
heard a church bell begin to ring, and following
the sound he came to a stone building,
surmounted by a belfry. After a little hesitation,

Alec Lindsay entered, and was conducted
by the pew-opener to a seat. The
area of the building was filled with very high-backed
pews, set close together, and a large
gallery ran round three of the walls ; but the
chapel was evidently not a Presbyterian place
of worship, for on either side of the lofty
pulpit was a reading-desk, nearly as high as
the pulpit itself.

Presently the bell stopped, and an organ
placed in the gallery opposite the pulpit began
to sound. Then a clergyman in white surplice
and black stole ascended to the reading-desk
on the right of the central pulpit, and Alec
Lindsay knew that he was, for the first time
in his life, in an i Episcopal ' chapel.

The service was conducted in the plainest
manner possible. The psalms were read, the
canticles alone being chanted ; and the clergyman,
as he read the prayers, faced the congregation.
The hymns were of a pronounced
Evangelical type, and the sternest Calvinist
could have found no fault with the sermon.

But to Alec all was so entirely new and
strange that he sometimes found it difficult to
remember that he was supposed to be engaged
in worship.

The prayers were over, and the sermon had
begun, when Alec noticed, at some little distance,
a face, the sight of which made his
hand tremble and his heart beat. It was
Laura Mowbray. She was sitting alone in
her corner, her only companion being a maidservant,
who sat at the door of the pew. Her
profile was turned towards Alec, its clear white
outline showing against the dark panelling
behind her. Almost afraid to look in her
direction, for fear of attracting her attention,
or of allowing those sitting near him to guess
what was passing in his mind, he took only a
glance now and then at the object of his worship.
It was worship, rather than love, with
Alec Lindsay. Courtship, and marriage, and
the practical considerations which these things
entail, never entered the boy's mind. He had
seen his ideal of beauty, of refinement, of

feminine grace ; and he was content, for the
present at least, to worship her at a distance,
himself unseen.

When the service was over, he left the
chapel, and placed himself at an angle outside
the gateway, where he could see her as she
passed out. He recognised her figure as soon
as it appeared, but to his great disappointment
her face was turned from him. By chance,
however, she looked back to see if the maid
were following her, and for one instant he had
a full view of her face. It was enough, and
without a thought of accosting her, Alec went
home satisfied.

vol. 1. 10

THE ROARING GAME.

When the Christmas holidays drew near, Alec
obtained his father's permission to ask his
friend, Duncan Cameron, to spend a week at
the Castle Farm ; and, after a little hesitation,
Cameron accepted the proposal.

There's just one thing, Duncan, I would
like you to mind,' said Alec, as they drew
near the farm ; ' my father's an old man, and
he doesn't like to be contradicted. More than
that, he doesn't care to hear anyone express
opinions contrary to his own, at least on two
subjects — politics and religion. If you can't
agree with him on these points, and I dare say
you won't, hold your tongue, like a good fellow.

And my sister — you'd better keep off religion
in her case too.'

Why didn't you tell me this before V was
Cameron's inward thought ; but he only said
he would of course be careful not to wound
the old gentleman's susceptibilities.

Mr. Lindsay received his guest with a
hearty welcome — it was not one of his faults
to fail in hospitality — indeed, a stranger might
have thought that he was better pleased to
see his guest than his son. He led the w r ay
through the great stone-floored kitchen to the
parlour, where an enormous fire of coals was
blazing, and where the evening meal was
already laid out on the snowy table-cloth.

1 You had better warm your hands before
going upstairs,' he said to Duncan. ' You
must have had a very cold drive. Margaret !'
he called out, finding that his daughter was
not in the sitting-room. ' Margaret ! where
are you ? Gone away at once.'

In his eyes Margaret was a child still. He
was a little annoyed that she should have

10—2

been out of the way, and not in her place,
ready to welcome the guest.

Margaret, however, had taken her stand in
the dairy, which was on the opposite side of
the passage from the kitchen. She wanted to
greet her brother in her own way. And Alec,
as soon as he saw that she was not with his
father, knew where she was. The dairy had
been a favourite refuge in their childish days.
It was a little out of the way, and seldom
visited, while it commanded a way of retreat
through the cheese-house.

As soon as his father had taken charge of
Cameron, Alec hurried back through the
kitchen, ran along the passage, opened the
dairy-door, and there, sure enough, was Margaret.


Maggie !' he cried ; and the two were fast
locked in each other's embrace.

It was but eight weeks since they had
parted ; but they had never been separated
before.

For a moment neither spoke.

What made you come here, Maggie V
asked Alec, with boyish inconsiderateness.

I came for the cream for tea,' said Margaret.


Oh, Maggie !'

I did indeed. Go and get me a light.
Oh, Alec ! it has been so lonely without
you !'

She kissed him again, and pushed him out
of the dairy. Then she burst into tears. He
was not so glad to see her as she had been to
see him. He w r as changed ; she knew he was
changed, though she had not really seen him.
He was going to be a man, to grow beyond
her. to forget, perhaps to despise her. Why
had he asked why she had come there ?
Surely he might have

At this point in Margaret's reflections, Alec
returned with a candle, and seeing the traces
of tears on his sister's cheeks, he turned and
gave her another hug. She tenderly returned
the caress ; but her first words were :

Why did you bring a stranger home with

you, Alec ? And we are to be together such a
short time, too !'

Oh, nonsense, Maggie ! Cameron is a great
friend of mine, and you'll like him, I'm sure.
But there's father calling ; we must go.'

Mr. Lindsay had divined what his daughter
had been doing ; but he thought it was now
quite time that she should come forward and
play her part as hostess.

1 You go first, Alec,' she said, taking up the
cream-jug which she had brought as her excuse
for her visit to the dairy.

And I tell you, sir, that till we have the
ballot we can have no security against persecution,'
Mr. Lindsay was exclaiming, as they
entered the sitting-room. ' A man cannot
vote now according to his conscience unless he
is prepared to risk being driven from his
home, to lose his very livelihood. Let me
give you an instance '

But here Margaret came forward, calm and
serene as usual. Cameron rose to meet her ;
and the political harangue was cut short by

the appearance of a stout damsel with cheeks
like peonies, bearing an enormous silver
teapot.

Cameron was struck by Margaret Lindsay's
beauty, as everyone was who saw her ; but
the effect was to render him shy and ill
at ease. He felt inferior to her ; and the
calm indifference of her manner made him
fancy that she treated him with disdain. Mr.
Lindsay did most of the talking ; Cameron,
mindful of his friend's warning, sat almost
dumb, totally unlike his usual self. Alec
began to think that he had made a mistake in
inviting him to the Castle Farm.

As it happened, a keen frost had set in some
days before, and farm operations were at a
standstill. Margaret was busy next morning
in superintending matters in the dairy and the
kitchen ; but the three men had nothing todo.
Mr. Lindsay fastened on his guest, and
extracted from him a full and particular
account of the state of agriculture and of
religion in the island of Scalpa and the

neighbouring mainland before the one o'clock
dinner.

In the evening, however, there was a promise
of a little break in the monotony of life
at the farm. A message was brought to Alec
enjoining him to be at ' The Lang Loch ' by
half-past nine next morning, and take part ina
curling-match between the Muirburn parish
and the players of the neighbouring parish of
Auchinbyres.

1 You can't possibly go, Alec,' said the
laird, when the message was delivered ; ' Mr.
Cameron won't care to hang about here alone
all day.'

Mr. Lindsay was secretly proud of his son's
reputation as a curler ; but he did not wish
him to go to the match, because he did not
care that he should be exposed to the contaminating
influences of a very mixed company,
and he did not relish the prospect of Alec's
carrying aw T ay his friend and leaving him
alone for the day. But when Duncan heard
of the match he declared that he must see it

there was hardly ever any frost worth
speaking of in the Hebrides ; and he had
never seen a curling-match.

'You'll want the dog-cart to take your
stones to the loch, Alec,' said Mr. Lindsay.
I think I will go with you, and go on to
Otterburn about those tiles.'

I wish you would come with us, Maggie
said Alec. ' Father will be passing the loch
on his way back in half an hour, and he can
pick you up and bring you home. The drive
will do you good.'

To this arrangement Margaret consented,
and early next morning the little party set
out in the keen wintry air. The sun, not
long risen, was making the snow sparkle on
the fields, and turning the desolate scene into
fairyland.

After an hour's drive they arrived at the
scene of the match — a sheet of water, on one
side of which the open moor stretched away to
the horizon, while on the other side there was
a thin belt of fir-trees. The ice, two or three

acres in extent, was covered with a sprinkling
of snow, which had been carefully cleared from
the ' ranks.' The ranks were sixty or seventy
yards long by six or eight wide, and they
showed like pools of black water beside the
clear white snow.

Already the surface of the little lake was
dotted with boys on ' sketches,' as skates
are called in that part of the country ; and
the margin was fringed with dog-carts from
which the horses had been removed. The
stones, circular blocks of granite, nearly a
foot in diameter, and about five inches thick,
fitted with brass handles, were lying in order
on the bank on beds of straw.

Quite a little crowd of farmers, farm-servants,
and schoolboys were assembled
beside the stones, waiting till the match
should begin. Lord Bantock, the chief landowner
in that part of Kyleshire, was there,
his red, good-humoured face beaming on
everybody, his hands thrust into the pockets
of his knickerbockers, the regulation green

broom under his arm. Next him stood a
little spare man in a tall hat. This was
Johnnie Fergus, draper, ironmonger, guardian
of the poor, and Free Church deacon in the
neighbouring village of Auchinbyres.

Nothing was ever done at Auchinbyres
without Johnnie Fergus having a hand in it.
He was a man of importance, and he knew
it. No man had ever seen Johnnie in a
round hat. He always carried his chin very
much in the air, and kept his lips well
pursed up, and spoke in a peremptory tone
of voice — especially when (as on the present
occasion) he was in the company of his
betters.

Next to him stood Hamilton of the Holme,
a great giant of a man, slow in his movements,
slow in his speech, wearing the roughest of
rough tweeds, and boots whose soles were at
least an inch in thickness. At present, however,
he was encased as to his lower man in
enormous stockings, drawn over boots and
trousers, to prevent him from slipping about

on the ice ; and many of the players were
arrayed in a similar fashion.

Come wa, Castle Fair !' cried one of
the crowd as Mr. Lindsay drove up. ' Aw'm
glad to see ye ; ye play a handle better nor
yer son.'

4 Na, na, Muirfuit,' responded the laird ;
my playing-days are by.'

Meantime Lord Bantock strolled over to
the dog-cart, his ostensible reason being to
shake hands with Mr. Lindsay, whom he
recognised in his fallen state as one of the
small gentry of the county.

Are you going to honour us with your
presence, Miss Lindsay ?' he asked, as he
helped Margaret to alight.

Only for half an hour,' she answered, as
she sprang lightly to the ground. ' You will
be back by that time V she continued, addressing
her father.

In less than an hour, at any rate,' he
answered as he drove away ; and Margaret,
seeing some schoolgirls whom she knew engaged

in sliding, went off to speak to
them.

At this point a loud roar of laughter came
from the group of men standing at the side
of the loch ; and Lord Bantock, who dearly
loved a joke, hurried back to them.

1 Old Simpson is telling some of his stories ;
let us go and hear him,' said Alec Lindsay,
as, passing his arm through his friend's, he led
him up to the little crowd.

A tall man with a lean, smooth face, dressed
in a high hat and black frock-coat, and wearing
an old-fashioned black silk handkerchief
round his neck, was standing in a slouching
attitude, his hands half out of his pockets,
while the others hung around in silence, waiting
for his next anecdote.

1 That minds me,' he was saying, as Alec
and Cameron came up, ' that minds me o'
what auld Craig o' the Burn-Fuit said to wee
Jamieson the writer. 4 " Craig was a court
ill-tempered man ; and though he had never

A lawyer. f Hard.

fashed the kirk muckle, the minister cam' to
see him on one occasion when it was thocht
he was near his dinner-en'.

" Ye're dein', Burn-Fuit," says Maister
Symie.

1 " No just yet, minister' says Craig.

1 " I coot ye're dein' ; an' it behoves ye to
mak' your peace wi' the hall warl'," says the
minister.

Craig died a sigh, as if it was the hardest
job he could set himself tae. After a heap o'
talking' the minister got him persuaded to see
Jamieson, who just then was his great enemy
he aye had ane or twa o' them — an' forgive
him for some ill-turn the writer had dune
him. An' wi' just as much persuasion he got
Jamieson to come to the dein' man's bedside,
and be a party to the reconciliation.

Sae the twa met, and had a freely crack
i' the minister's presence. Guide Mr. Symie
was delighted. As the writer was depairtin',
they shook hands.

" Guide-day, Maister Jamieson," says Craig.

Ye've done me many an ill-turn, but I
forgive ye. But mind — mind, if I get wee], a'
this gangs for nowt !" '

A laugh followed the schoolmaster's story ;
and the group dispersed to see that the
preparations which were being made on the
ice were duly performed. A small hole had
already been bored at each end of the principal
rink. Each of these was to be in its turn the
tee,' or mark. At some distance from each
of the tees, a line called the * hog-score ' was
drawn across the ice. Stones which did not
pass this line were not to be allowed to count,
and were to be removed at once from the ice.
A long piece of wood, with nails driven
through it at fixed intervals, was now placed
with one of its ends resting on the tee, and
held there firmly, while it was slowly turned
round on the ice. The result of this operation
was that the ice was marked by circles drawn
at equal distances from the tee, by which the
relative distances of two stones from the
central point could be easily determined.

The players having been already selected,
the match began as soon as this was done.

Alec Lindsay, being one of the youngest
men present, was told to begin, his adversary
being Simpson the schoolmaster.

Cameron and Margaret, standing together
on one side of the players, who assembled atone
end of the rink, watched Alec, who
went forward, lifted one of his father's heavy
granite stones, and swung it lightly in his
hand. Meanwhile one of the players from
his own side had gone to the other side of
the rink, and holding his broom upright in
the tee-hole, enabled Alec to form a more
accurate idea of the distance.

Swinging his stone, Alec stooped down,
and with no apparent effort ' placed ' it on
the ice. Away it sailed with a loud humming
sound, sweet to a curlers ear.

Every man eagerly watched its rate of
speed, while some, running alongside, accompanied
it on its course.

Soop it up ! Soop it up !' cried some of

the younger members of the Muirburn side ;
and they began to sweep the ice in front of
the stone with their brooms, so as to expedite
its progress.

1 Let her alone ! She's coming' on brawly !'
cried Hamilton, from the other end of the
rink, in an authoritative tone. They immediately
left off sweeping ; and two of the
Auchinbyres men, acting on the principle that
if the stone had, from the Muirburn players'
point of view, just enough way on it, they had
better give it a little more, began to ply their
brooms vigorously in front of it.

These attentions, however, did no harm.
The stone glided up towards the tee, slackened
its speed, and finally stopped, exactly where it
ought to have stopped, about a foot in front
of the mark.

A slight cheer greeted this good shot ; and
Ye'll mak' as guide a player as your father,
Alec !' from one of the bystanders made Margaret's
face flush with pleasure.

It was now the schoolmaster's turn. One of

vol. i. 11

his side took Hamilton's place as pilot ; and
the old man, playing with even less apparent
effort than Alec had used, sent his stone right
in the face of his adversary's. The speed was
so nicely graduated that Alec s stone was
disposed of for good, while Simpson's stone
occupied almost exactly the spot on which
Alec's had formerly rested.

Again Hamilton advanced to lend the young
player his advice, while Alec took up his
remaining stone, and went to the front. He
sent a well-aimed shot, but rather too powerfully
delivered, and the adversaries of course
hastened to make it worse by sweeping. The
stone struck Simpson's slightly on one side,
sending it to the left, while it went on towards
the right, and finally stopped considerably to
the right of the tee, but near enough to make
it worth guarding. The schoolmaster's next
shot was not a success. His stone went between
the two which were already on the ice,
and passing over the tee landed about two
feet beyond it.

This gave a chance to the Muirburn men.
Their next player placed his stone a long way
from the tee, but right in front of Alec's, so
that it was impossible, or almost impossible,
to dislodge the latter without first getting rid
of the former. To him succeeded Johnnie
Fergus ; and he, preferring his own judgment
before that of the official guide, played the
guard full on, with the result that he sent it
well into the inner circle, while his own stone
formed a very efficient guard for that of his
enemy. As every stone which, at the end of
the round, is found nearer the tee than anyone
belonging to a player of the opposite side
counts for one point, the Muirburn men had
now two stones in a position to score ; and
they patiently surrounded them with guards,
which the Auchinbyres players knocked away
whenever they could. So the game went
with varying success, till only one pair of
players was left for that round — Hamilton,
playing for Muirburn, and Lord Bantock, who
belonged to the enemy.

11—2

Things at that moment were very bad for
the Muirburn men. Four stones belonging
to the opposite side were nearer the tee than
any one of their own ; while a formidable
array of guards lined the ice in front of
them.

Hamilton went and studied the situation
carefully. Then he went back, and played
his first shot.

Soop it ! Soop it ! Soop it !' roared the
schoolmaster, flourishing his broom, and dancing
like a maniac. He alone, of the Aching
players, understood the object of the
shot, and saw that it could only be defeated,
if at all, by giving it a little extra impetus.
But the advice came too late. The brooms
were plied before it like lightning, but the
stone came stealing up like a live thing, and
just avoiding an outlying guard, gave a knock
to one stone at such an angle that the impetus
was communicated to a second and from it to
a third, while it took the third place, thus
cutting off two of the adversaries' points.

1 Noo, m' lord, a wee thocht tae the right o'
this,' said Johnnie Fergus, as he stooped down
and held his broom over the spot where he
desired Lord Bantock's stone should come in.

But Lord Bantock had been given the place
of honour as last player more out of consideration
for his rank than for his skill. He
played with far too much force, and sent his
stone smashing on one of the outside guards,
from which it rushed to the side of the rink
and disappeared.

Did I no tell ye no to pit that humph at the
tail V quoth Johnnie in an undertone of deep
disgust, as he rose from his stooping posture.

Haud your tongue, man ! I've seen his
lordship play as weel as ony deacon among
ye,' said the leader, angry at being suspected
of unduly favouring the great man.

But with a cry of expectation from the
crowd, Hamilton's second stone left his hand
and came spinning over the ice, right in the
track of its predecessor. A roar went up
from the players, as the Muirburn men rushed

forward, and distributing themselves over the
path which the stone had to traverse, polished
it till the ice was like glass. The stone came
in beautifully, displaced the best stone, and
took the first place, by canning off another
of the enemy.

A loud hurrah greeted this feat, and Lord
Bantock stepped forward, determined to do
something to redeem his reputation, which he
knew had suffered from the result of his
former effort.

An old farmer ran as fast as his years
would permit to offer his lordship a word of
advice before the last shot was fired.

1 All right, Blackwater,' said Lord Bantock,
with a nod, as he planted his feet firmly on
the ice, and gripped the handle of his stone,
as if he would bend the brass. Away went
the stone with a rush, and a roar from the
crow T d. Crash — crash — it struck against one
and another ; but it had force enough to goon.
Smash it came among the group of
stones, sending them flying in all directions,

while everybody jumped aside to avoid a
collision. It was not a first-rate shot ; but it
was successful. The first, second, third, fourth,
and fifth stones were knocked, or rather knocked
one another, out of the way. Lord Bantock's
stone itself went right ahead, ploughing a
path for itself in the snow beyond the rink.
Alec's second stone, long since considered to
be out of the running, was found to be half
an inch nearer the tee than any one belonging
to the other side ; and the Muirburn men
accordingly scored one towards the game.

At the other ranks, meanwhile, subsidiary
contests were in full progress, and the scene
was a very animated one. It was, however,
very cold work for bystanders, and Cameron,
as he saw that his companion was shivering
in spite of her winter clothing, proposed to
Alec that Margaret and himself should set out
at once for the farm, leaving Mr. Lindsay to
overtake them when he returned. To this
arrangement Alec of course assented, and
Margaret and Cameron set off together.

Most young men would have been glad to
be in Cameron's place ; but the Highlander
felt very ill at ease. He began to seek fora
subject which might be supposed to be
interesting to a girl, and dismissed one after
another as totally unsuitable. The silence
continued, and the young man was nearly in
despair, when Margaret, totally unconscious of
any embarrassment, came to his assistance.

That is the way to Drumclog,' she said,
pointing to a moorland road which crossed
their path ; ' Alec and you ought to walk
over some day.'

1 Is there anything to see there V inquired
her companion.

Have you never heard of the Battle ot
Drumclog V asked the girl in surprise.

The Highlander was obliged to confess that
he had not.

4 Have you never read of the persecutions of
the Covenanters, and Graham of Charterhouse,
and the martyrs V asked Margaret again, with
wonder in her eyes.

Oh yes, of course ; but I didn't know that
these things happened in this part of the
country.'

Yes,' said Margaret. ' The Martyrs' Cairn
is only a little way beyond Blackwater. You
know the Covenanters were not allowed to
worship in their own way, and they used to
meet in hollows of the hills and on the open
moors. The country w T as full of soldiers, sent
to keep down the people ; and when the
Covenanters went to the preaching, they used
to take arms with them. One Sabbath morning
a large number of them were attending a
service on the lonely moor at Drumclog when
the English soldiers, who had somehow heard
of the gathering, bore down upon them. They
were dragoons, led by " the bloody Cavernous,"
as they call him to this day. Providentially
there was a bog in front of the
Covenanters. The horses of the dragoons
could not cross it ; and those soldiers who did
cross at last were beaten off by the Covenanters,
and many of them were killed.'

I remember it now,' said Cameron; 'I have
read about it in " Old Mortality." '

The most unfair book that ever was
written !' exclaimed Margaret with some heat
* a book that every true Scotchman should
be ashamed of.'

I don't see that,' returned Cameron ; ' I
think Sir Walter held the balance very fairly.'

He simply turns the Covenanters into
ridicule and tries to make his readers
sympathize with the persecutors,' said Margaret.


'Well, you can't deny that a good many of
them were ridiculous,' said Cameron lightly.

And you have no sympathy for these
brave men who won our liberties for us with
their blood !' exclaimed the girl.

1 1 don't say that,' said the young Highlander
cautiously ; ' but I'm not so sure about
their having won our liberties for us,' he
added with a laugh. ' There wasn't much
liberty in the Highlands when their King got
the upper hand.'

Then he tried to change the subject ; but
Margaret answered him only in monosyllables.
This daughter of the Covenanters could not
forgive anyone who refused to consider those
who took part in the petty rebellion of the
west as heroes and martyrs. She made their
cause her own, and decided that Cameron was
thenceforth to be regarded as a ' malignant

As for Cameron, he mentally banned the
whole tribe of Covenanters, as well as his own
folly in offering any opposition to Margaret's
prejudices ; and before he could make his
peace with her Mr. Lindsay drove up, and the
tête-à-tête came to an end.

Duncan Cameron had felt the spell of
Margaret's beauty, as everyone did who
approached her. But he had made a bad
beginning in his intercourse with her, and he
now felt a strong sense of repulsion mingling
with his admiration. It was not only that he
despised her narrowness of mind ; there was
between the two something of the old antagonism
between Cavalier and Puritan. For

the rest of his stay at Castle Farm he avoided
meeting her alone, and only spoke to her
when ordinary politeness required it. And
yet, whenever she addressed him, he felt that
the fascination of her beauty was as strong as
ever. When Alec came home on the day of
the curling-match, and shouted out in triumph
that Muirburn had w T on, Margaret's eyes
flashed, and her cheek flushed in sympathy ;
and Cameron, watching her, forgot that she
had not forgiven him for his lack of sympathy
with the men of Drumclog.

THE END OF THE SESSION.

At the end of the appointed week the two
young men returned to Glasgow, and braced
themselves up for the remaining four months
of work. At the northern Universities the
academic year ends (except for a few supplementary
medical classes) with the 1st of May.
Alec Lindsay had a great deal of leeway to
make up, as he had never had a proper
grounding in either Latin or Greek ; but he
did his best, and felt pretty sure of being able
to take at least one prize.

Of course he found his way back to the
Church of England chapel at which he had
seen Miss Mowbray ; and on more than one
occasion he was gratified by a sight of her.

As to the Anglican form of worship, he regarded
it with very mixed feelings. He was
pleased by the stately simplicity of the collects,
and by the rhythm of the chants. The
service was free from the monotony of the
Presbyterian form, and it was more ' congregational
' than anything to which he had been
accustomed. But it was some time before he
could divest himself of the idea that he was
witnessing a kind of religious entertainment,
ingeniously devised and interesting, but by no
means tending to edification. He felt like his
country woman, who when taken to a service
at Westminster Abbey said afterwards : ' It
was very fine — but eh ! that was an awful' way
o' spending the Sabbath !' The voice of conscience
is as loud when it condemns the
infraction of a rule founded only in prejudice
as when it protests against a breach of the
moral law itself; and for several Sunday
evenings Alec Lindsay left the chapel with
the feeling that he had been guilty of a misdemeanour
— he had been playing at worship.

The unexpressed idea in his mind (a result of
his Presbyterian training) was that collects, and
chants, and ceremonial observances in general,
were too interesting, too pleasing to the natural
man, to be acceptable to the Almighty. But
by degrees this feeling wore off ; and when he
became familiar with the Prayer-book, he
found that it was an aid rather than a hindrance
to devotion.

The end of the session drew near ; and the
April sun shone clear and fair through the
smoke-cloud of Glasgow. It was a Saturday
afternoon, and Alec determined to console
himself for the loss of a long walk, for which
he could not afford time, by putting a book in
his pocket, and taking a stroll in the park.

Those who are most attached to the country
care least for parks. A piece of enclosed and
tended pleasure-ground, whether it is large or
small, always affects the lover of nature with a
sense of restraint, of formality, of the substitution
of an imitation for a reality. Trim
gravelled walks are but a poor substitute for a

grass-grown lane ; a neglected hedgerow, a bit
of moorland, or even a corner of a common,
will hold more that is beautiful, more that is
interesting to one who loves the open country,
than acres of park, with all their flower-plots
and ticketed specimens of foreign shrubs ; for
in a thorn hedge or a mound of furze one
recognises the inexpressible charm that Nature
only possesses when she is left to work by
herself.

Yet, to a dweller in cities, parks are worth
having. They are, at least, infinitely better than
the streets. So, at least, thought Alec Lindsay
this April afternoon, as he wandered along the
deserted pathway, under the budding trees.
Glasgow is fortunate in at least one of its
parks. The enclosure is of small extent, but
then it is not merely a square of ground
planted with weedy young trees and intersected
by roads. It is a bit of the valley of the
Kelvin ; and it includes one side of a steep
rising-ground which is crowned by handsome
houses of stone. The little river itself is

always dirty, and in summer is little better
than a sewer with the roof off ; but seen from
a little distance it is picturesque, and lends
variety to the scene.

Alec was wandering along one of the pathways,
watching the sunlight playing in the
yet leafless branches, and trying to cheat
himself into the idea that his mind was filled
with Woman history; when suddenly he found
himself face to face with — Laura Mowbray.
She was dressed, not in winter garments,
though the air was cold, but in light, soft
colours, which made her look different from
the Scotch damsels whom Alec had seen in
the streets. She seemed the impersonation
of the spring as she slowly approached Alec
with a smile on her face. Of course he stopped
to speak to her.

I have come out for a turn in the park, for
I really couldn't bear to stay shut up in the
house on such a glorious day,' said Laura.
Uncle wouldn't come with me, though I
teased him ever so long. He said he was

vol. 1. 12

very busy ; but I think people sometimes
make a pretence of being studious,' and she
glanced at Alec's note-book as she spoke.

Alec laughed and thrust the book into his
pocket, and turning round walked on slowly
by the girl's side.

If you had an exam, to prepare for, you
wouldn't much care whether people thought
you studious or not,' he said.

How is your uncle ?' asked Laura.

I'm sure I can't tell.'

Can't tell ! You wicked, unnatural creature
! I am quite shocked at you.'

He was very well when I saw him last —
that is, about three months ago — with the
exception of a fearfully bad temper.'

Don't you know that it is highly unbecoming
of you to speak of anyone older than
yourself in that disrespectful way V

But Laura's look hardly seconded her words ;
and Alec went on :

It is quite true, though. I wonder Aunt
Jean can put up with him.'

1 Who is Aunt Jean ? Miss Lindsay ? The
lady who lives with your uncle and keeps
house for him V

1 Yes.'

She is a relation of your uncle's, isn't she?'

1 Oh yes ; a cousin in some degree or other.'

Mr. Lindsay never married, I believe,'
said Miss Mowbray.

No ; he has no relations nearer than ' —
nearer than I am,' he was going to have
said ; but he stopped and substituted —
nearer than nephews and nieces.'

And he has plenty of them, I suppose ?
All Scotch people seem to have so many
relations ; it is quite bewildering.'

Uncle James is my father's uncle, you
understand,' said Alec ; ' and there are only
two in our family, my sister and I ; that is
not so very many.'

No. But have you really a sister V exclaimed
Laura, turning round so as to face
her companion for an instant.

Yes, one sister : Margaret.'

12—2

How lucky you are ! I have no brothers
or sisters ; I have only my uncle. How I
wish I knew your sister ! And Margaret is
such a pretty name.'

It is common enough, anyway.'

But not commonplace ; oh ! not at all
commonplace. If I had a sister I would call
her Margaret, whatever her real name might
be. By the way, have you seen Mr. Semple
since that night of the dinner-party V

< No.'

And you don't seem very sorry for it V
said the girl, with a little smile.

No ; I can't say I care much for Cousin
James.'

1 He is a relation of Mr. Lindsay, too, isn't
hel'

Yes ; his mother was a Lindsay, a niece
of my grand-uncle's. He is in the oil-works ;
and I dare say he will become manager of
them some day.'

Miss Mowbray was silent for a few moments ;
then she stopped and hesitated.

I Do you know, I don't think I ought to
allow you to walk with me in this way.
Suppose we were to meet anyone we
knew !'

Alec flushed to the roots of his hair.

I I beg your pardon !' he exclaimed.

'Oh, I don't mind ; but — Mrs. Grundy,
you know.'

Do you know that you can see Ben Lomond
from the top of the hill V said Alec, suddenly
changing the subject.

No ; really f

Yes ; won't you let me show it to you ?
It's a beautiful view, and only a few steps
off.'

Miss Mowbray seemed to forget her scruples,
for she allowed herself to be led up a narrow
winding path, fringed with young trees, which
led to the top of the rising ground.

If I had known you a little longer,' began
Laura, with some hesitation, ' I think I would
have ventured to give you a little bit of my
mind

About what V asked Alec with sudden
eagerness.

Laura shook her head gravely.

I fear you would be offended if I were to
speak of it she said.

Indeed I would not. Nothing you could
say could offend me.'

Well, if you will promise to forgive me if
I should offend you '

You couldn't offend me if you tried said
Alec warmly.

Then I will tell you what I was thinking
of. I don't think you should neglect your
grand-uncle as you do.'

Neglect !'

Yes. It is not kind or dutiful.'

Neglect ! My dear Miss Mowbray, you
are altogether mistaken. We can't neglect
those who don't want us. He hasn't the
slightest wish, I assure you, to see me dangling
about him.'

There ! You promised not to be offended ;
and you are !'

1 Indeed I am not.'

Yes, you are. I won't say another word.'

Oh, Miss Mowbray ! How can you think
I am offended ? AVhat have I said to make
you fancy such a thing ? On the contrary,
I think it so very, very good of you to take
so much interest '

Here Alec stopped, for he saw that his
companion was blushing, and that somehow
he had made a mess of things. He had not
yet learned that some species of gratitude
cannot find fitting expression in words.

I think it is my turn to say that I have
offended you,' he said after a pause.

Laura laughed — such a pleasant, rippling
laugh !

It is getting quite too involved. Let us
pass an Act of Oblivion, and forget all about
it'

But if you think I ought to call on my
uncle,' began Alec — 'no; don't shake your
head. Tell me what you really think I ought
to do.'

1 Do you like Miss Lindsay V asked Laura,
without replying to the question.

1 Aunt Jean ? Yes ; much better than I
like Uncle James.'

Then you can go to see her now and then ;
and when you are in the house go into your
uncle's room and ask how he is, if he is at
home. We ought not only to visit people for
our own pleasure, but sometimes because it is
our duty to do so.'

Yes, you are quite right ; and I will do
what you say. But here we are at the top
of the hill. What a delightful breeze, isn't
it ? Do you see that blue cloud in the
distance, just a little deeper in tint than those
about it ?'

Yes ; I see it.'

That is Ben Lomond, nearly four thousand
feet high.'

Beally V said Miss Mowbray ; but there
was not much enthusiasm in her voice.

Alec, on the contrary, stood in a kind of
rapture which made him forget for the moment

even the girl at his side. The sight of distant
mountains always affected him with a kind of
strange, delicious melancholy — unrest mingling
with satisfaction, such as that which filled the
heart of Christian when from afar he caught
a glimpse of the shining towers of the celestial
city.

The English girl watched the look in the
young Scotchman's face with wonder not unmixed
with amusement. When with a sigh
Alec turned to his companion, she, too, was
gazing on the far-off mountain-top.

1 I really must go now,' she said softly,
holding out her hand.

May I not go to the park-gate with
you V

Laura shook her head ; but her smile was
bright enough to take the sting from her
refusal.

Good-bye.'

And in another moment Alec was alone.

The sun had gone out of his sky. He sat
down on a bench, and began to wonder how

he had dared to converse familiarly with one
so beautiful, so refined, so far removed from
his ordinary friends, as Laura Mowbray.
Then he recalled her great goodness in
interesting herself in his concerns, and of
course he resolved to follow her advice. He
could think of nothing but Laura Mowbray
the whole afternoon. He recalled her looks,
her smile, her lightest word. To him they
were treasures, to be hidden for ever from
every human eye but his own ; and in every
look and word he found a new ground for
admiration, a new proof of Miss Mowbray's
intelligence, sweetness, and goodness.

Next week he acted upon her suggestion,
and paid a visit to Blythswood Square. He
was received by Miss Lindsay, a tall, spare,
large-featured woman, whose gray hair was
bound down severely under her old-fashioned
cap.

1 Weel, Alec ; an what brings you here V
was her greeting, as she held out her hand
without troubling herself to rise.

Nothing particular : why do you ask ?

• Ye come sae seldom ; it's no often we hae
the pleasure 0' a veesit frae you.'

I canna say much for my attentions, Aunt
Jean ; but then I canna say much for your
welcome,' returned Alec, flushing as he
spoke.

Hoots, laddie ! sit toon an' behave yersel'.
My bark's war nor my bite.'

1 And how's my uncle V

Much as usual. I don't think he's overly
weel pleased wi' you, Alec, my man

1 What have I done now ¥

It's no your dein' ; it's your no-dein'.
Ye never look near him

He doesn't want to be bothered with me.'

The door opened, and the master of the
house came in. He gave Alec his hand with
his usual dry, consequential air, and hardly
looking at him, made some indifferent remark
to his cousin.

1 Here's Alec savin' he doesna believe you
want to be bothered wi' him,' she said.

The old man seated himself deliberately,
and made no disclaimer of the imputation.

You'll be going home for the summer V
he asked.

Yes ; I am going home at the end of the
month ; but I should like to get a tutorship
for the summer, if I could.'

Humph !'

1 What are you going to be ?' asked Mr.
Lindsay after a pause — ' a doctor, or a
minister, or what V

I don't know yet,' said Alec.

His uncle sniffed contemptuously.

'A robin stane gathers nae fog,'"" put in
Aunt Jean.

Alec changed the subject ; but his grand-uncle
soon returned to it.

The sooner ye mak' up yer mind the
better, my lad,' said the old man. ' Would
you like to go into the oil-works V he added,
as if it were an after-thought.

Moss.

1 I hardly know, sir. I would like another
year at College first,' said Alec. ' But thank
you all the same, Uncle James ;' and as he
spoke he rose to take his leave.

Mr. Lindsay paid no sort of attention to
the latter part of the reply. He took up a
newspaper, and adjusting his spectacles began
to read it, almost before the lad had turned
his back.

In another week the session was practically
at an end. The prize-list, settled by the
votes of the students themselves, showed
that Alec had won the fourth prize, which
in a class numbering nearly two hundred
was a proof of at least a fair amount of application
; and he also won an extra prize for
Roman History.

You don't seem much elated,' said Cameron
to his friend, when he brought home the
splendidly-bound volumes of nothing in
particular. ' You've either less ambition or
more sense than I gave you credit for.'

1 1 expected something better,' said Alec.

1 Self-conceit, you should have said, not sense,
Duncan.'

If Alec were conceited he got little to feed
his vanity at home. His father looked at
the books, praised the binding, asked how
many prizes were given in the class, and said
no more. Secretly he was gratified by his
son's success ; but it was one of his principles
to discourage vainglory in his children by
never, under any circumstances, speaking
favourably of their performances. No one
would have guessed from Alec's manner that
he cared a straw whether any praise was
awarded to him or not ; but he felt none
the less keenly the absence of his father's
commendation.

The month of May went by slowly at the
Castle Farm. Alec was longing for change
of occupation and change of scene. One
morning he chanced to notice an advertise -
ment which he thought it worth while to
answer. A Glasgow merchant, whose wife
and daughters had persuaded him to spend

four months of the year at the seaside, wished
to find some one to read with his boys three
hours a day, that they might not forget in
summer all that they had learned in winter.
For this service he was prepared to pay the
munificent sum of five guineas a month. As
it happened, the merchant's address was a
tiny watering-place on the Frith of Clyde,
where Mr. James Lindsay had a large ' marine
villa.'

In reply to Alec's letter, the advertiser,
Mr. Fraser, asked only one question, whether
the applicant were a relation of Mr. James
Lindsay of Drumleck. Alec replied that he
was, and was forthwith engaged.

For once Alec had taken a step which
pleased his father. The laird commended
his son's intention of earning his own living
during the summer ; and Alec fancied that
his father used towards him a tone of greater
consideration than he had ever adopted before.
Margaret was much chagrined at her brother
leaving home so soon after his return ; but

she did not say a word on the subject. She
knew she had not reason on her side ; and
she was too proud to show her mortification.
It might have been better if she had spoken
her mind ; for a coolness sprang up between
brother and sister, which even the parting
did not quite remove.

ARROCHAR.

The Clyde is not, except in the neighbourhood
of Lanark, a particularly interesting river.
When Scotchmen talk of the scenery of the
Clyde they are thinking, not of the river, but
of the frith which bears its name. When
Alec Lindsay set out for Arrochar to enter
upon his duties as tutor to Mr. Fraser's boys,
he embarked at Glasgow ; and he was much
disappointed to find that for the first part of
his journey there was little to satisfy his love
of the picturesque.

The day was gloomy ; there were but few
passengers on board the Chancellor. For a
long way the narrow stream flowed between
dull level fields. When it became broader

vol. i. 13

there appeared a long dyke adorned with red
posts surmounted by barrels, built in the
channel to mark the passage. This did not
add to the beauty of the scene. Now and
then the steamer met one of her own class on
its homeward journey ; sometimes she overtook
a queer, melancholy-looking, floating
dredger, or a vessel outward-bound, towed by
a small and abominably dirty tug-boat.

But about twenty miles below Glasgow the
scene changed. A wide expanse of water
stretched away to the horizon. On the left
lay a large town over which hung a dense
cloud of smoke, but away to the west, beyond
the blue water, could be seen the bold bases
of steep hills rising from the sea itself, their
summits being hidden in the clouds. At
Greenock all was life and bustle. Several
steamers plying to different points of the coast
lay at the pier, and a crowd of passengers who
had come by train from Glasgow streamed
down from the railway-station to meet them.

Alec stood on the bridge watching them

with considerable amusement. Here was a
group of elderly maiden ladies, sisters probably,
to whom their month ' at the saltwater'
was the great event of the year.
After much debate they had decided to go to
Kilcreggan this year, instead of to Kothesay.
Each carried an armful of wraps, small baskets,
and brown-paper parcels, and each rushed to a
separate steamer, as if thinking it more desirable
that one at least should be right than
that all should be wrong. Each appealed
excitedly to a porter for directions, and eventually
all assembled at the gangway of the
proper steamer. But the combined evidence
of the porters was insufficient. Each of the
three travellers made a separate demand, one
on the master, another on the chief officer, and
a third upon the steward, in order to know
whether the steamer was really going to Kil-coggan.
At last they were satisfied, settled
themselves with their belongings in a sheltered
corner, and began to eat Abernethy biscuits.
Then came a whole family — an anxious

13—2

mother, an aunt more anxious than the
mother, two servants, and six children, who
were running in different ways at once, and
had to be manoeuvred on board like so many-young
pigs. As soon as they were shipped,
two of them immediately made for the engine-room,
while the others rushed to the bulwarks,
and craned their necks over the side as far
as they possibly could without losing their
balance.

In one corner was a little band of rosy
school-girls in tweed frocks and straw hats,
cumbered with a collection of novels, tennis-bats,
and fishing-rods. Here and there were
one or two gigantic Celts returning to the hill
country, while a few pale-faced young men
stepped on board with knapsacks on their
shoulders. But the male passengers were few
at this hour of the day. A few hours later
the steamers would be black with men leaving
the roar and worry of the city to sleep under
the shadow of the hills.

At length the bells clanged for the last

time ; the gangways were pushed on shore ;
the old lady who always delays her departure
till that period made her appearance, and was
somehow hoisted on board ; the escape-pipes
ceased their roaring ; and one after another
the steamers glided off upon the bosom of the
frith.

And now, suddenly, the sun shone out,
showing that the sea was not a level plain of
water, but covered with a million dancing
wavelets. The sunshine travelled westward
over the sea, and Alec followed it with his
eyes. It rested on the distant hills, and then
the haze that covered them melted away, and
they revealed themselves, dim in outline,
violet-coloured, magnified in the mist. As
the steamer drew nearer them it became plain
that the nearer hills were much lower than
those beyond, and that many of them were
covered with pines up to a certain height.
Above the woods they were often black —
that was where the old heather had been
burnt to make room for the young shoots, or

light brown — that was where masses of last
year's bracken lay; sometimes they were white
with glistening rocks, or green from never-failing
springs.

And now it could be seen that between the
woods and the seashore ran a white road, and
that the coast was dotted for miles with
houses, of all shapes and sizes, each standing
in its own ground, and sheltered by its own
green leaves. There was no town anywhere
nothing approaching to one ; but every
three or four miles a few houses were built
in a little row, affording accommodation fora
grocer's and a baker's shop ; and opposite
the shops there w r as invariably a white wooden
pier, affording an outlet to the rest of the world.

Soon after crossing the frith, the Chancellor
made for one of these landing-places. Round
the pier there swarmed half a dozen pleasure-boats
of all sizes, some the merest cockle-shells,
navigated (not unskilfully) by mariners
who were barely big enough to make the oars
move through the water.

The rocky shore was adorned with groups
of girls who were drying their hair after their
morning's dip in the sea, and dividing their
attention between their novels, their little
brothers in the boats just mentioned, aid the
approaching steamer. The water being deep
close to the edge of the rocky coast, the pier
was a very short one ; and Alec Lindsay,
looking over the edge, through the green
water swirling round the piles of the pier,
could see the pebbles on the shore twenty
feet below.

Hopes were thrown out and caught, and
hawsers were dragged ashore by their aid.
With these the steamer was made fast at
stem and stern, gangways were run on board,
and a score of passengers disembarked. In
another minute the steamer had been cast
loose and had gone on her way. The pier,
the pleasure-boats, the girls on the rocks,
the white dusty road, the hedges of fuchsia,
had disappeared. In a quarter of an hour
another pier had been reached where exactly

the same scene presented itself. No town, no
promenade, no large hotels — not even a row
of public bathing-machines, or a German
band.

After three or four stoppages the Chancellor
began to get fairly into Loch Long. The
hills on either side were not high, and were
covered only with grass and heather ; but
they had, nevertheless, a certain quiet beauty.
It seemed as if they made a world of their
own, and as if they were contemptuously indifferent
to the foolish beings who came among
them for an hour in their impudent, puffing
steamer, and were gone like a cloud. Right
in front was one bold eminence, perhaps a
thousand or twelve hundred feet high, which
divided the waters of the upper part of Loch
Long from those of Loch Coil on the west.
Gazing at its weather-beaten rocks and its
sketches of silent moorland, one could hardly
help tasting that renovating draught — the
sense that one has reached a place where man
is as nothing, a sphere which is but nominally

under his sway, where he comes and goes, but
leaves behind him no mark upon the face of
nature.

Leaving this eminence upon the left, the
channel became narrower, and the inlet seemed
to be completely land-locked. In front the
nearer hills seemed to lie one behind another,
fold upon fold, while beyond some much loftier
peaks raised their blue summits to heaven.
Alec Lindsay never tired of gazing on them.
If he turned away his eyes, it was that he
might refresh them with a change of scene —
the low green rock, the salt water washing
the white stones under the heather on the
hillside, the tiny rainbow in the foam of the
paddle-wheels — and return with new desire
to the sight of the everlasting hills. Strange,
he thought to himself, as he gazed on the
shadow of a cloud passing like a spirit over a
lonely peak — strange that the sight of masses
of mere dead earth and stone, the dullest and
lowest forms of matter, should be able to
touch us more profoundly than all the lovely

sights and sweet sounds of the animated
world !

In a few miles the top of the loch was
reached. The mountains, standing like giants

to sentinel enchanted land,' rose almost from
the water's edge. A few cottages stood
clustering together at the mouth of a defile
which gave access to Loch Lomond on the
east. One or two large houses (of which

Glendhu,' Mr. James Lindsay's seaside
residence, was one) stood at intervals along
the shore.

Alec's first care after landing was to provide
himself with a lodging, as (much to his
satisfaction) he was not required to live in
Mr. Fraser's house ; and he was fortunate
enough to find the accommodation he wanted
in a cottage close to the seashore.

In the afternoon he called on Mrs. Fraser,
and found her a fat, florid, good-natured looking
woman, ostentatiously dressed, and surrounded
by a troop of her progeny.

Come away, Mr. Lindsay,' she said graciously,

as she extended to him a remarkably
well - developed hand and arm. ' I'm just
fairly delighted to see you. It will be an
extraordinary pleasure to get rid of Hector
and John Thompson, though it should be but
for three hours in the day. You wouldn't
believe, Mr. Lindsay, what these two, not to
speak of Douglas and Phemie — I often tell her
father she should have been a boy — cost me in
anxiety. I wonder I'm not worn to a shadow.
The clay before yesterday, now, not content
with going in to bathe four times, they
managed to drop Jamie — that's the one next
to Douglas, Mr. Lindsay — over the edge of
the boat, and the bairn wasn't able to speak
when they pulled him in again.'

1 Oh, ma !' protested the young gentleman
referred to, ' I could have got in again by myself,
only John Thompson hit me a whack on
the head with his oar, trying to pull me nearer
the boat.'

I don't think it's safe for the boys to be
out in the little boat by themselves, without

either me or their father to look after them.
I don't mind their being in the four-oar.
What do you think, Mr. Lindsay V

Really, I can hardly say, Mrs. Fraser,
seeing that I know nothing of boating. I
haven't had a chance of learning ; I hope you
will give me a lesson,' he added, turning to his
new pupils.

The boys, who had been staring at Alec
with a suspicious expression, brightened up
at this ; and it was arranged that the first
lesson in boating should be given next day.

On the following afternoon Alec called at
Glendhu, his uncle's house, to inquire whether
any of the family had arrived ; and was told
that they intended to come down in about a
fortnight. In the evening, as he looked over
his newspaper, his eyes fell upon a paragraph
which informed him that Mr. Taylor, Professor
of History in the University of Glasgow, had
died suddenly the day before. Alec was
shocked and surprised at the news ; but the
thought that was uppermost in his mind was

that in all probability lie would never see
Laura Mowbray again. Now that her uncle
was dead she would go back to her friends in
London ; and in a few months she would forget
him. Not until that moment had Alec
realized how constantly the thought of this
girl had been in his mind, how he had made
her image play a part in all his dreams. And
now it was over ! The world which had seemed
so fair and bright but an hour ago was dull and
lifeless now.

But the companionship of Mrs. Fraser's boys
and girls saved him from sinking into a foolish
melancholy. He tried hard for three hours
every day to make them learn a little Latin
grammar and history, and a great part of
every afternoon was spent in their company.
They taught him to row and steer, and to
manage a sail. But his chief delight was in
the mountains. He was never tired of wandering
among their lonely recesses ; he loved the
bare granite rocks and crags even better than
the sheltered dell where the silver birches

clustered round the rapid stream. He learned
to know the hills from every point of view, to
select at a glance the practicable side for an
ascent ; and before a fortnight was over he
had set his foot on the top of every peak
within walking distance of Arrochar.

About three weeks after his arrival, Alec
heard that his uncle and Miss Lindsay had
come down ; and one evening soon afterwards
he went to see them.

From the windows of the drawing-room at
Glendhu the view was magnificent. Under
the low garden-wall were the still, blue waters
of the loch ; and right in front ' The Cobbler '
lifted his head against the glowing western
sky.

Alec was waiting there in silence, absorbed
in the spectacle, when he suddenly heard a
soft voice behind him.

Mr. Lindsay !'

No need for him to turn round. The tones
of her voice thrilled through every fibre of his
body.

Yes ; it was she, simply dressed in black,
standing with a smile on her face, holding out
her hand.

1 Why don't you speak to me ? Won't you
shake hands ?'

Lau Miss Mowbray !'

• Certainly. Am I a ghost V

I thought you were far away — gone back
to your friends in England.'

No,' said Laura tranquilly, seating herself
on a couch ; ' my poor uncle left me as a
legacy to Mr. Lindsay; and here I am.
You have not even said you are glad to seeme.'


You know I am glad. But I was sorry to
hear of your loss, and sorry to think of your
grief.'

1 Yes ; it was very sad, and so sudden,'
answered Laura, casting down her eyes.
And how did you come to be here ¥ she
asked, lifting them again to her companion's
face. Alec told her ; and then his uncle and
Miss Lindsay came into the room.

c So you've got a visitor V said the old lady
to Laura, as she came forward.

Oh no !' answered the girl. ' I had no
idea anyone was in the room when I came in;
and your nephew stared at me as if I had been
an apparition.'

She smiled as she spoke ; but Alec noticed
that as soon as the elder lady turned away the
smile suddenly faded.

Nothing worth mentioning was said in the
conversation that followed. Alec hoped that
before he took his leave he would receive a
general invitation to the house ; but nothing
of the kind was forthcoming. That, however,
mattered little. Laura was here, close to him ;
they would be sure to meet ; and of course he
was at liberty to go to Glendhu occasionally.
He went home to his lodgings wondering at
his good fortune. The rosy hue had returned
to the earth, and Arrochar was the most
delightful spot on the habitable globe.

The one event of the day in the village was
the arrival of the steamer and the departure of

the coach which carried passengers to Herbert
on Loch Lomond. It was a favourite amusement
of the inhabitants to lounge about the
landing-place on these occasions, ostensibly
coming for their letters and newspapers, but
really pleased to see new faces and make
comments about the appearance of the tourists.
Laura Mowbray generally found it necessary
to go to the post-office about the time of the
steamer's arrival ; and Alec was not long in
turning; the custom to his own advantage.

As he was walking back with her to Glendhu
one day, he noticed that she was rather abstracted.


I wonder what you are thinking of, Miss
Mowbray,' he said. ' You have not answered
me once since we left the pier.'

'Haven't I ? I'm sure I beg your pardon

See that patch of sunlight on the hill
across the loch !' cried Alec enthusiastically.
1 See how it brings out the rich yellow colour
of the moss, while all the rest of the hill is in
shadow.'

vol. 1. 14

1 You ought to have been a painter said
his companion.

Don't you think Arrochar is a perfectly
lovely place V returned Alec.

1 Yes ; very pretty. But it is very dull

'Dull?

Yes ; there is no life — no gaiety. It is
said that the English take their pleasures
sadly ; but they are gaiety itself compared
with you Scotch. You shut yourselves up in
your own houses and don't mix with your
neighbours at all. At least you have no
amusements in which anyone can share. The
boating, tennis, bathing, everything is done
en famille. There is no fun, no mixing with
the rest of the world. In an English watering-place
people stay at hotels, or in lodgings ; and
if they tire of one place they can go to
another. Then they have parties of all kinds,
and dances at the hotels. Here everyone
takes a house for two months, and moves
down with servants, plate, linen, groceries,
perhaps even the family piano. I only wonder

they don't bring the bedsteads. Having got
to their houses, they stay there, and perhaps
never see a strange face till it is time to go
back to town. It's a frightfully narrowing
system, not to speak of the dulness of it.'

I never thought of it before,' said Alec.
1 1 don't care to know more people myself ; I
am never at my ease with people till I know
them pretty well. But I am sorry if you find it
dull.'

Well, of course I couldn't go to dances or
anything of that kind just yet ; but it is dreadfully
tiresome to see no one from one day to
another, to have no games or amusements of
any kind.'

1 There are always the hills, you know,' said
Alec.

Laura glanced at her companion to see
whether he was laughing, and perceiving that
he was perfectly serious, she turned away her
face with a little none.

4 The hills don't amuse me ; they weary me ;
and sometimes, when I get up in the night

14—2

and look at them, the) 7 terrify me. Think
what it would be to be up among those rocks
on a winter's night, with the snowflakes
whirling around you, and the wind roaring —
ugh ! Let us talk of something else.'

They did so, but there was little spirit in
the conversation. Alec could not conceive of
anyone with a heart and a pair of eyes who
should not love these mountain-tops as he did
himself. He had already endowed Laura with
every conceivable grace, and he had taken it
for granted that the power to appreciate
mountain scenery was among her gifts. Hereat
least, was a deficiency, a point on which his
mind and hers were not in harmony.

With feminine tact Laura saw that she had
disappointed her companion in some way, and
she easily guessed at the cause.

1 see you don't appreciate my straightforwardness,'
she said, after a little pause.
Knowing that you have such a passion for
mountain scenery, I ought to have pretended
that I was as fond of it as you are yourself.'

No, indeed.'

1 That would have been polite ; but it would
not have been quite straightforward. I always
say the thing that comes uppermost, you
know ; I can't help it.'

Of course she did ; and of course her simple
honesty w T as infinitely better than even a love
of Scotch scenery. The latter would no doubt
come with more familiar acquaintance with it.
And was she not herself the most charming
thing that the sun shone down upon that
summer day ?

Laura knew very well that this, or something
like it, was the thought in the lad's
mind as he bade her good-day with lingering
eyes. Perhaps she would not have been ill
pleased if he had said what he was thinking ;
but it never entered into his head to pay the
girl a compliment : he would have fancied it
an impertinence.

1 What a queer, stupid boy he is !' said
Laura to herself, as she peeped back at him
while she closed the sate behind her. ' I

can't help liking him, but he is so provoking,
with his enthusiastic, sentimental nonsense.
Heigh-ho ! There's the luncheon-bell. And
after that there are four hours to be spent
somehow before dinner !'

A RIVAL.

1 Hullo ! Semple !'

< Hullo ! Alec !'

Didn't expect to see you here.'

1 As little did I expect to see you.'

1 "When did you come V

1 Only last night ; by an excursion steamer.'

Staying with Uncle James V

1 Yes : he asked me to spend my holidays
down here, and I thought I might as well
come.'

How long do you get V

1 Three weeks ; but I may take a month.'

An unreasonable jealousy of his cousin

sprang up in Alec's breast at that moment.
Five minutes before he was perfectly satisfied
with his lot ; now, because another occupied
a more favourable position than himself, he
was miserable. He had been able to meet
Laura nearly every day ; but this fellow was
to live under the same roof with her, to eat at
the same table, to breathe the same air. To
see her and talk to her would be his rival's
daily, hourly privilege.

Splendid hills !' said Semple.

Alec made no reply. The scenery was too
sacred a subject to be discussed with one like
Semple.

What do you do with yourself all day V
asked the new-comer.

Oh, I take a swim in the morning, give
the boys their lessons from ten to one ; then I
generally take a row, or a walk, or read some
Horace.'

1 I should think you'd get dreadfully tired
of it, after a bit. There are no places where
they play tennis, I suppose V

Not that I know of.'

I expect I shall find it rather dull.'

Another jealous pang shot through Alec's
heart. Laura and his cousin were agreed on
this point. What more natural than that
they should amuse each other ? In a day or
two Semple would be on better terms with
Laura than he was himself. Of course he
would fall in love with her — and she ?

Anyone watching the course of affairs at
Glendhu would have thought that Alec's foreboding
was in a fair way of being realized.
Laura was very gracious to her guardian's
nephew, and overlooked in the prettiest
manner his little vulgarities. The two were
constantly together, and neither seemed to
feel the want of a more extended circle of
acquaintance. It was nobody's fault, for
Semple had been invited to Glendhu before
Mr. Taylor's death had caused Laura to become
a member of Mr. Lindsay's family ; but
Miss Lindsay determined that she would at
least introduce another guest into the house.

She wrote to Alec's sister, and asked her to
spend a fortnight at Loch Long.

When the invitation reached the Castle
Farm, Margaret's first impulse was to decline
it without saying anything to her father,
partly out of shyness and a sense of the
deficiencies in her wardrobe, partly because
she could not easily at that season be spared
from the farm. But when Mr. Lindsay asked
if there was anything in her aunt's letter,
Margaret felt bound to mention the matter
to him ; and he at once insisted upon her
going.

Margaret's advent, however, made little
practical difference in the usual order of
things at Glendhu. Mr. Semple at first
offered her a share of his attentions ; but she
received them so coldly that he soon ceased
to trouble himself about her, and devoted
himself to Laura as before, while Margaret
seemed perfectly contented with her own
society when Miss Lindsay was not with her
guests.

There was little intimacy between the two
girls, and the blame of this could not fairly be
attributed to Laura.

I am so glad you have come, Miss Lindsay,'
she had said on the first occasion when
they were left alone together. ' May 1 call
you "Margaret"? I think it is such a perfectly
lovely name

Of course you may,' said the matter-of-fact
Margaret.

1 And you will call me " Laura," of course.'

But Margaret avoided making any reply to
this, and practically declined to adopt the
more familiar style of address ; and Laura
soon returned to the more formal ' Miss
Lindsay.'

Alec was, of course, more frequently at his
uncle's, now that his sister was staying there ;
but his visits did not afford him much satisfaction.
With Simple he had little in common.
There was a natural want of sympathy between
the two ; and besides, Semple looked down
upon Alec as being ' countrified,' while Alec

was disposed to hold his cousin in contempt
for his ignorance of everything unconnected
with the making and the sale of paraffin oil.
As to Laura, he seldom had a chance of saying
much to her ; while his intercourse with his
sister was more constrained than it had ever
been before. Margaret saw quite plainly that
as her brother was talking to her, his eyes and
his heart were hankering after Laura Mowbray
; and she felt mortified by his want of
interest in what she said to him, though she
was too proud to show her feeling, except by
an additional coldness of manner.

One evening Alec called at Glendhu, and, as
usual, he found the younger portion of the
family in the garden. Margaret was sitting
by herself on a bench overlooking the sea,
with some knitting in her hand, while the
other two were sauntering along one of the
paths at a little distance. Alec waited till
they came up, and then he said :

'I have borrowed Mr. Fraser's light skiff;
suppose we all go for a row ? You can row

one skiff and I the other,' he added, turning
to Semple.

4 Oh, delightful!' cried Laura. 'It is just
the evening for a row. You will come, Miss
Lindsay, won't you V

1 I have no objections,' said Margaret, quite
indifferently.

Laura turned and ran into the house for
wraps, while a rather awkward silence fell
upon the rest of the party. Semple moved
away from Margaret almost at once, and hung
about the French window, so as to be ready to
intercept Laura as soon as she issued from the
house. Alec felt in a manner bound to remain
with his sister ; and she would not see his
evident desire to follow Semple to the house,
and so have a chance of securing Laura for his
companion. When at length the English girl
appeared, with a dark-green plaid thrown over
her shoulder, Semple sprang at once to her
side ; and, without paying the slightest attention
to Alec or his sister, they hurried down
to the water's edge. In a few minutes more

they had appropriated the best of the two
boats (the one Alec had borrowed) and were
floating far out on the loch.

i Alec could not help his disappointment
appearing in his face ; and his sister noticed
and resented it.

Don't row at such a furious rate ; you'll
snap the oars she said tranquilly, as her
brother sent the boat careering over thew
T aves.

He stopped, and tried to look pleasant, but
he could not shut his ears to the gay laughter
that came to him across the water from the
other boat.

They seem merry enough,' said Alec.

1 Yes said Margaret spitefully. ' Miss
Mowbray seems in very good spirits, considering;
that her uncle has not been dead much
more than a month.'

How unjust you are !' cried Alec hotly.
1 As if she ought to shut herself up, and never
laugh, because her uncle died ! It would be
hypocrisy if she did.'

There I quite agree with you,' said Margaret,
with an ill-natured smile.

You mean that Laura could not be
sincerely sorry V

e I think she is very shallow and heartless,'
said Margaret, sweetly tranquil as
ever.

Alec was furious.

You girls are all alike,' he said with suppressed
passion. ' Either you are always
kissing and. praising one another, or running
each other down. And the more refinement,
and delicacy, and beauty another girl has, the
more you depreciate her.'

Margaret merely curled her lip contemptuously,
and sat trailing her hand through the
water, without making any reply.

Nothing more was said till Alec was helping
his sister out of the boat on their returning
to land.

■ Don't let us quarrel. I am sorry if I have
vexed you, Maggie,' he said.

1 I'm not vexed,' she answered, in a not

very reassuring tone, keeping her eyes upon
the rocks at her feet.

Her brother s real offence was that he had
fallen in love with Laura, and that she now
occupied a very secondary place in his heart.
And that she could not forgive.

1 Won't you come up to the house V she
asked.

No ; and you can tell that cad that the
next time he wants Mr. Fraser's boat he had
better borrow it himself.'

So saying, Alec shouldered the oars and
strode away.

Though he had defended Laura passionately
when his sister spoke her mind about that
young lady, Alec felt that he had been badly
used. He had certainly made the proposal
to the whole party, but he had pointedly
looked at Laura and spoken to her ; and she
had replied in the same way. There was,
indeed, a tacit understanding between them
at the moment, that she would be his partner
for the evening; and it was chiefly from a

spirit of coquetry that she had chosen to
ignore it afterwards.

But Laura showed no trace of embarrassment
when she met Alec in the village next
day.

Why didn't you come into the house last
night V she said with a smile.

I didn't think it mattered.'

I Why are you so cross ? I suppose I have
managed to offend you again. I never saw
anyone so touchy and unreasonable !'

It doesn't very much matter — does it V
Why V

I I mean, you don't really care whether —
oh ! — never mind.'

Now, I really believe you are annoyed
because I went in your cousin's boat last
night, instead of yours. But what could I
do % I couldn't say, " I prefer to go with
Mr. Lindsay " — could I V

No ; but — but you never seem to think of
me at all now, Miss Mowbray.'

Nonsense t answered the girl, as a pleased

vol. 1. 15

blush came over her face. ' And to prove
my goodwill, I'll tell you what I will do.
I will let you take me for a row this evening.'

Will you V

This was said so eagerly that Laura could
not help blushing again.

'The others are going to dine at Mr.
Grainger's to-night, over at Loch Lomond
side.'

But I am to be with the Fraser to-night !'
exclaimed Alec in dismay. ' Would not tomorrow
night do as well V Then, seeing
that his companion did not seem to care for
this change of plans, he added : ' But I daresay
I can manage to get away by half-past
eight. That would not be too late, would it ?
It is quite light until after nine.'

'I will be in the garden, then ; but I must
go now,' said Laura hurriedly, as she bade
him good-day.

The evening went by as on leaden feet with
Alec Lindsay, as he talked to Mr. Fraser, or
listened to his wife's interminable easy-going

complaints about her children and her servants,
and tried to appear interested, and at his ease.
He could not keep the thought of the coming
meeting out of his mind.

With rather a lame excuse he left Mr.
Fraser's house not many minutes after the
appointed time, and very soon afterwards he
was gliding under the garden-wall of Glendhu.
For some minutes no one was visible, and
Alec began to fear that a new disappointment
was in store for him. But presently a figure
began to move through the shadows of the
trees. It was Laura ! She stepped without a
word over the loose rocks and stones ; then,
hardly touching Alec's outstretched hand, she
lightly took her place at the stern, and met
Alec's gaze w T with a smile.

Do you know, I feel horribly guilty, and
all through you,' she said, as the boat moved
swiftly out into the loch.

'Why should it make any difference that
there is no discontented fellow-creature in
another boat behind us V asked Alec gaily.

15 -2

Laura shook her head, but made no
reply. Leaning back in the stern she took
off her hat, and let the cool breeze blow
upon her face. Alec thought he had never
seen her look so beautiful. The delicate
curves of her features, the peach-like complexion,
the melting look in her eyes, made
him feel as if the girl seated near him was
something more than human.

Don't you think we have gone far
enough ?' said Laura gently, when Alec had
rowed some way in silence.

He stopped, resting on his oars.
'How still it is — and how beautiful!' she
exclaimed in the same low voice.

Not a sound but the faint lapping of the
water on the boat fell upon their ears. The
hills were by this time in darkness, and the
stars were beginning to glimmer in the
twilight sky. Beyond the western hills the
sky was still bright, with a glow that seemed
less that of the sunken sun, than some
mysterious halo of the northern night. A

faint phosphorescence lingered about the
drops of sea-water upon the oars. Nothing
but the distant lights in the cottage windows
seemed to be in any way connected with the
commonplace, everyday world.

Hadn't we better go back ? It is really
getting dark,' said Laura, as gently as before;
and Alec obediently dipped his oars and
turned the bow of the boat towards Glendhu.

All his life long Alec remembered that
silent row in the dim, unearthly twilight.
There was no need for words. They were
sitting, as it were, 'on the shores of old
romance and tasting the dew of fairyland.
That hidden land was for this short hour
revealed to them ; they were breathing the
enchanted air.

It was almost dark when Alec shipped his
oars and drew the boat along the rocks
outside the garden wall.

How dreadfully late it is ! I hope they
have not come back said Laura, as she rose
to go ashore.

Alec took her hand, so small and white,
with the tiny hue veins crossing it, in his
own rough brown fingers, and when he had
helped the girl ashore he stooped and
kissed it.

A moment afterwards, a soft ' good-night '
from the garden assured him that the act of
homage had not been taken amiss. If he
had lingered a minute or two longer he would
have heard Miss Lindsay's voice calling out
in some anxiety, and Laura Mowbray's
silvery accents replying :

1 Yes ; here I am, Miss Lindsay — it is so
much cooler out of doors. My headache is
almost quite gone, thank you ; the cool sea-breeze
has driven it away. How did you
enjoy your party ? How I wish I could have
gone with you V

But before Laura reached the house, Alec
was once more far out in the loch. He
wished to be alone, to indulge the sweet
intoxication which was burning in his veins.

When at last he returned to his little room

he found a letter awaiting him which had been
sent on from home. The address was in an
unfamiliar handwriting, and breaking the seal
he read as follows :

1 Caen Lodge, HighcxATe, N.,
'July 10. 187-.

My dear Lindsay,

1 You will be surprised to hear that
you may see me the day after this reaches
you. I want to see how your beautiful river
scenery looks in this glorious summer
weather. If it is not convenient for me to
stay at the farm, I can easily find quarters
elsewhere.

Ever yours,

6 Hubert Blake.'

As Alec foresaw, when he read this note,
Blake found existence at the Castle Farm
with the sole companionship of Mr. Lindsay
to be quite impracticable ; and next day he
arrived at Arrochar and took up his quarters
in the little inn at the head of the pier.

YOU MUST GIVE ME AN ANSWER.'

Margaret Lindsay, not the scenery of the
Nathan, was the real attraction which drew
Hubert Blake to the north. He was not in
love with her ; certainly, at least, he felt for
her nothing of the rapturous passion which
Alec felt for Laura Mowbray. But he
admired her immensely. He undertook the
long journey from London that he might
feast his eyes on her beauty once more ; and
when he found that she was at Arrochar he
straightway betook himself thither.

Blake was by this time a man nearer forty
than thirty years of age, who was still without
an aim in life. He had an income which

rendered it unnecessary for him to devote
himself to the ordinary aim of an Englishman
— the making of money ; and to set
himself to charm sovereigns which he did
not need ont of the pockets of his fellow-creatures
into his own, for the mere love of
gold or of luxury, was an idea which he
would have despised as heartily as Alec Lindsay
himself would have done. Blake had
also great contempt for the brassy self-importance
and self-conceit which is the most
useful of all attributes for one who means to
get on in the world. He looked at men
struggling for political or social distinction,
as he might have gazed at a crowd of lunatics
fighting for a tinsel crown. ' And after all
he would say to himself, 'if I am idle, my
idleness hurts no one but myself. At least,
I do not trample down my fellow-men on my
journey through life.'

He was not satisfied ; but he was not
energetic enough to find a career in which
he could turn his talents and his money to

good advantage. He was a great lover of
nature, and he had a wide and tolerant
sympathy for his fellow-men. The one thing
he loved in the world was art.

It was not long, of course, before he was a
member of the little circle at Glendhu, and he
looked on at the little comedy that was being
played there with good-natured amusement.
Laura Mowbray soon discovered that the
stranger was insensible to her charms, that
he quite understood her little allurements,
and regarded them with a good-humoured
smile. He saw quite plainly that she was
enjoying a double triumph ; and on the whole
he thought that though she devoted by far
the greater part of her time to Semple, she
had a secret preference for his friend Alec.
He spent most of his time in making sketches
of the surrounding scenery ; and though he
was not an enthusiastic climber, Alec was often
able to persuade him to accompany him to
some of the loftier peaks.

One day before Margaret's visit came to an

end, Alec proposed that the whole party — that
is, Blake, Laura Mowbray, his sister, Semple,
and himself — should make an ascent of ' The
Cobbler.' He described the view which was
to be obtained from the top of the mountain
in terms which fired even Laura's enthusiasm ;
and the ascent was fixed for the following forenoon.


The morning was rather cloudy, but not
sufficiently so to make the party abandon the
expedition, especially as Alec pointed out that
they would find it much easier to climb than
they would have done if the day had been one
of brilliant sunshine. They rowed over to the
foot of the hill, so as to save walking round
the head of the loch ; and were soon in a wilderness
of heather and wild juniper.

The ascent, they found, though by no means
difficult, was long and tiresome. The girls,
indeed, if they had consulted merely their own
inclination, would have turned back at the end
of the first hour ; but it never occurred to
Margaret to give way to her feeling of fatigue,

and Laura was too proud to be the first to
complain.

Everyone was glad, however, when Blake
proposed a halt about half-way up. They
threw themselves down on the heather, and
tasted the delicious sense of rest to strained
muscles and panting lungs.

I am afraid this is rather too much for
you,' said Alec to Laura, noticing her look of
weariness.

1 Oh, I shall get on after I have rested,' she
replied ; ' but it is so tiresome to imagine,
every now and then, that the crest before you
is the top of the hill, and to find w T hen you
arrive there that the real summit seems farther
off than ever.'

The finest views are always to be had halfway
up a mountain,' said Blake. ' How much
we can see from this knoll ! There is Loch
Lomond, Ben Lomond, Ben Venue, and I
don't know how many Bent besides — a perfect
crowd of them. Then we can see right down
the loch and out into the frith. Let us be

content with what we have. Miss Mowbray
and your sister would prefer, I think, to wait
here with me, Alec, while you and your cousin
get to the top and back again.'

But this proposal was not entertained ; and
in a quarter of an hour the whole party were
on foot once more.

Up to this point Semple had succeeded in
monopolizing the society of Laura ; but he
had found that to guide the steps of a delicately
nurtured girl over a rough Scotch
mountain, and help her whenever she came to
a steep place, was no light labour. For the
rest of the climb he was content to leave her a
good deal to Alec, while it fell to Blake's lotto
look after Margaret.

One after another the ridges were overcome,
the prospect widening with every step, till the
last grassy knoll was surmounted, and the bare
rocky peak stood full in view at a little distance.
It was, indeed, so steep that Laura
was secretly terrified, and had to be hauled up
for a good part of the way.

An involuntary cry burst from the lips of
each, as one by one they set foot upon the
windy summit. Far away, as it were upon
the limits of the world, the sun was shining on
a sea of gold. The two peaks of Jura lifted
up their heads, illumined by the radiance. All
around them was a billowy sea of mountain -
tops — Ben Crois, Ben Ime, Ben Donich, Ben
Vane, Ben Voirlich, and a hundred more, with
many a lonely tarn, and many a glen without
a name. At their feet lay the black waters
of the lochs : and far in the south were the
rugged hills of Arran.

Look!' cried Laura, 'the steamer is no
bigger than a toy-boat ; and the road is like a
thin white thread drawn across the moor !'

1 Come here said Alec to Blake with a
laugh, beckoning as he spoke.

Blake followed him, and found that on one
side, where there was a sheer descent of many
hundred feet, a rock, which was pierced with a
natural archway, jutted out from the body of
the mountain.

This is the e: needle-eye," ' said Alec, ' and
everybody who comes up here is expected to
or through it.'

Nonsense ! Why, man, a false step there
would mean '

There's not the slightest danger, if you
have a good head. I have been through twice
already,' returned Alec, as he disappeared
behind the rock.

A cry from Laura told Blake that she had
witnessed the clang-er. Margaret, whose cheek
had suddenly grown pale, gripped her tightly
by the arm.

4 Don't speak,' she said hoarsely ; ' it may
make his foot slip.'

la a minute he reappeared, having passed
through the crevice.

Alec, you shouldn't do a thing like that ;
it's a sin to risk your life for nothing,' said
Margaret, in a tone of cold displeasure.

There's not the slightest danger in it,' protested
Alec.

None whatever,' echoed Semple ; but he

did not think it necessary to prove the truth
of his opinion.

1 1 think we ought to be off,' said Alee ;
there's a cloud coming right upon us ; and if
we don't make haste we shall have to stay
here till it passes.'

His meaning was not quite plain to his companions
; but they soon saw the force of his
remark. They had accomplished but a small
part of the descent when they found themselves
suddenly in the midst of a cold, thick,
white vapour. It was not safe to go on, so
the little company crouched together under a
boulder, and watched the great wreaths of
mist moving in the stillness from crag to
crag.

As soon as the mist got a little thinner,
they recommenced the descent, for their position
was not a very pleasant one. Semple
was in front, while Blake and Margaret
followed, and Alec and Laura brought up the
rear, when it happened that they came to an
unusually steep part of the hillside which

YOU MUST GIVE ME AN ANSWER. ' 241

they thought it best to cross in a slanting
direction. The soil was of loose, crumbling
stone, with here and there a narrow patch of
short, dry grass, and, at intervals, narrow beds
or courses of loose stones. A short distance
below there was an unbroken precipice of at
least five hundred feet.

Alec was helping Laura across one of those
narrow beds of stones, the others being
some little way in advance, when they were
startled by a deep rumbling noise, and a
tremulous motion under their feet. The
whole layer of stones, loosened by the rain
and frost, was sliding down towards the precipice
! With a cry Alec hurried his companion
on ; but her trembling feet could
hardly support her. The movement of the
stones, slow at first, was becoming faster
every moment ; and Alec's only hope lay in
crossing them before they were carried down
to the edge of the cliff. For a minute it
seemed doubtful whether they would be able
to cross in time ; but Alec succeeded in struts

1. 16

going, along with his half-fainting companion,
to the edge of the sliding stones, and placed
her, just in time, upon a sloping but solid
bank of earth.

In a few minutes more the stones had
swept past them, and had disappeared over
the cliff.

But the position which Alec had reached
was hardly less dangerous than the one they
had escaped from. Behind them was a deep
chasm which the treacherous stones had left.
In front the mountain rose at a terrible slope.
Alec scanned it closely, and it seemed to him
that though he might have scaled it at a considerable
risk, it was quite impracticable for
Laura without help from above. If he were
to make the attempt, and fall, he knew he
would infallibly dash her as well as himself
over the precipice.

Some feet above their heads there was a
ledge of rock from which it might be possible
to assist them ; but where were Blake and the
others ? They were out of sight, and the

sound of Alec's shouts, cut off by the rocks
above, could not reach them. Worst of all,
the mist seemed to be closing upon them
more thickly than ever.

The question was, Could they maintain
their position till help could reach them ?
Soon it became evident that they could not.
The ledge of grass covered rock on which they
stood was so narrow that they could not even
sit down ; and it was plain that Laura could
not stand much longer.

There was only one way of escape. Eight
or ten feet below was a shelf of rock, frightfully
narrow, and, what was worse, sloping
downwards and covered with slippery dry
grass. But Alec saw that if he could reach it,
he could make his way round to the top of
the rock, and then he could stretch down his
hand so as to help Laura up the steep.

■ Oh, Mr. Lindsay, what shall we do V cried
Laura, turning to Alec her white, despairing
face. ' Oh, look down there ! What a dreadful
death !'

16—2

Death ! Nonsense ! There is no clanger —
not much, at least. See, now, I am going to
drop clown on that bit of grassy rock, and
climb round to the top. Then I'll be able to
help you up.'

1 But I could never climb up there ! I
should fall, and be killed in a moment !'

4 Not a bit, if you have hold of my hand.'

But you won't leave me V cried Laura,
clutching Alec by the arm as she spoke ; ' you
won't leave me all alone in this dreadful
place ¥

Only for a minute.'

But I can't stand any longer.'

i Yes, you can. Turn your face to the rock,
and lean ag-ain't it. Don't look downwards
on any account.'

And with these words Alec slipped off his
shoes, slung them round his neck, and let himself
hang over the cliff. It was an awful
moment, and for a second or two the lad's
courage failed him. But it was only for an
instant. Setting his teeth hard, he let go,

1 " But " — what V she asked.

But it will be very lonely for me. Life
does not seem worth living when you are not
near me.' And then, hardly knowing what he
said, he poured out the story of his love. He
seized her hands, as they lay idly in her lap,
and seemed unconscious of the efforts she
made to withdraw them. He gazed into her
face, and repeated his words with passionate
earnestness, again and again : — ' I love you,
Laura ; I love you ; I love you !'

Laura threw a glance around, to make sure
that no one was in sight ; and then, slipping
her hands away, she covered with them her
blushing face. When she looked up, she met
Alec's passionate gaze with a smile.

Oh, hush ! hush !' she said. ' Why do you
speak so wildly V

Because I love you.'

1 But we are far too young to think of such
things. I don't mean to get married for — oh !
ever such a long time. And you — you have
to take your degree, and choose a profession.

We will forget all this, and we shall be friends
still, just as before.'

1 It can never be just as before,' said Alec.

1 Why not V

It is impossible. But you won't refuse me,
Laura V he pleaded. ' If you only knew how
much I love you ! Don't you love me a little
in return ? Sometimes I can't help thinking
you do.'

Then all I can say is, you have a very
strong imagination.'

1 You don't V cried Alec despairingly.

Laura shook her head, but smiled at the
same time.

1 You must give me an answer,' said Alec,
rising to his feet. He was dreadfully in
earnest.

And I say that at your age and mine it is
ridiculous to talk of such things.'

Nonsense ! We are not too young to love
each other. Can you love me, Laura ? What
you have said is no answer at all.'

1 I'm afraid it's the only answer I can give

you said Laura, with a saucy smile, rising in
her turn, and gliding past her companion.
1 Don't be absurd ; and don't be unkind or
disagreeable when we meet again, after we
come back from our tour. Good-bye.'

He stood, looking after her, without saying
another word. And she, turning when she
reached the French window, and seeing him
still standing there, waved her hand to bid
him adieu, before she disappeared.

END of vol. 1.

HILLING AND SONS ; PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

L I B Hay

OF THE

Universe City

Of alli Noise

KING OR KNAVE ? By R. E. Francillon. 3 vols.
EVERY INCH A SOLDIER. By M. J. Colquhoun.
3 vols.

THE PASSENGER FROM SCOTLAND YARD. By

H. F. Wood, i vol.

THE HEIR OF Line. By Robert Buchanan, i vol.
IN EXCHANGE FOR A SOUL. By Mary Linskill.

3 vols.

SETH'S BROTHER'S WIFE. By Harold Frederic.

2 vols.
PINE AND PALM. By Moncure D. Conway. 2 vols.
ONE TRAVELLER RETURNS. By D. Christie

Murray and Henry Herman, i vol.
OLD BLAZER'S HERO. By D. Christie Murray.

1 vol.
A PHYLLIS OF THE SIERRAS, Etc. By Bret Harte.

1 vol.
THE DEEMSTER. By Hall Caine. i vol.
RED SPIDER. By the Author of ' Mehalah.' 1 vol.
Pastor CAREW. By E. Lynn Linton, i vol.
A ROMANCE OF THE QUEENS HOUNDS. By

Charles James, i vol.

LONDON : CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY.

& romance ef Scottish $ife

BY

JOHN K. Less

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

ft onto on
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[The tight 0/ translation is reserved]

Z,

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER PAGE

XIII. SOPHY MEREDITH 1

XIV. A Turning-point - - - - 22
XV. ' BUT YOU ARE NOT A CHRISTIAN ' - - 43

XVI. IN LONDON - - - - - 61

XVII. AN UNCONVENTIONAL GUEST - - 83

XVIII. AT THE ACADEMY . - 105

XIX. THE SHADOW OF DEATH - 120

xx. mr. Lindsay's will 140

xxi. rogues in council - - - - 161

xxii. 'two hundred thousand pounds!' - - 184

xxiii. david macgowan gets into trouble - 194

XXIV. THE SIGNING OF THE WILL - - - 208

XXV. MR. WILLIAM Battle ACTS LIKE A CHRISTIAN 222

XXVI. THE RICH MAN DIED, AND WAS BURIED - 235

CHAPTER XIII.

SOPHY MEREDITH.

In a garden, the garden of a large old-fashioned
house on Highgate Hill, a girl
sat with a book in her hand, dreaming, on
a July afternoon.

The scene was a thoroughly English one.
Behind the garden-seat rose the gray brick
walls of the house. It was old without being
in the least degree venerable, ugly without
looking positively mean. Its size redeemed
it from that — its size, and a certain air of
comfortableness that belongs only to English
homes. High walls shut out the sight of the

VOL. II. 19

new garish houses of red brick, and the
sounds from the road, which of late years had
become very much like a street. Within the
lofty garden walls, order, comfort, propriety
were supreme — they were not likely to be replaced
by any other principles so long as
Sophy Meredith reigned at Grove House.
The lawn exactly resembled a carpet ; not a
weed was to be seen in gravel-walk or in
flower-bed ; the rose-trees had just so much
liberty as would prevent their appearing
formal, not a fraction more. But the
principle of order was, after all, subservient
to that of comfort. Books and
magazines, garden - chairs, and bits of
feminine ' work ' lay about. On one side
stood an invalid's chair.

Sophy lay back on the garden-seat, her
hands clasping the half closed book on her
lap. She was no longer a girl, being now
seven-and-twenty ; but she had one of those
smooth, fair complexions which take ten years
off a woman's apparent age. Her features

were not striking, but very pleasing, and
suited well her slight figure and her low forehead.


As if unable to sit still any longer, she
rose and passed into the house through a
French window which was standing wide
open. The drawing-room, like the garden,
spoke of orderly comfort. Everything was in
its place, yet one could not say that the room
or its furniture had an air of stiffness. Crossing
over to the mantelpiece, Sophy lifted a
letter-weight which had been placed above
some neatly folded papers, and took from
under it a telegram. She blushed slightly as
she opened it, for she knew it by heart already.
It was dated on the previous evening, and
contained only the words : * Shall be with you
tomorrow afternoon. — Hubert.'

This quiet dwelling was Hubert Blake's
home, the only home, at least, that he had
ever known, though he generally lived in his
chambers in London. His uncle, who had
been his guardian, was now an old man and

LO — 2

an invalid, or rather, a valetudinarian. He
had been for the last ten years a widower ;
and Sophy Meredith, his wife's niece, had
managed his household and seen to his
comfort since his wife's death. Hubert and
she had been, of course, thrown very much
together. They called each other ' cousin,'
though they were not really related to one
another, and corresponded at intervals, sometimes
in long, chatty epistles, oftener in brief
notes.

Four years had passed since Hubert had
despatched those long letters from the Castle
Farm ; and for the last two years the inmates
of Grove House had heard very little
from him. He had been wandering over the
face of the earth, trying to find occupation,
excitement, anything to drive Margaret Lindsay's
image out of his head.

After meeting her at Arrochar three years
ago, he had thought himself cured of what he
told himself was a half insane passion. He
saw plainly that Margaret was not suited to

him. Her mental powers, though considerable,
were totally undeveloped. The world
of literature and that of art were as unknown
to her as the world of fashion. It would bean
act of folly, he knew very well, to tie himself
to one with whom he had so little in
common, and who was so little likely to be
moulded by auy man as Margaret Lindsay.
So he did not follow her back to Castle Farm.
He stayed at Arrochar for a few days, and
then wandered westwards.

But the girl's face haunted him. At times
he was consumed with a desire to make this
stately, simple, self-sufficient beauty his own,
to feast his eyes continually on her loveliness,
to watch her unfolding mind as she was
brought into new scenes and surrounded with
new ideas. He felt as if he could not live
without seeing her again. Accordingly he
ran down to Scotland a third time, and
(under cover of his friendship with her
brother) spent some days in her company.

But her presence did not satisfy him. She

was cold, narrow, unsympathetic, as she had
always been. He went abroad, determined to
stay away till he should forget her. Now, at
last, he was coming home.

Sophy, having read the welcome telegram
two or three times, as if to assure herself of
its truth, replaced it under the paper-weight,
and then left the room, going into the hall.
Opposite her was a broad flight of shallow
steps, and these she ascended. Going a little
way along a corridor, she came to a door, which
she softly opened. It led to a large bedroom
with a wide window, which commanded a
view of the greater part of London ; this was
the room which Hubert always occupied when
he was at Grove House.

With something that was not exactly a
blush, Sophy moved noiselessly from the
dressing-table to the writing-table, seeing
that nothing had been omitted. Everything
was in its place ; everything was spotless
and fragrant. There was nothing to be
supplied, nothing to be altered ; and yet

the girl looked as if she must do something.
She went back to the garden, picked
a single red rose, and then, going up to the
second floor, she visited her own bedroom, and
took out of a closet a slender glass vase. It
had been presented by her to Hubert long ago ;
boy-like, he had forgotten it, and, indeed, it
was not a very suitable present for a lad.
Sophy took the neglected vase, placed the
rose in it, and carried it down to her cousin's
writing-table.

She was leaving the room when she heard
a querulous voice calling her, and she hastened
to the end of the corridor, and entered Mr.
Blake's sitting-room. He was a thin,
tremulous, dried-up looking old man, who
looked as if he were in a state of perpetual
anxiety.

1 Is that you, Sophy ?'

Yes, uncle.'

Has Jackson gone with the brougham to
meet Hubert ?'

1 Not yet, uncle.'

Not yet ! Why haven't you sent him
off?'

< The train is not due till 5.30.'

Let him go at once !' interrupted the old
man. ' I wouldn't have him late on any
account. I wonder, Sophy, you haven t
more consideration for Hubert, when he has
been so long away, than let him run the
risk of finding no one to meet him at the
station.'

Sophy turned away to carry out her uncle's
wishes with a half-sad, half-contemptuous
smile about her lips.

The afternoon was a tiresome one, but it wore
itself away at last ; and the carriage made its
appearance. Before it had time to stop,
Hubert sprang out and grasped his uncle's
hand, while he held out his left to Sophy.
Then, disengaging his right hand, he placed it
upon hers, and bending down, kissed her
cheek.

4 What a long time you have been away!'
exclaimed old Mr. Blake, as soon as the first

greetings were over. ' We thought we should
never see you again.'

Well, here I am, and I don't intend to
run away in a hurry.'

1 How changed you are ! You look older,
and you have let your beard grow longer. I
never approved of beards. I think they give
a man a coarse, common appearance.'

Hubert laughed, and busied himself in
carrying various packages into the house,
while Sophy glanced shyly at her cousin, at
moments when she was not likely to meet his
eye.

After dinner they all returned to the
garden, and Hubert fetched a box which had
just been opened.

I've picked up a few little things I
thought might interest you, while I was
away,' he said ; and he proceeded to unpack
his treasures and present them.

For his uncle there were several antiques,
one or two rare coins, and a silver crucifix ;
for Sophy two or three mosaics, some beautiful

bits of Venetian glass, and two brooches
one a cameo, the other a piece of old-fashioned
workmanship in plain gold.

Sophy thanked him, but she felt disappointed.
She had thought it likely that he
would bring her some little thing, and she had
unconsciously resolved that she would keep it
as long as she lived. These presents were too
fine, too valuable, and there were far too many
of them. She could not invest any one of
them with a special interest. If she did, it
would be her own selection, not his.

And what have you been about, little one,
all this time ?' he asked, laying his hand suddenly
on Sophy's, as it lay on the garden-table.


1 Oh, nothing very remarkable,' she answered,
quietly withdrawing her hand. ' We
went to the Academy, of course, and to the
Grosvenor — and to a Rose Show ; and I have
been to one or two garden-parties.'

1 We were thinking of going to the seaside
next week,' put in Mr. Blake ; ' but we can't

find a house to suit us ; and the drainage is
always imperfect at these places — always.
Some of those seaside resorts I consider
nothing else than fever traps. My wonder
is that the people who stay there are alive. '

This was said with a judicial solemnity.

If you had been in some of the towns I
have visited, uncle, you would have had more
cause for wondering. The drainage, I believe,
was simply non-existent.'

Mr. Blake closed his eyes and shuddered.

Sophy rose to fetch something from the
house.

If there are any letters for me, Sophy,
you might bring them along,' said Hubert.

Presently Sophy reappeared, bearing a tray
on which was a pile of letters and newspapers.
Hubert sprang up to relieve her of
it.

I had no idea there could be so many, or
I wouldn't have troubled you he said, looking
at the heap with an air of disgust.

Then he lit a cigar, and sat down again.

Aren't you going to open your letters,
Hubert ?' said his uncle, after a pause.

No ; there's such a heap of them, and
some are sure to be annoying. It will do
quite as well tomorrow.'

Some of them may be important,' rejoined
the old man, after another pause.

Hubert saw that his laziness displeased the
querulous old gentleman, so he began slowly
to open his letters.

I think the man should have been hanged,'
he said between the puffs of his cigar, ' that
invented penny stamps. I don't mean Sir
Rowland Hill. It was another man — poor
beggar, I forget even his name — who had
the idea, and the man in office got all the
glory and all the reward — tulip alter honores.
As for Hill, he got a fortune and various ugly
statues for an evil deed he never committed.
Well, if these things are all to be set right
one day, there's a good deal of clearing up to
be done — that's all. What's this ? A card
for Lady Baldwin's garden-party — " thought

it possible you might be home in time ; hope
to have the pleasure of your company M — ah !
What one misses by going abroad!'

1 Yes, indeed said the old gentleman ; ' and
I hope you won't leave this country again, so
long as I live. It may not be very long.'

1 Then I should stay at home permanently,'
returned Hubert, knowing well enough that
none like better to be assured of a long life
than they who are fond of referring to their
approaching end.

Another invitation, and another — a bill,
a circular, another circular. Some people
grumble at getting circulars; I like them.
It's so pleasant to open a letter you expect to
have to answer, and find that you may drop it
at once into the basket with a clear conscience.'


You don't encourage me to write to you
often,' said Sophy, with a little laugh.

f But he doesn't mean you, my dear said
the invalid.

Mean Sophy ? Oh yes, particularly,'

said Hubert half absently, looking up from
a letter be was reading.

Sophy knew, of course, that he was speaking
ironically; but somehow she wished he
had chosen to put the thing the other way.

Well, you have one interesting correspondent,
at any rate,' said Mr. Blake, who never
could refrain from commenting upon the
smallest actions of those near him.

Hubert made no reply. He was reading
the letter a second time, while his cigar
slowly went out. When he had finished it,
he put his cigar into his mouth without
noticing that it was unlighted, and sat silent,
leaning his cheek on his hand. Sophy knew
very well what letter he had been reading — at
least, she knew the post-mark on it — and her
heart beat faster as she bent her head over
her work, and listened for Hubert's next
words.

I am afraid, sir,' he said at length, * you
will think me ungrateful for your kind welcome
; but I think I must run off tomorrow

for a day or two. It's one of my Scotch
cousins,' he added apologetically, seeing a
look of grave displeasure on his uncle's face.
1 He is in trouble of some sort, and he seems
to think I can be of use to him.'

But that's no reason for your hurrying off
to Scotland before we have had time to look at
each other,' said the old gentleman peevishly.
It's very unreasonable of him to expect such
a thing.'

'I think if I am to be of any use I must
go at once,' said the younger man, again unfolding
Alec Lindsay's letter.

If you are thinking of coming north after
your return to England,' ran the letter, ' I
wish you would come as soon as you can. I
feel as if a crisis in my life were approaching,
and as if I were all unprepared to meet it.
I need a friend at my side. My father has
set his heart on my becoming a Presbyterian
minister; and as I took my degree in May, he
thinks my next step will be to enter one of the
Free Church Colleges. I shall do nothing of

the kind ; and I told him so as civilly as I
could, but he seems to think he can breakdown
my resolution. I believe he would be
content if I were to take a place under Semple
(you remember meeting him ?) in my uncle's
oil-works ; but I am nearly as unwilling to do
that as to don the Geneva gown. The worst
of it is, my father's reproach that I don't
know my own mind is true enough. And yet,
I am sure I have no desire to lead an idle life.
I wish you were here to advise me. Do you
think I should have any chance at the English
bar ? Everybody says there is not the
slightest opening at the Scotch bar; but I
know so little of the world !'

'You do indeed, poor fellow!' was the
reader's inward comment. But Hubert was
deceiving himself when he ascribed his sudden
resolution to set off for Scotland to a desire
to see Alec Lindsay through his difficulties ;
or rather, he refused to listen to the whisper
in which his heart told him that if he went
to the Castle Farm he would in all probability

find Margaret there. He had forced himself
to stay away from Scotland for two years ; he
had come back to England (as he thought)
cured of his passion ; and at the first reasonable
excuse the other half of his nature, the
half which had so long been denied a hearing,
sprang up and refused to be suppressed. 'At
least go down to see her once more. You do
not need to stay long, but to spend a day or
two at the farm will hurt no one, and you
may be of service to Alec'

Thus spoke his heart while his judgment
condemned ; and Sophy, glancing at him,
guessed something of what was going on in
his mind. She had not failed to notice how
her cousin (as she called him) had found his
way down to Scotland again and again ; and
when she saw among his letters one bearing
the Muirburn post-mark, she told herself that
if he went to the north shortly after coming
home she would know that her guess had
been a right one. But she had not expected
that before he had been four hours in the

vol. 11. 20

house lie would have decided upon making
the journey, and it was in a cold indifferent
tone that she asked Hubert whether he
thought of making an early start.

If I take the 7.15 from Euston,' he replied,
I can get to the farm the same evening. I
had better do that ; but don't make any
alteration in your usual arrangements. I can
easily get a cup of coffee at the railway
station.'

When he came downstairs next morning,
however, Sophy was tranquilly presiding over
a well-furnished breakfast-table.

Hullo !' he exclaimed ; I really don't
want anything. But how awfully good of
you, Soph, to take so much trouble.'

It's no trouble at all said she coldly, and
with the faintest vestige of a smile. ' I very
often get up at half-past five these summer
mornings ; and I'm glad of an excuse for
having breakfast so early.'

They sat down together for a hurried meal,
and Hubert began to talk in a more excited

manner than was usual with him. Sophy,
however, answered only by monosyllables.

How is my uncle to-day?' he asked;
oh ! I forgot ; you can't tell. I suppose he
isn't awake yet. He seemed rather depressed
last night.'

Perhaps it was the reaction after the
excitement of your coming home. And I
think he was hurt at your leaving again so
soon,' s e added.

She was angry at herself for having said
this as soon as the words had left her lips ;
but Hubert did not seem to mind her.

I'll be back in a day or two,' he said,
without looking up.

Nothing more was said beyond the
civilities of the table, till it was announced
that the cab was at the door. Then Hubert
started up in a fever to be gone.

Good-bye, Sophy ; you may look for mein
— oh ! I'll write, or wire, and let you
know.'

1 Good-bye, and a pleasant journey,' she

20—2

returned ; but she did not offer to go into the
hall to see him off.

Hubert noticed the coldness of her
manner.

Can I have offended her in any way ?' he
said to himself. ' Surely she is not such a
baby as to be annoyed at my leaving so soon.
I told them I had a reason. '

Meantime Sophy, standing well back from
the windows, watched her cousin get into his
hansom. He looked back and waved his
hand, but there was no response.

I fancy,' he mused to himself as the cab
drove off — ' I fancy girls in our rank of life
get stiffer and more conventional every year.
"What harm would there have been, now, in
Sophy coming to the door to see me off ? I
suppose it's because she hasn't a chaperon.
It's a pity when people allow themselves to
be twisted out of shape by conventional rules.
Somehow, girls in the lower classes seem far
more natural, warmer hearted. I wonder if
it is the fear of seeming improper that makes

Margaret so cold in her manner. If it were
not for that, she would be perfect — simply
perfect.'

And a series of dreams began, which lasted
till the dreamer reached Euston Square.

Meantime Sophy, after fighting a successful
battle with a rising flood of tears, set herself
to begin, as patiently as she could, those
important trifles which formed the occupation
of her life.

A Turning-point.

The hay-harvest was over, and the corn-harvest
had not begun, so there was a comparatively
' slack time ' at the farm. In a
month, or less, every man and woman about
the place, with probably two or three stray
Irish labourers, would be busy with the sickle,
or ' binding,' from early morning till late into
the twilight ; but for the present there was
a period of repose.

Alec was sitting in the parlour with his
father and sister. He had been at home,
rather against his will, since the beginning of
May. He was now a tall, broad-shouldered
fellow, strikingly handsome in feature, but

rather awkward in limb — educated, so far asa
sufficiency of Latin, Greek, and mathematics
was concerned, but entirely ignorant of
modern languages and history, and almost as
ignorant of the world and human life as he
had been when he first went to College. His
winters had generally been spent in the society
of his friend Cameron (who had at last won
the desire of his heart, by being appointed
assistant to the Professor of Surgery), and
Cameron's influence upon him was stronger
than he had any idea of. In heart and
in experience Alec was still a boy, and he
was, boy like, letting his attention wander
from his volume of Spinoza to dream an
impossible dream, when he was recalled to
the earth by the sound of his father's voice.

1 I met Mr. Dickson to-day, Alec.'

'Yes?'

He tells me the Presbytery meets next
week. Hadn't you better be getting ready
for the examination ? I suppose there is one
before you go to the Hall ?'

Alec was silent for a moment. He understood
perfectly that the subject had been
introduced in a half-indirect way, so as to
throw upon him the burden of beginning the
attack, as it were ; and he understood, too,
that the time had come for this question being
settled.

1 I thought I had told you, father, that I
am not going to the Free Church Hall

Margaret, will you leave us alone for a
few minutes ?' said Mr. Lindsay, and his
daughter gathered up her work and left the
room.

So you have been deceiving us all this
time V said the laird in a low tone, fixing his
cold, stern eyes upon his son.

• I have never deceived you !' burst out the
young man hotly.

When I agreed to furnish the means for
your going to College said the laird slowly,
1 I certainly understood that you were thinking
of the ministry. What other reason was
there for your staying here in idleness since

you left College ? And why, in that case, did
you go to College at all ? You have no wish
to be a doctor, have you ? Answer me, sir !'

1 No ; I have not.'

Then you have been deceiving me, I see.'

With a great effort Alec restrained himself.

When I first went to Glasgow,' he began,
1 1 said I wanted to be educated. I said
nothing of becoming a minister ; and I have
never given you any reason to suppose that I
intended doing anything of the kind.'

You knew very well, sir, that it was not
only my expectation, but my earnest desire,
and that I never would have consented to
throw T away so much money on your education,
merely to try to turn you into a fine
gentleman.'

Alec flushed up, opened his lips, and closed
them again without speaking. He could not
tell his father that the insinuation conveyed
by his words was untrue.

1 Ah, Alec !' pursued the old man, in a
softer tone, ' think what an opportunity you

are throwing away ! An opportunity that will
never come again. What life could be higher
or nobler than that spent in saving souls ?'
To this Alec made no reply. ' What are all
the honours and wealth of the world compared
to being the instrument of saving one
soul ?' asked Mr. Lindsay.

But I have no call to the ministry said
Alec at length.

Have you sought for a call, my boy V
asked his father. ' Calls are not vouchsafed
to those who do not listen for the summoning
voice. Have you sought the guidance of
God in this matter ? Pray, my son, pray
that you may be led aright. And now, tell
Margaret and the servants to come to
worship.'

Alec knew that his father meant to be kind
if only he would submit. He knew that
the last words which the laird had spoken to
him were sincere, but they grated upon him
more unpleasantly than even the unjust and
harsh things which his father had said at the

beginning of the conversation. He resented
this interference in the affairs of his own
heart. He could see no rule or method of
distinguishing between a Divine call and a
suggestion of his own inclination. He was,
in fact, out of harmony with the religious
system in which he had been brought up.
Sometimes he was willing to believe that the
fault was entirely in himself ; at other times
he felt that the whole system was cold, hard,
unlovely, and never free from a strong
tendency to cant ; but he was quite at a loss
to know what he would have put in its
place.

That evening Margaret contrived to see her
brother alone before she went to bed. She
came up to him in silence, took his hand in
one of hers, and rested her other arm upon
his shoulder.

Alec,' she said, ' have you quite set your
heart against being a minister?'

That's not a fair w T ay to put it, Maggie
said he. ' Unless one's heart is naturally

bent upon that calling, I don't think one
should follow it.'

But think of the good you might do ! '

Oh, that is such stuff, Maggie ! Look at
the ministers about here : what particular
good do they do — Mr. Johnstonee, or Mr.
Fergus, or Mr. Simpson, or any of them ?
On Saturdays they write (or don't write) their
sermons. On Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Fridays they read, or
potter about their gardens, or gossip with the
neighbours.'

'They visit the sick,' put in Margaret.

'One afternoon a week is enough for
that.'

And they visit all their people regularly.'

Yes ; and some of them simply pay calls,
and the zealous ones give away tracts and
ask how your soul is. A piece of impertinence!'


'Ah, Alec, you are sadly changed,' said
Margaret, withdrawing her arm from her
brother's shoulder.

At any rate, I admit I am not fit to be a
minister.'

It will grieve father very much. He has
set his heart upon it.'

I can't help that. I can't do a thing like
that — live a lie my whole life through — to
please him

Margaret kissed her brother's cheek and
left him. She had a feeling that he and she
were far apart in religious matters, and she
was right in her belief. Alec Lindsay had
read modern philosophy ; he had been taught
at College that ' free-thought ' was a man's
inalienable inheritance, and that it was a
species of intellectual suicide to stifle a doubt.
In the Calvinism he had learned in childhood
there was plenty of dogma certainly ; but
then he did not like the dogma, and he saw
no particular reason for believing it. He
was, in fact, a Theist ; but he gave his father
no hint that his religious opinions had undergone
a change. He knew very well that if
he had so much as expressed a doubt as to

the soundness of the Calvinist doctrine of
Predestination, or the lawfulness of taking a
walk or reading a novel on a Sunday, his
father would have been shocked beyond
expression, and would first have stormed at
him, and then mourned him as one who had
already sold himself to the Evil One.

Nothing more passed between father and
son for some days, and then Mr. Lindsay
asked Alec point-blank whether he was going
to devote himself to ' the ministry of the
Gospel.'

'No, father ; I have no inclination of that
kind, and I think that without a very strong
disposition to such a life it would be wrong to
begin it.'

The elder man fixed a cold look on his son,
but made no reply.

Don't you think I am right in saying so V
asked Alec.

The laird continued to gaze at his son
without speaking, and Alec abruptly left the
room.

About a week afterwards Alec was startled
by his father saying to him one morning :

1 I have just had a note from your uncle
James. He is willing to take you into his
office, and give you a small salary. The
sooner you can get ready to go the better

1 But I have no taste for a business life.
I am not fitted for it, and I '

Perhaps you will tell me what you are
fit for,' cried the old laird. ' Just understand
this. If you choose to reject this offer, I
shall have no more to say to you. You may
take your own way, and I wash my hands
of you. It seems to me you are bent on
throwing away your chances.'

Surely, sir, it is better to follow one's own
inclination in choosing a profession ?'

And what may be your inclination ?'

1 I should like to be a lawyer.'

And who is to support you while you are
studying law ?'

1 Others have begun as poor as I, and
have risen to the top of the tree.'

It is madness — sheer madness !' exclaimed
the laird, rising and pacing up and
down the room.

I can begin as clerk in an office,' said
Alec.

You shall do nothing of the kind!'
shouted his father. ' You would know, if
you knew anything at all about it, that
you would not be paid while your articles
were running. Perhaps you would like to bean
advocate ?-'*

Alec was silent ; for he knew that if he confessed
that his real wish was to go to the bar,
he would only the more effectually rouse his
father's anger.

1 Give me a week to think it over he
said at length. ' It is not fair to ask me
to decide a question that will influence
the whole course of my life at a moment's
notice.'

To this his father made no reply ; and Alec
left the house, and wandered off to his old

A barrister.

quarters at the ruined castle to hold counsel
with himself.

At the end of an hour's thinking he had resolved
to reject his uncle's offer. He saw
quite plainly that if he accepted it he would be
bound down for life to the narrow 7 life of a
Glasgow merchant — if, indeed, he had the
chance of ever becoming more than an underling.
He must give up the life of a student,
for he knew that was practically incompatible
with ' getting on in business And he must
say good-bye to his ambitions. Rather than
become a money-getting machine like one of
the men he had met at his uncle's table, he
would go back to teaching. Then, at least,
he could keep up his reading, and continue to
attend classes at College.

It was, no doubt, a foolish decision to make.
But Alec could not help thinking that he could
do better with himself than spend the next few
years of his life as a clerk in his uncle's oil-works.
He w r as determined to try to climb
the ladder of Fortune, even if he should be

VOL. II. 21

thrown down and crushed under the feet of
the crowd.

After all,' he said to himself, as he rose
from his seat and slowly made his way back
to the farm — ' after all, my life is my own.
I can but try. I would rather make a
struggle to rise, and fail, than not make the
attempt. But I don't mean to fail. The
question is, how can I get my foot on the
first rung of the ladder ? I haven't five pounds
in the world.'

That was the difficulty ; but next day a
light was thrown on his path, and that from a
quarter from which he had never expected it
to come.

In the afternoon his cousin Semple turned
up at the farm. This young man did not at
all like the idea of his clever cousin coming to
the oil-works. At present he was the only
relative of Mr. James Lindsay in the place ;
and he thought it tolerably certain that at the
old man's death the concern would pass into
his hands. If another nephew were introduced,

his own prospects might be seriously
injured ; and so he had thought it worth while
to run down to the farm, and see whether he
could not secretly dissuade Alec from taking
this step.

Of course he said nothing about the matter
in the presence of Mr. Lindsay or Margaret ;
and he could not help fancying that the keen
eyes of the old laird were watching him as if
to divine his intention. But when tea was
over, the two young men strolled out together,
and Semple began at once:

So you are coming to us next week, I
hear, Alec'

How do you know that ?' said the other,
with inbred Scotch caution.

Oh, Uncle James told me to expect you.
Of course you know you'll have to begin at
the beginning, and I fear you won't find it
very much to your taste after your College
life.'

1 1 may as well tell you, Semple, I've made
up my mind not to go. But I'm " between

21 2

the deil and the deep sea." I don't know
what else I am to do

What would you like to do ?' asked
Semple.

Secretly he was overjoyed at hearing of this
resolution, and he determined to further it by
every means in his power.

1 What I would like to do would be to goto
London, and enter the office of a good firm
of solicitors. Between ourselves, Semple, I
mean to go to the bar ; but I can't begin to
study in the regular way, because I've no
money. I have heard that it's not a bad plan
to go into a solicitor's office for awhile, to
begin with, to learn the practice. But I know
no one in London — no one in the profession,
at least.'

Perhaps I could help you there, Alec,'
said the other, after a pause.

I wish you could,' said Alec earnestly.

1 Do you remember a fellow called Beattie ?
I think he was at College while you were
there.'

We didn't go to the same classes. He was
two or three years in advance of me ; but I
remember his name very well. A clever
fellow, wasn't he ?'

Plenty of brains, certainly,' answered
Semple. ' Well, he had very much the
same ideas as yourself. He went to London,
and got into the office of a firm of solicitors
Hatchettttt, Small, and Hatchettttt ; and now
he is one of their managing clerks, though I
believe he has never got his articles. Well,
we are clients of Hatchets'. They are carrying
on a big lawsuit for us just now, and I
dare say it will be a thousand pounds in their
pocket. I should think they would oblige mein
a thing of that sort ; and Beattie, I know,
will do what he can for you.'

1 But the difficulty is, they wouldn't pay meany
salary.'

I should think they would give you something.
You would very soon be of use to
them. They paid Beattie, I know, almost
from the first. But why don't you go straight

to Uncle James, and ask him to give you
something to start you in life ?'

Alec shook his head.

I'll see if I can't manage that for you.
He's a regular old screw. Five hundred
pounds would be nothing to him.'

It would make a considerable difference to
me said Alec, with a laugh. ' You know,
Semple, it's awfully good of you to trouble
yourself about my affairs.'

Oh no ; not at all.'

Yes, it is. It's exceedingly kind of you.
I shall never forget it as long as I live.'

Semple was rather amused than embarrassed
by his cousin's expressions of gratitude.


If he had tried his best, he couldn't have
suited my book better said he to himself.
But I must see what I can do with the old
man.'

On reflection, however, he considered that
it would be dangerous for him to approach Mr.
James Lindsay himself. The shrewd old

gentleman would be sure, he thought, to see
through his motives. On his return to Glasgow,
therefore, he betook himself to Miss
Lindsay, and after telling her that Alec could
not, and would not, go into ' the works,' he
informed her of the plan that was on foot, and
wound up by saying that Alec was such a
clever fellow that it was a shame he should
miss his chances for the sake of a little money.
Surely his uncle would not grudge to do that
much for him.

It strikes me,' said the old lady, ' that
the lad's best chance of making his fortune is
to go into his uncle's office.'

She threw a keen glance at her visitor as
she spoke, but Semple bore it unmoved.

1 dare say ; indeed, I told him so, if I
remember right. But he has made up his
mind not to go.'

Weel, if he gets the offer of the situation
you speak 0', I'll e'en do my best wi' Mr.
Lindsay; but it minna be muckle, I coot.'

On this Semple took his leave, and that

night he went up to London, ostensibly on the
affairs of the lawsuit. Beattie and he were
old friends, and with his help he managed to
convey to Mr. Hatchettt the impression that
Mr. James Lindsay would be grievously
offended if they did not oblige him by
taking his nephew into their office. It
was all settled in half an hour ; and next
morning Semple was back in Glasgow.

All Miss Lindsay's eloquence, however,
failed to make a deep impression on Uncle
James. He would give the lad a hundred
pounds, and that was all.

The laddie's a fool said he, ' a clever
fool ; and that's aye the worst kind. If
I were to give him mair, it wad a' come
to the same thing in the end.'

Alec's father happened to be from home
when the welcome letter arrived to tell him
that the opening he had longed for had been
found, and that the money difficulty had been
removed. ' Don't say too much in thanking
your uncle,' wrote Semple. ' There is

nothing lie hates like a fuss being made over
his presents ; and, after all, there is no doubt
you have a kind of claim upon him

This, however, was not the way in which
Alec looked at the matter. Of course he
went at once to see his uncle, and thank him,
and his gratitude was so heartfelt that the
old man was touched a little.

I Say nae mair, Alec ; say nae mair,' said
he. 'I hope you'll do well, and do us credit ;
and if there should be a positive necessity for
it, I dare say another hunter might be forthcoming.
'

I I trust it will not be necessary, uncle.'

1 Weel, mony a man has won to the top 0'
the tree wi' less than a hunter pound in his
pouch at the start. Guide-day V

The difficulty which had seemed so insurmountable
had disappeared ; and to Alec it
seemed as if the world lay at his feet. True,
the parting with his father would be a painful
one ; but that could not be helped. He
would do his best to soften the old man's

resentment at this second frustration of his
wishes — and perhaps, he thought, some day
his father would be glad that he had taken
his own way, and determined to carve out his
fortune with his own hand.

1 BUT YOU AKE NOT A Christian

Mr. Lindsay listened in silence while his son
detailed to him the plans he had made for his
future ; and when Alec came to an end, he
made no remark.

1 I hope, father, you do not disapprove of
what I have done,' said Alec, after waiting
for his father to speak.

1 You are not acting in accordance with my
wishes, as you know very well,' was the
reply. ' I do not forbid your going to
London, because you would pay no attention
to me if I did. But I do not approve of
your going. You will have no properly
defined position in this firm of lawyers, of

whom, after all, you know next to nothing.
You are throwing away an excellent opportunity
for a vague chance, out of mere
caprice ; and you may live to regret that you
have not taken my advice. I wish you would
go over to Muirburn tomorrow, and tell
Symes that I must have the new cart-wheels
at once

Nor did Alec get much more sympathy
from his sister ; though, unknown to him, she
often dropped a tear over the articles of his
outfit which she was busily preparing.

You have never wished me good luck,
Maggie,' he said on one occasion.

You know I don't think you are doing
right she answered without looking up.

1 am doing nothing wrong in choosing
my own path in life cried Alec. ' And I
must say he added, provoked at her want of

sympathy, * you and my father are not '

Then he stopped. ' But I'm not going to
quarrel with you, this last week, Maggie

I know quite well what you were going to

say, Alec. But I am very sorry you are
going away at all, and the more so that you
are going without my father's consent

Alec sighed impatiently.

What is the use of going back to all that
now ?' said he.

And his sister made no reply.

It may easily be imagined that it was a
relief to Alec, and indeed to the whole family,
when Hubert Blake made his appearance at
the farm.

Well he said, passing his arm through
Alec's as they strolled together towards the
river, * so you have settled the great question
without me ?'

< Yes.'

I am sorry I am too late to be of any use ;
but I came off as soon as I read your letter —
that is, the very next morning. I think I
had better go back tomorrow, for my uncle
was not particularly well pleased at my running
away directly after I got home.'

I think it was more than good of you to

come,' answered the other ; ' but now you are
here, I do wish you could stay till I go, if
you can. You see, things are not altogether
smooth here, and '

All right. I will stay, and we can go upto
London together. But what put it into
your head to go into a lawyer's office ?'

I want to go to the bar, and this is the
first step

< But why T

I Because that is the great avenue by which
men rise to political power. Three-fourths of
the men in the House of Commons (that is, of
the respectable men), who have not had the
advantages of birth or fortune, have entered
by that door.'

Blake stared at his companion.

I I had no idea you were so ambitious he
said. ' But I doubt whether, even if you did
get into the House, you would be much
nearer your goal than you are now. And you
have no idea of the difficulty of getting a
practice at the bar, unless you have a connection

among solicitors, or unless you are a
born advocate.'

1 Of course there will be plenty of difficulties.
I've made up my mind to that. But
I can see you think I ought to have taken my
uncle's offer.'

It might have been more prudent. If
your ambition is to get into Parliament, you
might have done that, perhaps, more easily asa
wealthy manufacturer than as a struggling
barrister. And yet, I don't know. Every
man to his taste. It is a great thing to choose
one's own work. You will have a wider and

more varied life in London certainly, and

there's somebody running after us.'

It's Cameron !' cried Alec, as he turned
round, and ran to meet his friend. ' This is
awfully good of you, old fellow ! coming to bid
me good-bye,' he exclaimed, as he grasped his
former chum by the hand.

I heard you were going to the land of the
southron, so I thought I would give the poor
folk at the infirmary a holiday, and come to

give you my blessing ere you departed
answered the Highlander.

Alec introduced Blake to his old companion,
and the three continued to stroll on in
company.

Don't you think said Cameron, addressing
Blake, ' our friend here was greatly left to
himself, when he decided not to help to
illuminate the world by means of paraffin oil,
and to woo the jade Fortune in your country
instead ?'

I don't believe you think he was wrong,'
answered Blake, with a smile. ' You Scotchmen
look upon England as your natural prey.'

1 It's not everyone that goes to fish that
comes back wi' a full creel responded
Cameron ; ' but we'll hope that Lindsay will
spoil the Egyptians of much fine gold, and
rise to be Lord Chancellor. Last summer I
took a run down to Manchester, and as the
assizes were going on, I looked in at the
courts. It was a fearful' sight.'

Was it a murder case ?' asked Blake.

1 No ; I mean the scores 0' young an*
middle-aged men daunderin' about in wigs and
gowns, with their hands in their pockets. I
suppose every one of them thought he had a
prospect of being Lord Chancellor. One of
them was a man I had met at College — you
may remember him, Alec; Ferguson is his
name. He asked me to dine at their mess,
and after dinner they sang a song about that.
I mind the chorus. It went something like
this,' and Cameron sang in a deep bass voice :

Then drink, brothers, drink,
And let every brother drink,

Who has ever held a soup* prosecution ;
For it's possible he may
Be Lord Chancellor some day —

If he's only got a sound constitution.'

Tell us where you have been, Blake,
since I saw you last,' said Alec, anxious to
turn the conversation from himself and his
own prospects.

1 Oh, the usual round — Switzerland, Some,

So called, because the unimportant prosecutions at some
Quarter Sessions are handed round to the junior members of
the bar, one to each, like so many plates of soup.

VOL. II. 22

and Venice. I spent a good while in
Venice.'

Cameron looked at the Englishman with
admiration and envy.

I would like fine to see Borne,' he said to
himself in an undertone. Then he began to
ask questions about those cities, which Blake
answered as well as he was able.

After a time the conversation changed
again, for Alec began to talk to Cameron
about their old College friends, and Blake
walked on in silence. He was comparing, in
his own mind, his lot in life with that of the
two young men beside him. His advantages
had been so much greater than theirs, and his
performances had been so trifling ! He had
seen, and admired, and copied : they had
struggled and acted. He was already feeling
wearied of life, while Cameron was beginning
what promised to be a successful career of
great usefulness, and Alec was bravely setting
out to battle with the world. Would he never
be able to give anything to his fellow-men in

return for the food he ate — never be able todo
anything on which he could afterwards
look back with satisfaction ?

Alec interrupted these reflections by hinting
that they had better return to the farm, as it
was getting late, and it would soon be time
for supper.

Cameron was in capital spirits, and he
managed to infect the whole party with his
genial humour. Even Mr. Lindsay thawed
visibly, and spoke to his son more kindly
than he had done since Alec had refused to
walk in the way he had chosen for him.

The next two days passed rapidly and
pleasantly, Cameron still remaining a guest
at the farm. Blake, meanwhile, perceived
quite clearly that time had made no change
in his sentiments towards Margaret. She
seemed to him more beautiful than ever, and
more soft and womanly than she had appeared
before. And in spite of his better judgment,
he longed to end the struggle that was going
on within him, by asking her to be his wife.

It was the afternoon of the third day,
Alec's last day at home ; and the four young
people were sitting out of doors. Margaret
was sewing something for her brother ; Alec
and Cameron were stretched on the grass,
playing a game of chess. Blake was glancing
over a newspaper, when, happening to lookup,
he saw Cameron looking at Margaret's
downcast face with such a tender, admiring
gaze, that he dropped his eyes immediately,
while a strange thrill passed through his
heart. Cameron had no idea that he had
been observed, for Alec's eyes were fastened
on the chess-board, while Blake was sitting
in the background, apparently intent on his
newspaper.

Check !' cried Alec ; and Cameron bent
once more over the board.

Blake rose, and walked slowly away, across
the empty backyard. So he was not alone
in his admiration of Margaret ! Was he
content that another should woo and win her?
Passionately he told himself that he was

not content. He wandered on for some
minutes, not thinking where he was going,
and after making a circuit returned to the
farm.

Suddenly he came upon Margaret, sitting
on a bench which overlooked the little flower-garden.


He sat down beside her, and was surprised
to see that her eyes were filled with tears.
She was the first to speak.

'Mr. Blake,' she said, 'I wish to ask a
great favour from you. I wish you to keep a
watch over my brother in London. He will
be quite among strangers; and he has seen
very little of the world. I should think he
might easily be led astray. Will you see him
when you can, and do your best to warn him
if he is in danger, to keep him from bad
companions, and to encourage him when he
is cast down, as I am sure he often will
be?'

Her beautiful eyes, still laden with tears,
were turned upon her companion.

I will, indeed,' said Blake, ' for your sake,
as well as for his own.'

Thank you,' said Margaret simply.

But I wish he continued in a low voice,
hardly conscious of what he said — ' I wish
you would give me a better right to look after
him — the right of a brother.'

She looked up hastily, not understanding
his meaning. His face made it plain to
her.

• Dear Margaret he began, gently laying
hold of her hand.

But she started to her feet.

No, no, Mr. Blake,' she said, almost in a
whisper. ' That can never be.'

< Never, Margaret ? Why not ? Why
should you turn from me ? You know me
well, and I hope, at least, you don't dislike
me. If you can but learn to love me, how
happy you would make me !'

'No,' she answered ; 'I don't think I
could make you happy. Your life has not
been like mine. My ways, my thoughts are

not like yours. You have tastes and habits
which — oh, it is quite impossible !'

All that goes for nothing, Margaret.
Tastes and habits are soon acquired. You
would soon learn to love the world of art,
the wider world I could lead you into ;' and
again he tried to take her hand.

But again she drew it away.

I know I could make you happy,' said
Hubert.

But, Mr. Blake,' she said in a low voice,
1 you are not a Christian.'

Hubert was silent. From a man he would
have resented the imputation. Yet he knew
that, in Margaret's sense of the word, she
only spoke the truth.

1 Not as you are, perhaps,' he said at
length ; ' but that need not part us. You
will make me a Christian ; you will teach
me.'

Margaret shook her head sadly, and turned
away.

1 Don't go yet,' cried Hubert, following her-answer

me one question first. Do you love
me ? That is the only thing I care for

It is not the only thing answered the
girl. ' I would never marry a man who
was not a Christian.'

Hubert saw it was useless to argue.

Do you love me ?' he repeated.
Margaret looked up, her lovely face pale

with emotion.

No,' she answered.

Will you not try to love me ?'

'No, I cannot,' she repeated in a lower
tone.

Do, Margaret.'

No ; please don't ask me again.'

Her tone was firmer and clearer now, and
Hubert saw that the case was decided.

1 If I come again — in six months, or a
year ?'

You would only distress me. I should
only tell you again what I tell you tonight.'


Is that your final answer, Margaret ?'

It is — my final answer

Then — good-bye. I will not forget my
promise about your brother.'

He turned his back on the farm, and
walked away by himself, not returning until
it was time for the evening meal. He felt
the disappointment keenly, all the more
keenly that he had never anticipated a refusal.
It was cruel to think that Margaret was
sacrificing his happiness, and perhaps her
own, to what he called her fanaticism. He
was furious to think that she would never be
his, that he might entreat her to the end of
time, and she would never yield.

As for Margaret, she slipped into the house
and was very little seen again that evening.
No one ever knew what had passed between
her and Hubert Blake. Not even to her own
heart did Margaret answer the last question
which he had pressed upon her.

That night she waited long behind the
half-open door of her room, that she might
waylay her brother as he came upstairs. At

last the lights were put out, and she heard
his footstep.

She came up to him with a half-articulate
whisper, and threw her arms round his neck.
Then she sobbed, as if her heart would
break.

'Don't, Maggie. Don't, dear old Maggie
whispered her brother as he kissed her.

Oh, Alec ! you are going away. Perhaps
I may never see you again ; and I've been so
cold and unkind ! Oh, Alec, I don't want to
lose you : that was the reason of it. But I
am so sorry ! I would give anything — all I
have in the world — if only I had behaved
differently.'

It was my fault, Maggie, every bit as
much as yours.'

No ; no ; no !'

1 Yes, it was. But never mind. What
does it matter now ? I know you love me,
Maggie, and that's all I care for.'

1 And you will write to me ?'

'Every week, Maggie.'

Whether you have anything to say or
not ?'

Whether I have anything to say or not.
And I will come to see you at Christmas.'

< Will you r

1 will, though it should only be for a
day

1 Then I shall have something to look
forward to. Oh, Alec, how good you are !'

And an hour passed before the brother
and sister parted.

Next morning the good-byes were said in
haste, but they were not so painful as Alec
had anticipated. His father's reserve broke
down at the last; he embraced his son, and
put an envelope into his hand containing fifty
pounds in bank-notes.

1 Take it, lad,' he said, as Alec would have
put it back in his hand — ' take it ; I can
easily spare it. It's hard to part with you ;
and I had hoped — but never mind that now.
Fear God, Alec, and keep His commandments,
for that is the whole duty of man.'

6 Oh, father !' cried Alec ; i I almost wish
if I had known '

Come, my boy ; it's time you were gone.
You will miss the coach.'

Another hurried embrace from Maggie,
another shake of the hand from his father,
and he was gone ; and the father and
daughter went back together to the silent
and empty house.

IN LONDON.

Who has not tried to put into words his first
impressions of London ? And who has not
failed ? Probably, if people were quite careful
not to impose upon themselves, they
would feel bound to confess that, after the first
feeling of bewilderment was over, their chief
impression was one of a vague disappointment.
They knew that they had set foot in
the Metropolis of the Empire, and they could
not help forgetting that London is not to be
seen in half an hour.

This, at least, was Alec Lindsay's experience.
When he emerged from the railway-station
and found himself in the Euston Road,

he could hardly believe that he had at last
reached the city of his dreams. With his
overcoat over his arm and his bag in his hand
(avoiding, like a thrifty Scot, the needless
expense of a cab), he trudged slowly eastwards,
taking mental notes as he went. He
was surprised at the comparative stillness
around him. He had often heard of the
bustle in the streets of London ; but the
Euston Road was quieter than many a street
in Glasgow. Then the houses offended him.
They were much lower in height than those to
which he had been accustomed, and much
uglier. He gazed with contempt on the
tumble-down buildings of wood, or of brick
not much more durable than wood, projected
from the houses to the pavement. He was
surprised at the absence of hurry, at the
street children playing about (as much wrapped
up in their play as if they had been on a
village-green), at the half-intelligible Cockney
dialect.

After reaching King's Cross Alec made his

way to a small street lying to the north of
Gray's Inn, where there was a private
boarding-house, and there he established himself
till he should find suitable lodgings. As
soon as he had had a cup of tea he sallied out
again into the streets ; for the roar of London
was in his ears, and he could not keep still.

1 1 wish Cameron were going to hunt for
diggings with me,' he said to himself, as his
mind flew back to the time when his friend
had compelled Mrs. Macpherson to admit him
to her house.

Then suddenly the sense of loneliness
descended upon him, almost like a tangible
thing. He was standing at the crossing, close
to the Metropolitan Railway Station, where
the crowd was thickest. Half mechanically
he noted one and another come and go, and
vanish in the crowd, like autumn leaves on a
swollen river. They came and went, and he
was alone. In this great swarm of human
creatures none knew his face, not one knew
even his name.

The air was thick and tainted, heavy with
a thousand offensive odours ; and the yellow
sunshine from the sinking sun seemed to be
struggling in vain to teach the dwellers in this
unlovely city something of the peace and
beauty in the great world beyond. And Alec,
looking up, saw its radiance. He saw the
rose-colour in the air. He saw a few unconsidered
dirty panes of glass, high up in the
gable of a warehouse, flashing like gems on
the wall of the city that hath no need of the
sun — and he remembered that the same sunlight
was lighting up the wide moors and the
bare slopes of Ben Ime, and playing on the
green seaweed and the gray rocks, where
none but angel-eyes were looking on.

Afterwards Alec came to know London well,
for he was never tired of wandering about the
streets. He came to know that Cheapside
and the Strand were not ' London,' nor even
Westminster or Piccadilly. He lost himself,
over and over again, in labyrinths of small,
grimy streets, each twenty feet of which made

a separate home. He found that in the East
End there were miles and miles of land
covered with manufactories, warehouses, and
houses of repulsive ugliness filled with hardworking
people. He came to the conclusion
at last that the one thing in which London
was unique was its unreasonableness. In
other towns there were half a dozen, perhaps
a dozen, important thoroughfares ; here they
were numberless. And no sooner had he
studied one neighbourhood till he knew it
very well, than he found another inhabited by
people who had totally different habits and
modes of life, different interests ; speaking,
perhaps, a different language.

On the morning after his arrival Alec presented
himself at the office of Messrs. Hatchettt,
Small, and Hatchettt, in Theobald's Road.
He was shown into a large, well-furnished,
but not very clean room, lined with calf-covered
volumes, which were kept more for
show than for use. Here, early as it was, the
senior partner was seated, busy over his

vol. 11. 23

correspondence. He looked up as Alec
entered, showing a face which expressed less
than any human countenance which Alec had
ever beheld. It was the face of a man who
had trained himself to say the correct thing,
and not a word more — who had schooled himself
for thirty years to allow nothing of such
feelings or sentiments as he might possess to
appear in his face. His hair was well brushed ;
his coat fitted perfectly ; his boots were all
that boots could be ; his tie was of exactly
the proper hue, neither sombre nor brilliant ;
his manner — to those whom he considered his
equals — was unexceptionable.

So you are Mr. Lindsay — eh ? Glad to
see you. Take a seat. A connection of a
client of ours in Scotland, I believe. A

nephew ? Yes — just so '

(Dictating to a clerk at his side :)
Butler and Smith, solicitors. Dear Sirs, —
We beg to acknowledge your letter of yesterday's
date. Your offer of .£300 and costs is
<]uite inadequate. We have briefed Mr. Russel,

and the case will come on for hearing, we

expect, in three days' time. Yours, etc.

Major General Potts. Dear Sir, — Yourself v.
Brown. The defendant has offered £300 and
costs, which is more than we expected, and
we advise you to accept it. The costs, of
course, are very heavy ; and in the event of
an adverse verdict they would fall entirely
upon you. We are, dear sir, yours faithfully.
By the way, Mr. Gibbets, see that

that brief in Brown and Potts' case goes over
to Mr. Russel this forenoon. — And now, Mr.
Lindsay, what can I do for you ? You want
to see a little of our business, try what it is
like before taking articles, I believe ?'

As he spoke, Mr. Hatchettt opened another
envelope, glanced over its contents, and placed
them on a little heap of papers at one side of
the table.

I am not sure yet that I shall take
articles said Alec. ' It is very probable I
may not do so.'

1 We never take pupils,' said Mr. Hatchettt,

23—2

his eyes on a fresh letter as he spoke. ' It is
our invariable rule. But we have no objection
to your being here a few months, to oblige
Mr. Lindsay — none at all.'

Then he seemed to forget all about the new
clerk and his affairs, and remained plunged in
thought for some seconds. Finally, he laid
aside the letter without speaking, and went onto
open another.

Before him was a pile of letters which had
yet to be got through ; and on one side lay a
bundle of deeds and documents which had just
come up from the law-stationer. At his right
hand stood two baskets, one being a deep one
for the envelopes and waste paper, the other a
shallow one for the letters themselves. On a
table was a tray for the documents which came
by the post.

Before Mr. Hatchettt had finished his correspondence
the door opened, and a tall, thin
young man, with a pale face, black hair, large
features, and a keen, shrewd expression of
countenance, came into the room.

1 Ah ! Mr. Beattie — a little late, eh ?' — and
the lawyer began to discuss with his manager
in a low tone the details of the business before
them. It was not until that was over that
Alec's existence was remembered. Then his
fellow-countryman came up with a smile and
shook hands with him.

Yes ; I think you had better take charge
of Mr. Lindsay 7 for the present said Mr.
Hatchettt. ' I dare say you will be able to
make him useful. And as to that mortgage
of the Waste Paper Utilization Company, you
had better write at once and refuse their offer.
That's all, I think.'

Alec followed his new acquaintance up two
flights of stairs into a small room crowded
with tables, every one of which was covered
with bandies of papers.

1 This is my den,' said Beattie, ' but I
thought you would like a room to yourself, so
I told them to clear out a little place for you
across the passage ;' and he led the way to
another room on the same floor.

It was small, dusty, and, what was even
worse, dark, as a tall building opposite the
only window obscured the light. There was
no carpet on the floor. In one corner stood
an old bookcase with cupboards underneath
for papers ; and in another there was a
dilapidated fireplace.

Sorry to put you into such a poor place,
but perhaps we'll be able to get you a better
room by-and-by,' said Beattie with a smile ;
and Alec assured him that he wanted nothing
better.

What sort of work would you like to
begin with T asked the managing clerk, with
another smile. ' Conveyancing ? or common
law ? or chancery practice ?'

Really, I don't know. Whatever department
I can be of most use in. I shall have
to learn something of all of them, I suppose.'

1 Conveyancing is my own branch,' said
Beattie. ' Suppose you begin with that.'

He left the room, and soon returned with
an armful of deeds and papers.

1 This he said, touching a blue paper, ' is
an abstract of that deed. Compare it with
the deed, and you will see how it is done.
Then copy it on these large sheets. Here is
one you may use as a model. And then you
may try to draw an abstract of this deed and
he touched another one as he spoke, ' in exactly
the same way. If you are not sure of anything,
come and ask me ;' and, with another
smile, Mr. Beattie left the room.

Alec could not help admiring the clearness
and precision with which the directions were
given. He found the work interesting from
its novelty, and by no means difficult.

He had been busy for an hour or two,
when the door slowly opened, and a shabbily-dressed
little man with red hair sidled into the
room, and, hardly looking at its occupant,
began to hunt for a volume among the bookshelves.


Alec merely glanced up, and bent again
over his work. When he looked up a second
time, the little man was standing with a book

in his hand, pretending to consult it, but evidently
using it as a pretext for taking stock of
the new clerk.

Good-mornings said Alec.

Guide-day to ye, Mr. Lindsay,' replied the
other, extending a not very clean hand across
the table. ' I'm glad tae see ye. It's a
pleasure to see ony ane frae the auld
country.'

You're in the office, I suppose,' said
Alec.

The other nodded, put his hands in his
trousers-pockets, and stared at Alec from the
other side of the table.

His appearance was certainly not prepossessing.
His hair was long and untidy,
his eyes bloodshot and shifty ; and his chin
was covered with an ill-shaved beard. He
was evidently not a young man, but he had
the manners of an ill-bred boy. His expression
was a mixture of shrewdness, meanness,
and presumption. Alec wanted to get rid of
him, but he hardly knew how to do it.

You're from Glasgow?' said the red-haired
man.

1 Yes.'

And I'm from the Means. That's no far
from Glasgow. I used to ken the place weel.
My name's MacGowan. Ye've maybe heard
o' my uncle, Dr. MacGowan of Strathbogie ?'

1 Not that I remember ;' and Alec turned
again to his papers.

But the other took no notice of that.

An' to think that you were in Glasgow but
yesterday !' exclaimed MacGowan.

Is it long since you came to London ?'
asked Alec, by way of being civil.

1 Fifteen years ; fifteen weary years, come
Martinmas,' answered MacGowan with an
emphatic nod. ' And, though I ken mair o'
what they ca' law — though it's a poor thing
compared wi' Scottish Jurisprudence — than
either Mr. Hatchettt, Mr. Small or Mr.
Beattie — and that's no savin' muckle — I'm
just where I was fifteen years ago, a clerk, wi'
thirty-five shilling's a week.'

Alec murmured something by way of sympathy,
and the other went on :

1 Paid monthly, Mr. Lindsay, paid monthly.
And it's sometimes very inconvenient to wait
till the first o' the month for the smoothly
steeped.'

Alec murmured something still more indistinct.


And the cashier here has a heart like the
nether mill-stone. Precious little o' the milk
o' human kindness in his carcass. He'd see
ye driven foot to dee on the street — he'd see a
man wanting' his dinner, before he'd advance
him a poor five shillings on his next month's
screw. An' that minds me, Mr. Lindsay.
Next Wednesday is the first o' the month.
If you could lend me a sma' sum till that
time — say five shillings. — Thank ye, sir. I
look upon you as a true Scotchman, who will
not see a brother Scot in extremities without
extending the helping hand.'

He stopped suddenly, and had barely time
to pocket the coins when the door opened,

and Beattie came into the room. At the
sight of his cold, impassive face, MacGowan
shrank back, and turned in confusion to the
bookcase. Beattie fixed him with his eye ;
and MacGowan, not daring to meet it, slipped
past his superior into the passage.

1 An idle, drunken, good-for-nothing vagabond,'
said Beattie, as soon as he had disappeared.
' I advise you not to speak to him.
He will take all sorts of liberties with you
if you allow him

Then he looked over the abstracts, explained
one or two points, and ended by
asking Alec to dine with him that evening
at the Lowborn Restaurant.

Of course Alec accepted the invitation ;
but he did so without any feeling of pleasure.
Beattie had been civil, and even friendly ; but
somehow Alec could not bring himself to like
him. He smiled too often, and his smile was
a purely conventional one, from the teeth
outwards, fading away in a moment and
leaving his face as stern and cold as before.

His features were harsh, and his long upper
lip gave an unpleasant look to his face.
But most of all Alec disliked his accent. It
smacked strongly of affectation. The Scotch
intonation was still there and refused to be
effaced, while the English manner of speaking
had evidently been laboriously grafted upon
the original stock. The result was not
satisfactory to anyone but Mr. Beattie himself.


Soon after Alec and his host had taken
their seats at table that evening, Mr. Beattie
elicited the fact that Mr. James Semple was
virtually at the head of his uncle's oil works,
and that in all probability he would be the
old man's heir ; and from that moment Alec
became a very secondary person in his eyes.
The two had not much in common, and the
conversation languished till it seemed at one
point as if it would die out altogether. As
the evening proceeded, however, and the wine
in the bottles diminished, matters improved ;
and by the time the two young men had lit

their cigars, Beattie was giving his views on
the state of society and the general scheme
of things with considerable freedom.

There's no place in the world said he,
with much emphasis, ' where there's so many
beggars on horseback, as there are in and
about this city of London. Go out on the
streets, or go to any of the fashionable
suburbs, and see the kind of people who roll
past in their carriages. If you were to take
the master out, put on his coachman's livery,
and set him on the box, put his overcoat and
hat on the coachman and get him inside, no
one would notice the difference.'

But there is the aristocracy.'

True ; but it is the rich parvenus, the
nobodies, that make London. And, after all,
I fancy a long purse and a lavish hand will
win a man's way into any house in this
country. Look at Baron Brand, as he calls
himself! I remember when that man came
to our office ready to do any dirty work we
liked to put him to. And see where he is now.'

But there are surely circles of men of
letters, of artists began Alec.

No doubt ; but who knows or cares anything
about them ? They might be swept off
the face of the earth tomorrow, and London
would never miss them.'

It occurred to Alec that the same thing
might be said of a good many other social institutions
in London, but he held his tongue.

Wealth is the great power, after all,'
resumed Beattie, ' even in politics. Name
ten famous men in the country who are not
rich, or at least rich enough to live as wealthy
people do. You can't

There's Ruskin.'

Buskin was rich, rich enough, at least, to
travel and spend his time as he liked, or he
never could have become famous. Years ago,
with diligence and some ability, a man could
push his way to the front. But the crowd is
too thick for that now.'

1 But, surely, eminence in one's profession
'

1 Ay, but how is that attained ?'

i By learning it thoroughly, and '

Beattie burst into a hoarse laugh.

1 My dear fellow, you have the simplest
notions. Never mind ; you'll know better intime.
Learning ! Now, look here. Take
our own profession. That little drunken
beggar in our office, MacGowan, knows more
law than most men with wigs on their
heads I have come across — more than many
a Q.C. I dare say he told you as much
himself.'

He did,' said Alec, with a laugh.

And he gets eighty or ninety pounds a
year. Take my own case. I know as much,
and am as good a man of business (though I
say it myself) as any of my governors. They
give me three hundred a year, while young
Hatchettt has as many thousands. And what
then ? His tailor has more than twice as
much as he has. I know it for a fact.'

I never thought it mattered very much
what a man has said Alec serenely.

Beattie looked at him curiously, and went
on :

You are ambitious, then ? And you think
learning, diligence, and so on, will help you
up the ladder ?'

That's what I mean to try,' said Alec
with a laugh, and something of a blush.

It is impossible, or next to it. How
many men, able men, well-educated men, do
you think there are in London, grinding away
at law, or writing books, or painting pictures,
or designing buildings till their hair is gray ?
Who ever hears of them, or thinks of them ?
They will never reach even the first rung
of the ladder. Never.'

How, then, do men get on ?'

Beattie lifted his eyebrows.

Some, a few, have exceptional gifts, and
when they do get a chance they let it be seen.
But, as a rule, those who come to the front
don't push their way through the crowd ;
they climb over other men's heads. They
hang on to what men they do know, and

flatter or bother them into giving them the
opportunity they want. Then, when they
have got it, they make the most of it. They
never lose a chance of advertising themselves.
Better, they say, be spoken of as a cad or a
fool, than not be spoken of at all. They
never lose an opportunity of sticking a spoke
in a rival's wheel ; and they will half ruin a
man one minute, and meet him with a "Well,
old man," the next, as if they were the
greatest friends in the world.'

Alec's face wore an expression of deep
disgust.

And the beggars on horseback, having
filled their purses out of some tobacco-shop,
or grog-shop, or shoddy-shop, put their
thumbs in the arm-holes of their waistcoats,
lean back in their carriages, and think themselves
the pick of mankind, till a lord comes
their way, and then they bow down in the
dust before him — that is, if he's richer than
they are.'

vol. ii. 24

Alec was getting a little tired of his friend's
cynicism, so he rose to go.

1 1 don't believe it,' said he to himself, ashe
made his way home. ' There are plenty of
fellows, fellows who have got on too, who
wouldn't do a dirty thing to save their lives.
If it is impossible — well, so be it.'

William Beattie was soured by disappointment.
He would not allow for the natural
advantages which those before him in the race
derived from wealth and business connections.
He hated his employers, because they showed
no disposition to ' give him his articles,' and
make him a member of the firm. He greatly
longed to throw up his post and try to find a
nearer road to wealth, but this he did not dare
to do. As for his sneers at * beggars on
horseback,' they were simply due to envy.

AN UNCONVENTIONAL GUEST.

When Hubert Blake returned to Highgate
after his hurried journey to Scotland, it was
evident to Sophy's eyes that something had
happened to him. Before he went north he
was bright and full of spirits. Now he was
listless, moody, and unsociable. If he had
been his own master, he would not have gone
back to London at all. He would have set
off at once for another long, aimless tour.
But he felt that something was due to his
uncle, and shortly after he left the Castle
Farm, he made his appearance without warning
at Grove House.

Why didn't you write and say you were

24—2

coming ?' asked old Mr. Blake, in his usual
peevish tone.

1 Really, sir, I didn't think of it. I didn't
suppose it mattered.'

One always likes to know when anything
is going to happen,' said the old man, half
offended at his nephew's want of courtesy.

And Hubert, totally unconscious that he
had given any offence, sauntered out into the
garden. Sophy was there, sitting on her
favourite garden-seat, and as Hubert came
forward she rose to meet him, with a smile
on her face.

1 Well, Sophy was his greeting, as he sat
down beside her, ' how have you been getting
on?'

Exactly as usual. And you T
4 Oh, I ? Well ; I found that the matter
I went to Scotland about had got settled
without my intervention, as things have a
habit of doing if you only let them alone.
So I stayed a few days at the farm ; and then
I came back. That's all.'

You might have told us you were
coming.'

So my uncle said to me. Perhaps it
would have been more polite ; but what's the
use of making a fuss ? My coming or going
isn't a thing of so much importance.'

After that nothing was said for a minute or
two ; and Hubert, stooping down, picked up
a few pebbles, and began jerking them with
his thumb into the laurels.

I Have you come back to town for the
winter ?' asked Sophy at length.

I I don't know,' said the other absently.
Sophy stole a glance at her companion.

I don't think uncle will be able to makeup
his mind to go away at all this autumn.
I think it such a pity.'

To this Blake made no reply ; he only
went on pelting the bushes.

1 The Command called here yesterday,' began
Sophy once more. ' They came to tell us
that Edmund Coleman has taken a first-class.'


'Most awful prig!' murmured Hubert
under his breath.

6 1 am going to have three hundred snowdrop
bulbs set in the grass-borders in October
said Sophy, changing the subject. 'Don't
you think they will look very nice ?'

I dare say.'

Sophy said no more ; and Hubert got upto
return to the house. As he looked round
before moving away, he was struck by the
expression on Sophy's face, as she bent over
her work, and he sat down again.

'What's the matter, Sophy ? Have I
offended you in any way ?'

'No.'

Is it because I didn't write to say I was
coming. ' Surely '

Oh no ; not at all.'

There is something. Don't let us have a
misunderstanding, for Heaven's sake. If I
have hurt you, tell me frankly what it is.'

'It is only this,' said Sophy, gathering
courage, ' that our old relations seem to have

changed entirely. Before you went away
you used to be interested in our little doings.
Now you don't care at all. We don't seem
to belong to the same family now. You tellus
nothing about yourself. You go away for
two years, and '

Sophy stopped suddenly.

'Oh, dear me!' Hubert groaned within
himself; but when he spoke his tone was
kind and gentle.

The fact is, Sophy, I'm spoiled for want
of something to do. It would do me all the
good in the world to be forced to earn my
bread as a day-labourer for twelve months.
But I haven't the pluck to do it.'

1 You have your profession said Sophy.

I'm sick of it. Everything seems so dull
and tasteless, as if nothing were really worth
anything. I'm tired of my life — tired of
myself, I suppose, that is. Do you never
feel like that ?'

Sophy sighed inaudibly, and made no
reply.

I've a great mind to put twenty pounds
in my pocket, go to New York, and try to
make a living there somehow. I suppose I'd
fail : and I don't see that it would very much
matter. Nothing does matter very much,
does it V

'Not if one lives for one's self,' said Sophy.

She feared she had said too much, but her
companion did not seem to notice it.

'By the way,' he said after a pause, ' that
young cousin you've heard me speak of, Alec
Lindsay, has just come up to town. I ought
to be civil to him. He's not a bad sort of
fellow — a little countrified, that's all. He
gives one the feeling of there being a good
deal in him, that will come out some day.
Do you mind my asking my uncle if I may
invite him to come here and dine some
evening ?'

Of course I don't mind. I shall be very
pleased to see him.'

I'm afraid you won't find him amusing.
He's very simple and outspoken. In fact, he

is one of those fellows who don't need to be
outspoken. His face always tells you what
he is thinking of before he opens his lips

At this point a servant came in and
intimated that Mr. Blake was tired of his
own company, and Hubert and Sophy went
into the house together.

Some days passed before Blake could
procure Alec's address by means of a letter
to the farm ; and then he asked his Scotch
cousin to dinner.

It was a new experience for Alec. Everything
at Grove House seemed daintier, more
delicate, and more precise than what he had
been accustomed to. Never in his life had
he seen so much money and trouble lavished
upon the petty details of existence ; never
had he seen the art of comfortable living
carried to such perfection.

When the little party adjourned to the
drawing-room after dinner, this impression
was strengthened. The soft low seats, the
thick carpet — for Mr. Blake would not

tolerate stained boards and Eastern mats —
the softly shaded and tinted lights, the
delicate china, all helped to produce the
effect. The young Scotchman felt too big,
too strong and awkward, for these luxurious
surroundings.

Sophy could scarcely tell what to make of
her guest. She liked him ; she liked his
frank, open face, and his unconventional, unaffected
manners ; she liked his strong northern
speech. But she hardly knew how to talk to
him. He had no idea of the art of saying
little polite nothings for the sake of keeping
conversation going.

You have only come south lately V she
asked, with a smile.

1 Only ten days ago.'

1 And how do you like London V

What do you mean by London ?'

Sophy was naturally at a loss for an answer,
and Alec went on :

London means so many things. The
houses are very mean-looking

But the people ?' asked Sophy, hiding her
amusement under a conventional smile. 'How
do you like them V

They are very smart,' answered Alec,
speaking with great deliberation, ' and quick
in all they do, and selfish, and always in a
hurry ; and they think that London is all the
world.'

You have seen some of the sights, I
suppose ?'

Yes. I went to the National Gallery to
see the pictures. Some of them I couldn't
make anything of. But some of them were
simply splendid. And Westminster Abbey !
I never saw anything like it !'

You admired the x\bbey, then ?'

It is — oh ! I can't find words to tell you
what I thought of it ! It provoked me so, to
see the stupid people going about with their
faces as calm as if they were going to dinner,
or staring at one lump of a monument after
another. It seems as if it were alive, and
knew how beautiful it is. The columns seem

never tired of springing up, and up, and up, as if
they would reach to heaven ; and yet they are
satisfied when they join each other in a perfect
arch. Who built it ? Who imagined it V

6 I'm sure I don't know, Mr. Lindsay,' said
Sophy, glancing to Hubert for information.
He had been watching Sophy, amused by her
wonder at the boy's enthusiasm.

1 It was built by the Benedictines, I believe,'
said he.

I thought nothing could be finer than
Glasgow Cathedral till I saw Westminster,'
said Alec simply.

Have you a cathedral at Glasgow ? I
thought you were all Presbyterians in Scotland,'
said Sophy.

1 Oh, a very fine one,' said Hubert, answering
for his cousin — ' small, but a good
specimen of its era. And the crypt is particularly
good, the finest in Britain, I believe.'
(This gratified Alec immensely.) ' And what
did you think of St. Paul's ? You have seen
St. Paul's, I suppose ?'

1 I liked the outside ; at least, it seems very
grand. And when I first went under the
dome I felt as if I had been on the top of a
mountain.'

1 When you went to the top of the dome,
the stone gallery, I suppose you mean,' said
Sophy.

No ; when I went under the dome.'

I understand you,' said Hubert. ■ It gives
you something of the same sense of space
and vastness.'

1 But there's very little beauty about it,'
continued Alec. ' It's big, and that is about
all. It's nothing to be compared with
Westminster.'

Will you give us some music, Sophy ¥
asked Hubert, moving towards the piano.

Sophy could play well — she had plenty of
time for practice — and she chose one of
Beethoven's sonatas.

Do you like that ¥ she asked at the end
of the first movement, turning to Alec

He shook his head.

1 I dare say it's very beautiful, but I don't
understand what it means in the least. I
don't care for it.'

Frank, at least murmured Sophy to herself,
as she turned over the leaves of her
music-book. Then she began to play the
1 Moonlight Sonata,' and at the end of the
second movement she stopped again. * Do
you like that any better ?' she asked.

Alec did not answer at once, and she rose
from her seat, a little piqued at what she
thought his rudeness. But Blake saw that he
was trying to steady his voice before replying.

Would you be so kind, if you don't mind
the trouble,' he said in a very low tone, ' as to
play that piece over again, from the beginning?'

Sophy consented, of course, and as she
finished she asked Alec if he would care to
hear anything else.

Not just now, please ; anything else would
sound coarse after that, wouldn't it ?'

Perhaps you are right,' said Sophy, with
a smile.

1 How happy you must be, to be able to
play all that whenever you like !' exclaimed
Alec.

1 Do you think so ? It is a very easy
passage,' said Sophy, again a little at a loss
how to answer her unconventional guest.

I Will you give us a song now ?' asked
Hubert.

But unfortunately Sophy chose one or two
drawing-room songs of no musical character
whatever; and as Alec thought them very
poor, he was so much occupied in trying to
find something to say that would not be
absolutely rude, that he forgot to thank the
performer ; and Sophy noticed the omission.

Well, what do you think of the young
Scotchman, Sophy?' asked Hubert on his
return to the drawing-room, after Alec had
taken his leave.

Sophy raised her eyebrows, and dropped
the corners of her mouth.

I I hardly know,' she replied. ' He is very
unconventional ; not commonplace certainly.

I rather like him. He has fine, expressive
eyes. But he has no manners

1 That will come in time,' said Hubert,
stifling a yawn. ' You can't expect fine
manners from a farmhouse.'

Hubert was right. As the months went on
Alec unconsciously learned to adapt his
manners to those of the Londoners. He lost,
in part, the roughness of his Scottish speech ;
and he insensibly acquired a more polished
and conventional style of address. He visited
not infrequently at Grove House, even when
Blake was no longer to be found there ; and
Sophy began to take quite a strong liking for
him.

Take care, Sophy,' said Hubert one day
laughingly, as he noticed what good friend s
the two had become ; * take care, or Alec's
beaux yeux will be too much for you.'

Sophy turned away ; and Hubert thought
she looked hurt, he didn't know why.

Alec had been at Messrs. Hatchettt's office
for some months, when one day, as he passed

through the outer office, Beattie came downstairs
with a small sheaf of papers in his
hand.

Where's MacGowan ?' he asked sharply.

1 He's not come down to-day yet, sir,'
answered one of the other clerks. ' I believe
he's not very well.'

Beattie made no reply, but his face wore
a very ugly look as he turned and left the
room.

'Ell get the sack this time, and no mistake,'
Alec overheard one of the clerks say to
another, as he went out.

He went on to Lincoln's Inn, and on his
way back to the office he met MacGowan
coming, apparently, away from the office,
with a very miserable expression of countenance.
He looked, indeed, a pitiable object,
even more dilapidated than usual, while his
pale face and trembling hands showed that
lie had not yet recovered from the effects of
his last drinking-bout. Over his arm hung a

vol. 11. 25

tattered coat, in which he had laboured at the
desk for the last six years.

This garment he changed to his left arm
on Alec's approach, and held out his right
hand.

Farewell, Maister Lindsay said the poor
fellow, with an air half sad, half comical.
They've given me the sack. That's the
result o' been' convivial. Weel. It's a
wide war, an' a chance ; but we'll maybe
foregather"' again some day. Ye've been a
guide free' to me, Maister Lindsay. As for
that sma' matter o' the five shilling's ye lent
me — perhaps ye'll allow me — tae '

The sentence was artistically constructed.
It was capable of being turned into an offer
of repayment or a request that the matter
might be allowed to stand over for a time,
according as circumstances might direct ; and
it was accompanied by the production of an
extremely shabby leathern purse, which evidently
was but scantily furnished.

° Meet.

Ob, never mind, never mind,' said Alec
hastily. ' Any time will do for that — when
you get rich. But has Mr. Hatchettt really
turned you away V

Aye ; or rather that stuck-up devil,
Willie Beattie. But 111 be even wi' him
yet ; him and his cumbersome* pride !'

Have you any prospect of finding another
situation ?' asked Alec.

The other slowly but decisively shook his
head.

< What will you do, then Y

For answer MacGowan carefully emptied
his purse into his left palm, and took one or
two coins out of the tiny heap.

1 I owe this to my landlady,' he said,
referring to the two sovereigns in his right
hand.

There were only three or four left.

1 And is that all you have between you
and '

MacGowan nodded.

Disgusting.

25—2

Stay here a minute said Alec, after a
moment's thought. ' I'll see if I can make
your peace for you. I can but try.' And
without waiting for MacGowan's thanks he
went on with quick steps to the office.

So you have dismissed MacGowan,' said
Alec as soon as he reached the managing
clerk's room.

Yes ; lazy, drunken vagabond that he is !'
said Beattie spitefully. ' I told him that I
should not advise Mr. Hatchettt to look over
this offence ; so I suppose he took that as
equivalent to a dismissal

But he will starve ! He can't find
another place without a character for steadiness
; and he has only got three or four
pounds in the world.'

• What's that to me ?'

Beattie, I wish you would give the poor
fellow another chance,' said Alec, after a
pause. ' You have only to say nothing of
his absence, and it will never be noticed ; or
if you do mention it, say a word in excuse,

and I'm sure Mr. Hatchettt would never think
of dismissing him.'

Probably not said Beattie drily.

Then why won't you do it ?'

Because I don't want a drunken impertinent
fellow like that about the place. And I
don't see why you need trouble yourself about
him ;' and Beattie turned again to his papers
with something like a sneer on his face.

This was all that was needed to set Alec's
blood in a flame. He took a step or two
forward, his eyes in a blaze, his hands involuntarily
clenched at his side.

Then you prefer to be my enemy rather
than my friend ?' he said, between his
teeth.

Beattie looked up in astonishment.

What do you mean ?' he asked.

Only that I count no man my friend who
refuses me so small a favour.'

And Alec looked as if he meant to have
his way, whether it pleased Mr. William
Beattie or not.

Beattie was half inclined to laugh in the
other's face, and yet he was impressed in
spite of himself. In one moment he had
mentally run over the circumstances again.
It was one of his maxims never to make an
enemy if he could help it. "Was it worth
while making an enemy of young Lindsay ?
True, he saw no way in which Lindsay could
injure him — things were rather the other
way. But he might be a rich and influential
man some day. He might have it in his
power to refuse a request from him, or to
advance his interests. These things passed
through the managing clerk's mind in less
than a second.

Oh, if you put it in that way, Lindsay, to
oblige you — I don't mind looking over it this
time. But you'd better tell him this is his
last chance. And I wish you would let me
have the draft of Sir Joseph Wilson's settlement
to-night if you can.'

Alec, who was secretly a little ashamed of
his own vehemence, muttered a few words of

thanks ; and, going to his own room, scribbled
on a piece of paper, ' Come back to your old
seat, and say nothing about'it. — A. L.' This
he sent on to MacGowan by one of the clerks
in the outer office.

1 It doesn't matter,' said Beattie to himself,
as Alec left him ; * the creature's sure to
break out again in a month or two, so it
comes very much to the same thing.'

As Alec left the office that night he found
himself overtaken by MacGowan.

Oh, Mr. Lindsay, sir!' cried MacGowan,
I just canna thank ye ava' !'

There's no need for that,' said Alec; 'but
I may as well say this — I shan't be able to
stand your friend another time ; I shall not,
indeed. And I very much fear that if you
misbehave again, Mr. Beattie will turn you
away for good and all.'

I dare say, but I'll no gie him the chance.
I'll swear to you I'll keep sober, Mr. Lindsay.
I'll swear to you on my Bible oath. I ken
fine what gar'd him. pack me wa'. The other

clerks cared us " The Twa Scottish," him and
me ; and he diana like it.'

Well, I'm glad things have gone all
right. Good-nights said Alec, quickening his
pace.

Before he had gone much farther he met
Hubert Blake.

By the way,' said Blake, when they had
exchanged greetings, ' do you know whom I
saw the other day in Regent Street — an old
friend of yours — that young lady who used
to stay with your uncle — what was her
name ?'

1 You mean Miss Mowbray,' said Alec
quietly.

He spoke in his ordinary tone, but he
could not prevent the quick blush mounting
to his forehead.

After a few unimportant sentences Blake
bade Alec good-night. A smile was on his
lips as he turned away.

'Poor fellow!' he said to himself, 'so he
has not forgotten her !'

AT THE ACADEMY.

Alec had not, indeed, forgotten Laura Mowbray
; though he had long since awakened
from his first dream of love. Now, at twenty-two,
he looked back on himself at nineteen as
not only very young, but very foolish. He
had half forgotten the episode of his wild
declaration of love ; but when he heard that
Laura was near him once more, he was filled
with a variety of emotions. At one time he
determined to do nothing, to forget her if he
could ; at another time he was almost ready to
set out and begin an insane search for her
through the streets of London. He confessed
to himself that though he had been intimate

with Miss Mowbray he really knew her very
slightly. He wanted to see her again, to
learn something more of her ; and yet he
hesitated about deliberately setting to work to
renew the old acquaintance.

As often happens in such a case, chance
decided the matter for him. Two or three
days after hearing that Laura was in town,
Alec received a letter from his sister, in which
she told him that their uncle James and
his family had taken a furnished house in
London, No. 21, Claremont Gardens, W., and
meant to stay there some months.

The old man had become much more
feeble during the last three years. And
instead of making the best of things, and
meeting the inevitable weakness of old age
with a cheerful courage, he chose to consider
himself a great invalid, and made his health
the chief consideration of his life. This, of
course, did not tend to improve either his
health or his temper ; and he had been for the
last two years dragging his family about from

one watering-place to another, to Aunt Jean's
great disgust. She, good woman, was made
of sterner stuff than her rich cousin. She
did not approve of the unsettled life she was
forced to lead ; and she did not believe that
her relative was even as much in need of care
and attention as he really was.

As for Laura Mowbray, she possessed that
enviable disposition (shared by people of all
sorts and conditions) of making the best of
things. She took care to keep out of her
guardian's way when he was in a specially
irritable mood ; she flattered and soothed him
not unsuccessfully now and then ; she avoided
Miss Lindsay as much as possible ; and she
seized upon every opportunity of amusing
herself. She was by no means sorry to visit
first one spa and then another, though she was
forced to witness from the outside gaieties
which no one asked her to share.

One day she would say to herself, drawing
her lips over her set teeth, as she sat
listening to the band to which the other guests

in the hotel were dancing. But she often received
attentions from stray visitors, which
helped in some degree to console her for the
lack of amusements. When she heard that
Mr. Lindsay had determined to spend some
months in London, so as to secure the services
of the famous Dr. Sheepshanks, Laura was
overjoyed.

Of course Alec called to ask for his uncle,
and he was quite shocked to find him looking
so ill. His face was pinched and haggard, his
hand thin and trembling ; so that, to Alec's
inexperienced eyes, it seemed as if death had
already set his seal upon him. Old Mr.
Lindsay was secretly pleased with Alec's
demeanour. The young man could not express
his concern, but it appeared plainly
enough in his face and manner. He evidently
believed that his great-uncle was in a
condition demanding great care, sympathy,
and consideration ; and that was exactly what
Mr. Lindsay wanted the world to believe concerning
him. He made Alec sit down beside

him, and asked him many questions in a
feeble, piping voice, about his work, his prospects,
and his ultimate aims. James Lindsay
was entirely changed from the fussy, consequential,
conceited being of three or four
years before. Alec was almost touched by
the meekness and painfulness (so to speak) of
the old man's manner.

That'll do now, Alec, my man,' he said,
when he was at length tired of his companion.
Go downstairs and see your aunt Jean.'
(Here he sighed and lifted his eyebrows as if
the very mention of that lady's name gave him
an opportunity of exercising the virtue of
patience.) ' Come and see me again soon.
Good-day ;' and he lay back as if exhausted,
and closed his eyes.

Alec stole on tiptoe from the room, and
went down to the drawing-room, where he
found his aunt (as he called her) seated
alone.

I was very sorry to see Uncle James so
poorly,' said Alec, as he took her hand.

Aunt Jean said nothing ; but her sniff and
look of contempt were sufficiently expressive.


Don't you think my uncle very ill V asked
Alec, opening his eyes.

He might be war,' said Aunt Jean.

She always spoke a broader dialect abroad
than she did at home, as a protest against
what she deemed the affectation and ' mim-you'd
' character of the English utterance.

He seemed very weak,' said Alec, surprised
and a little ' shocked at the old lady's
want of sympathy.

Waist fowl's no as Strong at seventy -
sower as they were at seventeen replied
Aunt Jean, smoothing out her apron as she
spoke.

Then the conversation turned upon other
matters ; and Alec began to fear that he
would have to leave without seeing Laura.
But just as he was preparing to go a knock
was heard at the hall door, and Laura came in
from a stroll in the gardens.

She looked, it seemed to Alec, exactly the
same as she had done when he last saw her.
But he had not time to think of her looks. It
was she herself, after these years — and three
years are a long period to us all before we are
four and-twenty — standing before him. His
heart beat as he took her hand, and though he
was able to speak and look as if she were a
mere ordinary acquaintance, each knew that it
was not so. How far her old power over Alec
was broken, Laura did not know ; but she
saw quite plainly, from a hundred little indications,
that he was not indifferent to her.
There was very little conversation, and such
as there was was chiefly about trifles — the
respective merits of Harrogate, Buxton, and
Aix-le-Bains, the welfare of Alec's sister, and
so on. Alec could not afterwards remember
what they talked about, but he remembered
the picture which Laura made, as she sat in a
small, low chair at the window, playing with
one of her gloves, and looking. Alec thought,
more sweet and graceful than any human

being had looked since his eyes had last
rested upon her.

The next time Alec went to ask after his
uncle, he found that his cousin, James Semple,
had arrived from Glasgow, and was staying
in the house. After a short visit to his
uncle's sick-room, he was passing through
the hall, when he met Semple and Miss
Lindsay.

You'll stay to lunch, Alec, and go with us
to the Academy V said Semple, when they
had shaken hands. Miss Mowbray has had
a friend come to see her — she is rather a swell
at painting, and that sort of thing, I believe —
and we intend going to the Academy as soon
as we have finished lunch.

Alec thought it was very good-natured of
Semple to propose that he should join the
party, and he consented at once to stay. Ina
few minutes Laura and her friend, Miss
Sewell, made their appearance ; and only
Alec's native sense of propriety prevented his
staring at Miss Sewell with all his might.

She was very tall, very pale, and very thin,
and she was dressed in a rather exaggerated
form of the ' Greek ' costume. A broad
scarf of the same material as her dress was
carried across her breast, and fastened in someway
upon her left shoulder. Her hair was
gathered into a great knot at the back of her
head ; and her sleeves were as tight as sleeves
could by any possibility be. When she spoke
it was in a languid, deliberate way, suggestive
of refinement, and a superior delicacy of
organization. Miss Lindsay regarded this
young lady with mingled amazement and
dislike ; and only a strong sense of her duty
as hostess kept her from openly expressing
her condemnation.

The conversation at table was not very
brilliant.

Are you fond of pictures, Miss Sewell V
inquired Mr. Semple from the foot of the
table.

Miss Sewell glanced slowly round at
Laura, as if for enlightenment as to the

vol. 11. 26

purpose of so absurd a question, before she
tranquilly replied :

Everyone is, I suppose, Mr. Semple.'

But it was nearly impossible to make that
gentleman feel that one was even trying to
snub him.

I don't know he replied ; ' I know a lot
of men, very intelligent men, who don't know
a single one of the points of a picture. But
art has made vast strides of late years : there's
no denying that.'

Miss Sewell slowly and impressively turned
her shoulder on Mr. Semple, and thenceforward
ignored his existence.

It was not till the little party reached
Burlington House that Alec understood the
reason why he had been asked to join
the party. Semple monopolized Laura,
and Alec was expected to look after Miss
Sewell.

The care of that young lady on such an
occasion was no sinecure. She was full of
enthusiasm, which was about one-tenth part

real ; and she found in nearly every picture
some indication of genius.

1 What an admirable tone there is in that
little bit !' she would say.

Alec was dumb.

Don't you think the breadth of effect there
is perfectly wonderful ?' she asked, stopping
before a great, aimless, carelessly-painted
canvas.

I'm afraid I — I don't know what you
mean,' said Alec.

The breadth, the feeling of vastness, of
superiority to — to — you understand ?' replied
Miss Sewell, in a very intense tone.

But Alec was staring at the picture.

I don't know what a picture should be,'
said he, very deliberately ; ' but I know what
a hillside is, and that thing has no resemblance
to it whatever.'

• Oh, we must educate you, Mr. Lindsay,'
said the girl, with a little laugh.

I don't want to be educated !' said Alec
stoutly. ' I think half the things here are

26—2

coarse, stupid daubs, and half the rest are
pretty, but senseless. They have no meaning.
They don't help you to love beauty or nature
more — not one bit.'

Pray, sir,' said a caustic voice behind
Alec, ' did you ever try to paint a picture ?'

An old man, with keen black eyes, deep-set
under bushy gray eyebrows, was the
speaker.

1 Never in my life said Alec.

Then you don't know how difficult it is to
paint a good one

I think it is wonderful that they are half
as good as they are,' returned Alec.

The stranger stared, and the young man
went on :

I think it is wonderful that a man should
be able to make likenesses of mountains,
and seas, and clouds. But as men have
learned how to do it, I think those who
can't do it better than this,' pointing at a
picture as he spoke, ' had better leave their
work at home till they can make it more like

nature. And at least they might choose
beautiful or picturesque subjects, and not
waste their time over tables and chairs, curtains
and rugs, ladies' dresses and knickknacks.'


The old man smiled grimly, and nodded
once or twice as he turned away.

1 Do find out who that is,' said Miss Sewell;
1 I feel certain he is somebody.'

Miss Sewell was right. It was Sir Theodore
Carson, the greatest painter of the day ;
and Miss Sewell at once resolved to profit by
her experience and abandon enthusiasm for
depreciation.

Meanwhile Semple had been asking his
companion :

1 Why does Miss Sewell dress in that absurd
way ?'

You mustn't speak disrespectfully of my
friend, sir,' said Laura. ' But dear Alice was
always given to fancies. First she was
learned and literary ; then she was a regular
athlete — she nearly ruined her health, trying

to walk from London to Bath in two days —
or five days, I forget which. Then she
became original and classical, and slightly
aesthetic. Next time I see her, she is sure to
be something different.'

It was rather a tiresome afternoon for Alec;
but it came to an end at last.

What a handsome cousin you have,
Laura !' said Alice Sewell to her friend in
the privacy of her bedroom that afternoon.

Do you think so ? I never thought of
Mr. Semple as particularly handsome.'

I don't mean that fat, disagreeable-looking
creature, you stupid girl ! I mean the tall
one, Mr. Alec Lindsay. He has beautiful
eyes, and such a strong, independent way of
speaking.'

"What a curious girl you are, Alice ! I
thought he would have been far too unconventional
for you.'

Don't you like him ?' asked Alice in
reply.

Yes,' said Laura, in a hesitating way.

She was on the point of telling her friend
that she had had Alec at her feet ; but she
refrained.

They are both in love with you said
Alice tranquilly. * Which do you mean to
take r

I'm afraid it must be the other one,' said
Laura, turning away with a little sigh.

Why r

1 Oh, Alec has so little sense. He might
have been his uncle's heir, I believe ; and he
has simply neglected his interests. He will
always be a poor man.' And the girl sighed
again.

And this Mr. Semple T

1 Oh, he is pretty sure to be rich

Don't decide too hastily, Laura, my dear
said the elder girl. And Laura smiled, as
much as to say that she perfectly understood
the situation, and felt quite competent to
direct her own affairs.

And in holding this opinion she only did
herself justice.

THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

As the weeks went by, Mr. James Lindsay
grew slowly more feeble. He was no longer
able to go out of doors, and he seldom left
his room. He became more querulous and
more capricious ; and this disposition blinded
his friends to his real danger.

But Dr. Sheepshanks saw the truth. He
saw, also, that his patient had no idea that
he was drawing very near the end of his life.
And when a chance remark made the doctor
aware that the old man had not yet made his
will, he thought it was his duty to tell Miss
Lindsay what the state of things really was.

1 Danger !' she exclaimed, startled and

shocked by the doctor's words ; ' it's not
possible I'

I am afraid there is no doubt of it, my
dear madam.'

But he's not an old man — not to say old.
His father lived to ninety-three ; and two of
his uncles were past eighty.'

Dr. Sheepshanks only shook his head, with
a grave professional smile.

I never thought there was muckle wrong
wi' him.'

1 It is my decided opinion,' said the doctor,
that Mr. Lindsay is not likely to live long.
I think he ought to be told so, and advised
to put his affairs in order.'

And thereupon Dr. Sheepshanks took his
leave.

Miss Lindsay sat perfectly still for some
minutes. She reproached herself for making
light of her cousin's complaints ; and felt
that she was almost humiliated in being
forced to bring to the invalid the unwelcome
tidings. But it was clearly her duty. She

rose suddenly, and went upstairs to his
room.

1 How are ye, Jeems V she asked, sitting
down by the bedside.

Vera frail, Jean ; I doubt I'm no long for
this world. Did the ladies come frae
Dundee ?'

Yes — but — the fact is, Jeems, I doubt
ye're war than I thocht ye.'

The sick man closed his eyes with a contented
sigh. It was satisfactory to find that
his obdurate relative at last believed that he
was really ill. Miss Lindsay wanted to make
some apology for her former attitude, but
apologies did not come readily to her tongue.

We ought a' to be prepared for our dinner
en', Jeems,' she said at last.

Mr. Lindsay opened his eyes suddenly, and
stared at his cousin. Such words from her
meant something.

What mak's ye say that?' he asked.

Aunt Jean moved uneasily in her seat and
cleared her throat before replying.

Weel, ye're no sae young as ye were, and
life's an uncertain thing, and ye're vera far
frae weel

The old man again closed his eyes, with a
resigned expression of countenance. He had
no idea of the truth. His cousin saw she
must speak plainly.

And the doctor said I had better team you.'

The old man opened his eyes with a start,
and stared at his companion. A look of
horror crept into his face. He tried to speak,
but the words would not come.

1 Did the doctor say that ?' he asked in a
whisper.

1 He did that said the old lady. ' I
thocht it was no kindness to hide it from
ye, Jeems.'

And after moving about restlessly for a few
moments, she escaped from the room.

There was not a sound but the faint crackling
of the coals in the grate, and the soft
fall, now and then, of a cinder into the ashes.

He was to die. Few men can hear the

sentence unmoved, and James Lindsay was
at heart a coward. He trembled at the
thought of facing the unseen world — trembled
as a murderer when the long-expected hand
is suddenly placed on his shoulder.

For more than an hour he lay still, and
his thoughts wandered back to the time when
he was a ragged urchin at a little village
school. He remembered the school-house
well — the great tree under which he used to
play. He remembered cheating a schoolfellow
once, and the thought of it troubled
him. He wished he had confessed it and
made restitution. It was impossible to make
restitution now.

Then he saw himself a lad working for
weekly wages. He recollected the happy
accident which had given him the opportunity
of making a fortune. He had been bold and
energetic, and he had had his reward. Wealth,
exceeding his wildest dreams, had been his.
What good had it done to him ? How few
had been his pleasures ! How empty his

life ! And now he must leave it, and go
forth into the darkness alone.

He tried to remember his good deeds, his
church-going, his subscriptions to this or
that fund, but they seemed to be all parts of
the ordinary round of his existence, things he
would have been ashamed not to do. Once,
on a wet day, he had given a shilling to a
beggar-woman, and she had blessed him for
it. He was glad to think of that — but oh !
it was such a small thing !

He was startled by a knock at the door.
It was Alec. The dying man looked at him
with envy and something of bitterness.
What would he not give for the lad's health
and strength, for the years he had yet to
live?

Alec,' said the old man suddenly, * I want
you to write a letter for me. Don't say
anything about it : mind that. Write to Dr.
Mackenzie, the Eeverend Robert Mackenzie,
D.D., the Free Gorbals Church, Glasgow,
and tell him I want to see him instantly

The letter was soon written and despatched ;
and then James Lindsay felt somewhat easier.

It was Saturday afternoon when the letter
reached Dr. Mackenzie's hands ; and it sorely
perplexed the worthy minister. If he were
to put off his journey till Monday morning,
he could not reach London before Monday
night, and the delay might offend the rich
man mortally. But starting at once would
force him to intrust his flock to a very inferior
preacher, and would, besides, involve
the sin of travelling on the Sabbath. No
doubt, if Mr. Lindsay were ill, the case would
come within the saving clause of ' works of
necessity or mercy.' He would then be
justified in beginning a long journey on
Saturday night. But how was he to be
sure of Mr. Lindsay's state of health ? He
felt angry with the writer of the letter for
not foreseeing the difficulty and giving more
accurate information. Then he remembered
that Mr. Lindsay had gone abroad for the
sake of his health. What more likely than

that he was very ill ? Dr. Mackenzie finally
determined that it was an exceptional case,
and that it would be clearly a work of mercy
to hasten at once to the rich man's bedside.

He hunted up a minister who made a scanty
living by filling the pulpits of his more
fortunate brethren on emergencies like the
present, and engaged him to preach twice at
the Gorbals Free Church on the following
day, and left Glasgow (not without some
lingering doubts as to the legality of his proceedings)
by the evening mail.

On Sunday forenoon he was standing by
the bedside of his old acquaintance.

It's very kind of ye to come, Doctor,'
said Mr. Lindsay, in a feeble voice ; ' but the
Lord '11 reward ye

The minister thought that a mere earthly
reward, at least to the extent of his travelling
expenses, would likewise be desirable ; but he
merely answered :

I'm sorry to find you going down the hill,
Mr. Lindsay

Ay, it's a road we maun a' travel, Doctor.
They tell me I'm near the end o't.'

And I trust you are at peace in your
mind ?'

Not as I would like — not as I would like
to be, Dr. Mackenzie.'

Ye should rest on the promises, my friend,'
said the minister, and he repeated various texts
of the Bible bearing upon the forgiveness of
sins.

The old man listened almost impatiently.

I ken a' that,' he said, as the minister
ended. * I haven been an elder of the Free
Kirk thirty years for nothing. But how am
I to ken they apply to me ?'

They are for all men,' answered the
minister.

1 Just so ; but all men are not saved.'

Because they do not believe.'

If I believe I'm saved, I am saved ?
That's about it, it seems to me.'

1 wouldn't put it in that way. There is
such a thing as false assurance.'

Then how am I to know that mine is nota
false assurance Y and the old man looked
anxiously in the minister's face.

1 You have only to accept forgiveness as a
free gift, and it is yours,' said the other, falling
back on his formula.

But surely I must repent of my sins ?'

Of course.'

But I don't know that I do repent — that
is, not as I should. And after all, Doctor, it's
not what I have done that troubles me, so
much as what I have not done. You don't
remember any texts, now, bearing on that ?'

Dr. Mackenzie frowned, and took a pinch
of snuff.

I can't just say that I do — not at this
moment,' he said at last. ' But I don't think
you have any cause to reproach yourself on
that score, Mr. Lindsay ; you have always
subscribed liberally to the Sustentation Fund,
the Aged Ministers' Scheme, and the Missionary
Society. I don't think you have any special
cause for alarm.'

vol. 11. 27

But the sick man looked dissatisfied.

8 I've been thinking, Doctor, what I should
do wi' my sellers he said. Dr. Mackenzie
was all attention. ' I've none nearer me than
Lindsay o' the Castle Farm ; and he's a man
of nearly my own age. He doesna want a
great heap o' silver. If I leave him enough
to free his land, and maybe buy back one o'
the auld farms, it will be plenty. Then
there's my nephews. What would be the use
o' making these young men rich all on a
sudden ? They would only waste the money.
Better to let them work for it.'

I quite agree with you,' said Dr. Mac-kenzie
heartily.

I'm not so rich as folk say,' went on
Mr. Lindsay ; ' but after providing for my
relations in a small way, I have a good
deal left. Doctor, do you think it would
mak' up for things a bit, if I was to leave
five hundred thousand to the Free Kirk?'

The minister was more than astonished.
He started and drew a long breath.

1 What do you think ?' asked the old man
anxiously.

1 I cannot just say it would mak' up for
things. We have no merits of our own, ye
ken. They are all but filthy rags. But ita
grand idea, and well worth train' V

This was not the solid encouragement for
which Mr. Lindsay had hoped.

It will doubtless redound to your credit,
and win ye an increase of glory said the
minister again, noticing his penitent's disappointed
look.

The sick man sighed. He would have
been satisfied at that moment if he could
have felt certain of a very moderate share of
glory.

1 You think so ?' he asked anxiously.

I am certain of it.'

I Then I'll do it !' exclaimed the old man,
striking his fist on the bedclothes. * I'll send
for a lawyer the first thing in the morning.
How do you think it should be left ?'

I I would vest it in trustees, for the general

27—2

purposes of the Church, to be used at their
discretion

Very well. Will you be one of the
trustees ?'

Dr. Mackenzie was prepared for this question,
and he had already decided to decline
the honour. He did not see how even the
smallest pecuniary benefit would flow to him
from accepting it.

I think I would rather not,' he replied.
One should always appoint young men as
trustees. But, if you have no objection, I
would consent to be secretary to the trust.
If you were to mention my name in the will,
now, just recommending me to the trustees as
their secretary, I would really be much obliged

I'll do that said Mr. Lindsay. He quite
understood the minister's reasons for choosing
the humbler post, and thought none the less
of his friend for this display of prudence.
Of course you'll stop here as long as you
can ; it will be a comfort to me. I'll tell
Miss Lindsay to get your room ready

Dr. Mackenzie said that he would, and
reflected, as he went downstairs, that it would
be a comfort to himself to stay till the will
was duly executed.

In the library he found Alec, who often
found his way to Claremont Gardens on a
Sunday morning, partly because it was an
excuse to himself for not going to church
alone, partly because there was always a
chance that he might be able to accompany
Miss Lindsay and Laura to some place of
worship. On this occasion he had been disappointed.
No one had stirred out since the
morning ; and he was idly turning over the
page of the Saturday Eevieiv when the
minister entered the room.

1 I believe you are Dr. Mackenzie,' said
Alec, getting up and holding out his hand.

Yes. I don't remember to have had '

1 Oh, it was I who wrote and asked you to
come.'

'Ah! just so. You have not gone to
church to-day, Mr. Alexander.'

'No,' returned Alec shortly, returning to
his seat.

4 Whom do you generally sit under in
London ? Dr. Bruce ? or Mr. Martin V

6 Neither. I sometimes go to St. Paul's,
oftener to Westminster Abbey.'

Dr. Mackenzie frowned heavily.

Is the Gospel preached there, Mr. Alexander
?' he said in a tone that was meant to
be one of deep solemnity.

1 really can't say. I suppose so.'

You go chiefly for the music, perhaps.'

Partly, no doubt.'

For the gratification of a sensuous taste !
the indulgence of a carnal delight ! There is
no spiritual worship in such places — none !
It is turning the house of God into a concert-room
; nothing less ! Ah ! this country was
never properly reformed. It was done in a
very half-hearted way. We want a new
Reformation, that shall sweep away the
remnants of idolatrous practices that yet
defile what is nominally Protestant worship.'

The minister walked up and down the little
room in his excitement, gesticulating as he
went, to the manifest peril of a statuette on a
bracket.

Alec rose, and gravely removed the ornament
to a place of safety.

4 No great harm if the heathen image had
been knocked down said Dr. Mackenzie
grimly. ' And let me tell you, young gentleman,
that the best of Scotland's sons have
been those who were loyal to her reformed
and Scriptural form of church government
and public worship.'

Perhaps so,' said Alec, seeing that he
was expected to say something. * I know a
good many, however, who have not done
so.'

You know a good many young Scotchmen
in London, perhaps ?'

A good many.'

1 And are not those who are faithful to their
early training Sabbath-keepers, church-goers
I don't mean church-concert-goers — are

they not respected and prosperous, and successful
in their business V

They are said Alec, ' and not one of them
now believes what he was brought up to
believe.'

1 What ? What do you say ? How can
you decide on a point that must lie between
each man and his Maker ?'

Because I have asked them answered
Alec. ' Each chooses his own road. Some
differ from the orthodox Presbyterian belief
on one point, some on another, but none hold
it in its entirety

There are many non-essential points,'
began the minister ; but he was not sorry
that at this point the door opened, and Miss
Lindsay, followed by Laura, entered the room.
Presently luncheon was announced, and
Semple, who was just then paying one of
his frequent visits from Glasgow, joined the
others on their way to the dining-room.

The minister's ' blessing ' was of a kind
more usual in Scotland forty years ago than

it is now. He prayed for the master of the
house, and for all his necessities, and for
various spiritual and temporal blessings for
each member of the household. Suddenly he
seemed to remember the object with which he
had started, and came to an abrupt conclusion
with an adaptation of the usual formula.

Various subjects of conversation were
begun in a languid way, but Dr. Mac-kenzie
ingeniously and successfully turned
them all into a religious channel in a very
short space of time. He did not approve,
upon principle, of any conversation on Sunday
upon matters of a more profane nature than
the merits of popular preachers, the existence
or non-existence of Sunday-schools and Bible-classes
in various places, the spread of Presbyterianism
in England, and similar topics. As
soon as anyone wandered away to secular
subjects, Dr. Mackenzie went out, and headed
him, so to speak, and drove him back.

The meal proved, in consequence, a dull
one, and matters did not improve when it was

over and the little party returned to the
library.

Folk don't keep the Sabbath as they used
to do in my young days said Miss Lindsay,
with a weak attempt to propitiate the
minister.

So much the worse for them, ma'am,' said
Dr. Mackenzie.

When I was a young woman, everybody
attended both diets of worship. Walking for
pleasure on the Sabbath, reading story-books,
and the like, was never heard of.'

1 Of course not ; but the old godly ways
are deserted now. Do you think it is a right
thing to read such a paper as that on this holyday
?' he continued, speaking to Alec, who
had thoughtlessly picked up the Saturday
Beviciv,

1 I see no harm in it,' returned Alec
shortly.

He looked up and saw Semple, who (fortunately
for him) was out of Dr. Mackenzie's
range of vision, lay down one of Ouida's

novels, making a grimace at Laura as he
did so.

1 You defy the law of God, then, and choose
the portion of the Sabbath-breaker. You '

Dr. Mckenzie said Alec quietly, ' have
I presumed to pass judgment on your actions,
and condemn them ?'

The minister only stared.

You do not pretend to any sacerdotal
authority, I believe ?'

1 Certainly not

6 Then by what power or authority, I may
ask, do you claim to interfere with me ?'

And having said this, Alec tossed the newspaper
aside and left the room, with the words
• law of God ' Fourth Commandment ' judgments
ringing in his ears.

After ascertaining that his uncle had fallen
asleep, Alec went off to his own lodgings in
no very Christian frame of mind. And Dr.
Mackenzie neither forgot nor forgave the way
in which the reprobate (as he considered him)
had received his timely reproof.

mk. Lindsay's will.

Early the following morning Dr. Mackenzie
despatched a note in Mr. Lindsay's name to
Messrs. Hatchettttt, Small, and Hatchettttt, asking
that one of the firm should call upon him
as soon as possible, and take his instructions
for the making of his will. This note was delivered
in the afternoon, and was in due course
passed on to Mr. Beattie, with the words
pencilled across it, ' Please attend to this at
once Mr. Hatchettt and Mr. Small were
both too important men to attend in person
and take instructions for a will, and the
junior partner happened to be in America.
1 Ah !' said Beattie to himself, as he glanced

at the note, ■ this will decide our friend Lindsay's
future. I wonder whether Semple will
come in for a good share. Surely, if he does,
he won't trouble me about that six hundred I
owe him ?'

About four o'clock Beattie presented himself
at Mr. Lindsay's house, and was at once
shown up to the sick man's chamber.

1 Are you Mr. Hatchettt, or Mr. Small V
was Mr. Lindsay's first question.

1 Neither. My name is Beattie. I am the
managing clerk of the conveyancing department.
It was quite impossible for one of the
partners to come to-day ; and as you seemed
to wish your will made at once '

'Oh, very well, sit down,' interrupted the
old man.

He was by no means pleased that a clerk
had been sent to him ; but it was not worth
while to dispute the point.

Beattie found writing materials on a side-table,
and seated himself at the bedside, with
his pen in his hand.

First of all, sir,' he began, < I shall want
your full name and address. By the way, you
have lived here for some months, I believe V

< Yes.'

And you have no intention of returning to
Scotland ?'

No,' said the old man grimly.

I mean, if you recover ?'

Not permanently.'

Have you any will now existing ?'
'No.'

For some minutes there was silence, and
then Mr. Lindsay named the two friends whom
he wished to be his trustees and executors.
Then there was a longer pause. At last the
sick man broke the silence, speaking rapidly,
as if he feared that even then he might change
his mind.

Sell my houses, and all that's in them —
nobody will care for them after I am gone.
Sell the oil-works at Drumleck, and the business.
They have been mismanaged sadly of
late ; besides, the trade is not what it was,

and I doubt if there's much more to be made
in it,' he added, as if speaking to himself.
Then my brother, Alexander Lindsay, of the
Castle Farm, Muirburn, must have ten thousand
pounds. And my second cousin, Jean
Lindsay, who has been my housekeeper for
many years, ten thousand. Have you put
that down ?'

Yes

To my niece, Margaret Lindsay, three
thousand, and to my ward, Laura Mowbray,
say two thousand. I pity that lassie's husband,'
he added, under his breath.

Again there was a long pause, so long that
Beattie dried his writing, and looked up as if
to ask whether the instructions were ended.

1 And I bequeath,' said the old man in a
firm voice, ' to all those who have been
Moderators of the General Assembly of the
Free Church of Scotland, to the present
Moderator, and to every succeeding Moderator,
the sum of five hundred thousand pounds, intrust
for the Free Church of Scotland, to be

used, at their discretion, for the general purposes
of that body.'

Mr. Lindsay glanced at the lawyer as he
pronounced these words, that he might see
what effect the magnitude of the bequest had
upon him ; but, to the old man's disappointment,
Mr. Beattie's face remained perfectly
impassive. ' For the general purposes of
that body,' he repeated, writing down the
words.

1 And I request these trustees to appoint
my friend the Rev. Robert Mackenzie, D.D.,
Secretary to the Trust, at such reasonable
salary as they may think fit. And, by the
way, I leave the said Eev. Robert Mackenzie
one thousand pounds, for himself. The rest
of my property — what do you call it ?'

1 The residue.'

Ay. The residue I leave to my nephews,
James Semple and Alexander Lindsay, equally
between them. I calculate that will give them
some ten thousand apiece.'

k By the way, have you personal property

to the extent of half a million ?' inquired the
clerk.

< Yes

1 only asked, because otherwise there
might be a difficulty about the Statutes of
Mortmain. But I can make the legacy to the
Free Church come out of the personalty.
Have you any further instructions ?'

'No.'

Then I will read over what I have written,
and if it is in accordance with your wishes,
you will please initial it.'

This was done, and Beattie took his leave,
promising that the draft would be ready in a
day or two.

As he reached the hall, he met James
Semple, who was coming out of the library.

1 Come in here a moment, Beattie/ said
Semple, drawing him into the room, which
was empty. ' What have you been about
with my uncle ?'

'I can't speak of a client's business, you
know,' answered Beattie with a smile.

vol. 11. 28

Oh, stuff! Don't come the virtuous to
such an extent as that. Weren't you taking
down his instructions for his will ?'

Beattie smiled again.

Beally, my dear fellow, consider my
position he began.

I am certain you were. Now, look here.
Am I to have the business at Druinleck, or
am I not ?'

But the other was dumb.

4 We can't talk here said Semple nervously.
' It's past five ; there's no necessity
for you to go back to the office, is there ?'

'No

Then, will you come and dine with me at
the Cosmopolitan, say at half-past six ? I
can't very well ask you to dine here, you
know

Beattie accepted the invitation. He knew
very well that Semple's object in giving it
was to extract information from him about
the will ; and Semple told himself that if
Beattie had not meant to yield, he would not

have promised to dine with him. But
Beattie had by no means made up his mind
on the point. One thing, however, he hardly
needed to decide — he did not intend to sell
his information for nothing.

Semple secured a private room at the
Cosmopolitan, and ordered a good dinner and
the best wine procurable.

There was but little conversation between
the two young men during dinner ; but as
soon as the meal was concluded, Semple's
impatience made him open the subject which
was uppermost in their minds.

Look here, Beattie/ he began ; ' I've
been a good friend to you, haven't I V

1 Yes, you have, Semple.'

I lent you six hundred pounds, you
know — about that matter — on very bad
security

< You did

6 Well, fill your glass, old man.'

Beattie obeyed ; but the other noticed that
he merely put the glass to his lips.

28—2

Come now, Beattie/ said Semple, * I
really think you might oblige me in that little
matter we were speaking of. You see, I
want to have a talk with my uncle about it ;
but I must first know what his ideas
are

How could I do such a thing ? Suppose
Hatchettt's people were to get wind of it,
what would be the consequence ?'

Puts, man ! they can never know of
it!'

I should be ruined

There's not the slightest chance of it

I should be constantly in your power

That means you want to drive a bargain
with me

I thought you might sign this, perhaps,'
said Beattie, drawing a paper from his
pocket.

It was a receipt in full for six hundred
pounds.

Well, you are cool !' cried Semple,
greatly admiring his friend's impudence.

Will you sign it ?'

Of course not. I should be mad to do
such a thing. Why, I can ask my uncle at
any time what his intentions are.'

1 Then why come to me V asked Beattie
slowly, lifting his eyebrows.

1 It would be convenient to know beforehand,
certainly ; but it's not worth that
said Semple.

I think you'll find it's worth a good deal,'
said the other, smiling again.

This whetted Semple 's curiosity, and roused
his anxiety.

Come now, let me see the instructions —
I know you have the paper about you — and
I'll let you off a hundred.'

And not trouble me for the balance for
three years ?'

'Well, yes; and that's all I'll do. I've
made up my mind.'

Beattie saw that no better terms were to
be obtained, so he rang for pen and ink,
altered the word ' six ' into ' one ' in the

receipt with which he had provided himself,
and then it was signed.

Now said Semple.

Without speaking a word, Beattie drew the
paper of instructions from his pocket, and laid
it on the table.

Semple snatched it up hastily ; and the
other sat watching him, knocking off, now
and then, the ash from the end of his cigarette
with his little finger.

Semple ran hurriedly through the first part
of the document ; then suddenly he gave a
cry, and started up, as white as a sheet.

Sit down, man,' said Beattie, almost
alarmed at the expression on his companion's
face. ' Sit down, and drink this,' and he
poured him out a glass of port.

Semple took it with a hand that trembled
so as to spill the wine, and drank it off.
Then he burst out in a torrent of imprecations.


I knew that old minister would

make him put down something for his

religion, but I never dreamt of such madness
as this V

Beattie said nothing ; on the whole he
rather enjoyed his friend's discomfiture.

1 It's infamous ! And I, to have slaved

all my life for nothing — nothing, by !

That half-million is about all he has.'

1 You are to have half the residue, you
see,' said Beattie ; ' about ten thousand
pounds, I believe.'

1 And what's that ? He might as well
have left me ten thousand farthings ! I
ought to have had a hundred thousand pounds
at least. But I won't submit to it ! I will
not. I will dispute the will. My uncle is
not in a fit state of mind to make a will.
Eh, Beattie ?'

Beattie was leaning with his arms on the
table, as he slowly pressed the end of his
cigarette against the ash-tray. On hearing
his companion's last words, he slowly shook
his head without looking up.

1 When I saw him this afternoon, Mr*

Lindsay was in perfect possession of his
faculties,' he said calmly. (The other darted
at him a look of contempt.) ' And the doctor
who attends him, as well as his relations and
servants, would no doubt be of the same
opinion he added firmly.

Semple dropped his eyes on the table, and
was silent.

1 Is there no one who has influence with
him, no one who might induce him to alter
his mind ?' added the young lawyer, after a
pause.

1 Nobody in the world said Semple
bitterly. ' My uncle is the very incarnation
of self-conceit and obstinacy. Everybody
will talk of this " munificent bequest' and
that's all he cares for. I will try, of course,
what I can do ; but there's not the slightest
chance '

Take care that you don't let him see that
you know his intentions before he speaks of
them himself said Beattie anxiously.

1 You needn't be afraid said the other.

There was silence in the room for some
minutes, while Semple sat brooding over the
prospect before him, his eyes on the floor.
Suddenly he started to his feet, and, striking
the table with his fist, cried, with an
oath :

1 I won't stand it ! I will not ! I'm not
going to be fooled out of all this money after
toiling for it so long. Beattie, you must
help me to get it. There are ways and
means. You lawyers know them. I'll take
any reasonable risk myself, and you shall
have half-profits — that is, two hundred
thousand out of the five. That's fair, isn't
it?'

Beattie smiled contemptuously.

May I ask you what you were thinking
of ?' he inquired, with mock politeness.

1 I'm thinking of getting the money,' said
Semple roughly. ' And if you're too much
of a coward to help me, I'll find someone
who will ! Think, man. Is there no way ?
Can't we find someone who ' — here he

dropped his voice to a whisper — ' who could
imitate the signature, you know

And find ourselves in a convict prison for
the rest of our lives ? No, thank you.'

'But it's awful to think of such a sum
slipping away from one like that. It's a sin
not to make an effort *

Here Mr. Semple stopped ; his ideas were
getting rather mixed.

You'll think it over,' said he, after a long
pause.

I'll think it over,' repeated the other.

Then you think there's a chance of '

1 A chance ? Well, hardly that. And
yet, as you say, it would be a pity to miss an
opportunity of — two hundred thousand pounds,
I think you said ?'

6 If I take the risk, one hundred thousand,
Beattie. It's a large sum.'

'Well, I'll think it over. Good-night,'
said Beattie, abruptly holding out his hand.
f By the way,' he added, turning back as he
reached the door, ' you had better give me a

call tomorrow morning, before I go down to
the office, for there's no time to lose. I will
expect you at half-past eight. Something
may have occurred to me in the meantime.'

It happened that that very evening Alec
Lindsay called at his uncle's, and as soon as
the old man was aware that his nephew was
in the house, he sent for him.

Alec,' he said, ' sit down. I have something
to say to you.'

Alec obeyed, wondering what was coming.

I am decidedly of opinion,' said Mr.
Lindsay, in his old pragmatical way, ' that it
is not a good thing for a young man to be
made suddenly rich. If he has enough to
give him a start in life, that is all he needs.
Wealth is often the occasion of a young man's
ruin. Therefore I have not made you my
heir.'

I hope you never thought I was expecting
anything of the kind,' said Alec quickly.

• No. So you won't be disappointed. I
have not forgotten you in my will. You will

have a competency. I have not forgotten
any of my relations who had natural claims
on me. But I have thought it right to leave
the bulk of my property to the Kirk. The
will is not drawn up yet. I had a man here
to-day from your office, taking down the
heads of what I want clone. I must say
I think one of the partners might have
come.'

They are very much engaged.'

So this Mr. Beattie said. But I don't
want to have a clerk that I don't know
anything about attending to such an important
matter. I should like you to see toit
yourself. You do that sort of work in the
office, don't you ?'

Yes — but The fact is, uncle, I had

rather not meddle with it, especially if my
name is to be in the will.'

1 Puts, man, what does that signify ?'

Not much in reality, but '

You can tell one of the partners that it is
my wish.'

1 That would be a very awkward thing forme
to do.'

1 You're very particular. It's not such
a great favour to ask of you. Will you do it
if I write to the firm, and say I prefer that
you should draw up the will ?'

Yes, uncle. I am very willing to oblige
you ; but if you are really anxious that I
should do it, you had better write to the firm
about it.'

Then I will write a note now, and have
it posted to-night, so that they may get it
in the morning. That's all I wanted to
say to you. Just ask your aunt Jean to
come here for a minute, when you go
down.'

Alec found Miss Lindsay sitting with
Laura in the library, and delivered his

message.

What secrets have you and my uncle been
discussing V asked the girl, as soon as the
elder lady had left the room.

(Laura had dropped into the way of calling

Mr. Lindsay * uncle though no relationship
existed between them.)

None that I know of answered Alec.
'Come now, don't tell me a fib said Laura,

smiling, and holding up her forefinger. ' You
shouldn't try to be deceitful. It is of no use,
for your face betrays you. There was a
stranger here this afternoon, a dark, silent
kind of man. He came to see uncle, and
I believe it was to make his will. Am I
not right ?'

■ Possibly

Of course I am. My guesses are always
right. I wonder who is to be the favoured
one ? I do hope it will be you, Alec !'

Thank you he answered with some
confusion.

Ah ! I see you know all about it. Uncle
and you were talking it over just now,
weren't you ?'

If we were, you know I can't speak of
what passed between us

Oh, I know that, of course. Still, I ama

little curious. Not with regard to myself,
personally. I have no right to expect that
Mr. Lindsay should leave me anything, for
after all (though he has been as kind as any
blood-relation could be to me), he and I are
not related. You remember my telling you
that, the first time we met ? You remember
that night ? You sat next me at dinner, and
your cousin was so jealous of my talking
to you !'

I Yes, I remember that night very well.'

But I should like to know that uncle had
done his duty by you. He has so much
money ; and as you are his favourite nephew,
he is certain to leave you quite a large sum

I I don't see that at all. I mean, I have
no claim on him whatever

4 Oh yes ! you have said Laura ; but she
stopped suddenly, for Miss Lindsay just then
returned to the room.

As Alec went home that night, Laura's
image remained with him. And more than
once the thought occurred to him, that if his

uncle carried out his intention of leaving him
a substantial sum, it would bring the possibility
of his winning Laura Mowbray a little
nearer.

ROGUES IN COUNCIL.

As James Semple went to keep his early
appointment with the lawyer's clerk on the
following morning, his great fear was that
Beattie might in the meantime have changed
his mind. For himself, his indignation and
rage knew no hounds. He felt ready to run
any risks. But he knew that without the aid
of his astute friend he was powerless ; and
the sense of his impotence only added to his
anger.

Well, here you are said Beattie, when
Semple was shown into his room. ' Sit down,
and have a cup of coffee.'

I don't mind if I do. And you might
VOL. II. 29

put a dash of brandy in it. It's terribly cold
to-day. Don't you find it so ?'

'No.'

I dare say not. You'd find no weather
cold ; you're cold-blooded, like a leech.'

As soon as the two men were left alone
together, Semple drew his chair nearer to
Beattie's and leant forward.

Have you thought of anything ?' he asked
in a whisper.

Beattie looked at the other's hungry,
wolfish eyes, and turned away, half in disgust.


It seems to me, as you said last night,
almost a sin not to try to prevent so gross an
act of folly as the one we were speaking of,'
he said at last. ' And a plan has occurred
to me that might possibly succeed.'

1 Beally ! You're a brick, Beattie. I
always said you were. I always knew you
had twice as much brains as most fellows.'

Beattie took no notice of this.

There is a risk about it, no doubt. There

always must be in such cases. But I think
the danger may be reduced to a minimum
What is it ? What is your idea ¥

I It will require some care and adroitness
on your part, when the critical moment
arrives ; but I shall ask you to do nothing
impossible, or even difficult.'

I I can't do any for , if you mean

that said Semple, with a slight shiver. ' I
really couldn't. I mean, I haven't the skill.'

Beattie threw a contemptuous glance at his
companion.

i You surely forget what I said on that
point last night,' he said coldly.

But how else are you to manage it ?
What is your idea ?'

I may as well tell you now that I don't
take another step unless you give me back
that promissory note of mine. You can signa
receipt for the money now, and send me the
note when you return to Glasgow. I will
burn them both. " Dead men tell no
tele." ■

29—2

Oh, but you know, old man, that's too
much. I let you off a hundred only last
night.'

f What has that to do with it ? I gave you
a return for the hundred, didn't I ? I tell
you I have made up my mind that the old
debt must be cleared out of the way to begin
with, and I must have half profits if we
succeed.'

Half profits ! Why, you couldn't touch a
penny of it without me !'

'Nor could you without me.'

And after a little wrangling, Semple was
forced to consent to these conditions.

6 Now, what is your precious plan ?' he
asked, when he had signed the necessary
paper.

1 1 think you had better leave that to me
said Beattie, as he lit a cigarette.

That's cool, I must say !'

4 As you like,' answered the other, shrugging
his shoulders ; ' but it seems to me that
it's much safer for you to know nothing. I

may very probably want your help. But incase
of anything coming out, the less you
know the better

I see. All right

There is one unfortunate circumstance.
We can't secure the whole half-million. We
can only get about half of it

< Half of it! Why didn't you tell me
that sooner ? Do you think I would have
gone shares with you, if I had known that ?
I won't do it, and that's flat

Semple could be obstinate enough when he
liked ; and in the end a compromise was
effected. If Semple realized two hundred
thousand pounds from his uncle's estate,
Beattie was to have half of the whole. All
above two hundred thousand the former was
to keep for himself.

And now you had better go, as I must go
down to the office,' said Beattie. * Well, it's
worth the risk,' he muttered to himself when
he was left alone. 'A hundred thousand
pounds. A very fair sum. Enough to bethe

foundation of a first-rate fortune.' And
with this pleasant thought in his mind he
set out for Theobald's Road.

Mr. Hatchettt was before him that morning,
and was busy opening letters when he
arrived.

6 There's a note from that Mr. Lindsay
whom you saw last night,' said the solicitor,
tossing it across the table. ' He wants hi
nephew to draw his will. He can do it, I
suppose ?'

Beattie stood with the note in his hand
without answering.

It doesn't matter how it is done, for of
course you will send the draft to counsel.'

There won't be time for that, I'm afraid,'
said Beattie slowly.

Ah ! The old man is dying, is he : }
Then you can look over the draft yourself,
you know.' And Mr. Hatchettt began speaking
about another matter, to which the
managing clerk was forced to give his
attention.

When the interview was over, Beattie went
to his own room, and throwing on the table
the letters and papers which he carried, he
sat down and leant his head upon his hand.
Then he took up a pen and began idly drawing
lines from one blot to another on his
writing-pad. Did Alec Lindsay know of this
whim of his uncle's ? Probably he did.
And if he did not, would it be safe to disregard
it ? These were the questions that were
troubling him.

He was still sitting in the same attitude
when a knock came to the door. He started
up, and drew one of the papers towards him,
as if he were reading it.

1 Come in !' he cried, and Alec Lindsay
walked into the room.

Good morning, Beattie. Have you seen
the letters to-day ?'
'Yes

Was there one from my uncle ?'
Yes ; I saw it.'
It's a great nuisance,' said Alec, seating

himself on a corner of the table. ' I had very
much rather not have anything to do withdrawing
the will, especially as I believe I am
to be one of the legatees.'

It is hardly usual, certainly. But you
are rather busy just now, I think. I'll do the
will for you if you like.'

Thank you. But my uncle made me
promise that I would see to it myself. I will
send the draft to counsel.'

There isn't time for that,' said Beattie ina
decided tone. ' Mr. Bothwell would keep
the draft for a week — three days at least —
and your uncle particularly wished it done at
once. If anything should happen in the
meantime '

'I see. Well, you will look over the draft
after I have done it ?'

If you like. But it's the easiest thing in
the world. A child might do it. You have
nothing to do but follow the precedent. By
the way,' he added, ' I suppose your uncle has
told you of his intentions ?'

He told me lie meant to leave the bulk of
his property to the Free Church.'

What can have put such an absurd notion
into his head T

1 Well, I fancy a Dr. Mackenzie, who is
staying with him just now, may have had
something to do with it.'

Ah ! A minister, I suppose. Your uncle
is a good deal under his influence, I daresay
r

No ; I don't think so. And really I
don't know that Dr. Mackenzie even suggested
it.'

Well, it's no business of mine,' said
Beattie, shrugging his shoulders.

Will you give me the paper of instructions ?'
said Alec, after a pause.

'Certainly; here it is.' And Mr. Beattie
turned to the other documents before him,
with an air that said, * I have wasted too
many minutes already.'

But as soon as Alec had left the room, he
relapsed into his former attitude. Presently

lie rose and paced up and down the room with
slow, cat-like steps. Then he paused at the
window, and stood there for more than half an
hour, looking out at the blank wall opposite
him. ' That might do,' he said to himself at
last, as he turned away. 'It ought to succeed.
There is a risk, certainly ; hut we can't help
that.'

Then Mr. Beattie put on his hat, and
going to a telegraph office some little way
off, he sent this message to his friend James
Semple :

Meet me at the Cosmopolitan this afternoon
at four o'clock

About three o'clock he went into Alec
Lindsay's room.

Well, how are you getting on with the
will ?'

The draft is nearly finished. I have not
been able to go on with it steadily, or it would
have been done sooner. Will you look over
it now V

i You can put it on my table when it is

Ready. I suppose you will send it to your
uncle to-night V

Yes. I will send it by to-night's post.'

You had better say in your note that if
the draft is satisfactory it may be returned tous
to-night, and we will bring it to be
executed on Thursday morning. There will
be plenty of time to have it engrossed tomorrow.'


Very well. I will do that.'

And, I say, Lindsay, I think you had
better not send it to the law stationer's.'

Why r

Because the man who copied your draft at
the law stationer's would be sure to speak of
it. How foolish your uncle would look if a
paragraph about his bequest got into the
papers, and if he afterwards changed his mind,
as very likely he may do.'

Alec shook his head.

1 You don't know my uncle, or you wouldn't
talk of his changing his mind. But 111 give
it to one of the fellows in the office to engross.'

It is much better to have things of that
sort copied in the office

"With these words Beattie left the room, and
shortly afterwards he quietly went out.

When Alec finished the draft, he took it to
the managing clerk's room, and as no one was
there he left it on the table as he had been
told to do. About five o'clock he wrote the
note to his uncle which Beattie had suggested
to him, and he told the clerk whose duty it
was to post the letters that Mr. Beattie would
give him the document that was to be sent
with the note. Having done this, Alec went
home.

The clerk found the draft of the will on
Mr. Beattie's table. He was not quite sure
that his superior had seen it, for Mr. Beattie
was not in the office ; but thinking he might
be held responsible if the letter were delayed,
he sent it off with the draft.

Do you know that your uncle had specially
desired that Alec Lindsay should draw his
will ?' were Beattie's first words to his friend,

when he met horn at the restaurant at four
o'clock.

No ! Then the game is up !'

I'm not so sure of that. There is a
chance yet. It will depend on your skill and
coolness.'

1 On mine ! I thought you said I was to
know nothing, and do nothing.'

And wait till the gold fell into your lap,
eh ?' sneered Beattie. ' I shall have my own
share of trouble, and danger too, I can tell
you. You may believe me that if I could doit
all myself, I wouldn't risk leaving it to
you.'

Then why don't you do it ?'

Do I live at No. 21, Claremont Gardens ?!
asked Beattie savagely.

What do you want me to do ?' asked the
other.

I'll tell you when the time comes. But
why did you leave me to find out about this
minister, this Dr. Mackenzie ? Why didn't
you tell me about him V

I didn't think it was of any importance

Of no importance ! I suppose he knows
all about your uncle's intentions ?'

I suppose he does.'

Anybody else V

i Not that I know of. I think not.'

Very well. Now listen to me. The
draft of the will w T ill be sent to your uncle tonight,
with a request that it should be returned
by to-night's post. It will be delivered
about eight or nine o'clock, I imagine. Your
business will be to keep this Dr. Mackenzie out
of the way. Take him to some meeting —
anywhere, in fact, but keep him out of the
house till your uncle has sent back the draft
to us. You understand ?'

Yes ; I'll see what I can do

I You'll do nothing of the kind. You'll

do it:

I I don't know why you should speak in
that way to me, Mattie !'

1 Neither do I. All I know is, that no one
must see the draft except your uncle himself

I suppose I may read it, if he offers it tome?'


1 Xo. Make some excuse, and don't look
at it. I know all that is in it. And remember
this : the minister must not be
present on Thursday morning when the willis
executed. Can't you make him go back to
Scotland ?'

1 How can I manage that ?'

'Insult him. Turn him out of doors.'

Impossible.'

1 If you can't manage it somehow, you
may say good-bye at once to your hundred
thousand pounds

1 I'll do what I can ; you may be sure of
that,' said Semple sulkily.

1 And there's one other thing. You
remember that paper of instructions I showed
you ? We must get hold of that. I was
forced to give it to your cousin this morning,
that he might prepare the will from it. He
may leave it in his desk at the office : if so,
I'll get possession of it. Or he may have

sent it to your uncle with the draft. Your
uncle may destroy it, or he may keep it, or
he may send it hack to the office with the
draft. In the first case it will be all right.
If he sends it back to the office I shall be able
to lay my hands on it. But if he lays it by, you
must get it and bring it to me. It must not
be found among his papers after his death.'

I quite see the importance of that.
What I don't see is, how I can take Dr.
Mackenzie out for the evening, and yet be in
my uncle's room when the post comes in, to
see what he does with the paper.'

It is a difficulty ; but you must try to
find a way out of it, Come now, Semple,
you have plenty of brains. Is there no one
in the house that will help you ?'

'No one — unless — I might try it,' he
added, as if speaking to himself.

Is it of any use to try to get Alec
Lindsay on our side ? If he would consent
simply to hold his tongue, it would be the
easiest thing possible.'

Semple shook his head emphatically.

You won't get any help there he said.

1 thought as much. Well, I shall go
hack to the office after dinner, and hunt
about for that paper of instructions. You
will be on the look-out for the evening
delivery, and ascertain what your uncle does
with it, if it reaches him. Keep the minister
out of the way ; and come to my lodgings
tomorrow evening.'

1 At what hour T

1 Any hour you like. But if I am not in,
wait for me, even if you should have to
wait all night. I must see you tomorrow
night.'

Semple promised that he would keep the
appointment, and, calling a cab, went straight
home. Daring the drive he racked his brains
to discover some method of inducing Dr.
Mackenzie to spend the evening elsewhere,
without being able to think of any practicable
plan.

Fortune, however, favoured him. In the
vol. ih 30

library he found an evening paper containing
a notice of a meeting in Exeter Hall which
he thought might prove an attraction to the
Presbyterian minister.

Did you see that the deputation of the
American Missionary Society is to be present
at the meeting in Exeter Hall ?' he asked
Dr. Mackenzie.

No ; when is the meeting to be ?'

To-night.'

Are you going to be there ?'

1 1 — I — don't know. I was thinking of it.
Would you like to go ?' said Semple.

If you go, I should be happy to accompany
you. I am a stranger in London, and
I don't care to go out alone at night.'

This struck Semple as odd. The minister
did not look like a man who would be afraid
to go out alone at night. However, he saw
that the only way to get Dr. Mackenzie
out of the way was to accompany him to
Exeter Hall ; and accordingly he arranged todo
so.

The fact was that Dr. Mackenzie had
resolved to stay by Mr. Lindsay until the
will was executed, and be ready to fortify him
against the attacks which he supposed the
rich man's relations would naturally make
upon his resolution to enrich the Free Church
at their expense. After skilful indirect
questioning he had satisfied himself that
neither Miss Lindsay nor Miss Mowbray
knew what the old man's intentions were.
There remained the two nephews. As to
Alec, Mr. Lindsay himself had told his
spiritual adviser that he had confided in his
nephew, and had made him promise to attend
personally to the preparing of the will — a
proceeding which Dr. Mackenzie strongly
disapproved of, though he was too prudent to
say anything on the subject. He was quite
convinced that anything Alec could do to
prevent the bequest being made would be
done.

With regard to Semple, Dr. Mackenzie was
inclined to think, from the young man's

30—2

manner towards himself, that he knew of his
uncle's resolution; and the minister determined
to do what he could to keep Mr-lindsay
and Semple apart for the short time
which had to elapse before the will could be-actually
signed. For this reason he thought
it imprudent to absent himself for the whole
evening, and allow Semple to spend as much
time as he chose in his uncle's room without
interruption. He had, therefore, managed to
make the young man accompany him on his.
expedition to Exeter Hall.

But Semple had only performed half his
task when he had induced Dr. Mackenzie to
spend that evening where he would be beyond
his uncle's reach. How was he to learn
what became of the paper of instructions in
Beattie's handwriting, on the possession of
which his fellow conspirator laid so much
stress ? This could only be done by the help
of an ally : and there was only one possible
ally at his command.

He waylaid Laura Mowbray as she passed

-downstairs to dinner, and drew her into a
little apartment that was used as a kind of
housekeeper's-room.

I want to speak to you, Laura he said ;
4 and I have only a minute to spare. Are
you willing to do me a favour ?'

1 That depends

1 Don't be foolish. Say yes or no. Don't
you know that our whole future hangs on
what may happen during the next day or two ?'

I suspected as much,' answered Laura
quietly ; ' your future, you mean. I don't
see how my future is concerned.'

Don't you ? Are not our interests the
same ?'

'Not yet.'

1 But they will be. Now, I only want you
to do this. To-night, most likely by the last
delivery, a packet will come by post for my
uncle. It will contain a letter, a bulky document,
and another paper, a single sheet of
foolscap folded in four. The first two I don't
£are a straw about ; but I want to know what

my uncle does with the thin paper, the sheet
of foolscap. "Will you manage to find out
this for me ?'

Laura hesitated. She had no idea of being
a tool in the hands of anyone ; and she was
not sure that she should have allowed
Semple's words as to the identity of his
interests and hers to pass unchallenged. Her
one desire was to discover whether Semple or
(as she hoped) Alec Lindsay was to be the
old man's heir. But in a moment she had
decided to make herself useful, on the chance
of inducing Semple to tell her something.
As she wisely reflected, she could get the
information which he wanted without any
trouble, and either tell him what he wished to
know, or hold her tongue, as circumstances
might decide. She therefore whispered :

All right. Hush ; I must go now. I
hear Miss Lindsay coming down

Miss Mowbray proved abundantly capable
of executing the commission which had been
intrusted to her.

She listened for the postman's ring, and,
crossing the hall apparently by chance,
said to the servant who had answered the
door-bell :

1 Is that letter for Mr. Lindsay ?'

< Yes

Then you may give it to me. I am going
to his room now

On reaching the old man's bedroom, she
closed the door softly behind her, and going
up to him with swift, noiseless steps, she
said :

Dr. Mackenzie and James have gone out,
uncle ; and Miss Lindsay is asleep ; so I
have come to you for company. Do you
mind my sitting here half an hour, while
nurse goes to supper ? Shall I disturb
you ?'

No, child, no. I like to see you.'

I will sit by the fire, then, and be as still
as a mouse. Here is a letter that the postman
has just handed in. I took it from
Marks as I came upstairs.'

1 TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND POUNDS !'

It was past eleven o'clock when Dr. Mac-kenzie
and his companion returned from
Exeter Hall ; and after getting a little supper
in the dining-room together, they parted for
the night, Semple making sure that the
minister went straight to his bedroom before
he retired to his own. Hardly, however,
had Dr. Mackenzie been left alone, when a
tap came to his door. It was the nurse in
attendance on Mr. Lindsay, who had been
sent to tell the minister that the sick man
was anxious to see him before he went to
sleep.

I've got the draft of the will, Doctor,'

said Mr. Lindsay, as his guest entered the
room. ' I thought you would maybe like to
see it ; and as they want it sent back tonight,
I had to send for you

The minister professed himself to be very
willing to look over the draft, and seating
himself by the fire, he read it carefully through
twice.

It will be a disappointment to some of
them, I'm thinking,' said the old man, as the
other at last laid down the paper.

But think of the good it will do rejoined
the minister. ' What better use can we make
of money, which is, after all, mere dross,
than devote it to the cause of Christ ?'

Is the draft all right ?' asked Mr. Lindsay,
-after a pause.

Yes ; it seems to be in accordance with
your wishes.'

1 Just read it over to me, before it goes
said the old man ; and the minister did so.

1 Now, I must get it posted to-nights said
Mr. Lindsay, when the reading was finished

post it myself said Dr. Mackenzie,
promptly. * There's a pillar-box at the
corner. It won't take me a minute. '

This offer was gratefully accepted. The
minister let himself quietly out of the house,
leaving the street-door ajar while he went to
the pillar-box, which was only a few yards
off ; and when he returned he went back to
his own room, without making noise enough
to wake anyone in the house.

It had not been without some reluctance
that Laura Mowbray had consented to play
the spy for James Semple. Not that she
was conscious of any humiliation in the matter
she rather enjoyed the excitement of it —
but she felt that in yielding to his wishes she
had made the tie between them stronger than
was perhaps altogether prudent. In their
last interview Semple had assumed that he
was her accepted lover, and she knew that he
had grounds for so doing. So long ago as
the summer when they had been together at
Loch Long, she perceived that he, as well as

Alec Lindsay, was in love with her, although
Alec's passion found vent in words while his
cousin's did not. When Semple did declare
himself, some time afterwards, she had given
him much the same answer as she had given
to Alec. But lately he had renewed his
pleading, and meeting with a very weak
resistance, he had assumed that he was, or
very soon would he, successful. Of late,
however, he had had no time for love-making.
Laura had produced in his mind exactly
the impression she had intended. She did
not wish to accept his offer just then, but
neither did she wish to send him away. Her
heart (such as it was) was with Alec ; but
then she could not bring herself to marry a
poor man ; and Alec had thrown away his
chances of ingratiating himself with his uncle
so persistently, that she had very little hope
that he would find himself rich after his uncle's
death. Semple, she felt sure, would be the
heir, but she had no idea of pledging herself
irrevocably till the event had declared itself.

On the morning after she had paid her
visit to Mr. Lindsay's bedroom in accordance
with her lover's directions, Miss Mowbray
took good care to be early in the breakfast-room.
She anticipated that Semple would
take that opportunity of having an interview
with her, and she was not disappointed.

1 Well ?' he said eagerly, as soon as he
entered the room, without waiting to bid her
good morning, ' did my uncle get the letter
last night ?'

What would you give to know ?' returned
the girl, with a saucy air.

A coarse expression sprang to the young
man's lips, but he had sense enough to
restrain it.

Don't trifle with me,' he said.

Laura was struck by the anxious, haggard
look on his face, as well as by the tone of
his voice.

Why are you so anxious about that letter ?'
she asked.

Don't bother me with questions now. I'll

tell you all by-and-by, if you wish it. Did
he get the letter ?'

\ Yes, I was in his room when he opened it.

1 Good.'

1 And I saw him take out the two papers
you described

Yes ? Do be quick ; some one will becoming
down

He put the large one back into the envelope,
and put it under his pillow

1 And the thin one ?'

1 He put it into the little desk which stands
on the table at the foot of his bed

1 You saw him do that ?'

I did. He asked me to hand him the
desk ; he opened it, and put the paper in

Did he lock the desk afterwards ?' asked
Semple, dropping his voice.

1 Yes, he did

There was a minute's pause.

"What did he do with the key ?' was the
next question.

1 The key was on a bunch. He put it

back on the table — the little one, close to his
hand

I must get those keys said Semple.

'Not through me,' said Laura, growing
pale as she spoke. ' I'll have nothing to do
with taking away any papers, or burning
them, or anything of that sort.'

The girl was thoroughly frightened, and
Semple saw that it was necessary to reassure
her.

Don't be foolish,' he said. ' Who wants
to steal anything ? I want to see that paper,
and I must see it.'

Well ; I can't help you.'

Look here, Laura, you don't understand.
I'm trying to counteract the schemes of that
villain, Dr. Mackenzie. If I succeed, I shall
have two hundred thousand pounds under my
uncle's will.'

Two hundred thousand pounds !'

Yes ; or between a hundred and fifty and
two hundred thousand, at any rate. We
shall be able to go to Italy : all round the

world, if we like. Eight or ten thousand a
year, Laura ; think of that ! You see it's
worth taking a little trouble for. Can't you
get the desk and the bunch of keys out of the
room, just for five minutes ?'

1 Impossible,' said Laura firmly. ' I have
no idea where your uncle generally keeps his
keys ; very likely in some drawer that is
locked up. You needn't think of it.'

There was another pause.

i There is one way said Laura slowly.

1 Yes; what way?'

Though I can't get the keys, I might get
the desk out of the room. Or you might doit
yourself. You see, the desk stands on the
table at the foot of the bed, out of your
uncle's sight. It is not heavy, quite a small
thing, and easy to move. You have only to
find out when your uncle is asleep, and
quietly carry the desk out of the room. The
nurse would never dream of interfering with
you. Of course, you would have to bring it
back soon, in case your uncle should ask for it

Of what use would the desk be, without
the key ?'

Laura smiled contemptuously, but suddenly
she grew grave.

'I have said quite enough,' her face said
pretty plainly.

Could you get me the desk, or let me
know when it would be safe to take it ?' was
Semple's next question, spoken almost in a
whisper. * Think how much may depend on
it,' he added.

Why should so much depend on it *?'
1 can hardly tell you

Never mind,' said Laura hastily. ' It
doesn't matter to me.'

She saw it might be safer not to know too
much.

« Will you do it then ?'

1 won't touch the desk, if you mean that
said Laura. ' Mr. Lindsay generally takes a
nap about four in the afternoon. I could
easily '

At that moment Aunt Jean made her appearance,

followed by a servant with a tray,
and the conference was at an end.

In the course of the clay, Semple managed
to take the desk out of his uncle's room while
the old man was asleep ; and he had no great
difficulty in opening it by means of a picklock,
which he had borrowed. This done, he
found and burned the paper of instructions.

vol. n. ol

DAVID MACGOWAN GETS INTO TROUBLE.

The first thing that caught Alec Lindsay's
eye when he went down to the office next
morning was the draft of his uncle's will.
No corrections had been made in it ; no suggestions
had been written in the margin ; and
assuming that the managing clerk had looked
over it on the preceding evening, he was
about to send it out to the law-stationer's,
when he remembered Beattie's hint that it
would be more prudent to have it ' engrossed '
in the office.

Taking the paper in his hand, he went into
the * outer office,' where four clerks sat whose
duty it was to do the more mechanical part

of the work of the conveyancing department.


Where's Hobson ?' asked Alec.

He and Graves are out, comparing an
abstracts said one of the clerks, whose name
was Hill. ' Mr. Beattie told them yesterday
they were to go the first thing this morning. '

Then you had better leave off what you
tire doing, Hill, and engross this will.'

Very sorry, sir, bat Mr. Beattie has given
me this settlement and this mortgage to do
pointing to the papers and parchments as he
spoke ; ' and he particularly told me not to
leave them till I had finished them.'

MacGowan's services were available ; but
Alec would have preferred to entrust the draft
to one of the other clerks.

When will Hobson and Graves be back V
he asked.

Not until late, I expect,' answered Hill ;
4 they have gone into the country — to St.
Albans.'

It was more than probable that the two

31—2

absent clerks would contrive to make a day of
it at St. Albans, so Alec turned to MacGowan
and asked if he were busy.

He was not.

4 1 wish you would engross this, then,' said
Alec, giving him the draft ; ' and see you
hold your tongue about it when you go outside,'
he added in a lower tone.

MacGowan promised obedience with more
fervour than was necessary, and Alec returned
to his own room.

Left to himself, MacGowan laid the draft
before him and measured its length with a
practised eye. There was abundance of time
for him to finish engrossing it before the
luncheon-hour. He was glad of this, for it
was pay-day, and he knew by experience that
it was very doubtful if he would be back at
his desk in the afternoon.

Every month, as pay-day came round, he
made a resolution that he would dine sparely,
and drink nothing but water, and return at
the proper hour. But the resolution had

been so constantly broken, that he had no
faith in his own power to keep it, and always
took care, on such occasions, to leave matters
so that his absence might attract as little
attention as possible. More than once he
had been nearly dismissed for this very
offence, but his fellow-clerks were generally
good-natured enough to invent excuses for
him ; and once, as we have seen, Alec had
stood his friend.

One o'clock struck, and the will was finished.
MacGowan left his seat and w r went to the
cashier's room to receive the money that was
due to him. That official, however, had
gone out, and he returned discontentedly to
his place.

It happened that he and his fellow-clerk
Hill were not on very good terms with each
other just then, so, by way of putting off
the time until the cashier's return, he took
the will and the draft from which he had
copied it to Alec Lindsay, and got him to go
through the process of ' examining ' the two

documents along with him — one reading the
engrossed will aloud, while the other read the
draft — on the plea that Hill was too busy todo
it.

As he returned to the outer office, he met
the managing clerk.

Have you engrossed a will for Mr. Lindsay
this morning ?' asked Mr. Beattie.

Yes, sir ; just finished it.'

If you bring it to my room, I will examine
it with you. I don't want Hill to be taken
from what he is doing

This was an unusual kind offer for Mr.
Beattie to make ; but MacGowan, of course,,
answered :

Mr. Lindsay has examined it with mew

Oh, very good,' said Beattie, as he passed
out of the office.

MacGowan waited impatiently until about
two o'clock, when the cashier made his
appearance. By that time he was very
hungry, and thirsty as well.

'I want my salary, if you please,' said he,.

as soon as the cashier was seated at his
desk.

1 It's early in the day, MacGowan,' said
the cashier. ' Better let me give you only a
shilling or two now. If you take it all, the
chances are you won't make your appearance
again to-day, and you know what the consequence
of that must he, sooner or later.'

I'll he hack at three, Mr. Carter, never
fear,' said the clerk.

You had letter not take it all at present.'

1 I must take it all, sooner or later
answered MacGowan in a hard, stubborn
voice ; ' and little enough it is. Give it tome,
Mr. Carter.'

A few minutes afterwards MacGowan was
hurrying along in the direction of a large
tavern near the office, where he usually dined
on high days. If he had not been so intent
upon getting there, he would have noticed
Mr. William Beattie walking slowly along, on
the other side of the street.

Beattie, who knew the clerk's habits perfectly

well, was, in fact, waiting for him. As
soon as MacGowan entered the tavern,
Beattie, with a smile on his thin lips, returned
to the office. Everything had happened
exactly as he had foreseen that it
would happen.

In the course of the afternoon Alec
Lindsay made his appearance in the managing
clerk's room, and asked him if he would
attend at his uncle's on the following morning,
to superintend the signing of the will.

Indeed I can't. I have to he in the Yice-
Chancellor's room by ten, and I shall probably
be out all the morning. Why don't you
do it yourself ?'

■ Because my name is mentioned in the
will.'

What does that matter ? You needn't
witness it. Get two of the servants to do
that.'

But I have never done anything of the
kind before.'

Why, a child might do it. Ask Mr.

Hatchettt to go, if you like, but don't bother
me any more, there's a good fellow. I'm
terribly busy.'

Alec knew that Mr. Hatchettt would never
dream of attending personally at so simple a
matter as the execution of a will, so he made
up his mind to go himself.

About five o'clock that afternoon Mr.
Beattie went into the outer office, and inquired
for MacGowan. Of coarse he was not
there — had not been seen for the last three
hours. Beattie struck his fist angrily on the
desk before him, and went straight to Mr.
Hatchettt 's room.

Graves (who had just returned from St.
Albans) looked at Hill and grinned.

'Ell 'ave it this time, to a dead certainty,'
said Mr. Hill.

Bight you are, Mr. 'Ill,' said Mr. Graves.

I'm afraid we can't afford to keep that
fellow MacGowan any longer,' said Beattie to
Mr. Hatchettt. * He has not been here since
three o'clock — drinking, I suppose. It is the

same thing every pay-day, and on other occasions
too — whenever he has money, in fact.'

c Dismiss him, then, and advertise for
another clerk,' said the solicitor, hardly
troubling himself to look up from the paper
he was reading.

1 1 think in that case you had better write
the note, Mr. Hatchettt. He will understand
then that the decision is your own.'

Mr. Hatchettt wrote a dozen words on a
sheet of paper, and handed it to his subordinate.


Get it copied in the letter-book, and send
it to his lodgings,' he said, turning back to his
work.

Mr. David MacGowan was troubled by no
fears of the fate which had been prepared for
him. About eight o'clock that evening he
was sitting in the smoking-room of ' The
Alexandra,' with a glass of punch before
him, applauding, in a loud, half-tipsy tone, a
song which had just been finished. Care he
had cast to the winds. He was not quite

drunk, though he was far from sober ; and,
after his besotted fashion, he was enjoying
himself thoroughly. Suddenly his face grew
pale, and his tongue refused to speak the
words on his lips, for there, calmly surveying
the company from the doorway, stood -
Mr. William Beattie.

A vague sense of alarm filled MacGowan 's
mind ; but he was too tipsy to speculate on
the reason which the respectable Mr. Beattie
might have for coming to such a place.

In another moment Beattie had recognised
him, and walked straight up to him.

Will you step outside for a moment, Mr.
MacGowan ? I wish to speak with you,' said
he.

Better say't here, whatever it is answered
the clerk, stringing his words together as he
spoke.

Come upstairs for a minute,' was Beattie's
answer, laying his hand on the other's arm,
and looking straight into his eyes.

MacGowan recognised the presence of a

stronger will ; he staggered to his feet and
allowed Beattie to lead him out of the
room.

Hardly knowing what he was doing, the
clerk followed Beattie to a private room which
the latter had already engaged. On the
table lay two or three sheets of foolscap, an
inkstand and pens, while a decanter and some
glasses stood on a small side-table.

Sit down, MacGowan ; you have been enjoying
yourself, I see.'

Just for once in a while, Mr. Beattie,' said
the other, with tipsy gravity. ' Duke est
desire — in — loco, ye ken

Exactly ; and I'm sorry to interrupt you ;
but I want to know whether you engrossed a
will this afternoon.'

I'm sure I don't know. Dare say I did.'

Well, it appears you have made a blunder
in it. I can't stop to explain it. It wasn't
your fault really ; and it won't make any
difference if you will just copy it over again.'

1 I can't — not just now ; I'll do it in the

morning ;' and Mr. MacGowan seemed on the
point of dropping off to sleep.

Beattie roused him with a slap on the
shoulder.

Come, come,' he cried, ' you're not too
tipsy to write '

Tipsy ? Who's tipsy ? I'm not tipsy
interrupted the other.

All right, then. Come along. See ; I've
ruled a sheet of paper; and I'll read the draft
for you, so that you can make no mistake.'

MacGowan suffered himself to be dragged
to the table ; and, once there, his mechanical
power of copying asserted itself. Steadily
his pen moved over the paper, while Beattie
looked over the writer's shoulder, reading
every word as it was written, to make sure
that no blunder was committed.

Before ten o'clock the task was ended. The
document was folded, endorsed in the orthodox
manner, and safely lodged in Mr. Beattie 's
pocket.

1 You'll stand a bottle of champagne, Mr.

Beattie ?' said the clerk, throwing himself back
in his chair.

Certainly ; but I'd advise you to stick to
whisky. It's the healthier of the two,' said
Beattie, slipping half a sovereign into the
other's hand. ' Hadn't you better go home
now ?' he added, feeling pretty certain that
the advice would not be acted upon.

In a wee while, Mr. Beattie. Ill drink
your very good health in the first place. I
look upon that as a duty. Good-night, sir ;
good-night. You're a gentleman, sir. And,
look here, 111 be at old Hatchet's as usual
tomorrow, and you'll say nothing about seeing
me here ? It's a low place, Mr. Beattie ;
I'm quite aware of that — a place I very
seldom come to.'

1 Certainly not. It is not my business to
carry tales

4 And, I say, how did you know I was
here T asked MacGowan suddenly.

Oh, I thought it likely.'

And about that will ' began Mac-gowan

; and he stopped, trying to recollect
what the other had said about it.

Oh, never mind ; it's all right. I'm
afraid I must be off now said Beattie.

All right. Then, good-night, Mr. Beattie,
good-nights

And so the managing clerk made his escape,
while poor MacGowan returned to the room
from which he had been summoned.

THE SIGNING OF THE WILL.

1 have more right to be here, sir, than a
stranger.' These were the words, uttered by
James Semple in a voice of suppressed indignation,
which Alec Lindsay heard as he entered
his uncle's bedroom next day. He had come
to superintend the execution of Mr. Lindsay's
will, bringing the document with him
ready for signature.

The old man was sitting up in bed, a table
with writing materials beside him. Near the
fireplace stood Dr. Mackenzie, a look of firm
resolve on his face. At the foot of the bed
stood Semple, who seemed to be bitterly protesting
against being excluded from the room.

Just consider, uncle !' he continued ; * I
have served you for the last ten years, and
served you faithfully. What have I done, to
be treated like a stranger now ? Alec is to
make your will ; I don't complain of that.
Don't think for a moment I am jealous of him.
But why am I to be thrust out, while one who
is no member of the family is admitted V

The old man glanced helplessly at Dr.
Mackenzie as if asking for advice. But the
minister held his peace.

I think you might let my cousin stay,
uncle said Alec. ' It is perhaps only fair
that he should know your intentions

Ay ; so let it be said Mr. Lindsay, in a
feeble tone. ' The whole world will know
soon enough. But don't blame me, lads,
after I am gone, I did it for the best. God
knows, I did it for the best.'

And Semple, having received permission
to stay in the room, walked over to the
window.

We must get two witnesses said Alec,

VOL. II. o2

drawing the will from its envelope. ' Marks
and the cook will do

The will had better be read first put in
Dr. Mackenzie. ' There's no need for the
servants knowing its contents.'

1 True said Mr. Lindsay ; and Alec, standing
at the old man's bedside, began to read ina
clear firm tone.

He had nearly finished his task, when he
noticed that Semple (who was still standing
by the window) was pulling down the
blind .

Don't do that, James ; I have hardly light
enough as it is,' said Alec.

■ I thought the light was in my uncle's
eyes,' answered Semple, without pulling the
blind up again.

It was very well as it was ; pull up the
blind,' said the old man fretfully.

Semple did as he was told, and Alec went
on reading.

A moment afterwards a hansom drove up to
the door, and there was a loud ring at the doorbell.

James Semple slowly moved away from
the window, and left the room.

1 You can ring for Marks and Mrs. Jackson
now, Alec,' said Mr. Lindsay.

He did so ; but Marks, who answered the
bell, told Alec that Mr. Beattie had called to
see him on very important business.

I wonder what it can be said Alec to
himself. ' I will be back in a minute or two,
uncle he said, as he laid the will which he
had just read on the table by his uncle's bed,
and ran downstairs.

Lindsay began Mr. Beattie, as soon as
Alec made his appearance, 'you saw Marchand,
I think, one day about a month ago, about
the Walters' case ?■

< Yes.'

'Do you remember what passed between

you r

1 Nothing very important. I told you of it
at the time / and Alec detailed the conversation
which had taken place.

Very good,' said Beattie. ' Now I want

.32—2

you to make an affidavit of what passed, to
be used at the motion which comes on for hearing
to-day.'

But you can't use an affidavit filed to-day. '

1 We can try ; and 1 think we shall
manage it. Sit down, like a good fellow,
and jot down what you remember of the conversation.
I've brought draft-paper with me.'

All right ; but wait until I've seen my
uncle sign his will, and then I'll go down to
the Law Courts with you.'

You needn't come just yet, for I have to
get a copy made, of course. If you will only
sit down and put the heads of it in writing, it
won't take you ten minutes ; and then, while
you are getting the will signed, I will drive
down to the Law Courts, and get it copied and
ready for you to sign when you arrive there.
The fact is,' added Beattie, ' I ought to have*
asked you to do this yesterday, but I was so
busy with other matters that it escaped me.'

Very well ; I'll just go and tell my uncle
that I am detained for a few minutes

Beattie's request was not unreasonable, so,
sending a message to Mr. Lindsay to explain
the delay, Alec began hastily to jot down the
substance of the affidavit he was about to
make, while Beattie paced quietly but restlessly
about the room.

As soon as Alec had joined his fellow-clerk
in the library, James Semple went to the
drawing-room, which at that hour of the day
was always empty. On this occasion, however,
Laura Mowbray was there, waiting for
hin.

Now's the time, Laura,' he cried, in an
excited tone, though he spoke under his
breath. ' Alec is safe in the library, and the
will is lying on the bed, probably ; or at any

rate it is somewhere in the bedroom. You
have only to whisper to uncle that the
solicitor's managing clerk, Mr. Beattie, wants
to look over the will to see that it is all right,
and he will let you take it at once.'

But, James, I don't like doing it. Can't
you think of any other way of getting a
sight of it ?'

6 No, I can't

Why can't you go yourself, and tell my
uncle this ?'

Of course he would suspect that I wished
to read it.'

And is it really necessary that you should
see it ?'

Didn't I tell you this morning, Laura,
that unless I can get a sight of it, I shall
never see a penny of that two hundred
thousand pounds ?'

< Why ?'

Because if the will is not in my favour, I
will press my uncle to revoke it, after that
minister has gone. But unless you want to

ruin me, you will go now. Soon Alec will be
back from the library, and then it will be too
late

Still Laura was not satisfied.

Couldn't you manage to be in the room
when the will is read over to your uncle,
before he signs it ?'

1 No, no ; that has been done already.
That is — it won't be done. Now do go,
Laura, unless you mean to make us poor
all our lives.'

A smile that was half-contemptuous passed
over Laura Mowbray's pretty face, as she
glided away from the drawing-room. She
certainly did not intend to be poor all her life
in the company of Mr. James Semple.

In less than a minute she had reached Mr.
Lindsay's room. Dr. Mackenzie was still
there, standing with his back to the room,
looking out of the window. Laura glided upto
the bed and spoke some words in a tone so
low that the old man could not catch them.
He knew, however, that the visitor downstairs

was Messrs. Hatchettt's managing clerk, so
that when Laura lifted the unsigned will lying
beside him, he merely said, * Do they want to
see it ?' at which Laura nodded, and took
it away. The minister saw that she had
come and gone, but he ascribed no importance
to what passed. He did not notice, indeed,
that the will had been removed.

Laura carried it to the drawing-room,
where Semple was impatiently waiting for
her. Almost snatching the paper from her
hand, he said in a whisper, ' Stand just outside
the door and listen, in case the library door
should open,' and took the will to one of the
windows at the farther end of the room,
to read it. Laura obeyed so far as to stand
in the doorway, from which position she
could hear anyone opening the door of the
library, on the floor below.

Semple's scrutiny of the will did not last
long. Very soon he returned to Laura, with
satisfaction in his face and bearing.

All right,' he exclaimed. * Now, all you

have to do is to put it back again. Here,' he
added, picking up an open newspaper which
looked as if it had been brought there on
purpose, ' slip the will under this, and lay
them both on the table. When Alec comes
back he will remember that he left the will on
the table ; he will lift the newspaper and find
it there ; and uncle will never notice, if you
attract his attention, that Alec did not bring
it back into the room himself

Laura admired and rather wondered at
these elaborate instructions for carrying out
what she thought was a very simple ruse.
But she had no opportunity of putting them
in practice. As she ascended the last flight
of stairs, Alec came bounding up, three steps
at a time, and overtook her as she reached
the landing.

Why, Laura, what have you got there ¥
lie asked in surprise, taking the will from her
unresisting hand.

The two stood looking at each other for a
moment, without speaking.

What were you doing with this ?' asked
Alec.

Laura had made up her mind. She would
not confess to Alec that she had been acting
under Semple's directions. It would have
been equivalent to making that definite choice
between the two which she had resolved not
to make until it was known what share of his
uncle's property Alec was to have.

Oh ! don't tell my uncle,' she said
rapidly, speaking almost in a whisper. ' I
wanted to know what was in it.'

You wanted to know whether my uncle
was going to leave you anything ?'

Yes ; and I pretended to him that you
and the ether clerk from your office wanted
to see it. But I have not looked at it. I
have not read a line of it ! Indeed I have
not !' and Laura burst into tears.

Alec did not speak. It did not seem a
very serious matter, but he was pained to
think that the girl he loved should have done
such a thing.

Only promise me that you won't speak of
it!' she cried, with clasped hands, her eyes
swimming in tears.

Alec reflected for a moment. He could
not see that there was any duty cast upon
him to mention Laura's indiscretion to his
uncle. Even if she had peeped into the will,
no harm could have been done. He gave the
required promise, and turned away, going into
his uncle's room, while Laura, unwilling to
go downstairs and meet Semple, whom at
this moment she positively hated, ran up to
her own room.

'What a fool I was to listen to him !' she
exclaimed aloud, when she had shut the door.
But, after all, it doesn't very much matter
she said to herself, a moment afterwards.
1 Alec thinks it was only my own curiosity
that made me meddle with the will ; and
he won't tell upon me, that's certain. I
wonder whether Mr. Lindsay has left me
anything ! I suppose James never looked ;
he was only anxious to find out what he was

to have for himself. And Alec never would
tell me. I wonder what Alec himself will
get. I shouldn't wonder if he gets as much
as James. Oh ! I wish he had not caught
me just now !'

And, renewing her resolution to wait until
the will was read before she committed herself
irretrievably to either of the two young men,
Laura proceeded to wash away the traces of
tears from her face.

Meanwhile Beattie had left the house, and
Alec had summoned Marks and Mrs. Jackson,
the cook, to their master's room.

The will was duly signed and witnessed,
Dr. Mackenzie looking on with a grave face ;
and when all the formalities had been gone
through, Mr. Lindsay put the document in its
envelope, sealed it carefully with his own
hand, and gave it to Alec.

1 Give it to Mr. Hatchettt, my lad,' he
said. ' He should have been here to-day
liimsel' — but it doesn't matter. Tell him to
lock it up in his safe till — till it's wanted.

And now I think I'll try and get a little sleep,
for I feel tired.'

Alec took the will to Mr. Hatchettt, and
saw it put away in his safe, before going
down to the law courts.

As for Dr. Mackenzie, after a final interview
with Mr. Lindsay he took his leave, ami
returned to Glasgow by the night mail.

MR. WILLIAM Battle ACTS LIKE A CHRISTIAN.

After leaving Mr. Lindsay's house, Mr.
Beattie went first of all to the Law Courts in
the Strand. But he did not remain there long.
He took the draft affidavit to a law stationer's,
and then, leaving instructions for Alec with
the junior clerk who had been waiting in the
Judge's chambers, he left the case Walter v.
Walter to take care of itself, called a hansom,
and told the cabman to drive to King's Cross.
Arrived there, he dismissed the cab, and
plunged into a nest of squalid, airless streets,
not far from the railway terminus.

After some difficulty, he found the one he
was in quest of — Milton Street — and then a

further search ensued for No. 70. When
this, too, was found, he made some further
inquiries, and, obeying the directions he
obtained, made his way to the top of the
house, and knocked with his umbrella at a
rickety door.

A faint voice bade him enter, and there,
sitting by the fireplace, was the man he
sought. Mr. David MacGowan did not
present an attractive appearance. Unwashed,
unshaven, his shabby clothes in complete
disorder, his hair undressed, his eyes bloodshot,
his hand trembling, he certainly looked
a miserable object. The fire, which had
been lighted with damp wood under an overburdening
mass of coal-dust and cinders, was
slowly going out, but MacGowan had not
sufficient energy to try to make it burn. His
miserable breakfast stood untasted on the
table, upon which lay an open letter. When
he saw who his visitor was, he did not say a
word, but turned his face to the smouldering
fire, and gazed at it moodily.

Beattie, without waiting for an invitation,
sat down opposite him, and began to ask him
where he had put certain papers which had
been in his charge, and some other questions
of a like nature. MacGowan sullenly
answered him, without removing his eyes from
the fire.

When I looked over the letter-book this
morning,' said Beattie, when these matters
had been discussed, ' I was sorry to see a
letter of Mr. Hatchettt's telling you that you
need not come back again

'Ay! I dare say ye ken a' about it,' said
the other.

If you mean that it was my doing, you
are quite mistaken,' said Beattie hastily.
'Mr. Hatchettt decided upon it himself; and
really, you know, MacGowan, you can't be
very much surprised at it.'

MacGowan gave an indifferent kind of
sigh, as much as to say that it mattered little
from whose hand the blow had fallen, and
that he did not very much care.

• Will they give me a character ?' he asked
suddenly, turning his eyes for the first time
on his visitor.

Beattie shook his head mournfully.
'You might write me our yourself sued
the ex-clerk.

attire shook his head still more
decidedly.

• Unless I used the firm's name, it would
be of no use,' said he ; ' and if I did, it
might he as much as my place is worth. 1

The gleam of hope died out in MacGowan's
watery eyes, and he turned once more to
contemplate the dying lire.

1 What are you thinking of doing ?' asked
Beattie after a pan .

• Nothing.'

• But yon must do something, or starve.'
1 I don't care.'

• Oh, nonsense, man ! I'll tell you what
you (Might to do — emigrate ! In a new-country,
where there are fewer public-hoi
than there are in London, and no temptations

vol. n. 33

to spend money, you might make a fresh
start, and end by becoming a rich man.'

MacGowan made no answer.

1 Come, now ; wouldn't it be the most
sensible thing to do ?'

May be ; but how can I go abroad ? I
haven't enough to pay fare to Aberdeen, let
alone America.'

Get your friends to lend you enough to
pay your passage-money, and to start with.'

MacGowan gave a scornful laugh.

Where may they be, I wonder ?' said he.

Well, MacGowan,' said Beattie, speaking
very slowly and deliberately, ' you know we
Scots should help one another in a difficulty ;
and if I thought you would pay me back
again, I wouldn't mind giving you the means
of making a fresh start.'

Would you really, man ?' exclaimed
MacGowan, looking up eagerly in Mattie's
face.

I would, if I thought you would really
make an effort to repay me.'

I would pay you back, as sure's death
said MacGowan earnestly.

1 1 wouldn't advise any young man to go to
America,' said Beattie. ' There are more
men there than there is work for. Australia
Western Australia — that's the place for a
young fellow of talent and energy.'

It's a long way off,' said MacGowan
doubtfully.

Not in these days of big steamers,' said
Beattie in a cheerful tone, taking a newspaper
from his pocket as he spoke. ' See here,
man,' he added, running his eye over the
shipping advertisements, 'here's your chance:
'• Steam to Australia. The Tasmania. Third-class
passage, £13. Superior accommodation."
Sails tomorrow. What do you say
to that ?'

1 It would be cheaper to go to the States
said MacGowan, reaching out his hand for the
paper.

But you would have no chance in the

33—2

States,' answered Beattie. ' It would be
throwing away money to go there.'

\ I would want an outfit,' said MacGowan.

'Not very much. I'm told you can buy
most things as cheaply out there as in this
country. If you like to go to Western
Australia, which is the country I recommend,
decidedly, I'll lend you enough for the
passage-money and some clothes, and twenty
pounds to start with. What do you say to
that?'

MacGowan was astonished.

Man, Beattie, you're acting like a christians
he said solemnly, as he stretched out
his hand.

Then he began to weep.

Beattie took the outstretched hand, though
it was not a very clean one, and shook it.

Look here, now,' said he, * this is what
you'll do. Make yourself as smart as you
can, and meet me at the King's Cross Metropolitan
Station in an hour's time. I will
have half the money — twenty pounds —

ready for you then. Thirteen of that will befor
your passage-money, and the rest for
clothes. Go to the owners' office in Fen-church
Street, and take your ticket this
afternoon. Bring it to my lodgings any time
this evening, and I'll see you off tomorrow
afternoon, and give you the other twenty
pounds. Will that suit you ?'

Couldn't be better, Mr. Beattie ; couldn't
be better. But if the same firm should have
a boat for Canada, for example '

1 1 thought we had settled that said
Beattie quietly. ' Why should I throw away
my money in helping you to emigrate to a
country where I feel convinced you would
starve ?'

Whereupon MacGowan protested his perfect
readiness to go to Australia, and Mr.
Beattie departed.

Once or twice during the interview Beattie
had been tempted to make distant references
to what had passed at the tavern the preceding
night, with a view to ascertaining how much

or how little of it MacGowan remembered.
But he wisely refrained from doing so. The
clerk seemed to have forgotten the piece of
extra work which Beattie had persuaded him
to do, or, if he remembered it, he apparently
thought it was not worth alluding to. To
refer to it now, Beattie considered, might
only have the effect of refreshing his memory,,
whereas, if nothing happened to recall the
incident which had taken place when he was-half
tipsy, it would probably fade altogether
from his recollection.

An hour later, MacGowan presented himself
at the rendezvous at King's Cross. He
had evidently made a great effort to look
respectable ; but he still had the appearance
of a man who was just recovering from a
debauch. Beattie did not detain him long.

1 Here's the money,' he said, slipping a roll
of sovereigns into his hand, ' and you'll repay
me out of the first money you can conveniently
spare.'

I'll work my fingers to the bone ; I'll

live on bread and water ' began Macao
wan.

'I don't ask you to do that,' said Beattie
quietly, as a satirical smile crossed his face.
1 You have plenty of time to go to Fenchurch
Street and take your ticket, before the office
closes. I will expect you at eight, at my
lodgings, to hear how you have got on.'

At a few minutes past eight MacGowan
made his appearance at Beattie's rooms. He
was sober, but to Beattie's shrewd eye it was
evident that he had been taking something
in honour of the impending change in his
fortunes. This, however, was only what
might have been expected.

Have you got your passage-ticket ?' began
Beattie j rather sharply.

1 Yes, sir,' answered MacGowan, handing
over a piece of paper. ' I took it '

• Why, how's this ?' exclaimed Beattie ;
this ticket is in the name of P.
Macartney !'

I was telling you, sir,' answered

MacGowan in an injured tone, ' that I
thought it better to take another name,
and '

And make a completely fresh start ?
Quite right. You showed great good sense
in doing that, MacGowan. Much better to
break with the past altogether. But why on
earth did you take an Irish name, when
everybody can see you are a Scotchman ?'

It's a Scotch name, too answered
MacGowan, in a slightly offended tone. ' It
was my mother's name. And my grandfather
was called Peter.'

Oh, very well ; I don't suppose it very
much matters,' said Beattie, handing him
back the ticket. ' When does the steamer

sail r

1 To-morrow afternoon or evening, sir. Weare
to be on board by four o'clock.'

I'll come down and see you off. St.
Margaret's Dock, isn't it ?'

Yes, sir ; but it's an awkward place to get
to, and a long way. I could call on you, Mr.

Beattie, at any place and hour you choose to
appoint

1 No, no said Beattie, smiling. ■ I'll meet
you at the ship. Will you take a glass of
wine before you go ?'

Nothing, Mr. Beattie ; nothing for me,'
said MacGowan, with a deprecatory wave of
the hand, turning away his head, as if to
avoid the very sight of temptation. And so
he took his leave.

1 Arrant humbug V exclaimed Beattie, as
his visitor left the house. ' He'll go straight
to a public-house. And he'll drink himself to
death within a month after he lands. Perhaps
it would have been better if I had given him
a little money ; but sooner or later it comes all
to the same thing.'

David MacGowan was waiting for his benefactor,
as the latter drove down to St.
Margaret's Dock the following afternoon.

1 That's the steamer, is it ?' said Beattie ;
and a fine ship she is. I almost wish I were
going to Australia too, by Jove !'

Mac Go wan grinned faintly, as if the treat
of having Mr. Beattie as a companion were
too good to hope or pray for ; and Beattie
plunged his hand into his pocket.

The hoarse cry of the steam fog whistle was
already sounding for the last time.

There's the money I promised to lend
you said Beattie. ' Count it, and see that
it's all right

No need to do that, sir,' murmured Macao
wan.

I hope you'll make a good use of it, and
prosper, you know. Good-bye.'

MacGowan, after many expressions of
gratitude, went on board, and the steamer,
which was already crawling at a snail's pace
past the wharf, slowly worked her way to the
entrance at the further end of the dock. With
the help of her tug she got quickly through
the dock-gates, and Beattie stood watching
her as she glided out into the river, until she
was hidden in the sea-mist and the gathering
darkness.

THE RICH MAN DIED, AND WAS BURIED.

On a gloomy winter morning the invisible
hand was stretched forth, and James Lindsay
was taken behind the veil. Then hired people
came and went silently. The blinds were
drawn, and the house was almost in darkness.
The servants, knowing that little would be
expected of them, gathered round their fire
and told each other what steps they would
take to gain new places. Miss Lindsay informed
Mr. Hatchettt of what had happened,
that he might seal up the dead man's desk
and the drawers of his writing-table ; and
Mr. Hatchettt sent a trusty old clerk named
Drake, who had performed that service for

scores of deceased clients, to do what was
necessary. After Mr. Drake's departure Miss
Lindsay locked the doors of the library, and
of the room where the dead man was lying,
and betook herself to her own room on the
third floor. Laura followed her example.

Early in the afternoon Semple, finding that
existence at No. 21, Claremont Gardens was,
under the circumstances, an insupportable
burden, wandered off towards the City, leaving
word that he would not be back to
dinner.

About three in the afternoon Laura crept
downstairs, and finding that the drawing-room
fire was lighted, she sat down before it,
and wondered for the hundredth time that day
whether her guardian had left her anything in
his will. She wished Semple had not gone
out. She would have made him tell her.
She wished Alec would come, that she might
ask him — it would have been some relief, some
breach in the monotony, even to see him for
five minutes — but he did not come to the

house all day. As it happened, he was confined
to the house with influenza.

An hour passed, and Laura felt that she
could not stand it any longer. She went to
the library for a book, but the door was
locked. Then she put her hand on the bell,
meaning to send out one of the servants for a
novel ; but before ringing she withdrew her
hand and went up to her own room. Very
quietly she put on her hat and boots. She
knew she was committing a breach of propriety,
and that was in great part the attraction
for her.

Slipping quietly, with an inward shudder,
past the chamber where death held his court,
she reached the hall, and in another minute
she was in the open air. The fog was thick,
but not too thick for her to find her way.

She knew that a few streets off there was
a station on the District Railway. There, at
least, she would find some distraction ; there
would be something to look at, something to
listen to, instead of the dreadful stillness in

which she had spent the day. Wrapping her
cloak around her, she hurried on, enjoying the
motion and the cold air, though the fog was
stifling.

When she reached the station, she went to
the hook-stall, and, carefully selecting two
novels which promised a fair share of mental
excitement and a society paper, she bought
them and slipped them under her cloak. Her
errand was now accomplished, hut she was
unwilling yet to return to that great, dismal
house, so she sauntered for a few minutes up
and down the platform.

The place was chilly, draughty, and almost
deserted, and she was thinking of returning
home, when she heard the tinkle of an
electric hell and the rattle of an approaching
train. She stepped back into one of the
arched recesses in the wall, to wait until the
crowd of passengers, who were sure to alight,
had gone by.

Ten seconds more, and the deserted platform
was alive with people. First came the third-class

passengers — message - boys, porters,
work-girls, stout women with babies. Then a
scattered group of business men in heavy
overcoats. And among them was James
Semple. Not caring to be seen by him,
Laura stepped back as far as she could, but
she was in no danger, as she was in the
shadow, and her veil was down.

A man whom she did not recognise joined
Semple. They seemed to have been travelling
by the same train without knowing it.
The two men passed her, walking slowly on
account of the crowd, and conversing together
as they went.

1 And Alec Lindsay is ill V she heard
Semple say to his companion.

Yes ; a bad cold, he says. I hope he
won't be able to leave the house for a week
was the reply.

< Why r

Ah ! you don't understand. You think
we are in sight of land. Not yet. In
fact '

Laura could hear no more, for Scruple and
Beattie (who was his companion) had passed
her. But her curiosity was excited. She
mingled with the crowd, and managed to get
a little nearer to the speaker. But Beattie
had dropped his voice, and she could only
catch the words — ' must not he there when
the will is read, on any account,' when the
two men reached the door of exit, and
passed beyond her hearing.

There was nothing Laura Mowbray loved
so much as a secret. Here was one, she felt
sure. Who was not to be present when the
will was read ? Alec Lindsay ? They had
been talking of his illness just before. Why
should he not be present at the reading of the
will ? It could make no difference to anyone,
surely, whether he was there or not.
Who was this stranger who was interested in
Mr. Lindsay's will ?

There was no solution, however, to these
questions ; and Laura, after waiting a few
minutes to avoid any chance of meeting

Semple in the street, made the hest of her
way home.

Semple, she found, had not arrived ; nor
did he return until late in the evening. Miss
Lindsay, fortunately, was still upstairs. As
the evening advanced, however, she came
down, and ordered tea, in lieu of dinner, for
Laura and herself. Then she went to the
library and fetched two volumes of sermons,
one of which she gave to Laura, while she sat
down to study the other. One by one the
slow hours went by, till nine o'clock struck,
and then Laura went to bed, where she lay
reading ' The Mystery of the Manor House till
the cold compelled her to lay the book down.

Next day the dressmakers came with the
half-finished mourning dresses, and that was a
great relief ; and so the time passed until the
day of the funeral.

It was a small and a melancholy company.
Mr. Hatchettt was there, Mr. Beattie having
told him that the estate was a large one, and
it would be w r ell that he should be on the

vol. 11. 34

spot. The physician was there ; also Mr.
Andrew Simpson and Mr. Nicol Carnegie,
two old friends of Mr. James Lindsay's whom
lie had named as his executors, and James
Semple, of course. Alec Lindsay was not
sufficiently recovered for the doctor to allow
him to attend the funeral ; and his father was
deterred from making the long journey to
London by a sharp attack of rheumatism.
Dr. Mackenzie, however, had come from
Scotland, as well as a Dr. George Adamson,
who was one of the trustees for the Free
Kirk.

The clergyman at the cemetery hurried
over the last words of the prayers. Another
funeral was due in ten minutes, and the
curate was anxious to warm himself thoroughly
at the fire in the clerk's office before
he began to read the service for the fourth
time that day.

Soon the dismal task was ended. James
Lindsay was laid in his native dust ; and the
mourners felt relieved as they mounted the

steps of the mourning-coaches, to be driven
back to the house.

When they had all taken their seats in the
dining-room, which felt chilly in spite of a
roaring lire, wine and cake were handed
round, while Mr. Hatchettt, who had brought
the will in the pocket of his overcoat, made a
formal search among James Lindsay's papers
for another testament. He was still busy in
the library when Miss Lindsay and Laura
entered the dining-room.

Miss Mowbray walked slowly, with downcast
eyes. She knew that her mourning
dress was very becoming to her, and she
secretly determined to be often in mourning,
or half mourning, at least, in the future.
Dr. Mackenzie met the two ladies, and conducted
Laura to a seat ; while Mr. Carnegie,
an old acquaintance of Miss Lindsay's, came
forward and led her to a chair.

This is a very sad event, Miss Mowbray,'
said Dr. Mackenzie, seating himself.

It is indeed,' answered the girl in a sub

J Q

clue tone, lifting her eyes for a moment to
the minister's face.

And it is one which may happen to any
of us at any time. It is well to be prepared.'


f 0h, I am sure Mr. Lindsay was prepared
to die. He was so resigned, so peaceful
towards the close.'

This was said in Laura's sweetest tone,
but it was not a satisfactory answer in the
ears of the Scottish Doctor of Divinity.

I There is a false peace as well as a true
peace, Miss Mowbray he said somewhat
severely. ' I believe Mr. Lindsay's peace
was well founded. He knew the way of
salvation. But a mere general trust in the
goodness of God is worthless — utterly worthless


This startled Laura, and, anxious to reassure
the minister, and to prevent the conversation
taking a more personal turn, she
said :

I I have been reading such beautiful sermons

in a book Miss Lindsay gave me. I am sure
you would like them. They are by a Mr.
Robertson.'

You don't mean Robertson of Brighton ?'

Laura saw that she had made a mistake.


Ye — yes ; I think so.'

Poison ! Rank poison !' cried the minister,
unconsciously raising his voice. ' I cannot
understand Miss Lindsay putting such a book
into your hands, or into the hands of any
young person. I trust you did not agree
with that writer. But he is most seductive,
especially for the young. Did you read
many of the sermons ?'

No.' (This was true enough. Laura had
read about a page and a half of one of them.)
6 And I will not read any more of them,
since you do not approve of them. Have
you published any sermons, Dr. Mackenzie ?'

I did — some time ago.'

'I thought I had seen them somewhere
said Laura, knitting her brows as if she

were making a great effort of memory. ' I
wish I knew where I could get a copy.'

I will send you a volume of them, if you
like,' said the minister.

1 Oh, thank you so much !' replied Laura,
with a look of gratitude.

How we misjudge people,' said the minister
to himself. ' I had thought this young lady
had been of a rather frivolous disposition;'
and he helped himself to another glass of port.

As he did so, Mr. Hatchettt opened the
door, and proceeding to the top of the long-table,
amid a universal silence, took his seat.

There seems to be no document of a
testamentary character, ladies and gentlemen,
among the papers of the deceased. This is a
will which he executed a few weeks ago. It
was drawn and engrossed at my office. With
your permission I will read it to you.'

When the lawyer finished his preface,
everybody assumed an attitude of polite indifference,
listening intently all the while.
Laura, who had not expected to understand

much of it, found that it was quite intelligible.
Her own name was among those of the
legatees.

And I leave and bequeath to my ward,
Laura Mowbray, the sum of two thousand
pounds

Well, it is always something ; with what
I have I shall be independent, at any rate,'
said Laura to herself.

Then came one or two other small legacies,
and then the lawyer proceeded :

And I leave and bequeath to the person
who shall be the Moderator of the Free
Church of Scotland at the time of my death,
and to all the persons then surviving who
shall have filled that office, and to every
person who shall hereafter fill that office, the
sum of five thousand pounds in trust '

A hoarse, inarticulate cry had burst from
Dr. Mackenzie's lips.

The lawyer stopped and looked at him.

Head that again if you please, sir,' said
the minister, in a hard, stern voice.

Mr. Hatchettt eyed him for a moment before
he bent again over the paper.

And I leave and bequeath to the person
who shall be the Moderator of the Free
Church of Scotland at the time of my death,
and to all the persons then surviving who
shall have filled that office, and to every
person who shall hereafter fill that office, the
sum of five thousand pounds in trust for '

There is some mistake here,' said Dr.
Mackenzie, rising and going up to the table.

The lawyer contemptuously pushed the
paper under the minister's eyes and pointed
silently to the words. Yes ; there they were
plainly — five thousand pounds. Dr. Adamson
came up behind, and having with trembling
fingers put his spectacles on his nose, he
peered into the paper, and satisfied himself
that the words were ' five thousand pounds '
beyond any possibility of doubt.

Dr. Mackenzie was trembling with anxiety
and passion. It was not only that an annual
bum which would have doubled his income

was lost to him ; nor was it only the injury
done to his Church that moved him ; he felt
that both he and the cause which he had
at heart had been shamefully defrauded.

He looked at the signatures of the witnesses.
They were, or appeared to be, the same as
when he had seen them affixed. The date
was correct. There was no appearance of
erasure, no possibility that the words had
been tampered with.

While the minister had been examining the
will there was a deep silence. He now laid
it on the table, and leaning one hand upon it,
said in a grave tone :

• All I can say is that my deceased friend
expressed his intention to me of leaving half
a million of money to the Church of which I
am a member. He consulted me on the subject.
He showed me a draft of the will, in
which that sum was so left '

In figures, or in words, sir ?' asked the
lawyer sharply.

1 think it was both in words and in figures.

But the draft can be sent for, and it will
be found to bear me out. And more than
that, I heard Mr. Lindsay's nephew read the
will to him before he signed it, and the sum
he read was five hundred thousand pounds.

There I think you are mistaken, Dr.
Mckenzie

It was James Semple who spoke. He had
not risen. He was very pale. His left arm
remained folded across his breast ; with his
right hand he was pulling his moustache.
Laura gazed at him curiously.

What, sir V shouted Dr. Mackenzie.

I only say that you are mistaken in
thinking that my cousin read what you say
he did. As to my uncle's intentions I know
nothing.'

1 Do you think, sir, that I, knowing my
friend's intentions, would have heard a will
contrary to those intentions read out to him
before signature, without saying a word of
protest, or asking any explanation ?' cried the
minister.

1 And do you think I would have said
nothing if such a monstrous bequest had been
in the will ?' retorted Semple.

Come, come, gentlemen,' said Mr.
Hatchettt, who had been listening carefully to
all that had passed. ' Mr. Alexander Lindsay
doubtless read what was in the will ; and the
will is here to speak for itself. I think I had
better finish reading it.'

He did so, and when he had finished, Dr.
Mackenzie said excitedly :

We do not accept that document as a true
exponent of the testator's wishes. We protest
— eh, Dr. Adamson ? — we protest against
it. We shall appeal ito the law-courts. '

Very good, gentlemen,' said Mr. Hatchettt
politely ; ' all shall be done in a correct and
orderly manner. You will select your own
solicitors, whom I shall be happy to meet.
Meanwhile, Mr. Carnegie, and Mr. — er —
Simpson, you accept the executorship and
trusteeship, as I understand ?'

The two gentlemen, who knew enough of

the world to know what this meant, yielded a
melancholy assent. Miss Lindsay, seeing
that there was no need for her further
presence, made a sign to Laura Mowbray ;
and the two ladies left the room together.

And I will apply for probate, I presume,
in the usual way remarked Mr. Hatchettt,
rubbing his hands gently, with much inward
satisfaction.

1 have one suggestion to make, gentlemen,'
he said, * before we separate. I believe
the domestics who signed the will as witnesses
are in the house. It would be well to
summon them now, before they have been
led to suppose that anything can depend on
what they may have to say, and ask them
in your presence whether they can swear
that these are their signatures.'

The suggestion was received with a
murmur of applause, and some one rang
the bell. Meantime, Dr. Mackenzie asked a
question.

If I remember aright he said, ' the

other legacies bequeathed in the will are
of comparatively small value, perhaps not
more than twenty or thirty thousand pounds
in all T

Mr. Hatchet t bowed.

Then who takes all the money V

'With regard to any property not specifically
mentioned said Mr. Hatchettt, glancing
once more at the document before him, ' it
goes to the residuary legate

And they are T

Mr. Alexander Lindsay is one of them,'
said the lawyer, while a grave look came into
his face.

He was stopped by the entrance of the
servants, and James Semple was glad, somehow,
that Mr. Hatchettt did not go on to
recite his name. It would have weakened
the effect of his contradiction of the minister's
recollection, although, of course, the whole
world must soon know how the matter
stood. But as the words * Mr. Alexander
Lindsay is one of them ' fell from Mr.

Hatchettt's lips, a certain thrill ran through
the little company.

The servants declared without hesitation
that the document before them was the one
they had signed, that and no other ; and then
everybody rose up and prepared to go.

Miss Lindsay went up to Dr. Mackenzie ashe
passed into the hall, with the intention
of offering him hospitality, but as she was
on the point of speaking to him, Semple
interrupted her, affecting not to see the
minister, and speaking in a loud whisper :

My dear aunt, don't you think that after
what has happened to-day Dr. Mackenzie
would be more comfortable at an hotel ?'

The minister reddened and involuntarily
clenched his fists.

To do James Semple justice, this piece
of rudeness was not a mere wanton insult.
William Beattie had carefully instructed him
that Alec Lindsay and the justly infuriated
minister were not to be allowed to meet ; and
Semple thought it quite possible that if Dr.

Mackenzie were staying in the house he
might get Alec's address from his aunt and
go to him at once.

The minister, holding his chin very high in
the air, sent for a cab, and drove off with his
friend, Dr. Adamson, in search of an hotel.
As they jolted along one subject jostled with
the great question of the will in the minister's
mind, sometimes altogether ousting it from
his attention. Would it be fair, he was
asking himself, for him to charge Dr. Adamson's
expenses as well as his own to the trust,
if it should turn out to be five thousand
pounds only, as he might unquestionably
have done if the legacy had been one of half
a million ? And if not, seeing that he had
asked Dr. Addison to take what was really
an unnecessary journey to London, and considering
that his colleague's family was twice
as large as his own, would it not be incumbent
upon him in equity to pay those expenses out
of his, Dr. Mackenzie's, own pocket ? An
Englishman would probably not have raised

either point in the tribunal of his conscience.
Dr. Mackenzie not only raised them, but
argued them, and finally decided them against
himself, consoling himself as he did so with
that remarkably Scotch proverb, ' It's not lost
that a friend gets.'

But the sum could ill be spared ; and the
loss of it did not tend to diminish his resentment
against those defrauded of the temple,
as Dr. Mackenzie considered them, James
Lindsay's nephews.

c

/

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND suNS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

/

7-S

I

VmBH

.■■ •■■■■v,-.V.'-.'-.A

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of alli Noise

SZ3
*3

31 Montana of Scottish %\iz

BY

JOHN K. Less

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

Uottftou
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[The right of translation is reserved]

tl

0.3

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER PAGE

XXVII. TWO CONVERSATIONS 1

XXVIII. TROUBLE DRAWS NEAR - - 23

XXIX. AT THE POLICE COURT - - 39

XXX. ALEC'S FRIENDS VISIT HIM - --61

XXXI. MISGIVINGS - - - - 77

XXXII. BEFORE THE TRIAL - - - - 93

XXXIII. THE TRIAL - 107

XXXIV. AFTER THE TRIAL - - - 150
XXXV. MISS MEREDITH INSISTS ON BEING OBEYED - 176

XXXVI. SICK UNTO DEATH . - 192

XXXVII. THE FUGITIVE'S RETURN - - - 211

XXXVIII. TWO YEARS AFTER - 229

CHAPTER XXVII.

TWO CONVERSATIONS.

Me. Hatchettt drove back to his office in a
brown study. When he arrived there he sent
for Mr. Beattie, who speedily made his appearance.


Mr. Lindsay is not here, is he V were the
solicitor's first words.

'No, sir. He has been confined to the
house with a bad cold for more than a week.'

1 Just fetch me the draft of his uncle's will,
if you please.'

Mr. Beattie left the room and came back
after a few minutes, saying that he could not

vol. in. 35

find it. This was not surprising, seeing that
the document was at that moment reposing
in a drawer of Mr. Beattie's writing-table, at
his own lodgings.

You can't find it !' exclaimed Mr. Hatchettt,
his face becoming more grave.

No. It is not among the other drafts, nor
in any of the drawers of Mr. Lindsay's table.
One of them is locked, however, and he has
the key. Very probably he has put it therefor
safety.'

Likely enough. Did you see the draft
before it was sent out V

1 don't think I did,' said Mr. Beattie, after
considering a moment. ' No ; I am almost
sure I did not. I was very busy at the time ;
but I remember telling Mr. Lindsay to lay
the draft on my table, and I would revise it.'

Did he do so V

I can't say ; but I never saw it there, and
so the thing escaped my memory.'

You ought not to have allowed an important
draft like that to leave the office,
without either settling it yourself or sending
it to counsel said Mr. Hatchettt severely.

1 You are quite right, sir. But I was kept
in the Master's room till late in the afternoon
on the day the will was drawn ; and when I
came back the draft had gone.'

I Then you should have taken care to go
over it the next morning, when it came
back.'

If I had not been so very much occupied,
no doubt it would have occurred to me. But
the letter Mr. Lindsay wrote to us, particularly
desiring that his nephew should prepare
his will '

I I don't forget the letter ; but it does not
release us from all responsibility interrupted
the solicitor.

Has anything happened ¥ asked the other.
Well, I should not be surprised if 



thing does happen. It seems that the old
gentleman altered an intention he had of
leaving an enormous sum of money to the
Scotch Presbyterians, and left them only five
thousand pounds instead.'

Rather a sensible thing to do, I should
say,' observed Mr. Beattie, with a smile.

1 Yes ; but the odd thing is that one of
the Presbyterian parsons, a Scotchman called
Mackenzie, I think, says that he saw the
draft' (Mr. Beattie gave a hardly perceptible
start), ' and that in it the bequest was five
hundred thousand pounds.'

Then the old gentleman changed his mind
later in the day, I suppose,' put in the clerk.

1 And stranger still,' pursued the solicitor,
this man says that he was present when the
will was signed, that young Lindsay read it
aloud before it was signed, and that he read
the bequest " five hundred thousand."

1 Really ! That is very odd !'

'Very odd indeed.'

Was anyone else present V

Yes, another nephew. And he says that
Lindsay read " five thousand pounds " only.'

It is impossible that Lindsay should have
committed a fraud. ' I won't believe it of
him for a moment !' exclaimed the managing
clerk warmly.

This nephew's evidence is not disinterested,
however pursued Mr. Hatchettt. ' He shares
the residue with young Lindsay ; and it must
be a very large sum, about half a million, I
suppose.'

Had the minister any interest in it, one
way or the other V asked Beattie.

1 No ; of course not. His name was in
the will, though, as secretary to the trust,
or something. Here it is,' he added, unfolding
the will as he spoke — ' at such a
remuneration as the trustees in their discretion
may decide.'

Then the minister's evidence is not quite
disinterested, an) T more than that of the other
nephew V remarked Beattie.

No ; but of course there is a vast difference
between a few hundreds a year and a quarter
of a million. And it seems odd that there
should be all these elaborate directions about
a secretary, and so on, if the bequest was
meant to be only five thousand pounds.'

Perhaps the direction to change the
amount came after the will was drawn, and
young Lindsay allowed all the rest of it to
remain,' suggested Beattie. ' I should think
it quite possible,' continued he, 'that the old
man was under this minister's influence, afraid
of him, in fact, and that he privately told
his nephew to make the sum only five thousand,
but to read the will as if it were five
hundred thousand, to save himself from having
a scene with the minister.'

Father a far-fetched explanation,' said Mr.

Hatchettt, with a smile. ' Besides, the other
nephew, Semple, says that his cousin read
five thousand." '

One of the two is clearly mistaken,' said
Beattie.

Or lyiug/ said the lawyer. ' Of course
the case on the other side is that the two
nephews made up a plan to get this money
for themselves. Young Lindsay was to get
his uncle to intrust the drawing of the will
to him, alter the draft by striking out the
word " hundred," and deceive the old gentleman
by reading the will as if it had been
left in, while the other cousin swears that he
read it quite correctly. The minister means
mischief ; I could see that. Well ; we can't
say anything about it till Lindsay is convalescent.
When do you think I could see him V

I expect he will be here tomorrow morning.
There was a note from him a clay or
two ago to that effect.'

Very good ; tell me as soon as he comes

And here the conversation ended.

As soon as Mr. Beattie was released from
the office that evening he went to Alec's
rooms. The invalid was sitting alone, with
a large fire to keep him company.

1 Well, Lindsay, I congratulate you.'

On being indoors this dismal weather ?
I meant to have gone to my uncle's funeral
to-day, but the doctor bullied me into giving
up the idea.'

Why didn't you tell me you were going
to come in for half your uncle's money V

1 Because I have done nothing of the kind.'

c But you have ; and I congratulate you
with all my heart.'

'Nonsense. I get five thousand pounds.
So does Semple. The bulk of it goes to the
Free Church.'

That was your uncle's original idea, I
know ; I took his instructions myself to that

effect. But you must know very well that
he changed his mind, and told you to make
his legacy to the Free Kirk five thousand —
and quite enough too.'

I never ' began Alec, bewildered by

what he heard.

Stop a minute, man, and let me speak.
I have just seen Mr. Hatchettt. He read the
will to them all after the funeral, and it seems
there was a fine row. As it stands, the legacy
to the Kirk is only five thousand pounds.'

Five hundred thousand, you mean.'

Five thousand only, I tell you. I saw
the will myself in Mr. Hatchettt's hands, when
he came back to the office. '

But this is incredible. I '

'But I tell you I saw it. And you can
see it for yourself, as soon as you are well
enough to drive down to the office. Your
uncle must have changed his mind, and told
you to make it five thousand, and your illness

has made you forget it — though I warn
you, old man, you had better not say you
had forgotten such a thing as that. No one
would believe you.'

There's no forgetting in the matter,' cried
Alec, striking the elbow of his chair with his
fist. * My uncle never changed his mind. And
what I put in the will was five hundred thousand
pounds to trustees for the Free Church.'

1 Look here, Lindsay, I'll forget what you
have said just now. You did not say it.'

"' What on earth do you mean ?

Because the time may come when — your
memory may serve you better. You must
remember the fresh instructions.'

How can I remember instructions that
never were given V

1 They were given, sure enough, and you
have forgotten them.'

1 They were never given !' shouted Alec,
losing his temper.

You are very dense said Beattie, with
something like a sneer, throwing himself back
on his seat.

True ; I don't understand you said Alec
haughtily.

Beattie made no reply.

As you choose, Lindsay he said at length.
1 But I may point out to you, as a friend,
that if your uncle did not tell you to alter
the will you are in a very unfortunate
position.'

1 What do you mean V

Don't you see ? You are intrusted with
the making of a will. (It would have been
better if you had refused point-blank to have
anything to do with it ; but we can't help that
now.) And you leave out one little word, the
effect of which is that you add a quarter of a
million sterling to your own share. Who will
believe that that was done by inadvertence ?
Your uncle must have told you himself to let

the Free Church bequest be five thousand
pounds. Think, now.'

And to avoid the consequences of my
blunder — if I did commit a blunder — I am
to invent and swear to a lie,' said Alec, slowly
rising to his feet. ' I ought to kick you
downstairs ; and I would, if I were not as
weak as a cat just now. Leave the room,
sir

Lindsay, you mistake me altogether,' said
Beattie earnestly, also rising to his feet. ' I
never meant that you should invent what
never happened.'

It sounded precious like it.'

If you are certain your uncle gave you no
further instructions '

1 1 told you before, he never did,' interrupted
Alec.

1 Then you have made a very nasty blunder,
that's all ; and one that I am afraid will cost
you dear.'

I don't believe I did. Wasn't it five
hundred thousand in the draft V

1 1 never saw the draft

Why, I left it on your table to be settled,
as you told me to do.'

1 1 dare say you did ; but I have no remembrance
of seeing it. Let me think. —
That afternoon I was in the Master's chambers
till very late, and I was so fagged out that I
went and had some dinner before I went back
to the office. So, very likely, you sent off the
draft thinking I had seen it, when I had not.'

But haven't you looked for it since, this
afternoon, to see what it says V

1 1 did look for it, but I couldn't find it.'

4 Couldn't find it !' exclaimed Alec, who
was getting terribly excited. ' Did you lookin
my drawers V

1 1 looked everywhere,' said Beattie ; ' but
one of your drawers was locked. Perhaps you
put it there

I may have done so, though I don't remember
it,' said Alec. ' Unfortunately
MacGowan, who engrossed it, has gone. It
was his blunder, no doubt ; but I ought to
have noticed it, of course, for I examined it
with him.'

1 It is clear that it was in your mind that
the legacy had been reduced,' said Beattie ;
4 for when you read over the will to your uncle
you read it " five thousand pounds." '

I did not I' shouted Alec, starting to his
feet a second time. ' Who says so V

1 Your cousin, James Semple, says so.'

Then he says what is not true !'

That is very unlikely. But Dr. Mackenzie,
who was in the room, declares that you read it
five hundred thousand." '

And he speaks the truth !'

Do take care what you say, my dear
fellow,' said Beattie, after a pause. ' This is
sure to come into the courts in some shape

or other. Your cousin will swear to hearing
you read "five thousand" — at least, so Mr.
Hatchettt tells us. How dreadful for you to
accuse him of wilful and corrupt perjury !
What I believe really happened was this :
MacGowan made a mistake in copying the
will, and you unfortunately allowed it to
pass when you examined it. Then, when
you read it, you read mechanically what was
before your eyes. You are often a little
absent-minded, you know, Lindsay,' he added
with a smile.

I suppose it must have been so said Alec
at length. ' It is the only way of accounting
for it. But Dr. Mackenzie says I read it as if
it ran " five hundred thousand." '

1 Pooh, my dear Lindsay, he heard what he
wished and expected to hear. Listen to me.
Do you think it likely that if your cousin had
heard that after being his uncle's right-hand
man all these years he was to have only a

share of the residue, worth about ten thousand
pounds, he would have submitted without
saying a word V

No ; it is not likely,' said Alec thoughtfully
; ' and yet I can't help thinking that
it was "five hundred thousand" in the will,
and that I read it so.'

My dear fellow, I do want to impress this
upon you — don't be as frank with everyone
as you are with me. It might be your ruin.'

How ? What do you mean V

This Dr. Mackenzie — what sort of a man
is he V

He is an arrogant, narrow-minded old
ass.'

Is he the sort of man who would prosecute
anyone who had done him an injury V

The very man, I should say.'

4 Then I think you are in very considerable
danger.'

Danger ? Of what \ Of course I won't

touch a penny of this money, for I know my
uncle meant the Free Church to have it.'

But your cousin doesn't know it. He
may not be so ready to give up so large a
sum.'

1 Does he say so ? Have you seen him V

Not I. I haven't seen him for ever so
long. But he may not be willing to give up
his legal rights ; and if this Dr. Mackenzie and
his friends should make up their minds to
prosecute you criminally '

< What r

The shout silenced Beattie. The two men
sat looking steadily at each other.

1 Lindsay,' said Beattie at length, ' is it not
better that you should hear the truth from a
friend's lips, rather than from an enemy's ?
Look at the facts. You made an ugly blunder,
by which you stand to make a large profit.
Giving up the money will only be taken as a
confession of guilt. It cannot save you.'

vol. in. 36

■ I know you are innocent of any wrong
intention, my dear fellow,' said Beattie
warmly, after a short pause. ' Do you suppose
I would take all this trouble if I did
not know it \ But if you had been as long
in the profession as I have been, you would
understand how the most innocent man, if he
has got into a hole (as you have done), may
damage his cause by admissions — that is, by
speaking frankly to his enemies. They take
your words, and twist them into a confession
of guilt. Don't give them the chance of doing
that. When Mr. Hatchettt questions you, ashe
is sure to do, tell him the truth frankly —
say you made a blunder which you cannot
account for, that your uncle may have changed
his mind, but he said nothing of it to you —
you're sure of that, by the way V

Quite sure.'

Well, say so frankly. And say you cannot
remember reading the very words, but you

have no doubt you read the words that were
before you in the will. That is true enough,
I suppose V

I Certainly. And yet I could have sworn it
was "five hundred thousand." :

4 Then you would have followed up one
mistake by another, you see. That is only
your opinion. The will speaks for itself.'

I I cannot understand it.'

But if Dr. Mackenzie, or any stranger,
comes to ask you questions, say not one word
not one word, as you value your reputation.
Refer them to me, or to Mr. Hatchettt. Say
nothing to anybody, either of what you
thought were your uncle's intentions, or anything
else. It is your only safe course. If
the danger passes by, well and good. If it
comes to your door, I am ready to stand by
you. Can I say more V

No. You are very good, Beattie,' said
Alec half absently. ' If I have need of 



one to defend me, I am sure the case could

not be in better hands than yours.'

Thank you, Lindsay. Well, if I am to

help you, I am entitled to ask you to hold

your tongue in presence of the enemy, am I

not ? It's not what you might say that I am

afraid of. It's the construction they might

put upon it.'

Yes ; I will follow your advice, Beattie.'

1 That's right. You w T on't repent doing so,

I am sure. It's the only sensible thing to do.

And now, I see you are very tired and worried,

so I'll say good-night.'

*****

c "What a Quixotic fellow !' said Beattie to
himself, as he sat in his own room half an
hour later, and opened a certain drawer in his
writing-table. ' To give up two hundred and
fifty thousand pounds for a mere freak ! I
suppose if his uncle's will had said that the
money was to have been throw T n into the sea

he would have thought it his duty to do it.
That was practically what the old man wanted
to do. If only the young fool would have
taken my hint, and said his uncle told him he
had changed his mind, and he was to make
the Free Kirk bequest five thousand only, we
should have been perfectly safe, with, perhaps,
the help of a neat imitation of the old man's
initials on the alteration in the draft.

But he wouldn't rise to it. Some men
are like that. Curious. Well ; I very much
fear our friend may suffer for it. I'm very
sorry ; but, after all, he has only his own
obstinacy to thank for it.'

I may as well get rid of this,' he continued,
taking the draft in his hands. ' No use producing
it in court altered, if the prisoner persists
that he never was told to alter it, and
never did alter it. That seems tolerably
plain. If I thought he might change his
mind '

Beattie was holding one corner of the
document with his left hand, and the other
with his right, and he paused an instant.

1 No ; no chance of that, what he says he
will stick to ; I am certain of it.'

And at this point in his soliloquy, Mr.
Beattie tore the draft in two, and quietly
burned it to ashes.

TROUBLE DRAWS NEAR.

It may easily be believed that Alec Lindsay
passed a sleepless night after his visitor left
him. In the early morning he sent for a cab,
and drove through a choking fog to Theobald's
Road.

An old woman, sweeping out the rooms and
lighting the fires, was the only person in the
office. Alec ran to his own room, and with
feverish haste began opening drawers, and
tossing about their contents, turning over
bundles of old drafts, and peering behind the
rows of books on the bookshelves. The draft
he sought for was nowhere to be found. Then
he began a more systematic search, going carefully

over the whole ground again. Of course
it was all in vain.

By this time the clerks had begun to arrive.
He went downstairs, searched the desk which
had formerly been occupied by MacGowan, and
closely questioned all the clerks, only to learn
that none of them had seen the paper he was
seeking.

Once more he went up to his own room, and
threw himself into his chair, completely exhausted.
A fit of coughing seized him, and
when that passed away, he began to cross-examine
his memory for the fiftieth time.
Where had he put the draft ? He believed he
had followed the usual course, and placed it
with the other drafts of wills, which, as it
happened, were kept in this room. What
could have become of it % It was possible that
MacGowan had inadvertently carried it downstairs
with him, and that it had been left
there. Or it was possible that it had fallen

from the edge of his table into the wastepaper
basket. He questioned the office-keeper.
She did not remember seeing any
paper such as he described in the waste-paper
basket. It might have been there ; she could
not say after so many weeks. If it was in the
basket, no doubt she had used it to light the
fires with. She could not. in fact, say anything
about it.'

He was still speaking to the woman, when
he received a message to the effect that Mr.
Hatchettt, who had just arrived, wished to see
him.

Alec went at once to his employer's room.
He was the first to speak.

Will you be kind enough, sir, to show me
my uncle's will V

■ Certainly,' said the lawyer, after a short
pause.

He unlocked the safe, and produced the
will. With trembling hands Alec Lindsay

opened it. There were the signatures, one of
them slightly blotted. He remembered them
well. And in another moment his eyes were
riveted on the fatal words, ' the sum of five
thousand pounds.' Again he scrutinized the
signatures. Yes ; they were undoubtedly
genuine. This was the paper his uncle had
signed.

Alec folded up the document, and gave it
back to Mr. Hatchettt.

I have made a terrible blunder, sir,' he
said, in a choking voice. Then, steadying
himself, he went on : ' That bequest to the
Free Church of Scotland should have been five
hundred thousand pounds. I cannot understand
how it happened.'

You examined the will with the draft, did
you not V asked the lawyer.

I did. The fault is mine. But where is
the draft, Mr. Hatchettt V

That was just what I was going to ask

you, Mr. Lindsay,' said the solicitor, with a
faint but peculiar smile.

I have not got it

1 And I have never seen it. Where did you
put it V

With the other drafts, I imagine. But I
can't swear to that. It may have dropped off
my table into the waste-paper basket.'

1 Yes,' said the solicitor, in a doubtful tone.

Sir, you don't suppose that I made away
with it V cried Alec hotly.

No Oh dear me, no ! But it is

very unfortunate.'

This was exactly what the lawyer did
believe, however. He might have thought it
possible that the omission of the word
hundred ' had been a blunder — but for the
disappearance of the draft.

Neither spoke for a few moments. Mr.
Hatchettt thought it better, considering that
his clerk might be charged with a criminal

offence, to ask him no more questions, but
leave him to frame his defence as he thought
best. He believed the young man had yielded
to sudden temptation, and had repented of it
after destroying the tell-tale draft.

'You are not looking at all well, Mr.
Lindsay,' he said, in a not unkindly tone.
4 Indeed, you ought not to be out at all on
such a day as this. Let me advise you to go
home, and try to dismiss the subject from
your mind.'

Alec followed the former part of his advice ;
to follow the latter part of it was impossible.
The subject haunted him. To be alone with it
was unendurable ; he must take counsel with
someone ; and his thoughts naturally turned to
Hubert Blake.

In the afternoon he went to Blake's studio,
but it was empty. So Alec told the cabman
to drive to Highgate.

It was nearly dark when he arrived there,

and afternoon tea was laid in the drawings
Blake was there, and Sophy Meredith,
and an elderly lady whom Alec did not know.
This was a Miss Elmwood, who had been
installed as Sophy's companion.

The atmosphere of peace, of comfort, of
freedom from everything like care or anxiety,
was inexpressibly soothing to Alec. His
friends welcomed him warmly, though Sophy
gently reproached him, and Blake roundly told
him he was a fool, for venturing out of doors
when he was so ill.

I have something to say to you, Blake,' he
said, as soon as he could get an opportunity
of speaking aside to his friend. ' I have got
into a most horrible mess, and I want your
advice.'

Blake's face became serious in a moment.

1 You know I am entirely at your service,
Alec. If I had known you were so ill, I would
have been with you. I can't ask you to come

upstairs, for there is no fire there, and the one
in the library is very low. But in a minute or
two Miss Elmwood will go to sit with my
uncle ; she always does so at this hour ; and I
will tell Miss Meredith that we want to be left
alone.'

Oh, I don't mind her hearing what I have
to say,' said Alec ; ' I would rather she did.
The whole world will know soon enough, I
fancy,' he added bitterly.

In a few minutes the three were left alone,
and Alec told his story.

So you see the chances are that I shall be
accused of a gigantic fraud, and find myself in
the dock before long,' he said grimly in conclusion.


4 Oh, never F exclaimed Sophy. ' No one
who knows you, no one who had even seen
you, would think you capable of such a
thing !'

Alec smiled.

'The world is not so good-natured as you
are, Miss Meredith.'

Blake did not speak. He was sitting with
his elbows on his knees and his head between
his hands, studying the pattern of the carpet.

Had your cousin Semple anything to do
with the preparation of the will V he asked
suddenly.

Nothing whatever said Alec. ' He did
not even know what its contents were, and
insisted upon being in the room to hear it
read. I can't help thinking that if I really
read out "five hundred thousand pounds' as
I thought I did, he would have made a row,
instead of going quietly away.'

But the minister was there too. He would
surely have said something if you had read
five thousand," ' remarked Sophy.

One of them is lying,' said Blake decisively
; ' and, of the two, I'm afraid it is more
likely to be Semple.'

1 Beattie — that is the managing clerk at the
office — came up last night and told me all
about it,' said Alec. ' He strongly advised me
to say nothing to anyone in the meantime —
that is, anyone who might appear against
mec

That was sound advice,' said Blake. ' The
only thing that occurs to me to do is to
advertise for the man who wrote out the will.
He is sure to answer the advertisement. I
will see that this is done tomorrow. And I
will look you up in the morning, and be ready
with another surety, if necessary — you understand.'


Thank you, Blake. I never thought of
that,' said Alec, as he rose to go.

1 You must stay here to-night,' said Sophy
impulsively ; ' you must not think of going
out in this fog.'

Do,' said Blake. ' I'll send a message to
your landlady.'

But Alec would not stop. He would be
more comfortable at home, he said. They all
three went into the hall together.

'Alec, old fellow,' said Blake, putting his
hand on the young man's shoulder, 'I'm afraid
there's a hard trial in store for you. You will
meet it like a man. Don't get excited and lose
your head, and don't allow yourself to be too
much cast down. Hope for the best. Men
have had to face worse things, and have lived
through them.'

Alec grasped his friend's hand in silence.
Sophy took his left hand between her own.

You will be brave, and keep up your
courage, I know,' she said, as her eyes moistened
; ' and we will hope and pray continually
that all may yet be well.'

Oh, all right,' cried Alec, in his old cheery
voice. ■ As Blake says, men have had such
things to bear and worse ; why not I ? Goodnight.'


vol. in. 37

The touch of sympathy, the evident belief
of his friends in his integrity, the cheering
words, had made him a new creature.

But there was one house Alec wished to
visit before he sought his own solitary abode.
After a long drive he found himself at Clare -
mont Gardens. He wished to see Semple, and
learn from his own lips whether he had
actually read ' five thousand pounds ' when
he read the will to his uncle. But Semple
was, unfortunately, out. Miss Lindsay was in
bed with a cold, and Laura received Alec alone.

{ 1 suppose you have heard about this
terrible blunder I have committed,' he said,
as he took his seat.

Yes, I was in the dining-room when Mr.
Hatchettt read the will. Dr. Mackenzie seemed
to be in a great passion.'

I am utterly unable to understand how it
occurred,' said Alec ; ' I want to see Semple,
and ask him a question or two.'

Semple, however, did not come in ; and
after talking in a desultory way with Laura
for some little time, Alec rose to go.

By the way he exclaimed suddenly, ' you
read the will before it was signed ; at least,
you peeped into it, you remember. Was it
not five hundred thousand ¥

Oh, Alec !' exclaimed Laura, clasping her
hands upon her breast ; ' don't remind me
of that ! You said you would never mention
it!'

I never have mentioned it to a third
person, and I never will,' said Alec. ' But I
need not ask you how the will read. I have
seen it myself.'

I did not read it — not that part of it, at
least,' exclaimed Laura, in some confusion.
I was only anxious to see what I should have
for myself. I had no time to read it. I had
hardly time to peep into it. It is cruel, cruel
of you to remind me of such a thing !'

37—2

1 Don't say that, Laura said Alec gently.
• Don't cry. Indeed I did not mean to wound
you. I only thought that as you had seen the

will you might remember But it was

stupid of me to ask the question, for there is
no doubt what the will says. I think I am
getting a little bewildered with it all. Last
night, when Beattie — that is Mr. Hatchettt's
managing clerk, you know — told me of what I
had done, I felt as if I had been literally bewitched.
I could have sworn the will was all
right. But never mind. Good-night ; and I
hope you will forgive me for so thoughtlessly
causing you pain.'

So Laura, smiling through her tears, graciously
gave him her hand and forgave him ;
and Alec went away. As soon as the hall-door
had closed behind him, she threw herself
on the sofa and wept the bitterest tears she
had ever known.

Tired out in mind and body, Alec arrived at

his lodgings. On the table lay a piece of blue
paper, neatly folded in two. It was a summons
for him to appear at the Bow Street Police
Court at ten o'clock on the following morning
to answer charges of altering a will, and of
attempting to obtain money by false pretences.


He hardly heard the voice of the housemaid
saying, ' The man told me to give it to you as
soon as ever you come in, sir. And please,
sir,' the girl added confidentially, for Alec had
found favour in her eyes, ' I think he's not
gone far away and she nodded in the direction
of the street.

Alec went to the window, and, shading his
eyes with his hand, looked out into the darkness.
A burly fellow in plain clothes was
loitering at the opposite corner. The house
was evidently watched; and the hot blood
rushed to the young man's cheek, as he turned
away from the window.

'Thank you, Martha. That will do he
said quietly.

That night Alec felt as though the prison
door had already closed behind him.

AT THE POLICE COURT.

The plan devised by Beattie for securing a
fortune for himself and one for his fellow conspirator,
at the expense of the Free Church
of Scotland, had been skilfully devised and
boldly carried out. Its weakness was due to
a succession of unlucky circumstances which
could hardly have been foreseen, and which
neither Beattie nor James Semple could possibly
avert. The clerk's intention had been
to draw the will himself, and alter the draft,
after it came back from Mr. Lindsay, by
taking out the page in which the all-important
words appeared, and substituting a
fresh page in which the bequest to the

Free Church should be merely five thousand
pounds. He would then have examined the
draft with the engrossment along with Mac-gowan,
gone to Mr. Lindsay with it, and read
aloud ' five hundred thousand pounds,' instead
of 'five thousand.' If Mr. Lindsay had insisted
on reading the will himself, it would have
been easy to pretend that the error was
simply due to the carelessness of the clerk
who copied it ; and if necessary, he could
have slipped the original page of the draft
back into its place, and thus diverted suspicion
from himself. In any case, no one was
likely to suspect him, for he had no apparent
interest in the matter, one way or the other.
If the will were challenged after the old man's
death, it would be easy for Semple to say that
his uncle had told him to instruct the lawyer's
clerk to alter the amount, and easy for Beattie
to declare that he had called the testator's attention
to the matter when the will was signed.

The fraud seemed very easy of execution,
the only real difficulty being the necessity of
silencing MacGowan, which did not appear a
very arduous undertaking. Beattie was congratulating
himself already on his success,
when the news that Mr. Lindsay specially
desired that his nephew should prepare his
will fell on him like a thunderbolt. Should
he abandon the scheme ? Abandon a hundred
thousand pounds ! It was not to be thought
of. Was there any other method of carrying
out the fraud ? Beattie could think of none.
On the spur of the moment he told Alec
Lindsay not to send the draft to be settled
by counsel, and not to send it to the law-stationers,
hoping that some change in the old
man's plans might yet enable him to carry out
his scheme.

"While Alec was drawing the will, Beattie's
subtle brain was devising a way of overcoming
this obstacle ; and at length he hit upon the

plan of getting hold of MacGowan while he
was half tipsy, and making him copy the will
over again. MacGowan would probably forget
next day what he had done in a state of semi-intoxication
; but to make sure, he would give
him money and send him out of the country.

The strong point of the new scheme was
that it involved no risk till the last moment.
If it had been found impracticable to substitute
the altered will (which Beattie had in his
pocket when he went to Claremont Gardens
for the second time) for the true one, before
the latter was signed, no one could possibly
tell that the attempt had been made.

The weak point of the plan was the difficulty
of effecting the substitution. After long
deliberation, Beattie came to the conclusion
that the thing was quite practicable.

Clearly, Alec Lindsay's attention must be
diverted by some matter of sufficient importance,
at the critical moment ; and Beattie

partly arranged and partly invented an excuse
for seeking him at Mr. Lindsay's house, and
making him write an affidavit then and there.
Semple, he thought, might insist upon being
present while the will was being executed on
the score of jealousy of his cousin. He had
only to lower the blind, and draw it up again,
to make Beattie (who was waiting in a cab at
the corner of the street) come upon the scene.
Alec, Beattie argued, was certain at least to
come downstairs and see him. He would
either leave the will upstairs in his uncle's
bedroom, or bring it down with him — probably
he would leave it upstairs. Semple was to be
in the library when Beattie was shown into it,
ready to take the false will from his confederate,
and leave the room before Alec
entered it. He was then to go upstairs, and
try to effect the exchange. If he failed, he
failed, and no harm was done. If he found
that the will was not there, he was to go back

at once to the library, and hand the false will
back to Beattie, who was to change one
document for the other, while Alec Lindsay
was busy with the affidavit.

Everything had been provided for ; and
everything was carried out according to the
conspirators' plans, except that James Semple,
instead of fetching the will which Alec had
read from his uncle's room, prevailed upon
Laura (who had her own reason for wishing to
know its contents) to get it and bring it to
him. The girl imagined that she was merely
helping her lover to ascertain how his uncle
had devised his property. Semple, of course,
had changed the true will for the false one, ashe
pretended to read the former at the 
window. When Laura asked him
afterwards what he had learned, he replied :

I couldn't make much of it. I think I
shall have a good large sum ; but I couldn't be
sure that I understood their lawyer's jargon.'

Beattie had not forgotten that on him
devolved the responsibility of Alec Lindsay's
defence. Thinking it wise to take time by
the forelock, he went down to the Temple on
the afternoon of the day after the will was
read, and made his way to the chambers of
Mr. Abel Corker. Mr. Corker's practice lay
chiefly in the Bankruptcy Court, but he had
seen a good deal of criminal business in his
time, and Mr. Beattie was satisfied that he
could not intrust young Lindsay's interests to
more capable hands than his.

Passing through a very narrow lane, the
lawyer's clerk turned into a doorway in an old
building, the bricks of which were black with
soot. The sides of the doorway were adorned
with fifty or sixty names belonging to men
learned in the law. Glancing at these to
assure himself of being right, Beattie ascended
a dark old-fashioned staircase, till he reached
the third floor, and stopped at a door embellished

with half a dozen names in black
letters, and a small knocker.

Mr. Beattie had no sooner rapped than the
door was suddenly opened by a small boy who
precipitated himself into the aperture, as if
determined to block the way until due cause
for admittance had been shown.

1 Can I see Mr. Corker ? I want a consultation,'
said the visitor, plunging his hand
into his trousers-pocket.

Without speaking a word, the-boy led the
way into a corner of the passage, boxed off so
as to form a clerk's room. This cheerful
apartment contained a table and a gas-jet ;
and the boy watched the stranger in silence
as he deposited the regulation sum, one pound
six shillings, upon the table. Then, still
without uttering a syllable, he went into the
passage, and pulled open a door.

Mr. Corker had just come across the street
from the Law Courts and had not yet divested

himself of his wig and gown. He was standing
with his back to the fire, his gown carefully
tucked under one arm to save it from
being scorched — a needless precaution, as no
scorching could make it browner than it was
already. His wig, very black, and very much
battered, was awry ; and his bands looked as
if he had forgotten to take them off when he
went to bed the night before.

Seeing his visitor, Mr. Corker grunted, left
off stroking his chin, and held out two dirty
fingers. Mr. Beattie bowed, totally ignoring
the fingers, and seated himself without waiting
for an invitation to do so.

1 1 am managing clerk in the firm of
Hatchettttt, Small, and Hatchettttt,' he began ;
and went straight on with his story, telling,
of course, only what was known to Mr.
Hatchettt and to Alec himself.

Mr. Corker's keen black eyes were turned
full upon the speaker; and as he concluded

a benevolent grin overspread the old barrister's
sallow features.

Very neat — very pretty — very pretty
indeed,' he said. ' This Mr. Lindsay must bea
young man of ability. It was not expected,
I suppose, that the Scotch minister should be
present at the reading of the will V

1 1 should think not said Mr. Beattie, with
a smile.

And what do they charge him with, eh V

6 They have not had time to charge him
yet ; but I thought it better to make you
acquainted with the facts, so that '

Mr. Beattie stopped, for Mr. Corker was
not listening to him. With one hand still
holding up the tails of his gown, and the
other caressing the lower part of his face,
Mr. Corker was promenading the room, quite
oblivious to all but the workings of his own
brain.

And the draft's lost V he asked suddenly.

1 It cannot be found,' said Mr. Beattie
gravely.

That's a mistake. It ought to be found,'
said Mr. Corker sharply.

1 I'm afraid it cannot be found,' replied Mr.
Beattie, and the barrister recommenced his
promenade without paying any more attention
to his visitor.

Seeing this, Beattie quietly left the room,
and after impressing upon the silent clerk the
necessity of despatching his master in a hansom
to Bow Street Police Court immediately
on receiving a telegram, he took his departure.


Next morning Beattie had a note from
Alec, posted the night before, telling him of
the summons ; and in consequence of the
managing clerk's forethought, Alec found his
counsel awaiting him when he arrived at Bow
Street.

The magistrate had not yet taken his seat,

vol. in. 38

and there was time for a short interview.
Etiquette did not require that Mr. Corker
should appear in an inferior court such asa
police court in professional costume ; and
this was a pity, for if the barrister had
seemed but a faded flower in his wis; and
gown, he looked positively disreputable without
them.

On his part Mr. Corker regarded Alec with
,. considerable interest, very much as an R.A.
might look on a young artist who had shown
unusual talent.

'There's just one thing I want to say to
you, Mr. Corker said Alec hurriedly. ' I am
convinced now that I made a gross blunder
in preparing the will. I could not believe it
at first ; but I see that I must have done so,
and I suppose I must suffer for my carelessness.
Whether, in reading the will, I read
what was really there, or what I thought was
there, I don't know.'

As Alec had been speaking, Mr. Corker kept
looking at him with a curious, half-amused,
half admiring expression in his beady black
eyes ; and when the young man ended his
speech he turned slowly away, without
answering a word, and began to tell an
interesting story to the counsel on the
other side. This was Mr. Champneys, a
middle-aged man, with a hard, keen face,
finely-cut features, and firmly-set thin lips.^
Mr. Champneys wore well-made clothes and
fine linen, and looked like a gentleman.
Everything about him was absolutely correct,
everything he said was clearly yet cautiously
expressed. He sat with unmoved features
listening to Mr. Corker's anecdote, when a
sudden bustle in the region of the bench
announced the arrival of Mr. Mallison, the
magistrate. The two barristers and the half-dozen
solicitors who were present stood up ;
and as Mr. Mallison slowly made his way to

38—2

his chair, Mr. Corker placed his hand over his
mouth, and delivered the point of his story
into Mr. Champneys' ear, much to that
gentleman's disgust.

Alec was sitting beside Beattie at the
solicitors' table. He glanced behind him.
The court was filled with frowsy women and
beetle-browed men, the friends of the prisoners
who were presently to appear in the dock,
with here and there the tall form of a policeman.
A few respectable-looking people were
sitting in front ; but the majority of those
present evidently belonged to the criminal
classes ; and the unmistakable, sickening
odour peculiar to such a crowd filled the
air.

Are these the men with whom T am to
live for the future V said Alec to himself, asa
shudder passed over him.

But the magistrate had arranged his papers,
and was now ready to begin.

1 Are you two gentlemen in the same case V
he asked, with a glance at the two counsel.

1 believe so,' said Mr. Champneys.

1 Then we'll take your case first,' answered
Mr. Mallison.

This w T as not pure good-nature on the
magistrate's part. He knew Mr. Corker welland
was anxious to get him out of the court
as soon as possible.

Then Mr. Champneys rose, and ' opened
the case.' Alec's eyes wandered to a kind
of box fitted with pews at one side of the
bench. Half a dozen men and boys were
sitting there, writing as fast as their pencils
would go.

These are the reporters,' thought Alec ;
1 tomorrow morning my shame will be in
every man's mouth.'

As succinctly as he could, Mr. Champneys
detailed the facts.

I shall only ask for a remand to-day,' he

said in conclusion, ' as the documents we rely
upon are not yet in our hands. Call the
Eeverend Dr. Mackenzie.'

Mr. Corker grinned, and looked the magistrate
straight in the face.

1 1 may save the court some trouble,' he
said, rising. l The will is here. The draft
seems to have been destroyed as wastepaper.
Messrs. Hatchettt's managing clerk is here ;
and he will tell you, sir, that he has searched
everywhere for it, and it cannot be found.
But to my mind that is of little importance.
My client is accused of altering a will. Here
is the will. It is evident on the face of it
that it has not been altered.'

A long wrangle followed upon this point ;
and eventually the magistrate decided that
he could not commit the defendant upon the
charge of altering the will.

At least, sir,' said Mr. Champneys, ' as
the defendant would have gained largely by

the fraud, had it not been detected, there
was an attempt to obtain money by the false
pretence, made in reading the will to his
uncle, that the words in the will were " five
hundred thousand pounds." '

Another wrangle ensued upon this point,
Mr. Corker arguing, with much scorn of his
opponent's contentions, that no attempt had
yet been made by the accused to get the
money, that it could only be obtained from
the executors, whereas the alleged false pretence
had been made to the testator, and so
forth.

After half an hour's argument, Mr. Mallison
came to the conclusion that he could not commit
the defendant for trial upon that charge,
any more than he could upon that of altering
the will ; and Mr. Corker, muttering his
satisfaction, began to fold up the sheet of
paper which had done duty as his brief.

Dr. Mackenzie was amazed, bewildered,

shocked. Was the culprit going to escape
after all ? Was he not to be allowed even
to tell his story to the magistrate 1 He tried
to speak to his solicitor ; but the solicitor
would not listen. He stood up, and laying
his hand on his counsel's arm, whispered :

1 It was the draft he altered, not the
will.'

Pardon me, sir,' said Mr. Champneys to
the magistrate, after a moment's thought ;
it is at least clear that the defendant can
be indicted for altering the draft (which
would in the circumstances be forgery), and
for uttering the forged draft.'

There's nothing about forgery, or uttering
a forged draft here,' said Mr. Corker, with an
angry frown, waving the summons in the face
of the bench.

True ; but now I apply for a summons.
Perhaps your worship would order that it be
served at once,' and Mr. Champneys glanced

in Alec's direction with a look that was both
uneasy and insulting.

Before Mr. Corker could intervene, Alec
sprang to his feet.

I am perfectly willing that the summons
should be issued and heard now,' he cried.

Mr. Corker turned upon him with a scowl.
Mr. Mallison regarded him gravely over the
top of his spectacles.

You have no objection, I suppose, Mr.
Corker,' said the magistrate.

The barrister growled something by way
of reply, as he turned to confer with Beattie.

Seems as if he rather wanted to be locked
up whispered Mr. Corker.

I fancy the charge must be heard sometime.
We gain nothing by delay,' said Beattie,
in a low tone.

Mr. Corker gravely unfolded his pro forma
brief, and placed it before Mr. Beattie, with
his finger laid impressively on the title of

that document. The other smiled, and, taking
up a pen, added the words, 'For Forgery
and Uttering a Forged Draft — Mr. Corker —
five guineas.' This little point having been
satisfactorily settled, the new charge was
formally made, and Dr. Mackenzie had the
satisfaction of telling his story in the witness-box.


His evidence was evidently that of an
honest man, and it told fatally against Alec.
Mr. Corker fairly earned his fresh fee, bullying
the witness, the counsel for the prosecution,
and the magistrate impartially, and
loudly contending that as the draft was lost,
the evidence was totally iu sufficient to convict
the defendant.

But Mr. Mallison, like many men who have
no great strength of mind, was obstinate. He
was convinced that a gigantic fraud had been
attempted, and he was resolved that the case
should go before a jury. Besides, he was

getting angry at Mr. Corker's scornful tone
and arrogant manner.

1 There,' he said, as he signed the warrant
of commitment ; ' he's fully committed. I
suppose you will now conclude your argument,
Mr. Corker V

The barrister dashed the book he was quoting
from on the table before him.

I apply that the defendant may be admitted
to bail,' he said. ' I am prepared with bail to
any reasonable amount.'

The magistrate shook his head.

1 I know Mr. Lindsay well. I will become
his bail for twenty thousand pounds,' said a
voice from the body of the court.

Alec's pale face flushed with pleasure. It
was Blake who had spoken.

But Mr. Mallison had once more made up
his mind, and was now immovable.

Who are you, sir ? The defendant has
one counsel, and that is enough,' he said to

Blake. ' The case is too important to admit
of my considering the question of bail,' he
added. ' Half a million sterling, I think you
said, Dr. Mackenzie V
4 Half a million, sir
Couldn't think of bail for a moment.'
Mr. Champneys gathered up his books and
papers. Mr. Corker, very much disgusted
with the turn matters had taken, pushed his
way out of court. A policeman touched Alec
Lindsay on the shoulder and led him away.

alec's friends visit him.

It was not until the evening of the following
day that a letter from Hubert Blake arrived
at the Castle Farm. Alec himself had not
written ; for Blake had assured him that he
would write at once, and would sa r all that
was necessary.

As soon as Alec's father opened the letter
and read its opening words, Margaret, who
was watching him, saw a change come into
his face. She dropped her work and clasped
her hands, nerving herself for the bad news
which she was sure had come.

The letter was a very long one, and took
several minutes to read. Still Margaret

waited, without speaking. Suddenly the old
man's arm dropped by the side of his chair,
and he uttered a sound which was half a
moan, half an inarticulate wail.

What is it, father V cried Margaret, springing
to his side. ' Something dreadful has
happened. Oh ! what is it V

Her father gazed at her with stony features,
without uttering a word.

1 Only tell me, father ! Something is wrong
with Alec. Is he ill V

1 Worse than that, my girl,' said the old
man, almost in a whisper.

1 Dead — is he dead ? He cannot be
dead.'

'It is worse than that,' said Mr. Lindsay,
in a louder tone.

He has '

The words failed to come.

He conquered his emotion, and spoke them
with a cold, cruel distinctness.

1 He has stolen — or tried to steal — his
uncle's money. He is in prison.'

For a moment Margaret's heart stood still.
Then she seized Blake's letter, which was
lying on the floor, and began to read it.

The old man sat gazing into the fire without
speaking.

But he may be innocent !' cried Margaret
suddenly. 'Mr. Blake does not believe him
guilty. See ; he says — " Of course I do not
for one moment believe " '

Of course he says that interrupted her
father impatiently. ' That is only his polite
way of speaking.'

But he cannot be guilty.'

None of us know what we may do till the
temptation comes, Margaret. Besides, it is
too clear. Your uncle imagined he was
leaving all this money to the Free Church.
Alec made him think he was doing so by
reading the will wrongly. Dr. Mackenzie has

sworn that he heard him do so with his own
ears.'

But James Semple says '

I noticed that said Mr. Lindsay coldly.
Don't you see, they would divide this immense
sum of money between them ? I
would not take Semple's word, in such a case,
against that of a man like Dr. Mackenzie.'

1 Are you going to London, father V asked
the girl, after a pause.

Ay ; I suppose so. In the morning.'

You will let me go with you V

'Nonsense, girl. Of what use could you
be?'

Not much, perhaps ; but we would be
company for each other. Oh, father ! I
can't stay here by myself f

And the old man yielded a somewhat
grudging consent.

Late on the following afternoon they
arrived in London. Blake had obtained

from his uncle permission to invite them
both to Highgate in the first instance, an
invitation which Mr. Lindsay was very unwilling
to accept. He wished to go
hotel, but Margaret overruled him.

'They will perhaps be offended if we don't
go; and we need only stay one night,' she
said.

Old Mr. Blake found it convenient to have one
of his 'attacks as he rather vaguely called
them, and thus avoided his guests entirely,
Hubert was anxious to make some return for the
kindness he had received at Castle Farm ; butin
spite of his efforts there was a constraint on
the little party which nothing could dissipate.
Mr. Lindsay looked and spoke very much as
usual, except that he was very pale, and there
was a stern formality in his manner which forbade
any nearer approach. His rough northern
accents sounded harsh and forbidding to the
southern ears of his new acquaintances.

vol. in. 39

As for Sophy, her colour heightened a little
when she was told that Margaret would
accompany her father, and would, for one
night at least, be a guest under Mr. Blake's
roof. She was anxious to see what the girl
was like who had captivated Hubert's affections
— for she felt sure that something of the
kind had occurred. Margaret's cold pale face,
her severe beauty, her low measured tones,
took the English girl by surprise.

She is dressed like a housekeeper,' was
Sophy's first thought. ' But how self-possessed
she is, how — how unlike anyone I have ever
seen was her second.

Margaret, in spite of her country-made
dress and her utter want of ' style was in noway
ridiculous. Her calm proud eyes surveyed
her hostess, till Sophy felt, somehow,
that she was the smaller and weaker creature
of the two, and instinctively turned to Hubert
for sympathy and protection.

Before Mr. Lindsay went upstairs for the
night Blake tried to say a word about
Alec, whose name had never crossed his
father's lips.

• I think it will be better, Mr. Blake, if we
leave that subject entirely alone for the presents
said the old man sternly.

Blake flushed and bit his lip, but made no
reply.

Is it possible that he believes Alec to be
guilty V he said to himself afterwards, with a
curious look at his guest's face.

If was true. The laird was not a man to
take an imaginative view of things. He
looked simply at the facts, and in them he
read his son's condemnation. As for the faith
that can go beyond ' facts,' the faith that considers
a man's character to be the most important
of all facts, that can accept a gesture
of denial as more potent evidence than the
words of many witnesses, he would have

39—2

looked upon such a thing as childish folly.
His son had been tempted, probably by
Semple. He had been without true religious
principle ; and he had fallen. The disgrace
was indelible ; it was overwhelming. For
him no more would the sun shine, or the
trees put forth their leaves. His gray hairs
would indeed go down with sorrow to the
grave.

There was this to be said for him, that he
had never known his son. The two natures
were in many points absolutely unlike. Their
sympathies were diverse. Alec had often
abstained from expressing his true opinions,
but the old man had nevertheless been quite
aware that they were in many instances the
antipodes of his own. Confidence between
them would in any case have been difficult ;
and events had made it almost impossible.
Alec perhaps did his father less than justice,
and the old man felt bitterly that any one of

Ales chance acquaintances knew his son
better than he did himself.

It was a relief to everyone when the
travellers retired. Sophy, as she sought her
couch, could think of no one but Margaret.

An iceberg ! A positive iceberg 1' she
exclaimed to herself, as she sat crouching
over the tiny fire in her bedroom. ' Even
her brother's trouble does not seem to move
her in the least. Ah ! if I had had such a
brother ! And Hubert — can he really love
her ? If it had been anyone worthy of him,
anyone who could understand and return his
warm affection, I should have been '

Here Sophy's candle suddenly went out,
and her reflections ended in a sigh.

Meanwhile, Alec's naturally buoyant spirits
had not failed him. As he told himself over
and over again, he had acted like a fool, with
a most culpable want of care, and it was only
natural and fitting that he should suffer for it.

As for the confinement, the cold of his cell,
the mean surroundings, the distasteful food,
that mattered little. The disgrace was the
worst of it.

1 My poor father will feel it terribly he said
to himself. ' And even if by some accident I
am acquitted, will men believe me innocent ?
How can I hope to rise to a high place in the
world's estimation after this ? Twenty years
hence someone will say — There was some
queer story about a will, wasn't there ? He
was accused of tampering with one, and he
was tried at the Old Bailey. I know
that.'

This was the thought which chilled him,
and nearly broke down his courage. His
liberty might be regained ; wealth might come
in future years ; but his good name, more
precious than all — was not that irretrievably
gone ?

This gloomy thought was in his mind one

morning, when his cell-door suddenly opened,
and his father appeared, with Margaret behind
him.

Alec sprang from his seat, and rushed forward
with outstretched hands.

Father!' he cried.

But the old man had advanced a step or
two, and now stood looking at his son
immovably, his hands resting on the top
of his stick.

Unhappy boy !'

Alec drew back, his eyes blazing with indignation,
unable to speak.

Margaret was seized with a fit of sobbing.
It was the only sound in the cell.

And you believe that I did that V asked
Alec at length, frowning as he spoke.

The lad's look and words almost shook the
old man's opinion. Alec seemed to be taking
the part of the accuser.

• 1 believe the oath of God's minister

answered Mr. Lindsay. ' Do you — dare you,
deny it V

'Deny it!' echoed the boy, as, turning his
back, he looked up at the grated window of
his cell.

It was well that his father could not seethe
look of contempt which was then on his
face.

Speak, sir ! Do you deny your guilt to
your own father V cried the old man.

The lad's manner was irritating him past
endurance. Alec did not answer at once, and
Margaret stepped forward.

Only say you did not intend to do anything
wrong, Alec she said, laying her hand
on her brother's arm.

Why should I say it, when I would not be
believed, Maggie V he said in a softer tone.
1 We had better not say any more about
it. I am sorry you should have had such a
long journey in winter for nothing he continued,

addressing his father. * Won't you sit
down V

The old man looked at his son without
speaking. Was it possible that he could bespeaking
the truth ? No ; he told himself.
It was not possible. And if so, what a
consummate hypocrite, what an impudent
scoundrel, had the young man become ! And
yet he was his son.

The interview lasted a few minutes longer ;
but nothing further was said on the subject of
Alec's guilt or innocence, till the visitors were
on the point of leaving the cell.

{ Alec,' said the laird in a softer tone than
he had yet spoken in, ' if you cannot confess
to me, you may at least confess to God. If
we confess our sins, you know, He is faithful
and just to forgive us our sins. But if any
restitution is possible it must be made, else
there can be no forgiveness. — Come, Margaret,
I think we had better be going now.'

And the old man turned to leave the cell, a
hundred-fold more sad at heart than he had
been when he entered it.

Alec stood still, in cold but respectful
silence. Margaret, as soon as his back was
turned, threw one arm round her brother's
neck ; but he did not respond to her embrace.


And you, Maggie ? Do you believe this
of me ?'

Not — not if you say you did not intend todo
wrong, Alec. But if you had done it, I
would have loved you all the same,' she said
in a hurried whisper.

Thank you, Maggie. But — never mind.
Good-bye for to-day. Don't let father come
again, if you can help it.'

In another moment they were gone.

So even Maggie did not quite believe in
him. She was not sure. She was balancing
probabilities.

And who will believe in my innocence, if
my own father does not V he cried aloud,
when he found himself alone.

Who indeed ? Alec saw, as he had not
seen before, the cruel strength of the very
accusation to blast his life. Henceforth an
honourable distinction was impossible for him.
In a moment the ambition which, vague as
its shape had been, had been the life-blood
of his soul, perished within him. He saw the
years stretch out before him, without hope of
any second spring. His love was wrecked ;
his good name was gone ; and, worst of all,
there was nothing to live for.

All at once he burst into a wild fit of
laughter.

The gaoler came and opened his cell-door
to see what was the matter.

1 It's a queer world this, isn't it, turnkey
V

None the less queer for having you in
it,' said the man, as he shut the door with
a bang, and made the heavy bolts fall into
their sockets.

MISGIVINGS.

Meantime, James Semple's conscience had
been making him very miserable. It was
not the fraud that troubled him. He had
long since made up his mind that to prevent
his uncle's unnatural intentions from being
carried out was a very venial offence. Nor
was it merely Alec's incarceration. That, he
thought, would be amply compensated by the
quarter of a million which would fall to his
share as one of the residuary legatees. Alec's
fortune, in fact, would be twice as large as his
own ; and it was only fair that he should take
his share of the inconveniences which were
inseparable from the securing of it.

But if his cousin should be convicted, and
sentenced to a long term of penal servitude,
Semple knew that he would feel very uncomfortable
indeed. Yet, he argued, Alec would
certainly have himself to thank if that was the
result. If he had chosen to take Beattie's
hint, and declare that his uncle, before he died,
had privately told him that he had changed
his mind, and wished to leave the bulk of his
money to his two nephews, all would have
been well, and Dr. Mackenzie might have
raged as much as he pleased, without being
able to do any harm. It was Alec's inability
to explain the discrepancy between the will
as it stood and his uncle's known intentions
which formed the real strength of the prosecution.


It would be very sad if Alec were convicted
in consequence of his own obstinacy, but it
would be still more sad, it would be a quite intolerable
calamity, if anything should happen

to Mr. James Semple. And in spite of Beattie's
assurances, he felt far from secure. He
was horrified to find that Alec was actually
in prison before he had heard that criminal
proceedings had been thought of. If the
fraud were discovered, what would be his
fate?

4 1 say, Beattie,' he said to his friend one
day, ' I almost think I'll take a voyage to
California, or somewhere, and stay there till
this affair has been thoroughly forgotten.
You could remit my share of the proceeds,
couldn't you V

Beattie looked at him curiously.

I might. But I should be much more
likely to remit a detective officer.'

What !' cried the other with a white,
scared face. ' You don't mean that you would
turn traitor, do you V

I mean that you would turn traitor if you
bolted just now. Donec you see that it would

make everybody believe that you had done
something, and that you were afraid you would
be found out ? Besides, we need your evidence
for your cousins trial.'

Semple muttered something to the effect
that Alec's trial could get on very well without
him.

But you don't think they can convict him V
he said aloud.

4 Corker says he thinks he can get him off,
and he's the best criminal lawyer in the
country,' answered Beattie tranquilly. ' But
you mustn't talk of a trip to America,' he
added, with a meaning look. t If you do,
you will never see one penny of your uncle's
money. I'll see to that.'

- Oh ; I was only joking, of course,' said the
other, as he took his leave.

Semple was still living at Claremont Gardens,
and he made his way thither that day, after
parting from his companion.

As lie opened the door with his latch-key,
Laura met him in the hall.

1 Oh, James,' she whispered to him, ' Margaret
Lindsay has come up to town ; and
she is in the drawing-room now, with your
aunt. She is waiting on purpose to see
you.'

Semple mattered an oath between his teeth,
as he very deliberately took off his overcoat ;
and Laura glided back to the drawing-room.


1 No, my dear,' Miss Lindsay was saying
when she entered ; ' nothing will ever make
me believe such a thing o' Alec. If your
feather has his toots, as ye seem to think, he
has less gumption than I died him credit for.
Hoots ! The thing's perfectly ridiculous !'
exclaimed the old lady, smoothing away
imaginary crumbs from her lap as she
spoke.

Margaret felt more cheered by this speech
vol. in. 40

than she had been since the blow had fallen ;
and at that moment Semple entered the
room.

How do you do, Maggie ?' he said, going
up to her in a hurried way, and shaking herby
the hand. ' I didn't know you had come
up. Almost a pity, I think ; for this scrape,
I mean this ridiculous accusation they have
made against your brother, is a matter of no
real moment. It is only a temporary — inconvenience,
you know.'

The three women were listening to him in
silence, and somehow his words sounded hollow
and unreal, even to himself.

Margaret felt hurt that her wound should
thus be openly probed and commented on, and
she made no reply.

1 Then you think that Mr. Alec Lindsay is
in no real — danger V asked Laura timidly.

Semple turned to her almost gratefully.

Not the least in the world,' he said

eagerly. ' I have just seen B Mr. — a

the lawyer, you know, and he feels quite
sure about it.'

1 Oh, I am so glad !' exclaimed Laura.
Then there was a pause.
There is just one question I should like to
ask you, James,' said Margaret.
Semple's heart sank within him.
J When Alec read over the will, did he read
the bequest "five thousand" or "five hundred
thousand " pounds V

Five thousand,' said Semple promptly.
1 Are you sure f asked Margaret, her large
eyes steadily regarding him.
1 I'll take my oath of it.'
1 But Alec says, I understand, that he
either said, or meant to say, "five hundred
thousand." '

4 There's no doubt he read it as it stands
five thousand — and I heard him,' persisted
Semple. * But there seems to have been a

40—2

mistake of some sort. I don't profess to
understand it myself.'

Umph said Miss Lindsay.

Let us hope for the best, dear Margaret
I may call you Margaret, as I did in the
old days, mayn't I V said Laura, when Margaret
rose to go. ' And you will let me help
you to look for rooms, won't you V

But Margaret was in no mood to accept
civilities. She thanked Laura rather coolly,
and went away, declining her cousin's offer to
escort her to Highgate.

Have you been to see Alec, James ?' asked
Miss Lindsay, when Margaret had gone.

Now this was what Semple had not been
able to bring himself to do.

Not yet,' he said sullenly. ' He doesn't
want a lot of people bothering round him.
At least, if I were in his place I wouldn't.'

'If you were in his place ' repeated the

old lady, as if she were not thinking of her

words, as she turned and slowly left the
room.

Semple shuddered, and watched her curiously
till the door closed behind her.

James,' said Laura suddenly, ' you remember
one night, before my uncle died, you
asked me to watch what he did with a paper
that had come from the lawyers. What was
in that paper ? Had it anything to do with
the will ¥

What paper ? Oh, I remember now. No ;
nothing in the world.'

Laura had purposely put her question in
this shape.

1 James, you are not telling me the truth,'
she said, looking at him steadily. ' You gave
me to understand at the time that it had todo
with it.'

You are quite mistaken,' cried Semple,
greatly alarmed.

It was the manner of his denial which the

clever girl had wished to observe ; and what
she saw satisfied her that she had been right
in her guess about the paper.

'My uncle put it in his desk,' she said
slowly, ' and I told you how to take the desk
out of the room. Did you get the paper?
What did you do with it? Did you burn
it?

« No— no ! What makes you imagine such
things V

1 1 believe you did burn it. Come now !'
she said, laughing.

Semple laughed a little too, and looked
furtively at his companion, as she sat looking
into the fire. Laura turned round sharply,
and caught his glance, smiled to herself, and
gracefully changed the subject.

Seeing that the danger had gone by, Semple
ventured to take her hand. Laura quietly
withdrew it.

What's the matter, Laura V

Nothing.'

Why do you treat me like that V

1 How else should I treat you V

Aren't we two engaged V

Not that I know of.'

1 But. we are cried Semple, catching her
wrist.

Indeed you are mistaken,' said the girl,
throwing off his grasp. * You asked me, I
know.'

And you accepted me.'

I have not made up my mind about it
yet.'

Upon my word !'

His astonishment prevented his saying
more. Suddenly a thought occurred to him,
which stung him like a serpent.

1 Oh, I suppose that means that you have
heard.'

Heard what V

1 That Alec Lindsay is a residuary legatee

as well as I.' In a moment he saw that he
had made a great mistake. She had not
known it before. But he was too angry to
think of what he said. ' If the poor fellow
escapes penal servitude, that is,' said he, with a
sneer.

Laura Meredith rose and drew a step nearer
to the smiling, mocking face before her. She
could gladly have struck it. Then she moved
away again, while the smile died from Semple's
face ; and without uttering another word, she
walked out of the room.

Semple, in a rage, went off to his club,
banging the door behind him ; and Laura, as
soon as she saw that the coast was clear,
slipped back to the drawing-room fire (for,
cat-like, she dearly loved a good blaze), and
sat down to think.

So Alec, if he was not found guilty, was to
be rich after all — as rich as his cousin ! What
a good thing it was that she had not committed

herself definitely to Semple ! But Alec
would he ever come back to her % She
remembered only too well the look in his face
when he met her outside Mr. Lindsay's bedroom
door with the will in her haud.

Yet, if he w T ere the victim of a plot, and if
she were to deliver him from the snare in
which he had been taken, surely gratitude
would make him turn to her then ! And she
would be a good wife to him ; faithful, and
true, and loving. How happy they might be !
And the girl's eyes softened as the idea crossed
her mind.

He must be set free, and she must do it.
He was innocent. She had never doubted
that. (Curiously enough, this girl had judged
Alec better than his own father had done.)
How had he been involved ? Had he really
made a mistake % Or was there some conspiracy
on foot ?

Laura went the right way to work. She

did not stop to consider the difficulties of the
case, but went straight to motives. If there
was a plot on foot, Semple was concerned in
it. She felt sure of that.

Why had he been so anxious to get hold of
that paper ? She believed he had burned
it.

Then, why had he wanted to see the will,
when (as she afterwards learned) he had been
in the room while it was read ? Had he made
any alteration in it ? No. She felt certain
there had been no time for anything of that
kind. If he had even bent down to write in
it, she must have seen him doing it. He had
only stood at the window with it in his hand
reading it. Besides, if he had altered the
writing in any way, the alteration must have
been noticed.

The girl's subtle mind was at fault. She
could see no clue to the plot which, she felt
certain, existed.

Suddenly she remembered the conversation
between Semple and a stranger, which she had
partly overheard at the railway-station. ' Weare
not out of the wood yet the stranger had
said ; and ' he must not be there when the
will is read, on any account.' Who must not
be there % Not Alec, surely. Dr. Mackenzie ?
Why 1 Clearly, that he might not be able to
say what Alec had read.

So much seemed clear ; but still there was
no explanation of the fact that Alec had failed
to carry out his uncle's instructions. Ponder
over it as she might, the girl could not solve
the mystery.

But suppose I were to write to Alec and
tell him all this,' she said to herself, ' or tell
some friend of his, Mr. Blake, for example, and
get him to tell the lawyer ; he might be able
to put the pieces of the puzzle together. If
they have made up some plot and allowed the
blame to fall on Alec, what a shame !' And

again a pleased look came into her face as she
remembered how Alec's gratitude, if she were
the means of establishing his innocence, would
surely bring him once more to her side.

But — how could she have overlooked it ?
She could never tell this. She had made herself
one of the conspirators. How could she
confess that she had kept a watch on the old
man, and told his nephew where his private
papers were to be found ? Could she tell
openly that she had smuggled his will out of
his room before it was signed, and had given it
to Semple to read ? She might find herself in
the dock instead of Alec, accused of — she knew
not what. Who would believe that she had
done these things innocently, when she could
give no good reason for doing them at all %

Was she going to risk standing her trial

with Semple, and \ She shuddered, shook

her head, and crept upstairs to her own room.
She dared not tell.

BEFORE THE TRIAL.

Well, old fellow, how are you getting on V

Alec turned on the rough bed which served
him for a couch in the daytime, and saw
Hubert Blake.

Not getting on at a particularly fast pace
just at presents said Alec, as he got up and
shook hands with his friend.

1 You're keeping up your spirits, I hope V

I do my best.'

I How do you amuse yourself V

I I got the doctor to lend me an old thunder.
I find nothing like algebra for
making the time pass — that is, if you try to
find out something of it for yourself.'

What have you got here ¥ asked Blake,
who had strolled up to a corner where a card
was hanging.

1 Only an almanac.'

'And you're ticking off the days, I see.
Are you counting up to the ¥

The day of my trial — yes,' said Alec, looking
as if he wished that his friend had not
been so observant.

Are you so anxious for it to come off?'
asked Blake, sitting down on the edge of the
bed.

I Yes. Naturally I want to know the
worst.'

I I was talking with your lawyer friend
yesterday. He seems certain that you will be
acquitted.'

An acquittal would not set things right.'

< what r

Don't you see that whether I am convicted
or not is a thing that affects only my liberty

and my personal comfort ? If I am acquitted
it will probably be by some of those legal
arguments which Mr. Corker used before the
magistrate. They may be sound or unsound ;
it doesn't matter one straw. How far does
an acquittal of that kind go to clear one's
character V

Blake murmured something vague and deprecatory.


1 Or it may be that the jury may " give me
the benefit of the doubt." Will that set me
right with the world? No, Blake. My life
is ended, almost before it has begun.'

Don't say that, Lindsay. At the worst
you can emigrate, and '

And hide myself. Yes, to be sure. I
could do that.'

I'll tell you what I wish you would do forme,
' said Alec, after a pause. * Get my father
to go back to Scotland. He cannot possibly
do me any good. He • Alec stopped

and bit his lip. He was ashamed to say that
his father believed him guilty.

It is natural for him to wish to be here
began Blake.

He comes here and preaches at me,' said
Alec. ' I dare say he means very well ; but I
really cannot stand it. I think it is taking
a mean advantage of circumstances, for I can't
run away, and I can't very well tell him to
leave me alone.'

I Can't you listen in patience V

'You see, I've got the chaplain on to me
too.'

I I used to think you were rather fond of
religious discussions,' said Blake maliciously.

Alec laughed. It was a hard joyless sound,
not pleasant to hear.

1 The worst of it is, my two spiritual guides
give contrary directions he said. ' But you
have absolutely no conception how unpleasant
it is to sit here and be preached at. Of the

two I think I like the chaplain best. Professional
training always tells, and '

Alec,' interrupted Blake, who wanted to
change the subject, ' can you imagine how
that word "hundred" slipped out of that
will V

It never was there,' said Alec.

Blake shook his head.

Or it would be there now.'

You see the whole thing was left to me
Alec went on. ' No one so much as touched
it, except myself and '

Suddenly he remembered something — the
little incident of Laura's curiosity. He paused
rather awkwardly, considering whether it could
possibly affect the matter, and decided that it
was absolutely of no importance. He opened
his lips to mention the circumstance as an
excuse for his sudden silence, when he remembered
that it was not very creditable to Laura,
and besides, that he had promised her he

vol. in. 41

would never speak of what she had done.
He stopped again, when on the point of speaking,
and looking up, he caught a surprised and
troubled expression in his friend's face.
Meeting Alec's gaze, Blake dropped his eyes.
He saw that something was being concealed
from him, and he had imagined that he had
known every incident connected with the
making of the will.

Blake is beginning to doubt me,' said Alecto
himself. ' Soon I shall have no one left.'
When he next spoke, his voice, in spite of
himself, was hard and repelling. He was too
proud to give an explanation of his reticence ;
and Blake, on his side, was afraid to ask for
any. When he left the prison he had not
come to believe in his friend's guilt ; but his
faith was shaken.

I won't say I distrust him ; and yet — it is
very queer.' That was the tenor of his
thoughts. He felt profoundly sorry for Mr.

Lindsay, and tried to persuade him to return
to Scotland before the trial. But this would
not have suited the old man's ideas of his
duty as a father. He would stay by his son,
guilty though he were, to the end.

Alec, of course, had his despairing moods,
moods in which there seemed no brightness
for him, nor any possibility of comfort, in
heaven or on earth ; and as the imprisonment
began to tell more and more upon his health
these periods became more frequent and more
prolonged. It was not surprising, indeed,
that sometimes a deep melancholy seized him,
as it were in a grasp of iron.

He was sitting in his cell one day, holding
a book before him, but reading nothing, while
his mind was lost in aimless, gloomy wanderings,
when he heard the familiar sound of the
unlocking of his door.

1 Oh, can't they leave me alone even one
day !' he groaned to himself.

41—2

A tall figure in an immense cloak enter
d.

Cameron f

The two men stood grasping each other's
hands in silence. Alec's mobile lips were
working strangely. As for Cameron, a great
beard effectually concealed the expression of
his mouth, but his eyes were moist.

Then he broke into a laugh, and withdrawing
his hand gave Alec a shove which sent him
staggering backwards.

What on earth made ye get into such a
pickle ?'

That's just what I want to know.'

1 Come now, tell me all about it said
Cameron, seating himself on the bed.

If you don't mind, old fellow, I'd rather
not,' said Alec. ' You see, I've had to go
over these wretched details so often • and I
can hardly help thinking of them night and
day, so it is a relief to speak of something

else. Tell me about yourself. What are you
doing now V

I'm assistant to Dr. Farquharson. But I
don't care for the work. I can scarcely
prevent myself from pitching some of the
patients out of the windows of their own bedrooms.
They have nothing in the world the
matter with them but over-feeding and too
much coddling. Occasionally I give them the
nastiest drugs I can think of, by way of relieving
my feelings, especially castor oil'

You brute !'

1 I am only fit for surgery. I hate the 
business.'

How did you come to be in London V
asked Alec suddenly.

I wanted to see what the London hospitals
are like.'

Duncan, ye're leein',' said Alec gravely.

Maybe I am ; an' maybe I'm no. That's
neither here nor there.'

1 You saw something about — about it in the
papers, didn't you V

Lees an' trash.'

Well, I'm not so sure about that ;' and
Alec, having thus reached the subject, told
the whole story of the will. ' And now, doesn't
it look very like as if I had struck that word
hundred r ' out of the draft V

For answer Cameron gave a comical look,
and slowly shook his head.

4 Ye haven't brains enough, laddie, to be a
thief.'

Alec looked anxiously at his friend, with
searching eyes. Cameron bore the look unmoved.
Yet Alec was not satisfied.

Do you think it possible that I made a
blunder like that unintentionally ?' A wild
thought came into the lad's head, and he uttered
what was in his mind. ' What if I were to
tell you that I did it on purpose V he asked.

It seemed almost as if he were bent on

destroying the faith of the only man who still
believed in him.

c Do you mean wilfully, after time for reflection,
taking a day or two over it V

Alec nodded.

1 1 should certify that you were insane.'

1 God bless you, Cameron F

Man, you're half cracked already, to talk
in that way. Your uncle was a donna auld
eediot. That's undeniable. And if ye confessed
to me that being suddenly aware of the
injustice he meant to do you (as I look on it),
you had thrown his will on the fire, I might
have thought that possible enough. But if you
were to tell me that you sat down in cold
blood, and thought out this plan for yourself,
and determined to carry it out, and did carry
it out, I would not believe you. I should say
ye were mad first.'

1 Cameron, my father ' began Alec after

a pause.

'No?'

The word was accompanied by a raising of
the eyebrows, and followed by slow shakes of
the head, which indicated that in his opinion
some people were hopelessly stupid.

He'll be very sorry, and ashamed of his
want of trust in you, Alec ; don't forget that
said Cameron.

My innocence may never be known. My
character is gone already said the prisoner,
glad to tell what was in his heart to a sympathetic
ear.

That's not certain said Cameron quickly,
as he grasped his friend by the shoulder, and
scanned his face narrowly. ' And if it were v
why, better men than you have had to thole*
the same thing.'

That's true. I shouldn't make so much
of it. But, you see, I have so little here to
occupy my thoughts.'

To bear.

1 I'll come and see you again, if they'll let
me. But I don't think they will. It was a
fashions* job to get in. But I'll be in court.
You may depend on that.'

4 No, no, Duncan. You must go back to
your work.'

1 I haven't left the sick folk as sheep without
a shepherd, which they would be if they were
left entirely to old Farquharson. So I chose
a. sub-deputy-assistant before I came away. A
fourth-year's student just scraped through.
An Englishman, and I think the most ignorant
man I ever came across, but popular with the
women. Yes, yes, man, in a minute,' he
said impatiently to the turnkey, who opened
the door to say that the allotted time had
expired. ' That minds me I would practise
my art on you, Alec, my lad, if time permitted.
Fiat experiments, ye ken.'

Troublesome.

There's nothing the matter with me,' said
Alec.

1 1 don't like that cough. And you're very
thin. I must see the pill-man of this institution
myself'. I suppose they keep an animal
of that kind on the premises V

I don't know, I'm sure. I suppose so.
Good-bye, old fellow. You've done me a
world of good.'

1 After all this rumpus and palaver's by,'
said Duncan, ' I'll carry ye off vi et armis to
the island of Scalpa, and fatten you up therefor
a month ; or, better still, send you for a
voyage to Australia — Coming ! I tell ye,
ye '

The rest of the speech was lost in the dark
recesses of the Gaelic language, as Dr. Cameron
strode after the bulky form of the turnkey.

One good result of this visit was that Alec
was removed next day to the hospital ward of
the prison.

THE TRIAL.

A thick, murky fog hung over London on the
morning of Alec Lindsay's trial. Waves of
chill mist rolled up from the river, and met
the sulphurous vapours which filled the air.
The sun was not visible at all. In every
street and building gas was flaming, as if it
had been midnight. Rain or snow would
have been a relief from the stifling yellow
vapour ; but neither fell. The cold, clammy,
omnipresent fog reigned supreme.

As it happened, Hubert Blake had slept at
his uncle's the night before. He had, of
course, determined to be present at the trial ;
and when he came down to breakfast, an hour

earlier than usual, lie was surprised to see
that both Sophy Meredith and Miss Elmwood
were dressed ready to go out.

You are not thinking of shopping on a
day like this ?' asked Hubert in some surprise.


6 No, indeed,' answered Sophy, almost
indignantly. ' We are going to the court

Blake said no more at the time ; but when
Miss Elmwood had left the breakfast-room
to put on her bonnet, he returned to the
subject.

I really think you had better stay at
home he said, in a matter-of-fact way. ' It
is quite unnecessary for you to be there, and
it may be a very painful scene.'

Sophy's fingers were trembling nervously,
as she played with the sugar-tongs. She was
obliged to fold her hands, and pause for a
second or two before she answered :

1 I think, if there is ever a time when one

should stand by one's friends, it is when they
are '

And then she stopped, as if she could not
trust herself to say more.

Yes, of course ; but, you see, you can't
do Lindsay any good by going ; probably he
won't even know you are there. It is not as
if you were a relation of his.'

It was all true enough ; and Sophy felt
only too keenly that her action would seem
ridiculous ; yet she was none the less determined
to go. She had nothing to say in
reply, and sat searching her mind for some
excuse, while the tears that would no longer
be restrained rapidly filled her eyes.

Blake saw her agitation with surprise.

'I had no idea she was so tender-hearted,'
was his first thought. * Can it be that — that
Lindsay is something more than a friend to
her V was his second. ' She is older than he
is, but not so very much older, after all. It

would not be so very surprising, if it were so.
It would be '

Then his thoughts became more vague.
He could not imagine what his uncle's house
would be like without Sophy as its mistress.
There would be no one to chat to about his
pictures, no one to whom he could bring the
gossip of the little world of artists to which
he had returned. As for the wandering,
unsettled life he had been living the year
before, he thought of it now with positive
disgust. Yes ; if Sophy were to go out of
his life, she would leave a sad blank
behind.

He did not stop to consider on what a
slender foundation he was thus constructing the
future. Sophy was surprised at his silence,
and glanced at him timidly. He seemed lost
in reflection ; then suddenly looking up, their
eyes met. He was astonished that she looked
so beautiful. He had never thought of her

as pretty before ; but indeed the tender light
in her eyes, and the faint colour coming
suddenly into her pale cheeks would have
made a far plainer face seem fair.

Don't you think we had better be going T
said Hubert, in a gentle tone. ' The court
may be crowded ; and we may find a difficulty
in getting seats

Sophy rose and left the room without
saying anything more.

The fog detained the party from Highgate,
so that when they reached the court it was
with difficulty that Blake could find seats for
his friends. To Sophy the scene was so new
and strange, and the effect of the fog so
bewildering, that in spite of the gas jets
flaring here and there it was some time before
she could make out anything distinctly. By
degrees she distinguished the Judge in his
ermine-trimmed gown, the City dignitaries in
their robes of office, the officials of the court

on their raised seats under the bench, and
the empty jury-box. But the object which
fascinated her was the high, spiked iron
railing which surrounded a wide space in the
centre of the court, facing the bench. That,
she knew, was the dock.

It was tenanted by one person, a woman, a
forlorn-looking creature, with a dirt 7 shawl
thrown over her bare head. On either side
of her, but a little behind, stood a policeman.
For some minutes after Sophy and her companions
took their seats, there was perfect
silence in the building, so that they wondered
what the reason could be. Then the voice of
the Judge broke the stillness.

The sentence of the court is that you be
kept in penal servitude for the period of seven
years

Sophy did not know what the woman's
offence had been, but the punishment seemed
terrible ; and as the poor creature, who had

evidently not expected so long a term, broke
out into cries, oaths, and imprecations, Sophy
shuddered, and was almost moved to tears.
To the Judge, to the barristers, the police,
and the other officials, it was only part of the
ordinary routine of their lives. To the gentlewoman
who had lived in shelter all her clays,
the sight of this sister-woman's face, coarse,
bloated, distorted by passion and despair, was
like a glimpse into a world of which she had
never even dreamed — a world in which
blessings were exchanged for curses, tender
thoughts for the fury of selfish passions, and
liberty for bondage.

As the woman was led down a staircase
inside the dock, which communicated with
the cells, the clerk of the arraigns and the
counsel on the front row were exchanging a
few words. And in another moment the
clerk called out :

Bring up Alexander Lindsay !'
vol. in. 42

A subdued rustle of excitement passed
through the court, and every eye was turned
to the dock. In another moment Alec had
taken his place, calm and self-possessed, but
very pale. The first thing he saw was his
father's face. The old man was sitting at
the solicitor's table, facing the dock, with
Margaret by his side. No emotion of any
kind was visible on his features ; but Alec
fancied — probably it was only his fancy —
that a look of reproach was in his eyes.
Margaret, unable to meet her brother's gaze,
was looking stedfastly at the table in front of
her. Opposite her sat Beattie ; and behind
him, with his back to Alec, sat Mr. Corker,
who had, of course, been instructed for the
defence.

As the clerk was reading the indictment,
Alec's eyes were fixed on the ledge in front
of him. He knew that Duncan Cameron
was somewhere in the building ; and the

thought comforted him. Then, somehow, he
fell to thinking of his College-days ; and was
only recalled from his reverie when the clerk's
voice was raised to ask him :

How say you, Alexander Lindsay ; are
you guilty, or not guilty ?'

Not guilty.'

Then the clerk proceeded to swear in the
jury ; and then Mr. Collithorne, Q.C., rose to
open the case for the Crown.

Mr. Collithorne was famed at the bar for
his ' deadly moderation ' as a prosecuting
counsel. Never raising his voice, over-stating
nothing, admitting beforehand the facts on
which he knew the defence would be based,
his words had with the jury the weight which
attaches to the utterances of a Judge rather
than that which belongs to the speech of an
advocate.

May it please your worship he began.

1 Gentlemen of the jury, this is a very 



ful case, and one which well deserves that
close and careful attention which I am sure
you will bestow upon it. Fortunately the
facts are few and simple. The prisoner is a
grand-nephew of the late Mr. James Lindsay,
who, as some of you may know, was a very
wealthy man. Some time before his death,
Mr. Lindsay conceived the idea of bequeathing
by his will a large sum of money, no less
than half a million sterling, to the religious
body of which he was a member, the Free
Church of Scotland. He talked over that
intention with an old friend of his, the
Reverend Dr. Mackenzie, of Glasgow ; and
(though that is not really important to the
matter in hand) Dr. Mackenzie will tell you
that he neither suggested this idea to Mr.
Lindsay nor in any way pressed him to make
this bequest.

6 Having settled in his mind the disposition
which he intended to make of his property,

Mr. Lindsay sent to his solicitors, asking them
to call and take instructions for his will. His
solicitors were Messrs. Hatchettt, Small, and
Hatchettt, a most respectable firm ; and I
must tell you that the prisoner was at that
time a clerk in Messrs. Hatchettt's office.
Well, the solicitors sent their managing clerk,
a Mr. Beattie, to take Mr. Lindsay's instructions.
We have subpoenaed this Mr. Beattie ;
and I have no doubt he will tell you that Mr.
Lindsay distinctly informed him that the
bequest to the Free Church of Scotland was
to be five hundred thousand pounds. The
paper on which these instructions were
written by Mr. Beattie was sent to Mr.
Lindsay with the draft-will, and was not returned
by him. It was not found among the
testator's papers. Probably Mr. Lindsay,
thinking that it was of no importance, destroyed
it.'

Mr. Collithorne then went on to speak of

Mr. Lindsay's request that his nephew should
personally prepare his will, and of the fact
that the prisoner actually did write the draft
with his own hand. ' That fact, gentlemen
he continued, ' will hardly be disputed ; and if
it is not admitted I will prove it to you by
unimpeachable evidence. The draft itself, as
well as the man who engrossed it, has disappeared.
It ought to have been found with
other drafts of a like nature in the prisoner's
room. It has been searched for, and cannot
be found. But while it was in Mr. Lindsay's
possession, before he returned it to the
solicitors to be engrossed, it was seen and
read by Dr. Mackenzie, whom I shall place
in the box before you. He will tell you,
gentlemen, that it was in the prisoner's handwriting,
and that it contained a bequest of five
hundred thousand pounds to certain trustees
for the Free Church of Scotland. He will
tell you that he read it most carefully, and

that the sum was written both in figures and
in words. The draft was sent back on the
very night it arrived, Dr. Mackenzie posting
it with his own hand.

Now, gentlemen, it is a singular fact, that,
so far as we have been able to learn, not a
single individual in Messrs. Hatchettt's office
saw that draft, except the prisoner and a clerk
named MacGowan, who engrossed the will ;
and the theory of the prosecution is, that
before handing the draft to MacGowan to
engross the prisoner struck out of it the all-important
word "hundred," so that the
bequest should run " five thousand pounds "
only. Inquiries for this clerk, MacGowan,
have been made in all directions; but from
the day he engrossed that will he never turned
up at the office ; he disappeared from his
lodgings on the following clay, and has not
since been heard of.

We come now to the actual execution of

the will. It was brought to Mr. Lindsay's
house by the prisoner. It was read over to
the testator by the prisoner ; and, in reading
it, the prisoner inserted the word " hundred'
which was not in the will, before the word
thousand' thus leading his uncle, the
testator, to imagine that the will was really
in accordance with his intentions. This fact
will be proved to you on the evidence of Dr.
Mackenzie ; and it will be for you to judge
whether he could possibly be mistaken on a
point of such importance, a point on which
his attention would naturally be fixed.

It is only right that I should tell you,
gentlemen,' continued the barrister, ' that
there was one other person in the room
when the will was read besides the testator,
the prisoner, and the witness I have named.
And you may be surprised to hear that this
person does not bear out the statement which
the Reverend Mr. Mackenzie will make on

oath before you, as to what the prisoner did
actually read from the will

Here Mr. Corker interposed, and said something
in an angry tone to Mr. Collithorne.

Perhaps my friend is right, gentlemen
said the Queen's Counsel, majestically waving
the Old Bailey barrister back into his seat.
It may be better for him to deal with his
own witness, if he should think it worth
while to call him. You will understand,
gentlemen, later on, the reason of my learned
friend's interposition.

As I said at the commencement of my
observations, this is a painful case. I do not
remember that, in all my experience, I have
had to do with a prosecution in which one's
natural sympathies would be more strongly
excited in favour of the prisoner. His youth
and his character, hitherto blameless, will
naturally and properly tell in his favour. It
would only be natural, also, if you found

yourselves sympathizing with the keen feelings
of disappointment with which a young man
would hear of an intention on the part of an
uncle to alienate the greater part of his fortune
from those who may reasonably have looked
forward to inheriting it. But these sympathies
you are, for the present, bound to forget.
Your one thought must be — Did the accused
commit the offence with which he is charged?
As to the motive for the crime, you must
remember that the prisoner is one of the
residuary legatees under the will; in other
words, the alteration in the legacy would put
the sum of two hundred and forty-seven thousand
five hundred pounds into the prisoner's
pocket. Crimes much more serious than this
have been committed ere now for the tenth
part of .such a sum, by men who had, up to
the moment of temptation, led innocent lives.
If you can, after hearing the evidence, entertain
a reasonable, a serious doubt of the

prisoner's guilt, you will, of course, let him
have the benefit of it. But if the facts as
proved point irresistibly, in your opinion, to
the conclusion that the offence of which he is
accused was committed by him, it will be your
duty — however painful that duty may be — to
say so by your verdict.'

A faint rustle passed over the court as Mr.
Collithorne sat down. Cameron, who from
his corner could see the faces of the jurymen,
noticed that they wore a very serious look.
And Alec ? He knew that the counsel for the
Crown had spoken nothing but the truth ;
and his heart died within him. He felt that
his character was ruined irretrievably in the
eyes of the world. He could almost have
wished that the formalities of the trial could
be omitted and sentence pronounced at once,
that he might hide himself from the cold and
curious eyes around him in the quiet seclusion
of his cell.

The first witnesses called were the servants
who had witnessed the will. The junior
counsel for the Crown, a young gentleman
with a very new wig and a very nervous
manner, asked them the necessary questions,
and Mr. Corker did not think it worth while
to cross-examine them.

Call Mr. William Beattie/ said Mr. Collins
and that gentleman rose from his seat
at the solicitors' table, and slowly made his
way to the witness-box. As he did so, Mr.
Corker broke into a lively argument —
nominally addressed to the Judge, but really
aimed at the jury — on the lawfulness of the
Crown calling the managing clerk of the
defendant's solicitor as a witness. The Judge,
however, ruled — as Mr. Corker quite expected
that he would rule — that Mr. Beattie might
be questioned as to matters which came to his
knowledge before the relationship of attorney
and client began, and Mr. Beattie was sworn.

Speaking in a low but clear tone, Mr.
Beattie said, in answer to Mr. Collithorne's
questions, that he had received instructions
from the late Mr. Lindsay as to his will ; that
these instructions included a legacy of five
hundred thousand pounds to the Free Church
of Scotland ; that, in accordance with Mr.
Hatchettt's directions, he handed the paper on
which these instructions were jotted down to
the defendant ; and, finally, that the missing
draft had been searched for in the prisoner's
room and in the office generally, and had not
been found.

One word more, Mr. Beattie,' said Mr.
Collithorne ; ' at that time was there a clerk
in Messrs. Hatchettt's office named Mac-gowan
V

6 There was.'

Look at the will. In whose handwriting
is it? '

In his handwriting — MacGowan's.'

Did he return to the office after he
engrossed that will ?'

He did not. When he did not come back
that afternoon, a letter was written dismissing
him.'

What was his character ?'

I know nothing against his character,
except that he was unsteady He would have
been dismissed before, but '

< Yes. But what ?'

< But Mr. Lindsay interceded for him, and
the offence was overlooked.'

You mean the prisoner ?'

Yes

A subdued murmur ran round the court as
these words were spoken. Then there was a
silence.

That was months before,' added Mr.
Beattie ; but the impression had already been
created that there had been a friendship or, at
least, a relationship of patronage on the one

side, and gratitude on the other, between the
man who was now alleged to have altered the
draft, and the man who, after engrossing the
will from it, had suddenly disappeared.

Then Mr. Collithorne sat down, and Mr.
Corker got up.

1 Did Mr. Lindsay express any hesitation
when he said that he wished to leave so large
a sum to the Free Church ?'

Not in words

In any other way ?'

By his manner he did. He spoke in a
hesitating way, as if he had hardly made up
his mind.'

Judging from his manner, did you expect
that he would perhaps alter these instructions
?' asked the Judge.

I quite expected it, my lord.'

Mr. Corker looked hard at the jury, to see
that they paid due attention to this answer,
and then proceeded :

'Now, as to the search for the draft. The
drafts made in your office are kept in a sort of
book-case, I believe — a book-case fitted up
with pigeon-holes V

< Yes

And this receptacle stands in Mr. Lindsay's
room ?'

< Yes.'

It is not kept locked ?'

No. Anyone in the office may have
access to it.'

1 1 suppose, Mr. Beattie, papers do get lost
occasionally, even in an office so well regulated
as yours ?'

Oh yes.'

And sometimes, after a long time perhaps,
they turn up again ?'

Sometimes that happens, certainly.'
It seems almost an impertinence to Mr.
Lindsay to put the question, but I believe that
he came to your office with high recommendations,

and that until this affair his character
was blameless ?'

1 Absolutely without reproach ; and I may
say that I do not for a moment believe '

You are not asked anything about your
belief, sir said the Judge sternly.

Mr. Beattie fully anticipated the rebuke ;
but he had accomplished his purpose. He
had let the jury and the whole court see that
he was doing what he could for the prisoner.
And yet now, for the first time, a doubt as to
Beattie 's integrity crossed Alec Lindsay's
mind. He seemed too cool, too calm and
collected, to be sincere. It looked as if he
were performing a part which had been rehearsed
beforehand. ' Can it be all his
doing ?' The thought flashed through Alec's
mind only to be rejected. He could not see
how Beattie could have interfered in the
matter, even had he wished to do so.

Mr. Hatchettt was the next witness, but he

vol. 11. 43

was put into the box chiefly to give the junior
counsel his turn, so that the examination of
the important witness, Dr. Mackenzie, might
fall to Mr. Collithorne, without a violation of
the rule that senior counsel and junior shall
take the witnesses alternately.

The minister was examined very minutely ;
the Judge's note of his evidence was as
follows :

I am a minister of the Free Church of
Scotland. In the autumn of last year I came
to London to see the testator, who was an old
friend of mine. He declared to me his intention
of leaving the sum of half a million
sterling to the Church to which I belong. I
did not suggest his doing so. I did not in anyway
urge him to do it. Nor did I disapprove
of the bequest. One or two days after that,
he put a paper in my hands, and told me it
was the draft of his will. It was in the
prisoner's handwriting. The prisoner had

written to me before this, and I knew his
handwriting. The bequest mentioned in it to
the Free Church of Scotland was five hundred
thousand pounds. It was written in
words and also in figures — first in words and
then in figures. That I swear.

I was present at the execution of the will.
The prisoner brought it. That is the will, sofar
as I can judge. I did not examine it.
The prisoner read it aloud, at the testator's
request. He read the bequest * five hundred
thousand pounds.' He read slowly and
distinctly. I paid particular attention to
that part of the will. No one was present
except the testator, the prisoner, Mr. James
Semple, who, I believe, is also a grand-nephew
of the deceased, and myself. The
servants who witnessed it did not hear it read
over. The testator expressed his satisfaction
with the will as it was read to him.

1 When the prisoner finished reading the

43—2

will, he left the room for a short time. I
believe some one called to see him. He did
not take the will away with him. He left it
with the deceased. I think he laid it on the
bed. I did not look at it, nor touch it.
When he returned the servants were called
in, and the will was signed.'

As the minister ceased speaking, a sound
ran round the court, as of long-drawn inspirations.
Then a slight buzz of conversation
arose. Every man looked at his neighbour
and smiled, and then looked at the prisoner.

Alec's pale face was set, and his eyes fixed
on the minister.

Sophy shuddered, and felt bewildered. She
was not surprised that a girl sitting beside her
whom she did not know gave a half-hysterical
sob. The girl was Laura Mowbray. She
was at that moment suffering something like
agony. She saw that Alec was about to be
condemned. She believed that her evidence

might save him. Yet she dared not speak. She
knew not what the consequences might be to
herself, if she confessed that she had meddled
with the will. She might even be accused of
the fraud, and tried herself; and she shuddered
at the thought.

Then Mr. Corker rose to cross-examine the
witness.

You approved of this singular bequest,
Mr. Mackenzie ?'

I did not disapprove of it

The minister looked at the barrister disdainfully
for an instant, and then turned his
eyes back to the Judge, whom he had
addressed throughout.

It would have been a very fine thing for
you if it had been carried out, eh ?'

1 The bequest was not to me.'

Look at me, sir, and answer my questions
in a straightforward manner !' shouted Mr.
Corker.

Dr. Mackenzie mutely appealed to the
Judge for protection ; but his lordship contented
himself with pointing in Mr. Corker's
direction with the feather of his pen.

I know very well the bequest was not to
you ; but it would have been a very good
thing for you if it had been half a million
instead of five thousand pounds, wouldn't
it?'

'I was to be secretary to the trust,'
answered the minister, after a pause.

Exactly. For nothing, eh ? Come now.'

I could not be expected to devote a large
portion of my time to work of that kind for
nothing.'

Of course not. You expected that it
would be a snug little berth for you ?'

The minister did not answer.

You foresaw this when Mr. Lindsay
declared his intention of making this bequest,
did you not ?'

I knew that I was to be the secretary

So that, so far from your coming here as a
pure, impartial, disinterested witness, as my
friend would have had the jury believe,
you '

Here Alec leaned over the edge of the
dock, caught the speaker by his gown, and
whispered something energetically into his
ear.

Nonsense !' exclaimed Mr. Corker, shaking
off his client's grasp.

Now, just listen to me, sir,' he began.

My lord,' said Alec, ' I may say at once
that Mr. Mackenzie is only telling the truth,,
I believe I did read " five hundred thousand
pounds." '

There was a silence, then a murmur of
astonishment.

1 You had better be quiet, and leave your
case to your counsel,' said the Judge in a
stern voice.

Mr. Corker had indignantly thrown down
his brief; but a few words from the Judge
persuaded him to take it up again.

Your lordship will excuse me for a few
moments,' he said, as he turned to consult
with Mr. Beattie on the change which Alec's
interposition had rendered necessary in the
defence.

The defence had to be altered suddenly, at
the critical moment. Mr. Corker's intention
had been to maintain that Mr. Lindsay had
changed his mind, and had given private
instructions to his nephew to prepare a will
leaving only five thousand pounds to the Free
Church. He had resolved to rely on Semple's
evidence to neutralize, or at least to weaken,
the effect produced by Dr. Mckenzie's statement.
But the prisoner had just declared
that Dr. Mackenzie had told the truth ! It
would be useless to put Semple in the box
now.

I Did you ever know of such a complete
idiot ?' asked Mr. Corker in a whisper, as he
leant over the desk before him to speak to
Mr. Beattie.

"What shall we do now ? We must say
it was an accident — absence of mind,' whispered
Beattie.

I I may say it, but the jury won't believe it
for a moment. The other theory they might
have believed

You have the legal argument still

Yes ; but the verdict is gone. However,
I suppose we must go on.'

And Mr. Corker straightened himself up
and fell back into his seat, with the air of a
man who has been very ill-used.

Do you ask this witness any more
questions, Mr. Corker ?' asked the Judge.

'No, m' lud,' said Mr. Corker, without
troubling himself to rise.

1 That is the case for the prosecution, my

lord said Mr. Collithorne. ' Do you call
any witnesses V he added to Mr. Corker.

4 No!'

Then, may it please your lordship, gentlemen
of the jury '

My lord, may I say a word T

It was a woman's voice. Laura Mowbray
was standing up, pale and resolute, at the
back of the court.

No ; certainly not. Go on, Mr. Collins
'

But I took the will myself, just before
it was signed, from Mr. Lindsay's bedroom.'


Laura's good angel had triumphed. Till
the last moment she had been declaring that
she dared not tell what she knew — besides, it
would be of no use. But in a moment, when
Alec's counsel had declared that he had no
witnesses, and she felt that the last moment
for speech had come, she had, without

deliberation, yielded to the impulse which
bade her speak.

Meanwhile Mr. Collithorne and Mr. Corker
were both busily disowning this disconcerting
witness, and suggesting that she should not be
heard. But the Judge took a different view
of the matter. If anyone had touched the
will, he remarked, between the time when the
prisoner read it to the testator and the time
when it was signed, that was clearly very
important. He thought the ends of justice
required that the young lady should be heard.

1 don't see that calling her can injure the
defendant he said by way of apology to Mr.
Corker.

That gentleman grunted and said nothing.

Laura was piloted to the witness-box by an
usher, and in a few clear words she told how
she had at Semple's request taken the will
from her uncle's room, and had given it to
him to read.

t Did he do anything to it, while it was in
his hands ?' asked the Judge.

'No.'

And you never allowed it to go out of your
sight r

Laura hesitated.

■ He took it to the window to read it, and I
was standing by the door. I don't think he
did anything to it. There was not time.'

As he walked to the window, had he his
side or his back to you V

He would have his back to me. But I
don't think I was looking at him then. I
don't exactly remember.'

Well, Miss — Miss Mowbray, have you
mentioned this to anyone before to-day ?'

No, my lord

< Why not ?'

I did not wish it to be known, if possible,
that I had meddled with the will at all,' said
the girl in a low voice. ' And I remember,

too,' she added, ' that one night just after Mr.
Lindsay died, I was at a railway-station ; and
I saw Mr. James Semple there, with a gentleman
I do not know. And the gentleman said
to him '

But here the Judge, Mr. Collithorne, and
Mr. Corker, interposed in chorus ; and Laura,
thoroughly disconcerted, stopped and almost
burst into tears.

That will do,' said the Judge, in a kindly
tone. ' You were quite right to speak now ;
but you ought to have spoken sooner.'

So Laura turned away, and crept back to
her seat, disappointed and humiliated. She
had made the sacrifice, and all for nothing !
She had been prevented telling what she
considered the most important part of her
story. In her agitation she had forgotten to
speak of the incident of the paper which
Semple had managed to obtain from his
uncle's desk. But, as she reflected, she

would probably not have been allowed to
mention it, as she could not say that she
knew it had anything to do with the will.
She had expected that her testimony would
cause Alec to be set at liberty. It had
produced no effect whatever, beyond covering
her with shame.

In this, however, she was mistaken. The
Judge was eyeing the counsel, and they were
eyeing him ; and the thought in the minds of
the three shrewd men was — ' Here there was
an opportunity for exchanging the will read
by the prisoner for another document.'

I think you had better go on, Mr. Collins
said the Judge at length; and the
Queen's Counsel was proceeding to obey,
when he was interrupted for the second time.

Let me by ; I tell ye I'm a witness ; let
me by.'

These words, uttered in a shrill Scotch
voice, were heard at one of the entrances

to the court ; and in another moment a queer-looking,
under-sized individual, dressed in a
shabby overcoat with a velvet collar, many
sizes too large for him, pushed through the
crowd in the passage.

MacGowan !' exclaimed Alec involuntarily.


Who is this ?' asked the Judge testily.

The clerk who engrossed the will, I
believe, my lord said Mr. Collithorne, who
had overheard Alec's exclamation.

1 You cannot call him ; you have closed
your case,' said Mr. Corker to his opponent.


1 But he may give evidence for the defendant,
unless you object, Mr. Corker,' said the
Judge.

It's what I've come here for,' put in Mr.
MacGowan.

Really, my lord, I cannot take the
responsibility of calling this witness,' said

Mr. Corker ; 'I know nothing of what he
may say.'

1 I'm no' surprised at that,' said Mac-gowan,
as without further invitation he
stepped round to the witness-box.

I shall take his evidence,' said the Judge,
after a pause.

6 Ma hoard,' said MacGowan, as soon as he
was sworn, ' I engrossed the wull wi' my
ain han'. The bequest to the Free Kirk
was five hunter thousand' pounds. So it was
in the draft, an' so I wrote it in the wull, and
so I read it to Maister Alexander Lindsay,
when him and me compared them.

That night, ma hoards he continued,
dramatically raising his right hand, * I was
refreshing' myself' after the toils o' the day ina
mast respectable public-loose, wi' some
friends, when Maister William Beattie, that
is the managing' clerk at the office, cam' in
and withdrew me to a private room. He

felled rae there had been a mistake' made, an'
I would hae to copy the draft over again ; an'
nothing would serve him but I maun copy it
over again, then and there. I did sae, and
he dictated it to me, frae the same blue draft
I had had before. Only he read it five ihoosari
pounds, leaving' foot the hunter.'

Are you sure of that ?' asked the Judge
sharply.

Certain sure, my lord

Well r

6 Then he died me half a sovereign and
gazed awaY

I leave him to you, Mr. Collithorne,' said
the Judge.

How does it happen that you immediately
disappeared after this took place ?' asked Mr.
Collithorne.

Weel, Messrs. Hatchettt and me had a bit
of difference

You were dismissed, in fact ?'

vol. in. 44

1 Ye may ca' 't that if ye like.'

And how was it that you have not turned
up till now Y

1 I have been very ill ; and I only noticed
to-day that the trial was corning on. If you
send for my landlord he will tell ye I was in
bed an' deleterious when Maister Lindsay was
at the police-court.'

You were drunk when Mr. Beattie — is
that his name ? — came to see you at the gin-palace,
or whatever it was Y

It is not a gin-palace, and I was not drunk.
I had been drinking certainly.'

1 You know perfectly well what you were
about ?' put in the Judge.'

'Brawly — that is, just so, my lord.'

Hadn't we better have this Mr. Beattie in
the box, and see what he says to all this,'
suggested the Judge.

1 Certainly, my lord. He had better be
called outside. He was here a minute ago.'

But Mr. Beattie was not to be found. As
soon as MacGowan's voice fell on his ears, he
had realized that he had come to tell what
had passed at the public-house ; and he left
the court by one door as his former subordinate
entered by another. Taking a
hansom he drove to the bank at which he
kept his account, and drew out all that was
due to him. Then he disappeared and was
heard of no more.

The reason why Beattie had absconded was
apparent to everyone in court. The plot
which he had concocted was laid bare.

1 I don't know whether you will think it

worth while to address the jury, Mr. Collins

said the Judge, after waiting some

minutes. ■ ' If the last witness is to be

believed, it is plain that two wills were

engrossed, in one of which the original

bequest to the Free Church of Scotland was

altered to five thousand pounds ; and Miss

44—2

Mowbray has proved that the latter document
may have been substituted for the other without
the defendant's knowledge. There is
nothing to show that Mr. Alexander Lindsay
instigated either Beattie or MacGowan to get
the second engrossment made, or that, in fact,
he knew of its existence.'

That is true, my lord ; and I am altogether
in your lordship's hands,' said Mr. Collithorne

slowly. ' If your lordship thinks ' he

paused, for the jury w 7 ere putting their heads
together in a significant way.

If you would like the case to go on,
gentlemen ' began the Judge; but the jurymen
separated and returned to their places.

Gentlemen of the jury, are you agreed
upon your verdict ?' asked the Clerk of the
Arraigns.

We are,' said the foreman.

Do you find the prisoner at the bar guilty
or not guilty V

Not guilty

Something very like a cheer broke out in
the court ; and the usher cried ' Silence !' with
the air of a man who cared nothing for public
opinion.

As for Alec, something seemed to swell
in his throat, as if it would choke him ; and
his hand trembled as it had not trembled
since his trouble had fallen on him. He
looked around, and could see nothing but a
sea of faces.

Then someone guided him to a little doorway
in the iron railing, and helped him down
the steps into the body of the court. He
was a free man once more.

AFTER THE TRIAL.

It was an embarrassing moment for Mr.
Lindsay when he stepped up to his son after
the acquittal was pronounced. They were both
glad that a little crowd surrounded them, so
that anything like conversation was impossible.
Once only was the matter referred to
after that day.

I did you an injustice, Alec said the old
man gravely ; ' but the facts were sadly
against you at the time.'

1 No doubt they were, father,' answered his
son. And nothing more was said.

It was pleasant for Alec to see the glad
light in his sister's eyes ; to feel the warm

grasp of Blake's hand, and Cameron's grip on
his shoulder ; to hear Sophy Meredith's exclamation,
' I knew all along it was not your
fault !' And yet, somehow, these sights and
sounds seemed far away. It was almost as if
he were walking in a dream, as if his real
self were absent, as if he were as much
alone all the time as he had been in his cell.

When the little group of friends reached the
lobby of the court, they found MacGowan
waiting there. He came forward, and offered
Alec his hand with much affability.

AYe put the necker on him that time, eh,
Maister Lindsay ?' he asked, with a proud smile.

You certainly did, MacGowan. But how
was it that you did not turn up before ?'

For answer MacGowan began to relate his
several interviews with Beattie, which he described
with great satisfaction.

He thocht he had me, when he bade me
bring the ticket for the passage, and let him

see 't. But I just waited about the door o'
the shipping' office till a big Irishman turned
up, and he agreed to lend me his ticket for ten
minutes for the price of a bottle of whisky.
He was waiting' room' the corner when 1 gazed
up to Maister Beattie, and I said I had
changed my name for ma mither's, at which
he was vastly pleased

But I thought you said he saw you off
put in Cameron.

So he did. But I died him the slip. I
saw that before the steamer could get wa,
she had to gang through the dock-gates, wa'
at the tither side o' the docks. So, as she
was slipping' through, I just humbled over
the side o' the boat, an' landed on the quay.
It wasna muckle o' a jump ; an' as it was in
the gloaming my free Maister Beattie never
saw 't. Then I wa' to a sma' public toon by
there ; an' there I stopping

And drank a deal more than was good for

you, and ran through all your money, and
finally took ill,' said Cameron, drawing the
hero aside.

1 Something like it. I kent nothing about
the hole they had patten Maister Lindsay in,
till I took up the paper the day, and saw that
the trial was expect to come on. Ye see
that big man he added suddenly, pointing to
an official with his stave of office. ' It was
fun to hear him shouting' out, " Wull-imam
Beattie !" wi' a' his pith, when William
Beattie had given them leg-bail a quarter 0'
an 'or before.'

How did you know that V

MacGowan glanced round before he answered,
and then put his hand to his mouth,
saying in a loud whisper :

I say him slipping' wa' as I came in.'

Why didn't you ask the Judge to have him
stopped V

i Man, did you no hear me say I owed

him a heap o' silver 1 He'll never fash me for
that noon

1 doubt you're an ill stick, MacGowan,'
said Cameron gravely. ' But you've done my
friend a good turn this day ; and I wish I
could do something for ye. You just come
wi' me.'

So saying, Cameron took the little man by
the arm and marched him off to a neighbouring
tavern, where a long and weighty consultation
took place. The result of it was that
the ne'er-do-weel was persuaded to emigrate,
this time in earnest ; and he was consigned to
a second cousin of Cameron's, who had a farm
in Manitoba. In his letters home MacGowan
always dwells with pride upon the circumstance
that he ' has been teetotal ' for three
or six months, as the case may be, forgetting
to add that as the nearest public-house is five-and-twenty
miles away, it is next to impossible
for him to be anything else.

When Cameron had disappeared with Mac-gowan,
Blake carried off his friends, after
giving Alec a hearty invitation to Highgate,
and after expressing a hope to Mr. Lindsay
that they would see him and Miss Lindsay
there once more before they left town. But
the old man was anxious to get back to his
farm ; London had no attractions for him ;
and he intimated his intention of going back
to Scotland the next day.

As for Alec, his one desire was to find himself
in his own sitting-room, alone, and at
peace. That was impossible, however, for the
present. He could not ignore his father and
Margaret's evident expectation that he would
spend the rest of the day with them. But the
reunion was not in any sense a joyful one.
Mr. Lindsay remembered always that he had
refused to believe in his son's innocence, and
had thus added to his trouble ; and now it
was but poor comfort to remind himself that in

holding Alec to be guilty, he had only followed
the dictates of his reason. Margaret, too, though
she had been always loving and affectionate
to her brother, knew that she had doubted
him, and knew also that he had been aware of
the fact. Alec tried his best to pluck up a
lively if not a festive spirit at the dinner table
that evening, but he was not very successful
in his efforts. His father took the opportunity
of saying grace to thank the Almighty
publicly that his son ' had been delivered
from the snare of the fowler,' and Alec was
annoyed by this open allusion to what was
still a very painful theme.

To his surprise, Alec found that his father
and sister had seen nothing of the sights of
London during the weeks they had spent in
town.

1 How could we go sight seeing, Alec, when
you were in prison, and in danger?' asked
Margaret, almost reproachfully.

'But you might at least have gone to
Westminster Abbey and St. Paul's. You
really must stay another day and see the
Abbey, father. It would be almost a sin to
go north again without paying it a visit.'

'As a relic of past Popery and modern
prelacy,' said Mr. Lindsay, ' I think it might
be well if the place were destroyed, even as
the Fathers of the Reformation pulled down
the abbeys and cathedrals of the north ; but
as a monument of antiquity the place is
doubtless interesting. We will visit it tomorrow.'


And the South Kensington Museum is also
well worthy of a day's study,' said Alec.

1 am too old to care for sight seeing, my
boy.'

■ If you don't care for it, Margaret would
enjoy it, I am sure. Suppose you leave her
behind with me, sir. She is not particularly
wanted at the farm.'

Oh, that is quite out of the question,' said
Mr. Lindsay.

Alec was disposed to protest against this
summary way of settling the matter, but
Margaret entreated him by signs to be silent.
In the course of the evening, however, a note
came from Miss Lindsay to her cousin of the
Castle Farm, saying that she meant to go
north in two or three weeks, and would be
glad if Margaret would spend the intervening-time
with her, and accompany her on her
journey. And to this arrangement Mr. Lindsay
gave a somewhat reluctant consent.

Alec did not really feel free that day, till,
about ten o'clock at night, he took leave of
his father and sister, and set out for his own
lodgings. The air of the street was sweet to
him, heavy and polluted as it was. How
different the solitude of his own room from
the solitude of his cell !

He had telegraphed to his landlady, and

knew that things would be in readiness. He
was prepared, therefore, for the cheery glow
in the window-panes ; but as he opened the
door he became sensible of certain familiar
odours. The air was dusky with tobacco-smoke
; a steaming tumbler stood on the
table ; and before the fire were stretched the
stalwart limbs of Duncan Cameron.

Don't say you're glad to see me, Alec, for
I believe you are not,' said the visitor. * I've
been here for the last three hours. I might
have kenned that your friends would lay hold
on ye, body and soul

You know very well I'm glad to see you,
Duncan

1 don't believe you. You might have
been pleased to see me three hours ago. But
there are times when a lee is more or less
excusable. Such a time is the presents

Have you dined ?'

1 Eight hours ago.'

1 Have you supped V

Not particularly.'

We'll have some supper at once, then ;
and you will stay for the night.'

This was settled ; and after supper came
pipes and tumblers, seasoned with scraps of information
about old College cronies — memories
which, though only a few years old, seemed
to the two young men to lie already far
behind them — and a due proportion of
metaphysics.

In the middle of the talk Cameron rose,
and pulling a short instrument from his
pocket, begged Alec to unbutton his waistcoat.


What are you going to do V

Satisfy my curiosity.'

You don't mean that there is anything
the matter with me V

That is what I want to find out.'

There is no actual disease,' said Cameron,

when his examination was concluded. ' The
pulmonary organs are sound, but they are
far from strong. You must take care of
yourself for some time. Those weeks in confinement
have injured you more than you
think.'

Then Cameron lit his pipe for the fourth
time, and smoked awhile in silence.

I Duncan, what is your religion now V asked
Alec suddenly.

Religio medici ; that is, none at all
I'm sorry to hear you say that said Alec
gravely, ' But I don't believe you.'

I I was thinking of definite faith, of dogmas,'
said Cameron. ' Of course I have religious
instincts, emotions, and so on ; but I can't
classify them.'

" True religion consisted in great part
in the affections," says Jonathan Edwards*
Perhaps you think dogmas are hindrances,
not helps.'

vol. in. 45

1 True houses consist in great part of walls
retorted the Highlander ; ' is that to say the)'
should have no foundations V

1 But I thought you said you had no dogmas
1 Exactly ; and therefore I don't profess to
have any religion. It makes me sick,' he
continued, getting up and walking about the
room, ' to hear the way in which men prate
about "the fetters of dogma" and so on. I
hate phrases that beg the question like that.
Good heavens, man !' he went on, turning upon
Alec with a frown, as if he had been personally
ill-used or insulted, ' canna the moles see
that it a' depends on whether the dogma's
true or no ? If it's not true, it may be a
fetter," no doubt. But if it's true, w T hat
can it be but a heaven-sent boon ? You
might as well talk o' releasing' the earth from
the fetter that binds it to the sun. That
would be a fine result o' the freethinker's
theory carried out in practice.'

But I thought '

1 Look at my own subject,' continued
Cameron, not heeding his companion. ' Take
anatomy. If you have false opinions on the
subject printed and promulgated, they will
no doubt do harm. But if certain opinions
are indisputably true — — '

c That is just what is denied.'

Then what is the sense of begging the
question by assuming that they are false V

Then you do believe in dogma in religion V

No religion can exist without dogmas,
be they many or few, any more than a tub
can exist without a bottom. But whether
the dogmas of Christianity are true is more
than I can say.'

1 But there must be a God ¥

4 That's just what I don't feel sure about,'
said Cameron slowly. ' Why may not matter
be eternal, and produce of itself all we know
of?

45—2

Because, for one thing, the chances against
its being in a position to produce anything at
all were millions to one.'

• That is true. But then, how can we tell
that under other conditions of temperature,
and so forth, other results, totally different,
but equally wonderful, might not have
followed V

All to come out of so many metals and
gases V asked Alec. ' I think the man who
believes that must be the most credulous of
mortals.'

1 didn't say I believed it, did I V

Then there's the conscience, and the moral
law within.'

Inherited instincts,' murmured Cameron.

That won't do ; I tell you it won't do,' said
Alec firmly. 'There are virtues that are highly
prized nowadays which never could have
come into existence, much less have lived and
flourished, if they had been dependent on those

principles alone. Take humility, the power of
self-sacrifice, kindness to the sick, to the aged,
to dumb animals, and so on. Self-sacrifice
does not naturally tend to the survival of the
fittest, say what you like. Do stags become
less fit to survive because they butt a wounded
deer out of the herd, or leave it to die of
starvation ? Why should men who nurse the
sick and tend the aged become stronger than
those who do not ¥

'There's sense in what you say, Alec; and
of course, if we find a fact that natural principles
won't explain, and religious principles
will explain, that is a great matter. But I'm
orinoco turn in. Good-night.'

1 Seems to me you have first of all got to
explain how the natural principles themselves
came here,' said Alec, as a parting shot at his
friend.

Cameron was forced to leave London on the
following clay, so that it was impossible for

him to accompany the party that was going to
visit the Abbey, as Alec wished him to do.
His feeling was that Duncan would help him
to entertain his father. But Alec soon saw
that his father needed no entertaining. From
the moment when the old man's eyes fell on
the pile, standing like a heavenly temple
reared by angel hands among the haunts of
men, he neither spoke nor listened to what
was said to him. All his faculties were absorbed
in admiration. He walked slowly
round and round, now letting his eye wander
at will in the maze of delicate, lace-like tracery,
now stepping back that he might the more
fairly grasp the proportions of the building.

It was with difficulty that Alec managed to
draw him inside ; and when he raised his eyes
to the forest of columns and arches, the glades
of open stonework, with lanes of light between,
whose beauty spoke as with silver chimes to
the listening heart, the old man sank down

upon one of the benches, overpowered with
wonder and delight. His son and daughter
left him there, and went to make a tour of the
chapels. When they returned he was still
sitting where they had left him, rapt in admiration.


Don't you think it would be better without
sall those statues V whispered Margaret to her
father.

You don't need to look at them !' said the
old man, almost impatiently, as he let his eyes
once more travel slowly upwards to the dim
recesses of the roof.

Shall I remind father of what he said last
night about the Fathers of the Reformation
and the Scotch abbeys V whispered Alec to his
sister.

Oh, I entreat you not to speak of that! It
would be a shame to throw that in his teeth.
He would most likely be very angry ; and it
would spoil all his pleasure,' said Margaret.

Mr. Lindsay was persuaded to make the
round of the chapels, and to visit Livingstone's
grave, and the coronation-stone. But even the
matchless beauties of the Lady Chapel could
not detain him long from the spot at which he
could see aisle and nave, choir and transept,
unite to form one glorious whole.

Next day, Mr. Lindsay left London for his
own home ; and Margaret went to stay with
Miss Lindsay at Claremont Gardens. As a
matter of course Alec was there pretty oftener
the short time that his sister was to be in
town.

On one occasion when he called only Laura
was at home. It was the first time they had
been alone together since the day of the trial.

I have never thanked you yet, Laura,' said
Alec, ! for what you did for me at the court.
Every day I have hoped for the chance of
speaking to you alone ; but I have not had an
opportunity until now.'

Laura blushed almost painfully. She was
sitting on a low seat near the fire, while Alee
stood at the other end of the hearth-rug, with
his elbow on the mantelpiece, leaning his head
on his hand, and looking, not at his companion,
but at the fire smouldering in the grate.

It was very brave of you, and very, very
good of you.' He stopped suddenly. He
could not remind her that the special merit of
her giving evidence was the fact that she had
brought discredit on herself in doing so.

It was only what I ought to have done ;
but I should have done it sooner.'

I am very glad you did not said Alec
quickly. ' It was fortunate for me that you
said nothing to the lawyers who were defending
me. They would probably have prevented you
from speaking in court at all.'

I had hoped that I — that what I told might
have done you some good,' said Laura, almost
bitterly. ' It did no good at all.'

1 Indeed, you are mistaken !'

1 It was the evidence of that queer Scotch
clerk that set you free.'

No ; it was yours. Or rather, you and he
together secured the acquittal. You added
the missing link in the chain. '

'Then I am well repaid

And I shall be grateful to you as long as I
live.'

But Laura was not satisfied with this. If
lie would only turn and look at her ! But he
stood there, gazing at the red embers without
seeing them.

Surely thought Laura, ' he has not ceased
to love me ? He is not one who easily
forgets.'

Won't you sit down V she said gently.
But he did not seem to hear her. She was
determined that he should speak.

Miss Lindsay is going north sooner than
she intended,' she said, almost sharply.

'Ah!'

■ Yes. I leave for Brighton the day after tomorrow.'


I am sorry you are going. You are to live
with some relations of your own, are you
not ¥

i Yes ; with some distant relations of my
mother's. I am sure I shall dislike them.'

< Don't say that.'

Why not ? I don't suppose you care very
much what sort of life I lead.'

For answer, Alec turned and met her
glance. There was a gentle reproach in his
look ; but he said nothing.

It is too late,' said Laura to herself. ' He
does not care for me now.'

I, at least, am glad to think that you will
be rich,' said she aloud.

I ? I shall have about five thousand
pounds, I believe.'

But I was told that the half-million would

not go to the Free Church — that it would be
divided between you and your cousin.'

Surely you do not think I could take
it?'

The girl stared at him without saying a.
word.

1 It does not belong to me. My uncle
never meant that I should have it. I have
no more right to that money, morally, than
you have.'

And you mean that you will give it up f
ejaculated Laura.

What else could I do ? If you said tome,
" Give that sovereign to the Archbishop
of Canterbury, and keep that shilling for
yourself." And if by mistake you gave me
the shilling instead of the sovereign, and
the sovereign for the shilling, would I be
entitled to keep the sovereign and handover
the shilling ? You can't say you think
so for a moment.'

1 1 think you are mad to hand over such
an enormous sum to those Presbyterians ;
and any sensible person would say just the
same.'

But you cannot understand. My uncle
intended '

I don't care what your uncle intended.
If he did, or meant to do, an insane thing,
that is no reason why you should do one
too.'

Do you really think it would be honest
to keep that money, when it never was intended
for me V asked Alec slowly.

It matters very little what I think, for
I know very well you won't listen to me.
But I suppose what the law gives you is
your own, and if you give it away, it will
be your own act, and, to my mind, a very
foolish one.'

I have written to the executors of the
will, saying that I would only take my share

of any residue there may be after the half-million
is deducted.'

Oh ! Well, I suppose there is no more
to he said.'

Alec was silent for a minute. Then he
started up.

I am going now. I won't wait for my
aunt and Margaret.'

Laura rose and gave him her hand.

Don't think I am angry with you,' she
said, with one of her old bright smiles. ' I
have no business to be, in any case.'

I am sure, if you think it over, you will
see that I could do nothing else. Goodbye.'


Good-bye.'

There was so much he would have liked
to say. It seemed so cold, so ungrateful, to
part with a conventional ' Good-bye,' without
a word of the past, without a word of the
future. But the thoughts in his heart could

not be spoken. It was almost as if he had
been watching for an hour beside the grave of
one whom he had loved.

And Laura was sitting in her old attitude
over the fire, struggling hard to keep back her
tears.

I will not cry for him ; I will not she
said to herself. ' He is not worth it. He
is a perfect fool. To fling away all that
money ! And we might have been so happy !
I could not marry a man so poor as he is
now ; but he might have asked me, all the
same. Well,' and here the poor girl gave
a long-drawn sigh, ' I shall never like anyone
else half so well

MISS MEREDITH INSISTS ON BEING OBEYED.

[t was not until his sister and aunt had left
London that Alec Lindsay began to feel the
effect of his imprisonment and of the anxiety
lie had suffered. His natural energy had
vanished. He was content to hang all day
over the fire, and began to have a morbid
shrinking; from intercourse with strangers.
He fancied that the shadow of the accusation
yet clung; to him. His cough had never
left him ; and he felt more and more indisposed
for exertion of any kind. He lived
quite alone, often spending whole days without
exchanging a word with any human being.
The arrangement with Messrs. Hatchettt,

Small, and Hatchettt had been tacitly abandoned
; and lie had not been able to decide
oh taking any fresh step. There was little
wonder that, living as he did, he became
gloomy and melancholy, tired of his life and
of everything around him.

One afternoon he was surprised by a visit
from Hubert Blake.

1 My dear fellow, what is the matter with
you V were Blake's first words.

1 Nothing;, so far as I know.'

You look like a ghost. '

1 Nonsense

You may call it nonsense if you like, but
it is true. What are you doing with yourself
now V

Nothing in particular. A prolonged fit of
laziness.'

I doubt if it is laziness. Do you live
here all alone, without any regular occupation
V

vol. in. 46

1 I go to the British Museum and read
sometimes.'

There was a pause of a minute or two, and
then Blake said gravely :

You are not yourself, Alec. You used to
be full of energy and spirits. What has happened
to you V

Nothing whatever. Please don't go on
like that.'

1 I'm afraid you were harder hit two months
ago than we supposed. A man can't come
through an experience of that kind without
paying for it.'

Alec's thin face flushed painfully. Blake
saw that his friend wished to be let alone ;
but he could not help thinking that anything
was better for him than the melancholy into
which he seemed to be sinking.

1 You should not live so much alone,' he
began again.

There are very few men I would care

to live with. I don't see what else I can
do.'

I should take a change — go into the
country. 1

1 That would not mend matters.'

1 Or travel.'

1 Too much bother.'

1 But you can't go on like this.'

Why not ? Blake, you are very good, but
you may as well let me alone. To tell the
truth, I don't care much what happens. I
feel as if my life were ended. I don't consider,'
he went on, speaking rapidly, as if he
were anxious to finish what he had to say,
1 that my name can ever be cleared of the
taint of the Old Bailey. I fancy men look
askance at me. I have no desire to begin
life again. My ambitions are dead, and I
don't want them to come to life again. What
-does it matter V

All this simply means that you are run

46—2

clown, out of sorts,' said Blake, rising to his
feet. ' You should take a long voyage.'

Alec shook his head.

6 At least, come and dine with us at
Highgate tomorrow. I have something to
tell you.'

1 Much obliged, Blake ; but I'd rather
not,'

I do think you might exert yourself as
far as that goes,' said Hubert ; but seeing
that Alec was very unwilling to go, he
dropped the subject, and soon afterwards left
him.

In a day or two, however, Alec received a
note from Sophy Meredith, repeating the invitation
in such terms that he found it impossible
to decline it ; and accordingly, a few days
afterwards he found himself once more at Caen
House, High-ate.

The master of the house was not present at
dinner. It was a late, cold spring ; and Mi

Blake found it better to confine himself to his
own room. Nothing of importance was said
at the dinner-table ; but Alec fancied that
his hostess seemed brighter and franker than
usual, and once or twice he observed a glance
passing between her and his friend which he
did not quite understand.

When the little party returned to the .
Miss Elmwood at once settled herself
comfortably in an easy-chair by the fire,
and Sophy went over to the piano. Blake
went up to her to help her to choose some
music ; and Alec, who was sitting close by,
was surprised to see Sophy lay her hand in a
familiar way on his friend's arm, looking into
his face with a bright smile as she did so.
The next instant she caught Alec's look, and,
blushing deeply, she turned to Blake and
whispered :

1 Did you not tell Mr. Lindsay that we are
engaged V

No,' he whispered in reply. i The fact
is, the poor fellow looked so wretched, in
mind as well as in body, that I did not like
the idea of flaunting my happiness in his
face. But go on playing, and I will tell him
now.'

Sophy did as she was bid, but her performance
had a good many slips in it. Meantime
Blake had seated himself beside Alec,
and answering his look, said :

Yes ; Miss Meredith and I have been
engaged about a week.'

Why didn't you tell me when you came to.
see me the other day ? But I beg your
pardon ; I have no business to ask questions
like that.'

Not at all, my clear fellow. I — the fact
is *

Surely you did not think I would grudge
you your good fortune, or envy you V

1 Not that, certainly ; and yet you seemed

so depressed that I did not care to allude to
the subject.'

I It is a comfort to know that there is some
happiness yet in the world. Sometimes it
seems to me there is very little of it left.
And I am sure few people deserve a share of it
better than you and Miss Meredith

Don't say that of me, Alec. It is very far
from the truth

I I wish you joy with all my heart.'

You, too, have had your little romance.
I remember, at least, that when we were at
Loch Long '

'That is all over said Alec quietly, but
there was a sad, wistful look in his face.
Presently he found an opportunity of congratulating
Sophy on her engagement.

1 Thank you, Mr. Lindsay. But, do you
know, I have something on my mind to say
to you. I do hope you won't be offended if I
sav it.'

That means you are going to lecture me.'

Oh no !'

Only a spoonful of jam ? I fear the pill is
there all the same.'

Do you know that is the first thing I have
heard you say in your old manner for months.
You are not well. I see it plainly. You are
very far from well.'

4 Which is a polite way of saying that I am
lazy, moody, and so on, and that I should
shake off my melancholy, and set to work at
something. I feel I ought to do that ; but, to
tell the truth, I feel as if I hadn't the spirit to
attempt it.'

4 It seems to me that you are slipping the
medicine into the spoon yourself; and besides,
the dose you have chosen is one that doesn't
suit youi\ complaint. It is the weak state of
health you are in which is to blame. Now, I
want you to go and see a doctor.'

I assure you, Miss Meredith, it is quite

unnecessary. There is very little, if anything,
the matter with me.'

Let us say it is unnecessary. Won't you
take the trouble of going, if I ask you V

Certainly.'

Then I do ask you.'

That, of course, settled the matter ; and
before Alec left the house Miss Meredith gave
him the name and address of the doctor she
wished him to consult.

The following morning, accordingly, Alec
spent in the physician's waiting-room. The
room was nearly full when he entered it ; and
as most of those present had made appointments
beforehand with the doctor, and were
consequently preferred, he had more than an
hour to wait. There was plenty of time for
him to observe his fellow-patients. One little
group, in particular, arrested his attention.
It consisted of a young man, a few years older
than himself, a girl who was evidently his wife,

and a child, a merry little fellow about three
years old. The young mother was evidently
the patient. She was thin and hollow-eyed ;
the colour came and went in her pallid cheeks,
and her cough was sometimes painful to listen
to. The husband sat moodily staring before
him. The mother busied herself with the child.
As it happened, the boy took a strong fancy
for Alec's stick ; and after a shy smile and
a faint excuse from his mother, the child
succeeded in attaining his object. This led
to the interchange of a few remarks between
Alec and the child's parents, from which it
appeared that the young man was a clerk in
some mercantile house in the City, and was
spending an unexpected holiday in the effort
to ascertain exactly what ailed his wife. To
Alec it seemed plain that the girl (for she
seemed hardly beyond girlhood) was in consumption.
The only question was what
progress the disease had made.

When it was Alec's turn to enter the ,
he thought that the doctor made
a ridiculously minute examination, and asked
him a number of very unnecessary questions.
But he changed his mind when the physician
pronounced his verdict. The substance of it
was that Alec was in a very precarious state
of health ; that his lungs were exceedingly
delicate, and that he was predisposed to consumption.
The prescription was change of
scene and cheerful society in the meantime,
and a voyage to Australia or a winter spent
in Egypt.

I see you are tempted to make light of
the matter,' said the doctor. 'All I can say
is, that if you go on as you are doing now,
you will not be alive this day twelve months.
You had better get one or two of your
relations to take a trip to Vintner with you.
Don't go alone. Good-afternoon.'

Alec was startled by what he was told ;

and yet, so deep was his melancholy that he
was conscious of a certain satisfaction in being
able to think of his death as an event that
was possibly not far off.

He had left the house and had gone some

o

little distance before he noticed that he had
taken a wrong turning, and would be forced
to retrace his steps. He had gone back
nearly as far as the doctor's house, when he
met the young couple whom he had noticed in
the waiting-room.

Alec was startled by the fierce look in the
husband's face. It was the face of a desperate
man. He was striding on, apparently without
thinking where he was going, dragging his
child carelessly by the hand, while his staring
eyes and clenched teeth told of the storm that
was raging within. His wife trudged on by
his side in silence, pale to the lips, with a
scared look in her face. Moved by some
impulse, Alec stopped right in front of them,

and, without any formal apology, asked at
once :

What did the doctor say V

1 What did he say ? Death. That's what
he said. It may be in a year, or it may be
in three months. My God f

The humble City clerk was transformed by
misery into something like a madman. He
gripped his wife by the arm, as if he would
defy Death himself to tear her from his side.

She's all I have, and I can't live without
her. I can't, and I won't.'

Alec shuddered, but he could not meet the
man's eyes, and dropped his own before them.

4 And the children ; what is to become of
them V

Come, Tom ; come home with me,' said his
wife oentlv, as she tried to release her husband's
tightening grasp.

But he did not hear her.

Ay ; and the doctor says, if she could goto

Egypt for a time, or the south of France,
her life would be spared. Egypt ! Or the
south of France ! For a year, he says. Oh
yes, it would save her life. That's the good
of being rich, you see. You can buy your
wife's life.'

What is your name ? Where do you live V
said Alec.

1 What have you to do with that V

Hush, Tom !' put in the girl at his side.
i And do let go my arm, you hold me so tight.
Tell the gentleman where we live. He won't
do us any harm.'

But the man, suddenly dropping his wife's
arm, strode on without saying another word.

Tell me the name of your husband's
employers; he said he was a clerk in the
City,' said Alec to the girl, walking on by her
side.

Cole and Fletcher, sir. They're tea merchants
in Devises Street.'

And your name is V

Hardy, sir.'

1 Thank you. Good-day.'

There was sympathy in Alec's face, if there
was none in his language ; and as he slowly
walked homewards he asked himself, ' Why
should I not do it ? I have all I need ; more,
probably, than I shall ever wish to use.
Of course it is a risk ; but I don't think I
could do better.'

And next morning Thomas Hardy received
a short note, which enclosed a cheque for
three hundred pounds, signed ' Alexander
Lindsay.'

SICK UNTO DEATH.

It was a wet, cheerless day in the end of
March. The rain fell without ceasing, and
the air was bitterly cold. There was not a
sign of spring in field or hedgerow; and
here and there, in the furrows and in
sheltered spots where the wind could not
penetrate, the snow still lingered.

Alec Lindsay was seated in the battered
old coach, being conveyed to the Castle
Farm. He had determined to see if his
native air would restore him to health. For
he could no longer persuade himself that
there was little or nothing the matter with
him. He felt weaker every day. The

preparations for leaving London and the long-journey
had tired him excessively ; and now
his one desire was for rest.

As the lumbering vehicle approached the
well-remembered corner, he saw the dog-cart
waiting. His father was driving it ; and the
old man was startled when he saw his
son's face, and still more when he took his
hand.

You are far from well, Alec,' said the
laird.

I am tired. I shall be better to-morrow
said he, getting into the dogcart.

1 I think we had better stop at Dr. Henderson's,
and ask him to come over and see you
tomorrow.'

'Oh dear me, no,' said Alec, in an irritated
tone. ' I only want a good night's rest.'

But on the following morning he did not
come down to breakfast. He had caught a
cold on the journey, and he complained of a

vol. in. 47

pain in bis side. Dr. Henderson was sent
for, and when lie saw his patient he looked
very grave.

Inflammation of the lungs,' he said to
Mr. Lindsay, when he went downstairs.

But there is no danger, is there ?' asked
the old laird, with alarm in his eyes.

I would not like to say there's no
danger,' said the doctor cautiously. ' He's
young, and I hope he'll win through ; but he
seems very listless and careless about himself.
That's a bad sign.'

You'll do all that can be done, I'm sure,
doctor ; but if you think further advice
desirable, you'll not spare expense.'

i A' the doctors in Europe could do no
more than I'm doing,' said the doctor testily.
1 I'll come round the morn. He may be
easier then, but I doubt no. We must have
patience.'

Margaret nursed her brother with great

skill and tenderness. She was born to be a
nurse ; and her habitual self-repression made
it easy for her to conceal the anxiety she was
feeling.

It was impossible for her to be always in
the sick-room, and Alec liked best to be left
alone. It was the room that had always
been his own. Here he had read and worked
to prepare himself for College. At that old-fashioned
window he had often sat, dreaming
dreams which would never come true. How
fair the world had seemed to him but a few
short years before ! How delightful the
battle when he would match himself against
his fellows, against men born with greater
advantages than his own, and in which he
would come off victorious, winning not only
wealth but honourable renown ! And he had
succeeded in nothing. It was only by an
accident, he told himself, that he was not
now sitting in a convict's cell, or lying on a

47—2

pallet in some prison infirmary. That he
had escaped ; but he had learned, or thought
he had learned, that the prizes he had set
his heart on were not worth winning. The
whole world did not seem to him to hold
anything worthy of the devotion of a lifetime.
All this passed through his mind
continually, in spite of the pain, but in a
confused way, as if he had thought it all out
and had wearied of it long ago.

On the third day the doctor looked very
grave, and said he would come again in the
evening.

You think my son is worse, then ?' said
Mr. Lindsay.

The doctor paused for a moment.

We must hope for the best,' he said at
last.

A chill struck to the father's heart. "Was
sit possible that this boy, of whom in secret
he had been so proud, the only hope of his

house, was to die ? Inwardly he trembled,
but outwardly he was as composed as ever.

Do you think,' he said slowly, ' that he
ought to be told ?'

I think you might ask him if there is any
friend he would like to see,' said the doctor.
That will make him understand.'

When the doctor left him, the laird sat
-down in a kind of stupor. He could not
believe it. Was he, an old man, not far
from the grave, to live, while death seized his
strong, bright-eyed boy ? He shivered ; and
as he sat there alone he realized that the
bereavement would be worse to him than it
need have been. He had shown the lad but
little of a father's tenderness, little even of
the tenderness which he actually felt. Alec
had never confided in him, and he had
resented the want of confidence. But he had
never tried to see things from the boy's
standpoint ; he had never made allowances

for him, never yielded to him, never tried to
sympathize with his plans. He had wished
his son to be as himself. That could not he ;
and he had never acquiesced in the decree of
nature which had given the young man other
standards, other ideas, other aims, than his
own. And now the end was come.

He could not bring himself as yet to go
upstairs and tell his son the truth. But Alec
had already learned it.

Maggie,' he said suddenly. ' Does the
doctor think I will get better ?'

Margaret stepped back so that her brother
could not see her face, and steadied her voice
before 'she answered :

He hopes you will. You have a splendid
constitution, he says

'But there is a chance that I may
not? 9

Margaret could not speak. She would
have broken down, and she was determined

not to do that. On her brother's face was a
look of satisfaction, as of one who heard that
a long-expected haven was in sight. Then
that expression passed away, and was succeeded
by a wandering, troubled gaze.

I would like to see Duncan Cameron
Alec whispered. ' Do you think my father
would send for him ?'

I am sure he would, dear ; I will go and
ask him now said Margaret, as she kissed
her brother and softly left the room.
Mr. Lindsay was not w T ell pleased to hear
of Alec's wish.

It is a stranger he wishes to be with him
at the last,' he said to himself bitterly.

But he set off himself to walk the five
miles which lay between the farm and the
nearest telegraph office.

That evening Duncan Cameron was at the
farm. Little was said between the two ; but
Alec seemed to find comfort in his friend's

presence. In a short time Mr. Lindsay
beckoned Cameron out of the room.

You are a doctor,' said the old man, ina
hard, constrained voice. 'What do you
think ? Is he likely to recover ?'

I cannot say said Cameron. ' He is
very ill, and very weak. If he were a
patient of my own, or a stranger '

1 Yes ?'

1 should fear that he would not live
through the night.'

The old man turned away without a word,
went to his own room, and threw himself on
his knees at the side of his bed. He could
not pray. But under his breath he
whispered :

0\\ y my son, would God I could die for
thee ! Oh, Alec, my son, my son !'

And the tears ran unbidden down his
withered, weather-beaten cheeks.

Meantime Cameron had gone back to the

sick-room, and there he sat down to watch by
his friend, while Margaret rested.

1 Cameron said Alec, speaking slowly and
with pain, * when I am gone they may put
on my tombstone, " Born a man, died a
failure." '

Hold your tongue, man.'

I have been a failure in everything I ever
tried,' whispered Alec. ' I wonder why I was
born — it seems to have been such a useless
existence.'

You say that, and you believe in a God !'
exclaimed Cameron. ' If you don't, you
may talk about useless existences, and so
forth. But if you believe in a God, you
must believe that there is a reason, and a
good reason, for everything, whether you see
it or not. If there is a God, and God
determined to make you, it was better that
you should live. And if you failed, it is
better that you should fail, because if God

had wished you to succeed, He might easily
have brought that about, I suppose ?'

■ Yes, it must be so. There is comfort in
that,'

Of course there is. There is more than
comfort in it. There is everything in it.
And yet men go on saying they believe in
God, and grumbling at every stone they
strike their foot against.'

A long pause followed.

Alec was hardly able to speak, but a faint
smile crossed his face.

1 You are always the same, Cameron.'

And if you talk any more I will leave the
house this instant. If you have any peace
in your mind, keep it, and thank God. But
don't say another syllable, unless you want to
kill yourself.'

All through that night Cameron and
Margaret watched by turns.

About four in the morning Cameron touched

the bell which stood at the side of the bed ;
and in a few seconds Margaret was in the
room. Alec was sitting upright, supported
by his friend's arms and breast, while he
laboured and gasped for breath.

Call his father,' whispered Cameron.

Margaret longed to fly to her brother's
side ; but she did as she was told, and soon
the old man obeyed the summons.

It cannot last much longer,' whispered
Cameron to Margaret, as she stood sobbing at
his side.

The three stood there and waited helplessly
while the life and death struggle went on.
At last the breathing became more regular,
and Alec was able to look at the faces of
those around him.

I think you had better go now ; it only
excites him to see so many of us here,' said
Cameron, still speaking in a whisper. ' I
will call you again if he should get worse,

but I don't think it will be necessary. I
think he will do now.'

Cameron was right. Alec had youth and
a magnificent constitution on his side ; and
from that night he grew gradually better.
*****

The sun was shining bright and strong
through the little square windows of the
parlour, when the invalid came down for the
first time after his illness. It was May ; the
rain was over and gone, and the time of the
singing of birds had come. Alec's heart
sang with them, he hardly knew why. It
was partly the reaction of a young and
vigorous system after the illness and the
mental depression through which he had
passed ; but he had undergone another change
of which he said nothing. He no longer
looked on the world as an arena in which
success meant all that was worth living for,
and failure irretrievable disaster.

During his convalescence there had been
some talk of the future, and it had been
settled that in order to get rid of the weakness
in his lungs Alec should spend one or
two years in a dry, warm climate. Cameron
had recommended a voyage to Australia ; and
finally it was settled that the invalid should
wait at the Castle Farm till he was quite fit
to travel, and then sail for Melbourne. If he
found that the climate suited him, he was to
settle down for a year or more, and learn
sheep-farming.

In view of so long a parting, he was in no
hurry to leave home ; and for the first time
since his boyhood he enjoyed staying at the
farm.

Alec,' said his father to him one day, not
long before the time fixed for his departure,
1 did I ever tell you that I had heard from
your cousin Semple ?■

'No!' exclaimed Alec in great astonish-merit.

' When ? Where is he ? What is
he doing ?'

It was during your illness, so of course I
did not mention it to you. He was in Spain
—in hiding. He was miserably poor ; in
fact, he wrote begging me to send him money,
if it were only a few shillings.'

Have you his letter ?'

I burned it.'

And did you '

Send him money ? No, indeed ! Was
it likely ? His punishment is nothing comparatively.
But it is written, " Vengeance is
Mine." '

There was an air of decided satisfaction in
the old man's manner as he quoted the text.

< Do you remember the address ?' asked
Alec, after a pause.

No,' said Mr. Lindsay shortly.

It is very strange to hear of his being in
poverty,' said Alec, ' when he is entitled to so

much wealth. I heard before I left London
that the trustees of the Free Kirk could not
hope to succeed in getting the half-million
from a court of law.'

So it has been decided ; but Semple is
afraid to come forward and claim the money.
He fears he may be prosecuted, and, for anything
he knows, sent to penal servitude.'

1 Perhaps he does not even know that in
spite of the trick he played he is entitled to
half the residue of the estate.'

I dare say he does not.'

I wonder what he is doing now.'

He won't starve,' said Mr. Lindsay calmly.
He will manage to exist somehow till he
thinks the worst danger is past, and then we
shall hear of his trying to get hold of the
money.'

Did you think I did right in renouncing
my share of it ?' said Alec, after a pause.

You did not consult me at the time,' said

the old man stiffly ; ' and there is little use in
speaking of it now

You see, my uncle never intended for one
moment that I should get two hundred and
fifty thousand pounds of his money. I felt
that I could not honestly take it.'

No doubt. Have you fixed whether you
will go by the Queen of the South or the
Glenstrae ?'

From which Alec understood that his
father would have agreed with Laura Mowbray
in thinking that he was not morally
bound to carry out his uncle's wishes.

'Conscience must be obeyed, no doubt
said the old man, suddenly returning to the
subject. ' But in important matters it is well
to take time for clue deliberation, and to
consult those whose opinion is entitled to
respect.'

I am afraid, sir, I could hardly have
expected a Free Kirk minister to advise me

to retain the money,' said Alec maliciously.
If I had had recourse to an Established
Church pastor, he might perhaps have seen
the matter in a different light.'

Then, seeing that his father looked nettled,
Alec hastily began to speak of something else.

It was the middle of summer before the
time of parting came. The Glcnstrac (the
ship which had been chosen) sailed from the
Clyde; and Alec's father and sister, as well as
his friend Cameron, went down to Greenock
where the vessel was lying, to see him onboard.


The separation was painful, but it was,
after all, so different from that other parting
which a few weeks before had seemed so near
at hand ! The last hand-shakes were exchanged
; and Alec's friends stepped on board
the tug which was to convey them back to the
shore. He saw them land ; he saw his
father's tall, bent form, with Margaret at his

vol. in. 48

side, standing motionless at the edge of the
.quay. He watched them until it was no
longer possible to see the signals they made,
till their forms were lost in the distance. A
few minutes afterwards he begged a fellow-passenger
for the loan of a field-glass which
was lying beside him, that he might have a
nearer look at the land he was leaving. And
happening to turn the glass upon the wharf,
lie saw that Margaret and his father were
standing there still.

THE FUGITIVE'S RETURN.

Before Miss Lindsay left London she accompanied
her late cousin's ward to Victoria,
and saw her depart for Brighton. The old
lady was by no means sorry that this was
the last she was to see of Laura Mowbray.
There had been from the first hour of their
meeting a natural antipathy between the two
women. Miss Lindsay's ruling idea was that
of duty, while Laura's chief aim in life was to
get as much amusement, or, failing that, as
much comfort as possible, out of her existence.
They had put up with each other because
they happened to be members of the same
household, and each had too much sense

48—2

to indulge in quarrelling or recrimination.
Naturally they both felt it to be a relief
when the connection came to an end.

But no sooner were Miss Lindsay and Margaret
seated in the carriage which conveyed
them back to Claremont Gardens, than the
old lady's conscience began to trouble her. It
told her that she had done nothing for the
girl who had been for some years in a manner
under her care. She had not tried to wean
her from her pleas are-loving, selfish habits.
She had not tried to sympathize with her, or
to make life in Mr. Lindsay's house, which
was often cheerless enough, a whit more
pleasant for her. Beyond lending volumes
of sermons and religious memoirs to her to
read on Sundays, she had not tried to influence
the motherless girl for good. Why had she
not thought of all this before it was too late ?

1 It was with a sigh, therefore, that she
turned to Margaret, and said :

poor lassie ! I wish she may do weel.'

I think few people are better able to take
care of themselves than Miss Mowbray,' responded
Margaret.

I think Alec was greatly taken with her
some time back,' said Miss Lindsay, after a
pause.

She encouraged both him and that wretch,
James Semple,' said Margaret, with more
vehemence than was usual with her ; ' and I
believe she meant to take the one that turned
out t*> be Uncle James's heir. She has no
principle. I believe she would marry anyone
who was rich enough to give her all the comforts
of life and take her to plenty of balls and
parties.'

It cloesna become you to speak ill o' the
lassie as soon as her back's turned,' said Miss
Lindsay ; and to this rebuke Margaret vouchsafed
no reply.

Meanwhile Laura was trying to realize that

once more a great change had come into her
life. The comfortable, monotonous life of Mr.
Lindsay's house was already for her a thing of
the past. What the future had in store for
her she had no means of guessing. A cousin
of her mother's, who had married a Mr.
Crosby, had offered her a home, and she had
accepted the offer. Of Mr. Crosby she only
knew that he was a coal merchant, and that
he lived at Richmond Villa, Brighton. He
might be a poor man, or he might be well-to-do
; though from the fact that Mrs. Crosby had
accepted Laura's proposal to pay her sixty
pounds a year for her board and lodging, it
might be supposed that the Crosby were not
rich.

Whatever they are like,' said Laura to
herself, ' my life can't be more dull with them
than it has been for the last three years.
And if I don't like them, I can always go
away again.'

But fate had decreed that in both of these
points Laura was to be disappointed.

The girl's heart sank within her as the cab
stopped at ' Richmond Villa which was, in
fact, nothing more than a shabby, stucco-fronted
cottage. The crying of a baby
reached her ears before she had time to
raise the knocker ; and no sooner had she
done so than she became conscious that two
dirty children were peering at her from the
window at her left hand.

Mrs. Crosby was a large, flabby, good-natured
woman, who seemed incapable of
being injuriously affected by any domestic
troubles whatever. She was always in a
muddle, always undecided, always unpresentable
in appearance, and always contented.
Her husband, on the contrary, was a little,
sharp-eyed, foxy-haired man with a rasping,
disagreeable voice 3 and an uncertain temper.
Each of them had, without knowing it, drawn

a prize in the lottery of marriage. Either
Mr. or Mrs. Crosby would have driven any
other man or woman mad in a week ; but
they got on together tolerably well.

You are very welcome, Miss Mowbray,' he
said to Laura that evening, ' if you can put up
with the discomfort of this house. I'm used
to it, and I don't mind ; but with you it maybe
different.'

Laura did not know what to say in answer
to this speech ; but Mrs. Crosby remarked
with the utmost composure :

Law, Mr. Crosby, how can you say so 1
I'm sure everything's very comfortable, though
at present a little unsettled. But you must
never mind Mr. Crosby, my dear. All men
grumble and find fault ; and if you. just let
them alone, it never does anyone any harm.'

Life at Richmond Villa was certainly uneventful
; but very much to her own surprise
Laura found that it interested her. It was

the first time she had ever formed one of
a family circle ; and though the children were
by no means attractive, they amused her, and
pleased her by coming to her with their little
wants and cares, their joys and sorrows.

And before Laura had been long enough in
the house to decide whether it would not be
better to leave it and oro and live bv herself ina
boarding-house, an event happened which
settled the question for her. The Patent
Match-box Company, whose shares she had
bought on her lawyer's advice at twenty percent,
premium, went into liquidation ; and
after a miserable period of anxiety Laura,
found that only nine hundred pounds of her
money could be saved out of the wreck. She
was thankful to remain with Mrs. Crosby as
nursery-governess. It was a hard, dull life ;
but the very hardness and dulness of it did
the girl good. She was forced to think of
other things than her own amusement and her

own pleasure. Almost insensibly she grew
less self-indulgent, more considerate for others,
more simple and straightforward.

One day, about six months after Laura had
first come to Brighton, she was returning
home, late in the afternoon, when she was
stopped by a man whom she took for a
beggar. As she was searching her pocket fora
copper, he spoke to her.

Laura — Miss Mowbray, don't you know
me?'

It was James Semple !

The girl was shocked beyond the power of
speech. She stood, exactly as she had been
standing when he spoke her name, and stared
at him. His dress was that of a labourer,
except for his coat — an old black overcoat,
torn, and indescribably dirty, which had the
effect of making him look a thousand times
more disreputable than he would have been
without it. On his head was a battered felt

hat, gray with old age. His face was thin
and unshaven, his eyes hungry and wolfish.

Well ! you needn't stare at me like that f
he exclaimed.

But Laura did not hear him. She had
burst into tears. She hardly could have told
why she wept ; for certainly the man deserved
his evil fortune. Yet it seemed too horrible
that a man idiom she had lived with on terms
of familiarity should be reduced to this — to
actual squalor and hunger.

You're sorry for me, I see. You've a good
heart, Laura. But you won't care to be seen
speaking to me,' he added, throwing a furtive
glance around him. ' There's a policeman,
coming up the street. Let's turn down here
and he led the way into a side-alley. Half
reluctantly the girl followed him.

I say, do you know if there's a warrant out
against me V he whispered, stretching his
unsightly face nearer to her.

Xo ; I think not. I never heard of anything
of that kind.'

Because I've been afraid, you know —
horribly afraid. I haven't been able to sleep
at night. I couldn't go to prison, Laura.
Not for long, you know. It would kill
me.'

Where have you been ? And how did you
know I was here V

I've been in Spain. I worked my passage
from Lisbon. And I went to the house in
Claremont Gardens one night, after dark, and
the old woman who is keeping the place told
me where you had gone. I've tramped from
London.'

And how have you lived, all this time V

1 1 haven't lived, I've starved. That's what
I've done. You never knew what it was to
be hungry, I suppose. How would you like
to be hungry, not for days, but weeks and
weeks — and cold too at the same time, and

nowhere to sleep. I couldn't stand it, so I
came back and took my chance. I say, Laura.,
can you lend me any money V

Laura took out her purse. There were two
sovereigns in it, besides some silver. She
poured it all into the man's open palm.

I am not rich now,' she said, with a sad
smile ; ' I lost nearly all my money.' And
she then remembered that it w T ould be two
months at least before her purse could be filled
a grain.

o

1 Have you V said Semple. ' Are you sure
you can spare all this V He picked out one of
the sovereigns and held it, as if he intended to
return it.

Oh yes, I can spare it ; and you want it so
much.'

Don't I ! But you're a good sort, Laura,
returned Semple ; slipping the sovereign into
his pocket with the rest of the money.

I'm afraid I must go now said the girl,

remembering that it was just possible that
they might be observed.

1 All right. I'll sto back to London. It's easier
to pick up coppers there than anywhere else.'

Why don't you consult a lawyer V asked
Laura suddenly.

What ! Don't you see, I could be caught
and put in prison, for the conspiracy, if it were
nothing else V

1 Yes ; but surely the lawyer might act for
you, and get your money for you, even if you
lived abroad.'

I thought of that. But what lawyer would
look at me, dressed as I am now ? Your two
sovereigns will change all that, Laura. I will
find a solicitor to take up the case. There
ought to be ten thousand pounds for my share
of the residue.'

1 Far more than that. The Free Church '

Yes. What about the Free Church? They
get the half-million, don't they V

I believe not. Alec gave up his share to
them ; and they tried to get your share from
the executors ; but the court decided that
they could not prove their case, and had no
right to it.'

1 Are you sure V cried Semple, almost mad
with excitement.

I am quite sure. I saw it in the papers
about a fortnight ago.'

You don't say so ! What luck !' And
with sundry half-articulate cries of wonder
and delight, Mr. James Semple disappeared.

Six weeks afterwards he came back to
Brighton. It was on a Sunday morning that
Laura and he met. She had a headache which
had prevented her going to church ; and she
was enjoying the unwonted repose of the little
sitting-room when the door was opened, and
Semple walked into the room. He was no
longer an outcast dressed in rags. Every
article of dress he had on was palpably new ;

and except for an irrepressible twitch of the
eyelids, he had an air of confidence and display.


1 You see I've come back again, Laura,' he
said, as soon as the door was closed. ' I didn't
forget you. But it was a risk — a tremendous
risk. Curtin — that's my solicitor — is careful to
impress on me that my getting the money
won't save me from prosecution. It's a comfortable
truth for him ; for he's charged me
fifty per cent, for the money he has lent me,

him, because he knew very well I didn't

dare to go to anyone else for it. But how
are you ?'

I don't feel very well to-day.'

'I'm sorry for that. Well, I've come a
good way to see you. I'm in France, you
know— supposed to be in France ; and I ran
over last night and came down here this
morning. I want to pay you the little debt I
owe you ;' and he counted out the money ashe

spoke. 'We've made them pay up,' he
cried in triumphant tone.

Indeed,' said Laura.

Yes. Two hundred and eleven thousand
four hundred and nineteen pounds were paid
in to my account at the Bank of England on
Friday morning. What do you think of
that V

I'm going to buy a yacht,' he continued,
without waiting for an answer. ' One feels
more comfortable, safer, in fact, on board
ship.'

He ceased talking for a moment, and Laura
made no effort to supply the gap.

c I say, Laura,' he exclaimed, ' did you ever
hear of such a fool as that fellow Alec —
throwing away all that money V

Laura reddened. It was exactly what she
had thought herself; but it was a very different
thing to hear it from this man's mouth.

'So I'm the heir after all !' He laughed ;

vol. in. 49

he actually laughed as he spoke. 'And as
soon as I've come into my inheritance I've
come back to you. I'm not a man to forget
old friends or old promises, Laura ; and I've
come to ask you to let bygones be bygones,
and go shares with me in this good luck.
You'll marry me, Laura, won't you \ And
we'll be so jolly ! Think of how jolly we will
be! Eh, Laura?'

But I have lost my fortune, Mr. Semple, '
she said, without raising her eyes.

What is that to me 1 — a flea-bite — a mere
flea-bite ;' and Mr. Semple drummed on the
table pleasantly with the tips of his fingers.

4 And you might perhaps find someone who
was more attractive, more accomplished, more
worthy to be the wife of a rich man than poor
me,' said the girl, almost humbly.

Oh, well ; I dare say I might pick almost
anywhere now ; but we are old friends, and
I have always liked you, Laura, so '

He stretched out his hand and laid it upon
hers.

At the touch she sprang to her feet as if she
had been stung.

You wretch !' she cried. ' You cowardly,
cruel monster ! How dare you ask an honest
girl to marry you ! Do you think I would
have accepted you as you were the other day ?
As little would I listen to you now !'

He shrank back amazed, angry, insulted —
cowering before the girl's scorn.

• You think that because I pitied you and
gave you money to save you from starvation
that I forgot what a vile being you are. You
helped to lay a snare for your cousin, who
never so much as lifted a finger against you.
You would have seen him sent into penal
servitude innocent, that you might get this
money. I never heard of such baseness. I
could not have conceived that anyone could
have been so mean, so cruel !'

49—2

'It wasn't my idea ; I never knew what was
going on.'

You changed the wills ; and you were
ready to swear your cousin's liberty away,
and let him spend his life in prison, while

you And you think you can come here

and ask me to marry you as if you were not
known. What did you take me for ? Can
you not imagine that a girl would die a
thousand times rather than marry such as
you ? I think you had better go.'

Her last words were not needed. Semple
hung his head like a slave caught in a theft,
and slunk out of the room.

TWO YEARS AFTER.

A tall bearded man walked slowly up the
side of a steep ravine, leading a tired horse
by the bridle. His hands were plunged deep
in his trousers-pockets, and his brows were
knitted in deep thought. He wore the
regulation Australian costume — flannel shirt
and silk scarf, straw hat, rough trousers, and
enormous boots.

It was Alec Lindsay. Two years of ths
dry bracing air of Australia had done wonders
for him. His cheeks and hands were brown
as a nut, his muscles strong and springy as
when he used to run up the sides of the

Highland hills ; not a trace of weakness was
left in his frame.

When the ascent was climbed, the traveller
came upon a rough path running along the
upper edge of the gully, which brought him
to a shepherd's hut. This had been Alec's
home for the last fifteen months. Here he
had lived, contentedly enough, dreaming now
and then of the big world so far away, but
never hankering after it, deeming it a pleasant
piece of excitement if a traveller dropped
in with a fortnight-old newspaper in his
pocket.

As he drew near the hut, a short, thick-set
man with a black beard, which resembled a
section of a sweep's brush, appeared at the
doorway, and stood waiting for his companion's
approach.

Well V he inquired, as Alec came up.

1 I saw Martin,' said Alec ; ' and I ordered
the flour, and the other things. The wash

for the sheep will be sent over on Saturday.'


Bill Cutbush gave a grunt, by way of
acknowledging the information.

I went round by the post-office.'

Ah I' growled Bill. ' That's what's made
you so late. You didn't get any letters forme,
I fancy \ No billy-does, or such-like V

There was a letter and a paper for you,'
answered Alec, producing them from his
pouch.

Bill stared at them as if he were half afraid
of them.

I Blest if I ain't forgot how to read such
things,' he said, with a short laugh, as he
thrust them into his pocket, and turned
away.

I I got a letter too,' began Alec. ' I think,
Bi '

Then he saw that his rough-spoken comrade
was paying no attention to him, but was

striding off to discover what the news was
that had travelled so many thousand miles to
find him.

So Alec rubbed down Brown Jim, his horse,
and fed him. After that he went to the brook
and washed himself, and then he walked into
the hut. Supper, the never changing supper
of tea, chops, and unleavened bread, was
ready cooked ; and when that subject had
been adequately discussed, Alec lit his pipe
and sat down on a log outside the hut to
ruminate.

Much had happened during the two years
of his exile. His father had died, and Margaret
had let the Castle Farm, and the others
which the laird had bought back before his
death, and had gone to live with Miss Lindsay
in Glasgow.

Old Mr. Blake, too, was dead ; and Hubert
Blake and Sophy had been married for sometime.
The letter Alec had just received was

from Blake ; and pulling it out of his pocket
he began to read it once more.

My dear Lindsay ' (so ran the letter),

1 1 see it is of no use to blow you up for
not writing — so I spare you. But I have news
for you. Your cousin Semple is dead. Poor
fellow, I fear his wealth did him little good.
You know, I dare say, that he managed to
hear of an attorney while he was in Spain,
and through this man he succeeded in recovering
the quarter of a million to obtain which he
did you so grievous a wrong. But he never
dared to show his face in England, knowing
that if he escaped imprisonment he would
have been shunned by everybody.

1 1 have seen his lawyer, who seems a fairly
respectable individual ; and he tells me that
the two hundred and fifty thousand pounds
are intact ; and that your cousin left no will.
So you and your sister inherit this property.

You must come home at once, aucl see about
it. I believe your sister is to be put into
possession of her share very shortly.

You are a rich man now, Lindsay ; and if
you choose you may do something towards
realizing those schemes of colonization which
in your book, " England's Hope," you recommend
to all wealthy philanthropists. At least
you may as well spend the money in that way ;
for I feel certain you will get rid of it before
long, in one way or another. As for " England's
Hope," it has made quite a sensation. It is
talked of and quoted everywhere ; and really
your doctrine that the unskilled labourers who
are starving should be helped to emigrate to
Australia in large numbers, and settled on
virgin land by the two Governments, seems
to me the only practical way of solving the
difficulty. I quite agree with you in this,
that we may expect the agricultural labourers
to find less and less work on English farms,

so that the distress which comes round as
regularly every winter as the first of November,
must grow worse every year, unless it is
relieved by a remedy which will be in some
degree commensurate w T with the evil.

But we will talk over all this when we
meet. "What I want to impress upon you is
that you must, as soon as this reaches you,
saddle your horse, and make for the nearest
seaport. Take the first steamer for England,
and as soon as you land come straight to
Brighton. We shall be here for four or live
months at least. I want to have a long chat
with you, and my wife wants to show you the
baby, whose faculties (according to his mother)
are well-nigh superhuman, and whose beauties
and graces are infinite.

By the way, we lighted upon an old
acquaintance of yours the other day, Miss
Mowbray. Poor girl, I fancy she has rather
a hard life of it. She foolishly invested the

greater part of her little fortune in a company
which paid high dividends long enough to
enable the promoters to sell their shares, and
then went to smash. So she lives with some
relations as a sort of nursery-governess to a
pack of preternaturally ugly children. But I
fancy her hard fortune has improved her. My
wife has taken a great fancy to her, chiefly, I
believe, on account of her courage in giving
evidence on a certain occasion, and on account
of her refusing James Semple, when he wanted
to marry her last year.

'Now, good-bye, and remember to come
to Brighton the moment your ship comes in.
Yours always,

1 Hubert Blake.'

By the time Alec's pipe was finished, Bill
Cutbush had returned to the hut. He was
very quiet and subdued in his manner.
Evidently the contents of his letter had

touched him deeply ; but he said not a word
about it.

■ Bill,' said Alec, before they separated for
the night, ' I have had an important letter
from England : and I am going home. I
spoke to Martin ; and he will send someone
to take my place tomorrow.'

1 When d'you start V asked Bill, after a
pause.

'At daybreak.'

I What are you going to do with Brown Jim V

I I shall ride him to Clifford's, and catch
the stage there.'

You think of selling him ¥
I shall leave him to you, Bill.'
1 For my own ¥
Of course.'
< Thanked.'

■ Gooch-night, Bill.'

Half an hour afterwards Alec suddenly
awoke.

Who's there V he shouted.

1 It's only me,' said the voice of Bill Cut-bush.
' I say, y'know, it was sort of particular
good in you to give me Brown Jim. He's the
best loss for a long way round. I'll take
good care on him. Thought you'd like to
know.'

And before Alec had time to reply, Bill
had vanished.

Before two months had passed, Alec was
once more in London. And without waiting
to see the solicitor who had charge of his
late cousin's property, he went down to
Brighton the same day.

To his disappointment, however, he found
that Blake and his wife were not at home,
and would not probably be back till the
evening. Alec spent the rest of the day in
wandering about the pier and the streets,

feeling more lonely than he had been in the
Australian bush.

It was late in the afternoon, and he was
strolling aimlessly along the seashore, when
happening to look towards the cliffs he caught
sight of Laura Mowbray.

Yes, it was she ; a glad surprise shining in
her eyes. Alec rushed up to her, holding out
both his hands.

■ Oh, how are you ? I am so glad to see
you !' he cried.

Laura gave him her right hand without
speaking, but Alec seized her left as well, and
held it, while his eyes devoured her face.

1 Won't you give me a word of welcome V
he asked.

Welcome back to England !' she said,
gently disengaging her hands.

Then they walked on side by side.

1 When did you return V asked Laura.

1 I only reached London this morning.'

I Had you a pleasant voyage ?'

Yes ; but I want to hear about you. I
want to know so much.'

No, no ; you shall tell me all about
Australia, and what you have been doing all
this time.'

There were plenty of topics for conversation,
and an hour went by before they noticed that
the sun was near his setting.

I I must take the children home,' said
Laura. ' They are under my charge, you
know.'

1 The children ? Where are they V
1 Playing over there. Oh ! I have been
keeping an eye on them all the time. I have
not been so careless as you think.'

1 You cannot imagine,' said Alec, as they
walked over to the children's encampment,
how strange it seems to me that I am here,
walking by your side. I can hardly believe
it to be true.'

Laura smiled, but she said nothing by way
of reply ; and just then two pert-looking little
girls came running up and claimed her attention.
Alec drew back a little, and watched
the group. He could not help seeing that in
some subtle way Laura was greatly changed.
Her manner was gentle and self forgetful.
The very tones of her voice had altered.

Presently the children scampered off again,
and Alec rejoined his companion.

c Do you know what I was thinking of just
now V he said.

Something in his voice startled her. He
did not wait for an answer, but went
on :

I was thinking of an afternoon in the
garden at Glendhu, half a dozen years
ago.'

Some things are best forgotten,' she
murmured, hardly knowing what she said.

I was only a foolish boy then,' went on
vol. in. 50

Alec, ' but I think my heart has never
changed.'

Please stop, Mr. Lindsay. Indeed I cannot
;listen to you.'

Laura — you are not — engaged V
No ; oh no !'

Then why won't you listen ? You did
not doubt me then. Why should you doubt
me now V

1 I don't doubt you. But it can never,
never be.'

You think I am hasty. It may seem so,
but I have been longing to tell you this for
weeks and months. And you know my heart
was always yours.'

Oh, Mr. Lindsay, I entreat you not to say
any more ! I should not have allowed you
to go on.'

Why 1 If I can win your love, Laura — • — '
1 No, no ; you do not really know me.

.You do not understand.'

1 I only understand one thing— I love you.
Laura, you won't refuse me V

1 But I have been so heartless, so unprincipled,
so selfish, so ' the' rest was

lost in tears.

Hush, hush ! I won't have you say such
things.'

But they are true

Laura, just one word,' whispered Alec,
gently taking her hand in his. ' Can you
care for me ? Look at me, dearest.'

It is better not,' she said, trying to withdraw
her hand. ' See, there are Mr. and Mrs.
Blake coming clown the cliff. '

They don't see us yet. There is time for
you to hear me and make me happy.'

1 Would it make you happy ? Are you
sure V asked Laura ; and the sunlight seemed
to play for a moment on her face.

1 Can you doubt it ? Come ; let us forget
the last three years, and imagine that we are

50—2

boy and girl again at Glendhu. Will you ?
And let me whisper, " Can you love me,
Laura V"

1 Oh, Alec, in my heart I loved you even
then !'

THE END.

[Lying AND SONS, Printers, GUILDFORD.

A List of Books

PUBLISHED BY

CHATTO & WlNDUS,

214, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.

Sold by all Booksellers, or sent post-free for the published price by the Publishers:

About. — The Fellah : An Egyptian
Novel. By Edmund About.
Translated by Sir Sandal Roberts.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Adams (W. Davenport), Works

by:

A Dictionary of the Drama. Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [Preparing.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo,
clot h limp, 2s. 6d. ^

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. Crown 8vo, with
Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
cloth gilt, 7s. 6d.

Agony Column "the) of " The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Post 8v o, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Carr of Carrion. | Confidences.

Alexander (Mrs), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Maid, Wife, or Widow?

Faerie's Fate.

Allen (Grant), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
The Evolutionist at Large. Second

Edition, revised.
Vignettes from Nature.
Colin Clout's Calendar.

Allen (Grant), continued—
Strange Stories. With Frontispiece

by George Du Maurier. Cr. 8vo,

cl. ex., 6s. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Philistia: A Novel. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Babylon : A Novel. Post 8vo, illust.

boards, 2s.
For Maine's Sake: A Tale of Love

and Dynamite. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 6s.
In all Shades: A Novel. New and

Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
The Beckoning Hand, &c. With a

Frontispiece by Townley Green.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook

of. Translated from the German
of A. Rosengarten, by W. Collects
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with
639 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Arnold. — Bird Life in England,

By Edwin Lester Arnold. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Artemus Ward :

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farmer Browne, better
known as Artemus Ward. With
Portrait and Facsimile. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By
Edward P. Kingston. With a
Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 61.

Art (The) of Amusing : A Collection
of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks,
Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank
Belleww. With 300 Illustrations. Cr.
Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Ashton (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 78. 6d. each.

A History of the Chap-Books of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly
400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile
of the originals.

Social Life in the Reign of Queen
Anne. From Original Sources. With
nearly 100 Illustrations.

Humour, Wit, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. Withnearly
100 Illustrations.

English Caricature and Satire on
Napoleon the First. With 120 Illustrations.
[Preparing.

Bacteria.— A Synopsis of the

Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Species. By W. B. Grove, B. A. With
67 Illusts. Crown Svo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London;
together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.
Crown 8vo, cloth txaa, 7s t d

Barley (Rev. C.W.),Works by :

Crown bvo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Engl sh Surnames: Their Courtesan
Significations. Third Ed., revised.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.


Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs
of. By Henry Morley. With 100
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beaconsfield, Lord: A Biography.
By T. P. O'Connor, M.P. Sixth
Edition, with a New Preface. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. cl

Beauchamp. — Grantly

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists: A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. All engraved
on Steel in the highest style of
Art. Edited, with Notices of the
Artists, by Sydney Armytage, M.A
Imperial 410, cloth extra gilt and gilt
edges 21s.

Bernstein. — As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Illusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d.
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Beerbohm. — Wanderings in

Patagonia ; or, Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 38. 6d.

Belgravia. One Shilling Monthly.

A New Serial Story by W. Clark
Russell, entitled The Frozen Pirate,
began in the July Number. — Two New
Serial Stories will begin in the Number
for January, 1888, and will be continued
through the year: Undercurrents,
by the Author of " Phyllis ;" and The
Blackball Ghosts, by Sarah Tatler.
*** Now ready, the Volume for July
to October, 1887, cloth extra, gilt edges,
7s. 6d.; Cases for binding Vols., 2s. each.

Belgravia Holiday Number,

18-87. Demy 8vo. with Illustrations, Is .

Belgravia Annual, 1887 : A

Collection of Powerful Short Stories,
each complete in itself. With Illustrations.
Demy 8vo, Is. [Nov. 10.

Bennett (W.C.,LL.D.).Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
A Ballad History of England.
Songs for Sailors.

Besant (Walter) ana James

Rice, Novels by. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra. 3s. 6d. each ; post 8vo, illust
boards, 2s. each; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
each.

Ready-money Mortify.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

My Little Girl

The Case of Mr. Craft

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Helena.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Besant (Walter), Novels byT"

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 33. 6d. each";

post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men:

An Impossible Story. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.
The Captains' Room. &c. With

Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.
All in a Garden Fair. With 6 Illusts.

by H. Furnish.
Dorothy Forster. With Frontispiece

by Charles Green.
Uncle Jack, and other Store*.

Besant (Walter), continued—
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Children of Gibeon.
The World Went Very Well Then.

With Illustrations by A. Forestier.

The Art of Fiction. Demy 8vo, Is.

Fifty Years Ago; or, The Queen's
Accession. With nearly 150 full-page
Plates and Woodcuts. Demy 8vo,
cloth extra, 16s. [Preparing,

The Eulogy of Richard Jefferies:
A Memoir. Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
93. [Preparing.

Library Edition of the Novels of

Besant and Rice.

Now issuing, a choicely-printed Library
Edition of the Novels of Messrs. Besant
and Rice. The Volumes are printed
from new type on a large crown Hvo
page, and handsomely bound in cloth.
Price Six Shillings each. The First
Volumes are —

Ready Money Mortiboy. With Portrait
of James Rice, etched by Daniel
A. Wehrschmidt, and a New Preface
by Walter Besant.

My Little Girl.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

The Golden Butterfly. With Etched
Portrait of Walter Besant. [Nov.

The Monks of Theresa.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

The Seamy Side. &c. &c.

Bentham-Edwards (M.), Novels
by:

Felicia. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;

posts. illust. bds., 2s.
Kitty. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.

Bewick (Thos.) and his Pupils.

By Austin Dobson. With 95 Illustrations.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, 10s . 6d.

Birthday Books: —

The Starry Heavens: A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square 8vo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 23. 6d.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
Illusts. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform
in size lor binding.

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1886, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1887. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Vol., with nearly 600 Illusts. in
Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Blackburn (Henry), continued —

Academy Notes, 1880-84. Complete
in One Volume, with about 700 Facsimile
Illustrations. Cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1886, each Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1887. With numerous
Illusts. Is.

Grosvenor Notes, Vol. I., 1877-82.
With upwards of 300 Illustrations.
Demy8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, Vol. II., 1883-87.
With upwards of 300 Illustrations.
Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 8s.

The English Pictures the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the National
Gallery. 128 Illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242
Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 3s.

The Paris Salon, 1887. With about
300 Facsimile Sketches. Demy8vo,3s.

Blake (William): Etchings from
his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 21s.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or,

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Bourne (H. R. Fox), Works by:

English Merchants: Memoirs in Illustration
of the Progress of British
Commerce. With numerous Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

English Newspapers: Contributions
to the History of Journalism. Two
vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 25s.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 21s. each.
Canters in Hampshire.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal.
Coloured in facsimile of the originals.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America.
Savage Life : Adventures of a Globe.
Trotter.

Chronicles of No-Man's Land.

Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Brand'sObservations on Popular
Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, 73. 6d.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.
Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers— Luck of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
—Bohemian Papers — Spanish
and American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts

Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories — Condensed
Novels, kc.
The Select Works of Bret Harte, ill
Prose and Poetry. With Introductory
Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait
of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo cloth extra. 7s. 6d.
Bret Harte's Complete Poetical
Works. Author's Copyright Edition.
Beautifully printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buckram. Cr.
8vo, 4s. 6d.
Gabriel Convoy : A Novel. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other

Stories. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.
The Twins of Table Mountain. Cap.

8vo, picture cover, Is.
Luck of Roaring Camp, and other

Sketches. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover. Is. [2s. 6d.

Flip. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. ; cl. limp,

Californian Stories (including The

Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff

Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Maruja: A Novel. Post 8vo, illust.

boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
The Queen of the Pirate Isle. With
28 original Drawings by Kate
Greenaway, Reproduced in Colours
by Edmund Evans. Sm. 4to, bds., 5s.
A Phyllis of the Sierras, &c. Post
8vo, illustrated bds, 2s. ; cl., 2s. 6d.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.
Twelfth Thousand. With Appendix,
containing a Complete English
Bibliography. Cr. 8vo, cloth 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates: Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. Cr. 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), continued—
A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. ; half-bound, 9s.

Brewster(SirDavid), Works by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
T. A. Smith. Post 8vo, cl. ex., 4s. 6d.

Bri I lat-Savarin.— Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Posts, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
Frontispiece by Arthur Hughes.

Undertones. | London Poems.

The Book of Form.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.

Selected Poems Robert Buchanan
With a Frontispiece by T. Daniel.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by William
Small.

A Poet's Sketch-book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan.

The Earthquake; or, Six Days and
a Sabbath.

The City of Dream: A n Epic Poem.

Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
C own 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature. With a Frontispiece.


God and the Man. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Martyrdom of Madeline. With
Frontispiece by A. W. Cooper.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Magnae.

Annann Water. | The New Abelard.

Foxglove Manor.

Matt : A Story of a Caravan.

The Mast er of the Mine .

The Heir of Llnne; A Romance.
Two Vols., crown 8vo.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard engraved
by Goodwill, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is. each.
Kathleen Mavourneen.
Lindsay's Luck.
Pretty Polly Pemberton.

Burton (Captain.— The Book

of the Sword : Being a History of the
Sword and its Use in all Countries,
from the Earliest Times. By Richard
F. Burton. With over 400 Illustrations.
Square Svo, cloth extra, 32s.

Burton (Robert):

The Anatomy of Melancholy. A
New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Melancholy Anatomise: Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Caine (T. Hall), Novels by:

The Shadow of a Crime. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

A Son of Hagar. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. cl

The Deemster: A Romance of the
Isle of Man. Three Vols., cr. 8vo.

Cameron (Come r.). — The

Cruise of the " Black Prince " Privateer,
Commanded by Robert Hawkins,
Master Mariner. By Commander
V. Loveth Cameron, Ren., Cab.,
D.C.L. With Frontispiece and Vignette
by P. Machab. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 5s.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Loveth),

Novels by:
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Juliet's Guardian De rivers Ev er.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Carlyle and Ralph Waldo Emerson
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.

Chapman's (George) Works:

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 18s. ; or separate y, 6s. each .

Chatter Jackson.— A Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition. Large
4to, half-bound, 28s.

Chaucer :

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. By Mrs. Her . Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Hawes s. Demy 8vo. cloth limp, 2s. 6d .

Chronicle (The) of the Coach :

Charing Cross to Ilfracombe. By J. D
Champlain. With 75 Illustrations by
Edward L. Chichester. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cloud. — Myths end Dreams.

By Edward Cloud, F.R.A.S., Author
of "The Childhood of Religions," &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Cobban. — The Cure of Souls :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Coleman.— Curly : An Actor's
Story. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

Colquhoun.— Every Inch a Soldier:

A Novel. By M. J. Colquhoun.
Three Vols., crown 8vo.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated,
3s.6d. each ; post8vo,illustrated bds.,
2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Antonio. Illust. by SirJoHNGiLBERT.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

Queen of Hearts. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

My Miscellanies. With a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman In White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

by G. Du MAURiERand F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poop Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs. ? With Illustrations by

S. L. FiLDEsand Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G.Du Maurier and C.S.Reinhardt.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Fildes and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science: A Story of the

Present Time.
I Say No."
The Evil Genius.

Little Novels. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. €d. each j post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sweet Anne Page. | Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

A Fight with v Fortune. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (Mortimer & Frances),

Novels by:
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play Me False.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.

Collins (C. Allston).— The BaP

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
Collins. Post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
8vo cloth extra, gilt, 7s 61.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Cro wn 8vo , Is. ; cloth, ls .6d.

Conway (Moncure D.), Works

by:

Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal 8vo. with 65 Illusts., 28s.
A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated

by W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s.
Pine and Palm: A Novel. Two Vols.,

crown 8 vo.

Cook (Dutton), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Hours with the Players. With a

Steel Plate Frontispiece.
Nights at the Play : A View of the

English Stage.

Leo: A Novel. Post 8vo, illustrated

boards, 2s.
Paul Foster's Daughter, crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated

boards, 23.

Copyright. —A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By
Sidney Ferrol, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d .

Cornwall. — Popular Romances

of the West of England; or, The
Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and E^te-*
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6i.

Craddock. — The Prophet cf

the Great Smoky Mountains. By
Charles Egbert Craddock Pos*
8vo, iiliis. bds., 2s cloth lirrp, 2c. 6d.

Creasy.— Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians : with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Crkasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 7s. Gd. *

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Terror, Author of
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson Crusoe. A beautiful reproduction
of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates
by George Cruikshank, choicely
printed. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Cummings. F. Gordon),Works
by:

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d. each.

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.


In the Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illustrations.


Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a
Photogravure Frontispiece. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry;
with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Cycles.— Hearts of Gold: A

Novel. By William Cycles. Crown
ivo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrate ed boards, 2s.

Daniel. — Merrier England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
shank. Crown t>vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daudet.— The Evangelist ; or,

Port Salvation. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, iilust. boards, 2s.

Davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, Is. each ; cloth limp,

Is. 6d. each.

One Thousand Medical Maxims.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's Guide.

Aids to Long Life. Crown Svo, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 12s.

De Maistre — A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

De MiMe. — A Castle in Spain:

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, iilust. bds., 2s.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sketches by Boz. I Nicholas Nickleby.
Pickwick Papers. | Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens,

1841-1870. With a New Bibliography ,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.— Also
a Smaller Edition, in the Mayfair
Library. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, Lips. 6d.

Dictionaries;

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s.6d.; hf.-bound, 9s.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. £. C. Brewer,
LL.D. With an Appendix, containing
a Complete English Bibliography.
Eleventh Thousand. Crown 8vo,
1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
"Tie Reader's Handbook." separated
printed. By the Rev. Dr.
Brewer. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 2s

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Dictionaries, continued —

Familiar Short Sayings of Great
Men. With Historical and Explanatory
Notes. Bv Samuel A. Bent,
M.A. Fifth Edition, revised and
enlarged. Cr. 8vo, cloth extracts 6d.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights. Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 63. 6d.

Women of the Day. A Biographical
Dictionary. ByFRANCES Hays. Cr.
Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and Cheaper Issue.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; hf.-bd., 9s.

Diderot.— The Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe sur le
Comedies," by Walter Berries
Pollock. With a Preface by Henry
Irving. Cr. 8vo, in parchment t, 4s. 6d.

Dbbson~(W. T.), Works by - !

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,

and Frolics. [cities.

Poet ital Ingenuities and Eccentric

— Memories of our

Great Towns: with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
F.S.A. With 38 Illusts. New and
Cheaper Edit. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s . 6d.

D ram asa D i ct hoary of t he

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
"Reader's Handbook") Crown 8vo,
half-bound, 12s. 6a. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Cr. 8vo,

cl. ex., Vignette Portraits, 6s. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edit, by Col. Cunningham. 3 Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including doubtful
ones; Vol. II., Poems and Minor
Translations, wit hlntroductoryEssay
by A. Swinburne; Vol. III., Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Dramatists, The Old, continued—
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Vignette Portraits,
6s. per Volume.
Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.
Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer. — The Folk - Lore of

Plants. By Rev. T. F. Thiselton
Dyer, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s 6d. [I n preparation .

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B.Grosart, D.D. Crown
8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.j Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert ( Lord) ofCherbury's Poems.
Edit., with Intro., by J. Wharton
Colin s. Cr. Svo, parchment, 8s.

Edgcumbe. — Zephyrus : A
Holiday in Brazil and on the River
Plate. By E. R. Pearce Edgcumbe.
With 41 Illusts. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 5s.

Edwardes(Mrs. A.), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
Archie Lovell. Crown Svo, cloth extra,

3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, i lust. bds„ 2s.

Eggleston.— Roxy: A Novel. By
Edward Eggleston. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Emanuel.— On Diamonds and

PreciousStones: their History, Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by:

The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Stories from the State Papers.
With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Studies Re-studied: Historical
Sketches from Original Sources.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12a.

Eyes, Our: How to Preserve

Them from Infancy to Old Age. By
John Browning, F.R.A.S., &c. Sixth
Edition (Eleventh Thousand). With
58 Illus t rations. Crown 8vo, cloth, la.

Fairholt.— Tobacco : Its History
and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
F.S.A. With upwards of 100
Illustrations by the Author. Crown
8vo, cloth ext ra, 63.

Familiar Short Sayings of

Great Men. By Samuel Arthur
Bent, A.M. Fifth Edition, Revised
and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.
The Chemical History of a Candle:

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.
On the Various Forces of Nature,

and their Relations to each other :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.

Farmer (James Anson), Works

by:
Military Manners and Customs.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
War: Three Essays, Reprinted from

Military Manners." Crown 8vo,

Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Fin-Bee. — The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

"Fireworks, The Complete Art

of Making; or, The Pyrotechnist's
Treasury. By Thomas Kentish. With
267 Illustrations. A New Edition, Revised
throughout and greatly Enlarged.
Cr own 8vo, cloth extra, 53.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Manor,
Does Writing Pay? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

A Day's Tour: A Journey through
France and Belgium. With Sketches
in facsimile of the Original Drawings.
Crown 4to picture cover, Is.

Fitzgerald (Percy), continued—

Fatal Zero: A Homburg Diary. Cr.
8vo, clo th extra, 3s. 6d.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems: Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grqsart, Pap. Cr . Svo, cloth bds.,6s.

Fonblanque. — Filthy Lucre: A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Francillon (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each.
One by One. I A Real Queen.

Queen Co phetua. |
Olympia. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.
Esther's Glove. Fcap. 8vo, Is.

Frederic. — Seth's Brother's

Wife: A Novel. By Harold Frederic.
Two Vols., crown Svo.

French Literature, History of

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., demy 8vo, cl. bds 7s. 6d. each.

Free. — Pandurang Hard ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Free, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Friswell.— Oneof Two: A Novel.
By Hair Friswell. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Frost (Thomas), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry's (Herbert) Royal Guide

to the London Charities, 1887-8.
Showing their Name, Pate of Founds
Published
A nnu all y. Cr. 8vo, cloth, Is. Gd .

Gardening Books:

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. 6d. each.

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse:
Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Blenny.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants wa
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Ferrol,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Gardening Books, continued —
Post 8vo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. 6d. each.
Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Ferrol. Illustrated.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. By F. G. Heath. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; gilt edges, 6s.

Garrett.— The Capel Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Cr. 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Gentleman's Magazine (The).

One Shilling Monthly. In addition to
the Articles upon subjects in Literature,
Science, and Art, for which this
Magazine has so high a reputation,
"Science Notes," by W. Mattie
WiLLiAMS,F.R.A.S.,and "Table Talk,"
by Sylvanus Urban, appear monthly.
*snow ready, the Volume for July to

December, 1887, cloth extra, price 8s.6d.

Cases for binding, 2s. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The) for

1887. Consisting of one entire Novel,
entitled The Golden Hoop: An After-marriage
Interlude. By T.W.Speight,
Author of " The Mysteries of Heron
Dyke." Demy 8vo, picture cover, Is.
[Nov. 10.

German Popular Stories. Collected
by the Brothers Grimm, an i
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Robin Gray.
What will the

World Say?
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the"

Meadow.
TheFlowerof the

Forest.

Braes of Yarrow.
A Heart's Problem.

TheGoldenShaft.
Of High Degree.
Fancy Free.
Loving a Dream.
A Hard Knot.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
For Lack of Gold.
For the King. | In Pastures Green.
In Love and War.
By Mead and Stream.
Heart's Delight. [Preparing .

Gilbert (William), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains — The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and Galatea
— Charity — The Princess — The
Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains — Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen — Dan') Bruce — Tom Cobb —
H.M.S. Pinafore— The Sorcerer— The
Pirates of Penzance.

Eight Original Comic Operas. Wi;*-
ten by W. S. Gn bert. Containing:
The Sorcerer— H.M.S. "Pinafore"
The Pirates of Penzance— Iolanthe
Patience — Princess Ida — The
Mikado — Trial by Jury. Demy 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Blenny. — A Year's Work in

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Blenny. Post 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Godwin. — Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post 8vo. limp. 2s.

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per Volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. Introduction by Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Ella. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

xz

Golden Library, The, continued —
Square imo, 2s. per Volume.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical introductions
Notes, dyT.M'Crie.D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Saintk-Beuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The : An Encyclopaedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 7S. 6d.

Graham. — The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. 545 Illusts. New and
Cheaper Edit., demy 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Greenaway (Kate) and Bret

Harte — The Queen of the Pirate
Isle. By Bret Harte. With 25
original Drawings by Kate Greenaway,
Reproduced in Colours by E.
Evans. Sm. 4to, bds., 5s.

Greenwood (James),Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
The Wilds of London.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the
Strange Fish to be Found There.

Dick Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrate d boards, 2s.

Guyot.— The Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 4s. 6d.

Habberton (John), Author of

Helen's Babies," Novels by:
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Breton's Bayou.
Country Luck.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown 8vo, Is,; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
New Symbols.
Legends of the Morrow.
The Sere went Play.

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth
extra, 8s.

Hall.— Sketches of Irish Character.
By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Holiday.— Everyday Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwrit7ng~The^Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s.6d.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of

Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extracts. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Duffus). — Paul

Winter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post 8vo, illust
boards, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas.— Under the
Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of " Far from the Madding
Crowd." With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards. 2s

Haywood. — The Tenth Earl.

By J. Berwick Haywood. Post 8vo
illustrated boards, 2s

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by:

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, illustrated
cover, Is.; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
Coloured Frontispiece and Illusts. 6s.

The Art of Decoration. Square 8vo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy 8vo,
c loth limp, 2s. 6d.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.). — American

Humorists: Washington Irving,
Oliver Wendell Holmes, James
Russell Lowell, Artemus Ward,
Mark Twain, and Bret Harte. By
Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A. Cr. 8vo, 6s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Hawthorne. — Tangle wood

Tales for Girls and Boys. By
Nathaniel Hawthorne. With numerous
fine Illustrations by G. Wharton
Edwards. Large 410, cloth extra,
10s. 6d.

Hawthorne(JuIian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroma.

Ellice Question. | Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Fortune' s Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Miss Madonna.
Love— or a Name.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Fcap. 8vo, illustrated c over, 1b.

Hays.— Women of the Day: A

Biographical Dictionary of Notable
Contemporaries. By Frances Hays.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Heath (F. G.). — My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By

Francis George Heath, Author of

The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 5s, ; cl. gilt, gilt edges. 6s.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Animals and their Masters.
Social Pressure.

Ivan de Iron: A Novel. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. Gd.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Herman. — One Traveller Returns:
A Romance. By Henry Herman
and D. Christie Murray. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. k Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth, 18s.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South-West: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With 100 fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
14a. [In preparation.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Carbury. Edited, with
Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins.
Crown 8vo, bound in parchment, 8s.

Hindley (Charles), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings: Including
the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

Holy. — The Lover's Creed.

By Mrs. Castel Holy. With Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by:

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.— Another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
8vo , cloth li mp, 2s.

Holmes. — The* Science of

Voice Production and Voice Preservation:
A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, id Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hood (Tom), Works by:
From Nowhere to the North Pole:
A Noah's Archaeological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.
A Golden Heart: A Novel. Posts,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous
Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures,Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
I lusts. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, gilt, 73 6d.

Hooper. — The House of Ray :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper,,
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.



Hopkins— " 'Twixt Love and

Duty:" A Novel. By Tight Hopkins.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo
illus acted boards, 23.

Horne.— Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist

Horne. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. ^

H oweTU^Conflicts of~Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
of Great Britain. By Geo. Howell,
M.P. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Thornicroft's Model.

The Leaden Casket.

Self-condemned.

That o th er Person.

Hunt.— Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hydrophobia: an Account of M.
Pasteur's System. Containing a
Translation of all his Communications
on the Subject, the Technique of his
Method, and the latest Statistical
Results. By Renaud Suzor, Mab.,
CM. Eden., and M.D. Paris, Commissioned
by the Government of the
Colony of Mauritius to study M.
Pasteur's new Treatment in Paris.
With 7 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Indoor Paupers. By One of

Them. Crown 8vo, is. ; cloth, Is. 6tL

Angelo.— Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
23. 6d.

Irving — Tales of a Traveller.

By Washington Irving. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 23.

Janvier.— Practical Keramlcs

for Students. By Catherine A.
Janvier. Crown 8v o, cloth extra, 6s.

jay (Harriet), N ;>vels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

Jefferies (Richard), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
The Life of the Fields.
The Open Air.

Nature near London. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo, cloth
him p, 2s. 6d.

Jennings (H. J.), Works by:

Curiosities of Criticism. Post 8vo,

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Lord Tennyson: A Biographical
Sketch. With a Photograph portrait.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ferrol (Tom), Works by:

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cloth, Is. 6d. each.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.
Household Horticulture: A Gossip

about Flowers. Illustrated.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants

we Grow, and How we Cook Them.

Jesse.— Scenes and Occupations

of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Jeux esprit. Collected and
Edited by Henry S. Leigh. Posts,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
Two Hundred Illustrations.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred Illustrations.


Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 18s. ; or separately, 6s. each.

Joseph us,TheCompleteWorka

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both "The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s.

Kempt. — Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. (34.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Kershaw.— Colonial Facts and

Fictions: Humorous Sketches. By
Mark Kershaw. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

King (R. Ashe), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
A Drawn Game.
"The W earing of the Green."

Kingsley~(Henry), Novels by :

Oakshott Castle. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 28.

Number Seventeen. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Knight.— The Patient's Vade

Mecum: How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice. By William
Knight, M.R.C.S., and Edward
Knight, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth. Is. 6d.

Lamb (Charles):

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig." Cr.8vo,cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

The Essays of Elia. Complete Edition.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb, Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights:

commonly called, in England, " The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Arabian Society In the Middle Ages:
Studies from "The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lares and Penates ; or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:

The Story of the London Parks.

With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2fl. 6d. each.
Forensic Anecdotes.
Theatrical Anecdotes.

Life in London ; or, The History
of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Linskill. — In Exchange for a

Soul. By Mary Linskill, Author of
"The Haven Under the Hill," &c.
Three Vols., crown 8vo.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch Stories.

The True Story of Joshua Davidson
Ourselves: Essays on Women.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love! " lone.

Pastor Carew, Millionaire and
Miser. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works.

Carefully Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood, Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,

Dietetic, and General Guide in
I Health and Disease. By N. E.

Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lucy.— Gideon Fleyce: A Novel.

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, 18s,



Machine. — Teresa Itasca,

and other Stories. By Avery machine.
Crown 8vo, bound in canvas,
2s. 6d.

McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Works

by:

A History of Our Own Times, from
the Accession of Queen Victoria to
the General Election of 1880. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. — Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols. cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 6s. each.
—And a Jubilee Edition, with an
Appendix of Events to the end of
18S6, complete in Two Vols., square
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

A Short History of Our Own Times.
One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

History of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. [Vol. I. now ready.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Waterdale Neighbours.
A Fair Saxon.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
Maid of Athens.
Camilla: A Girl with a Fortune,

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Linley Rochford.

My Enemy's Daughter.

"The Right Honourable:" A Romance
ot Society and Politico. By
Justin McCarthy, M.P., and Mrs.
Campbell-prayed. Newand Cheaper
Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p),

Works by:
An Outline of the History of Ireland,

from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Ireland since the Union: Sketches

of Irish History from 1798 to 1886.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Case for Home Rule. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 5s.
England under Gladstone, 1880-85.

Second Edition, revised. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Doom ! An Atlantic Episode. Crown

8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. McCarthy. Crown 8vo,

Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Hafiz In London. Choicely printed.

Small Pro, gold cloth, 3s. 6d.

MacDonald.— Works of Fancy

and Imagination. By George Macdonald,
LL.D. Ten Volumes, in
handsome cloth case, 21s. Vol. 1.
Within and Without. The Hidden
Life.— Vol. 2. The Disciple. The
Gospel Women. A Book of Sonnets,
Organ Songs. — Vol. 3. Violin Songs.
Songs of the Days and Nights.
A Book of Dreams. Roadside Poems.
Poems for Children. Vol. 4. Parables.
Ballads. Scotch Songs. —
Vols. 5 and 6. Phantasies: A Faerie
Romance. — Vol. 7. The Portent. —
Vol. 8. The Light Princess. The
Giant's Heart. Shadows. — Vol. 9.
Cross Purposes. The Golden Key.
The Carson. Little Daylight.—
Vol. 10. The Cruel Painter. The
Wowo'Rivves. The Castle. The
Broken Swords. The Gray Wolf.
Uncle Cornelius.

The Volumes are also sold separately
in Grolier-patten cloth. 2s. 6d. each.

Macdonald. — Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 64. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Macgregor. — Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6 d.

Mackay. — Interludes and Undertones
; or, Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown 8vo,
clot h extra , 6s.

Machine Portrait-Gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Characters;

with Memoirs — Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal — illustrative
of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, Bea. With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s . 6d.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

Square 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d. each.

In the Ardennes. With 50 tine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illusts. by Thomas R. Macquoid

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Ma quoit.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid.

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Evil Eye, and other Stories.

Lost Rose.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Magician's Own Book (The):

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, clot h extra, 4s. 6d.

Magic Lantern (The), and its
Management : including full Practical
Directions for producing the
Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and
preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C.
Hepworth. With 10 Illustrations.
Crown 8 vo, Is. ; cloth , Is. 6d.

Magna Chart a. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 53.

Mallock (W. H.), Works by:

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, in parchment, 8s.

Is Life worth Living P Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "post 8V0, illust. boards, 2s.

Roughing It, and The Innocents at
Home. With 200 Illustrations by F.
A. Fraser. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

The Gilded Age. By Mark Twain
and Charles Dudley Warner.
With 212 Illustrations by T. Coppin
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer
With in Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. — Cheap Edition,]
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. Od.

Mark Twain's Works, continued—

A Tramp Abroad With 314 Illusts.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap
Edition, post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn. With 174 Illustrations by
E. W. Kemble. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. — Cheap Edition, post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Mark Twain's Library of Humour.
With numerous Illustrations. Crown
8yo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [Preparing.

Marlowe's Works. Including

his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introductions, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Open I Se same! | Written n in Fire.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Harvest of Wild Oats.

A Little Stepson.

Fighting the Air.

Massinger's Plays. From the

Text of William Gifford. Edited
bv Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

~"">ozen

Waterman. — Half a

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Matthews.— A Secret of the

Sea, &c. By Brander Matthews.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. : cloth,
2s. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.
A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier de Maistre. Translated

by Henry Attwell.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an

Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular

Abridgment of "Burton's Anatomy

of Melancholy."
Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin ,
The Speeches of Charles Dickens.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,

and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.
Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.

DOBSON.



Mayfair Library, continued—

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 61. per Vol.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea— Charity — The Princess—
The Palace of Truth — Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen— Dan'l Bruce — Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.
Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry
J. Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from
his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.

Forensic Anecdotes; or, Humour and
Curiosities of the Law and Men of
Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Jeux d'Esprlt. Edited by Henry S.
Leigh.

True History of Joshua Davidson.
By E. Lynn Linton.

Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.

Ourselves: Essays on Women. By
E. Lynn Linton.

Pastimes and Players. By Robert
Macgregor.

The New Paul and Virginia. By
W. H. Mallock.

New Republic. By W. H. Mallock.

Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmondb*
ley-penned.

Pegasus Re-saddled. By H. Chol-
mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by
George Du Maurier.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By
H. A. Page.

Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.

More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

The Philosophy of Handwriting. By
Don Felix de Salamanca.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Old Stories Retold By Walter
Thornbury.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Mathew. — London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Medicine, Family.— One Thousand"
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
L.R.C.P. Lord. Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cl., Is. 6d.

Merry Circle (The) : A Book of
New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s ■ 6d.

Mexican Mustang (On a),

through Texas, from the Gulf to the
Rio Grande. A New Book of American
Humour. By Alex. E. Sweet and
J. Army Knox, Editors of " Texas
Sittings." With 265 Illusts. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorillion

Miller. — Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
Classes and Popular Reading. With
numerous Illusts. By Mrs. F. Fenwick
Miller. Small 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

Sm. 8vo, Is. each ; cloth ex., Is. 6d. each.
The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise

Set of Rules for the Management of

the Skin ; with Directions for Diet,

Wines, Soaps, Baths, &c.
The Bath in Diseases of the Skin.
The Laws of Life, and their Relation

to Diseases of the Skin.

Moncrieff. — The Abdication;

or, Time Tries All. An Historical
Drama. By W D. Scott-Moncrieff.
With Seven Etchings by John Petrie,
R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J.
MacWhirter, A.R.A.,Colin Hunter,
A.R.A., R. Macbeth, A.R.A., and Tom
Graham, R.S.A. Large 4to, bound in
bu ceram, 21s.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown 8vo,cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Life's Atonement. I A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat. [Coals of Fire.

By the Gate of the Sea.
Val Strange. | Hearts.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Murray (D. C), continued-crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 61. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Way of the World.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Person Singular.
Cynic Fortune.

Old Blazer's Hero." With Three Illustrations
by A. McCormick. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 63.
One Traveller Returns. By D.
Christie Murray and Henry Herm
\n. Cr. Svo. cl. ex . 6s.

North ItariarTTon^ By Mrs.
Coins Carr. Illust. by Randolph
Calder tt. Sq . 8vr\ cl. ex 7s. 6d.

N o v el i sts. — H als ^H o~iTrs~~w with

the Best Novelists of the Century :
ChoiceReadings from the finest Novels.
Edited, with Critical and Biographical
Notes, by H. T. Mackenzie Bell.
Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d. [Preparing,

i Ouida, continued—
i Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Signa. | Ariadne. A Village 
a Winter City. mine.
Friendship. Wands.

Moths. | Bimbi. Frescoes. [Fine.
Pipistrello. Princess Naprax-

In Maremma. Othman.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos, selected
from the Works of Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris. Sm.cr.8vo.cl. ex. ,53.

Nursery Hints: A Mothers
Guide in Health and Disease. By N. E.
Davies.L.R.C. P . Cr.Svo. Is. ; cl., ls.6d.

O'Connor. — LordBeaconsfield:

A Biography. ByT. P. O'Connor, M.P.
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface,
bringing the work down to the Death
of Lord Beaconsfield. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6 d.

O'Hanlon. — The Unforeseen :

A Novel. By Alice O'Hanlon. New
and Cheaper Edition. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Oliphant (Mrs.) Novels by:

Whiteladies. With Illustrations by
Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post 8vo , illustrated boa rds, 2s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.

The Primrose Path.

The Greatest Heiress in E england.
O'Keilly. — Phoebe s Fortunes :

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

O'Shaughnessy (A.), Works by 1
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. 8vo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
La y s of Fra nc e. Cr.8vo, c l. ex. ,10s. 6d.
Ouida, Novels by. Crown 8vo7

cloth extra, 5s. each ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. each.

Held in Bondage, j Tricotrin.

Stratford. j Puck.

Chances. Folle Farlne.

Under Two Flags. TwoLittleWooden

Cecil Castle 1 Shoes.

male's Gage. A Dog of Flanders.

Italia. Pascal.

Page (H. A.), Works by :
Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With Portrait. Post8vo,c!.limp,2s.6d.
Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
Bea. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.
Animal Anecdotes. Arranged on a
New Principle. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 5s.

Parliamentary Elections and

Electioneering in the Old Days (A
History of). Showing the State of
Political Parties and Party Warfare at
the Hustings and in the House of
Commons from the Stuart to Queen
Victoria. Illustrated from the original
Political Squibs, Lampoons, Pictorial
Satires, and Popular Caricatures of
the Time. By Joseph Greg, Author
of "Rowlandson and his Works,"
The Life of Gillray," &c. A New
Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, with
Coloured Frontispiece and hoo Illustrations,
7s. 6d. [Preparing.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
D.D. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Patients (The) Vade Mecum:

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. Bv W. Knight, M.R.C.S.,and
E.Knight.L.R .CP. Cr.8vo,ls.;cl.l/6.
Paul Ferrolll :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul Ferrolll : A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

Pain (James), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Lost Sir Massinger.

The Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word.

Less Black than we're Painted.

By Proxy. | High Spirits.

Under One Roof.

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn.

For Cash Only. | From Exile.

The Canon's Ward.

The Talk of the Town.



Pawn (James), continued —

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 28. each.

Kit: A Memory. | Carlton's Year.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor. Murphy's Master.

What He Cost Her.

Fallen Fortunes. I Halves.

A County Family. | At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of Clyffe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.! Found Dead.

Gwendolen's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey. 1 Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hun died Pou ends Reward.

In Peril and Privation: Stories of
Marine Adventure Re-told. A Book
for Boys. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

Holiday Tasks : Being Essays written
in Vacation Time. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Glow-worm Tales. Cheaper Edition,
crown 8vo, cloth extra a, 3s. 6d.

Paul. — Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards. 2s.

Pears. — The Present Depression
in Trade : Its Causes and Remedies.
Being the " Pears" Prize Essays
(of One Hundred Guineas). By Edwin
Goodby and William Watt. With
an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone
Levi, F Sa., F.S.S. Demy 8vo, Is.

Penned (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by:

Post bvo. cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full-page
Illusts. by G. Du Maurier.

The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de
Societe, Selected and Edited by H.
C. Penned.

Phelps (E. Stuart), Works by:

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. 6d. each.
Beyond the Gates. By the Author

of "The Gates Ajar."
An Old Maid's Paradise.
Burglars in Paradise.

Jack the Fisherman. With Twenty-two
Illustrations by C. W. Reed.
Cr. 8vo. picture cover, Is. ; cl. Is. 6 d.

Pirkis (C. L.), Novels by:
Trooping with Crows. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is.
Lady Lovelace. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. [Preparing.

Planches (J. R.), Works by:

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits. 10s. 6d.

Poe (Edgar Allan:—

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
othe r Stories. Post 8vo, illust.bds.,2s.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete
in One Vol. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s.

Prayed (Mrs. Campbell) "The

Right Honourable:" A Romance of
Society and Politics. By Mrs. 
and Justin McCarthy,
M.P. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster' s Riva l.
Gerald. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 23.

Princess Olga—Radna; or, The

Great Conspiracy of 18S1. By the
Princess Olga. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 6s.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by :

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illusts.
Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

The Great Pyramid : Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crown 8vo, Is. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully

Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson.— Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate of
the Institute of France. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt,
numerous Illusts., and a beautifully
executed Chart of Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Reade (Charles), Novels by:

Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, illustrated, 3s.6d.
each ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. each.

Peg Wofflngton. Illustrated by S. L,
Fildes, A. R.A.

Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by
William Small.

It is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. Pin well.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of all trades; and James Lambert.
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir
John Gilbert, R.A.,andC. Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Illustrated
by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Illust. by F. W. Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier.

Put Yourself in His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by
H. Paterson, S. L. Fildes, Ar. A. ,
C. Green, and H. Woods, A.R.A.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford. [Coulter.

A Woman-hater. Illust. by Thos.

Singleheart and Doubleface: A
Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated
by P. Maci*ab.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals. Illustrated by E. A. Abbey,
Percy Macquoid, and Joseph Nash.

The J i It, and other Stories. Illustrated
by Joseph Nash.

Read i ana. With a Steel-plate Portrait
of Charles Reade.

Reader's Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Filth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Red Spider: A Romance. By
the Author of "John Herring'' &c.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra. 3 3 . 6d.

Rice (Portrait of James.—

Specially etched by Daniel A. Wehr-schmidt
for the New Library Edition
of Besant and Rice's Novels. A few
Proofs before Letters have been taken
on Japanese paper, size 15! X 10 in.
Pri ce 5s. each.

Richardson. — A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ridden I (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.each.
Her Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party.
Weird Stories.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Vater.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Square 8vo, cloth gilt, 10s. 6d. each.
Our Old CountryTowns. With over

50 Illustrations.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.

With 50 Illustrations.
About England with Dickens. With

58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer

and. A. Vanderhoof. ^

Robinson Crusoe: A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Cro wn 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
The Poets' Birds.
The Poets' Beasts.
The Poets and Nature: Reptiles,
Fishes, and Insects. [Preparing.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.
Post 8vo, cl both limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed, 68.



Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana. Profusely Illustrated.

Runciman (James), Stories by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d each.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.
Sci oo I s and Scholars.

RusseinwTCIark), Works by:

Crown £vo, cloth extra, 6s. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Round the Galley-Fire.

On the Fo'ksle Head.

In the Middle Watch.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

A Voyage to the Cape.

A Book for the Hammo ck.

The Frozen Pirate, the New Serial
Novel by W. Clark Russell, Author
of "The Wreck of the Grosvenor,"
began in " Belgravia " for July, and
will be continued till January next.
One S hilling, Monthly. Illustrated.

Sala.— Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala. Post
S vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Sanson. — Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (1688 to 1847). Edited
byHENRvSANsoN. Cr.3vo.cl. ex. 3s.6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel

Guy Waterman. I Lion in the Path.

The Two Dreamers.
One Against the World. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.

Saunders (Katharine), Novels

by. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
The High Mills.
Heart Sa lvage. I Sea stan.
Gideon's Rock. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated
Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S., &c. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
&c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
5s. per year, post free. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 7s. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XXIII. (1887), at 6s. each.
Cases for Binding, Is. 5d. each.

'secret Out" Series, The:

Cr. Svo, cl.ex., Illusts., 4s. 6d. each.

The Secret Out : One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations
; with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or " White
Magic." By W. H.Cremer. 30oIllusts.

The Art of Amusing : A Collection of
Graceful Arts,Games,Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades By Frank Belleww,
With 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. Many Illusts.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Senior. — By Stream and Sea.

By W. Senior. Post 8vo,cl.limp, 2s.6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare :
The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623. — A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process — ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

TheLansdowne Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Land. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moor Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crows
8vo, cloth extra, 8a.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Shelley.— The Com pleteWorks

in Verse and Prose of Percy Bessie
Shelley. Edited, Prefaced and Annotated
by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth beards,
3s. 6d. each.

Poetical Works, in Three Vols.

Volet. An Introduction by the Editor; The
Posthumous Fragments of Margaret 1 - Nicholson
; Shelley's Correspondence with Stockdale;
The Wandering Jew (the only complete
version) ; Queen M-.b, with the Notes ;
Plaster, and other Poems ; Rosalind and
Helen ; Prometheus Unbound ; Adonah, &c.

Volet. Lion and Cythna (as originally published,
instead of the emasculated " Revolt
of Islam") ; The Cenci ; Julian and Maddalo
(from Shelley's manuscript) ; Swellfoot the
Tyrant (from the copy in the Dice Library
at South Kensington); The Witch of Atlas ;
Epipsychidion; Hellas.

Vol. III. Posthumous Poems, published by
Mrs. SHELLEY in 1824 and 1839 ; The Masque
of Anarchy (from Shelley's manuscript); and
other Pieces not brought together in the ordinary
editions.

Prose Works, in Two Vols.

Vol. I. The Two Romances of Zastrozzi and
St. Irvine ; the Dublin and Marlow Pamphlets
; A Refutation of Deism ; Letters to
Leith Hunt, and some Minor Writing's and
Fragments.

Vol. II. The Essays; Letters from Abroad;
Translations and Fragments, Edited by Mrs.
SHELLEY, and first published in 1840. with
the addition of some Minor Pieces of great
interest and rarity, including one recently
nis covered bv Professor Bowden. With a
Bibliography of Shelley and an exhaustive
Index of the Prose Works**

Also a Large-Paper Edition, to
be had in Sets only, at 52s. 6d. for
the Five Volumes.

Sheridan : —

Sheridan's Complete Works, with
Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in i
Prose and Poetry, Translations, |
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a j
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown j
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals, 1
and The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and j
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Brander Matthews. With Decorative
Vignettes and 10 full-page Illusts. J
Demy 8vo, half-parchment, 12s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete I

Poetical Works, including all those in
Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Notes, &c, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols., :
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 18s,

Signboards: Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Rotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6 d.

Sims (George R.), Works by :

How the Poor Live. With 60 Illusts.

by Fred. Barnard. Large 4to, Is.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each;

cloth limp, 2s. €d. each.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.
Mary Jane's Memoirs.

Sister Dora: A Biography. By

Margaret Lonsdale. Popular Edition,
Revised, with additional Chapter,
a New Dedication and Preface,
and Four Illustrations. Sq. 8vo, picture
cover, 4d. ; cloth, 6d.

Sketches. — A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Slang Dictionary, The: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown 8 vo, c loth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Smith (J. Moyr)7Works by

The Prince of Argolis: A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. Small 8vo,
cloth extra, with 130 Illusts., 3s. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

The Wooing of the Water Witch:
A Northern Oddity. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, cl. ex., 6s.

S oc i ety Tn London. By A

Foreign Resident. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

Society in Paris: The Upper
Ten Thousand. By Count PaulVasili.
Trans, by Raphael Ledos de beaufort
Cr. five. cl. ex 6s. preparing.

Spalaing.-Eiizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of the
Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by Them. By T.
A. Spalding, LL.B. Cr. 8vo, cl.ex., 5s.

Spanish Legendary Tales. By

Mrs. S. G. C. Middlemost, Author of
Round a Posada Fire." Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 63.

Speight (T. W.), Novels by:

The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.
With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen-edwards.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.

A Barren Title. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cl., ls.6d.

Wife or No Wife? Cr. 8vo, picture
cover, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

The Golden Hoop. Demy 8vo, Is.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. To wry. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Starting in Life: Hints for
Parents on the Choice of a Profession
for their Sons. By Francis Covenant,
M.A. Post 8vo, Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

Staunton.— Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B.Wormald. New
Edition, small cr. 8vo, cloth extra, Ss.

Seaman (E. C), Works by:

Victorian Poets. Thirteenth Edition,
revised and enlarged. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 9s.

The Poets of America. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 9s.

Sterndale.— The Afghan Knife:

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, ill stated boards, 2s.

Stevenson (R.Louis),Works by :
Travels with a Donkey in the

Cevennes. Sixth Ed. Frontispiece by

W. Crane. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.
An Inland Voyage. With Front, by

W. Crane. Post 8vo, cl. lp., 23. 6d.
Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

Second Edit. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 6s.
New Arabian Nights. Crown 8vo,

cl. extra, 6s. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
The Silvered Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cheap Edition, post 8vo, picture

cover, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Prince Otto : A Romance. Fourth

Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Merry Men, and other Tales and

Fables. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 6s.
Underwood : Poems.Post8vo,cl.ex.6s.
Memories and Portraits. Fcap. 8vo,

buckram extra, 6s.
Virginius Puisque, and other

Papers. A New Edition, Revised.

Fcap. 8vo, buckram extra, 6s.

St. John.— A Levantine Family.

By Bayle St. John. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Stoddard.— Summer Cruising

In the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illust. by Wallis
M*£Eay. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 33. 6d.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Simmer.
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

St. Pierre. — Paul and Virginia,
and The Indian Cottage. By Bernardin
St. Pierre. Edited, with Life,
by Rev. E. Clarke. Post 8vo, cl. lp., 2s.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, &c,
from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. With 140 Illustrations. Edited
by Wm.Hone. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With Map of
Suburban London. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.,7s.6d.

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose

and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:
Selections from the Poetical Works

of Algerian Charles Swinburne.

Fcap. Bvo, cloth extra, 6s.
Atlantic Corydon. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Chastened. A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 73.
Poems and Ballads First Series.

Fcap. 8vo, 9s. Cr. 8vo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Fcap. 8vo, 9s. Cr. 8vo, same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. 8vo,ls.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr. 8vo, lCs.6d.
Bothwell: A Tragedy. Cr.8vo,12s.6d.
GeorgeChapman:AnEssay.Cr.8vo,7s.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. 8vo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown 8vo, 12s.
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 6s.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. 8vo, Is.
Note on Charlotte Bronte.Cr.8vo,6s.
A Study of Shakespeare. Cr. 8vo, 8s.
Songs the Springtide. Cr.8vo,6s.
Studies in Song. Crown 8vo. 7s.
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 9s.
Century of Roundels. Small ^o' 8s.
A Midsummer Holiday, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 7s.
Marino Falter: Tragedy. Cr.8vo 6s
A Study of Victor Hugo. Cr. 8vo,63.
Miscellanies. Crown tfvo, 12s.
Doctrine: Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 63.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Symonds. — Wine, Women, and

Song: Mediaeval Latin Students'
Songs. Now first translated into English
Verse, with Essay by J. Addington
Symonds. Small 8vo, parchment, 63.

Syntax's (Dp.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
I Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Hqtten. M ed . 8vo, cloth extra , 7s. 6d.

Taine's History of English

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, sos. — Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15s .

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Pos t 8vo, cl. limp, 2s.

Taylor (Dr. J. E., FJLS.), Works

by. Crown 8vo, cloth ex., 7s. 6d. each.

The Sagacity and Morality of
Plants : A Sketch of the Life and
Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.
ColouredFrontispiece and hoo Illust.

Our Common British Fossils, and
Where to Find Them : A Handbook
for Study ants. With 331 Illustrations.

The Playtime Naturalist : A Book for
every Home. With about 300 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
[Preparing.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " The
Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife,"
"Anne Boleyn," " Plot and Passion''
One Vol., cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
%* The Plays may also be had separately,
at Is. each.

Tennyson (Lord): A Biographical

Sketch. By H. J. Jennings.
With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida. Proud Malsle.

The Violin-Player.

Thomas (M.).— A Fight for Life:

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2a.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury (Walter), Work* by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post 8vo,
illustrated bo arts, 2s. ^^

Times (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The History of Clubs and Club Life
in London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With many Illusts.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men of
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Ss. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

Kept in the Dark.

Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family.

The Land Leaguers.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
JohnCaldigate. | American Senator

Trollope(FrancesE.),Novelsby

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Like Ships upon the Sea.

Mabel's Prog r less, f Anne Furness.

Trollope (T. A.).— Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
T. Adolphus Trollope. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Trowbridge.— FarneM's Folly:

A Novel. By J. Trowbridge. Post
8vo, ill stated boards, 2s.

Turgenieff. — Stories from

Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Surges
and others. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.



Tatler (C. C. Fraser). — Mistress

Judith: A Novel. By C. C.
Fraser-tatler. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

tatler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.

Lady Bell.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Citoyenne Jacqueline. Illustrated

by A. B. Houghton.
The Huguenot Family. With Illusts.
Buried Di amends.

Disappeared. With Six Illustrations
by P. Macnab. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s. ^

Van Laun.— History of French

Literature. By H. Van Laun. Three
Vols., demy 8vo, cl. bds., 7s. 6 d. each.

Villari. — A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villari. Fcap.
8vo, picture cover, Is.

Walford (Edw., M.A.),Works by :

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c, of more than 12000, distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-seventh Annual Edition,
for 1887, cloth gilt, 50s.

The Shilling Peerage (1887). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth, Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1887).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 321110,
cloth, Is.

The Shilling Knightage (1887). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates of
Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,cl.,ls.

The Shilling House of Commons
0887). Containing a List of all the
Members of Parliament, their Town
and Country Addresses, &c. New
Edition, embodying the results of
the recent General Election. 32010,
cloth, Is. Published annually,

Walford's (Edw.) Works, continued —
The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1887). In One Volume,
royal 321110, cloth extra, gilt edges, 5s.
Haunted London. By Walter
Thornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Walton and CottonsComplete

Angler; or, The Contemplative Man's
Recreation ; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustration*. Large
crown 8vo, cloth ant que, 7s. 6d.

Walt Whitman, Poems by.

Selected and edited, with an Introduction,
by William M. Rossetti. A
New Edition, with a Steel Plate Portrait.
Crown 8vo, printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buck ram, 6s.

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or, Life
among the Ostrich-Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrier England in the Olden Time.
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Root. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings:
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Hindley. With Illusts.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By E. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Wanderer's Library, The, continued—

The Story of the London Parks
By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners:
Memoirs of the Sanson Family (1688
to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson.

Summer Cruising in the South
Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard.
Illustrated by W allis Mack ay.

Warner.— A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown 8vo, cl both extra, 6s .

Warrants, &c. :—
Warrant to Execute Charles I. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 28.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 2s.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 5s.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours . Price 5s :

Wayfarer, The : Journal of the

Society of Cyclists. Publish ed at short
intervals. The Numbers for October,
1886, and for January, May, and October,
1887, are now ready.

Weather, How to Foretell the,

with the Pocket Spectroscope. By
F. W. Cry, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
Soc, &c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown
dvo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain; or, History of
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List of
Marks. Crow n 8vo. cloth limp , 4s. 6d.

Whist. — How to Play Solo

Whist: Its Method and Principles
Explained, and its Practice Demonstrated.
With Illustrative Specimen
Hands, and a Revised and Augmented
Code of Laws. By Abraham S. Wiles
and Charles F. Pardon. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. [Shortly.

Whistler's(Mr.) "Ten o'clock."

Uniform with his " Whistler v. Ruskin ;
Art and Art Cri tics ." Cr.8vo,lS. [Shortly.

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.S.),

Works by :
Science Notes. See the Gentleman's

Magazine. Is. Monthly.
Science in Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

8vo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 2s. 6d.
The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown

8vo, clo t h extra, 6s.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.R.S^E.),

Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of Darwinian and Allied
Theories of Development. 3rd ed.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex.,with 259 Illusts., 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edit., with New Preface.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., with Illusts., 6s.

Studies in Life and Sense. With
numerous Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 63.

Common Accidents, and How to
Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wilson
and others. With numerous 
sts. Cr. 8vo^ls. ; cl. limp, Is. 6d.

Winter (J. S.), Stories by:

Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. each.
Cavalry Life.
Regimental Legends.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries.
By Frances Hays. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Wood . — Sab i n a : A Novel. By

Lady Wood. Post 8vo, illust . bds., 2s.

Wood (H. F.) — The Passed g e r

from Scotland Yard : A Detective
Story. By H. F. Wood. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Words, Facts, arid Phrases:

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and
Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and cheaper issue,
cr. 8vo,cl. ex.,7s.6d. ; half bound, 9s.

W7Hghf T \Tn7>Tnas), Wbrksj by 7~

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 7s. 6d. each.
Caricature History of the Georges.
(The House or Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures. Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c.
History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illustrated by Few. Fairholt, F.S.A.

Yates (Edmund), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Castaway. I The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.



NEW NOVELS.

In Exchange fop a Soul. By Mary
Linskill, Author of "The Haven
under the Hill," &c. 3 Vols., cr. 8vo.

The Deemster: A Romance of the Isle
of Man. By Hall Caine, Author of
A Son of Hagar," &c. 3 vols., cr. 8vo.

Rana; or, The Great Conspiracy of
1881. By the Princess Olga. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Old Blazer's Hero. By D. Christie
Murray. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Heir of Line. By Robert
Buchanan. Two Vols., crown 8vo.

Pine and Palm. By Moncure D. Conway.
2 Vols., crown 8vo.

Seth's Brother'sWIfe. ByHAROLDFRED-
eric. 2 Vols., cr. 8vo.

Every Inch a Soldier. By M. J.

Colquhoun. Three Vols., cr.8vo.

OneTraveller Returns. ByD. Christie
Murray and Henry Herman. Crown
8vo, cloth, 6s.

The Passenger from Scotland Yard.
By H. F. Wood. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors. Library Editions, many Illustrated,
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

BY GRANT ALLEN.
Phillstia.
In all Shades.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN

HERRING."
Red Spider.

BY IV. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
'isady- Money Mortiboy.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All In a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster. | Uncle Jack.
Children of Gibeon.
The World Went Very Well Then.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.
Annann Water. I The New Abelard.
Matt. I Foxglove Manor.

The Master of the Mine.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
A Son of Hagar.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Blacksmith and Scholar
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No."
Little Novels.

Antonio.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. ?
New Magdalen.

BY DUTTON COOK.

Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.

Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.

The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.
BY JAMES DE MILLE.

A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Fatal Zero.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Queen Cophetua.
One by One.
A Real Queen.

Prefaced by Sir Battle Free.
Pandurang Hard.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capel Girls.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.

What will the World Say?
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft.
Fancy Free.
Of High Degree.
Loving a Dream.
A Hard Knot.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth.

Ellice Question.
Sebastian Stroke.
Prince Saroni's Wife
Dust.

Fortune's Fool.
Beatrix Randolph.
Miss Madonna.
Love — or a Name.

BY SIR A. HELPS.
Ivan de Iron.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.
That other Person.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kendall.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family
My Love !" | lone.

Pastor Carew.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN MCCARTHY.
The Waterdale Neighbours.
A Fair Saxon.
Dear Lady Disdain.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
Maid of Athens.
Cam tola.

BY MRS. MAC DO NELL
Quaker Cousins.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written in Fire.
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement. I Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. Val Strange.

A Model Father. | Hearts.
By the Gate of the Sea
The Way of the World.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Person Singular.
Cynic Fortune.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whlteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost Sir Massing i From Exile.

bert. | A Grape from a

Best of Husbands
Walter's Word.
Less Black than

We're Painted.

By Proxy.
High Spirits.
Under One Roof.
A Confidential
Agent.

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Some Private

Views.
The Canon's

Ward.
Talk of the Town.
Glow-worm Tales.

BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

BY CHARLES READE.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Wofflngton.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt. | Foul Play.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir. I A Simpleton
A Woman-hater. | Reading.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
The Jilt.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden-party.
Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
Two Dreamers.
The Lion In the Path.



Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Rock. I Heart Salvage.
The High Mills. | Sebastian.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Maisie. | Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way we Live Now.
Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—

BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.
Citoyenne Jacqueline.
The Huguenot Family.
Lady Bell.
Buried Diamonds.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF POPULAR NOVELS.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Carp of Carrion. | Confidence*.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow?
Valerie's Fate.

BY GRANT ALLEN.
Strange Stories.
Philistla.
Babylon.

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortiboy.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan. | My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All In a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.
Chronicles of No-man's Land.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Convoy. | Flip.

Maruja. | A Phyllis of the Sierras.
BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.

The Martyrdom

of Madeline.
Annann Water.
The New Abelard.
Matt.

The Shadow of

the Sword.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
Love Me for Ever.
Foxglove Manor.
The Master of the Mine.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
BY MRS. Loveth CAMERON
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

BY MACLAREN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antenna.

Basil.

Hide and Seek.

The Dead Secret.

Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White
The Moonstone.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
Wilkie Collins, continued.

Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. P
New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
Law and the Lady.
TheTwo Destinies

Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No."
The Evil Genius.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. I From Midnight to
Transmigration. | Midnight.
A Fight with Fortune.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY DUTTON COOK.
Leo. | Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY C. EGBERT CRADDOCK.
The Prophet of the Great Smoky
Mountains.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz. I Oliver Twist.
Pickwick Papers. | Nicholas Nickleby

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour. | Archie Lovell.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-flve^ Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. | A Real Queen.
Prefaced by Sir H. Battle Free.
Pandurang Harl.

BY MAIN FRI SWELL.
One of Two

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capel Girls.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. The Flower of the

For Lack of Gold. Forest.
What will the Braes of Yarrow.
World Say? The Golden Shaft.

In Honour Bound. Of High Degree.
In Love and War. Fancy Free.
For the King. Mead and Stream

In PasturesGreen Loving a Dream.
Queen of the Mea A Hard Knot.

dow. Heart's Delight

A Heart's Problem

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD
Dick Temple.

BY JOHN HABBERTON.
Breton's Bayou. | Country Luck.
BY ANDREW Holiday.
Every-Day Papers.
BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.
BY J. BERWICK Haywood.
The Tenth Earl.
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroma

Ellice Quentln. | Dust.
Prince Saronl's Wife.
Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.
BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Baron.

BY MRS. Cassel Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER.
The House of Ray.

BY Tight HOPKINS.
'Twixt Love and Duty.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornlcroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY MARK KERSHAW.
Colonial Facts and Fictions.

BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."
BY HENRY KINGS LEY.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball
The Atonement of Learn Duncan.



Cheap Popular Novels, continued —
E. Lynn Linton, continued —
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love." | lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

by justin McCarthy.

Dear LadyDisdain I MissMisanthrope
The Waterdale Donna Quixote.
Neighbours. I The Comet of a

Season.
I Maid of Athens.
Camilla.

My Enemy's
Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Linley Rochford. i

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.

Open! Sesame I A Little Stepson.

A Harvest of Wild Fighting the Air.

Oats. I Written in Fire.

BY J. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.
BY BRANDER MATTHEWS.
A Secret of the Sea.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. I Mr. Dorillion.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
ALife'sAtonement ! Hearts.
A Model Father. Way of the Work-joseph's
Coat. A Bit of Human

Coals of Fire. Nature.

By the Gate of the 'first Person Sin-sea,
gular.
Val Strange. Cynic Fortune.
BY ALICE O'HANLON.
The Unforeseen.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY OUIDA.
Held in Bondage. TwoLittleWooden

Strath more.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.
Signa. [fine.

Princess Naprax-

Shoes.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi.

Wands.

Frescoes.

In Maremma.

Othman.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Like

Like Father,

Son.
Marine Residence.
Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlton's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Kit : A Memory.
The Canon's Ward
Talk of the Town.
PIRKIS.

Lost Sir massinger.


A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor.
Murphy's Master.
A County Family.
At Her Mercy.
A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.
Clyffards of Clyffe
The Family Scapegrace.

Foster Brothers.
Found Dead.
Best of Husbands.
Walter's Word.
Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.
What He Cost Her
Humorous Stories
Gwendolen's Harvest.

£200 Reward.

BY C. L,

Lady Lovelace.

BY EDGAR A. POE.

The Mystery of Marie Roget.
BY E. C. PRICE.

Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

Gerald.

BY CHARLES READE.

It is Never Too Late to Mend.

Hard Cash. | Peg Wofflngton.

Christie Johnstonee.

Griffith Gaunt.

Put Yourself in His Place.

The Double Marriage.

Love Me Little, Love Me Lone.

Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.

The Course of True Love.

Autobiography of a Thief.

A Terrible Temptation.

The Wandering Heir.

A Simpleton. A Woman-hater.

Reading. The Jilt.

Singleheart and Doubleface.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.
BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.

Her Mother's Darling.

Prince of Wales's Garden Party

Weird Stories. | Fairy Water"

The Uninhabited House.

The Mystery in Palace Gardens.
BY F. W. ROBINSON.

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY CHATTO & Hindus.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY JAMES RUNCIMAN.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.
Schools and Scholars.

BY W. CLARK RUSSELL.
Round the Galley Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head.
In the Middle Watch.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA*
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
Two Dreamers.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merry weather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
The High Mills.
Heart Salvage. | Sebastian.
BY GEORGE R. SIMS.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.
Mary Jane's Memoirs.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights. | Prince Otto.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. | Proud Aisle.

The Violin-Player.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

BY WALTER THORNBURY.
Tales for the Marines.
BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
John Candidate.
By FRANCES ELEANOR Trollope
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness. | Mabel's Progress.

BY J. T. TROWBRIDGE.
FarneM's Folly.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer. | A Tramp Abroad.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
The Stolen White Elephant.
Huckleberry Finn.
Life on the Mississippi.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.
Lady Bell.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrolll.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS.
Jeff Bi-eggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By

Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author

of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author oi

That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the

Author of "That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs. Pirkis
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard

Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villari.
Esther Glove. By R. E. Francillon.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.

By Tom Ferrol.
Curly. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by'j. C. Dolman.
Beyond the Gates. By E. S. Phelps.
Old Maid's Paradise. By E. S. Phelps.
Burglars in Paradise. ByE. Phelps.
Jack the Fisherman. By E. S.

Phelps.
Doom : An Atlantic Episode. By

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
A Barren Title. By T. W. Speight.
Wife or No Wife ? By T. W. Speight.
The Golden Hoop. By T.W.Speight.
How the Poor Live. By G. R. Sims.
A Day's Tour. By Percy Fitzgerald.
The Silvered Squatters. By R.

Louis Stevenson.

j. wooden and co. limited, printers, great saffron hill, eg.

/
