L '■,•^*w^

J

-g^^

.M

LI E. R.ARY

OF THE

U N 1VER51TY

Of ILLINOIS


L9(;^2g

V. 1

'^r

mm'i^im^,,

\ Si A'-

Pi

pf'^-Xf

^M|i»'^^;AJr:^£»'iSi'3Svttil»

lotes dL ."' ■■'*"" °" °^ before the
latest Date stamped below

APR 2^1986

OCT 2 6

L161— O-1096

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN :

an Impossible Story. By Walter Besant. Illustrated by
Fred. Barnard. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

VALENTINA : a Sketch. By Eleanor C. Price.

2 vols, crown 8vo.

KEPT IN THE DARK. By Anthony Trollope.

With a Frontispiece by J. E. Millais, R.A. 2 vols, post 8vo.

VAL STRANGE : a Story of the Primrose Way. By
David Christie Murray, Author of 'Joseph's Coat' &c.
3 vols, crown Svo.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon,

Author of * Robin Gray' &c. 3 vols, crown Svo.

KIT : a Memory. By James Payn. 3 vols, crown Svo.
WOMEN ARE STRANGE. By F. W. Robinson.

3 vols, crown Svo. \ Shortly.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.

3 vols, crown Svo.

NEW ARABIAN NIGHTS. By R. Louis Stevenson.

I vol. crown Svo.

CHATTO d^ WIND US, PICCADILLY, W.

A NOVEL

BY

HENRY W. LUCY

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY

wall rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

TO

COLONEL FEED. Buena

Royal Horse Guard
This First ESSAY IN Novel Writing

^s pebicafcb

BY HIS Friend AND SOMETIME COMPANION

TRL' AUTHOR

London : Dee. 1882

OF

THE First VOLUME.

(Chapter PAGE

I. The Cobweb 1

II. A MoRNi>-G Call 14

III. Going into Parliament 26

IV. The Whip . 42

V. Mr. Tandy, Solicitor 56

VI, ' I MET WITH Napper Tattdt ' . 67

VII. The Conscript Fathers , . . . . 8.3

VIII. An Electioneering Agent . . . .108
IX. Castle Fleece 122

X. Mr. Dumpy's Reflections . . . .132

XI. Sacred Vocations 150

XII. The Spider 170

XIII. Gideon's Guests 189

Chapter Page

XIV. At Dinner 207

XV. The Clerk of the Works . . . . 232

XVI. King and Beggar Maid . , . , 250

XVII. A Rising Journalist 264

XVIII. Great Tidings 291

Chapter I.

THE COBWEB.

Mr. Gideon Fleyce stood at the window of
one of the largest of the first-floor rooms in a
quiet street of Piccadilly. He had occupied
the suite of chambers for several years, and
his fathers before him had lived a long life
and pursued an ancient profession within its
walls.

Evidence of prolonged tenancy was found
in the appearance of the furniture — not inasmuch
as it was grievously worn, but that it
was of a kind which gentlemen able to rent
rooms on first floors in fashionable quarters do

VOL. I. B

not now affect. The tables and chairs were of
the heaviest mahogany, and there was a sofa,
which, on an emergency, would have admirably
answered the purpose of a four-post bedstead.
The floor was covered by a Turkey
carpet of dyes long dull ; a priceless carpet in
its day. But it had come cheap to Mr. Gideon
Fleyce's father, who had taken it as ' value
received ' from an officer of a line regiment
who had brought it home intending it for quite
another purpose. On considering its measurements
it seemed to have been made for the
first-floor room in Carlton Street, and Mr.
Gideon Fleyce's father, with characteristic
readiness to relieve any of his fellow-creatures
from embarrassment, had accepted it on
account of a little compound interest which,
calculated on the most liberal terms, would
have reached about a tenth part of the value
of the carpet.

In certain military circles the house containing
this particular suite of rooms was known

as The Cobweb, and there had been little jokes
made about a certain elderly gentleman, now
rarely seen in the neighbourhood, who was
familiarly known as The Spider.

There was nothing suggestive of a spider
about Gideon himself, as he stood within the
shadow of the heavy red curtain that prevented
the prevalence of inconvenient light in the
room. He was a portly, rosy, prosperous-looking
man, probably a little on the near side of
forty. In the dull framework of the room he
looked the picture of good health, good temper,
and good-will among men. He was the sort of
man a crossing-sweeper would pursue to the
very kerbstone, and a woman begging in the
street, catching a glimpse of his pleasant face,
would follow certain of sixpence ; and indeed
had often been known to get it. He was a
well-dressed man to the extent that his clothes
were of the costliest material, fitted him welland
always looked new. He was also of the
rare and fortunate class who are able invariably

to present the appearance of having just
put on a new hat. It might indeed be urged
against the perfectness of his dressing that, taking
him from hat to boots, he looked a little
aggressively new.

He liked to have new things, not only
because he was rich, and was pleased to carry
about him some evidence of the fact, but
because within the last two or three years
he had developed a certain restlessness which
clamoured for change even in so unimportant
a matter as a pair of gloves or a hat. He had
not made a dead set at the furniture and the
surroundings of the room in Carlton Street,
because they had through long habitude
become so much a part of his life that he
noticed them no more than he did the air he
breathed, or the sky over his head. But he
had, three years before the day we discover
him standing at the window in Carlton Street,
bought what he called a little ' cottage ' in the
country.

It was not a cottage to begin with, being
a decent-sized house, standing in large grounds,
and costing for the purchase a good round sum
of money. But it pleased Gideon to call it a
cottage. Other people might have castles, or
places, or lodges, or mansions, few of which
would equal the comfort or attractiveness of his
cottage, or rather what his cottage should be
when it was finished. But he was a plain man,
one of the people, a self-made man ; and if his
labours were so far prosperous that he could
afford to have a house in the country, in addition
to rooms in town, let it be called a cottage.

Down at the Cottage he struck a pretty
fair average with the state of quiescence in
which he left the arrangement of his rooms
in Carlton Street. The Cottage was in a
constant state of turmoil, workmen generally
living in the drawing-room whilst they were
altering the dining-room, or camping out in the
dining-room whilst they were varying the
arrangements of the drawing-room. As for

the garden, it was, as the head gardener said,
'in a constant state of earthquake.' Gideon
scarcely knew a turnip-top from a monthly
rose, chiefly discriminating between them by
the broad distinction that one was eaten and
the other not. Still, if he were to be a country
gentleman, he must have a garden, and must
walk about it, and undertake the general direction
of affairs.

It was a strongly marked characteristic of
our friend that, in whatever circumstances he
found himself placed, he must needs take the
personal command. He had been successful in
his business transactions, successful beyond expectation.
He had long ago cut himself adrift
from the plodding and pettifogging procedure by
which his father had amassed wealth sufficient,
had the fancy taken him, to hang the walls of
The Cobweb ' with cloth of gold. Gideon
speculated widely, and everything was going
on swimmingly.

Very soon after he began to feel his feet he

turned his attention to speculation in land. He
knew exactly what he was, and he had a very
clear impression of what he would be. If he
followed in the steps of his father, he might
grow as rich and remain as obscure as that
estimable gentleman. But Gideon, whilst having
the family failing of money-getting, had
also a latent passion for money-spending.
Money was to be got by all means. But it was
not to be hoarded. He felt himself capable
of taking his place in society, and even of filling
a position in public life, and he was quite prepared
to pay for his footing. He knew he might
be as rich as Croesus, or even as his father.
But as long as wealth was represented solely
by gold or bank notes he would miss the
object for which he strove. Land was, according
to Gideon's judgment, the most respectable
thing in England.

You might have half a million of money
in the funds and not be counted a gentleman.
You might have half a hundred acres of freehold

laud, and, especially if you had upon it a
more or less ramshackle place called a Hall,
you might take your place among county
gentlemen.'

That was Gideon's broad way of putting
the matter, and for a year or two he had been
devoting himself to the acquisition of land.
The Cottage and its surroundings were a small
item in the account, a mere handful of earth
in the broad acres which he possessed. He
had not, it will be understood, entered upon
his destined career at the time we make his
acquaintance. But it had always been mapped
out before him ; for though it is possible there
may, in the course of this history, be written
some things to Gideon's discredit, it should be
understood at once that he was a keen purposeful
man, who knew whither he was going, and
had a pretty keen eye for the best road.

He was simply playing with the Cottage.
But he did it with all his might. In the course
of a short year the garden went through as

many transformation scenes as the grounds of
the fairy palace in a pantomime. Money was
no object ; and Gideon, standing amid the
freshly tiu-ned-up soil of his garden, liked to
compare himself with Napoleon, and his way
of overcoming difficulties. He was not an
extensive reader. But he had come across
Napoleon's reply when the difficulties of approaching
Italy by the Alps were suggested,
and they took his fancy.

'There shall be no Alps, Mangel,' Gideon
said, when the gardener, having just completed
some elaborate and costly alterations, was peremptorily
instructed to remove the vineries to
the other end of the garden, and was pointing
out sundry difficulties.

The gardener did not see the appositeness of
the remark, but at great expense the vinery was
moved, and something else put up in its place ;
which done, Gideon came and looked at it and
smiled softly to himself, thinking how difficulties
melt before a strong will and a full purse.

One other old thing Gideon kept about hint
in Carlton Street was his father's clerk Dumpy.
Man and boy Dumfy had been with the firm
forty years, entering its services as errand-boy
at the ripe age of ten. He was at this date, in
spite of palpable deficiencies of education, a sort
of confidential clerk and private inquiry agent.
For the latter calling nature had gifted him
with several high qualifications. He had an
eminently respectable look, more suggestive of
a butler in a good family whose thoughts
turned to serious things, than of a clerk in any
of the relations of commerce. Perhaps this
was due to his exceedingly respectful and
subdued manner. He had a voice ever soft
and low, which, a beautiful thing in a woman,
is apt to be detestable in a man, especially
when combined with a habit of walking about
softly, which brought the fellow up to one's
shoulder when his presence was least expected.

Dumfy habitually dressed in a frock coat,
whose ill cut and somewhat rusty appearance

contrasted with due measure of respect with
the clothes of his master. The only little
personal vanity Mr. Dumfy permitted himself
was in respect of his hair. He cultivated a
curl on a little bear's grease ; in fact, there were
two curls, or ' wisps,' as the gay young gentlemen
who sometimes called at the Cobweb were
accustomed to describe them. They seemed
to have nothing whatever to do with the
general arrangement of Mr. Dumfy's well-brushed
and well-oiled hair. In an ordinary
way the observer is led gently up to curls.
There is something in the general style or
arrangement of the hair that suggests them
before you actually come upon them. But
you might not, by getting a partial view of the
top, or the back, or the front of Mr. Dumfy's
head, excogitate these curls. They burst upon
the beholder suddenly and unexpectedly, as
you come upon a gable in a work of Gothic
architecture.

Mr. Dumfy was not over well paid, at least

not by his employer, though it was generally
understood that he had not lived for forty years
surrounded by opportunities without making
money of them. His business was principally
confined to opening the door to casual visitors,
and considering whether it was likely his master
was at home to them, a problem which his
long experience enabled him to solve without
much difficulty. He wrote a few letters — not
many, for the business correspondence was
generally brief and to the purpose. Also he
was most useful in making inquiries, and was
able to carry out certain preliminaries relating
to legal actions occasionally forced upon the
good-natured Fleyce. He further kept a set
of books, and sat ready at call in a little room
shut off from the larger apartment by a double
set of doors.

There were no signs of business belongings
in the room in which Gideon stood, it presenting
rather the appearance of a dining-room in
which barons of beef and magnums of port had

been polished off through a long vista of years.
But in the room in which Mr. Dumfy sat the
walls were piled up almost to the ceiling with
tin boxes, on which were painted the initials of
some of the best-known men in London.

At the sound of the street bell, rung at
the brightly polished knob over the little brass
plate which bore the inscription ' Mr. Gideon
Fleyce,' Dumfy passed through the room on his
way to open the door.

If that should be Captain O'Brien,' said
Gideon, ' you can show him in ; and I shall not
be at home for the rest of the morning, or at
least till he is gone.

Yes, sir.'

Chapter II.

A MORNING CALL.

Gideon had not occasion to await the formal
announcement of Captain O'Brien before learning
that his guess at the identity of the morning
caller was correct. He heard his cheery
hail of Mr. Dumfy in the outer office. These
two had known each other for a good many
years, though they were not in the habit of
meeting at clubs or in general society. Of
the two, Mr. Dumfy 's information of all that
concerned Captain O'Brien was much more extensive
than that which the gallant Captain possessed
of Mr. Dumfy s private affairs. He had
known him when he was on full pay, and on
active service in the parks and at the Drawing-room.


There was a certain monotony attending

the circumstances of their meetings, which
always took place in the little office outside,
with its wall-lining of initiated tin trunks. In
those days the Captain was invariably wanting
money, a condition of life not wholly distinct
from his present one. But there was this important
difference, that having some remnants of a
fortune and some bulk of expectations, he was
then in the habit of getting what he wanted.
Gideon's father was in the business at that
time, and he doled out money by the hundred
pounds, casting his cheque upon the waters, and
finding it return to him (after what Captain
O'Brien thought were exceedingly few days)
largely augmented by increment of interest.

The Captain, among his other early extravagances,
had gone into Parliament, sitting for an
Irish borough through the last two years of a
moribund House. He had rather made his
mark, dashing into debate with the same light
heart that would, if fortune had favoured him,
have carried him into battle. Without knowing

it, and certainly without any effort to acquire it,
he had from the very first hit upon the great
secret of success in the House of Commons.

Constitutionally impetuous, he had one
night dashed into debate without any blood-chilling
preparation. Being absolutely fearless,
his legs had not trembled under him, nor had
his tongue cleaved to the roof of his mouth when
he, quite unexpectedly to himself, found that
he was on his feet, and heard friendly members
near him call out, ' New member ! New
member ! ' with intent to give him precedence.

The hour was propitious, though of that
also the Captain had taken no account, being,
in fact, absolutely ignorant of the ways of the
House. It was eleven o'clock, at which time
hon. members having returned pleased with their
dinner, and anxious to be amused, hailed with
satisfaction the appearance of any one likely
to meet their requirements. Appearances were
promising as the new member stood below the
gangway in easy attitude, waiting till the friendly

hubbub around him had subsided, and he
might be allowed to speak.

The question was one with which he was
thoroughly acquainted — one of the first conditions
of successful speaking in the House.
Another scarcely less important the Captain
also fulfilled, inasmuch as he talked in a perfectly
natural manner, as if he were discussing
topics with his brother officers at the mess, the
ordinary vivacity of conversation being somewhat
toned down by the presence of an illustrious
Commander as guest. It was on a
Tuesday night, and the debate was on the
second reading of a bill brought in by some
private member on the subject of procedure
for the recovery of debts. Even at this early
stage of his career Captain O'Brien had much
practical experience on the subject, and he
discussed it with a plain common sense, irradiated
here and there with flashes of humour,
that quite charmed the House.

Moreover, he told with admirable effect a

VOL. I. c

sprightly story, another sure way of getting the
ear of the House of Commons. Talking about
the difficulties which sometimes environ the
emissary of the law charged with the duty of
personal service of a writ, he told how a
brother officer of his, being sorely pressed by a
usurer, had taken refuge in a certain private
hotel in the West End of London. Here it was
his intention to lie perdu till the storm had
blown over. But the usurer was too much for
him. He found out his retreat, and despatched
a sheriff's officer with a writ.

Now, sir, what happened ? ' the Captain
continued, taking the Speaker into his confidence
with easy grace. ' Something which I
am sorry to say cannot be regarded as
vindicating the majesty of the law, or adequately
furthering its objects. The hotel where
my friend was staying was undergoing a process
of painting and whitewashing. Some of
the men were in the entrance hall whitewashing
the ceiling. My friend, borrowing the blouse

and overalls of one of the workmen, mounted
the plank set high on tresses from which the
painters carried on their work. The bailiff
coming in searched the house, and in the
course of his pursuit chanced to pass along
the corridor underneath the plank. At that
very moment, by a remarkable coincidence,
the bucket of whitewash which my friend Alas
using happened to topple over, and smothered
the unfortunate representative of the law.'

This is the kind of story which goes down
admirably with the House of Commons towards
eleven o'clock at night in the middle of a dull
debate, and its point was considerably sharpened
by the shrewd suspicion that the disguised
officer on the plank was none other than the
gallant member addressing the Speaker.

If O'Brien was accepted in the House itself,
he was prime favourite in the smoke-room, on
the terrace, in ' Posset's room,' and wherever
men congregated for cheerful conversation.
But unfortunately his popularity did not extend
c 2

to the borough which he represented. It was
all right when he was down there. No one,
least of all Irish men and women, could withstand
his hearty manner, his quiet humour, and
his overflowing good nature. But when he
was gone his constituents and the country at
large began to get a truer estimation of his
value. The 'Ballydehob Eagle,' a sheet largely
read by the electors, took to analysing his
votes and dissecting his speeches. Both these
showed lamentable shortcomings. At the time
he sai in Parliament, Home Rule was not yet
invented, much less was the Land League born.
But there was even then a certain undefined
feeling among the electors that the proper
policy for an Irish member was to ' denounce '
somebody or something.

Captain O'Brien had not at that tune deeply
studied politics. It was hard to say precisely
on what platform he had stood and won his
election. He sat among his. own countrymen
below the gangway on the Liberal side. But

he had a way of judging for himself on questions
of the day as they presented themselves,
and his decision was only occasionally satisfactory
to his constituents. When they protested
he retorted. The breach grew wider as. the
days wore on, and the inevitable period of
the dissolution approached. The climax was
reached when, in reply to a savage assault
upon him by the ' Ballydehob Eagle,' Captain
O'Brien published a letter written to him by
the proprietor and editor of that proud and
tameless bird, in which he besought his influence
with the Government to obtain for his
wife's nephew some trifling post under the
revenue department.

The ' Eagle ' scorned to discuss a personal
matter of that kind with the recreant member.
But it clawed him viciously nevertheless ; and
when the day of election came round. Captain
O'Brien found himself at the bottom of the
poll, and indeed had to beat a strategic retreat
in order to escape personal maltreatment.

This was awkward, inasmuch as it brought
down upon him his many creditors with renewed
insistence and recovered opportunities
of pressing home their demands. In the dilemma
he once more sought the quiet neighbourhood
of Carlton Street, and had a fresh
series of preliminary interviews with Mr. Dumfy
in the outer den. He was by no means a
ruined man. Isis own fortune was pretty well
spent, but his expectations, of the firm basis of
which Gideon's father had been careful to assure
himself, stood him in good stead, and were
worth advances sufficient to relieve him from
pressing necessities.

In course of time the expectations were
realised, and after Gideon Fleyce's father had
taken the hon's share and all the Captain's
debts were paid off, there still remained a
round sum, which, going his ordinary way, the
Captain would have gaily disposed of in a
couple of years. But, as the Spider observed
to Mr. Dumfy, the Captain was ' not such a

fool as he looked.' He knew if he kept the
money by him, with whatever virtuous resolution,
they would both have melted within
the space of two years. So, acting on the
advice of a friendly solicitor, he bought himself
an annuity, and bravely set himself to solve the
problem of living like a gentleman on three
hundred a year. In addition he had his captain's
pay, not much of itself, and its acceptance
involving responsibilities that made his
annual three hundred seem very small indeed.
Having begun to be wise, he went on with a
steadfastness that really surprised himself. He
determined to sell out, to invest the proceeds
in desirable securities, and sternly to live within
his gross income.

The total was not much, but he found the
undertaking easier than he thought, and discovered
quite a new and tranquil joy in the
consciousness that he had no bills out against
him. He could afford to belong to a good
club, and his brief term of membership of the

House of Commons had brought him many
pleasant acquaintances. He went everywhere,
and knew everybody who was worth knowing.
He had his crib for his town house, whilst
many of the nobility and gentry were good
enough to keep up for him in the country
costly preserves, where in due time he enjoyed
a little shooting.

He was very friendly with the chiefs of one
of the great political parties, and it was understood
might, if he pleased, have had a seat
found for him. But he had no ambition in
that way. He could go down to the House
when he pleased, whether to smoke a cigar on
the terrace or to sit under the gallery and hear
the debates ; and, as he said, he had no constituents
tugging at his vitals. He liked politics,
and knew a great deal more of them now than
when he had a voice in the councils of the nation
and a hand in shaping legislative measures.
But the kind of work that had the greater
attraction for him was done outside the House.

The name of Captain O'Brien did not figure in
political gatherings or public demonstrations.
But it was understood that in a quiet way he
knew as well as most people what was going
on behind the scenes, and that though he never
seemed to do anything he was often very busy
in the interests of the State.

Chapter III.

GOING INTO PARLIAMENT.

O'Brien,' said Gideon when the new-comer
had seated himself, which he did on the table
in preference to a chair, ' I mean to go into
Parliament.'

Indeed ! Now that's very good of you,
quite considerate. I suppose you won't mind
beginning with an Under Secretaryship, or
perhaps a junior Lordship of the Treasury.
Either gives you a seat on the Treasury Bench,
you know, and saves you all the trouble of
being down for prayers.'

Yes, I mean to go into Parliament,' Gideon
continued, ignoring this untimely facetiousness ;
and it has occurred to me that it would be

some advantage if I went in for a county instead
of a borough.'

O'Brien stared at him with unfeigned astonishment.
He had been taken aback by his
brusque announcement, and the easy confidence
with which it had been made. That was
exactly what Gideon had intended should
follow, and he saw with satisfaction the further
effect of his cool assumption. Here was a man
hand and glove with people whom Gideon, if
no one had been looking on, would have
crawled up to obtain the favour of their acquaintance.
He was a member of a club that
would certainly have black-balled Gideon had
he succeeded in getting any one to put him up.
He was an accomplished man of the world, of
good birth, if of no particular family connections.
Yet how much easier he was to manage
than the gardener ! When Gideon put on
his Let-there-be-no-more-Alps manner, the
gardener obeyed, but with a sullen and contemptuous
air which showed he thought

his master was an ass, and was hesitating
whether he could afford to tell him so. And
here was Captain O'Brien, who had evidently
intended to be facetious, bowled over at the
second ball, and plainly convinced that this was
a serious matter.

I took the liberty of sending for you to
talk the matter over,' Gideon continued, walking
up and down the room with his hands behind
his back, and a pleased smile that seemed to
indicate the possession of certain knowledge
which he could not well convey to his interlocutor,
but which might with safety be left in
his hands triumphantly to work out. ' This is
a matter I know nothing about, and you know
a great deal. I'm not sure how these things
are arranged, but I believe it is not unusual fora
gentleman of experience to undertake the
affairs of a candidate. I want you to consider
whether it would be worth your while to take
me up, put me through the facings, and do
whatever is necessary to work the affair. I

don't mean to spare money. If you are so
good as to take a little trouble in the matter I
should be glad to offer you as a friendly
acknowledgment of friendly service a cheque
for a thousand pounds if I don't get in, or a
cheque for two thousand if I do.'

Which side are you going in on ? '
Well, that,' said Gideon, as if the matter at
issue were the colour of a wall-paper, ' is one
of the things wee shall have to discuss. I may
say that I have not studied politics much. I
don't think I ever read a speech through, and
take care to keep clear of the political leaders
in the papers. So you see you Avill have to
work upon virgin soil.'

That's not a bad notion, though I am
bound to say the application is a little new.
It suggests a new reading of a passage in Burke,
where he says he has constantly observed that
the generality of people are at least fifty years
behind in their politics, meaning that they are
accurate and just judges of what took place

half a century ago, whilst they are narrow and
illiberal in their estimate of the affairs of the
day. But you are literally forty years — or is
it only thirty eight ? I beg your pardon —
behindhand with your politics, since you haven't
come up with them at all. As a rule, when
candidates think of coming forward to solicit
the suffrage of a constituency, they have made
up their minds on the broad issue as to whether
they will support Liberal or Conservative
colours. You don't seem to have got further in
your political programme than to have decided
upon standing for a county. Why a county ? '
Well, I have always understood that a
county member is a bigger sort of thing than a
borough member — that is, politically ; but I
don't make any disguise to you that whilst I
don't care about politics I do care a great deal
about social position. Now, if I stand for a
county, whether I get in or not, I am brought
into contact with the sort of people I want to
know, the kind I want to receive me, and whom

I would like to see with their legs under my
mahogany. Of course, if I win I am somebody
right off the reel. You can't snub a county
member, or say he got in by the Irish vote, as
you may if he stands for a borough.'

Very true,' said O'Brien, who began to
perceive that Gideon, if he knew nothing of
poetics, had thought his own position out, and
that his native shrewdness was helping him to
a just conclusion. ' Then I should advise you
to stand in the Liberal interest. County members
are cheap on the Conservative side. They
are woefully rare with us, especially just now.
To win a county in the Liberal interest would
certainly be a distinction, which ought to get
you some notice from the chiefs, and bring you
well out at official at-homes, and even dinner
parties. On the other hand, conspicuous merit
like yours has a better chance of recognition
with the Tories. It is part of their system,
more particularly under Dizzy, to keep their
eye on young men, never to forget a service

done to a party, and even extravagantly to
reward ability. Perhaps this is because they are
not overrun with the commodity. But there's
the fact. Look at young Marchant. A month
ago his name was unknown outside Old Bailey
circles. There he was recognised as a 'cute
fellow, a sound lawyer, and an adroit speaker.
He was a favourite junior, and sometimes got
big cases to himself. But the mob of the Tory
party would have stared him full in the face if
they had met him in a drawing-room, and would
have given no other sign of recognition of his
existence.'

And what did he do ? I'm a little out of
this sort of thing, you know.'

And this is fame ! Well, he won a seat
from the Liberals at a time when the party
were beginning to shake in their shoes with
apprehension that the country was getting tired
of them. He comes into the House, and is
immediately taken in tow by a Cabinet
Minister. A prominent place is made for him

in a big debate ; he acquits himself well, aud if
his party only remain in power after the next
election he will be Attorney-general as sure ashe
lives. Then there's old Cadwallader, a case,
if I may say so, a little nearer your own. He
was not a barrister, nor is he a good speaker,
or in any way a strong man. But he held for
the Tories a seat which they were horribly
frightened about ; and if he had won the battle
of Trafalgar or Waterloo he could not be received
with greater distinction. Yes, our own
fellows make a great mistake there. They area
little too commercial in their relations with
the party. In your place, and with your views,
I should say turn up a Tory.'

Do you mean to say that if I got in for a
county your people on the front bench wouldn't
recognise me ? '

I have said that a man who brings a county
to the Liberal party fetches a gift that is worth
acknowledgment. They would give you a cheer
when you came in, and perhaps Gilbert might

VOL. I. D

be told to bring you round and introduce you
to Gladstone and the rest. But that would be
all over in a fortnight, unless you showed the
ability to make yourself either useful or disagreeable.
Gladstone is a great statesman, and
a magnificent leader at a supreme crisis. But
he is shockingly faulty in small matters. He
never knows a man if he meets him in the lobby
or the library, or in the street. His head is
always in the clouds, and the number of mortals
lie walks over in his abstraction, and makes
mortal enemies of, would appal him if he only
could have supplied to him a correct hist. There
is one case just now greatly troubling the
Liberal party. One of its most distinguished
members won't go straight. He is always kicking
over the traces and doing a deuce of damage.
He doesn't want anything for himself or his
somewhat extensive family ; which is the worst
thing about him, and makes him altogether
unmanageable. The fault is, I won't say
altogether, but in a irreat measure, Gladstone's.

There are particular reasons wliy Gladstone
should be friendly to this man. He and his
have done enormous services to the Liberal
party, and personally to Gladstone himself.
But Ashen he comes into the House Gladstone
ignores him, does not see him when he
meets him, avoids little opportunities for chat,
and quite unconsciously and without intention
puts on a don't-know-you air. Now that's excessively
riling to some men, and accounts for
the absence of enthusiasm with which the personal
attacks on Gladstone fi'om the other side
are resented in his own ranks.'

I saw" him at a public meeting once, and
thought he was a very amiable gentleman.'

Yes, that's in public. He's all right when
he's on his legs, and he can, if he pleases, make
himself eminently agreeable in private ; but he
never, or rarely, pleases. !Now look at Dizzy.
It's perfectly delightful to see the way that
artful old campaigner comes round fellows.
Whilst he was in the House of Commons — and

D 2

Heaven knows how they're going to get on
without him — he was always in his place ; heard
and saw everything. If a man on his own side
made at all a decent speech, he would be sure
to hear from Dizzy. If a man on the other
side made any kindly reference to himself, or
by an allusion to the Conservative Opposition
left an opening for friendly reply, be sure that
Dizzy either that night or that week would
accidentally come across the man and say a
pleasant word in his ear. Did you ever hear
how he came over The O'O'Callaghan, and won
from the Opposition side a steady vote ? '

No, I don't think I ever did.'

Of course he never had ; but Gideon had
been brought up a lawyer, and was constitutionally
averse to making admissions.

Well, The O'O'Callaghan was returned for an
Irish borough as a Liberal Home Euler. He was
a ridiculous little man, with a voice several sizes
too large for him, and the most extravagant
gestures ever seen on sea or land. He amused

Dizzy, ^vho, being led to notice him across the
House, took in his character at a glance, and
saw his possible advantage. One night when
The O'O'Callaghan was strutting across the lobby
he felt a friendly hand on his shoulder, and
heard an unmistakable voice say, "Mr.
O'O'Callaghan, do you know, you remind me very
much of my old friend Tom Moore." The
pleased O'O'Callaghan was from that day one of
Dizzy's most faithful supporters. He would,
at whatever personal inconvenience, come over
from Ireland to vote on a big division. It
counted clear two votes on a division that
Gladstone, who also knew Tom Moore, had
never discovered and proclaimed this wonderful
likeness.'

Which side do you consider is likely to be
in the longest ? ' Gideon asked, coming back to
business.

That is a consideration which certainly
should weigh something with one so perfectly
disinterested as yourself. Ki present things

look very much as if the Tories were in, at least
for another spell. Dizzy's name is a thing to
conjure with ; and there are a good many people
who think that if he Ives to hold the flag
through the next election the fight is as good as
won. On the other hand, Gilbert and one or
two fellows think we who live in London
are in the dark. What is called the greatheart
of the country is said to beat with Gladstone.
Certainly it doesn't look like it from
recent bye-elections. But these bye-elections
are proverbially misleading. We must have a
dissolution within two years, and it may by
chance come sooner.'

But do you think that for the next twenty
years, say, we shall have the Tories in office
more than the Liberals ? '

No, I certainly do not. These things
come in cycles. Liberal work in office leads to
nothing so surely as the bringing back of the
Conservatives. First of all we finish the work
appointed, and can go ; then we are always

making enemies by touching vested interests ;
and lastly, we drive the coach so fast that intime
the country, without any particular disapproval
of our measures, hankers after sloth,
and the Tories come back to do nothing at
home, and to let off some dangerous fireworks
abroad. Taking the matter all round, or dissections
of a quarter of a century, you will
find that the Liberals are much longer in office
than the Tories, and I fancy that as we goon
that proportion will lengthen to the disadvantage
of the Tories.'

Then,' said Gideon firmly, ' I shall stand
for the Liberals. There's a good many of my
sort in their ranks already. Whereas, even if
I won a seat for the Tories, they would never
make me quite at home amongst them. I've a
notion, too, that my hankering are on the side
of Liberalism. I'm a self-made man, and a
man of progress ; and all that sort of thing, you
know, seems to go better with the Liberal
programme than with the Conservative. therefore,
O'Brien, I'm your man.'

Well, that's something done. When a
man's made up his mind whether he's going to
stand as a Liberal or a Conservative he has
taken a long stride on the way to his seat in
the House. Now I would advise you to reconsider
your notion about the county. It's a hard
job and a costly one, and quite a question
whether the game would be worth the candle.
We also have dukes and marquises, earls,
and all that on our side, though not quite
so many as on the other. Our men generally
have a younger son or some college friend and
hunting companion whom they like to run in
for a county where there's a chance. You can't
go down to the county town, stand in the
market-place, and announce that you are the
Liberal candidate. These things have to be
managed, and it would be very difficult for a
man like you to get a fair run for a likely
county.'

That's a matter we can think over. As
IVe told you, I don't mind the money. I have

a little, and am ready to spend it for value
received. But we may take it as settled that
you'll run the affair for me ? '

Yes ; I don't see any harm in the proposal
you have made. That's settled, and we have-also
settled that you are to be a Liberal, which
really is something gained. Now I'll talk it
over with Gilbert, and see what openings there
are, whether in county or borough. I suppose
you don't mean to go in before the general
election ? '

I really don't know anything about it, and
don't want to know anything about the details.'

You have rather an odd notion of what
are the details. But I'll go into the matter and
let you know.'

When he was gone Gideon walked slowly
up and down the room, smiling to himself,
dreaming dreams and seeing visions, in which
he hobnobbed with Cabinet Ministers, took a
countess down to dinner, and was on nodding
terms with a real duke.

CHAPTER IV.

THE WHIP.

It was on the ]st of January 1878 that the
conversation recorded in an earlier chapter
took place between Gideon Fleyce and Captain
O'Brien. An amazing year both in the history
of England and other countries this year 1878 ;
a year of constant disturbances and frequent
alarm ; a year that saw a British fleet sail with
sealed orders to the Dardanelles ; a year when
the reserves were called out at home, and when
Cabinet Ministers resigned within a few hours
of solemn declaration that the rumours of
dissensions in the Cabinet were untrue.

All this was, as yet, in the bosom of the
future, and the new year lay white and innocent-looking
enough under its covering of snow.

Still it had its burden to bear inherited from its
predecessor. There was trouble everywhere.
Trade was in a lamentable condition, and no
one could see hope of improvement. India
was suffering from a terrible famine, which
found some slight reflection in the condition of
the people of South Wales, who had no work
to do, and little bread to eat. The Russians
and the Turks had their hands at each other's
throats in the Shipka Pass. Plena had just
fallen, but as yet the Russians hurled themselves
in vain against the stronghold where
Osman Pasha showed the world how Turks can
fight behind earthworks.

The public mind, which for more than a
year had been in a chronic state of anxiety,
was aflame afresh with uneasy apprehension,
since a proclamation had just appeared summoning
Parliament to meet on the 14th of
January, fully three weeks before its usual
time. What this might portend nobody quite
knew ; but the general impression was that it

could not be anything eminently desirable.
The Liberal party were still lying in the Slough
of Despond, where they had been thrust by the
election of 1874. The Conservative majority
in the House of Commons was not only maintained
but increased. Lord Hartington was in
nominal command, though Mr. Gladstone,
aroused from his short-lived retirement by what
were known as the Bulgarian atrocities, had
come to the front, and was hampering his
colleagues with flashes of what some of them
regarded as ill-advised enthusiasm.

It seemed that the fortunes of the Liberal
party were at their lowest ebb, and that the
Conservatives were planted in power for an
indefinite period. It was a greater sacrifice
than Gideon Fleyce quite realised, that he should
have decided to throw in his lot with the
discredited and disheartened party. Probably
it was due to his state of ignorance. If he had
known a little more he might have acted
otherwise. He had made his choice, and the

Conservatives continued to revel in their supremacy,
all unconscious of what they had lost.

Captain O'Brien was not a man given to let
the grass grow under his feet. Having frankly
taken up Gideon, he determined honestly to
earn either the thousand pounds or the two
thousand. There was no harm in the transaction,
nothing which a gentleman of unblemished
honour might not undertake. It was
done every day ; and though the gallant Captain
would not like to be known as an election agent,
he did not object to the work, or to this little
windfall of ready money.

A day or two after he had seen Gideon in
Carlton Street he looked in at the Reform
Club, thinking he might find there Sir Henry
Gilbert, the Liberal Whip. Sir Henry had
been and gone, and O'Brien decided to stroll
over to the office and catch him there.

It was a bright day, with the sun shining
through a sky supernaturally blue for London.
The snow which the last days of the old year

had scattered upon its grave was already
cleared, and the cold weather had given place
to something that seemed like April warmth.
Town was already full, the early summons of
Parliament having given an unwonted impetus
to life. The clubs were crowded, and men
rarely seen in London in January were to be
found in the neighbourhood of Pall Mall.

Captain O'Brien, walking down Parliament
Street, met one of these. Taken at a back view
it would not be thought he was a very old man.
He was smartly dressed in a coat new as the
year. In gracious recognition of this spring
day that had strayed into winter weather, the
garment was of light grey, with trousers to
match. A blue necktie and lavender kid
gloves (over which mittens were drawn, since it
was not yet quite spring) completed an attire
remarkable on any person on this particular
day. But the wearer was himself a notable
man. He walked erect, and with a certain
swinging pace. But his progress was slow, and

there was a curious hesitation about lifting his
i(d^l^ which suggested that his boots were soled
with lead. Then his face was very old, leaden
in hue, and with deeply furrowed hues by the
side of his mouth, which was adorned by a
little patch of hair, supernaturally black, which
just covered the portion of his upper lip immediately
under the nostrils, like an ' imperial '
transplanted.

He was evidently engrossed in the deepest
thought, regarding passing events with lacklustre
eyes, and with a mind that was far away.
Many people who passed raised their hats in
salutation. Sometimes when he caught the
motion he mechanically bent his head in acknowledgment,
but oftener he did not see, and
walked steadily on. O'Brien knew him very
well, and was indeed a personal favourite of
his. He raised his hat as he passed, but Lord
Beaconsfield did not see him any more than he
had seen half a dozen who had gone before.

Suppose he's thinking about the Queen's

Speech, and how much may not be told in so
many Knew,' O'Brien said to himself as he turned
round to regard the remarkable figure with its
fashionable clothes that seemed to belong to a
man of thirty, and its leaden footsteps that told
of fourscore years.

I've got a candidate for you, Gilbert,' said
O'Brien, entering the room where the Whip
was busily engaged with his correspondence.

Thank you. If you had got a borough ora
county you would have been more welcome.'

Well, you can't get them without a candidate.
All things must have a beginning, and
in electioneering it's usual to commence with a
candidate.'

Who's your man ? Is he rich ? '

Yes.'

And vulgar ? '

Father.'

And ignorant ? '

Very.'

Then I think, unless you are particularly

interested, we will let the matter drop. I have
on my books now at least fifty men who answer
your description. The anxiety to get into
Parliament has increased, is increasing, and
ought to be diminished. Every man who has
made a little money in trade seems to leave a
margin which he 'devotes to spending in the
effort to get into Parliament. Worst of it is,
they nearly all want " assistance." They will
give so much, and I must find so much. The
only thing they throw in without deduction is
their vulgarity and their ignorance. I'm very
glad to say that of late years there's a tendency
on the part of this class to go over to the other
side. But here again we're hit. It's only the
very rich who have any chance there. Dizzy,
with his far-seeing way, encourages that sort of
thing. He likes to have our old monopoly of
trade and commerce broken into ; only his
people draw the line at fifteen thousand a year.
Anything under that we may have ; anything
above that is welcomed in proportion as the
VOL. I. E

thousands mount up. They're useful for subscriptions
at the Carlton, pay all their own
expenses, and make a neat and effective
rounding off of the Conservative workingman
edifice.'

I don't know how much my man has got ;
but I think it's enough on the basis you set
forth to give him the choice of either side.
He has honoured us with his preference, and
the thing is, what can we do for him ? '

Will he pay all his expenses ? '

Yes.'

Has he got any local connection .? '

Not a shred. He's quite a new man, self-made,
of course, shrewd and clever in his way.
Rather hit with the notion that he has the
making of a parliamentary debater in him, and
may give you some trouble when you want to
close a debate. The odd thing is, he wants to
stand for a county.'

Well, now, that's modest ! What would
he like P North Shropshire .^ or Middlesex, or

perhaps Midlothian, where he will bowl out the
bold Buccleuch ? '

'If you named any of these and advised
him to stand he would certainly go, for he
knows no more reason why he should not have
a chance in any of these places than if you
named a county where a Liberal would have a
walk over. But, of course, it's no use throwing
a man away.'

I'm not quite sure of that,' said Gilbert.
If you can get a man to break his teeth
against one of those Tory strongholds, it does
no harm — at least, to no one but himself. It
wakes the people up and shows us where weare.'


That's all very well from your point of
view. But, remember, I'm ' thinking of his
interest. Let us at least give him a good fight
for his money. Haven't you got a borough
where a commercial sort of man would have a
chance .^ '

Not one. The whole kingdom has been

UNIVERSITY OF

surveyed, and the boroughs carefully mapped
out. We are supposed to be in low water. If
so, it isn't for want of candidates. Many of
them, like your friend, are no use, but they
mean fighting, My difficulty is in keeping them
from going at each other's throats and chucking
good chances away.'

Well, perhaps you will think it over. My
man means business. There are some aspects
of him in which he is by no means a fool. I
believe that if he once sat down before a place,
whether borough or county, he would work ina
way that would astonish you old stagers.
He has plenty of money, and, if possible, even
more of self-confidence.'

That's a good sort of man for the times.
I'm a little struck with your description. I
will go through the list again. Stop ! here's
Saxton, a one-horse borough, which I should
like to have a snap at. It's been in the Montgomery
family since '32, before which time it
returned two members. Ever since there's

been only one, and he's always a Montgomery.
I'll think over Saxton, and write to you. And
now good-bye. Just look at these letters I
have to deal with, and pitying, leave me.'

It was amongst not the least inexplicable
problems in party politics that Sir Henry Gilbert
should be sitting here in this dull, ill-furnished
room in Parliament Street, slaving
like a horse at correspondence, and working
against the grain at figures. All his natural
tastes lay in quite the other direction. An
admirable shot, an enthusiastic fisherman, at
home on the deck of a yacht, loving horses and
dogs, and country life, he consented to live and
slave in London during the best months in the
year, and, what at the same time seemed even
worse, he was obliged periodically to run up to
town when the clubs were empty, when the
House of Commons was clothed in brown
holland, and when Belgravia looked a wilderness.


It certainly was not as a means of livelihood

that the Yorkshire Baronet had accepted
^ post the fascination of which grew upon him
yearly. Not to mention his broad lands in
Yorkshire, he had at the West End of London
something like a square acre covered with
princely houses, and yielding a royal ground-rent.
It could not be the attraction of place or
the prospect of ultimate reward. It is true
that in English history a Whip had once blossomed
into the full glory of a Speaker of the
House of Commons. Others had been made
Peers, and doubtless that was the goal which
Sir Henry Gilbert would reach if in the meantime
the incessant labour of his office did not
kill him.

He murmured sometimes, and contrasted
this lot with that of more favoured men. If
things went right, others got the praise ; if
anything went wrong, it was he who was to
blame, and the blame was none the less scathing
because expressed in courteous language.
But, after all, he liked the work, coming to it

with renewed zest every session, though drooping
in the heats of July and agonised in
August if matters were so working that it was
not possible to take train northward on or
before the 12th.

CHAPTER V.

MR. Sandy, SOLICITOR.

Gideon Fleyce's energy and his Napoleonic
impetuosity were contagious. He got through
an enormous amount of work in a day, and he
expected others about him to be equal to a
similar strain. If he had read the New Testament,
which was not his habit, he would have
found a likeness of himself in the centurion
who said ' to one man Go, and he goeth ; and
to another Come, and he cometh.' But Gideon's
reading, limited in all other directions, was for
obvious reasons cut off in Holy Writ at the last
verse of Malachi. He always meant to read,
and honestly envied men to whom, as to Dogberry,
reading and writing had come by nature.

But he bad read nothing, not even the full
history of his great exemplar the first Napoleon.
It was a proof of his natural ability
and quickness that he was able to make such
show in current conversation as he did.

He had impressed O'Brien with the necessity
of moving quickly in the matter of laying siege
to some constituency. O'Brien had reported
with modified fulness his conversation with Sir
Henry Gilbert ; and Gideon, accepting the
inevitable, had relinquished his high ambition
to represent a county. He was not accustomed
to waste his time or his energies in vain regrets.
He was now embarking on a field in which he
must, for a time at least, be content to be led by
others. He could not, as O'Brien had said, go
down to some market town and proclaim himself
the Liberal candidate. It was all dark to
him, the way, the men, and the means in politics.
But he felt sure that he could feel his way, and
that presently he would fall into his natural
position of leader, and let others follow. A

borough would do very well to begin with. If
necessary he would hereafter select his own
county, and win his seat without the interposition
of any middle man.

At present O'Brien was absolutely necessary
to him ; and, recognising that fact, he thought
he was cheap at a thousand guineas, and would
be much cheaper at two thousand. Gideon,
amongst innumerable matters, was wont to
plume himself upon the intuition with which
he picked out men to do his work. He liked
to look at a man, to talk to him for half an hour
without giving him any hint of his intention ;
and then, if he were satisfied, he would go
home, write a note of three lines, and offer him
double the salary he was receiving to join his
service. He was not always right. But as far
as O'Brien was concerned there could be no
doubt he had secured the one man who could
do his work if it could be done, and in these
circumstances Gideon knew how to make himself
agreeable.

The preliminaries arranged, O'Brien had
descended upon the unconscious borough of
Saxton, and had an interview with some of the
local Liberal magnates. I say some because he
met several in company. But practically there
was only one. This was Mr. Tandy, whose
name, with the word ' solicitor ' written after it,
caught whatever rays of sun lighted upon the
High Street. Mr. Tandy was one of those
naturally able men who, by some strange
chance, perhaps simple enough if we only
inquired into the history of their lives, are
content to lie chained to rusty anchors in small
and sleepy country towns.

He was a man, at least Saxton thought so,
who might have been anything. If he had gone
to London he would surely have made his way
to the head of his profession. But he was content
to stop in Saxton, and had climbed to whatever
dizzy heights were possible in the town. He
had been born in it, and, to do him justice, did
not shrink from reference to the little cabin on the

top of the hill by the church where his father
had lived. The cupboard in those days was
precariously filled by the proceeds of the
aggregation of what Tandy, senior, called ' odd
jobs.' The market was fluctuating, and sometimes
did not rise to the level of meat twice a
week. But Tandy, junior, thrived upon whatever
was going, and seemed to thrive scarcely
less when nothing was going, which was not
unfrequent.

Having learned in early life to distrust odd
jobs, he set himself at a miraculously early age
to acquire a permanent situation. This was
offered to him in the office of old Mr. Volley,
whose family for generations had advised the
inhabitants of Saxton on knotty points connected
with the administration of county-court
law, and on critical issues with the executive
as represented in the police court. Young
Tandy's legal studies were at first bounded by
the daily necessity of sweeping out the office,
copying letters, and going errands. All this he

did well, and by gradations, more familiar in
story-books than easy in real life, rose from
being errand-boy to the high position of clerk,
saved enough money to get his articles,
gradually took all the labour off the drooping
shoulders of Mr. Solley, was taken into partnership,
and a year later stood by the grave of his
old employer, dressed in deepest black, and
setting an example of decorous affliction of
which Saxton took full note, and, it is to be
hoped, profited by.

There was no one to dispute with him the
heritage of his late partner's business. After a
due interval he reverently took down the
shabby and indented plate on the railings
bearing the honoured name of Solley, and
presently the placid life of Saxton was disturbed
by the intelligence that there was a new
brass plate on the lawyer's railings, better and
bigger and brighter than had ever been seen
before, and that on it was beautifully engraved —
Mr. Tandy, Solicitor.'

Mr. Tandy had all the business in Saxton,
and for many miles round. But he felt it was
painfully inadequate to his capacity. These
pettifogging cases, with their 
and their six-and-eightpences, were well
enough in their way ; but their resemblance to
the odd jobs of the parental abode was a little
painful. He had tried a bigger thing when he
attempted to promote connection for Saxton
with the trunk line that haughtily swept by it at
the distance of some thirteen miles. But no
one would build a railway to Saxton, a place
whither no one seemed to go, and, stranger
still to the outsider, a place which no one
seemed to want to leave.

This had failed, for the present at least ;
but Mr. Tandy did not despair. There was
another field which he felt he might legitimately
crop, if it only were within reach. He always
felt it a personal matter, besides being a disgrace
to the British constitution, that Saxton
was not in these days contested at election

time. The Montgomeries, who owned half the
town, and a good deal of the county, regularly
returned some member of their family. This
had been the same for at least thirty years,
though previously Saxton had had its share
of election excitement, which meant beer and
money for the electors and large fees for able
solicitors. Mr. Sole had been the Liberal
agent in those days, but had no heart in the
business nor any aptitude for managing it.
His man had been beaten so hopelessly that
the defeat, coming at the close of a series of
similar disasters, had shut off adventurers,
and at each succeeding election Amaranth to
Amaranth had succeeded to the representation,
in the person of a Montgomery.

The advent of Captain O'Brien with a letter
of introduction from Mr. Walters, a Liberal
landowner of the county, opened up a cheerful
prospect for Mr. Tandy. Nature had gifted
him with a phlegmatic disposition, which he
had assiduously cultivated. Not unconscious of

early defects in education, he had acquired a
manner well calculated to hide them. He did
not (at least when in public or in his office)
talk much, and always in a slow, deliberate
manner, which enabled him to lie in wait as it
were for truant h's, to be properly particular
about his plurals, and to keep an eye on his
nominative. He showed no sign of elation
when Captain O'Brien disclosed his business,
but rather dwelt upon the difficulties of the
position, the influence of the Montgomeries,
and the exceedingly bare chance there seemed
for an outsider. All this was not quite new
to O'Brien, who had learned the history of
the borough from Gilbert. But Gideon meant
to stand — an ascertained fact which cut short
doubts, and made disquisition on difficulty mere
waste of time.

Mr. Tandy had undertaken to 'see about
it.' There were, he said, several important
burgesses to consult. The matter must be
handled delicately, for many prejudices would

have to be overcome. Foremost amongst
these, O'Brien gathered, was the natural disinclination
of a highly respectable town to be disturbed
by the turmoil of a contested election.

I'll sound them,' Mr. Tandy said, with a
troubled look, as if he were certain beforehand
of never reaching the bottom. ' We must go
about the thing cautiously, for this is a small
place, and it won't do to stir up bad feeling
without any practical result. I suppose your
man is ready to stand the racket, and means to
go through with it if we take him up ? '

The best thing you can do,' said O'Brien,
is to see him. Perhaps he would come down
here if an appointment was made.'

So it was settled, and O'Brien went off by
the first train, in order that he might not interpose
any delay in Mr. Tandy's plunge into the
process of ' sounding.' As he drove off to the
station he pictured to himself the lawyer going
about the town ' sounding ' ; first with his
knuckles on the doors of the abodes of the

VOL. I. F

burgesses, to see if they were at home ; then
proceeding, in roundabout but highly artistic
fashion, to ascertain their views with respect to
running a Liberal candidate.

Mr. Tandy did none of these things. He
said not a word to any one of his visitor, nor of
the object of his journey, but early next morning
he went off to London and commenced
soundings in that mighty deep. The operation
was directed to ascertaining the precise position
of Gideon Fleyce, and his capacity for standing
what Mr. Tandy had called ' the racket ' of a
contested election, where it would be necessary
to secure the exclusive services of an able
lawyer, who might require considerable sums
of money to be dispensed in a strictly legal
manner. It may be presumed that the result
of his inquiries was satisfactory, for two days
later Gideon received a note, in which Mr.
Tandy invited him to visit Saxton and confer
with some of the principal burgesses on the
Liberal side on the subject of Captain O'Brien's
visit.

Chapter VI.

I MET WITH TAPPER Tapster.'

Oi\E, Two, Three-four, Five, SIX ; One, Two,
Three-four, Five, SIX. That's a little better,
papa dear ; if you would only manage to get
round a little quicker on three-four it would be
better still, and you must take a longer stride.
Now try again. One, Two, Three-four, Five,
SIX ; One, Two, Three-four, Five, SIX. But
there are various sorts of strides. There's the
camel's and there's the mouse's, for example ; and
if you insist upon going right off at the camel'
stride, you pull me up rather sharp. Understand,
you go round me at three-four, and
therefore have to take a longer stride to keep
time. Now try again.'

They were off waltzing round the room,

F 2

she with as much grace as was possible, considering
the circumstances of partnership, and
he with the air and heaviness of a rhinoceros
going to a funeral. It was nine o'clock at
night, and the scene was a dining-room, a good-sized
apartment, not very lofty, having a deep
bay-window and plenty of red curtains. There
was a lamp on the table, which latter had been
moved out of the way, lest in the spasmodic
effort to come up to the requirements of three-four
the gentleman should have damaged that
piece of furniture, solid as it was. There were
red curtains over the deep bay-windows, on
which the light from fire and lamp came back
with a cheerful glow. There was an old-fashioned
bookcase filled with an exceedingly
miscellaneous assortment, including ' Stone's
Manual of Magistrates' Law,' and Miss Brad-don's
disquisition on ' Aurora Floyd.'

The instructress was a young lady of eighteen,
dressed with great taste in some material,
the proper name of which I really do not

know ; but it was of dark green, looked silky,
fitted tightly an exceedingly pretty figure, and
was decently fastened at the throat. If the
testimony of several young men in and near
Saxton might be accepted as unblessed I
should feel no hesitation in describing the
young lady as bewitching beautiful. But
when I come to turn over in my mind, with
the view of cataloguing and describing each
particular feature, I am afraid doubt would
be thrown on the perfect impartiality of the
youths.

She had a good deal of golden-hued hair,
which, like her dress, was worn in plainest
fashion. She so far came up to the requirements
of the usual kind of beauty that her eyes had
in them a certain hue reminiscent of the violet.
Looking at her (if one ever got a chance of
doing so without being discovered), the thought
would enter the mind that in certain phases of
humour this violet hue would grow softer and
deeper, and would look all the more beautiful

when slightly dimmed as the violet is with the
dew upon it. But that was a mood in which,
if the young lady ever indulged, it must have
been when out of sight of mankind, or even of
womankind. Generally her eyes were sparkling
with fun or delight, sometimes even with
wickedness ; and when she was in this mood,
with just an added tinge of colour on her
cheeks, and with a musical laugh rippling out
between pearly teeth, the judgment of the
young men above recorded did not appear so
capable of being reversed by calmer tribunals
as the hasty mind might at first be inclined to
surmise.

The young lady's parent was a big man,
heavy one might suppose in any circumstances,
but just now weighed down by the total impossibility
of getting round at the right time in
the waltz, and feeling oppressed by his total
incapacity for what seemed to come so easy
and natural to the young lady in the tight-fitting
dress and the one white rose in her

golden hair. His aspect was ludicrously
funereal. Early in the evening, before being
so far promoted as to go round with his partner,
he had been nearly overcome in the struggle
with his right foot, the heel of which he well
knew, when the young lady pronounced the
monosyllable SIX, should be found brought
close up to the left heel. But, so far from this
being the case, he was at this crisis invariably
discovered with his legs wide apart.

The teacher was patient, and he was
dogged, and in the end he had triumphed, and
would have made quite a success of it, only in
the excitement of the moment, and having his
mind, as it were, concentrated upon this final
difficulty, he had fallen into a habit of bringing
his heels together with a loud crash.

'I'm getting a bit dazed now, Napper, my
dear, and perhaps it wouldn't be worth while to
go on any further to-night ; though, of course,
I will if you think I should.'

No, papa dear, I think that will do for

to-night ; oi:ily you know the worst of it is we've
to begin over again every night at precisely the
same place, I know quite well that when we
start tomorrow night, when you have had your
nap after dinner, you will at the sound of SIX
be discovered standing with your legs wide
apart in the middle of the room, and with that
comical look of despair on your dear old face
which sends me into a fit of laughing, and then
we get nothing done. Couldn't you keep it up
a bit during the day ? '

I did, my dear, and have run the most
fearful risks of detection. Only this morning a
gentleman came down from London to see me
on particular business. I had put the chairs on
one side, and was going round and round with
One, Two, Three-four, Five, SIX, and was, I
think, getting into it first-rate, when the boy
knocked at the door, and, throwing it open,
showed him in. He must have heard me
counting, and so, as at the moment I had just
been brought up short at the bookcase, I went

on, making believe to count the books before I
turned round to greet him. Do we sing now,
my dear ? '

Yes, papa ; only perhaps you would like
to get a little breath fu^st. I'll play over the
tune, so that you'll catch it before you begin.*

She sat at the piano and played over the air
of ' The Wearing' of the Green,' singing a bar
here and there and nodding gaily to her father,
who sat in the arm-chair, thumping his hand
on the arm — beating time he thought it was,
though, to tell the truth, the time had nothing
whatever to do with the music.

Now, papa, stand up, and don't come outwith
such a boom to start with as you sometimes
do.'

The troubled expression came back to the
man's face as in prompt obedience to the
command he rose and stood by the piano.
Then he began in a voice that seemed to
complete the similitude ventured on with
respect to his dancing. I never heard a rhinoceros

sing, but if there had been one in the
next house, it certainly might have been expected
to have made response to what would
have seemed to it the cry of a companion in
distress.

I met with Napper Tandy, and she took me by the

hand,
Saying, •' How is poor ould Ireland ? and how does

she stand ? '

Then in amid the roar, distinct among its
demoniac risings and its hapless failings, stole a
rich, bright voice, lending an infinite pathos to
the reply of the mysterious personage named
in the verse.

She's the most distressful country that ever yet

was seen,
Where they're hanging' men and women for the

wearing' of the green.

That's a little too high for you, papa, and
is not at all the song I would teach you.'

But I like it, my dear, above all. I heard
it years ago when you were a little thing in

frills and petticoats, and I was in some degree
a master in my own house. I used to sing it
to you, and then you got the name, and I
believe more than half the people in Saxton
believe you were christened Napper.'

This is not quite the same tune, papa, you
used to sing to me. In fact, it's so very long
since you heard it, and perhaps heard it only
once, that you got quite a tune of your own,
which had no more to do with the proper tune
than sawing wood has.'

That's just like your impudence, and after I
have been singing this to you for years, and
when you were a little thing you have come and
sat on my knee and thrust yom' curls into my
eyes and asked me to sing " .Napper Tandy " to
you. As soon as you were old enough to fiddle
on the piano and get your own tune out of
music-books, you pretended to have made the
discovery that my tune was not to be found in
the book. All I can say is that I can't see
any difference. Not that I mean to say you are

not right, but I will say what I was singing to
you was the same tune.'

And then, papa, I've told you so often that
Napper Tandy was a " he," and you always sing
"she"'

And so I shall to the end. I know only
one Napper Tandy, and I know by her perversity
that she is a girl.'

Whereupon the fond parent laid his hand
upon the beautiful hair, drew the soft cheek
with its peach bloom tenderly against his own,
and proceeded to conduct himself in a manner
that would have been fatal to the peace of mind
of any one of the half-dozen young gentlemen
of Saxton and its neighbourhood before alluded
to.

I have refrained as long as possible from
introducing the gentleman by name, feeling a
certain shamefacedness in the circumstances in
which we have discovered him. But a man
cannot in certain aspects of his life go through
three volumes of a novel anonymously. It

would obviously be inconvenient to be obliged
to refer to him as the householder who sings
The Wearing' of the Green,' or the gentleman
who waltzes after dinner with his daughter,
©r even as the father Napper Tandy. In the
latter case the secret would be out at once,
and as everybody would know that this was
Mr. Tandy, solicitor, whose brass plate was at
this moment (as well it might be) blinking in
astonishment on the front railings, the confession
may as well be made with good grace.

It may even be added that in this or in
some similar way Mr. Tandy was accustomed
to spend his evenings in the society of his
daughter. The singing lessons had been going
on for at least four years without any appreciable
diminution of Mr. Tandy's tendency to
start with a boom.' The dancing was a later
undertaking, and had especial reference to the
approaching county ball. Napper Tandy had
been to her first ball in the previous January,
and had fed for the subsequent twelve months

upon its ecstatic delight. To say that she
danced well would be to occupy time in a
manner insulting to the intelligence of any man
gifted with ordinary eyesight. She had learned
dancing at Professor Tangle's, a celebrated
instructor, who had done much to educate this
part of the country. She went through the
full course of lessons. But as the professor
admitted, when it was complete and his charge
established, she might have learned everything
in a single night, or at most in three.

She danced long before she looked upon
the lank hair of the professor, or heard the
twang of his fiddle. Her walk was a dance,
time and style being regulated by the circumstances
of the moment, fettered by the accident
whether she were walking up the aisle
to her pew in church, or skipping across the
meadows with Knut, the colles that Sir James
Montgomery had presented to her.

Napper had ever so many partners a year
ago, and, without thinking too precisely about

individuals, she knew that this time she would
have ever so many more. But she had made
up her mind that on this occasion her first
waltz should be given to her father. Last
year, as through some previous years before
she had been promoted to the state and
dignity at which in country towns girls may
go to the county balls, he had been well
content with the attraction of the whist-room,
varied by occasional incursions into the supper-room.


If the truth were told, he would have viewed
the approaching celebration with greater equanimity
had he not had this horrible refrain of
One, Two, Three-four, Five, SIX, ringing in his
ears, with the consciousness of all it portended.

But Napper had said she must dance with
him ; and if she had said he must give up his
profitable and growing business, and go about
with her to grind an organ whilst she put a
monkey through its paces, he would not have
thought of disputing her mandate.

But singing was another matter. He rather
thought he had capacities in that direction,
which, though maimed by lack of opportunity
in early life, might be made something of. He
made a great deal of it in church on Sundays,
for there was a pretty full congregation, a good
organ, and a strong choir, and a man singing A
flat when he ought to be tuning B sharp was of
small consequence, albeit he opened his mouth
wide, threw out his chest, and gave his voice
full play.

Napper was a little doubtful as to his
ultimate success in this walk. He might, she
sometimes thought in sanguine moments, go
through a waltz with a little assistance from
his partner. But in the matter of singing
the deficiency of his sense of tune and time
was decidedly embarrassing. Still it pleased
him to sing, and the house being semi-detached,
with the piano set by the outer wall, it did not
distress the neighbours.

What have you been doing to-day, papa ? '

said Napper when the lesson was over, and
they were seated by the fire.

Much the usual round, my dear. Letters
to write, clients to see, two cases in the County
Court, and a visit from a gentleman from
London, though that certainly did touch a
matter something out of the common way.'

What was it ? Anything to do with the
railway you were so anxious about two years
ago that you did not have your singing lesson
for three weeks, and have not yet, I'm afraid,
quite recovered the lost ground ? '

No, it's something iiveher than that. It
is the prospect of a contested election. It's not
my secret, and I should not tell you except
that I know you don't tell again. But I think
we shall have some life in the town presently.
And now, my dear, trot off to bed, for I must
be up early to catch the train for London in
the morning.'

But you'll be back at night ? '

Yes, I'll be back at night,' said ]mr. Tandy,

VOL. I. G

his eyes drooping, and a worn expression taking
the place of the eager, elated look with which he
had referred to the possibilities of the election.
He was thinking of the difficulty of getting
round at Three-four, and of the hard dealing
of Providence with some men, handicapping
them with an ineradicable disposition to be left
with their feet astride at the numeral Six.

Chapter Vn.

THE CONSCRIPT FATHERS.

Busy, Llr. Dumfy ? ' said Gideon, passing
through the office on the morning he had
received the note from Mr. Tandy.

No, sir, not particular,' said Mr. Dumfy,
deferentially and even apologetically. The
presumption was that if a man engaged a clerk
and devoted to his sole use an outer room lined
with tin deed boxes, and, further, supplied him
plentifully with pens, ink, and paper, it would
be more agreeable to him to know that he was
busy.

But in addition to the conviction, long built

up in the mind of Mr. Dumfy, that it was no

use trying to come over any member of the

family which owed its parentage to the Spider,

a 2

he thought that Gideon, having evidently
formed some other plans, would not be aggrieved
to hear that business in the office in
Carlton Street was not brisk. The old times
when the Patriarch was in possession, and when
no day passed but there was a good haul, had
flown for ever. Gideon had a large and
apparently profitable business. But it did not
require much clerical assistance, and was not
transacted in Carlton Street.

Ah, well,' said Gideon, ' I dare say you can
spare the time to go into the country for a bit.
It may not come off, but I fancy it will, and
it is well to be prepared. I am going into
Parliament, and have accepted proposals made
to me on behalf of the Opposition to contesta
place called Saxton-by-the-Sea. I'm going
down to-day to see some people there, and I
want you to go with me, for if it's all settled I
shall leave you down there a good deal to look
after things and report.'

Very well, sir,' said Mr. Dumfy, rubbing

his hand, ' of course I shall be ready to go
with you to-day. But is there any chance of
what I may call continuous residence out of
London ? '

That will depend ; but what does it
matter ? Wouldn't you like to have a change ?
Nice watering-place, you know ; dip in the sea
before breakfast ; catch your own shrimps and
eat them at tea. Isn't that the sort of thine '

'Yes,' said Dumfy dubiously, his hesitation
having reference rather to the bath before
breakfast than to the shrimps at tea. ' But you
see, sir, I have a little establishment, 'humble in
its way, but still a home, situate at Camden
Town. My salary here, though not enriching,
allows me to pay my way. But there would
be many charges owing to removal to the
salubrious neighbourhood you have so kindly
mentioned.'

Mr. Dumfy when conversing with Gideon
felt it due to their relative positions that he
should employ the choicest, that is the longest,

words of his acquaintance. His pronunciation
was not always according to general acceptation,
' Salubrious,' for example, he rendered
salu^r^us.'

But Gideon Myself was not remarkably
strong on the point of pronunciation.

Oh, that '11 be all right. When you're
down there you'll live at my expense, which I
suppose would be so much in your pocket.'

"- Thank you, sir ; but there's another little
matter. There's Kehoboth.'

Where on earth is Eehoboth ? or what i
it ? — a patent medicine ? '

It's our meeting-place, sir.'

Oh, a club, a free and easy. I never
suspected you of that. You have not quite the
air of a chairman.

No, sir,' said Mr. Dumfy, smiling faintly ,
and not without a consciousness that in thus encouraging
the jest he was doing even as Naaman
when ' my master goeth into the house of
Eimmon to worship there, and I bow myself in

the house of Eimmoa.' ' Eehoboth's our place
of meeting' on the Sabbath — our chapel, in
short. I never miss a service there, and ara,
so to say, the senior deacon.'

Do you want to take Eehoboth with
you?'

No, sir, but it would be a breaking up of
old brotherhoods, and, indeed, a blow to the
worldly position of the place, seeing that I'm
accustomed to put on one side tithe and cummin
out of my weekly income to sustain the ministration.'


Can't you do that from Saxton ? Send
up a post-office order, or hand in the amount,
I suppose it's not large, at the end of the
month.'

If I absented myself from the work of the
deaconship I should esteem it a duty to try and
make up in whatever small way by money gift ;
and I was thinking that perhaps you would
like to take that into consideration in my
weekly wage.'

Oil, nonsense ! But if it will make your
conscience easy I'll tell you what I'll do. Give
me the address of Jeroboam, and I'll send a
pound a month whilst you're away.'

Mr. Dumfy's countenance fell. To the
worldly eye this seemed to meet the case. But
Mr. Dumfy's eye was not worldly.

'It's Eehoboth, sir, not Jeroboam. Your
proposal is very kind, and would meet the case
except that you sometimes might forget, and it
would be troubling you too much and yoiu- big
affairs to mention our 'humble endeavours in the
Camden Eoad. If you would kindly add the
five shillings a week to my intaking on the
Saturday, that would be the simplest plan.'

So it was settled ; and Mr. Dumfy, his
bosom's lord sitting lightly on its throne, went
down second-class to Coldharbour Junction, the
nearest railway point to Saxton. He had a
shrewd suspicion that Gideon, who was a
curious mixture of meanness and magnificence,
would never deduct the five shillings a week

even when the business of Saxton was concluded,
and the occasion for this special donation
to the weekly offertory at Kehoboth had
ceased to exist.

Thirty shillings a week paid regularly was
the assessment of the value of Mr. Dumfy's
services in Carlton Street. In olden times,
when customers were plenty, this, though small,
was regarded as sufficient. It was more in the
way of retainer, fees, sometimes very large,
flowing into Mr. Dumfy's coffers for value
received in connection with services not exactly
rendered to his employer. Now, as clients
were few whilst the wages remained stationary,
five shillings a week was an addition not to be
despised. Moreover, there was a prospect of
free quarters at Saxton, and possibly the handling
of miscellaneous moneys. It was hard to
leave the little home in Camden Town and the
companionship of Mrs. Dumfy. But the separation
would be brief, and the five shillings
were sure.

Gideon's rendezvous with the Conscript
Fathers at Saxton was fixed at the Blue Lion,
an hotel which in former and happier days had
always been the headquarters of the Liberal
party, and had seen some rare pranks. Old
Mr. Goldfinch, the grocer in High Street, who
in the prime of his manhood had done the
State some service, bribing heavily in the
interests of parliamentary reform during the
contest of 1832, had many pleasing stories to
relate about the place.

Perhaps most popular, though at this epoch
a little stale, was the story of how Eoger Montgomery
had ridden into the coffee-room on his
famous horse Earl Grey ; how from the vantage-ground
of the saddle he had made a stirring
speech to the freeholders ; how they had drunk
a good deal (Eoger, indeed, had started with
refreshments early in the morning) ; how, when
the meeting was over. Earl Grey resolutely
refused to pass out ; how Eoger Montgomery
swore a great oath that if he would not go by

the door lie should go by the window ; how the
window-sashes were taken out, and how Eoger,
getting what run was possible in the big room,
clapped spurs to Earl Grey and dashed out
through the window into the High Street, and
so rode home, as if that where his usual way
of leaving a political meeting.

It was in a smaller but cosier room that
Mr. Tandy received the new candidate and his
clerk. The influential burgesses, whose support
was so difficult to secure and so absolutely
necessary to success, were, when Gideon
entered, ranged in chairs around the table, as
if they were about to hold an inquest. They
had been standing before the fire engaged in
social conversation when the candidate drove up.
But at sound of carriage wheels they assumed
this position as one more befitting the importance
of the occasion and their own purchase
dignity.

Gideon shook hands with them all round
very warmly, at once introducing into the

consultation a desirable air of cordiality. Some
of this was in return spent upon Mr. Dumfy,
with whom Mr. Tandy shook hands, an example
followed with great fervour by the four
Conscript Fathers, who were not quite sure he
was not a second candidate, a probable fact
which, whilst it would increase the interest
of the situation, would certainly mean the
introduction of more capital in the event of the
negotiations terminating happily.

Gentlemen,' said Mr. Tandy, ' you know
what we are here for, and it will not be
necessary to go into a formal statement of
affairs. The gentleman we see before us — him
in the arm-chair by the fireplace,' Mr. Tandy
hastily added, for the Conscript Fathers, disappointed
to find there was only one, were not
quite sure in which direction they should turn
their eyes — ' has come recommended by influential
members of the Liberal party in London.
What is more to our taste, for we are not
accustomed in Saxton to be dictated to by

cliques in London, is that lie has the warm
support and is personally vouched for by a
gentleman whom we are proud, in various
distant degrees, to call our friend. I mean Mr.
Walters, of Stonehenge.'

Tie Conscript Fathers nodded approval.
Mr. Walters was of a good family, and, though
he did not spend in Saxton so much as might
have been expected, he did not altogether
neglect the town.

Perhaps Mr, Fleyce would like to state his
opinions on the principal political topics of the
hour. We go in here for true Liberalism,
which we take to be the greatest good of the
greatest number.'

Certainly,' said Gideon, feeling in his
breast pocket, and producing a bundle of
notes.

He had, the day before, had an hoiu-'s talk
with O'Brien, who had jotted down for him a
few heads on which it might be desirable that
he should enlarge, in order to satisfy the

natural hankering of his future constituents
after precise information on his political views.
His secret fear was that, knowing nothing
whatever on any one of them, he might mix
them up, and offer a few remarks on the extension
of the county franchise, which really
belonged to the section of local rating. But
he had taken every precaution, and was never
chary about trusting himself.

'Before our friend begins,' said a piping
voice that appropriately belonged to Mr. Goldfinch,
* there are one or two little matters
which we might allude to. Before 1832 I well
remember when a candidate came down we
used to begin at the beginning. Of course, weare
a locality, and if you don't have localities
you can't have a State. Therefore I think we
should begin with local topics, and can come
to State affairs by-and-by.'

Gideon looked appealingly to Mr. Tandy
for explanation of what this might mean, but
Mr. Tandy had withdrawn behind his stoniest

expression, and was looking straight out of the
window at nothing.

The fact is,' said Mr. Firminger, * we
expect our members to look after us. There's
a good deal to be done in a small place like
this, and we don't like men as knows more
about the road to India than the was down
High Street.'

Mr. Firminger was a butcher, and, as he
said in moments of self-gratulation, accustomed
to come down sharp on the block.

I think,' said Gideon, hastily looking at
his notes, ' that the gentleman is quite right.
There's a great deal of nonsense talked about
the road to India. The difficulties in the way
of Eussia are enormous. Whether they go one
way or whether they go the other, there's
nothing but trouble before them. There's a
mountain they'll have to get over. I can't at
the moment remember its name,' he said,
hurriedly turning his notes over.

Oh, never mind,' said Mr. Burnap ;
never mind just now, sir. What Mr. Firmiter

says is quite right. We're men of business,
and what we wants to know before we go
further into this 'ere affair is, what's your view
of relief of the rates ? '

Ah ! the local rates,' said Gideon, carefully
putting on one side the folio marked County
Franchise. ' Yes, that's a burning question
which must be settled, and will be settled to
your satisfaction, gentlemen, if we can only get
back a Liberal Government. My own opinion
is — is '

O'Brien had not done this very well. He
had made the note a little too full, going into
the history of the question instead of getting
the opinion at the top quite handy. An
awkward pause ensued, Gideon turning over the
papers with a face in hue like a turkey cock.

Mr. Firminger snapped his fingers. Mr.
Goldfinch shook his head. Mr. Burnap commenced
to whistle a tune, whilst Mr. Tandy
looked straight out of the window. Gideon
began to see he was not making much way.
He felt sure lee was quite sound on the question

of local rates, if that confounded O'Brien bad
only put his opinion immediately at the top of
the page instead of burying it in a lot of notes
not too easily decipherable. He could make
nothing of the faces round him, and was beginning
to think that politics formed a more
difficult field than he had believed, when up
and spoke Mr. John Griggs, upholsterer.

It is no use beating about the bush, and
talking about local rating and the road to
Indies. We're all plain men of business. We've
come here to meet you, and what we want to
know is your views on particular affairs. Of
coin-se, if you're a Liberal, you are a Liberal,
and there's an end o' that. But what about
conducting the election on a decent basis ? I'm
a plain man, and talk straight. What about
the annual dinner, and even two annual dinners
one at Christmas and one at Midsummer, as
was known in old times — what about the subscriptions
? '

A light broke in upon the bemused candi-vol.

I. H

date. Here, at least, he was at home, and with
great satisfaction he folded up and put in his
pocket the notes on his views on political topics
which Captain O'Brien, in the profundity of his
alleged knowledge of these matters, had insisted
upon his taking with him.

Gentlemen,' he said, his smile coming
back, and all the easy confidence returned,
these are matters on which you will find meas
straight as my estimable friend here, whose
name I have not the pleasure of knowing '

Griggs, sir, upholsterer, High Street. If
you will allow me, I'll give you my card.'

My friend Mr, Griggs — whose upholstery
I'll warrant is not equalled by any of the houses
in London — puts the matter in an admirably
clear light. A long study of political questions,
I admit, had the tendency at the outset to obscure
my appreciation of the situation. When
a man is full of matter it's likely to be running
out at all seasons, and some that are not quite
convenient. But I think, gentlemen, if you

will take for granted adhesion to those Liberal
principles which have made the country great,
we might talk in a friendly way of other matters.'

Gideon's relief from embarrassment was
contagious. The Conscript Fathers resumed
their look of pleased intelligence, whilst Mr.
Tandy withdrew his gaze from the outer wall,
and looked round the table, even permitting
his eye to rest in a friendly manner upon the
candidate.

Perhaps, Mr. Tandy,' said Gideon, ' you
can give us some information of those charitable
institutions which are so great an honour to
small constituencies. Of course you have an
infirmary ? '

No,' said Mr. Tandy, with a touch of regret
in his voice, ' we have not at present an infirmary
But we think that in course of time,
if parties keep pretty well balanced, and dissolutions
take place with moderate frequency,
we will manage a cottage hospital. In the
meantime there's a cricket club, a most deserving

institution. Also there's the Benevolent
'Longshore Men's Society, which is doing an
admirable work, and is now a little short of
funds. We've also a House for Decayed
Burgesses. Of course we have, or should
expect to have, a bazaar occasionally, and I'm
not quite sure that we might not get up a
regatta, or at least a race for the boatmen, a
most estimable body, who vote straight one way
or the other according as they like the candidate.
"Men, not measures," is, I may say,
their motto.'

'These are all good works,' said Gideon,
who had carefully, and perhaps ostentatiously,
made a note of the list, ' in which I should feel
privileged to assist. Of course, I need not say
in the presence of a gentleman whose legal
attainments are not unknown to the profession
in London, that there are certain views entertained
by the law to the prejudice of particular
expenditure of money on the eve of an
election

That we will guard against,' said Mr.
Tandy.

Then there's the Foresters,' piped Mr. Goldfinch.
' You don't happen to be a Forester ? '

No,' said Gideon, ' though I remember
even in early days how greatly I longed to be
admitted to that mystic brotherhood. There's
something so fresh in their occupation, something
so tasty in their attire, that though not enrolled
in membership I have always felt as if I were
one of them.'

Ah,' chirped Mr. Goldfinch, pleased beyond
expression at this appreciation. ' I've been a
Forester for forty year. I remember in '32
when I was carrying the flag — me and the
Stammer, we used to call him as lived behind
the Almshouses — you know Griggs, that had
only one arm, and his father used to say '

There's another matter I've been thinking
of,' said Mr. Griggs, and he had been thinking
of it so intensely that he did not hear the shrill
voice of his old crony, and ruthlessly broke in

upon his reminiscences. ' I think a member
ought to live in the town he represents. I
don't hold with people who get into Parliament
for a borough and only see it when they comedown
to make a speech. There's a good deal
of talk about a man having a stake in the
country ; what I says is, let a man have a stake
in the borough.'

Certainly,' said Mr. Firminger, in whose
mind the mention of one having a stake in the
borough opened up possibilities of large supplies
of meat to a big house. ' That's very well put.
We're old-fashioned people in Saxton, and like
to have our member living next door to us.'

Not next door to your shop, you don't
mean, Mr. Firminger ? ' Mr. Burnap, the
builder, interposed, with an air of gentle correction.
' There's lots of nice sites just outside
the town, where a gentleman of taste might
build a mansion.'

And I dare say,' said Gideon, pleasantly,
that if Mr. Burnap built it, Mr. Griggs would

be able to furnish it in a style worthy of
Saxton. I'm much struck with this notion. I
have already a little cottage in the country,
but that's a mere trifle. I like Saxton. I
think it Avould suit me. In fact, I feel better
already, though I've been only an hour or
so in the place. There's something about the
sea air that does us poor Londoners good ; '
and Gideon sniffed about as if he clearly discerned
the flavour of seaweed in the dull and
stained green tablecloth before him.

This action brought to his recollection something
he had temporarily forgotten, but which
justified O'Brien's appreciation of his skill in
conducting a delicate business Hke that upon
which he was now embarking. He had upon
his arrival ascertained from the landlord the
precise number of gentlemen waiting to see him,
and had thereupon given instructions for the
preparation of dinner equal to the number, and
as nearly worthy of the occasion as the shortness
of notice permitted.

Gideon, sniffing the scent of imaginary seaweed,
became conscious of the odour of turkey.

'I think, gentlemen, we are on all-fours
now. If there are any matters of detail not
set mentioned, Jet it be understood that no
economical consideration will prevent me doing
my duty to burgesses who shall honour me
with their confidence.'

There's poles and banners,' said Mr. Goldfinch,
who by this time had forgotten the personal
reminiscences of Summer's father, upon
which he had earlier embarked.

Ah, my friend,' said Gideon, with his
most engaging smile, ' those were little adornments
of an election well enough in your day,
but in ours I'm afraid they're prohibited. — Isn't
it so, Mr. Tandy?'

Flags are illegal,' said Mr. Tandy a little
shortly, feeling that here was an opinion being
got out of him without any visible connection
with six-and-eightpence. ' But you may have
poles.

Then we'll have poles,' said Gideon gaily.
And now, gentlemen, I took the liberty of
ordering a little refreshment. As a preliminary
to my having a stake in Saxton, let us have a
chop in the next room, eh ? '

What with the excitement of the meeting,
his pleasure at Gideon's appreciation of forestry,
combined with the prospect of large orders for
grocery at the new house which Mr. Burnap
was to build and Mr. Grigfcfs to furnish, this
joke was nearly the death of poor old Goldfinch.


It went do"v\Ti the wrong way,' he explained,
when by vigorous slapping on the back
they had brought him round.

The younger men enjoyed it not the less
acutely because with greater physical comfort.
There were more of these flashes as the Conscript
Fathers sat round the turkey on the
table. Mr. Firminger would as soon have seen
a good round of beef or a saddle of mutton,
though a little mollified by the presence of a

great dish of mutton chops which prefaced the
attack on the turkey, and which he knew had
made a big hole in the stock of a certain shop
over the way.

But for the rest the feast was an unalloyed
pleasure, none enjoying himself more thoroughly
than Gideon. He had started badly with those
confounded notes of O'Brien. But when once
he got the ropes in his own hand, see how
he had steered ! He had discovered in himself
quite an unsuspected talent for repartee
and humour, to the staying power of which
occasional outbreaks of coughing on the part
of Mr. Goldfinch still testified.

Mr. Tandy proposed the health of ' The
New Member for Saxton,' which was drunk
upstanding and three times three. Gideon
responded with his hand in his waistcoat, and
with a tone of much emotion. He was quite
surprised at his own eloquence. No faltering
over words, no harking back to reconstruct
sentences ; all as glib and as easy as the outpouring

of a water tap. As for ideas, if you
had only seen the Conscript Fathers, how they
thumped the table, how they shouted ' Hear,
hear ! ' and how thirsty it all made them, you
would have had no further doubt on that point.
It was late and, fortunately, dark when the
Conscript Fathers strolled forth arm in arm to
seek their respective hearths. They had agreed
to take Goldfinch home first on account of his
age. But Gideon, who drank very little wine,
thought, as he stood at the door of the Blue
Lion, waving his adieux, that it would be rather
hard on the last man when, having seen number
three home, he would have to find his own
house unassisted.

Chapter VIII.

AN Electioneering AGENT.

When Mr. Burnap suggested among the
things that would be expected from a popular
member for Sax ton that he should build a
house in or near the borough, he all unconsciously
touched a responsive chord in Gideon's
nature. As appeared in connection with his
dealings with the Cottage, few things delighted
him more than building, unless, indeed, it
were pulling down. He was not accustomed
to argue with himself on the question of
personal expenditure. If he had he might
reasonably have urged that since he had no
natural tendency towards some of the vices of
his fellow-men, he might, being able to afford
it, fairly indulge in this particular fad. He

neither smoked nor drank, abstaining not on
moral grounds, but simply because the smell
of tobacco made him feel sick, and an extra
glass of wine gave him a headache in the
morning. As compared with the cost of
building and rebuilding, cigars and wine would
have been a mere trifle. But that is Gideon's
affair, not ours.

What he had to consider was not whether
he should spend money, but whether the
prospects of this campaign at Saxton were
sufficiently good to induce him to enter upon
lavish expenditure in the way of opening up
permanent relations with the place. He did
not definitely decide on the morning after his
banquet to the Conscript Fathers. It was too
big a thing to be settled right off. He stopped
a week at the Blue Lion, a pleasant hostelry,
at which Mr. Dumfy was also put up, greatly
to his content.

Without disclosing any facts personal to
himself, or hinting at the nature of his intention,

Gideon in this way managed to learn a
good deal about Saxton, and the prospects of
any man who would in a bold and liberal way
oppose Mr. Montgomery.

He found that the way of regarding politics
attributed to the 'Longshore men was pretty
common throughout the borough. Measures,
not men, were what Saxton wanted. Mr.
Montgomery was pretty well in his way. He
was of good family, lived close at hand, had
a pew in the parish church, subscribed temperately
to the local charities, and spent a fair
sum of money in the town.

Of late Mr. Goldfinch's declining years had
been disturbed by a horrible suspicion that
Mr. Montgomery was dealing with some of
the co-operative stores in London. There
were rumours of large deal boxes coming by
train to Coldharbour Junction, and thence
conveyed in a covered cart to the Hall. At
present this did not go beyond the length of
suspicion. But it was talked of a good deal

in the parlour of the Brie Lion, as Mr. Dumfy
was able to report, after having in the interest
of his employer spent an evening there,
smoked three pipes of tobacco, and drunk three
glasses of gin and water, which duly appeared
in the bill.

Moreover, Mr. Montgomery, in his occasional
intercourse with the electors, had grown
into the habit of assuming perpetuity of tenure.
A Montgomery had sat for Saxton through
fifty years, and that any stranger should entertain
a notion of contesting the borough
would have seemed to the present incumbent
not only shocking, but ridiculous. The stranger
might, he would have thought, with equal
reason have disputed his right to walk in his
own picture gallery, or to appropriate the
arm-chair by his own fireside.

Saxton had accepted this condition of affairs
partly through long habit, but principally,
Gideon thought, because it saw no prospect of
release. He learned enough from his own

observation, which tallied with Mr. Dumfy's
reports, to convince him that he had not only
a very good chance at Saxton, but that, if the
election were properly conducted, he was
certain to oust the present member. What
properly conducted meant he had gathered
from his interview with the Conscript Fathers,
and he was quite prepared to fall in with the
prevailing views of the place. He was not
the kind of man to spoil an enterprise by
niggardliness. Whatever measure of consideration
he bestowed upon an undertaking was
exhausted when he had determined to embark
upon it. The question with him was. Is the
thing worth undertaking? That answered in
the affirmative, it was worth whatever expenditure
of money might be demanded.

There was another meeting of the Conscript
Fathers at which Captain O'Brien was
present, and at which Gideon was formally
accepted as the Liberal candidate. Up to this
time the secret of Gideon's business in Saxton

was kept close. Xow there was no occasion
for further mystery. Mr. Goldfinch having the
seal taken off his hips — or rather his beak —
chirped the good news all over the town. It
was talked of in the smoking-room at the Blue
Lion, where it was received with universal
applause. The gentlemen of Liberal politics,
of course, rejoiced in the forthcoming freedom
of their ancient town from the thraldom of
Toryism, backed up by family influence. The
Conservatives pooh-poohed the chance of ' the
political adventurer,' as they called Gideon,
but did not conceal their satisfaction at the
prospect of a contested election. It would
put life into the town, and make money spin.
Gideon soon began to find himself occupying
the position and enjoying the delights of a
public man. The landlord of the Blue Lion
simultaneously doubled his attentions and added
fifty per cent, to his charges. When Gideon
walked about the streets of the town, he was
conscious of people staring at him, and felt a

VOL. I. I

glow of satisfaction as he heard the whisper,
That's him ! ' The electors could see at a glance
that the new candidate was a much better-dressed
man than the old member. His clothes
fitted his plump person like a glove, his hat
was unfailingly radiant, his gloves new, and his
boots perfect. Withal there was nothing of
the dandy in his appearance. He was simply
well dressed, with just that suspicion of everything
being a little too new, before noted.

The 'Longshore men took to him from the
very first. It is a peculiarity of the vocation
of this class of citizens that they should have
a good deal of leisure. To the casual observer
it might appear that they earned an honest
living simply by lounging about the beach with
their hands deeply set in their trousers pockets,
and their eyes intently fixed on the distant
horizon. Here Gideon found them at whatever
time chance made most convenient to
himself. Early morning or late afternoon they
were sure to be there, always with their hands

in their pockets, and their gaze far, far at sea.
Many of them wore top-boots coming high
over their knees. The sour-wester appeared
indispensable to their calling, and all affected
a blue woollen jersey convenient for rolling
up at the hips, so that they could without
exhausting their store of energy get their
hands in their pockets.

What at first struck the unaccustomed eye
of Gideon was their apparent state of deadly
preparation. They seemed ready to go anywhere
and do anything. On the second morning
of his visit to the beach he hastened his steps,
lest peradventure he should find them gone, and
his opportunity of improving the acquaintance
lost. But there they were just the same, as
ready as ever to go anywhere and do anything
; but in the meantime standing still and
doing nothing.

Gideon chatted with them in his cheery
manner, talking on all topics but that of the
parliamentary representation of Saxton. They

also avoided that subject, but they knew very
well what was in the wind, and fully appreciated
the compliment paid to them by the
new candidate in seeking them out thus early.
Gideon did violence to his feelings by possessing
himself of a tobacco pouch, which he
filled at the tobacconist's in High Street with
the strongest ' shag.' Also, more offensive still
to his sensitive nature, he had a roll of pigtail
which he was wont to produce during pauses
in the conversation. These were so frequent
that the pigtail was speedily absorbed by the
'Longshore men.

The engrossing nature of their occupation
left them little time for idle conversation, and
induced sententious habits of speech. But
when Long Bill, in the middle of one afternoon,
broke a silence that had lasted for a
quarter of an hour with the remark, ' A right
affable gent, that's what I say,' there was a
grunt of approval all round.

Gideon's name had not been mentioned,

but every one knew who was meant. Certainly
it could not be Mr. Montgomery, who
never came down to the beach, and had never
so much as offered a man of them a pipe of
tobacco,

Gideon carried on the campaign with equal
skill and success in other quarters. He went
to church on the Sunday, a discipline not half
so painful as he might have found it, since he
had the honour of escorting Miss Tandy and
sitting by her in the pew which used to be
Mr, Solley's,

Napper and the candidate were already
great friends. She was pleased with him as
being a nice presentable gentleman, who was
doing something that greatly cheered and
would profit her father. Gideon, for his part,
thought that Napper was the most agreeable
person of her sex he had ever met. He
had reached the sufficient age already attained
without any of those disturbances of mid
common in other cases, and which distinctly

affected the lives of the six young gentlemen
in and near Saxton who have been already
distantly alluded to. Gideon had been too
much occupied with other matters to pay
much attention to women. He had seen them
at the Cobweb in his father's time, some of
them very pretty and well dressed. They
were often in tears, nearly always in trouble,
and were regarded as a great nuisance by his
elderly and practical parent.

Beyond these chance visitors he had seen
wonderfully little of womankind. They had
not come in his way, and he had neither inclination
nor opportunity to throw himself in
theirs. Whether he would ever marry was
a question which had not yet presented itself.
When it did he would doubtless sit down
before it, devote half an hour of concentrated
thought on its advantages and disadvantages,
and swiftly decide one way or another.

Up to now he had not been called upon
to consider the matter, and he certainly was

not considering it as he sat in the diningroom
at Mr. Tandy's listening to Napper's
sprightly chatter. Nor did it throw itself
before him as he walked to church by her
side ; nor, as sometimes happened, when he
drove her through the country lanes ; nor,
even later, when he discussed with her the
possibility of purchasing and transforming the
Castle. All he knew was that she was a very
pleasant companion, and even a useful one.

He liked to have her with him when he
strolled about the town, dropping into a shop
to buy something he did not want, or taking
advantage of her intimacy to make fresh
acquaintances. Napper knew everybody in
Saxton, and everybody loved Napper, not all
with the hopeless affection of the six young
men, one or other of whom the pair were sure
to meet when they took their walks abroad.

Gideon was more absolutely unconscious of
the existence and the secret passion of the six
than was Xapper herself. Had he known and

been aware of the scowling glances which
followed him up and down the street as he
walked along with Napper, he would have
been more careful. Each of the six had a
vote, and the aggregation of six votes has ere
this been known to turn the scale in a sharply
contested election.

Gideon knew nothing of this, and went on
his way beaming. They were, in truth, a very
pleasant couple to look upon, and seemed to
carry sunshine wherever they went. Napper's
appearance was the signal for a welcoming
smile, whether in shop or mansion or cottage.
She was always the same, though perhaps a
little more earnest, both in her playfulness
and her tenderness, when she stooped her
pretty head to enter some of the low-built
cottages that had a bit of High Street all to
themselves. Gideon closely followed her, and
knew he was sharing her welcome. He could
not have gone into these places without introduction
or invitation, and neither could have

been obtained except by preliminaries that
would have taken away from the desired
effect.

Nothing could have been better than the
good fortune into which he had accidentally
stumbled. Napper had not the slightest idea
that they were electioneering. Gideon had a
very shrewd idea upon the subject ; but of
course politics or political prospects were never
mentioned. He was simply a friend of Mr.
Tandy's, and nothing more natural than that,
being a stranger, he should take advantage of
Miss Tandy's swift peregrination of her native
town to see the place.

But as he went to and fro, sharing the
bright sunshine that Napper diffused, stroking
the heads of the little children, cracking jokes
with the mothers, and entering into friendly
conversation with the fathers, Gideon felt that
he was making an uncommonly good start.

Chapter IX.

CASTLE Fleece.

It was during one of the walks with Napper
that Gideon came upon the Castle. It stood
on a hill fronting the English Channel, and
overlooked the quaint little town whose records
went back to Wittenageinote. Saxton
had been built, burned, sacked, pillaged, taken
and retaken, and had in other ways enjoyed
the vicissitudes of the good old times. Some
of its earlier buildings, standing to this day,
with slanting roofs the lower edge of which
is not more than shoulder high, date back to
times whither the memory of man goeth not.

The houses, which seemed to tumble against
each other in the common race down the hill
to the sea, were not of such antiquity. But

they were at least old enough to know better
than to present themselves in the rectangular
shape of modern English houses roofed with
slate. They were of divers sizes and shapes,
having only this in common, that the roofs
were all covered with tiles of rich red-brown
hue, which, whether seen from sea or land,
gave the little town, nestling among its innumerable
trees, a charm that caused the heart
of the wayfarer to yearn towards it.

As to the Castle, it had been grievously
and unaccountably neglected by its owner,
who preferred to live in a monotonous white
stone house with nice windows that would
move up and down, and with straight lines
ruled everywhere. The Castle was, when
Gideon first looked upon it, ' let,' along with
the farm and some of the customary farm
buildings. The farmer could not, of course,
be expected to set any higher value upon the
heritage than did its owner. He did not
want it all ; but there it was in the middle of

his land, and it must go with the gates in the
field and the accommodation road to his own
door. Since he had the Castle he must do
something with it, and what he did was to
hand it over to his cowman in consideration
of a certain proportion of weekly wage. The
cowman would rather have had a comfortable
shanty, with a thatched roof and a little pond
in which he might rear ducks. But cowmen
have not much choice in this world, and this
particular one had to take what was offered
to him.

Thus it came to pass that in the hall where
Godfrey de Bologna had sat at meat, Garth, the
swineherd, ate his daily portion of pickled pork.

The home accommodation, it must be
admitted, was not extensive. Of the lordly
Castle there remained in any measure of
completeness only one of the towers that
had flanked the gateway. This was roofless,
and from its topmost walls rents gaped where
windows had been. But the stout oaken

floor had withstood wind and weather, and
now came in useful to make a roof over
Avhat might be called the first story. The
floor was patched up and made watertight.
Then John Cowman brought his goods and
chattels, his wife and his children, his cocks
and his hens, and his litter of pigs, and entered
upon possession of the ancient stronghold.

It was not a procedure that stirred any-heroic
emotion within his breast. He thought
the Castle was damp on one side when the
snow lodged in the crevices. But it never
occurred to him to sit and dream of the
brave men and the fair women who had
once trod the hall, in the prodigious fireplace
of which there now stood at boil the
inadequate piece of pickled pork destined for
the family meal.

John Cowman was one night observed
walking in profound meditation in the courtyard.
The sod in his pipe, which had brightly
burned when he left the hall, was dead and

cold, though the pipe stem was still held firmly
between his teeth. His hands were sunk deep
in the pockets of his corduroys, and his brown
and withered billycock was well set on the
back of his head. Discovered in such circumstances
in such a place John Cowman seemed
as one who, looking back through the long
vista of time, beheld as in a moving picture
the whole courtyard re-peopled with a gay
and gallant host. But as it turned out,
John Cowman had thus suddenly been struck
with nothing more poetic than the possibility
of turning to use a portion of the spacious
courtyard by inclosing it and growing therein
turnips., carrots, onions, and other vegetables,
designed to vary the monotony of the family
standing dish.

John was not used to thinking : hence
the state of coma into which he had been
cast when this brilliant idea presented itself.
Being, however, a practical man, he, as soon
as he had recovered, set to work to make

his cabbage-garden, and before the shocked
seasons again revolved the hapless Castle by
the sea was done this further dishonour.

But nothings could altogether or even in
material degree spoil the stately beauty of
the ruins. Long ago, probably about the
time when Cromwell was putting things right
at Westminster and elsewhere, the ivy peeped
forth, and, touched with pity for the desolation
it beheld, began to inclose the ruins in
its far-reaching arms. Since then, taking
kindly to the old grey walls, and happy in
the pure strength of the air which came
across the meadows fi'om the sea, it had
grown with amazing fertility.

I do not know any place where the ivy
grows quite like it does at the Castle. Springing
from trunks as big as an ordinary tree, and
grey and gnarled as an immemorial oak, it flings
itself about the walls in rich deep-green foliage.
It particularly affects the buttresses, some of
which it has wholly covered from human sight.

At the entrance from what was the outer
courtyard Napper and Gideon looked upon
heaps of manure, old carts, and duck-ponds,
cowsheds, piastres, and other things pertaining
to the vocation of John Cowman. But
when they had walked past them there was
nothing more in the surroundings of the
Castle to mar its beauty. A rich wooded
country lay north, east, and west ; while
southward, over the green fields and umbrageous
oak-trees, and finally across the red
tiles of the houses at Saxton, the blue sea
stretched itself out, sometimes, on clear days,
visibly bounded by the French coast, and
nearly always alive with ships passing to
and fro, with white sails spread, or with
black smoke streaming from the funnel.

All there was life and energy ; only Saxton
had fallen asleep by the side of the greatest
water highway in the world.

Gideon walked about, saying very Httle
in response to the bright chatter of his companion,

but looking at the Castle with glistening
eyes. It was the very thing for him —
a further proof of how completely he was
in luck's way. Some people reckoned fortunate
ended their career with residence ina
castle. Here was a chance for Gideon to
commence his in that happy way, and with
a castle the antiquity of which was beyond
doubt.

He had not an eye for natural beauty,
as Napper had. If closely questioned, and
bound to answer frankly, he would have
wondered why imputation should rest upon
Peter Bell because —

A primrose by the river's brim
A simple primrose was to him,
Arid it was nothing more.

What more should it be ? It could not very
well be a new hat, or a dress coat lined with
blue satin, a carriage and pair, or a large
balance at the bank. That was Gideon's

VOL. I. E

practical way of rebuking the poet's petulance
with Peter.

But even Gideon felt the quiet yet stately
beauty of this grim, grey Castle. It was
ever so much nicer than The Cottage, which
stood just ois the highway, and was approached
by a . level carriage drive. Above
all it was a castle. ' Castle Fleyce ' he had
already named it, and in his mind's eye saw
his notepaper with a crest (not yet looked
up) stamped with his new address. Perhaps
in time people would get to talk of him as
Fleyce of Castle Fleyce.'

His quick eye ranged over the courtyard,
with the well in the centre of it, and the roofless
chambers, windowless, and carpeted with
green sods. The walls, where they stood,
were stout and unbroken, likely to see out
a generation of modern houses. With a lavish
expenditure of money, and the direction of a
man of ingenuity and taste, such as he who
had transmogrified The Cottage, the looped
and windowless raggedness of the Castle

might be changed into a stately and comfortable
mansion.

'You are very quiet this morning, Mr.
Fleyce,' said Napper. ' Has the Castle been
too much for you? Has your mind gone
back to the time of mailed knights or ladies
fair ? '

No,' Gideon said, with his peculiar smile
of amused self-satisfaction. (He liked to have
this pretty girl wondering what he was thinking
about.) ' I was not giving that a thought.'

Then what were you dreaming about .^ I
have a right to demand satisfaction of curiosity
by way of compensation for the dulness of
your company.'

I was thinking I would buy the Castle,
restore it, and come and hive down here.'

Napper was delighted with the notion.
She grew quite enthusiastic talking about it,
and by the time they reached the town Gideon
began to think he really had undertaken quite
a noble enterprise.

2

CHAPTER X.

MR. Dumpy's reflections.

About ten o'clock one morning in the very
early spring of the year 1878, a solitary
stranger might have been observed advancing
up the High Street of the little town of .
The stranger, who had seen fifty
winters, was respectably dressed, though the
garments were a trifle threadbare. Two
well-oiled curls unexpectedly appearing over
the ears, the stoop that had developed something
like a hump in his back, the gliding
pace with long footsteps and silent footfall,
proclaimed our friend Mr. Dumfy. He carried
a note in the right hand that swung with
his advancing paces, and the errand upon
which he was bent probably gave a particular

turn to his thoughts. He was on this occasion
filling the part of Mercury, not in that personage's
least popular character as the god of
thieves, pickpockets, and dishonesty in general,
but as messenger between the gods.

The note he carried was from Gideon,
and was addressed to Mr. Tandy. But Mr.
Dumfy had been at pains to ascertain that its
purport more nearly concerned Miss Tandy.
It was, in brief, a proposition that Mr Tandy
and Miss Tandy should accompany Mr. Gideon
Fleyce on a further visit he proposed to pay
to the Castle, with the object of surveying
it, and arriving at general conclusions with
respect to its disposition.

By this time the Castle had passed into
the possession of Gideon, though the most
tempting offers did not succeed in inducing
the owner to do more than let him have it
on a pretty long lease. It had already cost
Gideon, either in cash or in promises to pay,
a considerable sum. The value had gone up

marvellously since the time when the ruins
had been thrown in with the farmer's lot.
Even John Cowman began to discover a new
beauty and a fresh attraction in the situation
when he became aware of this London gentleman,
reputably of fabulous wealth, who wanted
to get possession. It then turned out that,
not only were John's feelings touched, but his
pockets had been deeply dipped into. Compensation
was required for all sorts of things,
and Gideon astonished Mr. Dummy by the prodigality
with which he met these demands.

'It would break your father's 'art, sir, if
he only heard,' Mr, Dumfy had remarked
when he took instructions to write letters that
settled the demands not only of John Cowman
and of the proprietor, but of the farmer who
abandoned a short portion of his lease. ' His
grey 'airs would be brought with sorrel to
the grave,' Mr. Dumfy added, with a sympathetic
snivel.

'Never you mind, Mr. Dumfy, nor him

either. I know what I am about, and know
when to throw a sprat to catch a whale. By
the way, your weekly account is swelling a
little too quickly. If I leave the pounds to
take care of themselves, mind you I don't forget
to look after the pence. It seems to me
that gin reappears too frequently and in too
large quantities in your bill.'

'It's the electors, sir,' said Mr. Dumfy,
anxiously explaining. 'It's really astounding
what a lot o' gin and water they take
whilst cracking you up and running down
the other party.'

'Yes, but they need not take it through
a hose supplied with patent hydraulic force,
and I don't see how else they are to consume
so much in a week. Just look at it,
Mr. Dumfy; look it up, and don't let me
have to go into it myself.'

Mr. Dumfy was thinking of this and
other thugs as he walked up High Street
swinging the letter in his right hand. To

tell the truth, he had, merely to save writing
and a strain upon his inventive power, put
a good deal more down to gin and water
than that beverage was calculated to stand.
Yet it was all honestly spent in the interests of
the candidate and of his confidential clerk.

A year ago Mr. Dumfy would not have
laid himself open to this rebuke. Having
been brought up under the claw of the
Spider, he knew exactly how far, or rather
how short, was the distance he might go
with these little matters. But Gideon had
seemed so entirely lost to the parental counsels,
and had so evidently made up his mind
that money was dross as compared with the
interests he was now pursuing, that Mr. Dumfy
had not thought he would devote the few
moments necessary to running through the
items of the petty cash. That was an error,
and Mr. Dumfy was very angry with himself
for having fallen into it.

'There'll be a good deal less gin drunk

in this blessed burner this week, that I'll
certify,' he said to himself, with grim determination.


Another thing that disturbed the ordinary
equanimity of his mind was this correspondence
upon which he was now engaged as
an agent. He had seen with apprehension
his employer's growing regard for Miss
Tandy, and thought he discerned something
more than answering signals on her part.

A artful 'hussy,' Mr. Dumfy had remarked
to himself, with his accustomed disregard of
the aspirate. ' She's made her book, and
she means winning'. She's the most artfully
of this kind of schemer. After all's said and
done Gideon's not quite a fool. If she'd set
her cap at him in the usual sort of way he'd
have smelt a rat soon enough, and sheered
off. But this perfectly innocent way she has
of smiling' and rattling' on as if she wasn't a-
thinking' of no thin', that's what's dangerous.
Drat it, I can't bear your scheming women

that look as if butter wouldn't melt in their
mouths, and all the time they are smelling
round to see whether it's fresh or salt, so
that they may have the pick.'

This mental attitude of Mr. Dumfy towards
Napper, which, by the way, found no
expression in outward bearing in the presence
of that young lady, did not wholly arise from
concern for his master's threatened interests.
The fact is that Napper, usually the most
good-natured and friendly person in the
world, had conceived an unaccountable dislike
for Mr. Dumfy. When she came to
examine the causes that underlay this prejudice,
she was obliged to confess that they would not
bear investigation. Driven from one objection
to another, as each was found to be
imaginary or unsupportable by evidence, Napper
had desperately taken refuge in the
undeniable fact that Mr. Dumfy had nothing
worth speaking of in the way of instep.

You may take my word for it, papa,'

she had said one evening, when during a
pause in the dancing lesson Mr. Tandy had
taken occasion to remonstrate with her on
the injustice and unkindness of her attitude
towards Mr. Dumfy, ' that if a man has a
flat foot he is lacking in some of the higher
qualities of human nature. I don't mean to
say that my rule differs from other people's
to the extent that it has no exception. But
run over the list of your acquaintances, take
note of the shape of their feet, and just tell
me if you don't find that if a man is flat-footed
he is also mean, or hushing, or in
some other way undesirable as an agent ora
friend.'

Mr. Tandy, who was always impressed by
Napper's direct and downright assertions, furtively
examined his own feet, and was gratified
to find, what he had never before thought
of looking for, that he was moderately arched
at the instep.

I cannot undertake, my dear, systematically

to pursue the investigation you suggest,
though I dare say there may be something
in it.'

Something ! there is everything in it,
papa, and you'll find out Mr. Dumfy some
day.'

Napper was never downright rude to
Gideon's clerk, but her habit of mind was
too frank, and her looks too untutored, for
misunderstanding by a gentleman who was
always furtively regarding the world with
slightly bleary eyes when the casual observer
thought they were cast upon the ground.
Miss Tandy did not like him, and he for
his part hated Miss Tandy. Quite apart from
the influence of mutual dislike, he did not
regard with favour the possibility of Gideon's
taking to himself a wife. Things were going
on very well now in Carlton Street, and Mr.
Dumfy was inclined to let well alone.

While these things revolved in his mind,
the door by the railing labelled 'Mr. Tandy,

Solicitor,' was Hung open, and out bounded
Knut.

Knut (commonly known as ' Nuts ' among
the low boys of the town, with whom
he was highly popular) was the collie dog
that had come to ]\Iiss Tandy with a note
in a formal, old-fashioned handwriting, in
which Sir Robert Montgomery ' presented his
compliments to Miss Tandy, and, being anxious
not to interfere with a course of mutual
affection, begged her acceptance of Poland.'

This is what may be called the ' christened
name' of the dog. Xapper had met him
in company with his master, uncle of the
member, an old gentleman who lived three
counties off, and paid a visit once a year to
the Hall. The dog at sight of Napper had
leaped towards her with every manifestation
of closest acquaintance and fondest attachment.
Napper took the advances naturally,
as she did everything else, and it was only
by certain strategic movements that Poland

was induced to accompany his master home.
It was love at first sight,' Sir Robert had
said, with some other pretty remarks that
came with great grace from the stately old
gentleman. He had kept the dog a few
months to complete its training, and then
sent it on with the note copied above.

The collie was still officially recognised as
Poland, but no one ever called him by that
name. Napper had begun to call him Canute,
in reference to his extraordinary proceedings
down by the sea. He was accustomed when
the pair went for a walk on the beach to
regard the wide ocean as a personal matter.
He would go down to the very marge, where
the retreating wave had left the sand dry,
and angrily prohibit further advance. When
the inevitable wave came back he would stop
till his paws were wet, incredulous that the
sea had presumed to disobey his injunctions,
and then retired furiously barking. So
Napper called him Canute ; and discovering

some time later that the learned men wrote
the word Knut, she gratefully accepted that
orthography as meeting the demand for a
monosyllable imperative in the successful
nomenclature of dogs.

Knut's appearance on the pavement, as if
ejected from the Hall by a catapult, was a
well-understood signal in the neighbourhood.
It meant that Miss Tandy was pulling on her
gloves, and would presently appear. Knut
always had a preliminary burst before finding
it possible to tone down his movements suitably
to the duty of escorting a young lady.

There was opposite Mr. Tandy's a block
of houses some fourteen or fifteen in number,
bisected on either side by a narrow passage.
It was Knut's morning habit to dash round
this block, taking on very fine mornings a
little extra scamper in the meadow at the
rear. When he came back he was generally
out of breath, with his tongue lolling out of
the side of his mouth, and gleams of suppressed

humour in his eye, as if somewhere
in the meadow he had become acquainted with
a capital joke, whilst bound over to secrecy
as to its particulars. At the same time he was
able more or less steadily to walk behind his
mistress.

On this particular morning Knut paused a
moment at the door, thinking which way he
should go. Looking up and down the street,
he observed that, as far as the inconvenience
of a crowd was concerned, the road was equally
clear on either hand. To the right the sole
human being in view was the policeman, who
stood at the corner of the street, just opposite
the Town Hall, a convenient point of observation
which right and left commanded half the
extent of Saxton. The other way he observed
walking along the pavement the stranger whose
appearance has already been described.

What passed in the dog's mind no one
can say with authority. It is quite certain
that he knew Mr. Dumfy. He had seen him

frequently bring letters to the house in High
Street. Being a dog of fine observation and
of rare sympathy, he had possibly been made
aware of his mistress's feelings towards the
gentleman. These are, however, matters of
mere speculation. What is certain as a matter
of history is that Knut, after looking up the
street and seeing the policeman, and looking
down the street and beholding Mr. Dumfy
approach, set off in the latter direction at tremendous
speed, dashed himself between Mr.
Dumfy 's legs just as he was skirting a more
than usually circumscribed point of the narrow
pavement, and Mr. Dumfy was stretched at full
length in the gutter.

Perhaps Miss Tandy, with her strong prejudices,
would have said that the only undesirable
thing Mr. Dumfy honestly hated was
dirt. He generally carried, when absent from
the office, a small clothes-brush in the tail
pocket of his frock coat, and occupied spare
moments in brushing himself. To be thrown

VOL. I. L

over in the muddy street by a dog, and that
dog Miss Tandy's, was about the bitterest thing
that could have befallen him. With something
that, did we not know it is not in use at
Eehoboth, would have sounded like an extract
from the Athanasian Creed, Mr. Dumfy, rising
to his knees, savagely turned as if intending
to make an end of Knut if there were a loose
paving-stone about. But all that was visible
of the dog was his bushy tail vanishing round
the passage by the block of houses.

Mr. Dumfy would have gone back to the
hotel, deferring the delivery of his message till
he could have got rid of some of this horrible
mud, but he was close at Mr. Tandy's, and
when he looked up, there was Napper standing
at the door, pulling on her gloves, and indulging
in the vulgares laughter. It is true
she stopped when she sav Mr. Dumfy regarding
her, and came down to meet him with
many pretty protestations of regret, and expressions
of hope that he was not hurt. But

he child see all the time that she was on the
verge of breaking forth into further laughter,
and under his breath Mr. Dumfy proceeded
with further quotations from minatory literature.


No, I am not hurt, miss,' he said ; ' leastways
not much. There is a trouser tore a
little about the knee, and I don't think as this
mud will ever quite rub off the elder of my
coat. But this don't matter to a pore man.
We must not stand in the way of rich folks
keeping dogs to run mad up and down the
thoroughfares, or even training them to trip
up the public accidental like.'

This last suggestion was too much for
Napper's already-shaken equilibrium, and she
broke out into laughter, which the six hapless
young men would probably have been inclined
to describe as melodious, but which Mr. Dumfy
held to be vulgar.

I am glad you're pleased, miss. Of course,
if a pore man can give pleasure in any way,

lit's

his booty so to do. Here's a letter I wa?
bringing', which I'm sorry it's a little 
I could have saved it at the sacrifice of the
other leg of my trouser, I would ; but I couldn't
manage it, miss. Here's the dog coming back.
If you will excuse me I'll go now, in case
we might fall out.'

I hope you are not angry with poor Knut,
Mr. Dumfy, or with me for laughing. He
didn't mean it, and I really couldn't help it.
You looked so fierce when you glared around
on getting up from your knees.'

'Yes, miss, it was very funny indeed.
P'raps you'll ask Mr. Tandy to send an answer,
as I'm a little uncomfortable with this mud

Mr. Dumfy, as he hoped back to the hotel,
felt he had made another mistake. What
business had he to show his anger ? It was a
little hard in the circumstances to keep quiet-but
he would make it up next time he saw
Miss Tandy, and would even go the length of

patting Knut on the head if he met them out
in company, as he often did.

But he felt that he had better carry out
this last intention soon, it being borne in upon
him that Knut might not hive very long.

Dogs go about and eat all sorts of things,
some not good for them.' And Mr. Dumfy
laughed grimly to himself.

CHAPTER XI.

SACKED VOCATIONS.

'Papa cried Napper, bursting in an hour
later upon the privacy of Mr. Tandy's office,
what is the price of a pair of men's trousers?'
Mr. Tandy was at the moment engaged
in bringing a case, in which a much-esteemed
plaintive claimed damages for injuries done to
his crops by the overflowing of a ditch belonging
to the Waterworks Company in the
county town. He looked up in amazement
at the question thus plumped down upon
him. Napper was such an extraordinary girl,
so accustomed to ignore the conventionalities
of life, that he did not know what this query
might not portend. He felt, too, a painful
sense of his own incompetency to wrestle

with any ideas, however wild, the girl might
take into her head.

Just now he felt this more strongly than
ever, for Napper, fresh from the keen sunlit
March air, looked so bright and strong that,
to her unhappy father at least, she was more
than ever irresistible. She had been having
a scamper with Knut, whom she had deluded
into the garden of an empty house,
and whilst he was frolicking among the wilderness
of weeds had raced off round the corner,
where some minutes later Knut discovered her.

The humour of this quite new and
original joke had taken such entire possession
of Knut that even now, when it was
all over, and his mistress, recognising the
force of propriety, had settled down into
sedateness and had walked quite properly
along High Street, he, with' his tongue lolling
out and his white teeth gleaming, was shaking
his sides with quiet laughter as he looked
into the perplexed face of Mr. Tandy.

The price of a pair of trousers, my
dear!' said Mr. Tandy, when he found his
voice, which discovered itself in its solemnise
tones. ' What can you — I mean, why will
you — in short, I'm very busy just now, and
can't discuss matters.'

'The fact is, papa,' said Napper, all unconscious
of what was passing in her parent's
mind, 'Knut this morning had the misfortune
to knock over Mr. Fleyce's clerk. He got
dreadfully muddied, and his trousers torn at
the knee. He is, as he says, " a pore man,"
and I want to send him a pair of trousers.'

Oh ! ' said Mr. Tandy, as much relieved
as if he had suspected an attack of measles,
and had just received professional assurance
that it was merely a slight cold. ' That's
all, is it? But you see, dear Napper, you
cannot send a man a pair of trousers in a
promiscuous way like. There are various
things to consider. There's the pattern. Your
fancy may not hit his; and, scarcely less important,

there's the question of fit. These
things are not made in a mould. You had
better send him the money.'

Very well, papa ; I never thought of
that. But how much shall I send him?'

I dare say he will get suited for a
sovereign ; and perhaps it would be better if
I undertook the mission. You don't seem to
perceive any difficulty hedging it about.'

Indeed I don't. It was my fault, or
rather Knut's, though it comes to the same
thing, and I should be sorry for him to
suffer any loss. But if you will kindly undertake
it I shall be very glad. I am afraid I
should laugh again if I spoke to him on the
subject, and I fancy I mortally offended him
this morning.'

I suppose he brought the letter you sent
in to me? It is from Mr. Fleyce. He wants
to know if ween go up to the Castle after
luncheon, and look round to decide upon the
alterations.'

'Oh, that'll be jolly,' said Napper, clapping
her hands with unafFected delight. 'I
have a great notion about the Castle, and
how it may be made a beautiful place. Write
at once and say we will go, papa.'

Unfortunately I cannot go. I've got this
case to prepare before post-time, and it's quite
as much as I'll do to get through with it.'

Very well, then, sit down quickly and
write that Miss Tandy and Knut present their
compliments to Mr. Gideon Fleyce, and will
have pleasure in accompanying him.'

My dear,' said Mr. Tandy, with a freshly
troubled brow, ' I don't quite know how — I
mean what '

'Or perhaps "which," papa?' interrupted
Napper, as her father came to a stop and
gazed distracted on the half-filled folio of brief
paper.

He was not much versed in the ways of
the world, but it did occur to him that it was
scarcely quite the thing that a young ladylike

Napper should be making appointments
with single gentlemen, albeit of middle age,
and going to inspect lonely castles with no
other company than a collie dog. Yet how
could he explain this to Napper, or even hint
at the existence of a scruple? He might just
as well have endeavoured to explain to her
the bearings of the case before him as they
diversely affected his client and the Waterworks
Company.

Napper meant no wrong, and was incapable
of inventing any. She was maidenly to
the extent that she was in the habit of following
her own impulses in cases like the present,
where they led her out on some such innocent
errand as she now proposed to herself. Mrs.
Grundy lived in Saxton as she dwells in most
places, and fills them with her influence in
proportion as they are geographically small.
But Mrs. Grundy had never breathed a word
to the detriment of Napper, who was daily
accustomed to do things which, if perpetrated

by other young ladies, would have been sharply
discussed. It was admitted by general consent
that Napper did whatever she might do, just
as the stream gleamed and bubbled in its
course down the hillside, and as the lark sang,
because— she could not help it.

Mr. Tandy often regretted that the girl
had neither mother, nor sister, nor near friend,
to hint, as they might have done, that while
her outdoor procedure was as innocent as the
gambling of a lamb under the trees in the
meadow, it might be well if she remembered
that they occasionally differed somewhat from
the accepted mode.

Mr. Tandy never could screw his courage
up to the point necessary for giving this
warning. Here was a fine opportunity, and
he clutched at it feebly, so feebly that it was
as far out of his reach as ever, and he ended
by writing a note, though not quite in the terms
suggested by Miss Napper.

I have been thinking, Mr. Fleyce,' said

Napper, looking at lier companion with eyes
that glowed with kindliest interest, ' what a
noble ambition it is of yours to get into Parliament.'


They were walking slowly up the hill that
led to the Castle. Knut, altogether regardless
of the duties that pertained to his situation as
cicerone, was half an acre off busily engaged
in bringing in a sheep which he had a moment
earlier driven with fierce barking from the
rest of the flock.

I can conceive few things nobler,' Snapper
continued. ' In some countries, I have heard,
they pay the members, a thing which seems
to me to take away altogether from the
peculiar dignity of the position. When a man
gets wages for doing a certain work there's an
end of the obligation. But look at members of
our House of Commons ! They get no salary,
and would, I believe, scorn to take it if offered.
I have heard papa say that in the mere effort
to find opportunity for serving their country

they spend at elections sums of money that are
in themselves a fortune.'

Yes,' said Gideon, with a little sigh, ' I
believe it costs a lump of money before you
get in.'

Then when you are in, what is your life ?
One of unceasing devotion. You go down in
the afternoon at a time when other people's
labour for the day is coming to a conclusion.
You sit on benches and never leave the place
till early morning, except for twenty minutes
or half an hour, to snatch a hasty meal in a
not very satisfactory dining-room.'

You seem to have a very minute acquaintance
with the ways of the place, Miss Tandy.
Were you ever there ? '

No, but I've heard Mr. Montgomery talk
about it till I've almost felt the tears in my
eyes. Then there are the Irish members, who
I'm told make themselves very disagreeable.
Mr. Montgomery says they watch out of the
House members who are in any way obnoxious

to them, see them comfortably seated at their
dinner, and then, just when they are about to
begin, try and get the House counted, which
in some way or another means that every one
must rush back into his place. At first they
used to do this when the soup came on ; but
it was found that the soup could be kept hot
without spoiling, so now they v^ait till the
fish is brought in, and just when their particular
enemy has taken the first mouthful the
bell rings for a count, and he has to rush off.'

'Now' said Gideon, to whom all this
was quite new, ' that's rather hard lines.'

Yes ; and there's worse than that. You
may be kept there all night, long rows of
you snatching a brief sleep in the library,
whilst others sit in the House. Then you
wake up whilst others go and have a sleep.
These are little inconveniences, on which Mr.
Montgomery lays a good deal of stress. To
my mind they are very slight as compared
with the fife of devotion which English gentlemen

like you cheerfully give to the service
of their country. I suppose a large proportion
of the House of Commons is made up
of men who either earn their own living or
have made their own fortunes

There's the lawyers, for example,' said
Gideon.

'Yes; and see what valuable time they
unselfishly devote to the business of the
nation ! If you were in trouble and wanted
their help they would charge you ever so
much for a speech ; but they give of their
abundance to the House of Commons without
stint, sitting up late at night, neglecting
their private business, and endangering their
health. They take no fees for this. They
get nothing and expect nothing. Then there's
the class of men who have worked hard all
their lives and have made a fortune. You
would think they would like to settle down
quietly at home and enjoy themselves. But
no; they will spend any money to get into

Parliament, and when they are there they
share the work and fatigue with younger
men. I mean to say, Mr. Fleyce,' Napper
cried, with face aflame with the glow of
honest admiration, ' that this is one of the
finest things in our English life, and I hope
the day may never come when you pay
members of Parliament.'

Yes,* said Gideon, drawing himself up
and throwing out his chest, ' there's no doubt
it ain't all sugar-plums and roses in the House
of Commons.'

It is wonderful how systematically Napper,
all unconsciously, succeeded in making him
believe he was a wonderful fellow, with developments
of good breaking out in quite
unexpected places. It was plain that to this
fine handsome girl he was something of a
hero. There might, he thought, be some
little fallacy underlying her arguments. But
what of that ? It was her nature to make
haste to seize the best side of any question.

VOL. I. M

Mr. Montgomery, whose legislative feats
were limited by faithful voting, and who had
never opened his mouth except to shout or
to yawn, finding at the county ball a sympathetic
listener in the charming girl with whom
he had just danced, dwelt with an eloquence
that surprised himself upon the discomforts
of a seat in the House of Commons. Napper's
glowing fancy and generous sympathy
had improved upon this till she felt there
was hardly any respect or consideration too
great to pay to men who thus constantly
and most uncomplainingly sacrificed their
personal comfort on the altar of their country's
good.

'We have a great deal to put up with,'
Gideon continued, unconsciously assuming
that he was already a member of Parliament,
' but it is a great cause in which we
labour.'

Indeed, it is. There's that beautiful
phrase, you will know it in the Latin, Mr.

Fleyce; I don't, though 1 have heard it
spoken, and can hum the music of its mournful
resonant syllables which say, "It is sweet
and glorious to die for one's country's You
don't quite die in the House of Commons,
though I believe many valuable lives are
shortened there. But you work, and would, I
dare say, be ready to die if it were necessary.
In the meantime this devotion of your days
and nights to the service of your country is
a noble thing. And what a splendid thing
it must be, Mr. Fleyce, to rise in such an
assemblage and deliver a great speech upon
a momentous occasion, with the House full
to the very doors and all the world listening
outside ! '

Yes, I think when the opportunity comes
I shall rather like it,' said Gideon, smiting
himself upon the chest and beginning to be
honestly impressed by the kindling enthusiasm
of his companion.

'Next to being a speaker, I should like
it 2

to be a writer. Fancy sitting down in your
room — quite a small room perhaps, that
wouldn't hold twenty people, and writing
something that shall be read by twenty
thousand or a million. I should like to bea
writer for the newspapers. I always look
upon them, from the distance at which we
dwell apart, with a kind of awe. They area
great deal more powerful than clergymen,
and I think their calling quite as sacred. I
never spoke to one or saw one that I know
of, but I fancy they must all be sad men,
weighed down with a sense of their responsibility.
I suppose some people write everyday
what a million people will read on
the next. There's a congregation for you,
Mr. Fleyce ! There's no public meeting
comes up to that.'

'I'm thinking of having a newspaper of
my own,' said Gideon. ' The people down
here want waking up. There's nothing buta
wretched paper published in the county

town, and costs threepence. I believe in
penny newspapers, and mean to give 'em a
good one.'

That's right, Mr. Fleyce,' said Napper, as
earnestly as if she were thanking him for
some great personal favor' done to herself.
'In your hands I am sure it would be noble
in its aim, and do an immense amount of
good. It is well that some people should be
rich if they have the same capacity and desire
that you have for doing good to their fellowmen,
elevating their minds, and leading them
to live purer and nobler lives. I wish there
was more of this spirit in the pulpit, and
that people who get up there to talk on a
Sunday would remember there are six other
days in the week of a life quite different
from that we enter upon for an hour or soon
a Sunday, when we put on our best clothes
and sit together in rows. It is very little
food we get on Sundays of the kind that
helps a man or a woman to live from Monday

to Saturday. There's a verse Swift wrote on
the window of Chester Cathedral one day
when he looked in and found the place empty.
How does it go ? Something this way, I
think —

The Church and clergy here, no doubt,

Are very near akin ;
Both weather-beaten are without,

And empty both within.

The clergy, it is true, have, as a rule, improved
in outward appearance.'

Yes, you wouldn't say that either Mr.
Tommy or Mr. Twos, our curates, are
weather-beaten without ? '

No, but certainly they are empty both
within. Sometimes, in our pew in the dear
old church, I sit and stare at the man in the
pulpit, and marvel, not so much that God
should have made such a puny creature, but
that four or five hundred people should be
content to sit and listen to his flow of watery
commonplace, just because he wears a white

or a black gown, and stands in a wooden
box. I know our two curates, meeting them
at croquet parties and the like, and I declare
that if one of them were to make an
observation to me twenty minutes long, I
should be found dead at the end of it. I
have tried to talk to them, but never could
get out of them the faintest flash of human
thought, let alone of divine idea. Yet if
a man has anything to say, it seems to me
that the time when he must say it well is
when he stands face to face with a crowd,
all looking at him, listening for his words.
Sometimes I wish I were a man.'

Heaven forbid ! ' Gideon piously ejaculated.


I never preached a sermon or made a
speech, but I feel that if I were one day to
find myself in the pulpit at Westminster
Abbey, with all the crowd beneath, quiet
and watchful, I could talk without need of
preparation. It would be harder in the

House of Commons, because there I fancy a
man to be a successful speaker must have a
good deal of the fighting element in him. At
church they are all of one opinion, or at all
events sit quiet. In the House of Commons
so I gather from what Mr. Montgomery
says there are occasional expressions of difference
of opinion. To a combative man this
would be an advantage. They would serve
like the trumpet call or the clash of arms to
inflame his blood or uplift his sword. But
I'm not a man, and I'm not combative, though
I think I am exceedingly talkative, and have
been preaching a sermon without the pulpit.'

'But not without an attentive congregate
tion, Miss Tandy,' Gideon said, taking on a
habit of courtesy, as it was his wont to be
influenced by whatever association chanced to
be foremost. ' I never before thought of going
into the House quite in the way you talk
about. I am afraid you judge us a little too
leniently. But I hope I'll do my best. Nowhere's

the Castle, and I want you to decide in
which of the tumble-down chambers we shall
fix the conservatory, and whether we shall
have a tennis lawn in the west wing or on the
other side.'

CHAPTER XII.

THE SPIDER

Mr. Israel Gideonss sat in the counting-house
a-counting out his money. In no other respect
did Mr. Gideonss realise the popular notion of
regal state or habitude. Instead of a golden
crown there appeared on his head a black
velvet skull cap. He wore a long loose coat
of dirty grey material, and of a make which
conveniently baffled curiosity as to the condition
or even the existence of any garments
underneath. The coat came nearly down to
his ankles, and beyond that there certainly was
evidence of a pair of trousers very much the
worse for wear. He had on his feet a pair of
carpet slippers so much too large for him that
he might with ease have fully inserted his

naturally small feet. He preferred to wear the
shield at the back of the slipper under his heel,
instead of covering it, a contrivance which
imparted to his walk a certain shuffle and an
intolerable flapping.

Mr. Gideonss had a large mouth, a nose
rather hooked than Woman, and a pair of black
eyes that twinkled ominously beneath projecting
eyebrows thatched with furzy grey hair.
He was short in stature, and spare in figure,
but in some odd ways conveyed the impression
to the observer that at one time he had been
larger. He seemed to have worn away with
excessive energy, a process which threatened
eventually to leave behind nothing but the
skill cap, the threatening black eyes, and the
small bony hands with their long nails and
their ingrained accumulation of dirt.

Mr. Gideonss occupied, and indeed was the
freeholder of, premises which had once been
advertised as a ' desirable bijou residence, suitable
for a bachelor of fortune.' It was an old

house situated at Fulham, only a story high,
but substantially built, with an eye rather to
having rooms large than many. The one in
which Mr. Gideonss sat was a good square
chamber, with a massive fireplace. It had not
much furniture and no carpet to speak of.
There was a plain mahogany table, at which
Mr. Gideonss sat with a pile of gold before him,
which he was making up into rouleaux of
twenties. A strip of carpet was stretched before
the fireplace, leaving the rest of the floor
bare. The fire had gone out, or rather had
been put out by Mr. Gideonss with a too bountiful
supply of slack administered at an inopportune
moment. He had his scuttle always
filled with slack. He preferred it, he said, because
it ' caked ' nicely, burned steadily, and
gave little trouble. He might have added that
it was also cheaper, but that was a point to
which he made no reference.

The most prominent article of furniture in
the room was a large iron safe, which occupied

a considerable portion of one wall. Mr.
Gideonss' chair was so placed that he could face
the safe, which he did with manifest satisfaction.
In addition to the pile of gold there
were on the table a number of slips of paper
cut out of old letters. Also there were a pair
of scales, such as bankers use for weighing
gold. ]mr. Gideonss took out of the heap a
small handful of coin from which he counted
twenty sovereigns. Placing them in one of the
slips of paper, he with a dexterity and quickness
that betokened long practice rolled them
up, folded the paper at either end, and weighing
the packet against a similar parcel left in
one of the scales, put it on one side amid a
lengthened row.

As his busy fingers moved, Mr. Gideonss
talked rapidly to himself. His remarks were
presently interrupted by a loud ran-tan at the
front door. Starting up and instinctively
stretching out his hands over his heaps of gold,
the old gentleman said, ' That's Ike,' and forthwith

proceeded with astonishing rapidity to
empty the loose gold into a canvas bag which
he put into the safe, carrying thither the rouleaux
he had already made up. Having doubly locked
the safe and put the key in his pocket, he
unlocked the room door, which he had asa
matter of precaution fastened before sitting
down to his morning occupation, and went out
into the hall, the empty recesses of which were
at the moment reverberating with another loud
and imperative knock.

The old gentleman, observing the preliminary
precaution of putting the chain on before
opening the door, peeped forth through the
aperture and beheld standing on the steps a
portly, well-dressed gentleman.

Good morning, Ike,' he said with a leer,
playfully planting his wrinkled face in the
doorway. ' Come to see your old dad .^ Where's
your carriage and pair and your fine man-servants
? Eound the corner, eh ? Why didn't
you bring them to see old Israel Gideonss ?

Plenty of room for company in the house.
Kitchen cold, and no beer or cold meat.
Otherwise a warm welcome.'

You will have your joke as usual, father,'
said the gentleman on the doorstep, known in
Saxton and elsewhere as Mr. Gideon Fleyce.
But if it's going to be drawn out much longer
perhaps you had better let me in, and then we
will have it all to ourselves.'

Oh, will you reply come in ? ' said the old
gentleman, making believe to unfasten the
chain with extraordinary haste, and bowing lows
Gideon entered. ' Wasn't quite sure you
would care to visit your old father in a place
like this. Thought it was just a morning call to
be passed on the doorstep. Father expected
you to leave your card, and as it saves the
hinges thought I wouldn't open the front door
more than necessary ; but, come in by all
means. This way, my lord,' and the merry
old gentleman walked with mincing footsteps
before his visitor, and showed him into the

room on the first floor, where he had been
sitting.

Poof 1 ' said Gideon, ' this place is pretty-close.
Haven't you had the window open
lately?'

Yes, I had it open a little at the top three
days before Christmas, and a nice cold it gave
me. But if I'd known your lordship was
coming and didn't like the air, I certainly
would have had it changed regardless of
expense.'

Aren't you a little economical about the
air, father F This is March, you know, and you
can hardly get along with that pinch you had
before Christmas.'

It does very well for me said the old
gentleman. ' Of course you want more fresh
air, as you want more clothes and more everything
else than your father. How well your
lordship looks ! Another new hat, I suppose.
Perhaps if you've a coat to spare that you've
worn for a whole week and got tired of you

will sometimes think of the author of your
being. And how are your friends ? The Took
of Wellington in pretty good health, I hope :
and the Queen all right? Is the Prince of
Wales at Morlbrer House now? And how's
the Princess ? Let me see, weren't you godfather
to one of the children ? Dear me ! what
a thing it is to be a man of fashion, hand-and-glove
with the aristocracy, whilst your poor old
father never got any nearer them than to be
hand-in-pocket.'

Gideon stood with his back to the fire,
smiling genially at his eccentric parent, but
saying nothing. Indeed, the old gentleman
left no opening for conversation to be conducted
on ordinary principles. He was hopping about
the room like an elderly pigeon that had fallen
upon evil days, and groan limp and dingy.
As he put this fire of questions to Gideon he
stood before him with his head a little on one
side and his hands clasped before him with an
air of mock deference.

VOL. I. N

'I've got some news to tell you, father,
when you have quite used up this excellent
joke

Now this is good of you to come all this
way to bring news to your disreputable old
father. What is it ? Has Lady A. been seen
with Mr. K., or has Lady B.'s poodle had a fit
of coughing ? Out with it, Gideon. Your
father's getting old. Seventy-three next birthday.
Life is short, and at my time of life we
cannot afford to put things off.'

I'm going into Parliament.'

Really now,' said the merry old gentleman,
with an excruciating air of abashed surprise,
' going into Parliament ! House of
Lords, of course ? You wouldn't think of anything
below that. How well it will look in the
peerage — " Isaac, Lord Carltonstreet. First
baron, created 1 87 9. Son of old Israel Gideonss,
of Fulham Road, a worthy but eccentric gentleman,
who minds his own affairs, knows he's a
jackdaw, and doesn't attempt to strut as a

peacock." Well, my lord, you see I wasn't far
out in my address when you entered. The
spirit of prophecy was upon me.'

Then it led you astray, for I'm not going
to the House of Lords — at least, not yet. Ill
begin with the Commons. I thought you'd
like to hear all about it, though you do seem
to cut up very rough because your son gets
along in the world.'

Yes, he gets along in the world, but so
does the lackey hanging on to your fine carriage.
I never had a carriage in my life. The 'bus
was always good enough for me, and many's
the time I've walked a mile to save twopence.
That was my way of getting along, and it
answered pretty well.'

At least, you cannot complain, father, that
my way of getting on has cost you anything.'

It has cost me all the pain, whatever that

may be, of seeing a son of mine turn out a

fool,' said the old man, suddenly dropping his

mask of playfulness, and, as was always the

N 2

case when angry, snuffling his speech through
his nose. ' I brought you up to a good business,
and I left you in possession of it because
I thought you were a smart fellow, and would
not only keep it up but improve it. What have
you done ? Dumfy tells me that you've hardly
a customer in the place '

What right has Dumfy to talk of my
affairs ? ' said Gideon, raising his voice and
dropping into the same snuffling speech that
marked his father's passion.

.' Dumfy was my clerk long before I handed
him over to you with the other office furniture.
He comes to see me sometimes, and I like to
have him here. We sit and talk over old
times when seventy per cent, was got with
safety, and we turned up our noses at twenty-five.
I mean to leave Dumfy twenty pounds
in my will. He's a good fellow and deserves
something for his long service. Besides, he'll
be so mad that it was not 19/. 19^. llo?., and
that he'll have to pay the legacy duty.'

If you're so fond of Dumfy's society you
may keep him to yourself. A nice pair you'd
make.'

I'll tell you what, Ike, I'd rather have his
company than yours, coming here and complaining
of the very air your father breathes
and filling the place with a stink of lavender-water.'


Come, come, father,' said Gideon, dropping
the snuffling and resuming the smile, ' don't let
us be foolish. What are we quarrelling about ?
I've not come to ask you for anything. I
thought it my duty to bring you this news,
which some fathers would be proud to hear.'

Well, I'm not, so there's an end of that.
It's only another step in your downward course.
What do you want to get into Parliament for ?
Do they pay you anything for it ? Can you
get anything there that you can sell outside ?
Will you find opportunities for doing a little
business on notes of hands If that's your
game, and you come for a father's blessing, you

shall have it. Otherwise you'll please me best
by stopping away till your senses come back to
you.'

Now, father, this is ridiculous, besides
being offensive, which I know is no matter.
You went your way, and I've gone mine.
Perhaps in the end it will turn out that I've
done better than you. ( I've got things in hand
that if they turn out right will leave me one
of the richest men in England.'

If they turn out right, yes,' roared the old
gentleman, his weariness apparently for ever
gone, and a look of the interest and angriest
contempt showing through the dirt in his face,
and blazing forth from under his shaggy eyebrows.
' But don't you suppose I know about
your business, the basis upon which it rests,
and which may any day crumble and bring
you to beg at that door, where I tell you at
once you will beg in vain. Your great acres
are mortgaged to the last sod ; you're living
now from hand to mouth on borrowed money ;

you're hoping to be able to hang on by your
teeth till your property's so far developed that
you may sell it in lots. I dare say you would
find it very convenient if your father would
pay down twenty or thirty thousand pounds
for you in cash. But if you wanted five
pounds to carry you over a single day, with the
certainty that on the morrow your speculations
would come right, and you could pay me back
five hundred-fold, I wouldn't give you a penny.
If you'd gone on in the business I made for
you, and had come to grief, I would have
helped you. It's an honest business that ;
doesn't mean crawling about in big people's
houses, and trying to look like one of them.
You don't know what you did on the day you
changed your name. I said nothing, at least
not to you, but that was the last drop in a cup
pretty well filled. Ashamed of your father's
trade, ashamed of your father's company,
ashamed to bear your father's name! Look
here, do you see that ? '

The old man had worked himself up to a
state of fury, in which the snuffle was lost ina
scream. With trembling hands he produced
from his pocket a key, flung the safe open,
and stood with outstretched arm pointing to its
recesses.

Do you see those rows of paper, row on
row, in twenties, fifties, ay, hundreds? Do
you know what they are? They are gold,
Ikey, gold, every one of them, and there's more
to come. More comes in every year, every
month, every week. It's better than a seat in
the House of Commons, more lasting than the
grip of a marquis's hand ; worth all your joys
in the company of men and women who despise
and laugh at you. That's what comes of
minding your own business. It might have
been yours, it was intended to be yours, but if
I leave it in my will to my son Isaac Gideonss,
where will they find him ? They'd go and
look in the office in Carlton Street, but he
wouldn't be there. They'd go to the synagogue

and ask the patriarchs of our people for this
son of the old Hebrew who died so rich ; but
they would know nothing of him. They might
hear of a poor make-up creature going about
under the name of Gideon Fleyce, and aping
London fashions, but they'd never believe that
he was the son of old Israel Gideonss. Perhaps
the money would get into Chancery and be
dribbled away amongst lawyers. That I'll take
care it shan't be. I've settled where it shall goto,
all but the twenty pounds for Dumfy, so
take a good last look at it, Ikey. There it is !
these packets not arranged are what I was
making up when you came in, and there in
that bag is more gold which I'll go on with as
soon as you're gone, and I hope that won't belong.
Take a long look. Let it be burnt in
upon your brain, and sometimes when you are
hard pressed for money to keep up your
trumpeters glitter, then think of this beautiful
safe with its rich lining, which might have been
yours, but which you've sold for a shudder.'

The sight was iu truth burned in upon
Gideon's brain never to be forgotten. As he
walked away from the inhospitable door he saw
the open safe, every line of it, every rouleau
with the bag of gold lying on the left side. He
saw it then and many times after, and beside
it the figure of the infuriate old man with the
velvet skull cap on his head, the ludicrously
large carpet slippers, the flashing eyes, and the
bony, dirt begrimed hands outstretched pointing
to the safe.

Just now he was marvelling not so much at
the immensity of his father's wealth as at what
seemed the reckless manner in which he stored
it. He knew the theory upon which his father
regulated these affairs. This gold was only a
small proportion of his wealth. He had his
banking account, where lay securities reaching
a larger total than even Gideon dreamed of
The gold was simply the accretion of dividends
now rolling in from various investments. Five
years ago, at a period of commercial panic,

Israel had made a large sum of money owing
to the accident of his having at the time a sum
of gold in the house which he was enabled to
pay down on the nail. His rejoicing at this
stroke of fortune was more than counterbalanced
by the consciousness that if he had only had
twice as much gold in his strong box his gains
would have been increased in proportion. He
had then resolved to keep in his safe a sum
of gold ready to operate with whenever panic
again smote the Stock Exchange.

It would come some time, he felt sure.
Every month he was expecting it, and every
month he piled up his gold ready for the
eventful moment. This fancy Gideon was
familiar with. But he did not know that the
hoard had accumulated to this extent, and
marvelled that his father, who never risked
anything, should risk robbery, and perhaps
worse, if it were only known that this quiet
house in Fulham was really a gold mine.

He was quite right in his judgment of his

father's foresight. Israel Gideonss when he
stored five thousand pounds in gold in his safe
took precautions against the possible inciu-sion
of thieves.

CHAPTER XIII.
Gideon's guests.

Gideon had not run up to town solely for the
purpose of calling to see his father. Being in
London he had thought the opportunity favourable
for paying a visit to the old man, and he
was a little crestfallen at the result. It was
quite a new light that had flashed forth in the
outburst of passion. Nothing of this kind had
previously passed between the two, and Gideon
had been altogether misled as to the view taken
by his father of his ambitious pursuits. The
old gentleman had hitherto maintained the
merry mood which sat upon him so quaintly.
He said nothing when Gideon changed the
family patronymic for one that had struck his
fancy. It is true he ignored the change in

such written communication as he held with his
son, always addressing him as Isaac Gideonss.
Now Gideon had learned how bitterly the old
man resented the slight, and what animosity he
nourished towards the son who, according to
his view, had cast him off.

To do Gideon justice he was not especially
pained by the prospect of being cut off from
enjoyment of his father's wealth. There were
times when the ability to go to a safe like that
in Fulham Eoad would have been highly convenient.
But Gideon had before him the prospect
of quite sufficient wealth of his own making.
It was, as he sometimes said to himself, all a
question of holding on. His property ^ it was
true, was mortgaged, but far within its real
value. As long as he had the interest forthcoming
all was well, and as the months passed
on the time approached when he should be
able to sell his holding at great profit.

Therefore the Spider's evident intention of
cutting him off did not hurt him nearly so much

as the feeling that he had fatally wounded his
father's pride, and that reconciliation was
hopeless. The old man had been kind to him
in his way. He had made room for him in the
business in Carlton Street at an age which imposed
on himself no necessity to retire. Gideon
would have been glad if he had taken in his
new pursuits an ordinary measure of interest,
and had displayed in his prosperity that pride
which he felt it justly merited. But he knew
it was no use trying to argue the matter out.
The old man must go his way, and Gideon
would go his.

This now led to Carlton Street, where, in
the same room where we first met him in company
with Captain O'Brien, he had another
interview with that estimable and indefatigable
gentleman. Since things were going on swimmingly
at Saxton, and his prospect of presently
entering the House of Commons appeared certain,
Gideon began to think he would like
to have a foretaste of the joys of that society

he yearned to enter. The difficulty was that
with the exception of O'Brien he knew nobody,
and though a good many men in society knew
his family name, and had a personal acquaintance
with his father, the circumstances relating
thereto were not of a character that would
induce them to force their hospitality upon the
Spider's progeny.

Gideon had great faith in giving a dinner.
His first proposal to O'Brien was that he should
issue, in his own name, invitations to a carefully
selected body of well-known M.p's inviting
them to dine with him at the Cottage. O'Brien
was able to show him that this would not do,
and at last it was arranged that O'Brien was to
give a little dinner at his club, which Gideon
of course was to pay for, and at which he
was to make his debut as a political personage.


IVe got all settled at last,' said O'Brien,
but it's been rather a tough job — of course
dot in the matter of soup, or fish, or wines.

They're all right, and will be of a quality
suitable to your high hopes. The difficulty
was to get fellows to come. Everybody's
engaged three deep just now, and scarcely anyone
is to be had under a month's notice. But
I Ve done pretty well, and have got a fairly
good company.'

How many shall we be ? ' asked Gideon.
Twenty ? '

I should hope not ! You don't suppose
this is going to be an agricultural dinner or a
midday debauch by one of the committees of
the Corporation of London. It's not dining
to get twenty men into a room : it's feeding.
What you want is an opportunity of meeting a
few men who may be useful to you, and having
a quiet talk all round the table. If I'd done
exactly what I wanted I would have left us
eight all told. But knowing your weakness
for numbers I've stretched a point and made it
ten.'

'And who are they?' Gideon asked,

VOL. I.

meekly accepting this rebuke of his hospitable
intent.

'First of all, giving due precedence to her
Majesty's judges, there's Belsey. He's a very
good fellows, and has not been on the bench
long enough to get spoiled. I don't frequent
that part of Westminster much, and never was
at an assize court in the country ; but I read
sometimes of the goings on of the judges, and
am surprised people stand it. The way they
bully the public all round, from the sheriff in
his gilt carriage to the witness who is driven ina
tram car, is incredible besides being nonsensical.
I sometimes feel inclined, if I had
a six months' leisure, to get subpoenaed as a
witness where Spots is judge. I wouldn't
have to do very much to bring about an explosion
from the bench. Whereupon a few
words quietly spoken from the witness-box
might have a useful effect in calling attention
to an abuse of authority, which exists only
because the ordinary public when dragged into

the witness-box are so belated with the strangeness
of the place, the pomp of the proceedings,
and the bullying which begins with the usher,
that they don't say a word.'

Why do you want six months' leisure ? A
week or even a day would do if you could
choose your time.'

That would do for the proceedings in
coiu-t, but for the rest of the time I should be
in prison. However, you needn't be afraid of
meeting Belsey ; he has not yet got inoculated
with the bumptiousness of the bench. He was
a very good fellow in the House, and would
have made a better Solicitor-general than more
than one who has been chosen over his head.
Still, he's done pretty well, though I fancy he
often hankers after the husks of Parliamentary
debate. Then Gilbert will come, which is
awfully good of him, seeing the pressure upon
him. But he takes a strong interest in your
case, and will do anything to further it. It
will be an immense advantage for you to be


found in his company. Then there's Pocket.
You've heard of him, I dare say. He's getting
up in years now, and is quite out of the hunt ;
but he bears his disappointment pluckily,
acknowledging that he played his own game,
and if he lost he had no one to blame but himself.
He was in the Ministry, and seemed to
have a future before him, but differed with Gladstone
on the question of the quality of paper
to be used in the Blue Books, or something
of that kind, and heroically resigned his post.
The newspapers cracked him up a good deal,
more especially the Conservative journals, who
had long articles extolling his patriotism, and
applauding the honesty of a man who, on a
matter of principle, preferred his conscience to
his place. I rather fancy Mockett thought
Gladstone would beg him to withdraw his resignation,
but G. was very busy at the time,
didn't think anything of it, scarcely missed
Mockett from the Treasury Bench, and so the
thing drifted on, and a successor was appointed.

It was a delicate and a dangerous game to
play, and it turned out a bad job for Mockett.'
Has he been in the shade long ? '
It happened many years ago now, and
Gladstone has had more than one chance of
bringing him back, but when new ministries
have been formed, or vacancies have occurred,
Mockett has never been thought of. He's shelved
absolutely, though he serves a public use by presenting
a fearful example to ambitious and restless
young Ministers. Since his failure he has
shown a good deal of sense. Of course he feels
the position bitterly, but he has not angled with
the other side, nor posed as a candid friend — at
least not often, and never seriously. He is
well informed, well connected, has travelled
much, knows people and places, and is a
capital fellow at a dinner-table. Dunham
you've not heard of yet, though you will if
both of you live a few years longer. He's a
lawyer, very sound, and in rising practice, but,
what is more unusual, a favourite speaker in the

House of Commons — the best of his cloth I
should say, being able most fully to divest himself
of wig and gown when he rises to discuss
matters of general policy. He has no connections,
and nothing to help him except his own
ability ; but he'll get on.'

Now that's cheering,' said Gideon. ' I
like to hear that a man may get on in the
House of Commons simply by his own merit.'

There's nothing else that will get him on
there. He may be the son of a Duke and yet
a blockhead. In private intercourse members
will never forget his father the Duke, but in
their aggregate capacity they are absolutely
insensible to the subtle attraction of the parentage,
and will howl him down as impatiently
as if his mother were a washerwoman.'

Dear me ! ' said Gideon, not quite sure
that this was not carrying the thing a little too
far.

Look at Bhssenden, who is also coming on
Wednesday. There's a man that started in

life certainly with less advantages than I possessed.
He is, or was, something in the wool
line, and has a big factory at Cranfield. His
first taste of public life was in the Town Council
of his native town, and his first essay in
statesmanship related to the carrying out a
plan of severing the town. I have been told
by a man who fives in Cranfield that the quiet,
yet resistless, way in which Blissenden came to
the fore was something marvellous to see. At
that time it is possible his ambition did not go
beyond the folds of the aldermanic gown or the
length of the mayor's chain. But he worked
tremendously, neglected no detail, shrinking
from no labour, and practising all those arts in
the management of public affairs which will
some day be used by him on a very different
scale. He's made his mark in Parliament
already, and in the very way that confirms
the opinion of those most sanguine for his
future. The House, which had heard a good
deal of him, and expected something truculent

and aggressive, was surprised to see the quiet,
well-dressed, almost boyish-looking man, who
didn't talk broad Yorkshire, as had been expected
; who didn't appear in his shirt sleeves,
as had been apprehended ; and who, above all,
refrained from heaving half a brick at the
Speaker on the ground that, seated in the
chair, he was a convenient cockshy. Blissenden
is only just beginning, and will go a long way
before he's pulled up.'

That's five. Now the sixth.'

'The sixth is Goymer. Goymer is a man
of another type, equally ambitious, hard-working,
and in his way capable. It just depends
on the humour of the man who forms the next
Liberal Ministry whether he gets a place in it
or not. That's what he is trying for in an
awkward, heavy style, which contrasts painfully
with Blissenden's forward and incisive motion.
Goymer is a wonderfully learned fellow, distils
some of his surplus information through the
newspapers, and wants to pour it in buckets on

the House. The House won't have it, and then
Goymer storms at it, insisting that whether it
likes it or not it shall be instructed. Of course,
he might as well run his head against a stonewall.
Having tried it on once or twice, the
House now won't listen to him, even when
he may have something to say. But he is
honest, though heavy and somewhat given to
crotchets, and I need not tell a man of your
general information that there is nothing more
fatal to success in public Hfe than the taint of a
crotchet.'

'If he writes for the newspapers,' said
Gideon, ' I'll get him to do me a few articles
for my paper, when it is started.'

I think I wouldn't ask him just now, at
least not at the dinner. I am not quite sure
that he writes the sort of thing that would go
down at Saxton. Now I am nearly through
the list, though there's no opportunity of
omitting Wratten. I'm not quite sure how it
comes about that Wratten will be one of us.

I'm by no means clear whether I asked him or
whether he invited himself. However, he's
coming, and we must make the best of him.'

'Who's Wratten?'

He is the man of whom Harcourt said that
he ought to be nailed on the door of the House of
Commons, as a bat is nailed on a stable door asa
warning to whom it may concern. Harcourt,
you know, is a pretty good judge of Parliamentary
demeanour, though not himself a successful
practitioner, and he didn't too strongly put the
general view about poor Wratten. I say poor,
because the man must lead a miserable life.
He came into the House determined to take it
by storm, and he is constantly being snubbed.
It is said, but this of course is a libel, that the
ink was not dry where he had signed his name
at the table before he was on his legs giving
notice of a resolution on a question of high
imperial policy. He is not without a method,
but the plans he has are much of the same kind
as those the ostrich is accustomed to carry out

when it has its head comfortably buried in the
sand, and thinks no one can see it. Wratten's
one notion is to keep his name before the
public — if in conjunction with that of a distinguished
man so much the better. With this
object, whenever any great event happens
during the sitting of the House, he breathlessly
rushes down, and seizes the first opportunity to
put a question to Ministers on the matter. You
can see him sitting on the etige of the bench
anxiously looking round the House, in mortal
terror lest any one should get before him. The
thing being of importance, his name figures
prominently in the report the next morning,
and the name of Wratten looms large amon
the constituencies. This is one of his minor
arts. A more serious undertaking is when he
gives notice to bring in a bill, or move a resolution
on a subject which the Ministry have
undertaken to deal with. Of course he has to
withdraw in their favour, but when he meets
his constituents he is able to say, " See what a

good boy am I, and what a powerful influence
for good. The moment I moved in this matter,
the Treasury Bench saw the time had come,
and now are going to deal with the abuse." I
believe Wratten is a perfect nuisance in the
newspaper offices, always sending them paragraphs
about himself, or carefully prepared
reports of speeches which he is about to deliver.
He is not a desirable companion, but I don't
think we need regret his getting the invitation
however it was obtained. He will be useful
for you as a study of what you should avoid.
There you are, Fleyce ; there's the last of your
guests. By the way, we must not forget to
keep up the little fiction that they are mine.'

I only make nine of it,' said Gideon, who
had been a wrapt listener to this somewhat
candid discussion of his guests.

Oh, I forgot Gosley, the dear old Gosley !
I did ask him, though, to tell the truth, it was
because Pennyfather couldn't come. Gosley is
a bore, though of a different type from Goymer

or Wratten. He has the largest views of his
duties as a member of Parliament, and a quite
cosmopolitan range of subjects. From Greenland's
icy mountains to India's coral strand
Gosley is quite at home. He's always buzzing
round like a bluebottle on a hot summer day.
A thorough Liberal, conscientious and useful to
the extent of his powers ; but he likes to think
he is directing forces, like old What d'ye call
it, Addison . wrote about, who sat in the
whirlwind and directed the storm. At critical
moments Gosley gets in the tea-room with one
or two old women of his own mind, and they
with their mouths fill of muffin declare " We
can't stand this sort of thing any longer." So
they draw up resolutions and promote cabals
which, ridiculous in their inception, are not
without influence on public affairs. To see old
Gosley marching about the lobbies after one
of these portentous meetings is a sight full of
enjoyment for persons not immediately concerned.
In moments of melancholy he will

descant on the absence of appreciation on the
part of successive Prime Ministers who have
not invited him to join their Cabinets. Gosley
could do anything. Foreign Affairs, the
Colonial Office, the Home Office, any of these
he would prefer. But he would not be above
looking after the Navy or caring for the Army
if the Premier pressed him to take office in
connection with either of these services. His
is a good old soul of a much larger nature than
Wratten, and, though a bore, at least amusing.'

Eight,' said Gideon, ticking them off" like
parcels delivered. ' That's all ? '

Yes, that's all, and quite enough too.
Now we have gone through the list of guests.
Perhaps you'll leave the management and the
wines to me, and don't forget eight on Wednesday
next.'

Chapter Xii.

AT DINNER.

O'brien's final difficulty in respect to the dinner
was the arrangement of the guests at the table.
He had fought his way successfully through all
earlier obstacles, but felt that this was not to be
sighted. He wished that the party should be
useful to his client and agreeable to his friends.
Gideon was, as he said to himself, ' such a
duffer,' that he felt he had no right to thrust
him upon men like the Judge or Bhssenden,
or even Mockett. It was another thing with
Gilbert. What is a Whip for if he is not able
to put up with an hour or two of boring company
? But O'Brien had a heart, and felt that
Gilbert had done enough by promising to come,

and he was determined that the evening should
be made as agreeable for him as possible.

At first he had the notion of planting
BHssenden next to Gideon.

These Radicals are too cock-whoop,' he
said to himself, ' and a little bringing down
won't do them any harm.'

Finally there burst upon him a happy
thought, which was carried out when, with
moderate punctuality, the company found themselves
at dinner, and Gideon was seated between
Written and Gosley.

All this anxiety on the part of O'Brien was
perhaps a little unnecessary. He had formed
certain fixed ideas about Gideon which induced
him to treat with hasty contempt his pretensions
to take his place in the political world.
With his wide experience, O'Brien might have
been expected to know better than to regard
this ignorance as an exceptional weakness
Gideon was quite as well informed and more
capable ot acquiring information in poetics

than many men who sat in the House for
important constituencies, and looked monstrous
wise on the strength of the position. The difference
in Gideon's case was that, being bent
upon carrying out a certain undertaking, he
had very wisely, when seeking advice from a
business man, admitted his total ignorance.

Gideon looked very well as he sat among
the men who, without their knowing it, were
his guests. He was better dressed than some
of them, notably the Judge or Mockett. As a
rule the House of Commons is a bad place to
look for models of good dress, more especially
if they be sought on the Liberal benches. The
Judge had already brought his shirt front into
a woefully crumpled state, whilst Gideon smiled
above a fair and unruffled expanse of cambric.

How do you like your new dignity,
Belsey ? ' asked Gilbert.

Not at all,' said the Judge in his hasty,
choleric manner. ' If I were a man of fortune
I would give up my post at once and return to

VOL. I. p

the old battle-ground. I would as soon, having
to make the choice over again, be a cherubim
as a judge. They are, I suppose, cut off from
free and unceremonious intercourse with society
around them, just as we sitting on our bench
are. I am fond of politics, and have been
ever since I was a lad. Stow I dare no more
open my mouth in public upon topics of the
day than I dare swear at the Lord Chancellor.
I am not supposed to have any opinion
on current affairs, whereas I have very strong
ones, and never have been a good hand at disguising
them. More than that, one is cut off
from cheerful conversation and companionship.
I tried to get over this, at first perhaps a little
spasmodically. There's Wenham, for example,
an old chum of mine ever since we both went
to the bar together. I often meet him walking
down to Westminster Hall, and fall in for a
chat. But it's no use ; I have given it up.
Perhaps if I were to meet him on an iceberg in
the Arctic Ocean, or on a moor in Scotland, it

might be "all right. But so near Westminster
Hall, he evidently cannot get over his associations,
or forget that presently I will be on the
bench and he pleading before me. I give you
my word of honour, I dare not say when I
meet him : " A fine morning, Wenham," for
fear he should reply, "As your lordship
pleases." '

'You are misanthropic, gloomy, and prejudiced.
You are new to the business, and
take a one-sided view of it. But look at the
other side ; regard the salary, the dignity, and
the opportunities of quietly amassing a fortune
without killing yourself ^vith work.'

The dignity is all right, but the salary's
insufficient. There is, I believe, a vulgar notion
abroad that judges going circuit travel at the
expense of the State, and are entertained at the
charge of the Exchequer. That makes the real
facts more aggravating. I was sitting at dinner
next to John Bright the other night, and in his
sneering atrocious way he said, '* What a nice

lot of fellows you judges are when you can't
travel about without a good cook." Now that's
ignorance, sheer ignorance, Madame," as
Johnson said when the lady asked why he
had, in his dictionary, defined the pastern of
a horse as its fetlock. Only Bright is so
confoundedly self-satisfied that you are not
likely to get an admission of ignorance from
him.'

Then don't you have a cook ? ' asked
Gideon, gratefully striking in, feeling that the
conversation was now coming to his level.

No, sir,' said the judge, wrathfully, apparently
disposed to make the matter a personal
question with the company. ' What we have
is a fellow whom we call a contractor. He
undertakes to feed the judges and their suites
all through the circuit, and a pretty stiff sum it
comes to. Our bill on the Oxford circuit last
time came to 362/., and that did not include
wine or beer. One of the odd things about it
is that coffee also is excepted. You may have

a cup of tea, but if you ask for a cup of coffee
it's charged for as an extra.'

This is really shocking,' said O'Brien, ' and
to my mind proves more clearly than ever that
the country is going to the dogs. But then
you have lodgment.'

Yes, we have lodgings of one kind or
another. At Carlisle they are infamous, at
Liverpool excellent, at Manchester uncomfortably
gorgeous. Perhaps, as I see I am exciting
your profoundest sympathy and chilling Den-ham's
professional enthusiasm, causing him to
reconsider his determination to mount the
bench, I should say that there are two towns
on circuit where judges are received right
royally and entertained at the charges of the
municipality. One is Bristol and the other
Newcastle-on-Tyne. At Bristol, some years
ago, they tried to shuffle off the coil of hospitality,
and took an opinion from Melbourne,
who was then Eoundell Palmer. He advised
them that they certainly might drop the custom,

only, on the other hand, the judges would then
not be bound to perform for the municipality
certain antique and graceful services, so they
decided to hold on by the ancient customs.'

Is that the full tale of a judge's woes ? '
Gilbert asked.

No ! there's the buck. As Fits said tome
when we arrived in Exeter, " The Western
Circuit would be endurable only for its venison."
'

Tell us about the buck I never heard of
that.'

No ! one half of the world never knows
how the other half lives. There's a great earl
down near Exeter whose forefathers have for
some respectable space of centuries been in
the habit of welcoming the arrival of the
judges at the county town by the present of a
fine buck. I dare say it began in the time of
Judge Jeffreys, who went the Western Circuit,
and loved venison. I don't care for it myself,
being of the opinion of Coningsby's friend, the

great Lord Everingham, who thought the breed
of sheep must have been very inferior in the
old days as they made such a noise about their
venison. All I know is that the judges have
to give two guineas to the man who brings the
buck, and two guineas to the contractor, together
with two bottles of port wine to assist in
the cooking. Why this should be is wholly
incomprehensible, particularly in the case of
the contractor, who generally gets the buck.'

That's bad,' said Denham ; ' but I hear it
is worse at Lincoln, where there are two noblemen
who send a buck apiece for the delectation
of her Majesty's judges, and these little formulas
have to be gone through twice.'

Pity the sorrows of a poor young judge ! '
cried Gosley, who sometimes stole an hour
from morning sittings to cross to the other
side of Westminster Hall. ' But these drawbacks
don't seem to dim the spirits of Workings.'


No, those are irrepressible, especially

during a good black assize. Wilton says
Dorkings would sit at the Old Bailey day after
day without salary if he might only pass per
diem sentences amounting to a hundred years'
penal servitude. We never have any difficulty
in arranging who's to do the hard work at the
Old Bailey. Dorkings, like Barks, is always
willing.'

I don't know about his permitting himself
pleasure without pay,' said Denham. * He was
when at the Bar always pretty keen about the
fees.'

Yes, and he managed to roll up a pretty
good lump before he consented to face those
calls upon the purse which Belsey has so pathetically
descanted upon,' Mr. Mockett chimed
in. ' I suppose you have heard of his conversation
with the Duchess of Mull the other day.
She came up to him, and, with the atrocious
bad manner which duchesses sometimes permit
themselves, said : " Well, Sir Albert, I have
heard that you are a very rich man." ^' Yes,

Duchess," said Dorkings, a little taken aback,
and horribly afraid she was going to ask him
for a subscription. " I have worked hard and
have been paid regularly." " Well, now tell
me, how much are you worth ? " " About
ten millions," said Dorkings, with his gravest
bow, and the Duchess retreated defeated.'

Dorkings,' said the Judge, ' has the complete
way of growing rich. He earns a great
deal and spends nothing ; he never entertains
company. I never met a man who had been
in his house. There's some mystery about
him.'

You may be sure it's a woman,' said
O'Brien. ' Is it true what one hears, about the
bangle that he never takes off his left ankle ? '

It's not a bangle, it's a bracelet, and it's
worn on his arm. A bracelet of solid gold
welded together and immovable.'

An affair of the heart, you may be sure,'
said Denham, ' though the idea of Dorkings
with a heart is a new sensation.'

The Judge having, in addition to his high
position, a loud voice and an energetic manner,
had managed pretty well to hold the company-together
whilst he thus discoursed upon his
learned brother. But the ice once broken
everybody made haste to fall in, and Gideon,
who had meant to shine a little himself, had
the greatest difficulty even in following any
consecutive course of conversation. Mr. Gosley
and Mr. Wratten, when they failed in their
attempts to speak across the table, personally
addressed themselves to. him, concluding longwinded
narratives in which they themselves
invariably supplied the hero.

I went to Gladstone and told him that this
would not do. We had had a meeting in the
Tea Room, at which the whole thing had been
discussed — at least, I made a speech, and so
did Blenheim — after which the meeting was
adjourned, our time being up. But it was very
clear that the party would go to pieces if this
thing went on.'

Mr. Gosley, whilst he thus discoursed, had
settled his elbow upon the table with his head
leaning upon it, his face tiu-ned towards Gideon,
who was looking across the table where the
clear, well-balanced voice of Mockett rose
above the din in discussion on fly-fishing.

I know a man, a first-rate fisher, who has
the most extraordinary collection of flies I ever
saw. They are made for fishing in all parts of
the world except these islands where he habitually
practises. One he's rather proud of is
made from a feather of a cock pheasant, reared
in Central Hungary, a thing no British fish
would touch, however enticingly thrown. Of
course he never uses any of them, but generally
carries them about with him on his fishing expeditions,
for, as he truly says, you never know
what may happen. I always make a point
when I meet him of asking him whether he
has yet tried his fly made from the feather of
the Central Hungarian pheasant. But he admits
it has never been on the water yet.'

The oddest fly I ever saw fished with,' said
Gilbert, himself no 'prentice hand with the rod,
was a part of the beard of a famous Ea., a
man who, by the way, handles the rod with as
much picturesque effect as he does the brush.
I never saw a man cast a fly so prettily. He
was fishing one day near Ardrishaig, and had
caught nothing. He tried all he could, and all
the flies in his book with the same result. At
last, in his wrath, he caught hold of his red
beard, nipped a bit off the end, and made a fly
which, sure as I'm an honest fisherman, filled
his basket with trout.'

Did you never hear how he was made a
peer? ' Denham asked O'Brien. ' It was Granville
did it, and in his neatest manner. When
he came home from his embassy, brimful of
state secrets, and with the foreign policy of two
successive ministers at his fingers' ends, he told
Granville that he thought of going into Parliament,
as his knowledge of foreign affairs might
be of some use. " Well," said Granville with

the slightest of lisps and the sweetest of smiles,
if that is so I think you had better utilise your
knowledge in the House of Lords." Wouldn't
do to have a fellow like that loose in the
Commons, don't you know.'

They called upon me to ask if I would
use my influence with my friend Hartington,'
Wratten said in Gideon's other ear. ' I went
very carefully into the matter, and I said I
would see what I could do. I was, of course,
very glad to assist in any object which I thought
was for what seemed to Me the general good.
I remember a similar case when I was in Persia.
I was dining with the Shah, who said to Me,
Could I do anything for the Grand Vizier's
aunt." I '

Wratten's conversation always reminds me
of the French orator who, being interrupted,
and losing the thread of his discourse, recommenced
with the observation, " Where was I ? "
You disiez, moi," cried a voice from the crowd.'

This was a whispered remark from Denham

in the ear of Blissenden, who sat watching the
company, but contributed nothing to their conversation.


None of the guests interested Gideon so
much as this silent one. Gideon had made a
terrible blunder on entering the room, which
he had done a little late, thinking it desirable
that his entrance should appear as important as
possible. Having been introduced to Mockett,
whom he found talking to a boyish-looking
individual, and misunderstanding some reference
Mockett made to him, he had thought
that the lad was his son, and he greatly feared
that he had let this impression appear. He
prided himself, as we know, on his judgment of
men. But it was a puzzle to him to see this
terrible Eadical, this controller of more or less
secret societies in populous places, so absolutely
free from self-assertiveness, and displaying even
a pleasing bashfulness.

Mockett had one of those useful voices
which can be heard above any sound less thana

waterfall. Through the growing din, with
Oosley increasingly confidential on his right
hand, and Wratten more than ever self-laudatory
on his left, Gideon could make out that at
Mockett's end of the table they were discussing
art and artists.

He may have his faults, but he's one of
the few men who can draw a face, above all a
woman's face. He gets the eyes in the right
place — quite a novelty, I assure you, in that
kind of drawing. I have seen in the work of
some great men eyes put in such a position
that it would be perfectly impossible for the
owner to see out of them. Now, Mardyn gives
his faces a good human eye, one you could
wink with.'

Mardyn was a name Gideon knew very well.
He drew pictures for ' Punch ' and illustrated
books. Gideon felt it was time for him to
begin to shine if he was to do it at all. He .
was getting on famously with his companions
on either side, turning upon each at well-regulated

intervals a face displaying the profoundest
interest in their narratives, though for
all he understood they might have been reciting
the names of the ships in Homer. O'Brien saw
him, and began to have a much higher opinion
of his abilities than he had brought to the
table. Gideon would try a shot about Mardyn,
and get the stream of conversation turned
towards him.

Just as he was moistening his lips and
preparing for the plunge, Gilbert dashed in
with an inquiry fired across the table to the
Judge, which set all the company by the ears.

Belsey, you are now an outsider, besides
being a judge. What is your judicial opinion
on our chances at the general election ? '

I think they are good,' said the Judge
emphatically. ' I go about the country a good
deal and get a better view of things than you
fellows, who stop in town and think there is
no world outside the four-mile radius from
Charing Cross. I think the country sounder

than it appears to be when surveyed from St.
Paul's or the Clock Tower.'

So do I,' said Gilbert.

So don't I,' cried Mockett. ' Depend
upon it Dizzy's right in the view he takes of
foreign politics. The people like to hear the
drum and the shrill ear-piercing pipe.'

Yes,' said Bhssenden, in his quiet way,
now for the first time joining in the conversation,
'but they don't like to pay the piper.
They have had the melodies played in music-halls
and elsewhere, and now they have got not
only weary of the tune, but are growing uneasy
about the cost.'

It's my opinion,' said 'Mr. Gosley, ' that if
we do get in again Gladstone will have to pay
more attention to the views of men below the
gangway. We are not going to stand any more
snubbing. We made the party what it is, and
we shall want to have our claims recognised.'

Well, the party's in a dreadful mess now,
and has been for some time,' said Denham.

VOL. I. (^

If you made it what it is, Gosley, I wouldn't
say anything about it. The thing is are you
ready to take office ? '

To tell the truth,' said Gilbert, with a
weary look, 'I sometimes wish to heaven we
may never get back to power, or at all events
that I may never live to see the day. If there's
one thing worse than the Liberal party in opposition
it is the Liberal party in power. Our
enemies are those of our own household. We
pull six different ways at the same time. There is
not a man amongst us, except perhaps Gosley,
who doesn't think he'd make a better Prime
Minister than the chief. We're all so fatally
honest, so confoundedly conscientious, so infuriately
independent, that we constantly play into
the hands of the enemy. We've got our private
nostrums for saving the State, and are not only
certain that they will cure, but are ready to
affirm that anybody else's will kill. I often
think that since, for some great crime committed
in the dark ages by an unknown

ancestor, I must needs have been condemned
to be a Whip, that mercy should have been
tempered with justice, and I might have been
brought up on the other side. There the
relative positions of Whip and party are
thoroughly understood.'

You mean,' said Goymer, ' that one is the
Whip and the other the pack of hounds to go
hither and thither at the bidding of the huntsman.
I hope that is a state of affairs that will
never be found possible with the Liberal party

It certainly won't so long as you have a
say,' said Gilbert good-humouredly. ' The only
way I ever manage with you is on the principle
by which a pig is sometimes driven. If I want
you to vote " aye," I implore you to vote " no,"
and when I want you to keep out of a debate I
send you a note, trebly underlined, begging
you to be in your place at a particular time
to say a few words for us.'

For my part I think I may say I have

never '

q2

Wratten, who had been very uneasy at his
inability to strike in, had got thus far when the
worthy judge broke in, without meaning to be
rude, but his highly trained mind instinctively
ignored immaterial issues.

'Things have been very badly managed
from the first. Gladstone is both the strength
and the weakness of the party. His feminine
discomposure after the election of 1874 upset
everything, and but for Hartington, who
behaved nobly, the party would have been so
wrecked that twenty years wouldn't have served
to repair its fortune.'

You've only dealt with one aspect of the
]proposition you started with,' said Blissenden.
Gladstone made a mistake about himself in
1874, perhaps not inexcusable in a man of his
temperament, with his nerves unstrung by
over work and his temper ruffled by a sudden
and astounding rebuff. But you're all mistaken
if you don't see that he's the only man
who can place the Liberal party where it

was. He's the one man who can move the
country, and the country's quite ready to
be moved when he puts his hand to the
lever.'

Blissenden is right,' said Gilbert, ' and all
you town-bred men are wrong. I know what
the answer of the country will be at the
General Election, and I see behind that a woeful
time for the Whip, The old, old story of
a triumphant Liberal party exercising its spare
energy in pulling its ow hair and scratching
its own face, Gosley triumphant in the tea-room,
Goymer shaking a wise head and
looking unutterable things from a bench
below the gangway, and all the men who've
got nothing glaring at those who have got
something.'

Belsey,' said O'Brien, ' this conversation is
getting a little too serious. We shall have
Goymer moving to have Gilbert's words
taken down, to avoid which let's go and have
a cigar.'

In the smoking-room Gideon managed to
get away from Wratten, who was in a desperate
ill-humour, reflecting that, whether accidentally
or designedly, he had not been permitted to
complete a single sentence. Gosley was
harder to deal with, since he was bent on
rebutting Gilbert's insinuations, and showing
that if his views had been adopted in 1873 the
issue of the General Election would have been
different. Gideon had so far adapted himself
to the company of the two good men that he
could let them talk on without disturbing his
reflections, and even managed to get brief chats
with Sir Henry Gilbert and Blissenden. He
was much drawn towards the latter, and would
have liked to improve on his acquaintance, but
he felt that he would have plenty of opportunity
by-and-by.

In the meantime what he wanted to think
over, if Mr. Gosley would only let him, was
whether on the whole it was better for him to
come in as one of a troop of triumphant Liberals,

or to temper a general defeat of the Liberal party
by winning Saxton from the enemy ? On the
whole he concluded that the latter would be
more to his personal credit, and was not so
pleased as he should have been to hear these
confident predictions of victory all along the
line.

Chapter XV.

THE Clerk OF THE Weeks.

Two years have passed away since we first
found Gideon Fleyce stand at the window in
Carlton Street waiting for the coming of
Captain O'Brien. A great deal had happened
in the meantime. In respect of the interval
unbridged by consecutive narrative all had
gone well with Gideon. His financial affairs
were prospering in that feverish glow which
flushes in moments of prosperity, and takes on
a something of ghastly yellow when things do
not go quite straight. As has been, noted,
everything depended upon his ability to ' hang
on.' Hanging on involved the renewal of
early loans and the arrangement of renewals.
But the basis of the transaction was sound,

and within certain limits of time there would
be no difficulty with great financiers who had
large floating capitals, and liked to have them
temporarily anchored over broad lands.

Gideon's Napoleonic eye had stood him in
good stead. He had seen opportunities for
purchasing improving properties, had invested
therein the whole of his own money, and had
liberally borrowed from others. But this kind
of borrowing was on a very different basis from
that conducted in palmy days in the dimly
lighted room in Carlton Street. The men who
lent him money were famous banking firms,
fully alive to the magnitude of the transaction
and exceedingly careful in their investigation
of the security. That this should have been
satisfactory to them was the best proof of
Gideon's acuteness and the soundness of his
bargain. Certainly there was his own fortune
thrown in, and represented in ' the margin ' on
the original cost of the land.

The lenders kept a firm grip on their

holding, and would in the ordinary course of
events finally appropriate it should Gideon fail
in meeting his engagements. But every day
drew nearer to the blissful time on which he
had reckoned, when, owing to the action of
circumstances which cost him nothing, his property,
always improving, should realise twice
the amount of its purchase money.

Even now Gideon nibbled at the kernel of
the nut, occasionally selling little parcels of
land, though he did it regretfully and only under
pressure of exceptional circumstances, feeling
that he was sacrificing prospective advantages.

He had got into the way of spending his
money freely, and Saxton was already costing
him what only a princely revenue could meet.
First of all there was the Castle. The purchase
money of the long lease had been fixed at a
fancy price, and the alterations put it up to a
good round sum. He did not regret money
gone if only it had brought him adequate
return, and least of all did he lament the

amount spent on the alterations, for they had
brought him into very intimate acquaintance
with Napper. That young lady had gone into
the question of improvements with all the
enthusiasm of an unsophisticated nature. She
had a natural talent in this direction, and if
she had been a man might have made a decent
living as an architect, her universal genius
adding to the necessary qualifications a taste for
landscape gardening. Gideon knew nothing
about it. What pleased him most was to see
men at work with mounds of earth in one place,
and corresponding excavations' in another.

But he always looked wondrous wise, and
when a thing was done had a way of smiling
which suggested either that he had thought of
this before, or that whilst it would do very Velle
knew of something better, though he would
not on this occasion give articulate expression
to his superior views.

It was Napper who planned it all, though
her modest way of conducting the enterprise

frequently led to Gideon's giving orders and
honestly believing that the suggestion had
emanated from himself Of course all the old
farm buildings were removed out of sight.
The gateway which had formed the main
entrance to the courtyard was left intact and
supplied the doorway to the new mansion,
which, in a very modest and skilful way, had
subordinated itself to the general design of the
ruins.

It was in the courtyard that Napper's
fancy had found fullest scope. A flower
garden bloomed where John Cowman had
grown onions and cabbages. The thick and
springy turf which carpeted chambers that once
had been hall, or buttery, or boudoir, was for
the most part left untouched, only trimmed a
little and swept and rolled. Here and therein
quiet corners, deliciously cool on the hottest
day, were bits of lawn, the like of which the
county could not produce. What had been
the chapel was turned into a conservatory, the

work being managed, as elsewhere, with the
least possible disturbance of die ruins.

It really wanted very little doing, as
Napper said ; the less the better, only whatever
was done required her skilful touch and
graceful conception. If Gideon had had his
way untrammelled, it would have ended in his
carrying away the ruins altogether, and building
in their place some sham stuccoed tenement.
But, as generally happened with people who
came in contact with Miss Tandy, Gideon did
not in any undesirable particular have his way.
Capper managed him as she managed her
father and the whole population of Saxton,
male or female, hostile or friendly, envious or
adorned.

It is quite possible she did not know when
she was exercising this useful art. Certainly
the person subject to it was not aware of the
process. Underneath the veneer of Gideon's
gay, good-humoured manner, there was a
strong and deep foundation of obstinacy, not

to say pig-headed ness. To contradict him
was sufficient to confirm him in the course
challenged, Napper never contradicted him.

At the same time, as far as Castle Fleyce
was concerned, its owner never got his way
when he differed in the slightest measure from
the views of ' The Clerk of the Works,' as he
had named Napper in a sudden and exceptional
flash of humour.

Mr. Dumfy noted these goings on with
grave discomfort. He could see as far through
a milestone as most people. He read the very
soul of the solicitor's daughter, and saw therein
all those mean desires, those greedy aspirations,
and those subtly conceived plans which, by an
odd coincidence, were the reflections of the
immortal part of himself. When Mr. Tandy
had come to him with a sovereign, and expressed
his daughter's regret at the accident
which had led to the rending of his garment,
Mr. Dumfy took the coin with every expression
of gratitude and satisfaction. By this time he

had overcome the momentary and rare exhibition
of a sullen and somewhat savage nature,
which he had himself regretted within ten
minutes of its manifestation.

When he had raised himself on his knees in
the muddy road, it was with the quick intent
to look about for a paving stone wherewith to
smite Knut even unto the dust. Even later,
when he had reflected on the brevity of life,
with special references to the chances that
environed a dog, he had meditated the purchase
of a small packet of poison, which, administered
in a plainly dish of meat, would close Knut's
account for ever. But he had, on reflection,
abandoned this plan as altogether unworthy of
his policy. If he had not flashed forth in the
presence of Miss Tandy he might have done it.
After what had then passed, should Knut
suddenly decease with plain evidence of poison,
he should inevitably be suspected, and he knew
enough of Gideon's temperament, and of his
readiness to prove his devotion to Miss Tandy,
to reckon upon instant dismissal.

Of course there was the Spider in reserve.
But Mr. Dumfy was not such a fool as to think
of deliberately, and of his own choice, exchanging
the service of Gideon for that of his respected
father. His present berth grew richer
and richer in his esteem. Gideon occasionally
dropped down upon his petty cash accounts ;
but they were much more carefully kept since
the time when over-confidence had led Mr.
Dumfy to make those astounding entries of gin.
The total weekly amount was not less, but it was
more carefully distributed, and with a greater
wealth of substantives. In addition to other
curious qualities this effort at book-keeping
somehow or other invariably left in Mr. Dumfy 's
pocket at the end of thei week a sum exceeding
his appointed wage.

He had, cm the whole, a very comfortable
time down at Saxton. Now that the castle was
built, and Gideon's affairs had grown into
regular shape, Mr. Dumfy had returned to the
settled joys of the household in Camden Town,

and as the Sunday came round Eehoboth knew
his presence once more. Still he frequently
had occasion to 2^0 down to Saxton, and sometimes
spent two or three days there, which
formed a pleasant break in the monotony of
London Hfe. The splendour of his employer
was reflected upon him, and he enjoyed an
amount of consideration among the people
which he would not have bartered for Gideon's,
seeing that his share cost him nothing, whilst
his master's involved much money expenditure.
Mr. Dumfy, whilst able to make the best of
whatever good things came in his way, was
constitutionally troubled with apprehension as
to the future. What he had now was nothing
to what he might lose next week, or next
month, or next year, if certain things happened*
The certain thing that would happen he clearly
perceived was that Napper would marry Mr
Gideon Fleyce, and the inevitable thing that
would follow thereupon would be his immediate
dismissal. Just as he discovered in the fair and

VOL. I. R

frank exterior of tapper the loathsome meanness
which made up his own nature, so he
perceived in the young lady's mind a strong
and unquenchable hatred for himself, exactly
corresponding with that he cherished for her.

To tell the truth, Napper rarely bestowed a
thought upon him. She did not like him, it
is true, and had an instinctive feeling that his
almost total absence of instep was not the sole
reason for a distaste for which she could not
otherwise very well account. But he was
nothing to her, not nearly so much as one of
her old men in the almshouses. She was
always civil to him. But as a rule she was
more than civil to people with whom she came
in contact. Mr. Dumfy keenly felt the difference,
and the extracts from the Commination
Service formerly alluded to had in process of
time grown into the rounded proportions of a
second Athanasian Creed, which he could on
occasions recite to the unconscious Napper's
everlasting; condemnation.

A mean, artful 'ussey, plain' her game
that open that very few suspect her ; but it's
all as clear as moonlight. She thinks that conceited
fool is rolling in riches, and he'll sit in
the Houses of Parliament, and perhaps be made
a baroniae. Anyhow here's this Castle Fleyce,
that she's had made according' to her own
pattern, cutting it out as if it were one of her
own skirts she was a making up, and Gideon
standing there, looking on, smiling' in his
known' way, as if he wasn't being tied up just
like Sampson with Della's 'air, though he's
got no strength, which Sampson certainly had.'

Thus Mr. Dumfy, whose frequent attendance
at Eehoboth enabled him occasionally to garnish
his conversation with metaphors, discoursed
with the Spider as they sat at meat in the house
in the Fulham Eoad. The meat was exceedingly
limited in quantity, and, having stuck to
the pan in boiling, diffused through the room
an odour remote from appetising.

Made a little spouse for you, Mr. Dumfy,'
b2

said the Spider when the guest entered the banqueting
hall. ' You seemed to find the bread
and cheese cold last time.'

Yes,' said Mr. Dumfy, sniffing with a
slightly dissatisfied air, ' but haven't you made
this a little too 'ot?'

It's my extravagance with the coal,' replied
the Spider regretfully, as he raked together a
small quantity of slack, which left it for ever a
mystery how the pan could have got burned.

Mr. Dumfy had formed the habit of dropping
in in the Fulham Eoad every other Sunday
night on his way from Eehoboth. It was a
very long way round, and he had more than
once hinted that it was a little late for supper
when he got home. The Spider had met these
advances by the cautious production of bread
and cheese, the latter Dutch and very dry.
Also there was a flagon of what Mr. Dumfy
recognised as ' four-'arf.' The Spider himself
did not partake of this sumptuous meal, though
Mr. Dumfy could not fail to notice the

peculiar measurement of the liquor when
poured out. It was too much for a glass, and
not enough for a pint, which appeared to suggest
that the latter quantity had been imported,
but had somehow or other evaporated.

The Spider found these visits so interesting
and consolatory that he began to look for them
with increasing appetite, and since it was plain
that Vir. Dumfy was not to be bound by the
silken bonds of bread and cheese and very thin
beer, he had ventured upon the richer allurement
of a hot supper. The first experiment
was not a success, but Mr. Dumfy recognised
the goodness of the intention, and ate what he
could of the compound.

Now the Castle's built, and all them flim-
flams in the back-yards put right, you'd expect
she'd drop ofi* a bit. But no ! When a female's
once made up her mind to a thing of this sort,
she goes on without so much as thinking' of the
shame. She's not up at the Castle quite so
much, and I must say her father does the right

thing by coming with her. But there's alleys
summit up, the end being that she's around
spain' and ordering', and setting' things, just as if
she were going' in as missis next week.'

This, it should be said, was an exaggeration,
due probably to the inspiriting effects of
the four-'arf and the genial glow of the burnt
spouse. As soon as the Castle had been
furnished by Mr. Griggs, and was ready for
occupation, Napper had begun to withdraw.
She did this not because people in Saxton were
beginning to talk (moved thereto by hints
diplomatically dropped by Mr. Dumfy), or
because she thought there was anything wrong
in sometimes taking her father's arm and strolling
with him up the hill to look in at the
Castle to luncheon, or peradventure to dinner.
She did not go any more, simply because her
work was finished, and it was, to tell the truth,
the excitement of the work which made
Gideon's company endurable. She had not
abandoned her faith in his generous schemes

and great destiny. If lie was going into Parliament,
of course it was with the intention of
doing the State some service. He certainly
was going, and spared neither money nor
personal effort to secure his election. At the
same time, she began to think that, like some
others, he had mistaken his vocation.

She discovered that his actual knowledge
was exceedingly limited. In literature she herself
was pretty well read ; but when she started
in that direction she was speedily pulled up by
discovering that Gideon did not know what she
was talking about. Of politics and public
affairs she knew nothing. He of course, as
coming forward to represent the borough, must
know everything, and Napper thought the
opportunity favourable for adding to her store
of knowledge in this new field. Gideon took
refuge in mysterious references, or strung together
a few phrases which Trapper's quick
intelligence detected to be nonsense.

This was a matter she could not quite make

out. How a man who knew nothing whatever
about politics or of public affairs, at home or
abroad, or even of the history of his own
country, should go into Parliament to make
laws was a matter beyond her comprehension*
But with all her quickness of decision and
occasionally surprising energetic manner, she
was exceedingly modest. This was clearly a
business which she did not understand, and was
it for her to judge others ? She thought not ;
and so quietly refrained from touching these
topics, greatly to Gideon's relief, who was conscious
of quite a new feeling of shame at playing
the impostor be lore this girl.

With politics a forbidden ground, literature
hopeless, and the works at the Castle complete,
Napper found Gideon's company rather a barren
entertainment, and accordingly began to semi
it. To Gideon this new attitude carried fresh
confirmation of a truth borne in upon him as
strongly as it had been upon Mr. Dumfy. He
did not take such a low opinion of Napper as

came natural to his clerk. But he honestly
felt that it would be a very nice thing for her
if he married her, and made her mistress of
Castle Fleyce, with a prospective house in
town.

Chapter XVI.

KING AND BEGGAR MAID.

In robe and crown, the King stept down
To meet and greet her on her way ;

It is no wonder,' said the lords,
She is more "beautiful than day.'

Gideon had seen all Napper's pretty ways, playing
round about him as a butterfly circles a
rose ; or, as Gideon was inclined to put it in its
severer aspect, as a moth flutters about a candle.
Now the poor frail thing, feeling its wings singed,
had withdrawn, hoping to carry its wound and
its woe to some quiet place where in course of
time they might grow healed.

He watched the helpless flutterer with a
fresh access of tenderness. It would all come
right in the end, he thought, and he was sure that
not for anything less than a matter of supreme

importance would he give pain to this bright
and beautiful girl, who was so happy when fate
first led him to Saxton.

He had been brought up in a school where
it was customary to give nothing for nothing,
and to charge from fifty to sixty per cent, on
actual advances. He could not entirely divest
himself of the notion that in thus plainly laying
siege to his affections Napper had in her eye
those substantial advantages which would accrue
from union with him.

There he was, in a degree, at one with Mr.
Dumfy. But he was able to perceive, what Mr.
Dumfy was not always successful in comprehending,
the possibility of certain other influences
that had clearly been at work in the mind
of this unfortunate young person. Iso one
before had ever been in love with him as far
as he knew ; yet when he came to think of it
there were many reasons why they should be.
He was, as his glass told him, a pleasant-looking
man, his glossy black whiskers setting ofi* to

advantage the clear red and white of his complexion,
and the pearly purity of his teeth.
He was certainly well dressed and had more
new boots in a year than any man of his
acquaintance. Besides, he was pleasant-spoken,
and had of late in the new company ^vith
which he was associated put on certain manners
altogether unfamiliar in Carlton Street, and
which, when graphically described by Mr.
Dumfy during the Sunday evening in Fulham
Road, were received with snorts of contempt
and snapping of dirty fingers on the part of his
revered parent.

Gideon was of very quick intelligence, and
was not in society for nothing. Without appearing
to watch, he saw how a born gentleman like
O'Brien comported himself, and almost unconsciously
adopted something of his manner. His
education had marvellously progressed during
his companionship with Napper. She had no
idea that she was teaching, and Gideon had still
less suspicion that he was learning. But the

process was going on day by day, and Gideon
began to have quite surprising glimpses of how
gentlemen thought in particular circumstances,
and what it was likely that they would say and
do. Of course the change was entirely superficial.
You cannot make a silk purse out of a
sow's ear, at least not during a process of
manipulation comprehended within the space of
two years.

It was Gideon's great misfortune that his
idea of being a gentleman and a member of
Parliament should have come to him so late in
life. That it came to him at all is evidence
that there was some good impulse in him.
His father, for instance, had lived for thirty
years longer than him, and it is safe to assert
that at no moment of his life had it occurred to
him that it would be a nice thing to be a
gentleman. As far as he had studied the genus,
a gentleman was a well-dressed creature, who
spent a great deal more money than he actually
possessed, and was continually calling at Carlton
Street for fresh loans.

Gideon in his earliest advances towards manhood
had gladdened the old gentleman's heart
by his avidity in the money making business.
It seemed quite natural that this should be so.
It had been in the family since they hawked
wares at the gates of Jerusalem. Still parentage
is a tricks problem. No one can say
how a youth of unexceptionable parentage may
turn out. There is, in truth, a proverb to the
effect that the sons of the clergy are not all
that they should be. The Spider when contemplating
the near probability of Gideon's
birth never speculated whether he (if he it
should prove) would be born with three arms
or one eye. But he often lay awake in the
dead unhappy night, wondering whether it was
possible that he should have a son who was to
be a discredit to the family — that is, one who,
coming into possession of tens of thousands of
sovereigns, did not by honest trade make them
fifties.

Gideon had at first done credit to his training.

He bad thrown himself into the business
with youthful energy and hereditary talent.
Hq had even exceeded his father's wildest hopes,
causing the business to spread and multiply exceedingly.
It was with ecstatic recognition of
this great goodness that the old man had retired
in favour of his son, and set himself up in the
bijou residence in the Fulham Eoad suitable fora
bachelor of fortune, and filled up his leisure
moments by counting his money.

It was shortly after this event that Gideon,
looking about for fresh means of adding to his
wealth, had hit upon the land scheme. Then
had entered into his mind what his father
regarded as a demoniac ambition to be a
gentleman of position, and his natural shrewdness
led him, as the shortest and completest way,
towards the portals of the House of Commons.
Thereafter his downward course had been
followed with accelerated impetus till ' Now,' as
the Spider observed with his evil eye glaring
upon Mr. Dumfy, as if that estimable person had

had something to do with it—' now he no more
values a fifty pound note than if it was a threepenny
piece.'

If Gideon had commenced earlier in life he
would have done as well as, or even better
than, many of the well-placed gentlemen who
utter platitudes at public meetings, and pass for
exceedingly wise men of cultivated taste and
well-bred manner. He had done well, wonderfully
well, considering the time and measure
of opportunity he had enjoyed, and if he could
only carry out the half formed intentions he
cherished, he would in the race of respectability
overtake a good many who had made an earlier

start.

He was rapidly tending in that direction,
but of course there was no hurry. He must
get this election through first, and relieve his
mind from the recurrent worry of his mortgages.
With a seat in Parliament, and the corner
turned, he could with more satisfaction tell
Napper that he had made up his mind to marry

her. She was an estimable girl, a rare prize,
just the very thing he wanted to round off his
establishment. Of course he might marry
money. There were plenty of dark-eyed red-hoped
children of Israel who, after proper preliminaries,
would consent to stand by his side
under a canopy whilst he dashed a tumbler
to pieces on the ground at their feet. Their
fathers were unpleasant persons in most cases,
and their mothers distinctly tended towards
obesity. These were objections that were
growing upon the cultivated taste of Gideon ;
and besides, he had never thought of such a
thing. Napper would have no money, but he
would have enough for two, and she would
bring to his household gifts that were not to be
weighed in the balance with such weights as
the Spider was wont to put in his scales.

He felt conscious of quite different feelings
when in company with Napper. At first her
really ridiculous regard for the truth struck him
as a curiosity. He had never in his life come

VOL. I. s

across any one who, quite naturally, without
any effort, appearance of mental controversy,
or vestige of self-sacrifice, told the truth on all
occasions. Even gentlemen of historic names,
and doubtless among themselves of unimpeachable
honour, did not hesitate to misrepresent
facts when they came to deal with the
Spider.

Gideon had, first of all, been attracted by
this curious phenomenon as he might have been
drawn by discovering a comet in the heavens.
He had heard of such things, of course, though
chiefly in reading history or fiction. But here it
was in a natural state, growing and living under
his very eyes. It was really a curious thing,
and Gideon, after staring at it for some time,
began to grow quite to like it. To have near
him a person who, in whatever circumstances of
the hour or day, might be relied upon to tell
exactly the truth, neither more nor less, was
something worth having. It was like the prospect
of possessing a watch that, hour by hour

and year by year, kept true time, and saved its
owner the trouble of guessing whether it was
now slow or then fast.

He liked this so much that lie even tried it
himself — not in any important affairs where to
tell the truth would have been seriously damaging,
but in minor matters where, two years ago,
he would unhesitatingly have shielded himself
from possible injury by adapting facts to circumstances.
Now he, sometimes, judiciously
and by way of experiment, let facts have their
own way, and was encouraged by finding that
the consequences were, after all, not so calamitous
as lifelong habitude had led him to apprehend.


The worst of it was that with his old associates
the thing made no difference. In the
society where Gideon had been born and bred
it was the custom for men to assume a proprietary
interest in facts, and deal with them
accordingly. Thus there grew up a mental
habitude of taking a man's assertion and turning

it over in the mind with the object of deciding
how much was true, and where and with what
object the speaker varied from the path of
rectitude.

One thing Gideon was quick enough to perceive
was the enormous saving of time and of
brain power accruing in social communities
where people were accustomed to tell the truth,
not only in great affairs but in small matters of
daily life. Having a turn for arithmetical calculations
he came to the conclusion that twelvemonths
spent with Napper would be equal to
two years' residence with his esteemed parent.
Half the time father and son spent in social or
business intercourse they necessarily occupied
in winnowing truth from fiction in the mixture
presented in each other's converse. When
Napper spoke, Gideon had only to endeavour
to grasp the meaning of her words in their
ordinary acceptation. This done he knew precisely
what she meant to convey, and his old
economical instincts rose up to confirm the

impression that after all this was the better way
of speech.

It will be clear to experienced students of
these affairs that, since Gideon could thus calmly
discuss the girl, he was not in love with her ;
wherein they are right. He never had known
what it was to love any one in the sense foolish
men and women use the verb. Women were
a sealed book which he never thought it worth
his while to open. Here it was spread out
before him with fairest page, and he felt conscious
of a new and subtle pleasure in studying
it. But as for love, he was too busy to think
of that.

It began to be as clear to him as it was to
Mr. Dumfy that he would end by marrying
Napper. Of course he had only to ask her, and
she would be his. It was like getting possession
of the Castle. A big money sacrifice would
be involved ; but price was no object where
value was to be received, and here more clearly
than ever Gideon discovered full value. The

very sense of certainty of possession was enough
to prove the absence of love. It may be true
that perfect love casteth out fear, but it is certainly
not true with respect to the initial stages
of the process. Gideon had no fear, inasmuch
as he had never contemplated the possibility of
Napper's saying nay to his yea. He would, he
supposed, marry Napper, and he smiled to himself
to think how mightily pleased her respectable
father would be at such a brilliant match.

But just now he had other things to think of.
When he could write M.P. after his name, when
the rapidly succeeding sale of lots of eligible
land on building leases were clearing off this
mortgages, when he had his town house, and
when the men whose names he saw in the
newspapers had grown accustomed to put their
legs under his mahogany, then he would come to
this really estimable girl and would say to her : —

Napper, I've watched jt-qu closely for sometime,
and know your value. You are a good
and a clever girl, and would be a credit to any

establishment. I don't ask whether you've got
any money. I've enough for two. I might
have done better, and perhaps I might look
higher; but I'm a judge of character. IVe
studied yours and I like it. Come now and
be Mrs. Gideon Fleyce, wife of G. Fleyce, Esq.,
M.P., of Castle Fleyce, in the county of lister,
and of number something - or - other,
Grosvenor Street, W.'

King Cophetua would woo the beggar girl
only when he might step down from his throne
and invest her with the glory of the crown he
laid at her feet.

Chapter XVH;

A RISING JOURNALIST.

Gideon had not made a light answer when, in
reply to an observation from Napper on the
question of newspaper proprietorship, he had
stated that he intended to have a paper of his
own. He meant to go through with this thing
at Saxton, and in his large way it seemed the
campaign would not be complete unless he
owned a newspaper. Perhaps next to editing
or managing a newspaper, the easiest and most
agreeable thing in the world, according to the
world's way of thinking, is to own one. There
is this particular difference, that whilst, of course,
any one can edit a newspaper without preparation,
it requires more or less of capital to
become a proprietor.

Gideon had the capital, and he thought

lie would like to have the newspaper. Mr.
Gladstone, he understood, had a large share in
various metropolitan and provincial prints. A
Cabinet Minister was about bung, or had just
bought, a journal having the largest circulation
in the world. Other distinguished statesmen
were more or less suspected of proprietors
rights in newspapers, and to Gideon it seemed
that this was the right thing for a rising politician
to do.

As usual when wanting something in connection
with his electoral campaign he looked
to Captain O'Brien, and asked him to find him
a man who could start and successfully run a
newspaper at Saxton, just as he might have
asked him for the loan of his pocket knife.
O'Brien, whose impulses were all honest, endeavoured
to dissuade his client from embarking
on this new adventure.

'What do you want with a newspaper at
Saxton ? ' he asked. ' It cannot pay ; it would
be a constant drain upon you, and will do you

no good. The worst thing in the world for a
man in public life is to own a newspaper. It
brings him into all kinds of embarrassing relations
with his friends, and, so far from helping
him by keeping his name favourably before the
public, it does him injury. If you start a paper
every one will know that it is your own ; then,
how can you deal with yourself and your prospects
? You can't pufF yourself in your own
paper, and can't even do yourself justice, for if
you have earned a good word, and it is said
for you in a journal you are known to own, all
its value will be discounted. You might as
well write a letter yourself in your own hand
and under your own name, discoursing on your
own good qualities. The local papers will
look after you fairly and fully enough, and
you'd better leave the business to them.'

Gideon scarcely listened to these words of
wisdom, as was his habit when he had once
made up his mind. He had thought about the
newspaper before Napper mentioned it, and

what she had innocently said confirmed him in
his idea. It would be a grand thing to have a
newspaper all your own, to say in it, or have
said in it, what you pleased, and thus be indirect
communication with tens of thousands of
people. Besides, it would be another earnest of
his intentions and stability. He already owned
a castle at Saxton. If he hud a newspaper, too,
he felt he would be rather set up.

O'Brien, finding Gideon obdurate, and
feeling that it was not his business to throw
himself in the way of swine running down a
steep place bounded by the sea, undertook to
find the necessary man. In fact he had had
him in his eye when Gideon mentioned the
subject, and it was only by a considerable
sacrifice of amiable intention that he had
uttered the warning. This was just the thing
for Jack Bailey, and might be the making of
him in more ways than one. Jack was the son
of an old friend and compatriot of O'Brien's.
Like most Irishmen who cut themselves adrift

from their native soil, he was clever, and, like
many, he had a taste for journalism. He had
come to London three years ago full of high
hope and boundless ambition. This was about
all the fulness he possessed, his pockets and
portmanteau being singularly empty. But that
was a matter which did not greatly trouble
Jack. He had letters of introduction, which he
felt certain would forthwith place his foot on
the step of the ladder, and then — !

In common with enthusiastic youths with a
taste for journalism who essay to storm the
gates of London, Jack had a quiet, pathetic
trust in his letters of introduction. They were
addressed to men whose names were familiar to
him, and whom he knew lived and worked in
the very Arcana of journalism.

What troubled Jack as he smoked his pipe
in the second-class carriage that whirled him
rapidly from Holyhead to London was the
embarrassment of riches that would presently
beset him. The first step was everything, and

whether he should consent to accept an engagement
on the * Jupiter,' the ' Thunderer,' or the
early ' Starlight ' was, he felt, a matter of the
gravest importance. Like hundreds of other
youths bent on the same errand, he firmly
believed that in London journalism there were
at least a score of round holes waiting for the
round pegs that should be thrust into them. He
was of course the round peg, and felt that in
occupying a particular position (having made
a certain selection and done his best to smooth
over the natural disappointment of those of his
friends whom he could not oblige by taking
the position they had ready for him) he would
not only be meeting his own views, but greatly
obliging the particular paper he had selected.

The quality of mercy is not strained,' he
cried aloud, waving his short pipe with theatrical
air. 'It dropped as the gentle rain from
heaven upon the place beneath. It is twice
bless'd. It blesseth him that gives and him
that takes.'

Jack's natural spirits, always irrepressible,
were just then naturally at their highest pitch,
and when his sole companion in the carriage,
an elderly gentleman sucking at a stout Trichinopoly
cheroot, got out at the next station,
Jack knew he thought he was mad, and greatly
enjoyed the joke.

He was very kindly received by the famous
journalists to whom he carried his letters of introduction.
They were exceedingly busy, but
each in turn asked him to dinner, and he met
at their tables two or three others of high
repute, and some whose names he had never
heard, though he gathered that they produced
a considerable portion of the wisdom, warning,
and counsel, distilled in doses a little over a
column in length in the morning papers. His
new friends said they would think of him, keep
his name daily before them, and whenever
opportunity arose would with both hands seize
it by the hair ; and when the door was closed on
his buoyant figure, they straightway forgot him.

The one who was the least effusive in his
reception of the youth from Ireland angered a
little in the hall with Jack, as the latter bid
him farewell.

I have told you I will bear you in mind,
my lad,' he said, looking kindly into Jack's
face, with the bright grey eyes that saw so
much ; ' but I must tell you too that I have
said it to a good many more, and so probably
have all men in my position. London is like a
great magnet, and all the bits of steel filings
and chipping knocked off in any part of the
country fly towards it. But a bit of steel filing
or an odd knuckle of iron is not a shapely and
well-tempered chisel warranted to do a good
day's work. There is no trade like ours, my
lad, at once so seductive and so exacting. The
railway stations, especially those that lead from
the North, are daily disgorging youths, some of
average ability, many of none at all, and one
in five hundred of heaven-born aptitude, all
pressing forward in the great and attractive

race for the prizes of literature, and it's hardworking
nursing mother journalism. The many
after a heart-breaking struggle starve, or, if a
merciful Providence has blessed them with any
remnant of common sense, they go now and
do what they should have done at first — they
drive the pen in a merchant's office, or measure
out dress stuffs in a draper's shop. The some
having at least mechanical aptitude drop
into the rank and file of journalism and earn
a more or less satisfactory income in the
neighbourhood of the Police-courts, or even,
if they have luck, in the Houses of Parliament.
The five-hundredth, whether the doors
be opened or closed to him when he commences
his campaign, sooner or later inevitably takes
his place just as he would have done if he had
been born a joiner or a market gardener, or
had been gifted with whipcord leg sinews
suitable for a professional walker or runner.

In journalism perhaps beyond any other
profession, the best man wins, and that is partly

because it is absolutely the most open profession,
wanting neither capital nor stock-in-trade
to start with, not even an easel and box
of paints and pallet as a painter must needs
have. There is no such thing as patronage in
journalism, and exceedingly little to be got out
of personal friendship. Our real master and
employer is the public, and the public will not
have forced upon it second or third-rate work
in deference to the amiable intentions of any
man desirous of befriending an acquaintance, or
getting a wife's relative off his hands. I think
you will do, my lad ! but whatever you do you
will have to do yourself, and the sooner you
get out of your head the notion of any one
shovelling you into the snug places of journalism
the sooner you will begin to move.

When Humpty Dumpty fell off the wall, you
know, all the king's horses and all the king's men
could not get him back again. In its way it is
the same with you young chaps and journalism.
You stand at the foot of the wall looking up

VOL. I. T

to the top and thinking how nice it would be
to be sitting there, and how admirably qualified
you are for the post, but you must climb yourselves.
If it is in you you will do it, and all
the king's horses and all the king's men — that
is to say, all the editors and all the able
journalists of the day, cannot keep you back.
If it isn't in you, well then if all the editors of
all the daily papers in London were to combine
to make a back for you, you'd never get up,
or if you did you would presently swiftly and
ignominiously be thrust down.

It would have been easier for me to stop
short at the formula about bearing you in mind,
and that sort of thing. But I like the look of
you, and, moreover, I have some tendency towards
honest speech, and feel it is kinder to tell
you all this than to buoy you up with false hope
of what I can do for you. I can do for you just
what was done for myself when the imperturbably
yawning railway station disgorged me —
and that was as nearly as possible nothing. What

I have done I have done for myself, and you will
find that is the history of every man who holds a
position on the London press to-day. Don't you
hurt your prospects, my lad, by thinking things
are otherwise. It will bring you only disappointment
and sorrow, and wasted opportunity.'

This was rather a wet blanket on Jack,
as seeming to extinguish the warm hopes with
which he had looked from afar on the reflection
in the sky of the lights of London. But he was
not (at least not then) easily cast down, and even
took refuge in reviling his kindly counsellor.

A mean, calculating Scotchman,' he said
to himself, having succeeded in raising his
spirits with the assistance of a soda and brandy
and a cigar. ' He wants to discount the claim
I have upon him, and \\4shes to make out a
case to show he actually can do nothing. I
suppose he is the five-hundredth man, the irresistible
genius, the patent corkscrew warranted to
go through an oak board. Nothing could
keep him back, I'll warrant. And he did it
I 2

all himself ! The conceited, niggardly Soot ;
and I don't think so much of his writing
neither, although it is cracked up, and he's got
a fine berth, besides writing as much as he
likes in the monthlies and quarterlies.'

Jack vowed he would go near him no more,
and when presently they met on equal terms,
he would take an opportunity of conspicuously
cutting him.

Jack was a very clever fellow, a smart
writer, and a fair scholar. He had passed
through Trinity College with that particular
sort of distinction which a youth gains among
his class mates, when they declare that if he
liked he might have got any prize. Jack
apparently did not like. At any rate he got
none, but he brought away with him a fair
smattering of classical knowledge and a wide
acquaintance with English and French literature,
to the study of which he was drawn by natural
taste.

Whilst he was waiting till fortune should

decide for him which of the three great papers
named he should accept a staff appointment on,
he began to write paragraphs and short articles
for the evening papers and some of the weeklies.
Of most of these ventures he heard nothings
more, but one or two began to appear. When
Jack saw his writing in print for the first time
he felt that his fortune was made, and since
there would be no need for further hoarding of
the small balance of cash that remained to him
after five weeks' waiting in London, he went
and had a good dinner, including a pint of
champagne, an eighteen cigar, a cup of
black coffee, and a glass of Chartreuse. This
was unfortunate, as payment for his article
(which when it arrived amounted to only
double the amount he had spent on his dinner)
was deferred till the end of the month.

In the meantime Jack had to live, and he
found the problem very hard to solve. He
learned the way to the pawnbroker's shop, and
temporarily dispossessed himself of his watch

and some other articles of portable property
At the end of the month he got his guinea for
his article, and a few shillings from some other
papers. He worked hard enough to have made
a decent living if all he had written had been
printed and paid for. But whilst he was
gradually establishing a footing in this precarious
fashion, he would write five articles,
of three of Which he heard nevermore. They
vanished as completely and as hopelessly as
if he had dropped them into one of the openings
in the main drainage. But he was unquestionably
getting on. He had a bright pointed style,
and a daring way of looking at things which
recommended him to some papers. He got an
article in a magazine, and looked with blurred
eyes upon his name set forth in fair type — ' J.
Bellamy Bailey.'

Jack had noted before leaving Dublin the
enormous advantage it was to a man entering
upon a press career to have a memorable
Christian name. The commoner the surname

the more exigent the necessity. Plain Fred Smith
would be nowhere in the race ; but let him
come out as F. Belshazzar Smith, and he is
already some way towards making his fortune.
The same with John Jones, who might as well
attempt with such a name to thrive in popular
literature as he might demand from the Prince
of Wales the immediate restoration of the
Princedom, which probably belongs to him by
lineal descent. But when J. Cholmondely
Jones appears at the foot of an article, we
somehow or other gain a very different idea of
the personalty of the writer.

Thus Jack had, very early in life, determined
to become famous under the name and countersign
of J. Bellamy Bailey. Of course this was
no use among his friends. The gay youth of
Trinity had always called him Old Bailey. In
London, where he presently found many friends
of a boisterous sort, all called him ' Jack ' before
they had known him twenty four hours.

Having once made a start in the business of

friend-making, Jack increased his possessions like
a progressive snowball. The friends into whose
hands he had fallen were, perhaps, not of the
most desirable kind. Their try sting place was
the bar of one or other of the public-houses
which lie between Lydgate Hill and Temple
Bar, and wherein literature is cultivated on a
little water and a great deal of spirits.

This was, possibly, the turning point in Jack's
career. There is nothing like hard work for
keeping a youth out of temptation. Jack was
working very hard, partly because he liked it,
and partly because he must live, and here where
his means of livelihood. But as he began to
prosper, found readier acceptation of hi articles,
and growing cheques from various sources at the
end of the month, the disposition which led him
to give himself a big dinner in commemoration
of his first article, and induced him to order
Chartreuse with his coffee when he knew Cognac
would have been at least threepence cheaper,
now led iiiui hopelessly astray.

He was always at one or the other of the
bars to which shifting fashion led the gay youth
of Fleet Street. Of a generous nature, and
constitutionally inclined to let the morrow look
after itself, he spent his money faster than it came
in, and when he had changed his cheques and
paid what he owed, he found himself face to face
with a new month, and very little money. He
was better paid than at first, and found a surer
market for his goods. This meant that he need
not work so hard to make a certain income.
But it also meant that if he had worked as hard
as during the first twelve months of his residence
in London he might have been in comfortable
circumstances and on the way to establishing
his fame.

That was not Jack's notion of getting
through life. A great deal of bloom had been
rubbed ofi' his early aspirations. At one time"
journalism was a sacred vocation to him. Xow
it was a mere business. So much ' copy '
accepted and printed meant so many guineas.

He would work only when driven by direst
need. His work, though naturally bearing
signs of haste, was always good, sparkling with
native humour, and agreeably aggressive.

How long this would last was, even to Jack,
a matter of sad foreboding in hours when he lay
on his bed, the broad daylight streaming through
the curtailed windows upon a wretched youth,
his head tied up in a wet bandage, and a half-empty
bottle of soda-water on the table near
him.

O'Brien knew something of what was going
on, and noted with pain Jack's downward
course. He liked him, as everybody did ; only
his liking was of a more useful sort than that
of the generous fellows, old and young, who
were Jack's boon companions, for whom he
stood drinks,' and who now and then, with
intent to keep the ball rolling, repaid the
attention in kind. He had Jack to dinner
occasionally at his club, where he listened
with grave attention to the youth's flaming

account of his comet-like progress in his
profession.

O'Brien noted that for so prosperous a
youth, who might be supposed to have lunched
in due time, Jack had a quite phenomenal
appetite at eight o'clock in the evening. Also
his clothes were not quite so well appointed
as befitted his high and improving station.
Later, in the smoking-room, Jack, soothed by
a comfortable dinner, a moderate allowance of
wine, and a good cigar, sometimes grew confidential.
He let O'Brien know that the path
of a man of literature was not always strewn
with roses — or, to quote his precise imagery, ' it
was not all beer and skittles.' There were
prejudices to be overcome, animosities to be
vanquished, and, above all, mediocrities to root
out of high places which they held to the
exclusion of genius.

What O'Brien liked better to hear were
occasional sighs from the depths of Jack's still
uncontaminated heart for something higher

than this skirting of the highways of literature
in company with men who maintained its worst
traditions without diffusing their soddened
career with any of the gleams of ordinary
genius — ' Churchill with everything save the
ability to write the " Eosciad," to-day feasting
on ortolans, yesterday tearing tripe, and tomorrow
evening an empty trencher.'

There did not seem any hope of Jack in
London. He was doing moderately well, but
he drank a great deal too much and too
often. His day was a continual succession of
nips,' and his night a steady carouse. If he
could only be got away to some quiet place
he might be saved, and, since Gideon would
have it so, Saxton seemed to supply the very
opportunity.

Behold then, Jack settled at Saxton, editor
and manager of the ' Saxton Beacon.' At this
epoch of our story the ' Beacon ' had been
blazing for six months with, it must be owned,
a somewhat lurid light. Of course, Jack knew

nothing of the requirements of Saxton, or of
the elements of success in such a paper.
Politics were not his strong point, but since
Gideon was going in on Liberal principles it
seemed right that Jack should belabour the
Conservative Ministry.

This was a fortunate incident, seeing that
Jack's nationality made it quite a pleasant duty
to ' go again the Government.' Only a certain
measure of discretion and general information
is required even in the prosecution of this
agreeable and summary political creed. Jack
hit out a little widely, feeling satisfied if only
he smote some one. His lapses from historical
fact and his occasional misapprehension of the
drift of affairs gave occasion to the enemy to
blaspheme, and the local ' Standard ' (publishing
in the neighbouring town of Lamp-borough)
gleefully undertook the duty of
showing up ' the new paper.

A more serious failing was Jack's lordly
contempt for matters of local interest. The

people of Saxton presumed to think that in the
vast mind of the young editor from London
the affairs of their little hamlet should find an
appreciable place. All this Jack treated with
scathing contempt. He made up a pleasant
miscellany of useful and entertaining knowledge,
comprising long extracts from new books,
combined with the latest betting received by
telegraph, the whole illuminated by an admirably
written political leader, in which Jack was
able to show that Lord Beaconsfield was mainly
responsible for the troubles in Mexico which
resulted in the execution of the Emperor
Maximilian.

A deputation of the local magnates, in
which Messrs. Griggs, Burnap, and Goldfinch
took a prominent part, waited by appointment
upon the editor to point out to him this great
drawback to the acceptability of the new paper.
Jack treated them with such mingled hauteur
and ridicule that they were glad to retire.
They subsequently saw Gideon, who, though

himself standing in mortal terror of the supercilious
youth, managed to induce him to listen
to the representations made.

Jack began to give longer reports of the
police courts, petty sessions, and above all of
the meetings of the town council, a turn in the
direction of affairs which rapidly opened up a
new field for his genius, and gave a decided
impetus to the sale and popularity of the
Beacon.' Attracted by the shindies that
regularly took place at the meetings of the
corporation, Jack flung himself into local
politics with all the ardour of youth. The
time formerly given to the slaying of the slain
at Westminster, and the Hogging of dead horses
in the matter of Lord Beaconsfield's actual or
imagined shortcomings, was now turned to
consideration of the doings within the little
commonwealth of Saxton.

Jack ' stirred them up,' as he said, and
whatever they might have thought of the
process he mightily enjoyed it himself. Never

had there been seen writing like this for miles
round. That the ' Lampborough Standard '
wasn't in it ' was the unanimous verdict of the
company at the Blue Lion, where, even before
the discovery of this new field, Jack was a
prime favourite. He could sing a livelier song,
tell a funnier story, and drink more with less
appreciable result than any man in the borough.

These were things which, as Dogberry said
of reading and writing, came by nature. But
it was conceded that the slashing articles that
appeared every Saturday in the ' Beacon,' and
which were looked forward to with an eagerness
that had a great effect on the circulation
of the paper, must be the result of the training
received in the highest and most renowned
circles of metropolitan journalism.

Gideon heard the ' Beacon ' talked about,
and finding it feared began to think more of
Jack than he had on first acquaintance been
inclined to do. Towards the establishment of
these amicable relations Jack contributed

nothing. His large contempt for most things
was from time to time centred upon his employer,
whom he sometimes even dared to chaff.
Gideon was not accustomed to this sort of
thing, but he felt he could not, at least not until
the election was over, quam-el with Jack, who
accordingly lorded it much in his own way,
contributing to the slow building up in Gideon's
mind of the conviction that after all it was not
such a fine thing to own a newspaper.

He might have found all the money,' he
said one day to O'Brien, with an ominous
snaffle which betokened a rare access of honest
rage, ' and I might be in the receipt of weekly
wage from him. I went in one morning and
found him sitting in his shirt sleeves smoking a
nasty pipe, and with a pewter pot on the desk
beside him. I hate the smell of tobacco,
especially out of a pipe, and ventured to hint
that perhaps he might defer the enjoyment till
after office hours. He turned on me as sharply
as if I had accused him of murdering his

VOL. I. u

mother. " Are you going to run this machine,
or am I ? " he asked. " We had better get that
point settled before going any further. If I doit,
I do it in my own way, and the independence
of the Press shall never suffer at my hands.
If you are going to do it we will have this
pewter taken back, I will carry myself and
my pipe off, and you can open the window."
There s a way to talk to a man who is losing
15/. a week on the paper, and paying this fool
a bigger salary than he ever earned before, or
would ever be worth ! The hardest thing is, I
had to draw in ; and the end of it was, he
positively asked me not to call again in the
morning, as he said it interfered with his
work.'

CHAPTER Xvii.

GREAT TIDINGS.

It is not my fault if the devious course of this
history sometimes drops upon Mr. Tandy in
undignified positions. We all lead a dual life,
one in public and one in the household. The
more important and awe-inspiring our public
position, the greater is likely to be the contrast
if the ability to take the roofs ofi* houses
were a common possession, and we might at
will look in upon our great people in the
sanctity of their homes.

It would be an evil day for the majesty of
the English bar if by some swift transition the
Lord Chief Justice, seated on the bench in wig
and gown, were to be presented, for whatsoever
brief space, to the view of a crowded court with
V 2

his coat off, and his shirt sleeves turned up,
peacefully washing his hands and face.

It was already eleven o'clock in the morning
of Tuesday, the 9th of March, and Mr. Tandy
should have been in his office. But it chanced
that business had no imperative calls that
morning, and, as Napper had insisted on his
helping her in a little business she had in hand,
Mr. Tandy yielded. Having strolled in at the
office to look at his letters, he had come back
to the dining-room, and was now standing by
the fireplace with an exceedingly woe-begone
expression, whilst Napper knelt on the ground
behind him, and with busy skilful fingers
arranged some appendages on the skirt of a
new dress, which she had hung on his graceless
figure.

Napper's dress not only played its part in
completing the hopeless misery of those six
young men heretofore alluded to, but was the
marvel and despair of young ladies in town
and county. She did not lay herself out to

dress extravagantly. A lamentable lack of the
finer sensibilities of our human nature even
enabled her to wear the same dress twice in
the same company. But she was always
dressed well. Her dresses fitted her with a perfectness
that was the despair ofMissNethersole,
the banker's daughter, who sat three pews
behind in church, and who in the pauses of the
Litany recognised the fact, that though she had
her dress from a London house who had their
assistants from Paris, Napper's gown, whilst
simple in style and obviously infinitely cheaper,
had ever so much more style about it.

Sometimes the young ladies of the neighbourhood
in gushes of confidence asked Napper
to confide to them the secret of the dressmaker's
residence. To which Napper answered simply,
I make my dresses myself; ' thereby unwittingly
giving rise tx) much heart-burning and to dark
suspicions.

The selfish little cat ! ' was Miss Nethersole's
remark to herself, when, as she supposed, she

was thus rebuffed. ' She's picked up some one
that's a perfect treasure, and wants to keep her
to herself.'

Of this enmity in the bosom of her friends
Napper was altogether unconscious. When
she was asked who made her gowns she, after
her manner, simply told the truth, and was notable
to conceive the constitution of mind that
would call in question so plain a statement.

Napper made her dresses partly because it
saved her father a little money, but principally
because she could do it much better than she
could get it done. Her great difficulty was
planning the design on a lay figure. This was
generally met by the engagement of Mary Ann,
the girl who did everything in the house except
the cooking.

Many moments of ecstasy did Mary Ann
enjoy while having Miss Napper's dresses fitted
on her figure. How dehghtfid it would have
been if something should suddenly happen to
finally sever herself and her mistress at the

moment when the dress was receiving the
finishing touches ! She was very fond of her
kind young mistress ; but she would Hke to
have had a dress like one of these.

On this particular morning Mary Ann was
absent on a brief visit to her relations at Sax-mind.
Among Mary Ann's minor attractions
was a strong family affection, ministered to by
a quite abnormal wealth of cousins. At brief
intervals she had a cousin arrived at the
paternal home who was going the next morning
to New Zealand or San Francisco, or anywhere
that was a long way off, and he (or she) could
not possibly sail till they had seen Mary Ann.
One of these periodical severing of family ties
was just now hanging over Mary Ann, and she
had posted off to Saxmund in the early morning
with intent to spend a long day in the temporarily
united family.

In this dilemma Napper's thought had primarily
turned to the cook. But, apart from
other considerations, the cook had not a

figure that readily lent itself to service of
this kind.

She's stouter round the waist even than
you, papa,' Napper said, as the two sat at
breakfast discussing this difficulty. ' Indeed, I
think of the two you are much better. So, if
you don't mind, after breakfast I'll just settle
that sash on you.'

Nonsense, my dear ! ' replied Mr. Tandy,
with not unnatural alarm ; ' you're joking.'

Indeed I'm not, papa,' answered Napper
decisively, scanning her father's figure with a
critical eye. ' I don't suppose you could get
the skirt over your shoulders or draw it on in
any other way possible to a man. But I could
pin it over, and you could hold it on at your
waist. It won't take ten minutes. I only just
want to see how I can arrange the bow at the
back. I can't fit it on myself ; cook, besides
being excessively stout, is slightly soiled, and
you are my own dear papa, always ready to be
useful.*

It was no use Mr. Tandy resisting. For a
moment, as he sat in his office looking over the
letters, there came upon him a wild thought of
flight. There were several people he might
have engagements with which would suddenly
call him off, and he might remain from home
till Mary Ann had parted with her latest cousin,
and would be available for Napper's needs.

But this guilty thought was speedily
strangled. It was only a little thing that
Napper asked of him, and why should he baulk
the girl ? No one would see him, and no one
be the wiser, and he would have the satisfaction
of knowing he had obliged Napper.

So without unduly prolonging the study of
his correspondence he walked into the diningroom
with a firm step, though with a look of
foreboding that Napper hailed with a merry
laugh.

You look as if you were going to be hung.
It's not so terrible after all, papa dear. Now
stand there. I'll pin the band of the skirt to

your waist. You hold it in front with your fingers
so, and then Til get it done in less than no time.'

The perfect performance of this promise
was in some measure barred by Knut, who,
regarding the arrangement as one especially
designed for his entertainment, did his best to
meet it with generous encouragement. Seated
at a convenient distance, so that he might take
in Mr. Tandy's figure to full advantage, he
rapped loudly on the door with his bushy tail.
This applause he varied by an occasional incursion
among the folds of the dress, by laying
his body affectionately across Mr. Tandy's feet
(who felt he dare not move lest he should disarrange
the inscrutable performance going on
at his back), and, still worse, twining his head
inside Napper's arms as she knelt and with
rapid touches arranged the bow.

Lie down, Knut, or you shall be put out,'
she cried in stern tones, which Knut dared not
disobey.

So he withdrew to his former position, and

resumed the applause, which he carried on
with a vigour not to be excelled by the professional
claqueur,

'I have heard said Mr. Tandy in his
meekest tones, * that it is customary to allow
the model a few minutes' interval for rest and
refreshments every quarter of an hour.'

Very probably, but it's nothing like a
quarter of an hour yet.'

Well, it seems quite twenty minutes since
I have been standing here in this ridiculous
attitude. If I were caught at this I would
never be able to show my face in the county
court, the police court, or in my own office.'

At this moment a thundering knock was
heard at the front door, and the look of half-comical
discontent which had mantled the
massive countenance of Mr. Tandy gave place
to one of wild terror.

For Heaven's sake, Napper,' he cried, ' take
the thing off! There's Fleyce at the door. I
can see his coachman's head over the blind. If

he only happens to look this way he will see me.
There's Fleyce in the hall. You know his way
of bouncing in, as if the place belonged to him.'

Napper swiftly disengaged the robe from
the lay figure on which she had deftly pinned
it, and had just time to fling it into a corner of
the room when Gideon entered.

Good morning, Miss Tandy,' he said, a
little more breathlessly than was his wont in
addressing that young lady. ' Hope I don't
disturb you by a call so early in the morning,
and by walking in unannounced. The fact is,
I've been rapping at the door for some time,
and no one coming I took the liberty of turning
the handle. I've brought you some great news.
Why, Tandy, what's the matter with you ? '
he exclaimed, turning towards the chair into
which the Clerk of the Peace for the borough
of Saxton, Clerk to the Borough Magistrates,
Commissioner for Taking Affidavits, and
holder of various other high offices, had flung
himself when delivered from the skirt of

tapper's dress. ' You are as pale as a ghost.
Hope you are not ill ? It would be very
awkward to have you break down just now.
Perhaps you have heard the news, and it's
upset you ? '

No,' said Mr. Tandy, gasping and rubbing
his hands through his hair. ' I have not heard
any news. I am a little seedy with overwork,
I suppose, but shall be all right presently.'

Well, here you are,' said Gideon, handing
him a telegram. ' I got that this morning from
O'Brien, and drove round to the Junction for
the newspapers before coming down to see
you : ' —

jSTorthcote announced Dissolution in the
House of Commons last night. Dizzy's manifesto
out this morning. Shall be down by the
first train. Must get out your address to-day.
See Tandy, and get him to make all arrangements
for speedy printing and posting.'^

This is a little sudden,' said Mr. Tandy ashe
read the telegram, * but it won't take us

much aback. You came down in good time,
and have kept steadily at it since ; but now we
shall have to bustle. You have not written
your address yet, I suppose? '

No, not a line of it, but we'll soon knock
that off. I've got it all pretty well in my
mind, and as soon as O'Brien comes down we'll
hold a council of war and get it out. I have
not opened the newspapers yet, but here they
are, and here is "The Earl of Beaconsfield to
his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant of ireland"'


Mr. Tandy carefully read this famous manifesto.
He was alert now, and the skirt of the
unfinished dress huddled up in a corner of the
room cast no chilly shadow on his soul.

Acts of agitators," Mr. Tandy murmured,
rapidly running his eye down the documenta
danger not less destructive than famine ; portion
of population of Ireland attempting to
sever constitutional tie. Liberals attempted to
enfeeble our colonies by their policy of decomposition.

It is to be hoped," lie read on, " that
all men of light and leading will resist this
destructive doctrine. The strength of this nation
depends on the unity of feeling which
should pervade the United Kingdom and its
widespread dependencies. The first duty of
an English Minister should be to consolidate
that co-operation which renders irresistible a
nation educated as our own in an equal love of
liberty and law."

This is a great mistake,' he observed.
Dizzy must be losing his head to go and fling
down a reckless challenge like that to the
Irish people on the eve of a general election.
I fancy he feels it himself, or he would not
have these feeble wanderings around for taking
phrases. " Men of light and leading " is too farfetched
; whilst to talk of " consolidating cooperation
" and " a policy of decomposition " is
nonsense.'

Well, we have nothing to do with that,'
said Gideon a little impatiently. ' I don't

suppose people down here know or care anything
about Ireland, much less about phrase-making.
I thought I would bring you the
telegram and the papers, so that you might get
things in train. The other side will be at work
in a jiffy. O'Brien will be down at three
o'clock, and we'll get out the address. I will
get Bailey to come. Not that he knows much
of the matter ; but he might give a turn to
some of the sentences, though I think I shall
get 'em pretty taking. I hope. Miss Tandy, you
will favour us with your company in the council ?
I have the highest estimate of your opinion.'

That is very good of you, Mr. Fleyce,
though I know a great deal less than Mr. Bailey.
But I will come if you like.'

Then at four o'clock at the Castle, and
we'll all dine together after and quietly talk
the matter over.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

Spottiswoode Sf Co., Printers, New-street Square, London.

Chatty & Winds's
List of Books**

For NOVELS, see pp. ig-^S-
Beautifully' bound in a novel style, srr.all 4to, 165.

THE LADY OF THE LAKE. By Sir Walter

Scott. With numerous fine Illustrations.

The Lady of the Lake " has been chosen as a subject for illustration, r.ct only for
its picturesque features, which invite in an unusual degree the sympathetic treatment
of the artist, but also for the romantic personal interest tuhich the story inspires, and
which gives it a close hold on the affections of all readers. So thorough is the verisimilitude
of the poem, and so accurate are its descriptions of scenery, that the
events which it describes are accepted as absolute history in the region where the
scene is laid ; and no true Highlander looks with tolerance on anyone r.<hc ventures
to doubt their actual occurrence. It has happened, therefore, that the romantic poet
in which the genius of Scott has united and harmonised the legends of Lech Katritte
and the Trosachs has become the best Handbook to the Scottish Lake-region. It is
believed that the present Illustrated Edition will be a welcome souvenir to thousands
of travellers who have visited that beautiful region.

In order to secure accuracy as well as freshness of treatment, the Publishers commissioned
Mr. A. V. S. Anthony, under whose supervision this Edition has been
executed, to visit the Scottish Highlands and make sketches on the spot. Nearly
every scene of the poem was personally visited and sketched by him, and these
Sketches have afforded the basis of the landscapes offered in this beck. These landscapes,
for obvious reasons, depict the Scenery as it is at the present time ; while the
Costumes, Weapons, and other accessories of the figure-pieces are of the period of the
action of the poem, being carefully studied from contemporary pictures and descriptions,
or from later authoritative works.

Crown 8vo, Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of,

From the Earliest Times. Illustrated by Anecdotes, Curious Specimens,
and Notices of Successful Advertisers. By Henry Sampson.

Allen (Granted Works by:

The Evolutionist at Large. By Grant Allen. Crown svo, cloth

extra, 6s.
Vignettes from Nature. By Grant Allen. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 6s.
One of the best specimens of popular scientific exposition that we have eves
had the good fortune to fall in with"— Lkevs Mercury.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with 639 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook of.

From the German of A. Rosengarten, by \V. Collett-Sandars.

Artemus Ward:

Artemus "Ward's Works •. The Works of Charles Farmer Browne,
better known as Artemus Ward. Crown 8vo, with Portrait-and Facsimile,
cloth extra, 7s, 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the Mormons. With 32 Illustrations.

Edited, whh Preface, by j;DWARp P. Kingston. 6d.

Ashton (John), Works by :

A History of the Chap-Books of the Eighteenth Century. By

John Ashton. With nearly 400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile of
the originals. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. Cd.
Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne. Taken from Original
Sources. By John Ashton. With nearly One Hundred Illustrations.
Two Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 28s. [In preparation.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London ;

Together with Lists of Bankers from 1677. By F. G. HiLTON Price.

Bardsley (Rev. C. W.), Works by:

English Surnames ; Their Sources and Significations. By the Rev.
C. W. Bardsley, M.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature. By the Rev. C. W. Bardsley,
M.A. Cr own Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d,

Crown Svo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 7s. cl.

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs of.

By Henry Morley. New Edition, with One Hundred Illustrations,
Imperial /.to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per volume.

Beautiful Pictures by British Artists :

A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series.
All engraved on Steel in the highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by SydneyArmytage, M.A. ^

Small-into, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Bernstein's As Pretty as Seven,

And other German Stories. Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers Grimm, and 100 Illustrations
by Richter. ^

One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated.

Belgravia for 1882. - •

A New Serial Story, entitled " All Sorts and Conditions of Men."
by Walter Besant, was begun in the January Number, which
Number contained also the First Chapters of " The Admirals
Ward," by Mrs. Alexander ; and the First of a Series of Papers
About Yorkshire," by Mrs. Macquoid, Illustrated by Thomas K.
iNIacqugid. — In the August Number was begun a New Story by
WiLKiE Collins, entitled " Heart and Science"— In January,
1883, will be begun a New Serial Novel by Justin McCarthy,
entitled " Maid of Athens," with Illustrate ions by Fred. Barnard d.

Belgravia Annual.

With Stories by Walter Besant, Julian Hawthorne, F. W.
Robinson, Dutton Cook, Justin H. McCarthy, J. Arbuthnot
Wilson, Henry W. Lucy, James Payn, and others. Demy Svo.
with Illustrations, js. "Jn November,

Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform in size for binding.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks:

Academy Notes. 1875. With 40 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1876. With 107 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1877. With 143 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1878. With 150 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1879. With 146 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1880. With 126 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1881. With 12S Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1882. With 130 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1878. With 68 Illustrations. i5.

Grosvenor Notes, 1879. With 60 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes. 1880. With 56 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes. 1881. With 74 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes. 1882. With 74 Illustrations, is.

Pictures at the Paris Exhibition, 1878. 80 Illustrations, is.

Pictures at South Kensington. With 70 Illustrations, is.

The English Pictures at the National Gallery. 1 14 Illusts. is.

The Old Masters at the National Gallery. 12S Illusts. is. 6d.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete in One Volume, with nearly
600 Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-1882. A Complete Catalogue of Exhibitions
at the Grosvenor Gallery since the Commencement. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue to the National Gallery.
With Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242 Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 3s.

UNIFORM WITH "ACADEMY KOTESr

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1878. 117 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1879. 125 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1880. 114 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1881. 104 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1882. 114 Illustrations. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1878. 95 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1880. 120 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1881. loS Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1882. 102 Illusts. is.

Walker Art Gallery Notes. Liverpool, 1878. 112 Illusts. is.

Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.

Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1880. 100 Illusts. is.

Royal Manchester Institution Notes, 1878. SS Illustrations, is.

Society of Artists Notes, Birmingham, 1878. 95 Illusts. is.
Children of the Great City. By F. W. Lawson. is.

Folio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, 21s.

Blake (William):

Etchings from his Works. By W. B. Scott. With descriptive Text

In Illuminated Cover, crown 4to, 6s.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language and Legends.

By W. J. Gordon. lust. in Colours by Viola Boughton. [Shortly.

This sumptuous and decant Birthday Book is the first in which our floral
treasures have been laid under really effective contribution. It has been produced at
immense cost, and in it 2vc have one of the most accurate and beautiful Masterpieces
of C homo-lithography yet issued from the press. Within its sixty-four fully-coloured
pages, each lithographed in fourteen printing, we have a noble Series of lovely Beit-
ques, depicting in all their health of grace and beauty the most famous of our field
and garden jewels; as a different flower is taken for every day in the year, there
are no fewer than three hundred and sixty-six separate selections. The legends
and the sentiments ascribed to each of the chosen blossoms have formed the theme of
some fifteen hundred lines of Original Verse, and there is thus given one of the ftdlat
Languages of Flowers " in existence, and the only one ii)hich is free from duplicates.
An unusual amount of thought and labour has been expended on the work, and the
publishers congratulate themselves that in a literary and artistic sense the result has
been fully commensurate thereto. Such a collection of flowers, so complete and compact,
has never before been offered. As a Book of Birthdays and Family Records it
is unsurpassed. The addition of the scientific names to the infinitely accurate delineations
of plants renders its pages invaluable to the botanist and every lover of leaf and
bloom. The legends which form the burden of its verse will delight the scholar and
archaeological and all students of song and folk-lore ; chile the copious floral meanings,
completer than in any oilier "language of flowers " yet available, will render it
the constant companion and most treasured gift of a much more numerous section of
the community — the thole world of Sweethearts of the English-speaking nations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Boccaccio's Cameron ;

or, Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated into English, with an Introduction
by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.

Bowers' (G.) Hunting Sketches :

Canters in Hampshire. By G. Bowers. I. Gallops from Gorse-borough.
II. Scrambles with Scratch Packs. III. Studies with Stag
Hounds. Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 215.

Leaves from a Hunting Journal. By G. Bowers. Coloured in
facsimile of the originals. Oblong 410, half-bound, 21s.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with numerous Illustrations-7s. 6d.

Brand's Observations on Popular Antiquities,

chiefly Illustrating the Origin of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and
Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.

Brewster (Sir David), Works by:

More Worlds than One : The Creed of the Philosopher and the
Hope of the Christian. By Sir David Brewster. With Plates. Post
Svo, cloth extras 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives of Galileo, Tycho Brake, and
Kepler. By Sir D.wid Brewster. With Portraits. Post Svo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

THE STOTHARD Busy AN. —Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, ys. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates by SXOT-
HARD, engraved by Goodwill ; and numerous Woodcuts.

Bret Harte, Works by:

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged and Revised by the

Author. Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

Vol. I. Complete Poetical and Dramatic Works. With Steel Plate

Portrait, and an Introduction by the Author. >
Vol. II. Earlier Papers-luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches

—Bohemian Papers— Spanish and American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts — Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories— Condensed Novels, &c.
The Select Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry. With
Introductory Essay by J. M. Belle, Portrait of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6./.

Gabriel Convoy : A Novel. By Bret Harte. Post Svo, illustrated

boards, 2s.
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other Stories. By Bret Harte.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2S. ; cloth limp, 2s. g./.
•f he Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte. Fcap. Svo,

picture cover, is. ; crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6./.
The Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches. By Bret

Harte. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte. Fcap. Svo, picture
cover, IS. ; cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

Flip. By Bret Harte. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
limp-25. 6d.

Buchanan's (Robert) V/orks :

Ballads of Life, Love, and Sb. Abe and his Seven Wives :

Humour. With a Frontispiece by A Tale of Salt Lake City. With a

Arthur Hughes. Crown Svo, cloth : Frontispiece by A. B. Houghton.

extra, 6s. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Selected Poems of Robert Bu White Rose and Red :

buchanan. With Frontispiece by Thos. A Love Story. Crown Svo, cloth

Daniel. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. extra, 6s.

The Book of Form. The Hybrid Isles : Wanderings

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. I in the Land of Lome and the Outer

Idols and Legends of Inver Hebrides. With Frontispiece by W.

burn. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. I Small. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
*** See also Novels, pp. ig and 21.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy.

A Nev,' Edition, Complete, corrected and enriched by Translations of
the Classical Extracts,*
Also an Abridgment in " The Mayor Library," under the title
Melancholy Anatomise'" post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

The Book of the Sword : Being a History of the Sword and its
Use in all Countries, from the Earliest Times. Ey Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 253-. [In preparation'

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Varney Loveth Cameron, With Maps and Frontispiece.
Tv^^o Vols., crown Svo, 21s. [Shortly.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Letters and Journals.

With Notices of his Life. By Thomas Moore. A Reprint of the
Original Edition, newly revised, with Twelve full-page Plates.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Cameron (Commander) and Captain Burton.

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Varney Loveth Cameron. With Frontispiece and
Maps. [In the press.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14s.

Campbell.— White and Black :

Travels in the United States. By Sir George Campbell, M.P.

Demy Bvo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Caravan Route (The) between Egypt and

Syria. By His Imperial and Royal Highness the Archduke Ludwig
Salvator of AusTRL^. With 23 full-page Illustrations by the Author.

Carlyle (Thomas):

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections. By Moncure D.

Conway, M.A. Crown bvo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.
On the Choice of Books. With a Life of the Author by R. H.

Shepherd. New and Revised Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated,

IS. 6d.
The Correspondence of Thomas Carlyle and Ralph Waldo

Emerson, 1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles Eliot Norton. Two Vols.

crown Bvo, cloth extra. shortly

These letters, extending over a period of nearly forty years, icerc, by the common
consent and direction of the illustrious writers, long since placed in Mr.
Norton's hands with the fullest powers for editing and publication. It is not
too much to claim that the correspondence will be found to form the most valuable
and entertaining work of the kind ever issued.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 75. 6d,

Century (A) of Dishonour :

A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealings with some of
the Indian Tribes.

Large 4to, half-bound, profusely Illustrated, 2Ss.

Chatty and Jackson.— A Treatise on Wood

Engraving; Historical and Practical. By William Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional Chapter by Henry G
Born ; and 450 fine Illustrations. A reprint of the last Revised Edition,

Chaucer :

Chaucer for Children : A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Hawes.

With Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous Woodcuts by the Author.

New Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.
Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Demy 8vo, cloth

limp, 2S. Qd,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, ys. 6d.

Coleman's Humorous Works :

Broad Grins"" My Nightgown and Slippers," and other Humorous
Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Coleman. With Life by G.
B. BucKSTOXE, and Frontispiece by Hogarth.

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2S. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery :

A Family Handbook. By Catherine Ryan.

Full of sound sense and useful hints." — Saturday Review.

Conway (Moncure D.), Works by :

Demonology and Devil-Lore. By Moncure D. Conway,

^.I.A. Two Vols., royal Svo, with 65 Illustrations, ossa

Necklace of Stories. By 3>Ioncure D. Conway, M.A.

Illustrated by W. J. Henxessy. Square Svo, cloth extra, Cs.

The Wandering Jew. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections. By Moncure
D. Co::v.-.\Y, M.A. With Illustrations. Crown Svo. cloth extra, 6s.

New and Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra. 6s.

Cook (Button). — Hours v/ith the Players.

By Button Cook. With a Steel Plate Frontispiece.

Post Svo, cloth limp, 25. 6d.

Copyright.— A Handbook of English and

Foreign Copyright in Literary and Dramatic Vv'orks. By Sidney
Jerrold, of the I\Iiddle Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law.
Till the time arrives when copyright shall be so simple and so uniform that
it can be generally understood and enjoyed, such a handbook as this will prove of
great value. It is correct as 'dwell as concise, and gives just the kind and quantity
of information desired by persons who are ignorant of the subject, and turn to it
for information and guidance' — Athenaeum.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Comvvall.— Popular Romances of the Vest

of England ; or, The Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions of Old
Cornwall. Collected and Edited by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New
and Revised Edition, with Additions, and Two Steel-plate Illustrations
by George Cruikshank.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13 Portraits, 7s. 6d.

Creasy's Memoirs of Eminent Etonians ;

With Notices of the Early History of Eton College. By Sir Edward
Creasy, Author of " The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Etched Frontispiece, 7s. 6d.

Credulity, Past and Present.

By William Jones, F.S.A., Author of " Finger-Ring Lore," &c.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Crimes and Punishments.

Including a New Translation of Beccaria's " De Delitti e delle Penes'
By James Anson Farmer.

Cruikshank, George:

The Comic Almanac. Complete in Two Series : The First
from 1835 to 1843; the Second from 1844 to 1853. A Gathering of the
Best Humour of Thackeray, Hood, Mathew, Albert Smith,
A'Beckett, Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 Woodcuts and Steel
Engravings by Cruikshank, Hike, Handel's, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt, two very thick volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cruikshank. By Blanchard Jerrold,
Author of " The Life of Napoleon III.,'' &c. With numerous Illustrations
and a List of his Works. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Russians. — Handbook of Heraldry;

with Instructions for Tracing Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians. Entirely New and Revised
Edition. Illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts and Coloured Plates.

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Covenant.— What shall my Son be P

Hints for Parents on the Choice of a Profession or Trade for their
Sons. By Francis Covenant, M.A.

New and Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra. Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

Dora. — Memories of our Great Towns.

With Anecdotic gleanings concerning their Worthies and their
Oddities. By Dr. JOHN Dora, F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations.

Crown Svo, half-bound, 12s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the Plays, Playwrights, Players,
and Playhouses of the United Kingdom and America, from the
Earliest 'to the Present Times. By W. Davenport Adams. (Uniform
with Brewer's " Reader's Handbook") vin preparation

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Dyer.— The Folk-Lore of Plants.

By T. F. Thiselton Dyer, M.A. [In preparations

Crown Svo, cloth boards, 65. per Volume.

Early English Poets.

Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Groat.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides.

Noble Numbers, and Complete
Collected Pccins. With
Memorial-Introduction and Notes,
Steel Portrait, Index of First
Lines, and Glossarial Index, &c.
Three Vols.

Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems: Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on
Earth, Christ's Triumph over
Death, and Minor Poems. With
Memorial-Introduction and Notes.
One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

^ Poetical V.'orks, including Psalms
I. to L. in Verse, and other hitherto
Unpublished MSS., for the
first time Collected and Edited.
With Memorial-Introduction and
Notes. Two Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works, including
all those in " Arcadia." With
Portrait, Memorial-Introduction,
Essay on the Poetry of Sidney,
and Notes. Three Vols.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 6s.

Emanuel.— On Diamonds and Precious

Stones ; their History, Value, and Properties ; v.-ith Simple Tests of
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With
numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain.

Crown 8vo, cloth estfa, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Englishman's House, The :

A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building a House,
with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson.
Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations.

New and Cheaper Edition, crown Svo cloth extra, 6s.

Ewald.— Stories from the State Papers.

By Alex. Charles Ewald, F.S.A., Author of ' The Life of Prince
Charles Stuart," &c. With an Autotype Facsimile.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Fairholt.— Tobacco :

Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant an its
Manufacture, and its Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By
F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwards
of 100 Illustrations by the Author.

Demy 8%-o, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Familiar Allusions :

A Handbook of Miscellaneous Information ; including the Names of
Celebrated Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country Seats, Ruins,
Churches, Ships, Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the like.
By William A. Wheeler, Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; ''
and Charles G. Wheeler. " ' '

Faraday (Michael), Works by:

The Chemical History of a Candle : Lectures delivered before
a Juvenile Audience at the Royal Institution. Edited by William
Crookes, F.C.S. Post Svo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations,
45. 6i.

On the Various Forces of Nature, and their Relations to each
other ; Lectures delivered before a Juvenile Audience at the Royal
Institution. Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S. Post Svo, cloth extra,
with numerous Illustrations, 4s. Od.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6rf.

Finger-Ring Lore:

Historical, Legendary and Anecdotal. By Wm. Jones, F.S.A. V/ith

Hundreds of Illustrations of Curious Rings of all Ages and Countries.

'• One of those gossiping books ivhich are as full of amusement as of instruction:'

athenaeum.

New and Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Fitzgerald. — Recreations of a Literary Man ;

cr, Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections cf some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's Working Life. By Percy Fitzgerald.


Gardening Books :

A Year's "Work in Garden and Greenhouse : Practical Advice

to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management of the Flower, Fruit, and

Frame Garden. By George Glenny. Post svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we

Cook Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of " The Garden that Paid the

Rent," &c. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6c!.
Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom

and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2S. 6d.
The Garden that Paid the Rent. By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. 8vo,,

illustrated cover, is. ; cloth limp, is. 6^?.

My Garden "Wild, and What I Grew there. By Francis

George Heath. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

One Shilling Monthly.

Gentleman's Magazine (The) for 1882.

The January Number of this Periodical contained the First Chapters
of a New Serial Story, entitled " Dust," by Julian Hawthorne,
Author of " Garth," &c. " Science Notes," by W. Mattie
Williams, F.R.A.S., will also be continued monthly.— In January,
1883, will be begun a New Serial Novel by Robert Buchanan,
entitled " The New Abelard."

*^* Novi ready, the Volume for January to June, 1882, cloth extra,
price 8s. 6d ; and Cases for binding, price 25. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The).

Containing Two Complete Novels by R. E. Francisco and the
Author of " Miss Molly." Demy Svo, illuminated cover, is.

THE RUSKIN GRIMM.— Square 8vo, cl. ex., 6s. 6^. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

German Popular Stories.

Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar TayloR'
Edited with an Introduction by John Ruskin. With 22 Illustrations
on Steel by George Cruikshank. Both Series Complete.
"The illustrations 0/ this volxnne . . . are of quite sterling and admirable
art, of a class precisely parallel in elevation to the character of the tales vjhich
they illustrate; and the original etchings, as I have before said in the Appendix to
viy 'Elements of Drawing'' were unrivalled in masterfulness of touch since Rembrandt
sin some qualities of delineation, unrivalled even by him). . . . To make
somewhat enlarged copies of them, looking at them through a magnifying glass,
.and never putting two lines where Cruikshank has put only one, would be an exercise
in decision and severe drawing which twould leave afterwards little to be learnt
in schools." — Extract from Introduction by John Ruskin.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Glenny.— A Year's Work in Garden and

Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management
of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Glenny.
'M great deal of valuable information, conveyed in very simple language. The
amateur need not wish for a better guide." — Leeds Mercury.

Crown Svo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Golden Treasury of Thought, The :

An Encyclopaedia of Quotations from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by Theodore Taylor.

II

Square imo (Tauchnitz size)

Golden Library, The :

Ballad History of England. By ;
\V. C. Bennett.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of

the Echo Club,
Byron's Don Juan.
Emerson's Letters and Social

Aims.

Godwin's (William) Lives of

the Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the

Breakfast Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the

Breakfast Table.
Hoods Whims and Oddities.
Complete. With all the original
Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

a Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

the Alhambra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and

Occupations of Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia.
Series Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays : A

for a Chimney Corner, and
Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier.

Both

Tale
other

cloth extra, 25. per volume.
Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round
Table. Edited by B. Montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
Dad.

Pope's Poetical Works, Complete.


Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.


St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. Edited,
with Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and
Queen Mab, with Essay by Leigh
Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems: Lion

and Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems,

the Shelley Papers, &c.
Shelley's Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi,
St. Irvine, &c.

White's Natural History of Sel-borne.

Edited, with Additions,
Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

by

New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Greeks and Romans, The Life of the,

Described from Antique Monuments. By Ernst Gull and W.

KoNER. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Edited by

Dr. F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations.
" Must find a place, not only upon the scholar's shelves, but in every well-chosen
library of art. '^ — Daily News.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, \vith Illustrations, 4s, 6d.

Guyot.— The Earth and Manor.

Physical Geography in its relation to the History of Mankind.
By Arnold Guyot. With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce,
and Gravy ; 12 Maps and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and
copious Index.

Crown Svo, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

Hair (The) : Its Treatment in Health, Weakness,

and Disease. Translated from the German of Dr. J. PiNCUS.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon), Poems by :

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth extra, 8s.
New Symbols, Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Legends of the Morrow. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Serpent Play. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

[Shortly

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 125.

Half-hours with Foreign Novelists.

With Notices of their Lives and Writings. By Helen and Alice
ZiMMERN. A New Edition.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Hall.— Sketches of Irish Character. By Mrs.

S. C. Hall. With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by
Machine, Gilbert, Harvey, and G. Cruikshank.
'the Irish Sketches of this lady resemble Miss Milford's beautiful English

sketches in ' Our Village,' but they are far more vigorous and picturesque and

blight." — Blackwood's Magazine.

Haweis (Mrs), Works by :

The Art of Dress. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Illustrated by the

Author. Small 8vo, illustrated cover, is.; cloth limp, is. 6d.
A well-considered attempt to apply canons of good taste to the costumes

of ladies of our time Mrs. Haweis writes frankly and to the

point; she does not mince matters, but boldly remonstrates with her own saxon
the follies they indulge in We may recommend the book to the

ladies whom it concerns'" — AxHENiEUM,

The Art of Beauty. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, with Coloured Frontispiece and nearly 100
Illustrations, los. 6d.
The Art of Decoration. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, los. 6d.

*^* See also Chaucer, p. 6 of this Catalogue.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.).— American Humorists.

Including Washington Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus Ward, Mark Twain, and
Bret Harte. By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A. [Shortly.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5^.

Heath (F. G.)— My Garden Wild,

And What I Grew there. By Francis George Heath, Author of

"The Fern World," &c.
If gardens of wild flowers do not begin at once to spring up over half the little
patches of back yard within fifty miles of London it will not be Mr. Heath's fault,
for a more exquisite picture of the felicity of horticulture has seldom been drawn for
us by so charming and graphic a word-painter as the writer of this pleasant little
volume"— Gra^^t Allen, in The Academy.

SPECIMENS OF MODERN POETS.— Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Heptalogia (The) ; or, The Seven against Sense.

A Cap with Seven Bells.
The merits of the book cannot be fairly estimated by means of a few extracts;
should be read at lcnf;th to be appreciated properly, and in our opinion its
merits entitle it to be very widely read indeed." — St. James's Gazette.

Cr.Svo, bound in parchment, Ss. ; Large-Paper copies (only 50 printed), 15s.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord Herbert of

Carbury. Edited, with an Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins.

Crown Svo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2S. 6d.

Holmes.— The Science of Voice Production

and Voice Preservation : A Popular ]Manual for the Use of Speakers
and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, M.D.
The advice the author gives, coming as it does from one having authority, is.
viost valuable." — Nature.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 75. 6d.

Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals.
With Life of the Author, Portrait, and Two Hundred Illustrations.

Square crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.

Hood's (Tom) From Nowhere to the North

Pole : A Noah's Archaeological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by
W. Brandon and E. C. Barnes, ^

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d. 'A

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works,

including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-mots, Puns and Hoaxes.
With a new Life of the Author, Portraits, Facsimiles and Illustrations.

Tenth Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s.

Home.— Orion :

An Epic Poem, in Three Books. By Richard Hengist Horne.
With Photographic Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Howell.— Conflicts of Capital and Labour

Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and
Review of the Trade Unions of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell.
This book is an attempt, and on the hole a successful attempt, to place the
work of trade unions in the past, and their objects m the future, fairly before the
public from the working man's point of view"— Fal-l Mall Gazette.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s. 6d.

HuefFer.— The Troubadours :

A History of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. By

Fra acis Suffer . ' .

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ireland under the Land Act :

Letters to the Standard during the Crisis. Containing the most
recent Information about the State of the Country, the Popular
Leaders, the League, the Working of the Sub-Commissions, &c.
With Leading Cases under the Act, giving the Evidence in full ;
Judicial Dicta, &c. By E. Cant-Wall.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Janvier.— Practical Keramics for Students.

By Catherine A. Janvier.
Will be found a useful handbook by these who wish to try the manufacture or
decoration of pottery, and may be studied by all who desire to knew something of
the aii." — Morning Post.

A New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

Jennings.— The Rosicrucians :

Their Rites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and
Serpent Worshippers. By Hargrave Jennings. With Five full
page Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.

Jerrold (Tom), Works by :

The Garden that Paid the Rent. By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. 8vo,

illustrated cover, is. ; cloth limp, is. td
Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom and

Jane Jkrrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook
Them. By Tom Jekrold, Author of " The Garden that Paid the Rent''
&c. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
"The combination of hints on cookery with gardening has been very cleverly
carried out, and the result is an interesting and highly instructive little work. Mr.
Jerrold is correct in saying that English people do not make half the use of vegetables
they might ; and by slaving hot easily they can be grown, and so obtained
fresh, he is doing a great deal to make them more popular"— Daily Chronicle.

Two Vols. 8vo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s.

Josephus, The Complete Works of.

Translated by Whistle. Containing both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."

Small 8vo, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 6s.

Kavanagh.— The Pearl Fountain,

And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and JULIA Kavanagh.

With Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.

"Genuine new fairy stories of the old type, some of them as delightful as the

best of Grinnn's ' German Popular Stories.' For the most part the stories

are downright, thorough-going fairy stories of the most admirable kind. . , , ,

Mr. Moyr Smith's illustrations, too, arc admirable." — Spectator. ,

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Knight (The) and the Dwarf.

By Charles Mill;. With Illustrations by Thomas Lindsay.
Crown 8vo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates, 2S, 6d. ' -^

Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and

Imitate it. By Daisy W.\terhouse Hawkins. With 17 Illustrations
by the Author.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights : Commonly called, in England,
"The Arabian Nights' Entertainments." A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on Wood, from Original Designs by
William Harvey. A New Edition, from a Copy annotated by trio
Translator, edited by his Nephew, Edward Stanley Poole. With a
Preface by Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols., demy 8vo, cloth castra,
7S. 6d. each.

Arabian Society m the Middle Ages: Stories from " The Thousand
and One Nights." By Edward William Lane, Author of "The
Modern Egyptians,' &c. Edited by Stanley Lane-Poole. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. [/'» ike press

Lamb (Charles) :

Mary and Charles Lamb: Their Poems, Letters, and Remains.
With Reminiscences and Notes by W. Carevv Hazlitt. With Hancock's
Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles of the Title-pages of the rare
First Editions of Lamb's and Coleridge's V/orks, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, los. td.
Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose and Verse, reprinted from the
Original Editions, vvith many Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of a Page of the " Essay on Roast Pig." Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6rf.
A complete edition of Lamb's writings, in prose and verse, has long been
wanted, and is now supplied. The editor appears to have taken great pains to
bring together Lamb's scattered contributions, arid his collection contains a
number of pieces which are no-jj reproduced for the first time since their original
appearance in various old periodically'' — Saturday Review.

Poetry for Children, and Prince Doris. By Charles Lame.

Carefully Reprinted from unique copies. Small svo, cloth extra, ss.
"Tie quaint and delightful little book, over the recovery of ic-which all the
hearts of his lovers are yet warm with rejoicing." — A. C. Swinburne.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.

Lares and Penates;

Or, The Background of Life. By Florence Caddy.
The whole book is well worth reading, for it is full of practical suggestions.
We hope nobody will be deterred from taking up a book which teaches a good deal
about sweetening poor lives as well as giving grace to wealthy ones." — Graphic.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys. 6d.

Life in London ;

or. The History of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the
whole of Cruikshank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.

Lights on the Way :

Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J H. Alexander, Bea.
Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author of
"Thoreau: A Study."

Longfellow :

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works. Including " Outre Osier,"
"Hyperion," " Kavanagh," "The Poets and Poetry of Europe," and
Driftwood." With Portrait and Illustrations by Valentine Bromley.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully Reprinted from the
Original Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences in a.

By A Sane Patient.

The story is clever and interesting, sad beyond measure though the subject
be. There is no personal bitterness, and no violence or anger. Whatever may
have been the evidence for our author's madness when he was consigned to an
asylum, nothing can be clearer than his sanity when he wrote this book; it is
bright, calm, and to the point. ^' — Spectator.

Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page Plates, cloth boards, i8s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian Verse by ROBERT French Duff

McCarthy (Justin), Works by:

History of Our Own Times, from the Accession of Queen Victoria

to the General Election of 1880. By Justin McCarthy, M.P.

Four Vols., demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s. each. — Also a Popular

Edition, in Four Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

Criticism is disarmed before a composition which provokes little but approval.

This is a really good book on a really interesting subject, and words piled ott

words could say no more for it." — Saturday Review.

History of the Four Georges. By Justin McCarthy, M.P.
Four Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s, each. [In preparation,

*:^* For Mr. McCarthy's Novels, see pp. 22, 24.

Small crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

MacDonald (George.— The Princess and

Curdle. By George MacDonald, LL.D. With 11 Illustrations
by James Allen.

Crovv'n Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Machine Gallery (The) of Illustrious Literary

Characters : S5 fine Portraits, with Descriptive Text, Anecdotal and
Biographical, by William Bates, Bea. [In preparation.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by :

In the Ardennes. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With 50 fine
Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, ics. 6d.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy and Brittany. By
Katharine S. Macquoid. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid. Square Svo, cloth gilt, its. 6d.
Through Normandy. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

90 Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Square Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Through Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

nuracrous Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Sq. Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.
About Yorkshire. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With abo-ut
70 Illustrations by Thomas R. ruACQUOiD, Engraved by Sain. Square
Svo, cloth extra, los. Cd. [J/i preparation.

The pleasant companionship which Mrs. Mac^juoid cjj'crs, while wandering
from one point of interest to another, seems to throw a renewed charm
around each oft-depicted scene." — Morning Post.

Mallock (W.H.), Works by:

Is Life Worth Living ? By William Harrel Mallock.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
The New Repubho ; or, Culture, Faith, and Philosophy in an

English Country House. By W. H. Mallock. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2S. 6d.
The New Paul and Virginia ; or. Positivism on an Island. By

W. H. Mallock. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2S. 6d.
Poems. By ^V. H. Mallock. Small 4to, bound in parchment, Ss.
A Romance of the Nineteenth Century. By W. H. Mallock.

Second Edition, with a Preface. Two Vols., crown Svo, 21s.

Handsomely printed in facsimile, price 5s.

Magna Charta,

An exact Facsimile of the Original Document in the British Museum,
printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, with the
Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected
throughout by the Author. With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain. With vico

Illustrations. Small Svo, cloth extra, 75. 6d. Cheap Edition, illust. bds., ;s,

A Pleasure Trip on the Continent of Europe : The Innocents

Abroad, and The New Pilgrim's Progress. By Mark Twain. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2S.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. By Mark Twain.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. By Mark Twain. With nearly
200 Illustrations. Crow;. Svo, cloth extra, 7^. 6^.

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New Pilgrim's Progress :
Being some Account of the Steamship " Quaker City's " Pleasure Excursion
to Europe and the Holy Land. With 234 Illustrations. By
Mark Twain. Crown Svo, cloth extra, "s. cil.

The Innocents a t Home; and Roughing It. By :^.IARK Twain,
With 200 Illustrations by F. A. Eraser. Craven Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c. By :.Iark Twain. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Mississippi Sketches. By Mark Twain. Vv'ith about 300 Original

Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 75. 6d. \ In preparation.

A Tramp Abroad. By Mark Twain. With 314 Illustrations.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

The fun and tenderness of the conception, of which no living man but
Mark Txjain is capable, its grace and fantasy and slyness, the 'ivonderji:!
feeling for animals that is manifest in every line, make of all this episode of
Jim Baker and his jays a piece of ijork that is not only delightful as mere
reading, but also of a high degree of merit as literature. . . . The book is
full of good things, and contains passages and episodes that are equal to the
funniest of those that have gone before"— ATHES.^isyi.

Small Svo, cloth limp, v.-ith Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Miller.— Physiology for the Young;

Or, The House of Life : Humajj Physiology, with its application to
the Preservation of Health. For use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs. F. Fenwick Miller.
"An admirable introduction to a subject ivhich all who value health and enjoy
life should have at their fingers' ends'' — Echo.

Milton (J. L.), Works by :

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise Set of Rules for the
Management of the Skin; with Directions for Diet, Wines, Soaps, Baths,
Sec. By J. L. Milton, Senior Surgeon to St. John's Hospital. Small
Svo, IS. ; cloth extra, 13. 6d.

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin. Small Svo, is. ; cloth extra,
IS. 6rf.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2S. 6d. per volume.

Mayfair Library, The

The New Republic. By W. H.

Mallock.
The New Paul and Virginia.

By W, H. Mallock.
The True History of Joshua

Davidson. By E. Lynn Linton.
Old Stories Re-told. By Walter
Thornbury.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims.
By H. A. Page.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.
Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry

S. Leigh.
Juliana, By the Hon. Hugh

Rowley.
More Juliana. By the Hon.

Hugh Rowley.
Puck on Pegasus. By H,

Cholmondeley-Pennell.

The Speeches of Charles

Dickens.
Muses of Mayfair, Edited by

H. Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.
The Philosophy of Handwriting.
Don Felix de Salamanca.
Curiosities of Criticism. By
Henry J. Jennings. *•

Literary Frivolities, Fancies,

Follies, Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.
Poetical Ingenuities andEccen-
atrocities. Selected and Edited by
'•'W.T. Dobson.
Pencil and Palette. By Robert

Kempt.
Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by

W. Davenport Adams.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing:
The Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea— Charity —The Princess —
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing:
Broken Hearts— Engaged— Sweethearts
— Dan'l Bruce — Gretchen —
Tom Cobb— The Sorcerer— H. Mss.
Pinafore— The Pirates of Penzance.

Carols of Cockayne. By Henry

S. Leigh.

The Book of Clerical Anecdotes.
By Jacob Haywood.
The Agony Column of " The

Times," from soo to 1870. Edited,
with an Introductions Alice Clay.

The Cupboard Papers. By

Fin-Bec.
Pastimes and Players. By

Robert Macgregor.
Balzac's " Comedie Humaine "

and its Author. With Translations
by H. H. Walker.
Melancholy Anatomise : A

Popular Abridgment of " Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy."

Quips and Quiddities. Selected
by W. Davenport Adams.

Leaves-from a Naturalists
> Note-Book. ByDr.ANOREwWiLsox.

The Autocrat of the .
By O. WendellHolmes.
Illustrated by J. Gordon Thomson.

Forensic Anecdotes ; or. Humour
and Curiosities of the Law and
Men of Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Witch Stones. By E. L. Linton.

Large 4to, bound in buckram, 21s.

Moncrieff,— The Abdication; or, Time Tries All.

An Historical Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff. With Seven
Etchings by John Petrie, R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J. Mac
Whiter, A.R.A., Colin Hunter, R. Macbeth, and Tom Graham.

• '- '■ - Square 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, js.dd.

North Italian Folk.

By Mrs. Coins Carr. Illustrated by Randolph Caldecott.
"A delightful book, of a hind which is far too rare. If anyone vjants to really
kno'S} the North Italian folk, we can honestly advise him to omit the journey, and
tread Mrs. Carr's pages instead. . . Description with Mrs. Carr is a real gift.
It is rarely that a book is so happily illustrated"— Contemporary Review.

New Novels :

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OP Ivied : An Impossible

Story. By Walter Besant. Illust. by Fred. Barnard. 3 volsci. 8vo,
VALENTINA: A Sketch. By Eleanor C. Price. 2 vols., cr. 8vo.
KEPT IN THE DARK. By Anthony Trollope. With a

Frontispiece by J. E. Millais, R.A. 2 vols., post 8vo, Is. \^Oct. 20.

VAL Strange : A Story of the Primrose Way. By David

Christie Murray. 3 vols., crown Svo. [Shortly.

REGIMENTAL LEG-ENDS. By J. S. Winter, Author of

Cavalry Life," &c. 3 vols., crown Svo. shortly.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon, Author of

"Robin Gray," &c. 3 vols., crown Svo. Shortly.

A NEW NOVEL BY OUIDA is now in preparation, in 3 vols.,

crown Svo.
FOXGLOVE MANOR. By Robert Buchanan, Author of " God

and the Man," &c. 3 vols., crown Svo. Shortly.

DUST: A Story. By Julian Hawthorne, Author of " Garth,"

Sebastian Stroke," &c. 3 vols., crown Svo. [shortly.

A NEW NOVEL by Wilkie COLLINS is now in preparation,

in 3 vols., crown Svo.
WOMEN ARE STRANGE, and other Stories. By F. W.

Robinson, Author of " Grandmother's Money," &c. 3 vols. [Shortly.
A NEW COLLECTION of STORIES by CHARLES READE

is now in preparation, in 3 vols., c own Svo.

Post Svo, cloth extra. Illustrated, 55.

Number Nip (Stories about),

The Spirit of the Giant :Mountains. Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J. ]\IOYR Smith,

O'Shaughnessy (Arthur), Works by :

Songs of a Worker. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Fcap,

Svo, cloth extra, 7s. Cd. ^ .^ '.

Music and Moonlight. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Fcap.

Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Lays of France. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Crov.-n Svo,
cloth extra, its. 6d.

Crown Svo, red cloth extra, 5s. each.

Ouida's Novels.— Library Edition.

Held in Bondage. ; Pascal.

Stratford. | Two Little Wooden Shoes.

Chances. I Signa.

Under Two Flags. , In a Winter City.

Italia. Ariadne.

Cecil Castlemaine's Gage. | Friendship.

Tricotrin. j Moths.

Puck. ; Pipistrello.

Folle Farine. ' A Village Commune.

A Dog of Flanders. In Mamma.

*^* Also a Cheap Edition of all but the last, post Svo, illustrated
beards, 2s. each. ;

CUIDA's NEW STORIES. —Sq. Svo, cloth gilt, cinnamon edges, 7s. 6d,

BIMBI; Stories for Children. By Ouida.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits, price 6s. per Vol.

Old Dramatists, The : I

Ben Jonson'S Works. ! Charles Swinburne: Vol. III. the

With Notes Critical and Explanatory, j Translations of the Iliad and
and a Biographical Memoir by Wil I Odyssey.

Liar GiFFORD. edited by Colonel | Marlowe's Works.

Including his Translations. Edited,
with Notes and Introduction, by Col.

Cunningham. Three Vols

Chapman's Works.
Complete in Three Vols. Vol. I. contains
the Plays complete, including
the doubtful ones; Vol. II. the
Poems and Minor Translations, with
san Introductory Essay by Algerian

Cunningham. One Vol.
Massinger's Plays.
From thereat of William Gifford.
Edited by Col. Cunningham. One
Vol.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, is. 6d.

Parliamentary Procedure, A Popular Handbook
of. By Henry W. Lucy.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

)Payn.— Some Private Views :

Being Essays contributed to The Nineteenth Century and to The
Times. By James Payn, Author of " Lost Sir Massingberd," &c.
*** For Mr. Payn's Novels, see pp. 22, 24, 25.

Two Vols. 8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, los. 6d.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men.

Translated from the Greek, with Notes Critical and Historical, and a
Life of Plutarch, by John and William Langhorne.

Proctor (R. A.), Works by:

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps for Every Night in the Year,
'■ Drawings of tb.e Constellations, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.
Familiar Science Studies. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6^.
Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. By Richard A. Proctor.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s,
Pleasant "Ways in Science. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
trough Ways made Smooth : A Series of Familiar Essays on

Scientific Subjects. By R. A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Cur Place among Infinities : A Series of Essaj-s contrasting our

Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities Around us. By

Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Expanse of Heaven: A Series of Essays on the Wonders

of the Firmament. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.
Saturn and its System. By Richard A. Proctor. New and Revised
Edition, with 13 Steel Plates, deraySvo, cloth extra, los. 6d.
The Great Pyramid : Its Plan and Purpose. By Richard A.

Proctor. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Cs. \ bnmcdiatdy.
Mysteries of Time and Space. By Richard A, Proctor.

With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Wages and Wants of Science Workers. Crown 8vo, is. 6d.

Mr. Proctor, of all writers of our time, best conforms to Matthc'd) Arnold's coin'
creation of a man of cnltuvc, in that he strives to humanise knowledge and divest it
ef whatever is harsh, crude, or technical, and so makes it a notice of happiness and
brightness for d//."— Westminster Review.



Library Editions, many Illustrated, crown Svo. cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Piccadilly Novels, The.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.

Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY IF. BESANT & JAMES RICE.

Ready-money Mortify.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet's Guardian.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonio.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
The Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs ?
The New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the Lady.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebels Daughter.
The Black Robe.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.

Felicia.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.

Archie Lovell.

BY R. E. Francisco.

Olympia.
Queen Cophetua.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
In Love and War.
What wil the World Say P
For the King.
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.

BY THOMAS HARDY.

Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.

Garth.

Juice Question.

Sebastian Stroke.

BY MRS ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket,

BY JEAN INGE LOW.

Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Ji::i

Confidence.

By Harriet JAY.

The Queen of Connaught.
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Number Seventeen.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.

Patricia KembaU.
Atonement of Lean Dundas.
The World Wel Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
•■ My Love ! "

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels — continued,
BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p. \

The Watergate Neighbours. |

My Enemy's Daughter.

Xiinley Rochford. !

A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope.

Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season.

BY AGNES Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.
BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
Lost Rose.
The Evil Eye.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame !
Written in Fire.
BY JEAN Middlemost.

Touch and Go.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A. Life's Atonement.
Joseph's' Coat.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY JAMES Pain,
Lost Sir Massingberd.
The Best of Husbands.
Fallen Fortunes.
Halves.

Walter's Word
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than We're Painted.
By Proxy,
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
From Exile.
Carlton's Year.
A Confidential Agent.

BY CHARLES READE, D.C.L.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Washington.
Christie Johnston.
Griffith Gaunt.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton.
A Woman-Hater.
Reading.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell,

Her Mother's Darling.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.

Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path,
The Two Dreamers,

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Maisie,
Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

The Way we Live Now.
The American Senator.

BY T. A. TROLLOPE.

Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY SARAH Tatler.

What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

BY J. S.
Cavalry Life,

WINTER.

NEW VOLUMES OF THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.
A Grape from a Thorn. By James Payn. Illustrated by W. Small.
By Anthony Trollope.

With Frontispiece by

Frau Prohmann,

H. French.
For Cash Only. By James Payn.
Prince Saroni's Wife. By Julian Hawthorne.
The Prince of Wales's Garden-party. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
Coals of Fire, By D. Christie Murray. Illustrated by Arthur

Hopkins, G. L. Seymour, and D. T. White.
Hearts of Gold. By William Cycles.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2S. each.

Popular Novels, Cheap Editions of.

[WiLKiF, CoLLiNs's NovELS and BESANTand Rice's Novels mayalso be had
in cloth limp at 2s.6d. See, too, the Piccadilly Novels, foy Library Editions']

BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Confidences.
Carr of Carrion.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.

Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.

Ready-money Mortify.

With Harp and.Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr. Craft.

The Golden Butter-fly.

By Cela's Arbour.

Tne Monks of Helena.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

BY Shelley BE AUG HAM P.

Grantly Grange.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes.
Savage Life.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Gabriel Convoy.
Flip.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet Guardian.

BY MAC LA REN COBBAN.

The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.

The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonio.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.

The Queen of Hearts.

My Miscellanies.

The Woman in White.

The Moonstone.

Man and Wife.

Poor Miss Finch.

Miss or Mrs. ?

The New Magdalen.

The Frozen Deep.

The Law and the Lady.

The Two Destinies

The Haunted Hotel.

Fallen Leaves.

Jezebel's Daughter.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards,
A Point of Honour.
Archie Lovell.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.

Felicia.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Polly.

Bella Donna.
Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Seventy-five Brooke Street.

BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE,

Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia.
Queen Cophetua.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
What will the Y;^orld Say ?
In Honour Bound.
The Dead Heart.
In Love and War.
For the King.
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Popular Novels — continued.

BY yates GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple,

BY ANDREW HALLWAY.
Every-day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.

Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.

Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth.
Ellice Question.

BY TOM HOOD.

A Golden Heart.

BY VICTOR HUGO.

The Hunchback of Notre Dame .

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.

BY JEAN INGE LOW.

Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jan.
Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.

The Queen of Connaught.
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.

Number Seventeen.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.

Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World V7ell Lost.
Under which Lord?
With a Silken Thread.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.
The Watsrdale Neighbours.
Dear Lady Disdain.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Linley Rochford.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.

BY AGNES Macdonald.

Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye.
Lost Rose.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT,
Open ! Sesame !
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.
Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go.
Mr. Dominion.

BY D. CHRISTIE MOliRAY.
A Life's Atonement.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT,

Whiteladies.

BY.OUIDA.

Held in Bondage.
I Stratford.

Glands.

Under Two Flags.

IdaUa.

Cecil Castlemaine's Gage.

Tricotrin
I Puck.
i Folle Farine.

A Dog of Flanders.

Pascal.

Two Little Wooden Shoes.
Signa.

'• In a Winter City.
j Ariadne.
I Friendship.
Moths.
I Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost Sir Massingberd.
A Perfect Treasure.
Bentinck's Tutor.
Murphy's Master.
A County Family.
At Her Mercy.
A Woman's Vengeance.
Cecil's Tryst.
The Clyffards of Clyffe.
The Family Scapegrace.
The Foster Brothers. -
Found Dead.
Gwendolen's Harvest.
Humorous Stories.
Like Father, Like Son
A Marine Residence, i
Married Beneath Him,-
Mirk Abbey.



Popular Novels — continued.

James Pay — continued.
Not Wooed, but Won.
Two Hundred Pounds Reward.
The Best of Husbands.
Walter's Word.
Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than we're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
A Confidential Agent.
Carlton's Year.

BY EDGAR A. POE.

The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY CHARLES READE, D.C.L.

It is Never Too Late to Mend.

Hard Cash.

Peg Washington.

Christie Johnston.

Griffith Gaunt.

The Double Marriage.

Love Me Little, Love Me Long.

Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.

The Course of True Love.

The Autobiography of a Thief.

Put Yom-self in his Place.

BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA.

Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN Saunders.
Bound to the "VTheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path.

BY ARTHUR Sketches .

A Match in the Dark.

BY WALTER THORN BURY.
Tales for the Marines.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way we Live Now.
The American Senator.

BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.

Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY MARK TWAIN.

A Pleasure Trip in Europe.

Tom Sawyer.

An Idle Excursion.

BY LADY WOOD.

Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.

Castaway.
Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrol.
Why P. Ferrol Killed his Wife.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.

Her Mothers Darling.

Fcap. 8vo, picture covers, is. each.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story, By Bret Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourncen. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's.'
Lindsay's Lick. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs. Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villars.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francisco.
The Garden that Paid the Rent. By Tom Jerrold.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Poe's Choice Prose and Poetical Works.

With Baudelaire's Essay on his Life and Writings.

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Encyclopaedia of Costume ; or, A Dictionary of Dress— Regal,
Ecclesiastical, Civil, and Military — from the Earliest Period in England
to the Reign of George the Third. Including Notices of Contemporaneous
Fashions on the Continent, and a General History of the Costumes of the
Principal Countries of Europe. By J. R. Planche, Somerset Herald.
Two Vols, demy 4to, half morocco, profusely Illustrated with Coloured
and Plain Plates and Woodcuts, £7 ys. The Volumes may also be had
separately (each complete in itself) at £3 13s. 6d. each : Vol. I. The
Dictionary. Vol. II. A General History of Costume in Europe,

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or. Heraldry Founded upon Facts. By
J. R. Plancwi5. With Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879. By J. R. Blanche. Edited,
with an Introduction, by his Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Small Svo, cloth extra, with 130 Illustrations, 35. 6d.

Prince of Argolis, The :

A Story of the Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Moor Smith.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6.^^.

Rabelais' Works.

Faithfully Translated from the French, with variorum Notes, and
numerous characteristic Illustrations by Gustave Dore.

Crown Svo, cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, and a beautifully
executed Chart of the various Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Eambosson.— Popular Astronomy.

By ]. Rameosson, Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated
by C. B. Pitman. Profusely Illustrated.

Entirely New Edition, Revised*, crown Svo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Reader's Handbook (The) of Allusions, References,
Plots, and Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Third Edition,
revised throughout, with a New Appendix, containing a Complete
English Bibliography.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. .

Richardson. — A Ministry of Health, and

other Papers. By Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old Country Towns. By Alfred RniMER. With over 50
Illustrations by the Author. Square Svo, cloth extra, gilt, its. 6d.

Rambles Bound Eton and Harrow. By Alfred Rimmer. With
50 Illustrations by the Author. Square Svo, cloth gilt, los. 6d. Also an
]u:)iTioN DE Luxe, in 4to (only a limited number printed), with the Illusts.
beautifully printed on China paper, half-bound boards, edges uncut, 4:5.

About England with Dickens. With Illustrations by Alfred
Rimmer and C. A. Vanderhoof. Sq. Svo, cl. gilt, los. 6d. [In preparation,

T . ■ Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Robinson.— The Poets' Birds.

By Phil. Robinson, Author of " Noah's Ark," &c. [In the press,'

Handsomely printed, price 5s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ;

or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy
with William the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, a.d. 1066-7.
With the principal Arms emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely' Illustrated, 45. 6d. each.

Secret Out " Series, The :

Time Protectionist's Treasury; Magician's Own Book :

or. Complete Art of Making Fire Performances with Cups and Balls,

works. By Thomas Kentish. With Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All

numerous Illustrations. from actual Experience. Edited by

The Art of Amusing : ^'*'- ^- Cramer. 200 illustrations.

A Collection of Graceful Arts.Games, Magic No Mystery :

Tricks, Puzzles, and Charades. By Tricks with Cards, Dice, Balls, &c.,
Fr.4NK Belle. 300 Illustrations. ! with-fully descriptive Directions ; the

T-r , „ -5 , „ Art of Secret meriting ; Training of

Hanky-panky Performing Animals, &c. Coloured

\ cry Easy Tricks, \ very Difficult Frontispiece and many Illustrations.

Tricks.White Magic.Sleight of Hand.
Edited by W. H. Cramer. 200 blasts.

The Secret Out :

One Thousand Tricks with Cards,

The Merry Circle : and other Recreations ; with Enter

Book of New Intellectual Games training Experiments in Drawing-and

Amusements. By Clara Bel room or " White Magic." By W. H.

LEW. Many Illustrations. Cramer. 300 Engravings.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.

Senior.— Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By William
Senior (" Red-Spinner "), Author of " By Stream and Sea." , -^

Shakespeare :

The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr. william Shakespeare's

Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true
Original Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Haggard and Ed. Blunt.
1623.— A Reproduction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile
by a photographic process— ensuring the strictest accuracy in every
detail. Small 8vo, half-roxburgh, 7s. Gd.
The Vanstone Shakespeare. Beautifully printed in red
and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved facsimile of
Droeshout's Portrait. Post Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6i.

Shakespeare for ChUclren: Tales from Shakespeare. By

Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and
plain, by J. Moyr Smith. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, 6s.
T-he Handbook, of Shakespeare Music. Being an Account of
350 Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of
Shakespeare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan Age to the
Presenting. By Alfred Rosse. 4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Algerian Charles Swinburne,

Crown Svo, cloth extra, Ss.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, vrith 10 full-page Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sheridan's Complete Works,

v.ith Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed
from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Translations.
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, <rcc. With a Collection of Sheridaniana.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with lOo Illustrations, ys. 6d.

Signboards :

Their History. With Anecdotes o£ Famous Taverns and Remarkable
Characters. By Jacob Haywood and John Camden Rotten.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. ci

Slang Dictionary, The :

Etymological, Historical, and Anecdotal.

Exquisitely printed in miniature, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2S. 6d.

Smoker's Text-book, The.

By J. Homer, F.R.S.L.

Demy Svo, "cloth extra, Illustrated, 14s.

South-West, The New:

Travelling Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico, Arizona, and
Northern Mexico. By Ernst von Hesse-Wartegg. With 100
fine Illustrations and 3 Maps. [In preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Spalding.— Elizabethan Demonology :

An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by them. ByT. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.

Crown 4to, with Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Spenser for Children.

By M. H. Tory. With Illustrations by Vv^alter J. Morgan.
A New Edition, small crov,-n Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Staunton. — Laws and Practice of Chess ;

Together with an Analysis of the Openings, and a Treatise on End
Games. By Howard Staunton. Edited by Robert B. World.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gs.

Seaman. — Victorian Poets :

- Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence Seaman.

Stevenson (R. Louis), Works by :

Familiar Studies of Men and Books. By R. Louis Stevenson,

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s

New Arabian Nights. By R. Louis Stevenson. " Two Vols.

post Svo, Is.

We must place the ' Ncza Arabian Nights' very high indeed, almost hors concours,
among the fiction of the present rfflj."— Pall Mall Gazette.

Two Vols., crown Svo, with numerous Portraits and Illustrations, 245.

Strain.— Twenty Years of a Publisher's

Life. By Alexander Strain. [In preparation



Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes of the People of

England ; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations, May
Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions, Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time, With 140
Illustrations. Edited by William Hone.

Crown Svo, with a ]Map of Suburban London, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of London :

A Residential Guide to Favourite London Localities, their Society,
Celebrities, and Associations. With Notes on their Rental, Rates,
and House Accommodation.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Swift's Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of the
Maps in the Original Edition of " Tulliver's Travels.'

Swinburne's (Algerian C.) Works

The Queen Mother and Rosamond.
Fcap. Svo, 5s.

Atlanta in Corydon.

A New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

Chastened.
A Tragedy, Crown Svo, 7s.

Poems and Ballads.

First Series. Fcap. Svo, gs. Also
in crown Svo, at same price.

Poems and Ballads.

Second Series. Fcap. Svo, 9s. Also
in crown Svo, at same price.

Notes on Poems and Reviews.

Svo, IS.

William Blake :
A Critical Essay. With Facsimile
Paintings. Demy Svo, i6s.

Songs before Sunrise.

Crown Svo, ics. 6t/.

Bothwell :

A Tragedy.

Crown Svo, 12s. 6d.

George Chapman :

An Essay. Crown Svo, 7s.

Songs of Two Nations.

Crown Svo, 6s.

Essays and Studies.

Crown Svo, 12s.
Eiecbtheus:

A Tragedy. Crown Svo, 6s.
Note of an English Republican

on the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, is.
A Note on Charlotte Bronze.

Crown Svo, 6s.
A Study of Shakespeare.

Crown Svo, Ss.

Songs of the Springtide.

Crown Svo, 6s.

Studies in Song.

Crown Svo, 7s.

Mary Stuart :

A Tragedy. Crown Svo, Ss.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown Svo, 9s.

Medium Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours,

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and in Search
of a Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's droll page Illustrations
in Colours, and a Life of the Author by J. C. Rotten.

Four Vols, small Svo, cloth boards, sos.

Taine's History of English Literature.

Translated by Henry Van Lain.
*** Also a Popular Edition, in Two Vols, crown Svo. clatb extra, 15s,

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, 6s.

Tales of Old Thule.

Collected and Illustrated by J. Moor SMITH.

One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. cl.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas:

Chancery," " Jeanne Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " The Fool's
Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife," " Anne Boleyn," " Plot and Passion'"
*J' The Plays may also he had separately, at Is. each.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Thackeray ana :

Notes and Anecdotes, Illustrated by a profusion of Sketches by
William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents
in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his everyday
reading. With Coloured Frontispiece and Hundreds of Wood
Engravings, facsimile from Mr. Thackeray's Original Drawings,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 7s, 6d.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence.

With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by Allan Cunningham,
and over 50 fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood,

Thornbury (Walter), Works by:

Haunted London. By Walter Thornbury. A New Edition,
Edited by Edward Walford, M.A., v^ith numerous Illustrations by
F. W, Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of J. M, W, Turner. Founded

upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow Academicians.
By Walter Thornbury. A New Edition, considerably Enlarged,
With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimile from Turner's
Original Drawings. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. ci.

Timbs (John), Works by :

Clubs and Club Life in London. With Anecdotes of its Famous
Coffee-houses, Hostelries, and Taverns. By John Timbs, F.S.A. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities : Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters,
&c. By John Timbs, F.S.A, With nearly 50 Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 14s.

Torrens.— The Marquess Wellesley,

Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Forming Vol. I. of Proconsul
and Tribune : Wellesley and O'Connell : Historic
Portraits, By W. M, Torrens, M.P. In Two Vols.

Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, with Map and Ground-Plans, 14s.

Walcott.— Church Work and Life in English

Minsters; and the English Student's Monastic. By the Rev.
Mckenzie E, C. Walcott, Bed.

The Twenty-third Annual Edition, for 18S3, cloth, full gilt, 50s. '

Walford.— The County Families of the United

Kingdom. By Edward Walford, M.A. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education, &c., of more than 12,000
distinguished Heads of Families, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive,
the Offices they hold or have held, their Town and Country
Addresses, Clubs, &c. r/,j the press.

Large cro\\Ti Svo, cloth antique, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler ;

or. The Contemplative Man's Recreation ; being a Discourse of Rivers,
Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by
Charles Cotton. With Original Tvlemoirs and Notes by Sir Harris
Nicholas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. per volume.

Wanderer's Library, The :

Merrier England in the Olden , Seven Generations of Executive.

By George Daniel. With tones : Memoirs of the Sansoa

Illustrations by Root. Cruikshank. Family (1688 to 18^7). Edited by

The Old Showmen and the Old : mi^''^;!^'' ^^'i^'^^. ^ ,, „
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost. The World Behind the Scenes:

The Wilds of London. By ■ By Percy Fitzgerald.
James Greenwood. London Characters. By Henry

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings ;

Mayhev.'. Illustrated.

Including the Origin of Signs, and ^^^ Genial Showman : Life

Reminiscences connected with and Adventures of Artemus Ward.

Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c. : By E. P. Kingston. Frontispiece. .

By Charles Handley. Withlllusts. | Wanderings in Patagonia; or.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrity among the Ostrich Hunters. By

ties. By Thomas Frost. Julius Beereohm. Illustrated. .

The Lives of the Conjurers. ' Summer Cruising in the South

Rv Thomas Frost ^^^^- By Charles Warren Stod-

by Thomas Frost ^^^^^ jjj^^^^ ^ Wallis Mackay.

The Life and Adventures of a gavaee Life Bv Frederic

Cheap Jack. By One of the Frater rTt.?® "^ ®- •* ^^ FREDERICK

city. Edited by Charles Handley. „ '^

TTi-' o^ ^xi. T J T^ 1 Camp Notes: Stories of Sport

Tne Story of the London Parks. and Adventure in Asia, Africa, and

Ly Jacob Haywood. Withlllusts. ^ America. By Frederick Boyle, .

Low-life Deeps. An Account \ Tunis : The Land and the People.

of the Strange Fish to be found there. ' By the Chevalier de Hesse-wary

James Greenwood. ' egg. With 22 Illustrations.

Carefully printed on paper to imitate the Original, 22 in. by 14 in., 2s. ^

Warrant to Execute Charles I.

An exact Facsimile of this important Document, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals. :-.

Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original Iris., price 25. ^^

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots.

An exact Facsimile, including the .Signature cf Queen Elizabeth, and
a Facsimile of the Great Seal.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with numerous Illustrations, 4-s-. 6d.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery and Porcelain
; or, History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Fodder
M. Westropp. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of Marks.

Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, is.

Whistler v, Ruskin : Art and Art Critics.

By J. A. Macxeill Whistler.

Williams (Mattieuu), Works by:

Science in Short Chapters. By W. Mattieuu Williams,

F.R.A.S., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. By W. Mattieuu Williams

F.R.A.S., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, zs. 6d.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew), Works by :

Chapters on Evolution : A Popular History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development. By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S.E.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Note-book. By Andrew Wilson,

Ph.D., F.R.S.E. (A Volume of " The Mayfair Library") Post Svo,

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Leisure - Time Studies, chiefly Biological. By Andrew

Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S.E. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with

Illustrations, 6s.
"It is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigator,
who in the intervals of his more serious professional labours sets himself to impart
knowledge in such a simple and elementary form as may attract and instruct,
with no danger of misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this
little volume, made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr.
Andrew Wilson, lecturer and examiner in Science at Edinburgh and Glasgow,
at leisure intervals in a busy professional life. . . . Dr. Wilson's pages teem
with matter stimulating 'to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the
truths of nature."-^SATvnvA\' Review.

Small Svo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 6s.

Wooing (The) of the Water Witch :

A Northern Oddity. By Evan Daldorne. lust bye. J^Ioyr Smith.

Crown Svo, half-bound, 125. Od.

Words, Facts, 3.nd Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out-of-the-way Matters. By
Believer Edwards.

Wright (Thomas), V/orks by:

Caricature History of the Georges. (The House of Hanover.)
With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides, Window Pictures,
&c. By Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

History of Caricature and of the Grotesque in Art, Literature,

S^tuVtnre, and Painting. By Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Profusely Illustrated
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Large post Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, JJ2, ST. JOHN STRP.F.T: Fac.

^

?i;?"!!*.ifi/i»VKSa' A>^'

Hm



fj

'^V'

LIBRARY

OF THE

UN 1VER51TY

Of ILLINOIS


L9<^42g

V.2

The person charging this material is re '^^^^^r
possible for its return on or before the '^^

Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
ore reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

University of Illinois Library

II.

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN :

an Impossible Story. By Walter Besant. Illustrated by
Fred. Barnard. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

VALENTINA : a Sketch. By Eleanor C. Price.

2 vols, crown 8vo.

KEPT IN THE DARK. By Anthony Trollope.

With a Frontispiece by J. E. Millais, R.A. 2 vols, post 8vo.

VAL STRANGE : a Story of the Primrose Way. By
David Christie Murray, Author of 'Joseph's Coat' &c.

3 vols, crown Bvo.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon,

Author of * Robin Gray ' &c. 3 vols, crown Bvo.
KIT: a Memory. By James Payn. 3 vols, crown 8vo.
WOMEN ARE STRANGE. By F. W. Robinson.

3 vols, crown Bvo. • [Shortly.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter,

3 vols, crown 8vo.

NEW ARABIAN NIGHTS. By R. Louis Stevenson.

I vol. crown Bvo.

CHATTO &^ IV INDUS, PICCADILLY, IV.

A NOVEL

BY

HENRY \V. LUCY

TN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



\ All rights reserved']

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street Square

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER

XIX. The Ci^TDiDATE's Address

XX. ' How THEY BROUGHT THE NeWS TO Ghent

XXI. The 'Loxgshgre Mex wane up

XXII. The Flagstaff at the Blue Lion

XXIII. Meditation among the Pews .

XXIV. Clouding over

XXV. The Prodigal Son

XXVI. Rehoboam

XXVII. The JVIaeshes

XXVIII. Bt the Firelight

XXIX. An Unexpected Meeting

XXX. Editorial Cares

XXXI. The Sun gone down

XXXII. Breaking it gently

I













14(5





L>.34



2(36

2S'2

GIDEON Fleece.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE candidate's ADDRESS.

The company were duly assembled at four
o'clock in the library at Castle Fleyce, a cosy
room with a splendid view, but deriving its
name chiefly from a bookcase where Hume's
History of England,' ' The Decline and Fall
of the Woman Empire,' ' History of Some,' and
a collection of Mr. Robertson's histories, handsomely
appointed and never opened, gleamed
in new bindings.

Gideon entered a few minutes late, a little
paler than was his wont, and with a compression
about the brow indicative of intense

VOL. II. B

thought. It was no new thing for him to
approach the consideration of his address to
the free and independent electors of Saxton.
He had for nearly a year thought it over day
and night, and had secretly studied many
flowers of literature of the same kind blooming
in other gardens. He now had the whole
cut and dried and stored in the loft of his
memory. But he wished to stand well with
the assembled company, and meant to throw
off in impromptu fashion the sentences so carefully
and laboriously conned, and of which, to
tell the truth, he was not a little proud.

Moreover, he wished O'Brien to know, and
that presumptuous young jackanapes Bailey to
understand, that he knew a great deal more
about politics than he was credited with. He
had begun to read the newspapers of late, not
the murders and robberies, and general assortment
of police news, which had formerly been
his mental pabulum, but the leading articles.
From the study of earlier addresses to electors

be discovered that the great thing was not to
be too precise in your declarations on any
particular question of the day. By uncompromising
approval he might gain six votes, but at
the same time he would alienate half a dozen.

He cared just as much for what he largely
and conveniently called ' the Land Question,'
as he understood it. That was not much ; but
he did very clearly perceive that if he took one
side he would have the tenants with him and
the landlords against him, whilst if he went
on the other side he would certainly lose the
tenants' votes and might not gain the landlords'.


He wanted to have both, and flattered himself
that in the line he had taken in his address
he would make a sweep all round.

Now, Mr. Bailey,' he said, ' if you will be
good enough to act as secretary on this important
occasion, wee shall get along. Here's
pens, ink, and paper, and there's a bottle of
claret, which I hope it won't be thought bribery

B 2

and corruption if Mr. Tandy joins us in a glass ;
and the rest not being voters, may have two.'

Have you turned over the address in your
mind ? ' O'Brien asked, coming to business.

'Well, I have thought of it a little, and
have jotted dovv^n one or two of the heads.
There's the Eastern Question ; we must say
something on that.'

Certainly,' said O'Brien, * but not much ;
people are tired of the Eastern Question.'

'You must say a few words by way of
introduction,' Mr. Tandy ventured to observe.

Oh yes,' said Gideon, impatiently, ' that
will be all right. Now, Mr. Bailey, if you are
ready, here goes,' and Gideon dropped his left
hand in the bosom of his waistcoat, and, taking
a firm hold of his notes, began : —

" To the free and independent electors of
the borough of Saxton. Gentlemen, — Parliament
has dissolved, and it forthwith becomes
your duty to elect a member for the new
House. It is mine to briefly embody, with the

plainness and sincerity to which you are entitled,
my political convictions, that you may
apprehend the character and complexion of the
sentiments which govern me now, and would
assuredly influence my vote in the House of
Parliament." '

Gideon paused and looked round for

applause.

That's a very fair start,' said O'Brien.

Don't you think,' said Jack, tossing off a
second glass of claret, which set him ahead of
the company by a clear fifty per cent., ' that's a
rather unfortunate phrase about "apprehending
the complexion of the sentiments " ? You can't
apprehend a complexion, you know.'

Gideon looked at Jack with a face that
flushed with anger.

You can write it down, Mr. Bailey,' he
said, with the slightest approach to a snuffle in
his voice, ' and if you have any criticisms to
offer you can make them on the proof sheet.'

Oh,' said Jack, with the easy affability

that always aggravated Gideon, 'very well.
But I thought we were here to discuss the
matter as we went on.'

" With regard to the Eastern Question," '
Gideon declaimed, continuing his address without
further notice of Jack's impertinence,
" my sympathies are always and always have
been with the subject races of the Porte,
though I plainly own, gentlemen, that as a
lover of heroism I cannot forbear some sympathy
to the nation that has been vanquished
after a splendid resistance. Yet no doubts
of the sincerity of Russian diplomacy can prohibit
an emotion of respect for a nation which
at an enormous cost of blood and treasure
has emancipated thousands of Christians from
Turkish misrule, and practically obliterated an
empire whose career throughout the whole of
European history has been attended by the
curses and lamentations of oppressed or invaded
peoples. When the attitude of Eussia grows
obtrusively sinister to our country, I shall be

willing to band with you, gentlemen, and withall
Englishmen in concerting measures for the
national safety." '

I rather think,' said Gideon, ' that's managed
pretty neatly, and the language, perhaps,
is not inaptly chosen.'

You mean,' said O'Brien, ' that you run
"vyith the Turk and hunt with the Eusse ? '

That's rather a fine picture of you, banded
with Messrs. Goldfinch, Burnap, Firminger, and
Griggs, concerting measures for the national
safety if the attitude of Eussia grows of too
sinister a nature to our country,' said Jack.

Gideon looked sharply at the youth, whose
eyes were gravely bent upon the manuscript
before him. He was strongly inclined to think
that the young cub was chaffing him ; but Jack
was as grave as a judge, and there was no
doubt the sentence was a fine one. Gideon
was glad to see that the youth was capable of
being touched by a worthy emotion, and was
inclined to forgive him his earlier impertinence.

I think that is all I need to say on foreign
politics. Now we will go on again : " Gentlemen,
— So much on this point, I claim your
leave to say, adding only that human foresight
plays but an insignificant part in this world of
accidents. But, gentlemen, when I turn to
your internal policy, a fresher and kindlier interest
possesses me. Here, at least, we dq^l
with the hopes and struggles of our own
countrymen. I apprehend there is no measure
which should go to improve in however small
a degree the general condition of the people
but would command my steadfast advocacy.
An ever-increasing number of votes in favour
of proposed measures of great domestic interest,
such as the County Franchise, the Burials
Bill, Marriage with a Deceased Wife's Sister,
exhibits the growth of public opinion and the
sure illumination of Liberal culture. There
are measures awaiting Parliamentary acceptance
which affect the happiness of millions,
containing elements to humanise the austerities

of our social code ; and in favour of such
measures I should cordially vote." That is not
committing myself to too much, I think.
What do you say, Miss Tandy ? '

I don't know much about it,' said Napper,
but it seems to me that if there is a fault in
the general style of the address, it is that as far
as it has gone you don't seem to be saying anything
at all. It is rather as if you were trying
to walk on both sides of the road at the same
time.'

Thank you, Mss Tandy,' said Gideon,
flushing as if she had paid him the highest
possible compliment. ' You have exactly hit
it. After that I go on with greater encouragement.
Xow there is the land question, a very
ticklish subject, on which we must say something.
(That is not the address, Mr. Bailey,
please don't write that down. I give you a
wave of the hand when you go on with the
address.) Now then : " Measures affecting
agricultural interests must always enlist my

deepest and most careful attention. The agricultural
interests of this division of the county-are
of special magnitude, and I hold that your
representatives, whether sitting as Conservatives
or as Liberals, fail in a paramount condition of
the duty they owe their constituents if they
neglect to make themselves intimately acquainted
with the opinions and wishes of those
who follow agricultural pursuits. In a special
degree would I here refer to the farmer's
interest in the land he occupies. I hold that
after having spent large sums of money in procuring
artificial manures and in cultivating the
soil into a high condition of fruitfulness the
farmer is absolutely entitled to the benefit of
those advantages which his capital and labour
have brought about ; and the Land Question,
therefore, would find a cordial advocate in me.
At the same time I would not pledge myself to
any legislation on this question that did not
impartially weigh the landlord's claim and so
adjust the balance of equal rights. And such

equitable adjustment, I am satisfied, is obtainable
by cautious inquiry and narrow consideration
of the arguments advanced by both sides'"

What do you mean by the Land Question
finding a cordial advocate in you, Mr. Fleyce ? '
asked tapper. ' I suppose there are two sides
to the question, and you don't say which is to
have your advocacy.'

Miss Tandy,' said Gideon, beaming with
pleasure, ' you ought to be in Parliament yourself.
I think I must drop into my address a
pledge to vote for women's rights. Is there
anything else of a definite nature, O'Brien, that
I should notice ? '

'I think with Miss Tandy,' said O'Brien,
that you have not erred on the side of definiteness
; but perhaps you are right.'

" I am averse to precipitate reforms," '
Gideon continued, waving his hand in sign to
Jack, ' " which in uprooting the weeds very
often tear away the flowers of national
memories and institutions ; and in this respect

I am content to follow humbly the example of
that Grand Old Man — need I say I mean
William Swart Gladstone ? — who has grown
Grey and Glorious in the service of our common
country, whom to name is to do honour to
myself as a member of the great party with
whom History shall imperishably associate him,
whose capacious mind knows accurately and
with exquisite English sympathy to disconnect
what is base from what is good, to disentangle
the parasite from the pillar whose beauty it
hides, and to infuse new elements of health and
strength into forms and conditions of our constitutional
existence which Conservatives suffer
to decay into the corruption that germinates
those national sicknesses by which empires are
killed." '

Beautiful ! ' cried Jack Bailey, raising his
eyes to the ceiling and stealing a glance at
Napper as he brought them down. • Burke is
not a patch on that.'

Another glass of claret, Mr. Bailey,' said

Gideon, pleased at the enthusiasm of the young
man.

This was a favourite passage with him,
and he was glad to find it appreciated even by
supercilious youth.

I thought of putting that last, but perhaps
I had better wind up with some references to
this part of the country. Now, Mr. Bailey : " I
cannot claim to have been born your neighbour,
to have had my infantile slumber soothed by the
roaring surge that beats on your shingly coast,
but I do claim feelings of love for your town and
country, which could not be deeper if Saxton
were my native soil. All my chief interests are
centred on Saxton. I have built myself a humble
home here, which I hope will associate me and
mine with your ancient borough for all time to
come." '

'He means to get married,' Jack muttered
to himself.

Have you got that, Mr. Bailey ? '

Yes, sir.'

" To Saxton I am united by bonds as deep
as gratitude can forge. It is my delight and
happiness to linger among the glories of its
scenery and to claim fellowship with its sons.
It would be my pride, as it is my ambition to
be, not so much the representative as the benefactor
of Saxton. But if by your help, gentlemen,
I am elected as your member, you will be
qualifying me to fulfil many secretly cherished
hopes of being known to my constituents as a
man who never lost an opportunity to promote
their dearest interests, and who desired no
better tribute to his endeavours than to be remembered
as one who was very faithful in his
adherence to the highest forms of Liberal
policy, and devoted to the welfare of those who
made him the proud recipient of their confidence."
'

I think that last paragraph will touch them
up. Don't you think so ? ' Gideon said, looking
round at the company with kindling eyes.

Yes,' O'Brien answered, moving the

claret jug from the neighbourhood of Jack
Bailey, who he thought might presently be saying
something rude. It will be appreciated by
the 'Longshore men, and, indeed, by the tradespeople
generally.'

Now, we'll get this printed right off, and
let it flame from every wall in the borough in
the morning. Perhaps you'll see to that, Mr.
Bailey. You can get back in time for dinner.'

Gideon's banqueting table had been set for
^NQ. — himself at the head, Miss Tandy on his
right hand, O'Brien on his left, and Jack
Bailey and Mr. Tandy vis-a-vis at the lower
end. But this arrangement was disturbed by
Miss Tandy's discovery of imperative engagements
at home. She would walk by herself, not
wishing to take her father away from the company
in which he would be happy enough.

Also she peremptorily declined Jack's escort,
a decision which caused that young man much
surprise. He and Xapper were already great
friends, and with the audacity of youth he

missed no opportunity of cementing the friendship.
He thought it would be very pleasant to
walk down to the town with Miss Napper, and he
was already thinking that some delay might arise
in the delivery of the manuscript to the printer,
seeing that they would walk slowly, and he
would, of course, see Miss Tandy to her father's
door.

But Napper nipped this in the bud, and
saw Jack off the premises with a start of a
quarter of an hour before she ventured out.

The fact is Snapper was sick at heart, and
wanted to get into the fresh air with none but
herself for companion. No one of the company
she had just left would understand her
feelings, least of all Gideon, who thought he had
deepened the favourable impression long ago
created. Napper had been very quiet at the
so-called consultation, not only wholly for the
reason which had moved others to the same
course, and which was to be found in the
fact that Gideon had really not asked them

for consultation but summoned them for
applause.

She had begun to suspect that his political
character was a sham, and this ornate saying of
nothing in long words to the electors was final
confirmatory evidence. She had expected to
hear some brave, simple words addressed to the
people on the questions of the day. Instead of
which Gideon had turned his early education
to account in an efibrt to say as little as possible
regarding his convictions, if, indeed, he had any,
and by all means not to offend the prejudices
of others.

Napper had looked forward hopefully to the
contest in the borough, where, as she understood,
the electors had hitherto had no voice.
But, she felt with pain, here was a sorry commencement.


VOL. II,

Chapter XX.

'HOW THEY BROUGHT THE NEWS TO GHENT.'

News travels slowly through the highways and
byways of Saxton. Towards noon each day
the carrier, coining in from the Junction,
brought thirteen of the London daily papers,
which he delivered at as many houses, being
those of the intellectual aristocracy of the
town. Whilst all Great Britain and Ireland
were vibrating with the news flashed hither
and thither by telegraph, and echoed by every
tongue, that a dissolution of Parliament, long
expected, had come when no one looked for
it, Saxton slept on under the thin March sunlight.


Rocked by breezes, touched by tender light,

And sung to by the sea.

Down on the beach the 'Longshore men
still stood at q-aze, looking out over the tossed
waters for the ship that never came home.
They were exactly the same, save that they
had put monkey jackets over the* jerseys.
With many of them this was evidently an
empty compliment to the season and a deference
to prejudice, for they wore the garment
wide open at the chest, and the keen wind,
salt-laden fi^om the sea, beating about their
bosoms, foimd them barricaded only by the
familiar jersey. As in the heats of summer, soin
depths of winter, their hands were far down
in their capacious trousers pockets, that evidently
being an attitude which long experience
had suggested was best calculated to fit them
for sudden emergencies such as befall on our
English coasts.

All unconscious of the great news which
Gideon had brought down from the Castle, they
chewed the contemplative cud and fixed their
eyes on the far horizon.

c 2

At the same hour on this memorable
Tuesday, Mr. Goldfinch sat at the desk in his
shop in High Street, whilst his young men
bustled about making up pounds of sugar,
brown and white loaf, weighing out ounces of
tea, and deftly shining pounds and half-pounds
of butter from the great tub-shaped heap on
the counter. Mr. Goldfinch sometimes lent a
hand on a Saturday when the market people
streamed in on their way homewards. But asa
rule circumstances permitted him throughout
the day to perch his little high-dried body on a
stool behind a desk on the left-hand side just
as you enter the shop.

Here he was supposed to be intent upon the
making out of bills ; but the position had other
advantages. From this commanding height he
could survey the shop and see that Pitcher combined
the proper proportion of rapidity in making
up the parcels with the suavity desirable when
addressing ready-money customers, and that
Fhilpot, who was getting a little shaky, did not

spill the tea on the floor when he took it out
ot the bier canister.

Also ^[r. Goldfinch was able to act as timekeeper
to Tom Prodgers, who went out with a
large basket distributing provisions throughout
the town like a good genius. This was a duty
at once ensrrossincr and exciting. Producers,
sen., was a 'Longshore man, and perhaps it was
the taint of blood that led to the formation of
a habit on the part of Prodgers, jim., to set
down his basket in shady places and refresh
himself with a game at marbles, pitch-and-toss
for brass buttons, or whipping top, as the
season might be. In the winter he made
slides before the doors of the almshouses and
watched for the outgoing of unsuspecting
tenants, or engaged in deadly combat of snowballs
with the doctor's lad and the red-faced
boy from Firminger's.

Diu-incr the early weeks of his ensracjement
he had attempted to meet the reproaches of his
master with affirmation that he had been * crone

only ten minutes,' or at most a quarter of an
hour. But the ready production of Mr. Goldfinch's
figures showed the hopelessness of this
endeavour, and Tom was driven either to the
invention of fabulous excuses for non-appearance
in due time or to relapse into sullen obstinacy
when confronted by proofs of his guilt.
Another thing which Mr. Goldfinch found
desirable in connection with the post was that,
being out of the way of interference with
actual business it afforded him opportunities of
chatting with customers as they passed out.
Tuesday was not a very busy day, and the few
customers that came were at leisure to discuss
general affairs. If they had only known the
intelligence which the world a few miles
outside was throbbing with, what a day they
would have had to be sure I As it was, the
delight was deferred by some hours, and now
they had no choicer topics for talk than the
weather, the condition of trade, the newest
burial, the latest death, and the wedding
nearest in prospect.

Mr. Firminger was at this same hour quite
alone in his shop. On Tuesdays the custom of
the week began to revive, but only with
languid breath. His stock had run very low,
being chiefly composed of the leavings of
Saturday night, and Mr. Firminger, with his
blue apron aggressively tied on, was now
engaged in rounding off stray bits of meat and
trimming them to make them look as inviting
as possible. This he did with great energy,
using his knife almost viciously, as if he bore
a personal grudge to the meat. But that was
merely a habit of mind and had no personal
application.

He always came down straight on the
block,' as he said, and when a piece of meat that
lay thereon was thin he carried out this axiom
literally, chopping off bits of hard wood after
the blade had passed through the layer of meat.

Mr. Firminger always did things in that way,
and was rather proud of it than otherwise.

Plenty more where that comes from,' he

was accustomed to say, when the superfluous
energy of his action was commented upon, and
it was suggested that he might spare himself a bit.

If he attempted to drive a nail into the
wall he generally either broke it olBT short or
buried it up to the head with a sledge-hammer
blow. If on Sunday afternoon, going out with
Mrs. Firminger, and the latest born in the
perambulator, he essayed to propel the conveyance,
he dealt with it as if it were a handcart.
If he helped Mrs. Firminger into the dogcart,
she usually found herself in imminent danger
of falling out on the other side. To this day
she bears on her matronly bosom the mark of
a pin which her spouse, in a well-meant effort
to fasten her shawl, had driven an inch or two
into her flesh.

If Mr. Firminger had heard of the good
news from London it might have been supposed
that, in his mind's eye, he had on his block the
claims of the rival candidates, and that he was
making mincemeat of them. But, in truth, he

knew nothing, and was only trimming a bit of
mutton.

Mr. Holm Griggs, as becomes an upholsterer
in a large way of business, did not sit in his
shop, having an office at the back, where he
received customers, and whence he was at all
times wilhncr to emerge to conduct them over
his stock. Next to Mr. Burnap, who had had
the building contract for Castle Eleyce, Mr.
Griggs had up to now made the most out of
the new candidate. As already recorded, he
had had a commission for furnishing the place,
and the transaction had left many bank notes
sticking to his fingers.

He was more than ever convinced of the
desirableness of the borough never again falling
into the condition of asia's wherein a neighbouring
landowner assumed as a right its
Parliamentary representation and warned off
all other candidates.

Mr. Griggs sat at his desk checking off an
estimate, and from time to time applying a

large blue pocket-handkerchief to a small pink
nose. He had an exceedingly minute fire in a
stove, which, if enclosed in one of the wardrobes
in the shop outside, might have warmed
its interior, but was wholly inadequate to the
task in the office, more particularly as Mr.
Griggs sat with the door open, holding the
theory that to have it closed repelled possible
customers. There were no windows to Mr.
Firminger's establishment, which to all intents
and purposes was an open stall. But the
atmosphere there seemed much less chilly than
in Mr. Griggs' shop with its faint smell of wood
and varnish, and its partial illumination by the
pinched nose of the austere proprietor.

Mr, Burnap was away on business in Lamp-borough,
and was the first, outside of the inner
circle gathered around Gideon, to hear the
great news. Mr. Burnap was at first inclined
to give up the errand which had taken him
to town, and hasten back, lest peradventure
gone one should rob him of the distinction

and delight of first telling Firminger and Griggs
and Goldfinch. But on reflection he thought
he might safely secure the profits of his
business, and still retain the privilege of being
the first to communicate the news. The papers
did not often get in much before one o'clock.
Neither Firminger, Griggs, nor Goldfinch took
a paper, waiting till after business hours, when,
at the Blue Lion, some one looked through
the news of the day and read tit-bits out for
the benefit of the company. Those who bought
the papers would have to read them first ; then
they would surely wait to get their dinner (the
hour for which in Saxton was one o'clock)
before going out to spread the news.

Mr. Burnap thought he was safe up to two
o'clock, but would take care not to be later
than half-past one. News like this did not
come every day, and opportunities were not to
be trifled with.

At the same time, he could not afford to
miss the bargain that had taken him to Lamp-borough.

The fact was, an old church on
the other side of the county was going to be
restored.' The splendid oak pews, the wood
of which was at least three hundred years old,
were offered for sale amongst the other old
materials. Burnap, who was not without
occasional flashes of idea, had seen to what use
this choice wood could be put. When doing
up the Castle he had put in round the hall a
bit of wainscoting a foot high. It was of oak,
and well enough in its way; but these pew
doors and front and back divisions would make
quite unique wainscoting for the hall.

Burnap meant to glance over them with a
deprecating eye, to throw out a hint that they
might do for mending up old things, pick them
up cheap, and re-sell them to Gideon at something
over their real value, and that was considerable.


The sale was a little protracted, and though
it began at ten o'clock in the morning, it was
half-past twelve before the old pews were

knocked down to Mr. Burnap at a remarkably
reasonable figure. It was a ten-mile drive to
Saxton, a distance already performed by Mr.
Burnap's mare, who, in addition, was getting
up in years. He could not hope to do the
distance under an hour and a half, but then he
would be in by two. So, sacrificing his dinner
at the one o'clock ordinary, an institution on
which he had cast a kindly thought when
driving towards Lampborough in the morning,
he had the mare put in, and drove at what she
thought an unnecessarily hasty pace towards
Saxton.

Two o'clock was striking as he drove along
High Street, meaning to call first on Mr.
Griggs, whose shop lay in the way. As he
drew up at the door, whom should he see
through the glass but Mr. Tandy talking to
Griggs, who was nervously mopping his nose
and betraying other signs of excitement which
too surely disclosed the truth. When Mr.
Griggs beheld Mr. Burnap muffled up to the

chin, sitting in the trap at his door, he dashed
past Mr. Tandy, to that gentleman's surprised
discomfiture, and closed the door after him, to
prevent his too early participation in conversation.


Good morning, Burnap. Going out for a
drive, I suppose ? I've got some news that will
make you warm.'

Is it about the dissolution ? ' Mr. Burnap
growled, feeling just cause for resentment.
Oh, I heard that two or three hours ago, and
was just thinking of looking in to tell you, but
was too busy.'

Mr. Burnap felt he had Griggs there, the
effect of his rapid repulse being the* greater
owing to the lowness of the temperature, which
gave the upholsterer a peculiarly miserable and
depressed look.

Have you heard this long, Mr. Tandy ? '
Mr. Burnap continued, as the solicitor delivered
himself from his imprisonment and appeared
on the doorstep.

It just flashed upon Mr. Burnap that this
might have been the first place Mr. Tandy had
visited, and that if he made haste he might still
triumph over Goldfinch and Firminger.

No,' said Mr. Tandy, ' only about a couple
of hours. Mr. Fleyce had a telegram this
morning from Captain O'Brien, and drove over
to the Junction for the papers. I have just
been round to our friends Goldfinch and Fir-finger
to tell them we shall have the address
to-night and must get to work forthwith. We
mean to have a good stylish committee for conducting
the election, but of course we'll have
to do all the work, and must talk it over. I'm
going up to the Castle at four o'clock to see
about the address, and shall probably stop
afterwards to have a snack. But I'll be down
at the Blue Lion at half past eight, and we
will discuss matters.'

Mr. Burnap, who was a short-tempered
man, heard this explanation with mingled feelings.
What business had Tandy to go bustling

about with a bit of news as if it were a hot
potato and burnt his fingers ? It was a longtime
since Mr. Burnap had had such a chance,
and now by this fellow's wholesomeness he
had lost it.

Tandy's no more nor a child,' he muttered,
as he drove oil ' If he hears anything
he must go running all over the place to tel it.
I've no patience with such ways.'

Then, again, Mr. Burnap wished the actual
commencement of electioneering proceedings
had been delayed for whatever time was
necessary for him to dispose of the pews to
Gideon. At various consultations of the candidate
with his friends since the first time they
met at the Blue Lion, Gideon had shown a
nervous apprehension of anything that would
bring him within the grasp of the law. He was
not going, as he plainly said, to spend a lot of
money on his election and find himself turned
out on petition because of some inconsiderate
action on the part of his agent.

That was ' all bosh,' as Mr. Firminger said.
There was only one way of winning Saxton,
and that would only have to be adopted.
But it was well understood that Gideon, having
convinced himself of the necessity of the
old plan, would not stand in the way of its
adoption. He would find whatever money was
necessary. That was quite settled, though he
insisted on knowing nothing of how the cash
was disposed of, a stipulation which entirely
met the views of ]mr. Burnap, Mr. Firminger,
Mr. Griggs, and ]mr. Goldfinch.

But in the matter of the pews there might
be a difference. The sale would be a personal
transaction between himself and Gideon, and, ashe
did not mean to have his journey to Lamp-borough
for nothing, he was not sure how far
the bargain he intended to strike would meet
with the approval of the election judges if they
insisted upon inquiring into it.

On this head he received some assurance
from Mr. Tandy, when they met at the Blue

VOL. II. D

Lion later in the evening. Mr. Burnap was
careful not to go too minutely into particulars.
In fact he led Mr. Tandy to believe that the
bargain had already progressed some distance,
and what he professed himself most anxious
about was whether an ordinary business transaction
between an honest builder and an enterprising
householder would assume a criminal
aspect, because of the imminence of an election
in which both would take a prominent part ?

He learned with satisfaction that as the writ
was not yet issued, and that even a week or two
must elapse before Parliament would be dissolved,
there could not be any harm in proceeding
with a business transaction of that kind.

Believed on this head, and mollified by the
present possession of a second glass of hot
whisky and water, and the near prospect of
an unlimited supply chargeable to ' the committee,'
Mr. Burnap simmered down from the
condition of asperity in which he had fallen
when he discovered that Mr. Tandy had forestalled

him with the news. He was even in
high spirits, and by way of salutation laid his
hand on Mr. Griggs' shoulder with a friendly
cordiality which shook every bone in the upholsterer's
body, and seemed to make his cold
worse than ever.

The news variously affected the Conscript
Fathers. Mr. Burnap was inclined to be boisterous.
Mr. Griggs was exceedingly nervous,
and already began to forecast lamentable
defeat for the Liberal candidate. Mr. Goldfinch
took on a certain air of serenity which
grew more beautiful, as in honour of this occasion
he ordered more than one extra tumbler.
His disposition to go back to '32 and relate
with minute detail what had taken place at
that epoch became in time a Httle wearisome.
Perhaps it was scarcely fair upon him that this
narrative should have been persistently interrupted,
generally by the not over-well-bred
Burnap. It may be all very well to judge of
Hercules by the measure of his foot. But it is

D 2

not fair to a chronicler to snap him up before he
is half way through his story, sometimes when
he is barely on the threshold of it.

This was Goldfinch's fate, and it says a
great deal for his natural good temper that he
did not resent the interruption, but, the piping
of his thin voice being drowned amid the
thunder of a casual remark from Mr. Burnap,
he subsided with a watery smile of resignation,
watching for a fresh opportunity to narrate a
story so curiously apposite.

Mr. Firminger, while not so fluent as Mr.
Burnap, was quite as noisy, and very anxious
for an opportunity of immediately ' coming
down on the block.' Mr. Tandy was the
quietest at the festive board, and the most
seriously occupied with plans for conducting
the campaign. Hitherto, though Gideon had
dipped pretty deeply in his pocket, there had
been nothing in the shape of a fund available
for general expenses, nor had there been any
authority given to him by Gideon to pledge

his credit. However, Mr. Tandy had thought
himself justified in ordering a private room at
the Blue Lion which it was intended should
be the headquarters of the Liberal committee.


As yet he thought it desirable that gentlemen
should pay for their own refreshments, but
probably on the morrow, when the address was
actually out, it might seem appropriate that the
labours of the committee, gratuitously rendered,
should be lightened by judicious provision of
meat and drink.

Mr. Tandy had brought in with him a proof
of the address, wet from the press, and its
meaning strangely darkened by eccentricities
on the part of the printer, whose work had not
yet been revised. It was fresh evidence of the
great merit of this literary effort that it sounded
quite as well with the printer's improvements
as it had done when dictated by Gideon. It
meant about as much now as it did then

But, meaning apart, there was a ring about

the phrases and a generous eloquence throughout
which increased Mr. Burnap's respect for a
gentleman who had incurred a large building
account, and brought tears into the eyes of Mr.
Goldfinch when he recollected how in that very
room, fifty years ago, Mr. Montgomery, father
of the present Conservative candidate, now
dead, and buried in the churchyard, where the
tombstone had only a fortnight ago been re-lettered
owing to growing a little indefinite by
the weeds and the moss which got on it quite
unaccountably — had in that very room read an
address which he (Mr. Goldfinch) would not
say was more eloquent; but it certainly did
seem to him that in those days the gentlemen
who came forward as candidates were, on the
whole — he didn't say there were not exceptions
but, on the whole, better than those of today,
and more good to the borough, more free
in their allowances of tea and coffee to the
servants, and less inquisitive about an extra
pound of sugar here and there in the week's bill.

Chapter XXI.

THE 'long shore MEN WAKE UP.

The news spread the next morning with the
Hight of the tardy sun. Like the sunlight it
diffused warmth and brightness wherever it fell.
Everybody, from the prosperous tradesmen in
High Street to the fisherman's family in the
back court behind the Dog and Duck, felt
cheered by the intelligence.

As for the 'Longshore men, the news immediately
distracted their attention from the
horizon, and all their thoughts were turned
landward within the boundaries of the borough.
They set their hands deeper into their pockets
with the sure and certain hope that presently
those receptacles would contain something beyond
their ordinary complement of bone and

flesh, a jack knife, a baccy box, and some odd
pieces of twine apparently stored there with
the expectation that they would be very useful
supposing a ship were driven ashore in a gale of
wind. Also they chewed their quid of tobacco
with a profound and gentle contemplation.

There had come to them the crisis in the
life of every free-born Englishman, being also a
householder. Within a measurable distance of
time they would be called upon to exercise the
franchise. There was not a man treading the
beach that did not feel his new responsibility,
whilst some turned over in the slow machinery
of their minds tales they had heard at the
family board of how some worthy sire at
earlier elections had managed not only to obtain
his due from the candidate for whom he voted,
but had done his party the further service of
taking a bribe from the opposite side, and so
had spoiled the Egyptians.

These were matters not to be disposed of
lightly, and the 'Longshore men were not a

community given to undue haste. Everything
comes to the man who waits. They were
accustomed to wait, and had no doubt that
in due time both candidates would come to
them.

It was curious that from the second day
after Sir Stafford Korthcote had announced the
dissolution in the House, the publicans of Saxton
began to prosper, whilst most other trades
stood still. The 'Longshore men, exhausted
with profound meditation on the beach, resorted
a little earlier than usual to the Dog and Duck,
and did not retire until the utmost limit of time
permitted by the legislature. They had a good
deal to talk about, and found that speech flowed
easier, and that thought came quicker, when
the mental machinery was oiled with rum and
soothed with tobacco.

That Gideon was the favourite was clear
from the first. He never showed himself in the
streets but there gathered at his heels a crowd
of small boys, who cheered incessantly. Prodgers,

jun., was so demoralised by the excitement
of the time that he absented himself for
the space of two hours on an errand that,
rigidly performed, would not have required
more than ten minutes. When he came back
Mr. Goldfinch placed a week's wages in his
hands and bade him go forth, which he did
joyfully. Being thus released from commercial
cares, he was able to devote all his spare time
to politics, and from the first associated himself
enthusiastically with the Liberal cause and its
champion in Saxton.

Gideon had not only with him the boys
of the borough, but their mothers, who, less
critical in their taste than some people, were
much taken by the newness of his clothes, a conquest
confirmed by the affability of his manner.
Gideon missed no opportunity of upholding the
purity of election, and, as Mr. Burnap had
complained, was always insisting that the law
should be respected. At the same time, when
seated on rush bottomed chairs in the humble

homes of accessible electors, he had a way of
looking pounds of tea and smiling Christmas
joints that had a marvellous effect upon
womankind, on whom the cares of the household
pressed heavily. They knew he could
not now make good these shadowy promises.
But when he was elected and all was safe, then
it was clear there would be no more openhanded
and genial gentleman in the neighbourhood
than the owner of Castle Fleyce.

From the children to the mothers up to the
heads of the household, the transition of popularity
was naturally and fully accomplished.
As became their greater and more immediate
interest, the free and independent electors were
not to be bound by nods and winks and
wreathed smiles. What they wanted to know
was 'Is the 3^. right?'

From time immemorial the free and independent
electors of Saxton had enjoyed their
birthright of a minimum of 3Z., payable whenever
a contested election took place. This is

alluded to as a minimum because in addition to
this sum, paid down on the nail before the free
and independent went to the poll, there were
contingent advantages in the shape of beer
money, fees for watching, for putting up poles,
and for doing various other acts of which the
chief practical recommendation appeared to be
that they made it possible to hand over a
certain sum of money to the elector in the legal
form of wages.

Beyond this there was also that ecstatic
thought which had stirred the dull and murky
waters of the minds of the 'Longshore men,
and had pointed to the possibility of getting
3/. from both sides. Unfortunately no man
had yet discovered means by which an honest
elector could take wages from both sides, either
as a watcher or a builder up of mighty
poles. Such dual service must be inevitably
detected. But since the ballot had come in
there was no obstacle to the expansion of the
patriotic duty of making two blades of grass (in

the shape of receipt of Zl) grow where previously
only one had flourished. It was the
first contested election that had taken place
under the Ballot Act in Saxton, and its possible
advantages in this direction uplifted the hearts
of the electors.

Mr. Montgomery, the sitting member, had
heard the dread news of the dissolution from
his place in the House of Commons, and received
it with as much geniality as might be
expected of a man suddenly informed of an
unexpected call upon him for 5,000/. Knowing
something of the way in which ' this money-lending
fellow ' was conducting the contest, Mr.
Montgomery had put down his own share of the
expenses at that shun. At first he, like Captain
O'Brien and Sir Henry Gilbert, had been inclined
to undervalue Gideon's capacity. The
notion of a vulgar interloper like this coming
down to Saxton and disturbing in his family
possession so worthy a person as Mr. Montgomery,
had seemed the height of the ridiculous.

But as' Gideon went ou his dogged way, and,
above all, as he showed his hand by leasing the
old Castle, rebuilding it, and taking up his
habitation there at a vast weekly expense, Mr.
Montgomery began to open his eyes and to
move uneasily in his chair. He did not doubt
the ultimate issue. It was absurd to think that
Saxton would reject a Montgomery for a
'money-lending fellow from London.' But
there would be a fight. A fight meant money,
and Mr. Montgomery hated to be called upon
to dispense that article beyond the level proportion
of annual contributions, which he paid
as regularly and as cheerfully as he paid his
taxes.

A little while ago, when the inevitable
nearness of a general election had excited some
of his friends in the House, he had looked on
with an easy smile, and felt how nice it was to
have a snug constituency all to himself and his
family. But things were changed now, and
this confounded ballot deepened the seriousness

of the aspect. Formerly the free and independent
electors disposed to make a change in their
Parliamentary representation would have to
take account of the pains and penalties of
making an enemy of a rich and influential
neighbour. Now they might vote as they
pleased, without any one being the wiser, a
state of things under which, Mr. Montgomery
had it borne upon him, he woidd be the loser.

He was a model member, as members go in
country places. He gave a guinea here and
there to various local charities. He never went
so far as to dine at the farmers' ordinary, but at
agricultural shows and ploughing match dinners
he sat at the head of the table, near the chairman,
and when dinner was over he delivered,
in a loud voice and without punctuation, some
remarks that were the echo of the noisiest and
most uncompromising speech delivered from the
Conservative benches during the preceding
session of Parliament.

He honestly believed all he said, just as in

the time before Galileo people believed the sun
went round the earth. He never inquired into
the matter himself, and probably would not
have been much wiser if he had. He was a
Tory as his father had been, and as his grandfather
was. He had no passion for politics, and
no particular desire for senatorial honours. He.
didn't like London in the season with its bustle,
its frivolity, and its expense, and would have
preferred to spend the summer months at the
Hall. But a Montgomery had always been
member for Saxton, and he would as soon have
thought of giving up the family seat near
Saxton as of abandoning the family seat at
Westminster.

All the old apathy vanished at the sight of
opposition. If even it had been some decent
man of eminence or respectability on the other
side who had come forward ' to tussle with him
for his birthright, Mr. Montgomery would have
felt less sore. But the money-lending fellow,
with his smug face and new cloth s and his

uproarious popularity in the borough, was more
than he could stand.

He came down to Saxton early on the
morning after the announcement in the House.
He was in the train earlier than O'Brien, for.
being a country gentleman, he was accustomed,
when the Whip permitted it, not only to go to
bed early but to rise early. He had the family
solicitor up at the hall, and the consultation
which followed did not tend to reassure him.
It was clear that Gideon meant business, and it
was also beyond doubt that he had made someway
in the race. That he should win was an
idea Mr. Montgomery still scouted. But the
contest would be an exciting and expensive
one.

^Mlat business does a fellow Hke that want
here, Mujffleton ? ' he said, turning upon the
good solicitor a face that could scarcely have
been angrier if he had suspected him of having
a hand in bringing the interloper down. ' This
is a respectable borough that has been in my

VOL. II. E

family since the first Parliament of Queen
Anne. Of course, we have had to fight it once
or twice ; but for years there has been no sign
of a contest, and now, just when things are dull,
rents are down and hard to get in, and I have
three farms on my hands, this money-lending
fellow comes along, springing up out of the
earth or gutter, heaven knows where.'

It was astonishing what comfort Mr. Montgomery
derived from alluding to Gideon as
that money-lending fellow,' though on reflection
this reference to his business was not
encouraging. He had a notion that a moneylender
was usually a rich man.

Mr. Montgomery looked with dismay on
the prospect before him. But Saxton must be
saved at whatever cost. The first cost was the
demand upon him for an address to the electors.
Literary composition did riot come easily to
him, and the preparation of his address cost
him an anguished day. But it was out at last,
flaming in bright blue letters over every square

foot of wall or hoarding unappropriated by-gideon's
address, which had got the start of
twelve hours.

What troubled Mr. Montgomery further
was Gideon's inconsiderateness in the matter of
addressing the electors. The dissolution was
not even achieved, much less was the writ
issued. It would be time enough then to go
through the nuisance of shaking hands with
every man or woman one met in the street, and
to face the torture of addressing public meetings.
But Gideon rushed into all this with a
light heart, and unfortunate Mr. Montgomery
had to plod wearily after him.

O'Brien had now taken up his quarters in
the town, and was pushing matters forward
both with tact and energy. Mr. Tandy was
hard at work, though he preferred to remain in
the background, leaving public appearances to
O'Brien. Jack Bailey was also in high feather.
He did not like Gideon personally, and felt
little interest in the great political struggle

B 2

agitating the country. But a fight was a fight.
Here was one ready to hand, and Jack flung
himself into the fray with infectious ardour.

The ' Saxton Beacon ' came out as a daily
sheet, in supplement of the weekly issue, just
big enough in size to report meetings at which
Gideon spoke and a column for Jack to prance
in.

This he did with an acute delight that
charmed Gideon, amused the town, and wrung
the soul of Mr. Montgomery. That estimable
gentleman found himself morning after morning
subjected to the most scathing inquisition, not
only painful in itself, but calculated to prove
fatal to the prospects of his candidature.
O'Brien put Jack up to a thing or two, and
in due course there appeared articles in the
Beacon ' setting forth the number of Mr.
Montgomery's attendances at the House, the
direction in which his votes were given, and
the number of times he had spoken.

What was even a more efficacious commentary

was one Jack derived from a list of the
honourable gentleman's local contributions.
These were limited in amount, and strictly
Conservative in the lines followed. What Mr.
Montgomery's father had given to, to that he
would subscribe, but he would go no further.
The sum total did not make an imposing return,
and a throb of indignation ran through Saxton
when it discovered how little it had subsisted
on during the long term of Mr. Montgomery's
tenure of the seat.

Nothing was said in the ' Beacon ' of
Gideon's benefactions ; but at the Blue Lion,
along the beach, at the Dog and Duck, whereever
the electors congregated, there were
emissaries of the Liberal candidate setting forth
the tale of Gideon's generosity. This was well
enough in the past, but in prospect its brilliance
was such as to hopelessly shrivel up Mr.
Montgomery's puny gifts.

Mr. Dumfy had come down a day or two
after Captain O'Brien, and had also taken up

his residence permanently in the borough, or
until such time as the election was decided.
O'Brien took up his quarters at the Blue Lion,
and, as it was felt that Gideon was sufficiently
represented there, Mr. Dumfy was told off to
the Dog and Duck. He didn't like the change,
the company being lower, and the gin not so
good. But he had no choice, and there was
compensation to be found in other directions.
At the Blue Lion he was sometimes overpowered
by the impetuosity of Mr. Firminger,
the austerity of Mr. Griggs, the large voice of
Mr. Burnap, or the historical reminiscences of
Mr. Goldfinch. At the Dog and Duck he was
a Triton among minnows.

By common consent he took the chair at
the end of the long deal table at which the
'Longshore men sat — always with their jerseys
on, their sea boots well greased, ready at a
moment's notice to meet the emergency that
hourly overhung them. To this end they
would not sit down on a bench alongside the

table. Each man had his particular stool or
chair, and sat at all angles and in some uncomfortable
position, ready to jump up at a signal
and hasten to the post of danger or of labour.

Unlike the cosy parlour at the Blue Lion,
the tap-room at the Dog and Duck was cheered
by long flashes of silence. In the Blue Lion,
if there ever was a pause in the conversation
(which was not often), Mr. Goldfinch was ready
to fill it up with reminiscences of '32. At the
Dog and Duck the conversation was conducted
in a leisurely manner, as became men accustomed
to contrast the vastness of the ocean
with the narrowness of life. If a man had
anything to say, he said it in a drawing voice,
and would sometimes in the middle of a
sentence stop to fil his pipe, secure fi:om interruption.
When he had made an end of speaking
no one else was in a hurry to take up the
tale, and they were really grateful to Mr.
Dumfy if, in view of their exhausted physical
condition after a hard day's work on the beach,

he would assume the principal duty of making
the conversation.

This Mr. Dumfy did with pleasure to himself
and satisfaction to the company. His
feelings with respect to Gideon were more
acute than those of Jack Bailey, who simply
despised him, and was impatient at his platitudes
and his assumption. Mr. Dumfy, on the
contrary, hated him with a hate the more
bitter because he was compelled to hide it
under a fawning manner. Nevertheless, he
desired to see Gideon member for Sax ton. If
he could thereafter hold his place it would be an
increased honour to himself. At any rate, there
were in the process of the election pickings to
be had which must be earned with at least
some semblance of fidelity and zeal.

Mr. Dumfy therefore served his master
at the Dog and Duck with great skill. He
painted on the fancy of the 'Longshore men
brilliant, if shadowy, pictures of advantages to
be derived by them when they should have

Gideon for a member instead of Mr. Montgomery.


At an early stage of his residence at the
Dog and Duck, Mr. Dumfy had made clear one
point that greatly exercised the minds of the
'Longshore men. They had heard something
of Gideon's caution with respect to keeping
clear of the Law, and began to tremble for
their statutory 3/. Gideon, of course, had
never heard of such a thing — certainly he had
never discussed it. But Mr. Tandy had had a
conversation with Captain O'Brien, which
resulted in certain communications being made
to the Conscript Fathers, who thereupon
declared that the last vestige of doubt was
removed, and that Gideon was as good as
member.

Mr. Dumfy had apparently received a communication
of the same kind, for on the second
night he took the chair at the Dog and Duck
every man in the room knew that his 3/. was
safe.

Their minds being relieved from pressing
anxiety, they were able to turn with undiminished
vigour to the question of how they
might also get Zl. from the other side.

Almost to a baccy box the 'Longshore men
were with Gideon. They had not forgotten his
genial bearing in the first weeks of his visits to
the town, which they contrasted with the stand-selfishness
or even more offensive condescension
of Mr. Montgomery. Besides, Gideon was a
benefactor. If it had not been for him there
would have been no contest, and not a penny
would have been spent in the town. There is
a sturdy honesty in the breasts of all Englishmen,
and this now asserted itself in favour of
doing the right thing by Gideon.

At the same time if they could only get
Zl. from the other side and add it to Gideon's
retainer it would be a good and desirable
thing.

Accordingly when Mr. Montgomery's agents
began to stir and visited the beach, looked in at

the Dog and Duck, and called upon these
mariners of England at their own homes, they
were so well received that grave doubt was
cast on the assertion of Mr. Muffleton that
the 'Longshore men had been bought by the
enemy.

They are good honest fellows after all,'
Mr. Montgomery said, walking up and down
his library with elastic step, and re-fixing his
stock with a pleased air. ' I don't mind confessing
that it would cut me to the heart to be
left in the lurch by these simple, honest creatures,
lured by a money-lending fellow. But
they are faithful and honest, and mean to stand
by the Constitution.'

Chapter XXII.

THE FLAGSTAFF AT THE BLUE LION.

The dissolution took place on the 24th of
March. Before the end of the week the writ
had come down, and Eoger Montgomery, Esq.,
gentleman, of the Hall, Saxton, and Gideon
Fleyce, Esq., gentleman, of Carlton Street,
London, were duly nominated as candidates.
The proceedings at the nomination were of a
melancholy character, the colour being deepened
by Mr. Goldfinch, who shook his head all
down High Street, and contrasted, for the information
of any one who would stop to listen, the
difference between ' this hole-and-corner business
in a room ' and the glorious doings of '32,
when the candidates stood out on the hustings

in the light of day, and had dead cats, rotten
eggs, and other evidences of political conviction
thrown at them.

But though there were no cheerful proceedings
at the hustings there was not lacking
partial compensation. The wind was tempered
to the shorn lamb by plentiful libations of beer
and even of stronger drink.

The process by which this was obtained
was exceedingly simple. Mr. Tandy, sitting
quietly in his office and looking more respectable
than ever, had on the day after the
announcement of the dissolution despatched
Mr. Burnap and Mr. Firminger to engage all
the public-houses in the town in the interest
of the Liberal candidate.

That's what I call coming down on the
block,' j\Ir. Firminger said as he went off gratefully
on his mission.

This point of strategy was decidedly in advance
of the Conservatives, who had yet scarcely
wakened up to the energy of the opposition.

But that confidence in the honest Englishman
which had cheered Mr. Montgomery when
reviewing the action of 'Longshore men was now
triumphantly vindicated. There were at least *
a dozen publicans who asked for twelve hours'
consideration before accepting the retainer
temptingly dangled before them by the commissioners
of the Liberal candidate.

They urged various excuses for delay.
They had a lodge meeting on or about that
date ; their daughter was going to be married ;
the house was about to be painted ; their wives
were expecting ' about that time. Still they
would see. Nothing would give them greater
pleasure than to gratify so open-handed a
gentleman as Mr. Fleyce. But they could not
rightly say just now. The first thing in the
morning, or perhaps before night-fall, they
would send up word.

Both Mr. Burnap and Mr. Firminger knew
well enough what this meant. These goodmen
were not Liberals in politics, and though

of course they would not allow political convictions
to stand in the way of material gain, they
would prefer, all other things being equal, to
• fly the blue flag over their doorway. As soon
as the emissaries of the Liberal candidate were
out of sight they with one accord rushed off to
Mr. Muffle ton to tell what was in the \\ind, and
see if he meant to do the fair thing. If he hid
he should have the house and welcome. If he
didn't they had said nothing that would drive
custom from their door when tendered from the
other side.

Mr. Muffleton was greatly upset by these
horrid proceedings. Through forty years he
had been accustomed to conduct the election
proceedings for the Hal, and they had gone
forward in a quiet, respectable manner. Now
they were going with a rush that threatened to
take Mr. Muffleton off his legs, and caused him
heartily to wish that some one else would look
after the business. But he was in for it and
must go through with it, and the first thing

was to engage these public-houses and any
others that might be available.

Mr. Montgomery was very wroth when he
heard what had been done, or rather what had
been left undone.

I am afraid we are muddling this dreadfully,
Muffleton,' he said with a voice and a
look that clearly intimated that though he said
we ' he meant ' you ' Here we are with only
a dozen public-houses, and they have got, I
suppose, between thirty and forty. What else
are they up to ? '

Well,' said Mr. Muffleton, nervously polishing
his gold-rimmed spectacles, ' I hear they
are making open house all over the place. The
landlords have instructions to serve any man
with drink who calls and mentions Mr. Tandy's
name. It's horrible, terrible, quite demoralising.
I don't know what we must do.'

I'll tell you what we must do,' said Mr.
Montgomery fiercely, being, like most large-boned,
phlegmatic men, very noisy in his wrath.

we must do the same. It's no use beating
about the bush or splitting hairs in Saxton.
My father and my grandfather did this, and
that hypocritical Tandy knows very well that
it is the only way to carry an election in this
borough wien once blood is stirred up by an
interloper like this money-lending fellow. He
is spending money like water, and so shall I.
See to that, Mr. Mutilation.'

But there's the law,' said MufSeton, with
growing uneasiness.

The law be damned,' cried Mr. Montgomery,
with a fine frankness, taking the oath
as readily as if it had been proffered him in due
form by the clerk at the table of the House of
Commons. ' The law is all very well in its
place, but its place is not Saxton at election
times. What should we do if we stood by the
law ? This fellow would get in to a dead
certainty. We should petition, and then there
would come out such a story that would lead
to the place being disfranchised, and we'd lose

VOL. II. F

it out of the family. He's deep enough in the
mire now, and dare not move against us. It
will be a stand-up fight, and I mean to stand toit.
Of course,' he added hastily, lowering his-voice
and changing his tone, ' these are only
general instructions. You will understand, Mr.
Muffleton, I don't want to go into any particulars
or to know anything, except that you are
devoting all your attention to the business.
For my part, I am aware that contested elections
are expensive things. You may depend upon
it any money that may be necessary will 'be
forthcoming. Only we must hold the seat.'

It was quite true what Mr. Muffleton had
said about the instructions given to public-house
keepers. The doors were thrown wide
open, and Saxton had the biggest, longest drink
within the memory of man. The 'Longshore men
almost deserted the beach, and it is a merciful
providence that nothing happened whilst they
were away. Night and day the tap-room of
the Dog and Duck was filled. Mr. Dumfy was

not always in the chair, being engaged in
various parts of the town, but he came in at
night and presided in his usual place, and took
his share of the good things going.

What troubled Saxton chiefly was the brief
spell of the joyous interlude. It was only in
the beginning of the month that the dissolution
was announced. In the last week of the month
it actually took place, and within a fortnight all
would be over. This was the skeleton in the
cupboard, which rattled its ghastly chain through
every hour of the day and night, and bade the
burgesses drink whilst the taps were running.
AU trade in the town was at a standstill — all
save the great business of eating and drinking
and shouting.

Some of the more provident among the free
and independent electors, recognising the transitory
nature of present joys, diligently sought
opportunity for laying up stores of hard cash.
The 3Z. was safe and certain. It was, indeed,
as good as in their pockets. But there should

F 2

be other ways of adding to their store, and one
was found in the erection of flagstaff. Flasks
were illegal, but there was no law against flag-staffs,
and presently these were erected before
all the committee rooms, and, as Jack Bailey
said, 'Saxton scudded under bare poles.'

This was the 'Longshore men's opportunity,
and they made the most of it. It was a cheering
spectacle to see them working outside the
Blue Lion, where it was determined to erect
the loftiest pole ever seen. Its proportions
were magnificent, and so was the little account
of the 'Longshore men.

Twenty-five-pounds ! ' exclaimed Gideon,
happening to see the item in Mr. Dumfy's
account.

Dumfy's account was the only one he looked
to, and that for reasons sufficient in themselves,
though not gratifying to Mr. Dumfy. But Mr.
Dumfy had not lived with the Spider for nothing.
He had in this matter laid a trap for
Gideon, and chuckled as he saw him falling into

it. There were a good many items of this
account which would not stand inquiry. As it
happened this one would, Mr. Dumfy actually
having paid over 25/. to Long Bill, the captain
of the 'Longshore gang.

Stow when Gideon fixed his eye shrewdly
upon him, Mr. Dumfy displayed such marked
uneasiness, that Gideon, throwing aside his
caution, determined to look into the matter. It
was not the 25/. that bothered him. He had
a not unfounded suspicion that Dumfy was
lining his own nest, and he thought if he detected
him in this, it would have the effect of
frightening him into honesty, since he would
never feel sure that Gideon would not unexpectedly
come in, put his finger on a particular
item, and demand explanation.

Who did you pay the money to ? ' he
asked.

To Long Bill,' answered Mr. Dumfy, with
a guilty air that sat well upon him.

Go and tell him I want him. No — stop — '

and Gideon rang the bell. ' Send a messenger
for Long Bill,' he said, when the waiter appeared.
You can stay here, Mr. Dumfy, we will see this
matter out.'

The messenger found Long Bill working
very hard, with his hands deep set in his
trousers pockets, his legs crossed and his body
inclined at a comfortable angle, supported by
the flagstaff, which" he was convinced was the
glory of Saxton, and would triumphantly propel
Mr. Fleyce into Parliament. Bill had a short
clay pipe in his mouth, and was plunged in
profound meditation, besides suffering from the
languor which steals over the body after an
extraordinary physical effort. The flagstaff had
now been up two days, but still Bill felt the
effect of the unwonted exertion.

Summoned to meet the candidate, he thrust
his pipe into his waistcoat pocket, unmindful of
the circumstance that the sod was burning, and
cheerfully followed the messenger. He felt
sure it was something about the flagstaff, and

hoped the interview would not begin and end
in empty compliments. If there was a
pound or two more going Bill felt he had
earned it.

'Well, Bill, how are things going at the
beach ? ' said Gideon, in his cheerful manner.

Must rate, sir,' said Bill, holding on to the
top of the door as if it was a plank upon which
he had providentially come when battling with
the waves. ' There's not a man of them as
won't come up to the poll right and proper.
The other party has been around talking of
what's to be had. But them men's all as true
as the sun when you are taking a h observation.
There's old Bowsprit says this very morning,
If they were to offer us 4/. a vote agen ]vir.
Fleyce's 3^. do you think we'd take it ? " and
every man of us said " No ! " '

Bowsprit ? ' said Gideon, reflectively ; ' is
he a voter ? I don't know him by name.'

It's Jack Files, your honoiu*. We call him
Bowsprit on account of his nose, which runs

sheer out, and would be handy if he was to run
agen a sea wall with wind and tide behind him.
Of course you know,' Bill added, letting go the
door the more fully to devote both hands to
holding his hat by the brim and turning it
round incessantly, as if it were, somehow, connected
with his mental machinery, which had
to be worked like a capstan, ' there's no knowing
what's in men's minds, an' if so be as the
other party was to offer 'em 4Z. we might lose
a vote or two. Prays your honour would
think whether it was worth your while to go,
say, to 3/. 10<s. You'll be snug under the lee
then, for there's not a man of 'em as 'ud let the
ten shillings stand atween yer honour and the
Houses of Parly ment.'

I have not the slightest idea of what you
are talking about,' said Gideon, smilingly, and
looking the honest tar straight in the eyes. ' If
it is anything about election expenses you must
see Mr. Tandy. What I sent for you was about
the flagstaff. I am thinking of having one put

up at the Castle, and just wanted to know how
much did you charge for this one.'

Well, your honour, to speak right out, we
got 25/. for it.'

Gideon was taken aback at this confirmation
of Mr. Dumfy's honesty, and looked sharply
at that injured individual to see if any signals
had been passed to the gentleman before him
who smelt so strongly of tar combined with a
savour that Gideon thought was stale tobacco,
but was really the pipe smouldering in his
waistcoat pocket.

Mr. Dumfy, however, was ready for this,
and had carefully placed himself full in Gideon's
view, and with his back slightly turned to the
ancient mariner.

Gideon had evidently made a false step, and
there was nothing to be done but to follow up
the inquiry on its natural lines.

That's a great deal, isn't it ? '

Well, I don't know, yer honour. It don't
come to much when you make it over amongst

twenty three hard-working men, all fathers of
families, and every man of them got a vote.'

But you don't mean to say it took twenty-three
men to put up that pole ? '

'Deed it did, yer honour, and took us three
days into the bargain, three days of sweating
and working that would have broke us down
only for the drops of drink we got.'

But what did the twenty-three men do ? '

Well, the must thing we did was to get a
flagstaff worthy of yer honour and Mr. Gladstone.
So we goes all over the town looking
one up. That took us a good couple of hours,
and we dropped into a house or two on the
way, and said a word for yer honour to any
gentleman who was taking a drop. We found
a flagstaff at Mr. Burnap's, but it looked quite
poor like ; not worth having. We was awful
tired by this time, but I says to the chaps : —
This has got to be done, so we'll have another
gallon of beer, and down this comes." We
was feeling a little queer with the walking

round and the sun, and didn't do any more the
must day than dismantle the must flagstaff as we
put up. At night, down at the Dog and Duck,
where the german here stops, we had a talk
over the thing, and I says to the chaps: —
We're going to fix the biggest flagstaff here
as was ever seen in the town, one that the
monsters over the way might see if the day
was bright, and they kep their weather eye
open. We're going to beat them Tories on this
tack." So we goes and gets a ship mast, sixty
or seventy feet high, and a pretty good weight
as yer honour may guess. The next thing
we got was a scaffold pole that reached from
the ground right up to the other side of the
houses — it might be forty-five feet, that was to
go on the top of it ; then we had to get the
gallant mast. Then we had to get two iron
caps, and they was of the weight of about three
hundredweight. It is eighty feet high. It
has to go above all the rest, and above all the
houses, and they could see it over the way at

Belong. Now the great question was, we had
come to Mr. Burnap's to get a pair of shears to
rig it. When we went down to Mr. Burnap he
had got no shears. What does we have to do ?
We had to dismantle our luggers to get these
shears, and unrig all our masts and get our
flags and ropes to get this up. Now, it is no
little weight to get it up, because it is eighty
or ninety feet when it is up. We dismantled
our two boats, that is our big luggers, and a
tidy job it was for a score of men, and a dry
un too.'

And it took twenty-three men all this
time ? ' asked Gideon.

Yes, yer honour, and working pretty
well. Moreover than which look where we'd
ha' been when we'd dismantled our masts ;
suppose anything had come on the bank and
we with our luggers dismantled. Where 'ud
we ha' been, sir ? '

Well, probably you would have been at
the Dog and Duck,' said Gideon, smiling

genially. ' But you will understand I am not
quarrelling with you or disputing your work or
wages. I only wanted to know about having
a pole put up at the Castle on the day after the
election.'

We'll do it, sir, and we'll do it right and
proper, only o' course yer honour '11 find us a
pole, 'cause it '11 never do for our luggers to be
dismantled, and the wind likely to blow on
shore at any moment.'

All right, Bill, we will bear that in mind.
Good morning.'

Good morning, yer honour,' said Bill,
sending his hat round with increased velocity,
and examining the rim with added intensity,
but making no sign of other motion.

I will let you know about the pole,' Gideon
repeated.

Thank 'er, sir, but I was just thinking yer
honour would like me to drink yer health.'

I should indeed. Bill, but I want you
fellows to understand that I could not give you

a drop of beer if you were parched. The law
won't have it, Bill, and the law must be
obeyed.'

Perhaps Mr. Bill would do a walk with
me,' said Mr. Bumfy. ' I'm going towards the
Dog and Duck.'

The cloud that had gathered over the
bronzed and furrowed brow of Long Bill
cleared off at this invitation. He was a slow-witted
man, not trained in fine distinctions. He
had often heard of this determination on the
part of Gideon not to stand treat for any man.
It seemed from the abundance of liquor allover
the place that he had at one time gone
back from this resolution. But it was Mr.
Tandy's name that was used as the open sesame,
at which the hospitable doors flew back. 'Long
Bill knew enough of Mr. Tandy to feel convinced
that his benevolence did not take this
promiscuous shape. It must have been Mr.
Fleyce, and now, as he reported at the Dog
and Duck, with some slight verbal inaccuracy,

he ' had hern him with his own voice say ashe
couldn't stand him twopenn'orth of ans thin'
hot;

A gleam of intelligence shot across his mind
as Mr. Dumfy interposed. There was something
going on that he could not quite understand.
But the liquor was not to be stopped,
and so long as Bill got that he was not inclined
to disturb himself with speculation as to whose
hand turned the tap.

Chapter XXIII.

MEDITATION AMONG THE PEWS.

It was not only the 'Longshore men who were
taken aback by the swiftness with which the
days passed and brought on the crisis at Saxton.
Gideon felt it with what he was beginning to
regard as overwhelming force. Everything
was going on swimmingly in his outward relations
with the electors. There was no question
of his popularity over that of the old member.
His meetings were more crowded and enthusiastic.
He was exceedingly pleased with his
own fluent speech, and it seemed that the kind
of oratory was not less agreeable to his hearers.
Mr. Montgomery floundered through his
commonplaces and stale denunciation of the
Opposition, and repeated many familiar phrases

in exaltation of the foreign policy of Lord
Beaconsfield. Gideon fought shy of the question
of foreign policy, partly because he knew
nothing about it, but largely because he was
shrewd enough to see that it was not of the
smallest possible interest to the people of Saxton
The great question for them was the 3/. to be
paid for their votes. That being assured, they
felt that the safety and honour of England
rested upon a rock, into whatsoever hands the
chances of the forthcoming election might place
the destinies of the country.

Gideon had a difficulty, one by no means
unfamiliar in daily life. He had spent a great
deal of money during the last year in miscellaneous
ways, and there had been a pull upon
him for Mr. Burnap's bill, and for the account
of Mr. Griggs. These had been no small items,
and in addition there had been the weekly
expenses of his household. He had practically
given up business in Carlton Street, which was
accordingly closed as a source of revenue. All

VOL. II. G

his own fortune and that of some others were
invested in his land schemes. These still continued
to look prosperous, and promised at no
distant time to realise for him a vast fortune
as the result of his foresight and shrewdness.

In the meantime there were large sums to
be paid quarterly in the way of interest, and
there was no way of obtaining these except by
fresh borrowing.

That was a circle which by this time had
become a pathway sore to the foot and searing
to the soul. One after another he had
closed the sources of accommodation, of course
in each case adding to the weight of his quarterly
responsibilities. He was paying immense
sums in interest, and it so happened that
quarter day was again at hand. He had a
o[ood sum in the bank, but within a hundred or
two every penny of it was pledged in payment
of interest. Under ordinary circumstances this
would not have mattered.

What particularly pressed upon him now

was this 3/. a-piece wanted on behalf of the free
and independent electors. There was a good
deal of money flowing day by day, accounts
opened with public-houses, with the printer,
and with the agents. Till the election was
over these might stand. But 3,000/. was
wanted within the next week to pay down on
the nail the 3/. each which the electors regarded
as their due, and without which they certainly
would not go to the poll, or, what was worse,
would go and vote for his opponent.

He must have the 3,000/. within a week.
This he said to himself, and with his old Napoleonic
manner ; but when he came to think
where he was to get it from his views became a
little less decided.

In addition to the money wanted by the
voters, Gideon had coming on within a few
days a great fete at Castle Fleyce, to which
he had invited the nobility and gentry of the
county, or rather such of them as professed
Liberal politics. He yearned to see himself at

G 2

the head of a table in a real though restored
castle, entertaining the Lord-lieutenant of the
county and many of the county gentry. He
had suggested this to O'Brien, though studiously
keeping in the background all other motives
except that of political expediency.

We must show that we have the party
with us,' he said, and O'Brien had agreed,
though a little dubiously.

The Captain broached 'the subject to Sir
Henry Gilbert, who had his hands full enough,
amongst other occupations the prospect of a
contest in his own borough being forced upon
him. But Sir Henry had, as he had promised,
looked into affairs at Saxton, and saw a rare
chance of winning an old Tory seat. He would
spare no effort to secure it, and accordingly
wrote a letter to the Lord-lieutenant, who
happened to be a Liberal, commending Gideon
to his judicious care, and urging him to accept
his proposed invitation.

This the Lord-lieutenant had done with

gracious warmth, and Gideon, after having given
the fact time and opportunity to permeate
through the county circles, had issued invitations
to every one, who was anybody at all
and a Liberal, to a luncheon party at the
Castle.

The invitation had been accepted with
flattering unanimity, and Gideon had before
him the prospect of a pleasing day. But this
also would cost money, and it must be ready
money, since it plainly would not do for a candidate
for Parliamentary honours, whose chief
recommendation was his great wealth, to begin
opening accounts with tradespeople.

The money must be had, and Gideon would
have it ; but where from ? He parted with
bits of his improving land with an anguish that
marked the taint of the Spider's blood, and
which, if it had been known in Fulham Eoad,
where a good deal else was known, might have
done something to close the breach between
himself and his father.

Every rood of land he sold now he knew
he was parting with at a sacrifice. If he could
only hold on a couple of years, or a year more,
the land would be worth fifty per cent, more
than to-day. Whatever he sold now by so
much he lost the fruits of his speculation.

It was no use going to the great banks
which had already advanced him large sums
on the title-deeds of his estate. It was just
possible they might make what was comparatively
a small advance. But the application
for it would create suspicion that would have
inevitable consequences. Very possibly no one
of the banks knew to what extent Gideon was
obliged to the other.

So long as he wore his heart upon his sleeve
and a smile upon this lips, and looked so rosy
and prosperous and careless, and especially
while he didn't attempt to narrow the margin
which the bankers had left on the value of the
property in order to cover themselves, all would
be well and the time would pass pleasantly

till the arrival of the happy hour when he could
begin to re-sell his land and reduce the capital
account.

He turned this thins over in his mind as he
sat in his pew at the old church on the hill,
whilst the curate ran through the exordium of
the morning service. It was a rare old church
in spite of the fearful process of renovation it
had undergone. Nothing could take away from
its appearance when viewed from the outside.
WitMn, the old pews had long ago disappeared,
and open benches of light oak had taken their
places.

In one of these Gideon sat. He had found
out which pew had pertained to the Castle in
olden times, and, finding it in the possession of
a prosperous retired grocer, he bought it for a
large sum. He had it all to himself, though he
had furnished it in a generous manner suitable
for contingencies. The cushions ran the full
length of the bench, and so did the Turkey
carpet on the floor, whilst handsomely bound

Bibles, prayer-books, and hymn-books were
strewn about the shelves.

Just facing Gideon was a tablet, sacred to
the memory of Richard Montgomery, member
of the Long Parliament. Gideon had not at
first liked close proximity to this testimony of
unquestionable antiquity established for his
opponent, contrasting painfully with his own
newness. In time, as things prospered with his
canvass, he grew to be pleased with this reminder
of the greatness of the victory he was
about to achieve.

Not only would he win for the Liberal
party a borough which had long been an
appendage of the enemy, but the man whom
he was about to dispossess was a member
of a family rooted in the county for centuries.
That he, single-handed, should achieve such a
triumph, seemed to him a strong recommendation
for high favour with his party. They
could not take inn into the Ministry yet, he
admitted ; but that would come by-and-bye,

and it would find him wealthy, with a unique
country seat, and the means of providing himself
with a town house.

On the other side of the aisle in the front
seat were half a dozen old men of wonderful
ages. They lived in the almshouses, in considerable
terror of Knut, seeing that no one about
to leave his house could be sure that this was
not the very moment at which the dog might
be taking his constitutional, and might knock
him over, even as he had floored Mr. Dumfy.
They had contracted a habit of cautiously surveying
the street before emerging, and this they
did the more particularly on Sunday, when they
were dressed in their best, in neat brown coats
with fine brass buttons, and a blue stock, which,
if need were, dispensed with the necessity of a
collar.

One or two of them had ear trumpets, which
they lifted with strange persistency towards the
pulpit to catch the thin stream of commonplace
which the curates in turn ejected at a tremendous

pressure, as if the congregation before
them were aflame with sin, and they were patting
the fire out.

Gideon often looked at these old gentlemen,
and wondered what their past history might
have been. They were all tall men, and had
been stalwart. Even now their cheeks were
rosy as a winter apple, and it was evident they
had not been driven to this place by stress of
ill-health.

Looking over at them, his eye fell upon a
pew, a little in the rear, in which sat three
familiar figures. There was Mr. Tandy at
the head, comfortably dressed in black, with
gold rimmed spectacles on his nose, and a
large prayer-book firmly held in both
hands.

Gideon felt it was worth something to have
a man of that kind in his service. He seemed
to diffuse an atmosphere of respectability for a
considerable radius. It was so far-reaching that
it caught even Jack Bailey, the third figure

from the end of the pew, counting from that at
which Mr. Tandy sat.

Gideon could not make out what Jack
should be doing there. He knew very well
why he (Gideon) should go to church. It was
the proper thing to do, and was expected of
him, not only as a candidate for the representation
of the borough, but as the owner of the
Castle. Jack had no such calls upon him, and,
indeed, it was only within the last week or two
he had developed a tendency towards taking part
in the service.

He had, with quite a touching diffidence,
one day asked Mr. Tandy for permission to
sit in his pew occasionally, a permission
readily granted since there was plenty of room,
and Jack was a favourite with Mr. Tandy, who
was glad to see him taking this turn, having the
impression that when he lived in London he was
a little wild.

Jack was a credit to his early bringing upas
he stood — not quite so near the end of

the pew as he might have done — with a book
in his hand, singing a great deal better than
Mr. Tandy did.

It was Napper who held the middle place,
and whose presence seemed to draw Jack
towards the upper end of the pew in a manner
which he, becoming suddenly conscious of, from
time to time, overcame by taking a long stride
that landed him at the remote end. He took
several strides during the course of a moderately
short service, though he was unconscious of any
physical action by which he edged up towards
Miss Tandy till he trembled with sAveet delight
at finding that his elbow touched hers with ever
so slight an impact.

Napper did not seem to notice this recurring
accident, perhaps because she had got used toit,
as one in time gets used to the regular ticking
of a clock. But Jack never failed to blush
violently, and, under pretence of arranging a
book or of turning to look back, he got clear
away to the other end.

Gideon noticed his presence with a general
idea that he was not after any good. There
was some girl about, probably Miss Nethersoll.
Or perhaps he was a little weary of his usual
companions at the Blue Lion, and had looked
in to steep himself in the respectability of the
parish church. Of his real motive Gideon had
not the slightest suspicion. He had now in his
own mind come to regard it as a matter of course
that Napper would become his wife. He had
not seen so much of her of late, he believed
because he had been exceptionally busy ; but
he was also conscious of some determined
drawing off on her part. When he had suggested
a visit to the Castle she had been busy,
and when in his old manner he had asked for
advice upon some particular point, she had protested
that the matter was one of which she
knew nothing.

But this, if he thought of it at all, he put
down to maidenly reserve, the exhibition of
which all the more recommended her to him.

Of course she could not expect to look so high.
She had been misled by his earlier manner,
when, not being in any way serious, he had
been excessively devoted. When she found him
drawing off, she, like the fine, good-natured girl
she was, drew back also.

Gideon liked her the better for this, and
now, insensibly soothed by the quietness of the
place, broken only by the thin, artificially
pitched voice of the curate, or by the solemn
notes of the organ, his thoughts took on a
further tenderness towards the girl. He felt
that he was really getting very fond of her, and
for the moment grew impatient for the coming
of the time when King Cophetua might take
the beggar maid by the hand. She was,
he thought, growing even more beautiful than
ever.

She was certainly less lively, and had taken
to look at things through sad eyes which greatly
puzzled him.

Chapter XXIV.

CLOUDING OVER.

The fact is Napper was sick at heart with
shame and humiliation at the things going on
in Saxton. It had all come upon her as a surprise,
a circumstance which attested her youth
and innocence. Mr. Goldfinch could have enlightened
her, but she didn't care for Mr. Goldfinch,
holding him to be a tiresome person who
sold indifferent tea, and devoted to gossip hours
that would have been better employed in selecting
superior samples of sugar.

Napper had evolved from her own fancy a
brilliant picture of Saxton asserting its own right,
and, when coarse and dirty hands thrust themselves
forward and daubed the canvas, she was
first indignant, then dazed, and finally sorry,

with that worst of sorrows in which is mingled
a feeling of shame.

It was the fault originally of her nature, and
next of her self-education, that she was accustomed
to accept words and phrases with their
simple and Literal meanings. Confined within
the narrow limits of a country town, with little
society beyond that of her father, whom she
completely dominated, tapper's sympathy had
gone out with eager, widespread arms to welcome
the good and true. She had known that
politics formed a science the object of which
was the amelioration of the lot of mankind.
What did people do in Parliament if they did
not do good ?

Conservatives and Liberals to Napper's
untutored mind were simply distinctive names
for two parties equally anxious to do good to
their fellow-men. It was much the same as if
one had been christened Edmund and the other
Henry.

The House of Commons was an assemblage

of men of conspicuous ability, either born
to great wealth or, having achieved it, patriotically
devoting their leisure to the good of
the commonwealth. It is an odd indication of
Napper's fancy that she pictured to herself the
House of Commons filled by elderly gentlemen
of benevolent aspect, with white beards, and
many of them bald.

When Gideon was introduced to her as a
candidate for parliamentary honours, she was
conscious of a slight shock at his comparative
youthfulness. But, as she argued with herself,
that was a thing that would mend. Of course,
being a young member, Gideon, if elected,
would not take any prominent part in the business
of the House. He would sit and hear his
elders respectfully, seizing every opportunity of
taking counsel with them.

The House of Commons, as being the focus
of all that was actively good in the nation, had
always possessed over Napper a strong attraction.
Thus, when she found herself in the

VOL. II. H

company of Mr. Montgomery, she availed herself
of the opportunity of talking about the
place, and so acquired bits of personal information
that would seem abstruse to ladies outside
the parliamentary circle. She knew about
the terrace on which members walked, and
pictured to herself Gideon strolling up and
down there drinking in counsel from his
elders.

She had read that Aristotle conveyed his
valuable lessons whilst walking up and down,
and perhaps the terrace had been * specially
designed in imitation of the promenade in the
Lyceum at Athens.

Then there was the tea-room, a cosy place,
as she imagined it, where members, refreshed
and invigorated with Bohea, talked matters over,
and discussed their next move for the public
good. Her fancy had, in short, built itself a
lordly dwelling-house, where members of
Parliament lived in company with all the
Virtues.

So deeply rooted was this feeling of reverence
for all connected with the Legislature that
it was some time before Gideon succeeded in
breaking through the armour of respect with
which she had environed him. He did it at
last. But at worst, Napper thought here was
one who had mistaken his vocation.

It was highly creditable that he should
think he could be a member of Parliament, and
could join the unselfish, single-minded, patriotic
assembly at Westminster. We often make mistakes
when considering our own possibilities.
Gideon had made a grievous one, though perhaps
if he succeeded in getting into Parliament
he would in due course be influenced by
the atmosphere he was privileged to breathe,
and would by the time he did so grow white-bearded
and bald-headed, and be as unselfish,
as honest, and as intelligent as the rest.

Then came the contest, which Napper
watched with feelings settling down from
bewilderment into shamed despair. It pained
H 2

lier most to know that her father was reputed
to be the principal agent in world out the
infamy that had fallen on the town. Where
all was so bad, so hopeless for the country, and
so disgraceful to her native town, Napper felt
that she would be selfish if she dwelt too much
on a matter personal to herself. She ceased to
mention the subject to her father, who saw
with pain the estrangement growing up between
himself and the girl who was more a companion
than a child to him,

Mr. Tandy was overwhelmed with work,
and had never ten minutes to spare ; but he
would have gladly given half an hour to Napper
if she had proposed to go back to the old
dancing lessons, or to the essays in singing
which, painful even to Knut, she had always
submitted to with infectious merriment.

But Napper had neither heart to dance nor
voice to sing now. Of course she didn't sulk,
andrea stranger unaccustomed to the ordinary
relations of father and daughter would have

thoiigbt nothing was lacking in her attention
or affectionate respect.

But Mr. Tandy knew it, and felt it very
deeply.

When the public-houses were first thrown
open and Napper walking about the town met
some of her old friends amongst the 'Longshore
men, and other more industrious members of
the community, unduly elated and evidently
idling the time which they should have spent
for the support of their families, she stopped
and .talked to them with grave voice and
reproachful look. But they explained that it
was election time. The other side must not
get in on any account, and for their parts they
were prepared at whatever sacrifice to do their
duty.

Napper, recognising the hopelessness of the
case, presently ceased to take any active part
in the struggle, and went through the town as
little as possible. In the afternoon she and
Knut went out for long strolls through

lanes where the hedgerows were beginning
to open their eyes to the fact that spring was
at hand. Also she went down to the beach,
where Knut resumed with unimpaired energy
his personal difference with the sea, which,
even when the tide was ebbing, sent in an
occasional wave that wet his foresaw and
resulted in a torrent of indignant remonstrance
and command.

Jack Bailey would gladly have sacrificed
the interests of the ' Beacon ' to the opportunity
of accompanying Napper on these excursions.
He had, in fact, made advances in that direction
which surprised him by their modesty. But
Napper had put him aside in an unmistakable
manner.

If she had reminded him that the interests
of an important journal rested upon his
shoulders, and that they were neglected by
absence from the office at particular hours,
Jack might have found means to overcome
such arguments. What was the ' Beacon ' or a

whole coastline of beacons compared with the
delight of talking for an hour with Napper,
whilst he found occupation for Knut in throwing
about sticks which the dog tore to the last shred ?

Napper liked Mr. Bailey's company well
enough in its way, and was encouraged thereto
by the strong preference shown for him by
Knut. Knut plainly dished Lir. Dumfy,
though not going the length of actively and
forcibly hating him. Gideon he simply endured,
it being no particular business of his if his
mistress found pleasure in his company. But
for Jack he had suddenly conceived that honest
liking, the possibility of which was similarly
demonstrated on his early acquaintance with
Napper herself. Next to Napper he plainly
loved Jack better than any of his acquaintances
among mankind.

This was a strong recommendation to
Napper on Jack's behalf, but it was not strong
enough to induce her to be bothered with
Jack's company when she wanted her own.

Thank you, Mr. Bailey,' lie had said
when Jack had proposed to accompany her, 'I
would rather go alone.'

There was no getting over that. It was
exactly what Napper meant, and Jack knew it
when she spoke the words. So he went down
to the office, took off his coat, had in a pint
of stout, lit his pipe, and, inspired by those
ambrosial delights, proceeded to ' scarcity
Montgomery.'

All this was dark to Gideon, who was able
on quite other grounds to explain why Napper
was silent and distraite. It was because she
was not sure of his intentions. Gideon was
convinced of this, and felt pleased with the
thought of how delighted she would be when
the veil was removed.

That would be when more important calls
of business were disposed of, when he was
member for Saxton, and his big transactions
were running smoothly and safely.

But what if disaster were to overtake him

at the critical moment ; if, just as his hand
were reached out to take the prize, his arm
should shrivel up ?

Long unaccustomed to difficulties in money
matters, and confident in his own resources,
he had let this temporary pressure fall lightly
upon him. It would be met somehow as
other difficulties had been met. But sitting
here in his newly furnished pew, and looking
over at Snapper, there suddenly came upon
him a fearful thought of the possibility of
evil.

It was quite certain he would not win his
election unless 3,000/. in hard cash were forthcoming
within the next ten days. This was
not a question in which credit could be considered.
He saw, as if an abyss had suddenly
opened before him, how all his credit depended
upon this one thing. His fortunes were being
built up on the principle of a row of bricks set
edgewise without mortar. Being scientifically
placed, so long as no one gave a kick at either

end they would stand. But should he fail at
Saxton he felt it would be a blow that would
utterly upset him and leave him unable to cope
with difficulties elsewhere that required a cool
hand and supple wrist.

Where should he turn for the help that
must be forthcoming immediately? He had
withdrawn his eye from the pew in which
Napper sat, and leaning back in his seat was
wrestling with this thought. He did not notice
that the congregation had risen, and it was
only the sound of the organ that startled him
from his reverie.

In choirs and places where they sing here
followed the anthem, and Gideon, with something
of a scared mind, listened to the well-trained
choir as they sang ' I will arise and
go to my Father.'

It was a strange coincidence, and Gideon,
though by no means of a superstitious nature,
thought there was something in it. After his
last visit to Fulham Eoad, he had, in his

businesslike way, put outside his calculations
the possibility of any help from his father. He
knew the old man, and he knew that when he
said if he were starving he would not give him
a penny he meant what he said. But, after all,
that might be a mere ebullition of passion.
He could not be insensible to the advantage
accruing to the family if his son succeeded inforcing
his way to an upper place among the
gentry.

Besides, as Gideon felt, he had two strings
to his bow. He should appeal to his father on
the ground of affection and family ties. That,
he felt, was a cord of somewhat feeble fibre.
The other one, more to be relied upon, was
the undeniable security he could offer for a
temporary loan. And it would be well worth
his while to pay whatever interest his father
might demand.

What followed of service or sermon Gideon
had not the slightest idea. He was turning
over in his mind the prospects of the step he

had now decided to take. The more he thought
of it the better he liked it. His father had
abundance of spare cash which he would Hke
to put out to usury. Gideon had seen it in his
safe, a vision of which, with its little packets
of sovereigns, rose before his mind, obscuring
the pulpit, the pew in which Napper sat, the
tablet in the wall recording the births and
deaths and achievements of his early predecessor
in the representation of Saxton — shutting
out everything.

Why should his father have wealth like
that, so easily accessible, when his son was in
difficulties, even in danger of losing everything ?
Gideon's eyes glistened with a new light as he
stared straight into the visionary safe. It was
almost as much his as his father's, and was at
the present time no good to anybody.

There was no time to be lost, and Gideon
would go off to town by the first train. He
could get out to Fulham, and be back by the last
train, which slipped a carriage at the junction.

He need not say anything to any one of his
journey. It was purely business of his own,
essentially a family transaction. Why should
any one know even that he had gone up to
London ? But Gideon was a little irritable
after his profound contemplation, indulged in
whilst one of the curates read out the Litany,
and the other twittered a few commonplaces
from the pulpit. He had not got over the chill
that came upon him when he saw, as in a
vision, the certain victory at Saxton snatched
from him for the temporary lack of a few
thousand pounds, and he was vexed with
himself for the terror that had come upon
him when he thought of the slight thread
upon which his fortunes hung.

If he had told the servants at the Castle
that he was going up to town, and would not
be back till the last train, it would have been
accepted as a matter of course, even cheerfully,
as opening up unexpected prospect of unrestricted
holiday. But Gideon snarled to himself

with quite unwonted humour that they
would be wondering what he was going for,
perhaps guessing that he was going to beg a
loan from his father — a personage of whose
very existence they were in happy ignorance.

He thought he would make a hearty lunch,
forego dinner, and have placed in his study
some things that would do for supper when he
came home at night.

He tried his best at the well-supplied
luncheon table, but the things went away
untasted.

'Ope you ain't ill, sir,' said Parker, the
butler, who had been recommended to Gideon
on high authority, and who had assumed somewhat
magisterial airs in the new house.

No, I ain't ill,' answered Gideon, turning
upon the faithful retainer a look of unexpected
and inexplicable ferocity that long lingered in
his honest mind ; ' and if I was ill and wanted
you to know I would tell you. Now have
these things cleared away. I shall not take

any dinner to-night. I've got some writing todo,
and don't want to be disturbed. Take into
tke study that chicken, some bread, and a
bottle of claret. When I want anything I'll
help myself, and if any one calls say I am not
at home. Keep all noise and interruption
away from the study. You can lock up
at the usual thine, and let the servants goto
bed.'

Gideon sat by the study fire for an hour,
buried in deep thought, which grew increasingly
troubled. The very fact that he had but
yesterday made light of his troubles now gave
them quite exaggerated proportions. If his
head had been as cool as usual he might have
seen half a dozen ways of getting out of his
difficulty preferable to that upon which he was
now determined. But the excitement of the
last week had begun to tell upon his health.
He was, without knowing it, a little feverish.
He had eaten little all day, and he rarely
drank.

Parker noticed with surprise that he should
have asked for a bottle of claret, knowing that
his habitude was oftener to take water than
indulge in even a single glass of wine. But
Gideon had thought that he might come in tired,
and a good glass of claret would refresh him.

There was an up-train which passed the
Junction at five o'clock. He would catch
that, be in town at half past six, see his father,
get his business done, and be safely home
again before midnight without any of the prying
gossips of Saxton knowing that he had
been out of his study. He would walk to the
Junction gladly, feeling the need to work off
in some way the excitement that possessed
him.

His study was on the ground-floor, and
facing it was the shrubbery with a pathway
leading down to a gate by which he could
reach the highway. The only point at which
any servants who might be about could see
him would be as he crossed the few feet of

lawn before the study window, and walked
across the carriage road, flanked on the other
side by the shrubbery.

It would take him an hour to walk to the
Junction, though he felt that in his present
mood he would do it in much less time. It
was a fine afternoon, though grey and chill.
He would not even bother himself with an
overcoat. Taking up a thick, knobbed stick,
which was his constant companion in such
walks as he found time to indulge in, he
softly opened the study window and stepped
out on to the grass.

There was no one about, the servants beinor
on the other side of the Castle, engaged at the
moment in discussing their* master, and arguing
a theory, put forward by Parker, that
he might be taking to secret drinking and
was about to begin mildly with a bottle of
claret.

Gideon dropped the window softly, making
sure that he could open it again, and, sauntering.

II. I

ing across the road into the shrubbery, entered
the footpath.

Once clear from observation, he set off at a
swinging pace in the direction of the railway
station.

Chapter Xxi.

THE Prodigal SON.

The bells were ringing for evening service as
Gideon's hansom drove along the Fulham
Eoad in the direction of the bijou residence
suitable for a bachelor of fortune. It was
close upon the last stroke, and the well-dressed
throng were hurrying forward with a
pleasant bustle. It occurred to Gideon as he
watched them whether after all their business
was not preferable to his own. Why should
he be thus harassed and placed in the position
of a beggar at his father's door ?

This last consideration was one that did not
greatly afflict his soul — affecting him rather by
the consideration that after all he might get
nothing out of his father.

And what was it all for?. He was happy
enough as long as he had been content to
follow his father's business. He was brim full
of joy in the excitement of carrying out his
Napoleonic land policy. If he had only kept
to the money-making all would have been well.
It was this drain of carrying on the campaign
in Saxton that was at the bottom of his present
troubles. But for that he could easily have
tided over the temporary period of difficulty,
which arose whenever it was necessary to find
the interest on the mortgages. He had spent
a good deal of money and time at Saxton, and
what was it for ?

He meant to have his money's worth out
of the House, not in the shape of gold, but in
the way of social advancement and gratification.
But when the prize was won would he after
all enjoy it ? He didn't care for dinner parties
in any of their aspects. He didn't drink wine.
Simple food agreed with him best, and as for
conversation as he had sampled it at O'Brien's

dinner they might as well have talked
Greek.

Up to the present time what was ceram
was that he was spending a lot of money in
keeping Saxton in drink, a thing which he
abhorred, and providing means for that young
jackanapes Bailey to swagger round the town
and set himself up as a great authority. The
paper was bleeding him to the tune of 10/. to
15/. a week, and so far as he could see all the
advantage went to Jack.

He would stop this when the election was
over, and Mr. Jack must bundle back to his
garret in London and his habitual uncertainty
about dinner.

All was black, or at best densely grey,
whichever way he viewed it. If he could have
arranged with the cabman, by giving him am
extra sovereign, to drive him clear out of the
radius of Saxton and the whole business, he
would on the spur of the moment have produced
the coin. But he was in for it now, and,

shaking himself together, he determined to go
through with it.

He would get this money from his father ;
within ten days he would be member for
Saxton ; and then he would begin to reap
after all this painful sowing.

He dismissed the cab at the corner of the
quiet and eminently respectable street which
the bijou residence fronted, having at its rear,
within a few feet, the backs of other houses.
When Gideon was last at the house he had
given a thundering ran-tan at the knocker.
Now he tapped modestly, waiting patiently for
any sign of response. He heard presently the
shuffling of simpered feet along the hall. The
door opened as far as the chain would permit,
and there, framed in the aperture as formerly, he
beheld the engaging countenance of his parent.

Ain't you early ? ' said the old gentleman,
holding up the exceedingly thin tallow
candle which wobbled in the not too capacious
tin candlestick.

'It is me, father,' said Gideon, with a
cheerful effort at a smile.

The look of slight annoyance on the old
gentleman's face with which he responded to
what he supposed was the too early call of
an expected guest deepened into blazing
anger,

Oh, it's you, is it ; what do you want ? '

Well, first I want to come in.'

'Then want will be your master,' said
the old gentleman, and proceeded to close
the door. But Gideon had his foot inside.

Come, come, father,' he said, ' don't be so
inhospitable. You would not turn your only
son away when he comes to see you on a
Sunday night.'

He only comes to see me because he wants
something,' retorted the old man suspiciously.

Yes, father, I do want something. I want
your advice, which I know I have neglected too
long.'

Ah, that's your little game, is it ! Come

to me for advice, eh ? I know what that
means. A father's advice is usually written out
on a cheque. But come in. I think I'd like
to see how you look when you go away without
the cheque. Come along ; here's this
candle guttering away in a wasteful manner.
I suppose you've wax, and perhaps three or
four burning at the same time. One does for
your father, but then he hasn't to go about
among his relations on a Sunday night begging.'
Thus pleasantly the old gentleman chirped ashe
led the way to the room that served him for
everything but a bedchamber. It was just the
same as Gideon had seen it before, except that
now it looked somewhat more gloomy by the
light of the solitary dip. There was a diminutive
fire in the grate, made up on a principle
long studied by the Spider, and brought to a
high state of perfection. The grate being filled
with slack, he let it burn only in the centre,
directing with the poker little bits on the red
heat as occasion required. This saved the

slack, and found him occupation during the
long evening.

There was a scuttle nearly full of the fuel
by the side of the fireplace. On the grate
Gideon saw a pan standing, and even fancied,
though of course this was but fresh evidence of
his fevered state of mind, that there was a
savoury smell in the apartment as of meat
being cooked. This impression seemed to be
supported by the circumstance that a cloth
(originally intended for a towel, but now
adapted as a tablecloth suitable for a bachelor
of fortune) was spread upon the table.

On a chair by its side were some plates and
a knife and fork. The Spider had evidently
been interrupted whilst in the act of laying the
festive board.

'Didn't know you dined so late, father,'
said Gideon, determined to be agreeable.

No, I suppose you didn't. There's not
much you. do know of your father — what he
does or how he lives. What are you staring

at ? The safe ? Yes, there it is, and you
know what's in it. I'll show you it again.
It's a pretty sight for you aristocrats, and I
dare say makes your mouth water.'

The old gentleman took the key out of his
breast pocket, and after fumbling some time
with the lock, as if he were not quite sure
which way it turned, he pulled back the heavy
doors, and, holding the tallow candle over his
head, showed Gideon once more the neatly
fastened rouleaux.

There you are, sir. What d'ye think of
that? Isn't that better than your lords and
ladies, and castles, and Houses of Commons,
and grand carriages, and prancing horses .^
They all cost money ; these cost nothing to
keep. Now what have you come for .^ Not to
murder your old father, I do hope, and rob
him of the earnings of an honest life. What
are you doing with that stick ? Put it down
in the corner.'

Don't be foolish, father,' said Gideon,

really angry at this untimely jest, which the
old man enjoyed the more intensely as he saw
how it annoyed his son.

Oh, I'm not afraid of you, my boy, though
a lad who is ashamed of his father's name and
calling would not much mind putting him out
of the way. See, I lock the safe, but I leave
the key in it. You've not put the stick down
yet,' and the old gentleman made a fresh feint
of being in mortal terror.

You always will have your joke, father,*
said Gideon, putting the stick down in the
corner of the room. ' I don't think they are
always in the best taste, but you must be pretty
lonely here, and the way you keep up your
spirits is wonderful.'

Yes, I'm pretty merry when I'm by myself,
and, as I was thinking of having a cheerful
evening, perhaps you will go as soon as you
can. Now how much do you want? How
much and when ? I knew you would come tome
in the end.'

Gideon had intended to lead up to the
matter gently, and to prove, as was not difficult,
that the needed loan was only temporary, and
that there were no scruples in the matter of
interest. But the old gentleman was so surprisingly
businesslike there was no necessity
for this circumlocution.

He had evidently made up his mind to let
Gideon have the money, and the best move
was to pacify him by acknowledging his remarkable
prescience.

'You are a wonderful man, father,' he said,
clearing away the crockery and seating himself
at the table. ' There's no coming over
you, or beating you in taking a long look ahead.
The fact is, I did come round to talk with you
about money matters.'

Ah, ha,' cried the old gentleman, picking
up a piece of tallow that had dropped into the
candlestick, and placing it near the wick, so
that it might add to the thin stream of nutriment.
' I thought it was only a friendly call, a

sort of looking up yoiir relations on a Sunday
night, when you had nothing else to do ? '

I would have been glad to do that, father,
often enough, only you remember the last time
I was here you forbade me the house, turned
me out in fact.'

Precisely, and you wouldn't come now
if you didn't want to get something out of the
old gentleman. Go on, squeeze me. What
am I good for but that ? Here's your lemon,
squeeze it,' and the facetious old gentleman,
cocking his velvet cap a little on one side,
threw himself back in the chair and opened
his arms wide in supposed representation of
a lemon.

It was a very dry one, and certainly did not
look as if it would repay the labour expended
upon it. But to Gideon the affair was exceptionally
hopeful.

I am not going to squeeze you, or to ask
you for anything I am not quite willing to pay
handsomely for. The fact is, with all your

securities in the bank and your gold in the safe
I'm quite as rich as you.'

Only you haven't got any money to carrion
your little game at Saxton. You have just
paid your interest on the mortgages, and now
you want your father to come down handsomely
and help you to corrupt the electors of
this precious borough. That's about it, isn't
it ? ' and the old gentleman, having abandoned
his efforts after the reproduction of the appearance
of a lemon awaiting the squeezer, leaned
forward and looked into his son's face with a
malicious grin.

Gideon was considerably taken aback at
this evidence of perfect knowledge on the part
of his parent of his monetary position. He
could not imagine how he had got to know so
much. Then he remembered it was part of his
father's stock-in-trade to keep machinery for
winnowing out the chaff from the corn when
the combination was presented to him by young
gentlemen desiring loans of money. He had

evidently had this at work with respect to his
affairs.

You are a regular sorcerer, father. It's
no use trying to keep anything from you. K
you know so much you will also know that
my need is absolutely temporary, that I am
more than solvent, and that I can afford to pay
you good interest.'

'Yes, I know all that, and I know that
things are even better than you think them.
Within a year you'll begin to work off your
mortgages, and be clear of them in five years
with the property at increasing value. If you
and me were in business together and knew of
a case like yours wouldn't we like to get hold
of him and sink him in loans, and then take
over the speculation ? I have thought it over
myself. I knew you would come to me for
help, and I did once think I would lend you
money on our usual terms, then put on the
screw and then draw off every acre of land you
hold. But that would take time : in the meanwhile

you would get this election I know. I
have been into that just as I have into your other
concerns, and you are quite sure to win. Then
you would go into Parliament and have a nice
time of it, I suppose, before the screw began to
work. But it would work in time and grind
you down, driving you out of the House and
out of the country. That would be a neat bit
of vengeance, wouldn't it ? That would pay
you off for insulting you: father, his house and
his business, rubbing his name off your door as
if it was a sign of the plague.'

The old gentleman was working himself up
into a violent passion, and Gideon began to
think thugs were not quite so promising as he
had imagined.

Suddenly the Spider stopped short, changed
his voice, and with it his whole aspect. The
malicious leer gave place to a benevolent smile.
The fierce light in his eye died away into something
like a twinkle. And his harsh voice
became quite coaxing in its tone. Gideon was

not unfamiliar with this transformation. He
had often seen his father look thus upon some
young sprig of nobility whose blood he was
sucking.

That reminiscence was not reassuring. Still
his father must have a heart. He had evidently
been thinking the matter over and could only
see it in one light. He was very faithful to his
family traditions, and what was Gideon doing
but raising the house on a new and more
glorious foundation .^

Come, Ikey,' the old man continued in .a
soothing tone. 'Let us get to business. I
dare say you are going to church and perhaps
your carriage is waiting for you. How much
is it you want .^ and when would you like to
have the cash ? '

Gideon was quite touched by this sudden
flash of affection breaking through the grim
exterior of the old gentleman's ill humour, a
natural ill humour Gideon felt bound to admit.
He had thwarted the old man's dearest hopes.

VOL. II. K

In a great measure he had done this unconsciously,
particularly in what seemed to be the
deepest stroke of all — the changing of his name.
He would try and make it up with him now, and
if he could only win over his father to see his
prospects in the light he viewed them himself,
they might all be happy yet, and, for even in
this gush of natural sentimental affection Gideon
was not insensible to the consideration, he
would escape the danger he had feared of his
father's willing his property away elsewhere.

' Well, father,' he said, gulping down something
like a sob, ' I must say you're uncommonly
good, much better than I expected or had any
reason to hope for. It is a trifle for you and
me, and, as you seem to know very well, I want
it just to carry me over this election. I am
nipped a bit with little expenses down at the
place.'

Little expenses ! ' the old gentleman
repeated with a swift but happily only temporary

fading out of the benevolent expression.
*0h, well, we will call them little.'

Gideon saw he had made a mistake, and
was still skating over thin ice.

They are not so much expenses as investments
out of which I shall get as much percentage
as we used to make in Carlton Street. But
what I want just now is 3,000/.'

" Three thousand ducats," as the old
gentleman says in the play where they heap
abuse upon our race, despising them as much as
some of us do our own birth and name. Three
thousand ducats ! My ducats, my son, and my
son's seat in Parliament, and his hobnobbing
with cooks and elbowing of earls and canoodlincp
with countesses. By the way, Ikey, why don't
you ask some of your fine friends to lend you
this money? The Took of Wellington might
have a trifle to spare, or the Duke of Morlbrer,
or perhaps the Prince of Wales might lend it
you on your note of hand.'

The Spider here went off in a fit of laughter,
K 2 .

in which the benevolence was burnt up, and
left him a snarling old man, looking at Gideon
with a malignant glance, which suggested that
if he had at the moment his heart's desire he
would stick a pin into him.

You will have your joke, father ; but you
have the best reason to know that dukes and
earls and their belongings are about the most
unlikely people in the world to have any spare
cash. I came to you, thinking first of all you
might like to help your son. Then I thought,
though you have retired from the business,
you wouldn't mind a little transaction where the
security was good and the interest not screwed
down.'

Interest ! ' cried the old man, raising his
dirty hands with a gesture of horror. ' Take
interest from my own flesh and blood ! Is it
possible that you could think so badly of your
old father? — though after what you have done
it's plain enough nothing's too bad for him in
your eyes. Not a penny interest will I take.

You shall have the cheque and no questions
asked either about security or interest, or
repayment. The time for that will rest with
yourself. Now, I will write you the cheque.'

The Spider got up, and, skipping lightly
across the room, produced from a small drawer
an old envelope which had reached him through
the post. He also brought over to the table
pen and ink, the latter contained in one of the
small stone bottles in which the fluid is dispensed
by pennyworth. Laying the envelope
on the table, he carefully cut off the flap side,
and began to write on the other.

I didn't get another cheque-book after using
the last from Carlton Street,' he explained. ' I
don't draw many cheques now, and what is the
use of going and putting your money out to
waste in stamps .^ Four and twopence for the
smallest book ; and suppose there was a fire in
the place they might be burnt, and where's
your remedy .? Besides, I think the four and

twopence is quite as safe in my pocket as in
the Government's.'

He wrote slowly and carefully, the tallow
candle lighting up with grim effect his eager
shrivelled face and the grey unkempt hair,
crowned by the black velvet skull-cap. Before
he finished the benevolence had faded out of
his face again, giving place to the earlier look
of cruel maliciousness.

Doubtless this was due to the act of writing
the cheque, naturally distasteful to him even
when he had made up his mind to do a generous
action.

'Haven't got a stamp in your pocket, have
you, Ikey ? I never carry them myself, but we
must stamp the cheque.'

Gideon took out his pocket-book and
handed a stamp to his father, who greedily
licked it, stuck it on the sheet of paper, and
wrote across in figures, as Gideon could see
where he sat, * 3,000/.'

There you are,' he said, folding the document

and handing it over to Gideon, ' and with
your own receipt stamp, too. Now be happy ;
go and win your election, take your seat
amongst the nobles of the land, and forget
your old father.'

Never ! ' cried Gideon, meaning it with all
his heart. ' I have been very wrong and
thoughtless, but I never meant all you thought
I did in changing my name, and all that. I
dare say we shall be able to make it up now.
You will come down to Castle Fleyce, and see
how proud I will be to show my father to my
friends, and tell them how kind he always was
to me, and is now, when I am in a hole.'

Castle Fleyce ! ' the old gentleman shrieked,
throwing himself back in his chair, and laughing
in a way that had some of the melody of
a hoarse crow. ' Castle Fleyce ! Hee ! hee !
hee ! But hadn't you better see the cheque's all
right. Your father's getting a bit old now, and
not so sharp in business matters as he used to
be. He may have made it 5,000/.'

Gideon certainly would have liked to have
looked at the cheque when it was handed to
him, and was about instinctively to follow that
impulse when the rush of genuine emotion,
occasioned by his father's unexpected generosity,
stopped him. He would not, even by so commonplace
an action, suggest the necessity of
checking off his father. He was putting the
cheque away in his pocket-book, but, thus genially
invited, he held it and read : —

If the person calling himself Gideon Fleyce
were starving in the gutter, and a pennyworth of
bread would save his life, I would not give him
a penny, much less Three Thousand Pounds.'

It was duly signed and, as Gideon had seen,
the stamp put on the corner and over it written
3,000Z.

The colour faded from Gideon's face as he
read this infamous document, and a dangerous
light came into his eyes as he turned them
upon his father, who was sitting back in his
arm-chair with his elbows on its supports, his

chin resting on his hands. He was eyeing
Gideon with the most intense delight, his lean
body shaking with silent laughter.

What does this ocean ? ' said Gideon,
lapsing straightway into the snuffling speech
that betokened the profoundest depths of anger.

It means cried the old man, springing up
and speaking with the same snuffle, ' that you
are a bigger fool than I took you for. What !
you think you can thwart your father in his
dearest hopes, insult and despise him, go your
way, which certainly leads to destruction, and
then when you are in a pickle you can come
home and crawl round your father with the
hope of wheedling him out of his hard-earned
money ? You are worse and more contemptible
than I took you for. I did think you had
some little sense. Bah! I hate and despise
you, and renounce all kinship with you.'

And the old man spat at his son.

Gideon had not spoken a word since he
asked the question, but stood with the same

white face and set lip, looking steadily at the
infuriated old man who in his rage danced
about before him.

When this personal indignity was put upon
him, he looked quickly round as if in search of
something. If his stick had been upon the
table it is possible that in the boundless passion
that possessed him he might have sealed the
family renunciation by knocking his father
down. But there was nothing on the table
save a knife.

Still in search for something handy, his eye
fell upon the coal-scuttle almost filled with slack.

This he took up with both his hands, and
before his father could quite realise the position
half the contents were thrown over him.

The rest Gideon, not quite knowing what
he did, flung on the fire and, violently pitching
the coal-scuttle to the other end of the room,
strode forth, pursued by his father, who, if the
matter had not something tragical in it, would
have looked ludicrous as he followed, spluttering

and shaking his fist, alternately bewailing
the loss of the precious fuel and calling on the
God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the
God of Jacob to curse this misbegotten son.

Before Gideon quite realised where he was
he found himself walking at a tremendous pace
westward up Fulham Eoad. He had taken the
turning to the right, coming out of the street
in which the bijou residence was situate, and
blind with wrath had not noticed that he was
walking in the wrong direction. The train he
had proposed to return by left Charing Cross
at ten o'clock. There was another at eight,
and if on leaving his father's he had got into a
cab and driven rapidly to the station he might
have caught that and been home in good time.

It was too late to think of that now.
The interview which he had reckoned on as
pleasantly extending till it was time for him to
leave to catch the ten o'clock train had come
to an unexpectedly abrupt conclusion, and he
had nearly a couple of hours on his hands.

The cool air and rapid walking had brought
him down a little from the pitch to which he had
risen when he sought solace in the coal-scuttle,
and now there came back to him with fuller
force the recollection that he had not got the
money, and that the support on which he had
been leaning with increasing confidence in its
security had suddenly given way, and — this
was an additional aggravation — had dropped
him in the very moment when he thought he
had succeeded.

When he recalled the cunning malignity his
father had displayed, leading him up to the
belief that he should have the money, and then
heaping on him contumely and insult, his blood
boiled again, his pulse beat fast, and his fist
clenched. If he could hold something in it and
strike his father, it would be a relief. The
action of closing his hand and finding nothing
in it reminded him of the stick.

He remembered how he had put it down in
the corner at his father's bidding. It was a

good stout stick, made out of an old hickory
tree, cut down in the course of the alterations
at the Castle. He had had a gold band put
round it with his name on, ' Gideon Fleyce,
Castle Fleyce,' and the date. Between his
name and address was a blank space left,
sufficient to fill in ' M.p,' when the time should
come.

He didn't like to lose the stick, and, above
all, he hated the notion that it was in his
father's possession. He knew what the old
man would do with it. He would take off the
gold rim, melt it down, and add it to his store
of gold, which would be all the more precious
to him since he would reflect that he had deprived
his son of this morsel.

Gideon recalled the finesse with which the
old gentleman got from him a receipt stamp
wherewith to complete the delusion about the
cheque. Even in full enjoyment of his revenge
he would not spend a penny of his own money,
and Gideon knew the fact that he had got this

pennyworth out of his son would multiply his

joy-gideon
would have the stick, and perhaps

if he once got into the house again he might

find some way of getting the money. The old

gentleman had had his joke, and might, even at

the eleventh hour, relent. At any rate, it was

worth trying for. A drowning man wildly

looks round and clutches at a straw. He

would rather have a plank if there were one

about. But he clutches at what he can get,

and Gideon began to be glad that he had

accidentally left behind his stick, so that he

might have an excuse for returning. To be

near the treasure in the safe was something.

He turned round and walked back to the

bijou residence. Looking up it was as dark as

if Death, representing himself as a Bachelor of

Fortune, had secured the lease and taken up

his residence within the barred shutters and

down-drawn blinds. Gideon walked up and

down once or twice looking at the house and

watching for any sign of light or movement.
Nothing came, as indeed it would have been
strange if it had. seeing that a tallow dip, of
which eighteen go to the pound, is not calculated
to produce a light that would penetrate
iron-bound shutters.

Gideon had once expressed surprise that his
father, having all this cash so easily convertible,
should dwell in the house by himself without
having the fear of thieves before his eyes.
But herein he did his father a fresh injustice.
The old gentleman, if he had not been born
and bred a usurer, would have made a having,
and peradventure fame, as a mechanic. He
was full of ingenious devices, and these he had
worked out for his safety and the preservation
of his property.

The bijou residence, in spite of its innocent
appearance, was a sort of Trojan horse, introduced
amongst unsuspecting houses of the
vicinity. A burglar entering it, whether by
door or window, would have been done to

death in various surprising but perfectly effectual
ways. The simplicity of the old gentleman
was so remarkable that no one suspected
his infernal designs. When he opened the
front door he always just put the chain on, a
familiar device which the casual caller might
imagine was the full extent of his precautions.

An able-bodied burglar would have laughed
to scorn this old-fashioned precaution, and,
setting his shoulder against the door, would
have dragged the socket out of the staple.
Whereupon there would have fallen upon his
head or shoulder, according as he was more or
less advanced, a heavy steel blade fixed over
the doorway, and supported in its harmless
position by a cord attached to the socket in
which the door chain was ordinarily fastened.

This the Spider called his guillotine, and
was much attached to it. Other contrivances,
not quite so elaborate but equally efficacious,
defended the various shutters on the ground-floor,
while the door at the back of the house.

which gave out into a little yard, overshadowed
by the backs of other houses, was practically a
dummy. With the consciousness of these
things bristling about in all directions the
Spider might sit under his own vine and fig-tree,
none daring to make him afraid.

Gideon, knowing nothing of these things,
looked up and down the house, and reflected
on the possibility of getting in, whether his
father would let him or no. But first of all
he would try the ordinary means of approach.
He didn't doubt that after knocking at the door
he would see once more through the aperture
the wrinkled face, the velvet skull-cap, and the
tallow candle held up aloft for the better
illumination. Then he would, as before, put
his foot inside the door and parley with his
parent, leaving the rest to chance.

He had a good hour to spare, and might as
well employ it in that way as in any other.

VOL. II.

Chapter Xxii.

EEHOBOTH.

Kehoboth was not easy to find, even by the
earnest seeker, unless he were furnished with
very minute instructions. As Mr. Durnfy had
incidentally mentioned to Gideon, the temple
was situate in Camden Town. It stood in a
busy street, but, as having little to do with
things of this world, or with mundane affairs of
any kind beyond the weekly offertory, it stood
well back from the hne of shops and houses.
On one side were the business premises of a
coach builder, the proprietor's name and style
being flaunted forth in gold letters standing
upon a bright green ground. On the other
was a tailor's shop, where, on Saturday nights,
the gas flamed to its utmost. There were

large tickets on every article of dress displayed
in the window proclaiming its astonishing
cheapness, a common peculiarity being that
whatever might be the number of shillings demanded,
the figure as to the pence was always
eleven. Moreover, whilst the shillings were
set forth in large letters, the eleven pence was
written so small that it was only on close inspection
it could be discern ed.

In fact it played on the price-card the part
which Eehoboth held towards the buildings in
the street. It was of supreme relative importance
; but of ineradicable retiring habits.

Another noticeable thing about the tailor's
shop was the never-failing presence of a gentleman
dressed in the height of fashion, as fashion
was interpreted by Mr. Solomon, the tailor.
His clothes were running to seed, though this
was due, perhaps, not more to old age than to
constant exposure. When it actually rained
the walking gentleman went inside, like one of

the two figures in the barometer house, who,
L 2

when the weather is threatening, gives place to
his brother made up for wet weather.

A marked peculiarity about this personage
was that he never wore a head-piece. In the
depth of winter, as in the height of summer,
he appeared bareheaded, either walking up
and down before the shop front, or standing at
the door. He had cards in his hands setting
forth the wonderful goodness and marvellous
cheapness of the clothing to be purchased at
Mr. Solomon's. If he saw any one who looked
as if he would presently be wanting a suit of
clothes he approached him, thrust a card in his
hand, and seized the opportunity to make a few
observations on the general quality of Mr.
Solomon's stock-in-trade, and the advantageous
terms on which it might be dealt with provided
the present moment were seized.

Why he should thus perambulate the pavement
before the premises without a hat was
one of the mysteries of the trade. It might
be thought that his recommendation of Mr.

Solomon's infallibly fitting coats and marvellously
adapted trousers would have been
equally efficacious if he had addressed the
desired customer with his hat on. He might
even have created a diversion by taking his hat
off, and thus addressed the passer-by with outward
marks of unwonted courtesy that might
have been counted on to move him.

Somehow or other, at some time or other,
in some place or other, there had been a man
connected with the chief ready-made clothing
establishment of the street who had stood at
the door of his shop and made occasional
excursions therefrom bareheaded. He had
prospered exceedingly, and in the reckless way
of generalising, which sometimes besets us, it
appeared to some aspirant in the trade that the
whole secret of his prosperity lay in the fact
that he went out bareheaded.

Thus, doubtless, the practice sprang up, and
in Camden Town and other parts of London,
where cheap, ready-made clothing is in vogue,

no establishment worth its salt is without its
Bare-headed Man.

Mr. Solomon's bare-headed man was a
shining light at Eehoboth. In fact — there
need be no secret about it here — he was the
proprietor of the place. Not finding it convenient
or desirable it should be known that he
was a moneyed man, Mr. Selth had originally
set up as an agent for a mysterious proprietor,
whose rents he received, and for whom he
acted with plenary power. At the outset this
arrangement had not been successful. Eeho-
both had not proved a paying concern, and
what funds were forthcoming had, as Mr. Selth
held, been wrongly appropriated by the
managing deacons.

Accordingly, when he found a new tenant,
he took a fresh departure. He joined the
church himself, was even elected deacon, and
thus had direct control over the incoming,
whilst his spiritual welfare was cared for on
Sundays, he sitting practically pew-rent free.

Brother Selth approaching Eehoboth on
the Sunday morning or Sunday evening was
scarcely recognisable as the outdoor man of
the flourishing cheap clothing establishment
hard by. The change was largely due to his
donning a hat on Sundays. It is astonishing
what a difference it made in him.

Of course in ordinary life we get used to
the change made in our acquaintances whom
we meet sometimes in the house and occasionally
in the street in the varied garb suited to
the circumstances. But if we had a familiar
friend, not being a Blue-coat boy, whom we
were accustomed to see day after day, sun,
rain, or snow, dressed for the street in every
respect saving the wearing of a hat, it would
not be without a shock that we should some
day discover him crowned by the ordinary
chimney-pot.

Brother Selth's hat looked new, which well
it might, seeing it came out only fifty-two
times in the year, and was carefully brushed

and put away every week. To meet him
walking up Camden Eoad with an umbrella in
his hand and hat on his head was quite startling.
On the other hand, there was something familiar
about his aspect as he sat in his pew, clad
in his overcoat, devoutly taking part in the
service of the chapel, and, of course, with his
hat off.

It was a further peculiarity of this remarkable
man that on Sundays he not only wore a
hat but carried an umbrella, wet or fine ; and
lastly, summer or winter, he wore his overcoat
on a Sunday, sitting with it closely buttoned up
throughout the service, even though the thermometer
might be eighty degrees in the shade.

Under its new aspect Eehoboth was going
on in a moderately prosperous way. The Ev.
Josiah Waffle had proved a great attraction.
The chapel filled, the seat-rents were all paid,
and the offertory, though not quite coming upto
that of Mr. Surgeon's Tabernacle, for example,
was a promising and improving feature.

After some of his sermons, in which Mr.
Waffle had been able to paint the hereafter of
other people in exceptionally dismal colours,
there was cast up as much as 95. 7c?. in the
boxes at the door. Last Sunday, as the label
above the box testified, there had only been
35. 3<i., a circumstance which, taken in conjunction
with what we know of an early conversation
Mr. Dumfy held with his employer,
incontestably proved that that gentleman had
not been in his place on the previous Sabbath.

This was the fact ; but Mr. Dumfy was in
his place now, and the blood in the veins of
Eehoboth seemed to move with quickened life.
Although Brother Selth was senior deacon, and
by virtue of that office sat at the little desk
underneath the pulpit from which the Ev.
Mr. Waffle liberally dispensed damnation, he
always made a point of retiring in favour of
Mr. Dumfy, when that personage was present.

Taking it as a whole, the congregation at
Eehoboth was richer in spiritual grace than in

worldly goods. Mr. Diimfy, as the confidential
clerk of an eminent financier, was a triton among
these minnows. He was generally understood to
be a ' warm ' man, and if there was any condition
that was exceptionally attractive to Brother
Selth it was that a brother or a sister should be
warm ' in the sense that somewhere or other
he or she had large possessions.

In respect of this belief affecting Brother
Dumfy, Brother Selth and the rest of the congregation
walked by faith. If Brother Dumfy
were wealthy he was careful to hide all proof
thereof, doubtless not wishing to vaunt his riches
in the eyes of brethren whom Providence had
not blessed in equal measure. Even that little
extra weekly payment he had secured from
Gideon on the alleged account of Eehoboth was
dispensed in secret, and, strange to say, without
any appreciable effect on the weekly collection,
which sometimes fell below three shillings.

It was characteristic of Brother Selth, who
managed this part of the business, that when

he made up the slip of paper that was stuck
from Sunday to Sunday over the offertory box,
proclaiming the amount collected on the
previous Sabbath, he always made provision
for three denominations of coin. From Sunday
to Sunday £. s. d. stared the congregation in
the face, the £. bearing up bravely against its
unrelieved desolation, and taking no note of
the fact that the weeks passed and resembled
each other to the extent that after the £ there
was always a dash, intimating that the amount
last week had not run to sovereigns.

But who should say what might happen?
At any rate Brother Selth would be on the
safe side, ranging the full extent of the
monetary alphabet. Besides, it was Hkely to
have a good effect upon the congregation,
bringing constantly before them the fact that
in diaconal circles it was regarded as by no
means outside the range of reasonable expectation
that some week or other they might run the
amount of the offertory over twenty shillings.

Brother Dumfy's business was to give out
the hymns, reading them verse by verse, after
which the words were taken up by the tuneful
choir. Just now the Eev. Mr. Waffle was
reading and expounding one of the lessons.
The exposition stood towards the text in the
relation which Falstaff's mixture of sack held
towards the complement of bread. Mr. Waffle
was evidently of opinion that the older apostles
were all very well in their way, but it would
be better for a congregation living in these
happy times to have a great deal of Waffle,
and very little of Paul.

So he read a few lines from Paul, apostle to
the Church at Ephesus, and interpolated long
passages from Josiah, apostle to the Church
named Eehoboth.

This interlude gave Brother Dumfy an
opportunity to gaze round the chapel, in which
he had not lately been, owing to pressure of
affairs at Saxton. It was a very small place,
and when filled did not hold more than one

hundred and fifty people. Brother Selth had
bought it cheap, the former landlord falling
into difficulties in respect of rates. Being a
man of taste, he had ' done it up,' painting the
walls a lively maroon colour, that being a shade
warranted to wear well and conceal the marks
of hands and heads, and had lavishly illuminated
the windows above the pulpit with a few
panes of purple-stained glass, which made a
nice contrast with the paint on the walls.

Standing well back from the hue of shops,
Eehoboth was approached by a gravelled walk
running between a grass plot, on which there
grew here and there a few straggling blades of
grass, which came up very black in the face,
and early displayed predisposition towards
withering. Half a dozen trees which had
reached a good height attested the comparative
antiquity of the chapel. In the early spring
the trees diffidently put forth a few leaves,
wonderfully green and tender-looking. But
they did not live long, nor grow beyond their

dwarfed estate. Ivy had been planted by the
wall of Mr. Solomon's cheap and ready-made
clothing establishment. But ivy, which will
grow almost anywhere in London, did not come
to much in this gloomy passage. It had
assimilated soot in quite a phenomenal manner,
and very early in the spring the young leaves,
as they came forth, went into mourning for
each other, and presently the short and doleful
spell of their lives was over.

Perhaps if you heard the Eev. Mr. Waffle,
as he preached his sermon, you might have
gained some inkling of the reason why the
trees and grass and ivy should be thus blighted.
Mr. Waffle had very decided views on the
ultimate destination of people outside the walls
of Eehoboth. There had never been any hope
for them from the first, and this Sabbath, even
more than a week ago, they were hastening
with quickened footsteps to the brink of the
bottomless pit, into which they would surely
fall with shrieks and wails, which Mr. Waffle

sometimes imitated for the edification of his
congregation.

His sermon was, to tell the truth, one
suffocating whiff of fire and brimstone, and
this, passing out through the open chapel doors
in summer time, or stealing through the crevices
of door and window in winter, could not fail
to have its effect upon the innocent herbage
and the struggling leaves on the soot-begrimed
trees.

But the congregation liked it, and Brother
Selth particularly approved it, since it kept the
chapel unprecedentedly full.

If Mr. Waffle was right, and a man who
perspired so freely, and who so little spared
the pulpit cushion, could not be otherwise than
right, heaven was to be found only via the
walls of Eehoboth. Therefore Eehoboth in
these times rarely had more than a dozen
seats unlet.

Everything was plain about Eehoboth,
especially the woman kind. Mr. Waffle himself

was no beauty, rather running to cheekbone,
with pallid face, abundance of unkempt
black hair, and a pair of glistening eyes that
flashed terribly as he discoursed on the sins of
others and the certainty of retribution. Mr.
Waffle ' enjoyed bad health,' as the chapel-keeper
said, with something of pardonable
pride, and as he stood up in the old deal
pulpit, fashioned something after the shape of
a coffin with the broad end uppermost, he
suggested uncanny thoughts to the imaginative.
That is, he might have carried such suggestion
if imagination had formed any part of the attributes
of his listeners.

But that was doubtful. They were good
plain people, who worked hard through the
week, and liked to take their religion strong
on Sundays. The men were for the most part
dull-looking, and the peace and rest of the
Sabbath was evidently handicapped for them
by the awkward consciousness of being in their
Sunday clothes. The women were decidedly

dowdy in appearance, the majority dressed in
rusty black. Here and there was a backslider
who illuminated the dead level with patches
of blue or purple or brick red, displayed in
bonnet or shawl. These were the objects of
much wrestling in prayer and many conversations
over the tea-tables by the elder
women.

All told, there were but ^v^ of these worldlings.
Priscilla Ann Twentyman, the one in
the light blue bonnet with neck shawl of purple-heed
wool, was ' engaged.' But no one could
say when the engagement would find its legitimate
issue in matrimony. Sister Twentyman,
Priscilla's mother, was an obstacle in the way.
The young man,' Brother Doke, was present
in chapel on this particular Sabbath ; but, as
usual, Sister Twentyman interposed her angular
body between the two lovers.

Brother Doke was a mild young man not
given to asserting his rights. He had now
been engaged for seven years, and was willing

VOL. II. M

to marry. Sister Twentyman always whined
when the subject was mentioned, as if she had
received a personal injury. She spoke at
length, though in a broken voice, of the ingratitude
of children, and so worked upon the
feelings of the unfortunate young man that he
was glad to retire into private where he could
abuse himself for his lack of considerateness
and all good feeling.

There were some who said that Priscilla
never would be married. Certainly she got
every winter more and more to resemble her
mother in appearance, temper, and even voice.
But Brother Doke did not take note of any of
these things. He was there to be married
whenever it was quite convenient to other
parties, and in the meantime he took Sister
Twentyman out to penny readings, cheap concerts,
and morning and evening service at
Eehoboth. On these occasions Priscilla had
accidentally, but invariably, sat on the other
side of her mother, and the old lady became

the unconscious conductor of many heart-throbs
that passed between the hapless couple.

Alas, poor, pallid Priscilla, and dumb
devoted Doke ! If you only had the courage
some fine morning to lock in the upper chamber
this ogress that tramples on your timid love,
and makes a profit in the shape of votive offerings
and tickets for tea-parties out of your respect
for Priscilla's mother, and were thereafter
straightway to hie thee to church or chapel,
where you might be swiftly married, all would
be well. There would be some tearfulness
when you returned, unlocked the door, and
made a clean breast of your crime. The
ogress would see as in a flash of lightning
how her opportunity was gone ; for there is a
wide difference even in so simple a mind as
that of Brother Doke's between a mother-in-law
and the mother of her with whom you
keep company.' Xo more votive offerings in
the shape of new caps with gorgeous ribbons. No
more gloves, black and a size too large for conti
2

sentence in pulling on. No more wild moments
at the Polytechnic, nor any more debauches at
Panorama of the Holy Land with nuts and
oranges, and, peradventure, ever so small a
drop of gin brought in a case bottle and
dispensed on returning home, perhaps not
without a view to certainty of invitation to
enter if it be known that the flask is in the
pocket.

All this the mother of Priscilla would see.
But it would be no use kicking against the
pricks, and thenceforward Brother Doke might
become as much master of the situation as was
possible to one of his retiring habits But it is
not likely that this cous d'etat will ever disturb
the serenity of the household, and many years
may pass before these mildewed lives are freed
from the influence that blights them.

The gods don't love Priscilla's mother, and
she is likely to live to be very old.

It was known to the elders of the congregation
that Brother Dumfy on this particular night

would not be able to stay out the full measure
of the service. He had run up to town, at
great personal expense and much inconvenience,
to share in the privilege of worship at Eehoboth.
He must needs return by the eight o'clock train,
business of this world peremptorily calling him
back to Saxton. He would sit in his old place
at the little red-cushioned desk underneath the
coffin shaped pulpit, and go through the service
up to the threshold of the sermon. Then he
would retire, and Brother Selth, walking boldly
up with his hymnbook held in his right hand
as if it were one of the cards attesting the
immense advantages of Mr. Solomon's establishment,
would take the vacant seat. In the
meantime Brother Dumfy had two hymns to
give out, and this he did with much unction.

Of course there was at Eehoboth no trifling
with Belial in the shape of a harmonium.
Even a tuning-fork was dispensed with, everything
in the musical line resting with Brother
Psyder, who, unaided by any other gift than

the vocal one with which an inscrutable
Providence had endowed him, led the tuneful
choir.

Brother Psyder sat in the background under
the shade of the coffin, and it was not till
Brother Dumfy had read out the first verse that
he came forward, and, laying his open tune-book
on his brother's desk, leaned his right aim
thereupon, and, with his hymnbook held close
to his eyes, raised the tune.

Throughout the week Brother Psyder was
in a small way of business in the butter, cheese,
and bacon line. He was volatile enough when
behind the counter, hopping here and thereto
meet the varied demands of ready-money
customers. But on Sundays he was wont to
assume an expression of stolidity, understood
to be appropriate to his responsible position.
When standing in full view of the congregation,
causing a moment before filling the dumb
chapel with melody, the result of his efforts to
assume a devotional aspect was to convey to

his face the appearance of having been carved
out of a turnip. It was absolutely expressionless,
and with great skill was kept so throughout
the singing of the hymn.

Brother Psyder, whose face was otherwise
bare, cultivated a little goatee beard, which
played an important part in his ministrations.
By long practice he had achieved the art of
singing without opening his mouth beyond the
slightest appearance of a crack, nor did he in
any degree visible to the congregation move
his lips. But the action of the goatee beard
bore testimony to the physical effort, and gave
an appearance of mobility to his ' countenance
otherwise lacking.

It was surprising, considering the size of
the aperture, what tremendous sounds Brother
Psyder was able to emit through this crack. He
had evidently devoted a good deal of thought to
the avocation, and had evolved a practice which
presented his special gifts in the strongest light.
It was his habit to sing the first two lines of the

verse at the loudest pitch of his stentorian voice.
Then the thunder ceased, and there played
through the building the soft lightning of female
voices.

This was ' forty and keener,' as Brother
Psyder explained to the church meeting at
which the matter was discussed, after the first
experiment. The explanation was accepted as
satisfactory, and the style of singing thenceforward
was formally accepted at Eehoboth.
Brother Selth was inclined to think it worthily
seconded the efforts of the Eev. Mr. Waffle to
keep the pews occupied.

Whether Brother Psyder himself took part
in the piano movement always remained a
matter for controversy. But since, whilst this
part of the verse was being sung his eyebrows
were observed to be uplifted, and the goatee was
clearly seen to move up and down with gentle
motion, there is reason to believe that at this
stage he sang falsetto.

Brother Dumfy might have solved the

mystery if he had had time to turn his thoughts
to it. Brother Psyder leaned upon his desk ashe
sung, and may be said to have warbled in
his ear. But Brother Dumfy's thoughts were
occupied with other things.

This was the occasion of his fortnightly
visit to town, and he was ordinarily accustomed
to remain all night, and return to Saxton in the
course of Monday. To-day, pleading the exigencies
of the election, he had made it known
that he must positively go down to Saxton by
the eight train. He had been at the morning
service, and would not miss what measure was
possible of the evening exercise. He would sit
in his place in full view of his brothers and
sisters, with the tuneful Psyder on his left, and
the energetic WafSe in the box above him.
When the time came he would sip out, pick up
the small black bag he had deposited in the
vestry, and wend his way to Charing Cross. He
had already taken an affectionate leave of Mrs.
Durafy, who was now in the family pew, and

proposed to herself to enjoy to the full the
ministrations of the place.

Brother Dumfy had occasion to think kindly
of Saxton and of events there. Since Gideon
had blundered into his encounter with Long
Bill on the subject of the expenditure on the
flagstaff", he had refrained from interfering
with Brother Dumfy 's petty cash, which more
and more displayed an adhesive tendency
as it passed through the fingers of its custodian.


But whilst there is a silver lining to every
cloud, so boundaries of black edge off" every
patch of blue sky, whether broad or narrow.
Brother Dumfy shared, with honest indignation,
the grievance of the 'Longshore men that the
election was being hurried forward in a highly
reprehensible manner. Before the Sabbath
had twice returned all would be over, accounts
would be squared up, and he knew sufficient
of Gideon's nature to foresee that after this
burst of lavish expenditure there would come a

period of excessive economy, and a season of
prying into the disposition of petty cash.

Brother Dumfy's appetite had grown with
what it fed upon. He had made a good thing
out of recent opportunities, but he felt he would
like, if possible, to get one great haul before
opportunity was dead. He was, as was bruited
about in the chapel, a warm man, much warmer
than even the wildest fancy pictured, warmer
even than Brother Selth, although he took high
rank as the proprietor of Eehoboth. But if this
was being warm. Brother Dumfy felt he would
like to be hot, and he had often turned over
in his mind schemes for reaching that happy
condition.

However, what he had now to do was to
get back to Saxton, and when the Eev. Mr.
Waffle laid his open book on the cushioned
desk of the pulpit, and gave a thump preparatory
to announcing his text. Brother Dumfy,
momentarily drooping his head on his hands to
hide the eyes that were homes of silent prayer,

stole away with long stride and soft footfall
towards the vestry, where his small handbag
lay, and near it his faithful weather-worn
umbrella.

Though easily portable, the bag was a good
deep one, made of cowhide, and certainly big
enough to hold Brother Dumfy's thick woollen
comforter.' It seemed a strange way to carry
a neck covering. But we all have odd personal
habits. Opening the bag, Brother Dumfy took
out the comforter, and, after a moment's hesitation
as to whether he should put it on now or
wait until he got into the train, returned it to
the bag. Perhaps when he came to close the
bag and carry it from the vestry in his hand,
the foolishness of thus lumbering himself with
useless luggage may have struck him.

There was in the vestry a small washstand
which shut up within its case, and which
Brother Selth had bought cheap at a sale. In
the lid was set a bit of looking-glass, and
Brother Dumfy, turning this up, produced from

his coat pocket a small comb and brush, and
carefully attended to his curls. Then, taking
this bag in one hand and the umbrella in the
other, he went out into the street by the vestry
door.

As he walked down Hampstead Road with
intent to get the 'bus that passed Charing Cross,
he might have felt, if there had been anything
like pride about him, that Camden Town did
not contain any more highly respectable-looking
man. The critical observer might have taken
exception to a trifle of spottiness about his hat,
and the edge of his trousers were just a trifle
frayed at the heel. But these, while indicative
of honest poverty, were not conflicting with
utter respectability, whilst the closely buttoned
morning coat he wore left little to be desired,
betraying even a stylishness of cut that gave the
wearer (for a deacon) quite a jaunty air.

Poor but honest,' was Brother Dumfy's
own description of himself, and, as he deferentially
took his seat in the 'bus dimly lighted

from the oil lamp over the door, that would
have been precisely the description applied to
him by a casual observer.

At Charing Cross Brother Dumfy had a
little time to spare, and, seeing that by the
bounty of Gideon he possessed a season ticket,
he might have sat through a portion of the
Waffle discourse and still have caught his train.
But he always liked to be in time. Though
there was yet a quarter of an hour to spare, the
train was drawn up at the siding, and Brother
Dumfy, leisurely walking down the platform,
found a carriage that had evidently been
partially appropriated, for it held the baggage
of at least two passengers. He took his seat
with his back to the engine, and very near
indeed to the engine, for he had hit upon the
first carriage.

After a few minutes the other passengers
arrived and took their seats. There were yet
six minutes to spare, and Brother Dumfy, finding
the prospect of an hour and a half's journey

before him, thought he might as well stretch
his legs. There was no need to take his
umbrella with him, and no fear of any one,
unless it was a collector of curiosities, stealing
it. It was a good, honest, antiquated, green
gingham, with a metal handle cast in the shape
of a dog's head, and was probably as old as her
gracious Majesty. But the bag Brother Dumfy
would not leave, albeit it contained only a
woollen comforter. So taking it with him he
went for a stroll on the platform.

It was well he did not go far, for the train
was punctual to a moment, and as the hand
of the clock pointed to the figure eight it
steamed out of the station and away into the
dark night, past the little towns and villages
with their thinking lights, and through the
fields on which the ghostly white mist hung
low.

Chapter Xxiii.

THE MARSHES AND THE MOAN OF THE SEA.

Midnight was striking as Gideon quickly issued
from the carriage that brought him down to
the junction. He did not want to be seen by the
police station-master or the deferential porters,
who might know him as the rich and popular
candidate for Saxton, lavish with tips. So he
slipped out into the road, and made at the top
of his speed in the direction of Saxton. He
had had a very bad day all together, and was
physically, as well as mentally, upset by something
he had seen on the hue coming down
from London.

A fearful accident, memorable in the annals
of railway disaster, had happened, and Gideon

had come almost in contact with some of the
bodies of the victims.

The train leaving Charing Cross two hours
earlier than the one he travelled by had fallen
upon grievous mishap when thirty miles on its
way. At this portion of the road the descended
with a somewhat steep incline for the
distance of nearly two miles. A luggage train
had preceded the eight o'clock train, and if all
had gone well was to have shunted at Ascham
to allow the passenger train to go its way. But
just before arriving at Ascham the coupling
chain had broken midway in the luggage train,
and half the waggons having overcome the
forward impetus, first of all stood still, then
moved backwards at a pace the velocity of
which increased at every yard. Before they
had gone a mile they were travelling at the rate
of thirty miles an hour, and still increasing their
pace.

The passenger train meanwhile dashed
along with perfect confidence, induced by the

VOL. II. N

assumption that the line was clear at least as
far as Ascham. When it had breasted the
incline for a little over a quarter of a mile the
paralysed engine-driver discovered sweeping
down round the curve the five heavily laden
waggons. He reversed the engine, and, having
done all that was possible, he and his mate
jumped off just before the shock came.

It came nevertheless with a tremendous
force. The engine leaped like a mad living
thing on top of the foremost waggon, burying
itself amidst the wreck of the waggon beyond
It is probable the shock of the fearful collision
instantly killed the occupants in the carriages
of the passenger train nearest the engine. It
would be well to think so, since otherwise a
more fearful fate than death by dislocation of
the neck or fracture of the ribs awaited them.

The waggons were loaded with petroleum
oil, and the barrels bursting open in the shock
dashed their contents over the engine, and far
down the line of carriages. The engine fire

caught the inflammable substance, and in a
moment the whole of the front part of the train
was wrapt in fierce flames.

The fire was put out, and the charred
remains had been collected in a heap and
decently covered before the mail train by which
Gideon travelled arrived at the spot. But the
scene told too graphically ^vhat had happened,
and Gideon, his nervous state increased by the
worry of the day and the fact that scarcely any
food had passed his lips, fancied he could smell
burning flesh, from which he shrank with
almost hysterical terror.

Arrangements had been made to prevent
the delay of the mail train as much as possible.
A train had been sent up from the coast terminus,
and the passengers of the mail were conducted,
with a little under half an hour's delay,
from one train to the other, and so pursued
their journey.

Gideon nearly lost his passage, being found
huddled up in the corner of a carriage, which
ir

he had had all to himself from Charing Cross.
The guard and the porter helped him round
past the wreck of the broken and burnt train,
and past a mound which, as they skirted it,
looked like a heap of rubbish with tarpaulin
spread over it.

Gideon knew instinctively that there lay the
victims of the tragedy, and he cowered in such
abject terror that the guard and porter, each
putting a stalwart arm round him, carried him
into the train waiting on the other side. Here
some one gave him a drink of brandy, which
he hastily swallowed, and was well enough
not only to pursue his journey, but when he
arrived at the junction to get out and set forth
on his lonely walk to Saxton.

The night was not always dark. There
were thick clouds in the sky, but there was
also a wild wind overhead, which swept them
onward after a fashion that gave the moon
many chances. It was nearly full moon, and
the light that shines by night would have done

very well if left to itself, as it testified whenever
it got a chance of appearing in patches of the
clear sky. Then fields and roads were flooded
in the bright light. But presently up came a
bank of dark cloud, and Gideon was floundering
along through the muddy roads in almost
total darkness.

It was a cold night, but he did not seem to
notice it, or indeed to be aware of the quickly
succeeding changes of light and darkness. He
knew the road pretty well, having often driven
along it. In any case it Alas not difficult to
follow. Having once set his face towards
Saxton there was no danger of going astray,
since the highway was a long lane that had no
turning till it reached the top of the hill from
which the lights of Saxton, at such early hours
as it had lights to show, might be seen twinkling
below.

There was a sign-post at the four crossroads,
one of which led by a steep descent to
the marshes, beyond the loneliness of which

moaned the sea. Gideon had never been down
there, but he had looked out on the great
waste sometimes, and had shuddered when he
thought what it would be on a dark, cold night,
for one who wandered there without friends
and without hope in the world. He was not an
imaginative man, and when he had looked out
on the marshes he had shuddered simply with
that feeling with which prosperous plumpness
revolts from anything physically unpleasant.

It was Napper, who had in a few words
drawn the picture of the hopeless man stumbling
on amid this loneliness, looking out herself
the while with troubled, tearful eyes, as if she
could see the despairing wretch, and acutely
felt her helplessness to rescue him.

Gideon had at the time thought it would
be uncommonly unpleasant, wet to the feet,
and ruinous to the nether garments. And
then supposing after wandering about all night
he escaped tumbling into the sea, or getting upto
the armpits in slush, he must needs lie down

And what a horrible mess his clothes would bo
in from head to foot !

As Gideon walked rapidly along in the
middle of the road with his hat thrust back on
his head and the moonlight falling on his face,
he would scarcely have been recognised in
Saxton. All the pleasant, rosy plumpness of
the man seemed to have withered at a touch.
He looked older and haggard. His lips were
drawn down and his eyes burned with quite
unwonted brilliancy. If the doctor had felt
his pulse, and held his hot hand in his own fora
moment, he would have said he was on the
verge of an attack of fever.

Gideon was not in a humour to analyse his
own feelings. All he knew was that hitherto
life had been very pleasant with him and increasingly
prosperous. Everything had gone
well, and he had had no care beyond anxiety as
to the fit of a coat or the sustained brilliancy
of the nap of his hat. Xow, in a moment, in
the twinkling of an eye, the whole thing had

changed. The sun had gone down, and black
nio'ht covered the earth.

lie cursed himself for his stupidity in
allowing things to run their own course uncontrolled
for so long a time. If he had spent a
few hundreds less; if he had not paid cash
when bills would have been equally acceptable,
or if he had recognised the imminence of ruin
before ruin had gathered all its forces and
threatened to topple over and crush him, he
would not be as he was at that moment.
Things were worse then than they had been at
this time yesterday, and they would be worse
still at this time tomorrow. He was not a
penny richer now than he had been when he
started for London in the morning, and he was
by so many hours nearer the crisis.

It did him good to curse himself, rousing
him from the stupor into which he had fallen,
partly under the influence of the unaccustomed
brandy, and partly because he was dead beat.

When he reached the four cross roads at

the top of the hill he stopped and looked away
to the right, down the dark lane at the end of
which he knew the marshes were, and beyond
them the sea. The wind was blowing inland,
and he could hear the low thunder of the surf
upon the shore. He was thoroughly wretched
in mind and body, and there came to him a
soothing sense of the ineffable peace and rest
that was to be had down in the marshes. In
his fevered state, with his stomach empty, his
heart full, and his mind disordered, he saw
nothing but shame and defeat in the coming
days. He who had been accustomed to play
Napoleon would be scoffed at as an adventurer
who had failed.

Much of this was a fevered fantasy. Things
were not so bad as they seemed regarded from
the gloomy depths of Gideon's mind. He was
not accustomed to being crossed, and had gone
down at the first stroke of ill-fortune. He
might still get the 3,000Z. ; but if he didn't,
what would be the worst ? He would certainly

lose his election, but his land schemes were as
sound now as they had been at any time. A
little retrenchment in his personal expenses, a
little patience, and a little assistance, which
many people were interested in furnishing,
would put him all right.

This is perhaps how Gideon might have
seen the matter if he had gone home, gone to
bed, had a long sleep, and lived till the morning.
But whilst it is all very well for us, discussing
these things from our comfortable
chairs, and out of the profundity of our orderly,
well spent lives, it was different to Gideon
standing alone by the finger-post on this wild
March night, with the clouds above him scudding
past as if they too were glad to get clear
of a man whom fortune had deserted.

Gideon's fancy, taking a fresh turn, pictured
the finger-post as a gallows, and he shrank
affrighted from underneath the extended beam
where he had been standing. There came back
to him the thought of the dinner-party which

O'Brien was supposed to give, aud the judge's
description of his brother on the bench who
was so fond of hanging people. He struggled
desperately against this thought, which was not
pleasant company in the circumstances. But it
constantly returned, and would not be dismissed.

He walked away from the finger-post and
stood irresolutely at the head of the road leading
to Saxton. Still on his right hand was the
lane leading down to the marshes, with the
soothing sound of muffled thunder beyond.
What a deal of trouble he would have been
saved if he had only caught the eight o'clock
train ! What he feared most was that people
would turn against him, and speak ill of him asa
man who had failed. He liked to walk about
with his head held up and to think people were
saying,

There goes Gideon Fleyce, an immensely
wealthy man, who made his money by a grand
coup in land, got into Parliament, and is hand-and-glove
with all the big wigs.'

The means by which this was to be accomplished
formed a consideration that did not
greatly trouble him. Of course the thing
should be done by legitimate business, and above
all by keeping inside the pale of the law.
But Gideon knew well enough that when a
man is as successful as he had counted upon
being, the world would not too closely question
the source of his money-getting. He yearned
for success and prosperity, of both of which he
had hitherto enjoyed his full share. It was an
atmosphere in which he blossomed, and in
which, more especially under the guidance of
Napper, quite unexpected good qualities had
begun to sprout.

Now he felt all was over, and within a week
he would have to leave Saxton, abandon Castle
Fleyce, and go back to his dim life in Carlton
Street. Anything was better than that. If he
had only caught the eight o'clock train the
matter would have been settled without his
raising a finger to hasten its conclusion. It

could not be very pleasant to be burnt to
cinders in a railway accident. But as he found
himself arc^uin^r with strange minuteness and keen
personal interest, the passengers must have been
killed first or rendered insensible by the shock,
and of what happened afterwards they neither
knew nor felt anything.

If he went down to the marshes it would
not be greatly different. People would suppose
he had lost his way, and perhaps might, as they
would have done in the case of a railway accident,
say what a pity it was that such a brilliant
career was thus cut short by a fatal accident.
All the country would ring with his name, and
no one would know how he actually stood on
the brink of failure.

And how tired he was, and how sick at
heart, and how petulantly impatient with the
laws of life !

On the other hand, there were the long
hours that must elapse before the end came,
the hateful slush, the marrow-piercing cold, the

darkness, the loneliness, and perhaps, after all,
the failure in this too. He had his star like
Napoleon. He thought it would blaze over the
Austerlitz of his election to Parliament. But
that was over, and, if he even tried to make an
end of himself and his troubles, he would surely
fail again.

There flashed before his mind the picture of
a crowd of people carrying into Castle Fleyce
the insensible form of a man covered with mud
(' Just as if I had fallen down drunk,' he said
to himself), who should be put to bed and
brought to with restoratives in time to learn
that all was over with his great schemes, that
the election had been lost, and the mortgagees
had foreclosed.

This settled the controversy in his mind.
If he was going to do anything it should not be
in that way. He turned and walked rapidly
down the hill in the direction of Castle Fleyce.
There was nobody about, and no chance of his
being seen. He would get back through the

shrubbery and into the study without any one
being the wiser. Then if he pleased he might
go out of the world in a gentleman-like way
with a pistol at his head.

Though — again arguing it out in the oddly
logical way in which he had discussed things at
the finger-post — that would be a very different
thing from taking the wrong turning, losing his
way among the marshes, being found after
many days, and brought home amid every
manifestation of sorrow and respect for a man
whose promising career had been thus tragically
cut short. To commit suicide would be the most
successful way in the world to advertise his
failure, and would not do any good beyond
gratifying his momentary passion for the rest of
oblivion. He would go to bed now, and perhaps
sleep on it.

As he approached within a mile of Castle
Fleyce he saw down the road a figure which
struck him as being familiar, and which as it
drew a few paces nearer he recognised.

It was Mr. Tandy, with his hands behind
his back, strolling up the road. This was nota
habit of that gentleman, nor it had not been
one for many years. When he was a younger
man, and was sometimes borne down by the pressure
of overwork, he would break out into the
country in the coolness and stillness of the night,
a roving tendency which probably found its
hereditary development in tapper's long
country excursions, though these, as better
befitted a young lady, were accomplished in
the daytime.

On this particular Sunday Mr. Tandy had
recurred to the earlier habit. He was tired
and in low spirits, the combined result of his
enduring exertions in Gideon's behalf and of
Napper's estrangement. When Napper had
kissed him and gone to bed Mr. Tandy had sat
by the fire an hour thinking over many things.
Then he had got up meaning to go to bed.
Suddenly there came upon him a desire to go
out into the could nio'lit air and the darkness.

So he buttoned up his coat, whistled to Knut
and went forth, walking slowly and thinking
deeply.

Knut saw the stranger in the distance
before Mr. Tandy, and it was the rigid attitude
of attention assumed by the dog that caused his
master to lift his eyes and look along the road.
At first it struck him that this was Gideon ; but
he dismissed the idea as impossible. The man
was standing still in the broad moonlight.
Mr. Tandy could even see that he had his hat
well back on his head, and that his trousers
were turned up almost to the knee.

It's some tramp,' he said to himself, and
took a firmer hold of his stick.

As he looked he beheld the stranger suddenly
scale the gate against which he stood
and disappear behind the hedge.

As an officer of the law, a resident in
Saxton, and a householder himself, Mr. Tandy
thought this was a thing to be looked into.
Quickening his pace and " sending Knut on

VOL. II. o

before him, he got up to the gate just in time
to see the man skulking along by the hedge in
the direction of the plantation which skirted it
on the other side, and gave access to Castle
rieyce.

Hallo ! ' he shouted ; but the man made no
answer, except such as was conveyed by boldly
leaving the shadow of the hedge and taking to
his heels across the field.

Gideon thought he could reach the plantation
before Mr. Tandy could get up to him.
Once there he would make his way into the
house and be comfortably seated in his study,
supposing this meddlesome old fool were to go
the length of knocking up the household with
reports of a strange man lurking about the
premises.

But he had counted without Knut. Mr.
Tandy seeing the man throw off all disguise
and bolt, was convinced either that he was bent
upon evil, or that he had done evil. In either
case he felt it his duty to secure him.

Hi ! Knut,' he cried, pointing to the receding
figure of the proprietor of Castle Fleyce
desperately making for his stronghold, ' after
him ! '

At the word Knut bounded off, and Gideon
hearing his cry and looking back saw the dog
galloping over the short grass. In two minutes
he would be upon him. It was too ridiculous
to be fighting with the dog of his legal agent,
and besides, the consequences might be unpleasant.
Gideon had a vague notion that dogs of
any kind invariably flew at one's throat. At
best he knew that Knut would hold him, by
what ever convenient place he managed to set
his teeth in, till his master came up.

Lie down ! Good old dog, he down ! ' he
said, turning and facing Knut, who, recognising
his voice and perceiving there must be some
mistake, abandoned his earlier purpose, and,
turning back, proceeded slowly and with a
dejected air to acquaint his master.

It was undoubtedly a great disappointment


to the dog. The levying of sheep was forbidden
to him under heavy penalties, the greatest
of all being the loss of Napper's favour.
Here had something come to him quite unexpectedly,
and, as he might have said had he
been a French poodle, pour combler de monsieur.
For just when he was thinking of turning in to
his lonely couch on the mat at the foot of the
stairs, his master, in a 
way, had started up and proposed a
walk.

Knut would hardly believe his senses when
they realised what was in store for him. After
having thoroughly enjoyed the out, running
backwards and forwards, and making five miles
for every one covered by his master, his superlative
benefactor, with an agility far beyond his
years, climbs a gate, takes him into a field,
shows him a man, and not only permits him to
chevy him, but commands him to do so. And
then after all that the man should turn out to
be Gideon Fleyce, the proprietor of the neighbouring

castle, the prospective member of Parliament
for the borough, and, worse than all
in the present circumstances, a person whom
he had seen in his master's house evidently
on friendly terms, and one whom Napper
frequently talked to!

No wonder that Knut, walking back to
rejoin his master, drooped his head and
flung back his ears, whilst the bushy tail,
wont on the slightest occasion to wave its
flossy fringe ecstatically, now hung despond

that you, Tandy ? ' Gideon shouted.
'What the deuce do you mean by setting
your dog on me ? I thought you were some
tramp.'

'Mr. Fleyce!' Mr. Tandy cried. 'God
bless my soul ! What an odd thing ; I thought
you were a tramp.'

'Well, I have been on the tramp,' said
Gideon, determined to put a pleasant face on
an awkward incident. ' I didn't feel inclined

to go to bed, and after supper turned out for a
bit of a stroll.'

So did I. Precisely my case ; only I am
afraid I gave you a bit of a start he added,
looking anxiously at Gideon's pale face, ghastly
in the moonlight, and his disordered clothes,
his boots covered with mud, and his trousers
splashed to the knees. 'You look quite
scared. And no wonder ! I should have been
the same myself to have a man chasing me
with a dog. Only when you got over the gate,
and made for the Castle, I thought you were
up to no good.'

You are very kind to look after us by
night as well as by day. This is a near cut to
the Castle. I was just turning in, and now I
will say good-night.'

Shall I walk with you ? '

No, I know my way.'

But it seemed that if he had at any time
known it he had now forgotten it. Getting
into the plantation he hurriedly and vaguely

felt his way, thinking he was making for the
Castle. Presently he discovered he was skirting
the road, and a dash to the left brought
him out at the back of the Castle. There was
no danger of his being seen, and getting on
the turf he made his way round to the study
window. This he opened without difficulty,
and found the room apparently as he had left
it, with the chicken and claret on the table.

If he had not been so tired and exhausted
he would have noticed that there was a bright
fire burning in the hearth, which seemed
strange considering no one had been in since
he left in the afternoon.

Gideon drank a tumbler of claret, ate a bit
of bread, and toyed with a slice of the fowl, but
he had no appetite, and felt he should find
no sleep. In this, however, he was mistaken.
He had scarcely stretched himself on the bed
when aU the weariness and fatigue of the day
came upon him, and, as it were with a great
wave, swept him into oblivion.

CHAPTEK XXVIII.

BY THE FIRELIGHT.

The moonlight falling upon Gideon as he
tramped heavily along the muddy roads that
led to Saxton essayed in vain to peep in through
the shuttered windows of the bijou residence
suitable for a gentleman of fortune and situate
off the Fulham Eoad. The moonlight wouldn't
have minded the elaborate contrivances attached
to the window shutters, and designed for the
surprise of possible burglars, and would cheerily
have run the gauntlet of the guillotine arrangements
of the front door.

As to the back door, that was secured by
bar and bolt, and was made as much as possible
like unto the wall. An ordinary bachelor
of fortune might have retained for himself the
privilege of walking out in sunny days on the

small pleasure ground twelve feet by ten,
which lay in the rear of the premises. The
Spider despised such recreative joys, and the
back-yard was accordingly yielded up to the
pleasure of sparrows and the growth of weeds,
which sprang up through the gravel, threatening
to obliterate all trace of it.

What the sparrows found there it was hard
to guess. Some people, more particularly in
winter weather, put out crumbs for the delectation
of the sparrows. That was a thought that
had never occurred to the Spider, and if it had
he could not conveniently have carried it out,
seeing that the door was screwed up. But
the sparrows came all the same, twittering
about the bare bleak garden ground, and perhaps
wondering what it was for — which, indeed,
was a thought not absent from the mind of the
proprietor, who regarded it as a waste of valuable
building ground almost enough of itself to
bring a judgment on the house.

The moonlight was not so strong in London

as over the long white road, and the dark cool
fields it illuminated for Gideon's guidance. The
wind was not so fresh in the town as in the
country, and in addition to the regular agglomeration
of cloud there was the ordinary
contribution of smoke from the mighty kingdom
which for the most part had retired to rest. It
was past midnight here as it was with Gideon
trudging along the road with his hat on the
back of his head, and those mud-stained garments
which at any other time would have
caused him poignant distress.

But there were moments when the moonlight,
if it could only have stormed the barricade
of the shutter, might have lit up some of the
rooms of the bijou residence, and discovered
what was in them. As for the upper story, it
would not have found much besides dust. The
old gentleman had not gone in largely for
furniture, and what he had possessed himself of
he had for the most part left behind in Carlton
Street, debating it at cost price to his only son.

Therefore, when, long failing a tenant for the
house whose suitability for bachelors of fortune
was persistently decried by that class, he came
to reside in it himself, he was not met by the
necessity for lavish expense claimed by porters,
furniture removers, and other harpies, who
gather round a dismantled household.

Some people of weak nerves would not have
cared to be in those upper rooms at midnight,
their footsteps muffled by the thick carpet of
dust, and only the moonlight (supposing it
could have got in) to light them. Even the
knowledge that down on the ground floor was
the lively old gentleman, who was sole tenant,
would not have altogether removed the feeling
of unpleasantness. The rooms smelt so musty,
and looked so desolate, and had such strange
echoes when their stillness was disturbed by the
slightest sound, that even persons of ordinarily
strong nerves would have felt a little creeping
of the skin and a general desire to get downstairs,
into the company of the old gentleman.

though on this particular night he could not
reasonably be expected to be found in a good
temper.

So, on the whole, it was just as well for the
moonlight that it could not get in, and after a
while it gave up the quest, passing on down
the street, and leaving the bijou residence in
dark shadow.

It would be supposed with increased certainty
that even if you got in by the front
door in a single piece, fortuitously evading the
separative tendencies of the old gentleman's
masterpiece, you would find everything dark,
and everybody gone to bed. Such a conclusion
would have demonstrated afresh the danger of
hasty generalising. There was no light upstairs,
no light in the hall, utter darkness in the
little crib at the back of the dining-room originally
designed for a lavatory, but now utilised asa
place of repose where through summer and
winter nights the old gentleman stretched his
lively body, slept the sleep of the just, and

dreamed alternately that lie was being robbed
and that he had discovered a gold mine.

But in the front room, where the safe is,
and where we had the honour of first making
the proprietor's acquaintance, there were both
light and company.

The illumination was not much, and was
almost as fitful as the moonlight. It came
from the rusty grate, and was the generous
legacy of light and warmth which Gideon had
inadvertently left behind when he emptied the
coal-scuttle. That procedure had been very
critical, and had long seemed to promise disaster.
When Gideon had departed, and after the old
gentleman had danced ofi' a little surplus energy
and a good deal of slack, he had gone down on
his knees and peered through the bars to discover
whether there was yet left anything of
the fire. It had been, after his manner, exceedingly
low when Gideon had performed this
ruthless action. Now it seemed out altogether, .
and the old gentleman gave it up for a bad job.

As he reflected, there are few evil things
without some concurrent compensation of good.
In the pan which Gideon had noted standing in
the grate was a fresh supply of that compound
which the Spider proudly denominated ' spouse.'
It had been his intent in due time dexterously
and delicately to draw the fire together so that
sufficient heat might be forthcoming to warm
the compound. But since there was no fire
how could it be done ? and no man, however
ravenous his appetite, could be inclined to eat
cold spouse. At least if such there were it was
not for the Spider to encourage irregularities.

No fire no supper. There it was, any one
might see, ready with even ostentatious liberality.
There was the cloth spread, the plates handy,
the knife and fork displayed, and if by an
untoward accident entirely beyond control the
fire had gone out, who was to blame, and what
measure of reproach might be heaped upon the
head of the intending host ?

Perhaps if he had promptly taken the slack

off from the top of the fire with a shovel he
might have rescued the dim flame from extinction.
With the use of a chip of wood this
would have been a certain success. But chips
were one halfpenny a bundle, and, owing to
the progress of education and the consequent
drain upon that class of boys engaged in making
them, were growing increasingly smaller in bulk.

The will must go for the deed, to-night,'
said the Spider to himself, almost gaily, as he
knelt down, and, drawing the scuttle towards
him, picked up bit by bit the slack that had
become scattered over the floor as the shower
descended upon him.

He was not without suspicion that some
waste had taken place in respect of particles
concealed about his clothing, and even in the
scanty locks of hair that struggled out below
his skull-cap. But he did his best to grapple
with this and other sources of waste, and in the
end, with the exception of the overloaded grate,
he had pretty well rescued the precious dust.

Now, at the solemn hour when we look in,
what time Gideon is standing under the fingerpost
at the four cross roads and shuddering at
its likeness to the gallows, the fire, secretly and
maliciously burning in the centre, had taken
full possession of the grate, and burned gloriously—
probably not quite so gloriously as an
hour ago, but still sufficient to cast a warm glow
over the hearth, and from time to time, as 'little
knubbly bits ' fell in from the back, to flame
up with a sudden light that filled the remotest
corner of the room.

In the fuller light that fell upon the near
radius of the fireplace was discernible a shadowy
figure sitting in the chair into which the old
gentleman had dropped trembling with passion
and choking with coal dust, when Gideon
stamped out of the room.

It must be the old gentleman himself,
though it is passing strange that he should sit
up so late, being constitutionally of early habits
in this respect, and, more than ever so of late.

recognising his ability to save the slack by
going early to bed.

In a moment of gay inspiration, the old
gentleman had composed a poem on the subject,
which at the approach of the hour of
separation he was never tired of repeating to
Mr. Dumfy, and which never failed to excite
the tribute of laughter from that gentleman.
It ran thus —

Early to bed, lie on your back,
Saves in a year a ton of good slack.

Since he had the bedclothes, duly paid for and
doing nothing, he might as well use them, and
they kept him warm without wasteful expenditure,
which was not the case in respect of the
slack fire howsoe'er tended.

After the surprise at finding the old gentleman
up at this time of night comes the still
greater marvel that he should sit and see the
fire burning in this unprecedented manner, and
take no steps to check it. There had been
other waste, for it was clear that the solitary

VOL. II. P

dip in the tin candlestick on the table at his
elbow had burned down into its socket. And
this was only Sunday night, whereas its last
flicker was not due till Wednesday at bedtime.
It must have been out some time, though there
was still palpable in the close atmosphere of
the room the odour of the departed wick.

Still the old gentleman sat there, apparently
buried in deep thought. Perhaps he was
touched with some tender memories of the past,
when Gideon played about his knee, a fresh,
bright boy, with rosy cheeks, and laughing
eyes, and loving caresses.

Why should he have been so hard with him
in a moment of dire distress ? It would have
been nothing to him to have laid his hand
on the 3,000/. asked for as a temporary loan.
He knew the security was safe, and perhaps if
the firelight had happened to flash up at the
moment it might have brightened up a glow of
pride pervading the withered face as he thought
how, in his gigantic speculation, his only son

had not been unworthy of him. It was well
planned and boldly carried out — perhaps a little
too boldly, since Gideon's means of handling
ready cash had not proved quite equal to the
strain upon them. If he had had a father, or
even a friend, to come forward just now and
help him over the next month or so, the last
milestone in the long highway to wealth and
honour would have been passed, and the prize
would have been in his grasp.

Why shoidd he have been so harsh with
the son of his loins, who stood to him even
as Benjamin and Joseph towards their father
Jacob ? Israel had many sons, but whilst his
heart was large enough for all, it yearned with
unspeakable affection for Joseph and Benjamin.

The old gentleman of late years had returned
into full union with that church he had
never entirely left. It was just possible that
this was the result of fresh obstinacy and contrariness
towards his son. Gideon had formally
left the church of his fathers, and had joined
p 2

the Christian community. His father therefore
would be more faithful in his attendances at
the synagogue, and more punctual in the payment
of his dues. He had brought out again
the old book, in which was written in Hebrew
characters the marvellous story of God's dealings
with his race. He had been reading it
last night. It was up on the shelf here now,
almost within reach of his hand, if he cared to
stretch it forth.

He could not fail to remember, if his
thoughts were really turned in this direction,
how, when taking it down and spreading it
open on the table before him to make the
most of the ultimate inch of Saturday's candle,
he had thought to himself with a sneer that
Gideon would scarcely be able to profit by the
book even if he were inclined to read it. His
wife Rachel had taught the boy the tongue
which Israel speaks by whatever dark waters
the people may sit. Almost as soon as he
could lisp he had learned at her knee the

portent of the strange characters spread out
before him. But Ashen the mother died the
father had not found time to carry on the
lessons nor thought it worth while to spend
money in having them completed. So Gideon,
in the course of time, forgot what little he had
learned, and did not seem to feel the loss.

But the old gentleman could read Hebrew
as well as he could read English, and sometimes
in his solitude read out aloud, in a cronincr
voice, passages from the old book. On the
night before he had, by chance, been reading
the story of Joseph. He had begun at the
beginning, when the news is brought to the
father by the wicked brethren.

And Jacob rent his clothes and put sackcloth
upon his loins, and mourned for his son
many days. And all his sons and all his
daughters rose up to comfort him; but he
refused to be comforted, and he said, " For I
will go down to the grave unto my son
mourning." Thus his father wept for him.*

And thus the old man, sitting in his lonely
room — calculating even as he read how long
the candle would last — felt unwonted moisture
in his eyes and began to think with strange
tenderness of the son whom he had driven
from his door, when a little while ago he had
called to see him.

The old man had read on rapidly, skipping
passages, till he came to the verses where the
father sits mourning over Joseph, or clings
with miserly affection to Benjamin when he
is claimed by the strange ruler in Egypt.

To the world this is the story of Joseph
and his Brethren. To the Spider it was the
story of Israel and his Sons. He had read it
often before, but never as now. It was all
new to him, with fresh lights and awakened
interest.

He had read aloud with a broken voice
how ' they told him saying Joseph is yet alive,
and he is governor over all the land of Egypt ;
and Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them

not. And they told him all the words of
Joseph which he had said unto them, and when
he saw the waggons which Joseph had sent to
carry him to Egypt Israel said, " It is enough !
Joseph, my son, is yet alive, I will go and see
him before I die." '

If Gideon could have come in at that
moment a reconciliation might have been
effected. But this was not to be, and the
opportunity was gone when the candle flickered
out and the Spider awoke to the fact that he
had left several things undone which he must
now accomplish in the dark, because he had
permitted this unaccustomed weakness to overcome
him.

All this had happened last night. And now
everything was too late. Gideon had insulted
him, even assaulted him. But who was the
earlier aggressor? His son had come to him
in trouble, if not in contrition. And what had
he done .^ He had fooled him, had even
spat upon him ; and was Gideon a dog that he

could tamely submit ? He might have refused
his prayer without contumely ; but why refuse
it at all?

There in the shade which the flickering
firelight fitfully illumined stood the safe, in
which there was something more than the
3,000/. Gideon had asked for, the bulk in gold
as he had maliciously shown his son, and
besides this, in a snug recess at the back, was
a pile of bank notes as thick as the old Hebrew
Bible.

Yet it was hard to forgive and impossible
to forget. Gideon had wounded him sorely.
It was as if the treachery had been slowly and
deliberately worked out, and then flashed upon
him at a time when he was both powerless and
unsuspecting. From the day he took the lad
into the office till the hour at which he himself
had walked out having relinquished the business
to Gideon, the youth's career had been full of
promise. He was assiduous in business, bringing
to it a fresher mind and bolder and more

energetic nature, than those Ms father had worn
out at the task of money getting. He had promised
to extend to an illimitable measure the
fame of the house the Spider had founded.

There were abbacy great houses in Israel
whose names were familiar words on all continents,
and whose nod shook the Bourse.
Why should not the little dingy house in
Carlton Street blossom into a second Rothschild's?
They, and others only second to
them, did not begin from greater opportunities.

It might have been so, and he fondly hoped,
as he watched the promising growth of his lad,
that it would be so. Believing this he had
deliberately stepped aside out of the way dear
to his soul, and the only pathway of his life,
in order that no old-fashioned notions of his
own might stand in the way of Gideon's
brilliant and successful advance.

For a year all had gone well, and the
picture that illumined his mind and uplifted
his hopes grew clearer in outline, and stronger

in colour. Then the Evil One had come and
tempted Gideon, drawing him aside from his
father's work and possessing him with a fatal
hankering for the flesh-pots of Egypt.

The Spider did not, though this was not to
be gathered from his conversation, object to
the great land speculation. Towards this his
soul secretly kindled, and, if that had been all,
all would have been well. He would have
grumbled, and might even have charged a stiff
percentage on the loan. But he would certainly
not have sent his son empty away.

What he could not stand, and what made
him grind his teeth with impotent rage, was
the notion that a son of his should go crawling
and fawning at the door of the Gentile of rank
and fashion, and beg to be let in on whatsoever
terms.

This grievously smote the prejudices and
animosities of the old man's nature. In the
first place, it seemed to imply that Gideon was
ashamed of Ms origin, his race, and his father.

The new departure had been immediately preceded
by Gideon's changing his name, an act
which above all seared the soul of the old
Israelite. Beyond these incidental circumstances.,
he honestly despised birth and rank, which he
was chiefly accustomed to see suppliant for
money loans in Carlton Street.

If it came to a question of birth, what were
these Gentiles compared with him ? His house
might be humble enough now, but its annals were
traced with more or less clearness back to the
epoch of the Captivity. She who had become the
mother of his race had been among the virgins
of Babylon who wept for their far-off home and
the dimmed splendours of the Temple. To
have his son scraping acquaintance with haughty
purse-proud English people who had not even
come over with the Conqueror, and could not,
therefore, boast that they had persecuted the
Jews when Isaac lived at York, was more than
he could bear, and perhaps, if we could have
caught the expression of his face as the firelight

fitfully played upon it, we might have seen the
old look that accompanied the snarl.

Finally all this cost money. If Gideon had
been content to live in Carlton Street and creep
along in the old style till he was in a position
to pay off his mortgages, it would not have
been so bad if thereafter he blossomed forth
into butterfly form. But on each alternate
Sunday Mr. Dumfy, as he ate his spouse and
drank his pint of four-half, regaled the ear of
his host with stories, scarcely exaggerated, of
Gideon's lavish expenditure.

It was torture to the old man to hear this ;
and yet as children, sitting by the firelight or
clinging to each other in the dark, Hke to hear
ghost stories that chill their very marrow, so
he listened to every detail of Gideon's iniquity.
He knew all about the pubic-house taps flowing
with ale or porter. He heard more than was
true of great fees paid to Napper's father, and
be sure he was informed of Napper's designs
on a marriageable man who was actually owner

of Castle Fleyce, and prospective heir to the
property of a millionaire father, who lived in
dirt and obscurity somewhere in London.

Mr. Diimfy, who was a great artist, well
knew the impressive effect of this last bit of
colour. He therefore reserved it for particular
occasions, and the nett result was that the
Spider had constantly in his mind the picture
of Gideon waiting for his death, gloating over
the prospects of coming into his large possession,
and luring on a designing girl with promises of
illimitable wealth, when the old man was out of
the way.

This was running into an evil groove of
thought, away from the moment when the old
hard, steel-glittering eyes might have had their
keenness dimmed at the thought of Israel's
yearnings after his long-lost son, and his joyful
haste to go forth to meet him. It was sad, and
black, and hopeless, and the sadder for sitting
in the bare and squalid room, from which even
the tallow candle in the tin stick had fled.

When we come to think of it, there is small
wonder that the old man should sit thus infixed
and mournful meditation. It was his own
fault, but which of us can help his idiosyncrasies
? As the twig is bent so will the tree
be inclined. The Spider had been bent in his
particular way by the previous training of father,
grandfather, and great-grandfather. Far back
through musty corridors of time might be seen
young and old steadily and feverishly working
at money getting.

One not so far back in the corridor (it was
the Spider's father) went about his task with a
dirty sack over his shoulder, two hats rim to
rim in his hand, and three more on his head.
He was not a dignified, but rather a dirty-looking
person. Yet he found what he wanted,
and when the sack fell off his bowed shoulders,
and the hats were put down for the last time,
and when he turned his face to the wall, the
Spider had been able to watch his last moments
with the filial affection born of the certainty

that he had put out at usury in safe hands a
sum that could not be a penny less than 3,000/.

This had come to the Spider, and see what
he had made ? Should this aggregate of the
hard, and more or less strictly honest, work of
two generations, go to a fellow like Gideon,
who would give 3/. for a man's vote, and
smilingly bid the borough come and drink at
his expense ?

It was, then, small wonder that the old
gentleman should sit in fixed and mournful
meditation. The firelight, rising into flame as
the little bits of slack on the black rim that
surrounded the crater crumbled and fell in,
flashed a momentary fight into the corners of
the room. Anon it left all in shade, save what
was rescued by the steady glow that fell on the
hearth and warmed the old gentleman's slippered
feet.

When the flashes came they fell upon the
rusty velvet skull-cap and the old grey coat
that seemed never the worse for wear, perhaps

because its earliest known condition was hopeless.
The room was absolutely still. Not even
a mouse scampering across the boards disturbed
the silence. If the old gentleman had
fallen asleep in his chair, and was given to
breathing heavily, the sound must have been
heard in any part of the room.

Perhaps when the next flash came with
a slight rustling noise of the falling slack he
would wake with a start, gather his old cloak
around him, and creep steadily to bed, anguished
by the thought that sleep had unaccountably
overcome him and had led to this wicked waste
of fire and candle.

But he was evidently not asleep, for, as the
last flash of firelight showed, his eyes were wide
open and fixed with eager glance upon that
part of the room in which, for the most part in
shadow, the safe stood.

The expression on his face, though curiously
fixed, made it nonsense to suppose he was asleep.
If he were asleep he must be dreaming, or even

he may have the nightmare. Who knows but
what, tempted by the presence of the food in
the pan, he may have taken some, with consequences
that any outsider might have anticipated
? It was cooked, it is true, being the
remnants of his midday meal prepared on an
exceptionally bountiful scale in anticipation of an
evening festival. But cold meat and potatoes,
taken late at night by a gentleman well advanced
in years, and unaccustomed to eat anything after
a frugal five-o'clock tea, could not fail to have
its certain effect.

Let us lift up the hd of the pan and peer
in. No ; there is the precious compound evidently
untouched, a great deal of potato, a very
little meat, and a large bone, which has a juicy,
nutritive appearance wholly inconsistent with
fact. If we had been here at one o'clock in the
day we would have seen this same bone in the
old gentleman's dirty fingers, and when the
Spider once got a bone between his teeth he
was not accustomed to leave much meat for

VOL. II. Q

those who came after. It was a mere matter
of form to return it to the mess. But it added
a completeness to the compound, and, when
splashed about with potato, gave an air of toothsome
liberality to the meal which was otherwise
lacking.

Without troubling to lift the lid of the pan
we might have seen by a glance at the table
that the old gentleman had fallen asleep supperless.
There was the dingy cloth obscuring one
end of the still dingier table, even as Gideon
had discovered it when he entered. There
was the plate as clean as crockery ever was in
the bijou residence. There was the bread uncut,
and difficult to cut now, for the knife was gone,
only the three-pronged steel fork lying by the
side of the plate.

It was a curious knife, valuable in its way,
and the Spider, before sinking into contemplation,
very likely put it in a safe place. It had
been in its time a dagger, and knew the grasp of
an eminently respectable member of the nobility

of Genoa. The Spider's information did not
particularly run in the direction of bric-a-brac.
But seeing the knife lying exposed for sale in a
cellar window in the Commercial Eoad, he had
gone in and bought it.

When his solitary specimen of English table
cutlery had broken off at the hilt, he had goton
tolerably well for some time by the expedient
of sticking a cork on the broken stem of
the handle. But this gave him very little hold.
Then he bethought him of his old bargain in the
Commercial Eoad, cleaned it up, and used it at
his daily meal. It didn't cut very well, but had
a good sharp dagger point, and gave a splendid
grip at the handle.

In his genial way he used to joke with Mr.
Dumfy about the splendour: of his state, eating
his supper with a knife like that.

'There's many a man at the West End

would give you the finest supper in the world if

you would let him eat his with that knife, Mr.

Dumfy,' he had been used to say when he saw

a2

his guest critically eyeing the measure of four-half
or somewhat ostentatiously probing about
in the sea of potato for a morsel of meat.

It's very 'handsome, sir, and I essay worth
a lot, but when it comes to eating your supper,
especially if the meat's a little stringy, I would
as hef have one of them black-handled things
as me and the missus eats our meals with in our
'humble way.'

Evidently the Spider had not eaten his
supper, and since it was not that it must have
been something else that had disagreed with
him. At times, when the light fell upon his
face, it seemed that he was glowering with
unfeigned hate and horrible fury. But in the
fuller light, or perhaps in the varying movement
of his mind, this phase passed away, and was
supplanted by another expression.

There was upon his face now a look of
fierce and almost malignant joy, which, taken
in conjunction with his steady gaze, suggested
that he was staring at something that pleased

him beyond measure. The thin lips were
parted and distorted with a smile not pleasing
to look upon. Yet, catching again the look of
strange and almost fiendish joy which the firelight
ht up in his countenance, it was evident
he was not thinking kindly of any person.

It did not seem that there was anything in
his interview with his son to account for his
present frame of mind. There was, of course,
the pitfall into which he had led Gideon, with
the added depth dug by his getting out of him
the receipt stamp which he was careful to spoil.
But this was a slight cause to bring about this
remarkable effect.

Following the unvarying gaze of the old
gentleman, it was clear that his eyes were fixed
upon the safe, though he never blinked nor
moved his head when sometimes the light, flashing
forth from the grate, played over the safe,
and momentarily dying out left it in the gloom.
When once the attention was drawn towards
the expression on the face of the old gentleman.

you would discover your mistake in supposing
it had changed with the dancing firelight. The
aspect of the room varied with the shifting
light, but the old gentleman's face was always
the same, ever staring with steady regard
towards the safe, and always with this same
look of malignant joy.

Were there things in the room that only he
could see ? Were there traveling ghosts about,
and were they playing some pranks that tickled
the old gentleman's midriff, and brought about
this look of hideous mirth ? It could hardly
have been an ordinary farce, or anything simply
funny, which the old gentleman saw. If he
were of that curious kind of humanity which
finds food for mirth in horrible tragedy, that
would supply, or rather suggest, an explanation
of his attitude and of the expression on his
sallow and dirt-stained face.

But to human eyesight there was nothing in
the room between him and the safe. As for the
safe, it seemed pretty much as it had been left

when Gideon quitted the house. The door
was partly open, and the key was in it.

Perhaps what the old gentleman was staring
at in this horribly fixed manner was the odd
condition of the key. Either the flickering light
distorted it, or, as a matter of fact, it was bent
downwards in the lock as if some heavy body
hanging on to the bow had, after a desperate
struggle, been dragged away.

This might have been, and possibly was, a
delusion created by the firelight, which has long
been known to give birth to a series of eccentric
fancies. There was, however, scarcely any
room for delusion as to some other things which
come to be noticed when we are attracted by
the discovery of the old gentleman, whose lively
disposition made it on ordinary occasions impossible
for him to sit still a moment, ever remaining
in a fixed position.

The firelight flickered about the figure in the
armchair, running up and down the right arm
as it rested on the elbow, and passed upward to

the extended hand. There it showed a strange
thing. The hand was firmly clenched, and
between the fingers was held the lapel of a coat.
This, it seemed, had been snatched by a sudden
wrench from the garment, and, quite clearly
when the firelight flamed forth, were visible
the jagged ends where the rent had been made,
whilst the bony fingers of the small dirty hand
held the cloth as in a vice.

Something else the firelight played upon —
something of metal, which might have remained
hidden but for occasional flashes on steel facets.
This was the handle of the Genoese knife which
had been lying on the table when Gideon
entered, and which he had for a moment taken
up and balanced in his hand, absently looking
upon it as if he were thinking of something else
than the metal on the haft.

The surmise ventured upon just now that
the old gentleman had put the knife away in a
safe place turned out to be quite correct. He
had put it in his breast, doubtless intending to

lay it aside in some cupboard when, by-and-bye,
he should get up and go to bed.

Another strange effect of the firelight, and
not the least, was that it seemed he had thrust
the knife straight in up to the hilt. Else how
could it stand out at right angles with the old
brown coat, and so give fuller opportunity for
the firelight to play about the bright places on
the haft, where daily use had rubbed off the
dust of ages ?

CHAPTER XXIX.

AN UNEXPECTED MEETING.

The morning broke bright and fair, after the
manner of mornings without reference to what
may have taken place on the previous night.
That is not their affair. Let the night keep its
own secrets and if need be bury its own dead.
The morning will have nothing to do with them.
All sorts of evil things may have taken place
during the dark hours of the night. The more
reason that the morning should present itself
with an innocent smile and a freshness wholly
incompatible with guilt.

After its night-long struggle with the clouds
the wind had finally triumphed, had blown
them all away inland or out to sea, anywhere
away from Saxton. It was cold, of course.

March does not pretend to be anything else.
Still there was a breath of spring in the air, and
Knut gambolled about in ecstatic delight. No
one to look at that dog would suppose for a
moment that he had been out the greater part
of the night, and had nearly nipped by the calf
of the leg the proprietor of the neighbouring
chateau.

Nor for the matter of that would any one
have suspected Mr. Tandy of nocturnal
rambling. He had come down to his breakfast
at the usual hour, had sat opposite Napper and
the coffee urn, in his accustomed way, and had
thereafter appeared at his office at the ordinary
time.

Breakfast was not the lively meal it used to
be. There was nothing like open rupture or
even constant coldness between Napper and her
father. To casual observers she was just the
same, careful for all his comforts, interested in
all his topics, and as pleasant a companion as
man might desire to see at his breakfast table.

Only the guilty breast of Mr. Tandy told him
that there was a change, and that Napper was
angry with him, which was not true. Snapper
was sorry, not angry, and there are times when
we would rather those we love were angry with
us than that they should sorrow about us.

It was not for Napper to judge her father.
That she honestly felt, and daily fought against
tendencies in the contrary direction. But he
was not quite the same to her that he had been
when she trained his elephantine movements in
the mazes of the giddy waltz, or taught him to
uplift his hippopotamus voice in ordered melody.
Napper resisted all temptations to judge. But
she could not help feeling, and she felt that it
was wrong for her father not only to associate
himself with people who were buying votes for
money or beer, but, worse still, to take an
active part in the enterprise.

All the misery and degradation wrought
in the borough had within the last few days
been brought to a head by an incident which

had greatly heightened the excitement and
rancour of the contested election. Long Bill
had come to an untimely end. It had been
proudly thought down at the beach that Long
Bill was proof against any accumulation of
spirituous liquor.

You might put him in a spirit wat for
twenty-four hour, and he'd come out wiping
his lips, and asking if ye 'ad a quart of small
beer 'andy.'

Thus, with an inflection of honest emotion
in his voice, spoke Eound Tommy, the dead
hero's companion in many a sturdy bout.

But Long Bill had succumbed, and after a
manner that will make his fate ever memorable.
What with constantly moving round the flagstaff
at the Blue Lion, and describing circles
that invariably led him to the tap-room. Long
Bill had become a little disordered in mind
and body. He began to talk wildly, and on
one occasion was observed carefully wheeling
a barrow of old rope up and down High Street

The next discovery was that of Long Bill
pendant in the stables attached to the Blue
Lion. He had been cut down with remarkable
promptitude, but he had taken rope
enough, and had hanged himself.

All this was bad, but there was worse to
follow. An inquest was held, and by some
chance, unforeseen at the time, it was packed
with adherents of the Conservative cause.
These good citizens, remembering Long Bill's
strenuous exertions on the other side, were not
inclined to extend to him the privilege of
insanity. It was in vain that Mr. Tandy, who
had taken up the cause with great zest, brought
forward witnesses who testified to the strangeness
of deceased's conduct during the past
week. The jury were a little shaken at the
testimony given on oath of Long Bill's having
been seen wheeling about a heavily laden
barrow. It was felt that if he really had come
to do a hard day's work it could scarcely be
whilst in his ordinary condition of mind. But

political animosity prevailed. Verdict oi felo
de se was brought in, and, in fulfilment of the
barbarous law which then existed, Long Bill
was buried at midnight in unconsecrated
ground.

Probably it was no great matter to Long
Bill where he was laid to rest after his battle of
life was done, and his long and faithful watch
for the ship that never came in had reached a
close. To Gideon it was, at first sight, the loss
of various money payments and much miscellaneous
drink. His majority would be one the
less since Long Bill could not make his cross
on the ballot paper and exercise the right of
the free-born Englishman, who is also a householder
and has paid his rates. It was as if he
had, regardless of expense, freighted a ship,
and just when she was approaching the harbour,
and his reward seemed forthcoming, she had
gone down carrying everything with her.

Long Bill had gone down, and regarded as
an investment he was a dead loss. But Gideon

was keen enough to seize his opportunity in the
harsh verdict of the coroner's jury, and had
made the most of it. He had appeared on the
scene at midnight when the funeral took place,
had, in fact, dressed in deep mourning, and,
with a long band of crape drooping from his
hat, headed the procession which followed Long
Bill to the grave.

This is worth fifty votes to us,' he had
said to Mr. Tandy as the two stood aside watching
the heaving, angry crowd, who at one time
threatened to make a dash at the coffin, dig a
grave in consecrated ground, and compel the
rector to recite over the six feet two of Long
Bill's stiff humanity that service which was
his right, though he had not cared to claim
much spiritual comfort from the Church whilst
alive.

Gideon did not want to create a riot. Everything
that was desirable to be done had been
accomplished, and by his personal interposition
the sorry business ended amid howls and hoots

for the jury, groans for poor, innocent Mr.
Montgomery, and cheers for the Liberal candidate.
Gideon's conduct on this occasion was
in due time recorded in the press, and was
calculated to secure for him the approval of all
right-thinking people.

• Long Bill was no favourite of Napper's. If
a week ago she had been asked to declare her
opinion of him, it would have gone hard against
him as an idle, good-for-nothing fellow, who
hung about the beach with his hands in his
pockets by day, drank more than was good for
him at night, and had pushed to their farthest
limits the opportunities opened to him by election
times. But now she saw in him a victim
of the system which permitted such things to
go on, and tried hard, but not altogether successfully,
to keep back the thought that her
father was in some respects responsible for Long
Bill's melancholy end and his shameful burial.

Therefore, Napper had not cared to extend
the breakfast hour, and when it was decently

VOL. II. R

over, and her father had shut himself up in his
office, Knut was observed making a dash up
the street and round the block of houses which
the neighbours knew preluded an excursion on
the part of his mistress.

Napper used to find a familiar walk up the
hill, past the ruined Castle, and beyond the
woods where the wild flowers came earliest,
and where the birds first woke with the glad
surprise that spring had come again. Now she
had come to hate that way, and carefully
avoided it. She had once taken great pride in
the alterations of the Castle, feeling a just satisfaction
at the knowledge that owing to her
they had been carried out without injury to the
grave beauty of the structure. Except that
there was something new beside the ruin the
Castle was as beautiful now as when Gideon's
eyes had first lighted up with the thought that
he would connect himself and his name with
the old place.

Napper could not bear the man or his

place, and when she walked she bore away to
the bleaker side, where the Downs looked over
the marshes, on to the far-off waste that was
the sea.

Knut was not at all particular, and would
go anywhere so that he had Napper to revolve
round as the moving object of his desperate
rushing to and fro.

Napper got rid of her troubles when out of
Saxton, and walked along with her head well
up, a glow on her cheeks and a great desire in
her heart to laugh and be merry. Just now
she was cut off from . opportunities for cheerful
conversation. All her idols had been detected
with feet of clay, at which she could no longer
sit. In this sad case she found much comfort
in the company of Knut, and with him out in
the fields where the grass was turning to a
brighter green, and where the hedges and trees
were beginning to wake up to the new life that
would last a whole summer, Napper was herself
again.

Why don't you have a vote, Knut ? ' she
said. ' I do believe if you had you would give
it honestly, which would be quite a strange
thing in these parts. One thing I am certain
of, you would not sell it for beer, though what
might happen if you were offered a bone for
your vote and interest, I aren't guess. Water
for you, pure water for you, otherwise mixed
with a little milk. Then you don't care for
money. You don't fawn on people for what
you can get out of them. You have a wonderful
eye for what Mr. Carlyle calls the Good and
the True, which by the way accounts for your
strong affection for me. Moreover, you have a
wholesome tendency to take a bite out of whatever
for the moment represents the False and
the Base. You cannot do much, my poor old
dog, but every little helps. I'm sure your
notion is that if you take a bite here and a bite
there out of the legs of mean people you will
in time reduce the average going about. I
dismiss that unworthy suspicion about the bone.

and declare that if you had a vote you would
give it to the best man regardless of bribes.
Perhaps there might be some difficulty in informing
you on political questions. On Foreign
Policy I'm sure you would go about blindly.
But it does not seem to me that that would
make much difference as compared with those
who have the franchise now. I wonder what
Long Bill thought of the Concordat, or what
are Eound Tommy's views on the Treaty of
Berlin? I am sure I don't know anything
about them myself. I am not quite certain
that the Concordat, whatever it may be, has
anything to do with us just now. But that it
is just the position of more than one half of the
men who will say next week whether Mr.
Fleyce is to be our member, or whether Mr.
Montgomery shall continue to represent us. I
declare I would rather Mr. Montgomery kept
his place. He at least has been brought up asa
gentleman, and though he is very stupid, and
his chief notion of going to Parliament is to

make himself comfortable, his position assures
him against the necessity of pretending so much
and telling quite so many lies as Mr. Fleyce
seems to have to do. Which would you vote
for, Knut, supposing you were on the register?'

Knut had listened to the earlier portion of
these remarks with lively interest. He had
barked his approval and had found other
means of expression of the perfect concord of
feeing on these points as on others. But
instead of waiting to answer this crucial question
he had pricked up his ears and bounded off at
the top of his speed, and was presently returning
the salutation of Mr. Jack Bailey, whom he
had discovered walking down the road.

Now this, if every one had known it, was
a most peculiar concurrence of place and time
for Jack to find himself in. A very short time
ago, in fact when Knut was making that desperate
dash which preluded the appearance of
Miss Tandy, Jack had, by the merest chance,
been standing within the portico of the Town-hall,

apparently absorbed in profound study of
a list of the polling places proclaimed under the
hand of the Mayor of Saxton.

This could not have conveyed to Jack's
mind much information that was novel. The
document had been out for some days, and a
copy of it had, in fact, appeared in the ' Saxton
Beacon,' and Jack had written a brief editorial
calling attention to the localities, and urging
Liberal electors to make preparations for an
early appearance. Moreover, Jack had been
there long enough to enable him, if he had
acutely felt the desire, to learn off the hist by
heart.

Still, he stood at gaze, in no way like
Joshua's sun at Ajalon except in respect of
absolute fixity. It was so far fortunate that
Jack should have happened to be on the spot just
now that he chanced to see Knut dash out and
recognised the signal of Miss Tandy's approach.
Being on friendly terms with the young lady, it
might have been supposed that when, presently.

she herself appeared and began to walk down
the street in the direction of the Town-hall,
Jack would have advanced to meet her, and to
have offered some remarks upon the weather.

But Jack had not forgotten the result of an
earlier endeavour of that kind. He was too
high-spirited to place himself in a position
where repulse might be repeated. He stood
till he saw Napper well advanced along the
street, which had its only exit on the high road
that presently led over the Downs, and then,
taking a narrow lane that bisected the town,
led up to the church, and so away into the
country, he disappeared.

Napper, if she had been aware of this
strategic retreat — and, strange as it may appear
to some young ladies, she really knew nothing
would have regarded it with distinct approval.
Here was Jack, whilst engaged in the pursuit
of his ordinary avocations, suddenly and unexpectedly
approached by a young lady whom
he madly loved, but who wholly disregarded

his passion. Was it for him to throw himself
in her way and plaintively endeavour to induce
her to reconsider her position ? Miss Tandy,
if the case had been put to her, would have
emphatically answered in the negative. She
liked the spirit of the youth who declared that

If she be not fair to me,
"What care I how fair she be %

That was the proper and manly way to look
at circumstances in which Jack unhappily found
himself, and when, being thus inexplicably
caught, he turned and walked rapidly away,
careful to avoid an encounter that might have
brought him humiliation, he did a very proper
thing.

Chapter XXX.

EDITORIAL CARES.

All this made it the more remarkable that at
this very moment, here in this remote place,
Jack should have been discovered right in the
pathway of Destruction, which advanced towards
him with a pretty smile and kindly look of
recognition. His strategic retreat had, by
strange mischance, brought him right within
the enemy's lines.

Napper happened to be in the mood to
welcome Jack. She had not seen him lately,
which, though it was not pleasant to say so,
was a point in his favour. Besides, it was a
different thing meeting him in this chance way,
without the preliminary of request, formally
made, that he might accompany her and Kiiut

on an excursion. Then, having to make the
choice, and her new sorrow being fresh upon
her, making her a Httle petulant, she had said,
No ! ' a monosyllable that smote Jack with a
sudden pain that could not have been excelled
by a lash falling across his shoulders.

Now, he and she, in the oddest way in the
world, met in a country lane on a bright spring
morning, at a moment when Napper's spirits
had been raised by fresh air and exercise, and
when she had actually been driven for lack of
other companion to talk to Knut.

Jack, who looked unaccountably guilty at
first, was quick to see this, and soon recovered
his equanimity.

Why, Mr. Bailey, who would have thought
of meeting you here ! ' she cried, holding out to
Jack a little gloved hand which he had great
difficulty in returning to its owner.

Possession he felt was nine points of the
law ; but on reflection he decided to be
honest. There were penalties in the present

case besides those which the law assigns to
highway robbery. If he began by holding
Miss Napper's hand longer than the usages
of society warranted, she would take fright at
the outset, and there would be a sudden end to
the encounter which had so fortunately opened.

I dare say you were not thinking of me,
Miss Tandy,' said Jack, a little ruefully. ' That
would be too much to hope for. The fact is,
Monday's an idle day with me, or comparatively
idle. I'm always working ; but you see in our
profession one need not always have his tools
in his hand.'

Now that's very convenient. Yours must
be an excellent profession for a man who does
not love work. If we found old Tom Nollekins,
who does up our garden, standing with his
hands in his pockets, intently gazing on a sunflower,
we should think he was idling, and
would be quite sure of it if we found him
lying on his back on a hot summer day gazing
up at the sky. But, of course, you might do

either of these things without imputation on
your industry. Perhaps now I am interrupting
the incubation — is that the word ? — of a leading
article. I dare say at the moment I saw
you you were just tripping up Lord Beaconsfield,
and my unfortunate choice of this road
for a walk may have led to a further postponement
of his fall. So Knut and I will go our
way and leave you to struggle with Apollyon.'

Indeed, I was not doing anything of the
kind. What I mean is that when people work
as tremendously with their brain as I do, they
must take a little exercise. Accordingly on a
Monday I make it a point of going out for a
stroll.'

You must have been a good long walk this
morning — as far as Felon at least, and that way
round out of the town is a good twelve miles.'

Quite, I should think,' said Jack, blushing
with the consciousness of recent racing up the
narrow and steep backward out of the town, the
scramble over the road, the run across the field,

and the fortuitous deliverance out upon the
highway which led to Felon, and thence by
the Gatesand Eoad which approached the town
by the other side. ' But I'm not a bit tired. In
fact, when I was at college I was a don at
walking or running, and thought nothing of my
twenty-five miles a day. It's rather fortunate
for me I met you. I wanted to ask your
opinion about the " Beacon " generally, and if
you don't mind I'll stroll along with you a bit.'

Napper, as it happened, did not greatly
mind. Moreover, if she had done so. Jack had
overcome possible hesitancy by adroitly turning
round some moments earlier, and walking back
along the path where he had been descried by
Knut. Napper had already for a moment or
two been walking by his side, and knew no
reason in the world why she should object to
the proposed company.

How do you like the " Beacon," Miss
Tandy?'

'Well, to tell the truth, I only read a

portion of it, and that just now is very limited.
I never look at anything about the election, of
which I am sick and ashamed. This gives me
more time to study other parts of the paper.
I see you have found a poet who seems to
possess in a large measure the attribute of
sorrow which is the common property of the
poetic soul. I suppose he's a local genius ? '

Jack Bailey had recently acquired, or perhaps
regained, a habit of blushing. He felt an
attack of his weakness now, having a painful
consciousness of a little verseling that had
appeared in the last number. It was called
Wan and One,' and thus its tuneful numbers
coursed : —

On Avon's banks the wan wild goose

Maketh its weird woe cry :
But never more on Avon's bank

Walk my One Love and I.

« « « «

On Avon's banks there flits a ghost

For ever and for aye !
The wan Wraith of the welded hearts

Of my One Love and I.

Yes, most country papers have their poets'
corner he said, evading the direct question.
What do you think of our contributor's " Wan
and One?'

I thought it quite too-too,' said Napper,
laughing. ' What does the poet mean by the
asterisks in the middle ? Is that some other
verses you left out because they were so bad ? '

No ; it was printed just as it came in. I
fancy that is a device meant to excite the
imagination. Between the first verse and the
last you must picture the history of a broken
heart. There is the happy meeting by the
river, then comes, perhaps, a false friend, a
misunderstanding, possibly death. The two
are parted. The river rolls on darkly, everything
around is the same, but those two
stand apart for ever more. You will find
the same idea in Jean Angelo's "Divided,"
though there the idea is worked out in a more
elaborate, and perhaps some people may think
a more commonplace, fashion. In this little

poem I fancy the idea of the poet is to gain his
effect by bold abrupt touches. In poetry there
is the Turneresque style, just as in painting.
If you get a little thing of Meissonnier's there
it is complete, with every detail worked out.
You may go over it with a microscope, and
find nothing lacking. With Turner it is, of
course, different. A splash here and a blur
there, and you have his picture. Turner, if I
may say so, makes a lavish use of asterisks
in his pictures.'

Your poet finds a sympathetic editor,' said
Napper, looking at him curiously and beginning
to suspect the truth.

If that is the case, I assure you it is an
exception. As a rule I am held in detestation,
as presumptuously exacting. I believe I have
made more enemies since I took to editing this
wretched little sheet than ever I did in the
preceding twenty-three years of a well-spent
life. I have often heard it said that everyone
thinks he or she can write for a news-vol.

II. s

paper : now I know it. Next to the amazing
unsiiitability of what they send in is the illimitable
acrimony with which they pursue you for
not printing their stuff.'

Then I suppose this poet has some hold
upon you, and you are obliged to print what he
sends you ? ' Napper asked innocently, but with
more malice in her heart than usually found
lodgment there.

You are a little hard upon our poet. Miss
Tandy. You should see the labours of some of
Lis competitors. But it is the prose contributions
that give most trouble. It is really
astounding to see what a fool an ordinarily
able and shrewd man makes of himself when
he becomes possessed with the idea that he can
write for the newspapers. I dare say many
could if they would be content to write
in their ordinary style, as they might to an
habitual correspondent. But the notion of
writing for print inflates them in a most
ridiculous manner. There's our friend Fleyce,

for example, a man I don't like, I freely
confess, but who is not without common sense
and shrewdness. Yet he thinks he can write
as well as any of those " newspaper fellows," and
is, I know, secretly convinced that if he were
not too busy with other affairs he would soon
show Saxton what good writing is. In fact, he
has found time partly to make the demonstration,
and that is one of the things I wanted
to ask you about. You know he went to the
funeral of Long Bill, which was well enough in
its way as a smart electioneering dodge. But
when he got home he was, or thought he was,
so deeply impressed by the scene that he felt
no other hand but his could tune it. We
had a fellow there to do it, but on Sunday
morning before church time I got a letter from
Eleyce inclosing me a lot of manuscript. He'd
been sitting up all night, and sent me an
account of the affair which, as he says, is likely
to make a little stir. I'll just read you a bit of
it, if you don't mind.'

8 2

I certainly don't care to hear anything of
or from Mr. Fleyce.'

Don't you really ! ' cried Jack, with a
sudden illumination of his face, over which had
gathered a dark gloom as he thought of Gideon's
prose production. ' Then it's all over — I mean,
there was nothing in it ? '

Nothing in what, Mr. Bailey ? ' Napper
asked, looking him full in the face, with an
expression of simple inquiry, which Jack, with
a great throb of his heart, knew was genuine.

He, of course, like Mr. Dumfy and his
friends, had noted the intimacy of the proprietor
of Castle Fleyce with Miss Tandy. He was
quite right in supposing that Gideon meant
business, and though he felt that no woman
worthy of his (Jack Bailey's) deepest affections
could love a man like Fleyce, yet he knew
there were other considerations which sometimes
brought about marriages.

Of late, as he also knew, this intimacy had
ceased. Napper went no more to the Castle,

nor any more brought anguish to the souls of
the six young men of Saxton and its neighbourhood
by being discovered taking country walks
with Gideon, or being driven by him in his
phaeton. Of course that might have been a
mere episode in the regular advance towards
matrimony. It may have been a line of
asterisks leading up to other conclusions than
that pictured in the poem.

But when Napper looked like this and
spoke in this natural voice Jack knew that
there had been a mistake somewhere, and felt
that his way had suddenly grown clearer.

Oh, nothing, you know, quite nothing. I
was thinking at the time of your supposed
interest in Mr. Fleyce's candidature. You used
to go about with him and show him the places
and introduce him to the electors.'

I didn't quite know that was my mission,'
said Napper, walking a little more resolutely
and with a shade of annoyance on her face. * I
was a foolish girl, and thought people meant

what they said, and were what they represented
themselves to be. I thought Mr. Fleyce was
coming here to make people freer from prejudice
and from other bonds, and perhaps I
showed an undesirable warm interest in his
projects. But that only proves how ignorant
I am, and what comes of people meddling in
affairs of which they know nothing. We need
not discuss the matter, Mr. Bailey, only I am
sorry to know that people in the town should
have thought I went too far.'

Too far ! ' cried the unhappy Jack, who
felt he was always putting his foot in it. ' On
the contrary, not far enough — I mean you did
exactly what was right. But I was going to
read you this picturesque article of Mr. Fleyce's,
which has nothing to do with the election, at
least not directly. You will remember his
address to the electors. That was a pretty fine
specimen of prose. This is in another manner,
and, I think, excels it. I won't impose the
introduction on you, but here we are at the

grave which we have reached " with the procession
whose sinuous length, snakelike, has
extended the full length of the main street of
our ancient borough." It is headed " The
Scene at the Grave," and I think you will
like it

Jack read on in an impressive voice the
following beautiful passage : —

" The news had spread like wildfire, and
the air was thick with the breath of hundreds.
The stillness of the night was broken by the
fall of some sere leaf, the rustle of some sparrow
in the hedge, the creak of the heavy gate as it
groans lazily swinging on its hinges, the murmur
of the ever-growing crowd, and the sharp
click, click of the navvy's spade as it snatches
the soil from its bosom. The sight is weird
and ghastly. Click, click, under the dim hazy
light of the lanthorn. Click, click, as the
clammy, sticky clod gives way. Click, click,
as the sob of a broken heart falls choking on
the weed.

" The dewy darkness of the night shows up
against the flashing helmets of the police arranged
in simple cordon round the grave. The
road is just like watered silk, with here a streak
of gritty flint, and there a brimming pool ; and
as the purple bearded clouds roll away from the
light of the heaven, the moon's lambent beams
play lonely on the watery way. The stream
was moaning incessantly. Around the fringe
of stunted trees is breathing a dark and
sickening scent. Everything is orderly and
quiet. The hearse is resting in the portico
until the men have done. Midnight is nearing,
and the grave is barely half its rightful depth.

" Impatiently the heaving crowd of spectators
swings heavily forward. The coffin is borne
on the shoulders of the men, and the body is
lowered on the web. Never, a service was read,
and never an anthem was sung, "she voice of
indignation is rising in the breast, the crowd
sweeps on as if to rest from its chill embrace
the body of the one they loved in life, and from

whom in death the verdict of a jury will not
part them. The hon. gentleman who stands
for this ancient borough in the Liberal interest
now spoke a few timely words, urging the
surging multitude to let all the guilt of the
night rest with the other side, and not smirch
the principles of civil and religious liberty with
riot, however richly deserved. The crowd
swayed respondent to the tongue of true
eloquence.

" The heart is pent, and the hand is held
back, and a hush falls on the mass of life among
the dead bathed in the mournful glory of the
waning lamp. The sod thuds heavily on the
coffin hd, a ridging bank of clay rears low to
mark the spot. They linger for a time as if a
spell had bound them to the grave, or gather
into groups, or guiltily steal away, brushing
their hands in the hedge, brimful of tears." '

CHAPTER Xxxi

THE SUN GONE DOWN.

There, Miss Tandy what do you think of
that ? ' said Jack when he had made an end
of reading.

I think it's very funny. Isn't it a little
like Ossian? I never read the book, but I
have seen occasional quotations from it.'

It's all very well for you to be amused
at it, but it's a different matter for me,' said
Jack, sternly facing his editorial responsibilities.
I have my reputation to consider, and my
position in the journahstic world. I couldn't
remain editor of a paper which contained stuff
of that sort. What I've got to think of is
whether I'll have the row now or next week.'

And how do you divide the contingency
? '

Well, I may either at once return the
manuscript to Fleyce, telling him I cannot
insert it, or may take no notice of it, and let
him make the discovery when the paper comes
out on Thursday. That would be the ordinary
way, as an editor is not bound to hold communication
on the matter of rejected contributions
even with his proprietor.'

Isn't he, really ? I have more and more
admiration for your profession. Still, I think
if I were in your place I should take the former
course as being the more straightforward — I
mean the more direct.'

'Thank you. Miss Tandy,' Jack replied with
a sudden fervour that appeared to his companion
altogether disproportionate to the
service rendered. ' I shall take your advice,
and as soon as I get back to the office will
return the manuscript to Mr. Fleyce with a
note explaining that I had already had arrange-merits

made for reporting the proceedings.
There will be a tremendous flare-up, and T
'expect I'll have to go.'

Go where ? '

'Back to London, to see what I can pickup
there. But for one thing I should be glad
to get out of this place, with its country ale and
its heavy people. I feel I am losing myself,
spoiling my opportunities, which ought to lead
me to better things.'

I am glad to hear you say that, Mr Bailey,'
said Napper, with kindly voice and look. Any
aspiration after better things immediately
interested her, and she had always fancied there
was much good in this harum-scarum youth,
with his vast views, his large talk, and his
inconstant habits of industry. ' It is always a
bad sign for young men if they are satisfied
with what they are doing. That sounds like a
moral maxim, and comes well from me, talking
to one who is so much cleverer and has seen so
much more of the world.'

I hope you will say more of the same sort,'
said Jack, with a well-defined notion that he
would be content to be lectured all his life
by this particular teacher.

Thank you, I have not got a miscellaneous
stock of wise sayings. It just occurred
to me at the moment, and what I mean is that
if you feel some disgust at these associations
which you seem to group under the head of
country ale, it is a good and hopeful sign.'

There is one thing,' Jack remarked,
beginning to talk a little rapidly, ' that has kept
me here so long.'

What is it ? ' said Napper, gently, with a
bewitching intonation of sympathy in her
voice.

She thought she knew only too well. She
had heard something from Captain O'Brien of
Jack's struggles in London, of his lonely and
gallant fight with the hosts that bar the portal
of journalism against unbefiriended youth
Captain O'Brien had touched very Httle on the

Fleet Street bar episodes, but, wishing to
interest the young lady in his protege had
spoken at large on his straitened means and his
constant struggle.

Napper thought of him now going back to
the old battle-ground to begin over again the
weary fight. Where would he sleep, and how
would he eat, with such slender resources ashe
might have scraped together whilst living in
the purple and fine linen of Gideon's service ?
When his store of ready money was exhausted,
would he walk the streets all night, as Dr.
Johnson had done, and would he finally choke
himself in a ravenous encounter with an unaccustomed
bone, as Savage did ?

Any human sorrow touched the heart of
Napper, making its way with swift incisive
movement through her habitually self-possessed
manner. When the sorrow came by self-sacrifice
for conscience' sake, the feeling of
sympathy was the quicker and the more tender.
Jack, she knew, was pretty comfortably ofi* at

Saxton. He had plenty of money for his
modest needs, was popular in the town, and
was autocratic at the office. After that struggle
over the shirt sleeves and the pewter flagon,
Gideon had retreated, and left the field in the
possession of the young hero.

All this he was giving up for conscience'
sake, because he did not think it consonant
with his duties to find a place in the paper he
edited for the windy rhetoric of his employer.
It was like a non-juror going forth from home
and all means of livelihood, preferring poverty
to concessions which his conscience could not
approve.

What is it ? Tel me everything she
repeated, laying her hand on his arm, and
looking into his face, with a sweet pleading
that would have stormed the Torres Vedras of
a stonier heart.

Alas! poor hapless Jack. It made a sudden
and ignominious end of him, whose heart was
not stony, and who had long surrendered its

citadel to the unconscious besieger. With a
quick movement he captured the Httle hand
that lay trembling on .his arm, and, carrying
it to his lips. Covered it with passionate
kisses.

This, of course, was merely designed as
the commencement of a familiar scene, enacted
with minor alteration from the earliest ages.
When Jacob met Eachel at the well and drew
water for her, it was the beginning of a happy
ending.

Thus, had things happened to turn out
otherwise, it would have been with Jack
Bailey. His kissing of Napper's glove was, in
his own mind, the counterpart of Jacob's
drawing the water for Eachel. Doubtless
Eachel, looking shyly interested in the unwonted
action of the stranger, flashed from soft black
eyes the signal that all was well, and that if
Jacob had anything more to say or do tending
in kindly directions he might go on. Indeed
he did, for we read that ' Jacob kissed Eachel,'

a farther attention which she demurely
accepted.

tapper's eyes flashed, but not quite after
the fashion we have imagined Eachel's to shine.
Jack saw the fire and began to think there was
a mistake somewhere. But he didn't go any
farther in his self-abasement than to suppose
he had been a little hasty, and had omitted
certain preliminaries, gratifying to maidenly
reserve, and proper to be observed before the
young man seizes the maiden's hand, and proceeds
to act towards it much after the manner
that Napper, a moment earlier, had been
picturing to herself Savage wresting with the
fatally delayed bone.

There, Napper daring,' said Jack, dropping
her hand, but not lowering his glance
from the crimson face and flashing eyes that
blazed in heart-crushing indignation before
him. 'You know now what I mean.'

I do not know what you mean, Mr.

VOL. II. T

Bailey,' cried Napper, retreating beyond arm's
length of the youth. ' But if you mean to be
rude I am exceedingly sorry for it, and, if
you please, will leave you here.'

She had turned with a quick movement,
and was off in the direction of town before
Jack had quite realised the force of her words.
Once spoken, their meaning was only too clear,
and resistance could not long be maintained
even by the pitiful desperate hope Jack spoke
to his heart, that he might be mistaken, and
that things were not so bad as they looked.
With some girls all this might be a flush of
outraged modesty, not necessarily simulated.

Jack had certainly been a little abrupt.
Suddenly to drop from the altitude of literary
disquisition to kissing a girl's hand was a long
way.

When he came to look at matters in the
chilled mood that followed on the thunder of
his attack and the lightning of her repulse, he
admitted he had been a little hasty. If Napper's

mind had been prepared for such an outburst
by long meditation, as his own had been, it
would have been a different thing. Five
minutes ago — and what a boundless space of
time five minutes was ! — Jack had not taken
these circumstances into account. He was
always thinking of Napper. Night or day the
thought of her did not leave his mind, and she
would have been at least pleased to know how
much the shrine was purified by this constant
presence. What was familiar to Jack must, he
had anxiously come to think, be known also to
Napper.

Interpreting her thoughts and actions by
his own it was small wonder that, when he had
led up to the critical point and she had responded
with that gentle touch on his arm, and
that tender glance through dew-dimmed eyes,
he should have fallen headlong into the pit.
It was, if poor Jack had only known it, a
natural love for mankind that moved Napper,
and that is a sadly different thing from love
I 2

for a particular man. Jack had made a mistake,
an irremediable mistake, he felt certain.
But if Napper was lost to him, indeed had
never been found by him, he must not entirely
forfeit her good opinion and let her leave him
with the shock of this rude attack unmitigated.

She had not been gone three minutes before
these reflections and a thousand others had
passed through the mind of Jack. She was
beginning to descend the path which led over
the Downs into the town, with Knut scampering
round her.

Happy, enviable Knut ! who lived daily in
her presence, and was not unfrequently fondled
under the very eyes of hapless men.

Jack looked with blurred eyes over the
Downs. Beyond the grassy slope spread the blue
sea with a ship going home under full sail, and
between him and the sea this straight lithe
figure walking steadily forward, and swiftly
disappearing. Poor, miserable, hopeless Jack !
It seemed as if the sun were gong down

behind the horizon, and that thereafter for all
time there would be only black night for him,
with pera venture such mournful light as might
come from the clouds of memory, brooding
above the setting sun and dwelling in heaven
half the night.

He might for ever keep with him the
memory of tapper's beauty, of her purity of
mind and thought, of her high disdain of all
that was mean and ignoble, of her quick sympathy
with all that was good, and of her
tender loving-kindness even with some that
was bad.

In particular Jack felt an insane delight in
the knowledge that he had called her ' darling '
within her hearing. It was no new term in
this application. But hitherto it was only to
himself that Jack, with his heart full of love,
had murmured the word. Now he had spoken
it out, and, in some odd illogical way, it seemed
to him to give him a possession in her.

All this was sorrowful ; but Jack felt that

he had this advantage over the ordinary-arrangements
of nature, that if his sun was
truly sinking over the horizon he might with
no great effort overtake it, and at least temporarily
keep it company. Things were very
bad, but it would have been worse if, even for
an hour, he left Napper in the mood he had
seen her in when she turned her proud face
from him.

Napper presently heard his rapid footsteps
behind her, and when they came quite close
she stopped and confronted him. There was
no notion in her mind of running away. She
had turned and walked off on the first impulse
of the annoyance and insult she had suffered.
But she felt perfectly capable of taking care
of herself, and when she heard Jack following
she stopped and looked round precisely as she
would have done had she been walking alone
in ordinary circumstances, and heard some one
hurrying up behind her.

Miss Tandy,' said Jack, taking off his hat

and standing bareheaded, ' I wish to beg your
pardon. I have in the most abominable
manner spoiled your walk, and as I may not
see you again I just wished to say this, and to
hope that you will forgive me, and will try and
think no more of what has passed to-day. I
have made a fool of myself, a recollection that
will be hard enough for me to bear ; but what
I said, or rather what I did, was on a sudden
impulse, and altogether under a misapprehension.
I hope you will say you will forgive
me, and will try and believe that I at least
meant honestly and well'

1 do believe it, Mr. Bailey,' Napper said,
holding out her hand without the slightest
apprehension of danger of its undergoing a
repetition of former sufferance. ' I do believe
it, and I am very sorry.'

Jack took the hand, and behaved exceedingly
well. He didn't even return the warm
pressure which Napper, in her inexperience,
and having a habitude of submitting to

impulses, had given to his. He touched it
respectfully and released it gently.

Napper's self-possession, under what were
certainly embarrassing circumstances, helped
him to regain his. The instincts of a gentleman,
which underlay a manner somewhat
maimed by the boisterous companionship of
Fleet Street, came out on this critical occasion,
and he bore himself with a grave and courtly
dignity that Napper noted as something quite
new.

Then, since I am forgiven. Miss Tandy,'
he said, still remaining uncovered, ' I shall venture
to ask a favour. When we met I was
going into town, and you were going out for
your morning walk. Will you permit me to
go my way whilst you give Knut that run
which he is so anxious for ? '

Certainly, Mr. Bailey. I think I should
like to have my walk. Good morning.'

Good-bye,' said Jack, with graceful courtesy
and a gallant effort not to seem sad.

So Napper went her way inland, Knut
frisking about in great joy at the new turn
affairs had taken, whilst Jack, turning his face
to the sea, walked? rapidly into the town, and,
shutting himself up in his editorial sanatorium,
remained for a quarter of an hour in a state
of limp and abject misery, a relapse from the
high condition into which he had been nerved
by the contemplation of tapper's excellence
and his own unworthiness.

Then he rose, despatched the printers' boy
for a pint of stout, which being brought in a
pewter measure, he sat down to his desk, took
off his coat, lit his pipe, and proceeded to indite
a few lines to his esteemed proprietor.

ft

CHAPTER XXXII.

BREAKING IT GENTLY.

The humble house in Camden Town, to which
Mr. Dumfy had once made touching reference
when in conversation with Gideon, will be
found in the Directory as No. 1 5 Belton Street.
Belton Street is some thirty houses long, all
two stories high, all with little gardens in front
inclosed by iron railings, in various conditions
ranging from dilapidation to trimness, and
nearly all eminently respectable in look.

Mr. Dumfy's neighbours were on the whole
above him in the social scale, or at least in the
money scale. The houses were rented at thirty
pounds a year, which, when you come to add
rates, represented a fact prohibitory to Mr.
Dumfy's tenancy. But the house had been

taken with a view to an arrangement by which
a lodger or lodgers should pay the rent. There
was a front parlour and two bedrooms at the
disposal of ' two gentlemen (brothers or otherwise)
engaged in the City during the day.
Cleanliness given and required.'

This stipulation in the Dumfy advertisement
is perhaps accountable for its frequent appearance
in the daily newspapers. Cleanliness is
admitted on high authority to hold the next
place to godliness. But Mr. Waffle was sometimes
disturbed by a suspicion that in the case
of Mrs. Dumfy the relative positions were reversed.


If Sister Dumfy thought of people's immortal
souls as much as she thinks of the sole
that perished, and certainly is prone to bring
mud into the apartment, it would be well'

This sardonic remark was wrung from the
pastor, on an occasion when, paying a visit of
consolation and comfort, he had been vigorously
reproached by Mrs. Dumfy for disregarding

the mat at the door and tainting the spotless
floor of the kitchen.

Mrs. Dumfy was always dusting, or washing,
or polishing, so that her house became a
somewhat painful model of cleanliness.

You might eat your dinner off my kitchen
floor,' she was accustomed to say with worldly
pride, and a total disregard of the circumstance
that no one in their senses would desire
to have the principal meal of the day so
served.

Her habits were somewhat aggressive, it
must be admitted, and greatly militated against
the lodging business. The locality was convenient
enough for young men, whether
brothers or otherwise, who spent their day in
the City. A fair proportion were willing to
submit to the requirements of cleanliness ; but
Mrs. Dumfy was too exacting, and relations
entered upon with some promise of a favourable
conclusion were often abruptly closed
either by the lodger stamping out of the house

with the agonised declaration that he ' could
stand this no longer,' or by the appearance of
Mrs. Dumfy at the door, reproachfully holding
on a shovel the last clod of earth which,
brought indoors, had broken the back of her
patience. With the clod came the request
that the young gentlemen would ' suit themselves
elsewhere.'

On the Monday morning following the
Sunday, when we saw the good lady placidly
seated in the pew at Eehoboth, she was having
what she called a ' turn out.' This was a
matter of such frequent occurrence as scarcely
to call for remark here, save that there was
just now the exceptional occasion that on the
previous Saturday two young gentlemen from
the City, who had proved undesirable tenants,
had departed, and now Mrs. Dumfy was, as she
said, ' tidying up.'

If the young gentlemen from the City had
been carried out in coffins, having died of smallpox,
cholera, or other malignant disease, Mrs.

Dumfy's procedure could hardly have been
more exhaustive. All the windows were
opened to their utmost capacity. The beds
were turned down, the carpets were up, a
vigorous sweeping had been going on since daybreak,
and two gentlemen who stood at the
door knocking were detained for some time by
the circumstance that at the moment of their
arrival Mrs. Dumfy was in the back-yard struggling
violently with a carpet from which, with
the assistance of the green grocer's boy, she was
vainly endeavouring to extract some proof of
dust.

It was a part of Mrs. Dumfy's pleasure that
she did all the work of the house herself. ' To
have a slatternly servant,' as she said, ' making
dirt all over the place she never would.' She
had once tried a compromise in the person
of a charwoman, but" had never repeated the
experiment.

A little wiry woman, it seemed as if nearly
every morsel of flesh had been dusted or scoured

off her. She looked frail, but was certainly
strong enough to do what lay to her hand, and
should have brought a blush of shame to the
brow of the green grocer's boy by comparison
of the vigorous way in which she dealt with the
carpet and the deprecatory manner in which he
handled it.

This youth was a constant terror to her
whilst he remained in the neighbourhood of the
premises. Of course he never entered the
house, being admitted by the door of the backyard,
by which portal he also departed on the
receipt of fourpence. But Mi's. Dumfy was
always haunted by the suspicion that he cherished
dark designs, and sometimes when Mr. Dumfy
was away she awoke in the dead of the night
in cold perspiration, having dreamed that the
green grocer's boy had got in, walked all over
the house with his boots on, and had laid himself
at full length on the chintz-covered sofa in
the parlour.

One of the two gentlemen at the front

door, bringing his eye to the level of the keyhole,
perceived through the narrow corridor
Mrs. Dumfy at the other end, engaged with
the green grocer's boy. Satisfied with this
evidence that there was some one at home, and
that there would presently be a response at the
front door, they possessed their souls in patience
and occupied the interval in glancing up and
down the street, from many windows of which
they were already the object of regard.

The parlour window, being on the level of
the street, was closed lest peradventure dust
might enter, disturbed by passing feet. In the
window was a card announcing 'Apartments.'
Perhaps the two callers were City gentlemen
(brothers or otherwise) seeking apartments, and
prepared on their part to meet reasonable
requirements in the matter of cleanness.

They certainly did not look like the
ordinary type of City gentlemen. One was tall
and thin, with a pale cadaverous face in which
gleamed two large black eyes, and whose black

hair fell at greater length over his shoulders
than is the habit in the City. The other was
short and stout, with a ruddy face, inclined to
be blotchy, and prominent eyes of the gooseberry
order. He was much more like a City
man, insomuch that he had a brisk business
air, and regarded every passer-by with curious
intent, as if he were considering whether the
errand he had at heart would be promoted by
addressing him.

Gracious me ! Brother Waffle and
Brother Selth,' said Mrs. Dumfy, when a fresh
assault on the knocker succeeded in attracting
her attention. ' Who'd ha' thought o' seeing
you a Monday morning and with the house all
up and not a mat down anywhere. Perhaps
you won't mind me asking you in to-day as you
wouldn't be very comfortable.'

'We've come to speak to you, Sister Dumfy,
on a little matter that I fear will necessitate our
intruding on your household convenience.'

Yes, Sister Dumfy,' chimed in Brother

VOL. II. u

Selth, who had cast over his accustomed briskness
of manner a sort of pall of cotton-velvet,
we've a little word to say about a matter of
great moment.'

Oh dear ! oh dear ! ' wailed Mrs. Dumfy,
who was not wont to control her feelings on
these occasions ; ' then please to scrape your
boots, and don't come in till I fetch a
mat.'

Whereupon she turned off and presently reappeared
with a door mat, anxiously watching
the brethren as they made diligent use of it.
Brother Selth was so vigorous in his performance
as to overstep the mark, and to extract from
Mrs. Dumfy a despairing groan at the prospect
of the mud he was kicking out over the
oilcloth, only that morning washed and bees-waxed.


Sister Dumfy,' said the Eev. Mr. Waffle,
when the party were seated in the little parlour,
something has happened in our little community,
and Brother Selth and me, talking it overcame

to the conclusion it was our duty to come
and break it gently to you.'

You haven't heard anything ? ' said
Brother Selth, eagerly, fearful lest they might
have been forestalled.

No,' replied Mrs. Dumfy, with a scared
look, peering round her with a dim apprehension
that a bucket of water had been kicked
over somewhere. ' I haven't been out this
morning, and there's been no one near the
place except that green grocer's boy, and he
hasn't been in the house to my knowledge,
though no one can say what he'd do if my
back was turned for a moment.'

Ah ! ' said Mr. Selth, drawing in a deep
breath of satisfaction, and rubbing his knees
with a large content.

Yes,' Mr. Waffle continued, raising his
eyes to the ceiling, ' it is a lamentable occurrence.
The like of it has never before disturbed
the peace of Eehoboth.'

'Dear me!' said Mrs. Dumfy, with quick
17 2

sympathy. ' Don't tell me that horrid water
pipe's bust again and messed the whole place
about.'

Worse than that,' groaned Brother
Selth.

Much worse,' echoed Brother Waffle. ' A
pipe can be mended, and the flow of liquid
stopped ! but there is some things as can't
never be mended once they're broke. When
the silvery cord is snapped and the golden
bowl a broken, you can't do nothing to set
them right again.'

I was once,' said Brother Selth, who, however
mournful might have been the errand to
which he attuned his voice, seemed to be
thoroughly enjoying himself, ' I was once, in
the days of sin, at a theater, and remember
one of the lady camps coming in to the general
the Earl of Essex, I think he was — and he
says, " My lord, the took's wounded." " What,
wounded ? " says the earl. " Ay, wounded,"
says the decamp. " Not mortally wounded ? "

says the earl. "Ay, mor-ti-al-ly wounded,"
says the decamp." '

The last line Brother Selth gave with great
dramatic force, making much of the syllables in
mortally, and placing his hands over his eyes
and turning away his head as if he could
not bear contemplation of the scene conjured
up.

Mrs. Dumfy looked from one to the other
with startled gaze.

'What d'ye mean, Brother Waffle and
Brother Selth ? ' she said sharply. ' If there's
anything happened at the chapel that I daughter
know, just out with it, and don't be making
these mysteries.'

I don't myself quite follow Brother Selth,'
said Mr. Waffle, a little coldly.

It's a allegory. Brother,' Mr. Selth explained,
a little snappishly, feeling confident
that, as compared with the pastor's procedure,
his own notion of breaking the news was much
more subtle and effective.

'Oh, if it's an allegory, very well ; but,
you see. Sister Dunify is a little agitated, and
doesn't quite follow it.'

'No, that I don't,' said Mrs. Dumfy,
querulously, with her hand at her heart. ' I
don't know what you are going to break, but
the fall cannot be much worse than what you're
saying and looking now.'

Ah ! ' sighed Brother Selth, continuing
the gentle rubbing of his knees, and gazing
round at the furniture with a professionally
sympathising look, as if he were an undertaker,
and had come to measure the various articles
for coffins.

It was Brother Waffle's salaried business
to talk, and, if he thought he could doit
better, Brother Selth was not going to cross
him.

Be calm, good Sister Dumfy, and prepare
yourself for a blow that falls on all of us sooner
or later. But the wounded back maketh a
contrite heart.'

■ Mrs. Dumfy sat rigidly iipriglit, looking
from one to the other of her visitors. They
were evidently very much in earnest, and there
had come home to her a swift inspiration of
the nature of their news. This unwonted call,
these sad looks, this talk of the broken bowl
and the mortal wound, could mean only one
thing. Mr. Dumfy had not always been a
good husband to her. But now there came
upon her a sudden sinking of the heart, a
whirring noise in the head, and the thought
that she should never see him again.

You've not heard anything from Brother
Dumfy this morning ? ' Mr. Waffle asked, whilst
Brother Selth, with his head on one side, and
his gooseberry eyes growing increasingly
goggled, heaveS another sigh.

No, I've not ; have you ? ' Mrs. Dumfy
asked, in the same sharp tone.

In the midst of life we are in death,'
Brother Selth cut in, bursting with desire to bethe
first to convey the news, and yet feeling

the necessity of yielding something to Mr.
Waffle's clerical position. ' Here to-day and
gone tomorrow. Life's worse, Sister Dumfy,
even than last year's cut in trousers. That
may come up again, but when once you're
dead you're gone, and your place knows you
no more.'

Mrs. Dumfy lifted up her voice and wept
long before Brother Selth had come to the
conclusion of this homily, which he pursued
with the greater unction as lie watched its
effect.

What is it. Brother Waffle ? ' she said
through her sobs, instinctively turning away
from the blotched face, gooseberry eyes, and
oily head of hair on her right.

It's a railway accident,' said Mr. Waffle,
who, being of a finer tissue than Brother Selth,
lead not been unconscious of a feeling of disgust,
as he watched that individual, who, with
his hands crossed over his well-rounded contour,
was ogling the ceiling in a manner apparently

understood by himself as express ive of
the deepest sympathy, and meanwhile sighing
like a seal. ' A railway accident, my sister ;
and we were not altogether without expectation
that the Lord had watched over his sheep
from our little fold, and that something might
have happened to prevent his going by that
particular train. We just did look to find
him here, but very faintly.'

Very ! ' said Brother Selth, determined not
to be hustled out of the conversation.

I've never seed nor heard anything of him,'
Mrs. Dumfy wailed, ' since he was setting' under
the pulpit last night, and then went to the
vestry for his bag. He told me at tea-time
he was going from Charing Cross at eight
o'clock, and wouldn't be home for a fortnight
owing to the Election coming on. Oh dear,
dear, dear ! I felt sure something was wrong
when I opened the door and seed Brother
Selth with his hat on, and this a Monday.'

A very dreadful business,' said Mr. Waffle.

Afore coming here we telegraphed to Saxton
to know if "he had arrived, but he had not
been seen or heard of there.'

They spoke always of ' he ' and ' him,' forgetful
that Mr. Dumfy's name had not yet been
mentioned.

And then we talked the matter over,'
Brother Selth said, shooting in again. ' I saw
it in the paper this morning, and leaving the
shop and the customers by, I went over to
Brother Waffle's. We snowed he'd ha' sone
down in that train, and I says to Brother
Waffle, " If he's not arrived safe he's in it, so
we'll telegraph ; " and telegraph we did, getting
it all in for a shilling', and there's the answer
from Mr. Lady.'

Brother Selth produced the telegram, and
having first spread it out on his knee as if it
was a sample of trousers, handed it to the
widow. It was from Mr. Tandy, ' Mr. Lady '
being a mere trifling with the orthography of
proper names not uncommon in telegraphic

communications. The import of the message
was clear enough.

Your message passed on to me. Dumfy
did not arrive last nighty nor is anything known
of him this morning'

Mrs. Dumfy felt that this was her husband's
death warrant, and she broke into fresh wailing
that found the heart of Mr. Waffle behind its
encrustation of Eehobothism.

'- I've got the paper here, if you'd like to
see the particulars,' said Brother Selth, laboriously
tugging in his tail pockets.

No, no,' said Brother Waffle, quickly holding
up his hand to guard the broken-down
woman from this fresh anguish. ' Sister Dumfy
won't care to see that now. But I think we
must go down to the scene and identify our dear
departed. Perhaps, Brother Selth, your business
avocations would make it inconvenient for
you to accompany us.'

Yes, that's true,' said Brother Selth, casting
anew his dismal glance upon the ceiling, and

meanwhile rapidly turning over in his mind the
circumstance that on these painful occasions the
railway companies are only too liberal in their
facilities for the gratuitous movement of friends
of the victims of disaster. He would certainly
get a railway journey free, and would have the
further enjoyment of that odd luxury which
some kind people find in the company of
mourners, and in an atmosphere exhilarated
by calamity. ' There'll be a nice difference in
the takings to-day, I know ; but booty's booty,
friendship's friendship, and brotherhood is not
to be a broken reed that crumbles up just
when you want to lean upon it. I'll go with
our sister and brother here and visit the silent
tomb.'

So it was settled, and the three went down
the line by which less than twenty-four hours
earlier Mr. Dumfy had travelled, with his head
full of schemes for additional contributions
from petty cash, and by which a little later
Gideon had gone, desperate and despairing.

Before drawing down the blind and shutting
up the house Mrs. Dumfy had put on a black
dress, and gone rooting about in old boxes fora
bit of black crape wherewith to deck her
green widowhood. She found on the spot
many sisters in sorrow, for the catastrophe had
claimed a host of victims. If she had been
in the mood for observing, she would have
noticed that whilst the wealthier had come to
the scene in such attire as the news had found
them in, women of the poorer class, like herself,
had been punctilious in putting on whatever
black they possessed, and in hastily fitting onto
their bonnets forlorn bits of crape.

In all there were fifteen parcels made up,
and laid out in the station room, whither they
had been carried. It was a piteous scene, and
the air was full of lamentation, for a fresh
sorrow had been added to the anguish of the
bereaved. Who could tell, looking on these
charred and blackened faces, which had been
the husband, the wife, the son, though to know

this was all the world to the man or the woman
who, with various show of sorrow — some
loudly weeping, others tearless and silent,
looking out on the bloodless world with stony
faces — had come to claim their dead.

Even to the physical sense, the atmosphere
of the charnel house was sickening. But
Brother Selth thoroughly enjoyed himself.
There was nothing of the vulture about him,
and he was even unfeignedly sorry that Sister
Dumfy and the rest should be sad. But into
his narrow life there rarely came flashes of
excitement. If one had now fallen upon him,
and if as a friend of one of the victims he was
treated with distinguished consideration by the
railway officials, who can blame him if he were
inclined to make the most of his opportunity,
or that he bustled hither and thither with a
well-meant heartiness that involuntarily suggested
to the able-bodied mourner the fierce
delight that would underlay the exercise of
choking him ?

It was he who, going hither and thither,
careful that no germ of emotion should be lost,
came upon conclusive evidence of poor Dumfy's
doom. In the station-master's office were
spread out a collection of debris from the fire,
charred tin trunks, bits of burned portmanteaus,
singed travelling rugs, and other relics of the
impedimenta of the crowd of railway passengers.
Amongst these, partly mutilated,
wholly discoloured, but clearly recognisable,
was the metal handle of Mr. Dumfy's umbrella.
The old gingham had melted like a snowflake
on a river. The antiquated thick whalebone
ribs had opened for the last time, and the stick
was in ashes. But here was the sturdy metal
knob, all that was left of Brother Dumfy — all
but the parcel in the adjoining room, though
which parcel was he poor lean little Mrs.
Dumfy felt with bitter anguish could not be
told.

There was no mistaking the umbrella handle,
and sirs. Dumfy, going back with red eyes to

her lonely home, reproached herself for the
many times she had fallen upon her husband
and berated him for alleged delinquencies at
the door-mat.

If he'd only come back to-night,' she
moaned as she threw herself on the chair in
the fireless kitchen and cast her apron over her
face, ' he might step over all the mats, and walk
through the house in the muddiest boots he
could make through Tottenham Court Eoad.'

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

I.OSDOS : Printed Tay

SPOTilSWOODE AND CO., New-STREET Socage

Aid PARLIAMENT street

FV

m

W:^

m^^m^

^^mmm^^

^

^Viv^

^

i*^t

mmM^f^

^«;s?

*ia

it?.



"^

M^

^\

\n^i

'^m

m^

Mu

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

University of Illinois Library

u

(04

26 W
CT081

L161— O-1096

BSSM

fc^S*

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN :

an Impossible Story. By Walter Besant. Illustrated by
Fred. Barnard. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

VALENTINA : a Sketch. By Eleanor C. Price.

2 vols, crown 8vo.

KEPT IN THE DARK. By Anthony Trollope.

With a Frontispiece by J. E. Millais, R.A. 2 vols, post 8vo.

VAL STRANGE : a Story of the Primrose Way. By
David Christie Murray, Author of 'Joseph's Coat' &c.

3 vols, crown 8vo.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon,

Author of ' Robin Gray ' &c. 3 vols, crown 8vo.
KIT : a Memory. By James Payn. 3 vols, crown 8vo.
WOMEN ARE STRANGE. By F. W. Robinson.

3 vols, crown 8vo. [Shortly.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.

3 vols, crown 8vo.

NEW ARABIAN NIGHTS. By R. Louis Stevenson.

i vol. crown 8vo.

CHATTO &» WIND US, PICCADILLY, IV.

A NOVEL

BY

HENRY W. LUCY

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

3Coni>on
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY

1SS3

'Ait rights reserved]

SPOTTISWOODF. AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET



CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER Page

XXXIII. Notice to quit .1

XXXIV. A Parting Shot 17

XXXV. 'And Belshazzar the King gave a

Great Feast' 38

XXXVI. ' The Proudest Day of my Life ' . .60

XXXVII. In the Spider's Parlour . . . . 85

XXXVIII. Depression at the Dog and Duck . . 102

XXXIX. The Election 118

XL. In the Dock 128

XLI. Out of the Dock 159

XLII. < It was Mr. Dump* ! ' . . . .178

XLIII. The Loiterer on the Doorstep . . , 190

XLIV. A Basket of Poses 215

CHAPTER PA OR

XLV. Absalom 229

XLVI. The Search for the Will . . . 246

XLVII. Mr. Gorringe, Joiner and Undertaker. 259

XL VIII. The Skeleton in the Spider's Cupboard 272

XLIX. A Land where it is always Afternoon 290

L. The Peb.il of Poppies 315

Chapter XXXIII.

NOTICE TO QUIT.

It was high noon when Gideon awoke after
the midnight walk which closed the perturbed
Sabbath-day. Probably he would not have
wakened then but for the interposition of the
butler, who had communicated the alarm to
the other servants. Mr. Parker felt a personal
interest in the condition of his master, since
there could be nothing so detrimental to the
prospects of a butler whose tastes ran with
small, quiet families than that anything dreadful
should have happened to his master in the night.
Of course, it would not in any measure

VOL III. B

be his fault. But small, quiet families are
inclined to take narrow views of things, and
among their prejudices is one against a butler,
however quiet and respectable in himself, who
had left a family owing to painful circumstances
connected with the sudden termination of the
existence of its head.

Therefore, when Mr. Parker turned up at
frequent intervals outside Gideon's door,
coughed in an unostentatious manner, rattled
the handle, and once bending down and
fig in g to have heard his master call, cried,
'Yessir!' through the keyhole, he was not
wholly influenced by consideration for his
employer. He had been told not to disturb
Gideon, and lifelong instincts warned him not
to disobey orders peremptorily given. But
there was nothing said against rattling the
handle of the door, or even letting fall outside
the butler's tray, and breaking three tumblers,
which, to do him justice, he had carefully
selected as being already cracked.

This demonstration having no effect upon
the sleeper, it was decided, after a council of
war held in the housekeeper's room, that it was
the duty of Mr. Parker determinedly to rattle
at the door till he either received an answer
or till, by the prolonged silence inside, he was
justified in having the door broken open.

He rattled Gideon out of a sound sleep in
which he was enjoying by anticipation the
delights of being introduced to the House of
Commons by whatever distinguished members
might be induced to undertake the task.
Gideon heard the thundering cheers from the
Liberal party which hailed the victory that had
wrested from Tory possession a borough hitherto
regarded as impregnable. The cheering
was so incessant that he could not catch a word
of the oath administered to him by Sir Erskine
May. He grew increasingly troubled at the
uproar, which finally woke him, and he became
aware of the fact that the sound which in his
dream had seemed an enthusiastic burst of

B 2

cheering was Mr. Parker rattling at the handle
of his door.

When Gideon rose and dressed he was
conscious of a tremendous appetite, and when
he had satisfied it at the breakfast table, things
took on a roseate hue in cheerful contrast with
the murky clouds of yesterday. The fever that
had been coming upon him was routed during
the sound and, until morning, dreamless sleep
he had enjoyed. He arose a new man, and,
looking out upon the world which yesterday
he was ready to leave by way of the marshes,
he saw it was not, after all, so bad.

Even in the moment when he had come
upon Mr. Tandy in the road there had occurred
to him an idea of a way out of his difficulty.
Mr. Tandy was pretty well off himself. Butin
any case, as the trustee and solicitor for
many well-to-do families, he would have the
command of a sufficiency of loose cash to meet
Gideon's present needs.

It would not do for him to disclose to Mr.

Tandy the exact state of his affairs, and why
should he F The accommodation he required
was quite temporary. If he could get an
advance for twelve months for the 3,000/. it
would afford him even more time than he
should need for its repayment.

There was a little difficulty about the
security, seeing that every rood of land he
possessed was already mortgaged. But that
was a private transaction with his banker in
London. It was no use troubling Mr. Tandy
with all these particulars.

It was not quite the thing, and might have
an ugly look if it ever came out in the light of
day. He could not properly effect a second
mortgage on his property without making full
disclosure of earlier transactions in the same
direction. But full disclosure meant taking
Mr. Tandy into his confidence, and showing
him on what a delicately built foundation his
fortune rested. He need not tell Mr. Tandy
too much, or indeed anything. Perhaps he

would not even want a mortgage executed. Ii
he did, it could be done well enough, and no
one be any the wiser.

He lost no time in seeking Mr. Tandy, and
found that gentleman eminently accessible on
the point submitted. But he must have the
thing done in due form, and took instructions
from Gideon for drawing up the mortgage
deed. With this duly executed there would
be no difficulty about the money, and Mr.
Tandy, recognising the urgency of the case,
undertook that the 3,000/. should be placed to
Gideon's credit in time for him to satisfy the just
aspirations of the free and independent electors.

Gideon did not quite like Mr. Tandy's
insistence on the deed. He knew that if the
law took cognisance of the transaction it would
regard it with a prejudiced eye. But there
was no help for it, and there was no danger.
Mr. Tandy was a sensible man, and kept his
own counsel. He would have the 3,000/., and
the election was safe.

With his spirits elated by this deliverance
from trouble, and with a face once more rosy
and beaming as of yore, Gideon walked the
streets of Saxton, and received the homage of
its inhabitants. Never was there such a popular
candidate. The children ran after him buzzing
at his heels. Gideon did not particularly
like children, but he knew what was expected
of him, and beamed upon the youngsters in a
way that moved their mothers' hearts, and
gained him powerful friends in every household.
He generally had a bag of highly coloured
sweetmeats which he judiciously distributed.

Beyond this, as he sometimes explained
with a look of genuine regret, he could not goat
present. But he so managed to emphasise
this limitation of time that visions of future
benefactions swam before the eyes of frugal
housewives, new birth of those dreams of
parcels of tea, hundredweights of coal, and
flannel petticoats noted as having their day at
an early stage of the canvassing.

Captain O'Brien had now taken up his
quarters in the town, and did not propose to
leave till the election was over. From first to
last he had been down a good deal, and had
had many interviews both with Gideon and Mr.
Tandy. But, in accordance with his tactics, he
had not appeared to take any active personal
part in the campaign. He did not speak at
the meetings nor visit the electors. But in his
room at the Blue Lion he held all the strings
that made the show dance, and, as Gideon
admitted, he was thoroughly earning the handsome
fee by which his services had been
retained.

Just now he was exceptionally busy with
preparations for the great fete that was to take
place at Castle Fleyce on Friday, when all the
Liberal gentry, from the Lord Lieutenant
downward, were to rally round the Liberal
candidate, eat his cold fowl and ham, and
drink his iced champagne.

This had been Gideon's idea, and O'Brien

had rather shrunk from it at first, as impossible
or at least full of difficulty. But the Napoleonic
manner had had its way. Gideon had stubbornly
stood by his proposal, and O'Brien,
commencing to work without much expectation
of success, found, to his surprise, that difficulties
vanished, and that the meeting promised to bea
great success and an enormous impetus to
Gideon's cause at the poll.

As he walked with Gideon through the
town he saw afresh how well the candidate had
worked the lower strata of the electors. The
'Longshore men were with him to a man, and
more enthusiastically than ever since his appearance
at the otherwise unhonoured grave of
Long Bill. But Gideon's future career would
be all the easier and more in accordance with
his plans if he could get in not only by a substantial
majority, but with the favour alike of
the 'Longshore men and the county families.

Many of the guests bidden to the feast on
Friday were not electors on the borough

register. But they bore names which in the
borough as through the county were held in
high respect, and Gideon shrewdly calculated
u pon the effect of their being found hobnobbing
with him at his baronial residence on the hill.

Gideon was in such good humour with
himself and the world that he had been only
momentarily discomposed by the receipt of the
letter which Jack Bailey had written him on
his return to the office. The communication
was not lengthy. Indeed, Gideon thought it
was insolently curt. It did no more than
present to Mr. Gideon Fleyce the compliments
of the Editor of the 'Beacon,' who much
regretted his inability to use Mr. Fleyce's contribution,
having already made arrangements
for reporting the occurrence dealt with.

What does this insolent cub mean ? ' he
had said in flaming wrath, tossing the letter
across to O'Brien, who sat with him at breakfast.


I suppose he means what he says,' O'Brien

remarked quietly. ' You see, these things have
to be arranged for beforehand, and have to be
done in a particular way. I must say I think
it is highly creditable that he should make
no distinction in your favour, and you as the
proprietor ought to take the same view.'

0, I ought, ought I ? ' Gideon snarled.
1 Well, I'll tell you what I did. I was at the
trouble to write an account of the funeral
which I think you will say when you see it —
for you shall see it in print, and in the " Beacon"
too — that it's about as pretty a thing as ever
you read. It came upon me like a flash. I
sat up half the night to write it, and now a
young cub who takes my money and eats my
bread tells me he won't print it in my own
paper for which I pay ten or fifteen pounds
every week to make up the deficiencies. We'll
see about that.'

Gideon had meant immediately after breakfast
to go down to the office of the ' Beacon,'
see Jack, and have this out with him. But on

reflection he decided he would write. He had
not forgotten his former interview with this
terrible youth. He had a nervous objection to
scenes, and felt his inability to cope with the
imperturbable insolence and ready tongue of
his editor. But he could write to him, and
this he did in peremptory form, insisting upon
the publication of the article exactly as it was
written.

The messenger who took the letter down to
the office brought it back inclosed with a
few lines from Jack, who begged to return
Mr. Fleyce's impertinent letter, and trusted he
would spare him any further communication.
At the same time, Mr. J. Bellamy Bailey begged
Mr. Fleyce to accept his resignation of a position
which was rendered intolerable by the
interference of Autocratic vulgarity.

Gideon did not know what might be the
precise meaning of Autocratic vulgarity, the
penning of which phrase had given Jack much
comfort. But he had a shrewd suspicion that

it was uot intended to be complimentary, and,
after a fashion inherited from his father, he
literally danced about the room with rage.
After having jumped off some of his heat, he sat
down, inclosed a cheque for a month's salary,
and bade Jack begone on the spot.

Jack acknowledged the receipt, but intimated
that a sense of duty would compel him
to carry through an issue of the journal which
he had already got well in hand. Thereafter
he would leave the concern to the literary
direction of Mr. Gideon Fleyce.

This Gideon perceived with unabated rage
was a clear advantage left to the enemy. His
treasured prose would not be published in the
forthcoming issue of the ' Beacon,' and a week
later would have lost some of its freshness.
Still, in his position, on the very threshold of
the election, he could not take those active
steps which suggested themselves to his mind,
and may be summed up in the proposition,
'Turn him out neck and crop.' Jack was a

personal favourite in the borough, and besides,
an open scandal would be made much of by
the enemy. He must needs accept the terms
offered. But he would get rid of this graceless
scamp with the appearance of Thursday's paper,
and would be careful when making selection of
a successor to obtain one with a finer literary
taste, a truer appreciation of good writing,
and a juster view of his relations towards the
man who paid his wages.

Thus Gideon thrust this awkward business
out of his mind and went buzzing about the
town as busy as a bee — or perhaps, in view of
his bright new clothes and shiny hat, a bluebottle
fly would be the more exact imagery.

In the meantime, whilst the proprietor of
the 'Beacon' was thus enjoying himself, and
innocently improving the shining hours, it is
with profound regret that I have to record
other procedure on the part of the editor of
that influential organ. Jack had long dropped
out of the truly dignified and really noble frame

of mind in which he had bade farewell to
Napper. He felt that everything was over
with him, that a sudden end had been made of
his dream of fighting his way up Parnassus
with this fair helpmate at his side. His old
spirit of reckless mischief revived, and it occurred
to him that before he finally closed his account
with Gideon Fleyce he might strike a blow at
ignorant presumption, and (though, of course,
this was quite a secondary consideration) gratify
his personal objection to the man with whom a
cruel fate had yoked his high spirit.

Of course there would be a row. He was
not sure there might not be even legal proceedings
; but what did it matter ? People might
shake their heads, and perhaps even tapper
whilst in public would look grave. But he
knew that when their faces were turned away
they, and Xapper too, would laugh and secretly
enjoy the joke. If they didn't, again what
matter ? Jack felt he did not care a fillip for
the wide world and all that therein is. He would

have his jest for his own enjoyment, and if
people didn't see it, or seeing it didn't like it,
they might leave it alone.

Jack was in a desperately savage mood, and
even his bottled stout tasted flat. But when
presently he sat down to write, covering sheet
after sheet with handwriting rather rapid than
readable, his brow cleared, and a peaceful expression
stole over his youthful face. He was
evidently satisfied with his work, and had found
in it that surcease from pain and restlessness
for which honest labour is ever the best
panacea.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

A PARTING SHOT.

The secret was out on Thursday morning, and
if what Jack had desired to create was a sensation,
he should have been fully gratified. The
4 Beacon,' though not desirable as a commercial
property, had always been widely read since
Jack's slashing articles on local affairs had
illuminated its pages. The population of
Saxton dashed down its pennies with reckless
haste on Thursday morning, and eagerly scanned
the ' Beacon ' to see what friend and neighbour
had been most lately seared by its lambent
flame. But owing partly to the fact that the
population of Saxton was limited, and that the
support in the advertising columns was not

VOL. III. C

overwhelming, the weekly accounts of the
paper when made up showed that disheartening
result which Gideon had more than once bemoaned.


Under any circumstances, to pay 10/. a
week for the privilege of owning a newspaper,
into whose inner office he dared hardly venture,
for fear of this young cub in his shirt sleeves,
was a poor compensation for the ordinary ills
of life. But to pay 10Z. a week, balance of
profit and loss on the current week's account,
for such a number as that now published, was a
circumstance quite sufficient to account for the
saltatory movements which Gideon performed
in the room humorously called his study,
whither the ' Beacon ' was brought to him wet
from the mighty press.

Gideon was by no means the first who had
seen the paper. The town was ablaze with its
reflected light long before the proprietor of
Castle Fleyce had thought it worth while to
look upon the sheet to see ' what the young cub

had been at this week.' He had approached it
with a certain feeling of relief borne in upon
him by the reflection that this was the last
opportunity Mr. Jack Bailey would have of
airing his conceits at his expense ; to which
privilege was added a certain extravagant sum
for weekly wage.

4 You may go back to your pot-houses in
Fleet Street, my good youth,' he said, smiling
softly to himself as he took up the ' Beacon,'
and confounded Parker for not drying it.

Gideon had a curiously composite nature,
in which there was some leaven of a good-matured
sort. If his business were prospering,
and if he had no particular cause for complaint
with a man, he rather liked him, and would on
slight pressure give him a cheque. His was
not the good nature that would put itself out in
any way to serve man or woman. What there
was of it oozed out exclusively in the form of
cheques, which, in truth, when legally drawn
and there is a balance at the bankers, is by no
c 2

means a mode to deprecate, nor even to abuse,
as being too common.

But Gideon did this because he had a good
deal of money, and did not miss the cheque.
It was the easiest thing he could do, and it
always gave him the notion of being a commercial
transaction. When Gideon gave anybody
any money, whatever their opinion of the
transaction may have been, his clearly was that
it was for value either received or to be received
at some future time in some, at present,
indefinite manner.

He had cheerfully enough paid Jack his
weekly cheques till what he called ' the cheek '
of the youth offended him, and raised in his
breast a feeling of animosity. Jack evidently
mistrusted him, and it was his ambition to be
liked and thought a good deal of by the class
of whom, in his limited experience, Jack was a
distinguished example. He had borne with
him as long as it seemed possible to win him
over. But when the youth showed himself uii-

purchasable, taking his money as a by no means
overrated recompense for brilliant work accomplished.
Gideon grew to hate him, and felt this
morning, even as he was smiling, that he reserved
for Jack quite an exceptionally active
animosity.

Perhaps the truth is Gideon didn't like anyone
who was superior to him in some of those
particular departments in which he himself
hoped to attain perfection. If he had analysed
his feelings he would have found this was at
the bottom of his personal dislike for that
admirable man Parker. Parker was only a
butler. But there were many things in which
he was Gideon's superior. He was not the rose
but he had lived near it ; and the subtle aroma
of good society floated round him as he moved
about with silent footfall, and bending down
confidentially consulted guests as to their
preference for 'rock or sherry with their
soup.

He [didn't like Parker, suspecting that he

was always finding him out in some betide, and
sniggered at him in the sanctuary of the butler's
pantry. But at least he could bully Parker,
and that estimable individual, who knew on
which side his bread was buttered, was mute
under his reproaches.

4 Whereas this young cub,' said Gideon,
opening the paper with a flick, his brow clouding
over at the thought of J. Bailey, ' sneers
at me to my face, looks over his nose at
me with supercilious air when I venture in
my own house to make any remark about
politics or literature, and when I look in on
him at the office and mildly say a word
about his nasty pipe and his perpetual porter,
orders me out of the room, rent for which I
pay.'

Gideon, holding the paper at arm's length,
as if it were as detestable to him as its editor,
glanced scornfully over the sheet from which
he had at one time hoped so much. He was
looking for something, and here in the inner

sheet, stuck amongst some paragraphs in small
type, was what he searched for. At least there
was the heading 'Funeral of Long Bill.
Exciting Proceedings.'

The young cub had been as good as his
growl. Gideon had up to now cherished a fond
hope that after all Jack might hold out the olive
branch and attempt to mollify him by printing
his beautiful account of the scene at the grave.
He would have liked this the more as he did
not mean on any terms to make it up with
Jack, and if he had against his inclination
printed the masterpiece it would have been
all to the good, and Jack would have left his
employment with the added anguish of having
sacrificed his feelings in vain. But here was the
dull prosaic account in hackneyed reporting
style, simply stating that there was a crowd and
some demonstration against the harsh verdict
and brutality of the procedure that attached
to it.

What a chance lost ! But Gideon remembered

that even if Jack had relented he
would not have been able to insert the
article, seeing that he had returned the manuscript.


6 It shall go in next week,' he said to himself;
' I'll have it worked in somehow.'

At least Jack could not have missed the
political significance of the event. Even he,
with so little appreciation of his opportunities,
would see the opening for a slashing article in
which the Blues would be held up to the
scorn of the world for permitting their political
rancour to follow to his tomb the blameless
Bill.

Gideon turned to the leader page, and was
attracted, as Saxton had been from an early
hour in the morning, by an article prominently
printed and boldly headed 4 A Recantation and
an Apology.' It was rather longer than Jack's
ordinary deliverance on political events, and
was inspired with a tone of gravity foreign to
his habitude. Gideon standing still, and with a

look on his face that could scarcely have been
more petrified if he had seen the Wan Wraith
whose apparition had been recorded in a
previous issue of the 'Beacon,' steadily read
through the article.

When he came to the end the condition of
petrifaction ceased as suddenly as it had set
in, and it was then that he commenced those
saltatory movements round the room already
referred to.

The infernal cub ! ' he hissed between his
clenched teeth, as he crushed the paper with his
hands, and wrung it, as if it were Jack's neck.
1 The impudent hound ! I'll have the law for
this. Here's a pretty return for my having
picked him out of the gutter. What the devil
does O'Brien mean by planting a skulking, low-lived
impostor like this upon me ? I'll make
O'Brien responsible for this.'

Even in his wrath he gladly seized upon
some opening by which personal collision with
Jack might be avoided. If he could just have

Jack's head put in a bag, so that its owner
could neither scorch him with his bitter
tongue, nor scourge him with his contemptuous
glances, there would be great satisfaction
in wringing his neck, even as he nervously
twisted the hapless newspaper. But
he feared Jack as much as he hated him,
and he looked forward with unalloyed joy to the
opportunity of rating O'Brien. He must have
it out with some one. O'Brien was in his pay,
even as Jack had been ; only he was getting a
great deal more. Besides, he was of a more
languid manner than Jack, and never turned
upon him with bitter retort.

O'Brien was staying at the Castle, and would
even now be in the breakfast-room. Thither
Gideon rushed with hasty stride, with face as
red as a turkey cock, and the mangled paper in
his hand.

1 Have you seen this ? ' he shouted, with an
angry snuffle, and shaking the paper at O'Brien
as if it were a stick and he a dog.

O'Brien was sitting at the table with a copy
of the ' Beacon ' open before him, and was at the
moment reading the article with perplexed face.
He looked up with a surprised air as Gideon
thus broke in upon him, and a slight flush
appeared on his cheek as he heard the tone of
inquiry and saw the threatening gesture. But
Gideon was not the kind of man who had the
power of easily offending him, and he answered
quietly —

'Yes, I am just reading it, and can't quite
make it out. I suppose it is some stupid
joke

'Joke!' Gideon screamed. 'You call ita
joke! I'll tell you what, I don't. I call
it an infernal impertinence, and I'm not
quite sure that it's not a conspiracy. You
brought that fellow down here, O'Brien, and
I shall want an explanation from you of this
affair.'

What do you mean ? ' O'Brien asked, in a
tone which if Gideon had not been beside himself

with passion would have warned him of rocks
ahead.

I mean that there's all sorts of things going
on at election time. We don't know who weare
to trust. There's influences at work that an
honest man like myself don't understand and
can't be prepared to fight against. There's
Montgomery's finger in this pie, as plain as a
pikestaff, and I don't know who else's.'

6 Mr. Fleyce,' said O'Brien, rising, the
quietude of his manner and speech forming a
striking contrast with Gideon's, who was prancing
round the room, whilst his voice sometimes
rose to a shriek, and then sank to a snuffle that
had a hiss in it. ' You have perhaps some right
to be angry, but none to make insinuations of
this kind, the meaning of which I cannot pretend
to misunderstand. I have done some work
for you which you have, I admit, paid for
handsomely. But that dees not entitle you to
address me in this manner, nor does it permit
me to remain here another hour. 1 shall use

the room you have placed at my disposal just
so long as will enable me to make up my
accounts to this morning, after which I must
refuse to hold further intercourse with you.'

I Confound it, O'Brien,' Gideon cried, clutching
him by the arm as he stalked past him,
'don't you go and desert me. Of course, I
didn't mean anything against you.'

He was whining now, not being constitutionally
heroic when resolutely faced.

I I may as well give up the whole thing if
you go. This blow is enough to knock a fellow
out of time altogether. I will apologise or do
anything you like if you'll look over the little
burst which didn't mean anything. Upon my
word, I'm just beside myself. I don't think a
man who meant well ever was treated as I've
been, what with one thing and another, some of
which you don't know about. Now, O'Brien,
sit down like a good fellow, and help me out of
this hobble.'

O'Brien had suffered himself to be led back

to the table, reflecting that Gideon really was
in a hole, and had been badly treated by a
young fellow whom he had introduced. After
all, Gideon was sure to think meanly of most
people, and what he thought was no matter.

'That's all very well, Fleyce,' he said.
You may have your troubles, but it's a bad
thing to go flashing round these horrible insinuations.
If you had any sense you would see this
is a prank of that wild Irishman. I must say
I didn't think he would go this length. It's
awkward, and may be damaging, being so confoundedly
well put, if you will excuse my saying
so. But it's no use dashing round the room
like a colt in a paddock, and venting your
anger on the paper and your friends. Let us
look the thing calmly in the face, and see what
is to be done. First of all let us read the
article quietly down, and see what we can say
about it in a brief paragraph, which should begot
out at once.'

Captain O'Brien leaned back in his chair,

holding the paper well before his face, lest he
should betray a smile, and slowly read down
the article which had fallen like a thunderbolt
on Saxton.

It began with a brief resume of the political
situation in the borough. It lightly sketched
the long connection of the Montgomery family
with Saxton, touched upon the arrival of a
1 financial gentleman from London,' and
modestly referred to its own efforts in his
behalf.

But,' the writer went on to say, ' the lapse
of time and the growth of experience have
convinced us of our initial error. We have
supported the Liberal candidate under the
impression that his cause was one in which was
bound up the prosperity of Saxton, and the
glory of an empire in some quarter or other of
which the sun is always visible. After a painful
conflict in our own mind we have found that
we were mistaken, and the first duty which
follows upon such discovery is to make acknowledgment

of error. We were lured by the
high-sounding principles of Liberalism spoken
with trumpet-tongue from Midlothian. We
saw in them the purifier of our national politics,
and the vindication of England's freedom, not
only from incompetence at home and from
plotters in foreign politics, but from bloodguiltiness.
Under this conviction we honestly
and to the best of our ability threw our influence
into the scale in support of the Liberal candidate.
We have been wrong from first to last, and we
take no shame to ourselves if here we make
recantation and apology. . . .

We wish to utter no harsh words with
respect to the gentleman who has honoured this
Borough with his candidature That he should
still remain in the Liberal camp we do not
wonder at, since the exigencies of private business
have hitherto prevented him from acquiring
that measure of education and information
of course we speak of political education —
that would enable him to form a useful judgment

in the matter, It is probable that he is a
Liberal chiefly because Mr. Montgomery is a
Conservative, and it is unusual for two gentlemen
to run in opposition on the same lines. Weare
sure that to the full extent of his limited
capacity he means well ; but we cannot deny
that our own conversion to Conservative principles
has been hastened by the study brought
immediately under our eyes of the poverty of
the materials that suffice to make a Liberal
candidate.

6 We have no quarrel with Mr. Gideon Fleyce,
but rather a feeling of the profoundest sympathy
and the mournfully goodwill. We have
travelled together in the same leaking boat, and,
contemplating the happiness of our own escape,
we could wish it had been shared by him. It
is not too late even now for him to retire from
a ridiculous position. The privilege of candid
friendship enables us to tell him that he has
no political aptitude, no social position, and no
fuller education than would enable him to pass

VOL. ill. D

the earlier standards of the board school. His
ambition to lift himself in the social scale is
commendable. But it is for Saxton to say
whether it will bend its back for him to clamber
up by. We trust not. Our hope is, we admit,
in some sense selfish, since if he were to succeed
in his ambitious projects we should carry
with us to the end the saddening conviction that
we had done something to bring about so
lamentable a result.

This is not personally a pleasing position
for us to assume, but, since we have erred, we
will not shrink from baring our back to the
lash. Before the " Beacon " is again lit up the
issue will have been decided, and this is our
last word on a contest that will be memorable
in local annals, et the electors of Saxton be
true to themselves, true to those Constitutional
principles that have made Britain great, true to
those associations which bind ancient towns to
old families, and true to the instincts of gentlemen,
which will lead them involuntarily to turn
their backs upon the London money-lender and

stretch out both hands to a neighbour and a
gentleman.'

This is very bad, too malicious to be a
good joke,' said Captain O'Brien, throwing down
the paper.

t Malicious ! ' cried Gideon, starting off again
in his mad patrolling of the room. He had
been quiet whilst O'Brien had been reading,
and now blazed away as if he were an automaton
and had been freshly wound up.
Malicious ! I call it abominable. Penal
servitude would be too good for him. I'm
going into the town, and I shall call at the
police-court and have the fellow arrested at
once.'

1 Nonsense, my dear Fleyce ; you cannot
do any such thing. You may presently, if you
like, make out that it is a libel. But, absurd
as are our libel laws, you cannot walk out
of your own house and turn a policeman
upon a man who has written something
against you, using the county constabulary

D 2

if it were a private hose. What you must dois
to get out with the least possible delay a
special edition of the paper, explaining in the
fewest possible words the meaning of the sorry
joke. You might also stick a placard out on
the walls.'

4 Couldn't you fix it on the other side ? ' said
Gideon, with grateful recollection of his success
in the matter of the funeral of Long Bill.

Well, perhaps we might ; all is fair in
love and war. I'll draw up something hinting,
not to put it too plainly, that our
opponents, in the desperation of their cause,
have stooped to this expedient, have entered
our camp, suborned one of our captains, and
sprung this mine under us. Yes, I think that
won't be a bad move. I'll come with you
down to the office and we'll get it in type, only
you must give up your notion of raising the
constabulary.'

6 Very well, but I'll tell you what, I'll stop
the cheque.'

You had better make haste about it then.
Jack is not the boy to let a cheque grow creased
in his waistcoat pocket.'

And so it turned out. Gideon, bursting in
upon the bank with instructions to stop the
cheque he had in a moment of hectic generosity
sent to Jack in payment of a month's salary,
was blandly informed that it had been cashed
two days ago. Not only had Jack spoiled the
Egyptians, but he had successfully crossed the
Need Sea. He had packed up his things and
cleared out of his lodgings on the previous
night, and Gideon, left lamenting in High
Street, grew terrible in his threats of what he
would have done to him had he only been able
to lay his hand on his collar.

Failing that, all Pharaoh, floundering in the
Need Sea, could do was to hurry forward the
printing presses, and Saxton was presently
placarded with a stinging denunciation of the
perfidy of ' the other side,' who had wrought
this evil thing.

CHAPTER XXXV.

'AND BELSHAZZAR THE KING GAVE A GREAT
FEAST.'

Gideon, standing bare-headed in the porch
of Castle Fleyce waiting to welcome to the
ancestral home of the Fleeces the Eight Hon.
the Earl of Bow byes, Lord-lieutenant of the
county, and, therefore, the immediate representative
of Her Most Gracious Majesty the
Queen, was a pleasant sight. All the countryside
was alive with people turned out to seethe
gentry go by to the great fete at Castle
Fleyce. Sax ton was aflame with the colours
of the Liberal candidate. Fortis momentous
occasion enthusiastic supporters had determined
to risk legal consequences, and flags floated
from the tall amiral before the Blue Lion,

that monument of the phenomenal industry of
Long Bill, to which some of his comrades were
inclined to trace his early death, and therefrom
draw a moral that more than ever convinced
them work was a mistake.

Gideon did not know about the flags,
otherwise, with his keen sense of what the law
would say of anything openly flouted to its
defiance, he would have prohibited the display.
But he had too much on his mind up at the
Castle to pay a visit to Saxton, where his friends,
delirious with the sure delight of victory, did
what they pleased.

The Earl of Bowbyes (well known in the
House during the Parliament of 1868 as Lord
Henry Bailey) had thrown himself into the
fray on behalf of the Liberal candidate with an
enthusiasm checked only by due consideration
of his official position. Of course, a Lord-lieutenant
could not do anything in the way
of electioneering. This had been distinctly
stipulated, and everybody knew through the

Beacon ' and other sources of information that
this great gathering at the Castle had nothing
to do with politics.

The fact was, here was a gentleman of high
personal character, great charm of manner,
and much wealth, who had recently become
resident in the neighbourhood. What could
be kinder, or more in accordance with custom,
than that the surrounding country gentry
should take the opportunity of paying their
respects to him in his new house ?

That his guests on this particular day should
all be Liberals was a pure accident. It was
well known that politics would be strictly
tabooed at luncheon, and that if any speeches
were made they would simply be of a personal
and friendly character.

Lord Bowbyes whilst in the Commons had
been a strong party man. He had, when
occasion offered, and sometimes when it did not,
smitten the Conservatives hip and thigh. Even
now, in the calmer atmosphere of the House of

Lords, he was wont to bring on occasional
thunderstorms. During the long reign of the
other party he had been reminded of this
natural tendency in more ways than one, but
all unpleasant, Now the gage of battle was
thrown down, and upon the events of the
.next few days would depend the continuance
of the Conservative party in office. If every
man did whatever lay to his hand, everything
that was possible to be done would be accomplished.
Within the radius of Lord Bowbyes'
influence Saxton was the most hopeful battleground.
No one hitherto had thought of
taking it out of the grasp of the Montgomeries,
and if this fellow from London was inclined to
try conclusions at his own expense, it certainly
behoved all good Liberals to lend him their
countenance.

Thus, when Sir Henry Gilbert wrote a few
lines to his lordship commending Gideon to his
patronage, he promptly seized the cue and
generously interpreted the instructions. He

had called on Gideon immediately, asked him
to dine at Bowbyes, and, when Gideon sent out
the invitations to what he modestly called ' a
house-warming,' Lord Bowbyes not only accepted
for himself, but let everybody know he
was going, and ' supposed he would meet them
there.'

Quite in a casual way his lordship drove
through Saxton on his way to the fete. Everybody
knew where he was going, and in those
quarters where Gideon's strength lay his drive
resembled a royal progress. Some one suggested
taking the horses out of the drag and
drawing his lordship up the hill in triumph.
But the 'Longshore men looked coldly upon
this project.

'There's a pretty good rise on that 'ill,'
Bound Tommy remarked sententiously, ' and
this 'ere sort of stage coach comes 'envy.'

They might have saved themselves discussion
on the point, for of course Lord Bowbyes
would not have permitted any such thing. It

was quite by chance he went round through
Saxton on a visit to his old friend Fleyce, and
he could rot have anything like a political
demonstration.

So the four gallant ba s breasted the hill at
a trot, and swept in grand style up the drive, at
the further end of which was discovered Gideon
hatless and radiant, with a white camellia in
his coat, and across his waistcoat a stout gold
chain of greater passivity than is customarily
in favour with gentlemen of non-Semitic origin.

But that was a mere trifle, chiefly noted as
forming a contrast to the exceptionally good style
of his tailoring. He looked better, too, without
his hat, a tendency to early baldness lending
an air of great intellectuality to his forehead.

Very good of your lordship,' said Gideon >
as Lord Bowbyes clambered off the drag with
the combination of caution and agility that
pertains to well-preserved fifty.

4 Not at all, Fleyce ; not at all. Only too
glad to come to your charming place.'

Gideon's blood coursed through his veins
with new delight at this familiar and friendly
address. He was no longer a Peri at the gates
of Paradise, looking with greedy eyes on the
joys disclosed within. He was actually inside
the gates, with an English peer, not coming
with starched manner, and holding every one
at arm's length, but one who actually clapped
him on the shoulder, called him c Fleyce,' and
spoke admiringly of his ' place.'

Paradise is a big place with various circles,
and it was something to be in this outside out.
But this was nothing to what would come intime,
after that triumphal march up the floor
of the House of Commons, when Gideon should
lay at the feet of a grateful party the prize
already within his grasp.

'I have taken the liberty of bringing
Boscobel with me, if, indeed,' his lordship
added, turning with a gracious look towards
his companion on the box, ' that be precisely
the way of putting it. A man who is a welcome

guest whenever he can find time to go is
a prize even at Castle Fleyce.'

'Most happy to see any friend of your
lordship's,' said Gideon, bowing effusively to the
gentleman who was descending from the box
with a caution that contrasted with the lightness
of Lord Bowbyes' descent,

I wish the fellow who invented these confounded
drags was condemned to live to be
seventy, and then pass two years getting up and
down them,' observed Mr. Boscobel, who had
stared at Gideon but taken no other notice of
his effusive welcome.

'You should have gone inside,' suggested
Lord Bowbyes, ' though I thought a young
fellow like you was fascinated with driving.'

Yes, it's all very well when you're up
there. But I think no well-appointed drag
ought to be without a lift.'

Oh, very well ; when you leave to go
home you shall be got out of a first floor
window. How do you do, O'Brien, you're

looking quite fresh with life in the country,
and perhaps you won't be inclined to go back
to the pavement of Pall Mall.'

4 Shan't I ? ' said O'Brien, who had come to
the door as the drag drew up : ' stop till I get
the chance. The country is all very well fora
day or two, but give me the shady side of
Pall Mall. That is quite rural enough forme.'


'And me too,' said Boscobel, who had
distinguished O'Brien by extending the two
forefingers of a fleshy and wrinkled hand.
4 The only time the country's worth living
in is when it is a passable imitation of
town.'

Thank you, Boscobel,' said Lord Bowbyes :
your frankness is always charming, and I only
hope we may make Bowbyes such a colourable
imitation as you love. When you come down
again I will have a few hansoms driving constantly
past your window. I'll get a newsboy
or two to shout the evening papers, a real

policeman to stand where lie is least likely to
be wanted, and anything else you can suggest
shall at least be aimed at.'

Humph ! ' growled Boscobel, who liked to
have the monopoly of anything approaching
humour, and was never so much vexed as
when other people sparkled, however faintly.
4 1 suppose this thing's going to be a bore.
Nothing I hate so much as these heavy meals
in the middle of the day, where all sorts of
people crowd to eat more than is good before
dinner, and drink more than is safe so soon
after breakfast. Besides, the champagne offered
at this time of day to a miscellaneous throng
is dubious.'

4 1 will answer for the champagne,' said
O'Brien, ' and as for the company, why, the
more mixed it is the more chance you will
have of making yourself agreeable.'

Gideon had gone on with Lord Bowbyes
into the drawing-room — a purely accidental
occurrence, and having no reference whatever

to Mr. Boscobel's audible and genial observations
on the kind of entertainment to which he
had come. He had known all about Gideon
before he left Bowbyes, and was prepared to
scowl upon him as an upstart, a disposition to
which he was the more drawn since he himself,
though now received in the high places of
society, had one time found occasion to fight
his way thither.

He was an immense favourite at dinner
parties and house parties, commending himself
to persons present by saying, in a smart way,
disagreeable things of others who were absent.
He was not at this time in Parliament, having
reached the final conclusion of a most remarkable
tour of constituencies. From first to last
he had been in Parliament twenty-five years,
and had never represented a constituency a
second time. In the House he sat on the
Liberal benches, and whenever he wooed a
constituency it was under the Liberal flag.
But as soon as his seat was obtained he ran up

the death's-head and cross-bones of the Independent
Member, issued to himself letters of
marque, and set out on a roving commission,
firing with charming impartiality on every
ship he came across, particularly if it were a
small one and did not carry guns.

It would perhaps be harsh to say he had
never done any service to his country since
he first sat in Parliament. But if he had he
carefully concealed all traces of it. He left
to others the cares and responsibility of legislation.
His the pleasing duty of finding fault.
Nature had gifted him with some wit, and he
had carefully cultivated a crusty disposition.
His style of humour was akin to that of an
omnibus conductor. It was rough, yet sometimes
irresistible in spite of its coarseness ; often
poor, but always personal. He cared for no
man's feelings, and he prided himself on his
perfect independence from party trammels.
This gave him many advantages over ordinary
men. When he rose in the House no one

VOL. III. E

knew which side he was going to take, though
the odds were rather against his own.

The House of Commons, which desires
above all things to be amused, and has a
strong leaven of liking for verbal horse-play,
encouraged him with its laughter and applause,
and when at last he had reached the end of
all the constituencies, there was much serious
questioning as to how the House was to get on
without him.

In truth it got on very well, and society
gained what the political world lost. Bosco-bel,
though he sneered at the joys of the
country, was highly appreciative of sunny
quarters at a pleasant house, and no man
visited more. There was, it is true, an uneasy
consciousness on the part of the host that
when he went on to the next house he would
abuse and scoff at the hospitality he was then
enjoying, just as he had sneered at that of the
house he had lately left. But ' it was Bosco-bel's
way,' and nobody minded it. He was a

great catch at a house party, and, knowing his
own value, liberally fixed his price.

The secret of Boscobel's being was selfishness.
He had fought for his own hand all
through life, at first having had to suffer the
ostracism that accompanies the sordid cares of
poverty. Then, when money came to him
and society permitted its doors to be unlocked
by the golden key, it found that the new-comer
had a pleasing way of saying disagreeable
things about one's friends, and he was welcomed
with both hands. He knew what they
wanted him for, and guessed what they thought
of him ; but on the whole he had the better
of the bargain. He was set on high at their
feasts, had the snuggest rooms in their houses,
and was himself competed for as if he were a
duke.

This suited him admirably, and the. unform-elated
bargain between himself and his entertainers
was scrupulously fulfilled. Nobody
attempted to define it, but to all intents and

E 2

- RSITY 0$
S LIBRARY

purposes it was something like that upon which
Sir Geoffrey Hudson was admitted to the court
of Charles the Second. He was good company,
and said rude things without those disagreeable
consequences that would have followed in the
case of ordinary personages. No one, whatever
might have been their secret longing, would
have ventured to put Boscobel into a pie, and
bring him to table, as befell Sir Geoffrey.
Other times, other manners. Boscobel had the
run of the house, was cheered by the laughter
that followed his sometimes pointed utterances,
lived in purple and fine linen, and had a shrewd
notion that whilst many people hated him
many more despised him. Between this fate
and that of Sir Geoffrey Hudson some people
would prefer the bodily presentation in the pie.
Boscobel would not. He made his own terms
upon which he would live with the world, and
found them sufficiently profitable.

Pettit-Philpott here ? ' he asked, standing
at the door and surveying the scene.

The guests, who numbered between fifty
and sixty of the best people in the county, had
formed an irregular lane through which Lord
Bowbyes, with his left hand lightly touching
Gideon's entranced elbow, strolled, making
cheery salutations.

I don't see Pettit-Philpott,' Boscobel
added with a chuckle, as O'Brien, who felt
himself in the position of master of the ceremonies,
looked about the room to see that
things were going on happily.

No ; but he's coming.'

I thought he would when he heard Bow
byes would be here, and the Finland, the Spof-
fortis, the Sackrees, and the Eolfes. If ever
there was a toad born into this world with two
legs and the faculty of articulate speech, it's
Philpott. I heard him three weeks ago talking
to Gilbert about this man you have all taken
up, pumping him as to his standing with the
party, and the length to which they were likely
to stand by him, Gilbert, who would swear

Pitcher was handsome, or Powell honest, if he
were backing either as a candidate for a likely
place, cracked your man up ridiculously. I
could see Phil pott was coming round this way.
He would hear Bowbyes was sure to turn up,
and I expect he will come scraping round as if
he had never abused the fellow for a money-lending
tout.'

I never knew him go as far as that,' said
O'Brien, 'but certainly he was slow to be
moved. This little business here to-day is all
Fleyce's own devising. There's a good deal
more in him than you think, and probably
Gilbert, when he gets him in the House, won't
find him so easy to whip as he reckons. But
before this was thought of I saw Philpott and
spoke to him about the interests of the party,
and said it would be a good thing, as his
people have been down here so long, if he
could take Fleyce up a bit. He would have
nothing to do with him then, as I could not
say much in reply to his question as to who

else had gone in for him. Now, it's all right
in that direction, and he'll certainly be here.'

I believe Philpott never gets up in the
morning without considering whether he would
not advance his own interest more by staying
in bed. He is,' exclaimed this pure patriot,
with a glow of indignation mantling his
wrinkled face, ' absolutely the most selfish man
I ever met in political life. He weighs everything
and measures it in the one scale, hallmarked
and stamped " Pettit-Philpott." If he
had lived in the time of the flood, and Noah
had asked him into the ark, he would have
stood by to the last moment waiting to see if on
the whole he could not make more by paddling
his own canoe. He calls himself a Liberal, but
you mark my words ; as soon as he gets what he's
fighting for and is made a peer he will go over
to the Tories. He has been a Liberal because
he thought there were more plums in the pie.
The result of his calculation is to show that on
the whole it is more gentlemanly to be Tory.'

c It is bluer blood and all that sort of thing
said O'Brien.

6 What Gladstone sees in Philpott passes
my comprehension,' Boscobel continued, not
noticing the remark of his companion, a
habitual conversational charm with him.
c There is many a man on the back benches
who has more experience of Parliamentary life
than this heavy, plodding, pretentious clod.
But the difficulty is, I suppose, to get rid of a
man when you have once got him in tow.'

6 Yes, somehow or other Philpott got a seaton
the Treasury Bench ; then when there was
a new Ministry he had to be provided for.
He's a poor speaker, and when in office bumptious
; but a wonderfully shrewd man when it
comes to be a question of what is good fur his
own interest.'

As a rule I don't like prophesying when
things are so close ; but I don't mind forecasting
Philpott's horoscope. If Dizzy's bowled
out, which is not nearly so unlikely as some

people who live in London think, and Gladstone
comes in with a majority, one of the first men
he'll hear from is Philpott. He'll write him a
letter congratulating him on his great victory,
and reminding him of the continued fidelity of
a certain old colleague. Gladstone will send
him an ordinary acknowledgment. Philpott
will return to the siege and suggest that perhaps
long service might be rewarded by something
better than an Under-Secretary ship.
Gladstone, who, with all his verbosity, is one
of the hardest men in the world to draw, will
fence him off. Then Philpott will cause to be
dropped in Gladstone's ear the hint that, failing
at least an Under-Secretaryship, a peerage
would not be unacceptable. Gladstone, who
hates the peers, and likes to choke them with
mediocrity of this sort, will jump at the offer,
and Philpott will go to the other House.'

4 All very pretty and precise. I'll make a
note of it, and have it ready to confound you
with supposing it does not come true,'

Then add this to your notes,' Boscobel
continued. ' As soon as Philpott becomes
Baron Petit he will go clean over to the
enemy. It's all very well for peers of ancient
lineage like Lord Primrose to go out-and-out
for Liberalism. It won't do for a new peer.
When Philpott once gets his patent of the
peerage, he will know he has no more to
look for from Gladstone, and he will turn
and bite the hand over which yesterday he
fawned. It will be his game to assimilate
with the traditions of the House, which are all
Tory. The other side will, of course, make much
of him at first, as one who has been a colleague
of the Ministry, and who is now shot out of
their orbit by reason of that velocity at which
they race to destruction. They will egg my
Lord Petit on for a month or two, till they
get him lost, body and soul, to the Liberal
party, and then, when he has irrevocably castoff
his old friends and benefactors, they will let
him see the scorn which, after all, English

gentlemen must feel for a character of this
sort.'

4 What has Philpott done to you, Eosco-
bel? Has he taken your corner seat at the
club ? or interfered with the quietude of your
rubber ? or left the door and a draught open
upon you? or talked when you had a little
story to tell ? '

But Boscobel was gone before O'Brien's
shorter catechism was finished. He had been
talking, not for the sake of O'Brien, a mere
hanger-on in society, well known, it is true, but
penniless. He hated Philpott partly for his
successes, and it pleased him to foretell fearsome
things of him.

Besides, Lord Bowbyes was at the other
end of the room still talking to that caddish
money-lender, and though Boscobel had nothing
of the cad or the snob in his character, if he
did by chance find himself in a room with fifty
people of whom one was a peer and the rest
commoners, he preferred to be seen in the
company of the peer.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

THE PROUDEST DAY OF MY LIFE.'

It was a very cheerful company, especially
now the Lord-lieutenant had arrived. There
was an uneasy suspicion in the minds of many
present that they might, as they put it, after
all be sold. They hated Fleyce instinctively.
What did a fellow like that mean by coming
into the sacred precincts of the county, leasing
perhaps the oldest building in it, and by means
of lavish expenditure of money turn it into a
really tasteful habitation ?

They had said nothing when the original
proprietor had let the Castle go to ruin, and
had planted John Cowman and his turnips
in the courtyard. A man whose ancestry was

undoubted might do as he liked with his own.
Besides, the ruin was picturesque, and, above
all, Gertrayke, who owned it, belonged to one
of the best county families.

This fellow had nothing but money to recommend
him, and though the county families
were not insensible to the charms of money —
as indeed was shown by their flocking to
Castle Fleyce and warmly shaking hands with
its esteemed proprietor — they didn't like it in
other people's bags, especially when the other
person was a new man from town.

The news that the Lord-lieutenant was
going to the luncheon had been diligently
spread, and at first dubiously received. Then
it came about that there were reports of men
who had met Lord Bowbyes and having
cautiously started the subject been met with
a hearty confirmation of the statement, and
an even boisterous command that they also
must go.

That was all very well. But Bowbyes,

whilst wanting to do a service to his party by
taking up this fellow, might be inclined to doit
vicariously. At the last moment he might
find affairs of State that would prevent his
putting in an appearance, and there they
would be.

It was a comfort at the outset that there
were a good many others in the same boat,
and content was fully realised when, looking
out from the drawing-room window over the
fair scene spread out before them, they saw
winding through the high road among the
meadows the unmistakable Bowbyes' team.

As often happens, the revulsion of feeling
when a possible disappointment is transformed
into positive accomplishment of desire led even
to an exceptional exultation. Here not only
was the Lord-lieutenant, but he was walking
about arm-in-arm with the host.

Moreover, a rumour had gone round that
the elderly gentleman, who was staring at
everybody else in such a rude way, was the

famoifc Boscobel. Every one knew his name.
Some bad met him at dinner, or at snug
country-house parties. These, desirous to shine
before their neighbours, advanced to Boscobel
with easy step, smiling face, and outstretched
hand. Whereto the genial wit replied with a
freezing stare of inquiry, and the most frigid
and temporary touch of his fingers.

He usually was at this time of the day in a
bad temper. On this occasion his normal condition
was aggravated by half a dozen incidents.
There was the climbing up and down the drag,
the prospect of seeing people eat when he was
not hungry, the contact with a miscellaneous
crowd, and the ridiculous perversity of Bow-eyes,
who was absolutely making court to a
fellow like this Fleyce, when he (Boscobel) was
in the room.

Presently he had snarled a clear space of
several feet around him, as a man might do
who swung a pair of clubs. His ill-humour,
like other appetites, grew with what it fed

upon, and if he had had his own carriage at
hand he would certainly have ordered it and
left the place in a pet. Than which it was
impossible to imagine a more dreadful punishment
for those left behind.

Petty t-Philpott arrived in clue time, very
nervous, and possessed in accentuated form
with that apprehension of being taken in which
had disturbed the equanimity of the other
guests. He felt that even in such a case he
would have little to reproach himself with.
Nothing could exceed the carefulness of the
inquiry he had made. An anxious housewife
going down to a favourite watering-place
with a melancholy foreboding that she and
her brood would infallibly land in apartments
where there had been the scarlet fever, measles,
or small-pox, could not have been more careful
in her reconnaissance, than was Philpott in his
investigation how far it was safe for him to be
found a guest at Castle Fleyce.

He had anxiously come to the conclusion

that it was all right, and earnestly hoped it
might be. But who could tell ? and what a
dreadful thing it would be for a man who
might soon be a Minister if he became entangled
with inconvenient acquaintances !

Why should he bother himself? There
were in the world, and even within the circle
of his acquaintance, enough of absolutely safe
people with whom he might spend whatever
time he had for visiting. But then, he
answered himself, this was a speculation, and if
it turned out well the profit would be in due
proportion with the risk. He must, especially
just now, show no hesitation in assisting his
party. Gilbert had written to him asking him
to take Fleyce up. O'Brien had been at him
on the same point, and he was not sure how
far O'Brien was within the inner counsels of his
party. He had heard of him dining in Harley
Street, and, as he said to himself with bitter
recollection of shortcomings that had affected
himself, dinners were not so frequent in that

VOL. III. F

quarter that one would be asked unless he
were a special favourite.

Then, again, there was Bowbyes, who at
Quarter Sessions had stayed behind purposely
to tell him he must go. All this looked very
well ; but when there was at stake so precious
a thing as the personal prospects of Pettit-Phil-
pott, it was not easy to avoid anxiety as to
possible accidents.

The first thing the anxious eye of the right
hon. gentleman lighted upon was Bowbyes ina
circle of the very best people of the county,
with Gideon at his right band, and his lordship
in the highest good humour. The thing was
evidently safe. The clouds cleared from the
massive Philpott brow as they clear on an
April day when the sun bursts forth.

Bowbyes, how are you ? ' he cried in a
cheery voice, ringing the hand of the noble
lord. ' Mr. Fleyce, I am perfectly delighted to
have been able to get here. I have my own
borough to look up, you know. But nothing

would have prevented my coming to-day if I
could have crawled on foot or been lifted into
my carriage.'

4 The first way of getting along would have
been more in your way,' said Boscobel, who
had drawn up to the group when he saw
Philpott joining it.

1 Ah, Boscobel ! you here, and as genial a?
ever. I had a letter from a friend who was
staying with you at Dunrobin on Saturday
week. He told me what a pleasant time you
all had.'

'Had we?' Boscobel growled. 'I don't
remember that aspect of the entertainment.
It struck me as being the dullest lot I ever
herded with.'

4 How are things looking in Scotland ? '
asked Lord Bowbyes. ' Did you hear anything
at Dunrobin ? '

4 Yes ; I heard that Gladstone, if he sits in
the next parliament at all, will be member for
Leads. There is something disgusting about a

half-mad politician like that going to storm
Midlothian. He might as well turn Buccleugh
out of his own park. There will be a good
deal of ranting and roaring of the mob. but that
does not mean votes, and when it comes to the
polling you will see that family influence will
have its proper effect. The Scotch are a canny
people, and if they can get an entertainment
free they will have it of course. They cannot
hear Gladstone every day. I never trust a
mob.'

Well, you are an authority on the value
of the roar of a mob,' said Philpott. 'You know
what it is yourself. You've heard it on the
house-tops when the mob has been in the street,
and you have been executing strategic movements
round the chimney-pots.'

This reference to a well-known episode
in Boscobel's wide experience of the humour
of constituencies was a very bold stroke for
Philpott. He went on the principle of never
saying nasty things to a man's face, being careful

to make up the average when a man's back
was turned. But he and Boscobel were long-established
enemies. He knew that the keen
eyes of the old man saw right through him,
with all his meanness and selfish aspirations.
He would have been exceedingly glad to
have cried a truce with so ready a tongue.
He had tried that before, and Boscobel had, byway
.of response, been nitre than usually rude.

He had pretended not to hear the little
reference to the alleged propensity for a certain
kind of locomotion with which Boscobel
had genially opened the conversation. But he
had heard it, and it stung him bitterly. He
knew at once that there was between now
and the last time they had met no change in
Boscobel's feelings towards him, and, always
calculating, generally with great shrewdness, he
had come to the conclusion to throw away the
scabbard.

No one would take seriously what Boscobel
might say, if only his victim received the darts

smilingly, and even appeared to invite them by
reprisals.

Yes, I know a mob,' said Boscobel, turning
fiercely upon his assailant. ' I know
what its roar is like, having pricked its hide,
and sometimes been tossed by its horns. That
comes of not mincing my words and smiling
my smile to my company. There are some
men for whom mobs have too mighty a, contempt
to take the trouble to turn and rend
them.'

6 Mr. Boscobel, I want you to see my
orchids, if you don't mind,' said Gideon. 'I
hear you are a great judge, and I should esteem
it a favour to have your opinion.'

Gideon was growing a little nervous at this
encounter, which was looking serious, and
threatened to spoil the serenity of the day.

4 You must let me join you,' said Lord Bow-eyes.
' I want to see your hothouses ; I hear
they are very ingeniously worked into the
ruined walls.'

Boscobel graciously permitted himself to be
led off, ; like a bear with its keeper,' as Phil-pott
whispered in the ear of Mr. Gertrayku, on
whom he immediately fastened himself as being
the next most important man in the company
to the Lord-lieutenant.

Luncheon was served at two o'clock, and
was like everything else, save the contention
of Boscobel and Philpott, a great success.
O'Brien had looked after this, and, as he sometimes
modestly said, if Heaven had varied the
level of his mediocrity with any gift, it was the
capacity for the arrangement of a luncheon or a
dinner.

Even Boscobel was consoled by the delicate
attention paid him. He was put to sit next to
Lord Bowbyes, whilst Philpott was assigned a
seat lower down on the same side of the table,
quite out of his sight. He was accustomed to
say that he was a man of no prejudices, but if
he had one it ran in the direction of detestation
of seeing men guzzling.

For himself, having reached an age at which
temperance and regularity in habits of daily
life had become a necessity to its prolongation,
he was accustomed to eat a light breakfast, take
a mutton chop for his luncheon, and reserve his
accumulated gastronomic force for his eight-o'clock
dinner.

At eight o'clock gentlemen dined ; people
eating at any other hour of the day guzzled.

That was the way Mr. Boscobel was accustomed
to treat the distinction between the hour
at which he ate and the habits of his fellowmen.
But here, served before him on a silver
dish, were two matchless chops grilled to a turn,
and free from the abomination of gravy.

Gravy was one of Boscobel's exceedingly
few prejudices. He called it ' mush,' a generic
term applied by him to sauces of all kinds.
He had been known to leave a house abruptly
because on the second night the servant had
brought him a spoonful of gravy with his cut
of saddle of mutton. Once he didn't mind.

It was ignorance. But to do it a second time
was either deliberate insult or gross carelessness.
He could submit to neither, so he left the table
and house.

This was talked of as one of his ' charming
eccentricities,' and had its practical use in
securing him from this particular annoyance.

Now here were two chops, served hot and
dry, and close at his hand was a decanter of his
favourite claret at perfect temperature. 
didn't know what anxious moments
O'Brien had spent in the accomplishment of
this little surprise. He felt it was quite right
that things should be as they turned out. But
he certainly had not expected them at a place
like this.

He's just the sort of fellow to ask for a
second spoonful of gravy,' he but a moment
ago said to himself, glaring upon the innocent
host with a sudden accession of disgust and
indignation.

But since his luncheon was as it should be,

and Bowbyes seemed determined to make a fuss
of this fellow, and as he had put down that
crawling sycophant Philpott, the good man
relaxed, ate both his chops, drank more than
half the claret, and began to sparkle in his best
manner, which was exceedingly good.

To Gideon, sitting at the head of the table,
the scene was the fairest he had ever beheld,
and the company the most delightful. At his
right hand an earl, a direct representative of the
Crown. On his left, the richest landowner in
the county. Close by, talking to him sometimes,
and even listening to his remarks, was
one of the most famous wits of the day, and
down the table on either hand were some of
the best people in the county.

He felt very happy, and even grateful to
Lord Bowbyes, to whom, with characteristic
forgetfulness of all O'Brien's assiduous labour,
he attributed everything that was successful in
the day.

1 What do you intend to do when you get

into Parliament, Mr. Fleyce ? ' Lord Bowbyes
asked, turning to his host with a pleasant
smile. ' Have you, like the late General
Trochus, a plan ? '

1 Or are you like the late Mrs. Glasse,'
Boscobel interposed, never missing an opportunity
of giving a genial turn to conversation.
* Are you inclined to catch your hare
before making consequential arrangements ? '

That's not a bad principle in average
cases,' Lord Bowbyes said, ' but this case is a
little out of the average. We don't talk politics
here, and only learn from what we call in the
House "the usual sources of information " of
the possibilities of an election down at Saxton.
But one cannot be deaf and blind to evidences
that Fleyce is to-day as certain to
be member for Saxton as the poll is certain
to be declared on Monday night.'

8 Your lordship is very good,' Gideon simpered,
' but Mr Boscobel is right We mustn't
make too sure.'

1 Very well, you can put it that way. At
the same time, whilst it is in my mind, I would
advise you to take up some subject when you
get into Parliament. Make it your own, and
bring it in year after year if necessary, till
either you get it passed, or have talked a
generation of members into the grave, and
followed them yourself.'

Fellows that do that always make themselves
a bore,' Boscobel said. ' Look at Sir
Waterford Wilson, with his temperance
nuisance, and old Solemnity Watergate with
his convent institution?, and the Home Rule
fellows and half a dozen others, who get hold
of a hobby and ride it in at one door and out
at the next every session.'

You might add to your list the Corn Law
Resolution and the Church Gates, and the
Reform Bill, and half a dozen others, which
have been begun that way, and been carried
through. Of course I don't mean our friend
Fleyce to start a big topic like one of these, at

least not at present. But I remember when I
was leaving college old Pam had a chat with
me about going into Parliament, and gave me
the advice I am now giving Fleyce. " Get some
subject," he said, " however remote its possibilities.
Make it your own and bring it in year
after year. If it is for a railway to the moon it
is better than nothing, and you can surely find
something better than that." '

4 Then take up perambulators,' Boscobel
said. 4 Bring in a bill to make it penal for a
perambulator to be wheeled on the pavement
There's no other country in the world where a
man going along the street is in danger of having
his shins barked by a three-wheeled conveyance.'


4 Wouldn't that be a little dangerous ? '
Gideon asked. 4 During my canvass I always
found it worth while to pay my court in the
nursery.'

4 Yes, that's where Boscobel failed. He
never gave woman her true p 1n ce as a political

power. No man who brought in a bill for the
suppression or even the regulation of perambulators
would sit a second time for any constituency.
But there is one thing seriously worth
the attention of any young member, and that is
the ringing of church bells. That ought, for the
sake of common humanity, to be stamped out.'

1 Wouldn't that set the clergy against you ? '
Gideon asked.

4 1 suppose it might, But think of the
enormous support it would bring you. I suppose
in thickly populated places one church
bell blights the existence of five hundred persons.
That is a pretty good average to work
upon, and there is absolutely nothing to be said
on the other side. Bells, of course, are all very
well on a village church, though since watches
and clocks have come in they have no practical
use anywhere. In towns they are simply intolerable.
If you took the matter up seriously
it would not be difficult to establish a score ol
cases where murder or manslaughter has been

committed. When any of us are ill we can
have our door-knockers muffled, the bells unhung,
and the roadway laid down with straw.
But we cannot stop the church bells ten doors
off from clanging morn, noon, and night.'

1 It's very kind of your Lordship to take
such an interest in my Parliamentary career.
I will certainly think of the bells. Would you
propose to prohibit them absolutely ? '

1 No, you needn't do that. Take a leaf out
of Sir Waterford's book. Go on the local option
principle. That will do the work quite as effectually,
and with less appearance of high-mindedness.'


Scratch a Eadical and you'll find a tyrant,
especially if the Eadical happens to be born
heir to a peerage ' — with which gentle gibe at
his host of Bowbyes Boscobel centred his attention
upon his second chop.

Belshazzar the King, when he made a great
feast to a thousand of his lords, and drank wine
before them, was not more brimful of happiness

than Gideon. He had cast care behind him,
and felt that he might look round on the walls
without apprehension of seeing start forth the
fingers of a man's hand, tracing the fearsome
legend — Mene Mene Tekel Upharsin.

Of course, there were to be no toasts nor any
conversation about politics held above a whisper.
But, as Lord Bowbyes presently said, standing
up and holding a brimming wine-glass in his
hand, they could not separate from so pleasing
a host without wishing health and prosperity to
the house under whose roof they sat. Nor
would his lordship be satisfied with anything
less than three times three, which the guests,
warmed with wine, and encouraged by the
boundless kindness of Lord Bowbyes, gave with
a line heartiness through which was plainly
heard the stentorian voice of Pettit-Philpott.

Gideon had thought it just possible that
something of this kind might take place, and in
the secret recesses of his study had prepared a
worthy response. Happily, the kind words of

Lord Bowbyes and the uproarious cheers of his
distinguished guests so profoundly affected
him that they hustled out of his brain all recollection
of the well-balanced sentences.

He rose to his feet and stood silent for a
moment, with an awkward consciousness that
his eyes were full of moisture, and that he
could not command his voice. All that he
could remember of his speech was a phrase
perhaps not altogether unfamiliar.

4 My lord and gentlemen,' he said, 4 this is
the proudest day of my life.'

With faltering voice he wandered round and
round this declaration, making it over and over
again, and finally sat clown with a strong sense
that he had made an ass of himself; whereas,
as Lord Bowbyes testified with his natural kindness
of heart and his habitual readiness to say
the right thing at the right moment, nothing
could be more creditable than this little display
of genuine emotion.

Lord Bowbyes went off soon after luncheon,

VOL. III. G

carrying Boscobel with him. Pettit-Philpott
soon followed. In the chill which succeeds
sunset his delicate constitution was liable to
catch cold, and Philpott never ran risks of that
kind. Others, gladdened by the good cheer
and in the friendliest mood, stayed awhile and
smoked Gideon's cigars, which were as good as
his wine.

But one by one all departed, and Gideon,
standing at the porch, bid them farewell. Many
dropped a word in his ear of hearty good
wishes for his success on Monday, the day the
poll was to be taken, and on the evening 01
which, unless all human calculation were out
of joint, he would be M.P. for Saxton.

He lingered in the porch when the last
guest had gone, thinking how sweet was life
after all, and how bright the future. The
place seemed quiet and deserted now the last
carriage had rolled away, and the echo of its
wheels had ceased to hum through the glad
country lanes.

As he stood and mused he saw two men
step out, apparently from behind a tree on the
lawn that faced the house. They were strangers,
evidently town bred. Probably they had
strayed in the park and lost their way. They
made straight for the porch where Gideon
stood looking at them inquiringly.

He was not in a mood to grumble with anybody,
but, of course, he could not have strangers
prowling around the inner recesses of his park.
The men walked up to him with a business air,
and one said —

4 Mr. Gideon Fleyce, I believe ? '

4 That's my name,' Gideon answered. ' Did
you want to see me ? '

4 Yes,' said the stranger, coming unpleasantly
near, whilst the other one closed up on the
other side. ' I have come on business, I am
afraid, of an unpleasant kind.'

4 What is it ? ' Gideon faltered, his cheek
growing as pale as ashes.

He made a movement to withdraw, which

Q 2

the others, apparently without noticing it,
followed up.

8 We have a warrant to arrest you on the
charge of wilful murder. You had better not
say anything just now, and we will try to make
things as quiet as possible.'

4 Murder ! ' Gideon cried with horror-stricken
face. ' Who's dead ? '

4 Oh ! come now,' said the stranger, abruptly.
4 It's your father, you know. It's a nasty business,
and you'd better take time before you say
anything. You must come to London by the
next train.'

They took him one by each arm and lea
him into the house, he walking as docilely as a
child, but with a dazed look as if the rough
hand of the detective had at its touch broken
the machinery of his reason.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

IN THE SPIDER'S PARLOUR.

The lead is wondrous heavy, mither,

The well is wondrous deep ;
A keen penknife sticks in my heart,

A word I dounae speak.

The bijou residence in the quiet street off Fulham
Road frowned upon the neighbourhood
all through that bright Monday morning when
Gideon, after his long sleep, awoke to freshened
life and brighter hope. At no time of attractive
exterior, for the bachelor of fortune now in
possession was not given to wasting his money
on paint, the bijou residence looked a trifle more
dingy by reason of the circumstance that the
shutters were closed in the room on the ground
floor.

People who lived opposite had occasionally
caught glimpses of the bachelor of fortune
attired in a rusty skull-cap and a musty dressing-gown,
as we have seen him on the occasions
when he has been entertaining Gideon or Ins
old and faithful servitor, Mr. Dumfy.

Less than a week ago those who cared to
look might daily see him at dusk as he drew
near the window to catch the last gleams of
daylight, which the setting sun was giving
away gratuitously. Half an hour, or even ten
minutes, saved at this time of the day made a
good deal of difference in the life of a candle.
The old gentleman in his leisure moments had
worked out a sum which gave really surprising
results, and encouraged him to make the very
most of the dying day.

He had been seen at the window on Sunday
night. He had sat there until the brief twilight
had faded into darkness, till fires were stirred
and lights flashed from the houses near, and
people turned with kindly welcome to the night

which made it possible for them to be so snug
under the lamplight and in the cheerful glow of
the fire, which toned down all hard lines.

When it came to pass that there was no appreciable
difference between the interior of the
room with the shutters closed and barred, and
the room as it seemed with the great wall of
night silently dropped before the window of the
bijou residence, the shutters were drawn, withall
their mysterious mechanism arranged for the
more gratifying reception of possible burglars.

Gideon had seen how tightly they shut
when he boiled with angry passion as he walked
up and down outside wondering what were the
best means by which he might obtain readmittance.


Closed then, they remained closed. They
were fast closed when the morning broke, and
the sun, still chilly, but bright with promise of
the spring, came out and bathed the streets in
its light.

Noon rare£ out from one of the churches

whither Gideon had watched the pleased
women troop on Sunday night. The afternoon
deepened into dusk. The postman went his
rounds, though he had nothing for the bijou
residence, where correspondence was on the
whole deprecated as involving expenditure of
postage stamps. The muffin-man went round
clanging his bell, suggesting to some murderous
thoughts, and to others cosy meals surreptitiously
introduced between luncheon and dinner.

Night fell on the quietening street. Lights
twinkled from the many windows. Fires were
stirred again ; diviner was set forth ; cheerful
groups gathered round the fireside, and once
more the scene darkened, the lights going out
one by one from the many windows, till the
street was steeped in darkness.

Morning broke once more, and still its rays
beat in vain upon the shutters of the bijou residence.
All the routine of life went on as before,
except that people living near began to take
note of the curious aspect of the bijou residence.

Had the bachelor of fortune gone away for
change of air, how sorely needed none but those
who breathed the fetid atmosphere of the
always closed house could know ? Was he
tired of his lonely life, and had he ridden
o'er the downs, either by himself or with
promiscuously invited companions, to seek a
bride ?

The Misses Chante at No 32 opposite began
to take a fresh interest in the bijou residence
when this thought suggested itself. They had
visions of the merry little gentleman with the
skull-cap coming home quite transmogrified,
scraped and washed, decently dressed, and
leading by the hand a buxom bride. She must
of course be of a certain age ; still she might be
nice. The old gentleman was reputed to be
fabulously wealthy. Perhaps he would give
parties, and the bijou residence would blossom
forth and become quite a scene of attraction

Even if the Misses Chante were not invited,
they might sit at the window and watch the

guests arrive, wonder who they were, and pass
frank opinions upon their dresses.

A difficulty in arriving at precise conclusions
on the matter was that nobody knew the old
gentleman's name. It did not appear in any of
the directories. The Spider knew by experience
that such publication brought begging letters,
tradesmen's circulars, and even unsolicited visits.
Therefore there was no use in looking through
the marriage announcements in yesterday's
c Times,' for they did not know what name to
seek. They must wait till the bride and bridegroom
came home.

Waiting grew more and more a dreary and
uneasy task. It began to be rumoured that the
milkman, calling on Tuesday with the supply of
milk directed for delivery twice a week, had
failed to make himself heard. On Wednesday
the ancient beldame who twice a week charred
for the bachelor of fortune appeared at the appointed
hour with her bucket and floor rag and
broom. But no answer was vouchsafed to her

single knock, whilst natural curiosity, endeavouring
to satisfy itself by inspection through
the key-hole, was foiled by a simple device on
the part of the old gentleman, who had pasted a
piece of brown paper across the orifice on the
inner side.

The old lady was willing to testify that such
a thing had never happened before. As for the
old gentleman going away for a holiday, she
scouted the idea, and was positively rude to
young Miss Chante, who, seeing her on the doorstep,
had inveigled her across, and incidentally
advanced the marriage theory.

The old lady, who was partaking of refreshment
at the time, nearly choked with untimeous
laughter, and when she recovered pursued the
young Miss Chante with rheumy gibes for thinking
of such a thing

The policeman on the beat was consulted
on the matter, and created a profound impression
by standing in the middle of the street so
that he might get a full view of the premises.

The result of several moments' silent meditation
was the arrival at the conclusion that ' the
place was fastened up,' of which fact he made
a note in a large pocket-book, produced with
much solemnity, and written in with considerable
difficulty.

He reported the circumstance at the office,
where there was a disposition to regard it
seriously Inquiries were made in which the
milkman and the charwoman figured as principal
witnesses, and it was settled that, if by
Thursday morning no sign of life within manifested
itself, the representatives of the law
would enter the house and snatch its secret
from it, if secret there were.

On Thursday morning the bijou residence
still frowned in the old way at the impertinent
curiosity of the street. The shutters remained
barred and the stillness unbroken. Nobody
knew where to go in search of the friends or
relations of the bachelor of fortune. But the
police armed themselves with the necessary

authority, and amid thrilling excitement an
officer from Scotland Yard rapped at the front
door.

It was a bold knock, that might have waked
the dead if any slept within these tomb-like
walls. But there was no answer, nor was any
made to successive thundering at the knocker.

Then the locksmith came forward and set
to work. It was not an easy task, for, as he
found, no ordinary mechanic had fashioned the
lock. Finesse failing, force was called into play.
A ram was borrowed from a street paviour, and
half a dozen police manning it began to beat
upon the portals of the bijou residence.

Bolts nor bars could long withstand this, and
presently the door was battered in. As it fell
there swooped down from the top a long iron
blade so sharp that it cut some depth into the
wooden ram on which it fell. In the ordinary
course of things it would have fallen on the
head of one of the policemen supposing he had
attempted to enter by forcing the door with his

own weight. As it was it hurt no one ; but
the little incident suggested caution in further
advance.

There were no more doors to force open, at
least not as far as present inquiry went. The
door of the room on the ground floor, at the
window of which the old gentleman had daily
been seen, was opened, giving vent to a decidedly
unpleasant flavour.

Turning on their bull's eyes the police entered,
and were received by the bachelor of
fortune himself, though his appearance was not
calculated to make the visit a pleasant one.
He was still sitting in the chair in which we
saw him on Sunday night, and was now even
a less agreeable object for contemplation.

The first human instinct on the part of the
visitors was to unbar the shutters and let in
fresh air and light on this charnel-house with
its ghastly occupant. It was felt to be a delicate
matter to tamper with the shutters. But
they were safely opened, and the sunlight,

streaming in, made it more than ever desirable
to throw a sheet over what remained of the
merry old gentleman, with this haft of a knife
sticking out from his chest like a note of exclamation.


Things looked very serious indeed, and
messengers were despatched to Scotland Yard
for higher authority and supreme intelligence.
These likewise were greatly puzzled when they
arrived on the scene. There w r as the safe unlocked,
and so far as could be seen untouched.
Yet it seemed that the existing condition of
things had not been arrived at without a
struggle. The key was in the lock, but it w r as
bent downwards as if some heavy weight had
hung upon it and had been dragged off by main
force.

Inside were the rouleaux of gold — countless
gold it seemed to the astonished policeman.
No rough hand had been laid upon them.
They stood in ordered row. Nor were any of
the papers touched. In truth, except for this

distortion of the key it would seen that the
safe had not even been approached by the hand
that drove the knife up to the hilt in the heart
of the old gentleman.

Nor was there any other sign of disorder in
any other part of the room.

The police did not see what we fancied we
discerned in the firelight on Sunday night — the
gleam of demoniac delight with which the old
gentleman, looking in the direction of the safe,
had fared forth to another and, we hope, a
better world. Otherwise they might have made
a great deal of it.

No man living or dead could sit for four
nights and three days in the same position, and,
to tell the truth, when the visitors arrived they
found the old gentleman huddled up on one
side of the chair, having toppled over from his
earlier position.

When Pompeii was dug out they found in
the passage of one of the houses the skeleton of
a man with ten pieces of gold in one hand and

a key in the other. There were no bijou residences
in Pompeii, for ground rent was low,
and they built in roomy fashion. But, doubtless,
this was an elderly bachelor of fortune,
who, when the crash came, had made a dash at
his safe, clutched a handful of gold for present
necessities, and secured the key, so that presently,
when danger was over, and he might
come back again, he would find all safe.

Why hadn't our old gentleman made some
such move ? The ashes that wrecked Pompeii
were not more deadly than what had chanced
to him. But in his case the catastrophe must
have been more sudden. At any rate, he satin
his chair, with his gold untouched and his
key in the safe.

Here also within the fender were the remains
of the stew, mouldy now, and mouldy
the bread, and very sour the four-half, all
untouched.

Groping round the room in search of some
clue to this great mystery, the police laid swift

VOL. III. H

hands upon a handsome stick that stood in a
corner of the room. There was a silver plate
upon it, a little dulled, perhaps by reason of
having kept company with the old gentleman
four nights and four days under these sad circumstances.
But plainly discernible on it was
the legend, ' Gideon Fleyce, Castle Fleyce.'

This was a clue followed up with more
success than sometimes attends similar able and
intelligent efforts. It was not nearly so difficult
to find out Gideon Fleyce as it was to discover
traces of his respected and now ever-to-be-lamented
parent. Gideon was as fond of
directories as his father had disliked them. His
several addresses appeared in the ' Court Guide,'
and before an hour had elapsed the police were
on his track.

They found much that was surprisingly
encouraging, and what, at the outset, seemed to
promise to be a case that would be sure to bringdown
upon them the reproaches of a self-sufficient
Press now literally led along a high road

that went straight up to the porch of Castle
Fleyce, where Gideon stood smiling farewell to
his guests.

The two strangers who had presented
themselves behind the trees were by no means
so unfamiliar with the place as Gideon was
with them. They had been in Saxton at least
eighteen hours, and, when an intelligent police-officer
has a clue and eighteen hours to follow
it up in, he is not long in making a case, particularly
when it has been quite clear from the
first.

They knew all about Gideon's secret visit
to London on the night of the murder. They
traced him to Charing Cross both on his arrival
and departure. They saw the guard who had
helped to carry him in his prostrate condition
past the victims of the railway accident. Working
both in London and at Saxton, putting this
and that together with remarkable ability and
celerity, they might, if there had been any
attempt at flight, have arrested Gideon on

Friday morning. But there was no particular
hurry, and some fresh evidence sought in
London was not yet completed.

The two police officers were told off to
watch the Castle and its elated proprietor. So
well had they done their work that not a
whisper of their true errand was heard in
Saxton. A suspicion was beginning to grow
in the local mind that they were agents on the
look-out for bribery cases, though whether instructed
by the Liberal candidate or the Conservative
none could tell. This was a delusion
they did not care to dispute, but rather
encouraged.

Gideon, driven in his own brougham, with
one stranger inside and another on the box,
was already far on his way to London before
a whiff of this new sensation reached Saxton.
Saxton, indeed, already had as much as it could
comfortably digest in the stories of the magnificent
fete at the Castle, of the unequalled
splendour of the company, of the distinguished

favour shown by the Lord-lieutenant to the
host, and of the certainty that, as far as the
election was concerned, all was over now,
except the shouting that would hail Gideon
Fleyce member for Saxton.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

DEPRESSION AT THE DOG AND DUCK.

That something serious had happened was
borne in upon the servants at Castle Fleyce, as
they stood at door or window, and saw their
master drive away with this strange escort.
Since the hand of the officer of the law had
been laid upon his shoulder, and the word
Murder ' had been spoken in his ear, Gideon
had not said a word.

Mr. Pritchett, the officer from Scotland
Yard, was conscious that his opportunities of
making the business pleasing to the person
chiefly concerned were exceedingly limited.
Still he did his best. This was not one of those
ordinary cases in which a man merely kicks

his wife to death, or slays a man in a drunken
brawl. It was an affair of the highest society.
His prisoner was one who, if not a member of
Parliament, was a candidate for Parliamentary
honours, and who, as Mr. Pritchett had respectfully
observed with his own eyes, had
that very day entertained the Lord-lieutenant
of the county.

That such a man should commit murder
was by no means a marvel. Crime, Mr.
Pritchett knew, was not a luxury confined to
the lower classes. He had had one or two big
cases before, but nothing nearly so good as
this, and being a man of some sensibility, he
entertained a feeling of personal obligation
towards Gideon. He knew this would be the
great event of the day, and that the conduct of
that intelligent officer, Mr. Pritchett,' would
live in the fierce light that beats upon a sensational
case.

Therefore, it behoved him to treat Gideon
with consideration, and nothing could exceed

the deference of his manner when he asked
him if he would like any little thing put up for
the journey. Gideon shook his head wearily,
but said nothing. Therefore Mr. Pritchett
took upon himself to request Mr. Parker to put
up a change of linen for his master, who, he
said, was going to town on particular business,
and might be absent a day or two.

Mr. Parker did as he was bidden, though
with a surly air. His master took no notice of
him as he came and went, nor made any reply
to his varied inquiries as to orders. Something
was wrong, Mr. Parker shrewdly suspected,
and the return of the carriage from the
junction was uneasily awaited.

It's murder, that's what it is,' said the
coachman, who enjoyed his exceptional importance
at being the only man who knew anything
about it.

He was not to be wheedled into any
further disclosures, a circumstance highly to
his credit, as he really knew nothing more.

He had got this much out of his companion on
the box.

It was, however, enough for the household,
who felt the immediate necessity of sitting down
and having a good meal. They ranged themselves
in the dining-room where late had
gathered Gideon's guests, and in corners of
which there must surely yet have lingered
echoes of Lord Bowbye's pleasant voice, and of
Gideon's protestation that this was the proudest
day of his life.

It is hard to say to what kind of master
domestic servants of modern days would be
faithful in adversity. But there is no difficulty
in concluding that it would not be to one newly
rich. Gideon paid his servants good wages,
and they lived as they pleased, which was extravagantly.
With the exception of Mr. Parker,
whom he exceedingly disliked, he was not unreasonable
in his demands for service, or unkind
in his personal intercourse with those who
rendered it.

Yet now, whilst he, suddenly snatched from
near approach to the pinnacle of his desire, was,
as their imagination fed by the ' Police News '
pictured, manacled hand and foot, they gathered
round his table, drank his choice wines, hacked
his costly meat, smoked his cigars (though some
would have preferred the humble pipe), and,
later, when general hilarity prevailed, the women
pelted the half-tipsy men with the flowers that
decked the long glittering table.

Finally, they bundled the table on one side,
and Thomas, the head footman, producing a flute,
blew out entrancing music, to which they
danced. Thomas was not true to time, and a
little shaky as to tune. But amid the prevalent
good humour these shortcomings were overlooked,
and, as Mary the housekeeper put it,
they 'kep' it up' till four o'clock in the
morning.

It is an ill wind that blows nobody any good,
and these worthy people were wise to make the
best of Gideon's misfortune.

It was all over the town the next morning,
falling like a thunderbolt from a clear sky. It
was all very well for the servants up at the
Castle to hold high revelry. Their wages fora
month were safe, and in the meantime there
were many pickings to be had out of the
dislocated household. But it was different in
Saxton, where the particular moment chosen for
the falling of the thunderbolt was exceedingly
inconvenient.

4 Ef it had only come a Tuesday,' Bound
Tommy sighed, ' it would 'a' bin different.'

Possibly owing to his circular shape, Bound
Tommy was the centre of a circle of dolorous
'Longshore men, who on the morning following
the fete-d&j stood and gazed on the melancholy
ocean. It could not be on any other ground
that he acquired this distinction, for he was not
given to lead conversation, nor used to hold
groups of his fellow men in rapt attention
upon his words. But with a certain mathematical
instinct the 'Longshore men grouped themselves

round Tommy as the spokes of a wheel
are ranged round the axle.

No one had spoken much, for there is a
sorrow too deep for words. The cloud that had
fallen upon these amphibious labourers in the
vineyard was the certainty that they would not
get the three pounds, which had almost rested
within the palm of their horny hands. Had the
transaction been complete, all would have been
well, for when a 'Longshore man's hand had
closed over three golden sovereigns it did not
open again, save to dispense the treasure in beer
and tobacco.

But there was the rub. On this very night
they were to have received their money ; the
persons who were to have dispensed it had been
named ; and every man knew where he was to
go for his pay. Sunday, it had been tacitly
arranged, they would devote to steadily drinking
the money, and on Monday it would be their
proud privilege to exercise that suffrage which
the Constitution has conferred upon its sons.

Immediately after the fearful rumour ran
through the town that Mr. Fleyce had been
4 took up on a charge of wilful murder,' the
'Longshore men had with one accord and with
quickened footsteps gone over to Mr. Tandy's
to see how the land lay.

They found it lay right abeam, was
buttressed about with jagged rocks, and that a
gale of wind was blowing dead on to it. They
would be shipwrecked as sure as they were
standing there. Mr. Tandy had told them
plainly he had no authority to pay any money
on account of Mr. Fleyce, for whom he no
longer acted as agent, and whose candidature he
believed would be immediately withdrawn.

That was not the bitterest drop in the cup.
They were quite certain of Gideon's three
pounds, but many of them had so shrewdly
worked the ropes that they had almost to a
certainty secured three pounds from the other
side, thus balancing any irregularity there might
be in the transaction, and leaving them perfectly

untrammelled to vote for the man of their
choice.

Now not only would they lose Gideon's
three pounds, but also its problematical supplement
from the other side.

This was conduct not to be borne in quietness
by men of independent minds, and it would
have gone hard with Gideon if he had passed
the pier down by the shore and faced his
whilom supporters. They had been humbugged
and disgracefully defrauded. That Gideon
might be hanged was the general aspiration,
and many, ignorant of recent changes in the
law, announced their intention of going to see
him ' dance on nothing.'

In higher circles of society the feeling of
resentment against the wretched man, though
less coarsely expressed, was not less vindictive.
Mr. Goldfinch from his elevated desk did not
disguise his early conviction, now assured beyond
chance of contradiction, that Gideon was ' a bad
lot.' He had seen a good many elections in his

time, but never one conducted on the principles
adopted by ' that man.'

Mr. Firminger had all along suspected
Gideon ; the reticence he had hitherto observed
being the more commendable in a gentleman
accustomed to come down sharp upon the
block.

Mr. Burnap said nothing, but spent an hour
in going through his accounts. They showed
a balance of between 70/. and 80/. still owing
by the proprietor of Castle Fleyce. The
general account might be said to balance tins,
though Mr. Burnap took a melancholy pleasure
-in making out his bill.

The news affected Mr. Griggs in a way that
may seem peculiar, but was familiar enough in
his household. As Mrs. Griggs said, ' every -
think went to his nose, whether burial or
christening.' In less metaphorical language,
the truth may be stated that, whenever quickened
by emotion, whether of joy or sorrow, Mr.
Griggs immediately developed an aggravation of

the perpetual cold in his head. Now, having
taken in a stock of pocket-handkerchiefs, he
went snuffling up and down High Street, bewailing
the common calamity and his own
share in it.

Mr. Griggs was known to be pretty well-to-do,
and it was well understood that he had turned
over several hundred pounds in his business
connections with Gideon. This had led to
sundry visits, ostensibly casual, but really
evilly designed on the part of the vicar and
other persons accustomed to hunt up charitable
subscriptions. As well as the cold in his head
would permit, Mr. Griggs now made it clear
that he had lost a good deal of money by
Gideon, and how he was to get through the
next year was more than he could tell.

As for the other side, they at first suspected
a trap. But as the news came down from
London that Fleyce had really been up at Bow
Street, amazement melted into delight. Of
course, having been nominated, Gideon's name

would be submitted to the ballot-box ; but they
knew Saxton well enough to feel assured that
he would not have any dangerous following.

Mr. Montgomery, who had taken the work
of the election a good deal into his own hands
since roused by the spectacle of Gideon's
triumphant advance, knew exactly how things
stood in respect to payment. Whether he got
in by eighty votes or eight hundred was a
matter of small moment to him, so that he were
member for Saxton. No money had been paid
by Gideon, and he now determined none should
be paid by him.

He was certain to poll enough to carry him
through, and in addition to saving the money,
no inconsiderable matter, he would have the
advantage of being free from possible charges of
bribery.

Accordingly, when Mr. Muffleton, in fulfilling
an engagement made two days previously,
appeared at the Hall to take final instructions
as to the channel by which a large sum of gold

VOL. III. 1

was to reach him at six o'clock, Mr. Montgomery
met his inquiries with an angry
stare.

4 Is it really possible, Mr. Muffleton, that
after our long connection you can suppose I
would be a party to any such transaction as
you hint at ! I cannot understand your meaning,
and I beg you will not misunderstand
mine. I paid no money to gain my family
seat at the last election, and I will pay none
now.'

That is quite true, sir, at last election,' Mr.
Muffleton said, with puzzled hesitation, 'but
there was no opposition then.'

That, I will beg you to believe, has nothing
to do with the question. Then, as now, purity
of election is a principle for which I should
always contend and by which I shall certainly
stand. If there have been promises of anything
otherwise given in my name I have known
nothing about it, and I request you will let my
real views be known.'

'But, sir ' said Mr. Muffleton trembling
at the prospect of a hundred angry 'Long-shore
men and an indefinite number of other
honest tradesmen to whom he had by nods
and winks, squeezes of the hands, and numerous
digs in the ribs promised little sums of
money.

There, that will do, Mr. Muffleton. The
matter is not one to be discussed. I beg you
will make known my views, if, as indeed I am
sorry to think is the case, it be necessary that
any distinct statement should be made thereupon.'


Mr. Muffleton went home a stricken man,
judiciously took to his bed, and did not
appear in public till the election was over.

But Saxton knew, or instinctively guessed,

how things would be up at the Hall now that

they were thus at the Castle, and a feeling of

profound depression reigned alike in the cosy

smoke-room at the Blue Lion and by the sanded

floor of the Dog and Duck, where erstwhile
r 2

Mr. Dumfy, now dead and gone, had been
wont to lord it in the reflected light of Gideon's
glory.

It was very miserable for everybody, and
there was general agreement in the Dog and
Duck in the observation wrung from Eound
Tommy, after paying out of his own pocket
for his fifth pint, ' Them as is out of it is best
off.'

If Mr. Dumfy, to whom reference was here
plainly made, had lived, what would he have
thought of his employer ? Doubtlessly events
of the last few days would have confirmed his
natural inclination, to work apart from Gideon,
and he would have felt it due to the position of
a deacon at the church at Eehoboth immediately
and publicly to wash his hands of all
connection with the guilty man.

But as Eound Tommy said, Mr. Dumfy was
out of it. All that could be found of him had
been laid in the long trench where were buried
the remains of the victims of the railway

disaster, and Mrs. Durnfy was making her moan
in the little house in Camden Town, the grim
and shining spotlessness of which seemed to
make grief colder and sorrow harder to bear.

CHAPTEK XXXIX.

THE ELECTION.

O'Brien heard of the tragedy at Castle Fleyce
within an hour after the thunderbolt fell.
Gideon, awaking out of his stupor when he
reached the railway station, and realising, as it
seemed for the first time, that he was actually
on his way to London in the custody of two
police officers, scribbled a few lines to O'Brien,
and despatched them by the coachman. They
did not come to much, and would have left
O'Brien in bewildered doubt, but for the supplementary
information of the coachman.

1 Dear O'Brien,' the note ran, ' they are
taking me to London on a charge. For God's
sake come down. — Yours, G. Fleece.'

It was curious that in this hurried scrawl
Gideon seemed to shrink from even mentioning
the charge on which he had been arrested.
Moreover, there was an absence of information in
other parts of the note that might have defeated
its purpose. Who ' they ' were and where precisely
* down ' was were points as shadowy as
the charge.

But the faithful coachman had some slight
information, and was able to piece together
bits of conjecture that made the narrative sufficient
for O'Brien to follow up the trail, and
he was at Bow Street by the train following
that by which Gideon had travelled.

He was shocked to hear of the death of the
Spider, and indignant at the charge against
Gideon. Gideon did not stand in his highest
favour, but to hold him guilty of murder, the
victim being his own father, were lower depths
of vice than, according to his estimation,
Gideon's nature could plumb.

He was staggered by the evidence given

before the magistrate which, even at this preliminary
stage, seemed to forge link by link
a chain that bound Gideon fast to the dead
body that had filled with its silent presence the
darkened room of the bijou residence at
Fulham.

O'Brien knew perhaps better than any one
else the precise relations of Gideon with his
father. He knew how incensed the old man
was with his son. He learned now for the
first time of Gideon's pecuniary embarrassment,
and as the story was pieced together, in none
the less convincing way because some witnesses
were unwilling to do harm to the man who
stood in the dock with drooping figure and
whitened face, his faith was subject to cruel
shocks.

Gideon's secret departure from Saxton ; his
visit to his father, which the prisoner did not
deny ; his midnight return ; the desperate attempt
to evade recognition by Mr. Tandy, and the proof
of guilt in other ways disclosed by his attempt

to raise money by fraudulent representations,
all went to make up a story it would be exceedingly
difficult to pull to pieces.

O'Brien could not do much in London
pending the trial, for which Gideon now stood
fully committed ; but he went down to Saxton,
and acted there with an amount of energy
that surprised some people. He bundled Mr.
Parker and the rest of the servants off the premises
with a month's wages in their hands, and
the effective hint that he knew more of their
goings on than met the eye. There was at
first some disposition to stand out for a month's
board wages, but on consideration this was
abandoned, and the servants straightway departed.


O'Brien put everything under lock and key,
sealing them with the family seal of the
O'brien, who had once been kings in Ireland.

In carrying out the raid amongst the
servants he had made an exception in favour
of the gardener, a decent Saxton man, whose

wife lived down in the town. He installed
man and wife in the Castle, pulled down the
blinds, and left it in its solitary grandeur, a type
of the wreck of Gideon's fortunes.

The election had taken place in due time,
and, as every one will remember, the result
formed not the least remarkable episode in the
surprising political crisis of 1880. Mr. Montgomery
was returned by a majority of 200, but
his poll was only 236.

The 'Longshore men had at first stood angrily
aloof from an election conducted on such principles.
Still there was good reason to believe,
though this is a secret very properly locked in
the ballot-box, that the 36 who voted for
Gideon were 'Longshore men, mindful of former
bounties, and wrathful with the man who had
so meanly taken advantage of circumstances to
defraud them.

It is even thought that if the election had
taken place a day or two later Gideon might
have been elected. It was only Monday afternoon

that the 'Longshore men, gloomily discussing
matters at the Dog and Duck, had it
suddenly borne in upon them that there was a
way by which they might pay off 4 that old
Montgomery.' In the first flush of honest
indignation, when on Saturday night they
realised the fact that they would get nothing
from either candidate, they resolved that they
would stand on one side and not soil their
hands with an election carried on as this
was.

This view was largely adopted by other
electors, and it was only the better class of
tradesmen, like Mr. Griggs, Mr. Burnap, Mr.
Goldfinch, and Mr. Firminger, who had determined,
now that Mr. Montgomery was certain
to get in (and especially as they had been so
grossly deceived as to the moral character of
Gideon), to cast their votes for their old representative
and neighbour. These and a few
personal friends made up the total of 236
which formed the majority, and it is pleasing

to know that there were so many good men in
the town.

The 'Longshore men, and others who felt
the bitterness of their lot, could easily have
swamped this handful of true men, and triumphantly
carried Gideon's election if they had only
thought of it a little sooner. But, their cooler
judgment obscured by indignation, this view of
the situation did not cross their minds till three
o'clock had rung out from the old church
tower.

At that hour not a single vote had been
polled for Gideon. All the ready money he
had poured into the town ; all the liquor with
which he had swilled the streets ; all the well-paid
labour he had found for bread-winners,
had gone for nothing.

Saxton was a highly moral town, and none
in it were inclined to give their vote for a man
who had not only murdered his father but had
omitted to pay free and independent electors
the stipulated M. each for their votes.

It was Bound Tommy upon whom had
first flashed the thought of the splendid revenge
that was open to them. All day long Tommy
had felt a certain indistinct and unaccustomed
feeling in his head, ' buzzing about like a honeybee,'
as he subsequently described it in the frequent
narrations with which he attempted to
fix the remarkable phenomenon on the memory
of his contemporaries.

At first he naturally enough thought it was
the effect of the previous night's boose.

It was, and it wasn't,' to quote from the
authentic narrative. 'I were a bit headachy
and heavy about the eyes like, and didn't care
to work.'

That, of course, looked like the drop of beer
the night afore.

'But,' he continued, 'I was bothered by
something' as seemed a coming into my yet and
then went out.'

At last it came and stayed, and Bound
Tommy explained to the quickening intelligence

of the company at the Dog and Duck
how they might do a great stroke of business.
Let them go and vote in a batch for Gideon.
That would pay off that Skinflint Montgomery.
Then what would follow ?

Why, this yere Fleyce would be hung,
there would be another vacancy, and consequently
another election, and it would be their
game to see as they got down a right sort of
person, who would go it as Gideon had done,
at first, but who wouldn't wind up by murdering
his father.'

Or, at least, would not be so far lost to all
sense of what was due to the electors as to be
found out before he had paid the vote money.

Considering how much time and labour the
incubation of this thought had cost Bound
Tommy, it was surprising how quickly it was
taken up by the company at the Dog and Duck.
They saw it in a moment, and, only waiting to
drink another pint, dispersed in search of their
fellow electors.

Bound Tommy himself, as being the most
patriarchal and respectable member of the
society, undertook to call upon Mr. Tandy, and
put him in 'art a bit,' as he said. But as soon
as Eound Tommy, with many mysterious winks
and shrugs, and some futile attempts to dig Mr.
Tandy in the ribs, had explained his errand, he
found himself standing outside the office with
the door shut in his face. How he got out he
declared he never knew.

1 P'raps you was rolled, Tommy,' said Bill
Sharp, the wit of the company at the Dog and
Duck. ' P'raps you was rolled out like a
'ogled.'

But the time was not well chosen for joking.
Other emissaries had been scarcely more fortunate
than Eound Tommy. They had got together
a man here and there, but without
organisation and with something less than forty
minutes to spare, thirty-six was the total they
could bring to the poll, and Mr. Montgomery
was declared duly elected.

Chapter XL.

IN THE DOCK.

The days went their ordinary course outside
the little plot of earth bounded by the grey
walls of Newgate. The sun rose and set. It
was fine weather or it rained. It was warm
for the season or was cold. People were born,
married, and died. People that Gideon knew
very well got up half an hour earlier or later
in the morning as they pleased, breakfasted
according to their taste, went out for a walk ora
drive in the Park, or made calls, or read or
wrote, as fancy seized them. They ordered
their own dinners, or dined with a friend, and
from the bountiful list of things to eat and
drink made their selection.

Inside these few roods of land, this mere
speck in the heart of the City of London, life
was lived under quite other conditions. Gideon
had to get up when he was called, and was
sent to bed whether he was sleepy or not. He
might leave the prison fare supplied to him, but
that was the only choice he had in the matter
of his meals.

He was no longer a man, and scarcely a
machine, though his legs carried him hither and
thither as he moved within the circumscribed
area allotted to him, and his blood ran its due
course through his veins. For him, his sole
connection with the world was that he —

Rolled round in earth's diurnal course
With rocks and stones and trees.

It was a swift and sudden change from the
life he had led, it seemed but yesterday. The
fall had dazed him, as if he had literally
tumbled from some height and been stunned.
He was like him whom he had once fondly regarded
as his prototype in other respects than

VOL. III. K

that indicated by the autocratic declaration with
respect to the Alps. He was a ' man of destiny,'
and had his ' star.' So lately it had flamed high
in the heavens, paling the light of neighbouring
constellations. Suddenly and swiftly it had
gone out, falling into abysmal darkness.

It was no use crying after a fallen star, and
all Gideon hoped or looked for now was that
lie might quickly tumble after it and be no
more seen. The mood that had come upon
him on that memorable Sunday night when
walking home from Coldharbour Junction returned
to him with increased force, and took
full possession of his mind.

Mr. Tandy had been to see him once.
O'Brien had visited him several times. He felt
some flash of light return to him at the sight
of O'Brien, but when he was gone darkness
fell again.

He didn't particularly like being hung, and
if he had had his choice would have gone out
of life in some other way. But this also was

being settled for him, and he acquiesced. He
knew that all was lost, even honour. This last
was not a commodity he had jealously guarded.
The kind of honour he had sought was that
which one man pays to another by outward and
visible sign of offing cap or clapping hands.
He had enjoyed a great deal of this within the
last twelve months.

But it was all over now. He had tumbled
in the gutter, and the crowd had left him or
remained only to jeer.

He would not talk much with O'Brien on
the charge against him, impatiently dismissing
the theme when his visitor brought it forward
with intent to assist in the defence.

1 It's no matter,' he said, pettishly. ' They've
got up a wonderful case against me, and I don't
see where it's going to break down.'

He had asked how the election had gone
at Saxton, and had been told of his poll of
36. He had heard that the mortgagees had
foreclosed, and that if he stepped out of prison

x 2

a free man he would not have a penny — a condition
of life he did not care to face.

Once, after a long silence, he had asked
what Napper said about it.

She believes you are as innocent as I am,'
O'Brien said. ' She's a splendid girl, and is
quite confident you will get off.'

Gideon didn't say anything, but when his
visitor had gone he threw himself on his pallet
and sobbed bitterly. It seemed to him, now
that everything else had gone, there was left
for his sole possession a barren, hopeless love
of Napper. It had probably been growing a
long time and had silently spread its roots
in his mind and heart, while he was serenely
thinking that when he had won his seat in
Parliament and furnished his house in town,
then he would come to the attorney's daughter
and tell her that all these things were hers.

He had been so certain of her answer that
he had scarcely concerned himself with the
silent irresistible growth of this quite new and

usually unprofitable sense of love. To him his
affection for Napper was like an investment in
consols. The capital and interest were quite
safe, and there was no need to keep it always
in mind as he would have done had the security
been more risky.

But the Bank of England had broken.
The State was suddenly merged in bankruptcy,
and the return he had looked for with a
certainty that had the effect of diminishing its
apparent value was absolutely and irretrievably
lost.

Now he knew how deep this love had
grown, how much a part of his life had become
this* thought of a day, when he should have
Napper always with him, and how she would
grace his life with the abounding beauty and
purity of her own.

He felt he really could be a good and
honest man with her to guide and counsel
him. By-and-bye this would have come to
pass. When he had made his position, and

had nothing more to gain by those methods
of progression favoured by the family through
many generations, it would be easy to be good
and honest, not only in act but in thought.

To-morrow ' he would close his account
with all . kinds of meanness and pettiness, and
would lift up his head into that purer atmosphere
that Napper breathed, and which had
for him a power of attraction that proved he
was not wholly bad.

To-morrow had come, and it found him
in Newgate. Several morrows dawned. How
many he did not know. He was tired of life,
and kept no count of time.

One day he stood in the dock.

He knew that a hundred pairs of eyes were
greedily fixed upon him. The voice of the
crowd filled his ears, and sometimes when,
during the adjournment, the windows were
opened to air the court, he heard, as he passed
down the steps, the murmur of the multitude
outside who came day by day in vain endeavour

to get into the court, and, failing that, stared
hour after hour at the dull, grey walls, and
caught eagerly at such gleams of information as
the telegraph boys, running out of the court with
messages for the evening papers, were able to
convey.

Gideon had a strange sensation that he was
a spectator at the scene, and that it was someone
else who was being tried for his life. He
seemed to see things as through an eyelet hole
in a raree-show, such as he had looked upon
years ago when he was a child — or was it in
this life at all, not in some previous stage 01
existence ? He called to mind the condition of
absorbing interest which, with his face pressed
eagerly against the framework of the show, lie
had beheld some moving scene. He did not
remember what it was meant to represent, only
there came back to him the sense then noted
of mysterious silence about the motion of the
figures, and the idea that they were a long way
off, out of the range of sound.

It was with some curious assimilation of
this idea that, perched high up in the dock, he
looked down on the place beneath where counsel
strove for Somebody's body, as he instinctively
felt.

Presently he began to get thoroughly
interested in the case, which, as the trial went
on, and the evidence lengthened out, he felt
was pressing very hard upon the prisoner. He
listened with breathless interest to the speech
of the counsel for the prosecution, aud when he
sat down beseeching the jury — hypocritically,
as Gideon thought — if they had any doubt to
bestow the benefit of it upon the prisoner, he
found himself thanking Heaven he was not in
the prisoner's place.

Such a web had this man in wig and gown
wound round the accused, tying it tighter and
tighter, till it seemed to deliver him bound into
the hands of the hangman with all the preliminary
ceremony of ligature accomplished.

Gideon was thinking over this terrible

indictment when he awoke with a start at the
sound of a familiar voice. He was back in
Castle Fleyce, and instinctively began to scowl
as he thought he saw that confounded fellow
prowling around for orders.

He looked up, and there in the witness-box
was Mr. Parker, most respectable of butlers,
with a look on his face which plainly said to all
who might regard him (and some of those swell
people on the bench might be in want of a
handy and well-recommended man out of
livery) —

1 It was the greatest pain to me to come forward
and give evidence against this poor misguided
man. He was not a gentleman, I know.
I always felt some little degradation in his
service : but he was rich, paid well and regular,
and there was perquisites. If I could save him
I would, as indeed I always feel it my booty todo
my best for my employer : but public booty
before everything. I will tell the truth, though
the shelves in the pantry fall.'

This may or may not have been the precise
current of Mr. Parker's cogitations during the
brief moments he stood with eyes drooping
while the crier was looking up the Testament on
which he was to be sworn.

His narrative was a much more simple
thing. He told how on the day the murder
was believed to have been committed his master
had come home from church in a moody and
perturbed state of mind ; how he had sent his
food away untouched ; how he had ordered his
supper to be laid in the library ; and what
precise instructions he had given that he was
not to be disturbed.

Mr. Parker had seen him in the library half
an hour later with cheek resting on his hand,
looking orful,' Mr. Parker added, with a slight
shudder, as if the reminiscence was too much
for him.

An hour later Mr. Parker had looked again,
and the chair was empty. He had gone about
softly, listening, but there was no sound. He

had waited another hour, had timidly knocked,
and receiving no response, had gently turned the
handle and peeped in. The place was empty,
the food untouched, and the fire going out.

Mr. Parker had stirred the fire and replenished
it. He knew his master had not gone
out by any of the doors, and indeed found traces
of his departure by the window.

At first it had occurred to Mr. Parker to
fasten the window, but he remembered his
strict injunctions were not to enter the room at
all, and if things were all right it would be
awkvv* ard for him to have bolted his master out.
So he left things as they were, and sitting up,
praiseworthy in the public interest, had seen
his master creep in by the window, and found
him in bed the next morning, as reported.

fc And did you shut the library door, Mr.
Parker, after having taken in the fowl and
claret, and left your master there ? ' demanded
Mr. Phillipine Brown, the eminent counsel
whom O'Brien had engaged for the defence.

Mr. Parker was quite delighted to converse
with so pleasant-spoken a gentleman. Just the
man he would like to serve. Perhaps he had a
vacancy, or might even make one for a butler
of prepossessing appearance, long experience,
and recommended by some high families.

Yes sir,' said Mr. Parker, deferentially,
returning the counsel's pleasant smile and flicking
off an imaginary crumb from the desk
before him.

6 And I suppose it was kept closed till you
opened it in the manner you have already so
clearly described ? '

8 Quite so, sir,' said Mr. Parker, nodding his
absolute approval of this suggestion.

'Then, sir,' said Mr. Phillipine Brown,
dropping his voice to sterner tones, and leaning
forward to fix the witness with his terrible eye,
how did you in the meanwhile manage to see
your master sitting in the arm-chair by the fire
in the library with this expression on his face,
which you have described as " orful "?'

8 Why, sir, I saw him quite plain.'

'You saw him quite plain, and how could
you see him? Can you see through an oak
door ? Don't trifle with the jury.'

6 1 was stooping down, and — and '

'Oh! you were stooping down, and — and —
there was a keyhole, perhaps ? '

'Yes, sir,' said Mr. Parker, feeling that
his chances of a comfortable situation were
entirely gone.

'And, I suppose,' Mr. Phillipine Brown
thundered, ' that after spying upon your master
through the keyhole, you prowled about for
the rest of the night, imagining all kinds of evil
things, and expecting nothing less than to see
him bring home a dead body in a sack, and
bury it under the hearthstone.'

Yes, sir.'

Mr. Parker was trembling so that, as he
subsequently confided to the cook, ' you could
a knocked him down with a napkin.' Had
he been pressed he would, at the moment, have

admitted that he had himself committed the
murder the jury were sworn to investigate.

'You may go, sir,' said Mr. Phillipine
Brown, in tones of infinite contempt, casting
upon the unhappy man a withering glance that
completed his abasement.

Mr. Parker was gladly disappearing when
Mr Brown, suddenly rising and beckoning him
back with an imperious, ' Stay a moment, sir ! '
said —

'When you were peering about the keyhole
did you chance to notice what kind of a
coat your master was wearing ? '

Yes, sir, a black coat, sir.'

Very well, sir, you know the coat ? ' Mr.
Phillipine Brown continued, assuming something
of his blander tone.

No, I can't say I do,' Mr. Parker feebly
answered.

He was getting off a few minutes ago, and
none could say where rash confession of knowledge
might lead him.

1 Did you see it the next morning ? '

'I didn't look.'

Oh, being in the room you didn't look,
your favourite mode of observation being
through the keyhole ? Well now, you say you
saw your master return home in the morning.
Had he then the same coat on that he wore
when you observed him through the keyhole?'


I don't know, sir.'

You don't know ? ' thundered Mr. Philippine
Brown. • ■ Mind what you are at, sir.
Remember you are on your oath. Now listen
to me. Before your master went out you saw
him through the keyhole sitting in the library
and wearing a coat that may have been black
or may not ? '

4 He says it was black,' interposed Mr.
Landpole, the counsel for the Crown.

8 — Which may have been black,' continued
Mr. Phillipine Brown, without noticing the
interruption ; 4 and you saw him return in the

early morning. Now what do you mean by
saying you don't know what kind of a coat he
then wore ? '

c Because, sir,' answered Parker, ' he had
on an overcoat.'

Very well, he wore an overcoat. Now
you may go, as possibly you have some
appointment at a keyhole.'

After Mr. Parker came the stationmaster at
Coldharbour Junction, who proved the sale to
Gideon of a return ticket to London on this
particular night. He was not able to speak of
his return, but there were forthcoming the guard
who had helped to conduct him from carriage
to carriage over the scene of the accident on
the main line, and the porter at the junction
who had asked Gideon whether he should get
him a carriage, and had been roughly answered
in the negative.

That no link should be wanting in the
chain, there was also forthcoming the cabman
who drove him to the bijou residence at

Fulham, and who had noticed that as he left
the cab he carried a stick.

The finding of the stick was described by
an intelligent police-officer, and it being produced
in court was gazed upon with intense
interest by the crowded audience.

Mr. Phillipine Brown was up again smiling
genially upon the police-officer who had first
entered the room where the Spider sat weaving
webs no more.

6 There was no mark on the stick, I think
you said — no stain or mark of a struggle ? '

No, sir.'

' It was exactly as if a gentleman calling
had placed his stick in the corner of the room
and gone away and forgotten it ? '

8 Just so, sir.'

Now, about this safe. You say it was open ? '

Yes, sir.'

And nothing in it touched ? '

c As far as I know there was nothing
touched. It looked perfectly in order.'

VOL. III. l

You say you found in the right hand of
the deceased a piece of cloth, which you produce
? *

'Yes, sir.'

What colour should you call that ? ' said
Mr. Brown, pointing to the fragment which was
handed to the witness, having been already
put in in evidence. ' What did it look like
when you saw it first ? '

It was very dirty, sir, and we had some
trouble to get it out of the hand of the old
gentleman. That's what makes it tore a bit in
the shreds. It's hard to say what it is now,
being too dirty ; but I should say it was black
cloth.'

Good cloth should you say, such as a
gentleman would have his coat made of? '

'Well, I'm no judge of that, sir, but I
should say it was.'

The silent witness was handed to the jury,
who curiously examined it. It was evidently
the lappet of a coat wrenched off by a sudden

jerk, but so discoloured by the grime of the
old gentleman's hand and the accumulated
dust it had received, and so crushed and torn,
that it was difficult to make out anything useful
with respect to it. Still there was little doubt
that it had originally been black.

'Now you've had some experience with
struggling men, I suppose, Mr. Potts,' said Mr.
Phillipine Brown, cheerily. ' You've had a
man by the coat collar occasionally. Does it
strike you as being a probable thing that a
well-made coat such as the prisoner would
wear would tear off in this way in whatever
desperate struggle ? '

It might and it might not,' Mr. Potts
answered cautiously, remembering his oath.
1 It might be an old coat, and then it would
come away.'

1 Exactly, but you don't suppose Mr. Gideon
Fleyce would go about with a coat in the
rotten condition you describe ? '

1 The witness didn't say anything about

L 2

rottenness,' said Mr. Landpole, ' and besides
his opinion on this matter is not evidence.'

The Judge ruled against Mr. Phillipine
Brown, which was a matter of small moment
to him. He knew very well what was evidence
and what was not. But he felt he had gained
his point in impregnating the mind of the jury
with the opinion that a gentleman of the irreproachable
dress of Mr. Gideon Fleyce was not
likely to go about in a coat from which you
might pluck pieces as if it were cotton wool.

Unhappily for Mr. Phillipine Brown, the
prosecution had in reserve evidence on this
point which it was difficult to get over. A
diligent search had been made in Gideon's
wardrobes without bringing to light any garment
with a piece snatched out from the front.
Of this failure Mr. Phillipine Brown had made
good use.

It was met in re-examination by the suggestion
that Gideon after his return had had
plenty of time to destroy this damning evidence.

Indeed, he need not have waited to get home,
and might have disposed of the coat anywhere
between the bijou residence at Fulham and the
lordly Castle at Saxton.

Mr. Phillipine Brown had inadvertently
erred in bringing out the fact that when
Gideon returned home he was wearing an
overcoat. He had seen this in a moment, and
immediately dropped the subject. But it was
also seen by the other side, and Mr. Landpole,
when he came to address the jury, boldly advanced
the theory that Gideon, trusting to his
overcoat, had made away with the torn morning
coat somewhere between London and
Saxton.

The strong point the prosecution made on
this incident was the production of a waistcoat
found in Gideon's wardrobe. Experts were
placed in the box with the waistcoat and the
fragment of the coat before them, who proved,
in a manner beyond the power of Mr. Phillipine
Brown to shake, that the stuff was the same.

This was felt by the crowded court to settle
the case. After it the evidence of Mr. Tandy,
which had formed a principal feature in the
examination before the magistrate, paled in
interest. Nevertheless, it all went to swell
the growing tide of demonstration which connected
the prisoner in the dock with the
ghostly figure seated in the chair in the bijou
residence, holding in his hand a piece of the
coat of the man who slew him.

Mr. Tandy was evidently an unwilling witness,
which made all the more weighty the
description dragged out of him by Mr. Land-pole
of Gideon's attempt to evade his notice
when he met him on the Sunday night ; of his
strategic movement across the field ; of his
anger when detected by the dog, and of his
refusal to accept Mr. Tandy's company for the
rest of the journey home.

Mr. Tandy further gave evidence of
Gideon's visit to him, and of the negotiation
for a loan.

L

Other witnesses were forthcoming to show
that Gideon's estate was already mortgaged to
the full extent, and that his representations to
Mr. Tandy were fraudulent.

These testified to his financial position, and
supplied material for the telling passage in
the speech of Mr. Landpole, where he described
Gideon as ' in desperate straits for money,
clutching at the prize his ambition had urged
him to reach after, making an appeal to his
father to help him, and when that was refused
raising a murderous hand to strike him.'

Mr. Landpole would not even give the
prisoner the benefit of the supposition that the
act was unpremeditated. It was, he insisted,
planned to the slightest detail, even to the fowl
and claret he was to enjoy in the solitude of
the library after he had done the murder.

Mr. Landpole made a good deal of the fowl
and claret, and, it being then half past one,
the thought suggested luncheon to the judge,
and at this point an adjournment took place.

Gideon was led away, the audience keeping
their seats, sipping their sherry and eating their
sandwiches. To the latter the speech of Mr.
Landpole had added a condiment which, had
they only known what was coming, might have
saved them the trouble of using mustard or
salt.

It was certain the prisoner would be
convicted, and there would be none of that
really distressing doubt which sometimes
attends occasions of this kind, and modifies the
satisfaction with which the shadow of the
gallows has invested them.

When Mr. Landpole came back, wiping his
lips, to resume his address, the cords were
tighter drawn, and the more imaginative among
the audience fancied they saw the judge putting
out his hand to feel if the black cap was within
reach.

The cross-examination by Mr. Phillipine
Brown and the evidence he brought forward all
bore upon the absence of motive. If Gideon

had done this thing what was the prize he had
claimed for himself? There was the gold untouched,
all the securities tallied with the list
found in a small book in the old gentleman's
handwriting. Why should he have done this
thing ?

Mr. Landpole was ready with the reason
why. Inquiries made had failed to bring to
light any will made by the old gentleman. In
the event of his dying intestate Gideon would
of course come in for the whole of the property.
That seemed to Mr. Landpole reason
enough ; and so it seemed to the jury and to
the crowd in the court.

Gideon listening attentively to the speech
with a strange feeling of interest in some unfortunate
around whom the toils were being
drawn, raised his hand at this passage and
looked as if he were going, to speak. He took
a sheet of paper, one of several which lay
untouched before him, and seemed as if he
were about to break through his habitude of

taciturnity and make some communication to
his counsel.

After a moment he threw down the pencil
and resumed his earlier attitude of passive
indifference, now and then varied by a flash
of interest as he listened to the counsel discussing
the case of some poor man whom he
seemed to know.

It was a tough uphill task Mr. Phillipine
Brown had undertaken. But he liked uphill
tasks. They had made his fortune in earlier
days, and now kept it at high-water mark.

He was quite ready with explanation of the
whole affair. Nothing was more simple or
more natural than that the prisoner had on this
night visited his father. It was quite possible
he had done so with the object of asking for a
temporary loan.

On that point tyler. Phillipine Brown was
not quite certain, and he had, he might mention,
received singularly little assistance from
the prisoner, who, proud with the consciousness

of his own innocence, persistently refused to
consult with the solicitor, ' determined,' said
Mr. Phillipine Brown, with a side look at the
prisoner, and half apprehensive that he might
get up and disclaim all knowledge of the heroic
determination, ' resolved, from the moment he
saw the jury in the box, that to a body of men
so keenly intelligent and so sternly upright he
would leave the case, confident of a triumphant
acquittal.'

Mr. Brown would not say that was a desirable
course to take, or one worthy of imitation.
But he could not withhold admiration for a
man who could, in such circumstances, coolly
and boldly adopt it.

But to return to the events of this memorable
Sunday night.

The prisoner had undoubtedly called to see
his father, he had his interview and had quitted
the house probably in some access of passion or
indignation, seeing that he had left behind him
the stick without which it was probable no

suspicion would have been attracted towards
him.

What had taken place after he had left —
probably at the time when far away on his
journey home? It was impossible to believe
that the situation of the unfortunate deceased
and the opportunities it supplied for crime
were not known in quarters where they might
be peculiarly interesting. The house had been
entered by some means at a later hour. There
had evidently been two men, perhaps three,
engaged. Possibly one went in and entered
the room, and the others remained in ambush
outside. There was a parley with the old mana
struggle, an attempted robbery, an accomplished
murder.

What was the meaning ? ' Mr. Phillipine
Brown asked, lowering his tone to a solemn
whisper, and fixing the foreman with his
flaming eye, ' what was the meaning of this
key in the lock, distorted as they had seen it in
the court? Who had done that? The prisoner

at the bar ? Why ? Did he not know how
the key might be used ? '

What had really happened was quite clear
to the mind of Mr. Phillipine Brown. The old
man had received his death-blow as he sat in
the chair ; had clutched at the murderer who,
wrenching himself away, had left a piece of his
coat in the death-grasp. The bloody work
accomplished, the accomplices had gathered in
the room to discuss the booty. There had
been, as often happened in these cases, a
quarrel. One attempting to open the safe had
been set upon by the others. A struggle had
followed, and, fearful that the noise had
attracted attention outside, they had fled, leaving
the safe untouched.

This, Mr. Phillipine Brown admitted, was a
theory ; but so was the case for the prosecution.
One was, he submitted, as good as
another, whilst his, he pleaded with outstretched
hands, with a tremor in his voice
and a tear in his eye, should make the other

kick the beam, since it was weighted with the
precious burden of a human life.

Ingenious, but not a leg to stand upon,'
was the verdict of the gowned and wigged
jury outside the box where the twelve men
sat apart, borne down by their grave responsibility.


Whatever the men in the box might say,
the jury outside, whether in wig or bonnet, stuff
gown or black coat, had made up their minds
to the verdict.

CHAPTER Lout

OP THE DOCK.

These things had filled up several days ; but
one day was like another to Gideon, and it
seemed all within the illimitable twenty-four
hours when he became conscious of a hush,
heard the low voice of the judge and knew that
he was summing up the evidence. Strange to
say, he had never looked at him before nor asked
his name. A sudden thought flashed through
his mind, and his memory went back to a
day — it seemed two or three centuries ago —
when O'Brien had given the club dinner, and
he had listened to the genial voice of the new
judge as he discussed his colleagues on the
Bench.

He looked up and saw that the man into

whose hands his life had now been delivered
was Mr. Justice Hawkins. He had seen him
riding in the Eow and knew him again, though
his face seemed smaller, girt about by the great
grey wig.

It was growing late in the afternoon, and
the dim light of the fading day fell upon the
grey walls, he could see through the barred
windows. Why should the windows be thus
jealously guarded? he thought to himself.
There was no hope of any hapless prisoner
scrambling through, and surely no one outside
would want to get in.

The reflectors facing the window caught
whatever light there was, and flung it down
upon the blue-cloth-covered desk at which
counsel had stood and fought for his body.
The leaders had gone now. They had done
their task and earned their fees. They could
afford to wait until the evening papers came
out to learn the fate of the man whose cause
had engrossed so much of their time. Moments

were guineas to them, and, having finished
their work, they passed out of the heated
court.

Gideon felt that, with the exception of the
judge, he was the only person in the court who
had room to sit without being uncomfortably
crowded. The dock, at least, was roomy
enough, and the policemen who sat on either
side of him had no need to press upon him.
Also, there was room enough for the elderly,
pleasant-looking man who sat in a sort of
pulpit at one end of the dock, and who was
placidly turning over a book which might have
contained a week's household account, but was
probably a record of the day's doings in the
gaol.

When Gideon turned his back to the
crowded court to face the jury, this pleasant-looking
old gentleman was right in front, and
had for him a strange fascination. He warlike
a deacon or a churchwarden, or any
responsible person of eminently respectable

VOL. III. M

appearance. That, almost within arm's reach
of him, there was a human creature on trial
for his life, whose fate would be settled within
an hour or two, was a matter that seemed
emphatically of no account to him. That his
column of figures should add up right, and
that his entries were made without a blot,
was to him at the moment the matter of
supreme interest.

Gideon, going back to the frame of mind
in which he had been steeped till momentarily
awakened by the discovery that Justice hawkins
was trying him, was much struck with
this stony indifference on the part of the
officials. They had their work to do, and it
must be handed in at given periods whether
the prisoner in the dock went free or was
handed over to the executioner.

There was another gentleman, this one in a
wig, who sat under the judge, and was busy
writing all through the trial. He pored over
his papers as if he were in his own office, and

the principal transaction of the day were the
sale of a few hundred bales of cotton.

In the body of the court the interest was
keen enough, and Gideon gathered some vague
consciousness of the existence of a throng that
from early morn till night waited outside the
court for some chance that might gain them
admission.

If the leaders engaged in the case did not
feel it sufficiently interesting to await the end,
it was otherwise with many scores of their
junior brethren. These, looking wondrous
wise in wig and gown, filled every seat usually
allotted to them, and overflowed into the
gangways, filching a seat, whenever it was possible,
from the outside public. They watched
the case with unflagging interest, discussing
its bearings in voice loud enough for Gideon
to know their opinion, the while they stared
at him in the dock as if they were engaged to
produce his portrait and were not permitted
to take notes in court.

Just opposite Gideon, close by the seat,
at the moment vacant, where the gilt swore
of justice hung, was a portly gentleman in j
bluish gown, and wearing a gold chain. H
was some City dignitary, and made the most
of his opportunity of securing a good seat
whence he might look on at the great drama
of which all men spoke. Gideon noticed
the alacrity with which he disappeared at
luncheon time, the tardiness of his return,
and the regularity with which he slept half
an hour every afternoon by way of complement
of his luncheon and preparation
for his dinner.

Gideon had thought that from his place h<
could survey the full limits of the court anc]
see all the faces that crowded it. But wheiv
irritated beyond measure by the loud tick o*
the clock behind, he turned to look at it, he
beheld more faces in the balconies that bulged
out from the back of the dock, and were
filled with men and women leaning over and

greedily staring at him, counting the hairs of
his head, it seemed.

This was worse than all. He had learned
to face the cruel eyes that fed upon him with
hungry curiosity from all parts of the court in
front of the dock. But to know that always
behind him were these two crowded balconies,
with people staring right down upon his head,
added a fresh sting to the bitterness of his
daily death.

The voice of the judge delivering the
charge had by its monotonous flow put the
sheriff and - alderman on the judgment - seat
asleep for the second time. He had had his
after-luncheon nap, and had waked up ; but
now he was off again, and Gideon could
scarcely wonder. With his right hand resting
on the red volume in which he had taken the
notes, and with his face turned towards the
jury, the judge went on resistlessly through the
mass of evidence. He spoke with a low voice
and with slow intonation. As it went on it

seemed to the soothed senses of the man in the
dock as if some one were reading aloud in the
next room.

After two hours of it the people in the
body of the court began to yawn, and Gideon
felt the greatest difficulty in repressing a yawn
himself. What a wealth of detail, and how
tiresome its iteration ! They had heard it all
before from witnesses and from counsel. To
Gideon it was an old story — at least much of it
was.

Whether it was all true, who shall say ?
That was the question which the judge, now
reaching the close of his summing-up, was
reminding the jury was for them to settle.
How courteous he was to the jury and how
obliging ! Could he read any other portion of
the evidence to them ? If so, pray let the
jury not be afraid of troubling him.

But the jury had heard enough, and gratefully
saw the approaching moment when this
low, monotonous voice should cease.

Gideon watched them as the judge drew
near the end ; but there was not much to be
gained from scrutiny of their countenances,
even by a man who in his Napoleonic days
had prided himself on his ability to read
character at a glance. Twelve ordinary men,
drawn by lot from the sea of life outside, and
brought hither to settle whether a fellow-creature
should live or die. The responsibility
was terrible. That they felt it was told by
their sad and troubled looks. If any intelligence
was to be gained, it was not hopeful for
the prisoner who scanned their countenances.

The judge ceased. The jury left their box.
His lordship retired behind the curtained doorway
at the back of the bench, and a policeman
touched Gideon on the shoulder and beckoned
him below. How long he waited there he
could not tell. If the succession of days
through which the trial had lasted seemed
twenty-four hours, this waiting down below
seemed twenty-four years.

At length he was touched on the shoulder
again, and knew he had to walk up the steps,
back into the light of day, among his fellowmen
— for the last time, he felt with a desperate
certainty.

The jury had settled themselves in the box.
The judge was attentive. The crowd in the
court stared with fresh interest at the prisoner,
though after a while their glance was distracted
towards the jury-box, and they too were wondering
what message these twelve men brought
back, whether of life or death.

The gentleman in wig and gown, who had
been busily making up his accounts at the
table under the judge's seat, had now put aside
his book, and was calling over the names of
the jury.

Only twelve names and as many low responses,
but to one man in court never were
twelve names so long in the recitation.

Then there was the slow formula through
which the fateful question was put —

Guilty, or not guilty ? '

The answer faltered on the lips of the
foreman —

'Guilty!'

It was what Gideon had expected ever
since he had heard the speech of the counsel
for the prosecution, who had woven together
a story so dovetailed at every point that it
was hopeless to look to break it. Oddly
enough, the only time he had permitted himself
to think that another issue might result
was during the long moments when the jury
were answering to their names before delivering
the verdict. At this last moment
hope gave a desperate throb. But it was
over now, and once more Gideon felt a
strange sort of gladness.

'Had he anything to say why sentence
should not be pronounced upon him ? '

Yes ; he would say something now,
though he had never spoken a word before.
Napper would read what had been said

through all these days, or would at least hear
of it. She might believe what he was going
to say, and that was all he cared for. For the
rest, he knew that a terrible and impassable
wall was built up between him and the mercy
of mankind.

4 My Lord,' he said in a clear voice, ' the
jury have returned the only verdict possible
for them. I have myself been amazed at the
case woven against me. I am not sorry to
have an end made of it ; but, my Lord, I
shall die innocent. I did not do this deed.'

The women in court having devoured all
their sandwiches, drank all their sherry, and
enjoyed the trial to the utmost, now broke
forth into sobs. For the moment the crowded
court, which had all along been against the
prisoner, wavered. His words were so few, so
simple, they seemed to carry conviction to the
minds of those who heard them.

It was evident they carried none to the
mind of the judge, who, in unshaken voice,

but looking ghastly under the shadow of the
black cap, did what was left for him to do.

Then Gideon was led aw T ay between the
two warders.

Napper did hear, and believed. When she
read of the prisoner walking out of human
sight with a gaoler at either hand, she said
it reminded her of a passage in Keats's translation
of one of Boccaccio's stories where the
poet with bold imagining writes of a doomed
man —

So the two brothers and their murdered man
Rode towards Florence.

1 That used to sadly puzzle me once, seeing
that the man was yet alive,' she said to
Mr. Tandy ; * but I see it all now.'

8 Do you, my dear ? ' Mr. Tandy answered
gently.

He felt there were many things dark
to him that were clear enough to Nap per.
He was thinking just now not of difficult
passages in poetry, but of the sudden and

absorbing interest in Gideon displayed by
Napper. He had seen Gideon's intention to
marry Napper. Was it possible that Napper
could have loved him? He thought not, but
he was greatly puzzled.

1 Do you, my dear ? ' he repeated in a low-voice
and with distracted air.

CHAPTER Xlii

'IT WAS ME, Dumpy.'

It was spring time in Saxton now ; and whilst
Gideon sat in his narrow cell thinking, not
without some dull kind of satisfaction, that his
life was drawing to a close, the flowers were
springing up by hedgerow and in wood, the
trees were clad in fresher foliage, and the
sea, taking on a bluer tint, laughed among
the pebbles on the beach for joy that summer
was at hand.

Saxton was a very lovely place in spring,
and in other years Napper had been one of
the gladdest, prettiest things alive within a
far stretching circle of the country side. She
knew which tree came out the very first, and
days before the birthday was due paid visits toit,

watching the thickening buds. When the
big lime-tree, sheltering the side of the road
leading up to Dimwood, began to speckle
itself all over with tiny leaves, then Napper
knew that spring had come. And so did
Knut, who madly chased imaginary lost sheep,
darting about the field with his tail in the
air, and his heels spurning the turf as he had
often seen the young colts do.

Knut clearly perceived that something-had
gone wrong this year. Here were the
violets and the primroses, the thicker grass
and its fresher colour, with the trees everywhere
brightening from brown to green.
Splendid times for a scamper over the close
turf, sniffing the sweet air that came from
over the sea ! But, somehow or other, Napper
did not do her duty. Once or twice they
had been out for a little run, and Knut had
just arrived at the conclusion that things were
all right. But thereafter for whole days, with
the sun shining and the warm south wind

playing with the baby leaves, Napper stayed
at home, or went no further than her household
errands carried her through the town.

Also Knut very rarely heard her laugh, and
he could not call to mind any recent occasion
when she had attempted to hide herself from
him.

This was a game Knut entered into with
a zest superior even to that displayed by his
mistress. Sometimes, at an epoch that appeared
to him fixed in the last century, whilst
his attention was diverted by a bird on a low
twig — something moving in the hedge or fence
a quarter of a mile across the downs, which
required instant investigation — tapper had
made away with herself down some narrow
lane or behind some tree, and so given Knut
several moments of anxious search. These
were followed by peals of musical laughter
from Napper when at last she was discovered,
and joyous barking on the part of Knut, who
had really been frightened at the thought that

some of those young men whom he had observed
bounding the horizon whenever Napper
took her walks abroad, had basely availed
themselves of his temporary absence to abduct
his mistress.

But that was all over now. Indeed, on the
few occasions when they had got out for a
run, Knut had ostentatiously scampered off,
or made believe to have found something of
profoundly engrossing attraction in the hedge,
all the time keeping one eye on Napper.
But she never made any move towards hiding
herself, and presently Knut, with ears hung
down and tail dropped, gave up the game and
walked despondent at her heels.

It was natural that Napper, whose heart
was tender enough to feel whatever of woe
or human suffering she became conscious of,
should be deeply touched by the calamity
that had befallen Gideon.

But she had been smitten by a quicker and
an acuter pang. She felt, with that confidence

which in women sometimes supersedes proof
or the process of conviction, that Gideon was
innocent. She had believed that judge and
jury would find this out, and, though anxious,
had awaited the issue of the trial with confidence.
When the verdict was given and
she gathered from her father that there was
no hope, an indignant horror took possession
of her, and was with her day and night.

It was a horrible thing the butchery of an
old man. But that an innocent man should
be taken, solemnly tried, and deliberately condemned
to death, touched her with a sharper
pang.

Since Gideon's arrest she and her father
had returned to their older relationship. She
never was very far from him, though he sadly
said to himself that she was, and that there
would never more be the times for him when
Napper would be his companion and playmate.
But when trouble came Napper was
VOL. III. n

at his side again, and the two were no longer
twain.

They were sitting together on this bright
morning, Mr. Tandy with his newspaper, and
Napper with a copy of the ' Diary and Memoirs
of Princess Metternich.' O'Brien had
got it for her from Leipsic. He had read it
when in Germany in the autumn, and had
talked about it to Napper, as in these later
days he talked a good deal.

Knut, indeed, who had early taken the
Captain into his favour, was inclined on
consideration to dispossess him, having some
faint notion that he had something to do
with the altered manner of his mistress. The
Captain was a good deal about the house,
much more than to Knut seemed absolutely
necessary for the business in hand. When
he found that Napper could not only read
German but speak it a little, he, under pretence
of advancing her studies, conversed with
her in that language. It was hard enough

for Knut to rather the meaning: of the stranger
when he spoke in his own tongue. But a
man jabbering on in this guttural fashion was
wholly incomprehensible, and, therefore, could
mean only mischief.

4 Papa, put that newspaper down and listen
to this a moment. This is what the Princess
writes about her husband : " Clement works
a great deal. I was with him for a moment,
and, if I could have my own way, should
always be leaning over his shoulder, to see
how he writes his despatches. It is wonderfully
entrancing. In the evening he talked
in the most interesting manner over the events
of the day, and continued the conversation
when we were alone. What a wonderful
man he is ! God preserve him to me and to
the world ! " Isn't that a delightful way fora
wife to write about her husband ? '

Yes,' said Mr. Tandy ; ' but I dare say
they had not been married very long at that
time.'

N 2

4 That's a very nasty remark, and I won't
satisfy your curiosity on the point, though
you may have the book to look for yourself.
Do you know that it gives me quite a new
notion of married life? I never thought of
it in that way before.'

And now you have, I suppose you will
get married right off? '

That's a little sudden, and I have not got
quite so far ; but if marriage really is anything
like that, it cannot be so bad. Why, papa, it
is very like you and me ! I like to talk with
you and help you with your work if I can, and
often, when I see how you manage things for
other people, think what a wonderful man he
is ; and every night and morning, and oftener
too, I say " God preserve him to me and to
the world ! " '

Napper had laid her book down and gone
over to her father's chair, and as she spoke she
smoothed his cheek with her soft hands, and,
folding her arms round his neck, kissed him. .

This was the spectacle which hapless
Captain O'Brien was privileged to behold ashe
entered by the open door of the diningroom.


It was, he had thought, a very pleasant
thing to have the run of the house, call in ashe
passed on whatever trivial errand, and find
Napper by herself and ready for a conversation.
It was true that it nearly always was on a
melancholy subject. Napper was consumed
by the desire to do something to help Gideon,
and was ever at O'Brien for news of the latest
phase of the case, in the hope that she might
see some way of doing something, however
trifling, either to help Gideon in his trouble or
to make it a little easier to bear.

This privilege was all very well in its way,
but it was a big price to pay for the discomfort
of being witness to such a scene. He had stood
at the door long enough to hear tapper's last
words, hesitating between the impulse to withdraw
and the impetus of entering. He would

have liked to get away and call again at
some more convenient season. But, in accordance
with the instincts of a bold nature, he
settled the matter by going forward and trying
to look as if he had seen nothing.

In this endeavour he was assisted much
more by Napper than by Mr. Tandy, who
ought to have known better.

4 My girl was reading me a bit out of that
book you brought her,' Mr. Tandy said, looking
as guilty as if he had been caught kissing
somebody else's daughter. ' It seems a very
nice family book.'

Yes, it is a charming work,' said O'Brien,
picking up the open volume which Napper had
laid down.

Napper had, after the manner of less perfect
young ladies, marked the passage that
attracted her attention, and Captain O'Brien
naturally read it through.

4 A charming picture this of married life,' he
observed.

That's exactly what Napper was saying,'
Mr. Tandy cried, desirous by any means to
turn the conversation into a channel remote
from parental relations.

Captain O'Brien looked at Napper as if it
were her turn now to say something.

'Have you heard anything fresh of Mr.
Fleyce ? ' she asked, with a most distracting
blush, called up by the extreme maladroitness
of her father.

No,' said O'Brien ; ' I am afraid we shall
not hear from him or see him any more to any
good purpose.'

Then you give up all hope ? ' Mr. Tandy
asked.

6 Yes ; there was no recommendation to
mercy from the jury, and it is not quite
clear on what grounds you can move. You
cannot plead insanity, and it would be nonsense
getting up a petition on the general
ground of the unpleasantness of hanging a
man.'

That may be your view of the case, Captain
O'Brien,' said Napper, turning upon him a
flashing glance which he contrasted painfully
with the way he had seen her look at her
father a short ten minutes ago. ' It seems tome
there is the best of all grounds to go upon ;
and that is, that if they hang Mr. Fleyce there
will be two murders done instead of one.'

6 Yes, Miss Tandy,' said O'Brien, meekly ;
6 that is your view, I know, and I am more and
more inclined to share it. But here's the verdict
of the jury against us ; and if you read the
charge of the judge, or heard it as I did, you
would know there is no assistance to be looked
for in that quarter.'

We can ask for a postponement for a
month or six weeks on the chance of something
turning up that the truth may come
out.'

Quite so, my dear,' said Mr. Tandy, who
perhaps stood more in awe of this young
Portia than did the gallant Captain, who,

though he had never been in battle, had faced
an Irish constituency. ' But, don't you see,
you must have some particular reason to urge,
such as some fresh evidence forthcoming, or
something turned up since the trial which, if it
had been known, might have influenced the
mind of the jury ; and we have nothing of the
sort.'

Haven't we, Captain O'Brien ? ' Napper
asked, turning sharply upon the retired officer.
1 Nothing ; except that when I saw Gideon
after the trial he incidentally mentioned that
his father had made a will leaving his money
to charitable institutions, except, I believe,
some small legacy to Mr. Dumfy. But I don't
know there is anything particular in that.'

4 1 differ from you there,' said Mr. Tandy.
4 That is a very important statement, and certainly
ought to have come out at the trial.'
How do you make it out ? '
Why, don't you see, if Gideon did this
thing he meant either to rob his father or to

come into possession of his money. He certainly
didn't rob him, for, as was shown at the
trial, all the money is in the safe, and if he
knew he was disinherited he would also know
that he had nothing to gain by his father's
death.'

Oh, why didn't this come out at the trial ? '
Napper cried.

6 Well, Fleyce didn't mention it before, and
of course no one could guess at such a thing.
But if Mr. Tandy thinks there is anything in it,
we might see about working it out.'

The first thing to do,' said Mr. Tandy, ' is
to find the will. There would be no objection
to your searching for it among the papers at
Fulham. I will make application to the Solicitor
to the Treasury, and of course they can
send some one with you.'

4 Now, Captain O'Brien,' said Napper in
her earnest manner, ' will you go up to town
at once and see about this? Papa, you can
go too. There's no time to be lost, and there

is something else I want to say. It has been
in my mind a long time. I have struggled
against it hard, because I am not sure that it is
not wicked. If it is, I only know I am trying
to do right

What is it, Napper ? You can speak tous
without fear of being misjudged,' said Mr.
Tandy.

c Well, I am not only sure, as you know, that
Mr. Fleyce did not do this horrible thing, but
I feel I know who did.'

Napper, as she spoke, hung down her head,
and with nervous fingers played with the
buckle of her belt.

Captain O'Brien looked at her steadily;
he thought he knew what was coming. Mr.
Tandy was absolutely in the dark.

'Who, Napper? ' he asked, in a frightened
tone.

'It was Mr. Dumfy,' Napper said in a
whisper, as if she felt she might be doing
wrong to an innocent man, and, whilst bound

on her conscience to make the accusation,
would not have it noised abroad.

4 Why,' cried Mr. Tandy, feeling a load
removed from his mind, ' Dumfy's dead and
buried ! You know he was in the railway
accident.'

i Do you know that ? ' Napper asked
quietly. ' When this thought came into my
mind I read all I could find about the accident.
I studied the evidence given at the inquest,
and I have asked questions wherever
there was any chance of learning anything, and
I don't find there is any proof that Mr. Dumfy
was in the train at all.'

'You are quite right, Miss Tandy. I have
a strange feeling on this matter myself, but
have not seen anything that could be done
without raising false hopes. Now you have
spoken, I will say that there is at least no proof
of Mr. Dumfy's death.'

Mr. Dumfy is alive now,' said Napper, in a
decided voice, as if she had met him somewhere

on the previous day. " He's hiding
somewhere, and ought to be found.'

Does anybody know where he lived ? '
O'Brien asked.

Mr. Tandy did, having had to hold occasional
correspondence with him ; and, as the
two men went up to town to obtain permission
to go through the Spider's papers in search of
the will, the more they talked the stronger
became their conviction that Napper was right.
There was very little they could seize hold of.
It was a vague suspicion which had certainly
floated through the mind of Captain O'Brien, but
the chief support was the emphatic declaration
of Napper. They were like men groping their
way without any clear conception whither it led.

Mr. Tandy, whose legal mind was only
impressed by legal proof, was not quite so sure
as O'Brien of Gideon's innocence. Still he
wished very much, since Napper w T as so distressed,
that things might turn out more happily
than at present they promised to do.

To this vaguely benevolent feeling O'Brien
added a pretty firm conviction of Gideon's
innocence and a growing suspicion of Dumfy's
guilt. Since Napper had so emphatically denounced
Dumfy, O'Brien felt his suspicions
blossom into conviction.

It is astonishing, what a marked effect un-bleaching
assertion makes on the minds of menin
doubt, but willing to believe.

Still, when one looked at it in that light,
it was very difficult to say why Dumfy should
have done this deed. If robbery had been
his aim, why had he not robbed ? Where was
he now, and by what remarkable coincidence
had he controlled affairs, so that the relics of
his umbrella should be discovered amid the
wreck of the burnt carriage, whilst he himself
was at the time peacefully engaged in the
pursuit of murder, and had afterwards got
clear away?

Mr. Tandy put it in that way, and O'Brien
felt a little staggered. Still he had always

had a dim suspicion of Dumfy. It had been
confirmed in a most marvellous way by Xapper,
who, with something of the light of a prophetess
in her eye, had unflinchingly pointed
an accusing finger at Gideon's clerk.

At any rate,' said O'Brien, ' there'll be no
harm in making a few inquiries about him,
looking up where he lives.'

If there is anything in your suspicion,'
said Mr. Tandy, ' that would spoil everything.
I know where Mrs. Dumfy lives. I have,
indeed, been to her house about some money
matters for Fleyce. She seems a nice, tidy
woman, and has her house a little painfully
clean. It stood in the way of her taking
lodgers ; and I expect, now that a few shillings
a week will be of supreme importance to her,
she will have to put up with an occasional
speck of dirt.'

'If she takes lodgers, the thing might be
managed easily enough. Let's put in someone
of quiet and inoffensive manners, with

instructions to keep his eyes open, and, if
Dumfy's anywhere about, you may be sure
he will be in communication with his
home.'

Well, if you like,' said Mr. Tandy, dubiously
; s it might be done, though I confess I
don't think much of the scheme. Dumfy's
dead and cremated, that I am certain of.'

'You were not so certain just now, when
we were talking with Miss Napper,' O'Brien
remarked a little spitefully. ' In any case,
this is a matter of life and death. If we can
save Fleyce from a shameful death, we ought
to spare no effort. Do you know any one
we could put in at Mrs. Dumfy's ? '

4 No, I can't think of any one at the moment ;
but I'll turn it over in my mind.'

And, in the meantime, the day is coming
on when it will be too late to do anything. I
know a fellow that would do to a T, if I
could catch him, and that is Jack Bailey. He's
a shrewd fellow, and would go in for a businesslike

this for what he would regard as the fun
of the thing.'

'Have you heard from him since he left
Saxton?'

Never a word or line ; but I know his
happy hunting grounds, unless they have suddenly
been changed, and I will look him up
this very night.'

The business at the Home Office prospered.
No objection was made to Captain O'Brien, in
company with a clerk from the office of the
Solicitor to the Treasury, going through the
Spider's papers in search of the will, or of some
document that might lead to its discovery.

This done, O'Brien went on the trail of
Jack, whom he hunted from place to place
along the rendezvous of Fleet Street, and at
last ran him to earth in a little public-house
up an entry, the proprietors of which enjoyed
a special licence to keep open during the night
for the convenience of printers.

Jack was not a printer, but, as being dis-vol.
in.

tartly connected with the business, he took
advantage of the hospitality of the ' Forme. '

I am a feeder, you know,' he said, when
O'Brien lightly touched upon the incongruity
of his presence at the ' Forme.' ' It's no use
there being printers, unless there are writers.
They run the machine ; I feed it.'

If you'd feed more and drink less, my
dear Jack, it would be better for you,' said
O'Brien, distressed to see the ravages unrequited
love and incessant whisky had made on
Jack in so short a time.

Jack was delighted to undertake the task
allotted to him. O'Brien had caught him justin
the nick of time, when there was stealing
over him one of those waves of remorse for
his broken life and lost opportunities that
sometimes whelmed him. He would have
done anything in the way of honest work,
being at the moment a little maudlin with
his long night's exercise. And this was a sort
of occupation that suited him admirably.

He was to occupy lodgings rent free, have
an allowance for his board, and keep his eye
on a widow with whom he had to nigra
himself. As far as that went, he felt every
confidence in his powers. There were some
people young and proud who had scorned
him ; but others had not been proof against
his personal charms and acquired.

Jack was of a sanguine disposition, and
foolishly imagined for himself the typical
widow, coy and debonair, whose regard for
her departed husband was soothed by the poison

of his wealth, and the prospect of his
successor.

Strange things come to a man from unexpected
avenues ; and Jack, swaggering home
to his squalid lodgings over Waterloo Bridge,
would not undertake to say what might P [>t
come of this new adventure.

CHAPTEK Xlii

THE LOITERER ON THE DOORSTEP.

It was something of a shock to Jack when
he realised the fact that the person who opened
the door, when he called to make inquiries
about lodgings in Camden Town, was the
widow with whose fate and fortune he had
already linked his own.

The more Jack had thought over this
matter, the more clearly he had seen his way
to a happy settlement. His powerful and well-trained
imagination had invested Mrs. Dumfy
with all kinds of comforts, including a moderate
covering of fat, and had even fixed her
age. She was thirty-three, he knew. She was
plump, petite, well favoured, and well off. Of
course she was a little old for him ; but that
was a matter he must overlook.

A young Irishman, with his fortune to
make, and some unsuccessful efforts behind
him, is not inclined too narrowly to criticise
detail of this kind.

So much engrossed was Jack with this
castle in Camden Town that he temporarily
forgot the real object of his undertaking, and
was not disturbed with the apprehension that,
even should the widow prove all his fancy
painted her, her husband might turn up ; and
though, if he did, there was every prospect of
his being shortly afterwards turned off, it could
not be pleasant in such circumstances to marry
his widow.

But Jack was of a reckless disposition ; and
when he built a castle, whether in Spain or
Camden Town, he moved right into it, took in
all his belongings, breathed its atmosphere, and
never thought of rent day.

When Mrs. Dumfy opened the door to the
caller she was a trifle more than usually unprepossessing
in appearance. It was eleven

o'clock in the morning, and Jack had disturbed
her in the middle of the consecrated task of
polishing the stumpy legs of the sofa in the
best and only parlour. When Mrs. Dumfy
polished the legs of a sofa, or of any other
article of furniture, she put her whole soul into
the furniture paste. She had a notion that
continued friction, carried on at the greatest
velocity possible, and persevered in for a
certain number of minutes — a space of time
defined by the formula ' as long as her back
would hold ' — was absolutely necessary to
obtain the desired result. She polished the
legs of a sofa as an Indian rubs sticks to get
a fire, or did rub them when Fenimore Cooper
was alive. Stopping short of a certain measure
of friction the fire might not be kindled,
and the labour had all to be gone through
again.

On this principle Mrs. Dumfy polished her
furniture, and it was Jack's misfortune that
he happened to knock at the door when she

was something like midway through the
process.

She might have stopped to finish it, and
let the caller wait ; but she knew that, in such
circumstances, men had a habit of rubbing
their feet on the steps, or perhaps leaning
against the railings or the door. Callers were
to be got rid of with the least possible delay.
So with a petulant groan Mrs. Dumfy left
the half-polished limb, and, with a duster
thrown over her shoulder, and a rag smelling
vilely of furniture paste in her right hand, she
confronted the cavalier who had a moment
earlier walked down the street glowing with
anticipation.

1 Good morning, madame,' said Jack, not
quite sure of the status of the lady. 6 I see
you have apartments to let.'

Two months ago, whilst her husband was
still alive, and some small source of weekly
income assured, Mrs. Dumfy would have
snapped forth an uncompromising reply at the

young man who had interrupted her in the
polishing of the leg of a sofa, would have
shut the door and so made an end of the
negotiation.

The old impulse came upon her strongly
now ; but things were different. The house
was her own, or had been her husband's, and
so she remained in undisturbed possession. But
beyond that, and some few hundred pounds in
the bank, she had nothing to live upon.

Fortunately Jack, in anticipation of the
buxom widow he had imagined for himself,
had been most careful of his dress. In that
one withering glance in which she enveloped
him, Mrs. Dumfy noted that his clothes were
brushed, that his boots were speckless, and his
linen white. She must have some one as a
lodger, and it was not certain she would get
any one better than this.

Will you come in ? ' she said to Jack, with
a profound sigh. Life was very hard for her
that she must needs take in strangers like this.

1 Brush your feet,' she added quickly. Jack
showing a disposition to walk straight forward.

4 Yes, it is a little muddy,' said Jack, feeling
the desirability of conciliating the household,
and regardless of the fact that there had been
no rain for a week.

He brushed his feet diligently and walked
into the little parlour where the mahogany
chairs and the prized though squat sofa might
on emergency have served the turn of mirrors,
and did display, as Jack moved about, blurred
reflections of his manly form.

How nearly he was failing on the very
threshold of his task Jack never knew. Mrs.
Murgatroyd, who rented a room in Charlotte
Street, and with whom Mrs. Dumfy used to
exchange a tea once a month, was the confidante
of this crisis.

4 He walked over two mats and wiped his
boots under the Eev. Mr. Stabbing,' Mrs. Dumfy
told Mrs. Murgatroyd, who received the information
with a proper expression of horror.

This merely meant that Jack, having diligently
wiped his boots on the door-mat, dispensed
with two other mats which lay in the
short passage to the parlour, and, being in the
room and seeing framed on the wall an engraving
of a man with a fat face and a white
necktie, walked up to look at it.

Most interesting face,' he said ; ' a divine,
I presume ? '

Mrs. Dumfy's soul was sad within her as
she saw Jack's boots moving about on the
carpet, and called to mind the two mats over
which he had walked. But needs must where
poverty drives. Jack was a pleasant-faced
youth, looked clean, and finally overcame
objection by surmising that he ' could have his
tub in the morning. '

Mrs. Dumfy was inclined to take him literally,
and, whilst not objecting to clean habits,
descanted on the difficulty of getting a tub
upstairs and down. But Jack, in further explanation,
said he would bring his own bath

with him, which with his books formed his sole
portable property.

So it was all settled, and Jack forthwith
became an inmate of the bereaved Dumfy
household, renting the front parlour and the
top bedroom at the back of the house, overlooking
the little yard, and beyond that the
mews, from which through his open window
in early morning there came the frequent
odour of damp straw and other tableland
delicacies.

It was rather a depressing passage in Jack's
life. It had been no slight shock to find for
the imagined debonair widow this meagre
female, with characterless and complaining
eyes of light blue set above high cheek-bones.

But Jack was rich in the possession of a
happy disposition. With the exception of some
slight grief for Napper, he, as he said, never
cried over spilt milk. Of course he had been
very foolish in these imaginings about a nonexistent
widow. He had no right to expect

what he had done ; and when his castle faded
into thin air, and for all wrack left behind the
angular, cross-grained, sad-visaged Mrs. Dumfy,
he laughed at himself and began to remember
that his mission to Camden Town was of quite
another kind.

A good-tempered, easy-going, merry-hearted
youth, he completely ingratiated
himself with his landlady. He even made
her laugh sometimes ; and though perhaps she
was a little less attractive at such times than
ordinarily, Jack enjoyed his triumph, as all
men are pleased with themselves when they
have done something difficult of attainment and
beyond the reach of ordinary people.

Perhaps never since Mrs. Dumfy had
brought broom and duster into this house had
its spotless walls echoed to this curious sound
that was her laughter. She had never known
any one like Jack. Eehoboth and its congregation
were not given to laughter ; and
the late Mr. Dumfy, though he sometimes

shone at convivial meetings down at Saxton,
was, to tell the truth, a little grumpy at home.
But here was this young fellow, always ready
with a joke, never out of temper, and moderately
cleanly in his habits.

It is true he objected, when he came in
from town, to take his boots off on the introductory
door-mat and put on his slippers then
and there. Mrs. Dumfy had, the first time he
went out, placed his slippers in readiness on
the mat. Jack, not noticing them, had walked
in and had positively been in the room for an
hour with his boots on before Mrs. Dumfy
discovered the disaster and brought in the
slippers from the door-mat.

Even in this matter he fell in with her
humour to a marvellous extent, and she began
to look for his coming with pleased delight,
only shaken by tremors lest he might bring in
flake of mud or speck of dust.

Jack was understood to be something in
the City ; but he spent a good deal of his

evenings at home, and was glad to have Mrs.
Dumfy to talk with him. The conversation
Jack felt had a tendency to monotony of level,
being on Mrs. Dumfy 's side largely made up
of narratives of iniquity on the part of the
butcher's boy, the milkman, and the emissary
from the grocer, who, Mrs. Dumfy felt quite
sure, before they called at No. 48, spent a
good deal of valuable time in getting their
boots muddy or greasing their hands preparatory
to touching the knocker or the handle of
the door.

When Jack gently led her to talk of the
departed Dumfy the effect was not encouraging.

The old lady's waterworks are in good
order,' as Jack put it to O'Brien when reporting
on his mission. She wept copiously, though
from her artless narrative Jack was not able to
discover any reasonable cause of regret for the
demise of that estimable person, Mr. Dumfy.

He seemed to have been selfish and overbearing.
He lived on the best the household

afforded, and, if any fragments remained, Mrs.
Dumfy might bring her basket and gather
them up. One basket would serve, and it need
not be of large dimensions.

The faithful woman wept at his name like a
beaten dog will lick the hand that has held the
stick. Jack watched her narrowly, and came
to believe in her thoroughly.

c She's as right as nine pence,' he reported
to O'Brien. ' The old lady hasn't a soul above
furniture paste. She has certainly not seen or
heard anything of Dumfy as yet, and if he's
alive and prowling about he's not made any
signal to her.'

I'm afraid it's a hopeless game,' O'Brien
said ; ' but keep your eyes and ears open, Jack ;
we've not much time now. In a fortnight we
can rest from our labours. '

It was on the fifth night of his residence
with the widow that Jack was dining with
O'Brien, and thus reported himself. In the
course of the week Mr. Tandy was coming up

and they were to make the search for the will.
O'Brien sadly felt that thereafter he was at the
end of his tether. Failing there, and Jack's mission
failing, as it seemed certain to do, there
was an end of all hope for Gideon, in whose
innocence he more than ever believed.

Jack left early and walked back to his
lodgings, thinking with an amused smile that
Mrs. Dumfy, who evidently relished his company,
would have been a little lonely. It was
a dark night for the time of the year, and the
long-delayed rain was plainly coming.

As Jack walked up the street, his thoughts
turned sadly back to days in Saxton, he plainly
saw on the doorstep of No. 48 a figure in a long
stout which by some quick process instantly
brought his mind back to Mr. Dumfy. He
had only just turned the corner of the street
when he saw the figure, at too great a distance
in such a light to make out the face. But he
thought the man stooped at the shoulders, and
he was certain that he had no hat on.

When Jack caught sight of him he was
raising himself up as if he had been looking
through the keyhole. Otherwise, if Jack was
mistaken in that notion, the man had just
quitted the house, or was standing on the doorstep
previously to leaving.

Probably hearing Jack's footfall in the
lonely street, the man left the steps and moved
off with a rapid, gliding step that made Jack's
heart palpitate with a dread recognition.

Jack was young and lithe, and he made
after the stranger like a greyhound slipped
from the leash. He seemed to be at the end
of the street before an ordinary human being
could have got round the corner. But there
was not a soul within sight. The stranger,
whoever he was, had the advantage that No.
48 was a few doors off a street that bisected
it. Behind the house were the Mews, a
thoroughfare by which the man might have
doubled and so got off. He might have followed
Fenton Street straight through, or he

VOL. III. p

might have taken one of the many turnings by
which, in turn, Fenton Street was bisected.

Mrs. Dumfy's street was silent and empty,
while Fenton Street, as leading into Hampstead
Eoad, was moderately well peopled. Men went
to and fro upon their business, and none whom
Jack examined showed any trace of having just
scampered off at full speed from the doorstep
of a reputed widow. There was nothing to be
seen here ; and Jack turned back and walked
rapidly to the house, determined to get to the
bottom of the mystery before he went to sleep.

Before knocking at Mrs. Dumfy's he stood
for a moment and regarded the house. The
gas was on in the hall, and also in the front
parlour, which he tenanted, though here it was
evidently turned down to the lowest point.
Mrs. Dumfy,"he knew, was sitting up for him.
She had a growing trust in him, but there was
one point on which she would not give way.
That involved the putting out of the gas the
last thing at night. Jack had promised todo

this, and Mrs. Dumfy had belief in his
good intentions. But she could not sleep in
her bed without having been assured by fleshly
contact that the gas was turned off at the
meter.

This was one thing that habitually brought
Jack home earlier than was convenient or
agreeable. He knew his residence here was
only a matter of a few more days, and, like the
good-hearted fellow he was, he wished to give
the old lady, as he was accustomed to call her
(not that she was particularly aged), as little
inconvenience as possible.

Mrs. Dumfy opened the door when he
knocked ; and except that she was a little cross
at being kept up till nearly ten o'clock at night,
with the gas recklessly burning in the hall and
on about the size of a bean in the parlour, she
looked much the same as usual.

Ain't you a little late ? ' she asked, with a
tear in her voice.

A little late ? ' Jack said, affecting a lightness

of heart he did not feel. c Fact is, if you
only knew it, I am very early. We dined early,
as my friend was going to the theatre, and I
came straight up.'

c I don't know what people mean by getting
their dinner at tea-time,' Mrs. Dumfy said
querulously. ' I know such nonsense should
never enter* my house, with all the washing to
be done when you ought to be going to bed.'

Had any visitors, Mrs. Dumfy ? ' Jack
asked, with well-contrived suddenness.

Visitors at this time of night ! ' cried Mrs.
Dumfy, with an expression of angered surprise,
which if not true was well invented. ' I should
think not.'

No, of course not,' said Jack. ' Don't
know what made me ask you. Perhaps, as
you were lonely, Mrs. Murgatroyd might have
looked in.'

8 Mrs. Murgatroyd is in bed long ago, like
all decent people. Besides,' Mrs. Dumfy added
sharply — for there had once been a mistake to

her disadvantage in this matter — ' it's my turn
to go to her next. She was here to tea last
Friday.'

Ah, well, we'll go to bed now,' said Jack ;
and taking his candle he went up to his room.

Presently, when Mrs. Dumfy had put out
the gas, which she lost no time in doing, Jack
blew out his candle, stole softly downstairs,
unbarred the shutters of the parlour window,
and sitting well back, so that he could command
a view of the street immediately facing
the house, whilst he should himself be invisible,
sat and watched.

He sat in the dark for an hour, intently
gazing forth. Sometimes an approaching footfall
made him breathe quicker ; but, as it came
boldly on, he knew it did not belong to the
man he had seen on the steps. By-and-by
the policeman passed on his carefully regulated
round, or a man went by hurrying homewards.

Duty was all very well ; but two hours
sitting in the dark with the senses intently

stretched, goes a long way towards satisfying
aspiration in that direction. At midnight Jack
felt he had done enough for the night, at least
in this part of the house. But he would keep
his ears open through the night.

If this was Dumfy prowling around he
would certainly enter the house at night, and
Jack meant to receive him with open arms.

To which end he left his bedroom door
ajar, threw himself on the bed half undressed,
and whilst thinking over these matters, into
which the figure of Napper constantly floated
and vanished below the horizon as he had
seen her disappear down the hill leading into
Saxton, Jack fell into a sound sleep.

Chapter Xlv.

A BASKET OF ROSES.

As to what may have happened within, or in
the immediate proximity of, No. 48 in the dead
watches of the night, Jack would not have
been a valuable witness. He was too young
and hearty to make a first-class detective.
The most touching and convincing proof of
his love for Napper was to be found in the
fact that regularly for a fortnight after his
dismissal he had lain awake so much as two
hours at a time after going to bed, resolving to
think no more about her.

His gaping wound was closing up a little
now. By-and-by it would be healed, and Jack
would have been sorry to think it should leave
no abiding scar.

Still it was a bad sign that, lying down

on his bed half undressed, and with thoughts
of Napper flitting through the shades where
he was pursuing the dead and buried Dumfy,
he should not have been able to keep awake ;
or that, falling asleep, he should have slept
so soundly that when he woke the sun was
shining into the room.

Jack made haste to visit O'Brien and report
the adventure of the previous night. He
found the Captain had visitors with him at
his chambers. Mr. Tandy was there; and,
with a great throb of his patched-up heart,
he discovered Napper.

It was a dreadfully awkward thing for him,
he felt; and if Napper had been as embarrassed
as he, even Mr. Tandy, not usually
acute in these things, would have had his suspicions
aroused. But Napper greeted Jack as
if she had never met him on the Downs, or
walked away from him towards the setting sun,
with which, as he thought, the hopes of his life
were sinking.

She was too much engrossed with the great
sorrow of the new murder that was to be
done, to think of a matter that had made so
slight an impression upon her as Jack's protestation
of love. She had come up now to
see Gideon. He had asked for her ; and
when O'Brien had given her the message she
had frankly and eagerly said she would go.

O'Brien had had fewer opportunities of
watching Gideon with tapper than Mr. Tandy
had enjoyed, and it had never occurred to him
to guess at what Mr. Tandy thought he knew
for certainty. He had observed that Gideon
took pleasure in Xapper's company. But that
did not occur to him as a remarkable thing.

Nothing was more natural to his mind
than that every one should desire so to spend
as much of this fleeting existence as Napper
would spare to him.

Mr. Tandy, with this fuller knowledge,
had hesitated a little about the proposed visit
to the condemned man. He did not know

what painful discoveries Napper might make,
and he was still puzzled by the girl's almost
enthusiastic devotion to the cause of Gideon.
Mr. Tandy was a good man and an able
solicitor, and perhaps, therefore, had a hankering
after the concrete. If Napper was thus
deeply moved by the pending fate of Gideon,
it could only be for Gideon's personal sake.

The notion of any one being so profoundly
concerned simply for the sake of what was
right was, of course, not altogether foreign to
Mr. Tandy's mind. But it did not habitually
occur to him.

Napper had said she would go, and there
was an end of it. All that remained for
Mr. Tandy was to bring her up to town, after
having made with the authorities of Newgate
the necessary arrangements for the visit.

Napper looked more bewitching than usual
in the sad-coloured dress she had put on,
and with this new look of sorrow on her
face. Up to the moment Jack had flashed

upon her the unexpected fire of his love,
the look most familiar to him on her
face was one of merriment. Jack always
amused her, and a bright smile, the meaning
of which the hapless youth had mistaken,
ever lighted up her face as he approached

Now she smiled when she held out her
hand to him ; but there was a serious sweetness
in the smile, bewitching in its way, of course,
but also mournful. Jack, whose mind had
recently been running on widows, could not
resist the thought that here was a fair young
widow bravely bearing up against the loneliness
and darkness of her new estate.

When Jack entered tapper had a heap
of roses on her lap, which she had been
daintily arranging in a basket. She was not
sure that Gideon cared for flowers, at least
when he was free and prosperous. But now,
surely, he would be glad to have this basket
of flowers, and Napper did not doubt that
they who had him in charge would grant the

small boon of permitting him to have it near
him.

She had heard of a convict who had
tamed a mouse he had caught in his cell,
and taught it to run up his sleeve and nestle
at his throat. The warder, discovering the
pet playmate, had killed it, and the convict
had knocked the warder down. Whereat
Napper, not usually eulogistic of brawls, had
greatly rejoiced. But the mouse was a different
thing, and possibly against the orders
of the prison. There could be no harm intaking
a basket of flowers to a man condemned
to die.

She was arguing this at the moment Jack
entered. Mr. Tandy, afraid of disappointment,
had hinted at the possibility of refusal.
Captain O'Brien, appealed to by Napper to
say whether he thought it possible any one
could refuse admission to the roses, had, in
obedience to a slavish tendency daily growing
upon him, given the answer she wished.

1 God bless her ! ' the Captain said to
himself, looking down upon her as she bent
over the basket and arranged the flowers.
1 Newgate has not in its history had an opportunity
of seeing so fair and sweet a flower.
There's nothing in the basket so good.'

Jack's news wholly electrified and greatly
elated the company. Mr. Tandy was cautious
as usual, and dwelt on the insufficiency of
Jack's opportunity of seeing the stranger.

It might have been a tramp,' he said,
1 or some one casually passing. Or it might
have been a neighbour ; and as to the running
away, that's not at all clear. Three doors
further on is Fenton Street, and the man
passing by may simply have turned a corner
in the ordinary way, Mr. Bailey's heated
imagination lending him wings.'

But Napper, with her delightful air of
conviction, was sure it was Mr. Dumfy.

The process by which this conclusion was
arrived at was exceedingly simple. She had

made up her mind that Dumfy had murdered
the Spider. He had then run away and hidden
himself for a while. Now he was going back
to his lair in the dead of night, as she had
read hunted animals do.

Of course there were a few discrepancies
in this theory. Mr. Dumfy had not been
hunted, and there was absolutely no evidence
to connect him with the murder. Still when
a young lady has made up her mind as to the
premises, conclusions follow with great rapidity
and irreproachable neatness of adjustment.

Napper vividly realised the misery and
anguish the wretched man must have undergone.
The little detail Jack mentioned of his
having no hat on lent outline and colour to
her fancy. She straightway divested Mr.
Dumfy of his boots and stockings. He had
sold all his possible-to-be-disposed-of garments
to buy him bread, and thus, wan and half
clothed, unshaven, hungry, and hunted, she
saw him in her mind's eye prowling the streets

at night, and hovering about his once happy
home.

As a matter of fact this was the picture of an
able tramp she had one winter afternoon seen
walking into Saxtor, and to whom she had
given half a crown, which, in company with a
handful of other coins of more or less value,
had been found tied up in a dirty pocket-handkerchief
when twenty minutes later he
was seized by the police, who recognised in
him an old and accomplished vagrant.

But Napper had in not less degree than
Jack the faculty of vividly realising scenes and
personages, and she was even conscious of her
feeling against Mr. Dumfy being modified by
sorrow for his low estate.

It was arranged that Jack was to dine
early, go straight home and spend the evening
in his rooms, and watch for the return of the
loiterer on the doorstep.

Jack himself announced his cunning intention
of retiring to his bedroom under pressure

of headache, since he could not very well
sit up with his gas down, and darkness was
necessary to watch the street, himself being
unobserved.

We've no time to lose, Jack,' said O'Brien.
If anything's to be found in this way it had
better turn up soon. To-morrow Mr. Tandy
and I have an engagement with a clerk from
the Home Office to go through the old man's
papers in search of the will. If we find that,
and it turns out as Gideon says, there will be
some good grounds for petitioning for a postponement
of the sentence. But of course a
much better thing would be to find Dumfy,
and that I hope you will do to-night.'

Jack would have liked to go with them as
far as Newgate ; not that he had any desire, or
indeed opportunity, of seeing Gideon. But if
he spent another hour in Napper's company,
under the safe conditions of having her father
and O'Brien at hand, it would be pleasant.
But he was not invited to join them. So,

taking his leave, and subsequently hanging
about the house, he had the satisfaction of
seeing them go out, enter a four-wheeler (No.
9087, figures ever afterwards sacred in Jack's
memory), and drive off for Newgate.

It was a cruel thing, Jack felt, as he walked
towards Fleet Street, that this chance should
to-day have befallen him. He had ever been
the sport of fortune ; and now when he was
getting all right, and had lived down his great
sorrow, Napper had come again, and he was
plunged deeper than ever into the abyss of
hopeless love.

As he wrote down in his diary, rather
fancying the sentence and thinking that at
some time he might use it in print : ' The
kindly hand of Time had bound up the wound,
when rosy fingers came and ruthlessly tore the
bandages off.'

It was shortly after this that there appeared
in the Poets' Corner of the Beacon the following
lines : —

VOL. III. Q

THE Harp OF MEMORY.

Oh, Harp of Memory, cease that strain,

Do let that one thought perish,
Love's fire, ill fed, would quickly wane,

Did thou its flame not cherish.
But ever, as I strive to think,

The gulf is growing wider :
Thou, treach'rous friend, dost forge a link

To chain me still beside her.

And all the world seems leagued with thee

To see my proud will languish ;
5 Tis well the world can never see

My proud heart in its anguish.
'Midst Nature's charms I seek to find

Kind Lethe's fabled waters,
But they can only call to mind

The fairest of her Daughters.

In music I would seek relief,

And sorrow drown in singing ;
But in each thrilling melody

I hear her clear tones ringing.
One time I thought she was designed

My load of care to leaven ;
Vain hope — but I will be resigned,

We still may meet in Heaven !

The verse was signed ' Leo,' was dated
from Lampborough, and the writing, though
clearly not in Jack's hand, lacked something
of natural flow. It may have been all right ;
but Jack, we know, was given to break forth
in verse when he thought much of Napper,
and the assumption of local authorship may
have been a little device to hide his identity.

However it be, the coincidence was striking,
and Jack certainly had a copy of the poetry
cut out, and carried it in his pocket-book till
the following October, when he heard something
that made him burn the extract, and a
considerable mass of manuscript the contents
of which are not known.

It was well for Jack he had the excitement
of a first night's watch upon him. He had not
been to Fleet Street since he had undertaken
his new mission. Now, feeling a little shaky,
the old hankering after gin and bitters stole
over him, and there came back the old
yearning for the grasp of feverish and not

q2

over-cleanly hands, which he was sure to meet
with after a few clays' absence in any of his
places of call from Vulgate to Temple Bar.

He passed a pleasant afternoon, though its
engagements did not leave him very hungry
for his dinner, and fortuitously he had no need
to simulate headache when he got home just
before dusk.

I do hope,' said Mrs. Dumfy, anxiously,
6 you haven't got a lighted pipe in your pocket,
have you, Mr. Bailey?'

1 No,' said Jack, guiltily conscious of the
fumes of tobacco. Tact is I sat next to a
man on the 'bus who was smoking a pipe.
I'm going to lie down on the sofa a bit, and
shall save your gas. Been working hard all
day, and get rested in the dark. A little
tired, but I dare say I'll come and have a
chat with you before you go to bed. Haven't
seen you lately, don't you know.'

Chapter XLV.

ABSALOM.

Mrs. Dum*t — who, if the melancholy truth
must be told, had sometimes noticed in connection
with the smell of tobacco-smoke about
the late Mr. Dumfy's clothes a slight incoherency
of speech on the part of the wearer
arrived at the conclusion that Jack had
been drinking. This was quite true. In the
course of the afternoon spent in Fleet Street,
Jack had gone through a good deal of the
dual labour known in the locality as ' standing
drinks.' Jack, who was always first in duties
of this kind, paid for ' a round,' and then the
round paid for him.

It will be easily seen that with a party of
seven or eight, a good many gins and bitters,

merging into whiskies and sodas, may be consumed
in a summer afternoon.

But it was not the first time Jack had
similarly occupied himself, and among many
other recommendations to comradeship was
the fact that he was not easily knocked over.
He felt he was all right now as he shut the
door, turned down the gas, pulled back the
curtains, and recommenced his watch.

He was wide awake, and eager for the
frae 7 . It was half past eight, an hour and a
half earlier than when he had seen the loiterer
on the previous night. But he could not tell
how long he might have been there. The
danger now was that, in addition to being a
thin-weasand female, Mrs. Dumfy might be a
consummate actress, and had been fooling this
clever young man of the world. If that were
so, she would give the signal when Dumfy
turned up again, and he would be off like a
stag that smells something in the wind.

If she were moving about, he would know.

He opened the door, and listened at the head
of the stairs. It was a cellar kitchen, and he
could hear Mrs. Dumfy bustling about cleaning
pans. He left the door ajar, and sat at
the window, himself hidden from observation.

It was a much lighter night than when he
had watched there last. The rain had cleaned
the street, and sweetened the air even in this
town within a town. Nevertheless, night had
fallen, the lamps were lit, and lights twinkled
from the windows opposite.

Jack had been sitting patiently for half an
hour, gratefully thinking that if his present
task were ended he would soon be quiet and
in peace. He was tired of it now the excitement
and the novelty had worn away, and
left only the bare and loveless house with
its unlovely mistress. Even now he would
like above all things a pipe of tobacco. Yet
what wailing and moaning there would be
supposing he were to light up, and the odour
of the fragrant weed, stealing downward into

the kitchen, where Mrs. Dumfy was still clattering
with the pots, should reach her pinched
apology for a nose !

Jack sometimes thought if he had a little
money to spare he would like to go out one
day when London mud was at its thickest,
revel in the roadways, then come home, walk
straight into the parlour, and tramp upstairs
with his boots on. The excitement would be
severe, but it really might do this ridiculous
old woman good, and he would finally present
her with a half sovereign to cover all possible
damages.

Whilst thus musing he had been looking
down the street in the direction in which the
loiterer had disappeared on the previous night.
Turning his eyes away for a moment and
looking at the house opposite, he saw in the
shadow a man looking across at Mrs. Dumfy 's
house. He was standing quite motionless.

It was the same man, Jack knew, for he saw
he had no hat on, unless a something he held

in his right hand, which in the distance and in
this light looked like a brown-paper parcel,
was a billycock hat. He was staring steadfastly
at Mrs. Dumfy's, and Jack had a queer
notion that he was looking straight at him.
He sat rigid, not moving a muscle, lest he
should frighten the man off before his time.
He felt that he must see him, and know that
his eyes were fixed upon him. Jack himself
felt spellbound, and thought the man must
be in the same condition.

That it was not so, and that the stranger
was totally unconscious of being observed,
appeared from the fact that after looking up
and down the street he softly crossed the
roadway and made towards the door.

There was not a moment to lose. Jack
gently drew back from the window, kicked off
his slippers, which he now regarded as providentially
worn, and stole along the hall to the
front door. He must make haste, but his
motion must be noiseless. The man was as

fleet as a hare, and had a way of disappearing
which would make it very uncomfortable to be
on his track in stocking feet.

The gas light in the hall was fixed by the
staircase, designed a double debt to pay, lighting
both the stairway and the hall, and failing
to do either effectually. It was quite light
enough for Jack to put his hand on the catch
of the door, without fumbling for it. Gripping
it firmly he pulled back the latch, flung open
the door, and almost fell over the man on
the doorstep, who was in the same attitude in
which Jack thought he had seen him on the
previous night with his eye at the keyhole.

The man's head being nearest to his hand,
Jack seized him by the hair, and held on withall
his might.

What are you at ? ' cried the man in a
whining voice.

What am I at ? Where's your hat ? '
Jack asked in a stern, accusatory tone.

It perhaps was not the most heinous offence

the stranger might have £0 answer for, that
he should go about without his hat. But Jack
was a little excited, and began with this by way
of opening the indictment.

1 Now you ses let go,' the man whined.
1 It's come to a nice thing if a respectable man
can't call upon his friends without some one
leaping' out upon him through the front door
like a painter. You just let go my 'air, or
it'll be worse for you.'

Jack did as he was bidden ; but he released
his hold upon the man's hair only to fasten it
upon his collar, which he found considerably
less greasy. There was a mistake somewhere,
it was clear. The man was not Dumfy, but
he might be an emissary of the fugitive, and
Jack was not going to sit up two nights for
nothing.

Well, as you were going to call, you might
as well come in. Here's Mrs. Dumfy, who
will perhaps be glad to see you.'

4 Oh, dear me, Brother Dyas ! ' said Mrs.

Dumfy, appearing on the scene, attracted by
the noise and the scuffling on the doorstep.
1 What's the matter ? Is it the water's got
through this time and swamped the chapel?
and me left my books there and best hassock.'

4 It's nothing to do with the chapel, Sister
Dumfy,' growled the harried deacon, inclined
to assume the offensive now there was a witness
at hand. ' This may be a respectable
house for all I know. But they ain't all
respectable people in it. Jumping' out on one
through the front door like a painter or a
dromedary ! ' he added, turning with a snarl
upon Jack.

Mrs. Dumfy, being somewhat at a loss to
understand the episode, had taken refuge in
tears, which she wiped away with her apron,
and then diligently wrung out imaginary
moisture from the corner.

1 Upon my honour I am sorry if there's
been a mistake anywhere,' said Jack, trying
hard not to laugh ; ' but you see, old fellow, if

you come prowling around here every night,
peering through keyhole, how am I to know
who you are ? '

How are you to know who I are ? '
Brother Dyas snarled. ' Well, to begin with,
I'm not Absalom to be caught by the 'air
in that way. What d'ye mean by yer " every
night," and yer "keyhole" — jumping out on
a innocent man like a boa-constrictor ? '

It is impossible with the limited sources
of type to convey any impression of the
withering tone of intermittent rage with which
Brother Dyas introduced these similitudes,
which were reminiscences of an Easter Monday
visit to the Zoological Gardens.

1 Dear ! dear ! Brother Dyas,' moaned Mrs.
Dumfy ; ' and I suppose you hadn't time to rub
your feet on the mat.'

They had now got into the parlour, and
Jack, having lit the gas, was trying to look
apologetically at the' infuriate deacon, in imminent
danger of further incensing him by

untimely laughter. Feeling now safe, and seeing
that Jack was not mad, and was inclined
to excuse himself, Brother Dyas fumed and
glared, every particular pimple on his face
ablaze with wrath.

Brush my feet on yer mat ! ' he cried,
turning angrily on the weeping widow, and
apparently finding much comfort in repenting
the last words addressed to him. ' Why, I
hadn't time to lift myself up after tying my
shoe before this 'ere young jackanapes jumped
out upon me like a tiger on his pray.'

4 Come, old man,' said Jack, ' don't bear
malice. You see if you will come at this
time of night to tie your shoe-strings on the
doorsteps of lone widows you mustn't be hard
on those who make mistakes.'

8 Mistake, was it ? ' Brother Dyas sneered.
1 Perhaps you'll find it a mistake that'll cost
you something' 'ot. I'll have the law on
yer. I'll have the question settled once for
all whether peaceful citizens is to go about

their regular business, paying visits to their
friends, and whether young stuck-up jackanapes
is to leap out upon them through
front doors like — like a painter,' Brother Dyas
added, after brief hesitation, and, feeling that
he had exhausted his stock of zoological
similes, going back for safety to the original
one.

1 Well, perhaps I'd better leave you,' said
Jack. 'You called to see Mrs. Dunify, and
here she is, a little damp about the cheeks,
but otherwise hearty. I hope you'll make
yourself comfortable in my room. Sorry I
haven't anything to offer you.'

8 Oh, you've offered me enough,' said
Brother Dyas, walking up to Jack and putting
his mottled face unpleasantly close. ' I've
seen enough of you for one night, and as
I've been made more free with than welcome
I'll go. Good night, Sister Dumfy. I did
come thinking to spend a quiet hour and a
half in conversation, ghostly and otherwise.

I may have got here a matter of a pork pie,'
Brother Dyas added viciously, jerking out into
full view a brown-paper parcel he had carried
in his left hand, and which had become a little
battered in the encounter on the steps. ' It
may be a pork pie or it may be a 'heap of
ruins. It's not usual, in this country at least,
for pork pies to be jumped out upon from front
doors like a kangaroo. It may be the thing
where kangaroos grow ; it's not the ticket
here, young man.'

'I don't quite know what it's all about,'
Mrs. Dumfy said, still wringing imaginary
moisture from the corner of her apron, 'but
I'm very sorry.'

6 Sorrel's neither here nor there. Sorrel
never mended a hole in yer coat, nor made
a pork pie entire once it 'ed been mashed.
I'll call again some other time, Mrs. Dumfy,
when you have treated your 'ouse like
the man who was possessed of a devil was
treated. He was turned out, young man,'

he said, turning fiercely upon Jack. ' I mention
of it because you may not know. Young
good-for-nothings, who pass their time in
jumping' out from front doors on innocent
passers by aren't likely to read the Book. I
bid you good-night, Sister Dumfy. Prays
I'll call again when you ask me, traps I
won't. And as for you, young man, if there's
lor to be had we'll see whether people as pay
their rates can't walk the streets o' night
without other people who traps aunt got any
rates to pay, nor money to pay 'em with,
springing out on them like the pelican of the
wilderness, smiling their 'air and mashing their
supper.'

With these few remarks Brother Dyas
strode forth angrily, tugging at his hair with
intent to bring it into something like order,
and carrying with him the wreck of the pie
which he had hoped to bring to light under
quite different circumstances.

Jack threw himself on the sofa and shrieked

VOL. III. R

with laughter, whilst Mrs. Dumfy continued to
weep, alternately bewailing the indignity done
to Brother Dyas, and the damage sustained from
his not having had time to use the door-mat.

As for Brother Dyas, he walked home in a
state of mind not wholly befitting a deacon.
There was more in this evening call and propitiatory
pork pie than met the eye. On the
day when he had visited the widow in her
affliction, self commissioned with Brother Selth
to break the news of Mr. Dumfy's shocking
death, there had occurred to him the
notion that he and she might, as he put it, sit
in the same pew.

He had quite an exaggerated conception of
the wealth of our dear brother departed. Mr.
Dumfy lived in his own house and had a few
hundreds in the bank, which certainly was well
for a man in his position, though perhaps not
too much for a man with his opportunities.
But, somehow or other, he had lived in the
odour of the sanctity of riches. He had always

been regarded as ' a warm man,' and Kehoboth
looked up to him accordingly.

Brother Dyas was conscious of uncertainty
as to the precise amount of his wealth. He
was not going to sell himself and his fine head
of hair for a trifle. He would worm out of
Sister Dumfy her precise position, and would
be guided accordingly.

He had opened the campaign at Eehoboth,
where he had overwhelmed the widow with
attentions. Now that Brother Dumfy was
gone, he permanently occupied the seat under
the pulpit, and more than once, in the eyes of
the whole congregation, had stepped down and
presented the open hymn-book to the widow to
save her the trouble of finding the place —

'A given' it just like a card from the
tailor's shop,' Miss Griffin, in the back pew,
had giggled.

He had looked after her comfort in other
ways. Only last Sunday night she had found
a cushion at the back of the pew, and had
p -2

reason to know, before she left, that it had
been placed there by the friendly hand of
Brother Dyas.

She was very grateful for these attentions ;
and when the senior deacon and agent for the
anonymous proprietor of the chapel had said
he would call upon her, she, with quite unusual
warmth, said she hoped he would.

Brother Dyas's opportunities of social intercourse
were bounded by the exigencies of
the shop. The establishment did not close
before eight o'clock in the summer time, and
up to the last moment Brother Dyas might
have been found outside with the circulars in
his hand, and every passer-by who looked
likely to want a pair of ready-made trousers
or a slop-coat had one affectionately pressed
upon him.

On the previous night he had been detained
beyond the usual time, and after
making his way. to Mrs. Dumfy's, and reconnoitring,
had come to the conclusion that

perhaps it was a little late to call, and had
quietly walked home by Fenton Street, without
the slightest idea of the excitement he had
created in Jack's mind.

To-night he had left at eight o clock sharp,
and had en route purchased the propitiatory
pork pie, intending to bring it out with the
ingratiatory manner with which he produced a
circular, and invite the widow to sup with him.
That would seem homely ; and shortly, perhaps,
when her heart was cheered by the highly
spiced meat, and her soul comforted with the
substantial pie-crust, she might be led to drop
a few words of desired information.

All this had been spoiled by ' this young
jackanapes, leaping out upon a person through
the door like a cammyleppard,' said Brother
Dyas angrily, as he stamped into his lonely
bedroom, and, opening the brown paper parcel,
anxiously endeavoured to rearrange the battered
pork pie.

CHAPTER XLVI.

THE SEARCH FOR THE WILL.

The Bijou residence in Fulham had been shut
up ever since the day when there was carried
out in a strong box all that was left of the
merry old gentleman. On that day in particular,
and for several days after, the quiet
street was peopled with a throng that came
and stood opposite the Bijou residence, and
stared at its dismal front. Many of those who
formed the crowd were evidently not bachelors
of fortune, and none of them had any apparent
intention of renting the house.

If it had occurred to them they would
doubtless have been ready to assume anxiety
to succeed the old gentleman in his tenancy,

enter the house, since that would have given
them the right to walk through its rooms, and
stand under the very ceiling that witnessed the
tragedy. ' Cards to view ' would have been
eagerly sought, supposing they had been
available.

But there was no present intention of re-letting
the house. Things were altogether ina
state of considerable confusion. If the old
gentleman could have settled the difficulty by
taking his riches with him (whithersoever he
had gone) it would have been some comfort.
As it was, it seemed that the Crown would be
benefited by the unremitted labours of the
Spider working from youth to age.

Gideon was the only relative; who in
ordinary circumstances (since there was every
reason to believe the old gentleman died intestate)
would have come in for the wealth.

But, as we know, Gideon was not in
ordinary 7 circumstances, but rather in Newgate,
and the day was drawing nigh when he too

should fare forth, and in some far-off country
father and son would meet once more.

The Solicitor to the Treasury had had the
full run of the old gentleman's papers and
possessions. He had looked for the will, not
in immediate connection with the trial, since
no point had been raised bearing upon the
document, but with the object of settling the
question of the Spider's intestacy, and the consequent
distribution of his wealth. He had
found nothing, had reported the old gentleman
as dying intestate ; and in due course, when
Gideon had been hurried off the scene, the
Crown would blandly step in and gracefully
appropriate everything.

Nevertheless, when urgent application was
made on behalf of the prisoner that his friends
might make a search, no objection was offered,
and no restriction put upon investigation,
beyond the passive presence of a Treasury
clerk.

1 Poof, how the place stinks ! ' said O'Brien,

as they entered the old gentleman's former
sanctum. ' I should fancy the windows have
not been opened for a year or two.'

They were promptly opened now, and the
unaccustomed air stealing in crept about the
dingy walls, along the floor, and up the
yawning chimney, where in times past slack
had been so lavishly burned. The grate was
rustier than ever, and the room dingier.
Nothing had been touched of the furniture.
There was the chair in which the old gentleman
had been found ; there the table, the inadequate
strip of carpet, the odd chair or two, and even
the pan that used to play so important a part
in the high revels of alternate Sabbath
evenings.

There, too, was the safe. The gold had
been taken out and lodged in the Bank of
England, together with a large bundle of banknotes
and a small hand barrow full of bills,
bonds, and scrip, representing the bulk of the
Spider's gatherings. What was left behind

in the capacious recesses were letters, account
books, and receipted accounts.

Of these last there were several huge files ;
the old gentleman whilst alive having had
a morbid terror of some one whom he had
once paid coming upon him with fresh demand.
Therefore he had stored written receipts
of everything, and filed them carefully.

The key produced by the Treasury clerk
worked easily enough in the lock of the safe.
It had been bent only at the bow in the desperate
struggle, of whatever nature it might
have been, that had apparently taken place
within view of the old gentleman as he sat in
his chair, with the gathering film of death beaten
back for the moment by a gleam of vindictive
triumph that had seemed to rest upon his face
when we first found him in the hon£ night
through which he sat and slept, and nevermore
awakened.

The heavy door swung back, and there
before them were the papers.

If no one minds,' said O'Brien, ' I'll smoke
a cigar. It's a wholesome smell than would
be found in this musty old room.'

Do, by all means,' said Mr. Tandy, quite
eagerly. He didn't smoke himself, nor, as a
rule, welcome the perfume of tobacco. But
anything would be better than this musty
smell. It was horribly like being in a tomb.

They took the papers, bundle after bundle,
and searched as if they were seeking a string
of pearls. Here were letters written in faded
handwriting, some of which O'Brien thought
he knew. There were all kinds of handwriting,
chiefly bad, with a tendency to schoolboy style
of forming the letters.

One peculiarity common to them was that
the writers were in a general tone of buoyancy.
Things had been looking a little black lately.
They had had a rough time ; but it was
all over now. In a week, a fortnight, in three
weeks, if good Mr. Gideonss would either give
them time or (in some cases the prayer ran)

hand over another fifty, or one hundred, or
five hundred pounds, they would be able to
repay to the uttermost farthing with suitable
interest.

Neither Mr. Tandy nor O'Brien read these
letters, but they opened each one, looking for
inclosures or even for writing on the fly-leaf.
O'Brien knew the Spider's habitude
with respect to stationery. It was his boast
that, with the exception of envelopes, he had
not paid a penny for stationery for thirty
years. He had many letters, and took toll
of most. If people were so foolish as to take
a whole sheet of notepaper when half would
suit their purpose, the other sheet was certainly
meant for gentlemen like the Spider.

Whether it was or not, he tore off the
fly-sheet, or, if there were only half a sheet,
that was carefully cut off as near to the last
line of writing as possible and the unused part
carefully put away.

Besides this there was a world of wealth

in envelopes. Cut open the flaps at the
sides, and there you are with a sheet of clean
paper on which any ordinary letter might be
written, or any series of memoranda or calculations
made. Of late years the Spider's correspondence
had considerably fallen off. But
fly-sheets and envelopes increasing out of proportion
to his letter-writing, the searchers found
quite a heap, on which they eagerly pounced.

They knew w r ell enough that if a will was
to be found it would not present itself on lordly
foolscap, written in clerkly hand. The Spider
would be his own legal adviser in the matter,
his own clerk, everything but his own witness,
and what he would draw the will upon
would certainly be one of these fly-sheets or
envelopes.

Hitherto, Mr. Tandy and O'Brien had
worked by taking a bundle and going through
it individually. The sight of this heap excited
such high hopes, and was deemed so
important, that they devoted their joint energies

to its investigation. Mr. Tandy had the
bundle before him, and, taking up the sheets
one by one, looked at them back and front,
and handed them to O'Brien, who made a new
examination and then rebuilt the pile.

This was excessive care and some trouble
that might perhaps have been dispensed with.
But they felt that this was a last chance. After
these papers there remained nothing but the
files of paid bills, milk accounts, the baker's
bills, and dealings with the coal merchant.
So they made their way manfully through
the heap of fly-sheets and envelopes.

They were all blank, except that one or
two had a rough drawing of some of the
Spider's mechanical contrivances for keeping
out robbers.

'There's nothing here,' said Mr. Tandy,
ruefully. ' I don't know whether there is any
secret drawer in the safe.'

It's like enough, and I think we should
have it taken to pieces or tapped by an expert.

It's not proper to say anything but good of
the dead, but I'm bound to say that if old
Israel Gideonss had his choice of doing a thing
secretly and doing it openly, it would not be
done openly.'

There's nothing here but household bills,'
Mr. Tandy continued, taking up one of the
huge piles of bills and regarding it hopelessly,
and I don't know whether it's worth while
going through them.'

I think we should,' O'Brien said ; ' it's a
matter of life or death, and it would be some
satisfaction to us to know that we have left no
stone unturned. I'd always be thinking that
the will was stuck on one of these files if we
didn't go through them. Let's take one apiece ;
we'll soon get it done.'

They sat down at the table and went
steadily through the accounts, for the most part
dirty little bits of paper, being receipts for
twopence for a week's milk, up to 3s. 3d. for a
wholesale importation of slack.

Hallo ! ' cried O'Brien, taking off the file
a large sheet of paper with items fully set
forth and added up on the last page. ' Here's
a whopper ! The old gentleman's been going
it this time. Total, 20/. 3s. Ad. This can't befor
milk or even for slack. What's ail this
about : " 24a Walworth Eoad, September 20,
1878, Israel Gideonss, Esq., debtor to J.
Gorringe. To cutting out floor in front room,
self one day and three hours ; to fixing ironwork
as per contract ; to taking off door of
safe and adjusting springs ; to bricking up
cellar door." '

These read rapidly aloud by O'Brien were
just the heads of which innumerable details
were set forth, down to the price of two dozen
3-inch screws. The account had evidently
been gone through with great care. Each
item had been ticked off, the pen had been run
through one or two, and in some cases the
amount charged had been reduced by a few
pence or a shilling. Mr. Tandy and O'Brien

read it through together, and when they had
finished instinctively turned to look at the safe
and at the floor before it.

So far as they could see, there was nothing
that had any connection with this honest tradesman's
account. The safe reposed within a recess
made in the wall and peacefully projected a
few inches. There was no sign of the cutting
out for which Mr. Gorringe had charged.

Nevertheless, there was borne in upon them
a strong conviction that since the bill had been
paid the cutting out had certainly been done.
Israel Gideonss had some of the failings common
to human nature ; but to pay for work that had
not been accomplished was not one of them.

This is a very curious affair,' said Mr.
Tandy, drawing his chair a little further from
the safe.

1 Very,' said O'Brien, getting up and walking
over towards the safe.

Don't you think you had better be careful
? ' said Mr. Tandy.

VOL. III. S

Not more now than hitherto,' O'Brien
answered, going down on his knees and carefully
examining the floor. * Here it is ! ' he
shouted, tracing a line running out from the
wall a distance of five feet, then running
parallel with the safe and back again at right
angles to the wall.

Mr. Gorringe had done his work with great
skill. So neatly was the floor sawn across that
in the dim light that usually pervaded the
room no casual caller would have noticed it.
Lengthwise the division of a plank had been
taken advantage of, and here of course discovery
was still less likely.

6 We must find this man,' O'Brien said,
'and get to the bottom of this mystery. If
you don't mind we'll go at once.'

CHAPTER XLVII.

MR. Porridge, JOINER AND UNDERTAKER.

It is a far cry from Fulham to the Walworth
Boat, but Captain O'Brien and Mr. Tandy
rapidly bowled across in a hansom, and fortunately
arrived just as Mr. Gorringe was wiping
his lips on the back of his hand after his one
o'clock dinner, and was inclined to take a
cheerful view of life.

One curious result on Mr. Gorringe's mental
constitution of the absorption of food and a
midday pint of beer was that, whilst they
soothed him and made him to all appearances
genial and friendly towards mankind, they also
made him exceedingly suspicious. He was not
accustomed to have two gentlemen call upon
him in a hansom, which they kept waiting

s 2

at the door regardless of cost. If they wanted
a job done in the joining way, that was
clear and straightforward. But he had at
once ascertained that that was not their
purpose.

The more they thought the matter over
the more sure they were that this trapdoor
covered some horrible mystery, and there
was some look of this in their eyes and
in their manner as they confronted Mr.
Gorringe.

We've come to see you on important
business, Mr. Gorringe,' said Mr. Tandy, in
his solemnise manner.

Is it a coffin ? ' Mr. Gorringe inquired,
drawing a bow at a venture.

He did a little in the undertaking line, and
was accustomed to be called on suddenly.

'No, it's not anything in the line of your
work, though it's on a matter of business in
which you are concerned, and of which I am
sure you will tell us all you know.'

1 Well, gentlemen, if it's not in my line of
work traps ye'll call agen some day when
I'm out. I live by my work, you know,
and time's precious ; a shilling a hour is the
nett valley of my time.'

'You shall have half a crown an hour as
long as we keep you,' said O'Brien, impulsively.


This was a bad shot, having the effect
of greatly increasing Mr. Gorringe's suspicion
that the strangers were after no good. People
who didn't want work done, and paid half a
crown an hour for it, could scarcely be engaged
on a lawful undertaking.

It might be body-snatches, Mr. Gorringe
thought ; in which case, he added emphatically,
they had come to the wrong shop.

'Well, gentlemen, I'll tell you plain. I
don't know anything about it, whatever it is ;
and if you don't mind, as it's gone one o'clock,
I'll go after it.'

1 Come, Mr. Gorringe,' said Mr. Tandy,

we're not going to eat you or ask you to
eat any one else. You knew Mr. Israel
Gideonss ? '

Yes,' said Mr. Gorringe, drawing himself
up stiffly ; ' I once snowed a person of that
name, and a were hard person he were to
deal with ; so were hard that I don't want
to have anything more to do with him.
Thanking him for part sawyers, I decline todo
any more.' •

1 Well, it's not likely you will. Of course
you know he's dead ? '

That's just where you're wrong. I've
had no dealings with him for a matter of
four 'ears, and never learn or seed him since
he took one pound two shillings and fourpence
off a bill he'd already hammered down
till, as you might say, its head was drum clean
into the plank.'

1 Here's the bill,' said Mr. Tandy, producing
the document. 'It seems a very moderate
charge before anything was taken off.'

c Now you have it there,' said Mr. Gorringe,
warming a little towards a gentleman of such
sound views, * I kin tell you when I'd paid
my 'bus fare from the Elephant to the top of
Sloane Street and back, I lost more nor made
anything out of his business. He screwed me
down orful.'

1 Well, he's dead now, and, I may say,
screwed down himself. I wonder you have
not read of it. The Fulham Murder has been
in everybody's mouth for weeks.'

1 It may 'a been, sir, but it never passed
my lips. I've no time to read papers. I never
got a shilling' a hour out of them.'

It's this murder we came to talk about,
Mr. Gorringe ; and I'll tell you at once you'll
be well rewarded if you can give any information.'


Thanks for the reward ! ' said Mr. Porridge,
sarcastically. 'Seeing I didn't know
there was a murder, I couldn't were well lay
my hand on the man as did it. That's fair and

straight, ain't it, mister ? ' he said, turning to
O'Brien.

Quite fair, Mr. Gorringe ; still you can
help us, I expect. It's about this work you
did for Mr. Gideonss. I'm afraid we're keeping
you from your work ; and, if you'll allow me,
I'll just give you this sovereign to pay in
advance for any loss of time. That's nothing
to what will be due to you if you can help us
to clear up this fearful mystery.'

Mr. Gorringe looked at the sovereign with
glistening eye, and further tested its genuineness
between his iron-bound fingers. There
was no doubt it was all right, and was good for
twenty hours of his time. Certainly he would
not be out of it if he gave them one hour just
to see what their game was.

Take a cheer, gentlemen, take a cheer,' he
said, diligently dusting with the corner of his
apron the rush-bottomed chairs. ' Now if I
can till you any think as I knows you're were
welkin to it. Nothing can be fairer than that,

can it, mister ? ' he added, turning with a fresh
appeal to Captain O'Brien, whom he had come
to regard rather as a disinterested looker-on in
an encounter between Mr. Tandy and himself —
a looker-on, moreover, who paid a man twenty
hours' time in advance.

1 Nothing, Mr. Gorringe, nothing at all.
We mean fair to you, and all we want to
know is how you came to do this sawing out
of floors and building up of doors for Mr.
Gideonss.'

4 Well, sir, it came about in an orrery sort
of way. The old gentleman was always pottering
around with little things, and before I setup
for myself I was a journeyman for Messrs.
Parsons, who did odd jobs for him. In fact,
it was the old gentleman who set me adrift,
for he got me to do his work on my own
account, thinking it would come cheaper,
which it did. The Messrs. Parsons got wind
of this, and told me to pack off. After that I
was often with him ; eighteen a hour he

paid me, and if there was any odd pence
in the bill he always knocked 'em off. One
day he told me he had a big job on hand.
It was to get his safe set in the wall. I didn't
do the brickwork, but I took the measurements,
and got some man as did it cheap for
him.'

4 Did he say what it was for ? '

1 He told me that he had a lot of papers
as was allays accoomelatin'. They filled up
the safe, and it had to be cleared out regularly.
What he wanted was a room underneath,
where he could drop them and keep them
moderately snug. They were worth nothing
to anybody but the owner, he said, and not
much to him neither. He drawer out the
plan. I sawed out a trapdoor, which let
down into a sort of pantry underneath. I
made the ceiling good, bricked up the doorway
and all but a bit of a winder that gev out
into another cellar that ruined under the room
towards the street, and there you was. None

could get into this place from the outside,
and I don't know as any one could get out
of it from the inside, unless he was kindly
helped from above. It was a deal of trouble
to take for storing old papers, I said to the
old gentleman ; but he said it amused him, and
he'd nothing to do with his time, being retired
like, and was alius fond of pottering round
with meckynisims.'

c How did the trap door open ? '
1 He had a beautiful arrangement that he
invented himself. You could set the trapdoor
so that a army might march over it and
nothing' happen. But if you turned the key
after he'd set the spring in some way which
he did himself, down went the trap-door, and
you with it. Otherwise, when the safe was
locked in the orrery way you might stand
there as firm as a rock.'

1 How could he work it without tumbling
in himself?' Mr. Tandy asked, falling naturally
into the cross examining style.

1 Oh, you trust the old gentleman for that
said Mr. Gorringe, winking. 'He'd get a
piece of board laid across on two chairs,
like a piece of scaffolding. Then he set
the spring, opened the door, and down went
the trap like a shot, and, brought back
by another spring, closed up with a snap,
and there it were as innocent as a bit of
honest planking. " Ain't it were dangerous ? "
I said to him, when he showed me how it
worked.' "Were dangerous," says the old
gentleman with what passed with himself
for a smile, " were dangerous indeed, Mr.
Gorringe, to any gentleman as might open
this safe without saying by yer leave. If
you was to come here in the night, Mr.
Gorringe," he says, "and open this safe to
look for anything, I'd know where to find
you in the morning." I can just see the
old gentleman now,' said Mr. Gorringe,
closing his eyes meditatively, * grinning at me
and really looking as if he would like to hear

the click of the trap and know I'd gone down.
He was a were merry old gentleman, though
ard as nails in money matters.'

And where was the spring to be set ? '
O'Brien asked. ' Was it inside, or outside ? '

Ah ! there you have me. That's jest what
he wouldn't let on to me. He was were
careful to show me how the thing worked.
I was the only chap he ever had about the
house, and I think he was not sorry for me
to know what would happen to me if I went
wrong. I says to him, just in fun like, " If I
was to come and open the safe at night, I'd
put a plank across two chairs like you've done."
The way he larded was fit to tumble off the
plank, and I'm quite sure he'd got some other
dodge to meet the case. He never said a
word, but only larded fit to kill himself. I
think he thought I'd do it, and drawer me
on with his planks and chairs, though except'
perhaps in the little matter of working on my
own account with one of Messrs. Parsons's

customers, I'm a honest man, and he drawer
me into that. As to the spring, I leave it
was somewheres on the inside, leastways I
have seen him fumbling there afore he opened
it. But, lor bless yer, he was that cunning it
was never safe to leave your own eyes when
yer saw him do anything.'

'Mr. Gorringe, I told you just now we
shouldn't want any work from you. I think
we shall. You bricked up the doorway?'

4 Well, to tell the truth, sir, it won't me
exactly. It was a bricklayer's 'prentice I
got in.'

4 Well, you know where it was, and can
take it down again?'

4 Yes, sir, I could do that ; but it's a long
way to Fulham.'

4 That will be all right, Mr. Gorringe. As
I told you before, you'll be well paid.'

4 We can't start to-day, O'Brien,' Mr. Tandy
said : 4 we'll have to get permission, and we'll of
course want somebody from the Home Office to

see this thing done. Will you be at Fulham at
ten o'clock in the morning, Mr. Gorringe ?
Bring whatever is necessary for breaking open
this doorway, and bring help if you like.'

4 You may rely on me sir,' said Mr. Gorringe.
I'm were busy, but when work's well paid for
it must be done.'

Chapter Xlvii

THE SKELETON IN THE SPIDER'S CUPBOARD.

Mr. Tandy and Captain O'Brien were punctual
to their engagement at the bijou residence, having
in the meantime obtained the necessary authority
to break through the doorway. Mr.
Gorringe was also punctual, accompanied by a
small boy of some thirteen summers, with respect
to whom O'Brien had a suspicion (which
proved to be well founded) that he meant to
charge his time by the hour at full price.

8 Ah,' said Mr. Gorringe, looking down with
pardonable pride at the trap-door, ' though I
says it as shouldn't, it's not a easy thing to
sor through a oak floor, and not leave the
splitting o' a hair in the wood.'

There was a decided tendency on the part
of the company to keep clear of the trap-door.
Even O'Brien, who had reasoned with himself
that it was no more dangerous now than it had
been during the previous stages of the inquiry
when he and Mr. Tandy had stood upon it at
the same moment, did not think the trouble of
making a slight detour too much in order to
avoid stepping on this particular spot.

Mr. Gorringe, who was totally unaffected by
the dread which weighed down his companions,
cheerfully led the way downstairs. He was in
no particular hurry. To be paid at the rate of
half a crown an hour was an unaccustomed
interposition of Providence, and it was not for
him to show himself ungrateful by hastily getting
through the time.

The staircase apparently led directly into a
cellar which ran underneath the dining-room
and gathered some dim light from a grating in
the street. Coming down from the upper room,
it seemed almost dark in the cellar. But each

VOL. III. T

man carried a candle, and when their eyes grew
accustomed to the place they could make out
some of its bearings.

'There you are, gentlemen ! ' said Mr.
Gorringe, waving his candle towards the upper
part of the cellar wall facing the grating at
the end nearer the stairs. ' There you are,'
he repeated, as if they were at a panorama and
he were pointing out objects of special interest.
You'll see a little patch o' whitewash there a
bit darker 'n the rest. That's where the windy
was as my mate bricked up, and the whitewash,
being put on immediately after, turned a little
black over the new place. There's a four-inch
grating to let in the air so as not to have the
papers musty, but it don't come to much.
And here he continued, with fuller throated
pride, having saved the greatest marvel for the
last, ' here's the door as we bricked up, leastways,
there it were afore we bricked it.'

The bricked-up door was now part of the
wall which, with the stairs on the other side,

formed a passage running into the cellar. The
cellar had a door of its own. The smaller room
had probably originally been a scullion's pantry,
and, so far as they could judge from the run of
the wall and the position of the window that
had looked into the cellar, it was about eight
feet long and four feet wide.

That's what I calls a pretty strong safe
fault,' said Mr. Gorringe, looking at it with an
air of proud proprietorship. ' It would 'old a
good many papers too, and you can see nobody
could get at them were well from the outside.'

Get to work, Mr. Gorringe,' said O'Brien,
and let's have this horrible suspense over.'

1 All in good time, sir,' said Mr. Gorringe,
deliberately divesting himself of his coat and
turning up his shirt-sleeves, an example gravely
imitated by the small boy, who also, and with
equal gravity, rolled up his sleeves.

Mr. Gorringe had brought with him a
chisel and a crowbar, with which he set to
work with such skill that in half an hour het

2

had made a considerable hole in the wall and
the door behind was clearly visible.

The bricks were of course only single, and
once a hole was made the doorway was soon
disclosed to full view.

There's a good business made o' that,' said
Mr. Gorringe, ' and a drop o' hale wouldn't be
amiss wi' a dusty job like this.'

Never mind the beer just now,' said
O'Brien : ' you shall have a good pull when we
get the work finished. Down with the door.'

That's easier said nor done. This is a good
oak door, and I well recollect the old genie -
man locking it and taking away the key. " It
won't be wanted again," he said, harding to
himself. It's a different thing putting your
thumb on the latch, or turning a handle and
opening a door, to breaking it down with a
crowbar. That's fair, ain't it, mister ? ' said Mr.
Gorringe, turning to the young gentleman from
the Home Office, who was not quite certain that
the calls of duty, combined with a natural

interest in this ramification of a famous tragedy,
altogether compensated for the necessity of
holding a tallow candle in a damp vault with
dust and dirt and bits of brick flying about.

It was clear Mr. Gorringe would work
better with a can of beer near him ; so the
small boy was despatched for it, and Mr.
Gorringe, restored to good humour, applied
himself to the door.

O'Brien, placing his candle on the stairs,
lent a hand with the crowbar. The door began
to sway under the influence of the two powerful
men. A better hold was got by the lever,
and with a strong pull the lock gave way and
the door moved backwards, but slowly, as if a
sack of flour were propped against it.

1 1 expect it's chock full of papers,' said Mr.
Gorringe ; ' they don't smell very sweet neither.
There's nothing at this end anyhow,' he continued,
peering in. ' I reckon they're all piled
up behind the door.

As Mr. Gorringe held the candle at arm's

length inside the partly opened door, O'Brien
saw something which, combined with the excitement
of the morning and the horrible
odour of the place, turned him sick. He
leaned against the staircase and felt that he
was going to faint.

The clerk from the Home Office had already
retired from the scene, and was taking his
observations from the top of the stairs in a
comparatively pure atmosphere. Mr. Tandy,
who had not seen what had caught O'Brien's eye,
was agitated, but bore up better against the
influences of the place than might have been
expected.

At this moment the lad returned with a
can of beer, and O'Brien seized it, regardless of
the reproachful glance cast upon him by Mr.
Gorringe. He felt better after he had
moistened his throat with beer, and pulled himself
together to go through with the work.

'It's a body that's lying across the doorway,'
he said in a whisper ; ' look there ! '

O'Brien had taken up his candle and again
held it so that its light was thrown within the
cellar.

Mr. Tandy saw a man's foot. It was heel
uppermost, and the man was evidently lying on
his face behind the door.

4 This ain't papers,' said Mr. Porridge in an
awed voice. * This 'ere's worse 'n papers, and
it's a sort o' job I don't like to be in.'

We're in it now and must get out of it,'
O'Brien answered sharply.

He would rather Gorringe had undertaken
the task, but since he shrank from it
O'Brien put his shoulder to the door, and,
slowly forcing it back against the dull weight
that lay against it, made his way in.

There was a man there sure enough, lying
on his face. He seemed to have used his last
strength to crawl to the delusive doorway, and
had died with his mouth down to the bottom of
the framework of the door, hoping to suck in fresh
air, and not knowing of the brickwork outside.

The other two followed O'Brien into the
charnel-house. They turned the body over,
O'Brien and Mr. Tandy fearing what the
action should disclose.

An almost fleshless face, skinny hands, and
a shrunken body that ill-fitted the clothes was
what they beheld by the dim light of the candle.
But there was no doubt of the man.

It was Dumfy.

He had a scar on his forehead, where he
had struck the floor in falling through the
trap-door. Also, as later and more careful
examination showed, the palm of his right
hand was torn where he had held on for a
dreadful moment to the key in the safe. His
coat was open, and a piece of the left lappet was
torn off.

Mr. Tandy and O'Brien knew where the
fragment was.

Close by him lay the remains of a black
leather bag. Nearly half of it was apparently
gnawed with teeth.

1 Eats,' said O'Brien with a shudder.

'Ne'er a rat in this cellar,' said Mr.
Gorringe. ' It was all cemented round and
made proof against that sort of thing. The
bag's nearly gone, but the chap's eat it
himself.'

This was not a place to linger in, but rather
to get out of post-haste into what seemed the
deliciously fresh air through which the sun was
shining on London. The clerk from the
Home Office had no desire to make nearer
inquest. He had heard everything from the
top of the stairs, and was quite content to base
his report thereon. Nobody wanted to stay in
the house.

So the four grave men and the scared boy
made haste to quit it, locking in the sole tenant,
who lay on his back staring up with lack-lustre
eyes at the treacherous trap-door through
which he had descended into his living tomb.

There was no doubt about its being Dumfy.
Beyond the likeness, still plainly apparent, to

his former self — a weird likeness such as a
skeleton might bear to a living man — he carried
about him abundant testimony of his identity.
There were letters addressed to him, and in his
own handwriting a list of the hymns and tunes
he had given out at his last service at Keho-
both. There was also his season ticket between
London and Coldharbour Junction.

How he came there must for ever remain
matter of conjecture. It is probable that when
he stole away from the vestry to catch the train
back to Saxton he had not meant deliberately
to murder or even rob, though the idea of
suddenly coming into possession of some of the
riches he knew the safe contained may from
time to time have assailed him as he sat at the
old gentleman's banqueting table. It was
strange, too, that on this particular night he
should have carried with him this deep black
bag conveniently full of emptiness.

It was certain he had gone straight to the
station, taken his seat in the train, and in

Who knows with what battling of soul he
sat there clutching his empty black bag, perhaps
wishing the train would start a minute or two
before its time, and so deliver him from evil ?
But the train must keep its time, and Dumfy,
leaving the carriage to carry on his self wrestling
whilst walking on the platform, must have
yielded at the critical moment when the whistle
sounded.

He might have jumped in even then. But
he did not, the train steamed out of the station,
and the way was clear to Fulham.

Perhaps none of these things happened.
Possibly, if we prefer to take the blacker side
which conjecture leaves open, Dumfy had
planned the whole thing, and his taking the
seat in the train and leaving his umbrella there
may have been part of some cunning scheme to
cover, if necessary, his disappearance after the
commission of the crime. But he could not

have foretold the accident to the train, and no
useful purpose that one can see would have
been served by the appearance at Coldharbour
Junction of his powerless umbrella.

However this may have been, it is certain
that Dumfy would easily have found admittance
to the bijou residence. He was, indeed,
expected, a circumstance which adds some
colour to the theory of deliberate design in
what followed. The old gentleman had his
savoury supper set, and on the table the knife
which, if not specially made to do murder, did
it with uncommon neatness and despatch.

Dumfy evidently lost very little time after
his arrival. He would see that the key was in
the safe, and that with the old man out of the
way all his possessions would be his.

A careless playing with the handle of the
knife ; a firm grasp suddenly closed over it ;
a swift upraising of the arm ; a deadly well-aimed
blow, and the work was done. Except
that the old man, stricken to death, reached

out his hand and with convulsive grip seized
the murderer by the coat, and Dumfy struggling
with him to get free, holding him back
in the chair with one hand whilst he tore at
his wrist with the other, left behind him the
silent testimony of the desperate deed.

Here again Dumfy was greatly helped by
accident, and had it not been for the trap door
would have got clear away with his booty.
He had put on Gideon's coat, not with any special
reference to the night's work, but because
he often borrowed his master's plumes when
going out upon state occasions. Gideon had
so many clothes he would never miss an odd
coat, and, as he came quite near enough to
Dumfy 's size, that gentleman had for years
availed himself of the happy coincidence.

When Dumfy got free from the dying man
he evidently ran straight for the safe, at which
sight the bitterness of death for Israel Gideonss
was tinged with a malignant joy. He had been
inclined to make use of Mr. Dumfy for his own

petty purposes. But he knew him thoroughly,
much better than did Gideon, with all his capacity
for swiftly judging men. He knew his crafty,
mean disposition, and knew by intuition that
he was robbing Gideon. He made the one
mistake of thinking that Dumfy 's capacity for
crime did not go beyond pettifogging proportions.


He did not think he would dare to rob a
safe, much less slay a man.

Still it was no good having a contrivance at
hand if you didn't use it. Consequently, whenever
Dumfy was expected, the Spider arranged
his infernal web to catch him, should he ever
trip with guilty intent in the direction of the
safe. The old gentleman, in pursuance of his
merry humour, had more than once left the
room and stayed away as long as ten minutes,
whilst Mr. Dumfy was there with the key in the
safe and the springs set.

He thought the temptation might be too
much for him — to be within arm's length of

heaps of gold, only to turn a key, thrust in a
hand, and quietly resume his seat before an
unsuspecting old gentleman was back !

On these occasions Mr. Dumfy had sat with
lips literally watering and his eyes greedily
fixed upon the safe. He would certainly have
fallen into the trap but for a strong suspicion
that at that very moment, from some unseen
aperture, the old gentleman was watching him.
It was a prevailing quality of the atmosphere
breathed by the Spider, that whilst he suspected
everybody of mean dishonest designs, he was
himself constantly the object of similar suspicion.


As a fact, he was not watching but listening
for the click which would show that the trapdoor
had fallen and closed over his guest engulfed
in terror and darkness. He had meant
nothing worse than to go in, cry aloud his
marvel at Air. Dumfy *s disappearance, spend an
hour or two in the room, then ostentatiously
make preparations for retiring to bed, and finally,

at the last moment, when he expected Dumfy
would be half dead with fright from the shock
of the fall and with terror at the prospect of
being left there all night, he would have opened
the door and tenderly helped him out with
many protestations of surprise and regret.

That was a little comedy he had often rehearsed
when alone, and hoped some night to
enjoy. Now, with the chill of death stealing
over him, and his heart's blood pouring out
from the wound in his breast, he saw the
comedy turn into direst tragedy.

He knew what would happen, hungrily
looked for it, and died with Dumpy's shriek
ringing in his ear as the wretched man disappeared
from human ken.

The heavens that bend over London look
down on many strange tragedies. But surely
on this quiet Sabbath night there was none
more weird than that closed in by the roof of
this bijou residence, in a little street off the old
Fulham highway.

In a chair in the room above, the old man
dead, with the firelight playing around him.
In the room beneath, the living man rushing
madly around and around the walls of his tomb,
ever returning to the door which seemed so
easy for despair to break open.

They kept each other company, we know,
for nearly a week, with only the drawing-room
floor between them. At what time, before or
after, Durnfy lay his head on the stone floor
by the doorway, and found surcease of hunger
and of worse pain, we do not know, nor is it
profitable to conjecture.

VOL. III.

Chapter XLIX

A LAND WHERE IT IS ALWAYS Afternoon

Summer had come to Saxton, and the little
town, the level sea, and the green country were
steeped in its warmth, and colour, and light.
On an afternoon like this, which would have
been sultry but for the breeze, born in the
Atlantic, which came rustling up the Channel
just rippling the waves, Saxton was more than
usually quiet. No one seemed to have any
particular business on hand ; or if they had,
with one consent they had deferred its accomplishment
till the cool of the evening.

Mr. Tandy's house was on the shady side of
the street as the shadows fell after noon, and
Knut lay in the open doorway with his head

on his paws, his mouth open, showing a row of
teeth gentle in love but terrible in war, and his
eyes blinking at the sunlight on the panes
opposite.

When he had first come out to lie here and
wait for his mistress, he had been betrayed into
some snapping at the flies that chased around
or walked within provoking distance of his
nose. It was too hot to indulge in violent
exercise, and the efforts made were not successful.
If the weather had been cooler the flies
would have circled round Knut at their peril.
But then in cooler weather there were no flies,
or none to speak of.

This, to Knut's mind, seemed a curious oversight
on the part of Nature, and provided him
with food for reflection as he lay watching the
flies with one eye and taking in with all his
mouth whatever air was stirring. Knut might
well have been accepted as an emblem of Saxton
as he lay in the doorway, so as to be ready for
Napper when she came out. Full of peace
t; 2

and quietness was Knut. But within his shaggy
breast lurked possibilities of being deeply stirred,
just as this quiet little town with its red roofs
fronting the sea had lately shown that it, too,
might have its tragedies and its moving scenes.
Whatever of life beat within the parliamentary
boundaries of Saxton was just now down
on the beach. It was August, and Saxton's
high ' season.' Year by year as the golden
month came round an average of twenty
people sought relaxation and recreation at
Saxton. Then were a few more novels of
soothing influence got in at the circulating
library. Then did the wine merchant issue
his circulars — ' Good sound claret, 1 4s. a dozen ;
champagne, light and dry, 2s. 9d. a bottle ' —
and then was Tom Trades (formerly in the
employ of Mr. Griggs, but discharged during
the excitement preceding the general election)
sent round with a circular addressed to each
occupant of the lodging-houses on The Terrace.
Then did the butcher kill the fatted calf. Then

did the fishmonger send to London for an extra
supply of fish, probably caught, in the first
instance, within sight of the church tower.
Then did the green grocer, in his most charming
of shops — where you tumbled down a secret
step on entering, and on rising bumped your
head against the ceiling — get in a fresh store of
fruit and vegetables that filled the air with fragrance,
and invested the buying of a cucumber
with an added grace.

Last year, when the turmoil of the election
was near at hand, the visitors had been somewhat
neglected, and ' the season ' had failed to
send through the town that flutter of excitement
that even reached the church on the hill, where
the curates knew they would have one or two
people from London to hear them twitter from
their safe nest in the pulpit, and peradventure
would find an extra shilling or half-crown in the
box, when, twice a day, it went round in search
of what were humorously called ' offerings ' ;
meaning takings.

But this year things were different. Saxton
had had its election and something more.
After Gideon had been carried off to London and
Castle Fleyce had been placed in charge of the
gardener and his wife, a terrible reaction had
set in. The combination of excitement had
been too much for Saxton, and, acting in conjunction
with the bitter disappointment attending
the non-distribution of expected, and even
discounted, tokens of the candidate's regard,
something like a feeling of torpor born of
utter weariness had fallen upon the place.

The world had long been accustomed to
forget it. It had suddenly remembered it with
a vengeance, and now, if Saxton could be left to
go on its old sleepy way it felt it would be well.

This feeling had lasted a couple of months.
Then, as ' the season ' approached, public spirit
began to revive. The arrival of the first visitor
was enthusiastically hailed, and those preparations
hinted at above were zealously undertaken.


The strangers from town on the beach
were just now steeped in the indolent languor
that follows upon unaccustomed sea-bathing.
When they had bathed there was nothing else
to do. There was no pier at Saxton. No
nigger band had ever made the sea round the
red tiled town laugh with their subtle humour, or
had caused the sweet strong air to vibrate with
their melodies. There was nothing particular
to do except sit and stare at the English
Channel, as 'stout Cortez, when with eagle eyes,

He stared at the Pacific, and all his men
Look'd at each other with a wild surmise,
Silent, upon a peak in Darien.'

Fortunately in these circumstances there
was only one bathing-machine. This vehicle
might be said to be the life and soul of fashionable
existence at Saxton. Around this clumsy
and colossal contrivance hurtled as much of
human passion as if it were Constantinople or
Schleswig-Holstein. Who got it first, and who
third, and — deepest dolour — who twentieth, was

at Saxton the question of the day or at least of
the afternoon. By what wiles, devices, and
strategy precedence was obtained, with what
Hashes of courtesy precedence was sometimes
concluded, were matters which had a tendency
prematurely to age Mrs. Barking, who had
charge of the machine.

But their development made the time pass
pleasantly and with abundant interest in the
full height of ' the season.'

To the 'Longshore men ' the season ' was the
great feast of the year. The ship never came
in, though daily and hourly looked for with
keen eyes and most patient attitude. It
always sailed past Saxton outward-bound, with
brightly painted hull and rigging all taut, or
homeward-bound, weather-stained and a little
ragged aloft. But August never failed to come
round. Sometimes, it is true, it was a little wet ;
but then it was safe and certain.

Everything was to be done when * the
season ' came. Arrears of rent were to be

paid, the little bill at the butcher's was to be
met, and the larger account scored up in the
slate ledger at the Dog and Duck was to be
wiped off. Then brawny arms would be bared
and stalwart frames bent to labour. In view of
which prospect it was clearly necessary in the
meantime to take abundant rest.

8 One month shalt thou labour and through
eleven months loaf was written in the Decalogue
of the 'Longshore men.

June was quite a bustling month for them,
for sometimes strangers came straggling down
in July. In anticipation of that event the
boats were dragged lower down on the beach,
caulked and tarred. In July they were
launched, and a month was usefully employed
in getting them watertight. They had a wonderful
way of leaking, to the discomfort of the
July visitors.

It is a beetle wet, to be sure,' said Eound
Tommy to Captain O'Brien and his companion,
whom he was rowing out. not too swiftly, ove

the main in the solemn summer night. ' But
what there's of it's in the stern.'

Exactly. That's what I complain of,' said
O'Brien, who was anxious, not for himself, but
for his companion.

They — he and she — had been walking on the
beach and had seen, a mile out at sea, a vessel
at anchor with its ghostly yards tapering to the
sky. Napper had felt a great yearning to be
somewhere near the silent ship, and O'Brien had
straightway gone off to the Dog and Duck,
almost rolled Bound Tommy out as if he had
been an empty tub — which he was not, being in
fact considerably more than half full — brought
him down to the beach, and with his own
hands had done more than half the work in
launching the ' Seraph, of Saxton.'

They had lifted Napper in, and off they
went along the silver path which the moonbeams
made, and which led straight out to the
silent, motionless ship.

Napper knew nothing about the water

leaking through the dry boards and collecting
in the stern. She had her eyes fixed on the
ship, and was making out a history for it, feeling
very happy and pleased to be here on this
silver avenue of the waveless sea.

O'Brien was very wrath to think that even
the hem of her garment should be dabbled in
the sea water. He glowered upon Bound
Tommy when he gave this answer. But Bound
Tommy, as we know, was not given to darken
counsel with words. He didn't particularly care
for being trundled out at this time of night, when
no man could reasonably be expected to work.
The only prospect that pleased him was that of
the half-crown he would presently receive, and
which he had already dedicated to the Dog
and Duck.

This had happened a month ago. The
Seraph, of Saxton,' was watertight now, and
Bound Tommy had earned many a half-crown
since. At present he was standing on the beach
with his far-away gaze set seaward, and partially

intercepted by the head and shoulders of
Caulker Jack.

This last was an incident that in no way
disturbed Bound Tommy's regard. He was
accustomed to look seaward, and if it happened
that any one got between him and the prospect
that was their affair.

Now he stared at the brown throat of Caulker
Jack as if the ship had been signalled off his
nose, and might presently be expected, if the
wind held fair, to double the cape of his chin
and reach the long-desired haven.

Caulker Jack's position was an accidental one,
due to the habit, already hinted at, of the 'Long-shore
men to gather about Bound Tommy as
if he were the axle of a wheel and they the
spokes. They had been standing thus, a dozen
all told, half an hour and no one had spoken or
moved, or withdrawn his gaze from the distant
horizon, or such portions of it as were not
intercepted by the exigencies of grouping.

Most of them had the tasty quid in their

mouths, and as they moved their jaws and
looked out on the distant horizon they bore a
certain resemblance to a herd of cattle standing
in dreamy content chewing their cud.

1 learn at Goldfinch's that he's agone to
America.'

It was the voice of Round Tommy that suddenly
smote the silence which brooded over the
group. Elsewhere it was broken only by the
laughter or highly pitched talk of children
playing on the beach, or by the low swish of
the sea as it fell upon the pebbles.

Nobody else spoke for a minute or two.
Conversation to be thoroughly enjoyed must be
properly digested, and the digestive machinery
of Round Tommy and his companions worked
slowly. Conversation was rare. Why hurry
through its enjoyment ? Rather, as a connoisseur
sips a rare wine, let us enjoy our interchange
of thought with decent intervals.

Well, it were a blamed bad job, take it all
through,' continued Round Tommy after due

pause. c It seems to me we're alius in ill luck.
Aether it's a wet season, or there's scarlet fever
in the Terrace, or it's so rough that no one '11
go out, and yer don't take half a crown in three
days. Else yer 'av a go like this election.
Everything goes on swimmingly. We've three
pun from one side sure, and yer pretty nigh
certain of three pun from the other. Then a
hold bloke in London goes and gets murdered,
our man's whipped off, and there yer are ! '

This was rather a sustained effort of conversation
for Eound Tommy, and was made to
appear the longer since the delivery was slow,
its full accomplishment making an appreciable
hole in the long summer afternoon.

Its conclusion was hailed with acquiescent
groans, "and here and there a man hauled his
hands from the depths of his pockets, moved
the poise of his body to the other leg, shook
his shoulders, and then, with a sigh, put his
hands back into his pockets.

'Ay,' said Corked, seeking out a fresh

foundation in the shingle for his wooden leg,
which, having been in the same place two
hours, showed a tendency to bury itself, as if it
were a pile. ' Ay, mate, an' him as we worked
for night and day. I've shouted myself
hoarse with only an occasional pint.'

1 Worst o' me is,' said Bowsprit, taking up
the conversation after a lull of ten minutes,
I'd spent that three pun 'fore the day. I
bought myself a new rig out for tuppun eight,
and I gave five bob for a shawl for the missus,
making sure to clear 'em off when we got the
three pun on Saturday night. When the whole
thing drifted off I pawned the missus's shawl,
but only got three bob on it.'

This was regarded as a matter not without
its recommendation of poetical justice. A
man who would go and deliberately spend five
shillings on a shawl for his wife when he inio-ht
have purchased with it fifteen quarts of beer at
the Dog and Duck had no right to appeal
for sympathy.

Bowsprit's remark, following upon the exhaustive
observations of Bound Tommy , supplied
sufficient food for reflection for the rest of the
afternoon. Each man had his own particular
measure of grievance. It had been a hard
blow to all of them, but there was more of
sorrow than of anger in their eyes as they
looked out over the silent, sobbing sea.

Knut, still lazily lying in the doorway as if
he, too, were a 'Longshore man, pricked up his
ears as a step came down the High Street along
by the bend where, it seemed to him half a
century ago, he had knocked down Mr. Dumfy.
His ears dropped and his eyes closed again after
a moment's listening. He knew the step well
enough. It was Mr. Griggs.

Even if he had not known the step, and
he knew almost every footfall in Saxton, Knut
would have recognised Mr. Griggs. None but
he would have walked on the sunny side of
the street on a day like this. But Mr. Griggs
rarely found the sun too hot. ' The season '

made no direct difference to him. Indirectly,
it might have helped him, as bringing a little
money into town, and a portion of it may
eventually have reached his hand. But people
who came down from London to spend a
month on the Terrace didn't usually take back
with them an assortment of dining-room chair s
or a brass bedstead. Mr. Griggs only wished
they did.

To him ' the season ' was the one period of
the year when he was free from a cold in the
head.

We just begin to get w T arm, my dear, and
comfortable when the fire goes out like, and
we're as bad off' as ever.'

This was the remark he made regularly
every September in the revolving years, as a
certain watery look about the eyes and a
growing redness about the nostrils announced
the return of influenza.

In August the watery springs seemed to
have dried up. There was a pleasant absence

vol. in. x

of dampness about Mr. Griggs, and his spirits
rose to quite unusual heights.

On this broiling afternoon he walked briskly
as the pleasant heat beat upon the red roofs,
the brown walls, and the small panes of the
shops in High Street. Not a soul was out
but himself. He turned into Mr. Goldfinch's,
which he found unpleasantly cool, and discovered
quite a gathering of cronies.

Goldfinch himself was perched high upon
his stool by the door. Mr. Burnap was
seated on half a bag of coffee set clown by the
counter; whilst Mr. Firminger, with his face
like a boiled beetroot, was mopping his
forehead.

c Good afternoon, gentlemen all,' said Mr.
Griggs. ' Nice pleasant day, though perhaps a
little so-so in the shade.'

What d'ye mean by a little so-so in the
shade ? ' growled Mr. Firminger, making himself
hotter than ever by violent gymnastic
exercises with his pocket-handkerchief.

1 It's my opinion, Griggs, there's only one
place hot enough for you, and that can't be
mentioned with Mrs. Goldfinch in the back
parlour,' said Mr. Burnap.

Well, I do like heat I allow, I like to be
warm and comfortable,' said Mr. Griggs apologetically.


1 You should have gone out with Mr. Fleyce
then,' piped Mr. Goldfinch. ' They're mostly
blacks there I've been told, or Chaneymen,
which comes to the same thing.'

4 Xo they don't,' said Mr. Firminger, exasperated
by the heat of the weather and not
soothed by the recollection of the closed doors
of Castle Fleyce and the sudden stoppage of
bountiful orders. ' They're as different as beef
and veal. Besides, the blacks is only occasional.
I do believe,' he continued, fiercely
turning upon Mr. Burnap, who had got the
coolest corner in the shop, besides having
something to sit upon, ' that Goldfinch thinks
all Americans is born black.'
x a

Well, neighbour, that's neither here nor
there,' said Mr. Burnap, enjoying his ease.
6 The thing is, is he going to stop in America, oris
he coming back to do what he ought by the
town, after giving us all this trouble, and
lavishing us out into all that expense we'd
never have thought of only for him.'

Mr. Tandy's the only man that knows
anything about him, except this Captain
O'Brien, who's always down here now, and
they'd snap the nose off your face if you asked
a question. '

4 They've made a good thing out of him,
anyhow,' said Mr. Burnap. ' The curate's
mother told my missus that he gave Tandy's
girl a diamond necklace with stones as big as
Koeynores, and that O'Brien had bled him to
the tune of 5,0(M'

6 1 always fancied that old Tandy would
hook him for a son-in-law. He was always
out with the girl and she a following him up to
the Castle. If he's given her this necklace as

Goldfinch talks of, I expect he means something
; ' and Mr. Firminger dealt himself a
violent mop on the forehead almost sufficient
to have felled an ox.

1 Well,' said Mr. Griggs, * I don't know that
that would be such a bad thing for you, neighbours,
if it came about. It's nothing to me, I
have had my say to Castle Fleyce.'

And a good long say it was,' observed Mr.
Firminger.

He could not tolerate Mr. Griggs at anytime,
least of all in August, when he looked
so aggravating cool.

8 What I did 's neither here nor there.
We're all tradesmen and 'ave to live, and
what I mean to say is that he may as well
marry in the town as out of it.'

• So as he marry 's at all, settles down at the
Castle, lets us go on as we used, and perhaps come
out again at the next election, we'll wish him
joy,' said Mr. Burnap.

'Ah! I always said that that election

wouldn't come to much, carried on the way it
was,' Mr. Goldfinch said regretfully. * I recollect
in 1832 '

1 832 be bio wed ! ' cried the irascible Firmiter.
' I'm a man that comes down on the block,
and what T want to know is what are we going
to do in 1882, which is nigh on us. I don't
mind saying' in this company, not wishing it to
go farder, I often had a bill for 10/. a week
for pints, and that's something to think of
in a place like this.'

Griggs is quite right,' said Mr. Burnap from
the judgment-seat on the coffee sack. 'All's
well as ends well I say, and if he marries old
Tandy's daughter it'll be for the benefit of the
town. And she's not a bad sort of girl, I say,
though a little uppish at times, and has a way
of putting ill convenient questions. The way
she set on me about the mortar when we was
working up at the Castle was enough to make
your head ache. " Miss Tandy," I says to herat
last, " you leave the mixing of the mortar tome,

and I'll leave the making of pies to you."
Father think I had her there.'

I expect she'd a notion you was doing it
cheap,' growled Mr. Firminger. ' I don't know
much about her, and don't want to. It's not
much butcher's meat goes in through old
Tandy's door. But for a man with a perpetual
cold in his head, I'll allow Griggs's not far out.
If Tandy's played his game and got this rich
man for a son-in-law he's quite right

Suppose he's as rich as they say ? ' Mr.
Goldfinch piped from his perch.

1 Each ! ' cried Mr. Burnap. ' Why, I believe
he's a rnillyner. I've heard tell that his father,
the old gentleman Dumfy cut up — sly, sneaking
fellow that Dumfy ! — had money in everything
that was going, besides a lump he kept in his
safe. Fleyce has got every penny. Could buy
us all up, and build as many castles as he liked.'

'Ah well, neighbours,' said Mr. Griggs,
rubbing his hands together and pulling up his
coat collar as if he felt a draught somewhere,

1 that's a man we all respects, and he oughtn't to
be missed out of Saxton. If he comes back
and marries Miss Tandy, all I can say is they'll
have my best wishes. Don't you find it a little
chilly in here ? '

c Chilly ! ' roared Mr. Firminger, apparently
on the verge of apoplexy.

But Mr. Griggs was gone before his wrath
could descend.

6 It's my firm belief,' said Mr. Firminger, ashe
made a dash for the shady side of the street,
1 that there Griggs was born to be a snail, only
they couldn't get a house as would fit his
back

CHAPTER L.

THE Peril OF POPPIES.

There was a good deal of truth in these casual
remarks from the lips of the worthy gentlemen
whom chance had so nearly made Gideon's
constituents. The discovery of the skeleton in
the old gentleman's cupboard had been followed
by Gideon's immediate release, by every mark
of profound regret on the part of the authorities,
and amid a jubilation that seemed national.
People held their breath to think how nearly,
as Napper had put it weeks ago, a fresh murder
had been committed.

Gideon might now have supped plentifully
of the cup of pleasure which had tasted so
delicious to him when he first appeared in

the streets of Saxton as the Liberal candidate
and heard the people whisper, ' That's
him ! ' If there had been a seat in Parliament
vacant, and Gideon had sued for the
suffrages of the people, he would have been
sent in at the head of the poll against any
candidate who might have come forward.

In addition to being a great people we are a
people of generous emotions, and when any
miscarriage of justice takes place there are no
bounds to the desire of the populace to make
more or less appropriate amends.

But Gideon shrank from the popular
acclaim. A man cannot stand so near the
gates of death as he had done without undergoing
some change in himself, even though the
effect be transitory. Gideon was altered and
improved. He would never in any circumstances
have been a great man — great of soul, I mean —
nor a thoroughly good man. But he was decidedly
a man whose nature was impressionable,
and he was right in his belief that, were Napper

by his side, life would for him have taken on
a fairer and a better aspect.

He could not think of Napper now, at least
not in that way, because he felt the taint of the
prison was on him still. He smelled its breath
in English air wherever he went, and he felt an
overmastering desire to get away out of the
country for a time. He had a fantastic longing
to live in a prairie for a few weeks or even
months. His idea of what a prairie was was
exceedingly vague. At least it was big and
boundless, and full of fresh air, and there was
the unfathomable expanse of the heavens above.

In these respects he felt it would diametrically
differ from the dungeon he had left, and
was therefore desirable.

When Napper came to him in the cell, bringing
the basket of roses, Gideon believed he was
looking his last on this world, and as he followed
her out with sorrowful hungry eyes he felt that
the bitterness of death was past.

Now that he was again a free man, the picture,

momentarily flashed against the darkness of
his cell, lived with him still. Night and daye
eaw Napper wearing that last sorrowful
look, and perhaps will continue so to see her,
though in fainter lines, to" the last day of his
life. At any moment he could close his
eyes and behold her as in the flesh, with head
half turned as she reached the cell door, the
tears streaming down her cheeks, and withal
eyes and mouth making brave efforts to smile.

No April day so fair, and surely none
so tender! In his exalted state of mind
Gideon felt that to be wept for by Napper
was almost worth the pain of dying.

Now it was all over he cherished the
memory of the last look she had cast upon him,
and would not have it dimmed till he should
come back after the lapse of a year or so, and
ask her to marry him.

It was asking now. No more of King
Cophetua and the beggar maid. She was now
the Queen and he the suppliant.

Of all which Napper had no more idea than
had Knut as he lay stretched out on the doorstep
blinking in the sun, and from time to time
slightly cocking his ears at. the faintest sound,
whether it came from the house or the street.
Gideon had written to Napper expressing his
gratitude to her for saving his life. It was
O'Brien who had represented it to Gideon in that
light, enlarging with quite surprising eloquence
on the shrewdness of Napper's perception and of
the persistency with which she had urged both
her father and himself to fresh efforts, resulting
in the discovery of Mr. Dumfy's remains and the
freedom of the condemned prisoner.

Mr. Tandy had added some details which
showed that O'Brien had done a great deal
more for Gideon's deliverance than appeared on
the face of his modest narrative. Gideon took
note of this and was not unmindful of it. He
was wealthy now, rich beyond his utmost
hopes. As to his land schemes, they had melted
into thin air. The mortgagees had foreclosed

and taken possession. But the fortune accumulated
by the Spider had exceeded all computation.


The Spider's fortune was in marketable
securities, that could be turned into cash at
any time, and Gideon converted some of it into
a cheque for 5,000/., which he sent to O'Brien.
He had always done things handsomely in
money matters, and this was no time to be
niggardly. But for O'Brien, working under the
inspiration of Napper, Gideon would have closed
all his earthly accounts, including that of his
banker. So he sent the 5,000/. with a few words
of hearty thanks.

To Napper also he wrote a letter, tinged
with the literary style that had offended
the severely critical taste of Mr. Jack Bailey,
but still creditable to his feelings. He begged
her acceptance of a slight acknowledgment
of the inestimable service she had done him,
and hoped that when he returned in a year
or so from the new world on the other side

of the Atlantic lie might be privileged to see
her wearing the necklace, and discover in its
light the dawning of a new world for him.

The hidden meaning of this latter phrase was
beyond Napper's penetration. She attributed it
to Mr. Fleyce's florid style, and supposed he
was going to make a fresh start in business or
politics. But the necklace was tangible and
unmistakable. It was of diamonds of the
purest water, and, as Mr. Tandy surmised, of
fabulous value. Napper protested against the
acceptance of the present, a little more feebly
after trying it on and surveying the effect in
the glass. In the end Mr. Tandy and O'Brien
(who as usual chanced to be in the family circle)
prevailed, and the necklace was put away in
Mr. Tandy's strong box.

4 It's perfectly ridiculous my having a thing
like that,' Napper said. ' When could I wear it
except once a year at the County Ball, and then
I should only stir up strife by outshining other
and richer girls ? '

8 1 dare say, my dear, there will be some
other occasion,' said Mr. Tandy, on whom new
lights were breaking.

In the fulness of his heart Gideon had
proposed to do something handsome for
Jack Bailey. If he thought the Beacon could
be revived Gideon would do whatever was
necessary in the way of money, and would hand
it over to Jack as a free gift.

This was a great temptation to Jack. The
sacred light of the Beacon had been kept
feebly burning through the troubled times that
had befallen its proprietor. But it was not the
desire to fan it into a blaze that temporarily
excited Jack. To edit the Beacon meant to live
in Saxton, and Jack felt the incessant longing in
that direction that the moth feels for the candle.

After a severe struggle lie bravely resolved
to keep out of temptation, and from his
untidy apartment that served the double purpose
of bedroom and study, and with a head
full of ache, a heart full of sadness, and a

stomach considerably less than half full of food,
he wrote a letter of thanks and acknowledgment
which conveyed to Gideon's mind the
impression that Mr. J. Bellamy Bailey was really
so overwhelmed with lucrative work that, whilst
fully appreciating Gideon's kindness, he could
not think of accepting his well-meant offer.

Knut, still brooding over ' a something in
the world amiss ' that sent fat flies in summer
weather when he felt too lazy to catch them,
suddenly sprang to his feet, and with every limb
rigid, his head slightly bent on one side, and his
right ear pricked up, listened. With a proper-direction
of the energy thus displayed, and for
which he had failed to give himself credit,
there was not a blue-bottle fly within ten feet
of him that would have lived to see the sun go
down.

But Knut was not thinking of flies nor of
Mr. Firminger, who, with his hat off and his
shirt open at the collar, was walking down the
street on the shady side. There was no

VOL. III. Y

sound that Mr. Firminger could hear, had he
stopped to listen. But Knut heard it, and
presently it became distinct enough — a firm,
steady step coming clown the silent street,
round the bend ever memorable by reason of
Mr. Dumfy's fall.

Before the figure came into view Knut
was off, bounding like a colt in a field, and,
utterly regardless of the fact that the thermometer
marked 90° in the shade, danced
frantically round O'Brien. He liked the Captain
for many reasons, but he hailed his coming
with an especial delight since it presaged a
walk, sometimes a ramble over the country,
or occasionally a stroll down to the beach,
where the Captain flung bits of stick into
the sea and Knut brought them out again.

Knut dashed down the street, barking joyously,
making playful dashes at the Captain's
heels, and presently rushing into the house in
the most ecstatic manner to inform Napper of
the fresh arrival.

I Are you and Knut going for a walk
to-day, Miss Tandy ? ' the Captain asked as
Napper appeared at the door with Knut in a
paroxysm of delight which in the state of the
weather threatened to end with apoplexy.

I I was thinking of it,' Napper said ; ' but
don't you think it's a little hot for walking ? '

Hot ! not in the least,' the Captain said,
his manly forehead glowing with perspiration
and assurance. * There's a nice breeze blowing
in from the sea, and if you'll take me
with you I'll show you a shady walk up to the
Downs.'

Thank you very much, Captain O'Brien,'
Napper said with a little curtsey. ' I shall be
so glad for you to show me about Saxton. It
will be quite a treat.'

It was not difficult to find a shady walk
about Saxton. There was one so narrow that
two people could scarcely walk abreast in it
unless they were content to walk very close
together, almost with shoulders touching. In

Y 2

winter time it served the purpose of a stream,
which had doubtless first marked out the track.
In summer it was a grassy lane sunk below the
level of the fields whose luxuriant hedgerows
almost met overhead. Here ferns and wildflowers
grew in lavish profusion ; here the
birds built their nests and sang all day, and
here Napper and Captain O'Brien slowly
walked whilst Knut made diligent inquisition
into the herbage and about the gnarled roots of
the immemorial trees.

Neither Napper nor the Captain seemed
in the humour for talking. Perhaps it was
enough joy to be alone on this bright summer
day. Napper had taken off her straw hat and
held it on her arm, basket-wise. Here and
there were openings in the trees, and the sunlight
fell upon a very pretty sight when it
touched Napper's golden hair and crossed with
bars of light her simple muslin frock.

Have you finished the Memoirs of Princess
Metternich, Miss Tandy ? ' O'Brien asked.

He was loth to break the delicious pause,
but he had something to say, and, being determined
that it should be said before they left
the lane, was beating about the bush for some
discreet way of saying it.

Yes, I have read them twice.'

1 Then perhaps you will lend the work tome.
I should like to read it again. Do you
remember the day I called in and you were
reading a passage to your father ? '

Was I ? ' Napper said with slight tokens
of uneasiness. ' Yes, I often read to him.'

i I remember the very passage,' O'Brien
went on hurriedly. * It's where the Princess
talks about her husband working, and her
desire to lean over his shoulder to see how he
writes his despatches. I thought that a very
charming scene.'

4 Oh, there's a beautiful cluster of poppies ! '
Napper said, wishing she were safe at home.

I suppose all girls recognise the approach
of the supreme moment in their lives when a

man is about to ask them to marry. It is said
by coarse-minded persons that this natural
tendency is so strong that some girls occasionally
go in advance of facts and begin to tremble with
apprehension when their companion has no
design to frighten them.

Napper was certainly not of this last class.
Otherwise she would never have been trapped
on the Downs by Jack Bailey. It was her
absolute guilelessness that brought on that catastrophe.
If she had not, with sisterly intent,
laid her small hand on Jack's arm and looked
kindly into his eyes, he might pera venture
have escaped, at least for the day.

With Captain O'Brien everything was different.
He had never spoken a word of love to
her, nor had he ever looked at her with those
almost fierce eyes which, she remembered with
a shudder, were bent upon her by Jack Bailey.
That he gazed at her sometimes with wistful
glances she knew. Looking up suddenly from
her work or reading, when she and her father

and the Captain were seated in the diningroom
with its heavy red curtains and its softened
light, she had more than once caught him
in the act.

What was a marvel to her was how she
should know, whilst her own eyes were bent
down, that his were feasting on her face. She
rightly supposed that other people sometimes
looked hard at her when her attention was
otherwise engrossed. But she knew nothing of
it, or only learned it by the mere accident of
turning her head. Yet she felt with strange fluttering
at her heart that she knew quite well
without looking when Captain O'Brien's eyes
were bent upon her. She had tried the experiment
more times than she would like to count,
and had never once been wrong.

Possibly this may have been due to the fact
that the insatiable Captain never took his eyes
off her if without being positively rude he
might enjoy the contemplation of her fair face
bent down over book or work.

Naturally in such circumstances when
Napper, who of course need not have been
thinking of him, suddenly looked up she would
meet his glance. What maddened her was her
total inability on these occasions to command the
tide of her blood. She was as helpless in this
respect as Knut down at the beach in his daily
conflict with the obstinate ocean. She felt she
was blushing, and the more angry she was with
herself the rosier she grew, and, as Captain
O'Brien thought, the more bewitching.

Not that he remained at gaze when detected.
He was as timid as Napper, and
turned quickly away to become supernaturally
absorbed in some other subject. But it is
wonderful what two pair of eyes can in certain
circumstances see between them in a measure
of space not longer than a flash of lightning.

The Captain saw that Napper was troubled
under his regard and felt miserably guilty,
making hot oaths that he would never sin anymore.
Napper saw that he was embarrassed,

and between them the two found sufficient

•n tor 1
and sometime? days.

The innate absurdity of the whole :
nitrate I e very -

evening. Air. T

ling a :• of Napper seated by

the la r end of the b used

to lc fair picture frai

husky walls oi the low-roofed room. If
d to 1
eye. she smiled back upon him a I-mile

full of to

of late di ys,
ct confidence, with just ont
her heart inl h not ev :e of

her childhood and the friend and company
her womanhood

X- hen or trembler.

efforts to tak near

at hand. It was a curious and stool
difference. Bui of course si known

her father a long time, and Captain O'Brien
was, as it were, but an acquaintance of yesterday.


Having come late, the Captain determined
to make up for lost opportunities. He had
taken up his residence at Saxton, or had at least
permanently engaged a couple of rooms on the
Terrace, and was much more in them than in
his London chambers.

Of course this arose out of his anxiety on account
of Gideon, and of the necessity for constant
conferences with Mr. Tandy and Snapper on the
steps to be taken for proving his innocence.

When these efforts had triumphed O'Brien
found himself so fagged by overwork and the
strain of excitement that nothing would suit him
but Saxton with its soft airs from sea and land.
So he remained on or about the spot, and no
day passed of which some hours were not spent
with Napper, oftener of course in the decorous
company of Mr. Tandy, but sometimes, as
chanced to-day, with Snapper all to himself.

All this infallibly led up to danger, and
Napper felt with swift instinct that the moment
was at hand.

Out of her confused thoughts there arose a
clearly defined desire for delay. She was not
at all sure that ultimate salvation was possible.
But a few minutes would be precious.

4 1 am so fond of poppies,' she said, looking
hard at them as if there was danger of their
presently disappearing and this was her last
chance of noting their shape and colour. ' Do
you think you could get them for me ? '

The Captain certainly thought he could,
and did, with a feeling not altogether free from
satisfaction at being temporarily relieved from a
situation which he too felt was growing embarrassing.


But the poppies only led to swifter
catastrophe.

Napper sat down on a felled tree whilst
the Captain struggled through the hedge and
brought back in triumph the poppies. Sitting

there and not quite knowing what she did, she
twined the poppies in her hair, at sight of which
added loveliness the hapless Captain hopelessly
broke down.

Napper ! ' he said.

She started at the familiar name spoken by
O'Brien for the first time.

Do you remember something in a poem I
have heard you read, about the maiden who

Fronted unuttered words and said them nay,
And smiled down love till it had nought to say 1 '

Napper remembered very well ; she also
called to mind the next verse, where it is
written —

She raised to me her quiet eyelids twain,
And looked me this reply — look calm yet bland —
I shall not know, I will not understand.'

Perhaps she might take a hint from this.
Whilst her fingers nervously played with the
harmless poppies, she raised her eyes to her
companion and quite intended to reproduce
the ' look calm yet bland.'

But, alas ! alas ! poor Napper never was very-good
at making-believe. What she saw when
she looked up was an honest, manly face, with
eyes that looked gravely but fondly into her own.

O'Brien on his part must have seen something
there other than the calm, bland regard
which should have looked forth from them, or
he would never have dared to lay his great
brown hand upon the little one that held the
crushed poppies.

After a little while he said —

Dearest Napper, I have not lived a very
noble life hitherto. I think it has been a little
wearisome and wasteful. But I have long felt,
more and more in these past few weeks,
that it might be otherwise. Your love would
be to me like the shadow of a great rock ina
weary land. Will you give it me ? '

At this precise moment Knut returned from
one of his frequent excursions up and down the
lane, and stood a moment, his eyes fixed upon
the couple seated on the felled tree.

From what he saw it was borne in upon
him that two are company and three are none.
So, like a sagacious dog, he with every affectation
of urgent business on hand trotted off on a
distant errand, and I don't know that we could
do better than follow his example.

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street BQTJAKB

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

nt Mi si
