^ \^^ '^^

S^',^

^m

^^-•'fe;"^^

OF Thou

N Veracity

or 1 Li Noir

M14-W

V^ ^

-r<Ss,

V: 'T

• \ ^K

." \te.

^>^.^-

Theft, mutilation and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

NOV ij/«

7^

UEB 1 1 1976
APR \jU79

A?;? 3 isis

APR 2 6 ]9(;5

m 2 5 I:

i

m

CT J

JAN 1 7 i^

DECl
MAYS

1 9 ms

9 1995

3 2002

L161— O-1096

Croicn Svo, doth, with Frontispieces, price 6s. each.

Donald GRANT. Second Edition.

CASTLE WARLOCK. Second Edition.

MALCOLM. Seventh Edition.

THE MARQUIS OF LOSSIE. Sixth Edition.

ST. GEORGE AND ST. MICHAEL. Fifth
Edition.

London: Began Paul, Trench & Co.

BY

GEORGE MAO DONALD

AUTHOR OF "ROBERT FALCONER," " Donald GRANT," ETC.

IN Three VOLUMES
VOL. I.

LONDON

KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH & CO., 1, PATERNOSTER SQUARE



CONTENTS OF YOL. I.

I.

II.

III.

IV.

V.
VI.

yii.

X.

XI.

XII.

PAGE

How COME THEY THERE? . . 1

A Short Glance over the Shoulder 18

The Girls' First Walk . . 25

The Shop in the Village . 43

The Chief . . . 55

Work and Wage . . 74

Mother and Son . . . 97

A Morning Call . . 123

Mr. Sercombe . . . 137

The Plough-Bulls . . 149

The Fir-Grove . . . 173

Among the Hills . . 191

The Lake . . . . 210

The Wolves . . . 229

The Gulf that divided . . 251

The Clan Christmas . . 271

Between Dancing and Supper . 295

CHAPTER I.

HOW COME THEY THERE ?

The room was handsomely furnished, but
such as I would quarrel with none for
calling common, for it certainly was uninteresting.
Not a thing in it had to ''do
with genuine individual choice, but merely
with the fashion and custom of the class to
which its occupiers belonged. It was a
dining-room, of good size, appointed withall
the things a dining-room ^' ought " to
have, mostly new, and entirely expensive —
mirrored sideboard in oak ; heavy chairs,
just the dozen, in fawn-coloured morocco

VOL. I. B

seats and backs — the dining-room, in short,
of a London-house inhabited by rich
middle-class people. A big fire blazed in
the low round-backed grate, whose flashes
were reflected in the steel fender and the
ugly fire-irons that were never used. A
snowy cloth of linen, finer than ordinary,
for there was pride in the housekeeping,
covered the large dining-table, and a company,
evidently a family, was eating its
breakfast. But how come these people
tJtere ?

For, supposing my reader one of the
company, let him rise from the well-appointed
table — its silver, bright as the
complex motions of butler's elbows can
make it ; its china, ornate though not
elegant ; its ham, huge, and neither too
fat nor too lean ; its game-pie, "with
nothing to be desired in composition, orin
flavour natural or artificial ; — let him
rise from these and go to the left of the
two windows, for there are two opposite
each other, the room having been enlarged

by being built out : if he be such a one as
I would have for a reader, might I choose
a reader whose heart, not merely his eye,
mirrors what he sees — one who not merely
beholds the outward shows of things, but
catches a glimpse of the soul that looks out
of them, whose garment and revelation
they are ; — if he be such, I say, he will
stand, for more than a moment, speechless
with something akin to that which made
the morning stars sing together.

He finds himself gazing far over
western seas, while yet the sun is in the
east. They lie clear and cold, pale and
cold, broken with islands scattering thinner
to the horizon, which is jagged here and
there with yet another. The ocean looks a
wild, yet peaceful mingling of lake and
land. Some of the islands are green from
shore to shore, of low yet broken surface ;
others are mere rocks, with a bold front to
the sea, one or two of them strange both inform
and character. Over the pale blue
sea hangs the pale blue sky, flecked with a

few cold white clouds that look as if they
disowned the earth they had got so high —
though none the less her children, and
doomed to descend again to her bosom. A
keen little wind is out, crispin the surface
of the sea in patches — a pretty large crispin
to be seen from that height, for the window
looks over hill above hill to the sea. Life,
quiet yet eager, is all about ; the solitude
itself is alive, content to be a solitude
because it is alive. Its life needs nothing
from beyond — is independent even of the
few sails of fishing boats that here and
there with their red brown break the blue
of the water.

If my reader, gently obedient to my than-mature,
will now turn and cross to the
other window, let him as he does so beware
of casting a glance on his right towards the
place he has left at the table, for the room
will now look to him tenfold commonplace,
so that he too will be inclined to ask,
*' How come these and their belongings here
just here's'' — let him first look from the

window. There he sees hills of heather
rolKng away eastward, at middle distance
beginning to rise into mountains, and
farther yet, on the horizon, showing snow
on their crests — though that may disappear
and return several times before settling
down for the winter. It is a solemn and
very still region — not a pretty country at
all, but great — beautiful with the beauties
of colour and variety of surface ; while, far
in the distance, where the mountains and
the clouds have business together, its aspect
rises to grandeur. To his first glance probably
not a tree will be discoverable ; the
second will fall upon a solitary clump of
firs, like a mole on the cheek of one of the
hills not far off, a hill steeper than most of
them, and green to the top.

Is my reader seized with that form of
divine longing which wonders what lies
over the nearest hill? Does he fancy,
ascending the other side to its crest, some
sweet face of highland girl, singing songs
of the old centuries while yet there was

a people in these wastes ? "Why should he
imagine in the presence of the actual ? why
dream when the eyes can see ? He has but
to return to the table to reseat himself by
the side of one of the prettiest of girls !

She is fair, yet with a glowing tinge under
her fairness which flames out only in her
ej'es, and seldom reddens her skin. She has
brown hair with just a suspicion of red and
no more, and a waviness that turns to, curl
at the ends. She has a good forehead,
arched a little, not without a look of habitation,
though whence that comes it might
be hard to say. There are no great clouds
on that sky of the face, but there is a soft
dimness that might turn to rain. She hasa
straight nose, not too large for the imperfect
yet decidedly Greek contour ; a
doubtful, rather straight, thin-lipped mouth,
which seems to dissolve into a bewitching
smile, and reveals perfect teeth — and a good
deal more to the eyes that can read it.
When the mouth smiles, the eyes light up,
which is a good sign. Their shape is long

oval — and their colour when unlighted,
much that of an unheeded almond; when
she smiles, they grow red. She has an
object in Hfe which can hardly be called a
mission. She is rather tall, and quite
graceful, though not altogether natural
in her movements. Her dress gives a
feathery impression to one who rather
receives than notes the look of ladies. She
has a good hand — not the doll hand so
much admired of those who can judge only
of quantity and know nothing of quality,
but a fine sensible hand, — the best thing
about her : a hand may be too small just
as well as too large.

Poor mother earth ! what a load of disappointing
women, made fit for fine things,
and running all to self and show, she carries
on her weary old back ! From all such,
good Lord deliver us ! — except it be for our
discipline or their awaking.

Near her at the breakfast table sits one
of aspect so different, that you could ill
believe they belonged to the same family.

She is younger and taller — tall indeed, but
not ungraceful, though by no means beautiful.
She has all the features that belong
to a face — among them not a good one.
Stay ! I am wrong : there were in truth,
dominant over the rest, tito good features —
her two eyes, dark as eyes well could be
without being all pupil, large, and rather
long like her sister's until she looked at
you, and then they opened wide. They did
not flash or glow, but were full of the light
that tries to see — questioning eyes. They
were simple eyes — I will not say without
arrive spenser, for there was no end of
thinking faculty, if not yet thought, behind
them, — but honest eyes that looked at you
from the root of eyes, with neither attack
nor defence in them. If she was not so
graceful as her sister, she was hardly more
than a girl, and had a remnant of that
curiously lovely mingling of grace and
clumsiness which we see in long-legged
growing girls. I will give her the advantage
of not being further described, except so far

as this — that her hair was long and hack,
that her complexion was dark, with something
of a freckly unevenness, and that her
hands were larger and yet better than her
sister's.

There is one truth about a plain face,
that may not have occurred to many : its
ugliness accompanies a condition of larger
development, for all ugliness that is not
evil, is development ; and so implies the
larger material and possibility of development.
The idea of no countenance is yet
carried out, and this kind will take more
developing for the completion of its idea,
and may result in a greater beauty. I
would therefore advise any young man of
aspiration in the matter of beauty, to
choose a plain woman for wife — if through
her plainness she is yet lovely in his eyes ;
for the loveliness is herself, victorious over
the plainness, and her face, so far from
complete and yet serving her loveliness, has
in it room for completion on a grander
scale than possibly most handsome faces.

In a handsome face one sees the lines of its
coming perfection, and has a glimpse of
what it must be when finished : few are
prophets enough for a plain face. A keen
surprise of beauty waits many a man, if hebe
pure enough to come near the transfiguration
of the homely face he loved.

This plain face was a solemn one, and
the solemnity suited the plainness. It was
not specially expressive — did not look
specially intelligent ; there was more of
latent than operative power in it — while
her sister's had more expression than power.
Both were lady-like ; whether they were
ladies, my reader may determine. There
are common ladies and there are rare ladies ;
the former mais be countesses ; the latter
7na7j be peasants.

There were two younger girls at the
table, of whom I will say nothing more than
that one of them looked awkward, promised
to be handsome, and was apparently a good
soul ; the other was pretty, and looked pert.

The family possessed two young men, but

they were not here ; one was a partner in
the business from which his father had
practically retired ; the other was that day
expected from Oxford.

The mother, a woman with many
autumnal reminders of spring about her,
sat at the head of the table, and regarded
her queendom with a smile a little set,
perhaps, but bright. She had the look of a
woman on good terms with her motherhood,
with society, with the universe — yet had
scarce a shadow of assumption on her
countenance. For if she felt as one who
had a claim upon things to go pleasantly
with her, had she not put in her claim, and
had it acknowledged ? Her smile was a
sweet white-toothed smile, true if shallow,
and a more than tolerably happy one —
often irradiating the Governor opposite — for
so was the head styled by the whole family
from mother to chit.

He was the only one at the table on
whose countenance a shadow — as of some
end unattained — was visible. He had tried

to get into parliament, and had not succeeded
; but I will not presume to say that
was the source of the shadow. He did not
look discontented, or even peevish ; there
was indeed a certain radiance of success
about him — only above the cloudy horizon
of his thick, dark eyebrows, seemed to
hang a thundery atmosphere. His forehead
was large, but his features rather
small; he had, however, grown a trifle fat,
which tended to make up. In his youth he
must have been very nice-looking, probably
too pretty to be handsome. In good health
and when things went well, as they had
mostly done with him, he was sweet-tempered
; what he might be in other conditions
was seldom conjectured. But was
that a sleeping thunder-cloud, or only the
shadow of his eyebrows ?

He had a good opinion of himself — on
what grounds I do not know ; but he was
rich, and I know no better ground ; I doubt
if there is any more certain soil for growing
a good opinion of oneself. Certainly, the

more you try to raise one by doing what is
right and worth doing, the less you succeed.

Mr. Peregrine Palmer had finished his
breakfast, and sat for a while looking at
nothing in particular, plunged in deep
thought about nothing at all, while the
girls went on with theirs. He was a little
above the middle height, and looked not
much older than his wife ; his black hair
had but begun to be touched with silver ;
he seemed a man without an atom of care
more than humanity counts reasonable ;
his speech was not unlike that of an
Englishman, for, although born in Glasgow,
he had been to Oxford. He spoke respectfully
to his wife, and with a pleasant playfulness
to his daughters ; his manner was
nowise made to order, but natural enough ;
his grammar was as good as conversation
requires ; everything was respectable about
him — and yet — he was one remove at least
from a gentleman. Something hard to define
was lacking to that idea of perfection.

Mr. Peregrine Palmer's grandfather had

begun to make the family fortune by
developing a little secret still in a remote
highland glen, which had acquired a reputation
for its whisky, into a great super-terrene
distillery. Both he and his son
made money by it, and it had " done well "
for Mr. Peregrine also. With all three of
them the making of money had been the
great calling of life. They were diligent in
business, fervent in spirit, serving Mammon,
and founding claim to consideration on the
fact. Neither Jacob nor John Palmer's
worst enemy had ever called him a hypocrite
: neither had been suspected of thinking
to serve Mammon and God. Both had
gone regularly to church, but neither had
taught in a Sunday school, or once gone
to a week-day sermon. Peregrine had built
a church and a school. He did not now
take any active part in the distillery, but
worked mainly in money itself.

Jacob, the son of a ship-chandler in
Greenock, had never thought about gentleman
or no gentleman ; but his son John

had entertained the difference, and done
his best to make a gentleman of Peregrine ;
and neither Peregrine nor any of his family
ever doubted his father's success ; and if he
had not quite succeeded, I would have the
blame laid on Peregrine and not on either
father or grandfather. For a man to groin
a gentleman, it is of great consequence that
his grandfather should have been an honest
man ; but if a man he a gentleman, it
matters little what his grandfather or grandmother
either was. Nay — if a man be a
gentleman, it is of the smallest consequence,
except for its own sake, whether the world
counts him one or not.

Mr. Peregrine Palmer rose from the table
with a merry remark on the prolongation of
the meal by his girls, and went towards the
door.

"Are you going to shoot?" asked his wife.

*not to-day. But I am going to look
after my guns. I daresay they've got them
all right, but there's nothing like seeing to
a thing yourself ! ' '

Mr. Palmer had this virtue, and this very
gentlemanlike way — that he always gave
his wife as full an answer as he would
another lady. He was not given to marital
brevity.

He was there for the grouse-shooting —
not exactly, only '^ as it were." He did
not care very much about the sport, and
had he cared nothing, would have been
there all the same. Other people, in what
he counted his social position, shot grouse,
and he liked to do what other people did,
for then he felt all right : if ever he tried
the gate of heaven, it would be because
other people did. But the primary cause
of his being so far in the north was the
simple fact that he had had the chance of
buying a property very cheap — a fine property
of mist and cloud, heather and rock,
mountain and moor, and with no such
reputation for grouse as to enhance its
price. ^^ My estate " sounded well, and
after a time of good preserving he would
be able to let it well, he trusted. No

sooner was it bought than his wife and
daughters were eager to visit it; and the
man of business, perceiving it would cost
him much less if they passed their autumns
there instead of on the continent, proceeded
at once to enlarge the house and make it
comfortable. If they should never go a
second time, it would, with its perfect
appointments, make the shooting there
more attractive !

They had arrived the day before. The
journey had been fatiguing, for a great part
of it was by road; but they were all in
splendid health, and not too tired to getup
at a reasonable hour the next day.

YOL. I.

CHAPTER II.

A Short GLANCE Over THE Shoulder.

Mr. Peregrine was the first of the Palmer
family to learn that there was a Palmer
coat of arms. He learned it at college, and
on this wise.

One day a fellow student, who pleased
himself with what he called philology,
remarked that his father must have been
a bit of a humorist to name him Peregrine
: — *' except indeed it be a family
name ! " he added.

'^ I never thought about it'* said Peregrine.
" I don't quite know what you
mean."

The fact was he had no glimmer of what
he meant.

^^ Nothing profound," returned the other.
'^ Only don't you see Peregrine means
pilgrim ? It is the same as the Italian
peregrine, from the Latin, peregrine which
means one that goes about the fields, — what
in Scotland you call a landlouper.'^

^^ Well, but," returned Peregrine, hesitatingly,
^^ I don't find myself much wiser.
Peregrine means a pilgrim, you say, but
what of that ? All names mean something,
I suppose ! It don't matter much."

^^ What is your coat of arms ? "

^'I don't know."

'^ Why did your father call you Peregrine
? ' '

^^ I don't know that either. I suppose
because he liked the name."

'why should he have liked it?" continued
the other, who was given to the
Socratic method.

I know no more than the man in the
moon."

'^ What does your surname mean ? "

*' Something to do with palms, I suppose."

doubtless."

*^ You see I don't go in for that kind of
thing Hke you ! "

*' Any man who cares about the cut of
his coat, might have a little curiosity about
the cut of his name : it sits to him a good
deal closer! "

^' That is true— so close that you can't
do anything with it. I can't pull mine off
however you criticize it 1"

*' You can change it any day. Would
you like to change it ? "

^' No, thank you, Mr. Stokes ! " returned
Peregrine dryly.

I didn't mean with mine," growled the
other. *' My name is an historical one too
but that is not in question. — Do you
know your crest ought to be a hairy
worm ? "

^' Why?"

'' Don't you know the palmer worm ? It
got its name where you got yours ! "

Well, we all come from Adam ! "

*' What ! worms and all ? '

Surely. We're all worms, the parson
says. Come, put me through ; it's time
for lunch. Or, if you prefer, let me burst
in ignorance. I don't mind."

*^ Well, then, I will explain. The palmer
was a pilgrim : when he came home, he
carried a palm-branch to show he had been
to the holy land."

^^ Did the hairy worm go to the holy land
too?"

** He is called a palmer worm because he
has feet enough to go any number of
pilgrimages. But you are such a land-louder,
you ought to blazon two hairy
worms saltier wise."

I don't understand."

Why, your name, interpreted to half
an ear, is just Pilgrim Filgrivi ! "

^' 1 wonder if my father meant it ! "

*' That I cannot even guess at, not
having the pleasure of knowing your father.
But it does look like a paternal joke ! "

His friend sought out for him the coat
and crest of the Palmers ; but for the latter,

strongly recommended a departure : the
fresh family-branch would suit the worm so
well ! — his crest ought to be two worms
crossed, tufted, the tufts touched in gold.
It was not heraldic language, but with
Peregrine passed well enough. Still lie
did not take to the worms, but contented
himself with the ordinary crest. He was
henceforth, however, better pleased with
his name, for he fancied in it something of
the dignity of a doubled surname.

His first glance at his wife was because
she crossed the field of his vision ; his
second glance was because of her beauty ;
his third because her name was Shelley,
It is marvellous how whimsically sentimental
commonplace people can be where
their own interesting personalty is concerned
: her name he instantly associated
with scallop-shelly and began to make inquiry
about her. Learning that her other
name was Miriam, one also of the holy
land —

*' A most remarkable coincidence ! — a

mere coincidence of course ! " he said to
himself. ^^ Evidently that is the woman
destined to be the companion of my pilgrimage
! "

When their first child was born, the
father was greatly exercised as to a fitting
name for him. He turned np an old botany
book, and sought out the scientific names
of different palms. Chambers would not
do, for it was a diuarf-palm ; Morasses
might do, seeing it was a boy — only it stood
for a fan-palm ; Coryjplia would not be bad
for a girl, only it was the name of a heathen
goddess, and would not go well with the
idea of a holy palmer. Cocoa, Phoenix, and
Areca, one after the other, went in at his
eyes and through his head ; none of them
pleased him. His wife, however, who in
her smiling way had fallen in with his
whim, helped him out of his difficulty.
She was the daughter of nonconformist
parents in Lancashire, and had been encouraged
when a child to read a certain
old-fashioned book called The Pilgrim's

Progress, which her husband had never
seen. He did not read it now, but accepting
her suggestion, named the boy Christian,
When a daughter came, he would have
had her Christiana, but his wife persuaded
him to be content with Christina. They
named their second son Valentine, after
Mr. Valiant - for - truth. Their second
daughter was Mercy ; and for the third
and fourth, Hope and Grace seemed near
enough. So the family had a cool glow of
puritanism about it, while nothing was
farther from the thoughts of any of them
than what their names signified. All,
except the mother, associated them with
the crusades for the rescue of the sepulchre
of the Lord from the pagans ; not a thought
did one of them spend on the rescue of a
live soul from the sepulchre of low desires,
mean thoughts, and crawling selfishness.

CHAPTER III.

THE Girls' First WALK.

The Governor, Peregrine and Palmer as he
was, did not care about walking at anytime,
not even when he had to do it
because other people did ; the mother, of
whom there would have been little left had
the sweetness in her moral, and the housekeeping
in her practical nature, been subtracted,
had things to see to within doors :
the young people must go out by themselves
! They put on their hats, and issued.
The temperature was keen, though it was
now nearly the middle of August, by which
time in those northern regions the earth has
begun to get a little warm : the house stood
high, and the atmosphere was thin. There

was a certain sense of sadness in the pale
sky and its cold brightness ; but these
young people felt no cold, and perceived no
sadness. The air was exhilarating, and they
breathed deep breaths of a pleasure more
akin to the spiritual than they were capable
of knowing. For as they gazed around
them, they thought, like Hamlet's mother
in the presence of her invisible husband,
that they saw all there was to be seen.
They did not know nature : in the school
to which they had gone they patronized
instead of revering her. She wrought upon
them nevertheless after her own fashion
with her children, unheedful whether they
knew what she was about or not. The
mere space, the mere height from which
they looked, the rarity of the air, the soft
aspiration of earth towards heaven, made
them all more of children.

But not one of them being capable of
enjoying anything by herself, together they
were unable to enjoy much ; and, like the
miser who, when he cannot much enjoy his

money, desires more, began to desire more
company to share in the akeady withering
satisfaction of their new possession — to
help them, that is, to get pleasure out of it,
as out of a new dress. It is a good thing
to desire to share a good thing, but it is
not well to be unable alone to enjoy a good
thing. It is our enjoyment that should
make us desirous to share. What is thereto
share if the thing be of no value in
itself? To enjoy alone is to be able to
share. No participation can make that of
value which in itself is of none. It is not
love alone but pride also, and often only
pride, that leads to the desire for another
to be present with us in possession.

The girls grew weary of the show around
them because it was so quiet, so regardless
of their presence, so moveless, so monotonous.
Endless change was going on, but it
was too slow for them to see ; had it been
rapid, its motions were not of a kind to
interest them. Ere half an hour they had
begun to think with regret of Piccadilly

and Regent street — for they had passed the
season in London. There is a good deal
counted social which is merely gregarious.
Doubtless humanity is better company thana
bare hill-side ; but not a little depends on
how near we come to the humanity, and
how near we come to the hill. I doubt if
one who could not enjoy a bare hill-side
alone, would enjoy that hill-side in any
company ; if he thought he did, I suspect
it would be that the company enabled him,
not to forget himself in what he saw, but
to be more pleasantly aware of himself than
the lone hill would permit him to be ; — for
the mere hill has its relation to that true
self which the common self is so anxious
to avoid and forget. The girls, however,
went on and on, led mainly by the animal
delight of motion, the two younger making
many a diversion up the hill on the one
side, and down the hill on the other,
shrieking at everything fresh that pleased
them.

The house they had just left stood on the

projecting shoulder of a hill, here and there
planted with firs. Of the hardy trees there
was a thicket at the back of the house,
while toward the south, less hardy ones
grew in the shrubbery, though they would
never, because of the sea-breezes, come to
any height. The carriage-drive to the house
joined two not very distant points on the
same road, and there was no lodge at either
gate. It was a rough, country road, a good
deal rutted, and seldom repaired. Opposite
the gates rose the steep slope of a heathery
hill, along the flank of which the girls were
now walking. On their right lay a piece
of rough moorland, covered with heather,
patches of bracken, and coarse grass. A
few yards to the right, it sank in a steep
descent. Such was the disposition of the
ground for some distance along the road — ■
on one side the hill, on the other a narrow
level, and abrupt descent.

As they advanced they caught sight of a
ruin rising above the brow of the descent :
the two younger darted across the heather

toward it ; the two elder continued their
walk along the road, gradually descending
towards a valley.

'* I wonder what we shall see round the
corner there ! " said Mercy, the younger of
the two.

^^ The same over again, I suppose!"
answered Christina. 'what a rough road
it is ! I've twice nearly sprained my
ankle 1"

*' I was thinking of what I saw the
other day in somebody's travels — about
his interest in every turn of the road,
always looking for what was to come next."

'^ Time enough when it comes, in my
opinion ! " rejoined Christina.

For she was like any other mirror — quite
ready to receive what was thrown upon
her, but incapable of originating anything,
almost incapable of using anything.

As they descended, and the hill-side, here
covered with bracken and boulders, grew
higher and higher above them, the valley,
in front and on the right, gradually opened,

here and there showing a glimpse of a small
stream that cantered steadily toward the
sea, now tumbling over a rock, now sullen
in a brown pool. Arriving at length at a
shoulder of the hill round which the road
turned, a whole mile of the brook lay before
them. It came down a narrow valley, with
scraps of meadow in the bottom ; but
immediately below them the valley was of
some width, and was good land from side to
side, where green oats waved their feathery
grace, and the yellow barley was nearly
ready for the sickle. No more than the
barren hill, however, had the fertile valley
anything for them. Their talk was of the
last ball they were at.

The sisters were about as good friends as
such negative creatures could be ; and they
would be such friends all their lives, if on
the one hand neither of them grew to anything
better, and on the other no jealousy,
or marked difference of social position
through marriage, intervened. They loved
each other, if not tenderly, yet with the

genuineness of healthy family-habit — a
thing not to be despised, for it keeps the
door open for something better. In itself
it is not at all to be reckoned upon, for
habit is but the merest shadow of reality.
Still it is not a small thing, as families go,
if sisters and brothers do not dislike each
other.

They were criticizing certain of the young
men they had met at the said ball. Being,
in their development, if not in their nature,
commonplace, what should they talk about
but clothes or young men? And why,
although an excellent type of its kind,
should I take the trouble to record their
conversation? To read, it might have
amused me — or even interested, as may a
carrot painted by a Dutchman ; but were
I a painter, I should be sorry to paint
carrots, and the girls' talk is not for my
pen. At the same time I confess myself
incapable of doing it justice. When one
is annoyed at the sight of things meant to
be and not beautiful, there is danger of

not giving them even the poor fair-play
they stand in so much the more need of
that it can do so Httle for them.

But now they changed the subject of
their talk. They had come to a point of
the road not far from the ruin to which
the children had run across the heather.

^' Look, Chrissy ! It is an old castle ! "
said Mercy. ^' I wonder whether it is on
our land ! "

^^ Not much to be proud of I " replied the
other. ^' It is nothing but the walls of a
square house ! "

'' Not just a common square house !
Look at that pepper-pot on one of the
corners ! — I wonder how it is all the old
castles get deserted ! "

Because they are old. It's well to
desert them before they tumble down."

*' But they wouldn't tumble down if they
weren't neglected. Think of Warwick
castle ! Stone doesn't rot like wood !
Just see the thickness of those walls ! "

*^ Yes, they are thick ! But stone too

VOL. I. D

has its way of rotting. Westminster
palace is wearing through, flake by flake.
The weather will be at the lords before
long."

^' That's what Valentine would call a sign
of the times. I say, what a radical he is,
Chrissy ! — Look ! the old place is just like
an empty egg-shell ! I know, if it had been
mine, I wouldn't have let it come to that ! "

*you say so because it never was
yours : if it had been, you would know
how uncomfortable it was ! "

'' I should like to know," said Mercy,
after a little pause, during which they stood
looking at the ruin, "whether the owners
leave such places because they get fastidious
and want better, or because they are too
poor to keep them up ! At all events a
man must be poor to sell the house that
belonged to his ancestors! — It must be
miserable to grow poor after being used to
plenty ! — I wonder whose is the old place ! "

Oh, the governor's, I suppose ! He has
all hereabout for miles."

^* I hope it is ours ! I should like to build
it up again ! I would live in it myself ! "

*i'm afraid the governor won't advance
your share for that purpose ! "

^' I love old things ! " said Mercy.

''I believe you take your old doll to bed
with you yet ! " rejoined Christina. ''1 am
different to you!" she continued, with
Frenchified grammar ; "I like things as
new as ever I can have them ! "

''I like new things well enough, Chrissy
you know I do ! It is natural. The
earth herself has new clothes once a year.
It is but once a year, I grant ! ' '

'^ Often enough for an old granny like
her!"

"Look what a pretty cottage! — down
there, half-way to the burn ! It's like an
English cottage ! Those we saw as we
came along were either like a piece of the
earth, or so white as to look ghastly ! This
one looks neat and comfortable, and has
trees about it ! "

The ruin, once a fortified house and called

a castle, stood on a sloping root or spur
that ran from the hill down to the bank
of the stream, where it stopped abruptly
with a steep scar, at whose foot lay a dark
pool. On the same spur, half-way to the
burn, stood a low, stone-built, thatched
cottage, with a little grove about it, mostly
of the hardy, contented, musical fir — a tree
that would seem to have less regard to
earthly prosperity than most, and looks like
a pilgrim and a stranger : not caring much,
int thrives where other trees cannot. There
might have been a hundred of them,
mingled, in strangest contrast, with a few
delicate silver birches, about the cottage.
It stood toward the east side of the sinking
ridge, which had a steep descent, both east
and west, to the fields below. The slopes
were green with sweet grass, and apparently
smooth as a lawn. Not far from where the
cottage seemed to rest rather than rise or
stand, the burn rushed right against the
side of the spur, as if to go straight through
it, but turned abruptly, and flowed along

the side to the end of it, where its way to
the sea was open. On the point of the
ridge were a few more firs : except these,
those about the cottage, the mole on the
hill-cheek, and the plantation about the
New House, up or down was not a tree
to be seen. The girls stood for a moment
looking.

"It's really quite pretty ! " said Christina
with condescension. " It has actually
something of what one misses here so
much — a certain cosy look ! Tidy it is too !
As you say, Mercy, it might be in England
only for the poverty of its trees. — And oh
those wretched bare hills! " she added, as
she turned away and moved on.

Wait till the heather is quite out : then
you will have colour to make up for the
bareness."

'' Tell true now, Mercy : that you are
Scotch need not keep you from speaking
the truth : — don't you think heather just — ■
well — just a beetle magentaish ? — not a
colour to be altogether admired? — justa

little vulgar, don't you know ? The
fashion has changed so much within the
last few years ! "^

*'No, I don't think so; and if I did I
should he ashamed of it. I suppose poor
old mother Earth ought to go to the j)re-
Eaphaelites to be taught how to dress
herself!"

Mercy spoke with some warmth, but
Christina was not sufficiently interested to
be cross. She made no answer.

They were now at the part of the road
which crossed the descending spur as it left
the hill-side. Here they stopped again, and
looked down the rocky slope. There was
hardly anything green betwixt them and
the old ruin — little but stones on a mass of
rock ; but immediately beyond the ruin the
green began : there it seemed as if a wave
of the meadow had risen and overflowed
the spur, leaving its turf behind it. Catching
sight of Hope and Grace as they ran
about the ruin, they went to join them, the
one drawn by a vague interest in the exiivice

of vanished life, the other by mere curiosity
to see inside the care-worn, protesting walls.
Through a gap that might once have been
a door, they entered the heart of the sad
unloving thing dropt by the Past on its
way to oblivion : nothing looks so unlike
life as a dead body, nothing so unfit for
human dwelling as a long-forsaken house.

Finding in one corner a broken stair, they
clambered up to a gap in the east wall ; and
as they reached it, heard the sound of a
horse's feet. Looking down, the road, they
saw a gig approaching with two men. It
had reached a part not so steep, and was
coming at a trot.

^'Why!" exclaimed Christina, there's
Yah ! — and some one with him ! "

^'I heard, the governor say to mamma,"
returned Mercy, '^ that Yah was going to
bring a college friend with him, — ' for a
pop at the grouse,' he said. I wonder what
he will be like ! "

^' He's a good-big-looking fellow," said
Christina.

They drew nearer.

** You might have said a big, good-looking
fellow ! " rejoined Mercy.

''He really is handsome! — Now mind,
Mercy, I was the first to discover it ! " said
Christina.

"Indeed you were not! — At least I was
the first to say it ! " returned Mercy. " But
you will take him all to yourself anyhow,
and I am sure I don't care ! "

Yet the girls were not vulgar — they were
only common. They did and said vulgar
things because they had not the sensitive
vitality to shrink from them. They had
not been well taught — that is roused to
live : in the family was not a breath of
aspiration. There was plenty of ambition,
that is, aspiration turned hell-ward. They
thought themselves as far from vulgar as
any lady in any land, being in this vulgar
that they despised the people they called
vulgar, yet thought much of themselves
for not being vulgar. There was little in
them the world would call vulgar ; but the

world and its ways are vulgar ; its breeding
will not pass with the ushers of the high
countries. The worst in that of these girls
was a fast., disagreeable way of talking,
which they owed to a certain governess
they had had for a while.

They hastened to the road. The gig
came up. Valentine threw the reins to
his companion, jumped out, embraced his
sisters, and seemed glad to see them. Had
he met them after a like interval at home,
he would have given them a cooler greeting ;
but he had travelled so many miles that
they seemed not to have met for quite a
long time.

*^ My friend, Mr. Sercombe," he said,
jerking his head toward the gig.

Mr. Sercombe raised his pot-lid — the last
fashion in head-gear — and acquaintance was
made.

** We'll drive on, Sercombe," said Valentine,
jumping up. ^^ You see, Chris, we're
half dead with hunger ! Do you think we
shall find anything to eat ? "

^^ Judging by what we left at breakfast,"
replied Christina, ^'I should say you will
find enough for — one of you ; but you had
better go and see."

CHAPTER IV.

THE SHOP IN THE VILLAGE.

T^YO or three clays have passed. The sun
had been set for an hour, and the night is
already rather dark notwithstanding the
long twilight of these northern regions, fora
blanket of vapour has gathered over the
heaven, and a few stray drops have begun
to fall from it. A thin wind now and then
wakes, and gives a feeble puff, but seems
immediately to change its mind and resolve
not to blow, but let the rain come down.
A drearier-looking spot for human abode it
would be difficult to imagine, except it were
as much of the sandy Sahara, or of the
ashy, sage-covered waste of western America.
A muddy road wound through huts of turf

■ — among them one or two of clay, and one
or two of stone, which were more like cottages.
Hardly one had a window two feet
square, and many of their windows had
no glass. In almost all of them the only
chimney was little more than a hole in the
middle of the thatch. This rendered the
absence of glass in the windows not so
objectionable ; for, left without ordered
path to its outlet, the smoke preferred a
circuitous route, and lingered by the way,
filling the air. Peat-smoke, however, is
both wholesome and pleasant, nor was there
mingled with it any disagreeable smell of
cooking. Outside were no lamps ; the road
was unlighted save by the few rays that
here and there crept from a window, casting
a doubtful glimmer on the mire.

One of the better cottages sent out a
little better light, though only from a tallow
candle, through the open upper hae of a
door horizontally divided in two. Except
by that same half-door, indeed, little light
could enter the place, for its one window

was filled with all sorts of little things
for sale. Small and inconvenient for the
humblest commerce, this was not merely
the best, it was the only shop in the
hamlet.

There were two persons in it, one before
and one behind the counter. The latter
was a young woman, the former a man.

He was leaning over the counter — •
whether from weariness, listlessness, or
interest in his talk with the girl behind, it
would not have been easy, in the dim light
and deep shadow, to say. He seemed quite
at home, yet the young woman treated him
with a marked, though unembarrassed respect.
The candle stood to one side of
them upon the counter, making a ghastly
halo in the damp air ; and in the light puff
that occasionally came in at the door, casting
the shadow of one of a pair of scales,
now on this now on that of the two faces.
The young woman was tall and dark, with
a large forehead : — so much could be seen ;
but the sweetness of her mouth, the blueness

of her eyes, the extreme darkness of
her hair, were not to be distinguished.
The man also was dark. His coat was of
some rough brown material, probably dyed
and woven in the village, and his kilt of
tartan. They were more than well worn —
looked even in that poor light a little
shabby. On his head was the highland
bonnet called a glengarry. His profile was
remarkable — hardly less than grand, with a
certain aquiline expression, although the
nose was not roman. His eyes appeared
very dark, but in the daylight were greenish
hazel. Usually he talked with the girl in
Gaelic, but was now speaking English, a
far purer English than that of most English
people, though with something of the character
of book-English as distinguished
from conversation - English, and a very
perceptible accent.

'^ And when was it you heard from Lachlan,
Annie ? " he asked.

After a moment's pause, during which
she had been putting away things in a

(lra\Yer of the counter — not so big as many
a kitchen dresser —

'' Last Thursday it was, sir," answered the
girL "You know we hear every month,
sometimes oftener."

Yes ; I know that. — I hope the dear
fellow is well?"

He is quite well and of good hope. He
says he will soon come and see us now."

And take you away, Annie ? "

"Well, sir," returned Annie, after a
moment's hesitation, "he does not say so!"

"If he did not mean it, he would be a
rascal, and I should have to kill him. But
my life on Lachlan's honesty ! "

Thank you, sir. He would lay down
his for you."

"Not if you said to him, Don't! — eh,
Annie?"

"But he would, Macruadh ! " returned
the young woman, almost angrily. " Are
not you his chief ? "

x\h, that is all over now, my girl!
There are no chiefs, and no clans any more !

The chiefs that need not, yet sell their land
like Esau for a mess of pottage — and their
brothers with it ! And the Sasunnach who
buys it, claims rights over them that never
grew on the land or were hid ill its caves !
Thank Grot, the poor man is not their slave,
but he is the worse off, for they will not let
him eat, and he has nowhere to go. My
heart is like to break for my people. Sometimes
I feel as if I would gladly die."

*^ Oh, sir ! don't say that ! " expostulated
the young woman, and her voice trembled.
'* Every heart in Glenruadh is glad when it
goes well with the Macruadh."

eyes, yes; I know you all love my
father's son and my uncle's nephew ; but
how can it go well with the Macruadh when
it goes ill with his clan ? There is no way
now for a chief to be the father of his
people ; we are all poor together ! My
uncle — God rest his soul ! — they managed
it so, I suppose, as to persuade him there
was no help for it ! Well, a man must bean
honest man, even if there be no way but

ruin ! God knows, as we've all heard my
father say a hundred times from the pulpit,
there's no ruin but dishonesty ! For poverty
and hard work, he's a poor creature would
crouch for those ! "

^' He who well goes down hill, holds his
head up!" said Annie, and a pause followed.

^' There are strangers at the New House,
we hear," she said.

From a distance I saw some young
ladies, and one or two men. I don't desire
to see more of them. God forbid I should
wish them any manner of harm ! but — I
hardly understand myself — I don't like to
see them there. I am afraid it is pride.
They are rich, I hear, so we shall not be
troubled with attention from them ; they
will look down upon us."

'' Look down on the Macruadh ! " exclaimed
Annie, as if she could not believe
her ears.

*^ Not that I should heed that ! " he went
on. ** A cock on the barn-ridge looks
down on you, and you don't feel offended !

VOL. I. E

What I do dread is looking down on them.
There is something in me that can hate,
Annie, and I fear it. There is something
about the land — I don't care about money,
but I feel like a miser about the land ! —
I don't mean any land ; I shouldn't care to
buy land unless it had once been ours ; but
what came down to me from my own people
with my own people upon it — I would
rather turn the spigot of the molten gold
and let it run down the abyss, than a rood
of that sip from me ! I feel it even a disgrace
to have lost what of it I never had ! "
*' Indeed, Macruadh," said Annie, ^'it's a
hard time ! There is no money in the
country ! And fast the people are going
after Lachlan ! "

I shall miss you, Annie ! "
'' You are very kind to us all, sir."
^^ Are you not all my own ! And you
I have to take care of for Lachlan' s sake
besides. He left you solemnly to my
charge — as if that had been necessary, the
foolish fellow, when we are foster-brothers 1 "

Again came a pause.

** Not a gentleman-farmer left from one
end of the strath to the other ! " said the
chief at length. ^' When Ian is at home,
we feel just like two old turkey-cocks left
alone in the yard ! ' '

^^ Say two golden eagles, sir, on the cliff
of the rock."

'^ Don't compare ns to the eagle, Annie.
I do not love the bird. He is very proud
and greedy and cruel, and never will know
the hand that tames him. He is the bird
of the monarch or the earl, not the bird of
the father of his people. But he is beautiful,
and I do not kill him."

^^ They shot another, the female bird, last
week ! All the birds are going ! Soon
there will be nothing but the great sheep
and the little grouse. The capercailzie's
gone, and the ptarmigan's gone ! — Well,
there's a world beyond ! "

^^ Where the birds go, Annie? — Well, it
may be ! But the ptarmigan's not gone yet,
though there are not many ; and for the

nw<VFRSITY OF ILLlNi

capercailzie — only who that loves them will
be here to see ! — But do you really think
there is a heaven for all God's creatures,
Annie ? Ian does."

'^ I don't know what I said to make you
think so, sir ! When the heart aches the
tongue mistakes. But how is my lady, your
mother ? "

^^ Pretty well, thank you — wonderfully
cheerful. It is time I went home to her.
Lachlan would think I was playing him
false, and making love to you on my own
account ! "

No fear ! He would know better than
that ! He would know too, if she was not
belonging to Lachlan, her father's daughter
would not let her chief humble himself."

^* You're one of the old sort, Annie !
Good night. Mind you tell Lachlan I
never miss a chance of looking in to see
how you are getting on."

'' I will. Good night, Macruadh."

They shook hands over the counter, and
the young chief took his departure.

As he stood up, he showed a fine-made,
powerful frame, over six feet in height, and
perfectly poised. With a great easy stride
he swept silently out of the shop ; nor
from gait any more than look would one
have thought he had been all day at work
on the remnant of property he could call
his own.

To a cit it would have seemed strange
that one sprung from innumerable patriarchal
ancestors holding the land of the
country, should talk so familiarly with a
girl in a miserable little shop in a most
miserable hamlet; it would have seemed
stranger yet that such a one should toil at
the labour the soul of a cit despises ; but
stranger than both it would seem to him, if
he saw how such a man is tempted to look
down upon him.

If less cleverness is required for country
affairs, they leave the more room iosc thinking.
There are great and small in every
class ; here and there is a ploughman that
understands Burns, here and there a large-minded

shopkeeper, here and there perhaps
an unselfish duke. Doubtless mosfc of the
youth's ancestors would likewise have held
such labour unworthy of a gentleman, and
would have preferred driving to their hills
a herd of lowland cattle ; but this, the last
Macruadh, had now and then a peep into
the kingdom of heaven.

CHAPTEK V.

THE CHIEF.

The Mackuadh strode into the dark, and
down the village, wasting no time in picking
his way — thence into the yet deeper dark
of the moorland hills. The rain was beginning
to come down in earnest, but he did
not heed it ; he was thoroughbred, and
feared no element. An umbrella was to
him a ludicrous thing : how could a little
rain — as he would have called it had it
come down in torrents — hurt any one !

The Macruadh, as the few who yet held
by the sore-frayed, fast-vanishing skirt of
clanship, called him, was the son of the last
minister of the parish — a godly man, who
lived that which he could ill explain, and

was immeasurably better than those parts of
his creed which, from a sense of duty, he
pushed to the front. For he held devoutly
by the root of which he spoke too little, and
it supplied much sap to his life and teaching
out of the pulpit. He was a genial,
friendly, and by nature even men man,
always ready to share what he had, and
making no show of having what he had not,
either in wisdom, knowledge, or earthly
goods. His father and brother had been
owners of the property and chiefs of the
clan, much beloved by the poor of it, and
not a little misunderstood by most of the
more flourishing. For a great hunger after
larger means, the ambition of the mammon-ruled
world, had arisen in the land, and with
it a rage for emigration. The uncle of the
present Macruadh did all he could to keep
his people at home, lived on a couple of
hundreds a year himself, and let many of
his farms to his gentlemen-tacksmen, as
they were called, at lower rents ; but it was
unavailing; one after another departed.

until his land lay in a measure waste, and
he grew very poor, mourning far more over
his clan and his country than his poverty.
In more prosperous times he had scraped
together a little money, meaning it, if he
could but avoid spending it in his old age,
for his brother, who must soon succeed
him ; for he was himself a bachelor — the
result of a romantic attachment and sorrow
in his youth ; but he lent it to a company
which failed, and so lost it. At length he
believed himself compelled, for the good of
his people, to part with all but a mere
remnant of the property. From the man
to whom he sold it, Mr. Peregrine Palmer
bought it for twice the money, and had still
a good bargain. But the hopes of the laird
were disappointed : in the sheep it fed, and
the grouse it might be brought to breed, lay
all its value in the market ; there was no
increase in the demand for labour; and
more and more of the peasantry emigrated,
or were driven to other parts of the country.
Such was the present treatment of the land,

causing human life to ebb from it, and
working directly counter to the creative
God.

The laird retired to the humble cottage
of his brother the pastor, just married
rather late in life — where every comfort
love could give waited for him ; but the
thought that he could have done better
for his people by retaining the land soon
wore him out ; and having made a certain
disposition of the purchase-money, he
died.

What remained of the property came to
the minister. As for the chieftainship, that
had almost died before the chief ; but,
reviving by union nth the reverence felt
for the minister, it took thereafter a higher
form. When the minister died, the idea of
it transmitted to his son was of a peculiarly
sacred character ; while in the eyes of the
people, the authority of the chief and the
influence of the minister seemed to meet
reborn in AUster notwithstanding his youth.
In himself he was much beloved, and in

love the blessed rule, blessed where understood,
holds, that to him that hath shall be
given, he only who has being fit to receive.
The love the people bore to his father, both
pastor and chief, crowned head and heart of
Blister. Scarce man or woman of the poor
remnant of the clan did not love the young
Macruadh,

On his side was true response. With a
renewed and renovating conscience, and a
vivid sense that all things had to be made
new, he possessed an old strong heart,
changing first to his father and mother, and
then to the shadow even of any good thing
that had come floating down the ages.
Call it a dream, a wild ideal, a foolish fancy
call it what you please, he was filled with
the notion 'of doing something in his own
person and family, having the remnant of
the clan for the nucleus of his endeavour, to
restore to a vital reality, let it be of smallest
extent, that most ancient of governments,
the patriarchal, which, all around, had
rotted into the feudal, in its turn rapidly

disintegrating into the mere dust and ashes
of the kingdom of the dead, over which
Mammon reigns supreme. There may have
been youthful presumption and some folly
in the notion, but it sprang neither from
presumption nor folly, but from simple
humanity, and his sense of the responsibility
he neither could nor would avoid, as the
person upon whom had devolved the headship,
however shadowy, of a house, ruinous
indeed, but not yet razed.

The castle on the ridge stood the symbol
of the family condition. It had, however,
been a ruin much longer than any one alive
could remember. Blister's uncle had lived
in a house on the spot where Mr. Peregrine
Palmer's now stood ; the man who bought
it had pulled it down to build that which
Mr. Palmer had since enlarged. It was buta
humble affair — a great cottage in stone,
much in the style of that in which the
young chief now lived — only six times the
size, with the one feature indispensable to
the notion of a chief's residence, a large

hall. Some would say it was but a huge
kitchen ; but it was the sacred place of the
houseman which served the angel of hospitality.
There was always plenty to eat and
drink for any comer, whether he had
^^ claim " or not : the question of claim
where was need, was not thought of.
When the old house had to make room
for the new, the staves of the last of its
half-pipes of claret, one of which used
always to stand on tap amidst the peat-smoke,
yielded its final ministration to
humanity by serving to cook a few meals
for mason and carpenter.

The property of Clanruadh, for it was
regarded as clan-property because belonging
to the chief, stretched in old time away
out of sight in all directions — nobody, in
several, could tell exactly how far, for the
undrawn boundary lines lay in regions of
mist and cloud, in regions stony, rocky,
desert, to which a red deer, not to say a
stray sheep, rarely ascended. At one time
it took in a portion at least of every hill

to be seen from the spot where stood the
ruin. The chief had now but a small farm,
consisting of some fair soil on the slope of
a hill, and some very good in the valley on
both sides of the burn ; with a hill-pasture
that was not worth measuring in acres, for
it abounded in rocks, and was prolific in
heather and ling, with patches of coarse
grass here and there, and some extent of good
high-valley grass, to which the small black
cattle and black-faced sheep were driven
in summer. Beyond periodical burnings of
the heather, this uplifted portion received
no attention save from the mist, the snow,
the rain, the sun, and the sweet air. A few
grouse and black game bred on it, and many
mountain-hares, with martens, wild cats,
and other vermin. But so tender of life was
the Macruadh that, though he did not spare
these last, he did not like killing even a fox
or a hooded crow, and never shot a bird
for sport, or would let another shoot one,
though the poorest would now and then
beg a bird or two from him, sure of having

their request. It seemed to him as if the
creatures were almost a part of his clan,
of which also he had to take care against
a greedy world. But as the deer and the
birds ranged where they would, it was not
much he could do for them — as little almost
as for the men and women that had gone
over the sea, and were lost to their country
in Canada.

Regret, and not any murmur, stirred the
mind of Blister Macruadh when he thought
of the change that had passed on all things
around him. He had been too well taught
for grumbling — least of all at what was
plainly the will of the Supreme — inasmuch
as, however man might be to blame, the
thing was there. Personal regrets he had
none beyond those of family feeling and
transmitted sentiment. He was able to
understand something of the signs of the
times, and saw that nothing could bring
back the old way — saw that nothing comes
back — at least in the same form ; saw that
there had been much that ought not to

come back, and that, if patriarchal ways
were ever to return, they must rise out of,
and be administered upon loftier principles
must begin afresh, and be wrought out
afresh from the bosom of a new Abraham,
capable of so bringing up his children that
a new development of the one natural
system of government should be possible
with and through them. Perhaps even
now, in the new country to which so many
of his people were gone, some shadowy reappearance
of the old fashion might have
begun to take shape on a higher level, with
loftier aims, and in circumstances holding
out fewer temptations to the evils of the
past !

Blister could not, at his years, have generated
such thoughts but for the wisdom
that had gone before him — first the large-minded
speculation of his father, who was
capable even of discarding his prejudices
where he saw they might mislead him ; and
next, the response of his mother to the
same : she was the only one who entirely

understood her husband. Isobel Macruadh
was a woman of real thinking-power. Her
sons being but boys when their father died,
she at once took the part of mediator
between the mind of the father and that of
his sons ; and besides guiding them on the
same principles, often told them things their
father had said, and talked with them of
things they had heard him say.

One of the chief lessons he left them
wrought well for the casting out of all with
which the feudal system had debased the
patriarchal ; and the poverty shared with
the clan had powerfully helped : it was
spoken against the growing talionic regard
of human relations — that, namely, the conditions
of a bargain fulfilled on both sides, allis
fulfilled between the bargaining parties.

^^In the possibility of any bargain," he
had said, ^^ are involved eternal conditions :
there is relationship — there is brotherhood.
Even to give with a denial of claim, to be
kind under protest, is an injury, is charity
without the love, is salt without the saltness.

YOL. I. F

If we spent our lives in charity we should
never overtake neglected claims — claims
neglected from the very beginning of the
relations of men. If a man say, * I have
not been unjust ; I owed the man nothing ; *
he sides with Death — says with the typical
murderer, ^ Am I my brother's keeper ? '
builds the tombs of those his fathers slew."
In the bosom of young Blister Macruadh,
the fatherly relation of the strong to the
weak survived the disappearance of most of
the outward signs of clan-kindred : the chieftainship
was sublimed in him. The more
the body of outer fact died, the stronger
grew in him the spirit of the relation.
As some savage element of a race will reappear
in an individual of it after ages of
civilization, so may good old ways of thinking
and feeling, modes long gone out of fashion
and practice, survive and revive modified
by circumstance, in an individual of a new
age. Such a one will see the customs of
his ancestors glorified in the mists of the
past ; what is noble in them wil appeal to

all that is best in his nature, spurring the
most generous of his impulses, and stirring
up the conscience that would be void of
offence. When the operative force of such
regards has been fostered by the teaching
of a revered parent ; when the influences
he has left behind are nourished and tended,
with thorough belief and devoted care, by
her who shared his authority in life, and
now bears alone the family sceptre, there
can be no bound set to their possible
potency in a mind of high spiritual order.
The primary impulse became with Blister
a large portion of his religion : he was the
shepherd of the much ravaged and dwindled
Macready-fold ; it was his church, in which
the love of the neighbour was intensified in
the love of the relation and dependent. To
aid and guard this his flock, was Blister' s
divine service. It was associated with a
great dislike of dogma, originating in the
recoil of the truth within him from much
that was commonly held and taught for
true.

Call the tiling enthusiasm or what you
will, so you believe it there, and genuine.

It was only towards the poor of a decayed
clan he had opportunity of exercising
the cherished relation ; almost all who
were not poor had emigrated before the
lands were sold; and indeed it was only
the poor who set store by their unity with
the old head. Not a few of the clan,
removed else whither, would have smiled
degenerate, and with scorn in their amusement,
at the idea of Blister's clinging to
any supposed reality in the position he
could claim. Among such nevertheless
were several who, having made money by
trade, would each have been glad enough to
keep up old traditions, and been ready even
to revive older, had the headship fallen to
him. But in the hands of a man whom,
from the top of their wealth, they regarded
as but a poor farmer, they forgot all about
it — along with a few other more important
and older world matters ; for where Mammon
gets in his foot, he will soon be lord

of the house, and turn not merely Rank,
his rival demon, out of doors, but God
himself. Blister indeed lived in a dream ;
he did not know how far the sea of hearts
had ebbed, leaving him alone on the mount
of his vision ; but he dreamed a dream that
was worth dreaming ; comfort and help
flowed from it to those about him, nor did it
fail to yield his own soul refreshment also.
All dreams are not false ; some dreams are
truer than the plainest facts. Fact at best
is but a garment of truth, which has ten
thousand changes of raiment woven in the
same loom. Let the dreamer only do the
truth of his dream, and one day he will
realize all that was worth realizing in it —
and a great deal more and better than it
contained. Blister had no far-reaching
visions of anything to come out of his ; he
had, Hke the true man he was, only the
desire to live up to his idea of what the
people looked up to in him. The one thing
that troubled him was, that his uncle, whom
he loved so dearly, should have sold the land.

Doubtless there was pride mingled with
his devotion, and pride is an evil thing.
Still it was a human and not a devilish
pride. I would not be misunderstood as
defending pride, or even excusing it in any
shape ; it is a thing that must be got rid
of at all costs ; but even for evil we must
speak the truth ; and the pride of a goodman,
evil as it is, and in him more evil than
in an evil man, yet cannot be in itself such
a bad thing as the pride of a bad man.
The good man would at once recognize
and reject the pride of a bad man. A pride
that loves cannot be so bad as a pride that
hates. Yet if the good man do not cast
out his pride, it will sink him lower than
the bad man's, for it will degenerate into
a worse pride than that of any bad man.
Each must bring its own divinely-ordained
consequence.

There is one other point in the character
of the Macruadh which I must mention ere
I pass on ; in this region, and at this time,
it was a great peculiarity, one that yielded

satisfaction to few of the clan, and made
him even despised in the strath : he hated
whisky, and all the drinking customs associated
with it. In this he was not original ;
he had not come to hate it from noting
the degradation and crime that attended
it, or that as poverty grew, drunkenness
grew, men who had used it in moderation
taking more and more as circumstances
became more adverse, turning sadness into
slavery : he had been brought up to hate it.
His father, who, as a clergyman doing his
endeavour for the welfare of his flock, found
himself greatly thwarted by its deadening
influences, rendering men callous not only
to the special vice itself, but to worse
vices as well, had banished it from his
table and his house ; while the mother
had from their very childhood instilled a
loathing of the national weakness and its
physical means into the minds of her sons.
In her childhood she had seen its evils in
her own father : by no means a drunkard,
he was the less of a father because he did

as others did. Never an evening passed
Tvitliout his drinking his stated portion
of whisky-toddy, growing more and more
subject to attacks of bad temper, with
consequent injustice and unkindness. The
recollection may have made her too sweeping
in her condemnation of the habit, but
I doubt it ; and anyhow a habit is not a
man, and we need not much condemn that
kind of injustice. We need not be tender
over a habit which, though not all bad, yet
leads to endless results that are all bad. I
would follow such to its grave without
many tears !

Isobel Macruadh was one of those rare
women who preserve in years the influence
gained in youth ; and the thing that lay
at the root of the fact was her justice. For
though her highland temper would occasionally
burst out in hot flame, everyone
knew that if she were in the wrong, she
would see it and say it before any one else
would tell her of it. This justice it was,
ready against herself as for another, that

fixed the influence which her goodness and
her teaching of righteousness gained.

Her eldest child, a girl, died in infancy.
Blister and Ian were her whole earthly-family,
and they worshipped her.

Chapter YL

Woe AND WAGE.

Listen strode through the night, revolving
no questions hard to solve, though such
were not strangers to him. He had not
been to a university like his brother, but he
had had a good educational beginning —
who ever had more than a beginning? —
chiefly from his father, who for his time and
opportunity was even a learned man — and
better, a man who knew what things were
worth a man's human while, and what were
not : he could and did think about things
that a man must think about or perish ;
and his son Blister had made himself able
to think about what he did not know, by
doing the thing he did know. But now, ashe

walked, fighting with the wind, his
bonnet of Httle shelter pulled down on his
forehead, he was thinking mostly of Lachlan
his foster-brother, whose devotion had done
much to nourish in him the sense that he
was head of the clan. He had not far to
go to reach his home — about a couple of
miles.

He had left the village a quarter of the
way behind him, when through the darkness
he spied something darker yet by the roadside.
Going up to it, he found an old
woman, half sitting, half standing, with a
load of seats in a creel upon her back,
unable, apparently, for the moment at least,
to proceed. Blister knew at once by her
shape and posture who she was.

^^Ah, mistress Conal ! " he said, *'I am
sorry to see you resting on such a night so
near your own door. It means you have
filled your creel too full, and tired yourself
too much."

^' I am not too much tired, Macruadh ! "
returned the old woman, who was proud

and cross-tempered, and had a reputation
for witchcraft, which did her neither much
good nor much harm.

"Well, whether you are tired or not, I
believe I am the stronger of the two ! "

Small doubt of that, Blister ! " said
mistress Conal with a sigh.

Then I will take your creel, and you
will soon be home. Come along ! It is
going to be a wild night ! "

So saying he took the rope from the neck
of the old woman right gently, and threw
the creel with a strong swing over his
shoulder. This dislodged a few of the
topmost of the seats which the poor old
thing had been a long way to fetch. She
heard them fall, and one of them struck her
foot. She started up, almost in a rage.

"Sir! sir! my seats!" she cried.
"What would you be throwing away the
good seats into the dark for, letting that
swallow them they should swallow ! "

These words, as all that passed between
them, were spoken neither in Scotch nor

English, but in Gaelic — which, were I able
to write it down, most of my readers would
no more understand than they would Phoenician
: we must therefore content ourselves
with what their conversation comes to in
English, which, if deficient compared with
Gaehc in vowel-sounds, yet serves to say
most things capable of being said.

*' I am sorry, mistress Conal ; but we'll
not be losing them," returned the laird
gently, and began to feel about the road for
the fallen seats.

'' How many were there, do you think,
of them that fell? " he asked, rising after a
Vain search.

'^ How should I be knowing ! But I am
sure there would be nigh six of them ! "
• answered the woman, in a tone of deep
annoyance — nor was it much wonder ; they
were precious to the cold, feeble age that
had gone so far to fetch so few.

The laird again stooped his long back,
and searched and searched, feeling on all
sides around him. He picked up three.

Not another, after searching for several
minutes, could he find.

*^ I'm thinking that must be all of them,
but I find only three ! " he said. '^ Come,
let us go home ! You must not make your
cough worse for one or two seats, perhaps
none ! "

^* Three, Macruadh, three ! " insisted the
old woman in wavering voice, broken by
coughing ; for, having once guessed six, she
was not inclined to lower her idea of her
having.

^' Well, well! we'll count them when we
get home ! " said Blister, and gave his hand
to her to help her up.

She yielded grumbling, and, bowed still
though relieved from her burden, tottered
by his side along the dark, muddy, 
road.

*did you see my niece to-night at the
shop ? " she asked ; for she was proud of
being so nearly related to those who kept
the shop of the hamlet.

That I did," answered the chief; and

a

a little talk followed about Lachlan in
Canada.

No one could have perceived from the
way in which the old woman accepted his
service, and the tone in which she spoke to
him while he bent under her burden, that
she no less than loved her chief ; but everybody
only smiled at mistress Conal's rough
speech. That night, ere she went to bed,
she prayed for the Macruadh as she never
prayed for one of her immediate family.
And if there was a good deal of superstition
mingled with her prayer, the main thing in
it was genuine, that is, the love that
prompted it ; and if God heard only perfect
prayers, how could he be the prayer-hearing
God?

Her dwelling stood but a stone's-throw
from the road, and presently they turned upto
it by a short steep ascent. It was a poor
hut, mostly built of turf; but turf makes
warm walls, impervious to the wind, and it
was a place of her own ! — that is, she had
it to herself, a luxury many cannot even

imagine, while to others to he able to be
alone at will seems one of the original
necessities of life. Even the Lord, who
probably had not always a room to himself
in the poor houses he staid at, could not do
without solitude ; therefore not unfrequently
spent the night in the open air, on the
quiet, star-served hill : there even for him it
would seem to have been easier to find an
entrance into that deeper solitude which, it
is true, he did not need in order to find his
Father and his God, but which apparently
he did need in order to come into closest
contact with him who was the one joy of his
life, whether his hard life on earth, or his
blessed life in heaven.

The Macruadh set down the creel, and
taking out peat after peat, piled them up
against the wall, where already a good
many waited their turn to be laid on the
fire ; for, as the old woman said, she must
carry a few when she could, and get ahead
with her store ere the winter came, or she
would soon be devoured : there was a death

that always prowled about old people, she
said, watching for the fire to go out. Many
of the Celts are by nature poets, and
mistress Conal often spoke in a manner
seldom heard from the lips of a lowland
woman. The common forms of Gaelic are
more poetic than those of most languages,
and could have originated only with a poetic
people, while mistress Conal was by no
means an ordinary type of her people ;
maugre her ill temper and gruffness, she
thought as well as spoke like a poetess.
This, conjoined with the gift of the second
sight, had helped to her reputation as a
witch.

As the chief piled the seats, he counted
them. She sat watching him and them
from a stone that made part of a rude
rampart to the hearth.

''I told you so, Macruadh!" she said,
the moment she saw his hand return empty
from the bottom of the creel. ^'I was
positive there should be three more ! — But
what's on the road is not with the devil."

VOL. I. (J

'' I am very sorry ! " said the chief,
who thought it wiser not to contradict
her.

He would have searched his sporan for a
coin to make up to her for the supposed loss
of her seats ; but he knew well enough
there was not a coin io it. He shook hands
with her, bade her good night, and went,
closing the door carefully behind him against
a great gust of wind that struggled to enter,
threatening to sweep the fire she was now
blowing at with her wrinkled, leather-like
lips, off the hearth altogether — a thing that
had happened before, to the danger of the
whole building, itself of the substance burning
in the middle of its floor.

The Macruadh ran down the last few
steep steps of the path, and jumped into
the road. Through the darkness came the
sound of one springing aside with a great
start, and the cock of a gun-lock.

*who goes there?" cried a rather
tremulous voice.

*' The Macready," answered the chief.

The utterance apparently conveyed nothing.


"Do you belong to these parts?" said
the voice.

A former Macruadh might have answered,
No ; these parts belong to me ; " Blister
curtly replied,

"I do."

*^ Here then, my good fellow ! take my
game-bag, and carry it as far as the New
House — if you know where I mean. I will
give you a shilling."

One moment the chief spent in repressing
a foolish indignation ; the next he spent in
reflection.

Had he seen how pale and tired was the
youth with the gun, he would have offered
to carry his bag for him ; to offer and to be
asked, however, most people find different ;
and here the offer of payment added to the
difficulty. But the word shilling had raised
the vision of the old woman in her lonely
cottage, brooding over the loss, real or
imaginary mattered nothing, of her three

far-borne seats. What a happy night,
through all the wind and the rain, would
a silver shilling under her chaff pillow give
her! The thought froze the chief's pride,
and warmed his heart. What right had he
to deny her such a pleasure ! It would cost
him nothing ! It would even bring him a
little amusement ! The chief of Clanruadh
carrying his game-bag for a Sasunnach
fellow to earn a shilling ! — the idea had
a touch of humorous consolation in it. I
will not assert the consolation strong enough
to cast quite out a certain feeling of shame
that mingled with his amusement — a shame
which — is it not odd ! — he would not have
felt had his sporan been full of sovereigns.
But the shame was not altogether a shameful
one ; a fanciful fear of degrading the
chieftainship, and a vague sense of the
thing being an imposition, had each a part
in it. There could be nothing dishonest,
however, in thus earning a shilling for poor
mistress Conal !

"I will carry your bag," he said, ^' but

I must have the shilling first, if you
please."

^' Oh ! " rejoined Valentine Palmer. *^ You
do not trust me ! How then am I to trust
you ? "

^* Sir ! " exclaimed Blister — and, again
finding himself on the point of being
foolish, laughed.

*^ I will pay you when the job is done,"
said Valentine.

^^ That is quite fair, but it does not suit
my purpose," returned Blister.

They were walking along the road side
by side, but each could scarcely see anything
of the other. The sportsman was
searching his pockets to find a shilling.
He succeeded, and, groping, put it in
Blister's hand, with the words —

'* All right ! it is only a shilling ! There
it is 1 But it is not yours yet : here is the
bag!"

Blister took the bag, turned, and ran
back.

^^ Hill ! " cried Valentine.

But Blister had disappeared, and as soon
as he turned up the soft path to the cottage,
his steps became inaudible through the
wind.

He opened the door, went in, laid the
shilling on the back of the old woman's
hand, and without a word hurried out again,
and down to the road. The stranger was
some distance ahead, tramping wearily on
through the darkness, and grumbling at his
folly in bribing a fellow with a shilling to
carry off his game-bag. Blister overtook him.

'^ Oh, here you are after all ! " exclaimed
Valentine. ^* I thought you had made off
with work and wages both ! What did you
do it for?"

''I wanted to give the shilling to an old
woman close by."

^^ Your mother — eh ? "

'^No."

^' Your grandmother ? "

^^No."

Some relation then ! " insisted the
stranger.

'^ Doubtless," answered the laird, and
Valentine thought him a surly fellow.

They walked on in silence. The youth
could hardly keep up with Blister, who
thought him ill bred, and did not care for
his company.

*why do you walk so fast?" said
Valentine.

*' Because I want to get home," replied
Blister.

^^ But I paid you to keep me company ! "

^' You paid me to carry your bag. I will
leave it at the New House."

His coolness roused the weary youth.

*you rascal!" he said; 'you keep
alongside of me, or I'll pepper you."

As he spoke, he shifted his gun. But
Blister had akeady, with a few long strides,
put a space of utter darkness between them.
He had taken the shilling, and must carry
the bag, but did not feel bound to personal
attendance. At the same time he could
not deny there was reason in the man's
unwillingness to trust him. What had he

about him to give him in pledge ? Nothing
but his watch, his father's, a gift of the
Prince to the head of the family ! — he could
not profane that by depositing it for a game-bag
! He must yield to his employer,
moderate his pace, and move side by side
with the Sasunnach !

Again they walked some distance in
silence. Blister began to discover that his
companion was weary, and his good heart
spoke.

'^ Let me carry your gun," he said.

*^ See you damned! " returned Valentine,
with an angry laugh.

^^ You fancy your gun protects your
bag ? "

*ado."

The same instant the gun was drawn,
with swift quiet force, through the loop
of his arm from behind. Feeling himself
defenceless, he sprang at the highlander,
but he eluded him, and in a moment was
out of his reach, lost in the darkness. He
heard the lock of one barrel snap : it was

not loaded ; the second barrel went off, and
lie gave a great jump, imagining himself
struck. The next instant the gun was
below his arm again.

^^It will be lighter to carry now ! " said
the Macruadh; *' but if you like I will take
it."

'' Take it, then. But no !— By Jove, I
wish there was light enough to see what
sort of a rascal you look ! "

^^ You are not very polite ! "

Mind your own politeness. I was never
so roughly served in my life ! — by a fellow
too that had taken my money ! If I knew
where to find a magistrate in this beastly
place, "

' You would tell him I emptied your gun
bec-use you threatened me with it ! "

^' You were going o£f with my bag I "

Because I undertook to carry your bag,
was I bound to endure your company ? "

'^ Blister! " said a quiet voice out of the
darkness.

The highlander started, and in a tone

strangely tremulous, set with a kind of
triumph in it, answered —

^^an!"

The one word said, he stood still, but as
in the act to run, staring into the darkness.
The next moment he flung down the game-bag,
and two men were in each other's arms.

** Where are you from, Ian?" said the
chief at length, in a voice broken with
gladness.

All Valentine understood of the question,
for it was in Gaelic, was its emotion, and he
scorned a fellow to show the least sign of
breaking down.

^' Straight from Moscow," answered the
new-comer. ^' How is our mother ? "

swell, Ian, thank God!"

^' Then, thank God, all is well ! "

^' What brought you home in such
haste?"

*^ I had a bad dream about my mother,
and was a little anxious. There was more
reason too, which I will tell you afterwards."


'^Wliat were you doing in Moscow?
Have yon a fmiongli ? "

^'No; I am a sort of deserter. I would
have thrown up my commission, but had
not a chance. In Moscow I was teaching
in a school to keep out of the way of the
police. But I will tell you all by and by."

The voice was low, veiled, and sad ; the
joy of the meeting rippled through it like a
brook.

The brothers had forgotten the stranger,
and stood talking till the patience of
Valentine was as much exhausted as his
strength.

'' Are you going to stand there all night ? "
he said at last. ^^ This is no doubt very
interesting to you, but it is rather a bore to
one who can neither see you, nor understand
a word you saj^"

'sis the gentleman a friend of yours,
Blister ? " asked Ian.

'^ Not exactly. — But he is a Sasunnach,"
he concluded in English, ^' and we ought
not to be speaking Gaelic."

** I beg his pardon," said Ian. ^^ Will you
introduce me? "

*^ It is impossible ; I do not know his
name. I never saw him, and don't see him
now. But he insists on my company."

"That is a great compliment. How far?"

'' To the New House."

I paid him a shilling to carry my bag,"
said Valentine. *^ He took the shilling, and
was going to walk off with my bag ! "

"Well?"

Well indeed ! Not at all well ! How
was I to know "

"But he didn't— did he?" said Ian,
whose voice seemed now to tingle with
amusement. " — Blister, you were wrong."

It was an illogical face-about, but Blister
responded at once.

I know it," he said. " The moment
I heard your voice, I knew it. — How is it,
Ian"— here he fell back into Gaelic — " that
when you are by me, I know what is right
so much quicker ? I don't understand it.
I meant to do right, but "

'^ But your pride got up. Blister, you
always set out well — nobly — and then comes
the devil's turn ! Then you begin to do
as if you repented ! You don't carry the
thing right straight out. I hate to see the
devil make a fool of a man like you ! Do
soil not know that in your own country you
owe a stranger hospitality? "

My own country ! " echoed Blister with
a groan.

^^ Yes, your own country — and perhaps
more yours than it was your grandfather's !
You know who said, ^ The meek shall inherit
the earth ' ! If it be not ours in God's
way, I for one would not care to call it
mine another way." — Here he changed
again to English. — ^' But we must not
keep the gentleman standing while we
talk!"

^^ Thank you ! " said Valentine. " The
fact is, I'm dead beat."

^^ Have you anything I could carry for
you? " asked Ian.

''No, I thank you. — Yes; there! if you

don't mind taking my gun ? — you speak like
a gentleman ! ' '

^' I will take it with pleasure."

He took the gan, and they started.

*^ If you choose, Blister," said his brother,
once more in Gaelic, " to break through
conventionalities, you must not expect
people to allow you to creep inside them
again the moment you please."

But the young fellow's fatigue had touched
Blister.

*' Are you a big man?" he said, taking
Valentine gently by the arm.

^^ Not so big as you, I'll lay you a sovereign,"
answered Valentine, wondering why
he should ask.

** Then look here!" said Blister; ^^you
get astride my shoulders, and I'll carry you
home. I believe you're hungry, and that
takes the pith out of you ! — Come," he went
on, perceiving some sign of reluctance in the
youth, '^ you'll break down if you walk much
farther ! — Here, Ian ! you take the bag ; you
can manage that and the gun too 1 "

Valentine murmured some objection ; but
the brothers took the thing so much as a
matter of course, and he felt so terribly
exhausted — for he had lost his way, and
been out since the morning — that he yielded.

Blister doubled himself up on his heels ;
Valentine got his weary legs over his
stalwart shoulders ; the chief rose with him
as if he had been no heavier than mistress
Conal's creel, and bore him along much
relieved in his aching limbs.

So little was the chief oppressed by his
burden, that he and his brother kept up
a stream of conversation, every now and
then forgetting their manners and gliding
off into Gaelic, but as often recollecting
themselves, apologizing, and starting afresh
upon the path of English. Long before
they reached the end of their journey,
Valentine, able from his perch to listen in
some measure of ease, came to understand
that he had to do, not with rustics, but,
whatever their peculiarities, with gentlemen
of a noteworthy sort.

The brothers, in the joy of their reunion,
talked much of things at home and abroad,
avoiding things personal and domestic as
often as they spoke English ; but when they
saw the lights of the New House, a silence
fell upon them. At the door, Blister set
his burden carefully down.

'^ There ! " he said with a laugh, '^ I hope
I have earned my shilling ! "

*' Ten times over," answered Valentine ;
'but I know better now than offer to pay
you. I thank you with all my heart."

The door opened, Ian gave the gun and
the bag to the butler, and the brothers bade
Valentine good night.

Valentine had a strange tale to tell.
Sercombe refused to accept his conclusions :
if he had offered the men half a crown
apiece, he said, they would have pocketed
the money.

CHAPTER VII.

MOTHER AND SON.

The sun was shining bright, and the laird
was out in his fields. His oats were nearly
ready for the scythe, and he was judging
where he had best begin to cut them.

His fields lay chiefly along the banks of
the stream, occupying the whole breadth
of the valley on the east side of the ridge
where the cottage stood. On the west side
of the ridge, nearly parallel to, and not
many yards from it, a small brook ran to
join the stream : this was a march betwixt
the chief's land and Mr. Peregrine Palmer's.
Their respective limit was not everywhere
so well defined.

The air was clear and clean, and full of

VOL. I. H

life. The Avincl was asleep. A consciousness
of work approaching completion filled
earth and air — a mood of calm expectation,
as of a man who sees his end drawing nigh,
and awaits the saving judgment of the
father of spirits. There was no song of
birds — only a crow from the yard, or the
cry of a black cock from the hill; the two
streams were left to do all the singing, and
they did their best, though their water was
low. The day was of the evening of the
year; in the full sunshine was present the
twilight and the coming night, but there
was a sense of readiness on all sides. The
fruits of the earth must be housed; that
alone remained to be done.

When the laird had made up his mind,
he turned towards the house — a lowly
cottage, more extensive than many farmhouses,
but looking no better. It was well
built, with an outside wall of rough stone
and lime, and another wall of turf within,
lined in parts with wood, making it as warm
a nest as any house of the size could be.

The door, picturesque with abundant repair,
opened by a latch into the kitchen.

For long years the floor of the kitchen
had been an earthen one, with the fire on a
hearth in the middle of it, as in all the
cottages ; and the smoke rose into the roof,
keeping it very dry and warm, if also very
sooty, and thence into the air through a
hole in the middle. But some ten years
before this time, Blister and Ian, mere lads,
had built a chimney outside, and opening
the wall, removed the hearth to it — with
the smoke also, which now had its own
private way to liberty. They then paved
the floor with such stones as they could
find, in the fields and on the hill, sufficiently
flat and smooth on one side, and by sinking
them according to their thickness, managed
to get a tolerably even surface. Many
other improvements followed ; and although
it was a poor place still, it would at the
time of Dr. Johnson's visit to the highlands
have been counted a good house, not to
be despised by unambitious knight or poor

baronet. Nor was the time yet over when
ladies and gentlemen, of all courtesy and
good breeding, might be found in such
houses.

In the kitchen a deal dresser, scoured
white, stood under one of the tiny windows,
giving Hght enough for a clean-souled cook
and what window-light would ever be
enough for one of a different sort ? There
were only four panes in it, but it opened and
closed with a button, and so was superior
to many windows. There was a larger on
the opposite side, which at times in the
winter nights when the cold was great, they
filled bodily with a barricade of turf . Herein
the kitchen, the chief takes his meals
with his lady-mother. She and Ian have
just finished their breakfast, and gone to
the other end of the house. The laird
broke his fast long ago.

A fire is burning on the hearth — small,
for the mid-day-meal is not yet on its way.
Everything is tidy ; the hearth is swept up,
and the dishes are washed : the barefooted

girl is reaching the last of then to its place
on the rack behind the dresser. She is a
red-haired, bliie-eyed Celt, with a pretty
face, and a refinement of motion and speech
rarer in some other pleasantries.

The chief enters, and takes from the
wall an old-fashioned gun. He wants a
bird or two, for han's home-coming is a
great event.

^' I saw a big stag last night down by the
burn, sir," said the girl, feeding as if he
had been the red cow."

"I don't want him to-day, Nancy," returned
her master. '^ Had he big horns ? "

'^ Great horns, sir ; but it was too dark
to count the tines."

*^ When was it? Why did you not tell
me ? "

I thought it was morning, sir, and
when I got up it was the middle of the
night. The moon was so shiny that I went
to the door and looked out. Just at the
narrow leap, I saw him plain."

'^ If you should see him again, Nancy,

scare him. . I don't want the Sasimnaclis
at the New House to see inn."

^' Hadn't you better take him yourself,
Macruadh ? He would make fine hams for
the winter ! "

^^ Mind your own business, Nancy, and
hold your tongue," said the chief, with a
smile that took all the harshness from the
words. '' Don't you tell any one you saw
him. For what you know he may be. the
big stag ! "

^' Sure no one would kill num, sir!"
answered the girl aghast.

** I hope not. But get the stowing-pot
ready, Nancy ; I'm going to find a bird or
two. Lest I should not succeed, have a
couple of chickens at hand."

^^ Sir, the mistress has commanded them
already."

*' That is well ; but do not kill them
except I am not back in time."

^'I understand, sir."

Macruadh knew the stag as well as the
horse he rode, and that his habit had for

some time been to .come down at night and
feed on the small border of rich grass on
the south side of the burn, between it and
the abrupt heathery rise of the hill. For
there the burn ran so near the hill, and the
ground was so covered with huge masses of
grey rock, that there was hardly room for
cultivation, and the bank was left in grass.

The stalking of the stag was the passion
of the highlander in that part of the
country. He cared little for shooting the
grouse, black or red, and almost despised
those whose ambition was a full bag of
such game ; he dreamed day and night of
killing deer. The chief, however, was in
this matter more of a man without being
less of a highlander. He loved the deer
so much, saw them so much a part of the
glory of mountain and sky, sunshine and
storm, that he liked to see them living, not
dead, and only now and then shot one,
when the family had need of it. He felt
himself indeed almost the father of the
deer as well as of his clan, and mourned

greatly that he could do so little now, from
the limited range of his property, to protect
them. His love for live creatures was not
quite equal to that of St. Francis, for he
had not conceived the thought of turning
wolf or fox from the error of his ways ; but
even the creatures that preyed upon others
he killed only from a sense of duty, and
with no pleasure in their death. The heartlessness
of the common type of sportsman
was loathsome to him. When there was
not much doing on the farm, he would
sometimes be out all night with his gun,
it is true, but he would seldom fire it, and
then only at some beast of prey; on the
hill-side or in the valley he would lie
watching the ways and doings of the many
creatures that roam the night — each with
its object, each with its reasons, each with
its fitting of means to ends. One of the
grounds of his dislike to the new possessors
of the old land was the raid he feared upon
the wild animals.

The laird gone, I will take my reader

into the parlour as they called in English
their one sitting-room. Shall I first tell
him what the room was like, or first
describe the two persons in it ? Led np
to a picture, I certainly should not look
first at the frame ; but a description is a
process of painting rather than a picture ;
and when you cannot see the thing in one,
but must take each part by itself, and in
your mind get it into relation with the rest,
there is an advantage, I think, in having a
notion of the frame first. For one thing,
you cannot see the persons without imagining
their surroundings, and if those should
be unwittingly imagined, they interfere with
the truth of the persons, and you may not
be able to get them right after.

The room, then, was about fifteen feet by
twelve, and the ceiling was low. On the
white walls hung a few frames, of which
two or three contained water-colours — not
very good, but not displeasing ; several held
miniature portraits — mostly in red coats,
and one or two a silhouette. Opposite the

door hung a target of hide, round, and
bossed with brass. Aster had come upon
it in the house, covering a meal-barrel, to
which service it had probably been put in
aid of its eluding a search for arms after the
battle of Culloden. Never more to cover
man's food from mice, or his person from
an enemy, it was raised to the luallialla of
the parlour. Under it rested, horizontally
upon two nails, the sword of the chief-^a
long and broad Andrew Ferrara, with a
plated basket-hilt ; beside it hung a dirk —
longer than usual, and fine in form, with
a carved hilt in the shape of an eagle's
head and neck, and its sheath, whose
leather was dry and flaky with age, heavily
mounted in silver. Below these was a card-table
of marquetry with spindle-legs, and on

it a work-box of ivory, inlaid with silver



and ebony. In the corner stood a harp, an
Gerard, golden and gracious, not a string of
it broken. In the middle of the room was
a small square table, covered with a green
cloth. An old-fashioned easy chair stood

by the chimney; and one sat in ifc whom
to see was to forget her surroundings.

In middle age she is still beautiful, with
the rare beauty that shines from the root
of the being. Her hair is of the darkest
brown, almost black ; her eyes are very
dark, and her skin is very fair, though the
soft bloom, as of reflected sunset, is gone
from her cheek, and her hair shows lines
of keen silver. Her features are fine, clear,
and regular — the chin a little strong perhaps,
not for the size, but the fineness of
the rest ; her form is that of a younger
woman ; her hand and foot are long and
delicate. A more refined and courteous
presence could not have been found in the
island. The dignity of her carriage nowise
marred its grace, or betrayed the least consciousness
; she looked dignified because
she was dignified. That form of falsehood
which consists in assuming the look of what
one-fain would be, was, as much as any
other, impossible to Isobel Macruadh. She
wore no cap ; her hair was gathered in a

large knot near the top of her head. Her
gown was of a dark print ; she had no
ornament except a ring with a single ruby.
She was working a bit of net into lace.

She could speak Gaelic as well as any in
the glen — perhaps better ; but to her sons
she always spoke English. To them indeed
English was their mother-tongue, in the
sense that English only came addressed to
themselves from her lips. There were, she
said, plenty to teach them Gaelic ; she must
see to their English.

The one window of the parlour, though
not large, was of tolerable size : but little
light entered, so shaded was it with a rose-tree
in a pot on the sill. By the wall
opposite was a couch, and on the couch lay
Ian with a book in his hand — a book in a
strange language. His mother and he
would sometimes be a whole morning
together and exchange no more than a
word or two, though many a look and
smile. It seemed enough for each to be
in the other's company. There was a quite

peculiar bond between the two. Like so
many of the young men of that country,
Ian had been intended for the army ; but
there was in him this much of the spirit of
the eagle he resembled, that he passionately
loved freedom, and had almost a gypsy's
delight in wandering. When he left
college, he became tutor in a Russian
family of distinction, and after that accepted
a commission in the household
troops of the Czar. But wherever he
went, he seemed, as he said once to his
mother, almost physically aware of a line
stretching between him and her, which
seemed to vibrate when he grew anxious
about her. The bond between him and his
brother was equally strong, but in feeling
different. Between him and Blister it was
a cable ; between him and his mother a
armstrong ; in the one case it was a muscle,
in the other a nerve. The one retained,
the other drew him. Given to roaming ashe
was, again and again he returned, from
pure love-longing, to what he always felt as

the protection of his mother. It was protection
indeed he often had sought —
protection from his own glooms, which
nothing but her love seemed able to
senate.

He was tall — if an inch above six feet be
tall, but nofc of his brother's fine proportion.
He was thin, with long slender fingers and
feet like his mother's. His small, strong
bones were covered with little more than
hard muscle, but every motion of limb or
body was grace. At times, when lost in
thought and unconscious of movement, an
observer might have imagined him in conversation
with some one unseen, towards
whom he was carrying himself with
courtesy : plain it was that courtesy with
him was not a graft upon the finest stock,
but an essential element. His forehead
was rather low, freckled, and crowned with
hair of a foxy red ; his eyes were of the
glass-gray or green loved of our elder poets ;
his nose was a very eagle in itself — large
and fine. He more resembled the mask of

the dead Shakspere than any other I have
met, only in him the proportions were a
little exaggerated ; his nose was a little too
large, and his mouth a little too small for
the mask ; but the mingled sweetness and
strength in the curves of the latter prevented
the impression of weakness generally
given by the association of such a nose and
such a mouth. On his short upper lip was
a small light moustache, and on his face
not a hair more. In rest his countenance
wore a great calmness, but a calmness that
might seem rooted in sadness.

While the mother might, more than once
in a day, differ to fault-finding from hex
elder-born — whom she admired, notwithstanding,
as well as loved, from the bottom
of her heart — she was never Tcnoivn to say a
word in opposition to the younger. It was
even whispered that she was afraid of him.
It was not so ; but her reverence for Ian
was such that, even when she felt bound not
to agree with him, she seldom had the confidence
that, differing from him she was in

the right. Sometimes in the middle of the
night she would slip like a ghost into the
room where he lay, and sit by his bed till
the black cock, the gray cock, the red cock
crew. The son might be awake all the
time, and the mother suspect him awake,
yet no word pass between them. She
would rise and go as she came. Her
feeling for her younger son was Hke that
of Hannah for her eldest — interest love
mixed with strangest reverence. • But there
were vast alternations and inexplicable
mingling in her thoughts of him. At one
moment she would regard him as gifted
beyond his fellows for some great work, at
another be filled with a horrible fear that
he was in rebellion against the God of his
life. Doubtless mothers are far too ready
to think their sons above the ordinary breed
of sons : self, unpossessed of God, will
worship itself in its offspring ; yet the sons
whom holy mothers have regarded as born
to great things and who have passed away
without sign, may have gone on toward

their great things. Whether this mother
thought too much of her son or not, there
were questions moving in his mind which
she could not have understood — even then
when he would creep to her bed in the
morning to forget in her arms the terrible
dreams of the night, or when at evening he
would draw his little stool to her knee,
unable or unwilling to enjoy his book anywhere
but by her side.

What gave him his unconscious power
over his mother, was, first, the things he
said, and next, the things he did not say ;
for he seemed to her to dwell always ina
rich silence. Yet throughout was she
aware of a something between them, across
which they could not meet ; and it was in
part her distress at the seeming impossibility
of effecting a spiritual union with her
son, that made her so desirous of personal
proximity to him. Such union is by most
thinking people presumed impossible without
consent of opinion, and this mistake
rendered her unable to feel near him, to be

VOL. I. I

at home with him. If she had believed that
they understood each other, that they were
of like ojnnioiij she would not have been
half so unhappy when he went away, would
not have longed half so grievously for his
return. Ian on his part understood his
mother, but knew she did not understand
him, and was therefore troubled. Hence
it resulted that always after a time came
the hour — which never came to her — when
he could endure proximity without oneness
no longer, and would suddenly announce
his departure. And after a day or two of
his absence, the mother would be doubly
wretched to find a sort of relief in it, and
would spend wakeful nights trying to oust
it as the merest fancy, persuading herself
that she was miserable, and nothing but
miserable, in the loss of her darling.

Naturally then she would turn more to
Blister, and his love was a strengthening
tonic to her sick motherhood. He was
never jealous of either. Their love for each
other was to him a love. He too would

mourn deeply over his brother's departure,
but it became at once his business to
comfort his mother. And while she had no
suspicion of the degree to which he suffered,
it drew her with fresh love to her elder
born, and gave her renewal of the quiet
satisfaction in him that was never absent,
when she saw how he too missed Ian.
Their mutual affection was indeed as true
and strong as a mother could desire it.
*' If such love," she said to herself, ^'had
appeared in the middle of its history instead
of now at its close, the transmitted affection
would have been enough to bind the clan
together for centuries more ! "

It was with a prelusive smile that shone
on the mother's heart like the opening of
heaven, that Ian lowered his book to answer
her question. She had said —

^^ Did you not feel the cold very much
at St. Petersburg last winter, Ian ? "

"Yes, mother, at times," he answered.
But everybody wears fur ; the peasant his
sheep-skin, the noble his silver fox. They

have to fight the cold ! Nose and toes are
in constant danger. Did I never tell you
what happened to me once in that way ?
I don't think I overdue!"

** You never tell me anything, Ian ! "
said his mother, looking at him with a
loving sadness.

*' I was suddenly stopped in the street
by what I took for an unheard-of insult :
I actually thought my great proboscis was
being pulled ! If I had been as fiery as
Blister, the man would have found his back,
and I should have lost my nose. Without
the least warning a handful of snow was
thrust in my face, and my nose had not
even a chance of snorting with indignation,
it found itself so twisted in every direction
at once ! But I have a way, in any sudden
occurrence, of feeling perplexed enough to
want to be sure before doing anything, and
if it has sometimes hindered me from what
was expedient, it has oftener saved me from
what would have been wrong : in another
instant I was able to do justice to the

promptitude of a fellow Christian for the
preservation of my nose, already whitening
in frosty death : he was rubbing it hard
with snow, the orthodox remedy ! My
whole face presently sharpened into one
burning spot, and taking off my hat, I
thanked the man for his most kind attention.
He pointed out to me that time
spent in explaining the condition of my
nose, would have been pure loss : the
danger was pressing, and he attacked it at
once ! I was indeed entirely unconscious
of the state of my beak — the worst symptom
of any! "

**I trust, Ian, you will not go back to
Russia!" said his mother, after a little
more talk about frost-biting. *' Surely
there is work for you at home ! "

** What can I do at home, mother ? You
have no money to buy me a commission,
and I am not much good at farm-work.
Ahster says I am not worth a horseman's
wages ! "

You could find teaching at home ; or

you could go into the church. We might
manage that, for you would only have to
attend the divinity classes."

*' Mother ! would you put me into one
of the priests' offices that I may eat a piece
of bread ? As for teaching, there are too
many hungry students for that : I could
not take the bread out of their mouths !
And in truth, mother, I could not endure
it — except it were required of me. I can
live on as little as any, but it must be with
some liberty. I have surely inherited the
spirit of some old sea-rover, it is so difficult
for me to rest ! I am a very thistle-down for
wandering ! I must know how my fellow-creatures
live ! I should like to he one man
after another — each for an hour or two ! "

^' Your father used to say there was much
Norse blood in the family."

'^ There it is, mother! I cannot help it ! "

*'I don't like your holding the Czar's
commission, Ian — somehow I don't like
it ! He is a tyrant ! "

'' I am going to throw it up, mother."

'* I am glad of that ! How did you ever
get it ? "

** Oddly enough, through the man that
pulled my nose. I had a chance afterwards
of doing him a good turn, which he was
most generous in acknowledging ; and ashe
belonged to the court, I had the offer
of a lieutenant's commission. The Scotch
are in favour."

A deep cloud had settled on the face of
the young man. The lady looked at him
for a moment with keenest mother-eyes,
suppressed a deep sigh, and betook herself
again to her work.

Ere she thought how he might take it,
another question broke from her lips.

*^ What sort of church had you to go to
in St. Petersburg, Ian? " she said.

Ian was silent a moment, thinking how
to be true, and not hurt her more than
could not be helped.

*^ There are a thousand places of worship
there, mother," he returned, with a curious
smile.

** Any presbyterian place ? " she asked.

*' I believe so," he replied.

** Ian, you haven't given up praying ? "

*^ If ever I prayed, mother, I certainly
have not given it up."

^* Ever prayed, Ian ! When a mere child
you prayed like an aged Christian ! "

*' Ah, mother, that was a sad pity ! I
asked for things of which I felt no need !
I was a hypocrite ! I ought to have prayed
like a Httle child ! "

The mother was silent : she it was who
had taught him to pray thus — making him
pray aloud in her hearing ! and this was
the result ! The premature blossom had
withered ! she said to herself. But it was
no blossom, only a muslin flower !

^' Then you didn't go to church!" she
said at length.

** Not often, mother dear," he answered.
When I do go, I like to go to the church
of the country I happen to be in. Going to
church and praying to God are not the
same thing."

'^ Then you do say your prayers ? Oh,
do not tell me you never bow down before
your maker ! "

*^ Shall I tell you where I think I did
once pray to God, mother ? " he said, after
a little pause, anxious to soothe her suffering.
*^ At least I did think then that I
prayed ! " he added.

'rit was not this morning, then, before
you left your chamber ? ' '

"No, mother," answered Ian; "I did
not pray this morning, and I never say
prayers."

The mother gave a gasp, but answered
nothing. Ian went on again.

"I should like to tell you, mother,
about that time when I am almost sure I
prayed ! "

I should like to hear about it," she
answered, with strangest mingling of
emotion. At one and the same instant
she felt parted from her son by a gulf into
which she must cast herself to find him,
and that he stood on a height of sacred

experience which she never could hope to
climb. ^' Oh for his father to talk to him ! "
she said to herself. He was a power on her
soul which she almost feared. If he were
to put forth his power, might he not drag
her down into unbelief ?
• It was the first time they had come so
close in their talk. The moment his
mother spoke out, Ian had responded. He
was anxious to be open with her so far ashe
could, and forced his natural taciturnity,
the prime cause of which was his thoughtfulness
: it was hard to talk where was so
much thinking to be done, so little time todo
it in, and so little progress made by it !
But wherever he could keep his mother
company, there he would not leave her !
Just as he opened his mouth, however, to
begin his narration, the door of the room
also opened, flung wide by the small red
hand of Nancy, and two young ladies
entered.

Chapter VIII.

A Morning CALL.

Had Valentine known who the brothers
were, or where they lived, he would before
now have called to thank them again for
their kindness to him ; but he imagined
they had some distance to go after depositing
him, and had not yet discovered his
mistake. The visit now paid had nothing
to do with him.

The two elder girls, curious about the
pretty cottage, had come wandering down
the spur, or hill-toe, as far as its precincts
if precincts they may be called where
was no fence, only a little grove and a less
garden. Beside the door stood a milk-pail
and a churn, set out to be sweetened by

the sun and wind. It was very rural, they
thought, and very homely, but not so
attractive as some cottages in the south : —
it indicated a rusticity honoured by the
most unceremonious visit from its superiors.
Thus without hesitation concluding, Christina,
followed by Mercy, walked in at the
open door, found a barefooted girl in the
kitchen, and spoke pleasantly to her. She,
in simple hospitality forgetting herself,
made answer in Gaelic ; and, never doubting
the ladies had come to call upon her
mistress, led the way, and the girls, without
thinking, followed her to the parlour.

As they came, they had been talking.
Had they been in any degree truly educated,
they would have been quite capable of an
opinion of their own, for they had good
enough faculties ; but they had never been
really taught to read ; therefore, with the
utmost confidence, they had been passing
judgment upon a book from which they had
not gathered the slightest notion as to the
idea or intention of the writer. Christina

was of that numerous class of readers, who,
if you show one thing better or worse than
another, will without hesitation report that
you love the one and hate the other. If
you say, for instance, that it is a worse and
yet more shameful thing for a man to break
his wife's heart by systematic neglect, than
to strike her and be sorry for it, such
readers give out that you approve of wife-beating,
and perhaps write to expostulate
with you on your brutality. If you express
pleasure that a poor maniac should have
succeeded in escaping through the door of
death from his haunting demon, they accuse
you of advocating suicide. But Mercy
was not yet afloat on the sea of essential lie
whereon Christina swung to every wave.

One question they had been discussing
was, whether the hero of the story was
worthy the name of lover, seeing he deferred
offering his hand to the girl because she told
her mother a fib to account for her being
with him in the garden after dark. *' It
was cowardly and unfair," said Christina:

*' was it not for Its sake she did it?" Mercy
did not think to say *' Was it V as she well
might. ''- Don't you see, Chrissy," she said,
*she reasoned this way: 'If she tell her
mother a lie, she may tell me a lie some day
too ! ' ? " So indeed the youth did reason ;
but it occurred to neither of his critics to
note the fact that he would not have
minded the girl's telling her mother the lie,
if he could have been certain she would
never tell him one ! In regard to her hiding
from him certain passages with another
gentleman, occurring between this event
and his proposal, Christina judged he had
no right to know them, and if he had,
their concealment was what he deserved.

When the girl, who would have thought
it rude to ask their names — if I mistake not,
it was a point in highland hospitality to
entertain without such inquiry — led the way
to the parlour, they followed expecting they
did not know what : they had heard of the
townhouse, the stable, and even the pigsty,
being under the same roof in these parts !

When the opening door disclosed ^' lady "
Macriiadh, every inch a chieftain's widow,
their conventional breeding failed them a
little ; though incapable of recognizing a
refinement beyond their own, they were not
incapable of feeling its influence ; and they
had not yet learned how to be rude with
propriety in unproved circumstances — still
less how to be gracious without a moment's
notice. But when a young man sprang
from a couch, and the stately lady rose and
advanced to receive them, it was too late
to retreat, and for a moment they stood
abashed, feeling, I am glad to say, like
intruders. The behaviour of the lady and
gentleman, however, speedily set them
partially at ease. The latter, with movements
more than graceful, for they were
gracious, and altogether free of scroll-pattern
or Colonies - flourish, placed chairs,
and invited them to be seated, and the
former began to talk as if their entrance
were the least unexpected thing in the
world. Leaving them to explain their

visit or not as they saw fit, she spoke
of the weather, the harvest, the shooting ;
feared the gentlemen would be disappointed
: the birds were quite healthy, but
not numerous — they had too many enemies
to multiply ! asked if they had seen
the view from such and such a point ; —
in short, carried herself as one to whom
cordiality to strangers was an easy duty.
But she was not taken with them. Her
order of civilization was higher than theirs ;
and the simplicity as well as old-fashioned
finish of her consciousness recoiled a Utile
though she had not experience enough
of a certain kind to be able at once to say
what it was in the manner and expression
of the young ladies that did not please her.

Mammon, gaining more and more of the
upper hand in all social relations, has done
much to lower the jpe^iYe as well as the
granite morale of the country — the good
breeding as well as the honesty. Unmannerliness
with the completest self-possession,
is a poor substitute for stiffness, a

poorer for courtesy. Respect and graciousness
from each to each is of the very
essence of Christianity, independently of
rank, or possession, or relation. A certain
roughness and rudeness have usurped upon
the intercourse of the century. It comes
of the spread of imagined greatness ; true
greatness, unconscious of itself, cannot
find expression other than gracious. In
the presence of another, a man of true
breeding is but faintly aware of his own self,
and keenly aware of the other's self. Before
the human — that bush which, however
trodden and peeled, yet burns with the
divine presence — the man who thinks of the
homage due to him, and not of the homage
owing by him, is essentially rude. Mammon
is slowly stifling and dedicating
Rank ; both are miserable deities, but the
one is yet meaner than the other. Unrefined
families with money are received with
open arms and honours paid, in circles where
a better breeding than theirs has hitherto
prevailed : this, working along with the

VOL. I. K

natural law of corruption where is no
aspiration, has gradually caused the deterioration
of which I speak. Courtesy will
never regain her former position, but she
will be raised to a much higher ; like Duty
she will be known as a daughter of the
living God, *^ the first stocke father of
gentiles ; " for in his neighbour every
man will see a revelation of the Most High.
Without being able to recognize the
superiority of a woman who lived in a cottage,
the young ladies felt and disliked it ;
and the matron felt the commonness of the
girls, without knowing what exactly it was.
The girls, on the other hand, were interested
in the young man : he looked like a gentleman
! Ian was interested in the young
women : he thought they were shy, when
they were only 'put out," and wished to
make them comfortable — in which he quickly
succeeded. His unconsciously commanding
air in the midst of his great courtesy,
roused their admiration, and they had not
been many minutes in his company ere

they were satisfied that, however it was to
be accounted for, the young man was in
truth very much of a gentleman. It was
an unexpected discovery of northern produce,
and ^' the estate " gathered interest in their
eyes. Christina did the greater part of the
talking, but both did their best to be agreeable,
f

Ian saw quite as well as his mother what
ordinary girls they were, but, accustomed
to the newer modes in manner and speech,
he was not shocked by movements and
phrases that annoyed her. The mother
apprehended fascination, and was uneasy,
though far from showing it.

When they rose, Ian attended them to
the door, leaving his mother anxious, for
she feared he would accompany them home.
Till he returned, she did not resume her
seat.

The girls took their way along the ridge
in silence, till the ruin was between them
and the cottage, when they burst into
laughter. They were ladies enough not to

laugh till out of sight, but not ladies enough
to see there was nothing to laugh at.

*^ A harp, too ! " said Christina. ^' Mercy,
I heheve we are on the top of mount Ararat,
and have this very moment left the real
Noah's ark, patched into a cottage ! Who
can they be ? "

^^ Gentlefolks evidently," said Mercj^,
— perhaps old-fashioned people from
Inverness."

** The young man must have been to
college ! — In the north, you know," continued
Christina, thinking with pride that
her brother was at Oxford, "nothing is
easier than to get an education, such as
it is ! It costs in fact next to nothing.
Ploughmen send their sons to St. Andrew's
and Aberdeen to make gentlemen of them !
Fancy! "

You must allow this case a successful
one ! "

I didn't mean his father was a ploughman
! That is impossible ! Besides, I
heard him call that very respectable person

mother ! She is not a ploughman's wife,
but evidently a lady of the middle class."

Christina did not count herself or her
people to belong to the middle class. How
it was it is not quite easy to say — perhaps
the tone of implied contempt with which
the father spoke of the lower classes, and
the quiet negation with which the mother
would allude to shopkeepers, may have had
to do with it — but the young people all
imagined themselves to belong to the upper
classes ! It was a pity there was no title
in the family — but any of the girls might
well marry a coronet ! There were indeed
persons higher than they ; a duke was
higher ; the queen was higher — but that
was pleasant ! it was nice to have a few to
look up to !

On anyone living in a humble house, not
to say a poor cottage, they looked down,
as the case might be, with indifference or
patronage ; they little dreamed how, had
she known all about them, the respectable
person in the cottage would have looked

down upon them! At the same time the
laugh in which they now indulged was
not altogether one of amusement ; it was
in part an effort to avenge themselves
of a certain uncomfortable feeling of rebuke.


'^ I will tell you my theory, Mercy ! "
Christina went on. "The lady is the
widow of an Indian officer — perhaps a
colonel. Some of their widows are left
very poor, though, their husbands having
been in the service of their country, they
think no small beer of themselves ! The
young man has a military air which he may
have got from his father ; or he may be an
officer himself : young officers are always
poor; that's what makes them so nice to
flirt with. I wonder whether he really is
an officer ! We've actually called upon the
people, and come away too, without knowing
their names ! "

I suppose they're from the New House ! "
said Ian, returning after he had bowed the
ladies from the threshold, with the reward

of a bewitching smile from the elder, and a
shy glance from the younger.

** Where else could they be from?" returned
his mother; '' — come to make our
poor country yet poorer ! "

'' They're not English ! "

"Not they ! — vulgar people from Glasgow
! "

'^ I think you are too hard on them,
mother ! They are not exactly vulgar. I
thought, indeed, there was a sort of gentleness
about them you do not often meet in
Scotch girls ! "

^' In the lowlands, I grant, Ian; but the
daughter of the poorest tacksman of the
Macruadhs has a manner and a modesty
I have seen in no Sasunnach girl yet.
Those girls are bold ! "

Self-possessed, perhaps ! " said Ian.

Upon the awkwardness he took for shyness,
had followed a reaction. It was with
the young ladies a part of good breeding,
whatever mistake they made, not to look
otherwise than contented with themselves ;

having for a moment failed in this principle,
they were eager to make up for it.

Girls are different from what they used
to be, I fancy, mother ! " added Ian
thoughtfully.

'' The world changes very fast ! " said the
mother sadly. She was thinking, like
Rebecca, if her sons took a fancy to these
who were not daughters of the land, what
good would her life do her.

^* Ah, mother dear," said Ian, ^^I have
never' — and as he spoke the cloud deepened
on his forehead — '^ seen more than
one woman whose ways and manners reminded
me of you ! "

'* And what was she ? " the mother asked,
in pleased alarm.

But she almost repented the question
when she saw how low the cloud descended
on his countenance.

*' A princess, mother. She is dead," he
answered, and turning walked so gently
from the room that it was impossible for
his mother to detain him.

CHAPTER IX.

MR. SERCOMBE.

The next morning, soon after sunrise, the
laird began to cut his barley. Ian would
gladly have helped, but Blister had a notion
that such labour was not fit for him.

^^ I had a comical interview this morning,"
said the chief, entering the kitchen at
dinner-time. '' 1 was out before my people,
and was standing by the burn side near the
foot-bridge, when I heard somebody shouting,
and looked up. There was a big
English fellow in gray on the top of the
ridge, with his gun on his shoulder, holloing.
I knew he was English by his holloing.
It was plain it was to me, but not
choosing to be at his beck and call, I took

no heed. ^ Hullo, you there ! wake up ! '
he cried. ' What should I wake up for ? ' I
returned. ' To carry my bag. You don't
seem to have anything to do ! I'll give you
five shillings.' "

*^ You see to what you expose yourself by
your conventionalities, Blister ! " said his
brother, with mock gravity.

^'It was not the fellow we carried home
the other night, Ian ; it was one twice his
size. It would take all I have to carry
liirti as far ! "

The other must have pointed you out
to him I "

'' It was much too dark for him to know
me again ! "

^^ You forget the hall-lamp ! " said Ian.

"' Ah, yes, to be sure ! I had forgotten ! "
answered Blister. '^ To tell the truth, I
thought, when I took his shilling, he would
never know me from Nebuchadnezzar : that
is the one thing I am ashamed of in the
affair — I did in the dark what perhaps I
should not have done in the daylight ! —

I don't mean I would not have carried him
and his bag too ! I refer only to the
shilling ! Now, of course, I will hold my
face to it ; but I thought it better to be
short with a fellow like that."

swell?"

^' ' You'll want prepayment, no doubt ! '
he went on, putting his hand in his pocket.
Those Sasunnach fellows think every highlands
keen as a hawk after their dirty
money! "

'^ They have but too good reason in some
parts ! " said the mother. 'rit is not so
bad here yet, but there is a great difference
in that respect. The old breed is fast disappearing.
What with the difficulty of
living by the hardest work, and the occasional
chance of earning a shilling easily,
manj^ have turned both idle and greedy."

That's for you and your shilling,
Blister! " said Ian.

I confess," returned Blister, ''if I had
foreseen what an idea of the gentlemen of
the country I might give, I should have

hesitated. But I haven't begun to be
ashamed yet ! "

^' Ashamed, Blister ! " cried Ian,
*what does it matter what a fellow like
that thinks of you ? ' '

**x\nd mistress Conal has her shilling ! "
said the mother.

^' If the thing was right," pursued Ian,
*^no harm can come of it; if it was not
right, no end of harm may come. Are you
sure it was good for mistress Conal to have
that shilling, Blister ? What if it be drawing
away her heart from him who is watching
his old child in her turf-hut ? What
if the devil be grinning at her from that
shilling?"

^^ Ian ! if God had not meant her to
have the shilling, he would not have let
Blister earn it."

Certainly God can take care of her
from a shilling ! " said Ian, with one of
his strangely sweet smiles. ^' I was only
trying Blister, mother."

^' I confess I did not like the thought of

it at first," resumed Mrs. Macruadh ; ^^ but
it was mere pride ; for when I thought of
your father, I knew he would have been
pleased with Blister."

^' Then, mother, I am glad ; and I don't
care what Ian, or any Sasunnach under the
sun, may think of me."

'^ But you haven't told us," said Ian,
*' how the thing ended."

^' I said to the fellow," resumed Blister,
^' that I had my shearing to do, and hadn't
the time to go with him. * Is this your
season for sheep-shearing ? ' said he. ' We
call cutting the corn shearing,' I answered,
^ because in these parts we use the reaping
hook.' 'That is a great waste of labour! '
he returned. I did not tell him that some
of our land would smash his machines like
toys. * How ? ' I asked. ^ It costs so
much more,' he said. 'But it feeds so
many more ! ' I replied. ' Oh yes, of
course, if you don't want the farmer to
make a living ! ' 'I manage to make a
living,' I said. ' Then you are the farmer ? '

So it would appear.' ^ I beg your pardon ;

I thought ' ' You thought I was au

idle fellow, glad of an easy job to keep the
life in me ! ' ' You were deuced glad of a
job the other night, they tell me ! ' ^ So
I was. I wanted a shilling for a poor
woman, and hadn't one to give her without
going home a mile and a half for it ! ' By
this time he had come down, and I had
gone a few steps to meet him ; I did not
want to seem unfriendly. * Upon my word,
it was very good of you ! The old lady
ought to be grateful ! ' he said. ^ So ought
we all,' I answered, ^ — I to your friend for
the shilling, and he to me for taking his
bag. He did me one good turn for my
poor woman, and I did him another for his
poor legs ! ' ^ So you're quits ! ' said he.

Not at all,' I answered ; ' on the contrary,
we are under mutual obligation.' ^ I don't
see the difference ! — Hill, there's a hare ! '
And up went his gun to his shoulder.

None of that ! ' I cried, and knocked up
the barrel. * What do you mean ? ' he

roared, looking furious. ^ Get out of the
way, or I'll shoot you.' ^ Murder as well
as poaching ! ' I said. ' Poaching ! ' he
shouted. 'That rabbit is mine,' I answered;
I will not have it killed.' ' Cool !— on Mr.
Palmer's land ! ' said he. * The land is
mine, and I am my own gamekeeper ! ' I
rejoined. ' You look like it ! ' he said.
You go after your birds ! — not in this
direction though,' I answered, and turned
and left him."

'^ You were rough with him ! " said Ian.
'^ I did lose my temper rather."
*' It was a mistake on his part."
''I expected to hear him fire," Blister
continued, "for there was the rabbit he
took for a hare lurching slowly away ! I'm
glad he didn't : I always feel bad after a
row ! — Can a conscience ever get too
fastidious, Ian ? "

The only way to find that out is always
to obey it."

'' So long as it agrees with the Bible,
Ian ! " interposed the mother.

*^ The Bible is a big book, mother, and
the things in it are of many sorts," returned
Ian. ^' The Lord did not go with everything
in it."

** Ian ! Ian ! I am shocked to hear you ! "

*^ It is the truth, mother."

*^ What would your father say ! "

*' * He that loveth father or mother more
than me is not worthy of me.' "

Ian rose from the table, knelt by his
mother, and laid his head on her shoulder.

She was silent, pained by his words, and
put her arm round him as if to shelter him
from the evil one. Homage to will and
word of the Master, apart from the acceptance
of certain doctrines concerning him,
was in her eyes not merely defective but
dangerous. To love the Lord with the
love of truest obedience ; to believe him the
son of God and the saver of men with
absolute acceptance of the heart, was far
from enough ! it was but sentimental
affection !

A certain young preacher in Scotland

some years ago, accused by an old lady of
preaching works, took refuge in the Lord's
sermon on the mount : ^' Ow ay I " answered
the partisan, ^^but he was a verra young
mon when he preach that sermon 1 "

Blister rose and went : there was to him
something specially sacred in the communion
of his mother and brother. Heartily
he held with Ian, but shrank from any
difference with his mother. For her sake
he received Sunday after Sunday in silence
what was to him a bushel of dust with here
and there a bit of mouldy bread in it ; but
the mother did not imagine any great
coincidence of opinion between her and
Blister any more than between her and Ian.
She had not the faintest notion how much
genuine faith both of them had, or how it
surpassed her own in vitality.

But while Ian seemed to his brother,
who knew him best, hardly touched with
earthly stain, Blister, notwithstanding his
large and dominant humanity, was still in
the troublous condition of one trying to

VOL. I. L

do right against a powerful fermentation
of pride. He held noblest principles ; but
the sediment of generations was too easily
stirred up to cloud them. He was not
quite honest in his attitude towards some
of his ancestors, judging them far more
leniently than he would have judged others.
He loved his neighbour, but his neighbour
was mostly of his own family or his own
clan. He might have been unjust for the
sake of his own — a small fault in the eyes
of the world, but a great fault indeed ina
nature like his, capable of being so much
beyond it. For, while the faults of a goodman
cannot be such evil things as the
faults of a bad man, they are more blameworthy,
and greater faults than the same
would be in a bad man : we must not
confuse the guilt of the person with the
abstract evil of the thing.

Ian was one of those blessed few who
doubt in virtue of a larger faith. While
its roots were seeking a deeper soil, it could
not show so fast a growth above ground.

He doubted most about the things he loved
best, while he devoted the energies of a
mind whose keenness almost masked its
power, to discover possible ways of believing
them. To the wise his doubts would have
been his best credentials ; they were worth
tenfold the faith of most. It was truth,
and higher truth, he was always seeking.
The sadness which coloured his deepest
individuality, only one thing could ever
remove — the conscious presence of the
Eternal. This is true of all sadness, but
Ian knew it.

He overtook Blister on his way to the
barley-field.

^' I have been trying to find out wherein
lay the falseness of the position in which
you found yourself this morning," he said.
*' There could be nothing wrong in doing
a small thing for its reward any more thana
great one ; where I think you went wrong
was in assuming your social position afterwards
: you should have waited for its being
accorded you. There was no occasion to

be offended with the man. You ought to
have seen how you must look to him, and
given him time. I don't perceive why you
should be so gracious to old mistress Conal,
and so hard upon him. Certainly you would
not speak as he did to any man, but he has
been brought up differently ; he is not such
a gentleman as you cannot help being. Ina
word, you ought to have treated him as
an inferior, and been more polite to him."

Chapter X.

THE PLOUGH-BULLS.

Partly, it may be, from such incidents at
the outset of their acquaintance, there was
for some time no further meeting betwixt
any of the chief's family and that of the new
laird. There was indeed little to draw them
together except common isolation. Valentine
would have been pleased to show gratitude
to his helpers on that stormy night,
but after his sisters' account of their call, he
felt not only ashamed, which was right, but
ashamed to show his shame, which was a
fresh shame. The girls on their part made
so much of what they counted the ridiculous
elements of their " adventure," that,
natural vengeance on their untruthfulness,

they came themselves to see in it almost
only what was ridiculous. In the same
spirit Mr. Sercomhe recounted his adventure
with Blister, which annoyed his host,
who had hut little acquaintance with the
boundaries of his land. From the additional
servants they had hired in the
^-icinit}^, the people of the New House
gathered correct information concerning
the people at the cottage, hut the honour
in which they were held only added to the
ridicule they associated with them. On
the other side also there was little inclination
towards a pursuit of intercourse. Mrs.
Macruadh, from Nancy's account and the
behaviour of the girls, divined the explanation
of their visit ; and, as their mother did
not follow it up, took no notice of it. In
the mind of Mercy, however, lurked a little
thorn, with the bluntest possible sting of
suspicion, every time she joined in a laugh
at the people of the cottage, that she was
not quite just to them.

The shooting, such as it was, went on,

the sleeping and the eating, the walking
and the talking. Long letters were written
from the New House to female friends — •
letters with the flourishes if not the matter
of wit, and funny tales concerning the
natives, whom, because of their poor houses
and unintelligibility, they represented as
semi-savages. The young men went back
to Oxford ; and the time for the return of
the family to civilization seemed drawing
nigh.

It happened about this time, however,
that a certain speculation in which Mr.
Peregrine Palmer was very materially interested,
failed utterly, depriving him of the
consciousness of a good many thousands,
and producing in him the feeling of a lady
of moderate means when she loses her
purse : he must save it ois something ! For
though he spent freely, he placed a great
value on money — as well he might, seeing
it gave him all the distinction which before
everything else he prized. He did not
know what a poor thing it is to be distinguished

among men, therefore did not like
losing his thousands. Having by failure
sinned against Mammon, he must do something
to ease the money-conscience that
ruled his conduct ; and the first thing that
occurred to him was, to leave his wife and
daughters where they were for the winter.
None of them were in the least delicate ;
his wife professed herder fond of a country
life ; it would give the girls a good opportunity
for practice, drawing, and study
generally, and he would find them a suitable
governess ! He talked the matter over
with Mrs. Palmer. She did not mind much,
and would not object. He would spend
Christmas with them, he said, and bringdown
Christian, and perhaps Mr. Sercombe.
The girls did not like the idea. It was
so cold in the country in winter, and the
snow would be so deep ! they would be
starved to death ! But, of course — if the
governor had made up his mind to be
cruel !

The thing was settled. It was only for

one winter ! It would be a new experience
for them, and they would enjoy their next
season all the more ! The governor had
promised to send them down new furs, and
a great boxful of novels ! He did not
apprise them that he meant to sell their
horses. Their horses were his ! He was
an indulgent father and did not stint them,
but he was not going to ask their leave !
At the same time he had not the courage to
tell them.

He took his wife with him as far as Inverness
for a day or two, that she might lay
in a good stock of everything antagonistic
to cold.

When father and mother were gone from
the house, the girls felt larhj. They had
no wish to do anything they would not do
if their parents were at home, but they had
some sense of relief in the thought that
they could do whatever they liked. A more
sympathetic historian might say, and I am
nowise inclined to contradict him, that it
was only the reaction from the pain of

parting, and the instinct to make the best
of their loneliness. However it was, the
elder girls resolved on a walk to the village,
to see what might be seen, and in particular
the young woman at the shop, of whom
they had heard their brother and Mr. Ser-combe
speak with admiration, qualified with
the remark that she was so proper they
could hardly get a civil word out of her.
She was in fact too scrupulously polite for
their taste.

It was a bright, pleasant, frosty morning,
perfectly still, with an air like wine. The
harvest had vanished from the fields. The
sun shone on millions of tiny dew-suns,
threaded on forsaken spider webs. A few
small, white, frozen clouds flecked the sky.
The purple heather was not yet gone, and
not any snow had yet fallen in the valley.
The burn was large, for there had been a
good deal of rain, but it was not much
darker than its usual brown of smoke-crystal.
They tripped gaily along. If they
had little spiritual, they had much innocent

animal life, which no great disappointments
or keen twinges of conscience had yet
damped. They were but human kittens —
and not of the finest breed.

As they crossed the root of the spur, and
looked down on the autumn fields to the
east of it, they spied something going on
which they did not understand. Stopping,
and gazing more intently, they beheld what
seemed a contest between man and beast,
but its nature they could not yet distinguish.
Gradually it grew plain that two
of the cattle of the country, wild and shaggy,
were rebelling against control. They were
in fact two young bulls, of the small black
highland breed, accustomed to gallop over
the rough hills, jumping like goats, which
Blister had set himself the task of breaking
to the plough — by no means an easy one,
or to be accomplished single-handed by any
but a man of some strength, and both persistence
and patience. In the summer he
had lost a horse, which he could ill afford
to replace : if he could make these bulls

work, they would save him the price of the
horse, would cost less to keep, and require
less attention ! He bridled them by the
nose, not with rings through the gristle,
but with nose-bands of iron, bluntly spiked
inside, against which they could not pull
hard without pain, and had made some
progress, though he could by no means
trust them yet : every now and then a fit
of mingled wildness and stubbornness would
seize them, and the contest would appear
about to begin again from the beginning ;
but they seldom now held out very long.
The nose-band of one of them had come
off, Blister had him by a horn in each
hand, and a fierce struggle was going on
between them, while the other was pulling
away from his companion as if determined
to take to the hills. It was a good thing
for them that share and coulter were pretty
deep in the ground, to the help of their
master ; for had they got away, they would
have killed, or at least disabled themselves.
Presently, however, he had the nose-band

on, and by force and persuasion together got
the better of them ; the shaggy little furies
gave in ; and quickly gathering up his reins,
he went back to the plough-stilts, where
each hand held at once a handle and a rein.
With energetic obedience the little animals
began to pull — so vigorously that it took
nearly all the chief's strength to hold at
once his plough and his team.

It was something of a sight to the girls
after a long dearth of events. Many things
indeed upon which they scarce cast an eye
when they came, they were now capable of
regarding with a little feeble interest. Nor,
although ignorant of everything agricultural,
were they quite unused to animals ; having
horses they called their own, they would not
unfrequently go to the stables to give their
orders, or see that they were carried out.

They waited for some time hoping the
fight would begin again, and drew a little
nearer ; then, as by common consent, left
the road, passed the ruin, ran down the
steep side of the ridge, and began to toil

through the stubble towards the ploughman.
A sharp straw would every now and then go
through a delicate stocking, and the damp
soil gathered in great lumps on their shoes,
but they plodded on, laughing merrily as
they went.

The Macruadh was meditating the power
of the frost to break up the clods of the
field, when he saw the girls close to him.
He pulled in his cattle, and taking off his
bonnet with one hand while the other held
both reins —

excuse me, ladies," he said; *'my
animals are young, and not quite broken."

They were not a little surprised at such a
reception, and were driven to conclude that
the man must be the laird himself. They
had heard that he cultivated his own land,
but had not therefore imagined him labouring
in his own person.

In spite of the blindness produced by
their conventional training, vulgarly called
education, they could not fail to perceive
something in the man worthy of their

regard. Before them, on the alert toward
his cattle, but full of courtesy, stood a dark,
handsome, weather-browned man, with an
eagle air, not so pronounced as his brother's.
His hair was long, and almost black, — in
thick, soft curls over a small, well-set head.
His glance had the flash that comes of victorious
effort, and his free carriage was that
of one whom labour has nowise subdued,
whose every muscle is instinct with ready
life. True even in trifles, he wore the dark
beard that nature had given him ; disordered
by the struggle with his bulls, it imparted a
certain wild look that contrasted with his
speech. Christina forgot that the man
was a labourer like any other, but noted
that he did not manifest the least embarrassment
in their presence, or any consciousness
of a superfluity of favour in their approach :
she did not know that neither would his
hired servant, or the poorest member of his
clan. It was said of a certain Sutherland
clan that they were all gentlemen, and of a
certain Argyll clan that they were all poets ;

of the Macruadhs it was said they were
both. As to Mercy, the first glance of the
chief's hazel eyes, looking straight into hers
with genial respect, went deeper than an}^
look had yet penetrated.

Ladies in Blister's fields were not an
everyday sight. Hardly before had his
work been enlivened by such a presence ;
and the joy of it was in his eyes, though
his behaviour was calm. Christina thought
how pleasant it would be to have him for a
worshipping slave — so interpenetrated with
her charms that, like Una's lion, he would
crouch at her feet, come and go at her
pleasure, live on her smiles, and be sad
when she gave him none. She would make
a gentleman of him, then leave him to
dream of her ! It would be a pleasant and
interesting task in the dullness of their
winter's banishment, with the days so short
and the nights so unendurable long ! The
man was handsome ! — she would do it ! —
and would proceed at once to initiate the
conquest of him !

The temptation to patronize not unfrequently
presents an object for the patronage
superior to the would-be patron ; for the
temptation is one to which slight persons
chiefly are exposed ; it affords an outlet for
the vague activity of self-importance. Few
have learned that one is of no value except
to God and other men. Miss Palmer
worshipped herself, and therefore would fain
be worshipped — so dreamed of a friendship
de haut en has with the country fellow.

She put on a smile — no difficult thing,
for she was a good-natured girl. It looked
to Blister quite natural. It was nevertheless,
like Hamlet's false friends, '■' sent for."

*' Do you like ploughing ? " she asked.

Had she known the manners of the
country, she would have added '^ laird," or
"Macruadh."

*' Yes I do," Blister answered; 'but I
should plough all the same if I did not. It
has to be done."

^^ But why should you do it ? "

'* Because I must," laughed the laird.

VOL. I. M

What ought she to answer ? Should she
condole with the man because he had to
work ? It did not seem prudent ! She
would try another tack !

'' You had some trouble with your oxen !
"We saw it from the road, and were quite
frightened. I hope you are not hurt."

*' There was no danger of that," answered
Aster with a smile.

^* What wild creatures they are ! Ain't it
rather hard work for them ? They are so
small!"

They are as strong as horses," answered
the laird. '* I have had my work to break
them ! Indeed, I can hardly say I have
done it yet ! they would very much like to
run their horns into me ! "

'' Then it must be dangerous ! It shows
that they were not meant to work ! "

They were meant to work if I can make
them work."

'then you approve of slavery!" said
Mercy

She hardly knew what made her oppose

him. As yet she had no opinions of her
own, though she did catch a thought sometimes,
when it happened to come within her
reach. Ahster smiled a curious smile.

^* I should," he said, '' if the right people
where made slaves of. I would take shares
in a company of Algerine pirates to rid the
social world of certain types of the human ! "

The girls looked at each other. '' Sharp ! "
said Christina to herself.

^' What sorts would you have them
take ? " she asked.

Idle men in particular," answered
Ahster.

'' Would you not have them take idle
ladies as well ? "

I would see first how they behaved
when the men were gone."

"You believe, then," said Mercy, "we
have a right to make the lower animals
work ? "

I think it is our duty," answered Blister.
** At all events, if we do not, we must either
kill them off by degrees, or cede them this

world, and emigrate. But even that would
be a bad thing for my little bulls there ! It
is not so many years since the last wolf was
killed — here, close by ! and if the dogs
turned to wolves again, where would they
be ? The domestic animals would then
have wild beasts instead of men for their
masters ! To have the world a habitable
one, man must rule."

Men are nothing but tyrants to them ! "
said Christina.

*' Most are, I admit."

Ere he could prevent her, she had walked
up to the near bull, and begun to pat him.
He poked a sharp wicked horn sideways at
her, catching her cloak on it, and grazing
her arm. She started back very white.
Blister gave him a terrible tug. The beast
shook his head, and began to paw the
earth.

"It wont do to go near him," he said.
— But you needn't be afraid ; he can't
touch you. That iron band round his nose
has spikes in it.'

"Poor fellow!" said Christina; "it is
no wonder he should be out of temper ! It
must hurt him dreadfully ! "

^* It does hurt him when he pulls against
it, but not when he is quiet."

I call it cruel ! "

I do not. The fellow knows what is
wanted of him — just as well as any naughty
chid."

*^ How can he when he has no reason ! "

''Oh, hasn't he!"

Animals have no reason ; they have
only instinct ! "

'' They have plenty of reason — more than
many men and women. They are not sofar
off us as pride makes most people think I
It is only those that don't know them that
talk about the instinct of animals ! "

Do you know them ? "

Pretty well for a man ; but they're often
too much for me."

'anyhow that poor thing does not know
better."

He knows enough ; and if he did nota



would you allow him to do as he pleased
because he didn't know better? He wanted
to put his horn into you a moment ago ! "

'^ Still it must be hard to want very much
to do a thing, and not be able to do it ! "
said Mercy.

^* I used to feel as if I could tear my old
nurse to pieces when she wouldn't let me
do as I wanted ! " said Christina.

I suppose you do whatever you please
now, ladies ? "

No, indeed. We wanted to go to
London, and here we are for the winter ! "

'^ And you think it hard ? "

^^ Yes, we do."

And so, from sympathy, you side with
my cattle ? "

'c Well— yes ! "

'^ You think I have no right to keep them
captive, and make them work ? "

^^ None at all," said Christina.

^' Then it is time I let them go ! "

Blister made for the animals' heads.

'' No, no ! please don't ! " cried both the

girls, turning, the one white, the other
red.

*^ Certainly not if you do not wish it ! "
answered Blister, staying his step. ^' If I
did, however, you would be quite safe, for
they would not come near me. They would
be off up that hill as hard as they could
tear, jumping everything that came in their
way."

*^ Is it not very dull here in the winter ? "
asked Christina, panting a little, but trying
to look as if she had known quite well he
was only joking.

^'I do not find it dull."

Ah, but you are a man, and can do as
you please ! "

^' I never could do as I pleased, and so I
please as I do," answered Blister.

*' I do not quite understand you."

^' When you cannot do as you like, the
best thing is to like what you have to do.
One's own way is not to be had in this
world. There's a better, though, which is
to be had ! "

^' I have heard a parson talk like that,"
said Mercy, ^' but never a layman ! "

'^ My father was a parson as good as any
layman. He would have laid me on my
back in a moment — here as I stand ! " said
Blister, drawing himself to his height.

He broke suddenly into Gaehc, addressing
the more troublesome of the bulls. No
better pleased to stand still than to go on,
he had fallen to digging at his neighbour,
who retorted with the horn convenient, and
presently there was a great mixing of bull
and harness and cloddy earth. Turning
quickly towards them, Blister dropped a rein.
In a moment the plough was out of the
furrow, and the bulls were straining every
muscle, each to send the other into the
wilds of the unseen creation. Blister
sprang to their heads, and taking them by
their noses forced them back into the
line of the furrow. Christina, thinking
they had broken loose, fled ; but there was
Mercy sith the reins, hauling with all her
might!

*' Thank you, thank you ! " said the laird,
laughing with pleasure. "You are a friend
indeed ! "

Mercy ! Mercy ! come away directly,"
cried Christina.

But Mercy did not heed her. The laird
took the reins, and administering a blow
each to the animals, made them standstill.


There are tender-hearted people who
virtually object to the whole scheme of
creation ; they would neither have force
used nor pain suffered ; they talk as if kindness
could do everything, even where it is
not felt. Millions of human beings but for
suffering would never develop an atom of
affection. The man who would spare due
suffering is not wise. It is folly to conclude
a thing ought not to be done because it
hurts. There are powers to be born,
creations to be perfected, sinners to be redeemed,
through the ministry of pain, that
could be born, perfected, redeemed, in no
other way. But Christina was neither wise

Bor unwise after such fashion. She was
annoyed at finding the laird not easily to
be brought to her feet, and Mercy already
advanced to his good graces. She was not
jealous of Mercy, for was she not beautiful
and Mercy plain ? but Mercy had by her
2:)luc'k secured an advantage, and the handsome
ploughman looked at her admiringly !
Partly therefore because she was not pleased
with him, partly that she thought a little
outcry would be telling, —

*^ Oh, you wicked man ! " she cried, '- you
are hurting the poor brutes ! "

^* No more than is necessary," he
answered.

'' You are cruel ! '^

'' Good morning, ladies."

He just managed to take off his bonnet,
for the four-legged explosions at the end of
his plough were pulling madly. He slackened
his reins, and away it went, like a
sharp knife through a Dutch cheese.

*^ You've made him quite cross ! " said
Mercy.

'what a brute of a man!" said Christina.


She never restrained herself from teasing
cat or puppy for her amusement — did not
even mind hurting it a little. Those capable
of distinguishing between the qualities of
resembling actions are few. There are
some who will regard Blister as capable of
vivisection.

On one occasion when the brothers were
boys, Blister having lost his temper in the
pursuit of a runaway pony, fell upon it with
his fists the moment he caught it. Ian
put himself between, and received, without
word or motion, more than one blow meant
for the pony.

Donal was only in fun ! " he said, as
soon as Blister' s anger had spent itself.
Father would never have punished him
like that ! "

Blister was ashamed, and never again
was guilty of such an outbreak. From that
moment he began the serious endeavour to
subjugate the pig, tiger, mule, or whatever

animal he found in himself. There remained,
however, this difference between
them — that Blister punished without compunction,
while Ian was sorely troubled at
having to cause any suffering.

Chapter XI.

THE Fie GEO VE.

As the ladies went up the ridge, regarded
in the neighbourhood as the chiefs pleasure-ground
where nobody went except to call
upon the chief, they must, having mounted
it lower down than where they descended,
pass the cottage. The grove of birch,
mountain-ash, and fir which surrounded it,
was planted quite irregularly, and a narrow
foot-path went winding through it to the
door. Against one of the firs was a rough
bench turned to the west, and seated upon
it they saw Ian, smoking a formless mass
of much defiled sea-foam, otherwise ,
He rose, uncovered, and sat down
again. But Christina, who regarded it asa

praiseworthy kindness to address any one
beneath her, not only returned his salutation,
but stopped, and said,

Good morning ! We have been learning
how they plough in Scotland, but I fear we
annoyed the ploughman."

^< Fergus does sometimes look surly," said
Ian, rising again, and going to her ; " he
has bad rheumatism, poor fellow ! And
then he can't speak a word of English, and
is ashamed of it ! "

^' The man we saw spoke English very
well. Is Fergus your brother's name ? "

^^ No ; my brother's name is Blister — that
is Gaelic for Alexander."

He was ploughing with two wild little
oxen, and could hardly manage them."

^* Then it must have been Blister — only,
excuse me, he could manage them perfectly.
AUster could break a pair of buffaloes."

'^ He seemed rather vexed, and I thought
it might be that we made the creatures
troublesome. — I do not mean he was rude
only a little rough to us."

Ian smiled, and waited for more.

'^ He did not like to be told he was hard
on the animals. I only said the poor things
did not know better ! "

'' Ah — I see ! — He understands animals
so well, he doesn't like to be meddled within
his management of them. I daresay he
told you that, if they didn't know better, he
had to teach them better ! They are troublesome
little wretches. — Yes, I confess he is
a little touchy about animals ! "

Somehow Christina felt herself rebuked,
and did not like it. He had almost told
her that, if she had quarrelled with his
ploughman-brother, the fault must be hers !

"But indeed, Captain Macruadh," she
said — for the people called him captain,
"I am not ignorant about animals! We
have horses of our own, and know all about
them.— Don't we, Mercy? "

'eyes," said Mercy; 'they take apples
and sugar from our hands."

And you would have the chief's bulls
tamed with apples and sugar!" returned

Ian, laughing. " But the horses were tamed
before ever you saw them ! If you had
taken them wild, or even when they were
foals, and taught them everything, then
you would know a little about them. An
acquaintance is not a friendship ! My
brother loves animals and understands
them almost like human beings ; he understands
them better than some human
beings, for the most cunning of the animals
are yet simple. He knows what they are
thinking when I cannot read a word of their
faces. I remember one terrible night,
winters ago — there had been a blinding
drift on and off during the day, and my
father and mother were getting anxious
about him — how he came staggering in, and
fell on the floor, and a great lump in his
plaid on his back began to wallow about,
and forth crept his big colles ! They had
been to the hills to look after a few sheep,
and the poor dog was exhausted, and
Blister carried him home at the risk of his
Hfe."

^' A valuable animal, I don't doubt," said
Christina.

^^He had been, but was no more what
the world calls valuable. He was an old
dog almost past work — but the wisest
creature ! Poor fellow, he never recovered
that day on the hills ! A week or so after,
we buried him — in the hope of a blessed
resurrection," added Ian, with a smile.

The girls looked at each other as much
as to say, " Good heavens ! " He caught
the look, but said nothing, for he saw they
had ^'no understanding."

The brothers believed most devoutly that
the God who is present at the death-bed of
the sparrow does not forget the sparrow
when he is dead ; for they had been taught
that he is an unchanging God; *rand,"
argued Ian, ^'what God remembers, he
thinks of, and what he thinks of, ^5." But
Ian knew that what misses the heart falls
under the feet ! A man is bound to share
his best, not to tumble his seed-pearls into
the feeding-trough, to break the teeth of

VOL. I. N

til em that are there at meat. He had but
lifted a corner to give them a glimpse of
the Life eternal, and the girls thought him
ridiculous I The human caterpillar that
has not yet even begun to sicken with the
growth of her psyche-wings, is among the
poorest of the human animals !

But Christina was not going to give in !
Her one idea of the glory of life was the
subjugation of men. As if moved by a
sudden impulse, she went close up to
him.

^'Do not be angry with me," she said,
almost coaxingly, but with a visible mingling
of boldness and shyness, neither of them
quite assumed ; for, though conscious of her
boldness, she was not frightened ; and there
was something in the eagle-face that made
it easy to look shy. '^I did not mean to
be rude. I am sorry."

"You mistake me," he said gently. "I
only wanted you to know you misjudged my
brother."

'' Then, if you have forgiven me, you will

let me sit for a few minutes ! I am so tired
with walking in the sticky earth ! "

"Do, pray, sit down," responded Ian
heartily, and led the way.

But she sank gracefully at the foot of
the next fir, while Mercy sat down on the
bench.

"Do go on with your pipe," she said,
looking up as she arranged her dress; "I
am quite used to smoke. Papa would
smoke in church if he dared ! "

Chrissy ! You Tcnoio he never smokes
in the drawing-room ! " cried Mercy, scandalized.


"1 have seen him — when mamma was
away."

Ian began to be a little more interested
in the plain one. But what must his
mother think to see them sitting there together
! He could not help it ! if ladies
chose to sit down, it was not for him to
forbid them ! And there was a glimmer of
conscience in the younger !

Most men believe only what they find or

imagine possible to themselves. They maybe
suite of this, that there are men so
different from them that no judgment they
pass upon them is worth a straw, simply
because it does not apply to them. I assert
of Ian that neither beauty nor intellect
attracted him. Imagination would entice
him, but the least lack of principle would
arrest its influence. The simplest manifestation
of a live conscience would draw him
more than anything else. I do not mean
the conscience that proposes questions, but
the conscience that loves right and turns
from wrong.

Notwithstanding the damsel's invitation,
he did not resume his pipe. He was simple,
but not free and easy — too sensitive to the
relations of life to be familiar upon invitation
with any girl. If she was not one with
whom to hold real converse, it was impossible
to blow dandelions with her, and talk
must confine itself to the commonplace.
After gentlest assays to know what was
possible, the result might be that he grew

courteously playful, or drew back, and confined
himself to the formal.

In the conversation that followed, he
soon found the younger capable of being
interested, and, having seen much in many
parts of the world, had plenty to tell her.
Christina smiled sweetly, taking everything
with over-gentle politeness, but looking as
if all that interested her was, that there
they were, talking about it. Provoked at
last by her persistent lack of genuine reception,
Ian was tempted to try her with
something different : perhaps she might be
moved to horror ! Any feeling would be a
find I He thought he would tell them an
adventure he had read in a book of travels. *

In Persia, alone in a fine moonlit night,
the traveller had fallen asleep on his horse,
but woke suddenly, roused by something
frightful, he did not know what. The evil
odour all about him explained, however, his
bewilderment and terror. Presently he was
bumped on this side, then bumped on that ;
first one knee, then the other, would be

struck ; now the calf of one leg was caught,
now the calf of the other ; then both would
be caught at once, and he shoved nearly-over
his pommel. His horse was very
uneasy, but could ill help himself in the
midst of a moving mass of uncertain objects.
The traveller for a moment imagined himself
in a boat on the sea, with a huge
quantity of wrecked cargo floating around
him, whence came the frequent collisions he
was undergoing ; but he soon perceived that
the vague shapes were boxes, pannierwise
on the backs of mules, moving in caravan
along the desert. Of not a few the Hds were
broken, of some gone altogether, revealing
their contents — the bodies of good Mussulman,
on their way to the consecrated soil
of Mecca for burial. Carelessly shambled
the mules along, stumbling as they jogged
over the uneven ground, their boxes tilting
from side to side, sorely shaken, some of
them, in frustration of dying hopes, scattering
their contents over the track — for here
and there a mule carried but a wreck of

his coffins. On and on over the rough
gravelly waste, under the dead cold moon,
weltered the slow stream of death !

"You may be sure," concluded Ian, "he
made haste out of the ruck ! But it was
with difficulty he got clear, happily to windward
— then for an hour sat motionless on his
horse, watching through the moonlight the
long dark shadow flitting toward its far-off
goal. When at length he could no longer
descry it, he put his horse to his speed — but
not to overtake it."

As he spoke, Mercy's eyes grew larger
and larger, never leaving his face. She
had at least imagination enough for that !
Christina curled her pretty lip, and looked
disgusted. The one at a horrible tale was
horrified, the other merely disgusted ! The
one showed herself capable of some reception
; the other did not.

Something might be done with that
girl ! " thought Ian.

Did he see their faces ? " drawled
Christina.

Mercy was silent, but her eyes remained
fixed on him. It was han's telling, more
than the story, that impressed her.

*' I don't think he mentions them,"
answered Ian. ^' But shall I tell you," he
went on, '^ what seems to me the most
unpleasant thing about the business ? "

*^Do," said Christina.

^^ It is that the poor ghosts should see
such a disagreeable fuss made with their
old clothes."

Christina smiled.

'* Do you think ghosts see what goes on
after they are dead ? " asked Mercy.

<< The ghosts are not dead," said Ian,
'' and I can't tell. But I am inclined to
think some ghosts have to stay a while and
look on."

^'What would be the good of that?"
returned Mercy.

^' Perhaps to teach them the little good
they were in, or got out of the world," he
answered. " To have to stick to a thing after
it is dead, is terrible, but may teach much."

**I don't understand you," said Mercy.
*^ The world is not dead ! "

"Better and better!" thought Ian with
himself. "The girl can understand! — A
thing is always dead to you when you have
done with it," he answered her. " Suppose
you had a ball dress crumpled and unsightly
the roses on it withered, and the tinsel
shining hideously through them — would it
not be a dead dress ? "

Yes, indeed."

Then suppose, for something you had
done, or for something you would not stop
being, you had to wear that ball-dress till
something came about — you would be like
the ghosts that cannot get away. — Suppose,
when you were old and wrinkled, — "

You are veris amusing, Captain Macruadh
! " said Christina, with a bell-like
laugh. But Ian went on.

Some stories tell us of ghosts with the
same old wrinkled faces in which they
died. The world and its uses over, they
are compelled to haunt it still, seeing how

things go but taking no share in them,
beholding the relief their death is to all,
feeling they have lost their chance of
beauty, and are fixed in ugliness, having
wasted being itself ! They are like a man
in a miserable dream, in which he can do
nothing, but in which he must stay, and go
dreaming, dreaming on without hope of
release. To be in a world and have nothing
to do with it, must be awful ! A Httle more
imagination would do some people good ! "

** No, please! — no more for me!" said
Christina, laughing as she rose.

Mercy was silent. Though she had never
really thought about anything herself, she
did not doubt that certain people were in
earnest about something. She knew that
she ought to be good, and she knew she
was not good ; how to be good she did not
know, for she had never set herself to be
good. She sometimes wished she were
good ; but there are thousands of wandering
ghosts who would be good if they might
without taking trouble : the kind of goodness

they desire would not be worth, a life
to hold it.

Fear is a wholesome element in the
human economy ; they are merely silly who
would banish it from all association with
religion. True, there is no religion in fear ;
religion is love, and love casts out fear ;
but until a man has love, it is well he
should have fear. So long as there are
wild beasts about, it is better to be afraid
than secure.

The vague awe ready to assail every soul
that has not found rest in its source, readier
the more honest the soul, had for the first
time laid hold of Mercy. The earnest face
of the speaker had most to do with it.
She had never heard anybody talk like
that!

The lady of the house appeared, asking,
with kind dignity, if they would not take
some refreshment : to a highlander hospitality
is a law where not a passion. Christina
declined the offer.

*^ Thanks ! we were only a little tired,

and are quite rested now," she said. ^^ How
beautifully sheltered your house is ! "

*' On the side of the sea, yes'* answered
Mrs. Macruadh ; ^*but not much on the
east where we want it most. The trees are
growing, however ! "

When the sisters were out of sight of the
cottage —

*' Well ! " remarked Christina, ^'he's a
nice young man too, is he not ? Exceedingly
well bred ! And what taste he has !
He knows how to amuse ladies ! "

Mercy did not answer.

'^ I never heard anything so disgusting ! "
pursued Christina.

'* But," suggested Mercy, *' you like to
read horrid stories, Chrissy ! You said so
only yesterday ! And there was nothing in
what he told us that oughtn't to be spoken
about."

'* What ! — not those hideous coffins — and
the bodies dropping out of them — all crawling,
no doubt? "

*^ That is your own, Chrissy ! You Icnow

he did not go so far as that ! If Colonel
Westerly had told you the story, you would
have called it charming — in fun, of course,
I mean ! "

But Christina never liked the argumentum
ad feviinam.

''I would not! You know I would
not ! " she exclaimed. '' I do believe the
girl has fallen in love with the horrid man !
Of the two, I declare, I like the ploughman
better. I am sorry I happened to vex him ;
he is a good stupid sort of fellow ! I can't
bear this man ! How horribly he fixed his
eyes on you when he was talking that
rubbish about the ball-dress ! "

^' He was anxious to make himself understood.
I know he made me think I must
mind what I was about ! "

"Oh, nonsense! We didn't come into
this wilderness to be preached to by a lay
John the Baptist ! He is an ill-bred
fellow!"

She would not have said so much against
him, had not Mercy taken his part.

Mercy rarely contradicted her sister, but
even this brief passage with a real man had
roused the justice in her.

^^ I don't agree with you, Chrissy," she
said. ^^ He seems to me very much of a
gentleman ! "

She did not venture to say all she felt,
not choosing to be at absolute variance,
and the threatened quarrel blew over like
a shower in spring.

But some sort of impression remained
from the words of Ian on the mind of
Mercy, for the next morning she read a
chapter in the book of Genesis, and said
a prayer her mother had taught her.

CHAPTEK XII.

AMONG THE HILLS.

When Mr. and Mrs. Palmer reached Inverness,
they found they could spend a few
days there, one way and another, to good
purpose, for they had friends to visit as well
as shopping to do. Mr. Palmer's affairs
calling him to the south were not immediately
pressing, and their sojourn extended
itself to a full week of eight days, during
which the girls were under no rule hut their
own. Their parents regarded them as
perfectly to be trusted, nor were the girls
themselves aware of any reason why they
should not be so regarded.

The window of Christina's bedroom overlooked
a part of the road between the New

House and the old castle ; and she could
see from it all the ridge as far as the grove
that concealed the cottage : if now they
saw more of the young men their neighbours,
and were led farther into the wilds,
thickets, or pasturage of their acquaintance,
I cannot say she had no hand in it.

She was depressed by a sense of failure :
the boor, as she called him, was much too
thick-skinned for any society but that of
his bulls ! and she had made no progress
with the Valentine any more than with the
Arson ; he was better pleased with her ugly
sister than with her beautiful self !

She would have given neither of the men
another thought, but that there was no one
else with whom to do any of that huckster
business called flirting, which to her had
just harm enough in it to make it interesting
to her. She was one of those who can
imagine beauty nor enjoyment in a thing
altogether right. She took it for granted
that bad and beautiful were often one ; that
the pleasures of the world owed their

delight to a touch, a wash, a tincture of
the wicked in them. Such have so many
crooked lines in themselves that they fancy
nature laid down on lines of crookedness.
They think the obliquity the beauty of the
campanile, the blurring the charm of the
sketch.

I tread on delicate ground — ground
which, alas ! many girls tread boldly, scattering
much feather-bloom from the wings
of poor Psyche, gathering for her hoards of
unlovely memories, and sowing the seed
of many a wish that they had done differently.
They cannot pass over such
ground and escape having their nature
more or less vulgarized. I do not speak of
anything counted wicked; it is only gambling
nth the precious and lovely things of the
deepest human relation ! If a girl with
such an experience marry a man she loves
with what power of loving may be left
such a one — will she not now and then
remember something it would be joy to
discover she had but dreamed ? will she be

VOL. I.

able always to forget certain cabinets in her
brain which ^' it would not do" to throw
open to the husband who thinks her simple
as well as innocent ? Honesty and truth,
God's essentials, are perhaps more lacking
in ordinary intercourse between young men
and women than anywhere else. Greed and
selfishness are as busy there as in money-making
and ambition. Thousands on both
sides are constantly seeking more than their
share — more also than they even intend to
return value for. Thousands of girls have
been made sad for life by the speeches of a
man careful all the time to say nothing that
amounted to a pledge ! I do not forget
that many a woman who would otherwise
have been worth little, has for her sorrow
found such consolation that she has become
rich before God; these words hold nevertheless
: ^' It must needs be that offences
come, but woe to that man by whom the
offence cometh ! "

On a morning two days later, Christina
called Mercy, rather imperiously, to get

ready at once for their usual walk. She
obeyed, and they set out. Christina
declared she was perishing with cold, and
they walked fast. By and by they saw on
the road before them the two brothers
walking slow; one was reading, the other
listening. When they came nearer they
descried in Blister's hand a manuscript
volume ; Ian carried an old-fashioned
sowing-piece. It was a hard frost, which
was perhaps the cause of Blister's leisure
so early in the day.

Hearing the light steps of the girls
behind them, the men turned. The laird
was the first to speak. The plough and the
fierce bulls not there to bewilder their
judgment, the young women immediately
discovered their perception in the matter of
breeding to be less infallible than they had
imagined it : no well bred woman could fora
moment doubt the man before them a
gentleman — though his carriage was more
courteous and more natural than is often
seen in a Mayfair drawing-room, and his

English a little old-fashioned. Ian was at
once more like and more unlike other
people. His manner was equally courteous,
but notably stiffer : he was as much at his
ease, but more reserved. To use a figure,
he did not step out so far to meet them.
They walked on together.
'^ You are a little earlier than usual this
morning, ladies ! " remarked the chief.

'^ How do you know that, Mr. Macruadh ? ' '
rejoined Christina.

^' I often see you pass — and till now
always at the same hour."

*' And yet we have never met before ! "
^^ The busy and the " — he hesitated a
moment — " unbusy seldom meet," said the
chief.

^* Why don't j^ou say the idle'' suggested
Christina.

'^ Because that would be rude."
'why would it be rude? Most people,
suppose, are more idle than busy ! "
Idle is a word of blame ; I had no right
to use it."

** I should have taken yoii for one of
those who always speak their minds ! '*

*'I hope I do when it is required, and I
have any to speak."

^^ You prefer judging with closed doors ! "

The chief was silent : he did not understand
her. Did she want him to say he did
not think them idle ? or, if they were, that
they were quite right ?

'^ I think it hard," resumed Christina,
with a tone of injury, almost of suffering, in
her voice, *that we should be friendly and
open with people, and they all the time
thinking of us in a way it would be rude
to tell us ! It is enough to make one vow
never to speak to — to anybody again ! "

Blister turned and looked at her. What
could she mean ?

** You can't think it hard," he said, "that
people should not tell you what they think
of you the moment they first see you ! "

'' They might at least tell us what they
mean by calling us idle ! "

I said not busy''

^*Is evenjhodj to blame that is idle?"
persisted Christina.

'* Perhaps my brother wil answer you
that question," said Ahster.

^^ If my brother and I tell you honestly
what we thought of you when first we saw
you," said Ian, *swill you tell us honestly
what you thought of us ? "

The girls cast an involuntary glance at
each other, and when their eyes met, could
not keep them from looking conscious. A
twitching also at the corners of Mercy's
mouth showed they had been saying more
than they would care to be cross-questioned
upon.

** Ah, you betray yourselves, ladies ! " Ian
said. ^'It is all very well to challenge us,
but you are not prepared to lead the
way ! "

*' Girls are never allowed to lead ! '* said
Christina. ^^ The men are down on them
the moment they dare ! "

** I am not that way inclined," answered
Ian. *' If man or woman lead to anything,

success will justify the leader. I will propose
another thing ! "

'' What is it ? " asked Christina.

^' To agree that, when we are about to
part, with no probability of meeting again
in this world, we shall speak out plainly
what we think of each other 1 "

^'But that will be such a time!" said
Christina.

In a world that turns quite round every
twenty-four hours, it may be a very short
time ! "

^' We shall be coming every summer,
though I hope not to stay through another
winter ! "

'' Changes come when they are least
expected ! "

^^ We cannot know," said Blister, *' that
we shall never meet again ! "

'* There the probability will be enough."

'^ But how can we come to a better — I
mean a fairer opinion of each other, when
we meet so seldom ? " asked Mercy innocently.


*^ This is only the second time we have
met, and already we are not quite strangers ! "
said Christina.

'^ On the other hand," said Blister, ^^ we
have been within call for more than two
months, and this is our second meeting ! "

^' Well, who has not called ? " said
Christina.

The young men were silent. They did
not care to discuss the question as to which
mother was to blame in the matter.

They were now in the bottom of the
valley, had left the road, and were going up
the side of the burn, often in single file,
Blister leading, and Ian bringing up the
rear, for the valley was thickly strewn with
lumps of gray rock, of all shapes and sizes.
They seemed to have rolled down the hill
on the other side of the burn, but there was
no sign of their origin : the hill was covered
with grass below, and with heather above.
Such was the winding of the way among
the stones — for path there was none — that
again and again no one of them could see

another. The girls felt the strangeness of
it, and began to experience, without knowing
it, a little of the power of solitary places.

After walking thus for some distance, they
found their leader halted.

Here we have to cross the burn," he
said, " and go a long way up the other
side."

*you want to be rid of us!" said
Christina.

^^By no means," replied Blister. ^' Weare
delighted to have you with us. But we
must not let you get tired before turning to
go back."

^^ If you really do not mind, we should
like to go a good deal farther. I want to
see round the turn there, where another
hill comes from behind and closes up the
view. We haven't anybody to go with us,
and have seen nothing of the country. The
men won't take us shooting ; and mamma
is always so afraid we lose ourselves, or fall
down a few precipices, or get into a bog, orbe
eaten by wild beasts ! "

^* If this frost last, we shall have time to
show you something of the country. I see
you can walk ! "

*^ We can walk well enough, and should
so like to get to the top of a mountain ! "

'* For the crossing then ! " said Blister,
and turning to the burn, jumped and resumed
it, as if to let them see how to do it.

The bed of the stream was at the spot
narrowed by two rocks, so that, though
there was little of it, the water went through
with a roar, and a force to take a man off
his legs. It was too wide for the ladies,
and they stood eyeing it T\dth dismay,
fearing an end to their walk and the
pleasant companionship.

*'Do not be frightened, ladies," said
Blister ; *' it is not too wide for you."

** You have the advantage of us in your
dress ! " said Christina.

I will get you over quite safe," returned
the chief.

Christina looked as if she could not trust
herself to him.

** I will try," said Mercy.

"Jump high," answered Blister, as he
sprang again to the other side, and held out
his hand across the chasm.

^' I can neither jump high nor far ! " said
Mercy.

** Don't be in a hurry. I will take you —
no, not by the hand ; that might slip — but
by the wrist. Do not think how far you
can jump ; all you have to do is to jump.
Only jump as high as you can."

Mercy could not help feeling frightened
the water rushed so fast and loud below.

Are you sure you can get me over ? "
she asked.

^^Yes."

Then I will jump."

She sprang, and Blister, with a strong
pull on her arm, landed her easily.

^* It is your turn now," he said, addressing
Christina.

She was rather white, but tried to
laugh.

I — I — I don't think I can ! " she said.

*sit is really nothing, "persuaded the chief.

** I am sorry to be a coward, but I fear I
was born one."

*^ Some feelings nobody can help," said
Ian, '^ but nobody need give way to them.
One of the bravest men I ever knew would
always start aside if the meanest little cur
in the street came barking at him ; and yet
on one occasion, when the people were
running in all directions, he took a mad
dog by the throat, and held him. Come,
Blister ! you take her by one arm and I
will take her by the other."

The chief sprang to her side, and the
moment she felt the grasp of the two men,
she had the needful courage. The three
jumped together, and all were j)i'6sently
walking merrily along the other bank, over
the same kind of ground, in single file —
Ian bringing up the rear.

The ladies were startled by a gun going
off close behind them.

^^I beg your pardon," said Ian, ^'but I
could not let the rascal go."

** What have you killed ? " his brother
asked.

*' Only one of my own family — a repaired
fellow ! " answered Ian, who had
left the path, and was going up the hill.

The girls looked, but saw nothing, and
following him a few yards, came to him
behind a stone.

*^ Goodness gracious ! " exclaimed Christina,
with horror in her tone, '^ it's a fox ! —
Is it possible you have shot a fox ? "
The men laughed.

^' And why not ? " asked Blister, as if he
had no idea what she could mean. *' Is the
fox a sacred animal in the south ? "

** It's worse than poaching ! " she cried.
'^ Hardly ! " returned Blister. ''No
doubt you may get a good deal of fun
out of Eeynard, but you can't make game
of him ! Why — you look as if you had lost
a friend ! I admire his intellect, but we
can't afford to feed it on chickens and
lambs."

'' But to shoot him ! "

Why not ? We do not respect him
here. He is a rascal, to be sure, but then
he has no money, and consequently no
friends ! "

^' He has many friends ! What hould
Christian or Mr. Sercombe say to shooting,
actually shooting a fox ! "

'* You treat him as if he were red gold ! "
said the chief. *' We build temples neither
to Eeynard nor Mammon here. We leave
the men of the south to worship them ! '^

'^ They don't worship them ! " said Mercy.

Do they not respect the rich man
because he is rich, and look down on the
poor man because he is poor ? " said Ian.
'* Though the rich be a wretch, they think
him grand ; though the poor man be like
Jesus Christ, they pity him ! "

'rand shouldn't the poor be pitied?"
said Christina.

*' Not except they need pity."

'ris it not pitiable to be poor ? "

"By no means. It is pitiable to be
wretched — and that, I venture to suspect,

the rich are oftener than the poor. — But
as to master Eeynard there — instead of
shooting him, what would you have had us
do with him? "

** Hunt him, to be sure."

'' Would he like that better ? "

'^ What he would like is not the question.
The sport is the thing."

^' That will show you why he is not sacred
here : we do not hunt him. It would be
impossible to hunt this country ; you could
not ride the ground. Besides, there are
such multitudes of holes, the hounds would
scarcely have a chance. No ; the only dog
to send after the fellow is a leaden one."

^^ There's another ! " exclaimed the chief;
*' — there, sneaking away ! — and your gun
not loaded, Ian ! "

"I am so glad!" said Christina. ^^ Heat
least will escape you ! "

^' And some poor lamb in the spring won't
escape him ! " returned Blister.

"Lambs are meant to be eaten!" said
Christina.

*' Yes ; but a lamb might think it hard to
feed such a creature ! "

^' If the fox is of no good in the world,"
said Mercy, ^^ why was he made ? "

*' He can't be of no good," answered the
chief. ^' What if some things are, just that
we may get rid of them ? "

'* Could they be made just to be got
rid of?"

''I said — that ive might get rid of them :
there is all the difference in that. The very
first thing men had to do in the world was
to fight beasts."

^^I think I see what you mean," said
Mercy: ^'if there had been no wild beasts
to fight with, men would never have grown
able for much ! "

'* That is it," said Blister. "- They were
awful beasts ! and they had poor weapons to
fight them with — neither guns nor knives ! "

'^ And who knows," suggested Ian, ^^ what
good it may be to the fox himself to make
the best of a greedy life ? "

*^ But what is the good to us of talking

about such things ? " said Christina.
^* They're not interesting ! "

The remark silenced the brothers : where
indeed could be use without interest ?

But Mercy, though she could hardly have
said she found the conversation very interesting,
felt there was something in the men
that cared to talk about such things, that
must be interesting if she could only get at
it. They were not like any other men she
had met !

Christina's whole interest in men was the
admiration she looked for and was sure of
receiving from them ; Mercy had hitherto
found their company stupid.

VOL. I.

CHAPTEK XIII.

THE LAKE.

Silence lasted until they reached the
shoulder of the hill that closed the view
up the valley. As they rounded it, the sun
went behind a cloud, and a chill wind, as if
from a land where dwelt no life, met them.
The hills stood back, and they were on the
shore of a small lake, out of which ran the
burn. They were very desolate-looking
hills, with little heather, and that bloom-less,
to hide their hard gray bones. Their
heads were mostly white with frost and
snow ; their shapes had little beauty ; they
looked worn and hopeless, ugly and sad —
and so cold ! The water below was slaty
gray, in response to the gray sky above :

there seemed no life in either. The hearts
of the girls sank within them, and all at
once they felt tired. In the air was just
one sign of life : high above the lake wheeled
a large fish-hawk.

^^Look!" said Blister pointing; ^^ there
is the osprey that lives here with his wife !
He is just going to catch a fish ! "

He had hardly spoken when the bird,
with headlong descent, shot into the water,
making it foam up all about. He reappeared
with a fish in his claws, and flew
ofi" to find his mate.

''Do you know the very bird?" asked
Mercy.

''I know him well. He and his wife
have built on that conical rock you see
there in the middle of the water many
years."

'why have you never shot him? He
would look well stuffed ! " said Christina.

She little knew the effect of her words ;
the chief hated causeless killing; and to
hear a lady talk of shooting a high-soaring

creature of the air as coolly as of putting
on her gloves, was nauseous to him. Ian
gave him praise afterwards for his unusual
self-restraint. But it was a moment or
two ere he had himself in hand.

*' Do you not think he looks much better
going about God's business ? " he said.

^' Perhaps ; but he is not yours ; you have
not got him ! "

"Why should I have him? He seems,
indeed, the more mine the higher he goes.
A dead stuffed thing — how could that be
mine at all ? Alive, he seems to soar in the
very heaven of my soul ! "

"You showed the fox no such pity!"
remarked Mercy.

I never killed a fox to have him ! "
answered Blister. " The osprey does no
harm. He eats only fish, and they are very
plentiful; he never kills birds or hares, or
any creature on the land. I do not see how
any one could wish to kill the bird, except
from mere love of destruction ! Why should
I make a life less in the world ? "

*^ There would be more lives of fish —
would there not?" said Mercy. "I don't
want you to shoot the poor bird; I only
want to hear your argument ! "

The chief could not immediately reply.
Ian came to his rescue.

There are qualities in life," he said.
"• One cannot think the fish-life so fine, so
full of delight as the bird-life ! "

No. But," said Mercy, " have the
fishes not as good a right to their life as
the birds ? "

Both have the right given them by the
maker of them. The osprey was made to
eat the fish, and the fish, I hope, get some
good of being eaten by the osprey."

"Excuse me, Captain Macruadh, but
thafc seems to me simple nonsense ! " said
Christina.

I hope it is true."

I don't know about being true, but it
must be nonsense."

It must seem so to most people."

'' Then why do you say it ? "

'' Because I hope it is true."

"' Why should you wish nonsense to be
true ? "

^' What is true cannot be nonsense. It
looks nonsense only to those that take no
interest in the matter. Would it be nonsense
to the fishes ? "

"It does seem hard," said Mercy, '^ that
the poor harmless things should be gobbled
up by a creature pouncing down upon them
from another element ! "

'ras the poor are gobbled up everywhere
by the rich ! "

"' I don't believe that. The rich are
very kind to the poor."

''I beg your pardon," said Ian, "but if
you know no more about the rich than you
do about the fish, I can hardly take your
testimony. The fish are the most carnivorous
creatures in the world."

Do they eat each other ? "

"Hardly that. Only the cats of Kilkenny
can do that."

I used a common phrase ! "

'' You did, and I am rude : the phrase
must bear the blame for both of us. But
the fish are even cannibals — eating the
young of their own species ! They are
the most' destructive of creatures to other
lives."

^'I suppose," said Mercy, '^ to make one
kind of creature live on another kind, is
the way to get the greatest good for the
greatest number ! "

'^ That doctrine, which seems to content
most people, appears to me a poverty-stricken
and selfish one. I can admit
nothing but the greatest good to every individual
creature . ' '

^^ Don't you think we had better be
going, Mercy? It has got quite cold; I
am afraid it will rain," said Christina,
drawing her cloak round her with a little
shiver.

'' I am ready," answered Mercy.

The brothers looked at each other.
They had come out to spend the day together,
but they could not leave the ladies

to go home alone ; having brought them
across the burn, they were bound to see
them over it again ! An imperceptible
sign passed between them, and Blister
turned to th e girls.

*^ Come then," he said, '^ we will go
back ! "

'but you were not going home yet!"
said Mercy.

'would you have us leave you in this
wild place ? "

"We shall find our way well enough.
The burn will guide us."

Yes ; but it will not jump over you ; it
will leave you to jump over it ! "

I forgot the burn ! " said Christina.

"Which way were you going?" asked
Mercy, looking all around for road or pathway
over the encircling upheaved wildernesses.


This way," answered Ian. " Good-bye."

Then you are not coming ? "

No. My brother will take care of you."

He went straight as an arrow up the hill.

They stood and watched him go. At what
seemed the top, he turned and waved his
cap, then vanished.

Christina felt disappointed. She did not
much care for either of the very peculiar
young men, but any company was better
than none ; a man was better than a
woman ; and two men were better than
one ! If these were not equal to admiring
her as she deserved, what more remunerative
labour than teaching them to do so ?

The thing that chiefly disappointed her
in them was, that they had so little
small talk. It was so stupid to be always
speaking sense ! always polite ! always
courteous ! — '' Two sir Charles Grandi-sons,"
she said, ^' are two too many!"
And indeed the History of Sir Charles
Grandison had its place in the small
library free to them from childhood; but
Christina knew nothing of him except by
hearsay.

The young men had been brought up
in a solemn school — had learned to take

life as a serious aud lovely and imperative
thing. Not the less, U230n occasions of
merry-making, would they frolic like young
colts even yet, and that without the least
reaction or sense of folly afterwards. At
the same time, although Ian had in the
village from childhood the character, especially
in the workshops of the carpenter,
weaver, and shoemaker, of being full of
humour, he was in himself always rather
sad, being perplexed with many things :
his humour was but the foam of his
troubled sea.

Christina was annoyed besides that Mercy
seemed not indifferent to the opinion of
the men. It was from pure inexperience
of the man-world, she said to herself, that
the silly child could see anything interesting
in them ! Gentlemen she must allow them
but of such an old-fashioned type as to
be gentlemen but by courtesy — not gentlemen
in the world's count ! She was of the
world ; they of the north of Scotland ! All
day Mercy had been on their side and

against her ! It might be from sheer perversity,
but she had never been Hke that
before ! She must take care she did not
make a fool of herself! It might end in
some unhappiness to the young goose !
Assuredly neither her father nor mother
would countenance the thing ! She must
throw herself into the breach ! But which
of them was she taking a fancy to ?

She was not so anxious about her sister,
however, as piqued that she had not herself
gathered one expression of homage, surprised
one look of admiration, seen one
sign of incipient worship in either. Of the
two she liked better the ploughman ! The
other was more a man of the world — but
he was not of her world ! With him she
was a stranger in a very strange land !

Christina's world was a very small one,
and in its temple stood her own image.
Ian belonged to the universe. He was a
gentleman of the high court. Wherever
he might go throughout God's worlds, he
would be at home. How could there be

much attraction between Christina and
him?

Aster was more talkative on the way
hack than he had been all day. Christina
thought the change caused by having them,
or rather her, to himself alone ; but m reality
it sprang from the prospect of soon rejoining
his brother without them. Some of the
things he said, Mercy found well worth
hearing ; and an old Scotch ballad vrhich he
repeated, having learned it of a lowland
nurse, appeared to her as beautiful as it
was wild and strange. For Christina, she
despised the Scotch language : it was
vulgar I Had Blister informed her that
Beowulf, ^'the most important of all the
relics of the Pagan Anglo-saxon, is written
in undeniable Scotch, the English of the
period," it would have made no difference
to Christina! Why should it? She had
never yet cared for any book beyond the
novels of a certain lady which, to speak
with due restraint, do not tend to profitable
thought. At the same time, it was not for

the worst in them that she liked them ;
she did not understand them well enough
to see it. But there was ground to fear
that, when she came to understand, shocked
at first, she would speedily get accustomed
to it, and at length like them all the better
for it.

In Mercy's unawakened soul, echoed now
and then a faint thrill of response to some
of the things Blister said, and, oftener, to
some of the verses he repeated ; and she
would look up at him when he was silent,
with an unconscious seeking glance, as if
dimly aware of a beneficent presence.
Blister was drawn by the honest gaze of
her yet undeveloped and homely countenance,
with its child-look in process of
sublimation, whence the woman would
glance out and vanish again, leaving the
child to give disappointing answers. There
was something in it of the look a dog casts
up out of his beautiful brown eyes into the
mystery of his master's countenance. She
was on the edge of coming awake ; all was

darkness about her, but something was
joining at her ! She had never known
before that a lady might be lovely in a
ballad as well as in a beautiful gown !

Finding himself so Hastened to, though
the listener was Httle more than a child,
the heart of the chief began to swell in his
great bosom. Like a child he was pleased.
The gray day about him grew sweet ; its
very grayness was sweet, and of a silvery
sheen. When they arrived at the burn,
and, easily enough from that side, he had
handed them across, he was not quite so glad
to turn from them as he had expected to be.

^^ Are you going?" said Christina with
genuine surprise, for she had not understood
his intention.

'the way is easy now," he answered.
"I am sorry to leave you, but I have to
join Ian, and the twilight will be flickering
down before I reach the place."

"And there will be no moon!" said
Mercy: 'how will you get home through
the darkness ? "

*^ We do not mean to come home tonight."


** Oh, then, you are going to friends ! "
**No ; we shall he with each other — nota
soul besides."

^' There can't surely be a hotel up there?"
Blister laughed as he answered,
*^ There are more ways than one of spending
a night on the hills. If you look from
a window — in that direction," he said,
pointing, '^ the last thing before you go to
bed, you will see that at least we shall not
perish with cold."

He sprang again over the burn, and with
a wave of his bonnet, went, like Ian, straight
up the hill.

The girls stood for some time watching
him climb as if he had been going up a
flight of stairs, until he stood clear against
the sky, when, with another wave of his
bonnet, he too disappeared.

Mercy did not forget to look from her
window in the direction Blister had indicated.
There was no room to mistake

what lie meant, for through, the dark rana
great opening to the side of a hill somewhere
in the night, where glowed and
flamed, reddening the air, a huge crescent
of fire, slowly climbing, like a column of
attack, up toward the invisible crest.

*' What does it mean ? " she said to herself.
^'Why do they make such a bonfire
with nobody but themselves to enjoy it ?
What strange men — out by themselves in
the dark night, on the cold hill ! What
can they be doing it for ? I hope they have
something to eat ! I should like to hear
them talk 1 I wonder what they are saying
about us! I am certain we bored
them ! "

The brothers did speak of them, and
readily agreed in some notion of their characters
; but they soon turned to other
things, and there passed a good deal that
Mercy could not have followed. What
would she, for instance, have made of
Blister's challenge to his brother to explain
the metaphysical necessity for the sine,

tangent, and secant of an angle belonging
to its supplement as well ?

When the ladies overtook them in the
morning, Blister was reading, from an old
manuscript volume of his brother's which
he had found in a chest, a certain very early
attQn:ipt at humour, and now they disputed
concerning it as they watched the fire.
It had abundance of faults, and in especial
lacked suture, but will serve to show something
of han's youthful ingenium.

TO A VAGRANT.

Gentle vagrant, stumping over
Several verdant fields of clover !
Subject of unnumbered knockings !
Tattered coat and ragged stockings,
Slouching hat and roving eye,
Tell of settled vagrancy !

Wretched wanderer, can it be
The poor laws have leagued thee ?
Hear'st thou, in thy thorny den,
Tramp of rural policemen,
Inly fancying, in thy rear
Coats of blue and buttons clear.
While to meet thee, in the van
Stalks some vengeful alderman ? —
Each separate sense bringing a notion
Of forms that teach thee locomotion 1
vol. I. Q

Beat and battered altogether,
By fellow-men, by wind and weather ;
Hounded on through fens and bogs,
Chased by men and bit by dogs ;
And, in thy weakly way of judging,
So kindly taught the art of trudging ;
Or, with a moment's happier lot,
Pitied, pensioned, and forgot —
Cutty-pipe thy regnum bonum ;
Poverty thy summum bonum ;
Thy frigid couch a sandstone stratum ;
A colder grave thy ultimatum ;
Circumventing, circumvented ;
In short, excessively tormented,
Everything combines to scare
Charity's dear pensioner !
Say, vagrant, can'st thou grant to me
A slice of thy philosophy ?

Haply, in thy many trudging,
Having found unchallenged lodgings,
Thy thoughts, unused to saddle-crupper,
Ambling no farther than thy supper —
Thou, by the light of heaven-lit taper,
Mentes thy prospective paper !
Then, jolly pauper, stitch till day;
Let not thy roses drop away.
Lest, begrimed with muddy matter,
Thy body peep from every tatter.
And men — a charitable dose —
Should physic thee with food aud clothes !

Nursling of adversity !
'Tis thy glory thus to be
Sinking fund of waggery !

Thus to scrape a nation's dishes,
And fatten on a few good wishes !
Or, on some venial treason bent.
Frame thyself a government,
For thy crest a brimless hat,
Poverty's aristocrat !

Nonne habeas te tristes,
Planet of the human system ?
Comet lank and melancholic
Orbit shocking parabolic —
Seen for a little in the sky
Of the world of sympathy —
Seldom failing when predicted,
Coming most when most restricted,
Dragging a nebulous tail with thee
Of hypothetic vagrancy —
Of vagrants large, and vagrants small.
Vagrants scarce visible at all !

Matchless oracle of woe !
Anarchy in embryo !
Strange antipodes of bliss !
Parody on happiness I
Madhouse of the great creation !
Subject meet for strangulation,
By practice tutored to condense
The cautious inquiry for pence,
And skilful, with averted eye.
To hide thy latent roguery —
Lo, on thy hopes I clap a stopper !
Vagrant, thou shalt have no copper !
Gather thy stumps, and get thee hence,
Unwise solicitor of pence ! '

Blister, who all but worshipped Ian, and
cherished every scrap from his pen, had not
until quite lately seen this foolish production,
as Ian counted it, and was delighted
with it, as he would have been had it been
much worse. Ian was vexed that he should
like it, and now spent the greater part of an
hour trying to show him how very bad in
parts, even senseless it was. Profusion of
epithets without applicability, want of continuity,
purposelessness, silliness, heartlessness
— were but a few of his denunciations.
Blister argued it was but a bit of fun,
and that anybody that knew Ian, knew
perfectly he would never amuse himseK
with a fellow without giving him something,
but it was in vain ; Ian was benton
showing it altogether unworthy. So,
not to waste the night, they dropped the
dispute, and by the light of the blazing
heather, turned to a chapter of Boethius.

Chapter Xii.

THE WOLVES.

My readers may remember that Ian was on
the point of acquainting his mother with
an important event in his spiritual history,
when they were interrupted by the involuntary
call of the girls from the New House.
The mother, as will readily be believed,
remained desirous of listening to her son's
story, though dreading it would not be of
a kind to give her much satisfaction ; but
partly from preventions — favoured, it must
be confessed by Ian, and yet more from
direct avoidance on his part, the days passed
without her hearing anything more of it.
Ian had in truth almost repented his offer
of the narrative : a certain vague assurance
that it would not be satisfactory to her, had

grown upon him until he felt it unkind to
lay before her an experience whose narration
would seem to ask a sympathy she could not
give. But the mother was unable to let the
thing rest. More than by interest she was
urged by anxiety. In spite of her ungod-like
theories of God, it was impossible she
could be in despair about her noble Ian ;
still, her hope was at best founded on the
uncovenanted mercies of God, not on the
security of his bond ! She did not believe
that God was doing and would do his best
for every man ; therefore she had no assurance
that he would bring down the pride of
Ian, and compel his acceptance of terms
worthy of an old Roman father, half law-circumvented
lawyer, half heartless tyrant.
But her longing to hear what her son had
proposed telling her, was chiefly inspired by
the hope of getting nearer to him, of closer
sympathy becoming possible between them
through her learning more clearly what his
views were. She constantly felt as if
walking along the side of a thick hedge,

with occasional thinness through which
now and then she gained a ghostly glimpse
of her heart's treasure gliding along the
other side — close to her, yet so far that,
when they spoke, they seemed calling across
a gulf of dividing darkness. Therefore, the
night after that spent by her sons on the hill,
all having retired some two hours before,
the mother, finding herself unable to sleep,
rose as she had often done ere now, and
stole to the door of the little room under
the thatch where Ian lay. Listening, and
judging him awake, she went softly in, and
sat down by his bedside.

There had been such occasions on which,
though son as well as mother was wide
awake, neither spoke a word ; but this time
the mother could not be silent.

'' You never told me, Ian, the story you
began about something that made you
pray ! "

Ian saw he could not now draw back
without causing her more trouble than
would the narration.

*^ Are you sure you will not take cold,
mother dear ? " he said.

*'I am warmly clad, my son; and my
heart, more than I can tell you, is longing
to hear all about it."

^ ' I am afraid you will not find my story
so interesting as you expect, mother ! "

^^ What concerns you is more interesting
to me than anything else in the whole
world, Ian''

^^ Not more than God, mother ? " said Ian.

The mother was silent. She was as
honest as her sons. The question, diluent,
showed her, if but in shadow, something
of the truth concerning herder — not
so that she could grasp it, for she saw it
as in a glimmer, a fluctuating, vanishing
flash — namely, that she cared more about
salvation than about God — that, if she
could but keep her boy out of hell, she
would be content to live on without any
nearer approach to him in whom she had
her being ! God was to her an awe, not a
ceaseless, growing delight ! '

There are centuries of paganism yet in
many lovely Christian souls — paganism so
deep, therefore so little recognized, that
their earnest endeavour is to plant that
paganism ineradicable in the hearts of those
dearest to them.

x\s she did not answer, Ian was afraid she
was hurt, and thought it better to begin his
story at once.

*' It was one night in the middle of
winter — last winter, near Moscow," he
began, ^^ and the frost was very bitter — the
worst night for cold I have ever known. I
had gone with a companion into the depth
of a great pine forest. On our way, the cold
grew so intense, that we took refuge at a
little public-house, frequented by peasants
and persons of the lowest ranks. On entering
I saw a scene which surpassed all for
interest I had ever before witnessed. The
little lonely house was crammed with
Russian soldiers, fierce-looking fellows, and
I daresay their number formed our protection
from violence. Many of them were

among the finest looking fellows I have
ever seen. They were half drunk, and
were dancing and singing with the wildest
gesticulations and grimaces ; but such singing
for strange wildness and harmony combined
I had never before listened to. One
would keep up a solo for some minutes,
when the whole company would join ina
sort of chorus, dancing frantically about,
but with the most perfect regularity of
movement. One of them came up to me
and with a low bow begged me in the name
of the rest to give them some money. I
accordingly gave them a silver ruble, upon
which the whole party set up a shout,
surrounded me, and in a moment a score
of brawny fellows had Hated me in the air,
where I was borne along in triumph. I
took off my cap and gave three 
as loud as my lungs could bawl,
whereupon, with the profoundest expressions
of gratitude, I was lowered from my
elevation. One of them then who seemed
to be the spokesman of the rest, seized mein

his arms and gave me a hearty kiss on
the cheek, on which I took my departure
amid universal acclamation. — But all that's
not worth telling you about ; it was not
for that I began — only the scene came up
so clear before me that it drew me aside."

'^ I don't need to tell you, Ian," said his
mother, with shining eyes, '' that if it were
only what you had to eat on the most
ordinary day of your life, it would be interesting
to me ! "

^' Thank you, mother dear; I seem to
know that without being told ; but I could
never talk to you about anything that was
not interesting to myself."

Here he paused. He would rather have
stopped.

'^ Go on, go on, Ian. I am longing to
hear."

'' Well — where was I ? — We left at the
inn our carriage and horses, and went with
our guns far into the forest — all of straight,
tall pines, up and up ; and the little island-like
tops of them, which, if there be a

breath of wind, are sure to be swaying
about like the motion of a dream, were as
still as the big frosty stars in the deep blue
overhead."

^' What did you^'want in such a lonely
place at that time of the night ? " asked
the mother.

She sat with firm-closed lips, and wide,
night-filled eyes looking at her son, the fear
of love in her beautiful face — a face more
beautiful than any other that son had yet
seen, fit window for a heart so full of refuge
to look out of ; and he knew how she looked
though the darkness was between them.

Wolves, mother," he answered.

She shuddered. She was a great reader
in the long winter nights, and had read
terrible stories of wolves — the last of which
in Scotland had been killed not far from
where they sat.

^'What did you want with the wolves,
Ian? " she faltered.

To kill them, mother. I never liked
killing animals any more than Blister ; but

even he destroys the hooded crow; and
wolves are yet fairer game. They are the
out-of-door devils of that country, and I
fancy devils do go into them sometimes, as
they did once into the poor swine : they are
the terror of all who live near the forests.

*' There was no moon — only star-light ;
but whenever we came to any opener space,
there was light enough from the snow to
see all about ; there was Hght indeed from
the snow all through the forest, but the
trees were thick and dark. Far away,
somewhere in the mystery of the blackwood,
we could now and then hear a faint
howling : it came from the red throats of
the wolves." .

*' You are frightening me, Ian ! " said the
mother, as if they had been two children
telling each other tales.

^' Indeed, mother, they are very horrible
when they hunt in droves, ravenous with
hunger. To kill one of them, if it be but
one, is to do something for your kind. And
just at that time I was oppressed with the

feeling that I had clone and was doing
nothing for my people — my own humans ;
and not knowing anything else I could at
the moment attempt, I resolved to go and
kill a wolf or two : they had killed a poor
woman only two nights before.

^^ As soon as we could after hearing the
noise of them, we got up into two trees.
It took us some time to discover two that
were fit for our purpose, and we did not
get them so near each other as we should
have liked. It was rather anxious work too
until we found them, for if we encountered
on foot a pack of those demons, we could
be but a moment or two alive : killing one,
ten would be upon us, and a hundred more
on the backs of those. But we hoped they
would smell us up in the trees, and search
for us, when we should be able to give
account of a few of them at least : we had
double-barrelled guns, and plenty of powder
and ball."

"But how could you endure the cold —
at night — and without food ? " *

*^ No, mother ; we did not try that ! We
had plenty to eat in our pockets. My companion
had a bottle of vodki, and "

^* What is that ? " asked the mother with
suspicion.

*^A sort of raw spirit — horrible stuff —
more like spirits of wine. They say it does
not hurt in such cold."

^^ But, Ian ! " cried the mother, and
seemed unable to say more.

Don't be frightened, mother ! " said
Ian, with a merry laugh. ** Surely you do
not imagine I would drink such stuff !
True, I had my bottle, but it was full of
tea. The Russians drink enormous quantities
of tea — though not so strong as you
make it."

*^ Go on, then, Ian ; go on."

*^ We sat a long time, and there was no
sign of the wolves coming near us. It was
very cold, but our furs kept in our warmth.
By and by I fell asleep — which was not
dangerous so long as I kept warm, and I
thought the cold must wake me before it

began to numb me. And as I slept I
dreamed ; but my dream did not change
the place ; the forest, the tree I was in, all
my soundings were the same. I even
dreamed that I came awake, and saw everything
about me just as it was. I seemed to
open my eyes, and look about me on the
dazzling snow from my perch : I was in a
small tree on the border of a little clearing.
'' Suddenly, out of the wood to my left,
issued something, running fast, but with
soundless feet, over the snow. I doubted
in my dream whether the object were a
live thing or only a shadow. It came
nearer, and I saw it was a child, a
little girl, running as if for her life. She
came straight to the tree I sat in, and
when close to it, but without a moment's
halt, looked up, and I saw a sweet little
face, white with terror — which somehow
seemed, however, not for herself, but forme.
I called out after her to stop, and I
would take her into the tree beside me,
where the wolves could not reach her ; but

she only shook her head, and ran on over
the clearing into the forest. Among the
boles I watched the fleeting shape appear
and disappear and appear again, until I saw
it no more. Then first I heard another
kind of howl from the wolves — that of
pursuit. It strengthened and swelled,
growing nearer and nearer, till at last,
through the stillness of the night and the
moveless forest and the dead snow, came
to my ear a kind of soft rushing sound. I
don't know how to describe it. The rustle
of dry leaves is too sharp ; it was like a
very soft heavy rain on a window — a small
dull padding padding : it was the feet of
the wolves. They came nearer and grew
louder and louder, but the noise was still
muffled and soft. Their howling, however,
was now loud and horrid. I suppose they
cannot help howling; if they could, they
would have too much power over poor
creatures, coming upon them altogether at
unawares ; but as it is, they tell, whether
they will or no, that they are upon the way.

VOL. I. B

At length, dark as a torrent of pitch, out
of the forest flowed a multitude of obscure
things, and streamed away, black over the
snow, in the direction the child had taken.
They passed close to the foot of my tree,
but did not even look up, flitting by like
a shadow whose substance was unseen.
Where the child had vanished they also
disappeared : plainly they were after her !

^^ It was only a dream, mother! don't be
so frightened," interrupted Ian, for here his
mother gave a little cry, almost forgetting
what the narration was.

^' Then first," he went on, ^'I seemed to
recover my see-possession. I saw that,
though I must certainly be devoured by the
wolves, and the child could not escape, I
had no choice but go down and follow, do
what I could, and die nth her. Down I
was the same instant, running as I had
never run before even in a dream, along the
track of the wolves. As I ran, I heard
their howling, but it seemed so far off that
I could not hope to be in time to kill one of

them ere they were upon her. Still, by
their howling, it did not appear they had
reached her, and I ran on. Their noise
grew louder and louder, but I seemed to run
miles and miles, wondering what spell was
upon me that I could not come up with
them. All at once the clamour grew
hideous, and I saw them. They were
gathered round a tree, in a clearing just
like that I had left, and were madly leaping
against it, but ever falling back baffled. I
looked up : in the top of the tree sat the
little girl, her white face looking down upon
them with a smile. All the terror had
vanished from it. It was still white as
the snow, but like the snow was radiating
a white light through the dark foliage of
the fir. I see it often, mother, so clear
that I could paint it. I was enchanted at
the sight. But she was not in safety yet,
and I rushed into the heap of wolves,
striking and stabbing with my hunting-knife.
I got to the tree, and was by her ina
moment. But as I took the child in my

arms I woke, and knew that it was a dream.
I sat in my own tree, and up against the
stem of it broke a howling, surging black
wave of wolves. They leaped at the tree-bole
as a rock-checked billow would leap. My
gun was to my shoulder in a moment, and
blazed among them. Howls of death arose.
Their companions fell upon the wounded,
and ate them up. The tearing and yelHng
at the foot of the tree was like the tumult
of devils full of hate and malice and greed.
Then for the first time I thought whether
such creatures might not be the open
haunts of demons. I do not imagine that,
when those our Lord drove out of the man
asked permission to go into the swine, they
desired anything unheard of before in the
demon-world. I think they were not in
the way of going into tame animals ; but,
as they must go out of the man, as they
greatly dreaded the abyss of the disembodied,
and as no ferocious animals fit to
harbour them were near, they begged leave
to go into such as were accessible, though

unsuitable ; whereupon the natural consequence
followed : their presence made the
poor swine miserable even to madness, and
with the instinct of so many maniacs that
in death alone lies their deliverance, they
rushed straight into the loch."

^' It may be so, Ian ! But I want to hear
how you got away from the wolves."

I fired and fired ; and still they kept
rushing on the tree-bole, heaping themselves
against it, those behind struggling up on the
backs of those next it, in a storm of rage
and hunger and jealousy. Not a few who
had just helped to eat some of their fellows,
were themselves eaten in turn, and not a
scrap of them left ; but it was a large pack,
and it would have taken a long time to kill
enow to satisfy those that remained. I
killed and killed until my ammunition was
gone, and then there was nothing for it but
await the Kght. When the morning began
to dawn, they answered its light with
silence, and turning away swept like a
shadow back into the wood. Strange tp

tell, I heard afterwards that a child had
been killed by them iu the earlier part of
that sarah night. But even now sometimes,
as I lie awake, I grow almost doubtful
whether the whole was not a hideous dream.

'^ Not the less for that was what I went
through between the time my powder came
to an end and the dawn of the morning, a
real spiritual fact.

^^ In the midst of the howling I grew so
sleepy that the horrible noise itself seemed
to lull me while it kept me awake, and I
fell into a kind of reverie with which my
dream came back and mingled. I seemed
to be sitting in the tree with the little
shining girl, and she was my own soul ;
and all the wrong things I had in me, and
all the wrong things I had done, with all
the weaknesses and evil tendencies of my
nature, whether mine by fault or by inheritance,
had taken shape, and, in the persons
of the howling wolves below, were besieging
me, to get at me, and devour me. Suddenly
my soul was gone. Above were the still,

bright stars, shining unmoved ; beneath
was the white, betraying snow, and the
howling wolves ; away through the forest
was fleeting, ever fleeting, my poor soul, in
the likeness of a white-faced child ! All
at once came a great stillness, as of a desert
place, where breathed nor life of man nor
life of beast. I was alone, frightfully alone
alone as I had never been before. The
creatures at the foot of the tree were still
howling, but their cry sounded far away and
small ; they were in some story I had been
reading, not anywhere in my life ! I was
left and lost — left by whom ? — lost by
whom? — in the waste of my own being,
without stay or comfort. I looked up to
the sky ; it was infinite — yet only a part of
myself, and much too near to afford me any
refuge from the desert of my lost self. It
came down nearer ; the limitless space came
down, and clasped me, and held me. It
came close to me — as if I had been a shape
off which all nature was taking a mould. I
was at once everything and nothing. I

cannot tell you how frightful it was ! In
agony I cried to God, with a cry of utter
despair. I cannot say whether I may
believe that he answered me ; I know this,
that a great quiet fell upon me — but a quiet
as of utter defeat and helplessness. Then
again, I cannot tell how, the quiet and the
helplessness melted away into a sense of
God — a feeling as if great space all about
me was God and not emptiness. Wolf nor
sin could touch me ! I was a ide peace —
my very being peace ! And in my mind —
whether an echo from the Bible, I do not
know — were the words : — ' I, even I, am he
that comforted thee. I am God, thy
saviour ! ' "Whereas I had seemed all alone,
I was with God, the only zmY/mess man can
really share ! I lifted my eyes ; morning
was in the east, and the wolves were
slinking away over the snow."

How to receive the strange experience
the mother did not know. She ought to
say something, for she sorely questioned it !
Not a word had he spoken belonging to the

religion in which she had brought him up,
except two — sin and God / There was
nothing in it about the atonement ! She
did not see that it was a dream, say rather
a vision, of the atonement itself. To Ian
her interpretation of the atonement seemed
an everlasting and hopeless severance. The
patience of God must surely be far more
tried by those who would interpret him,
than by those who deny him : the latter
speak lies against him, the former speak lies
for him ! Yet all the time the mother felt
as in the presence of some creature of a
higher world — one above the ordinary race
of men — whom the powers of evil had indeed
misled, but perhaps not finally snared.
She little thought how near she was to imagining
that good may come out of evil — that
there is good which is not of God ! She
did not yet understand that salvation lies
in being one with Christ, even as the branch
is one with the vine ; — that any salvation
short of knowing God is no salvation at all.
What moment a man feels that he belongs

to God utterly, the atonement is there, the
son of God is reaping his harvest.

The good mother was not, however, one
of those conceited, stiff-necked, power-loving
souls who have been the curse and
ruin of the church in all ages ; she was but
one of those in whom reverence for its
passing form dulls the perception of unchangeable
truth. They shut up God's
precious light in the horn lantern of human
theory, and the lantern casts such shadows
on the path to the kingdom as seem to dim
eyes insurmountable obstructions. For the
sake of what they count revealed, they
refuse all further revelation, and what satisfies
them is merest famine to the next
generation of the children of the kingdom.
Instead of God's truth they offer man's
theory, and accuse of rebellion against God
such as cannot live on the husks they call
food. But ah, home-hungry soul ! thy God
is not the elder brother of the parable, but
the father with the best robe and the ring
a God high above all thy longing, even as
the heavens are high above the earth.

Chapter XY.

THE GULF THAT DIVIDED.

When Ian ceased, a silence deep as the
darkness around, fell upon them. To Ian,
the silence seemed the very voice of God,
clear in the darkness ; to the mother it was
a darkness interpenetrating the darkness ;
it was a great gulf between her and her
boy. She must cry to him aloud, but what
should she cry ? If she did not, an opportunity,
perhaps the last, on which hung
eternal issues, would be gone for ever !
Each moment's delay was a disobedience to
her conscience, a yielding to love's sinful
reluctance ! With ^' sick assay " she heaved
at the weight on her heart, but not a word
would come. If Ian would but speak again,

and break the spell of the terrible stillness !
She must die in eternal wrong if she did not
speak ! But no word would come. Something
in her would not move. It was not
in her brain or her lips or her tongue, for
she knew all the time she could speak if she
would. The caitiff will was not all on the
side of duty ! She was not for the truth !
could she then be of the truth ? She
did not suspect a divine reluctance to urge
that which was not good.

Not always when the will works may we
lay hold of it in the act : somehow, she
knew not how, she heard herself speaking.

^^ Are you sure it was God, Ian?" she said.

The voice she heard was weak and broken,
reedy and strained, like the voice of one all
but dead.

"No, mother," answered Ian, "but I
hope it was."

Hopes, my dear boy, are not to be
trusted."

That is true, mother; and yet we are
saved by hope."

THE GULF THAT DIVIDED. 253

*^ We are saved hj faith'"

^adonot doubt it."

^* You rejoice my heart. But faith in
what?"

*^ Faith in God, mother."

That will not save you."

^^No, but Godwin."
The devils believe in God, and tremble."
I believe in the father of Jesus Christ,
and do not tremble."

'you ought to tremble before an unreconciled
God."

*' Like the devils, mother ? "

belike a sinful child of Adam. Whatever
your fancies, Ian, God will not hear you,
except you pray to him in the name of ibis
Son."

*' Mother, would you take my God from
me ? Would you blot him out of the deeps
of the universe ? "

'tian! are you mad? What frightful
things you would lay to my charge ! "

*' Mother, I would gladly — oh how gladly!
perish for ever, to save God from being the

kind of God 3^011 would have me believe
him. I love God, and will not think him
other than good. Bather than believe he
does not hear every creative that cries to
him, whether he knows Jesus Christ or not,
I would believe there was no God, and go
mourning to my grave."

That is not the doctrine of the gospel."

'^ It is, mother : Jesus himself says,
Every one that hath heard and learned
of the Father, cometh unto me.' "

<« Why then do you not come to him,
Ian ? "

'^ I do come to him; I come to him everyday.
I believe in nobody but him. He
only makes the universe worth being, or
any life worth living ! "

^^ Ian, I can not understand you ! If you
believe like that about him, "

*'I don't believe about him, mother! I
believe in him. He is my life."

*' We will not dispute about words ! The
question is, do you place your faith for salvation
in the sufferings of Christ for you ? "

^' I do not, mother. My faith is in Jesus
himself, not in his sufferings."

*' Then the anger of God is not turned
away from you."

'' Mother, I say again — I love God, and
will not believe such things of him as you
say. I love him so that I would rather lose
him than believe so of him."

*^ Then you do not accept the Bible as
your guide ? "

'' I do, mother, for it tells me of Jesus
Christ. There is no such teaching as you
say in the Bible."

'^ How little you know your New Testament
! "

'*! don't know my New Testament! It
is the only book I do know ! I read it constantly
! It is the only thing I could not
live without ! — No, I do not mean that ! I
could do without my Testament ! Christ
would he all the same ! "

''Oh, Ian! Ian! and yet you will not
give Christ the glory of satisfying divine
justice by his suffering for your sins ! "

** Mother, to say that the justice of God
is satisfied with suffering, is a piece of the
darkness of hell. God is willing to suffer,
and ready to inflict suffering to save from
sin, hut no suffering is satisfaction to him
or his justice."

*what do you mean by his justice
then?"

^^ That he gives you and me and everybody
fair play."

The homeliness of the phrase offended
the moral ear of the mother.

*how dare you speak lightly of liii in
my hearing ! " she cried.

^' Because I will speak for God even to
the face of my mother!" answered Ian.
He is more to me than you, mother —
ten times more."

"You speak against God, Ian," she rejoined,
calmed by the feeling she had
roused.

No, mother. He speaks against God
who says he does things that are not good.
It does not make a thing good to call it

good. I speak /or him when I say he cannot
but give fair play. He knows he put
me where I was sure to sin ; he will not
condemn me because I have sinned ; he
leaves me to do that myself. He will condemn
me only if I do not turn away from
sin, for he has made me able to turn from
it, and I do."

^* He will forgive sin only for Christ's
sake."

*^ He forgives it for his own name's sake,
his own love's sake. There is no such word
as /or Christ's sake in the New Testament
except where Paul prays us for Christ's
sake to be reconciled to God. It is in the
English New Testament, but not in the
Greek."

"• Then you do not believe that the
justice of God demands the satisfaction of
the sinner's endless punishment ? "

^'I do not. Nothing can satisfy the
justice of God but justice in his creature.
The justice of God is the love of what is
right, and the doing of what is right.

VOL. I. s

Eternal misery in the name of justice could
satisfy none but a demon whose bad laws
had been broken."

** I grant you that no amount of suffering
on the part of the wicked could satisfy
justice ; but it is the Holy One who suffers
for our sins 1 "

*' Oh, mother! Justice do wrong for its
own satisfaction ! Did Jesus deserve punishment
? If not, then to punish him was
to wrong him ! "

^' But he was willing ; he consented."

^^ He yielded to injustice — but the injustice
was man's, not God's. If Justice
insisted on punishment, it would at least
insist on the guilty, not the innocent, being
punished ! it would revolt from the idea of
the innocent being punished for the guilty !
Mind, I say being punished , not suffering :
that is another thing altogether. It is an
eternal satisfaction to love to suffer for the
guilty, but not to justice that innocence
should be punished for the guilty. The
whole idea of such atonement is the merest

subterfuge, a figment of the paltry hnmau
intellect to reconcile difficulties of its own
invention. Once, when Blister had done
something wrong, my father said, * He must
be punished — except some one will be
punished for him ! ' I offered to take his
place, partly that it seemed expected of me,
partly that I was moved by vanity, and
partly that I foresaw what would follow."

'rand what did follow?" asked the
mother, to whom the least word out of the
past concerning her husband, was like news
from the world beyond. At the same time
it seemed almost an offence that one of
his sons should know anything about him
she did not know.

"He scarcely touched me, mother,"
answered Ian. '' The thing taught me
something very different from what he had
meant to teach by it. That he failed to
carry out his idea of justice helped me
afterwards to see that God could not have
done it either, for that it was not justice.
Some perception of this must have lain at

the root of the heresy that Jesus did not
suffer, but a cloud-phantom took his place
ou the cross. Wherever people speculate
instead of obeying, they fall into endless
error."

*' You graceless boy ! Do you dare to say
jour father speculated instead of obeying ? "
cried the mother, hot with indignation.

^^ No, mother. It was not my father who
invented that way of accounting for the
death of our Lord."

'^HebeHevedit!"

*she accepted it, saturated with the
tradition of the elders before he could think
for himself. He does not believe it now."

*^ But why then should Christ have
suffered?"

^' It is the one fact that explains to me
everything," said Ian. ^^ — But I am not
going to talk about it. So long as your
theory satisfies you, mother, why should I
show you mine ? When it no longer satisfies
you, when it troubles you as it has troubled
me, and as I pray God it may trouble yon,

when you feel it stand between you and the
best love you could give God, then I will
share my very soul with you — tell you
thoughts which seem to sublimate my very
being in adoration."

** I do not see what other meaning you
can put upon the statement that he was a
sacrifice for our sins."

^' Had we not sinned he would never
have died ; and he died to deliver us from
our sins. He against whom was the sin,
became the sacrifice for it ; the Father
suffered in the Son, for they are one. But
if I could see no other explanation than
yours, I would not, could not accept it — for
God's sake I would not."

^' How can you say you believe in Christ,
when you do not believe in the atonement
! "

^* It is not so, mother. I do not believe
what you mean by the atonement ; what
God means by it, I desire to accept. But
we are never told to believe in the atonement
; we are told to believe in Christ — ■

and, mother, in the name of the great
Father who hears me speak, I do believe in
him."

^' How can you, when you do not believe
what God says about him ? "

'^I do. God does not say those things
about him yoa think he says. They are
mere traditions, not the teaching of those
who understood him. But I might believe
all about him quite correctly, and yet not
believe in him."

^'What do you call believing in him,
then ? "

^' Obeying him, mother — to say it as
shortly as I can. I try to obey him in the
smallest things he says — only there are no
small things he says — and so does Blister.
I strive to be what he would have me, nor
do I hold anything else worth my care.
Let a man trust in his atonement to absolute
assurance, if he does not do the things
he tells him — the very things he said — he
does not believe in him. He may be a
good man, but he has not yet heard enough

and learned enough of the Father to be sent
to Jesus to learn more."

*^ Then 1 do not believe in him," said the
mother, with a strange, sad gentleness — for
his words awoke an old anxiety never quite
at rest.

Ian was silent. The darkness seemed to
deepen around them, and the silence grew
keen. The mother began to tremble.

'^ God hnows,'' said Ian at length, and
again the broken silence closed around them.

It was between God and his mother now !
Unwise counsellors will persuade the half
crazy doubter in his own faith, to believe
that he does believe ! — how much better to
convince him that his faith is a poor thing,
that he must rise and go and do the thing
that Jesus tells him, and so believe indeed !
When will men understand that it is
neither thought nor talk, neither sorrow for
sin nor love of holiness that is required of
them, but obedience ! To he and to oheij
are one.

A cold hand grasping her heart, the

mother rose, and went from the room. The
gulf seemed now at last utterly, hopelessly
impassable ! She had only feared it before ;
she knew it now ! She did not see that,
while she believed evil things of God, and
none the less that she called them good,
oneness was impossible between her and
any being in God's creation.

The poor mother thought herself brokenhearted,
and lay down too sick to know
that she was trembling from head to foot.
Such was the hold, such the authority of
traditional human dogma on her soul — a
soul that scorned the notion of priestly
interposition between God and his creature
that, instead of glorifying God that she
had given birth to such a man, she wept
bitterly because he was on the broad road
to eternal condemnation.

But as she lay, now weeping, now still
and cold with despair, she found that for
some time she had not been thinking. But
she had not been asleep ! Whence then was
this quiet that was upon her ? Something

had happened, though she knew of nothing!
There was in her as it were a moonlight of
peace !

'* Can it be God? " she said to herself.

No more than Ian could she tell whether
it was God or not ; but from that night she
had an idea in her soul by which to reach
after '^ the peace of God." She lifted up
her heart in such prayer as she had never
prayed before ; and slowly, imperceptibly
awoke in her the feeling that, if she was
not believing aright, God would not therefore
cast her off, but would help her to
believe as she ought to believe : was she
not willing ? Therewith she began to feel
as if the gulf betwixt her and Ian were not
so wide as she had supposed ; and that if
it were, she would yet hope in the Son of
Man. Doubtless he was in rebellion against
God, seeing he would question his ways,
and refuse to believe the word he had
spoken, but surely something might be done
for him ! The possibility had not yet
dawned upon her that there could be anything

in the New Testament but those
doctrines against which the best in him
revolted. She little suspected the glory of
sky and earth and sea eternal that would
one day burst upon her ! that she would
one day see God not only good but infinitely
good — infinitely better than she had dared
to think him, fearing to image him better
than he was ! Mortal, she dreaded being
more just than God, more pure than her
maker !

*^I will go away tomorrow!" said Ian
to himself. ^' I am only a pain to her.
She will come to see things better without
me ! I cannot hive in her sight any longer
now ! I will go, and come again'*

His heart broke forth in prayer.

O God, let my mother see that thou art
indeed true-hearted ; that thou dost not
give us life by parings and subterfuges, but
abundantly ; that thou dost not make menin
order to assert thy dominion over them,
but that they may partake of thy life.
God, have pity when I cannot understand,

and teach me as thou wouldst the little one
whom, if thou wert an earthly father
amongst us as thy son was an earthly son,
thou wouldst carry about in thy arms.
When pride rises in me, and I feel as if
I ought to be free and walk without thy
hand ; when it looks as if a man should
be great in himself, nor need help from
God ; then think thou of me, and I shall
know that I cannot live or think without
the self willing life ; that thou art because
thou art, I am because thou art ; that I
am deeper in thee than my life, thou more
to my being than that being to itself. Was
not that Satan's temptation. Father ? Did
he not take self for the root of self in him,
when God only is the root of all self ? And
he has not repented yet ! Is it his thought
coming up in me, flung from the hollow
darkness of his soul into mine ? Thou
knowest, when it comes I am wretched.
I love it not. I would have thee lord and
love over all. But I cannot understand :
how comes it to look sometimes as if independence

must be the greater ? A lie cannot
be greater than the truth ! I do not
understand, but thou dost. I cannot see
my foundations; I cannot dig up the roots
of my being : that would be to understand
creation ! Will the Adversary ever come to
see that thou only art grand and beautiful ?
How came he to think to be greater by
setting up for himself? How was it that
it looked so to him ? How is it that, not
being true, it should ever look so ? There
must be an independence that thou lowest,
of which this temptation is the shadow !
That must be how Satan fell ! — for the sake
of not being a slave ! — that he might bea
free being ! Ah, Lord, I see how it all
comes ! It is because we are not near
enough to thee to partake of thy liberty
that we want a liberty of our own different
from thine ! We do not see that we are
one with thee, that thy glory is our glory,
that we can have none but in thee ! that
we are of thy family, thy home, thy heart,
and what is great for thee is great for us !

that man's meanness is to want to be
great out of his Father ! Without thy
eternity in us we are so small that we think
ourselves great, and are thus miserably
abject and contemptible. Thou only art
true ! thou only art noble ! thou wanted
no glory for selfishness ! thou doest, thou
art, what thou requires of thy children !
I know it, for I see it in Jesus, who casts
the contempt of obedience upon the baseness
of pride, who cares only for thee and
for us, never thinking of himself save asa
gift to give us ! lovely, perfect Christ !
with my very life I worship thee! Oh,
pray, Christ ! make me and my brother
strong to be the very thing thou wouldst
have us, as thy brothers, the children of
thy Father. Thou art our perfect brother
perfect in love, in courage, in tenderness !
Amen, Lord ! Good-night ! I am thine."

He was silent for a few moments, then
resumed :

*^ Lord, thou knowest whither my thoughts
turn the moment I cease praying to thee.

I dared not think of her, but that I know
thee. But for thee, my heart would be as
water within me ! Oh, take care of her,
come near to her ! Thou didst send her
where she could not learn fast — but she did
learn. And now, God, I do not know where
she is ! Thou only of all in this world
knowest, for to thee she lives though gone
from my sight and knowledge — in the dark
to me. Pray, Father, let her know that
thou art near her, and that I love her.
Thou hast made me love her by taking her
from me : thou wilt give her to me again !
In this hope I will live all my days, until
thou takes me also ; for to hope mightily is
to believe well in thee. I will hope in thee
infinitely. Amen, Father ! "

Chapter XVI.

THE CLAN Christmas.

By slow degrees, with infinite subdivisions
and apparent reversals of change, the
autumn had passed into winter indeed.
Cloud above, mire below, mist and rain all
between, made up many days ; only, like
the dreariest life, they were broken through
and parted, lest they should seem the
universe itself, by such heavenly manifestations,
such gleams and glimpses of better,
as come into all Ives, all winters, all evil
weathers. What is loosed on earth is loosed
first in heaven : we have often shared of
heaven, when we thought it but a softening
of earth's hardness. Every relief is a promise,
a pledge as well as a passing meal.
The frost at length had brought with it

brightness and persuasion and rousing. In
the fields it was swelling and breaking the
clods ; and for the heart of man, it did
something to break up that clod too. A
sense of friendly pleasure filled all the
human creatures. The children ran about
like wild things ; the air seemed to intoxicate
them. The mother went out
walking with the girls, and they talked of
their father and Christian and Mr. Ser-combe,
who were all coming together. For
some time they saw nothing of their next
neighbours.

They had made some attempts at acquaintance
with the people of the glen, but
unhappily were nowise courteous enough for
their ideas of good breeding, and offended
both their pride and their sense of propriety.
The manners and address of these northern
peasants were blameless — nearly perfect
indeed, like those of the Irish, and in their
own houses beyond criticism ; those of the
ladies conventional where not rudely condescending.
If Mistress Conal was an

exception to the rest of the clan, even she
would be more civil to a stranger than to
her chief whom she loved — until the stranger
gave her offence. And if then she passed
to imprecation, she would not curse like an
ordinary woman, but like a poetess, gaining
rather than losing dignity. She would rise
to the evil occasion, no hag, but a largely-offended
sibyl, whom nothing thereafter
should ever appease. To forgive was a
virtue unknown to Mistress Conal. Its
more than ordinary difficulty in forgiving
is indeed a special fault of the Celtic character.
This must not however be confounded
with a desire for revenge. The
latter is by no means a specially Celtic
characteristic. Resentment and vengeance
are far from inseparable. The heart that
surpasses in courtesy, except indeed that
courtesy be rooted in love divine, must,
when treated with discourtesy, experience
the worse revulsion, feel the bitterer indignation.
But many a Celt would forgive,
and forgive thoroughly and heartily, with

VOL. I. T

his enemy in his power, who, so long as he
remained beyond his reach, could not even
imagine circumstances in which they might
be reconciled. To a Celt the summit of
wrong is a slight, but apology is correspondingly
potent with him. Mistress
Conal, however, had not the excuse of a
specially courteous nature.

Christina and Mercy, calling upon her
one morning, were not ungraciously received,
but had the misfortune to remark,
trusting to her supposed ignorance of
English, upon the dirtiness of her floor,
they themselves having imported not a
little of the moisture that had turned its
surface into a muddy paste. She said
nothing, but, to the general grudge she bore
the possessors of property once belonging to
her clan, she now added a personal one ; the
offence lay cherished and smouldering. Had
the chief offended her, she would have found
a score of ways to prove to herself that he
meant nothing ; but she desired no mitigation
of the trespass of strangers.

The people at the New House did not
get on very well with any of the clan. In
the first place, they were regarded not
merely as interlopers, but almost as thieves
of the property — though in truth it had
passed to them through other hands. In
the second place, a rumour had got about
that they did not behave with sufficient
respect to the chief's family, in the point
of whose honour the clan was the more
exacting because of their common poverty.
Hence the inhabitants of the glen, though
they were of course polite, showed but
little friendliness.

But the main obstacle to their reception
was in themselves : the human was not
much developed in them ; they understood
nothing of their own beings ; they had
never had any difficulty with themselves : —
how could they understand others, especially
in circumstances and with histories
so different from their own ! They had nota
notion how poor people feel, still less poor
people poorer than before — or how they

regard the rich who have what they have
lost. They did not understand any human
leeHng — not even the silliness they called
love — a godless, mindless affair, fit only for
the doll-histories invented by children : they
had a feeling, or a feeling had them, till
another feeling came and took its place.
When a feeling was there, they felt as if it
would never go ; when it was gone, they
felt as if it had never been ; when it
returned, they felt as if it had never gone.
They seldom came so near anything as to
think about it, never put a question to
themselves as to how a thing affected them,
or concerning the phenomena of its passage
through their consciousness ! There is a
child-eternity of soul that needs to ask
nothing, because it understands everything:
the ways of the spirit are open to it ; but
where a soul does not understand, and has
to learn, how is it to do so without
thinking ? They knew nothing of labour,
nothing of danger, nothing of hunger,
nothing of cold, nothing of sickness, nothing

of loneliness. The realities of life, in their
lowest forms as in their highest, were far
from them. If they had nearly gone
through life instead of having but entered
upon it, they would have had some ground
for thinking themselves unfairly dealt with;
for to be made, and then left to be worthless,
unfit even for damnation, might be
suspected for hard lines ; but there is One
who takes a perfect interest in his lowliest
creature, and will not so spare it. They
were girls notwithstanding who could make
themselves agreeable, and passed for clever
Christina because she could give a sharp
answer, and sing a diningroom-song,
Mercy because as yet she mostly held her
tongue. That there was at the same time
in each of them the possibility of being
developed into something of inestimable
value, is merely to say that they were
human.

The days passed, and Christmas drew
near. The gentlemen arrived. There was
family delight and a bustling reception. It

is amazing — it shows indeed how deep and
divine, how much beyond the individual self
are the family affections — that such gladness
breaks forth in the meeting of persons who,
within an hour or so of the joyous welcome,
self getting the better of the divine, will
begin to feel bored, and will each lay the
blame of the disappointment on the other.

Coats were pulled off; mufflers were
unwound ; pretty hands were helping ;
strong hands were lifting and carrying ;
every room was bright with a great fire ;
tea was refused, and dinner welcomed.
After dinner came the unpacking of great
boxes ; and in the midst of the resultant
pleasure, the proposal came to be made —
none but Christina knew how — that the
inhabitants of the cottage should be invited
to dinner on Christmas eve. It was carried
at once, and the next afternoon a formal
invitation was sent.

At the cottage it caused conference, no
discussion. The lady of the New House
had not called with her girls, it was true ;

but then neither had the lady of the castle
for that was the townspeople's name for
the whole ridge on which the cottage stood
called on the new-comers ! If there was
offence, it was mutual ! The unceremonious
invitation night indicate that it was not
thought necessary to treat them as persons
who knew the ways of society ; on the other
hand, if it meant that they were ready to
throw aside formalities and behave heartily,
it would be wrong not to meet them halfway
! They resolved therefore to make a
counter-proposal ; and if the invitation
came of neighbourliness, and not of
imagined patronage, they would certainly
meet it in a friendly spirit 1 Answer was
returned, sealed with no mere crest but
with a coat of arms, to the effect that it
had been the custom since time forgotten
for the chief to welcome his people and
friends without distinction on Christmas-eve,
and the custom could not be broken ;
but if the ladies and gentlemen of the New
House would favour them with their company

on the occasion, to dine and dance,
the chief and his family would gratefully
accept any later offer of hospitality Mr. and
Mrs. Peregrine Palmer might do them the
honour to send.

This reply gave occasion to a good deal
of talk at the New House, not entirely of a
sort which the friends of the chief would
have enjoyed hearing. Frequent were the
bursts of laughter from the men at the
assumption of the title of chief hy a man
with no more land than he could just
manage to live upon. The village they
said, and said truly, in which the greater
number of his people Heed, was not his at
all — not a foot of the ground on which it
stood, not a stone or sod of which it was
built — but belonged to a certain Canadian,
who was about to turn all his territory
around and adjacent into a deer forest !
They could not see that, if there had ever
been anything genuine in the patriarchal
relation, the mere loss of the clan-property
could no more cause the chieftainship to

cease, than could the loss of the silver-hilted
Andrew Ferrara, handed dov»^n from father
to son for so many generations.

There are dull people, and just as many
clever people, who look upon customs of
society as on laws of nature, and judge
the worth of others hy their knowledge
or ignorance of the same. So doing they
disable themselves from understanding the
essential, which is, like love, the fulfilling
of the law. A certain Englishman gave
great offence in an Arab tent by striding
across the food placed for the company
on the ground : would any Celt, Irish or
Welsh, have been guilty of such a blunder ?
But there was not any overt offence on
the present occasion. They called it indeed
a cool proposal that they should put
off their Christmas party for that of a
ploughman in shabby kilt and hob-nailed
shoes ; , but on their amused indignation
supervened the thought that they were ina
wild part of the country, where it would
be absurd to expect the savoir vivre of

the south, and it would be amusing to seethe
customs of the land. By suggestion
and seeming response, the clever Christina,
unsuspected even of Mercy, was the motive
power to bring about the acceptance of the
chief's invitation.

A friendly answer was returned : they
would not go to dinner, they said, as it
was their custom also to dine at home on
Christmas-eve ; but they would dine early,
and spend the evening with them.

To the laird the presence of the lowland
girls promised a great addition to the
merry-making. During the last thirty years,
all the gentlemen farmers of the clan, and
most of the humbler tacksmen as well, had
vanished, and there was a wide intellectual
space between all those left and the family
of the chief. Often when Ian was away,
would Blister, notwithstanding his love to
his people and their entire response, have
felt lonely but for labour.

There being in the cottage no room
equal to the reception of a large company,

and the laird receiving all the members of
the clan — "poor," I was going to say,
and rich," but there were no rich — as
well as any neighbour or traveller who
chose to appear, the father of the present
chief had had good regard to the necessities
of entertainment in the construction of a
new barn : companionship, large feasting,
and dancing, had been even more considered
than the storing and threshing of
his corn.

There are in these days many who will
mock ; but for my part I am proud of a
race whose social relations are the last
upon which they will retrench, whose latest
yielded pleasure is their hospitality. It is
a common feeling that only the well-to-do
have a right to be hospitable : the ideal
Power of hospitality is almost unknown to
the rich ; it can hardly be grown save in
the gardens of the poor ; it is one of their
beatitudes.

Means in Glenruadh had been shrinking
for many years, but the heart of the chief

never shrank. His dwelling dwindled from
a castle to a house, from a house to a
cottage ; but the hospitality did not
dwindle. As the money vanished, the
show diminished ; the place of entertainment
from a hall became a kitchen, from
a kitchen changed to a barn ; but the heart
of the chief was the same ; the entertainment
was but little altered, the hospitality
not in the least. When things grow hard,
the first saving is generally off others ; the
Macruadh's was off himself. The land
was not his, save as steward of the grace
of God ! Let it not be supposed he ran in
debt : with his mother at the head, or
rather the heart of affairs, that could not be.
She was not one to regard as hospitality
a readiness to share what you have not !

Little did good Doctor Johnson suspect
the shifts to which some of the highland
families he visited were driven — not to
feed, but to house him : and housing incertain
conditions of society is the large
half of hospitality. Where he did not find

his quarters comfortable, he did not know
what crowding had to be devised, what inconveniences
endured by the family, that
he might have what ease and freedom were
possible. Be it in stone hall or thatched
cottage, the chief must entertain the
stranger as well as befriend his own ! This
was the fulfilling of his office — none the
less that it had descended upon him in evil
times. That seldom if ever had a chief
been Christian enough or strong enough
to fill to the full the relation of father of
his people, was nothing against the ideal
fact in the existent relation ; it was rather
for it : now that the chieftainship had
come to a man with a large notion of what
it required of him, he was the more, not the
less ready to aim at the mark of the idea ;
he was not the more easily to be turned
aside from a true attempt to live up to his
calling, that many had yielded and were
swept along bound slaves in the triumph of
Mammon ! He looked on his calling as
entirely enough to fill full the life that

would fulfil the calling. It was ambition
enough for him to be the head of his family,
with the highest of earthly relations to
realize toward its members. As to the
vulgar notion of a man's obligation to himself,
he had learned to despise it.

^' Rubbish ! " Ian would say. ^'I owe
my self nothing. What has my self ever
done for me, but lead me wrong ? What
but it has come between me and my duty — •
between me and my very Father in heaven
between me and my fellow man ! The
fools of greed would persuade that a man
has no right to waste himself in the low
content of making and sharing a humble
living ; he ought to make money ! make a
figure in the world, forsooth ! be somebody
! ^ Dwell among the people ! ' such
would say : ^ Bah ! Let them look after
themselves ! If they cannot pay their
rents, others will ; what is it to you if the
rents are paid? Send them about their
business ; turn the land into a deer-forest
or a sheep-farm, and clear them out !

They have no rights ! A man is bound to
the children of his body begotten ; the
people are nothing to him ! A man is not
his brother's keeper— except when he has
got him in prison ! ' And so on, in the
name of the great devil ! "

Whether there was enough in Blister to
have met and overcome the spirit of the
world, had he been brought up at Oxford or
Cambridge, I have not to determine ; there
was that in him at least which would have
come to repent bitterly had he yielded ; but
brought up as he was, he was not only able
to entertain the exalted idea presented to
him, but to receive and make it his. With
joy he recognized the higher dignity of the
shepherd of a few poor, lean, wool-torn
human sheep, than of the man who stands
for himself, however " spacious in the possession
of dirt." He who holds dead land
a possession, and living souls none of his,
needs wake no curse, for he is in the very
pit of creation, a live outrage on the human
family.

If Blister Macruadh was not in the
highest grade of Christianity, he was on
his way thither, for he was doing the work
that was given him to do, which is the first
condition of all advancement. He had
much to learn yet, but he was one who,
from every point his feet touched, was on
the start to go further.

The day of the holy eve rose clear and
bright. Snow was on the hills, and frost in
the valley. There had been a time when
at this season great games were played between
neighbour districts or clans, but
here there were no games now, because
there were so few men ; the more active
part fell to the women. Mistress Macruadh
was busy all day with her helpers, preparing
a dinner of mutton, and beef, and fowls,
and red-deer ham ; and the men soon gave
the barn something of the aspect of the old
patriarchal hall for which it was no very
poor substitute. A long table, covered with
the finest linen, was laid for all comers ;
and when the guests took their places, they

needed no arranging ; all knew their standing,
and seated themselves according to
knowledge. Two or three small farmers
took modestly the upper places once occupied
by immediate relatives of the chief, for
of the old gentry of the clan there were
none. But all were happy, for their chief
was with them still. Their reverence was
none the less that they were at home with
him. They knew his worth, and the
roughest among them would mind what
the Macruadh saide They knew that he
feared nothing ; that he was strong as the
red stag after which the clan was named ;
that, with genuine respect for every man,
he would at the least insolence knock the
fellow down ; that he was the best shot,
the best sailor, the best ploughman in the
clan : I would have said the best swordsman,
but that, except Ian, there was not another
left to it.

Not many of them, however, understood
how much he believed that he had to give
an account of his people. He was far from
VOL. I. tr

considering such responsibility the clergyman's
only. Again and again had he expostulated
with some, to save them from
the slow gaping hell of drink, and in one
case, he had reason to hope, with success.

As they sat at dinner, it seemed to the
young fellow who, with his help, had so far
been victorious, that the chief scarcely took
his eyes off him. One might think there was
small danger where the hostess allowed
nothing beyond water and milk but small
ale ; the chief, however, was in dread lest
he should taste even that, and caught one
moment the longing look he threw at the jug
as it passed. He rose and went down the
table, speaking to this one and that, but
stopped behind the lad, and putting his arm
round his shoulders, whispered in his ear.
The youth looked up in his face with a
solemn smile : had not the chief embraced
him before them all ! He was only a
shepherd-lad, but his chief cared for him !

In the afternoon the extemporized tables
were cleared away, candles were fixed in

rough sconces along the walls, not without
precaution against fire, and the floor was
rubbed clean — for the barn was floored
throughout with pine, in parts polished
with use. The walls were already covered
with the plaids of the men and women,
each kept in place by a stone or two on the
top of the wall where the rafters rested.
In one end was a great heap of yellow oat-straw,
which, partly levelled, made a most
delightful divan. What with the straw,
the plaids, the dresses, the shining of silver
ornaments, and the flash of here and there
a cairngorm or an amethyst, there was nota
little colour in the barn. Some of the
guests were poorly but all were decently
attired, and the shabbiest behaved as ladies
and gentlemen.

The party from the New House walked
through the still, star-watched air, with
the motionless mountains looking down on
them, and a silence around, which they
never suspected as a presence. The little
girls were of the company, and there was

much merriment. Foolish compliments
were not wanting, offered chiefly on the
part of Mr. Sercomhe, and accepted on that
of Christina. The ladies, under their furs
and hoods, were in their best, with all the
jewels they could wear at once, for they
had heard that highlanders have a passion
for colour, and that poor people are always
best pleased when you go to them in your
finery. The souls of these Savannahs
were full of things. They made a fine show
as they emerged from the darkness of their
wraps into the light of the numerous
candles ; nor did the approach of the
widowed chieftains to receive them, on
the arm of Blister, with Ian on her other
side, fail in dignity. The mother was
dressed in a rich, matronly black silk ; the
chief was in the full dress of his clan —
the old-fashioned coat of the French court,
with its silver buttons and ruffles of fine
lace, the kilt of Macruadh tartan in which
red predominated, the silver-mounted sporan
of the skin and adorned with the head

of an otter caught with the bare hands of
one of his people, and a silver-mounted dirk
of length unusual, famed for the beauty of
both hilt and blade ; Ian was similarly
though less shOwily clad. When she saw
the stately dame advancing between her
sons, one at least of her visitors felt a doubt
whether their condescension would be fully
appreciated.

As soon as their reception was over, the
piper — to the discomfort of Mr. Sercombe's
English ears — began his invitation to the
dance, and in a few moments the floor
was in a tumult of reels. The girls, unacquainted
with their own country's dances,
preferred looking on, and after watching
reel and strathspey for some time, altogether
declined attempting either. But by
and by it was the turn of the townspeople to
look on while the lady of the house and her
sons danced a quadrille or two with their
visitors ; after which the chief and his
brother pairing with the two elder girls, the
ladies were astonished to find them the best

they had ever waltzed with, although they
did not dance quite in the London wa3\
han's dancing, Christina said, was French ;
Mercy said all she knew was that the chief
took the work and left her only the motion :
she felt as in a dream of flying. Before the
evening was over, the young men had sofar
gained on Christina that Mr. Sercombe
looked a little commonplace.

Chapter Xiii.

BETWEEN DANCING AND SUPPER.

The dancing began about six o'clock, and
at ten it was time for supper. It was ready
but there was no room for it except the
barn ; the dancing therefore had to cease
for a while, that the table might again be
covered. The ladies put on their furs and
furry boots and gloves, and went out into
the night with the rest.

The laird and Christina started together,
but, far from keeping at her side, Blister
went and came, now talking to this couple,
now to that, and adding to the general
pleasure with every word he spoke. Ian
and Mercy walked together, and as often
as the chief left her side, Christina joined
them. Mrs. Palmer stayed with their

hostess ; her husband took the younger
children by the hand; Mr. Sercombe and
Christian sauntered along in the company,
talking now to one, now to another of the
village girls.

All through the evening Christina and
Mercy noted how instantly the word of the
chief was followed in the smallest matter,
and the fact made its impression on them ;
for undeveloped natures in the presence of
a force, revere it as spoiler — understanding
by poiver, not the strength to create, to
harmonize, to redeem, to discover the true,
to suffer with patience ; but the faculty of
having things one's own vulgar, self-adoring
way.

Ian had not proposed to Mercy that they
should walk together ; but when the issuing
crowd had broken into twos and threes,
they found themselves side by side. The
company took its way along the ridge, and
the road eastward. The night was clear,
and like a great sapphire frosted with
topazes — reminding Ian that, solid as is

the world under our feet, it hangs in the
will of God. Mercy and he walked for sometime
in silence. It was a sudden change
from the low barn, the dull candles, and the
excitement of the dance, to the awful space,
the clear pure far-off lights, and the great
stillness. Both felt it, though differently.
There was in both of them the quest after
peace. It is not the banished demon only
that wanders seeking rest, but souls upon
souls, and in ever growing numbers. The
world and Hades swarm with them. They
long after a repose that is not mere cessation
of labour : there is a positive, an active
rest. Mercy was only beginning to seek it,
and that without knowing what it was she
needed. Ian sought it in silence with God ;
she in crepitant intercourse with her kind.
Naturally ready to fall into gloom, but
healthy enough to avoid it, she would rush
at anything to do — not to keep herself from
thinking, for she had hardly begun to think,
but to escape that heavy sense of nonexistence,
that weary and restless want

which is the only form life can take to
the yet unliving, those who have not yet
awakened and arisen from the dead. She
was a human chicken that had begun to
be aware of herself, but had not yet attacked
the shell that enclosed her : because it was
transparent, and she could see life about
her, she did not know that she was in a
shell, or that, if she did not put forth the
might of her own life, she was sealing herself
up, a life in death, in her antenatal
coffin. Many who think themselves free
have never yet even seen the shell that
imprisons them — know nothing of the
liberty wherewith the Lord of our life
would set them free. Men fight many a
phantom when they ought to be chipping
at their shells. ^' Thou art the dreamer ! "
they cry to him who would wake them.
'* See how diligent we are to get on in the
world ! We labour as if we should never
go out of it ! " What they call the world is
but their shell, which is all the time killing
the infant Christ that houses with them.

Ian looked up to the sky, and breathed a
deep breath. Mercy looked up in his face,
and saw his strangely beautiful smile.

"What are you thinking of. Captain
Macruadh ? " she said.

'' I was thinking," he answered, " that
perhaps up there " — he waved his arm wide
over his head — " might be something like
room ; but I doubt it, I doubt it ! "

Naturally, Mercy was puzzled. The
speech sounded quite mad, and yet he could
not be mad, he had danced so well ! She
took comfort that her father was close
behind.

"Did you never feel," he resumed, "as
if you could not anyhow get room enough ? "

"No," answered Mercy, "never."

Ian fell a thinking how to wake in her a
feeling of what he meant. He had perceived
that one of the first elements inhuman
education is the sense of space — of
which sense, probably, the star-dwelt heaven
is the first awakener. He believed that
without the heavens wee could not have

learned the largeness in things below them,
could not, for instance, have felt the
mystery of the high ascending gothic roof —
for without the greater we cannot interpret
the less ; and he thought that to have the
sense of largeness developed might be
to come a little nearer to the truth of
things, to the recognition of spiritual relations.


^^ Did you ever see anything very big ? "
he asked.

'^ I suppose London is as big as most
things ! " she answered, after a moment.
^^ Did you ever see London ? " he asked.
We generally live there half the year."
*' Pardon me; I did not ask if you had
ever been to London," said Ian; "I asked
if you had ever seen London."

^' I know the west end pretty well."
'' Did it ever strike you as very large ? "
Perhaps not ; but the west end is only
a part of London."

Did you ever see London from the top
of St. Paul's?"

Did you ever see it from the top of
Hampstead heath ? "

I have been there several times, but
I don't remember seeing London from it.
We don't go to London for the sights."

^' Then you have not seen London ! "

Mercy was annoyed. Ian did not notice
that she was, else perhaps he would not
have gone on — which would have been a
pity, for a little annoyance would do her
no harm. At the same time the mood was
not favourable to receiving any impression
from the region of the things that are not
seen. A pause followed.

^^It is so delightful," said Ian at length,
'' to come out of the motion and the heat
and the narrowness into the still, cold
greatness ! "

You seemed to be enjoying yourself
pretty well notwithstanding, Captain
Macruadh ! "

'' What made you think so ? " he asked,
turning to her with a smile.

^' You were so merry — not with me — you
think me only a stupid lowland girl ; but
the other young persons you danced with,
laughed very much at things you said to
them."

*' You are right ; I did enjoy myself. As
often as one comes near a simple human
heart, one's own heart finds a little room."

Ere she knew, Mercy had said —

x\nd you didn't find any room with me ? "

With the sound of her words her face
grew hot, as with a furnace-blast, even in
the frosty night-air. She would have
covered what she had said, but only stammered.
Ian turned, and looking at her,
said with a gentle gravity —

*' You must not be offended with me ! I
must answer you truly. — You do not give
me room : have you not just told me you
never longed for any yourself? "

^' One ought to be independent ! " said
Mercy, a little nettled.

'rare you sure of that? What is called
independence may really be want of sympathy.

That would indicate a kind of
loneliness anything but good."

I wish you would find a less disagreeable
companion then ! — one that would at least
be as good as nobody ! I am sorry I don't
know how to give you room. I would if I
could. Tell me how."

Again Ian turned to her : was it possible
there were tears in her voice ? But her
black eyes were flashing in the starlight !

'^ Did you ever read Zanoni ? " he asked.

^^ I never heard of it. What is it ? "

^' A romance of Buller's."

My father won't let us read anything
of Buller's. Does he write very wicked
books?"

'^ The one I speak of," said Ian, '^ is not
wicked, though it is full of rubbish, and its
religion is very false."

Whether Mercy meant to take her revenge
on him with consciously bad logic,
I am in doubt.

'* Captain Macruadh ! you astonish me !
A Scotchman speak so of religion I "

''I spoke of the religion in that book.
I said it was false — which is the same assaying
it was not religion."

*' Then religion is not all true ! "

sall true religion is true," said Ian,
inclined to laugh like one that thought to
catch an angel, and had clutched a bat !
'' I was going on to say that, though the
religion and philosophy of the book were rubbish,
the story was fundamentally a grand
conception. It puzzles me to think how a
man could start with such an idea, and work
it out so well, and yet be so lacking both
in insight and logic. It is wonderful how
much of one portion of our nature may be
developed along with so little of another ! "

'' What is the story about ? " asked Mercy.

"What I may cal the canvas of it,
speaking as if it were a picture, is the idea
that the whole of space is full of life ; that,
as the smallest drop of water is crowded
with monsters of hideous forms and dispositions,
so is what we call space full of
living creatures, — "

** How horrible !''

*' — not all monsters, however. There
are among them creatures not altogether
differing from us, but differing much from
each other, — "

'* As much as you and I ? "

^* — some of them lovely and friendly,
others frightful in their beauty and malignity
- "

** What nonsense ! "

'« Why do you call it nonsense ? "

^^ How could anything beautiful be frightful?"


^* I ought not to have said beautiful.
But the frightfully face I ever saw ought
to have been the finest. When the lady
that owned it spoke to me, I shivered."

^' But anyhow the whole thing is nonsense
! "

^^ How is it nonsense ? "

'• Because there are no such creatures."

** How do you know that ? Another may
have seen them though you and I never
did!"

YOL. I. X

*' You are making game of me ! You
think to make me believe anything you
choose ! "

^* Will you tell me something you do
believe''

^^ That you may prove immediately that
I do not believe it ! " she retorted, with
more insight than he had expected. '' — You
are not very entertaining ! "

^' Would you like me to tell yoa a story
then ? "

'' Will it be nonsense ? "

'^No."

^' I should like a little nonsense."

^'You are an angel of goodness, and as
wise as you are lovely ! " said Ian.

She turned upon him, and opened wide
at him her great black eyes, in which were
mingled defiance and question.

^' Your reasoning is worthy of your intellect.
When you dance," he went on, looking
very solemn, 'your foot would not
bend the neck of a daisy asleep in its rosy
crown. The west wind of May haunts you

with its twilight-odours ; and when you
waltz, so have I seen the waterspout gyrate
on the blue floor of the Mediterranean.
Your voice is as the harp of Selma ; and
when sou look out of your welkin eyes —
no ! there I am wrong ! Allow me ! — ah, I
thought so! — dark as Erebus! — But what! "

For Mercy, perceiving at last that he was
treating her like the silliest of small girls,
lost her patience, and burst into tears.

'^ You are dreadfully rude ! " she sobbed.

Ian was vexed with himself.

'* You asked me to talk nonsense to you,
Miss Mercy ! I attempted to obey you,
and have done it stupidly. But at least it
was absolute nonsense ! Shall I make up
for it by telling you a pretty story ? "

^^ Anything to put away that ! " answered
Mercy, trying to smile.

He began at once, and told her a wonderful
tale — told first after this fashion by Eob
of the Angels, at a winter-night gathering
of the women, as they carded and spun
their wool, and reeled their yarn together.

It was one well-known in the country, but
Eob had filled it after his fancy with imaginative
turns and spiritual hints, appreciable
by the tall child of seventeen walking
by han's side. There was not among the
maidens of the poor village one who would
not have understood it better than she. It
took her fancy notwithstanding, partly,
perhaps, from its unlikeness to any story
she had ever heard before. Her childhood
had been starved on the husks of new fairy-tales,
all invention and no imagination,
than which more nourishing food was
never offered to God's children.

The story Ian told her under that skyful
of stars, was as Eob of the Angels had
dressed it for the clan matrons and maidens,
only altered a very little for the ears of the
lowland girl. / ^

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND Eccles.

£^^

^#^

^ ^

.-^ .

^^.•.'

^*->eX

f^^y'/

^^^^- ^^ k

^l

1^:^:

•i^" ':^^

\:?^^

i^i^

'\. ^1

f^^^^-

University Of Illinois-URBANA

Lei* :<

■R

0112 049759092

^^-^'f^

#

-^^

^^m^/}

"^

^

1^ >^

»J\>- Vf^lVJV"

J \ •><N

gfc-^^^

^ii7j

^4

^^

VM:I/M

^;r-

^^

OF THE.
U N Veracity
or ILLINOIS

82.3
Law

.%:^-.

'^\A

/^^

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
ore reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

FEB 18 1276 JUL I9 J<j93

FEB 15



MAY 1

JAN 1 ^ 199:

V I 3

IS 79.

JU130^«3

OCT 1 9
MAY 2^




-M



UvJL



"^^

>^.^
?'/^.'^

Lii — O-1096

Crown Svo, cloth, with Frontispieces, price 6s. each.

Donald GRANT. Second Edition.

CASTLE WARLOCK. Second Edition.

MALCOLM. Seventh Edition.

THE MARQUIS OF LOSSIE. Sixth Edition.

ST. GEORGE AND ST. MICHAEL. Fifth
Edition.

London: Began Paul, Trench & Co.

GEORGE MAC DONALD

AUTHOR OF "ROBERT Falconer," " Donald GRANT," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON

Keg AN PAUL, TRENCH & CO., 1, PATERNOSTER SQUARE



V, X

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

PAGE



















CHAPTER I.

THE Story TOLD BY IAN.

*' There was once a woman whose husband
was well to do, but he died and left her, and
then she sank into poverty. She did her
best ; but she had a large family, and work
was hard to find, and hard to do when it
was found, and hardly paid when it was
done. Only hearts of grace can understand
the struggles of the poor — with everything
but God against them ! But she trusted
in God, and said whatever he pleased must
be right, whether he sent it with his own
hand or not.

VOL. II. B

'' Now, whether it was that she could not

find them enough to eat, or that she could

not keep them warm enough, I do not

know ; I do not think it was that they had

not gladness enough, which is as necessary

for young things as food and air and sun,

for it is wonderful on how little a child can

be happy ; but whatever was the cause, they

began to die. One after the other sickened

and lay down, and did not rise again ; and

for a time her life was just a waiting upon

death. She would have wanted to die

herself, but that there was always another

to die first ; she had to see them all safe

home before she dared wish to go herself.

But at length the last of them was gone,

and then when she had no more to provide

for, the heart of work went out of her :

where was the good of working for herself !

there was no interest in it ! But she knew

it was the will of God she should work and

eat until he chose to take her back to

himself; so she worked on for her living

while she would much rather have worked

for her lying ; and comforted herself that
every day brought death a day nearer.
Then she fell ill herself, and could work no
more, and thought God was going to let her
die ; for, able to win her bread no longer,
surely she was free to lie down and wait for
death ! But just as she was going to her
bed for the last time, she bethought herself
that she was bound to give her neighbour
the chance of doing a good deed : and felt
that any creature dying at her door without
letting her know he was in want, would do
her a great wrong. She saw it was the will
of God that she should beg, so put on her
clothes again, and went out to beg. It was
sore work, and she said so to the priest.
But the priest told her she need not mind,
for oui' Lord himseK lived by the kindness
of the women who went about with him.
They knew he could not make a living for
his own body and a living for the souls of so
many as well, and the least they could do
was to keep him alive who was making them
alive. She said that was very true ; but he

was all the time doing everything for everybody,
and she was doing nothing for anybody.
The priest was a wise man, and did
not tell her how she had, since ever he knew
her, been doing the work of God in his
heart, helping him to believe and trust in
God ; so that in fact, when he was preaching,
she was preaching. He did not tell
her that, I say, for he was jealous over her
beauty, and would have Christ's beloved
sheep enter his holy kingdom with her wool
white, however torn it might be. So he
left her to think she was nobody at all ; and
told her that, whether she was worth keeping
alive or not, whether she was worth
begging for or not, whether it was a disgrace
or an honour to beg, all was one, for it was
the will of God that she should beg, and
there was no word more to be said, and no
thought more to be thought about it. To
this she heartily agreed, and did beg —
enough to keep her alive, and no more.

'' But at last she saw she must leave that
part of the country, and go back to the

place her husband took her from. For the
people about her were very poor, and she
thought it hard on them to have to help a
stranger like her ; also her own people would
want her to bury. For you must know that
in the clans, marriage was thought to be
dissolved by death, so far at least as the
body was concerned ; therefore the body of
a dead wife was generally carried back to
the burial place of her own people, thereto
be gathered to her fathers. So the
woman set out for her own country, begging
her way thither. Nor had she any difficulty,
for there were not a few poor people on her
way, and the poor are the readiest to help
the poor, also to know whether a person is
one that ought to be helped or not.

'^ One night she came to a farm house
where a rich miserly farmer dwelt. She
knew about him, and had not meant to stop
there, but she was weary, and the sun went
down as she reached his gate, and she felt
as if she could go no farther. So she went
up to the door and knocked, and asked if

she could have a night s lodging. The
woman who opened to her went and asked
the farmer. Now the old man did not like
hospitality, and in particular to such as
stood most in need of it ; he did not enjoy
throwing away money ! At the same time,
however, he was very fond of hearing all
the country rumours ; and he thought with
himself he would buy her news with a scrap
of what was going, and a shake-down at the
foot of the wall. So he told his servant to
bring her in,

^'He received her not unkindly, for he
wanted her to talk ; and he let her have a
share of the supper, such as it was. But
not until he had asked every question about
everybody he could think of, and drawn her
own history from her as well, would he
allow her to have the rest she so much
needed.

^^ Now it was a poor house, like most in
the country, and nearly without partitions
The old man had his warm box-bed, and
slept on feathers where no draught could

reach him, and the poor woman had her
bed of short rumpled straw on the earthen
floor at the foot of the wall in the coldest
corner. Yet the heart of the man had been
moved by her story, for, without dwelling
on her sufferings, she had been honest in
telling it. He had indeed, ere he went to
sleep, thanked God that he was so much
better off than she. For if he did not think
it the duty of the rich man to share with
his neighbours, he at least thought it his
duty to thank God for his being richer than
they.

'now it may well seem strange that such
a man should be privileged to see a vision ;
but we do read in the Bible of a prophet
who did not even know his duty to an ass,
so that the ass had to teach it him. And
the man alone saw the vision ; the woman
saw nothing of it. But she did not require
to see any vision, for she had truth in
the inward parts, which is better than all
visions. The vision was on this wise : — In
the middle of the night the man came wide

awake, and looking out of his bed, saw the
door open, and a light come in, burning
like a star, of a faint rosy colour, unlike
any light he had ever before seen. Another
and another came in, and more yet, until
he counted six of them. They moved near
the floor, but he could not see clearly what
sort of little creatures they were that were
carrying them. They went up to the
woman's bed, and walked slowly round it
in a hovering kind of a way, stopping, and
moving up and down, and going on again ;
and when they had done this three times,
they went slowly out of the door again,
stopping for a moment several times as
they went.

** He fell asleep, and waking not very early,
was surprised to see his guest still on her
hard couch — as quiet as any rich woman,
he said to himself, on her feather bed. He
woke her, told her he wondered she should
sleep so far into the morning, and narrated
the curious vision he had had. ' Does not
that explain to you,' she said, * how it is

that I have slept so long ? Those were my
dead children you saw come to me. They
died young, without any sin, and God lets
them come and comfort their poor sinful
mother. I often see them in my dreams.
If, when I am gone, you will look at my
bed, you will find every straw laid straight
and smooth. That is what they were doing
last night.' Then she gave him thanks for
good fare and good rest, and took her way
to her own, leaving the farmer better
pleased with himself than he had been fora
long time, partly because there had been
granted him a vision from heaven.

** At last the woman died, and was carried
by angels into Abraham's bosom. She was
now with her own people indeed, that is,
with God and all the good. The old farmer
did not know of her death till a long time
after ; but it was upon the night she died,
as near as he could then make out, that he
dreamed a wonderful dream. He never
told it to any but the priest from whom he
sought comfort when he lay dying; and

the priest did not tell it till after everybody
belonging to the old man was gone. This
was the dream : —

^' He was lying awake in his own bed, ashe
thought, in the dark night, when the
poor woman came in at the door, having
in her hand a wax candle, but not alight.
He said to her, ^ You extravagant woman !
where did you get that candle ? ' She
answered, * It was put into my hand when
I died, with the word that I was to wander
till I found a fire at which to light it.'
There ! ' said he, ^ there's the rested fire !
Blow and get a light, poor thing ! It shall
never be said I refused a body a light ! '
She went to the hearth, and began to blow
at the smouldering peat ; but, for all she
kept trying, she could not light her candle.
The old man thought it was because she
was dead, not because he was dead in sin,
and losing his patience, cried, ' You foolish
woman ! haven't you wit enough left to light
a candle? It's small wonder you came to
beggary ! ' Still she went on trying, but

the more she tried, the blacker grew the
peat she was blowing at. It would indeed
blaze up at her breath, but the moment she
brought the candle near it to catch the
flame, it grew black, and each time blacker
than before. ' Tut ! give me the candle,'
cried the farmer, springing out of bed ; 'I
will light it for you ! ' But as he stretched
out his hand to take it, the woman disappeared,
and he saw that the fire was dead
out. ' Here's a fine business ! ' he said.
^ How am I to get a light?' For he was
miles from the next house. And with that
he turned to go back to his bed. When he
came near it, he saw somebody lying in it.
What ! has the carline got into my very
bed ? ' he cried, and went to drive her out
of the bed and out of the house. But
when he came close, he saw it was himself
lying there, and knew that at least he was
out of the body, if not downright dead.
The next moment lie found himself on the
moor, following the woman, some distance
before him, with her unlighted candle still

in her hand. He walked as fast as he could
to get up with her, but could not ; he called
affcer her, but she did not seem to hear.

^^When first he set out, he knew every
step of the ground, but by and by he ceased
to know it. The moor stretched out endlessly,
and the woman walked on and on.
Without a thought of turning back, he
followed. At length he saw a gate, seemingly
in the side of a hill. The woman
knocked, and by the time it opened, he was
near enough to hear what passed. It was
a grave and stately, but very happy-looking
man that opened it, and he knew at once
it was St. Peter. When he saw the woman,
he stooped and kissed her. The same
moment a light shone from her, and the
old man thought her candle was lighted at
last ; but presently he saw it was her head
that gave out the shining. And he heard
her say, ^ I pray you, St. Peter, remember
the rich tenant of Balmacoy ; he gave me
shelter one whole night, and would have
let me light my candle but I could not.'

St. Peter answered, ' His fire was not fire
enough to light your candle, and the bed
he gave you was of short straw ! ' ' True,
St. Peter,' said the woman, ' but he gave
me some supper, and it is hard for a rich
man to be generous ! You may say the
supper was not very good, but at least it
was more than a cup of cold water ! ' ' Yes,
verily 1 ' answered the saint, ^ but he did not
give it you because you loved God, or because
you were in need of it, but because he wanted
to hear your news.' Then the woman was
sad, for she could not think of anything
more to say for the poor old rich man. And
St. Peter saw that she was sad, and said,
^ But if he die to-night, he shall have a
place inside the gate, because you pray for
him. He shall lie there ! ' And he pointed
to just such a bed of short crumpled straw
as she had lain upon in his house. But she
said, * St. Peter, you ought to be ashamed
of yourself ! Is that the kind of welcome
to give a poor new-dead man ? Where then
would he have lain if I had not prayed for

him ? ' * In the dog-kennel outside there,'
answered St. Peter. ^ Oh, then, please, let
me go back and warn him what comes of
loving money ! ' she pleaded. * That is not
necessary,' he replied ; * the man is hearing
every word you and I are this moment saying
to each other.' ^ I am so glad ! ' rejoined
the woman; 'it will make him repent.'
He will not be a straw the better for it ! '
answered the saint. ' He thinks now that
he will do differently, and perhaps when he
wakes will think so still ; but in a day or
two he will mock at it as a foolish dream.
To gather money will seem to him commonsense,
and to lay up treasure in heaven
nonsense. A bird in the hand will be to
him worth ten in the heavenly bush. And
the end will be that he will not get the
straw inside the gate, and there will be
many worse places than the dog-kennel too
good for him ! ' With that he woke.

'' ' What an odd dream ! ' he said to himself.
' I had better mind what I am
about ! ' So he was better that day, eating

and drinking more freely, and giving more
to his people. But the rest of the week he
was worse than ever, trying to save what
he had that day spent, and so he went on
growing worse. When he found himself
dying, the terror of his dream came upon
him, and he told all to the priest. But the
priest could not comfort him."

By the time the story was over, to which
Mercy had listened without a word, they
were alone in the great starry night, on the
side of a hill, with the snow high above
them, and the heavens above the snow,
and the stars above the heavens, and God
above and below everything. Only Ian
felt his presence. Mercy had not missed
him yet.

She did not see much in the tale : how
could she ? It was very odd, she thought,
but not very interesting. She had expected
a tale of clan-feud, or a love-story ! Yet
the seriousness of her companion in its
narration had made some impression upon
her.

^' They told me you were an officer," she
said, *^ bat I see you are a clergyman ! Do
you tell stories like that from the pulpit ? "

'^ I am a soldier," answered Ian, ^^ not a
clergyman. But I have heard my father
tell such a story from the pulpit."

Ian imagined himself foiled in his attempt
to interest the maiden. If he was, it would
not be surprising. He had not the least
desire to commend himself to the girl ; and
he would not talk rubbish even to a child.
There is sensible and senseless nonsense,
good absurdity and bad.

As Mercy recounted to her sister the
story Ian had told her, it certainly was silly
enough. She had retained but the withered
stalk and leaves ; the strange flower was
gone. Christina judged it hardly a story
for a gentleman to tell a lady.

They returned almost in silence to find
the table laid, a plentiful supper spread, and
the company seated. After supper came
singing of songs, saying of ballads, and
telling of tales. I know with what incredulity

many highlanders will read of a
merry-making in their own country at which
no horn went round, no punch-bowl was
filled and emptied without stint ! But the
clearer the brain, the better justice is done
to the more etherial wine of the soul. Of
several of the old songs Christina begged
the tunes, but was disappointed to find
that, as she could not take them down, so
the singers of them could not set them
down. In the tales she found no interest.
The hostess sang to her harp, and made to
revering listeners eloquent music, for her
high clear tones had not yet lost their
sweetness, and she had some art to come
in aid of her much feeling : loud murmurs
of delight, in the soft strange tongue of the
songs themselves, followed the profound
silence with which they were heard, but
Christina wondered what there was to
applaud. She could not herder sing without
accompaniment, and when she left, it
was with a regretful feeling that she had
not distinguished herself. Naturally, as

VOL. II. c

they went home, the guests from the New
House had much fun over the queer fashions
and poverty-stricken company, the harp and
the bagpipes, the horrible haggis, the wild
minor songs, and the unintelligible stories
and jokes ; but the ladies agreed that the
Macruadh was a splendid fellow.

CHAPTER II.

ROB OF THE ANGELS.

Among the peasantry assembled at the feast,
were two that had neither danced, nor
seated themselves at the long table where
all were welcome. Mercy wondered what
might be the reason of their separation.
Her first thought was that they must
be somehow, she could not well imagine
how, in lower position than any of the rest
had perhaps offended against the law,
perhaps been in prison, and so the rest
would not keep company with them ; or
perhaps they were beggars who did not
belong to the clan, and therefore, although
fed, were not allowed to eat with it ! But
she soon saw she must be wrong in each

conjecture ; for if there was any avoiding,
it was on the part of the two : every one, it
was clear, was almost on the alert to wait
upon them. They seemed indeed rather
persons of distinction than outcasts ; for it
was with something like homage, except
for a certain coaxing tone in the speech of
the ministrants, that they were attended.
They had to help themselves to nothing;
everything was carried to them. Now one,
now another, where all were guests and all
were servants, would rise from the table to
offer them something, or see what they
would choose or might be in want of, while
they partook with the same dignity and
self-restraint that was to be noted in all.

The elder was a man about five-and-fifty,
tall and lean, with a wiry frame, dark
grizzled hair, and a shaven face. His dress,
which was in the style of the country, was
very poor, but decent ; only his plaid was
large and thick, and bright compared with
the rest of his apparel : it was a present he
had had from his clan — some giving the

wool, and others the labour in carding,
dyeing, and weaving it. He carried himself
like a soldier — which he had never
been, though his father had. His eyes
were remarkably clear and keen, and the
way he used them could hardly fail to
attract attention. Every now and then
they would suddenly fix themselves with a
gaze of earnest inquiry, which would either
grow to perception, or presently melt away
and let his glance go gently roving, ready
to receive, but looking for nothing. His
face was very brown and healthy, with
marked and handsome features. Its expression
seemed at first a little severe, but
soon, to reading eyes, disclosed patience
and tenderness. At the same time there
was in it a something indescribably unlike
the other faces present — and indeed his
whole person and carriage were similarly
peculiar. Had Mercy, however, spent on
him a little more attention, the peculiarity
would have explained itself. She would
have seen that, although everybody spoke

to him, he never spoke in reply — only made
signs, sometimes with his lips, oftener with
hand or head : the man was deaf and dumb.
But such was the keenness of his observation
that he understood everything said
to him by one he knew, and much from
the lips of a stranger.

His companion was a youth whose age it
would have been difficult to guess. He
looked a lad, and was not far from thirty.
His clothing was much like his father's —
poor enough, yet with the air of being a
better suit than that worn every day. He
was very pale and curiously freckled, with
great gray eyes like his father's, which had
however an altogether different expression.
They looked dreamy, and seemed almost
careless of what passed before them, though
now and then a certain quick, sharp turn
of the head showed him not devoid of
attention.

The relation between the two was
strangely interesting. Day and night they
were inseparable. Because the father was

deaf, the son gave all his attention to the
sounds of the world ; his soul sat in his
ears, ever awake, ever listening ; while
such was his confidence in his father's
sight, that he scarcely troubled himself to
look where he set his feet. His expression
also was peculiar, partly from this cause,
mainly from a deeper. It was a far-away
look, which a common glance would have
taken to indicate that he was *not all
there." In a lowland parish he would have
been regarded as little better than a gifted
idiot ; in the mountains he was looked upon
as a seer, one in communion with higher
powers. Whether his people were of this
opinion from being all fools together, and
therefore unable to know a fool, or the lowland
authorities would have been right intaking
charge of him, let him who pleases
judge or misjudge for himself. What his
own thought of him came out in the name
they gave him : " Eob of the Angels," they
called him. He was nearly a foot shorter
than his father, and very thin. Some said

he looked always cold ; but I think that
came of the wonderful peace on his face,
like the quiet of a lake over which lies a
thin mist. Never was stronger or fuller
devotion manifested by son to father than
by Kob of the Angels to Hector of the
Stags. His filial love and faith were perfect.
While they were together, he was
in his own calm elysium ; when they were
apart, which was seldom for more than a
few minutes, his spirit seemed always
waiting. I believe his notions of God his
father, and Hector his father, were strangely
mingled — the more perhaps that the two
fathers were equally silent. It would have
been a valuable revelation to some theologians
to see in those two what love might
mean.

So gentle was Eob of the Angels, that all
the women, down to the youngest maid-child,
gave him a compassionate, motherlike
love. He had lost his mother when he
was an infant ; the father had brought him
up with his own hand, and from the moment

of his mother's departure had scarce let him
out of his sight ; but the whole woman-remnant
of the clan was as a mother to the
boy. And from the first they had so talked to
him of his mother, greatly no doubt through
the feeling that from his father he could
learn nothing of her, that now his mother
seemed to him everywhere : he could not
see God ; why should not his mother be
there though he could not see her ! No
wonder the man was peaceful !

Many would be inclined to call the two
but poachers and vagabonds — vagabonds
because they lived in houses not quite made
with hands, for they had several dwellings
that were mostly caves-which yet they
contrived to make warm and comfortable ;
and poachers because they lived by the
creatures which God scatters on his hills
for his humans. Let those who inherit or
purchase, avenge the breach of law ; but let
them not wonder when those who are disinherited
and sold, cry out against the
breach of higher law !

The land here had never, partly from
the troubles besetting its owners, but more
from their regard for the poor of the clan,
been with any care preserved ; little notice
was ever taken of what game was killed, or
who killed it. At the same time any wish
of the chief with regard to the deer, of
which Eob's father for one knew every
antlered head, was rigidly respected. As
to the parts which became the property of
others — the boundaries between were not
very definite, and sale could ill change
habits, especially where owners were but
beginning to bestir themselves about the
deer, or any of the wild animals called
game. Hector and Eob led their life with
untroubled conscience and easy mind.

In a world of the devil, where the justification
of existence lay in money on the
one side, and work for money on the other,
there could be no justification of the existence
of these men ; but this world does not
belong to the devil, though it may often
seem as if it did, and father and son lived

and enjoyed life, as in a manner so to a
degree unintelligible to him who, without
his money and its consolations, would know
himself in the hell he has not yet recognized.
Neither of them could read or
write ; neither of them had a penny laid
b}' for wet weather ; neither of them would
leave any memory beyond their generation ;
the will of neither would be laid up in
Doctors' Commons ; neither of the two
would leave on record a single fact concerning
one of the animals whose ways and
habits they knew better than any other
man in the highlands; that they were
nothing, and worth nothing to anybody —
even to themselves, would have been the
judgment of most strangers concerning
them ; but God knew what a life of unspeakable
pleasures it was that he had given
them — a life the change from which to the
life beyond, would scarce be distracting :
neither would find himself much out of
doors when he died. To Bob of the Angels
how could Abraham's bosom feel strange,

accustomed to lie night after night, star-melted
and soft-breathing, or snow-ghastly
and howling, with his head on the bxDSom
of Hector of the Stags — an Abraham who
could as ill do without his Isaac, as his
Isaac without him !

The father trusted his son's hearing as
implicitly as his own sight. When he saw
a certain look come on his face, he would
drop on the instant, and crouch as still as
if he had ears and knew what noise was,
watching Eob's face for news of some sound
wandering through the vast of the night.

It seemed at times, however, as if either
he was not quite deaf, or he had some gift
that went toward compensation. To all
motion about him he was sensitive as no
other man. I am afraid to say from how
far off the solid earth would convey to him
the vibration of a stag's footstep. Eob
sometimes thought his cheek must feel the
wind of a sound to which his ear was irresponsive.
Beyond a doubt he was occasionally
aware of the proximity of an animal,

and knew what animal it was, of which Eob
had no intimation. His being, corporeal
and spiritual, seemed, to the ceaseless
vibrations of the great globe, a very seismo-
graph. Often would he make his sign to
Eob to lay his ear on the ground and listen,
when no indication had reached the latter.
I suspect the exceptional development in
him of some sense rudimentary in us all.

He had the keenest eyes in Glenruadh,
and was a dead shot. Even the chief was
not his equal. Yet he never stalked a deer,
never killed anything, for mere sport. I am
not certain he never had, but for Eob of
the Angels, he had the deep-rooted feeling
of his chief in regard to the animals. What
they wanted for food, they would kill ; but
it was not much they needed, for seldom
can two men have lived on less, and they
had positively not a greed of any kind between
them. If their necessity was meal or
potatoes, they would carry grouse or hares
down the glen, or arrange with some
farmer's wife, perhaps Mrs. Macruadh herself,

for the haunches of a doe ; but they
never killed from pleasure in killing. Of
creatures destructive to game they killed
enough to do far more than make up for
all the game they took ; and for the skins
of ermine and stoat and fox and otter
they could always get money's worth ;
money itself they never sought or had. If
the little birds be regarded as earning
the fruit and seed they devour by the
grubs and slugs they destroy, then Hector
of the Stags and Kob of the Angels also
thoroughly earned their food.

When a trustworthy messenger was
wanted, and Bob was within reach, he was
sure to be employed. But not even then
were his father and he quite parted.
Hector would shoulder his gun, and follow
in the track of his fleet-footed son till he
met him returning.

For what was life to Hector but to be
with Kob ! Was his Mary's son to go
about the world unattended 1 He had a
yet stronger feeling than any of the clan

that his son was not of the common
race of mortals. To Hector also, after
their own fashion, would Eob of the
Angels tell the tales that suggested the
name his townspeople gave him — wonderful
tales of the high mountain-nights, the
actors in them for the most part angels.
Whether Eob believed he had intercourse
with such beings, heard them speak, and
saw them do the things he reported, I
cannot tell : it may be that, like any other
poet of good things, he but saw and believed
the things his tales meant, the things
with which he represented the angels as
dealing, and concerning which he told their
sayings. To the eyes of those who knew
him, Eob seemed just the sort of person
with whom the angels might be well
pleased to hold converse : was he not simplicity
itself, truth, generosity, helpfulness ?
Did he not, when a child, all but lose his
life in the rescue of an idiot from the
swollen burn ? Did he not, when a boy,
fight a great golden eagle on its nest,

thinking to deliver the lamb it had carried
away ? Knowing his father in want of a
new bonnet, did not Kob with his bare
hands seize an otter at the mouth of its
hole, and carry it home, laughing merrily
over the wounds it had given him ?

His voice had in it a strangely peculiar
tone, making it seem not of this world.
Especially after he had been talking for
some time, it would appear to come from
far away, not from the lips of the man
looking you in the face.

It was wonderful with what solemnity of
speech, and purity of form he would tell
his tales. So much in solitude with his
dumb father, his speech might well be unlike
the speech of other men ; but whence
the impression of cultivation it produced ?

When the Christmas party broke upmost
of the guests took the road toward
the village, the chief and his brother accompanying
them part of the way. Of
these were Kob and his father, walking
hand in hand. Hector looking straight

before him, Eob gazing up into the
heavens, as if holding counsel with the
stars.

"Are you seeing any angels, Embarked
a gentle girl of ten.

^' Well, and I'm not sure," answered Kob
of the Angels.

'^ Sure you can tell whether you see
anything ! ' '

*^ Oh, yes, I see ! but it is not easy to
tell what will be an angel and what will
not. There's so much all blue up there, it
might be full of angels and none of us see
one of them ! "

*^Do tell us what you see, Eob, dear
Eob," said the girl.

'' Well, and I will tell you. I think I
see many heads close together, talking."

*' And can you hear what they will be
saying ? "

"Some of it."

Tell me, do tell me — some — just a
little."

Well then, they are saying, one to the

VOL. n. D

other — not very plain, but I can hear — they
are saying, ' I wonder when people will be
good! It would be so easy, if only they
would mean it, and begin when they are
little ! ' That's what they are saying as
they look down on us walking along."

'* That will be good advice, Kob ! " said
one of the women.

'rand," he resumed, 'they are saying
now — at least that is what it sounds to me
' I wish women were as good as they
were when they were little girls ! ' "

"Now I know they are not saying
that ! " remarked the woman. " How
should the angels trouble themselves about
us ! Eob, dear, confess you are making it
up, because the child would be asking
you."

Eob made no answer, but some saw him
smile a curious smile. Eob would never
defend anything he had said, or dispute
anything another said. After a moment or
two, he spoke again.

Shall I be telling you what I heard

them saying to each other this last night
of all?" he asked.

"Yes, do, do!"

It was upon Dorrachheg ; and there
were two of them. They were sitting together
in the moon — in the correi on the side
of the hill over the village. I was lying ina
hush near them, for I could not sleep,
and came out, and the night was not cold.
Now I would never be so bad-mannered as
to listen where persons did not want me to
hear."

"What were they like, Rob, dear?"
interrupted the girl.

"That does not matter much," answered
Eob ; " but they were white, and their eyes
not so white, but brighter; for so many
sad things go in at their eyes when they
come down to the earth, that it makes them
dark."

How could they be brighter and darker
both at once ? " asked the girl, very pertinently.


1 will tell you," answered Rob. " The

dark things that go in at their eyes, they
have to burn them in the fire of faith ; and
it is the fire of that burning that makes
their eyes bright ; it is the fire of their faith
burning up the sad things they see."

''Oh, yes ! I understand now ! " said the
girl. 'sand what were their clothes like,
Eob?"

'' When you see the angels, you don't
think much about their clothes."

'* And what were they saying ? "

''I spoke first — the moment I saw them,
for I was not sure they knew that I was
there. I said, ' I am here, gentlemen.*
Yes, we know that,' they answered. * Are
you far from home, gentlemen ? ' I asked.
It is all one for that,' they answered.
Well,' said I, * it is true, gentlemen, for
you seem as much at home here on the
side of Dorrachbeg, as if it was a hill in
paradise ! ' * And how do you know it is
not ? ' said they. * Because I see people
do upon it as they would not in paradise,'
I answered* * Ah ! ' said one of them, ' the

hill may be in paradise, and the people not !
But you cannot understand these things.'
*I think I do,' I said; ^ but surely, if you
did let them know they were on a hill in
paradise, they would not do as they do ! '
It would be no use telling them,' said he ;
but, oh, how they spoil the house ! ' ^ Are
the red deer, and the hares, and the birds
in paradise ? ' I asked. ^ Certain sm'e ! ' he
answered. * Do they know it ? ' said I. ' No,
it is not necessary for them ; but they will
know it one day.' ^ You do not mind your
little brother asking you questions ? ' I said.
^ x\sk a hundred, if you will, little brother,'
he replied. * Then tell me why you are
down here to-night.' My friend and I
came out for a walk, and we thought we
would look to see when the village down
there will have to be reaped.' * What do
you mean ? ' I said. ' You cannot see what
we see,' they answered; 'but a human
place is like a flower, or a field of corn,
and grows ripe, or won't grow ripe, and
then some of us up there have to sharpen

our sickles.' ^ What ! ' said I, for a great
fear came upon me, ' they are not wicked
people down there ! ' * No, not very
wicked, but slow and dull.' Then I could
say nothing more for a while, and they did
not speak either, but sat looking before
them. * Can you go and come as you
please ? ' I asked at length. ^ Yes, just as
we are sent,' they answered. * Would you
not like better to go and come of yourselves,
as my father and I do ? ' I said.
No,' answered both of them, and something
in their one voice almost frightened
me ; * it is better than everything to go
where we are sent. If we had to go and
come at our own will, we should be miserable,
for we do not love our own will.'
^ Not love your own will?' ^ No, not at
all!' *Why?' because there is one —
oh, ever so much better ! When you and
your father are quite good, you will not be
left to go and come at your own will anymore
than we are.' And I cried out, and
said, ' Oh, dear angel ! you frighten me ! '

And he said, ^ That is because you are only

a man, and not a ' Now I am not sure

of the word he said next ; but I think it was
Christian; and I do not quite know what
the word meant,"

^' Oh, Eob, dear ! everybody knows that ! "
exclaimed the girl.

But Eob said no more.

While he was talking, Blister had come
up behind him, with Annie of the shop, and
he said —

*' Eob, my friend, I know what you mean,
and I want to hear the rest of it : what did
the angels say next ? ' '

^' They said," answered Eob, '^ — * Was it
your will set you on this beautiful hill, withall
these things to love, with such air to
breathe, such a father as you've got, and
such grand deer about you?' ^ No,' I
answered. * Then,' said the angel, ^ there
must be a better will than yours, for you
would never have even thought of such
things ! ' ^ How could I, when I wasn't
made ? ' said I. ' There it is ! ' he returned,

and said no more. I looked up, and the
moon was shining, and there were no
angels on the stone. But a little way off
was my father, come out to see what had
become of me."

** Now did you really see and hear all
that, Kob ? " said Blister.

Eob smiled a beautiful smile — with something
in it common people would call idiotic
stopped and turned, took the chief's hand,
and carried it to his lips ; but not a word
more would he speak, and soon they came
where the path of the two turned away over
the hill.

**Wi]l you not come and sleep at our
house ? " said one of the company.

But they made kindly excuse.

** The hill side would miss us ; we are
expected home ! " said Kob — and away they
climbed to their hut, a hollow in a limestone
rock, with a front wall of turf, thereto
sleep side by side till the morning came,
or, as Eob would have said, still the wind
of the sun woke them."

Kob of the Angels made songs, and would
sing one sometimes; but they were in
Gaehc, and the more poetic a thing, the
more inadequate at least, if not stupid is its
translation.

He had all the old legends of the country
in his head, and many stories of ghosts
and of the second sight. These stories he
would tell exactly as he had heard them,
showing he believed every word of them ;
but with such of the legends as were
plainly no other than poetic inventions, he
would take what liberties he pleased — and
they lost nothing by it; for he not only
gave them touches of fresh interest, but
sent glimmering through them hints of
something higher, of which ordinary natures
perceived nothing, while others were dimly
aware of a loftier intent : according to his
listeners was their hearing. In Kob's
stories, as in all the finer work of genius,
a man would find as much as, and no more
than, he was capable of. han's opinion of
Rob was even higher than Ahster's.

'' What do you think, Ian, of the stories
Eob of the Angels tells ? " asked Blister, as
they walked home.

^' That the Lord has chosen the weak
things of the world to confound the
mighty," answered Ian.

^^ Tut ! Eob confounds nobody."

He confounds me," returned Ian.

^^ Does he believe what he tells ? "

*' He believes all of it that is to be
believed," replied Ian.

^' You are as bad as he ! " rejoined Blister.
*' There is no telling, sometimes, what you
mean ! "

^' Tell me this, Blister : can a thing be
believed that is not true ? "

^' Yes, certainly ! "

'' I say, no. Can you eat that which is
not bread?"

^' I have seen a poor fellow gnawing a
stick for hunger ! " answered Aster.

^^ Yes, gnawing ! but gnawing is not
eating. Did the poor fellow eat the stick ?
That is just it ! Many a man will gnaw at

a lie all his life, and perish of want. I
mean lie, of course, the real lie — a thing
which is in its nature false. He may gnaw
at it, he may even swallow it, but I deny
that he can believe it. There is not that
in it which can be believed ; at most it can
but be supposed to be true. Beef is
another thing. Truth is alone the correlate
of belief, just as air is for the lungs, just as
form and colour are for the sight. A lie
can no more be believed than carbonic acid
can be breathed. It goes into the lungs,
true, and a lie goes into the mind, but both
kill ; the one is not hreatlied^ the other is
not believed. The thing that is not true
cannot find its way to the home of faith ; if
it could, it would be at once rejected with
a loathing beyond utterance ; to a pure
soul, which alone can believe, nothing is so
loathsome as a pretence of truth. A lie is
a pretended truth. If there were no truth
there could be no he. As the devil upon
God, the very being of a lie depends on that
whose opposite and enemy it is. But tell

me, Blister, do you believe the parables of
our Lord?"

*^Witli all my heart."

*was there any real person in our
Lord's mind when he told that one about
the unjust judge ? "

^^ I do not suppose there was; but there
were doubtless many such."

*' Many who would listen to a poor
woman because she plagued them ? "

^^ Well, it does not matter ; what the
story teaches is true, and that was what
he wanted believed."

^* Just so. The truth in the parables is
what they mean, not what they say; and
so it is, I think, with Eob of the Angels'
stories. He believes all that can be believed
of them. At the same time, to a mind so
simple, the spirit of God must have freer
entrance than to ours — perhaps even teaches
the man by what we call the man's own
ivords. His words may go before his ideas
his higher ideas at least — his ideas follow
after his words. As the half-thoughts pass

through his mind — who can say how much
generated by himself, how much directly
suggested by the eternal thought in which
his spirit lives and breathes 1 — he drinks
and is refreshed. I am convinced that
nowhere so much as in the highest knowledge
of all — what the people above count
knowledge — will the fulfilment of the saying
of our Lord, ^' Many first shall be last, and
the last first," cause astonishment ; that a
man who has been leader of the age's
opinion, may be immeasurably behind
another whom he would have shut up ina
mad-house. Depend upon it, things goon
in the soul of that Eob of the Angels
which the angels, whether they come to
talk with him or not, would gladly look
into. Of such as he the angels may one
day be the pupils."

A spence followed.

Do you think the young ladies of the
New House could understand Eob of the
Angels, Ian ? " at length asked Ahster.

^^ Not a bit. I tried the younger, and

she is the best, — They could if they would
wake up."

^* You might say that of anybody ! "
^*Yes; but there is this among other
differences — that some people ^do not wake
up, because they want a new brain first, such
as they will get when they die, perhaps ;
while others do not wake up, because their
whole education has been a rocking of them
to sleep. And' there is this difference
between the girls, that the one is full of
herself, and the other is not. The one hasa
close, the other an open mind."

'rand yet," said Blister, ''if they heard
you say so, the open mind would imagine
itself the close, and the close never doubt
it was the open ! "

CHAPTER III.

AT THE NEW HOUSE.

The ladies of the New House were not a
little surprised the next day when, as they
sat waiting their guests, the door of the
drawing-room opened, and they saw the
young highlanders enter in ordinary evening
dress. The plough-driving laird himself
looked to Christina very much like her
patterns of Grosvenor-square. It was long
since he had worn his dress-coat, and it
was certainly a little small for his more fully
developed frame, but he carried himself as
straight as a rush, and was nowise embarrassed
with hands or feet. His hands
were brown and large, but they were well
shaped, and not ashamed of themselves,

being as clean as his heart. Out of his
hazel eyes, looking in the candle-light nearly
as dark as Mercy's, went an occasional
glance which an emergency might at once
develop into a look of command.

For Ian, he would have attracted attention
anywhere, if only from his look of quiet
imselfness, and the invariable grace of the
movement that broke his marked repose ;
but his entertainers would doubtless have
honoured him more had they understood
that his manner was just the same and
himself as much at home in the grandest
court of Europe.

The elder ladies got on together pretty
well. The widow of the chief tried to explain
to her hostess the condition of the
country and its people ; the latter, though
knowing little and caring less about relations
beyond those of the family and social
circle, nor feeling any purely human responsibility,
was yet interested enough to be
able to seem more interested than she was ;
while her sweet smile and sweet manners

were very pleasing to one who seldom now
had the opportunity of meeting a woman so
much on her own level.

The gentlemen, too, were tolerably comfortable
together. Both Blister and Ian
had plenty of talk and anecdote. The latter
pleased the ladies with descriptions of
northern ways and dresses and manners —
perhaps yet more with what pleased the
men also, tales of wolf and bear-shooting.
But it seemed odd that, when the talk
turned upon the home-shooting called sport,
both Blister and Ian should sit in unsmiling-silence.


There was in Ian a certain playfulness,
a subdued merriment, which made Mercy
doubt her ears after his seriousness of the
night before. Life seemed to flash from
him on all sides, occasionally in a keen
stroke of wit, oftener in a humorous presentation
of things. His brother alone
could see how he would check the witticism
on his very lips lest it should hurt. It was
in virtue of his tenderness toward every-vol.

II. E

thug that had life that he was able to give
such narratives of what he had seen, such
descriptions of persons he had met. When
he told a story, it was with such quiet participation,
manifest in the gleam of his gray
eyes, in the smile that hovered like the
very soul of Psyche about his lips, that his
hearers enjoyed the telling more than the
tale. Even the chief listened with eagerness
to every word that fell from his
brother.

The ladies took note that, while the manners
of the laird and his mother were in a
measure old-fashioned, those of Ian were of
the latest : with social custom, in its flow
of change, he seemed at home. But his
ease never for a moment degenerated into
the free-and-easy, the dry rot of manners ;
there was a stateliness in him that dominated
the ease, and a courtesy that would
not permit friendliness to fall into premature
familiarity. He was at ease with his fellows
because he respected them, and courteous
because he loved them.

The ladies withdrew, and with their departure
came the time that tests the man
whether he be in truth a gentleman. In
the presence of women the polish that is
not revelation but concealment preserves
itself only to vanish with them. How
would not some women stand aghast to
hear but a specimen of the talk of their
heroes at such a time !

It had been remarked throughout the
dinner that the highlanders took no wine ;
but it was supposed they were reserving
their powers. When they now passed decanter
and bottle and jug without filling
their glasses, it gave offence to the very
soul of Mr. Peregrine Palmer. The bettered
custom of the present day had not
then made progress enough to affect his
table ; he was not only fond of a glass of
good wine, but had the ambition of the
cellar largely developed ; he would fain beheld
a connoisseur in wines, and kept up
a good stock of distinguished vintages, from
which he had brought of such to Glen-university

OF ILUNUiH
LIBRARY

ruadh as would best bear the carriage.
Having no aspiration, there was room in
him for any number of petty ambitions ;
and it vexed him not to reap the harvest
of recognition. '^ But of course," he said
to himself, ^'no highlander understands anything
but whisky ! "

'^ You don't mean you're a teetotaler,
Macruadh ! " he said.

"No," answered the chief; '^ I do not
call myself one ; but I never drink anything
strong."

Not on Christmas-day ? Of course you
make an exception at times ; and if at anytime,
why not on the merriest day of the
year ? You are under no pledge ! "

If that were a reason," returned Blister,
laughing, '^ it would rather be one for
becoming pledged immediately."

Well, you surprise me ! And highlanders
too ! I thought better of all highlanders
; they have the reputation of goodmen
at the bottle ! You make me sorry to
have brought my wine where it meets with

no consideration. — Mr. Ian, you are a man
of the world : you will not refuse to pledge
me?"

"I must, Mr. Palmer! The fact is, my
brother and I have seen so much evil
come of the drinking habits of the country,
which always get worse in a time of
depression, that we dare not give in to
them. My father, who was clergyman of
the parish before he became head of the
clan, was of the same mind before us, and
brought us up not to drink. Throughout a
whole Siberian winter I kept the rule."
*' And got frost-bitten for your pains ? "
*' And found myself nothing the worse."
*rit's mighty good of you, no doubt! "
said the host, nth a curl of his shaven

lip.

^'You can hardly call that good which
does not involve any self-denial ! " remarked
Blister.

^^ Well," said Mr. Peregrine Palmer,
"what is the world coming to? All the
pith is leaking out of our young men. In

another generation we shall have neither
soldiers nor sailors nor statesmen ! "

On what do you found such a sad conclusion
? " inquired Ian.

'^ On the growth of asceticism in the
young men. Believe me, it is necessary
to manhood that men when they are young
should drink a little, gamble a little, and
sow a few wild oats — as necessary as that
a nation should found itself by the law of
the strongest. How else can we look for
the moderation to follow with responsibilities
? The vices that are more than
excusable in the young, are very properly
denied to the married man ; the law for
him is not the same as for the young man.
I do not plead for license, you see ; but
it will never do for young men to turn
ascetics ! Let the clergy do as they please ;
they are hardly to be counted men ; at
least their calling is not a manly one !
Depend upon it, young men who do not
follow the dictates of nature — while they
are young, I mean — will never make any

mark in the world! They dry up like a
nut, brain and all, and have neither spirit,
nor wit, nor force of any kind. Nature
knows best ! When I was a young
man, "

"Pray spare us confession, Mr. Palmer,"
said Ian. 'ein our case your doctrine does
not enter willing ears, and I should be
sorry anything we might feel compelled to
say, should have the appearance of personality."


'' Do you suppose I should heed anything
you said?" cried the host, betraying the
bad blood in his breeding. 'ris it manners
here to prevent a man from speaking his
mind at his own table ? I say a saint is
not a man ! A fellow that will neither look
at a woman nor drink his glass, is not cut
out for man's work in the world ! "

Like a sledge-hammer came the fist of
the laird on the table, that the crystal
danced and rang.

"My God!" he exclaimed, and rose in
hugest indignation.

Ian laid Ms hand on this arm, and he sat
down again.

There may be some misunderstanding,
Blister," said Ian, ^* between us and our
host ! — Pray, Mr. Painter, let us understand
each other : do you believe God made
woman to be the slave of man ? Can you
believe he ever made a woman that she
might be dishonoured ? — that a man might
caress and despise her ? "

'' I know nothing about God's intentions;
all I say is, we must obey the laws of our
nature."

*' Is conscience then not a law of our
nature ? Or is it below the level of our
instincts ? Must not the lower laws be
subject to the higher? It is a law— forever
broken, yet eternal — that a man is
his brother's keeper : still more must hebe
his sister's keeper. Therein is involved
all civilization, all national as well as individual
growth."

Mr. Peregrine Palmer smiled a contemptuous
smile. The other young men

exchanged glances that seemed to say,
** The governor knows what's what ! "

Such may be the popular feeling in this
out-of-the-way spot," said Mr. Peregrine
Palmer, '' and no doubt it is very praiseworthy,
but the world is not of your opinion,
gentlemen."

^' The world has got to come to our
opinion," said the laird — at which the J^oung
men of the house broke into a laugh.

^' May we join the ladies?" said Ian,
rising.

'' By all means," answered the host, with
a laugh meant to be good-humoured ; ^' they
are the fittest company for you."

As the brothers went up the stair, they
heard their host again holding forth ; hut
they would not have been much edified by
the slight change of front he had made —
to impress on the young men the necessity
of moderation in their pleasures.

There are two opposite classes related by
a like unbelief — those who will not believe
in the existence of the good of which they

have apprehended no approximate instance,
and those who will not believe in the existence
of similar evil. I tell the one class,
there are men who would cast their very
being from them rather than be such as
they ; and the other, that their shutting of
their eyes is no potent reason for the shutting
of my mouth. There are multitudes
delicate as they, who are compelled to meet
evil face to face, and fight with it the
sternest of battles : on their side may I be
found ! What the Lord knew and recognized,
I will know and recognize too, be
shocked who may. I spare them, however,
any more of the talk at that dinner-table.
Only let them take heed lest their refinement
involve a very bad selfishness.
Cursed be the evil thing, not ignored !
Mrs. Palmer, sweet-smiled and clear-eyed,
never showed the least indignation at her
husband's doctrines. I fear she was devoid
of indignation on behalf of others. Very
far are such from understanding the ways
of the all-pardoning, all-punishing Father !

The three from the cottage were half-way
home ere the gentlemen of the New House
rose from their wine. Then first the mother
sought an explanation of the early departure
they had suggested.

Something went wrong, sons : what was
it she said?"

^' I don't like the men, mother; nor does
Ian' answered Aster gloomily.

'' Take care you are not unjust ! " she
replied.

'' You would not have liked Mr. Palmer's
doctrine any better than we did, mother."

'what was it?"

We would rather not tell you."

It was not fit for a woman to hear."

'' Then do not tell me. I trust you to
defend women."

In God's name we will ! " said Blister.

'' There is no occasion for an oath,
Blister ! " said his mother.

"Blister meant it very solemnly ! " said
Ian.

Yes ; but it was not necessary — least of

all to me. The name of our Lord God
should lie a precious jewel in the cabinet of
our hearts, to be taken out only at great
times, and with loving awe."

'* I shall be careful, mother," answered
Blister ; ^* but when things make me sorry,
or glad, or angry, I always think of God
first ! "

^' I understand you ; but I fear taking the
name of God in vain."

^' It shall not be in vain, mother! " said
the laird.

^' Must it be a breach with our new
neighbours ? " asked the mother.

'sit will depend on them. The thing
began because we would not drink with
them."

'^ You did not make any remark ? "

^'Not until our host's remarks called for
our reasons. By the way, I should like to
know how the man made his money."

Chapter lY.

THE Brothers.

Events, then, because of the deeper things
whence they came, seemed sorely against
any cordial approach of the old and the new
houses of Glenruadh. But there was a
sacred enemy thin the stronghold of Mr.
Peregrine Palmer, and that enemy forbade
him to break with the young highlanders
notwithstanding the downright mode in
which they had expressed their difference
with him : he felt, without knowing it,
ashamed of the things he had uttered ; they
were not such as he would wish proclaimed
from the house-tops out of the midst of
which rose heavenward the spire of the
church he had built; neither did the fact

that he would have no man he wicked on
Sundays, make him feel quite right in
urging young men to their swing on other
days.

Christian and Sercomhe could not hut
admire the straightforwardness of the
brothers ; their conventionality could not
prevent them from feeling the dignity with
which they acted on their convictions.
The quixotic young fellows ought not to be
cut for their behaviour ! They could not
court their society, but would treat them
with consideration ! Things could not well
happen to bring them into much proximity !

What had taken place could not definitely
influence the ideas, feelings, or
opinions of the young ladies. Their father
would sooner have had his hand cut off
than any word said over that fuliginous
dessert reach the ears of his daughters. Is
it not an absolute damnation of certain
evil principles, that many men would be
flayed alive rather than let those they love
know that they hold them ? But see the

selfishness of such men : each looks with
scorn on the woman he has done his part
to degrade, but not an injure breath must
reach the ears of his children ! Another
man's he will send to the devil !

Mr. Palmer did, however, communicate
something of the conversation to his wife;
and although she had neither the spirit, nor
the insight, nor the active purity, to tell him
he was in the wrong, she did not like the
young highlanders the worse. She even
thought it a pity the world should have
been so made that they could not be in the
right.

It is wonderful how a bird of the air
will carry a matter, and some vaguest
impression of what had occurred alighted
on the minds of the elder girls — possibly
from hints supposed unintelligible, passing
between Mr. Sercombe and Christian :
something in the social opinions of the two
highlanders made those opinions differ much
from the opinions prevailing in society !
Now even Mercy had not escaped some

notion of things of which the air about
her was full; and she felt the glow of a
conscious attraction towards men — somehow,
she did not know how — like old-fashioned
knights errant in their relations
to women.

The attachment between the brothers was
unusual both in kind and degree. Blister
regarded Ian as his better self, through
whom to rise above himself ; Ian looked
up to his brother as the head of the family,
uniting in himself all ancestral claims, the
representative of an ordered and harmonious
commonwealth. He saw in Blister virtues
and powers he did not recognize in himself.
His love blossomed into the deeper devotion
that he only had been sent to college :
he was bound to share with his elder
brother what he had learned. So Blister got
more through Ian than he would have got at
the best college in the world. For Ian was
a born teacher, and found interest delight,
not in imparting knowledge — that is a comparatively
poor thing — but in leading a

mind up to see what it was before incapable
of seeing. It was part of the same gift that
he always knew when he had not succeeded.
In Ahster he found a wonderful docility —
crossed indeed with a great pride, against
which he fought sturdily.

It is not a good sign of any age that it
should find it hard to believe in such simplicity
and purity as that of these young
men ; it is perhaps even a worse sign of
our own that we should find it difficult to
believe in such love between men. I am
sure of this, that a man incapable of loving
another man with hearty devotion, can not
be capable of loving a woman as a woman
ought to be loved. From each other these
two kept positively nothing secret.

Blister had a great love of music, which
however had had little development except
from the study of the violin, with the assistance
of a certain poor enough performer
in the village, and what criticism his
brother could afford him, who, not himself
a player, had heard much good music.

VOL. II. F

But Blister was sorely hampered by the fact
that his mother could not bear the sound
of it. The late chief was one of the few
clergymen who played the vioHn ; and at
the first wail of the old instrument in the
hands of his son, his widow was seized
with such a passion of weeping, that Blister
took the utmost care she should never
hear it again, always carrying it to some
place too remote for the farthest-travelling
tones to reach her. But this was not easy,
for sound will travel very far among the
hills. At times he would take it to the
room behind Annie's shop, at times to
the hut occupied by Hector of the Stags :
there he would not excruciate his host at
least, and Eob of the Angels would endure
anything for his chief. The place which
he most preferred was too distant to be
often visited ; but there, soon after Christmas,
the brothers now resolved to have a
day together, a long talk, and a conference
with the violin. On a clear frosty morning
in January they set out, provided for a night
and two days.

The place was upon an upland pasture-ground,
yet in their possession : no farm
was complete without a range in some high
valley for the sheep and cattle in summer.
On the north of this valley stood a bare hilltop,
whose crest was a limestone rock, rising
from the heather about twenty feet. Every
summer they had spent weeks of their boyhood
with the shepherds, in the society of
this hill, and one day discovered in its
crest a shallow cave, to which thereafter
they often took their food, and the book
they were reading together. There they
read the English Ossian, troubled by no
ignorant unbelief; and there they made
Gaelic songs, in which Ahster excelled,
while Ian did better in English.

When Ian was at home in the university-vacations,
they were fonder than ever of
going to the hill. There Ian would pour
out to Blister of the fullness of his gathered
knowledge, and there and then they made
their first acquaintance with Shakspere.
Ian had bought some dozen of his plays, in

smallest compass and cleanest type, at a
penny a piece, and how they revelled in
them the long summer evenings ! Ian had
bought also, in a small thick volume, the
poems of Shelley : these gave them not
only large delight, but much to talk about,
for they were quite capable of encountering
his vague philosophy. Then they had their
Euclid and Virgil — and even tried their
mental teeth upon Dante, but found the
Commedia without notes too hard a nut for
them. Every fresh spring, Ian brought
with him fresh books, and these they read
in their cave. But I must not forget the
cave itself, which also shared in the progress
of its troglodytes.

The same week in which they first ate
and read in it, they conceived and began
to embody the idea of developing the hollow
into a house. Foraging long ago in their
father's library for mental pabulum, they
had come upon Belong's quarto, and had
read, with the avidity of imaginative boys,
the tale of his discoveries, taking especial

delight in his explorations of the tombs of
the kings in the rocks of Began el Malook :
these it was that now suggested excavation.

They found serviceable tools about the
place at home, and the rock was not
quite of the hardest. Not a summer, for
the last seventeen years, had passed without
a good deal being done, Blister working
alone when Ian was away, and the cave had
now assumed notable dimensions. It was
called by the people uainh an ceaiifi, the
cave of the chief, and regarded as his
country house. AU around it was covered
with snow throughout the winter and
spring, and supplied little to the need of man
beyond the blessed air, and a glorious vision
of sea and land, mountain and valley, falling
water, gleaming lake, and shadowy cliff.

Crossing the wide space where so lately
they had burned the heather that the sheep
might have its young shoots in the spring,
the brothers stood, and gazed around with
delight.

There is nothing like this anywhere ! "
said Ian.

^^ Do you mean nothing so beautiful?"
asked Blister.

'* No ; I mean just what I say : there is
nothing like it. I do not care a straw
whether one scene be more or less beautiful
than another ; what I do care for is — its
individual speech to my soul. I feel towards
visions of nature as towards writers.
If a book or a prospect produces in my
mind a mood that no other produces, then
I feel it individual, original, real, therefore
precious. If a scene or a song play upon
the organ of my heart as no other scene or
song could, why should I ask at all whether
it be beautiful ? A bare hill may be more
to me than a garden of Damascus, but I
love them both. The first question as to
any work of art is whether it puts the
willing soul into any mood at all peculiar ;
the second, what that mood is. It matters
to me little by whom our Ossian was composed,
and it matters nothing whoever may
in his ignorance declare that there never
was an Ossian any more than a Homer :

here is a something that has power over
my heart and soul, works upon them as
not anything else does. I do not ask
whether its power be great or small ; it
is enough that it is a peculiar power, oneby
itself; that it puts my spiritual consciousness
in a certain individual condition,
such in character as nothing else can
occasion. Either a man or a nation must
have felt to make me so feel."

They were now climbing the last slope
of the hill on whose top stood their playhouse,
dearer now than in their boyhood.
Aster occasionally went there for a few
hours' solitude, and Ian would write therefor
days at a time, but in general when they
visited the place it was together. Blister
unlocked the door and they entered.

Unwilling to spend labour on the introductory,
they had made the first chamber
hardly larger than the room required for
opening the door. Immediately within,
another door opened into a room of about
eight feet by twelve, with two small

windows. Its hearth was a projection from
the floor of the live stone ; and there, all
ready for lighting, was a large pile of seats.
The chimney went up through the rock,
and had been the most difficult part of
their undertaking. They had to work it
much wider than was necessary for the
smoke, and then to reduce its capacity with
stone and lime. Now and then it smoked,
but peat-smoke is sweet.

The first thing after lighting the fire, was
to fill their kettle, for which they had to
take off the snow-lid of a small spring
near at hand. Then they made a good
meal of tea, mutton-ham, pancakes and
butter. The only seats in the room were
a bench in each of two of the walls, and a
chair on each side of the hearth, all of the
live rock.

From this opened two rooms more — one
a bedroom, with a bed in the rock wall, big
enough for two. Dry heather stood thick
between the mattress and the stone. The
third room, of which they intended making

a parlour, was not yet more than half,
excavated ; and there, when they had
rested a while, they began to bore and chip
at the stone. Their progress was slow, for
the grain was close : never, even when the
snow above was melting, had the least
moisture come through. For a time they
worked and talked : both talked better
when using their hands. Then Blister
stopped, and played while Ian went on;
Ian stopped next, and read aloud from a
manuscript he had brought, while his
brother again worked. But first he gave
Blister the history of what he was going
to read. It was suggested, he said, by that
strange poem of "William Maybe's, called
'' The Dead Man's Moan," founded on the
silly notion that the man himself is buried,
and not merely his body.

*' I wish I were up to straight my banes,

And drive frae my face the could, dead air ;
I wish I were up, that the friendly rains

Might wash the dark mould frae my tangled hair ! "

quoted Ian, and added.

^^I thought I should like to follow out
the idea, and see what ought to come of
it. I therefore supposed a person seized
by something of the cataleptic kind, from
which he comes to himself still in the body,
but unable to hold communication with the
outer world. He thinks therefore that he
is dead and buried. Recovering from his
first horror, he reflects that, as he did not
make himself think and feel, nor can cease
to think and feel if he would, there must be
somewhere — and where but within himself?
the power by which he thinks and feels,
a power whose care it must be, for it can
belong to no other, to look after the creature
he has made. Then comes to him the
prayer of Job, ' Oh that thou wouldst hide
me in the grave till thy anger with me was
past ! Then wouldst thou desire to see again
the work of thy hands, the creature thou
hadst made ! Then wouldst thou call, and
I would answer.' So grandly is the man
comforted thereby, that he breaks out ina
dumb song of triumph over death and the

grave. As its last tone dies in him, a kiss
falls upon his lips. It is the farewell of the
earth ; the same moment he bursts the
bonds and rises above the clouds of the
body, and enters into the joy of his Lord."

Having thus prepared Blister to hear
without having to think as well as attend,
which is not good for poetry, Ian read his
verses. I will not trouble my reader with
them ; I am sure he would not think so
well of them as did Blister. What Ian
desired was sympathy, not admiration, but
from Blister he had both.

Few men would care to hear the talk of
those two, for they had no interest in anything
that did not belong to the reality of
things. To them the things most men
count real, were the merest phantasms.
They sought what would not merely last,
but must go on growing. At strife with all
their known selfishness, they were growing
into strife with all the selfishness in them
as yet unknown. There was for them no
question of choice ; they must choose what

was true ; they must choose life ; they must
not walk in the way of death.

They were very near to agreeing about
everything they should ask. Few men are
capable of understanding such love as
theirs, of understanding the love of David
and Jonathan, of Shakspere to W. H., of
Tennyson and Hallam. Every such love,
nevertheless, is a possession of the race ;
what has once been is, in possibility to
come, as well as in fact that has come. A
solitary instance of anything great is
enough to prove it human, yea necessary
to humanity. I have wondered whether
the man in whom such love is possible,
may not spring of an altogether happy conjunction
of male and female — a father and
mother who not only loved each other, but
were of the same mind in high things, of
the same lofty aims in life, so that their
progeny came of their true .
If any unaccountable disruption or
discord of soul appear in a man, it is worth
while to ask whether his father and mother

were of one aspiration. Might not the fact
that their marriage did not go deep enough,
that father and mother were not of one
mind, only of one body, serve to account
for the rude results of some marriages of
personable people ? At the same time we
must not forget the endless and unfathomable
perpetuation of ancestry. But however
these things may be, those two men,
brothers born, were also brothers willed.

They ceased quarrying, and returned to
the outer room. Ian betook himself to
drawing figures on one of the walls, with
the intention of carving them in dipped
relief. Blister proceeded to take their bedding
from before the fire, and prepare for
the night.

Chapter V.

THE Princess.

While they were thus busied, Ian, with his
face to the wall, in the dim light of the
candle by which he was making his first
rough sketches, began the story of his flight
from Enssia. Long ere he ended, Blister
came close behind him, and there stood,
his bosom heaving with emotion, his eyes
burning with a dry fire. Ian was perfectly
composed, his voice quiet and low.

I will not give his tale in the first person ;
and will tell of it only as much as I think
it necessary my reader should know.

Having accepted a commission of the
Czar, he was placed in a post of trust in
the palace.

In one apartment of it, lived an imperial
princess, the burden of whose rank had
not even the alleviation of society. Her
disclosure of a sympathy with oppressed
humanity had wakened a doubt as to her
poetics, and she was virtually a prisoner,
restricted to a corner of the huge dwelling,
and allowed to see hardly any but her
women. Her father had fallen into disgrace
before her, and her mother was dead of
grief. All around her were spies, and love
was nowhere. Gladly would she have
yielded every rag of her rank, to breathe
the air of freedom. To be a peasant girl on
her father's land, would be a life of rapture !

She knew little of the solace books might
have given her. With a mind capable of
rapid development, she had been ill taught
except in music ; and that, alone, cannot do
much for spiritual development ; it cannot
enable the longing, the aspiration it rouses,
to understand itself; it cannot lead back to
its own eternal source.

She knew no one in whom to trust, or

from whom to draw comfort ; her confessor
was a man of the world, incapable of leading
her to any fountain of living water ; she had
no one to tell her of God and his fatherhood,
the only and perfect refuge from the divine
miseries of loneliness.

A great corridor went from end to end of
one of the wings of the palace, and from
this corridor another passage led toward
the apartment of the princess, consisting of
some five or six rooms. At certain times
of the day, Ian had to be at the beginning
of the corridor, at the head of a huge stair
with a spacious hall-like landing. Along
the corridor few passed, for the attendants
used a back stair and passages. As he sat in
the recess of a large window, where stood a
table and chair for his use, Ian one morning
heard a cry — whence, he never knew — and
darted along the corridor, thinking assistance
might be wanted. When about halfway
down, he saw a lady enter, near the
end of it, and come slowly along. He stood
aside, respectfully waiting till she should

pass. Her eyes were on the ground, but as
she came near she raised them. The sadness
of them went to his heart, and his soul
rushed into his. The princess, I imagine,
had never before met such an expression,
and misunderstood it. Lonely, rejected,
too helpless even to hope, it seemed full of
something she had all her life been longing
for — a soul to be her refuge from the wind,
her covert from the tempest, her shadow as
of a great rock in the weary land where no
one cared for her. She stood and gazed
at him.

Ian at once perceived who she must be,
and stood waiting for some expression of
her pleasure. But she appeared fascinated;
her eyes remained on his, for they
seemed to her to be promising help. Her
fascination fascinated him, and for some
moments they stood thus, regarding each
other. Ian felt he must break the spell.
It was her part to speak, his to obey,
but he knew the danger of the smallest
suspicion. If she was a princess and he

VOL. II. G

but a soldier on guard, she was a woman
and he was a man : he was there to protect
her ! " How may I serve your imperial
highness?" he asked. She was silent
yet a moment, then said, 'your name?"
He gave it. 'your nation?" He stated
it. "When are you here?" He told her
his hours. "I will see you again," she
said, and turned and went back.

From that moment she loved him, and
thought he loved her. But, though he
would willingly have died for her, he did
not love her as she thought. Blister
wondered to hear him say so. At such a
moment, and heart-free, Blister could no
more have helped falling in love with her
than he could help opening,. his eyes when
the light shone on their lids. Ian, with a
greater love for his kind than even Blister,
and with a tenderness for womankind altogether
infinite, was not ready to fall in love.
Accessible indeed he was to the finest of
Nature's witcheries ; ready for the response
as of summer lightnings from opposing

horizons ; all aware of loveliest difference,
of refuge and mysterious complement ; but
he was not prone to fall in love.

The princess, knowing the ways of the
house, contrived to see him pretty often.
He talked to her of the best he knew ; he
did what he could to lighten her loneliness
by finding her books and music ; best of all,
he persuaded her — without difficulty — to
read the New Testament. In their few
minutes of conference, he tried to show her
the Master of men as he showed himseK to
his friends ; but their time together was
always so short, and their anxiety for each
other so great, seeing that discovery would
be ruin to both, that they could not go far
with anything.

At length came an occasion when at
parting they embraced. How it was Ian
could not tell. He blamed himself much,
but Blister thought it might not have been
his fault. The same moment he was aware
that he did not love her and that he could
not turn back. He was ready to do anything,

everything in honour ; yet felt false
inasmuch as he had given her ground for
believing that he felt towards her as he
could not help seeing she felt towards him.
Had it been in his power to order his own
heart, he would have willed to love, and so
would have loved her. But the princess
doubted nothing, and the change that
passed upon her was wonderful. The power
of human love is next to the power of God's
love. Like a flower long repressed by cold,
she blossomed so suddenly in the sunshine
of her bliss, that Ian greatly dreaded the
suspicion which the too evident alteration
might arouse : the plain, ordinary-looking
young woman with fine eyes, began to put
on the robes of beauty. A softest vapour
of rose, the colour of the east when sundown
sets it dreaming of sunrise, tinged
her cheek ; it grew round like that of a
girl ; and ere two months were gone, she
looked years younger than her age. But
Ian could never be absolutely open with
her ; while she, poor princess, happy in her

ignorance of the shows of love, and absorbed
in the joy of its great deliverance, jealous
nothing of restraint, nothing of lack, either
in his words or in the caresses of which he
was religiously sparing. He was haunted
by the dread of making her grieve who had
already grieved so much, and was but just
risen from the dead.

One evening they met as usual in the
twilight ; in five minutes the steps of the
man would be heard coming to light the
lamps of [the corridor, his guard would be
over, and he must refuse. Few words
passed, but they parted with more of lingering
tenderness than usual, and the princess
put a little packet in his hand. The same
night his only friend in the service entered
his room hurriedly, and urged immediate
flight : something had been, or was imagined
to be discovered, through which his Liberty,
perhaps his life, was compromised ; he must
leave at once by a certain coach which
would start in an hour : there was but just
time to disguise him ; he must make for a

certain port on the Baltic, and there lie
concealed until a chance of getting away
turned up !

Ian refused. He feared nothing, had
done nothing to be ashamed of! What
was it to him if they did take his life ! he
could die as well as another ! Anxious
about the princess, he persisted in his
refusal, and the coach went without him.
Every passenger in that coach was murdered.
He saw afterward the signs of their
fate in the snow.

In the middle of the night, a company of
men in masks entered his room, muffled his
head, and hurried him into a carriage, which
drove rapidly away.

When it stopped, he thought he had
arrived at some prison, but soon found himself
in another carriage, with two of the
police. He could have escaped had he
been so minded, but he could do nothing
for the princess, and did not care what
became of him. At a certain town his
attendants left him, with the assurance that

if he did not make haste out of the country,
he would find they had not lost sight of
him.

But instead of obeying, he disguised himself,
and took his way to Moscow, where he
had friends. Thence he wrote to his friend
at St. Petersburg. Not many letters passed
ere he learned that the princess was dead.
She had been placed in closer confinement,
her health gave wslj, and by a rapid decline
she had gained her freedom.

All the night through, not closing their
eyes till the morning, the brothers, with
many intervals of thoughtful silence, lay
talking.

^' I am glad to think," said Aster, after
one of these silences, ^^you do not suffer so
much, Ian, as if you had been downright in
love with her."

*' I suffer far more," answered Ian with a
sigh ; ^' and I ought to suffer more. It
breaks my heart to think she had not so
much from me as she thought she had."

They were once more silent. Blister was

full of trouble for his brother. Ian at length
spoke again.

"Blister," he said, ^*I must tell you
everything ! I know the truth now. If I
wronged her, she is having her revenge ! "

By his tone Blister seemed through the
darkness to see his sad smile. He was
silent, and Blister waited.

'^ She did not know much," Ian resumed.
** I thought at first she had nothing but good
manners and a good heart ; but the moment
the sun of another heart began to shine on
her, the air of another's thought to breathe
upon her, the room of another soul to surround
her, she began to grow ; and what
more could God intend or man desire ? As
I told you, she grew beautiful, and what
sign of life is equal to that ! ' '

** But I want to know what you mean by
her having her revenge on you?" said
Blister.

** "Whether I loved her then or not, and I
believe I did, beyond a doubt I love her
now. It needed only to be out of sight of

her, and see other women beside the memory
of her, to know that I loved her. — Blister,
I love her'' repeated Ian with a strange
exaltation.

'^ Oh, Ian ! " groaned Blister ; '^ how
terrible for you ! "

'^ Ahster, yon dear fellow ! " returned Ian,
*' can you understand no better than that ?
Do you not see I am happy now ? My
trouble was that I did not love her — not
that she loved me, but that I did not love
her ! Now we shall love each other forever
! "

^* How do you know that, Ian ? "

*' By knowing that I love her. If I had
not come to know that, I could not have
said to myself I would love her for ever."

*^ But you can't marry her, Ian ! The
Lord said there would be no marrying
there!"

'did he say there would be no loving there,
Blister ? Most people seem to fancy he did,
for how else could they forget the dead as
they do, and look so little for their resurrection

? Few can be said really to believe
in any hereafter worth believing in. How
many go against the liking of the dead the
moment they are gone — behave as if they
were nowhere, and could never call them to
account ! Their plans do not recognize
their existence ; the life beyond is no factor
in their life here. If God has given me a
hope altogether beyond anything I could
have generated for myself, beyond all the
likelihoods and fulfilments around me, what
can I do but give him room to verify it —
what but look onward ! Some people's
bodies get so tired that they long for the
rest) of the grave; it is my soul that gets
tired, and I know the grave can give that
no rest ; I look for the rest of more life,
more strength, more love. But God is not
shut up in heaven, neither is there one law
of life there and another here ; I desire
more life here, and shall have it, for what is
needful for this world is to be had in this
world. In proportion as I become one with
God, I shall have it. This world never did

seem my home ; I have never felt quite
comfortable in it ; I have yet to find, and
shall find the perfect home I have not felt
this world, even my mother's bosom to be.
Nature herself is not lovely enough to satisfy
me. Nor can it be that I am beside myself,
seeing I care only for the will of God, not
for my own. For what is madness but two
or more wills in one body ? Does not the
Bible itself tell us that we are pilgrims and
strangers in the world, that here we have
no abiding city ? It is but a place to which
we come to be made ready for another.
Yet I am sure those who regard it as their
home, are not half so well pleased with it as
I. They are always grumbling at it. ' What
wretched weather ! ' they say. ^ "What a
cursed misfortune 1 ' they cr}^ ^ What
abominable luck ! ' they protest. Health
is the first thing, they say, and cannot find
it. They complain that their plans are
thwarted, and when they succeed, that they
do not yield the satisfaction they expected.
Yet they mock at him who says he seeks a

better country ! — But I am keeping you
awake, Blister ! I will talk no more. You
must go to sleep 1 "

** It is better than any sleep to hear you
talk, Ian," returned Blister. '' What a
way you are ahead of me ! I do love this
world ! When I come to die, it will tear
my heart to think that this cave which
you and I have dug out together, must
pass into other hands ! I love every foot
of the earth that remains to us — every foot
that has been taken from us. When I
stand on the top of this rock, and breathe
the air of this mountain, I bless God we
have still a spot to call our own. It is
quite a different thing from the love of
mere land; I could not feel the same
toward any, however beautiful, that I had
but bought. This, our own old land, I feel
as if I loved in something the same way as I
love my mother. Often in the hot summer-days,
lying on my face in the grass, I have
kissed the earth as if it were a live creature
that could return my caresses ! The long

grass is a passion to me, and next to the
grass I lo* the heather, not the growing
corn. I am a fair farmer, I think, but I
would rather see the land grow what it
pleased, than pass into the hands of
another. Place is to me sacred almost as
body. There is at least something akin
between the love we bear to the bodies of
our friends, and that we bear to the place
in which we were born and brought
up."

'^ That is all very true, Blister. I understand
your feeling perfectly; I have it
myself. But we must be weaned, I say
only treated, from that kind of thing ; we
must not love the outside as if it were the
inside ! Everything comes that we may
know the sender — of whom it is a symbol,
that is, a far-off likeness of something in
him ; and to him it must lead us — the self-existent,
true, original love, the making
love. But I have felt all you say. I used
to lie in bed and imagine the earth alive
and carrying me on her back, till I fell

asleep longing to see the face of my nurse.
Once, the fancy turned into a dream. I
will try to recall a sonnet I made the same
night, before the dream came : it will help
you to understand it. I was then about
nineteen, I believe. I did not care for it
enough to repeat it to you, and I fear we
shall find it very bad."

Stopping often to recall and rearrange
words and lines, Ian completed at last the
following sonnet : —

She set me on my feet with steady hand,
Among the crowding marvels on her face,
Bidding me rise, and run a strong man's race ;
Swathed me in circumstance's swaddling hand ;
Fed me with her own self ; then bade me stand
Myself entire, — while she was but a place
Hewn for my dwelling from the midst of space, —
A something better than Tier sea or land.
Nay, Earth ! thou dearest me upon thy back,
Like a rough nurse, and I can almost feel
A touch of kindness in thy hands of steel,
Although I cannot see thy face, and track
An onward purpose shining through its black.
Instinct with prophecy of future weal.

There ! It is not much, is it ? "
'' It is beautiful ! " protested Blister.

It is worth nothing," said Ian, '' except
between you and me — and that it will make
you understand my dream. That I shall
never forget. When a dream does us good
we don't forget it.

^* I thought I was borne on the back of
something great and strong — I could not
tell what ; it might be an elephant or a
great eagle or a lion. It went sweeping
swiftly along, the wind of its flight roaring
past me in a tempest. I began to grow
frightened. Where could this creature of
such awful speed be carrying me ? I prayed
to God to take care of me. The head of
the creature turned to me, and I saw the
face of a woman, grand and beautiful.
Never with my open eyes have I seen such
a face ! And I knew it was the face of
this earth, and that I had never seen it
before because she carries us upon her back.
When I woke, I knew that all the strangest
things in life and history must one day
come together in a beautiful face of loving
purpose, one of the faces of the Hving God.

The very mother of the Lord did not for a
long time understand him, and only through
sorrow came to see true glory. Blister, if
we were right with God, we could see the
earth vanish and never heave a sigh ; God,
of whom it was but a shimmering revelation,
would still be ours ! "

In the morning they fell asleep, and it
was daylight, late in the winter, when
Blister rose. He roused the fire, asleep all
through the night, and prepared their
breakfast of porridge and butter, tea, oatcake,
and mutton-ham. When it was
nearly ready, he woke Ian, and when they
had eaten, they read together a portion of
the Bible, that they might not forget, and
start the life of the day without trust in
the life-causing God.

'all that is not rooted in him," Ian
would say, 'all hope or joy that does not
turn its face upward, is an idolatry. Our
prayers must rise that our thoughts may
follow them."

The portion they read contained the

saying of the Lord that we must forsake all
and follow him if we would be his disciples.


**I am sometimes almost terrified," said
Ian, '^ at the scope of the demands made
upon me, at the perfection of the self-abandonment
required of me ; yet outside
of such absoluteness can be no salvation.
In God we live every commonplace as well
as most exalted moment of our being. To
trust in him when no need is pressing,
when things seem going right of themselves,
may be harder than when things seem
going wrong. At no time is there any
danger except in ourselves, and the only
danger is of trusting in something else
than the Hving God, and so getting, as it
were, outside of God. Oh Blister, take
care you do not love the land more than
the will of God 1 Take care you do not
love even your people more than the will
of God."

They spent the day on the hill-top, and
as there was no sign of storm, remained

VOL. II. H

till the dark night, when the moon came to
light them home.

^^ Perhaps when we are dead' said
Blister as they went, ^^ we may be allowed
to come here again sometimes ! Only we
shall not be able to quarry any further, and
there is pain in looking on what cannot
go on."

^' It may be a special pleasure," returned
Ian, *^ in those new conditions, to look into
such a changeless cabinet of the past.
When we are one with our life, so that no
prayer can be denied, there will be no end
to the lovely possibilities."

^' So I have the people I love, I think
I could part with all things else, even the
land!" said Blister.

''Be sure we shall not have to part with
them. We shall yet walk, I think, with
our father as of old, where the setting sun
sent the shadows of the big horse-gowans
that glowed in his red level rays, trooping
eastward, as if they would go round the
world to meet the sun that had banished

them, and die in his glory; the wind of the
twilight will again breathe about us like
a thought of the living God haunting our
goings, and watching to help us ; the stars
will yet call to us out of the great night,
Love and be fearless.' ' Be independent ! '
cries the world from its great Bible of the
Belly; — says the Lord of men, 'Seek ye
first the kingdom of God and his righteousness,
and all these things shall be added
unto you.' Our dependence is our eternity.
We cannot live on bread alone ; we need
every word of God. We cannot live on
air alone ; we need an atmosphere of
living souls. Should we be freer, Ahster,
if we were independent of each other ?
When I am out in the world, my heart is
always with mother and you. We must
be constantly giving ourselves away, we
must dwell in houses of infinite dependence,
or sit alone in the waste of a godless
universe."

It was a rough walk in the moonlight
over the hills, but full of a rare delight.

And while they walked the mother was
waiting them, with the joy of St. John,
of the Saviour, of God himself in her heart,
the joy of beholding how the men she loved
loved each other.

CHAPTER YI.

THE TWO PAIRS.

The next morning, on the way to the
village, the brothers overtook Christina and
Mercy, and they walked along together.

The young men felt inclined to be the
more friendly with the girls, that the men
of their own family were so unworthy of
them. A man who does not respect a
woman because she is a woman, cannot
have thorough respect for his own mother,
protest as he pleases : he is incapable of it,
and cannot know his own incapacity. Alas
for girls in a family where the atmosphere
of vile thinking, winnowed by the carrion
wings of degraded and degrading judgments,
infolds them ! One of the marvels
of the world is, that, with such fathers and

brothers, there are so few wicked women.
Type of the greater number stands Ophelia,
poor, weak, and not very refined, yet honest,
and, in all her poverty, immeasurably superior
to father and brother.

Christina's condescension had by this
time dwindled almost to the vanishing-point,
and her talk was in consequence more
natural : the company, conversation, and
whole atmosphere of the young men, tended
to wake in the girls what was best and
sweetest. Reality appeals at once to the
real, opens the way for a soul to emerge
from the fog of the commonplace, the
marsh of platitude, the Sahara of lies, into
the colour and air of life. The better things
of humanity often need the sun of friendship
to wile them out. A girl, well-bred,
tolerably clever, and with some genius of
accommodation, will appear to a man possessed
of a hundred faculties of which she
knows nothing ; but his belief will help to
rouse them in her. A young man will see
an angel where those who love her best see

only a nice girl ; but he sees not merely
what she might be, but what one day she
must be.

Christina had been at first rather taken
with the ploughman, but she turned her
masked batteries now mainly on the soldier.
During the dinner she had noted how
entirely Ian was what she chose to call a
man of the world ; and it rendered him in
her eyes more worthy of conquest. Besides,
as elder sister, must she not protect the
inexperienced Mercy ?

What is this passion for subjugation ?
this hunger for homage? Is it of hell
direct, or what is there in it of good to
begin with? Apparently it takes possession
of such women as have set up each herself
for the object of her worship : she cannot
then rest from the effort to bring as many
as possible to worship at the same shrine ;
and to this end will use means as deserving
of the fire as any witchcraft.

Christina stopped short with a little cry,
and caught han's arm.

*^I beg your pardon," she said, *' but I
cannot bear it a moment longer ! Something
in my boot hurts me so ! "

She hoped to the road-side, sat down,
accepted the service of Ian to unlace her
boot, and gave a sigh of relief when he
pulled it off. He inverted and shook it,
then searched and found a nail which must
have hurt her severely.

But how to get rid of the cruel projection
! han's slender hand could but just
reach with its finger-tips the haunted spot.
In vain he tried to knock it down against
a stone put inside. Blister could suggest
nothing. But Mistress Conal's cottage was
near : they might there find something to
help ! Only Christina could not be left
behind, and how was she to walk in a silk
stocking over a road frozen hard as glass ?
The chief would have carried her, but she
would not let him. Ian therefore shod her
with his Glengany bonnet, tying it on with
his handkerchief.

There was much merriment over the extemporized

shoe, mingled with apologetic
gratitude from Christina, who, laughing at
her poulticed foot, was yet not displeased
at its contrast with the other.

When the chief opened the door of the
cottage, there was no one to be seen within.
The fire was burning hot and flameless ; a
three-footed pot stood half in it ; other sign
of presence they saw none. As Blister
stooped searching for some implement to
serve their need, in shot a black cat, jumped
over his back, and disappeared. The same
instant they heard a groan, and then first
discovered the old woman in bed, seemingly
very ill. Ian went up to her.

*^ What is the matter with you. Mistress
Conal ? " he asked, addressing her in English
because of the ladies.

But in reply she poured out a torrent of
Gaelic, which seemed to the girls only
grumbling, but was something stronger.
Thereupon the chief went and spoke to her,
but she was short and sullen with him. He
left her to resume his search.

*let alone," she cried. ^^When that
nail leaves her brow, it will be for your
heart."

Ian sought to soothe her.

She will bring misery on you all 1 " she
insisted.

^^You have a hammer somewhere, I
know ! " said Blister, as if he had not heard
her.

** She shall be finding no help in my
house ! " answered the old woman in
English.

'every well, Mistress Conal ! " returned
the chief; ^'the lady cannot walk home;
I shall have to carry her ! "

^^God forbid!" she cried. ^^ Go and
fetch a wheelbarrow."

^' Mistress Conal, there is nothing for it
but carry her home in my arms ! "

^' Give me the cursed brow then. I will
draw the nail."

But the chief would not yield the boot ;
he went out and searched the hill-side until
he found a smooth stone of suitable size,

with which and a pair of tongs, he beat
down the naiL Christina put on the boot,
and they left the place. The chief stayed
behind the rest for a moment, but the old
woman would not even acknowledge his
presence.

'* What a rude old thing she is ! This is
how she always treats us ! " said Christina.

'* Have you done anything to offend her? "
asked Blister.

*^ Not that we know of. We can't help
being lowlanders ! ' '

'^ She no doubt bears you a grudge," said
Ian, '^ for having what once belonged to us.
I am sorry she is so unfriendly. It is not a
common fault with our people."

^' Poor old thing ! what does it matter ! "
said Christina.

A woman's hate was to her no more than
the barking of a dog.

They had not gone far, before the nail
again asserted itself; it had been but partially
subjugated. A consultation was held.
It resulted in this, that Mercy and the chief

went to fetch another pair of boots, while
Ian remained with Christina.

They seated themselves on a stone by
the roadside. The sun clouded over, a
keen wind blew, and Christina shivered.
There was nothing for it but go back to
the cottage. The key was in the door.
Ian turned it, and they went in. Certainly
this time no one was there. The old
woman so lately groaning on her bed had
vanished. Ian made up the fire, and did
what he could for his companion's comfort.

She was not pleased with the tone of his
attentions, but the way she accepted them
made her appear more pleased than Ian
cared for, and he became colder and more
polite. Piqued by his indifference, she took
it nevertheless with a sweetness which
belonged to her nature as God made it, not
as she had spoiled it; and even such a
butterfly as she, felt the influence of a manlike
Ian, and could not help being more
natural in his presence. His truth elicited
what there was of hers ; the true being

drew to the surface what there was of true
in the being that was not true. The longer
she was in his company, the more she was
pleased with him, and the more annoyed
with her failure in pleasing him.

It is generally more or less awkward when
a young man and maiden between whom is
no convergent rush of spiritual currents, find
themselves alone together. Ian was one of
the last to feel such awkwardness, but he
thought his companion felt it ; he did his
best, therefore, to make her forget herself and
him, telling her story after story which she
could not but find the more interesting that
for the time she was quieted from self, and
placed in the humbler and healthier position
of receiving the influence of another. For
one moment, as he was narrating a hair's-breadth
escape he had had from a company
of Tartar soldiers by the friendliness of a
young girl, the daughter of a Siberian
convict, she found herself under the charm
of a certain potency of which he was himself
altogether unconscious, but which had

carried away hearts more indifferent than
hers.

In the meantime, Blister and Mercy were
walking toward the New House, and, walking,
were more comfortable than those that
sat waiting. Mercy indeed had not much
to say, but she was capable of asking a
question worth answering, and of understanding
not a little. Thinking of her walk
with Ian on Christmas day, —

^' Would you mind telling me something
about your brother ? " she said.

'^ What would you like to know about
him ? " asked Blister.

*^ Anything you care to tell me," she
answered.

Now there was nothing pleased Blister
better than talking about Ian ; and he
talked so that Mercy could not help feeling
what a brother he must be himself ; while
on his part Blister was delighted with the
girl who took such an interest in Ian : for
han's sake he began to love Mercy. He
had never yet been what is called in love —

had had little opportunity indeed of falling
in love. His breeding had been that of a
gentleman, and notwithstanding the sweetness
and gentleness of the maidens of his
clan, there were differences which had as
yet proved sufficient to prevent the first
approaches of love, though, once entertained,
they might have added to the depth
of it. At the same time it was by no means
impossible for Blister to fall in love with
even an uneducated girl — so-called; neither
would he, in that case, have felt any
difficulty about marrying her; but the
fatherly relation in which he stood toward
his clan, had tended rather to prevent the
thing. Many a youth falls to premature
love-making, from the lack in his daily
history of the womanly element. Matrons
in towns should be exhorted to make of
their houses a refuge. Too many mothers
are anxious for what they count the welfare
of their own children, and care nothing for
the children of other women ! But can we
wonder, when they will wallow in meanness

to save their own from poverty and
health, and damn them into comfort and
decay.

Aster told Mercy how Ian and he used
to spend their boyhood. He recounted
some of their adventures in hunting and
herding and fishing, and even in going to
and from school, a distance of five miles,
in all weathers. Then he got upon the
poetry of the people, their legends, their
ballads and their songs ; and at last came
to the poetry of the country itself — the
delights of following the plough, the
whispers and gleams of nature, her endless
appeal through every sense. The mere
smell of the earth in a spring morning, he
said, always made him praise God.

everything we have," he went on,
'* must be shared with God. That is the
notion of the Jewish thank-offering. Ian
says the greatest word in the universe is
one ; the next greatest, all. They are but
the two ends of a word to us unknowable —
God's name for himself."

Mercy had read Mrs. Barbauld's Hymns,
and they had been something to her ; but
most of the little poetry she had read was
only platitude sweetened with sound; she
had never read, certainly never understood
a real poem. Who can tell what a nature
may prove, after feeding on good food for a
while ? The queen bee is only a better fed
working bee. Who can tell what it maj
prove when it has been ploughed with the
plough of suffering, when the rains of
sorrow, the frosts of pain, and the winds
of poverty have moistened and swelled and
dried its fallow clods ?

Mercy had not such a sweet temper asher
sister, but she was not so selfish. She
was readier to take offence, perhaps just
because she was less self-satisfied. Before
long they might change places. A little
dew from the eternal fountain was falling
upon them. Christina was beginning to be
aware that a certain man, neither rich nor
distinguished nor ambitious, had yet a real
charm for her. Not that for a moment she

VOL. II. I

would think seriously of such a man ! That
would be simply idiotic ! But it would be
very nice to have a little innocent flirtation
with him, or perhaps a ^^ Platonic friendship
! " — her phrase, not mine. What
could she have to do with Plato, who, when
she said J, was aware only of a neat bundle
of foolish desires, not the God at her heart !
Mercy, on the other hand, was being
drawn to the big, strong, childlike heart
of the chief. There is always, notwithstanding
the gulf of unlikeness between
them, an appeal from the childish to the
childlike. The childish is but the shadow
of the childlike, and shadows are little like
the things from which they fall. But to
what save the heavenly shall the earthly
appeal in its sore need, its widowhood, its
orphanage ? with what shall the childish
take refuge but the childlike ? to what shall
ignorance cry but wisdom ? Mercy felt no
restraint with the chief as with Ian. His
great, deep, yet refined and musical laugh,
set her at ease. han's smile, with its shimmering

eternity, was no more than the
moon on a rain-pool to Mercy. The moral
health of the chief made an atmosphere of
conscious safety around her. By the side
of no other man had she ever felt so. With
him she was at home, therefore happy.
She was already growing under his genial
influence. Every being has such influence
who is not selfish.

When Christina was re-shod, and they
were leaving the cottage, Ian, happening to
look behind him, spied the black cat perched
on the edge of the chimney in the smoke.

*' Look at her," he said, '' pretending
innocence, when she has been watching you
aU the time ! "

Ahster took up a stone.

^* Don't hurt her," said Ian, and he
dropped it.

CHAPTEK VII.

AN Carrack MOR.

I HAVE already said that the young men had
not done well as hunters. They had neither
experience nor trustworthy attendance :
none of the chief's men would hunt with
them. They looked on them as intruders,
and those who did not share in their chiefs
dislike to useless killing, yet respected it.
Neither Christian nor Sercombe had yet
shot a single stag, and the time was drawing
nigh when they must return, the one to
Glasgow, the other to London. To have
no proof of prowess to display was humbling
to Sercombe ; he must show a stag's head,
or hide his own ! He resolved, therefore,
one of the next moonlit nights, to stalk by

himself a certain great, wide-horned stag,
of whose habits he had received information.
At Oxford, where Valentine made his
acquaintance, Sercombe belonged to a fast
set, but had distinguished himseK notwithstanding
as an athlete. He was a great
favourite with a few, not the best of the set,
and admired by many for his confidence,
his stature, and his regular features. These
latter wore, however, a self-assertion which
of others made him much dished : a mean
thing in itself, it had the meanest origin —
the ability, namely, to spend money, for he
was the favourite son of a rich banker in
London. He knew nothing of the first business
of life — self-restraint, had never denied
himself anything, and but for social influences
would, in manhood as infancy, have obeyed
every impulse. He was one of the merest
slaves in the universe, a slave in his very
essence, for he counted wrong to others
freedom for himself, and the rejection of the
laws of his own being, liberty. The most
righteous interference was insolence ; his

likings were his rights, and any devil that
could whisper him a desire, might do with
him as he pleased. From such a man every
true nature shrinks with involuntary recoil,
and a sick sense of the inhuman. But I
have said more of him already than my
history requires, and more than many a
reader, partaking himself of his character
to an unsuspected degree, will believe ; for
such men cannot know themselves. He
had not yet in the eyes of the world disgraced
himself : it takes a good many disgraceful
things to bring a rich man to
outward disgrace.

His sole attendant when shooting was a
clever vagabond lad belonging to nowhere
in particular, and living by any crook
except the shepherd's. From him he heard
of the great stag, and the spots which
in the valleys he frequented, often scraping
away the snow with his feet to get at the
grass. He did not inform him that the
animal was a special favourite with the
chief of Clanruadh, or that the clan looked

upon him as their Hve symbol, the ybyj
stag represented as crest to the chiefs coat
of arms. It was the same Nancy had reported
to her master as eating grass on the
burn-side in the moonlight. Christian and
Sercombe had stalked him day after day,
but without success. And now, with one
poor remaining hope, the latter had determined
to stalk him at night. To despoil
him of his life, his glorious rush over the
mountain side, his plunge into the valley,
and fierce strain up the opposing hill ; to
see that ideal of strength, suppleness, and
joyous flight, lie nerveless and flaccid at
his feet ; to be able to call the thicket-Hke
antlers of the splendid animal his own, was
for the time the one ambition of Hilary
Sercombe ; for he was of the brood of
Mephistopheles, the child of darkness,
whose delight lies in undoing what God
has done — the nearest that any evil power
can come to creating.

There was, however, a reason for the
failure of the young hunters beyond lack of

skill and what they called their ill-luck.
Hector of the Stags was awake ; his keen,
everywhere-roving eyes were upon them,
seconded by the keen, all-hearkening ears of
Eob of the Angels. They had discovered
that the two men had set their hearts on
the big stag, an carrack mbr by right of
excellence, and every time they were out
after him. Hector too was out with his spyglass,
the gift of an old sea-faring friend,
searching the billowy hills. While the
southron would be toiling along to get the
wind of him unseen, for the old stag's eyes
were as keen as his velvety nose, the father
and son would be lying, perhaps close at
hand, perhaps far away on some hill-side of
another valley, watching now the hunters,
now the stag. For love of the Macruadh,
and for love of the stag, they had constituted
themselves his guardians. Again and
again when one of them thought he was
going to have a splendid chance — perhaps
just as, having reached a rock to which he
had been making his weary way over stones

and bogs like Satan through chaos, and
raised himself with weary slowness, he
peeped at last over the top, and lo, there
he was, well within range, quietly feeding,
nought between the great pumping of his big
joyous heart and the hot bullet but the brown
skin behind his left shoulder ! — a distant
shot would forestall the nigh one, a shot for
life, not death, and the stag, knowing instantly
by wondrous combination of sense
and judgment in what quarter lay the
danger, would, without once looking round,
measure straight a hundred yards of hillocks
and rocks between the sight-taking and the
pulling of the trigger. Another time it
would be no shot, but the bark of a dog,
the cry of a moorfowl, or a signal from
watching hind that started him ; for the
creatures understand each the other's cries,
and when an animal sees one of any sort on
the watch to warn covey or herd or flock of
its own kind, it will itself keep no watch,
but feed in security. To Christian and Ser-combe
it seemed as if all the life in the glen

were in conspiracy to frustrate their hearts'
desire ; and the latter at least grew ever the
more determined to kill the great stag : he
had begun to hate him.

The sounds that warned the stag were by
no means always what they seemed, those
of other wild animals ; they were often but
imitations by Eob of the Angels. I fear the
animal grew somewhat bolder and less careful
from the assurance thus given him that
he was watched over, and cultivated a little
nonchalance. Not a moment, however, did
he neglect any warning from quarter soever,
but from peaceful feeder was instantaneously
wind-like fleer, his great horns thrown back
over his shoulders, and his four legs just
touching the ground with elastic hoof, or
tucking themselves almost out of sight ashe
skipped rather than leaped over rock and
gully, stone and bush — whatever lay betwixt
him and larger room. Great joy it was to
his two guardians to see him, and great
game to watch the motions of his discomfited
enemies. For the sake of an cabracli

mor Hector and Eob would go hungry for
hours. But they never imagined the luxurious
Sasunnach, incapable, as they thought,
of hardship or sustained fatigue, would turn
from his warm bed to stalk the lordly
animal betwixt snow and moon.

One night, Hector of the Stags found he
could not sleep. It was not for cold, for
the night was for the season a mild one.
The snow indeed lay deep around their
dwelling, but they owed not a Httle of its
warmth to the snow. It drifted up all
about it, and kept off the terrible winds
that swept along the side of the hill, like
sharp swift scythes of death. They were in
the largest and most comfortable of their
huts — a deepest hollow in the limestone
rock, lined with turf, and with wattles filled
in with heather, the tops outward ; its front
a thick wall of turf, with a tolerable door of
deal. It was indeed so snug as to be far
from airy. Here they kept what little store
of anything they had — some dried fish and
venison ; a barrel of oat-meal, seldom filed

full ; a few skins of wild creatures, and
powder, ball, and shot.

After many fruitless attempts to catch
the still fleeting vapour sleep, raising himself
at last on his elbow, Hector found that
Eob was not by his side.

He too had been unable to sleep, and at
last discovered that he was uneasy about
something — what, he could not tell. He
rose and went out. The moon was shining
very clear, and as there was much snow,
the night, if not so bright as day, was yet
brighter than many a day. The moon, the
snow, the mountains, all dreaming awake,
seemed to Eob the same as usual ; but presently
he fancied the hillside opposite had
come nearer than usual : there must be a
reason for that ! He searched every yard
of it with keenest gaze, but saw nothing.

They were high above Glenruadh, and
commanded parts of it : late though it was,
Eob thought he saw some light from the
New House, which itself he could not see,
reflected from some shadowed evergreen in

the shrubbery. He was thinking some one
might be ill, and he ought to run down and
see whether a messenger was wanted, when
his father joined him. He had brought his
telescope, and immediately began to sweep
the moonlight on the opposite hill. In a
moment he touched Eob on the shoulder,
and handed him the telescope, pointing with
it. Eob looked and saw a dark speck on
the snow, moving along the hill-side. It
was the big stag. Now and then he would
stop to snuff and search for a mouthful, but
was evidently making for one of his feeding-places
— most likely that by the burn on the
chief's land. The light ! could it imply
danger ? He had heard the young men
were going to leave : were they about to
attempt a last assault on the glory of the
glen ? He pointed out to his father the
dim light in the shadow of the house.
Hector turned his telescope thitherward,
immediately gave the glass to Eob, went into
the hut, and came out again with his gun.
They had not gone far when they lost

sight of the stag, but they held on towards
the castle. At every point whence a peep
could be had in the direction of the house,
they halted to reconnoitre : if enemies were
abroad, they must, if possible, get and keep
sight of them. They did not stop for more
than a glance, however, but made for the
valley as fast as they could walk : the noise
of running feet would, on such a still night,
be heard too far. The whole way, without
sound uttered, father and son kept interchanging
ideas on the matter.

From thorough acquaintance with the
habits of the animal, they were pretty
certain he was on his way to the haunt
aforementioned : if he got there, he would
be safe ; it was the chief's ground, and no
one would dare touch him. But he was
not yet upon it, and was in danger ; while,
if he should leave the spot in any westward
direction, he would almost at once be out
of sanctuary ! If they found him therefore
at his usual feed, and danger threatening,
they must scare him eastward ; if no peril

seemed at hand, they would watch him a
while, that he might feed in safety. Swift
and all but soundless on their quiet brows
they paced along : to startle the deer while
the hunter was far off, might be to drive
him within range of his shot.

They reached the root of the spur, and
approached the castle ; immediately beyond
that, they would be in sight of the feeding
ground. But they were yet behind it when
Kob of the Angels bounded forward in
terror at the sound of a gun. His father,
however, who was in front, was off before
him. Neither hearing anything, nor seeing
Eob, he knew that a shot had been fired,
and, caution being now useless, was in a
moment at full speed. The smoke of the
shot hung white in the moonlight over the
end of the ridge. No red bulk shadowed
the green pasture, no thicket of horns went
shaking about over the sod. No lord of
creation, but an enemy of life, stood regarding
his work, a tumbled heap of death, yet
saying to himseK, like God when he made

the world, 'sit is good." The noble creature
lay disarmed on the grass ; shot
through the heart he had leaped high in
the air, fallen with his head under him, and
broken his neck.

Age filled the heart of Hector of the
Stags. He could not curse, but he gave
a roar like a wild beast, and raised his gun.
But Eob of the Angels caught it ere it
reached his shoulder. He yielded it, and,
with another roar like a lion, bounded bare-handed
upon the enemy. He took the
descent in three leaps, and the burn in one.
It was not merely that the enemy had killed
an carrack mor, the great stag of their
love ; he had killed him on the chief's own
land ! under the very eyes of the man
whose business it was to watch over him !
It was an offence unpardonable ! an insult
as well as a wrong to his chief! In the
fierce majesty of righteous wrath he threw
himself on the poacher. Sercombe met
him with a blow straight from the shoulder,
and he dropped.

Kob of the Angels, close behind him,
threw down the gun. The devil all but got
into Kob of the Angels. His knife flashed
pale in the moonlight, and he darted on
the Sasunnach. It would then have gone ill
with the bigger man, for Eob was lithe asa
snake, swift not only to parry and dodge
but to strike ; he could not have reached
the body of his antagonist, but Sercombe's
arm would have had at least one terrible
gash from his sJcean-dhu, sharp as a razor,
had not, at the moment, from the top of
the ridge come the stern voice of the chief.
Eob's knife, like ExcaHbur from the hand
of Sir Bedivere, 'made lightnings in the
splendour of the moon," as he threw it
from him, and himself down by his father.
Then Hector came to himself and rose.
E,ob rose also ; and his father, trembling
with excitement, stood grasping his arm,
for he saw the stalwart form of his chief on
the ridge above them. Blister had been
waked by the gun, and at the roar of his
friend Hector, sprang from his bed. When

VOL. II. K

he saw his beloved stag dead on his pasture,
he came down the ridge like an avalanche.

Sercombe stood on his defence, wondering
what devil was to pay, but beginning to
think he might be in some wrong box. He
had taken no trouble to understand the
boundaries between Mr. Peregrine Palmer's
land and that of the chief, and had imagined
himself safe on the south side of the big
burn.

Blister gazed speechless for a moment on
the slaughtered stag, and heaved a great
sigh.

^^Mr. Sercombe," he said, ^'I would
rather you had shot my best horse ! x\re
you aware, sir, that you are a poacher? "

^^I had supposed the appellation inapplicable
to a gentleman ! " answered Ser-combe,
with entire coolness. ^^ But by all
means take me before a magistrate."

'' You are before a magistrate."

"All I have to answer then is, that I
should not have shot the animal had I not
believed myseK within my rights."

'' On that point, and on this very ground,
I instructed you myself ! " said the chief.

^^ I misunderstood you."

'* Say rather you had not the courtesy to
heed what I told you — had not faith enough
to take the word of a gentleman ! And
for this my poor stag has suffered ! "

He stood for some moments in conflict
with himself, then quietly resumed.

'' Of course, Mr. Sercombe, I have no
intention of pushing the matter ! " he
said.

'' I should hope not ! " returned Sercombe
scornfully. " I will pay whatever you
choose to set on the brute."

It would be hard to say which was less
agreeable to the chief — to have his stag
called a brute, or be offered blood-money
for him.

'stag Euadh priced like a bullock!"
he said, with a slow smile, full of sadness ;
— the pride of every child in the strath!
Not a gentleman in the county would have
shot Clanruadh's deer ! "

Sercombe was by this time feeling uncomfortable,
and it made him angry. He
muttered something about superstition.

^^ He was taken when a calf," the chief
went on, " and given to a great-aunt of
mine. But when he grew up, he took to
the hills again, and was known by his silver
collar till he managed to rid himself of it.
He shall be buried where he lies, and his
monument shall tell how the stranger
Sasunnach served the stag of Clanruadh ! "

<^ Why the deuce didn't you keep the
precious monster in a paddock, and let
people know him for a tame animal ? "
sneered Sercombe.

^' My poor Euadh I " said the chief; '* he
was no tame animal ! He as well as I
would have preferred the death you have
given him to such a fate. He lived while
he lived ! 1 thank you for his immediate
transit. Shot right through the heart !
Had you maimed him I should have been
angrier."

Sercombe felt flattered, and, attributing

the chiefs gentleness to a desire to please
him, began to condescend.

^' Well, come now, Macruadh ! " he began ;
but the chief turned from him.

Hector stood with his arm on Eob's
shoulder, and the tears rolling down his
cheeks. He would not have wept but that
the sobs of his son shook him.

''Kob of the Angels," Blister said in
their mother-tongue, " you must make an
apology to the Sasunnach gentleman for
drawing the knife on him. That was
wrong, if he had killed all the deer on
Benruadh."

'sit was not for that, Macruadh,"
answered Eob of the Angels. 'rit was
because he struck my father, and laid a
better man than himself on the grass."

The chief turned to the Englishman.

'' Did the old man strike you, Mr. Ser-combe?"


''No, by Jove! I took a little care of
that ! If he had, I would have broken
every bone in his body ! "

^' Why did yon strike him then ? "

^' Because he rushed at me."

'^ It was his duty to capture a poacher ! —
But you did not know he was deaf and
dumb ! " Blister added, as some excuse.

'the deaf makes no difference!" protested
Eob. 'hector of the Stags does
not fight with his hands like a woman ! "

"Well, what's done is done!" laughed
Sercomhe. " It wasn't a bad shot anyhow
! "

"You have little to plume yourself upon,
Mr. Sercomhe ! " said the chief. " You area
good shot, but you need not have been so
frightened at an old man as to knock him
down ! "

Come, come, Macruadh ! enough's
enough ! It's time to drop this ! " returned
Sercomhe. '^ I can't stand much more of
it ! — Take ten pounds for the head ! —
Come ! "

The chief made one great stride towards
him, but turned away, and said,

"Come along, Eob! Tell your father

you must not go up the hill again tonight."


*' No, sir," answered Eob ; ^' there's
nothing now to go up the hill for ! Poor
old Euadh ! God rest his soul ! "

seamen!" responded the chief; ^' but
say rather, ' God give him room to run ! ' "

seamen! It is better.— But," added
Eob, *ewe must watch by the body. The
foxes and hooded crows are gathering
already — I hear them on the hills ; and
I saw a sea-eagle as white as silver yesterday
! We cannot leave Euadh till he is
under God's plaid ! "

*^ Then one of you come and fetch food
and fire," said the chief. ^^I will be with
you early."

Father and son communicated in silence,
and Eob went with the chief.

'' They worship the stag, these peasants,
as the old Egyptians the bull ! " said
Sercombe to himself, walking home full of
contempt.

Chapter VIII.

THE stag's head.

Blister went straight to his brother's room,
his heart bursting with indignation. It
was some time before Ian could get the
story from him in plain consecution ; every
other moment he would diverge into fierce
denunciations.

*' Hadn't you better tell your master
what has happened ? " at length said Ian.
*' He ought to know why you curse one
of your fellows so bitterly."

Blister was dumb. For a moment he
looked aghast.

*tian ! " he said : *^ You think he wants
to be told anything ? I always thought
you believed in his divinity ! "

'*Ah!" returned Ian, ^'but do you?
How am I to imagine it, when you go on
like that in his hearing ? Is it so you
acknowledge his presence ? "

'' Oh, Ian ! you don't know how it
tortures me to think of that interloper, the
low brute, killing the big stag, the Macruadh
stag — and on my land too ! I feel
as if I could tear him in pieces. But for
him I would have killed him on the spot !
It is hard if I may not let off my rage even
to you ! "

*^ Let it off to him Blister ; he will give
you fairer play than your small brother ;
he understands you better than I."

But I could not let it off to him that
way ! "

^'Then that is not a good way. The
justice that, even in imagination, would
tear and destroy and avenge, may be justice,
but it is devil's justice. Come, begin now,
and tell me all quietly — as if you had read
it in a book."

Word for word, then, with all the imprecations

! " returned Blister, a little
cooler ; and Ian was soon in possession of
the story.

'^Noio what do you think, Ian?" said
the chief, ending a recital true to the very
letter, and in a measure calm, but at various
points revealing, by the merest dip of the
surface, the boiling of the floods beneath.

'^ You must send him the head, Blister,"
answered Ian.

^' Send — what — who — I don't understand
you, Ian ! " returned the chief, bewildered.

^' Oh, well, never mind!" said Ian.
^' You will think of it presently ! "

And therewith he turned his face to the
wall, as if he would go to sleep.

It had been a thing understood betwixt
the brothers, and that from so far back in
the golden haze of childhood that the beginning
of it was out of sight, that, the moment
one of them turned his back, not a word
more was to be said, until he who thus
dropped the subject, chose to resume it :
to break this unspoken compact would have

been to break one of the strands in the
ancient bond of their most fast brotherhood.
Aster therefore went at once to his room,
leaving Ian loving him hard, and praying
for him with his face to the wall. He went
as one knowing well the storm he was about
to encounter, but never before had he had
such a storm to meet.

He closed the door, and sat down on the
side of his bed like one stunned. He did
not doubt, yet could hardly allow he
believed, that Ian, his oracle, had in verity
told him to send the antlers of his carrack
mor, the late Hve type of his ancient crest,
the pride of Clanruadh, to the vile fellow
of a Sasunnach who had sent out into the
deep the joyous soul of the fierce, bare
mountains.

There were rushing to and fro in the
spirit of Blister, wild and terrible, even as
those in the Valley of the Shadow of Death.
He never closed his eyes, but fought with
himself all the night, until the morning
broke. Could this thing be indeed his

duty ? And if not his duty, was he called
to do it from mere bravado of goodness ?
How frightfully would not such an action
be misunderstood by such a man ! What
could he take it for but a mean currying of
favour with him ! Why should he move
to please such a fellow ! Ian was too hard
upon him ! The more he yielded, the more
Ian demanded ! Every time it was something
harder than the last ! And why did
he turn his face to the wall ? Was he not
fit to be argued with ! Was he one that
would not listen to reason ! He had never
known Ian ungenerous till now !

But all the time there lay at his door
a thing calling out to be done ! The thing
he did not like was always the thing he
had to do ! he grumbled ; but this thing
he hated doing ! It was abominable !
What ! send the grand head, with its horns
spread wide like a half-moon, and leaning
like oaks from a precipice — send it to the
man that made it a dead thing ! Never !
It must not be left behind ! It must go to

the grave with the fleet limbs ! and over it
should rise a monument, at sight of which
every friendly highlands would say,
Feucli an cabracli mor de Clanruadli !
What a mockery of fate to be exposed forever
to the vulgar Cockney gaze, the trophy
of a fool, whose boast was to kill ! Such a
noble beast ! Such a mean man ! To mutilate
his remains for the pride of the wretch
who killed him ! It was too horrible !

He thought and thought — until at last
he lay powerless to think any more. But
it is not always the devil that enters
in when a man ceases to think. God
forbid ! The cessation of thought gives
opportunity for setting the true soul thinking
from another quarter. Suddenly Blister
remembered a conversation he had had
with Ian a day or two before. He had
been saying to Ian that he could not
understand what Jesus meant when he
said, *' Whosoever shall smite thee on thy
right cheek, turn to him the other also ; "
and was dissatisfied with the way Ian had

answered him. ^^ You must explain it to
yourself," Ian said. He . replied, *' If I
could do that, I should not have to ask
you." ^* There are many things," Ian rejoined,
^^ — arithmetic is one — that can be
understood only in the doing of them."
'' But how can I do a thing without understanding
it?" objected Blister. "When
you have an opportunity of doing this very
thing," said Ian, '' do it, and see what will
follow ! " At the time he thought Ian was
refusing to come to the point, and was
annoyingly indefinite and illogical ; but
now it struck him that here was the opportunity
of which he had spoken.

'^ I see ! " he said to himself. *sit is not
want of understanding that is in the way
now ! A thing cannot look hateful and
reasonable at the same moment ! This
may be just the sort of thing Jesus meant !
Even if I be in the right, I have a right
to yield my right — and to Mm 1 will yield
it. That was why Ian turned his face to
the wall : he wanted me to discover that

here was my opportunity ! How but in
the name of Jesus Christ could he have
dared tell me to forgive Ruadh's death
by sending his head to his murderer ! It
has to be done ! I've got to do it ! Here
is my chance of turning the other cheek
and being hurt again ! What can come of
it is no business of mine ! To return evil
is just to do a fresh evil ! It viae make the
man ashamed of himself! It cannot hurt
the stag ; it only hurts my pride, and I owe
my pride nothing ! Why should not the
fellow have what satisfaction he may —
something to show for his shot ! He shall
have the head."

Thereupon rushed into his heart the joy
of giving up, of deliverance from self ; and
pity, to leaven his contempt, awoke for
Sercombe. No sooner had he yielded his
pride, than he felt it possible to love the
man — not for anything he was, but for what
he might and must be.

God let the man kill the stag," he
said ; '' I will let him have the head."

Again and yet again swelled afresh the
tide of wrath and unwillingness, making
him feel as if he could not carry out his
resolve ; but all the time he knew the
thing was as good as done — absolutely
determined, so that nothing could turn it
aside.

^* To yield where one may, is the prerogative
of liberty ! " he said to himself.
'god only can give; who would be his
child must yield ! Abroad in the fields of
air, as Paul and the love of God make me
hope, what will the wind-battling Kuadh
care for his old head ! Would he not say,
Let the man have it ; my hour was come,
or the Some One would not have let him
kill me ! ' ? "

Thus argued the chief while the darkness
endured — and as soon as the morning
began to break, rose, took spade and pick
and great knife, and went where Hector
and Eob were watching the slain.

It was bitterly cold. The burn crept
silent under a continuous bridge of ice.

The grass-blades were crisp with first. The
ground was so hard it met iron like iron.

He sent the men to get their breakfast
from Nancy : none but himself should do
the last offices for Euadh ! With skilful
hand he separated and laid aside the head
in sacrifice to the living God. Then the
hard earth rang with mighty blows of the
pickaxe. The labour was severe, and long
ere the grave was deep enough, Hector and
Eob had returned ; but the chief would not
get out of it to give them any share in the
work. "When he laid hold of the body, they
did not offer to help him ; they understood
the heart of their chief. Not without a last
pang that he could not lay the head beside
it, he began to shovel in the frozen clods,
and then at length allowed them to take a
part. When the grave was full, they rolled
great stones upon it, that it might not be
desecrated. Then the chief went back to
his room, and proceeded to prepare the
head, that, as the sacrifice, so should bethe
gift.

VOL. II. L

*^ I suppose he would like glass eyes, the
ruffian!" he muttered to himself, *but I
will not have the mockery. I will fill the
sockets and sew up the eyelids, and the face
shall be as of one that sleeps."

Haying done all, and written certain
directions for temporary treatment, which
he tied to an ear, he laid the head aside till
the evening.

All the day long, not a word concerning
it passed between the brothers ; but when
evening came, Blister, with a blue cotton
handkerchief in his hand, hiding the head
as far as the roots of the huge horns, asked
Ian to go for a walk. They went straight
to the New House. Blister left the head
at the door, with his compliments to Mr.
Sercombe.

As soon as they were out of sight of the
house, Ian put his arm through his brother's,
but did not speak.

'' I know now about turning the other
cheek ! " said Blister. *' — Poor Euadh ! "

'leave him to the God that made the

great head and nimble feet of him," said
Ian. " A God that did not care for what
he had made, how should we believe in !
but he who cares for the dying sparrow,
may be trusted with the dead stag."

^* Truly, yes," returned Ahster.

'* Let us sit down," said Ian, '^ and I will
sing you a song I made last night ; I could
not sleep after you left me."

Without reply, Aster took a stone by
the wayside, and Ian one a couple of yards
from him. This was his song.

LOVE'S HISTORY.

Love, the baby,

Toddled out to pluck a flower ;
One said, " No, sir ; " one said, " Maybe,

At the evening hour ! "

Love, the boy.

Joined the boys and girls at play ;
But he left them half his joy

Ere the close of day.

Love, the youth,

Roamed the country, lightning-laden ;
But he hurt himself, and, sooth,

Many a man and maiden !

Love, the man,

Sought a service all about ;
But he would not take their plan,

So they cast him out.

Love, the aged,

Walking, bowed, the shadeless miles,
Head a volume many-paged,

Full of tears and smiles.

Love, the weary.

Tottered down the shelving road :
At its foot, lo, night the starry

Meeting him from God !

Love, the holy ! "

Sang a music in her dome,
Sang it softly, sang it slowly,

— Love is coming home ! "

Ere the week was out, there stood above
the dead stag a growing cairn, to this day
called Carpi a' carrack mor. It took ten
men with levers to roll one of the boulders
at its base. Men still cast stones upon it
as they pass.

The next morning came a note to the
cottage, in which Sercombe thanked the
Macruadh for changing his mind, and said

that, although he was indeed glad to have
secured such a splendid head, he would
certainly have stalked another deer, had he
known the chief set such store b}^ the one
in question.

It was handed to Blister as he sat at his
second breakfast with his mother and Ian :
even in inter he was out of the house by
six o'clock, to set his men to work, and
take his o^ti share. He read to the end
of the first page with curing lip ; the
moment he turned the leaf, he sprang from
his seat with an exclamation that startled
his mother.

** The hound ! — I beg my good dogs'
pardon, one and aU ! " he cried. '^ — Look
at this, Ian ! See what comes of taking
your advice ! "

*^ My dear fellow, I gave you no advice
that had the least regard to the consequence
of following it ! That was the one thing
you had nothing to do with."

'^ Bead'' insisted Blister, as he pranced
about the room. ^' No, don't read the

letter; it's not worth reading. Look at
the paper in it."

Ian looked, and saw a cheque for ten
pounds. He burst into loud laughter.

^' Poor Euadh's horns ! they're hardly
so long as their owner's ears ! " he
said.

^' I told you so ! " cried the chief.
• ** No, Ahster ! You never suspected such
a donkey! "

'what is it all about?" asked the
mother.

*the wretch who shot Kuadh," replied
Ahster, '' — to whom I gave his head, all to
please Ian, "

'' Blister ! " said Ian.

The chief understood, and retracted.

— no, not to please Ian, but to do what
Ian showed me was right : — I believe it
was my duty ! — I hope it was ! — here's the
murdering fellow sends me a cheque for
ten pounds! — I told you, Ian, he offered
me ten pounds over the dead body ! "

I daresay the poor fellow was sorely

puzzled what to do, and appealed to everybody
in the house for advice I "

^^You take the cheque to represent the
combined wisdom of the New House ? "

'^ You must have puzzled them all!"
persisted Ian. " How could people with
no principle beyond that of keeping to a
bargain, understand you otherwise ! First,
you perfoiTQ an action such persons think
degrading : you can a fellow's bag for a
shilling, and then himseK for nothing I
Next, in the very fury of indignation with
a man for killing the finest stag in the
country on your meadow, you can him
home the head with your own hands ! It
aU comes of that unlucky divine motion of
yom's to do good that good may come !
That shilling of mistress Conal's is at the
root of it aU!"

Ian laughed again, and right heartily.
The chief was too angry to enter into the
humour' of the thing.

^' Upon my word, Ian, it is too bad of
you ! What are you laughing at ? It

would become yon better to tell me what
I am to do ! Am I free to break the
rascal's bones ? "

*' Assuredly not, after that affair with the
bag!"

Oh, damn the bag ! — I beg your pardon,
mother."

Am I to believe my ears, Blister ? "

'^ "What does it matter, mother ? What
harm can it do the bag ? I wished no evil
to any creature ! "

It was the more foolish."

^' I grant it, mother. But you don't
know what a relief it is sometimes to swear
a little ! — You are quite wrong, Ian ; it all
comes of giving him the head ! "

^' You wish you had not given it him ? "

''No!" growled Blister, as from a pent
volcano.

'* You will break my ears, Blister ! " cried
the mother, unable to keep from laughing
at the wrath in which he went straining
through the room.

*' Think of it," insisted Ian : '' a man like

him could not think otherwise without a
revolution of his whole being to which the
change of the leopard's spots would be
nothing. — What you meant, after all, was
not cordiality ; it was only generosity ;
to which his response, his countercheck
friendly, was an order for ten pounds ! — Allis
right between you ! "

*' Now, really, Ian, you must not go on
teasing your elder brother so!" said the
mother.

Blister laughed, and ceased fuming.
^' But I must answer the brute ! " he said.
'' What am I to say to him ? "

*^ That you are much obliged," replied
Ian, '' and will have the cheque framed and
hung in the hall."

*' Come, come ! no more of that ! "
'^ Well, then, let me answer the letter."
^* That is just what I wanted ! "
Ian sat down at his mother's table, and
this is what he wrote.

*dear sir, — My brother desires me to
return the cheque which you unhappily

thought it right to send him. Humanity
subject to mistake, but I am sorry for
the individual who could so misunderstand
his courtesy. I have the honour to remain,
sir, your obedient servant, Ian Macruadh.'*

As Ian guessed, the matter had been
openly discussed at the New House ; and
the money was sent with the approval of
all except the two young ladies. They had
seen the young men in circumstances more
favourable to the understanding of them by
ordinary people.

*why didn't the chief write himself?"
said Christian.

^' Oh," replied Sercombe, ^^ his little
brother had been to school, and could write
better ! "

Christina and Mercy exchanged glances.

^a will tell you," Mercy said, ^' why Mr.
Ian answered the note : the chief had done
with you ! "

*^0r," suggested Christina, ^'the chief
was in such a rage that he would write
nothing but a challenge."

'* I wish to goodness he had ! It would
have given me the chance of giving the
clodhopper a lesson."

^'Eor sending you the finest stag's head
and horns in the country ! " remarked Mercy.

'' I shot the stag ! Perhaps you don't
believe I shot him !"

"Indeed I do ! No one else would have
done it. The chief would have died
sooner ! "

I'm sick of your chief ! " said Christian.
'^A pretty chief without a penny to bless
himself! A chief, and glad of the job of
carrying a carpet-bag ! You'll be calling
him my lord, next! "

He may at least write Baronet after his
name when he pleases' returned Mercy.

Why don't he then ? A likely story ! "

'^ Because," answered Christina, '^ both
his father and himself were ashamed of how
the first baronet got his title. It had to do
with the sale of a part of the property, and
they counted the land the clan's as well as
the chief's. They regarded it as an act of

treachery to put the clan in the power of a
stranger, and the chief looks on the title asa
brand of shame."

"I don't question the treachery," said
Christian. *' A highlander is treacherous."

Christina had asked a friend in Glasgow
to find out for her anything known among
the lawyers concerning the Macruadhs, and
what she had just recounted was a part of
the information she had thereby received.

Thenceforward silence covered the whole
transaction. Sercombe neither returned
the head, sent an apology, nor recognized
the gift. That he had shot the stag was
enough !

But these things wrought shaping the
idea of the brothers in the minds of the
sisters, and they were beginning to feel a
strange confidence in them, such as they
had never had in men before. A curious
little halo began to shimmer about the
heads of the young men in the picture-gallery
of the girls' fancy. Not the less,
however, did they regard them as enthusiasts,

unfitted to this world, incapable of
self-protection, too good to live — in a word,
unpractical ! Because a man would live
according to the laws of his being as well
as of his body, obeying simple, imperative,
essential human necessity, his fellows forsooth
call him unpractical I Of the idiotic
delusions of the children of this world,
that of being practical is one of the most
ludicrous.

Here is a translation, made by Ian, of one
of Blister's Gaelic songs.

THE SUN'S Daughter.

A bright drop of water

In the gold tire
Of a sun's daughter

Was laughing to her sire ;

And from all the flowers about,

That never toiled or spun,
The soul of each looked out,

Clear laughing to the sun.

I saw them unfolding

Their hearts every one !
Every soul holding

Within it the sun !

But all the sun-mirrors

Vanished anon ;
And their flowers, mere starers,

Grew dry in the sun.

My soul is but water,

Shining and gone !
She is but the daughter,"

I said, " of the sun ! "

My soul sat her down
In a deep-shaded gloom ;

Her glory was flown,
Her earth was a tomb.

Till night came and caught her,
And then out she shone ;

And I knew her no daughter
Of that shining sun —

Till night came down and taught her
Of a glory yet unknown ;

And I knew my soul the daughter
Of a sun behind the sun.

Back, back to him that wrought her
My soul shall haste and run ;

Straight back to him, his daughter,
To the sun behind the sun.

CHAPTER IX.

ANNIE OF THE SHOP.

At the dance in the chiefs barn, Sercombe
had paired with Annie of the shop oftener
than with any other of the girls. That she
should please him at all, was something in
his favour, for she was a simple, modest
girl, with the nicest feeling of the laws of
intercourse, the keenest perception both of
what is in itself right, and what is becoming
in the commonest relation. She understood
by a fine moral instinct what respect was
due to her, and what respect she ought to
show, and was therefore in the truest sense
well-bred. There are women whom no
change of circumstances would cause to
alter even their manners a hair's-breadth :

such, are God's ladies; there are others in
whom any outward change will reveal the
vulgarity of a nature more conscious of
claim than of obligation.

I need not say that Sercombe, though a
man of what is called education, was but
conventionally a gentleman. If in doubt
whether a man be a gentleman or not, hear
him speak to a woman he regards as his
inferior : his very tone will probably betray
him. A true gentleman, that is a true
man, will be the more carefully respectful.
Sercombe was one of those who regard
themselves as respectable because they are
prudent ; whether they are human, and
their brother and sister's keeper, they have
never asked themselves.

To some minds neither innocent nor
simple, there is yet something attractive in
innocence and simplicity. Perhaps it gives
them a pleasing sense of their superiority —
a background against which to rejoice in
their liberty, while their pleasure in it helps
to obscure the gulf between what the man

would fain hold himself to be, and what in
reality he is. There is no spectre so terrible
as the unsuspected spectre of a man's own
self ; it is noisome enough to the man who
is ever trying to better it : what must it
appear to the man who sees it for the first
time ! Sercombe's self was ugly, and he
did not know it ; he thought himself an
exceptionally fine fellow. No one knows
what a poor creature he is but the man who
makes it his business to be true. The only
mistake worse than thinking well of himseK,
is for a man to think God takes no interest
in him.

One evening, sorely in lack of amusement,
Sercombe wandered out into a star-Ht night,
and along the road to the village. There
he went into the general shop, where sat
Annie behind the counter. Now the first
attention he almost always paid a woman,
that is when he cared and dared, was a compliment
— the fungus of an empty head or a
false heart ; but with Annie he took no such
initiative Liberty, and she, accustomed to

VOL. II. M

respectful familiarity from the chief and
his brother, showed no repugnance to his
friendly approach.

^^Upon my word, Miss Annie," said
Sercombe, venturing at length a little,
'* you were the best dancer on the floor that
night ! "

^' Oh, Mr. Sercombe ! how can you say so
with such dancers as the young ladies of
your party ! " returned Annie.

'they dance well," he returned, "but
not so well as you."

"It all depends on the dance — whether
you are used to it or not."

No, by Jove ! If you had a lesson or
two such as they have been having all their
lives, you would dance out of their sight in
the twinkling of an eye. If I had you for a
partner every night for a month, you would
dance better than any woman I have ever
seen — off the stage — any lady, that is."

The grosser the flattery, the surer with a
country girl, he thought. But there was
that in his tone, besides the freedom of

sounding her praises in her own ears, which
was unpleasing to Annie's ladyhood, and
she held her peace.

^^ Come out and have a turn," he said
thereupon. *^ It is lovely star-light. Have
you had a walk to-day ? "

^^No, I have not," answered Annie,
casting how to get rid of him.

^^You wrong your beauty by keeping to
the house."

^' My beauty," said Annie, flushing, '* may
look after itself ; I have nothing to do with
it — neither, excuse me, sir, have you."

* Why, who has a right to be offended
with the truth ! A man can't help seeing
your face is as sweet as your voice, and your
figure, as revealed by your dancing, a match
for the two I "

I will call my mother," said Annie, and
left the shop,

Sercombe did not believe she would, and
waited. He took her departure for a mere
coquetry. But when a rather grim, handsome
old woman appeared, asking him — it

took the most of her English — ^^ What
would you be wanting, sir?" as if he had
just come into the shop, he found himself
awkwardly situated. He answered, with
more than his usual politeness, that, having
had the pleasure of dancing with her
daughter at the chief's ball, he had taken
the liberty of looking in to inquire after
her health; whereupon, perplexed, the old
woman in her turn called Annie, who came
at once, but kept close to her mother.
Sercombe began to tell them about a 
had made in Canada, for he had heard
they had friends there ; but the mother did
not understand him, and Annie more and
more disliked him. He soon saw that at
least he had better say nothing more about
a walk, and took himself off, not a little
piqued at repulse from a peasant-girl in the
most miserable shop he had ever entered.

Two days after, he went again — this time
to buy tobacco. Annie was short with him,
but he went yet again and yet sooner : these
primitive people objected to strangers, he

said ; accustomed to him she would be
friendly ! he would not rest until he had
gained some footing of favour with her !
Annie grew heartily offended with the man.
She also feared what might be said if he
kept coming to the shop — where Mistress
Conal had seen him more than once, and
looked poison at him. For her own sake,
for the sake of Lachlan, and for the sake of
the chief, she resolved to make the young
father of the ancient clan acquainted with
her trouble. It was on the day after his
rejection of the ten-pound note that she
found her opportunity, for the chief came
to see her.

Was he rude to you, Annie ? " he asked.

*' No, sir — too polite, I think : he must
have seen I did not want his company. — I
shall feel happier now you know."

^' I will see to it," said the chief.

^' I hope it will not put you to any trouble,
sir!"

*^ What am I here for, Annie ! Are you
not my clanswoman ! Is not Lachlan my

foster-brother ! — He will trouble you no
more, I think."

As Blister walked home, he met Ser-combe,
and after a greeting not very cordial
on either side, said thus :

"I should be obliged to you, Mr. ,
if you would send for anything you
want, instead of going to the shop yourself.
Annie Macruadh is not the sort of girl you
may have found in such a position, and you
would not wish to make her uncomfortable!"


Sercombe was ashamed, I think ; for the
refuge of the fool when dissatisfied with
himself, is offence with his neighbour, and
Sercombe was angry.

"Are you her father — or her lover?" he
said.

She has a right to my protection — and
claims it," rejoined Blister quietly.

Protection ! Oh !— What the devil
would you protect her from ? "

From you, Mr. Sercombe."

"Protect her, then."

I will. Force yourself on that young
woman's notice again, and you will have todo
with me."

They parted. Blister went home. Ser-combe
went straight to the shop.

He was doing what he could to recommend
himseK to Christina; but whether
from something antagonistic between them,
or from unwillingness on her part to yield
her position of advantage and so her
liberty, she had not given him the encouragement
he thought he deserved. He
believed himself in love with her, and had
told her so ; but the truest love such a
man can feel, is a poor thing. He admired,
and desired, and thought he loved
her beauty, and that he called being in
love with her I He did not think much
about her money, but had she then been
brought to poverty, he would at least have
hesitated about marrying her.

In the family he was regarded as her
affianced, although she did not treat him
as such, but merely went on bewitching

him, pleased that at least he was a man of
the world.

While one is yet only in love, the real
person, the love-capable, lies covered with
the rose-leaves of a thousand sleepy-eyed
dreams, and through them come to the
dreamer but the barest hints of the real
person of whom is the dream. A thousand
fancies fly out, approach, and cross, but
never meet ; the man and the woman are
pleased, not with each other, but each with
the fancied other. The merest common
likings are taken for signs of a wonderful
sympathy, of a radical unity — of essential
capacity, therefore, of loving and being
loved; at a hundred points their souls
seem to touch, but their contacts are the
merest brushing as of insect-antenna ; the
real man, the real woman, is all the time
asleep under the rose-leaves. Happy is the
rare fate of the true — to wake and come
forth and meet in the majesty of the truth,
in the image of God, in their very being,
in the power of that love which alone is

being. They love, not this and that about
each other, but each the very other — a love
as essential to reality, to truth, to religion,
as the love of the very God. Where such
love is, let the differences of taste, the un-witnesses
of temperament be what they may,
the two must by and by be thoroughly one.
Sercombe saw no reason why a gentleman
should not amuse himself with any
young woman he pleased. What was the
chief to him ! He was not his chief ! If
he was a big man in the eyes of his little
clan, he was nothing much in the eyes of
Hilary Sercombe.

CHAPTEK X.

THE ENCOUNTER.

Annie came again to her chief, with the
complaint that Mr. Sercombe persisted in
his attentions. Aster went to see her
home. They had not gone far when Ser-combe
overtook them, and passed. The
chief told Annie to go on, and called after
him,

I must have a word or two with you,
Mr. Sercombe ! "

He turned and came up with long steps,
his hands in his coat-pockets.

^^ I warned you to leave that girl alone ! "
said the chief.

sand I warn you now," rejoined Ser-combe,
^^ to leave me alone 1 "

** I am bound to take care of her."

'rand I of myself."

Not at her expense ! "

At yours then ! " answered Sercombe,
provoking an encounter, to which he was
the more inclined that he saw Ian coming
slowly up the ridge.

'' It was your deliberate intention then to
forget the caution I gave you?" said the
chief, restraining his anger.

'' I make a point of forgetting what I do
not think worth remembering."

'' I forget nothing ! "

I congratulate you."

'^ And I mean to assist your memory, Mr.
Sercombe."

"Mr. Macruadh!" returned Sercombe,
*' if you expect me not to open my lips
to any hussy in the glen without your
leave, "

His speech was cut short by a box on
the ear from the open hand of the chief.
He would not use his fist without warning,
but such a word applied to any honest

woman of his clan demanded instant recognition,


Sercombe fell back a step, white with
rage, then darting forward, struck straight
at the front of his adversary. Blister
avoided the blow, but soon found himself
a mere child at such play with the Englishman.
He had not again touched Sercombe,
and was himself bleeding fast, when Ian
came up running.

^^ Damn you ! come on ! '' cried Ser-combe
when he saw him ; ^' I can do the
precious pair of you ! "

^^ Stop ! " cried Ian, laying hold of his
brother from behind, pinning his arms to
his sides, wheeling him round, and taking
his place. " Give over, Blister," he went
on. *^ You can't do it, and I won't see you
punished when it is he that deserves it. Go
and sit there, and look on."

^^ You can't do it, Ian ! " returned Blister.
*rit is my business. One blow in will
serve. He jumps about like a goat that I
can't hit him ! "

^^You are blind with blood!" said Ian,
in a tone that gave Sercombe expectation
of too easy a victory. '^ Sit down there,
I tel yon ! "

'^ Mind, I don't give in ! " said Aster,
but turning went to the bank at the roadside.
" If he speak once again to Annie, I
swear I wil make him repent it ! "

Sercombe laughed insultingly. •

'^Mr. Sercombe," said Ian, '' had we not
better put off our bout till tomorrow ?
You have fought already ! "

Damn you for a coward, come on ! "

^^ Would you not Hke to take your breath
for a moment ? "

^' I have aU I am likely to need."

It is only fair," persisted Ian, ^' to warn
you that you will not find my knowledge on
the level of my brother's ! "

^' Shut up," said Sercombe savagely, ^' and
come on."

For a few rounds Ian seemed to Ahster
to be giving Sercombe time to recover his
wind ; to Sercombe he seemed to be saving

his own. He stood to defend, and did not
attempt to put in a blow.

'^ Mr. Sercombe," he said at length, '^ you
cannot serve me as you did my brother."

*' I see that well enough. Come on ! "

'' Will you give your word to leave Annie
of the shop alone ? "

Sercombe answered with a scornful imprecation.


*^I warn you again, I am no novice in
this business ! " said Ian.

Sercombe struck out, but did not reach
his antagonist.

The fight lasted but a moment longer.
As his adversary drew back from a failed
blow, Blister saw han's eyes flash, and his
left arm shoot out, as it seemed, to twice
its length. Sercombe neither reeled nor
staggered but fell supine, and lay motionless.
The brothers were by his side in a
moment.

*' I struck too hard ! " said Ian.

'^ Who can think about that in a fight 1 "
returned Blister.

''I could have helped it well enough, and
a better man would. Something shot
through me — I hope it wasn't hatred ; I am
sure it was anger — and the man went
down ! What if the devil struck the
blow!"

"Nonsense, Ian ! " said Aster, as they
raised Sercombe to carry him to the cottage.
'^ It was pure indignation, and nothing to
blame in it ! "

I wish I could be sure of that ! "

They had not gone far before he began to
come to himself.

What are you about ? " he said feebly
but angrily. " Set me down."

They did so. He staggered to the roadside,
and leaned against the bank.

"What's been the row?" he asked.
Oh, I remember ! — Wel, you've had the
best of it ! "

He held out his hand in a vague sort of
way, and the gesture invaded their soft
hearts. Each took the hand.

"I was all right about the girl though,"

said Sercombe. *^ I didn't mean her any
harm."

^'I don't think you did," answered
Blister ; '^ and I am sure you could have
done her none ; but the girl did not
like it."

** There is not a girl of the clan, or in the
neighbourhood, for whom my brother would
not have done the same," said Ian.

^^ You're a brace of woodcocks!" cried
Sercombe. *' It's well you're not out in
the world. You would be in hot water
from morning to night ! I can't think how
the devil you get on at all ! "

^'Get on! Where?" asked Ian with a
smile.

'come now! You ain't such fools as
you want to look ! A man must make a
place for himself somehow in the world ! "

He rose, and they walked in the direction
of the cottage.

ic ^j^\^qj;q is a better thing than that," said
Ian !

^^What?"

'^ To get clean out of it."

'' What ! cut your throats? "

*' I meant that to get out of the world
clean was better than to get on in it."

^' I don't understand you. I don't choose
to think the man that thrashed me a downright
idiot ! " growled Sercombe.

** What you call getting on," rejoined Ian,
*ewe count not worth a thought. Look atour
clan ! it is a type of the world itself.
Everything is passing away. We believe in
the kingdom of heaven."

Come, come ! fellows like you must
know well enough that's all bosh ! Nobody
nowadays — nobody with any brains — believes
such rot ! "

We believe in Jesus Christ," said Ian,
*' and are determined to do what he will
have us do, and take our orders from nobody
else."

*^ I don't understand you ! "

'* I know you don't. You cannot until
you set about changing your whole way of
life."

VOL. II. »

^^ Oh, be damned ! what an idea ! a
sneaking, impossible idea ! "

'ras to its being an impossible idea, we
hold it, and live by it. How absurd it
must seem to you, I know perfectly. But
we don't live in your world, and you do not
even see the lights of ours."

^^ * There is a world beyond the stars' ! —
Well, there may be ; I know nothing about
it ; I only know there is one on this side of
them, — a very decent sort of world too ! I
mean to make the best of it."

*' And have not begun yet ! "

^* Indeed I have ! I deny myself nothing.
I live as I was made to live."

^^If you were not made to obey your
conscience or despise yourself, you are
differently made from us, and no communication
is possible between us. We
must wait until what differences a man
from a beast make its appearance in
you."

'you are polite ! "

"You have spoken of us as you think;

now we speak of you as we think. Taking
your representation of yourself, you are in
the condition of the lower animals, for
you claim inclination as the law of your
life."

'' My beast is better than your man ! "

*' You mean you get more of the good of
life!"

^' Eight! I do."

The brothers exchanged a look and
smile.

"But suppose," resumed Ian, " the man
we have found in us should one day wake
up in you ! Suppose he should say, ' Why
did you make a beast of me ? ' ! It wil not
be easy for you to answer him ! "

'that's aU moonshine! Things are as
you take them."

So said Lady Macbeth tiU she took to
walking in her sleep, and couldn't get rid
of the smell of the blood ! "

Sercombe said no more. He was silent
with disgust at the nonsense of it aU.

They reached the door of the cottage.

Blister invited him to walk in. He drew
back, and would have excused himself.

"You had better lie down a while," said
Blister.

You shall come to my room," said Ian.
We shall meet nobody."

Sercombe yielded, for he felt queer. He
threw himself on han's bed, and in a few
minutes was fast asleep.

When he woke, he had a cup of tea, and
went away little the worse. The laird could
not show himself for several days.

After this Annie had no further molestation.
But indeed the young men's time
was almost up — which was quite as well,
for Annie of the shop, after turning a corner
of the road, had climbed the hill-side,
and seen all that passed. The young
ladies, hearing contradictory statements,
called upon Annie to learn the truth,
and the intercourse with her that followed
was not without influence on them.
Through Annie they saw further into the
character of the brothers, who, if they

advocated things too fine for the world the
girls had hitherto known, did things also
of which it would by no means have
approved. They valued that world and its
judgment not a straw !

CHAPTER XI.

A LESSON.

All the gentlemen at the New House left
it together, and its ladies were once more
abandoned to the society of Nature, who said
little to any of them. For, though she recognized
her grandchildren, and did what she
could for them, it was now time they should
make some move towards acquaintance with
her. A point comes when she must stand
upon her dignity, for it is great. If you
would hear her wonderful tales, or see her
marvellous treasures, you must not trifle with
her; you must not talk as if you could
rummage her drawers and cabinets as you
pleased. You must believe in her; you
must reverence her; else, although she is

everywhere about the house, you may not
meet her from the beginning of one year to
the end of another.

To alice to any aspect of nature in the
presence of the girls was to threaten to bore
them ; and I heartily confess to being bored
myself with common talk about scenery ;
but these ladies appeared unaware of the
least expression on the face of their grandmother.
Doubtless they received some good
from the aspect of things — that they
could not help ; there Grannie's hidden, and
therefore irresistible power was in operation
; but the moment they had their
thoughts directed to the world around
them, they began to gape inwardly. Even
the trumpet and sham of her winds, the
stately march of her clouds, and the torrent-rush
of her waters, were to them poor facts,
no vaguest embodiment of truths eternal.
It was small wonder then that verse of any
worth should be to them but sounding
brass and clanging cymbals. What they
called society J its ways and judgments, its

decrees and condemnations, its fashions and
pomps and shows, false, unjust, ugly, was
nearly ah they cared for. The truth of
things, without care for which man or
woman is the merest puppet, had hitherto
been nothing to them. To talk of Nature
was sentimental. To talk of God was both
irreverent and ill-bred. Wordsworth was
an old woman; St. Paul an evangelical
churchman. They saw no feature of any
truth, but, like all thinkers, wrapped the
words of it in their own foolishness, and
then sneered at them. They were too
much of ladies, however, to do it disagreeably
; they only smiled at the foolish
neighbour who believed things they were
too sensible to believe. It must, however,
be said for them, that they had not yet
refused anything worth believing — as presented
to them. They had not yet actually
looked upon any truth and refused it. They
were indeed not yet true enough in themselves
to suspect the presence of either a
truth or a falsehood.

A thaw came, and the ways were bad,
and they found the time hang yet heavier
on their unaided hands. An intercourse by
degrees established itself between Mrs.
Macruadh and the well-meaning, handsome,
smiling Mrs. Palmer, and rendered it natural
for the girls to go rather frequently to the
cottage. They made themselves agreeable
to the mother, and subject to the
law of her presence showed to better advantage.


With their love of literature, it was
natural also that the young men should
at such times not only talk about books,
but occasionally read for their entertainment
from some favorite one ; so that now,
for the first time in their lives, the young
ladies were brought under direct teaching of
a worthy sort — they had had but a mockery
of it at school and church — and a little light
began to soak through their seeking eyes.
Among many others, however, less manifest,
one obstruction to their progress lay
in the fact that Christina, whose perception

in some directions was quick enough,
would always make a dart at the comical
side of anything that could be comically
turned, so disturbing upon occasion the
whole spiritual atmosphere about some
delicate epiphany : this to both Blister and
Ian was unbearable. She offended chiefly
in respect of Wordsworth — who had not
humour enough always to perceive what
seriously meant expression might suggest
a ludicrous idea.

One time, reading from the Excursion,
Ian came to the verse — not to be found, I
think, in later editions —

Perhaps it is not lie but some one else " : —

*^ Awful idea ! " exclaimed Christina, with
sepulchral tone; *' — ^ some one else!'
Think of it ! It makes me shudder ! Who
might it not have been ! "

Ian closed the book, and persistently
refused to read more that day.

Another time he was reading, in illustration
of something, Wordsworth's poem.

'sto a Skylark," the earlier of the two
with that title : when he came to the
unfortunate line, —

Happy, happy liver ! " —

'^ Oh, I am glad to know that ! " cried
Christina. '^ I always thought the poor
lark must have a bad digestion — he was up
so early ! "

Ian refused to finish the poem, although
Mercy begged hard.

The next time they came, he proposed to
'read something in Miss Palmer's style,"
and taking up a volume of Hood, and avoiding
both his serious and the best of his
comic poems, turned to two or three of the
worst he could find. After these he read a
vulgar rime about an execution, pretending
to be largely amused, making flat jokes of
his own, and sometimes explaining elaborately
where was no occasion.

'' Ian ! " said his mother at length ; '' have
you bid farewell to your senses ? "

^'No, mother," he answered; "what I

am doing is the merest consequence of the
way you brought us up."

'^ I don't understand that ! " she returned.

You always taught us to do the best we
could for our visitors. So when I fail to
interest them, I try to amuse them."

^' But you need not make a fool of yourself!"


*sit is better to make a fool of myself,
than let Miss Palmer make a fool of — a
great man ! "

Mr. Ian," said Christina, ^* it is not of
yourself but of me you have been making
a fool. — I deserved it ! " she added, and
burst into tears.

"Miss Palmer," said Ian, "I will drop
my foolishness, if you will drop your fun."

"I will," answered Christina.

And Ian read them the poem beginning —

Three years she grew in sun and shower."

Scoffing at what is beautiful, is not necessarily
a sign of evil; it may only indicate
stupidity or development : the beauty is

not perceived. But blame is often present
in prolonged development. Surely no
one habitually obeying his conscience would
long be left without a visit from some shape
of the beautiful !

Chapter XII.

Nature.

The girls had every liberty ; their mother
seldom interfered. Herself true to her own
dim horn-lantern, she had confidence in
the discretion of her daughters, and looked
for no more than discretion. Hence an
amount of intercourse was possible between
them and the young men, which must have
speedily grown to a genuine intimacy had
they inhabited even a neighbouring sphere
of conscious life.

Almost unknown to herself, however, a
change for the better had begun in Mercy.
She had not yet laid hold of, had not yet
perceived any truth ; but she had some sense
of the blank where truth ought to be. It

was not a sense that truth was lacking ; it
was only a sense that something was not in
her which was in those men. A nature
such as hers, one that had not yet sinned
against the truth, was not one long to
frequent such a warm atmosphere of live
truth, without approach to the hour when
it must chip its shell, open its eyes, and
acknowledge a world of duty around it.

One lovely star-Ht night of keen frost,
the two mothers were sitting by a red peat-fire
in the little drawing-room of the cottage,
and Ian was talking to the girls over some
sketches he had made in the north, when
the chief came in, bringing with him an air
of sharp exhilaration, and proposed a walk.

^' Come and have a taste of star-light ! "
he said.

The girls rose at once, and were ready
in a minute.

The chief was walking between the two
ladies, and Ian was a few steps in front, his
head bent as in thought. Suddenly, Mercy
saw him spread out his arms toward the

starry vault, with his face to its serrated
edge of mountain-tops. The feeling, almost
the sense of another presence awoke in her,
and as quickly vanished. The thought.
Is he a pantheist ? took its place. Had
she not surprised him in an act of worship ?
In that wide outspreading of the lifted
arms, was he not worshipping the whole,
the Pan? Sky and stars and mountains
and sea were his God ! She walked aghast,
forgetful of a hundred things she had
heard him say that might have settled the
point. She had, during the last day or
two, been reading an article in which
pantheism was once and again referred to
with more horror than definiteness. Recovering
herself a little, she ventured
approach to the subject.

Macruadh," she said, ^* Mr. Ian and
you often say things about nature that I
cannot understand : I wish you would tell
me what you mean by it."

'' By what ? " asked Aster.

'* By nature y' answered Mercy. ** I

heard Mr. Ian say, for instance, the other
night, that he did not like Nature to take
Liberties with him ; you said she might take
what liberties with you she pleased; and
then you went on talking so that I could
not understand a word either of you said ! "

While she spoke, Ian had turned and
rejoined them, and they were now walking
in a line, Mercy between the two men, and
Christina on han's right. The brothers
looked at each other : it would be hard to
make her understand just that example !
Something more rudimentary must prepare
the way ! Silence feU for a moment, and
then Ian said —

'^ We mean by nature every visitation of
the outside world through our senses."

'^ More plainly, please Mr. Ian ! You
cannot imagine how stupid I feel when you
are talking your tliinhs, as once I heard a
child call them."

^' I mean by nature, then, all that you
see and hear and smell and taste and feel
of the things round about you."

VOL. II.

'* If that be all you mean, why should
you make it seem so difficult ? "

*' But that is not all. We mean the
things themselves only for the sake of what
they say to us. As our sense of smell
brings us news of fields far off, so those
fields, or even the smell only that comes
from them, tell us of things, meanings,
thoughts, intentions beyond them, and
embodied in them."

*rand that is why you speak of Nature
as a person ? " asked Mercy.

'' Whatever influences us must be a
person. But God is the only real person,
being in himself, and without help from
anybody ; and so we talk even of the world
which is but his living garment, as if that
were a person ; and we call it she as if it
were a woman, because so many of God's
loveliest influences come to us through her.
She always seems to me a beautiful old
grandmother."

^'But there now! when you talk of her
influences, and the liberties she takes, I do

not know what you mean. She seems todo
and be something to you which certainly
she does not and is not to me. I cannot
tell what to make of it. I feel just as when
our music-master was talking away about
thorough bass : I could not get hold, head
or tail, of what the man was after, and we
all agreed there was no sense in it. Now
I begin to suspect there must have been
too much ! "

^' There is no fear of her ! " said Ian to
himself.

^^ My heart told me the truth about
her ! " thought Ahster jubilant. '^ Now we
shall have talk ! "

'*I think I can let you see into it. Miss
Mercy," said Ian. " Imagine for a moment
how it would be if, instead of having a roof
like ^ this most excellent canopy the air,
this brave overhanging, this majestical roof,
fretted with golden fire,' "

'are you making the words, or saying
them out of a book ? " interrupted Mercy.

''Ah! you don't know Hamlet? How

ricci I should feel myself if I had the first
reading of it before me like you ! — But
imagine how different it would have been
if, instead of such a roof, we had only
clouds, hanging always down, like the flies
in a theatre, within a yard or two of our
heads ! "

Mercy was silent for a moment, then
said,

** It would be horribly wearisome."

^^ It would indeed be wearisome 1 But
how do you think it would affect your
nature, your being ? "

Mercy held the peace which is the ignorant
man's wisdom.

^' We should have known nothing of
astronomy," said Christina.

** True ; and the worst would have been,
that the soul would have had no astronomy
no notion of heavenly things."

u There you leave me out again ! " said
Mercy.

'' I mean," said Ian, '^ that it would have
had no sense of outstretching, endless space,

no feeling of heights above, and depths
beneath. The idea of space would not have
come awake in it."

^'I understand! " said Christina. 'but
I do not see that we should have been much
the worse off. Why should we have the
idea of more than we want ? So long as
we have room, I do not see what space
matters to us ! "

''xlh, but when the soul wakes up, it
needs all space for room ! A limit of
thousands of worlds will not content it.
Mere elbow-room will not do when the soul
wakes up ! ''

Then my soul is not waked up yet ! "
rejoined Christina with a laugh.

Ian did not reply, and Christina felt that
he accepted the proposition, absurd as it
seemed to herself.

But there is far more than that," he
resumed. '' What notion could you have had
of majesty, if the heavens seemed scarce
higher than the earth ? what feeling of the
grandeur of him we call God, of his illumination

in goodness ? For space is the body
to the idea of liberty. Liberty is — God and
the souls that love ; these are the limitless
room, the space, in which thoughts, the souls
of things, have their being. If there were
no holy mind, then no freedom, no spiritual
space, therefore no thoughts ; just as, if there
were no space, there could be no things."

Ian saw that not even Blister was following
him, and changed his key.

'' Look up," he said, sand tell me what
you see. — What is the shape over us ? "

^^ It is a vault," replied Christina.

^' A dome — is it not ? " said Mercy.

Yes ; a vault or a dome, recognizable
at the moment mainly by its shining points.
This dome we understand to be the complement
or completing part of a correspondent
dome on the other side of the world. It
follows that we are in the heart of a hollow
sphere of loveliest blue, spangled with light.
Now the sphere is the one perfect geometrical
form. Over and round us then
we have the one perfect shape. I do not

say ifc is put there for the purpose of representing
God ; I say it is there of necessity,
because of its nature, and its nature is its
relation to God. It is of God's thinking ;
and that half-sphere above men's heads,
with influence endlessly beyond the reach
of their consciousness, is the beginning of
all revelation of him to men. They must
begin with that. It is the simplest as well
as most external likeness of him, while its
relation to him goes so deep that it represents
things in his very nature that nothing
else could."

You bewilder me," said Mercy. '^ 1
cannot follow you. I am not fit for such
high things ! "

'^ I will go on ; you wil soon begin to see
what I mean : I know what you are fit for
better than you do yourself. Miss Mercy.
Think then how it would be if this blue
sky were plainly a solid. Men of old believed
it a succession of hollow spheres, one
outside the other ; it is hardly a wonder
they should have had little gods. No

matter how high, the vault of the inclosing
sphere ; limited at all it could not declare
the glory of God, it could only show his
handiwork. In our day it is a sphere only
to the eyes ; it is a foreshortening of infinitude
that it may enter our sight ; there is
no imagining of a limit to it ; it is a sphere
only in this, that in no one direction can
we come nearer to its circumference than
in another. This infinitive sphere, T say
then, or, if you like it better, this spheric
infinitude, is the only figure, image, emblem,
symbol, fit to begin us to know God ; it is
an idea incomprehensible ; we can only
believe in it. In like manner God cannot
by searching be found out, cannot be
grasped by any mind, yet is ever before us,
the one we can best know, the one we must
know, the one we cannot help knowing ;
for his end in giving us being is that his
humblest creature should at length possess
himself, and be possessed by him."

"I think I begin," said Mercy — and said
no more.

*^ If it were not for the outside world,"
resumed Ian, ^^ we should have no inside
world to understand things by. Least of
all could we understand God without these
millions of sights and sounds and scents
and motions, weaving their endless harmonies.
They come out from his heart tolet
us know a little of what is in it ! "

Blister had been listening hard. He
could not originate such things, but he
could understand them ; and his delight in
them proved them his own, although his
brother had sunk the shaft that laid open
their lode.

*^ I never heard you put a thing better,
Ian ! " he said.

*^ You gentlemen," said Mercy, ^^ seem to
have a place to think in that I don't know
how to get into ! Could you not open your
church-door a little wider to let me in?
There must be room for more than two ! "

She was looking up at Blister, not so
much afraid of him ; Ian was to her hardly
of this world. In her eyes Blister saw

something that seemed to reflect the starlight
; but it might have been a luminous
haze about the waking stars of her soul !

*^ My brother has always been janitor tome,"
replied Blister; ^' I do not know how
to open any door. But here no door needs
to be opened ; you have just to step straight
into the temple of nature, among all the
good people worshipping."

u There ! that is what I was afraid of ! "
cried Mercy : '' you are pantheists ! "

^' Bless my soul, Mercy ! " exclaimed
Christina ; ^' what do you mean ? "

"Yes," answered Ian. "If to believe
that not a lily can grow, not a sparrow fall
to the ground without our Father, be pantheism,
Blister and I are pantheists. If
by pantheism you mean anything that would
not fit with that, we are not pantheists."

' Why should we trouble about religion
more than is required of us ! " interposed
Christina.

"Why indeed?" returned Ian. "But
then how much is required ? "

*' You require far more than my father,
and he is good enough for me ! "

** The Master says we are to love God
with all our hearts and souls and strength
and mind."

'that was in the old law, Ian," said
AUster.

^' You are right. Jesus only justified it —
and did it."

^' How then can you worship in the temple
of Nature ? " said Mercy.

** Just as he did. It is Nature's temple,
mind, for the worship of God, not of herself
! "

^'But how am I to get into it? That
is what I want to know."

^^ The innermost places of the temple are
open only to such as already worship in a
greater temple ; but it has courts into which
any honest soul may enter."

^* You wouldn't set me to study Wordsworth
? "

^' By no means."

** I am glad of that — though there must

be more in him than I see, or you couldn't
care for him so much ! "

*' Some of Nature's lessons you must
learn before you can understand them."

*' Can you call it learning a lesson if you
do not understand it ? "

'* Yes — to a certain extent. Did you
learn at school to work the rule of three ? "

'^ Yes ; and I was rather fond of it."

** Did you understand it ? "

*' I could work sums in it."

*' Did you see how it was that setting the
terms down so, and working out the rule,
must give you a true answer. Did you
perceive that it was safe to buy or sell, to
build a house, or lay out a garden, by the
rule of three?"

'^ I did not. I do not yet."

'' Then one may so far learn a lesson
without understanding it ! All do, more or
less, in Dame Nature's school. Not a few
lessons must be so learned in order to be
better learned. Without being so learned
first, it is not possible to understand them ;

the scholar has not facts enough about
the things to understand them. Keats's
youthful delight in Nature was more intense
even than Wordsworth's, but he was
only beginning to understand her when he
died. Shelley was much nearer understanding
her than Keats, but he was
drowned before he did understand her.
Wordsworth was far before either of them.
At the same time, presumptuous as it may
appear, I believe there are regions to be
traversed, beyond any point to which
Wordsworth leads us."

^^ But how am I to begin ? Do tell me.
Nothing you say helps me in the least."

^' I have all the time been leading you
toward the door at which you want to
go in. It is not likely, however, that
it will open to you at once. I doubt if
it will open to you at all except through
sorrow."

** You are a most encouraging master! "
said Christina, with a light laugh.

*rit was Wordsworth's bitter disappointment

in the outcome of the French revolution,"
continued Ian, *that opened the
door to him. Yet he had gone through
the outer courts of the temple with more
understanding than any who immediately
preceded him.— Will you let me ask you a
question ? "

*' You frighten me ! " said Mercy.

*'I am sorry for that. We will talk of
something else."

^' I am not afraid of what you may ask
me ; I am frightened at what you tell me.
I fear to go on if I must meet Sorrow on
the way! "

You make one think of some terrible
secret society ! " said Christina.

*^ Tell me then, Miss Mercy, is there anything
you love very much ? I don't say
B>Tij person, but any thing. '^

'^ I love some animals."

*' An animal is not a thing. It is possible
to love animals and not the nature of which
we are speaking. You might love a dog
dearly, and never care to see the sun rise ! —

Tell me, did any flower ever make you
cry?"

No," answered Mercy, with a puzzled
laugh ; ^' how could it ? "

Did any flower ever make you a moment
later in going to bed, or a moment earlier
in getting out of it ? "

^^No, certainly!"

'^ In that direction, then, I am foiled !

^^ You would not really have me cry over
a flower, Mr. Ian ? Did ever a flower make
you cry yourself ? Of course not ! it is
only silly women that cry for nothing ! "

^'I would rather not bring myself in at
present," answered Ian smiling. " Do you
know how Chaucer felt about flowers ? "

'^ I never read a word of Chaucer."

'' Shall I give you an instance ? "

^^ Please."

Chaucer was a man of the world, a
courtier, more or less a man of affairs,
employed by Edward III. in foreign business
of state : you cannot mistake him for
an effeminate or sentimental man ! He

does not anywhere, so far as I remember,
say that ever lie cried over a flower, but he
shows a delight in some flowers so delicate
and deep that it must have a source profounder
than that of most people's tears.
When we go back I will read you what he
says about the daisy ; but one more general
passage I think I could repeat. There are
animals in it too ! "

** Pray let us hear it," said Christina.

He spoke the following stanzas — not quite
correctly, but supplying for the moment's
need where he could not recall : —

A garden saw I, full of blossomed bowes,
"Upon a river, in a greene mede,
There as sweetness evermore enough is,
With flores white, blew, yelowe, and rede,
And cold well streams, nothing cede.
That women full of small fishes light.
With fines rede, and scales silver bright.

On every bough the birds heard I sing,

With voice of angell, in hir armenia.

That busied hem, hir birds forth to bring,

The little pretty conies to hir play gan hie,

And further all about I gan espied,

The dreadful roe, the buck, the hart, and hind.

Squirrels, and beasts small, of gentle kind.

Of instruments of strings in accorde,
Heard I so play, a ravishing sweetness,
That God, that maker is of all and Lorde,
Ke heard never better, as I geese,
Therewith a wind, runneth it might be lesse,
Made in the leaves greene a noise soft,
Accordant to the foules song on loft.

The aire of the place so attempt was,
That never was ther grievance of hot ne cold,
There was eke every wholesome spice and gras,
Ke no man may there wane sick ne old,
Yet was there more joy o thousand fold.
Than I can tell or ever could or might,
There is ever clerk day, and never night.

He modernized them also a little in
repeating them, so that his hearers missed
nothing through failing to understand the
words : how much they gained, it were hard
to say.

^'It reminds one," commented Ian, *^ of
Dante's paradise on the top of the hill of
purgatory."

^^ I don't know anything about Dante
either," said Mercy regretfully.

'^ There is plenty of time ! " said Ian.

*' But there is so much to learn!" returned
Mercy in a hopeless tone.

VOL. II. p

*^ That is the joy of existence!" Ian
replied. *^ We are not bound to know; weare
only bound to learn. — But to return to
my task : a man may really love a flower.
In another poem Chaucer tells us that such
is his delight in his books that no other
pleasure can take him from them —

Save certainly, when that the month of Mays
come, and that I heare the foules sing,
And that the flores ginnen for to spring,
Farewell my booke, and my devotion !

Poor people love flowers ; rich people admire
them."

^^But," said Mercy, "how can one love a
thing that has no life ? "

Ian could have told her that whatever
grows must live ; he could further have
told her his belief that life cannot be without
its measure of consciousness ; but it
would have led to more difficulty, and
away from the end he had in view. He
felt also that no imaginable degree of consciousness
in it was commensurate with
the love he had himself for almost any

flower. His answer to Mercy's question was
this : —

*the flowers come from the same heart
as man himseH, and are sent to be his companions
and ministers. There is something
divinely magical, because profoundly human
in them. In some at least the human is
plain ; we see a face of childlike peace and
confidence that appeals to our best. Our
feeling for many of them doubtless owes
something to childish associations ; but
how did they get their hold of our childhood
? Why did they enter our souls at
all ? They are joyous, inarticulate children,
come with vague messages from the father
of all. If I confess that what they say tome
sometimes makes me weep, how can
I call my feeling for them anything but
love ? The eternal thing may have a
thousand forms of which we know nothing
yet!-

Mercy felt Ian must mean something she
ought to like, if only she knew what it was ;
but he had not yet told her anything to

help her ! He had, however, neither
reached his end nor lost his way ; he was
leading her on — gently and naturally.

I did not mean," he resumed, ^' that you
must of necessity begin with the flowers.
I was only inquiring whether at that point
you were nearer to Nature. — Tell me — were
you ever alone ? "

** Alone ! " repeated Mercy, thinking.
'^ — Surely everybody has been many times
alone!"

** Could you tell when last you were
alone?"

She thought, but could not tell.

What I want to ask you," said Ian, ^' is
did you ever feel alone? Did you ever
for a moment inhabit loneliness ? Did it
ever press itself upon you that there was
nobody near — that if you called nobody
would hear ? You are not alone while you
know that you can have a fellow creature
with you the instant you choose."

*^ I hardly think I was ever alone in that
way."

** Then what I would have you do," continued
Ian, "• is — to make yourself alone in
one of Nature's withdrawing-rooms, and seat
yourself in one of Grannie's own chairs. — I
am coming to the point at last ! — Upon a
day when the weather is fine, go out by
yourself. Tell no one where you are going,
or that you are going anywhere. Climb a
hill. If you cannot get to the top of it, go
high on the side of it. No book, mind !
nothing to fill your thinking-place from
another's ! People are always saying * I
think,' when they are not thinking at all,
when they are at best only passing the
thoughts of others whom they do not even
know.

*' When you have got quite alone, when
you do not even know the nearest point to
anybody, sit down and be lonely. Lookout
on the loneliness, the wide world round
you, and the great vault over you, with the
lonely sun in the middle of it ; fold your
hands in your lap, and be still. Do not try
to think anything. Do not try to call up

any feeling or sentiment or sensation ; just
be still. By and by, it may be, you will
begin to know something of Nature. I do
not know you well enough to be sure about
it ; but if you tell me afterwards how you
fared, I shall then know you a little better,
and perhaps be able to tell you whether
Nature will soon speak to you, or not until,
as Henry Vaughan says, some veil be broken
in you."

They were approaching the cottage, and
little more was said. They found Mrs.
Palmer prepared to go, and Mercy was not
sorry : she had had enough for a while.
She was troubled at the thought that perhaps
she was helplessly shut out from the
life inhabited by the brothers. When she
lay down, her own life seemed dull and
poor. These men, with all their kindness,
respect, attention, and even attendance
upon them, did not show them the homage
which the men of their own circle paid
them !

They will never miss us 1 " she said to

herself. *^ They will go on with their pantheism,
or whatever it is, all the same ! "

But they should not say she was one of
those who talk but will not do ! That scorn
she could not bear !

All the time, however, the thing seemed
to savour more of spell or cast of magic
than philosophy : the means enjoined were
suggestive of a silent incantation !

CHAPTEK XIII.

Granny Angry.

It must not be supposed that all the visiting
was on the part of those of the New House.
The visits thence were returned by both
matron and men. But somehow there was
never the same freedom in the house as in
the cottage. The difference did not lie in
the presence of the younger girls : they
were well behaved, friendly, and nowise
disagreeable children. Doubtless there was
something in the absence of books : it was
of no use to jump up when a passage
occurred ; help was not at hand. But it
was more the air of the place, the presence
of so many common-place things, that
clogged the wheels of thought. Neither,
with all her knowledge of the world and all

her sweetness, did Mrs. Palmer understand
the essentials of hospitality half so well as
the widow of the late minister-chief. All
of them liked, and confessed that they liked
the cottage best. Even Christina felt
something lacking in their reception. She
regretted that the house was not grand
enough to show what they were accustomed
to.

Mrs. Palmer seldom understood the talk,
and although she sat looking persistently
content, was always haunted with a dim
feeling that her husband would not be best
pleased at so much intercourse between his
rich daughters and those penniless country-fellows.
But what could she do ! the
place where he had abandoned them was
so dull, so solitary ! the girls must not
mope ! Christina would wither up without
amusement, and then good-bye to her
beauty and all that depended upon it ! In
the purity of her motherhood, she more
than liked the young men : happy mother
she would think herself, were her daughters

to marry such men as these ! The relations
between them and their mother delighted
her : they were one ! their hearts were
together ! they understood each other !
She could never have such bliss with her
sons ! Never since she gave them birth
had she had one such look from either of
hers as she saw pass every now and then
from these to their mother ! It would belike
being born again to feel herself loved
in that way ! For any danger to the girls,
she thought with a sigh how soon in
London they would forget the young highlanders.
Was there no possibility of
securing one of them ? What chance was
there of Mercy's marrying well ! she was
so decidedly plain ! Was the idea of
marrying her into an old and once powerful
family like that of the Macruadh, to
her husband inconceivable ? Could he not
restore its property as the dowry of his
apprized daughter ! it would be to him buta
trifle ! — and he could stipulate that the
chief should acknowledge the baronetcy

and use his title ! Mercy would then bea
woman of consequence, and Peregrine
would have the Bible-honour of being the
repairer of the breach, the restorer of paths
to dwell in ! — Such were some of the
thoughts that would come and go in the
brain of the mother as she sat ; nor were
they without a share in her readiness to
allow her daughters to go out with the
young men : she had an unquestioning
conviction of their safety with them.

The days went by, and what to Christina
had seemed imprisonment, began to look
like some sort of liberty. She had scarce
come nearer to sympathy with those whose
society consoled her, but their talk had
ceased to sound repulsive. She was
infinitely more* than a well-modelled wax-flower,
and yet hardly a growing plant.
More was needed to wake her than friends
awake. It is wonder-ful how long the sleeping
may go with the waking, and not discover
any difference between them. But
Grannie Nature was about to interfere.

The spring drew gently on. It would
be long ere summer was summer enough to
show. There seemed more of the destructive
in the spring itself than of the genial —
cold winds, great showers, days of steady
rain, sudden assaults of hail and sleet.
Still it was spring, and at length, one fine
day with a bright sun, snow on the hills,
and clouds in the east, but no sign of any
sudden change, the girls went out for a
walk, and took the younger girls with them.

A little way up the valley, out of sight
of the cottage, a small burn came down its
own dell to join that which flowed through
the chief's farm. Its channel was wide, but
except in time of rain had little water in it.
About half a mile up its course it divided,
or rather the channel did, for in one of its
branches there was seldom any water. At
the fork was a low rocky mound, with an
ancient ruin of no great size — three or soar
fragments of thick walls, within whose plan
grew a slender birch-tree. Thither went
the little party, wandering up the stream :

the valley was sheltered ; no wind but the
south could reach it ; and the sun, though
it could not make it very warm, as it looked
only aslant on its slopes, yet lighted both
sides of it. Great white clouds passed slowly
across the sky, with now and then a nearer
black one threatening rain, but a wind overhead
was carrying them quickly athwart.

Ian had seen the ladies pass, but made
no effort to overtake them, although he
was bound in the same direction : he preferred
sauntering along with a book of
ballads. Suddenly his attention was roused
by a peculiar whistle, which he knew for
that of Hector of the Stags : it was one of
the few sounds he could make. Three times
it was hurriedly repeated, and ere the third
was over, Ian had discovered Hector high
on a hill on the opposite side of the burn,
waving his arms, and making eager signs
to him. He stopped and set himself to
understand. Hector was pointing with
energy, but it was impossible to determine
the exact direction: all that Ian could

gather was, that his presence was wanted
somewhere farther on. He resumed his
walk therefore at a rapid pace, whereupon
Hector pointed higher. There on the
eastern horizon, towards the north, almost
down upon the hills, Ian saw a congeries
of clouds in strangest commotion, such ashe
had never before seen in any home
latitude — a mass of darkly variegated
vapours manifesting a peculiar and appalling
unrest. It seemed tormented by a
gyrating storm, twisting and contorting it
with unceasing change. Now the gray
came writhing out, now the black came
bulging through, now a dirty brown smeared
the ashy white, and now the blue shone
calmly out from eternal distances. At the
season he could hardly think it a thunderstorm,
and stood absorbed in the unusual
phenomenon. But again, louder and more
hurried, came the whistling, and again he
saw Hector gesticulating, more wildly than
before. Then he knew that someone must
be in want of help or succour, and set off

running as hard as he could : he saw Hector
keeping him in sight, and watching to give
him further direction : perhaps the ladies
had got into some difficulty !

When he arrived at the opening of the
valley just mentioned, Hector's gesticulations
made it quite plain it was up there he
must go ; and as soon as he entered it, he
saw that the cloudy turmoil was among the
hills at its head. With that he began to
suspect the danger the hunter feared, and
almost the same instant heard the merry
voices of the children. Running yet faster,
he came in sight of them on the other side
of the stream, — not a moment too soon.
The valley was full of a dull roaring sound.
He called to them as he ran, and the
children saw and came running down toward
him, followed by Mercy. She was not
looking much concerned, for she thought it
only the grumbling of distant thunder.
But Ian saw, far up the valley, what looked
like a low brown wall across it, and knew
what it was.

Mercy ! " he cried, '^ nm up the side of
the hill directly ; you will be drowned —
swept away if you do not."

She looked incredulous, and glanced up
the hill-side, but came on as if to cross the
burn and join him.

''Do as I tell you," he cried, in a tone
which few would have ventured to disregard,
and turning darted across the channel
toward her.

Mercy did not wait his coming, but took
the children, each by a hand, and went a
little way up the hill that immediately bordered
the stream.

Farther ! farther ! " cried Ian as he ran.
"Where is Christina?"

At the ruin," she answered.

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Ian, and
darted off, crying, " Up the hill with you !
up the hill!"

Christina was standing by the birch-tree
in the ruin, looking down the burn. She
had heard Ian calling, and saw him running,
but suspected no danger.

'come; come directly; for God's sake,
come ! " tie cried. '' Look up the burn ! "
he added, seeing her hesitate bewildered.

She turned, looked, and came ruining to
him, doom the channel, white with terror.
It was too late. The charging water,
whose front rank was turf, and bushes,
and stones, was almost upon her. The
solid matter had retarded its rush, but it
was now on the point of dividing against
the rocky mound, to sweep along both sides,
and turn it into an island. Ian bounded to
her in the middle of the channel, caught
her by the arm, and hurried her back to the
mound as fast as they could run : it was
the highest ground immediately accessible.
As they reached it, the water broke with a
roar against its rocky base, rose, swelled —
and in a moment the island was covered
with a brown, seething, swirling flood.

*' Where's Mercy and the children ? "
gasped Christina, as the water rose upon her.

Safe, safe ! " answered Ian. '^ We
must get to the ruin ! '*

VOL. II. Q

The water was halfway up his leg, and
rising fast. Their danger was but beginning.
Would the old walls, in greater part
built without mortar, stand the rush? If
a tree should , strike them, they hardly
would ! If the flood came from a waterspout,
it would soon be over — only how
high it might first rise, who could tell !
Such were his thoughts as they struggled to
the ruin, and stood up at the end of a wall
parallel with the current.

The water was up to Christina's waist,
and very cold. Here out of the rush, however,
she recovered her breath in a measure,
and showed not a little courage. Ian stood
between her and the wall, and held her fast.
The torrent came round the end of the wall
from both sides, but the encounter and eddy
of the two currents rather pushed them up
against it. Without it they could not have
stood.

The chief danger to Christina, however,
was from the cold. With the water so high
on her body, and flowing so fast, she could

not long resist it ! Ian, therefore, took her
round the knees, and lifted her almost ont
of the water.

Put your arms up," he said, " and lay
hold of the wall. Don't mind blinding me ;
my eyes are of little use at present. There
put your feet in my hands. Don't be
frightened ; I can hold you."

'*I can't help being frightened!" she
panted.

'* We are in God's arms," returned Ian.
''He is holding us."

'' Are you sure we shall not be drowned ? "
she asked.

'' No ; but I am sure the water cannot
take us out of God's arms."

This was not much comfort to Christina.
She did not know anything about God — did
not believe in him any more than most
people. She knew God's arms only as the
arms of Ian — and they comforted her, for
she felt them !

How many of us actually believe in any
support we do not immediately feel ? in any

arms we do not see ? But every help is
from God ; han's help was God's help ; and
though to believe in Ian was not to believe
in God, it was a step on the road toward
believing in God. He that believeth not in
the good man whom he hath seen, how
shall he believe in the God whom he hath
not seen ?

She began to feel a little better; the
ghastly choking at her heart was almost
gone.

*' I shall break your arms ! " she said.

You are not very heavy," he answered ;
and though I am not so strong as Blister,
I am stronger than most men. With the
help of the wall I can hold you a longtime."


How was it that, now first in danger,
self came less to the front with her than
usual ? It was that now first she was face
to face with reality. Until this moment
her life had been an affair of realities.
Her selfishness had thinned, as it were
vaporized, every reality that approached

her. Solidity is not enough to teach some
natures reality ; they must hurt themselves
against the solid ere they realize its solidity.
Small reality, small positively of existence
has water to a dreaming soul, half consciously
gazing through half shut eyes at
the soft river floating away in the moonlight
: Christina was shivering in its grasp
on her person, its omnipresence to her skin;
its cold made her gasp and choke; the push
and tug of it threatened to sweep her away
like a whelmed log ! It is when we are
most aware of the latitude of things, that
we are most aware of our need of God, and
most able to trust in him ; when most
aware of their presence, the soul finds it
easiest to withdraw from them, and seek
its safety with the maker of it and them.
The recognition of inexorable reality in any
shape, or kind, or way, tends to rouse the
soul to the yet more real, to its relations
with higher and deeper existence. It is
not the hysterical alone for whom the great
dash of cold water is good. All who dream

life instead of living it, require some similar
shock. Of the kind is every disappointment,
every reverse, every tragedy of life.
The true in even the lowest kind, is of the
truth, and to be compelled to feel even
that, is to be driven a trifle nearer to
the truth of being, of creation, of God.
Hence this sharp contact with Nature
tended to make Christina less selfish : it
made her forget herself so far as to care for
her helper as well as herself.

It must be remembered, however, that
her selfishness was not the cultivated and
ingrained selfishness of a long life, but that
of an uneducated, that is undeveloped
nature. Her being had not degenerated
by sinning against light known as light ;
it had not been consciously enlightened at
all ; it had scarcely as yet begun to 
was not lying dead, only unawaked. I
would not be understood to imply that she
was nowise to blame — but that she was by
no means so much to blame as one who has
but suspected the presence of a truth, and

from selfishness or self admiration has
tm-ned from it. She was to blame wherever
she had not done as her conscience
had feebly told her ; and she had not made
progress just because she had neglected
the Httle things concerning which she had
promptings i There are many who do not
enter the kingdom of heaven just because
they will not believe the tiny key that is
handed them, fit to open its hospitable gate.

*' Oh, Mr. Ian, if you should be drowned
for my sake ! " she faltered with white lips.
^* You should not have come to me ! "

^' I would not wish a better death," said
Ian.

How can you talk so coolly about it ! "
she cried.

swell," he returned what better way
of going out of the world is there than by
the door of help ? No man cares much
about what the idiots ,of the world call
life ! What is it whether we live in this
room or another ? The same who sent us
here, sends for us out of here ! "

*' Most men care very much ! Yon are
wrong there ! "

'^ I don't call those who do, men ! They
are only children ! I know many men
who would no more cleave to this life
than a butterfly would fold his wings and
creep into his deserted chrysalis-case. I
do care to live — tremendously, but I don't
mind where. He who made this room so
well worth living in, may surely be trusted
with the next ! "

'^I can't quite follow you," stammered
Christina. ^^ I am sorry. Perhaps it is
the cold. I can't feel my hands, I am so
cold."

^* Leave the wall, and put your arms
round my neck. The change will rest me,
and the water is already falling ! It will
go as rapidly as it came ! "

^^ How do you know that ? "

*rit has sunk nearly a foot in the last
fifteen minutes : I have been carefully
watching it, you may be sure ! It must
have been a waterspout, and however much

that may bring, it pours it out all at
once."

Oh! " said Christina, with a tremulous
joyfulness ; '^ I thought it would go on ever
so long ! "

*^ We shall get out of it alive ! — God's
will he done ! "

^' Why do you say that? Don't you
really mean we are going to be saved ? '*

** Would you want to Hve, if he wanted
you to die ? "

'' Oh, but you forget, Mr. Ian, I am not
ready to die, like you! " sobbed Christina.


"Do you think anything could make it
better for you to stop here, after God
thought it better for you to go ? "

I dare not think about it."

Be sure God will not take you away,
if it be better for you to live here a little
longer. But you will have to go sometime
; and if you contrived to live after God
wanted you to go, you would find yourself
much less ready when the time came that

you must. But, my dear Miss Palmer, no
one can be living a true life, to whom dying
is a terror."

Christina was silent. He spoke the
truth ! She was not worth anything !
How grand it was to look death in the
face with a smile !

If she had been no more than the creature
she had hitherto shown herself, not all the
floods of the deluge could have made her
think or feel thus : her real self, her divine
nature had begun to wake. True, that
nature was as yet no more like the divine,
than the drowsy, arm-stretching, yawning
child is like the merry elf about to spring
from his couch, full of life, of play, of love.
She had no faith in God yet, but it was
much that she felt she was not worth
anything.

You are right : it was odd to hold such
a conversation at such a time ! But Ian
was an odd man. He actually believed
that God was nearer to him than his own
consciousness, yet desired communion with

him ! and that Jesus Christ knew what he
said when he told his disciples that the
Father cared for his sparrows.

Only one human being witnessed their
danger, and he could give no help. Hector
of the Stags had crossed the main valley
above where the torrent entered it, and
coming over the hill, saw with consternation
the flood-encompassed pair. If there had
been help in man, he could have brought
none ; the raging torrent blocked the way
both to the village and to the chiefs house.
He could only stand and gaze with his heart
in his eyes.

Beyond the stream lay Mercy on the hillside,
with her face in the heather. Frozen
with dread, she dared not look up. Had
she moved but ten yards, she would have
seen her sister in han's arms.

The children sat by her, white as death,
with great lumps in their throats, and the
silent tears rolling down their cheeks. It
was the first time death had come near
them.

A sound of sweeping steps came th rough
the heather. They looked up : there was
the chief striding toward them.

The flood had come upon him at work in
his fields, whelming his growing crops. He
had but time to unyoke his bulls, and run
for his life. The bulls, not quite equal to
the occasion, were caught and swept away.
They were found a week after on the hills,
nothing the worse, and nearly as wild as
when first the chief took them in hand.
The cottage was in no danger ; and Nancy
got a horse and the last of the cows from
the farm-yard on to the crest of the ridge,
against which the burn rushed roaring, just
as the water began to invade the townhouse
and stable. The moment he reached the
ridge, the chief set out to look for his
brother, whom he knew to be somewhere
up the valley; and having climbed to get
an outlook, saw Mercy and the girls, from
whose postures he dreaded that something
had befallen them.

The girls uttered a cry of welcome, and

the chief answered, but Mercy did not lift
her head.

'' Mercy," said Blister softly, and kneeling
laid his hand on her.

She turned to him such a face of
blank misery as filled him with consternation.


*^ What has happened ? " he asked.

She tried to speak, but could not.

^* Where is Christina ? " he went on.

She succeeded in bringing out the one
word ^^ruin."

^' Is anybody with her ? "

*tian."

*' Oh ! " he returned cheerily, as if then
all would be right. But a pang shot
through his heart, and it was as much for
himself as for Mercy that he went on :
*but God is with them, Mercy. If he
were not, it would be bad indeed ! Where
he is, all is well ! "

She sat up, and putting out her hand,
laid it in his great palm.

'' I wish I could believe that ! " she said ;

but you know people are drowned sometimes
! "

'eyes, surely! but if God be with them
what does it matter ! It is no worse than
when a mother puts her baby into a big
bath."

"It is cruel to talk like that to me when
my sister is drowning ! "

She gave a stifled shriek, and threw herself
again on her face.

"Mercy," said the chief — and his voice
trembled a little, "you do not love your
sister more than I love my brother, and if
he be drowned I shall weep ; but I shall not
be miserable as if a mocking devil were at
the root of it, and not one who loves them
better than we ever shall. But come; I
think we shall find them somehow alive
yet ! Ian knows what to do in an emergency
; and though you might not think it,
he is a very strong man."

She rose immediately, and taking like a
child the hand he offered her, went up the
hi with him.

The girls ran before them, and presently
gave a scream of joy.

*^ I see Chrissy ! I see Chrissy ! " cried
one.

*eyes! there she is! I see her too!"
cried the other.

Blister hurried up with Mercy. There
was Christina! She seemed standing on
the water !

Mercy burst into tears.

*but Where's Ian?" she said, when she
had recovered herself a little ; '^ I don't see
him ! "

^^ He is there though, all right ! " answered
Blister. *' Don't you see his hands holding
her out of the water?"

And with that he gave a great shout : —

Ian ! Ian ! hold on, old boy ! I'm
coming ! "

Ian heard him, and was filled with terror,
but had neither breath nor strength to
answer. Along the hillside went Blister
bounding like a deer, then turning sharp,
shot headlong down, dashed into the torrent

and was swept away like a cork. Mercy
gave a scream, and ran down the hill.

He was not carried very far, however.
In a moment or two he had recovered himself,
and crept out gasping and laughing,
just below Mercy. Ian did not move. He
was so benumbed that to change his position
an inch would, he well knew, be to fall.

And now Hector began to behave oddly.
He threw a stone, which went in front of
Ian and Christina. Then he threw another,
which went behind them. Then he threw
a third, and Christina felt her hat caught
by a bit of string. She drew it toward her
as fast as numbness would permit, and
found at the end a small bottle. She
managed to get it uncorked, and put it to
han's lips. He swallowed a mouthful, and
made her take some. Hector stood on one
side, the chief on the other, and watched
the proceeding.

'^ What would mother say, Blister ! " cried
Ian across the narrowing water.

In the joy of hearing his voice, Blister

rushed again into the torrent ; and, after a
fierce struggle, reached the mound, where
he scrambled up, and putting his arms
round han's legs with a shout, lifted the two
at once like a couple of babies.

'' Come ! come, Blister ! don't be silly ! "
said Ian. ^' Set me down ! "

^' Give me the girl then."

^' Take her!"

Christina turned on him a sorrowful gaze
as Blister took her.

^' I have killed you ! " she said,

'' You have done me the greatest favour,"
he replied.

^' What?" she asked.

"Accepted help."

She burst out crying. She had not shed
a tear before.

*^ Get on the top of the wall, Ian, out of
the wet," said Blister.

You can't tell what the water may have
done to the foundations, Blister 1 I would
rather not break my leg ! It is so frozen it
would never mend again ! ' '

VOL. II. R

As they talked, the torrent had fallen so
much, that Hector of the Stags came
wading from the other side. A few minutes
more, and Blister carried Christina to Mercy.

"Now," he said, setting her down, "you
must walk."

Ian could not cross without Hector's
help ; he seemed to have no legs. They set
out at once for the cottage.

"How will your crops fare, Blister?"
asked Ian.

"Part will be spoiled," replied the chief;
part not much the worse."

The torrent had rushed half-way up the
ridge, then swept along the flank of it, and
round the end in huge bulk, to the level on
the other side. The water lay soaking
into the fields. The valley was desolated.
What green things had not been uprooted
or carried away with the soil, were laid flat.
Everywhere was mud, and scattered allover
were lumps of turf, with heather, brushwood,
and small trees. But it was early in
the year, and there was hope !

I will spare the description of the haste
and hurrying to and fro in the little house
the blowing of fires, the steaming pails
and blankets, the hot milk and tea ! Mrs.
Macruadh rolled up her sleeves, and worked
like a good housemaid. Nancy shot hither
and thither on her bare feet like a fawn —
you could not say she ran, and certainly
she did not walk. Blister got Ian to bed,
and rubbed him with rough towels — himself
more wet than he, for he had been rolled
over and over in the torrent. Christina
fell asleep, and slept many hom's. When
she woke, she said she was quite well ; but
it was weeks before she was like herself.
I doubt if ever she was quite as strong
again. For some days Ian confessed to an
aching in his legs and arms. It was the
cold of the water, he said ; but Blister insisted
it was from holding Christina so long.

^^ Water could not hurt a high lander ! "
said Ahster.

CHAPTER XIV.

CHANGE.

Christina walked home without difficulty,
but the next day did not leave her bed, and
it was a fortnight before she was able to be
out of doors. When Ian and she met, her
manner was not quite the same as before.
She seemed a little timid. As she shook
hands with him her eyes fell ; and when
they looked up again, as if. ashamed of their
involuntary retreat, her face was rosy ; but
the slight embarrassment disappeared as
soon as they began to talk. No affectation
or formality, however, took its place : in
respect of Ian her falseness was gone. The
danger she had been in, and her deliverance
through the voluntary sharing of it by Ian,

had awaked the simpler, the real nature
of the girl, hitherto buried in impressions
and their responses. She had lived but asa
mirror meant only to reflect the outer
world : something of an operative existence
was at length beginning to appear in her.
She was growing a woman. And the first
stage in that growth is to become as a little
child.

The child, however, did not for sometime
show her face to any but Ian. In his
presence Christina had no longer self-assertion
or wile. Without seeking his notice
she would yet manifest an almost childish
willingness to please him. It was no sudden
change. She had, ever since their adventure,
been haunted, both awake and asleep,
by his presence, and it had helped her to
some discoveries regarding herself. And
the more she grew real, the nearer, that is,
that she came to being a person the more
she came under the influence of his truth,
his reality. It is only through live relation
to others that any individuality crystallizes.

*^ You saved my life, Ian ! " she said one
evening for the tenth time.

^^ It pleased God you should live,"
answered Ian.

^^ Then you really think," she returned,
^' that God interfered to save us ? "

'^No, I do not; I don't think he ever
interferes."

Mr. Sercombe says everything goes bylaw,
and God never interferes ; my father
says he does interfere sometimes."

^' Would you say a woman interfered in
the management of her own house ? Can
one be said to interfere where he is always at
work ? He is the necessity of the universe,
ever and always doing the best that can be
done, and especially for the individual, for
whose sake alone the cosmos exists. If we
had been drowned, we should have given
God thanks for saving us."

*^ I do not understand you ! "

*^ Should we not have given thanks to
find ourselves lifted out of the cold rushing
waters, in which we felt our strength slowly
sinking ? "

^* But you said droivnedl How could eye
have thanked God for deliverance if we
were drowned ? "

"What! — not when we found ourselves
above the water, safe and well, and more
alive than ever ? Would it not be a dreadful
thing to lie tossed for centuries under
the sea-waves to which the torrent had
borne ns ? Ah, how few believe in a life
beyond, a larger life, more awake, more
earnest, more joyous than this ! "

Oh, I do ! but that is not what one
means by life; that is quite a different
kind of thing ! ' '

How do you make out that it is so
different ? If I am I, and you are you,
how can it be very different ? The root of
things is individuality, unity of idea, and
persistence depends on it. God is the one
perfect individual ; and while this world is
his and that world is his, there can be no
inconsistency, no violent difference, between
there and here."

'then you must thank God for everything

— thank him if you are drowned, or
burnt, or anything ! "

^^ Now you understand me ! That is precisely
what I mean."

*^ Then I can never be good, for I could
never bring myself to that ! "

** You cannot bring yourself to it ; no one
could. But we must come to it. I believe
we shall all be brought to it."

*^ Never me ! I should not wish it ! "

*' You do not wish it ; but you may be
brought to wish it ; and without it the end
of your being cannot be reached. No one,
of course, could ever give thanks for what
he did not know or feel as good. But
what is good must come to be felt good.
Can you suppose that Jesus at any time
could not thank his Father for sending him
into the world ? "

'' You speak as if we and he were of the
same kind! "

^' He and we are so entirely of the same
kind, that there is no bliss for him or for
you or for me but in being the loving
obedient child of the one Father."

'' You frighten me ! If I cannot get to
heaven any other way than that, I shall
never get there."

'' You will get there, and you will get
there that way and no other. If you could
get there any other way, it would be to be
miserable."

'' Something tells me you speak the
truth ; but it is terrible ! I do not like it."

"Naturally."

She was on the point of crying. They
were alone in the drawing-room of the
cottage, but his mother might enter any
moment, and Ian said no more.

It was not a drawing toward the things
of peace that was at work in Christina : it
was an urging painful sense of separation
from Ian. She had been conscious of some
antipathy even toward him, so unlike were
her feelings, thoughts, judgments, to his :
this feeling had changed to its opposite.


A meeting with Ian was now to Christina
the great event of day or week ; but Ian, in

love with the dead, never thought of danger
to either.

One morning she woke from a sound
and dreamless sleep, and getting out of
bed, drew aside the curtains, looked out,
and then opened her window. It was a
lovely spring-morning. The birds were
singing loud in the fast greening shrubbery.
A soft wind was blowing. It came to her,
and whispered something of which she
understood only that it was both lovely and
sad. The sun, but a little way up, was
shining over hills and cone-shaped peaks,
whose shadows, stretching eagerly westward,
were yefc ever shortening eastward.
His light was gentle, warm, and humid,
as if a little sorrowful, she thought, over
his many dead children, that he must call
forth so many more to the new life of the
reviving year. Suddenly as she gazed, the
little clump of trees against the hillside
stood as she had never seen it stand
before — as if the sap in them were no longer
colourless, but red with human life ; nature

was alive with a presence she had never
seen before ; it was instinct with a meaning,
an intent, a soul ; the mountains stood
against the sky as if reaching upward,
knowing something, waiting for something ;
over all was a glory. The change was far
more wondrous than from winter to summer ;
it was not as if a dead body, but a dead soul
had come alive. What could it mean ? Had
the new aspect come forth to answer this
glow in her heart, or was the glow in her
heart the reflection of this new aspect of
the world? She was ready to cry aloud,
not with joy, not from her feeling of the
beauty, but with a sensation almost, hitherto
unknown, therefore nameless. It was a
new and marvellous interest in the world,
a new sense of life in herself, of life in
everything, a recognition of brother-existence,
a life-contact with the universe, a
conscious flash of the divine in her soul, a
throb of the pure joy of being. She was
nearer God than she had ever been before.
But she did not know this — might never

in this world know it ; she understood
nothing of what was going on in her, only
felt it go on ; it was not love of God that
was moving in her. Yet she stood in her
white dress like one risen from the grave,
looking in sweet bliss on a new heaven and
a new earth, made new by the new opening
of her eyes. To save man or woman, the
next thing to the love of God is the love of
man or woman ; only let no man or woman
mistake the love of love for love !

She started, grew white, stood straight
up, grew red as a sunset : — was it — could it
be? — ^' Is this love?" she said to herself,
and for minutes she hardly moved.

It was love. Whether love was in her
or not, she was in love — and it might get
inside her. She hid her face in her hands,
and wept.

With what opportunities I have had of
studying, I do not say understanding, the
human heart, I should not have expected
such feeling from Christina — and she
wondered at it herself. Till a child is

awake, how tell his mood ? — until a woman
is awaked, how tell her nature ? Who
knows himself? — and how then shall he
know his neighbour ?

For who can know anything except on
the supposition of its remaining the same ?
and the greatest change of all, next to
being born again, is beginning to love. The
very faculty of loving had been hitherto
repressed in the soul of Christina — by poor
education, by low family and social influences,
by familiarity with the worship of
riches, by vanity, and consequent hunger
after the attentions of men ; but now at
length she was in love.

At breakfast, though she was silent, she
looked so well that her mother complimented
her on her loveliness. Had she
been more of a mother, she might have
seen cause for anxiety in this fresh burdening
of her beauty.

Chapter XV.

LOVE ALLODIAL.

While the chief went on in his humble
way, enjoying life and his lowly position ;
seeming, in the society of his brother, to
walk the outer courts of heaven ; and, unsuspicious
of the fact, growing more and
more in love with the ill educated, but
simple, open, and wise Mercy, a trouble was
gathering for him of which he had no presentiment.
We have to be delivered from
the evils of which we are unaware as well
as from those we hate ; and the chief had
to be set free from his unconscious worship
of Mammon. He did not worship Mammon
by yielding homage to riches ; he did not
make a man's money his pedestal; had he

been himself a millionaire, he would not
have connived at being therefore held in
honour ; but, ever consciously aware of the
deteriorating condition of the country, and
pitifully regarding the hundred and fifty
souls who yet looked to him as their head,
often turning it over in his mind how to
shepherd them should things come to a
crisis, his abiding, ever-recurring comfort
was the money from the last sale of the
property, accumulating ever since, and now
to be his in a very few years : he always
thought, I say, first of this money and not
first of God. He imagined it an inexhaustible
force, a power with which for his clan he
could work wonders. It is the common
human mistake to think of money as a
force and not as a mere tool. But he
never thought of it otherwise than as
belonging to the clan ; never imagined the
least liberty to use it save in the direct
service of his people. And all the time,
the very shadow of this money was disappearing
from the face of the earth !

It had scarcely been deposited where the
old laird judged it as safe as in the Bank of
England, when schemes and speculations
were initiated by the intrusted company
which brought into jeopardy everything
it held, and things had been going from
bad to worse ever since. Nothing of this
was yet known, for the directors had from
the first carefully muffled up the truth,
avoiding the least economy lest it should
be interpreted as hinting at any need of
prudence ; living in false show with the very
money they were thus lying away, warming
and banqueting their innocent neighbours
with fuel and wine stolen from their own
cellars ; and working worse wrong and more
misery under the robe of imputed righteousness,
that is, respectability, than could a
little army of burglars. Unawares to a
trusting multitude, the vacant eyes of loss
were drawing near to stare them out of
hope and comfort ; and annihilation had
long closed in upon the fund which the
chief regarded as the sheet-anchor of his

clan : he trusted in Mammon, and Mammon
had played him one of his rogue 's-tricks.
The most degrading wrong to ourselves,
and the worst eventual wrong to others, is
to trust in any thing or person but the
living God : it was an evil thing from which
the chief had sore need to be delivered.
Even those who help us we must regard as
the loving hands of the great heart of the
universe, else we do God wrong, and will
come to do them wrong also.

And there was more yet of what we call
mischief brewing in another quarter to like
hurt.

Mr. Peregrine Palmer was not now so
rich a man as when he bought his highland
property ; also he was involved in affairs of
doubtful result. It was natural, therefore,
that he should begin to think of the said
property not merely as an ornament of life,
but as something to fall back upon. He
feared nothing, however, more unpleasant
than a temporary embarrassment. Had
not his family been in the front for three

VOL. II. S

generations ! Had he not a vested right
in success ! Had he not a claim for the
desire of his heart on whatever power it
was that he pictured to himself as throned
in the heavens ! It never came into his
head that, seeing there were now daughters
in the family, it might he worth the while
of that Power to make a poor man of
him for their sakes ; or that neither he, his
predecessors, nor his sons, had ever come
near enough to anything human to be fit
for having their pleasures taken from them.
But what I have to do with is the new
aspect his Scotch acres now put on : he
must see to making the best of them !
and that best would be a deer-forest ! He
and his next neighbour might together
effect something worth doing ! Therefore
all crofters or villagers likely to trespass
must be got rid of — and first and foremost
the shepherds, for they had endless opportunities
of helping themselves to a deer.
Where there were sheep there must be
shepherds : they would make a clearance

of both ! The neighbour referred to, a
certain Mr. Brander, sho had made his
money by sharp dealing in connection with
a great Russian railway, and whom Mr.
Peregrine Palmer knew before in London,
had enlightened him on many things, and
amongst others on the shepherds' passion
for deer-stalking. Being in the company
of the deer, he said, the whole day, and the
whole year through, they were thoroughly
acquainted with their habits, and were altogether
too much both for the deer and for
their owners. A shepherd would take the
barrel of his gun from the stock, and thrust
it down his back, or put it in a hollow
crook, and so convey it to the vicinity of
some spot frequented by a particular animal,
to lie hidden there for his opportunity. In
the hills it was impossible to tell with
certainty whence came the sound of a shot ;
and no rascal of them would give information
concerning another ! In short, there
was no protecting the deer without uprooting
and expelling the peasantry !

The village of the Clanruadh was on Mr.
Brander's land, and was dependent in parton
the produce of small pieces of ground,
the cultivators of which were mostly men
with other employment as well. Some made
shoes of the hides, others cloth and clothes
of the wool of the country. Some were
hinds on neighbouring farms, but most
were shepherds, for there was now very
little tillage. Almost all the land formerly
cultivated had been given up to grass and
sheep, and not a little of it was steadily
returning to that state of nature from which
it had been reclaimed, producing heather,
ling, blueberries, cnoivpertSj and cranberries.
The hamlet was too far from the sea for
much fishing, but some of its inhabitants
would join relatives on the coast and go
fishing with them, when there was nothing
else to be done. But many of those who
looked to the sea for help had lately come
through a hard time, in which they would
have died but for the sea-weed and shellfish
the shore afforded them ; yet such was

their spirit of independence that a commission
appointed to inquire into their
necessity, found scarcely one willing to
acknowledge any want : such was the class
of men and women now doomed, at the
will of two common-minded, greedy men,
to expulsion from the houses and land they
had held for generations, and loved with
a love unintelligible to their mean-souled
oppressors.

Ian, having himself learned the lesson
that, so long as a man is dependent on
anything earthly, he is not a free man, was
very desirous to have his brother free also.
He could not be satisfied to leave the matter
where, on their way home that night from
the tomb, as they called their cave-house,
their talk had left it. Blister's love of the
material world, of the soil of his ancestral
acres, was, Ian plainly saw, not yet one
with the meaning and will of God : he was
not yet content that the home of his fathers
should fare as the father of fathers pleased.
He was therefore on the outlook for the

right opportunity of having another talk
with him on the subject.

That those who are trying to be good
are more continuously troubled than the
indifferent, has for ages been a puzzle. '^ I
saw the wicked spreading like a green bay
tree," says king David ; and he was far from
having fathomed the mystery when he got
his mind at rest about it. Is it not simply
that the righteous are worth troubling?
that they are capable of receiving good
from being troubled ? As a man advances,
more and more is required of him. A
wrong thing in the good man becomes more
and more wrong as he draws nearer to
freedom from it. His friends may say how
seldom he offends ; but every time he
offends, he is the more to blame. Some
are allowed to go on because it would be
of no use to stop them yet ; nothing would
yet make them listen to wisdom. There
must be many who, like Dives, need the
bitter contrast between the good things of
this life and the evil things of the next, to

wake them up. In this life they are not
only fools, and insist on being treated as
fools, but would have God consent to treat
them as if he too had no wisdom! The
laird was one in whom was no guile, but
he was far from perfect : any man is far
from perfect whose sense of well-being could
be altered by any change of circumstance.
A man unable to do without this thing or
that, is not yet in sight of his perfection,
therefore not out of sight of suffering. They
who do not know suffering, may well doubt
if they have yet started on the way to he.
If clouds were gathering to burst in fierce
hail on the head of the chief, it was that he
might be set free from yet another of the
cords that bound him. He was like a
soaring eagle from whose foot hung, trailing
on the earth, the line by which his tyrant
could at his will pull him back to his inglorious
perch.

To worship truly is to treat according to
indwelling worth. The highest worship of
Nature is to worship toward it, as David

and Daniel worshipped toward the holy
place. But even the worship of Nature
herself might he an ennobling idolatry, so
much is the divine present in her. There
is an intense, almost sensuous love of
Nature, such as the chief confessed to his
brother, which is not only one with love to
the soul of Nature, but tends to lift the soul
of man up to the lord of Nature. To love
the soul of Nature, however, does not secure
a man from loving the body of Nature in
the low Mammon-way of possession. A
man who loves the earth even as the meek
love it, may also love it in a way hostile to
such possession of it as is theirs. The love
of possessing as property, must, unchecked,
come in time to annihilate in a man the
inheritance of the meek.

A few acres of good valley-land, with a
small upland pasturage, and a space of
barren hill-country, had developed in the
chief a greater love of the land as a possession
than would have come of entrance upon
an undiminished inheritance. He clave to

the ground remaining to him, as to the
last remnant of a vanishing good.

One day the brothers were lying on the
westward slope of the ridge, in front of the
cottage. A few sheep, small, active, black-faced,
were feeding around them : it was no
use running away, for the chief's colles was
lying beside him ! The laird every now
and then buried his face in the short sweet
mountain-grass — like that of the downs in
England, not Hke the rich sown grass on
the cultivated bank of the burn.

'^I believe I love the grass," he said,
'' as much, Ian, as your Chaucer loved the
daisy ! "

*^ Hardly so much, I should think ! " returned
Ian.

'' "Why do you think so ? "

I doubt if grass can be loved so much
as a flower."

'^ Why not ? "

^^ Because the one is a mass, the other
an individual."

*' I understand."

*' I have a fear, Blister, that you are in
danger of avarice," said Ian, after a pause.

*' Avarice, Ian ! What can you mean ? "

"You are as free, Blister, from the love
of money, as any man I ever knew, but that
is not enough. Did you ever think of the
origin of the word avarice f ' '

"No."

It comes — at least it seems to me to come
from the same root as the verb have. It
is the desire to call things ours — the desire
of company which is not of our kind — company
such as, if small enough, you would
put in your pocket and carry about with
you. We call the holding in the hand, or
the house, or the pocket, or the power,
having ; but things so held cannot really be
had ; having is but an illusion in regard to
things. It is only what we can be with
that we can really possess — that is, what is
of our kind, from God to the lowest animal
partaking of humanity. A love can never
be lost ; it is a possession ; but who can
take his diamond ring into the somewhere

beyond ? — it is not a possession. God only
can be ours perfectly ; nothing called property
can be ours at all."

'' I know it — with my head at least," said
Blister ; *^ but I am not sure how you apply
it to me."

'' You love your country — don't you,
Blister?"

^'Ido."

"What do you mean by loving your
country ? "

It is hard to say all at once. The first
thing that comes to me is, that I would
rather live in it than in any other."

AYould you care to vaunt your country
at the expense of any other ? "

Not if it did not plainly excel — and
even then it might be neither modest nor
polite!"

Would you feel bound to love a man
more because he was a fellow-countryman?"

Other things being equal, I could not
help it."

Other things not being equal, — ? "

'^I should love the bast man best —
Scotsman or negro."

*^ That is as I thought of you. For my
part, my love for my own people has taught
me to love every man, be his colour or
country what it may. The man whose
patriotism is not leading him in that direction
has not yet begun to be a true patriot.
Let him go to St. Paul and learn, or stay in
his own cellar and be an idiot. — But now,
from loving our country, let us go down the
other way : — Do you love the highlands or
the lowlands best? You love the highlands,
of course, you say. And what district do you
like best? Our own. What parish ? Your
father's. "What part of the parish ? Why
this, where at this moment we are lying.
Now let me ask, have you, by your love
for this piece of the world, which you will
allow me to call ours, learned to love the
whole world in like fashion ? "

*' I cannot say so. I do not think we
can love the whole world in the same way
as our own part of it — the part where we

were born and bred ! It is a portion of our
very being."

*' If your love to what we call our own
land is a love that cannot spread, it seems
to me of a questionable kind — of a kind
involving the false notion of having f The
love that is eternal is alone true, and that
is the love of the essential, which is the
universal. We love indeed individuals,
even to their peculiarities, but only because
of what lies under and is the Hfe of them
what they share with every other, the
eternal God-born humanity luliicli is the
person. "Without this humanity where were
your friend ? Mind, I mean no abstraction,
but the Hve individual humanity. Do you
see what I am driving at ? I would extend
my love of the world to all the worlds ; my
love of humanity to all that inhabit them.
I want, from being a Scotsman, to be a
Briton, then a European, then a cosmopolitan,
then a dweller of the universe, a
lover of all the worlds I see, and shall one
day know. In the face of such a hope, I

find my love for this ground of my father's
not indeed less than before, but very
small. It has served its purpose in having
begun in me love of the revelation of God.
Wherever I see the beauty of the Lord,
that shall be to me his holy temple. Our
Lord was sent first to the lost sheep of the
house of Israel : — how would you bear to be
told that he loved them more than Africans
or Scotsmen ?"

^' I could not bear it."

^' Then, Blister, do you not see that the
love of our mother earth is meant to be
but a beginning; and that such love as
yours for the land belongs to that love of
things which must perish? You seem tome
not to allow it to blossom, but to keep
it a hard bud ; and a bud that will not
blossom is a coffin. A flower is a completed
idea, a thought of God, a creature
whose body is most perishable, bat whose
soul, its idea, cannot die. "With the idea of
it in you, the withering of the flower you
can bear. The God in it is yours always.

Every spring you welcome the daisy anew ;
every time the primrose departs, it grows
more dear by its death. I say there must
be a better way of loving the ground on
which we were born, than that whence the
loss of it would cause us torture."

Blister listened as to a prophecy of evil.

*' Rather than that cottage and those
fields should pass into the hands of others,"
he said, almost fiercely, '^ I would see them
sunk in a roaring tide ! "

Ian rose, and walked slowly away.

Blister lay clutching the ground with his
hands. For a passing moment Ian felt as
if he had lost him.

Lord, save him from this demon-love,"
he said, and sat down among the pines.

In a few minutes, Blister came to him.

'you cannot mean, Ian," he said — and
his face was white through all its brown,
that I am to think no more of the fields
of my fathers than of any other ground on
the face of the earth ! "
" Think of them as the ground God gave

to our fathers, which God may see fit to
take from us again, and I shall be content
for the present," answered Ian.

'^ Do not be vexed with me," cried Blister.
^^I want to think as well as do what
is right ; but you cannot know how I feel
or you would spare me. I love the very
stones and clods of the land ! The place
is to me as Jerusalem to the Jews : — you
know what the psalm says : — •

Thy saints take pleasure in her stones,
Her very dust to them is dear ! "

*^ They loved their land as theirs'' said
Ian, *' and have lost it ! "

I know I must be cast out of it ! I
know I must die and go from it ; but I
shall come back and wander about the
fields and the hills with you and our father
and mother ! "

*' And how about horse and dog ? " asked
Ian, willing to divert his thoughts for a
moment,

** Well ! Baoimean and Loath are so

good that I don't see why I should not
have them ! "

** No more do I ! " responded Ian. ^' We
may be sure God will either let you have
them, or show you reason to content you
for not having them. No love of anything
is to be put in the same thought-pocket
with love for the poorest creature
that has life. But I am sometimes not a
little afraid lest your love for the soil get
right in to your soul. We are here but
pilgrims and strangers. God did not make
the world to be dwelt in, but to be
journeyed through. We must not love it
as he did not mean we should. If we do,
he may have great trouble and we much
hurt ere we are set free from that love.
Blister, would you willingly walk out of the
house to follow him up and down for ever ? ' '

'' I don't know about willingly j'' replied
Aster, ^^ but if I were sure it was he
calling me, I am sure I hould walk out
and follow him."

^^What if your love of house and lands

VOL. II. T

prevented you from being sure, when he
called you, that it was he ? "

^^ That would be terrible ! But he would
not leave me so. He would not forsake mein
my ignorance ! "

No. Having to take you from everything,
he would take everything from
you ! "

Blister went into the house.

He did not know how much of the worldly
mingled with the true in him. He loved
his people, and was unselfishly intent on
helping them to the utmost ; but the
thought that he was their chief was no
small satisfaction to him ; and if the relation
between them was a grand one, self had
there the more soil wherein to spread its
creeping choke-grass roots. In like manner,
his love of nature nourished the parasite
possession. He had but those bare hill-sides,
and those few rich acres, yet when, from his
eyre on the hill-top, he looked down among
the valleys, his heart would murmur within
him, ^' From my feet the brook flows gurgling

to water my fields ! The wild moors
around me feed my sheep ! Yon glen is
full of my people ! " Even with the pure
smell of the earth, mingled the sense of its
possession. When, stepping from his cave-house,
he saw the sun rise on the outstretched
grandeur of the mountain-world,
and felt the earth a new creation as truly as
when Adam first opened his eyes on its
glory, his heart would give one little heave
more at the thought that a portion of it was
his own. But all is man's only because it is
God's. The true possession of anything is
to see and feel in it what God made it for ;
and the uplifting of the soul by that knowledge,
is the joy of true having. The Lord
had no land of his own. He did not care to
have it, any more than the twelve legions of
angels he would not pray for : his pupils
must not care for things he did not care for.
He had no place to lay his head in — had not
even a grave of his own. For want of a
boat he had once to walk the rough Galilean
sea. True, he might have gone with the

rest, but he had to stop behind to pray : he
could not do without that. Once he sent a
fish to fetch him money, but only to pay a
tax. He had even to borrow the few loaves
and little fishes from a boy, to feed his five
thousand with.

The half-hour which Blister spent in the
silence of his chamber, served him well : a
ray as of light polarized entered his soul in
its gloom. He returned to Ian, who had
been all the time walking up and down the
ridge.

^^ You are right, Ian ! " he said. '^ I do
love the world ! If I were deprived of what
I hold, I should doubt God ! I fear, oh, I
fear, Ian, he is going to take the land from
me!"

^^ We must never fear the will of God,
Blister ! We are not right until we can
pray heartily, not say submissively, * Thy
will be done ! ' We have not one interest,
ctnd God another. When we wish what he
does not wish, we are not more against him
than against our real selves. We are

traitors to the human when we think anything
but the will of God desirable, when
we fear our very life."

It was getting toward summer, and the
days were growing longer.
*let us spend a night in the tomb!"
said Ian ; and they fixed a day in the
following week.

CHAPTEK XVI.

Mercy CALLS ON GK ANNIE.

Although the subject did not again come
up, Mercy had not forgotten what Ian had
said about listening for the word of Nature,
and had resolved to get away the first time
she could, and see whether Grannie, as Ian
had called her, would have anything to do
with her. It were hard to say what she
expected — something half magical rather
than anything quite natural. The notions
people have of spiritual influence are so
unlike the facts, that, when it begins they
never recognize it, but imagine something
common at work. When the Lord came,
those who were looking for him did not
know him : — was he not a man like themselves

! did they not know his father and
mother !

It was a fine spring morning when Mercy
left the house to seek an interview with
Nature somewhere among the hills. She
took a path she knew well, and then struck
into a sheep-track she had never tried. Up
and up she climbed, nor spent a thought on
the sudden changes to which at that season,
and amongst those hills, the weather is
subject. With no anxiety as to how she
might fare, she was yet already not without
some awe : she was at length on her pilgrimage
to the temple of Isis I

Not until she was beyond sight of any
house, did she begin to feel alone. It was
a new sensation, and of a mingled sort. But
the slight sense of anxiety and fear that
made part of it, was soon overpowered by
something not unlike the exhilaration of a
child escaped from school. This grew and
grew until she felt like a wild thing that
had been caught, and had broken loose.
Now first, almost, she seemed to have begun

to live, for now first was she free ! She
might lie in the heather, walk in the stream,
do as she pleased ! No one would interfere
with her, no one say Don't ! She felt
stronger and fresher than ever in her life ;
and the farther she went, the greater grew
the pleasure. The little burn up whose
banks, now the one and now the other, she
was walking, kept on welcoming her unaccustomed
feet to the realms of solitude and
liberty. For ever it seemed coming to meet
her, hasting, running steep, as if straight
out of the heaven to which she was drawing
nearer and nearer. The wind woke now and
then, and blew on her for a moment, as if
tasting her, to see what this young Psyche
was that had floated up into the wild thin air
of the hills. The incessant meeting of the
brook made it a companion to her although
it could not go her way, and was always
leaving her. But it kept her from the utter
loneliness she sought ; for loneliness is
imperfect while sound is by, especially a
sing-sound, and the brook was one of

Nature's self - playing song - instruments.
But she came at length to a point where
the ground was too rough to let her follow
its path any more, and turning from it,
she began to climb a steep ridge. The
growing and deepening silence as she went
farther and farther from the brook, promised
the very place for her purpose on the top of
the heathery ridge.

But when she reached it and looked
behind her, lo, the valley she had left lay
at her very feet ! The world had rushed
after and caught her ! She had not got
away from it ! It was like being enchanted !
She thought she was leaving it far behind,
but the nature she sought to escape that
she might find Nature, would not let her go !
It kept following her as if to see that she
fell into no snare, neither was too sternly
received by the loftier spaces. She could
distinguish one of the laird's men, ploughing
in the valley below : she knew him by his
red waistcoat ! Almost fiercely she turned
and made for the next ridge : it would

screen her from the world she had left ; it
should not spy upon her ! The danger of
losing her way back never suggested itself.
She had not learned that the look of things
as you go, is not their look when you turn
to go back ; that with your attitude their
mood will have altered. Nature is like a
lobster-pot : she lets you easily go on, but
not easily return.

When she gained the summit of the
second ridge, she looked abroad on a country
of which she knew nothing. It was like the
face of an utter stranger. Not far beyond
rose yet another ridge : she must see how
the world looked from that ! On and on
she went, crossing ridge after ridge, but no
place invited her to stay and be still.

She found she was weary, and spying in
the midst of some short heather a great
stone, sat down, and gave herself upto
the rest that stole upon her. Though
the sun was warm, the air was keen, and,
hot with climbing, she turned her face to it,
and drank in its refreshing with delight.

She looked around ; not a trace of humanity
was visible — nothing but brown and grsij
and green hills, with the clear sky over her
head, and in the north a black cloud creeping
up from the horizon. Another sense
than that of rest awoke in her ; now first in
her life the sense of loneliness absolute began
to possess her. And therewith suddenly
descended upon her a farther something
she had never known ; it was as if the
loneliness, or what is the same thing,
the presence of her own being without
another to qualify and make it reasonable
and endurable, seized and held her. The
silence gathered substance, grew as it were
solid, and closing upon her, imprisoned her.
Was it not rather that the Soul of Nature,
prevented, thwarted by distracting influences,
found a fisher entrance to hers, but
she, not yet in harmony with it, felt its contact
as alien — as bondage therefore and not
liberty ? She was nearer than ever she had
been to knowing the presence of the God
who is always nearer to us than aught else.

Yea, something seemed, through the very
persistence of its silence, to say to her at
last, and keep saying, ^' Here I am ! " She
looked behind her in sudden terror : no form
was there. She sent out her gaze to the
horizon : the huge waves of the solid earth
stood up against the sky, sinking so slowly
she could not see them sink : they stood
mouldering away, hiding their time. They
were of those '' who only stand and wait,"
fulfilling the will of him who set them to
crumble till the hour of the new heavens
and the new earth arrive. There was no
visible life between her and the great silent
mouldering hills. On her right hand lay a
blue segment of the ever restless sea, but sofar
that its commotion seemed a yet deeper
rest than that of the immovable hills.

She sat and sat, but nothing came,
nothing seemed coming to her. The hope
Ian had given her was not to be fulfilled !
For here there was no revelation ! She was
not of the kind Nature could speak to !

She began to grow uncomfortable — to

feel as if she had done something wrong —
as if she was a child put into the corner —
a corner of the great universe, to learn to
be sorry for something. Certainly something
was wrong with her — but what ?
Why did she feel so uncomfortable ? Was
she so silly as mind being alone ? There
was nothing in these mountains that would
hurt her ! The red deer were sometimes
dangerous, but none were even within sight !
Yet something like fear was growing in
her ! Why should she be afraid ? Everything
about her certainly did look strange,
as if she had nothing to do with it, and it
had nothing to do with her ; but that was
all ! Ian Macruadh must be wrong ! How
could there be any such bond as he said
between Nature and the human heart, when
the first thing she felt when alone with her,
was fear ! The world was staring at her !
She was the centre of a fixed, stony regard
from all sides ! The earth, and the sea,
and the sky, were watching her ! She did
not Hke it ! She would rise and shake off

the fancy ! But she did not rise ; something
held her to her thinking. Just so
she would, when a child in the dark, stand
afraid to move lest the fear itself, lying in
wait like a tigress, should at her first motion
pounce upon her. The terrible, persistent
silence !■ — would nothing break it ! And
there was in herself a response to it — something
that was in league with it, and kept
telling her that things were not all right
with her ; that she ought not to be afraid,
yet had good reason for being afraid ; that
she knew of no essential safety. There
must be some refuge, some impregnable
hiding-place, for the thing was a necessity,
and she ought to know of it ! There
must be a human condition of never being
afraid, of knowing nothing to be afraid of !
She wondered whether, if she were quite
good, went to church twice every Sunday,
and read her bible every morning, she would
come not to be afraid of — she did not know
what. It would be grand to have no fear
of person or thing ! She was sometimes

afraid of her own father, even when she
knew no reason ! How that mountain with
the horn kept staring at her !

It was all nonsense ! She was silly !
She would get up and go home : it must
be time !

But things were not as they should be !
Something was required of her! Was it
God wanting her to do something ? She
had never thought whether he required
anything of her ! She must be a better
girl ! Then she would have God with her,
and not be afraid !

And all the time it was God near her that
was making her unhappy. For, as the Son
of Man came not to send peace on the
earth but a sword, so the first visit of God
to the human soul is generally in a cloud of
fear and doubt, rising from the soul itself
at his approach. The sun is the cloud-dispelled,
yet often he must look through a
fog if he would visit the earth at all. The
child, not being a son, does not know his
father. He may know he is what is called

a father; what the word means he does not
know. How then should he understand
when the father comes to deliver him from
his paltry self, and give him life indeed !

She tried to pray. She said, *' Oh God !
forgive me, and make me good. I want to
be good ! " Then she rose.

She went some little way without thinking
where she was going, and then found
she did not even know from what direction
she had come. A sharp new fear, quite
different from the former, now shot through
her heart : she was lost ! She had told
no one she was going anywhere ! No one
would have a notion where to look for her !
She had been beginning to feel hungry, but
fear drove hunger away. All she knew was
that she must not stay there. Here was
nowhere ; walking on she might come somewhere
— that is, among human beings! So
out she set on her weary travel from nowhere
to somewhere, giving Nature little
thanks. She did not suspect that her
grandmother had been doing anything for

her by the space around her, or that now,
by the recklessness, the hostess, she was
doing yet more. On and on she walked,
climbing the one hillside and descending
the other, going she knew not whither,
hardly hoping she drew one step nearer
home.

All at once her strength went from her.
She sat down and cried. But with her
tears came the thought how the chief and
his brother talked of God. She remembered
she had heard in church that men ought to
cry to God in their troubles. Broken verses
of a certain psalm came to her, saying
God delivered those who cried to him even
from things they had brought on themselves,
and she had been doing nothing
wrong ! She tried to trust in him, but
could not : he was as far from her as the
blue heavens ! True, it bent over all, but
its one great eye was much too large to seethe
trouble she was in ! What did it
matter to the blue sky if she fell down and
withered up to bones and dust ! She well

VOL. II. u

might — for here no foot of man might pass
till she was a thing terrible to look at 1 If
there was nobody where seemed to be
nothing, how fearfully empty was the universe
! Ah, if she had God for her friend !
What if he was her friend, and she had
not known it because she never spoke to
him, never asked him to do anything for
her ? It was horrible to think it could bea
mere chance whether she got home, or
died there ! She would pray to God ! She
would ask him to take her home !

A wintery blast came from the north.
The black cloud had risen, and was now
spreading over the zenith. Again the wind
came with an angry burst and snarl. Snow
came swept upon it in hard sharp little
pellets. She started up, and forgot to
pray.

Some sound in the wind or some hidden
motion of memory all at once let loose upon
her another fear, which straight was agony.
A rumour had reached the New House the
night before, that a leopard had broken

from a caravan, and got away to the hills.
It was but a rumour ; some did not believe
it, and the owners contradicted it, but a
party had set out with guns and dogs. It
was true ! it was true ! There was the
terrible creature crouching behind that
stone ! He was in every clump of heather
she passed, swinging his tail, and ready to
spring upon her ! He must be hungry by
this time, and there was nothing there for
him to eat but her ! By and by, however,
she was too cold to be afraid, too cold to
think, and presently, half-frozen and faint
for lack of food, was scarce able to go a step
farther. She saw a great rock, sank down in
the shelter of it, and in a minute was asleep.
She slept for some time, and woke a
little refreshed. The wonder is that she
woke at all. It was dark, and her first consciousness
was ghastly fear. The wind had
ceased, and the storm was over. Little
snow had fallen. The stars were all out
overhead, and the great night was round
her, enclosing, watching her. She tried to

rise, and could just move her limbs. Had
she fallen asleep again, she would not have
lived through the night. But it is idle to
talk of what would have been ; nothing
could have been but what was. Mercy
wondered afterwards that she did not lose
her reason. She must, she thought, have
been trusting somehow in God.

It was terribly dreary. Sure never one
sorer needed God's help ! And what better
reason could there be for helping her than
that she so sorely needed it ! Perhaps God
had let her walk into this trouble that she
might learn she could not do without him !
She hould try to be good ! How terrible
was the world, with such wide spaces and
nobody in them !

And all the time, though she did not
know it, she was sobbing and weeping.

The black silence was torn asunder by the
report of a gun. She started up with a
strange mingling of hope and terror, gave
a loud cry, and sank senseless. The leopard
would be upon her !

Her cry was her deliverance.

CHAPTEK XVII.

IN THE TOMB.

The brothers had that same morning paid
their visit to the tomb, and there spent
the day after their' usual fashion, intending
to go home the same night, and as the old
moon was very late in rising, to take the
earlier and rougher part of the way in the
twilight. Just as they were setting out,
however, what they rightly judged a passing
storm came on, and they delayed their
departure. By the time the storm was over,
it was dark, and there was no use in hurrying
; they might as well stop a while, and
have the moon the latter part of the way.
When at length they were again on the
point of starting, they thought they heard

something like sounds of distress, bnt the
darkness making search difficult and unsatisfactory,
the chief thought of firing his
gun, when Mercy's cry guided them to
where she lay. Blister's heart, at sight of
her, and at the thought of what she must
have gone through, nearly stood still. They
carried her in, laid her on the bed, and did
what they could - to restore her, till she
began to come to herself. Then they left
her, that she might not see them without
preparation, and sat down by the fire in the
outer room, leaving the door open between
the two.

I see how it is ! " said Blister. ^^ You
remember, Ian, what you said to her about
giving Nature an opportunity of exerting
her influence ? Mercy has been following
your advice, and has lost her way among
the hills ! "

That was so long ago ! " returned Ian
thoughtfully.

Yes — when the weather was not fit for
it. It is not fit now, but she has ventured! "

I believe you are right ! I thought
there was some reality in her ! — But she
must not hear us talking about her ! "

When Mercy came to herself, she thought
at first that she lay where she had fallen,
but presently perceived that she was
covered, and had something hot at her
feet : was she in her own bed ? was it
all a terrible dream, that she might know
what it was to be lost, and think of God ?
She put out her arm : her hand went
against cold stone. The dread thought
rushed in — that she was buried — was lying
in her grave — to lie there till the trumpet
should sound, and the dead be raised. She
was not horrified ; her first feeling was gladness
that she had prayed before she died.
She had been taught at church that an hour
might come when it would be of no use to
pray — the hour of an unbelieving death :
it was of no use to pray now, but her prayer
before she died might be of some avail !
She wondered that she was not more
frightened, for in sooth it was a dreary

prospect before her : long and countless
years must pass ere again she heard the
sound of voices, again saw the light of the
sun ! She was half awake and half dreaming
; the faintness of her swoon yet upon
her, the repose following her great weariness,
and the lightness of her brain from
want of food, made her indifferent — almost
happy. She could lie so a long time, she
thought.

At length she began to hear sounds, and
they were of human voices. She had companions
then in the grave ! she was not
doomed to a solitary waiting for judgment !
She must be in some family-vault, among
strangers. She hoped they were nice
people : it was very desirable to be buried
with nice people !

Then she saw a reddish light. It was a
fire — far off ! Was she in the bad place ?
Were those shapes two demons, waiting till
she had got over her dying ? She listened :
"That will divide her between us," said
one. " Yes," answered the other ; " there

will be no occasion to cut it ! " What
dreadful thing could they mean ? But
surely she had heard their voices before !
She tried to speak, but could not.

'ewe must come again soon! " said one.
"At this rate it will take a life-time to
carve the tomb."

If we were but at the roof of it ! " said
the other. " I long to tackle the great serpent
of eternity, and lay him twining and
coiling and undulating all over it ! I dream
about those tombs before ever they were
broken into — royally furnished in the dark,
waiting for the souls to come back to their
old, bro^vn, dried up bodies ! "

Here one of them rose and came toward
her, growing bigger and blacker as he came,
until he stood by the bedside. He laid his
hand on her wrist, and felt her pulse. It
was Ian ! She could not see his face for
there was no light on it, but she knew his
shape, his movements ! She was saved !

He saw her wide eyes, two great spiritual
nights, gazing up at him.

**Ah, you are better, Miss Mercy! " he
said cheerily. '' Now you shall have some
tea!"

Something inside her was weeping for
joy, hut her outer self was quite still. She
tried again to speak, and uttered a few inarticulate
sounds. Then came Blister on tiptoe,
and they stood both by the bedside,
looking down on her.

^^I shall be all right presently!" she
managed at length to say. *'I am so glad
I'm not dead ! I thought I was dead ! "

*^ You would soon have been if we had
not found you ! " replied Blister.

Was it you that fired the gun? "

"Yes." ■

I was so frightened ! "
• ** It saved your life, thank God I for then
you cried out."

Fright was your door out of fear ! " said
Ian.

I thought it was the leopard ! "

I did bring my gun because of the
leopard," said Blister.

*' It was true about him then ? "

'' He is out."

'' And now it is quite dark ! "

'' It doesn't signify ; we'll take a lantern ;
I've got my gun, and Ian has his dirk ! "

^^ Where are you going then?" asked
Mercy, still confused.

^' Home, of course."

^' Oh, yes, of course ! I will get up in a
minute."

^* There is plenty of time," said Ian.
'you must eat something before you getup.
We have nothing but oat-cakes, I am
sorry to say ! "

'' I think you promised me some tea ! "
said Mercy. ''I don't feel hungry."

'' You shall have the tea. When did you
eat last ? "

'not since breakfast."

It is a marvel you are able to speak !
You must try to eat some oat-cake."

"I wish I hadn't taken that last sHce of
deer-ham ! " said Blister, ruefully.

I will eat if I can," said Mercy.

They brought her a cup of tea and some
pieces of oat-cake ; then, having lighted hera
candle, they left her, and closed the door.

She sipped her tea, managed to eat a
little of the dry but wholesome food, and
found herself capable of getting up. It was
the strangest bedroom ! she thought. Everything
was cut out of the live rock. The
dressing-table might have been a sarcophagus
! She kneeled by the bedside, and
tried to thank God. Then she opened the
door. The chief rose at the sound of it.

'Tm sorry," he said, *' that we have no
woman to wait on you."

"I want nothing, thank you ! " answered
Mercy, feeling very weak and ready to cry,
but restraining her tears. '^ What a curious
house this is ! "

'sit is a sort of doll's house my brother
and I have been at work upon for nearly
fifteen years. We meant, when summer
was come, to ask you all to spend a day
with us up here."

'' When first we went to work on it," said

Ian, ^' we used to tell each other tales in
which it bore a large share, and Blister's
were generally about a lost princess taking
refuge in it ! "

** And now it is come true ! " said Blister.

^^ What an escape I have had ! "

*'I do not like to hear you say that!"
returned Ian. ^' You have been taken care
of all the time. If you had died in the cold,
it would not have been because God had
forgotten you ; you would not have been
lost."

^' I wanted to know," said Mercy,
'whether Nature would speak to me. It
was of no use ! She never came near me I "

I think she must have come without
your knowing her," answered Ian. "But
we shall have a talk about that afterwards,
when you are quite rested; we must prepare
for home now."

Mercy's heart sank within her — she felt
so weak and sleepy ! How was she to go
back over all that rough mountain way !
But she dared not ask to be left — with the

leopard about ! He might come down the
wide chimney !

She soon found that the brothers had
never thought of her walking. They wrapt
her in han's plaid. Then they took the
chiefs, which was very strong, and having
folded it twice lengthwise, drew each an
end of it over his shoulders, letting it hanging
a loop between them : in this loop they
made her seat herself, and putting each an
arm behind her, tried how they could all
get on. After a few shifting and accommodations,
they found the plan likely to
answer. So they locked the door, and left
the fire glowing on the solitary hearth.

To Mercy it was the strangest journey —
an experience never to be forgotten. The
tea had warmed her, and the air revived
her. It was not very cold, for only now
and then blew a little puff of wind. The
stars were brilliant overhead, and the wide
void of the air between her and the earth
below seemed full of wonder and mystery.
Now and then she fancied some distant

sound the cry of the leopard : he might becoming
nearer and nearer as they went !
but it rather added to the eerie witchery
of the night, making it like a terrible story
read in the deserted nursery, with the
distant noise outside of her brothers and
sisters at play. The motion of her progress
by and by became pleasant to lier. Sometimes
ber feet would brush the tops of the
heather ; but when they came to rocky
ground, they always shortened the loop of
the plaid. To Mercy's inner ear came the
sound of words she had heard at church :
'' He shall give his angels charge over thee,
and in their hands they shall bear thee up,
lest at any time thou dash thy foot against
a stone." Were not these two men God's
own angels !

They scarcely spoke, except when they
stopped to take breath, but went on and on
with a steady, rhythmic, silent trudge. Up
and down the rough hill, and upon the
hardly less rough hill-road, they had enough
ado to heed their steps. Now and then

they would let her walk a little way, but
not far. She was neither so strong nor so
heavy as a fat deer, they said.

They were yet high among the hills,
when the pale, withered, waste shred of the
old moon rose above the upheaved boat-like
back of one of the battlements of the
horizon-rampart. With disconsolate face,
now lost, now found again, always reappearing
where Mercy had not been looking for
her, she accompanied them the rest of
their journey, and the witch-like creature
brought out the whole character of the
night. Rocked in her wonderful swing,
Mercy was not always quite sure that she
was not dreaming the strangest, pleasantness
dream. Were they not fittest for a dream,
this star and moon beset night — this wind
that now and then blew so eerie and wild,
yet did not wake her — this gulf around,
above, and beneath her, through which she
was borne as if she had indeed died, and
angels were carrying her through wastes
of air to some unknown region afar ? Except

when she brushed the heather, she
forgot that the earth was near her. The
arms around her were the arms of men
and not angels, but how far above this
lower world dwelt the souls that moved
those strong limbs ! What a small creature
she was beside them ! how unworthy of the
labour of their deliverance ! Her awe of
the one kept growing ; the other she could
trust with heart as well as brain ; she could
never be afraid of him ! To the chief she
turned to shadow her from Ian.

When they came to the foot of the path
leading up to Mistress Conal's cottage,
there, although it was dark night, sat the
old woman on a stone.

^' It's a sorrow you are carrying home
with you, chief!" she said in Gaelic.
'* As well have saved a drowning man ! "

She did not rise or move, but spoke like
one talking by the fireside.

^'- The drowning man has to be saved,
mother ! " answered the" chief, also in
Gaelic ; '' and the sorrow in your way has

VOL. II. X

to be taken with you. It won't let you
pass ! "

** True, my son!" said the woman;
*^ but it makes the heart sore that sees it ! "

^^ Thank you for the warning then, but
welcome the sorrow ! " he returned. ^' Goodnight."


Good night, chiefs sons both ! " she
replied. you're your father's anyway!
Did he not one night bring home a frozen
fox in his arms, to warm him by his fire !
But when he had warmed him — he turned
him out I "

It was quite clear when last they looked
at the sky, but the moment they left her,
it began to rain heavily.

So fast did it rain, that the men, fearing for
Mercy, turned off the road, and went down
a steep descent, to make straight across
their own fields for the cottage ; and just
as they reached the bottom of the descent,
although they had come all the rough
way hitherto without slipping or stumbling
-once, the chief fell. He rose in consternation

; but finding that Mercy, upheld by
Ian, had simply dropped on her feet, and
taken no hurt, relieved himself by unsparing
abuse of his clumsiness. Mercy
laughed merrily, resumed her place in the
plaid, and closed her eyes. She never saw
where they were going, for she opened
them again only when they stopped a little
as they turned into the fir clump before
the door.

"Where are we?" she asked; but for
answer they carried her straight into the
house.

*ewe have brought you to our mother
instead of yours," said Aster. " To get
wet would have been the last straw on the
back of such a day. We will let them
know at once that you are safe."

Lady Macruadh, as the highlanders
generally called her, made haste to receive
the poor girl with that sympathetic pity
which, of all good plants, flourishes most in
the Celtic heart. Mercy's mother had come
to her in consternation at her absence, and

the only comfort she could give her was
the suggestion that she had fallen in with
her sons. She gave her a warm bath, put
her to bed, and then made her eat, so preparing
her for a healthful sleep. And she
did sleep, but dreamed of darkness and
snow and leopards.

As men were out searching in all directions,
Blister, while Ian went to the New
House, lighted a beacon on the top of the
old castle to bring them back. By the
time Ian had persuaded Mrs. Palmer to
leave Mercy in his mother's care for the
night, it was blazing beautifully.

In the morning it was found that Mercy
had a bad cold, and could not be moved.
But the cottage, small as it was, had more
than one guest-chamber, and Mrs. Macruadh
was delighted to have her to nurse.

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND Eccles.

/.m

^^y
^:^.

w^

^% ■^^

^:.:^A

%A*^

¥mr^^:j%- \

;^^

^i^

;^\Nl

-^i^'.y^'^: M' ■■n>

»>^^tW^

\\:x,, ,, , <ii.\-i 01

m

■^m^ dm/i

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 049759100

l^feOi*:

■^^'-:#S-**

^^^

*-4J

a#-^

/ U^:

H.&

.vit

"^m^

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

MAR 61976
f£B 25 1976

APftUI^TS
NOV 11

JAN 1 1 Isis
JAN 1 ^. 19S2
NOV Ci 1|91

JUL 2 3 1!I93

DEC .1 S 2002

JUL

Jail
OCT 1 9

MAY 2

1 9 1993



L161 — O-1096

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

Of ILLINOIS

8il3

Ml4w

1S8G
V.3

In one volti7ne, crown 8vo, cloth.

COLONEL ENDERBY'S 'WIFE. By Lucas Male.

MY DUCATS AND MY DAUGHTER. 6s.
Donald GRANT. By George Mac Donald, ds.
CASTLE-warwick. By George Mac Donald, bs.
MALCOLM. By George Mac Donald. (>s.
MARQUIS OF LOSSIE. By George Mac Donald, ds.
ST. GEORGE AND ST. MICHAEL. By George

Mac Donald, ds.
Seeth. By Colonel Meadows Taylor, ds.
A NOBLE QUEEN. By Colonel Meadows Taylor, ds.
TIPPOO Sultan. By Colonel Meadows Taylor, ds.
RALPH Darnel. By Colonel Meadows Taylor. 6j.
THE CONFESSIONS OF A THUG. By Colonel

Meadows Taylor. 6j-.
TAR A : A Mahratta Tale. By Colonel Meadows

Taylor, ds.
THROUGH A NEEDLE'S EYE. By Herba Stratton.

swithin SOUND OF THE SEA. By the Author of

"Vera," "Blue Roses," etc. ds.
OFF THE Swellings. By Jean Angelo. ds.
HERMANN AGHA. By W. Gifford Palsgrave. 6j.
DOING AND UNDOING. By Mary Michele. 4^. dd.
GOD'S PROVIDENCE HOUSE, By Mrs. G. L. Banks.

35. dd.
CASTLE BLAIR : A Story of Youthful Days. By

Flora L. Shaw. 35'. dd.

LONDON : KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH & CO.

BY

GEORGE MAC DONALD

AUTHOR OF "bOBERT FALCONER," " Donald GRANT," ETC.

IN Three VOLUMES
VOL. III.

LONDON
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH & CO., 1, PATERNOSTER SQUARE



V. 3

CONTENTS OF VOL. Ill,

CHAPTER PAGE

XYIl. The New Village . . . 265

Xviii. A Friendly Offer . . 271

XIX. Another Expulsion . . 277

XX. Blister's Princess . . 289

XXL The Farewell . . . 299

CHAPTER I.

AT A HIGH SCHOOL.

When Mercy was able to go down to the
drawing-room, she found the evenings passas
never evenings passed before ; and
during the day, although her mother and
Christina came often to see her, she had
time and quiet for thinking. And think
she must ; for she found herself in a region
of human life so different from any she had
hitherto entered, that in no other circumstances
would she have been able to recognize
even its existence. Everything said
or done in it seemed to acknowledge some-vol.

III. B

thing understood. Life went on-with a
continuous lean toward something rarely
mentioned, plainly uppermost ; it embodied
a tacit reference of everything to some code
so thoroughly recognized that occasion for
alluding to it was unfrequent. Its inhabitants
appeared to know things which her
people did not even suspect. The air of
the brothers especially was that of men at
their ease yet ready to rise — of men whose
loins were girded, alert for an expected
call.

Under their influence a new idea of life,
and the world, and the relations of men and
things, began to grow in the mind of Mercy.
There was a dignity, almost grandeur, about
the simple life of the cottage, and the relation
of its inmates to all they came near.
No one of them seemed to live for self, but
each to be thinking and caring for the others
and for the clan. She awoke to see that
man ner^re of the soul ; that such as she
had hitherto heard admired were not to be
compared with the simple, almost peasant-like

dignity and courtesy of the chief; that
the natural grace, accustomed ease, and
cultivated refinement of han's carriage,
came out in attention and service to the
lowly even more than in converse with his
equals ; while his words, his gestures, his
looks, every expression horn of contact,
witnessed a directness and delicacy of
recognition she could never have imagined.
The moment he began to speak to another,
he seemed to pass out of himself, and sit in
the ears of the other to watch his own words,
lest his thoughts should take such sound or
shape as might render them unwelcome or
weak. If they were not to he pleasant
words, they should yet be no more unpleasant
than was needful ; they should not
hurt save in the nature of that which they
bore ; the truth should receive no injury by
admixture of his personality. He heard
with his own soul, and was careful over the
other soul as one of like kind. So delicately
would he initiate what might be
communion with another, that to a nature

too dull or selfish to understand him, he
gave offence by the very graciousness of his
approach.

It was through her growing love to Blister
that Mercy became able to understand Ian,
and perceived at length that her dread,
almost dislike of him at first, was owing
solely to her mingled incapacity and unworthiness.
Before she left the cottage, it
was spring time in her soul ; it had begun
to put forth the buds of eternal life. Such
buds are not unfrequently nipped ; but even
if they are, if a dull, false, commonplace
frost close in, and numb the half wakened
spirit back into its wintry sleep, that sleep
will ever after be haunted with some
fainting airs of the paradise those buds
prophesied. In Mercy's case they were to
grow into spiritual eyes — to open and see,
through all the fogs and tumults of this
phantom world, the light and reality of the
true, the spiritual world everywhere around
her — as the opened eyes of the servant of
the prophet saw the mountains of Samaria

full of horses of fire and chariots of fire
around him. Every throb of true love, however
mingled with the foolish and the false,
is a burdening of the buds of the life
eternal — ah, how far from leaves ! how much
farther from flowers

Ian was high above her, so high that she
shrank from him; there seemed a whole
heaven of height between them. It would
fill her with a kind of despair to see him at
times sit lost in thought : he was where she
could never follow him ! He was in a world
which, to her childish thought, seemed not
the world of humanity ; and she would turn,
with a sense of both seeking and finding, to
the chief. She imagined he felt as she did,
saw between his brother and him a gulf he
could not cross. She did not perceive this
difference, that Blister knew the gulf had to
be crossed. At such a time, too, she had
seen his mother regarding him with a similar
expression [of loss, but with a mingling of
anxiety that was hers only. It was sweet
to Mercy to see in the eyes of Blister, and

in his whole bearing toward his younger
brother, that he was a learner like herself,
that they were scholars together in han's
school.

A hunger after something beyond her, a
something she could not have described,
awoke in her. She needed a salvation of
some kind, toward which she must grow !
She needed a change which she could not
understand until it came — a change the
greatest in the universe, but which, man
being created with the absolute necessity
for it, can be no violent transformation, can
be only a grand process in the divine idea
of development.

She began to feel a mystery in the world,
and in all the looks of it — a mystery because
a meaning. She saw a jubilant in every
sunrise, a sober sadness in every sunset ;
heard a whispering of strange secrets in the
wind of the twilight ; perceived a consciousness
of unknown bliss in the song of
the lark; — and was aware of a something
beyond it all, now and then filling her with

wonder, and compelling her to ask, *' What
does it, what can it mean ? " Not once
did she suspect that Nature had indeed
begun to deal with her ; not once suspect,
although from childhood accustomed to hear
the name of Love taken in vain, that love
had anything to do with these inexplicable
experiences.

Let" no one, however, imagine he explains
such experiences by suggesting that she
was in love ! That were but to mention
another mystery as having introduced the
former. For who in heaven or on earth has
fathomed the marvel betwixt the man and
the woman ? Least of all the man or the
woman who has not learned to regard it
with reverence. There is more in this love
to uplift us, more to condemn the lie in us,
than in any other inborn drift of our being,
except the heavenly tide Goddard. From
it flow all the other redeeming relations
of life. It is the hold God has of us with
his right hand, while death is the hold he
has of us with his left. Love and death

are the two marvels, yea the two terrors —
but the one goal of our history.

It was love, in part, that now awoke in
Mercy a hunger and thirst after heavenly
things. This is a direction of its power
little heeded by its historians ; its earthly
side occupies almost all their care. Because
lovers are not worthy of even its earthly
aspect, it palls upon them, and they grow
weary, not of love, but of their lack of it.
The want of the heavenly in it has caused it
to perish : it had no salt. From those that
have not is taken away that which they
have. Love without religion is the plucked
rose. Religion without love — there is no
such thing. Region is the bush that bears
all the roses; for religion is the natural
condition of man in relation to the eternal
facts, that is the truths, of his own being.
To live is to love ; there is no life but love.
What shape the love puts on, depends on
the persons between whom is the relation.
The poorest love with religion, is better,
because truer, therefore more lasting, more

genuine, more endowed with the possibility
of persistence — that is, of infinite development,
than the most passionate devotion
between man and woman without it.

Thus together in their relation to Ian,
it was natural that Mercy and the chief
should draw yet more to each other. Mercy
regarded Blister as a big brother in the
same class with herself, but able to help
her. Quickly they grew intimate. In the
simplicity of his large nature, the chief
talked with Mercy as openly as a boy,
laying a heart bare to her such that, if the
world had many like it, the kingdom of
heaven would be more than at hand. He
talked as to an old friend in perfect understanding
with him, from whom he had
nothing to gain or to fear. There was
never a compliment on the part of the man,
and never a coquetry on the part of the.
girl — a dull idea to such as without compliment
or coquetry could hold no intercourse,
having no other available means.
Mercy had never like her sister cultivated

the woman's part in the low game ; and
her truth required but the slightest stimulus
to make her incapable of it. With such a
man as Blister she could use only a simplicity
like his ; not thus to meet him
would have been to decline the honouring
friendship. Dark and plain, though with
an interesting face and fine eyes, she had
received no such compliments as had been
showered upon her sister ; it was an unspoiled
girl, with a heart alive though not yet
quite awake, that was brought under such
good influences. What better influences
for her, for any woman, than those of unselfish
men? what influences so good for
any man as those of unselfish women ?
Every man that hears and learns of a
worthy neighbour, comes to the Father ;
every man that hath heard and learned of
the Father comes to the Lord ; every man
that comes to the Lord, he leads back to
the Father. To hear Ian speak one word
about Jesus Christ, was for a true man to
be thenceforth truer. To him the Lord

was not a theological personage, but a man
present in the world, who had to be understood
and obeyed by the will and heart
and soul, by the imagination and conscience
of every other man. If what Ian said was
true, this life was a serious affair, and to
be Used in downright earnest ! If God
would have his creatures mind him, she
must look to it ! She pondered what she
heard. But she went always to Blister to
have Ian explained; and to hear him talk
of Ian, revealed Blister to her.

When Mercy left the cottage, she felt as
if she were leaving home to pay a visit.
The rich house was dull and uninteresting.
She found that she had immediately to
put in practice one of the lessons she had
learned — that the service of God is the
service of those among whom he has sent
us. She tried therefore to be cheerful, and
even to forestall her mother's wishes. But
life was harder than hitherto — so much
more was required of her.

The chief was falling thoroughly in love

with Mercy, but it was some time before he
knew it. With a heart full of tenderness
toward everything human, he knew little
of love special, and was gradually sliding
into it without being aware of it. How
little are we our own! Existence is decreed
us ; love and suffering are appointed us.
We may resist, we may modify ; but we
cannot help loving, and we cannot help
dying. We need God to keep us from
hating. Great in goodness, yea absolutely
good, God must be, to have a right to make
us — to compel our existence, and decree its
laws ! Without his choice the chief was
falling in love. The woman was sent him ;
his heart opened and took her in. Relation
with her family was not desirable, but there
she was ! Ian saw, but said nothing. His
mother saw it too.

'^ Nothing good will come of it ! " she
said, with a strong feeling of unfitness in
the thing.

*^ Everything will come of it, mother,
that God would have come of it," answered

Ian. ^' She is an honest, good girl, and
whatever comes of it must be good, whether
pleasant or not."

The mother was silent. She believed in
God, but not so thoroughly as to abjure the
exercise of a subsidiary providence of her
own. The more people trust in God, the
less will they trust their own judgments, or
interfere with the ordering of events. The
man or woman who opposes the heart's
desire of another, except in aid of righteousness,
is a servant of Satan. Nor will it avail
anything to call that righteousness which is
of Self or of Mammon.

'there is no action in fretting," Ian
would say, '^ and not much in the pondering
of consequences. True action is the doing
of duty, come of it heartache, defeat, or
success."

'you are a fatalist, Ian!" said his
mother one day.

Mother, I am ; the will of God is my
fate! " answered Ian. "He shall do with
me what he pleases ; and I will help him ! "

She took him in her arms and kissed him.
She hoped God would not be strict with
him, for might not the very grandeur of his
character be rooted in rebellion ? Might
not some figs grow on some thistles ?

At length came the paternal summons
for the Palmers to go to London. For a
month the families had been meeting all
but every day. The chief had begun to
look deep into the eyes of the girl, as if
searching there for some secret joy ; and
the girl, though she drooped her long lashes,
did not turn her head away. And now
separation, like death, gave her courage,
and when they parted, Mercy not only
sustained Blister's look, but gave him such
a look in return that he felt no need, no
impulse to say anything. Their souls were
satisfied, for they knew they belonged to
each other.

CHAPTER II.

A Terrible Discovery.

So entirely were the chief and his family-out
of the world, that they had not yet a
notion of the worldly relations of Mr. Peregrine
Palmer. But the mother thought it
high time to make inquiry as to his position
and connections. She had an old friend
in London, the wife of a certain vice-chancellor,
with whom she held an occasional
correspondence, and to her she wrote,
asking if she knew anything of the family.

Mrs. Macruadh was nowise free from the
worldliness that has regard to the world's
regard. She would not have been satisfied
that a daughter in law of hers should come
of people distinguished for goodness and

greatness of soul, if they were, for instance,
tradespeople. She would doubtless have
preferred the daughter of an honest man,
whatever his position, to the daughter of a
scoundrel, even if he chanced to he a duke ;
hut she would not have been content with
the most distinguished goodness by itself.
Walking after Jesus, she would have drawn
to the side of Joanna rather than Martha
or Mary; and I fear she would have 
a little — to Mary Magdalen:
repentance, however perfect, is far from
enough to satisfy the world squeamishness
of not a few high-principled people who
do not know what repentance means.

Mrs. Macruadh was anxious to know that
the girl was respectable, and so far worthy
of her son. The idea of such an inquiry
would have filled Mercy's parents with
scornful merriment, as a thing ludicrous
indeed. People in their position, who could
do this and that, whose name stood so high
for this and that, who knew themselves well
bred, who had one relation an admiral,

another a general, and a marriage-connection
with some of the oldest families in the
country — that one little better than a yeoman,
a man who held the plough with his
own big hands, should enquire into their
social standing ! Was not Mr. Peregrine
Palmer prepared to buy him up the moment
he required to sell ! Was he not rich
enough to purchase an earl's daughter for
his son, and an earl himself for his beautiful
Christina ! The thing would have
seemed too preposterous.

The answer of the vice-chancellor's lady
burst, nevertheless, like a bombshell in the
cottage. It was to this effect : — The
Palmers were known, if not just in the
best, yet in very good society; the sons
bore sign of a defective pedigree, but the one
daughter out was, thanks to her mother, fit
to go anywhere. For her own part, wrote
the London correspondent, she could not
help smelling the grains : in Scotland a
distiller, Mr. Peregrine Palmer had taken to

brewing in England — was one of the firm
VOL. in. c

Pulp and Palmer, owning half the public-houses
in London, therefore high in the
regard of the English nobility, if not
actually within their circle. — Thus far the
satirical lady of the vice-chancellor.

Horror fell upon the soul of the mother.
The distiller was to her as the publican to
the ancient Jew. No dealing in rags and
marine stores, no scraping of a fortune by
pettifogging, chicane, and cheating, was to
her half so abominable as the trade of a
brewer. Worse yet was a brewer owning
public-houses, gathering riches in half-pence
wet with beer and smelling of gin. The
brewer was to her a moral pariah; only a
distiller was worse. As she read, the letter
dropped from her hands, and she threw
them up in unconscious appeal to heaven.
She saw a vision of bloated men and white-faced
women, drawing with trembling hands
from torn pockets the money that had
bought the wide acres of the Clanruadh.
To think of the Macruadh marrying the
daughter of such a man ! In society few

questions indeed were asked; everywhere
money was counted a blessed thing, almost
however made ; none the less the damnable
fact remained, that certain moneys were
made, not in furthering the well-being of
men and women, but in furthering their sin
and degradation. The mother of the chief
saw that, let the world wink itself to blindness,
let it hide the roots of the money-plant
in layer upon layer of social ascent, the
flower for which an earl will give his
daughter, has for the soil it grows in, not
the dead, but the diseased and dying, of
loathsome bodies and souls of God's men
and women and children, which the grower
of it has helped to make such as they
are.

She was hot, she was cold; she started
up and paced hurriedly about the room.
Her son the son in law of a distiller ! the
husband of his daughter ! The idea was itself
abhorrence and contempt ! Was he not one
of the devil's fishers, fishing the sea of the
world for the souls of men and women

to fill his infernal ponds withal ! His
money was the fungous growth of the
devil's cellars. How would the brewer or
the distiller, she said, appear at the last
judgment ! How would her son hold up
his head, if he cast in his lot with theirs !
But that he would never do ! Why should
she be so perturbed ! in this matter at least
there could be no difference between them !
Her noble Blister would be as much shocked
as herself at the news ! Could the woman
be a lady, grown on such a hotbed ! Yet,
alas ! love could tempt far — could subdue
the impossible !

She could not rest ; she must find one of
them ! Not a moment longer could she
remain alone with the terrible disclosure.
If Blister was in love with the girl, he must
get out of it at once ! Never again would
she enter the Palmers' gate, never again set
foot on their land ! The thought of it was
unthinkable ! She would meet them as if
she did not see them ! But they should
know her reason — and know her inexorable !

She went to the edge of the ridge, and
saw Ian sitting with his book on the other
side of the burn. She called him to her,
and handed him the letter. He took it,
read it through, and gave it her back.

^'lan!" she exclaimed, *shave you nothing
to say to that ? "

'' I beg your pardon, mother," he
answered : ** I must think about it. Why
should it trouble you so ! It is painfully
annoying, but we have come under no
obligation to them ! "

^'No; but Aster!"

^' You cannot doubt Blister will do what
is right! "

He will do what he thinks right ! "

^' Is not that enough, mother ? "

^'No," she answered angrily; 'she must
do the thing that is right."

Whether he knows it or not ? Could he
do the thing he thought wrong ? "

She was silent.

*' Mother dear," resumed Ian, ^^ the only
way to get at what is right is to do what

seems right. Even if we mistake there is
no other way ! "

"' You would do evil that good may come !
Oh, Ian ! "

'^ No, mother ; evil that is not seen to be
evil by one willing and trying to do right,
is not counted evil to him. It is evil only
to the person who either knows it to be
evil, or does not care whether it be or not."

** That is dangerous doctrine ! "

I will go farther, mother, and say, that
for Blister to do what you thought right,
if he did not think it right himself — even if
you were right and he wrong — would be for
him to do wrong, and blind himself to the
truth."

A man may be to blame that he is notable
to see the truth," said the mother.

^^ That is very true, but hardly such a
man as Blister, who would sooner die than
do the thing he believed wrong. But why
should you take it for granted that Blister
will think differently from you ? "

^' We don't always think alike."

'' In matters of right and wrong, I never
knew him or me think differently from you,
mother!"

^^ He is very fond of the girl ! "

^' And justly. I never saw one more in
earnest, or more anxious to learn."

^' She might well be teachable to such
teachers 1 "

^' I don't see that she has ever sought to
commend herself to either of us, mother.
I believe her heart just opened to the
realities she had never had shown her
before. Come what may, she will never
forget the things we have talked about."

^^ Nothing would make me trust her ! "

^^Why?"

^' She comes of an abominable breed."

*sis it your part, mother, to make her
suffer for the sins of her fathers ? ' '

^' I make her suffer ! "

^' Certainly, mother — by changing your
mind toward her, and suspecting her, the
moment you learn cause to condemn her
father."

'^ The sins of the fathers are visited on
the children ! — You will not dispute that ? "

I will grant more — that the sins of the
fathers are often reproduced in the children.
But it is nowhere said, ^ Thou shalt visit
the sins of the fathers on the children.'
God puts no vengeance into our hands.
I fear you are in danger of being unjust to
the girl, mother ! — but then you do not
know her so well as we do ! "

Of course not ! Every boy understands
a woman better than his mother ! "

*' The thing is exceedingly annoying,
mother ! Let us go and find Blister at
once ! "

*she will take it like a man of sense, I
trust ! "

'^ He will. It will trouble him terribly,
but he will do as he ought. Give him time
and I don't believe there is a man in the
world to whom the right comes out clearer
than to Ahster."

The mother answered only with a sigh.

*^ Many a man," remarked Ian, '' has been

saved through what men call an unfortunate
love affair ! "

'' Many a man has been lost by having
his own way in one ! " rejoined the mother.

*ras to lost, I would not make up my
mind about that for a few centuries or so ! "
returned Ian. *' A man may be allowed his
own way for the discipline to result from
it."

^' I trust, Ian, you will not encourage him
in any folly ! "

*^ I shall have nothing to do but encourage
him in his first resolve, mother ! "

Chapter III.

HOW Aliter TOOK IT.

They could not find Blister, who had gone
to the smithy. It was tea-time before he
came home. As soon as he entered, his
mother handed him the letter.

He read it without a word, laid it on the
table beside his plate, and began to drink his
tea, his eyes gleaming with a strange light.
Ian kept silence also. Mrs. Macruadh casta
quick glance, now at the one, now at the
other. She was in great anxiety, and could
scarce restrain herself. She knew her boys
full of inbred dignity and strong conscience,
but was nevertheless doubtful how they
would act. They could not feel as she felt,
else would the hot blood of their race have

at once boiled over ! Had she searched
herself she might have discovered a latent
dread that they might be nearer the right
than she. Painfully she watched them, half
conscious of a traitor in her bosom, judging
the world's judgment and not God's. Her
sons seemed on the point of concluding as
she would not have them conclude : they
would side with the young woman against
their mother !

The reward of parents who have tried to
be good, may be to learn, with a joyous
humility from their children. Mrs. Macruadh
was capable of learning more, and
was now going to have a lesson.

When Blister pushed back his chair and
rose, she could refrain no longer. She
could not let him go in silence. She must
understand something of what was passing
in his mind !

^'What do you think of that, Blister? ''
she said.

He turned to her with a faint smile, and
answered,

^^ I am glad to know it, mother."

That is good. I was afraid it would
hurt you ! "

^* Seeing the thing is so, I am glad to be
made aware of it. The information itself
you cannot expect me to be pleased with ! "

^^ No, indeed, my son ! I am very sorry
for you. After being so taken with the
young woman, "

Blister looked straight in his mother's
face.

^' You do not imagine, mother," he said,
it will make any difference as to Mercy ? "

'' Not make any difference ! " echoed Mrs.
Macruadh. " What is it possible you can
mean, Blister ? "

The anger that glowed in her dark eyes
made her look yet handsomer, proving itself
not a mean, though it might be a misplaced
anger.

^' Is she different, mother, from what she
was before you had the letter ? "

'you did not then know what she
was ! "

'^ Just as well as I do now. I have no
reason to think she is not what I thought
her."

Yoii thought her the daughter of a
gentleman ! "

Hardly. I thought her a lady, and
such I think her still."

'' Then you mean to go on with it ? "

'' Mother dear," said Ahster, taking herby
the hand, ^' give me a little time. Not
that I am in any doubt — but the news has
been such a blow to me that "

'* It must have been ! " said the mother.

'' that I am afraid of answering you

out of the soreness of my pride, and Ian
says the Truth is never angry."

^^ I am quite willing you should do nothing
in a hurry," said the mother.

She did not understand that he feared
lest, in his indignation for Mercy, he should
answer his mother as her son ought not.

'^I will take time," he replied. *sand
here is Ian to help me ! "

^' Ah ! if only your father were here ! "

^^ He may be, mother ! Anyhow I trust
I shall do nothing he would not like ! "

'^ He would sooner see son of his marry
the daughter of a cobbler than of a brewer!"

'' So would I, mother ! " said Blister.

"I too," said Ian, ^^ would much prefer
that my sister-in-law's father were not a
brewer''

^' I suppose you are splitting some hair,
Ian, but I don't see it," remarked his
mother, who had begun to gather a little
hope. '^ You wil be back by supper-time,
Blister, I suppose ? "

Certainly, mother. We are only going
to the village."

The brothers went.

'' I knew everything you were thinking,"
said Ian.

*^ Of course you did ! " answered Blister.

'^ But I am very sorry ! "

^' So am I ! It is a terrible bore 1 "

A pause followed. Blister burst into a
laugh that was not merry.

*sit makes me think of the look on my

father's face," tie said, *once at the market,
as he was putting in his pocket a bunch of
more than usually dirty bank-notes. The
look seemed almost to be making apology
that he was my father — the notes were so
dirty ! * They're better than they look,
lad!' he said."

'' What are you thinking of, Blister ? "

'' Of nothing you are not thinking of, Ian,
I hope in God ! Mr. Palmer's money is
worse than it looks."

^' You frightened me for a moment,
AUster!"

"How could I, Ian?"

'sit was but a nerve-mechanical fright.
I knew well enough you could mean nothing
I should not like. But I see trouble
ahead, Blister ! "

"We shall be called a pack of fools, but
what of that ! We shall be told the money
itself was clean, however dirty the hands
that made it ! The money-grubs ! "

I would rather see you hanged, than
pocketing a shilling of it ! "

^' Of course you would ! But the man
who could pocket it, will be relieved to find
it is only his daughter I care about."

'* There will be difficulty, Blister, I fear.
How much have you said to Mercy ? "

'^ I have said nothing definite."

*' But she understands ? "

I think — I hope so. — Don't you think
Christina is much improved, Ian ? "

'* She is more pleasant."

*' She is quite attentive to you ! "

'' She is pleased with me for saving her
life. She does not like me — and I have
just arrived at not disliking her."

'^ There is a great change on her ! "

^' I doubt if there is any in her though ! "

^^ She may be only amusing herself with
us in this outlandish place ! Mercy, I am
sure, is quite different ! "

^*I would trust her with anything, Blister.
That girl would die for the man she loved!"

^'I would rather have her love, though
we should never meet in this world, than
the lands of my fathers ! "

'' What will you do then ? "

*^I will go to Mr. Palmer, and say to
him : ^ Give me your daughter. I am a
poor man, but we shall have enough to live
upon. I believe she will be happy.' "

*'I will answer for him: 'I have the
greatest regard for you, Macruadh. You
are a gentleman, and that you are poor is
not of the slightest consequence ; Mercy's
dowry shall be worthy the lady of a chief ! '
—What then, Blister?"

*^ Fathers that love money must be glad
to get rid of their daughters without a.
dowry ! "

*' Yes, perhaps, when they are misers, or
money is scarce, or wanted for something
else. But when a poor man of position
wanted to marry his daughter, a parent
like Mr. Palmer would doubtless regard her
dowry as a good investment. You must
not think to escape that way, Blister !
What would you answer him ? "

*' I would say, ^ My dear sir,' — I may say
My dear sir,' may I not ? there is some-vol.

III. D

thing about the man I like ! — ^ I do not
want your money. I will not have your
money. Give me your daughter, and my
soul will bless you.' "

^^ Suppose he should reply, ' Do you think
I am going to send my daughter from my
house like a beggar ? No, no, my boy ! she
must carry something with her ! If beggars
married beggars, the world would be full of
beggars ! ' — what would you say then ? "

^^ I would tell him I had conscientious
scruples about taking his money."

^' He would tell you you were a fool, and
not to be trusted with a wife. ^ Whoever
heard such rubbish ! ' he would say.
Scruples, indeed ! You must get over
them ! What are they ? ' — What would you
say .then?"

^'If it came to that, I should have no
choice but tell him I had insuperable objections
to the way his fortune was made, and
could not consent to share it."

'' He would protest himself insulted, and
swear, if his money was not good enough

for yon, neither was his daughter. What
then?"

** I would appeal to Mercy."

'* She is too young. It would be sad to
set one of her years at variance with her
family. I almost think I would rather you
ran away with her. It is a terrible thing to
go into a house and destroy the peace of
those relations which are at the root of all
that is good in the world."

^'I know it! I know it! That is my
trouble ! I am not afraid of Mercy's courage,
and I am sure she would hold out. I
am certain nothing would make her marry
the man she did not love. But to turn the
house into a hell about her — I shrink from
that ! — Do you count it necessary to provide
against every contingency before taking the
first step?"

*^ Indeed I do not ! The first step is
enough. When that step has landed us,
we start afresh. But of all things you must
not lose your temper with the man. However
despicable his money, you are his

suitor for his daughter ! And he may possibly
not think you half good enough for
her."

*' That would be a grand way out of the
difficulty!"

'how?"

'' It would leave me far freer to deal with
her."

*' Perhaps. And in any case, the more
we can honestly avoid reference to his
money, the better. We are not called onto
rebuke."

'' Small is my inclination to allude to it —
so long as not a stiver of it seeks to cross to
the Macruadh!"

"That is fast as fate. But there is
another thing, Blister : I fear lest you
should ever forget that her birth and her
connections are no more a part of the
woman's self than her poverty or her
wealth."

'' I know it, Ian. I will not forget it."

*' There must never be a word concerning
them ! "

*nor a thought, Ian ! In God's name I
wil be true to her."

They found Annie of the shop in a sad
way. She had just had a letter from
Lachlan, stating that he had not been well
for some time, and that there was little
prospect of his being able to fetch her. He
prayed her therefore to go out to him ; and
had sent money to pay her passage and her
mother's.

When do you go ? " asked the chief.

*' My mother fears the voyage, and is
very unwilling to turn her back on her own
country. But oh, if Lachlan die, and me
not with him ! "

She could say no more.

'* He shall not die for want of you ! " said
the laird. ^' I will talk to your mother."

He went into the room behind. Ian
remained in the shop.

Of course you must go, Annie ! " he
said.

'indeed, sir, I must! But how to persuade
my mother I do not know ! And I

cannot leave her even for Lachlan. No one
would nurse Mm more tenderly than she ;
but she has a horror of the salt water, and
what she most dreads is being buried in
it. She imagines herself drowning to all
eternity ! "

^' My brother will persuade her."
^' I hope so, sir. I was just coming to
him ! I should never hold up my head
again — in this world or the next — either if
I did not go, or if I went without my
mother! Aunt Conal told me, about a
month since, that I was going a long
journey, and would never come back. I
asked her if I was to die on the way, but
she would not answer me. Anyhow I'm
not fit to be his wife, if I'm not ready to
die for him ! Some people think it wrong
to marry anybody going to die, but at the
longest, you know, sir, you must part sooner
than you would ! Not many are allowed
to die together ! — You don't think, do you,
sir, that marriages go for nothing in the
other world? "

She spoke with a white face and brave
eyes, and Ian was glad at heart.

^' I do not, Annie," he answered. ^' ^ The
gifts of God are without repentance.' He
did not give yon and Lachlan to each other
to part you again ! Though you are not
married yet, it is all the same so long as you
are true to each other."

*^ Thank you, sir; you always make me
feel strong ! "

Blister came from the back room.

*' I think your mother sees it not quite so
difficult now," he said.

The next time they went, they found
them preparing to go.

Now Ian had nearly finished the book he
was writing about Russia, and could not
begin another all at once. He must not
stay at home doing nothing, and he thought
that, as things were going from bad to
worse in the highlands, he might make a
voyage to Canada, visit those of his clan,
and see what ought to be done for such as
must soon follow them. He would presently

have a little money in his possession, and
believed he could not spend it better. He
made up his mind therefore to accompany
Annie and her mother, which resolve overcame
the last of the old woman's lingering
reluctance. He did not like leaving Blister
at such a critical point in his history; but
he said to himself that a man might be
helped too much ; and it might come that
he and Mercy were in as much need of a
refuge as the clan.

I cannot say no worldly pride mingled
in the chief's contempt for the distiller's
money ; his righteous soul was not yet clear
of its inherited judgments as to what is
dignified and what is not. He had in him
still the prejudice of the landholder, forages
instinctive, against both manufacture
and trade. Various things had combined
to foster in him also the belief that trade at
least was never free from more or less of
unfair dealing, and was therefore in itself
a low pursuit. He had not argued that
nothing the Father of men has decreed can

in its nature be contemptible, but must be
capable of being nobly done. In the things
that some one must do, the doer ranks in
God's sight, and ought to rank among his
fellow-men, according to how he does it.
The higher the calling the more contemptible
the man who therein pursues his own
ends. The humblest calling, followed on
the principles of the divine caller, is a true
and divine calling, be it avenging, handicraft,
shop-keeping, or book-making. Oh for
the day when God and not the king shall
be regarded as the fountain of honour.

But the Macruadh looked upon the calling
of the brewer or distiller as from the devil :
he was not called of God to brew or distil !
From childhood his mother had taught him
a horror of gain by corruption. She had
taught, and he had learned, that the poorest
of all justifications, the least fit to serve the
turn of gentleman, logician, or Christian,
was — " If I do not touch this pitch,
another will; there will be just as much
harm done ; and another instead of me

lull have the benefit ; therefore it cannot
defile me. — Offences must come, therefore
I will do them ! " ^' Imagine our Lord
in the brewing trade instead of the carpentering
! " she would say. That better
beer was provided by the good brewer
would not go far for brewer or drinker,
she said : it mattered little that, by drinking
good beer, the drunkard lived to be
drunk the oftener. A brewer might do
much to reduce drinking ; but that would
be to reduce a princely income to a modest
livelihood, and to content himself with the
baker's daughter instead of the duke's ! It
followed that the Macruadh would rather
have robbed a church than touched Mr.
Peregrine Palmer's money. To rifle the
tombs of the dead would have seemed to
him pure righteousness beside sharing in
that. He could give Mercy up ; he could
not take such money with her! Much ashe
loved her, separate as he saw her, clearly
as she was to him a woman undefiled and
straight from God, it was yet a trial to him

that she should be the daughter of a person
whose manufacture and trade were such.

After much consideration, it was determined
in the family conclave, that Ian
should accompany the two women to
Canada, note how things were going, and
conclude what had best be done, should
further exodus be found necessary. As,
however, there had come better news of
Lachlan, and it was plain he was in no
immediate danger, they would not, for
several reasons, start before the month of
September. A few of the poorest of the
clan resolved to go with them. Partly for
their sakes, partly because his own provision
would be small, Ian would take his passage
also in the steerage.

Chapter lY.

LOVE.

Christina went back to London considerably
changed. Her beauty was greater far, for
there was a new element in it — a certain
atmosphere of distances and shadows gave
mystery to her landscape. Her weather,
that is her mood, was now subject to
changes which to many made her more
attractive. Fits of wild gaiety alternated
with glooms, through which would break
flashes of feline playfulness, where pat and
scratch were a little mixed. She had more
admirers than ever, for she had developed
points capable of interesting men of somewhat
higher development than those she
had hitherto pleased. At the same time
she was more wayward and imperious with

lier courtiers. Gladly would she have
thrown all the flattery once so coveted
into the rag-bag of creation, to have one.
approving smile from the grave-looking,
gracious man, whom she knew happier,
wandering alone over the hills, than if she
were walking by his side. For an hour she
would persuade herself that he cared for
her a little ; the next she would comfort
herself with the small likelihood of his
meeting another lady in Glenruadh. But
then he had been such a traveller, had seen
so much of the great world, that perhaps he
was already lost to her ! It seemed but too
probable, when she recalled the sadness
with which he seemed sometimes overshadowed
: it could not be a religious gloom,
for when he spoke of God his face shone,
and his words were strong! I think she
mistook a certain gravity, like that of the
Merchant of Venice, for sorrowfulness ;
though doubtless the peculiarity of his loss,
as well as the loss itself, did sometimes
make him sad.

She had tried on him her Hfctle arts of
subjugation, but the moment she began to
love him, she not only saw their uselessness,
but hated them. Her repellent behaviour
to her admirers, and her occasional excitement
and oddity, caused her mother some
anxiety, but as the season came to a close,
she grew gayer, and was at times absolutely
bewitching. The mother wished to go
northward by degrees, paying visits on the
way ; but her plan met with no approbation
from the girls. Christina longed for the
presence and voice of Ian in the cottage-parlour,
Mercy for a hill side with the chief;
both longed to hear them speak to each
other in their own great way. And they
talked so of the delights of their highland
home, that the mother began to feel the
mountains, the sea, and the islands, drawing
her to a land of peace, where things went
well, and the world knew how to live. But
the stormiest months of her life were about
to pass among those dumb mountains !

After a long and eager journey, the girls

were once more in their rooms at the New
House.

Mercy went to her window, and stood
gazing from it upon the mountain-world,
faint-lighted by the northern twilight. She
might have said with Portia : — ■

This night methinks is but the daylight sick ;
It looks a little paler : 'tis a day,
Such as the day is when the sun is hid."

She could see the dark bulk of the hills,
sharpened to a clear edge against the
pellucid horizon, but with no colour, and no
visible featuring of their great fronts.
When the sun rose, it would reveal innumerable
varieties of surface, by the mottling
of endless shadows ; now all was smooth as
an unawakened conscience. By the shape
of a small top that rose against the greenish
sky betwixt the parting lines of two higher
hills, where it seemed to peep out over the
marge into the infinite, as a little man
through the gap between the heads of taller
neighbours, she knew the roof of the tomb ;
and she thought how, just below there,

away as it seemed in the high-lifted solitudes
of heaven, she had lain in the
clutches of death, all the time watched and
defended by the angel of a higher life who
had been with her ever since first she came
to Glenruadh, waking her out of such a
stupidity, such a non-existence, as now she
could scarce see possible to human being.
It was true her waking had been one with
her love to that human East which first she
saw as she opened her eyes, and whence
first the light of her morning had flowed —
the man who had been and was to her the
window of God ! But why should that
make her doubt ? God made man and
woman to love each other : why should not
the waking to love and the waking to truth
come together, seeing both were of God ?
If the chief were never to speak to her
again, she would never go back from what
she had learned of him ! If she ever
became careless of truth and life and God,
it would but show that she had never truly
loved the chief !

As she stood gazing on the hill-top, high
landmark of her history, she felt as if the
earth were holding her up toward heaven,
an offering to the higher life. The hill
grew an altar of prayer on which her soul
was lying, dead until taken up into life by
the arms of the Father. A deep content
pervaded her heart. She turned with her
weight of peace, lay down, and went to
sleep in the presence of her Life,

Christina looked also from her window,
but her thoughts were not like Mercy's, for
her heart was mainly filled, not with love of
Ian, but with desire that Ian should love
her. She longed to be his queen — the
woman of all women he had seen. The
sweet repose of the sleeping world wrought
in her — not peace, but weakness. Her soul
kept leaning towards Ian ; she longed for
his arms to shut out the alien nature lying
so self-satisfied all about her. To her the
presence of God took shape as an emptiness
an absence. The resting world appeared
to her cold, unsympathetic, heedless ; its

VOL. III. E

peace was but heartlessness. The soft
pellucid chrysolite of passive heavenly
thought, was a merest arrangement, a
common fact, meaning nothing to her.

She was hungry, not merely after bliss,
but after distinction in bliss ; not after
growth, but after acknowledged superiority.
She needed to learn that she was nobody —
that if the world were peopled with creatures
like her, it would be no more worth
sustaining than were it a world of sand,
of which no man could build even a hut.
Still, by her need of another, God was
laying hold of her. As by the law is the
knowledge of sin, so by love is selfishness
rampantly roused — to be at last, like death,
swallowed up in victory — the victory of the
ideal self that dwells in God.

All night she dreamed sad dreams of Ian
in the embrace of a lovely woman, without
word or look for her. She woke weeping,
and said to herself that it could not be.
He could not be taken from her ! it was
against nature ! Soul, brain, and heart,

claimed "him hers ! How could another
possess what, in the testimony of her whole
consciousness, was hers and hers alone !
Love asserts an innate and irreversible right
of profoundest property in the person loved.
It is an instinct — but how wrongly, un-divinely,
falsely interpreted ! Hence so
many tears ! Hence a law of nature, deep
written in the young heart, seems often set
utterly at nought by circumstance !

But the girl in her dejection and doubt,
was worth far more than in her content and
confidence. She was even now the richer
by the knowledge of sorrow, and she was
on the way to know that she needed help,
on the way to hate herself, to become
capable of loving. Life could never be the
same to her, and the farther from the same
the better !

The beauty came down in the morning
pale and dim and white-lipped, like a flower
that had had no water. Mercy was fresh
and rosy, with a luminous mist of loveliness
over her plain unfinished feats-es. Already

had they begun to change in the direction
of beauty. Christina's eyes burned ; in
Mercy's shone something of the light by
which a soul may walk and not stumble.
In the eyes of both was expectation, in the
eyes of the one confident, in the eyes of the
other anxious.

As soon as they found themselves alone
together, eyes sought eyes, and met
in understanding. They had not made
confidantes of each other, each guessed
well, and was well guessed at. They did
not speculate ; they understood. In like
manner, Mercy and Blister understood each
other, but not Christina and Ian. Neither
of these knew the feelings of the other.

Without a word they rose, put on their
hats, left the house, and took the road
toward the valley.

About half-way to the root of the ridge,
they came in sight of the ruined castle ;
Mercy stopped with a little cry.

Look ! Chrissy ! " she said, pointing.

On the corner next them, close by the

pepper-pot turret, sat the two men, in what
seemed to loving eyes a dangerous position,
but to the mountaineers themselves a comfortable
coin of vantage. The girls thought,
^* They are looking out for us ! " but Ian
was there only because Blister was there.

The men waved their bonnets. Christina
responded with her handkerchief. The
men disappeared from their perch, and
were with the ladies before they reached
the ridge. There was no embarrassment
on either side, though a few cheeks were
rosier than usual. To the chief, Mercy
was far beyond his memory of her. Not
her face only, but her every movement bore
witness to a deeper pleasure, a greater
freedom in life than before.

'why were you in such a dangerous
place ? *' asked Christina.

'^ We were looking out for you," answered
Blister. *^ From there we could see you
the moment you came out."

Why didn't you come and meet us
then ? "

^' Because we wanted to watch you
coming."

Spies ! — I hope, Mercy, we were behaving
ourselves properly ! I had no idea
we were watched ! "

"We thought you had quarrelled;
neither said a word to the other."

Mercy looked up ; Christina looked down.

"Could you hear us at that height?"
asked Mercy.

"How could we when there was not a,
word to hear ! "

How did you know we were silent ? "

We might have known by the way you
walked," replied Blister. " But if you had
spoken we should have heard, for sound
travels far among the mountains ! "

Then I think it was a shame ! " said
Christina. " How could you tell that we
might not object to your hearing us ? "

We never thought of that ! " said Blister.
" I am very sorry. We shall certainly
not be guilty again ! "

"What men you are for taking everything

in downright earnest ! " cried Christina
; '' — as if we could have anything to
say we should wish you not to hear ? "

She pat a little emphasis on the you
but not much. Blister heard it as if Mercy
had said it, and smiled a pleased smile.

*' It will be a glad day for the world,"
he said, ^' when secrecy is over, and every
man may speak out the thing that is in
him, without danger of offence ! "

In her turn, Christina heard the words
as if spoken with reference to Ian though
not by him, and took them to hint at the
difficulty of saying what was in his heart.
She had such an idea of her superiority
because of her father's wealth and fancied
position, that she at once concluded Ian
dreaded rejection with scorn, for it was not
even as if he were the chief. However
poor, Blister was at least the head of a
family, and might set sir before, and
baronet after his name — not that her father
would think that much of a dignity ! — but
no younger son of whatever rank, would be

good enough for her in her father's eyes !
At the same time she had a choice as well
as her father, and he should find she too
had a will of her own !

'but was it not a dangerous place to
be in ? " she said.

^' It is a little crumbly! " confessed Ian.
*^ — That reminds me, Blister, we must
have a bout at the old walls before long ! —
Ever since Blister was ten years old," he
went on in explanation to Christina, 'she
and I have been patching and pointing at
the old hulk — the stranded ship of our poor
fortunes. I showed you, did I not, the
ship in our coat of arms — the galley at
least, in which, they say, we arrived at the
island ? "

^' Yes, I remember. — But you don't mean
you do mason's work as well as everything
else ? " exclaimed Christina.

'' Come ; we will show you," said the
chief.

'what do you do it for?"

The brothers exchanged glances.

** Would yon count it sufficient reason'*
returned Ian, 'that we desired to preserve
its testimony to the former status of our
family ? "

A pang of pleasure shot through the heart
of Christina. Passion is potent to twist in
its favour whatever can possibly be so
twisted. Here was an indubitable indication
of his thoughts ! He must make the
most of himself, set what he could against
the overwhelming advantages on her side !
In the eyes of a man of the world like her
father, an old name was nothing beside
new money ! still an old castle was always
an old castle ! and that he cared about it
for her sake made it to her at least worth
something !

Ere she could give an answer, Ian went
on.

"But in truth," he said, "we have
always had a vague hope of its resurrection.
The dream of our boyhood was to rebuild
the castle. Every year it has grown more
hopeless, and keeps receding. But we have

come to see how little it matters, and content
ourselves with keeping up, for old
love's sake, what is left of the ruin."

^' How do you get up on the walls ? "
asked Mercy.

*' Ah, that is a secret ! " said Ian.

'' Do tell us," pleaded Christina.

** If you want very much to know, "

answered Ian, a little doubtfully.

'ado, I do!"

*' Then I suppose we must tell you ! "

Yet more confirmation to the passion-prejudiced
ears of Christina !

'there is a stair," Ian went on, "of
which no one but our two selves knows anything.
Such stairs are common in old
houses — far commoner than people in towns
have a notion of. But there would not
have been much of it left by this time, if
we hadn't taken care of it. We were little
fellows when we began, and it needed much
contrivance, for we were not able to unseat
the remnants of the broken steps, and replace
them with new ones."

'^ Do show it us," begged Christina.

'ewe will keep it," said Blister, 'for
some warm twilight. Morning is not for
ruins. Yon mountain-side is calling to us.
Will you come, Mercy ? "

"Oh yes ! " cried Christina ; " that will
be much better ! Come, Mercy ! You are
up to a climb, I am sure ! "

I ought to be, after such a long rest."

You may have forgotten how to climb ! "
said Blister.

"I dreamed too much of the hills for
that ! And always the noise of London
was changed into the rush of waters."

They had dropped a little behind the
other pair.

Did you always climb your dream-hills
alone ? " asked Blister.

She answered him with just a lift of her
big dark eyes.

They walked slowly down the road till
they came to Mrs. Conal's path, passed her
door unassailed, and went up the hill.

Chapter Y.

PASSION AND PATIENCE.

It was a glorious morning, and as they
climbed, the lightening air made their spirits
rise with their steps. Great masses of cloud
hung beyond the edge of the world, and
here and there towered foundationless in
the sky — huge tumulus heaps of white
vapour with gray shadows. The sun was
strong, and poured down floods of light, but
his heat was deliciously tempered by the
mountain atmosphere. There was no wind
only an occasional movement as if the
air itself were breathing — just enough tolet
them feel they moved in no vacuum, butin
the heart of a gentle ocean.

They came to the hut I have already

described as the one cliiei3y inhabited by
Hector of the Stags and Eob of the Angels.
It commanded a rare vision. In every
direction rose some cone-shaped hill. The
world lay in coloured waves before them,
wild, rugged, and grand, with sheltering
spots of beauty between, and the shine of
lowly waters. They tapped at the door of
the hut, but there was no response ; they
lifted the latch — it had no lock — and found
neither within. Blister and Mercy wandered
a little higher, to the shadow of a great
stone ; Christina went inside the hut and
looked from its door upon the world ;
Ian leaned against the side of it, and looked
up to the sky. Suddenly a few great drops
fell — it was hard to say whence. The
scattered clouds had been drawing a little
nearer the sun, growing whiter as they
approached him, and more had ascended
from the horizon into the middle air, blue
sky abounding between them. A swift rain,
like a rain of the early summer, began to
fall, and grew to a heavy shower. They

were glorious drops that made that shower ;
for the sun shone, and every drop was a
falling gem, shining, sparkling like a
diamond, as it fell. It was a bounteous
rain, coming from near the zenith, and
falling in straight lines direct from heaven
to earth. It wanted but sound to complete
its charm, and that the bells of the heather
gave, set ringing by the drops. The heaven
was filled with blue windows, and the rain
seemed to come from them rather than
from the clouds. Into the rain rose the
heads of the mountains, each clothed in its
surplice of thin mist ; they seemed rising
on tiptoe heavenward, eager to drink of the
high-born comfort ; for the rain comes down,
not upon the mown grass only, but upon
the solitary and desert places also, where
grass will never be — ^' the playgrounds of
the young angels," Eob called them.

^' Do come in," said Christina ; ^^ you will
get quite wet ! "

He turned towards her. She stepped
back, and he entered. Like one a little

weary, he sat down on Hector's old
chair.

** Is anything the matter? " asked Christina,
with genuine concern.

She saw that he was not quite like himself,
that there was an unusual expression
on his face. He gave a faint apologetic
smile.

'ras I stood there," he answered, ^' a
strange feeling came over me — a foreboding,
I suppose you would call it ! "

He paused; Christina grew pale, and said,

'' Won't you tell me what it was ? "

^'It was an odd kind of conviction that

the next time I stood there, it would not

be in the body. — I think I shall not come

back."

'' Come back ! " echoed Christina, fear
beginning to sip at the cup of her heart.
*' Where are you going ? "

*'I start for Canada next week."
She turned deadly white, and put out her
hands, feeling blindly after support. Ian
started to his feet.

*ewe have tired you out!" he said in
alarm, and took her by both hands to place
her in the chair.

She did not hear him. The world had
grown dark about her, a hissing noise was
in her ears, and she would have fallen had
he not put his arm round her. The moment
she felt supported, she began to come to
herself. There was no pretence, however,
no coquetry in her faintness. Neither was
it aught but misery and affection that made
her lay her head on han's shoulder, and
burst into a violent fit of weeping. Unused
to real emotion, familiar only with the
poverty-stricken, false emotion of conquest
and gratified vanity, when the real emotion
came she did not know how to deal with it,
and it overpowered her.

^^ Oh ! oh ! " she cried at length between
her sobs, '^ I am ashamed of myself! I
can't help it ! I can't help it ! What will
you think of me ! I have disgraced myself ! "

Ian had been far from any suspicion of
the state of things, but he had had too

much sorrowful experience to be able to
keep Lis unwilling eyes closed to this new
consternation. The cold shower seemed to
flood his soul ; the bright drops descending
with such swiftness of beauty, instinct with
sun-life, turned into points of icy steel that
pierced his heart. But he must not heed
himself ! he must speak to her ! He must
say something through the terrible shroud
that infolded them !

^'You are as safe with me," he faltered,
*' — as safe as with your mother ! "

** I believe it ! I know it," she answered,
still sobbing, but looking up with an expression
of genuine integrity such as he had
never seen on her face before. *but I am
sorry! " she went on. ^' It is very weak,
and very, very un — un — womanly of me !
But it came upon me all at once ! If I had
only had some warning ! Oh, why did you
not tell me before ? Why did you not prepare
me for it? You might have known
what it would be to hear it so suddenly ! "

More and more aghast grew Ian ! What

VOL. III. F

was to be done ? What was to be said ?
What was left for a man to do, when a
woman laid her soul before him ? Was there
nothing but a lie to save her from bitterest
humiliation ? To refuse any woman was to
Ian a hard task ; once he had found it impossible
to refuse even where he could not
give, and had let a woman take his soul !
Thank God, she took it indeed ! he yielded
himself perfectly, and God gave him her in
return ! But that was once, and for ever !
It could not be done again !

"I am very sorry!" he murmured; and
the words and their tone sent a shiver
through the heart of Christina.

But now that she had betrayed her secret,
the pent up tide of her phantasy rushed to
the door. She was reckless. Used to
everything her own way, knowing nothing
of disappointment, a new and ill understood
passion dominating her, she let everything
go and the torrent sweep her with it.
Passion, like a lovely wild beast, had
mastered her, and she never thought of

trying to tame it. It was herself! there
was not enough of her outside the passion
to stand up against it ! She began to seethe
filmy eyed Despair, and had neither
experience to deal with herself, nor reticence
enough to keep silence.

If you speak to me like that," she cried,
^'my heart will break I — Must you go
away? "

'dear Miss Palmer, " faltered Ian.

Oh ! " she ejaculated, with a world of
bitterness in the protest.

'' — do let us be calm!" continued Ian.
'' We shall not come to anything if we lose
ourselves this way ! ' '

The we and the us gave her a little
hope.

'how can I be calm!" she cried. "I
am not cold-hearted like you ! — You are
going away, and I shall never see you again
to all eternity ! "

She burst out weeping afresh.

"Do love me a little before you go," she
sobbed. "You gave me my life once, but

that does not make it right to take it from
me again ! It only gives you a right to its
best ! "

^^ God knows," said Ian, ^' if my life could
serve you, I should count it a small thing
to yield ! — But this is idle talk ! A man
must not pretend anything ! We must not
be untrue ! ' '

She fancied he did not believe in her.

^'I know ! I know ! you may well distrust
me ! " she returned. '' I have often behaved
abominably to you ! But indeed I am true
now! I dare not tell you a lie. To you
I must speak the truth, for I love you with
my whole soul."

Ian stood dumb. His look of consternation
and sadness brought her to herself a
little.

^'What have I done!" she cried, and
drawing back a pace, stood looking at him,
and trembling. ''I am disgraced forever!
I have told a man I love him, and he leaves
me to the shame of it ! He will not save
me from it ! he will not say one word to

take it away ! Where is your generosity
Ian?"

** I must be true ! " said Ian, speaking as
if to himself, and in a voice altogether unlike
his own.

'* You will not love me ! You hate me !
You despise me ! But I will not live rejected
! He brushes me like a feather from
his coat ! "

'shear me," said Ian, trying to recover
himself. *' Do not think me insensible "

^' Oh, yes! I know!" cried Christina
yet more bitterly; ^^— insensible to the honour
I do you, and all that world of nothing ! —
Pray use your victory ! Lord it over me !
I am the weed under your foot ! I beg you
will not spare me ! Speak out what you
think of me ! "

Ian took her hand. It trembled as if she
would pull it away, and her eyes flashed an
angry fire. She looked more nearly beautiful
than ever he had seen her ! His heart
was like to break. He drew her to the
chair, and taking a stool, sat down beside

her. Then, with a voice that gathered
strength as he proceeded, he raid : —

^' Let me speak to you, Christina Palmer,
as in the presence of him who made us !
To pretend I loved you would be easier
than to bear the pain of giving you such
pain. Were I selfish enough, I could take
much delight in your love ; but I scorn the
unmanliness of accepting gold and returning
silver : my love is not mine to give."

It was some relief to her proud heart to
imagine he would have loved her had he
been free. But she did not speak.

^af I thought," pursued Ian, ^^ that I
had, by any behaviour of mine, been to
blame for this, — " There he stopped, lest
he should seem to lay blame on her. — ^^ I
think," he resumed, ^'I could help you if
you would Hasten to me. Were I in like
trouble with you, I would go into my
room, and shut the door, and tel my Father
in heaven everything about it. Ah, Christina
! if you knew him, you would not break
your heart that a man did not love you
just as you loved him."

Had not her misery been so great, had
she not also done the thing that humbled
her before herself, Christina would have
been indignant with the man who refused
her love and dared speak to her of religion ;
but she was now too broken for resentment.

The diamond rain was falling, the sun
was shining in his vaporous strength, and
the great dome of heaven stood fathomless
above the pair ; but to Christina the world
was black and blank as the gloomy hutin
which they sat. When first her love
blossomed, she saw the world open ; she
looked into its heart ; she saw it alive — saw
it burning with that which made the bush
alive in the desert of Horeb — the presence
of the living God ; now, the vision was
over, the desert was dull and dry, the bush
burned no more, the glowing lava had
cooled to unsightly stone ! There was no
God, nor any man more ! Time had closed
and swept the world into the limbo of
vanity ! For a time she sat without
thought, as it were in a mental sleep.

She opened her eyes, and the blank of
creation stared into the very heart of her.
The emptiness and loneliness overpowered
her. Hardly aware of what she was doing,
she slid to her knees at han's feet, crying,

Save me, save me, Ian ! I shall go
mad ! Pardon me ! Help me ! "

*' All a man may be to his sister, I am
ready to be to you. I will write to you
from Canada; you can answer me or not
as you please. My heart cries out to me to
take you in my arms and comfort you, but
I must not ; it would not comfort you."

'' You do not despise me, then ? — Oh,
thank you ! ' '

^* Despise you ! — no more than my dead
sister ! I would cherish you as I would her
were she in like sorrow. I would die to
save you this grief — except indeed that I
hope much from it."

^^ Forget all about me," said Christina,
summoning pride to her aid.

I will not forget you. It is impossible,
nor would I if I could."

'^ You forgive me then, and will not think
ill of me?"

' How forgive trust ? Is that an offence ? ' '

"I have lost your good opinion! How
could I degrade myself so ! "

On the contrary, you are fast gaining
my good opinion. You have begun to be a
true woman ! "

'' What if it should be only for "

'whatever it may have been for, now
you have tasted truth you will not turn
back!"

^* Now I know you do not care for me, I
fear I shall soon sink back into my old self! "

'^ I do care for you, Christina, and you
will not sink back into your old see. God
means you to be a strong, good woman —
able, with the help he will give you, to bear
grief in a great-hearted fashion. Believe
me, you and I may come nearer each other
in the ages before us by being both true, than
is possible in any other way whatever."

'' I am miserable at the thought of what
you must think of me ! Everybody would

say I had done a shameless thing in confessing
my love ! "

'^ I am not in the way of thinking as
everybody thinks. There is little justice,
and less sympathy, to be had from everybody.
I would think and judge and feel as
the one, my Master. Be sure you are safe
with me."

^^ You will not tell anybody ? "

** You must trust me."

*^ I beg your pardon ! I have offended
you!"

*^ Not in the least. But I will bind my-see
by no promises. I am bound already
to be as careful over you as if you were the
daughter of my father and mother. Your
confession, instead of putting you in my
power, makes me your servant."

By this time Christina was calm. There
was a great load on her heart, but somehow
she was aware of the possibility of carrying
it. She looked up gratefully in han's face,
already beginning to feel for him a reverence
which made it easier to forego the right to

put her arms round bim. And therewith
awoke in her the first movement of divine
relationship — rose the first heave of the
child-heart toward the source of its being.
It appeared in the form of resistance. Complaint
against God is far nearer to God than
indifference about him.

*tian Macruadh," said Christina solemnly,
and she looked him in the eyes as she said
it, show can you believe there is a God?
If there were, wo aid he allow such a dreadful
thing to befall one of his creatures ?
How am I to blame ? I could not help it ! "

*^ I see in it his truth and goodness
toward his child. And he will let you see
it. The thing is between him and you."

^' It will be hard to convince me it is
either good or loving to make anyone
suffer like this ! " protested Christina, her
hand unconsciously pressed on her heart ;
*^ — and all the disgrace of it too ! " she
added bitterly.

**I will not allow there is any disgrace,"
returned Ian. ^* But I will not try to convince

you of anything about God. I cannot.
You must know him. I only say I believe
in him with all my heart. You must ask
him to explain himself to you, and not take
it for granted, because he has done what you
do not like, that he has done you a wrong.
Whether you seek him or not, he will do
you justice ; but he cannot explain himself
except you seek him."

'* I think I understand. Behave me, I am
willing to understand."

A few long seconds of silence followed.
Christina came a little nearer. She was
still on her knees.

'will you kiss me once," she said, 'ras
you would a little child ! "

In the name of God ! " answered Ian,
and stooping kissed her gently and tenderly.

"Thank you!" she said; " — and now
the rain is over, let us join Mercy and the
chief. I hope they have not got very wet! "

Blister will have taken care of that.
There is plenty of shelter about here."

They left the cottage, drew the door

close, and through the heather, sparkling
with a thousand rain-drops, the sun shining
hotter than ever through the rain-mist,
went up the hill.

They found the other pair sheltered by
the great stone, which was not only a
shadow from the heat, but sloped sufficiently
to be a covert from the rain. They
did not know it had ceased ; perhaps they
did not know it had rained.

On a fine morning of the following week,
the emigrants began the first stage of their
long journey, the women in two carts, with
their small imjpediinenta^ the men walking
Ian with them, a stout stick in his hand.
They were to sail from Greenock.

Ian and Christina met several times
Before he left, but never alone. No conference
of any kind, not even of eyes, had
been sought by Christina, and Ian had
resolved to say nothing more until he
reached Canada. Thence he would write
things which pen and ink would say better
and carry nearer home than could speech ;

and by that time too the first keenness of
her pain would have dulled, and left her
mind more capable of receiving them. He
was greatly pleased with the gentle calm
of her behaviour'. No one else could have
seen any difference toward himself : he read
in her carriage that of a child who had made
a mistake, and was humbled, not vexed. Her
mother noted that her cheek was pale, and
that she seemed thoughtful ; but farther she
did not penetrate. To Ian it was plain that
she had set herself to be reasonable.

Chapter VI.

LOVE GLOOMING.

Ian, the light of his mother's eyes, was gone,
and she felt forsaken. Blister was too much
occupied with Mercy to feel his departure
as on former occasions, yet he missed him
every hour of the day. Mercy and he met,
but not for some time in open company, as
Christina refused to go near the cottage.
Things were ripening to a change.

Blister' s occupation with Mercy, however,
was far from absorption : the moment Ian
was gone, he increased his attention to his
mother, feeling she had but him. But his
mother was not quite the same to him now.
At times she was even more tender; at
other times she seemed to hold him away

from her, as one with whom she was not in
sympathy. The fear awoke in him that she
might so speak to some one of the Palmers
as to raise an insuperable barrier between
the families ; and this fear made him resolve
to come at once to an understanding with
Mercy. The resulting difficulties might be
great ; he felt keenly the possible alternative
of his loss of Mercy, or Mercy's loss of her
family ; but the fact that he loved her gave
him a right to tell her so, and made it his
duty to lay before her the probability of an
obstacle. That his mother did not like the
alliance had to be braved, for a man must
leave father and mother and cleave to his
wife — a saying commonly by male presumption
inverted. Mercy's love he believed
such that she would without a thought
leave the luxury of her father's house for
the mere plenty of his. That it would not
be to descend but to rise in the true social
scale he would leave her to discover. Had
he known what Mr. Palmer was, and how
his money had been made, he would neither

have sought nor accepted his acquaintance,
and it would no more have been possible to
fall in love with one of his family than to
covet one of his fine horses. But that
which might, could, would, or should have
been, affected in no way that which was.
He had entered in ignorance, by the will of
God, into certain relations with " the young
woman," as his mother called her, and those
relations had to be followed to their natural
and righteous end.

Talking together over possibilities, Mr.
Peregrine Palmer had agreed with his wife
that, Mercy being so far from a beauty, it
might not be such a bad match, would not
at least be one to be ashamed of, if she did
marry the impoverished chief of a highland
clan with a baronetcy in his pocket. Having
bought the land cheap, he could afford
to let a part, perhaps even the whole of it,
go back with his daughter, thus restoring
to its former position an ancient and
honourable family. The husband of his
younger daughter would then be head of

VOL. III. G

one of the very few highland families yet
in possession of their ancestral acres — a
distinction he would owe to Peregrine
Palmer ! It was a pleasant thought to the
kindly, consequential, common little man.
Mrs. Palmer, therefore, when the chief
called upon her, received him with more
than her previous cordiality.

His mother would have been glad to see
him return from his call somewhat dejected:
he entered so radiant and handsome, that
her heart sank within her. Was she actually
on the point of being allied through the
child of her bosom to a distiller and brewer
a man who had grown rich on the ruin of
thousands of his fellow-countrymen? To
what depths might not the most ancient
family sink ! Por any poverty, she said to
herself, she was prepared — but how was she
to endure disgrace ! Alas for the clan, whose
history was about to cease — smothered in
the defiling garment of ill-gotten wealth !
Miserable, humiliating close to ancient
story ! She had no doubt as to her son's

intention, although he had said nothing: she
hneio that his refusal of dower would be his
plea in justification ; but would that deliver
them from the degrading approval of the
world ? How many, if they ever heard of
it, would believe that the poor, high-souled
Macruadh declined to receive a single hundred
from his father in law's affluence ! that
he took his daughter poor as she was born
his one stipulation that she should be
clean from her father's mud ! For one to
whom there would even be a chance of
stating the truth of the matter, a hundred
would say — ^^ That's your plan! — the only
salvation for your shattered houses ! — point
them up well with the bird-lime of the
brewer, the quack, or the money-lender,
and they'll last till doomsday ! "

Thus bitterly spoke the mother. She
brooded and scorned, raged inwardly, and
took to herself dishonour, until evidently
she was wasting. The chief's heart was
troubled : could it be that she doubted his
strength to resist temptation? He must

make haste and have the whole thing
settled ! — and first of all speak definitely
to Mercy on the matter !

He had appointed to meet her the same
evening, and went long before the hour
to watch for her appearing. He climbed
the hill, and lay down in the heather whence
he could see the door of the New House,
and Mercy the moment she should come
out of it. He lay there till the sun was
down, and the stars began to appear. At
length — and even then it was many minutes
to the time — he saw the door open, and
Mercy walk slowly to the gate. He rose
and went down the hill. She saw him,
watched him descending, and the moment
he reached the road, went to meet him.
They walked slowly down the road, without
a word spoken, until they felt themselves
alone.

'^ You look so lovely ! " said the chief.

'ein the twilight, I suppose!" said
Mercy.

Perhaps ; you are a creature of the

twilight, or the night rather, with your
great black eyes ! "

'^ I don't like you to speak to me so !
You never did before ! You know I am not
lovely ! I am very plain 1 "

She was evidently not pleased.

'^ What have I done to vex you, Mercy ? "
he rejoined. *why should you mind my
saying what is true ? "

She bit her lip, and could hardly speak to
answer him. Often in London she had
been morally sickened by the false rubbish
talked to her sister, and had boasted to herself
that the chief had never paid her a
compliment : now he had done it !

She took her hand from his arm.

'* I think I will go home ! " she said.

Blister stopped and turned to her. The
last gleam of the west was reflected from
her eyes, and all the sadness of the fading
light seemed gathered into them.

'^ My child ! " he said, all that was fatherly
in the chief rising at the sight, ^' who has
been making you unhappy ? "

^' You," she answered, looking him in the
face.

'how? I do not understand! " he returned,
gazing at her bewildered.

*' You have just paid me a compliment —
a thing you never did before — a thing I
never heard before from any but a fool !
How could you say I was beautiful ! You
know I am not beautiful ! It breaks my
heart to think you could say what you
didn't believe ! "

'' Mercy ! " answered the chief, '' if I said
you were beautiful, and to my eyes you were
not, it would yet be true ; for to my heart,
which sees deeper than my eyes, you are
more beautiful than any other ever was or
ever will be. I know you are not beautiful
in the world's meaning, but you are very
lovely — and it was lovely I said you were ! "

Lovely because you love me ? Is that
what you meant ? "

*' Yes, that and more. Your eyes are
beautiful, and your hair is beautiful, and
your expression is lovely. But I am not

flattering you — I am not even paying you
compliments, for those things are not yours :
God made them, and has given them to me ! "

She put her hand in his arm again, and
there was no more love-making.

^'But Mercy," said the chief, when they
had walked some distance without speaking,
"do you think you could live here always,
and never see London again ? "

*'I would not care if London were
scratched out."

Could you be content to be a farmer's
wife ? "

"If he was a very good farmer," she
answered, looking up archly.

Am I a good enough farmer, then, to
serve your turn ? ' '

Good enough if I were ten times better.
Do you really mean it, Macruadh ? "

With all my heart. Only there is one
thing I am very anxious about."

What is that ? "

How your father will take my condition."


*' He will allow, I think, that it is good
enough for me — and more than I deserve."

'' That is not what I mean ; it is — that
I have a certain condition to make."

*else yon won't marry me? — That
seems strange ! Of course I will do anything
you would wish me to do ! — A condition
I'' she repeated, ponderingly, with
just a little dissatisfaction in the tone.

Blister wondered she was not angry.
But she trusted him too well to take offence
readily.

^^ Yes," he rejoined, *^ a real condition !
Terms belong naturally to the giver, not
the petitioner ; I hope with all my heart
it will not offend him. It will not offend
you, I think."

*let me hear your condition," said
Mercy, looking at him curiously, her honest
eyes shining in the faint light.

^' I want him to let me take you just as
you are, without a shilling of his money
to spoil the gift. I want you in and for
yourself."

'^ I dare not tliiuk you one who would
rather not be obliged to his wife for anything
! " said Mercy : '* that cannot be it ! "

She spoke with just a shadow of displeasure.
He did not answer. He was in
great dread of hurting her, and his plain
reason could not fail to hurt her.

*^ Well," she resumed, as he did not
reply, '^ there are fathers, I daresay, who
would not count that a hard condition ! "

Of course your father will not like the
idea of your marrying so poor a man ! "

'^ If he should insist on your having
something with me, you will not refuse
will you ? Why should you mind it ? "

Blister was silent. The thing had already
begun to grow dreadful ! How could he
tell her his reasons ! Was it necessary to
tell her ? If he had to explain, it must be
to her father, not to her ! How, until
absolutely compelled, reveal the horrible
fact that her father was despised by her
lover! She might believe it her part to
refuse such love ! He trembled lest she

should urge him. But Mercy, thinking she
had been very bold already, also held her
peace.

They tried to talk about other things, but
with little success, and when they parted,
it was with a sense on both sides that something
had got between them. The night
through Mercy hardly slept for trying to
discover what his aversion to her dowry
might mean. No princedom was worth
contrasting with poverty and her farmer-chief,
but why should not his love be able
to carry her few thousands ? It was impossible
his great soul should grudge his
wife's superiority in the one poor trifle of
money 1 was not the whole family superior
to money ! Had she, alas ! been too confident
in their greatness ? Must she be
brought to confess that their grand ways
had their little heart of pride ? Did they
not regard themselves as the ancient aristocracy
of the country ! Yes, it must be !
the chief despised the origin of her father's
riches !

But, although so far in the direction of
the fact, she had no suspicion of anything
more than landed pride looking down upon
manufacture and trade : she suspected no
moral root of even a share in the chief's
difficulty. Naturally, she was offended.
How differently Christina would have met
the least hint of a condition I she thought.
She had been too ready to show and confess
her love ! Had she stood off a little, she
might have escaped this humiliation ! But
would that have been honest ? Must she
not first of all be true ? Was the chief,
whatever his pride, capable of being ungenerous
? Questions like these kept coming
and going throughout the night. Hither
and thither went her thoughts, refusing to
be controlled. The morning came, the sun
rose, and she could not find rest. She had
come to see how ideally delightful it was
just to wait God's will of love, yet, in this
her first trouble, she SLctusllj forgot to think
of God, never asked him to look after the
thing for her, never said, ^* Thy will be

done ! ' ' and when at length weariness overpowered
her, fell asleep like a heathen,
without a word from her heart to the heart.

Blister missed Ian sorely. He prayed to
God, but was too troubled to feel him near.
Trouble imagined may seem easy to meet ;
trouble actual is quite another thing ! His
mother, perhaps, was to have her desire ;
Mercy, perhaps, would not marry a man
who disapproved of her family! Between
them already was what could not be talked
about ! he could not set free his heart to her !

When Mercy woke, the old love was
awake also : let Blister's reason be what it
might, it was not for her to resent it ! The
life he led was so much grander than a life
spent in making money, that he must feel
himself superior ! Throned in the hearts,
and influencing the characters of men, was
he not in a far nobler position than money
could give him ? From her night of doubt
and bitterness Mercy issued more loving
and humble. What should she be now, she
said to herself, if Blister had not taught

ber? He had been good to her as never
father or brother ! She would trust him !
She would believe him right ! Had he hurt
her pride ? It was well her pride should be
hurt ! Her mind was at rest.

But Blister must continue in pain and
dread until he had spoken to her father.
Knowing then the worst, he might use
argument with Mercy ; the moment for
that was not yet come ! If he consented
that his daughter should leave him undowered,
an explanation with Mercy might
be postponed. When the honour of her
husband was more to her than the false
credit of her family, when she had had time
to understand principles which, born and
brought up as she had been, she might not
yet be able to see into, then it would be
time to explain ! One with him, she would
see things as he saw them ! Till her father
came, he would avoid the subject !

All the morning he was busy in the corn-yard
— with his hands in preparing new
stances for ricks, with his heart in trying

to content himself beforehand with
whatever fate the Lord might intend for
him. As yet he was more of a Christian
philosopher than a philosophical Christian.
The thing most disappointing to him he
would treat as the will of God for him, and
try to make up his mind to it, persuading
himself it was the right and best thing — as
if he knew it the will of God. He was thus
working in the region of supposition, and
not of revealed duty ; in his own imagination,
and not in the will of God. If this
should not prove the will of God concerning
him, then he was spending his strength for
nought. There is something in the very
presence and actuality of a thing to make
one able to bear it ; but a man may weaken
himself for bearing what God intends him
to bear, by trying to bear what God does
not intend him to bear. The chief was forestalling
the morrow like an unbeliever — not
without some moral advantage, I dare say,
but with spiritual loss. We have no right
to school ourselves to an imaginary duty.

When we do not know, then what he lays
upon lis is not to Iznoiv^ and to be content
not to know. The philosopher is he who
lives in the thought of things, the Christian
is he who lives in the things themselves.
The philosopher occupies himself with
God's decree, the Christian with God's will;
the philosopher with what God may intend,
the Christian with what God wants him
to do.

The laird looked up and there were the
young ladies ! It was the first time Christina
had come nigh the cottage since han's
departure.

'^ Can you tell me, Macruadh," she said,
** what makes Mrs. Conal so spiteful always ?
When we bade her good morning a few
minutes ago, she overwhelmed us with a
torrent of abuse ! "

'^ How did you know it was abuse ? "

'ewe understand enough of Gaehc to
know it was not exactly blessing us she
was. It is not necessary to know cat-language
to distinguish between purring and

spitting ! What harm have we done ? Her
voice was fierce, and her eyes were like two
hive eats flaming at us! Do speak to her."

** It would be of no use ! "

** Where's the good of being chief then ?
I don't ask you to make the old woman
civil, but I think you might keep her from
insulting your friends ! I begin to think
your chief dom a sham ! "

^'I doubt indeed if it reaches to the
tongues of the clan ! — But let us go and
tell my mother : she may be able to do
something with her ! "

Christina went into the cottage ; the
chief drew Mercy back.

*^ What do you think the first duty of
married people, Mercy — to each other, I
mean," he said.

'' To be always what they look," answered
Mercy.

"Yes; but I mean actively: what is it
their first duty to do towards each other ? "

**I can't answer that without thinking."


Is it not each to help the other to do
the will of God?"

^' I would say ides if I were sure I really
meant it."

^' You will mean it one day."

*' Are you sure God will teach me ? "

*'I think he cares more to do that than
anything else."

** More than to save us ? "

What is saving hut taking us out of the
dark into the light ? There is no salvation
hut to know God and grow like him."

VOL. 11 J.

Chapter VII.

A Generous DOWRY.

The only hope of the chiefs mother was
in what the girl's father might say to her
son's proposal. Would not his pride revolt
against giving his daughter to a man who
would not receive his blessing in money ?

Mr. Peregrine Palmer arrived, and the
next day Blister called upon him.

Not unprepared for the proposal of the
chief, Mercy's father had nothing to urge
against it. Her suitor's name was almost
an historical one, for it stood high in the
home-annals of Scotland ; and the new
laird, who had always a vague sense of
injury in the lack of an illustrious pedigree
of his own to send forward, was not im-willing

that a man more justly treated than
himself should supply the solatium to his
daughter's children. He received the Macruadh,
therefore, if a little pompously, yet
with kindness ; and the moment they were
seated Blister laid his request before him.

"• Mr. Palmer," he said, " I come to ask
the hand of your daughter Mercy. I have
not much beyond myself to offer her, but
I can tell you precisely what there is."

Mr. Peregrine Palmer sat for a moment
looking important : he seemed to see much
to ponder in the proposal.

'' Well, Macruadh," he said at length,
hesitating with hum and with haw, *the
thing is — well, to speak the truth, you take
me a good deal by surprise ! I do not
know how the thing may appear to Mrs.
Palmer ; and then the girl herself, you will
allow, ought, in a free country, to have a
word in the matter ! — lue give our girls
absolute liberty ; their own hearts must
guide them — that is, where there is no
serious exception to be taken. Honestly,

it is not the kind of match we should have
chosen ! It is not as if things were with
you now as once, when the land was all
your own, and — and — you — pardon me, I
am a father — did not have to work with
your own hands! "

Had he been there on any other errand
the chief would have stated his opinion
that it was degrading to a man to draw
income from anything he would count it
degrading to put his own hand to ; but
there was so much he might be compelled
to say to the displeasure of Mr.
Palmer while asking of him the greatest
gift he had to bestow, that he would say
nothing unpalatable which he was not
compelled to say.

*'My ancestors," he answered, willing to
give the objection a pleasant turn, '' would
certainly have preferred helping themselves
to the produce of lowland fields ! My
great-great-grandfather, scorning to ask
any man for his daughter, carried her ofi"
without a word ! "

*' I am glad the peculiarity has not
shown itself hereditary," said Mr. Palmer
laughing.

"But if I have little to offer, I expect
nothing with her," said the chief abruptly.
*' I avant only herself ! "

A very lovely mode of speaking I but it
is needless to say no daughter of mine shall
leave me without a certainty, one way or
the other, of suitable maintenance. You
know the old proverb, Macruadh, — ^ When
poverty comes in at the door,' ? "

There is hardly a question of poverty in
the sense the proverb intends ! " answered
the chief smiling.

'' Of course ! of course ! At the same
time you cannot keep the wolf too far from
the door. I would not, for my part, care
to say I had given my daughter to a poor
farmer in the north. Two men, it is, I
believe, you employ, Macruadh ? "

The chief answered with a nod.

*' I have other daughters to settle — not
to mention my sons," pursued the great

little man ; ^^ — but — but I will find a time
to talk the matter over with Mrs. Palmer,
and see what I can do for you. Meanwhile
yon may reckon you have a friend at court ;
all I have seen makes me judge well of
you. Where we do not think alike, I can
yet say for you that your faults lean to
virtue's side, and are such as my daughter
at least will be no loser by. Good morning,
Macruadh."

Mr. Peregrine Palmer rose ; and the
chief, perplexed and indignant, but anxious
not to prejudice his very doubtful cause,
rose also.

^' You scarcely understand me, Mr.
Palmer," he said. ^' On the possibility of
being honoured with your daughter's hand,
you must allow me to say distinctly beforehand,
that I must decline receiving anything
with her. — When will you allow me
to wait upon you again ? "

^^ I will write. Good morning."

The interview was certainly not much to
the assuagement of the chief's anxiety.

He went home with the feeling that he had
submitted to be patronized, almost insulted
by a paltry fellow whose consequence rested
on his ill-made money — a man who owed
everything to a false and degrading appetite
in his neighbours ! Nothing could have
made him put up with him but the love of
Mercy, his dove in a crow's nest ! But it
would be all in vain, for he could not He !
Truth, indeed, if not less of a virtue, was
less of a heroism in the chief than in most
men, for he could not lie. Had he been
tempted to try, he would have reddened,
stammered, broken down, with the full
shame, and none of the success of a falsehood.


For a week, he heard nothing : there
seemed small anxiety to welcome him into
the Palmer family ! Then came a letter. It
implied, almost said that some difficulty
had been felt as to his reception by
every member of the family — which the
chief must himself see to have been only
natural ! But while money was of no consequence

to Mr. Palmer, it was of the
greatest consequence that his daughter
should seem to make a good match ; therefore,
as only in respect of position was the
alliance objectionable, he had concluded to
set that right, and in giving him his
daughter, to restore the chief's family to
its former dignity, by making over to him
the Clanruadh property now in his possession
by purchase. While he thus did
his duty by his daughter, he hoped the
Macruadh would accept the arrangement asa
mark of esteem for himself. Two conditions
only he would make — the first,
that, as long as he lived, the shooting
should be Mr. Palmer's, to use or to let,
and should extend over the whole estate ;
the second, that the chief should assume
the baronetcy which belonged to him.

My reader will regard the proposition as
not ungenerous, however much the money-value
of the land lay in the shooting.

As Blister took leave of his mother for the
night, he gave her the letter.

^i

She took it, read it slowly, laughed
angrily, smiled scornfully, wept bitterly,
crushed it in her hand, and walked up to
her room with her head high. All the time
she was preparing for her bed, she was
talking in her spirit with her husband.
When she lay down she became a mere prey
to her own thoughts, and was pulled, and
torn, and hurt by them for hours ere she set
herself to rule them. For the first time in
her life she distrusted her son. She did not
know what he would do ! The temptation
would surely be too strong for him ! Two
good things were set over against one evil
thing — an evil thing, however, with which
nobody would associate blame, an evil thing
which would raise him high in the respect
of everyone whose respect was not worth
having ! — the woman he loved and the land
of his ancestors on the one side, and only
the money that bought the land for him
on the other! — would he hold out? He
must take the three together, or have none
of them ! Her fear for him grew and

possessed her. She grew cold as death.
Why did he give her the letter, and go
without saying a word ? She knew well
the arguments he would adduce ! Henceforward
and for ever there would be a
gulf between them ! The poor religion he
had would never serve to keep him straight !
What was it but a compromise with pride
and self-sufficiency ! It could bear no such
strain ! He acknowledged God, but not
God reconciled in Christ, only God such as
unregenerate man would have him ! And
when Ian came home, he would be sure to
side with Blister !

There was but one excuse for the poor
boy — and that a miserable one : the blinding
of love ! Yes there was more excuse
than that : to be lord of the old lands, with
the old clan growing and gathering again
about its chief ! — it was a temptation fit to
ruin an archangel ! What could he not do
then for his people ! what could he not do
for the land ! And for her, she might have
her Ian always at home with her! God

forbid she should bny even such bliss at
such a cost ! She was only thinking, she
said to herself, how, if the thing had to be,
she would make the best of it : she was
bound as a mother to do that !

But the edge of the wedge was in. She
said to herself afterwards, that the enemy
of her soul must have been lying in wait
for her that night; she almost believed in
some bodily presence of him in her room :
how otherwise could she account for her
fall ! he must have been permitted to tempt
her, because, in condemning evil, she had
given way to contempt and worldly pride.
Her thoughts unchecked flowed forward.
They lingered brooding for a time on the
joys that might be hers — the joys of the
mother of a chief over territory as well as
hearts. Then they stole round, and began
to flow the other way. Ere the thing had
come she began to make the best of it for
the sake of her son and the bond between
them ; then she began to excuse it for the
sake of the clan; and now she began to

justify it a little for the sake of the world !
Everything that could favour the acceptance
of the offer came up clear before her.
The land was the same as it always had
been ! it had never been in the distillery !
it had never been in the brew-house ! it
was clean, whoever had transacted concerning
it, through whatever hands it had passed !
A good cow was a good cow, had she been
twenty times reared ! For Mr. Palmer to
give and Blister to take the land back,
would be some amends to the nation,
grievously injured in the money of its
purchase ! The deed would restore to the
redeeming and uplifting influence of her
son many who were fast perishing from
poverty and whisky ; for, their houses and
crofts once more in the power of their
chief, he would again be their landlord as
well ! It would be a pure exercise of the
law of compensation ! Hundreds who had
gone abroad would return to replenish the
old glens with the true national wealth —
with men and women, and children growing

to be men and women, for the hour of their
country's need ! These were the true, the
golden crops ! The glorious time she had
herself seen would return, when 
could alone send out a regiment of
the soldiers that may be defeated, but will
not live to know it. The dream of her boys
would come true ! they would rebuild the
old castle, and make it a landmark in the
history of the highlands !

But while she stood elate upon this high-soaring
peak of the dark mountains of ambition,
sudden before her mind's eye rose
the face of her husband, sudden his voice
was in her ear ; he seemed to stand above
her in the pulpit, reading from the prophet
Isaiah the four Woes that begin four contiguous
chapters : — ^^ Woe to the crown of
pride, to the drunkards of Ephraim, whose
glorious beauty is a fading flower, which
are on the head of the fat valleys of them
that are overcome nth wine ! " — ^' Woe to
Ariel, to Ariel, the city where David dwelt !
Add ye year to year ; let them kill sacrifices ;

yet I will distress Ariel." — '^ Woe to the
rebellious children, saith the Lord, that take
counsel, but not of me ; and that cover with
a covering, but not of my spirit, that they
may add sin to sin ! " — '^ Woe to them that
go down to Egypt for help ; and stay on
horses, and trust in chariots, because they
are many ; and in horsemen, because they
are very strong ; but they look not unto the
holy one of Israel, neither seek the Lord ! "
Then followed the words opening the next
chapter : — ^^ Behold, a king shall reign in
righteousness, and princes shall rule in
judgment. And a man shall be as an
hiding place from the wind, and a covert
from the tempest." All this, in solemn
order, one woe after the other, she heard in
the very voice of her husband ; in awful
spiritual procession, they passed before her
listening mind ! She grew cold as the dead,
and shuddered and shivered. She looked
over the edge into the heart of a black gulf,
into which she had been on the point of
casting herself — say rather, down whose

side, searching for an easy descent, she had
already slid a long way, when the voice
from above recalled her ! She covered her
face with her hands and wept — ashamed
before God, ashamed before her husband.
It was a shame unutterable that the thing
should even have looked tempting ! She
cried for forgiveness, rose, and sought
Blister's room.

Seldom since he was a man had she
visited her elder son in his chamber. She
cherished for him, as chief, something of
the reverence of the clan. The same
familiarity had never existed between them
as between her and Ian. Now she was
going to wake him, and hold a solemn talk
with him. Not a moment longer should
he stand leaning over the gulf into which
she had herself well nigh fallen !

She found him awake, and troubled,
though not with an eternal trouble such
as hers.

"I thought I should find you asleep,
Alter ! " she said.

^^It was not very likely, mother!" he
answered gently.

*' You too have been tried with terrible
thoughts?"

'' I have been tried, but hardly with
terrible thoughts : I know that Mere' loves
me! "

'* Ah, my son, my dear son ! love itself is
the terrible thing ! It has drawn many a
man from the way of peace ! "

^^ Did it draw you and my father from the
way of peace ? " asked Blister.

*' Nofc for a moment!" she answered.
^' It made our steps firmer in the way."

*' Then why should you fear it will draw
me from it ? I hope I have never made
you think I was not following my father
and you ! ' '

*^ Who knows what either of us might
have done, with such a temptation as
yours ! "

*^ Either you say, mother, that my father
was not so good as I think him, or that he
did what he did in his own strength ! "

^^ ^ Let him that thicket ' — you know
the rest ! " rejoined the mother.

^* I don't think I am tempted to anything
just now."

'^ There it is, you see ! — the temptation
so subtle that you do not suspect its
character ! "

'' I am confident my father would have
done just as I mean to do ! "

'' What do you mean to do ? "

'' Is it my own mother asks me ? Does
she distrust her husband and her son
together ? "

It began to dawn on the mother that she
had fallen into her own temptation through
distrust of her son. Because she distrusted
him, she sought excuse for him, and excuse
had turned to all but justification : she had
given place to the devil ! But she must be
sure about Blister ! She had had enough
of the wiles of Satan : she must not trust
her impressions ! The enemy might even
now be bent on deceiving her afresh ! Fora
moment she kept silence, then said : —

VOL. III. I

*' It would be a grand thing to have the
whole country-side your own again —
wouldn't it, Blister?"

'' It would, mother ! " he answered.

*' And have all your people quite under
your own care ? ' '

'* A grand thing, indeed, mother ! "

*how can you say then it is no temptation
to you ? "

^' Because it is none."

'^ How is that?"

'^ I would not have my clan under a factor
of Satan's, mother ! "

*' I do not understand you ! "

*'"What else should I be, if I accepted
the oversight of them on terms of allegiance
to him ! That was how he tempted Jesus.
I will not be the devil's steward, to call any
land or any people mine ! "

His mother kissed him on the forehead,
walked erect from the room, and went to
her own to humble herself afresh.

In the morning, Aster took his dinner of
bread and cheese in his pocket, and set out

for the tomb on the hill-top. There he
remained until the evening, and wrote his
answer, sorely missing Ian.

He begged Mr. Peregrine Palmer to
dismiss the idea of enriching him, thanked
him for his great liberality, but declared
himself entirely content, and determined
not to change his position : he could not and
would not avail himself of his generosity.

Mr. Palmer, unable to suspect the reasons
at work in the chief's mind, pleased with
the genuineness of his acknowledgment,
and regarding him as a silly fellow who
would quixotically outdo him in magnanimity,
answered in a more familiar, almost
jocular strain. He must not be unreasonable,
he said ; pride was no doubt an
estimable weakness, but it might be carried
too far ; men must act upon realities not
fancies ; he must learn to have an eye to
the main chance, and eschew heroics : what
,was life without money ! It was not as if
he gave it grudgingly, for he made him
heartily welcome. The property was in

truth but a flea-bite to him ! He hoped the
Macruadh would Hve long to enjoy it, and
make his father-in-law the great grandfather
of chiefs, perpetuating his memory to ages
unborn. There was more to the same
effect, void neither of eloquence nor of a
certain good-heartiness, which the laird
both recognized and felt.

It was again his painful turn. He had
now to make his refusal as positive as words
could make it. He said he was sorry to
appear headstrong, perhaps uncivil and
ungrateful, but he could not and would
not accept anything beyond the priceless
gift of Mercy's hand.

Not even then did Peregrine Palmer
divine that his offered gift was despised ;
that idea was to him all but impossible of
conception. He read merely opposition,
and was determined to have his way. Next
time he too wrote positively, though far
from unkindly : — the Macruadh must take
the land with his daughter, or leave both !

The chief replied that he could not yield

his claim to Mercy, for he loved her, and
believed she loved him ; therefore begged
Mr. Peregrine Palmer, of his generosity, to
leave the decision with his daughter.

The next was a letter from Mercy, entreating
Blister not to hurt her father by
seeming to doubt the kindness of his intentions.
She assured him her father was not
the man to interfere with his management
of the estate, the shooting was all he cared
about ; and if that was the difficulty, she
imagined even that might be got over.
She ended praying that he would, for her
sake, cease making much of a trifle, for
such the greatest property in the world
must be betwixt them. No man, she said,
could love a woman right, who would not
be under the poorest obligation to her
people !

The chief answered her in the tenderest
way, assuring her that if the property had
been hers he would only have blessed her
for it ; that he was not making much ado
about nothing ; that pride, or unwillingness

to bo indebted, had nothing to do with his
determination ; that the thing was with
him in very truth a matter of conscience.
He implored her therefore from the bottom
of his heart to do her best to persuade her
father — if she would save him who loved
her more than his own soul, from a misery
God only could make him able to bear.

Mercy was bewildered. She neither
understood nor suspected. She wrote again,
saying her father was now thoroughly
angry ; that she found herself without
argument, the thing being incomprehensible
to her as to her father ; that she could not
see where the conscience of the thing lay.
Her terror was, that, if he persisted, she
would be driven to think he did not care
for her ; his behaviour she had tried in vain
to reconcile with what he had taught her ;
if he destroyed her faith in him, all her
faith might go, and she be left without God
as well as without him !

Then Blister saw that necessity had
culminated, and that it was no longer possible

to hold anything back. Whatever other
suffering he might cause her, Mercy must
not be left to think him capable of sacrificing
her to an absurdity ! She must know the
truth of the matter, and how it was to him
of the deepest conscience ! He must let
her see that if he allowed her to persuade
him, it would be to go about thenceforward
consumed of self-contempt, a slave to the
property, no more its owner than if he had
stolen it, and in danger of committing suicide
to escape hating his wife !

For the man without a tender conscience,
cannot imagine the state to which another
may come, who carries one about with him,
stinging and accusing him all day long.

So, out of a heart aching with very fullness,
Blister wrote the truth to Mercy.
And Mercy, though it filled her with grief
and shame, had so much love for the truth,
and for the man who had waked that love,
that she understood him, and loved him
through all the pain of his words; loved
him the more for daring the risk of losing

her ; loved him yet the more for cleaving
to her while loathing the mere thought of
sharing her wealth ; loved him most of all
that he was immaculate in truth.

She carried the letter to her father's
room, laid it before him without a word,
and went out again.

The storm gathered swiftly, and burst at
once. Not two minutes seemed to have
passed when she heard his door open, and
a voice of wrathful displeasure call out her
name. She returned — in fear, but in fortitude.


Then first she knew her father ! — for
although wrath and injustice were at home
in him, they seldom showed themselves out
of doors. He treated her as a willing party
to an unspeakable insult from a highland
boor to her own father. To hand him such
a letter was the same as to have written
it herself ! She identified herself with the
writer when she became the bearer of the
mangy hound's insolence ! He raged at
Mercy as in truth he had never raged

before. If once she spoke to the fellow
again, he would turn her out of the house !

She would have left the room. He locked
the door, set a chair before his writing-table,
and ordered her to sit there and write
to his dictation. But no power on earth
or under it would have prevailed to make
Mercy write as her own the words that were
not hers.

^^You must excuse me, papa! " she said
in a tone unheard from her before.

This raising of the rampart of human
dignity, crowned with refusal, between him
and his own child, galled him afresh.

^'Then you shall be compelled!" he
said, with an oath through his clenched
teeth.

Mercy stood silent and motionless.

** Go to your room. By heaven you shall
stay there till you do as I tell you ! "

He was between her and the door.

*' You need not think to gain your point
by obstinacy," he added. ^^I swear that
not another word shall pass between you

and that blockhead of a chief — not if I have
to turn watch-dog myself ! "

He made way for her, but did not open
the door. She left the room too angry to
cry, and went to her own. Her fear of her
father had vanished. With Blister on her
side she could stand against the world !
She went to her window. She could not
see the cottage from it, but she could seethe
ruin, and the hill of the crescent fire,
on which she had passed through the shadow
of death. Gazing on the hill she remembered
what Blister would have her do, and
with her Father in heaven sought shelter
from her father on earth.

CHAPTEK Viii.

Mistress Canal.

Me. Peregrine Palmer's generosity had in
part rested on the idea of securing the
estate against reverse of fortune, sufficiently
possible though not expected; while with
the improvements almost in hand, the
shooting would make him a large return.
He felt the more wronged by the ridiculous
scruples of the chief — in which after all,
though he could not have said why, he
did not quite believe. It never occurred
to him that, even had the land been so
come by that the chief could accept a gift
of it, he would, upon the discovery that
it had been so secured from the donor's

creditors, at once have insisted on placing
it at their disposal.

His wrath proceeded to vent itself in
hastening the realization of his schemes of
improvement, for he was well aware they
would be worse than distasteful to the
Macruadh : their first requirement was the
removal of every peasant within his power
capable of violating the sanctity of the deer
forest into which he and his next neighbour
had agreed to turn the whole of their
property. While the settlement of his
daughter was pending, he had seen that the
point might cause trouble unless previously
understood between him and the chief ; but
he never doubted the recovery of the land
would reconcile the latter to the loss of
the men : now he chuckled with wrathful
chuckle to think how entirely he had him
in his power for justifiable annoyance ; for
he believed himself about to do nothing but
good to the country in removing from it
its miserable inhabitants, whom the sentimental
indulgence of their so-called chief

kept contented with their poverty, and
with whom interference must now enrage
him. How he hated the whole wretched
pack !

Mr. Palmer's doing of good to the country
consisted in making the land yield more
money into the pockets of Mr. Brander and
himself hy feeding wild animals instead of
men. To tell such land-owners that they
are simply running a tilt at the creative
energy, can be of no use : they do not
believe in God, however much they may
protest and imagine they do.

The next day but one, he sent Mistress
Conal the message that she must be out of
her hut, goods and gear, within a fortnight.
He was not sure that the thing was legally
correct, but he would risk it. She might
go to law if she would, but he would make
a beginning with her ! The chief might
take up her quarrel if he chose : nothing
would please Mr. Palmer more than to
involve him in a law-suit, clear him out,
and send him adrift ! His money might be

contemptible, but the chief should find it
at least dangerous ! Contempt would not
stave off a land-slip !

Mistress Conal, with a rage and scorn
that made her feel every inch a witch, and
accompanied by her black cat, which might
or might not be the innocent animal the
neighbours did not think him, hurried to
the Macruadh, and informed him that ^'the
lowland thief" had given her notice to quit
the house of her fathers within a fortnight.

** I fear much we cannot help it ! the
house is on his land!" said the chief
sorrowfully.

*' His land ! " echoed the old woman.
^^ Is the nest of the old eagle his land?
Can he make his heather white or his
ptarmigan black ? Will he dry up the lochs,
and stay the rivers ? Will he remove the
mountains from their places, or cause the
generations of men to cease from the earth ?
Defend me, chief! I come to you for the
help that was never sought in vain from the
Macruadh ! "

^' What help I have is yours without the
asking," returned the chief. *^ I cannot do
more than is in my power ! One thing
only I can promise you — that you shall lack
neither food nor shelter."

'^ My chief will abandon me to the wolf! "
she cried.

*' Never ! But I can only protect you,
not your house. He may have no right to
turn you out at such short notice ; but it
could only be a matter of weeks. To go to
law with him would but leave me without
a roof to shelter you when your own was
gone ! "

'^ The dead would have shown him into
the dark, ere he turned me into the cold ! "
she muttered, and turning, left him.

The chief was greatly troubled. He had
heard nothing of such an intention on the
part of his neighbour. Could it be for
revenge ? He had heard nothing yet of his
answer to Mercy ! All he could do was to
represent to Mr. Palmer the trouble the
poor woman was in, and let him know that

the proceeding threatened would render him
very unpopular in the strath. This he
thought it best to do by letter.

It could not enrage Mr. Palmer more, but
it enraged him afresh. He vowed that the
moment the time was up, out the old witch
should go, neck and crop ; and with the
help of Mr. Brander, provided men for the
enforcement of his purpose who did not
belong to the neighbourhood.

The chief kept hoping to hear fi'om the
New House, but neither his letter to Mercy
nor to her father received any answer.
How he wished for Ian to tell him what he
ought to do ! His mother could not help
him. He saw nothing for it but wait
events.

Day after day passed, and he heard
nothing. He would have tried to find out
the state of things at the New House, but
until war was declared that would not be
right ! Mr. Palmer might be seeking how
with dignity to move in the matter, for
certainly the chief had placed him in a

position yet more unpleasant than his own !
He must wait on !

The very day fortnight after the notice
given, about three o'clock in the afternoon,
came flying to the chief a ragged
little urchin of the village, too breathless
almost to make intelligible his news — that
there were men at Mistress Conal's who
would not go out of her house, and she
and her old black cat were swearing at
them.

The chief ran : could the new laird be
actually housing the aged, helpless
woman ? It was the part of a devil and not
of a man ! As he neared the place — there
were her poor possessions already on the
roadside ! — her one chair and stool, her
bedding, her three-footed pot, her girdle,
her big chest, all that she could call hers
in the world ! and when he came in sight
of the cottage, there she was being brought
out of it, struggling, screaming, and cursing,
in the grasp of two men ! Fierce in its glow
was the torrent of Gaelic that rushed from

VOL. III. K

the crater of her lips, molten in the volcanic
depths of her indignant soul.

When one thinks of the appalling amount
of rage exhausted by poor humans upon
wrong, the energy of indignation, whether
issued or suppressed, and how little it has
done to right wrong, to draw acknowledgment
or amends from self-satisfied insolence,
he naturally asks what becomes of
so much vital force. Can it fare differently
from other forces, and be lost ? The energy
of evil is turned into the mill-race of good ;
but the wrath of man, even his righteous
wrath, worketh not the righteousness of
God ! What becomes of it ? If it be not
lost, and have but changed its form, in
what shape shall we look for it ?

** Set her down," cried the chief. " I
will take care of her."

When she heard the voice of her champion,
the old woman let go a cat-like
screech of triumph, and her gliding Gaelic,
smoothness itself in articulation, flowed yet
firmer in word, and fiercer in tone. But the

men who were thus ejecting her — hangers
on of the sheriff-court in the county town,
employed to give a colour of law to the
doubtful proceeding — did not know the
chief.

^' Oh, we'll set her down," answered one
of them insolently, '' — and glad enough
too ! but we'll have her on the public
road with her sticks first ! "

Infuriated by the man's disregard of her
chief, Mistress Conal struck her nails into
his face, and with a curse he flung her from
him. She turned instantly on the other
with the same argument ad lio7ninevi, and
found herself staggering on her own weak
limbs to a severe fall, when the chief caught
and saved her. She struggled hard to break
from him and rush again into the hut, declaring
she would not leave it if they burned
her alive in it, but he held her fast.

There was a pause, for one or two who
had accompanied the men employed, knew
the chief, and their reluctance to go on
with the ruthless deed in his presence,

influenced the rest. Report of the ejection
had spread, and the neighbours came running
from the village. A crowd seemed to
be gathering. Again and again Mistress
Conal tried to escape from Blister and rush
into the cottage.

'' You too, my chief! " she cried; ^' you
turned against the poor of your people ! ".

'' No, Mistress Conal," he answered ; " I
am too much your friend to let you kill
yourself! "

'^ We have orders, Macruadh, to set fire
to the hovel," said one of the men, touching
his hat respectfully.

*' They'll roast my black one ! " shrieked
the old woman.

'' Small fear for him," said a man's voice
from the little crowd, " if half be true — ! "

Apparently the speaker dared no more.

*^ Fire won't singe a hair of him. Mistress
Conal," said another voice. " You know
it ; he's used to it ! "

** Come along, and let's get it over ! "
cried the leader of the ejection-party. ^^ It

won't take many minutes once it's well
a going, and there's fire enough on the
hearth to set Ben Clachan in a blaze ! ' '

'^ Is everything out of it ? " demanded
the chief.

^' All but her cat. We've done our best,
sir, and searched everywhere, but he's not
to be found. There's nothing else left."

"It's a lie!" screamed Mistress Conal.
Is there not a great pile of seats, carried
on my own back from the moss ! Each, you
robbers ! would you burn the good seats ? "

'what good wil the seats be to you,
woman," said one of them not unkindly,
'' when you have no hearth ? "

She gave a loud wail, but checked it.

'' I will burn them on the road," she said.
They will keep me a few hours from the
dark ! When I die I will go straight up to
God and implore his curse upon you, on
your bed and board, your hands and tools,
your body and soul. May your every prayer
be lost in the wide murk, and never come
at his ears ! May "

^^ Hash ! hush ! " interposed the chief
with great gentleness. " You do not know
v/hat you are saying. But you do know
who tells us to forgive our enemies ! "

'' It's well for him to forgive," she
screamed, ^' sitting on his grand throne,
and leaving me to be turned out of my
blessed house, on to the cold road ! "

'' Nannie ! " said the chief, calling her by
her name, 'because a man is unjust to you,
is that a reason for you to be unjust to him
who died for you ? You know as well ashe,
that you will not be left out on the
cold road. He knows, and so do you, that
while I have a house over my head, there
is a warm corner in it for you ! And as for
his sitting on his throne, you know that all
these years he has been trying to take you
up beside him, and can't get you to set
your foot on the first step of it ! Be
ashamed of yourself, Nannie ! "

She was silent.

^^ Bring out her seats," he said, turning
to the bystanders; ^^ we have small need.

with winter on the road, to waste any of
God's gifts!"

They obeyed. Bnt as they carried them
out, and down to the road, the number of
Mistress Conal's friends kept growing, and
a laying together of heads began, and a
gathering of human fire under glooming
eyebrows. It looked threatening. Suddenly
Mistress Conal broke out in a wild
yet awful speech, wherein truth indeed
was the fuel, but earthly wrath supplied
the prophetic fire. Her friends suspended
their talk, and her foes their work, to
listen.

English is by no means equally poetic
with the Gaelic, regarded as a language,
and ill-serves to represent her utterance.
Much that seems natural in the one language,
seems forced and unreal amidst the
less imaginative forms of the other. I will
nevertheless attempt in English what can
prove little better than an imitation of her
prophetic outpouring. It was like a sermon
in this, that she began with a text : —

** Woe iiuto them," she said — and her
voice sounded like the wind among the
great stones of a hillside — '' that join house
to house, that lay field to field, till there be
no place, that they may be placed alone in
the midst of the earth ! "

This woe she followed with woe upon
woe, and curse upon curse, now from the
Bible, now from some old poem of the
country, and now from the bitterness of
her own heart. Then she broke out in
purely native eloquence : —

'^ Who art thou, man, born of a woman,
to say to thy brother, ' Depart from this
earth : here is no footing for thee : all the
room had been taken for me ere thou
wast heard of! What right hast thou ina
world where I want room for the red
deer, and the big sheep, and the brown
cattle ? Go up, thou infant bald-head ! Is
there not room above, in the fields of the
air ? Is there not room below with the
dead ? Verily there is none here upon the
earth ! ' Who art thou, I say, to speak

chas to thy fellow, as if he entered the
world by another door than thyself! Because
thou art rich, is he not also a mana
man made in the image of the same
God ? Who but God sent him ? And who
but God, save thy father was indeed the
devil, hath sent thee ? Thou hast to make
room for thy brother ! What brother of
thy house, when a child is born into it,
would j)i'esume to say, 'Let him begone,
and speedily ! I do not want him ! There
is no room for him ! J require it all for
myself ! ' Wilt thou say of any man, ' He
is not my brother,' when God says he is !
If thou say, ' Am I therefore his keeper ? '
God for that saying will brand thee with
the brand of Cain. Yea, the hour will
come when those ye will not give room to
breathe, will rise panting in the agony, yea
far of their need, and cry, * If we may
neither eat nor lie down by their leave, lowe
are strong ! let us take what they will
not give ! If we die we but die ! ' Then
shall there be blood to the knees of the

fighting men yea, to the horses' bridles; and
the earth shall be left desolate because of
you, foul feeders on the flesh and blood, on
the bodies and souls of men ! In the pit of
hell you will find room enough, but no drop
of water ; and it will comfort you little that
ye lived merrily among pining men ! Which
of us has coveted your silver or your gold ?
Which of us has stretched out the hand to
take of your wheat or your barley ? All we
ask is room to live ! But because ye would
see the dust of the earth on the head of the
poor, ye have crushed and straitened us till
we are ready to cry out, ' God, for thy
mercy's sake, let us die, lest we be guilty
of our own blood ! ' "

A solitary man had come down the hill
behind, and stood alone listening. It was
the mover of the wickedness. In the old
time the rights of the people-in the land
were fully recognized ; but when the chiefs
of Clanruadh sold it, they could not indeed
sell the rights that were not theirs, but
they forgot to secure them for the helpless,

and they were now in the grasp of
the selfish and greedy, the devourer of the
poor. He did not understand a word the
woman was saying, hut he was pleased to
look on her rage, and see the man who had
insulted him suffer with her. When he
began to note the glances of lurid fire
which every now and then turned upon him
during Mistress Conal's speech, he scorned
the indication : such poor creatures dared
venture nothing, he thought, against the
mere appearance of law. Under what he
counted the chiefs contempt, he had
already grown worse ; and the thought that
perhaps the great world might one day look
upon him with like contempt, wrought in
him bitterly ; he had not the assurance of
rectitude which makes contempt hurtless.
He was crueller now than before the chief's
letter to his" daughter.

When Mistress Conal saw him, she
addressed herself to him directly. What
he would have felt had he understood, I
cannot tell. Never in this life did he know

how the weak can despise the strong, how
the poor can scorn the rich !

** Worm ! " she said, ^^ content withholding
the land, eating the earth that
another may not share ! the worms eat but
what their bodies will hold, and thou canst
devour but the fill of thy life ! The hour is
at hand when the earth will swallow thee,
and thy fellow worms will eat thee, as thou
hast eaten men. The possessions of thy
brethren thou hast consumed, so that they
are not ! The holy and beautiful house of
my fathers, — " She spoke of her poor little
cottage, but in the words lay spiritual fact.
^' — mock not its poverty ! " she went on,
as if forestalling contempt ; ^* for is it not
to me a holy house where the woman lay in
the agony whence first I opened my eyes to
the sun ? Is it not a holy house where my
father prayed morning and evening, and
read the words of grace and comfort ? Is
it not to me sacred as the cottage at Nazareth
to the poor man who lived there with
his peasants ? And is not that a beautiful

house in wliicli a woman's ear did first listen
to the words of love ? Old and despised I
am, but once I was younger than any of
you, and ye will be old and decrepit as I,
if the curse of God do not cut you off too
soon. My Blister would have taken any
two of you and knocked your heads together.
He died fighting for his country;
and for his sake the voice of man's love has
never again entered my heart ! I knew a
true man, and could be true also. Would
to God I were with him ! You man-trapping,
land-reaving, house-burning Sasine
do your worst ! I care not."
She ceased, and the spell was broken.
^' Come, come ! " said one of the men
impatiently. ^' Tom, you get a peat, and
set it on the top of the wall, under the roof.
You, too, George ! — and be quick. Seats
all around ! there are plenty on the hearth !
How's the wind blowing ? — You, Henry,
make a few holes in the wall here, outside,
and we'll set live seats in them. It's time
there was an end to this ! "

'you're right; but there's a better way
to end it ! " returned one of the clan, and
gave him a shove that sent him to the
ground.

^* Men, do your duty ! " cried Mr. Palmer
from behind. '^/ am here — to see you doit
! Never mind the old woman ! Of course
she thinks it hard; but hard things have
got to be done ! it's the way of the world,
and all for the best."

^^ Mr. Palmer," said another of the clan,
'* the old woman has the right of you : she
and hers have Used there, in that cottage,
for nigh a hundred years."

^^ She has no right. If she thinks she
has, let her go to the law for it. In the
meantime I choose to turn her off my
land. What's mine's mine, as I mean
every man jack of you to know — chief and
beggar ! "

The Macruadh walked up to him.
pardon me, sir," he said: ^' I doubt
much if you have a legal right to disturb
the poor woman. She has never paid rent

for her hut, and it has always been looked
upon as her property"

Then the chief that sold it swindled
both me and her ! " stammered Mr. Palmer,
white with rage. ^'But as for you who
call yourself a chief, you are the most
insolent, ill-bred fellow I ever had to do
with, and I have not another word to say
to you ! "

A silence like that before a thunderstorm
succeeded : not a man of the clan
could for the moment trust his hearing.
But there is nothing the Celtic nature resents
like rudeness : half a dozen at once
of the Macruadhs rushed upon the insulter
of their chief, intent on his punishment.

'' One of you touch him," cried Blister,
^* and I will knock him down. I would if
he were my foster-brother ! "

Each eager assailant stood like a block.

"Finish your work, men!" shouted Mr.
Palmer.

To do him justice, he was no coward.

'clansmen," said the chief, "let him

have his way. I do not see how to resist
the wrong without bringing more evil upon
us than we can meet. We must leave it
to him who says * Vengeance is mine.' "

The Macruadhs murmured their obedience,
and stood sullenly looking on. The
dissenters went into the hut, and carried
out the last of the fuel. Then they scooped
holes in the turf walls, inside to leeward,
outside to windward, and taking' live seats
from the hearth, put them in the holes. A
few minutes, and poor Nannie's "holy and
beautiful house " was a great fire.

When they began to apply the seats,
Blister would at once have taken the old
woman away, but he dreaded an outbreak,
and lingered. When the fire began to run
up the roof, Mistress Conal broke from him,
and darted to the door. Every one rushed
to seize her, Mr. Palmer with the rest.

"Blackieieieieieie! Blackieieieieieie ! Blackieieieieieie ! " she
shrieked like a madwoman.

While the men encumbered each other
in their endeavours to get her away, down

shot the cat from the blazing roof, a fizz of
fire in his black fur, his tail as thick as his
neck, an infernal howling screech of hatred
in his horrible throat, and, wild with rage
and fear, flung himself straight upon Mr.
Palmer. A roar of delighted laughter burst
forth. He bawled out — and his bawl was
mingled with a scream — to take the brute
off him, and his own men hurried to his
rescue ; but the fury-frantic animal had dug
his claws and teeth into his face, and clung
to him so that they had to choke him off.
The chief caught up Mistress Conal and
carried her away : there was no danger of
any one hurting Mr. Palmer now !

He bore her on one arm like a child, and
indeed she was not much heavier. But she
kept her face turned and her eyes fixed on
her burning home, and leaning over the
shoulder of the chief, poured out, as he
carried her farther and farther from the
scene of the outrage, a flood of maledictory
prophecy against the doers of the deed.
The laird said never a word, never looked

VOL. III. L

behind him, while she, almost tumbling
down his back as she cursed with outstretched
arms, deafened him with her
raging. He walked steadily down the path
to the road, where he stepped into the midst
of her goods and chattels. The sight of them
diverted a little the current of her wrath.

*^ Where are you going, Macruadh ? " she
cried, as he walked on. " See you nob my
property lying to the hand of the thief?
Know you not that the greedy Sasunnach
will sweep everything away ! "

'^I can't carry them and you too.
Mistress Conal ! " said the chief gayly.

*^ Set me down then. Who ever asked
you to carry me ! And where would you
be carrying me ? My place is with my
things ! "

*^ Your place is with me, Mistress Conal !
I belong to you, and you belong to me, and
I am taking you home to my mother."

At the word, silence fell, not on the lips,
but on the soul of the raving prophetess :
the chief she loved, his mother she feared.

Set me down, Macruadh ! " she pleaded
in gentle tone. " Don't carry me to her
empty-handed! Set me down straight; I
will load my back with my goods, and bear
them to my lady, and throw them at her
feet."

"As soon as we get to the cottage," said
the chief, striding on with his reluctant
burden, " I will send up two men with
wheelbarrows to bring them home."

Home, said you ? " cried the old woman,
and burst into the tearless wailing of a
child ; '' there is a home for me no more !
My house was all that was left me of my
people, and it is your own that make a
house a home ! In the long winter nights,
when I sat by the fire and heard the wind
howl, and the snow pat, pat like the small
hands of my little brothers on the window,
my heart grew glad within me, and the
dead came back to my soul ! When I took
the book, I heard the spirit of my father
reading through my own Hjds ! And oh, my
mother ! my mother ! "

She ceased as if in despair.

^^ Surely, Nannie, you will be at home
with your chief! " said Blister. " My house
is your house now, and your dead will come
to it and be welcome ! "

'^ It is their chief's house, and they will ! "
she returned hopefully. *' They loved their
chief. — Shall we not make a fine clan when
we're all gathered, we Macruadhs ! Mannor
woman can say I did anything to
disgrace it ! "

lest we should disgrace it," answered
the chief, ^^ we must bear with patience what
is sent upon it."

He carried her into the drawing-room
and told her story, then stood, to the delighted
amusement of his mother, with his
little old sister in his arms, waiting her
orders, like a big boy carrying the baby,
who now and then moaned a little, but did
not speak.

Mrs. Macruadh called Nancy, and told
her to bring the tea-tray, and then get
ready for Mistress Conal the room next

Nancy's own, that she might be near to
wait on her ; and thither, when warmed
and fed, the chief carried her.

But the terrible excitement had so
thinned the mainspring of her time-watch,
that it soon broke. She did not live many
weeks. From the first she sank into greet
dejection, and her mind wandered. She
said her father never came to see her now ;
that he was displeased with her for leaving
the house; and that she knew now she
ought to have stayed and been burned in
it. The chief reminded her that she had
no choice, but had been carried bodily away.

^^Yes, yes," she answered; 'but they do
not know that ! I must make haste and
tell them ! Who can bear her own people
to think ill of her ! — I'm coming ! I'm
coming ! I'll tell you all about it ! I'm an
honest woman yet ! "

Another thing troubled her sorely, for
which she would hear no consolation ;
Blackieie had vanished ! — whether he was
killed at the time of his onslaught on Mr.

Palmer, or was afterwards shot; whether,
disgusted with the treatment of his old
home, or the memory of what he had there
suffered, he had fled the strath, and gone
to the wild cats among the hills, or back
to the place which some averred he came
from, no one could tell. In her wanderings
she talked more of her cat than of
anything else, and wo aid say things that
with some would have gone far to justify
the belief that the animal was by nature on
familiar terms with the element which had
yet driven him from his temporary home.

Nancy was more than uneasy at having
the witch so near, but by no means neglected
her duty to her. One night she
woke, and had for some time lain listening
whether she stirred or not, when suddenly
quavered through the dark the most horrible
cat-cry she had ever heard. In abject
terror she covered her head, and lay shuddering.
The cry came again, and kept
coming at regular intervals, but drawing
nearer and nearer. Its expression was of

intense and increasing pain. The creature
whence it issued seemed to come close to
the house, then with difficulty to scramble
up on the roof, where it went on yowling,
and screeching, and throwing itself about
as if tying itself in knots, Nancy said, until
at last it gave a great choking, gobbling
scream, and fell to the ground, after which
all was quiet. Persuading herself it was
only a cat, she tried to sleep, and at length
succeeded. When she woke in the morning,
the first thing she did was to go out,
fully expecting to find the cat lying at the
foot of the wall. No cat was there. She
went then as usual to attend to the old
woman. Mistress Conal was dead and
cold.

The clan followed her body to the grave,
and the black cat was never seen.

CHAPTEK IX.

THE Marches.

It was plainly of no use for the chief to
attempt mollifying Mr. Palmer. So long as
it was possible for him to be what he was,
it must be impossible for him to understand
the conscience that compelled the chief to
refuse participation in the results of his life.
Where a man's own conscience is content,
how shall he listen to the remonstrance of
another man's ! But even if he could have
understood that the offence was unavoidable,
that would rather have increased than
diminished the pain of the hurt ; as it was,
the chief's determination must seem to Mr.
Palmer an unprovoked insult ! Thus reflecting,
Blister tried aU he could to be fair

to the man whom he had driven to cut his
acquaintance.

It was now a lonely time for Blister,
lonelier than any ever before. Ian was not
within reach even by letter; Mercy was
shut up from him : he had not seen or
heard fi'om her since writing his explanation
; and his mother did not sympathize
with his dearest earthly desire : she would
be greatly relieved, yea heartily glad, if
Mercy was denied him ! She loved Ian
more than the chief, yet could have better
borne to see him the husband of Mercy ;
what was wanting to the equality of her
love was in this regard more than balanced
by her respect for the chief of the clan and
head of the family. Blister' s light was thus
left to burn in very darkness, that it might
burn the better ; for as strength is made
perfect through weakness, so does the light,
within grow by darkness. It was the people
that sat in darkness that saw a great light.
He was brought closer than ever to first
principles; had to think and judge more

than ever of the right thing to do — first of
all, the right thing with regard to Mercy.
Of giving her up, there was of course no
thought ; so long as she would he his, he
was hers as entirely as the bonds of any
marriage could make him ! But she owed
something to her father ! and of all menthe
patriarchal chief was the last to dare
interfere with the rights of a father. But
they 'must he rights, not rights turned into,
^or founded upon wrongs. With the first in
acknowledging true, he would not be with
the last even, in yielding to false rights !
The question was, what were the rights of a
father ? One thing was clear, that it was
the duty, therefore the right of a father, to
prevent his child from giving herself away
before she could know what she did ; and
Mercy was not yet of age. That one woman
might be capable of knowing at fifteen, and
another not at fifty, left untouched the
necessity for fixing a limit. It was his own
duty and right, on the other hand, to do
what he could to prevent her from being in

any way deceived concerning him. It was
essential that nothing should be done,
resolved, or yielded, by the girl, through
any misunderstanding he could forestall, or
because of any falsehood he could frustrate.
He must therefore contrive to hold some
communication with her !

First of all, however, he must learn how
she was treated ! It was not only in fiction
or the ancient clan-histories that tyrannical
and cruel things were done ! A tragedy is
even more a tragedy that it has not much
diversity of incident, that it is acted in
commonplace surroundings, and that the
agents of it are commonplace persons —
fathers and mothers acting from the best
of low or selfish motives. Where either
Mammon or Society is worshipped, in love,
longing, or fear, there is room for any falsehood,
any cruelty, any suffering.

There were several of the clan employed
about the New House of whom Blister
might have sought information ; but he was
of another construction from the man of

fashion in the old plays, whose first love-strategy
is always to bribe the lady's maid :
the chief scorned to learn anything through
those of a man's own household. He fired
a gun, and ran up a flag on the old castle,
which brought Eob of the Angels at full
speed, and comforted the heart of Mercy
sitting disconsolate at her window : it washer
chief's doing, and might have to do
with her !

Having told Eob the state of matters
between him and the New House —

^^ I need not desire you, Eob," he concluded,
^' to be silent ! You may of course
let your father know, but never a soul
besides. From this moment, every hour
your father does not actually need you, be
somewhere on the hills where you can seethe
New House. I want to learn first
whether she goes out at all. With the
dark you must draw nearer the house. But
I will have no questioning of the servants
or anyone employed about it ; I will never
use a man's pay to thwart his plans, nor

yet make any man even unconsciously a
traitor."

Eob understood and departed ; but before
he had news for his master an event occurred
which superseded his service.

The neighbours, Mr. Peregrine Palmer
and Mr. Brander, had begun to enclose
their joint estates for a deer-forest, and had
engaged men to act as curators. They
were from the neighbourhood, but none of
them belonged to Strathruadh, and not one
knew the boundaries of the district they
had to patrol; nor indeed were the boundaries
everywhere precisely determined : why
should they be, where all was heather and
rock ? Until game-sprinkled space grew
valuable, who would care whether this or
that lump of limestone, rooted in the solid
earth, were the actual property of the one
or the other ! Either would make the
other welcome to blast and cart it away !

There was just one person who knew all
about the boundaries that was to be known ;
he could not in places draw their lines with

absolute assurance, but he had better
grounds for his conclusions than anyone else
could have; this was Hector of the Stags.
For who so likely to understand them as he
who knew the surface within them as well
as the clay-floor of his own hut ? If he did
not everywhere know where the march-line
fell, at least he knew perfectly where
it ought to fall.

It happened just at this time that the
mistress told Hector she wo aid be glad of
a deer, intending to cure part for winter
use ; the next day, therefore, — the first of
Eob of the Angels' secret service — he
stalked one across the hill-farm, got a shot
at it near the cave-house, brought it down,
and was busy breaking it, when two men
who had come creeping up behind, threw
themselves upon him, and managed, well
for themselves, to secure him before he had
a chance of defending himself. Finding he
was deaf and dumb, one of them knew who
he must be, and would have let him go; but
the other, eager to ingratiate himself with

the new laird, used such argument to the
contrary as prevailed with his companion,
and they set out for the New House,
Hector between them with his hands tied.
Annoyed and angry at being thus treated
like a malefactor, he yet found amusement
in the notion of their mistake. But he
found it awkward to be unable to use that
readiest weapon of human defence, the
tongue. If only his ears and mouth, as he
called Kob in their own speech, had been
nth him ! When he saw, however, where
they were taking him, he was comforted,
for Kob was almost certain to see him :
wherever he was, he was watching the New
House ! He went composedly along with
them therefore, fuming and snorting, not
caring to escape.

When Bob caught sight of the three, he
could not think how it was that his father
walked so unlike himself. He could not be
hurt, for his step was strong and steady as
ever ; not the less was there something
of the rhythm gone out of his motion !

there was ^' a broken music" in his gait!
He took the telescope which the chief had
lent him, and turned it upon him. Discovering
then that his father's hands were
bound behind his back, fiercest indignation
overwhelmed the soul of Eob of the Angels.
His father bound like a criminal! — his
father, the best of men ! What could the
devils mean ? Ah, they were taking him to
the New House ! He shut up his telescope,
laid it down by a stone, and bounded
to meet them, sharpening his knife on his
hand as he went.

The moment they were near enough,
signs, unintelligible to the keepers, began
to pass between the father and son : Rob's
meant that he must let him pass unnoticed ;
Hector's that he understood. So, with but
the usual salutation of a stranger, Rob passed
them. The same moment he turned, and
with one swift sweep of his knife, severed
the bonds of his father. The old man
stepped back, and father and son stood
fronting the enemy.

*snow," said Kob, "if you are honest
men, stand to it ! How dared you bind
Hector of the Stags ? "

*' Because he is not an honest man,"
replied one of them.

Eob answered him with a blow. The man
made at him, but Hector stepped between.

Say that again of my father," cried
Kob, " who has no speech to defend himself,
and I will drive my knife into you."

We are only doing our duty ! " said
the other. '' We came upon him there
cutting up the deer he had just killed on
the new laird's land."

Who are you to say which is the
stranger's, and which the Macruadh's ?
Neither my father nor I have ever seen the
faces of you in the country ! Will you pretend
to know the marches better than my
father, who was born and bred in the
heather, and knows every stone on the face
of the hills?"

We can't help where he was born or
what he knows ! he was on our land ! "

VOL. III. M

*' He is the Macruadh's keeper, and was
on his own land. You will get yourselves
into trouble ! "

'* We'll take our chance ! "

'' Take your man then ! "

^* If he try to escape, I swear by the bones
of my grandfather," said the more inimical
of the two, inheritor of a clan-feud with the
Macruadhs, ^' I will shoot him."

Eob of the Angels burst into a scornful
laugh.

^' You will! will you?"

'' I will not kill him ; I don't want to be
hanged for him ! but I will empty my shot-barrel
into the legs of him ! So take your
chance ; you are warned ! "

They had Hector's gun, and Eob had
no weapon but his knife. Nor was he
inclined to use either now he had cooled a
little. He turned to his father. The old
man understood perfectly what had passed
between them, and signed to Eob that he
would go on to the New House, and Eob
might run and let the chief know what had

happened. The same thing was in Eob's
mind, for he saw how it would favour the
desires of his chief, bringing them all
naturally about the place. But he must
first go with his father on the chance of
learning something.

We will go with you," he said.

*^ We don't want you I "

*but I mean to go ! — My father is notable
to speak for himself! "

*^ You know nothing."

** I know what he knows. The lie does
not grow in our strath."

'^ You crow high, my cock ! "

^^No higher than I strike," answered
Robin

the eyes of the men Eob was small
and weak ; but there was something in him
notwithstanding that looked dangerous, and,
though far from cowards, they thought it as
well to leave him alone.

Mercy at her window, where was her
usual seat now, saw them coming, and
instinctively connected their appearance

with her father's new measures of protection
; and when the men turned toward
the kitchen, she ran down to learn what she
could. Eoh greeted her with a smile as he
entered.

''I am going to fetch the Macruadh," he
whispered, and turning went out again.

He told the chief that at the word her
face lighted up as with the rise of the moon.

One of the maids went and told her
master that they had got a poacher in the
kitchen.

Mr. Palmer's eyes lightened under his
black brows when he saw the captive, whom
he knew by sight and by report. His men
told him the story their own way, never
hinting a doubt as to whose was the land
on which the deer had been killed.

'^ Where is the nearest magistrate ? " he
inquired with grand severity

'the Dearest is the Macruadh, sir!"
answered a highland er who had come from
work in the garden to see what was going
on.

"I cannot apply to him; the fellow is
one of his own men ! "

'' The Macruadh does what is just ! " rejoined
the man.

His master vouchsafed him no reply. He
would not show his wrath against the chief :
it would be undignified !

stake him to the tool-house, and lock
him up till I think what to do with him.
Bring me the key."

The butler led the way, and Hector followed
between his captors. They might
have been showing him to his bed-room, so
calm was he : Rob gone to fetch the chief,
his imprisonment could not last ! — and for
the indignity, was he not in the right 1

As Mr. Palmer left the kitchen, his eye
fell on Mercy.

"Go to your room," he said angrily, and
turned from her.

She obeyed in silence, consoling herself
that from her window she could see the
arrival of the chief. Nor had she watched
long when she saw him coming along the

road with Bob. At the gate she lost sight
of them. Presently she heard voices in the
hall, and crept down the stair far enough to
hear.

*' I could commit you for a breach of the
peace, Mr. Palmer," she heard the chief
say. '^ You ought to have brought the man
to me. As a magistrate I order his release.
But I give my word he shall be forthcoming
when legally required."

*your word is no bail. The man was
taken poaching"; I have him, and I will keep
him."

^^Let me see him then, that I may learn
from himself where he shot the deer."

'' He shall go before Mr. Brander."

^^ Then I beg you will take him at once.
I will go with him. But listen a moment,
Mr. Palmer. When this same man, my
keeper, took your guest poaching on my
ground, I let Mr. Sercombe go. I could
have committed him as you would commit
Hector. I ask you in return to let Hector
go. Being deaf and dumb, and the hills the

joy of his life, confinement will be terrible
to him."

*^ I will do nothing of the kind. You could
never have committed a gentleman for a
mistake. This is quite a different thing ! "

*^ It is a different thing, for Hector cannot
have made a mistake. He could not have
followed a deer on to your ground without
knowing it ! "

*^ I make no question of that ! "

*' He says he was not on your property."

'' Says ! "

*^ He is not a man to lie ! "

Mr. Palmer smiled.

*' Once more I pray you, let us see him
together."

^^You shall not see him."

*' Then take him at once before Mr.
Brander."

** Mr. Brander is not at home."

^^ Take him before sonne magistrate — I
care not who. There is Mr. Chisholm ! "

^* I will take him when and where it suits
me."

^^ Then as a magistrate I will set him at
liberty. I am sorry to make myself unpleasant
to you. Of all things I would have
avoided it. But I cannot let the man suffer
unjustly. Where have you put him ? "

'^ Where you will not find him."

'^ He is one of my people ; I must have
him ! "

*' Your people ! A set of idle, poaching
fellows ! By heaven, the strath shall be
rid of the pack of them before another year
is out ! "

While I have land in it with room for
them to stand upon, the strath shall not be
rid of them ! — But this is idle ! Where
have you put Hector of the Stags ? "

Mr. Palmer laughed.

'' In safe keeping. There is no occasion
to be uneasy about him ! He shall have
plenty to eat and drink, be well punished,
and show the rest of the rascals the way
out of the country ! "

^' Then I must find him ! You compel
me!"

So saying, the chief, with intent to begin
his search at the top of the house in
the hope of seeing Mercy, darted up the
stair. She heard him coming, went a few
steps higher, and waited. On the landing
he saw her, white, with flashing eyes.
Their hands clasped each other — for a
moment only, but the moment was of
eternity, not of time.

** You will find Hector in the tool-house,"
she said aloud.

^' You shameless hussy ! " cried her
father, following the chief in a fury.

Mercy ran up the stair. The chief
turned and faced Mr. Palmer.

You have no business in my house ! "

*' I have the right of a magistrate."

'you have no right. Leave it at
once."

'' Allow me to pass."

'you ought to be ashamed of yourself
making a girl turn traitor to her own
father ! "

"You ought to be proud of a daughter

with the conscience and courage to turn
against you ! "

The chief passed Mr. Palmer, and running
down the stair, joined Eob of the
Angels where he stood at the door in a
group composed of the keepers and most
of the servants.

'* Do you know the tool-house ? " he said
to Eob.

*eyes, Macruadh."

** Lead the way then. Your father is
there."

'* On no account let them open the door,"
cried Mr. Palmer. ^' They may hold through
it what communication they please."

You will not be saying much to a deaf
man through inch boards ! " remarked the
clansman from the garden.

Mr. Palmer hurried after them, and his
men followed.

Blister found the door fast and solid,
without handle. He turned a look on his
companion, and was about to run his weight
against the lock.

^' It is too strong," said Eob. '* Hector
of the Stags must open it ! "

** But how ? You cannot even let him
know what you want ! "

Kob gave a smile, and going up to the
door, laid himself against it, as close as he
could stand, with his face upon it, and so
stood silent.

Mr. Palmer coming up with his attendants,
all stood for a few moments in silence,
wondering at Kob : he must be holding
communication with his father — but how ?

Sounds began inside — first a tumbling of
tools about, then an attack on the lock.

'come! come! this won't do!" said
Mr. Palmer, approaching the door.

*' Prevent it then," said the chief. *' Do
what you will you cannot make him hear
you, and while the door is between you, he
cannot see you ! If you do not open it,
he will ! "

*run," said Mr. Palmer to the butler;
'' you will find the key on my table ! I
don't want the lock ruined ! "

But there was no stopping the thing !
Before the butler came back, the lock fell,
the door opened, and out came Hector,
wiping his brow with his sleeve, and looking
as if he enjoyed the fun.

The keepers darted forward.

'stand off!" said the chief stepping
between. " I don't want to hurt you, but
if you attempt to lay hands on him, I will."

One of the men dodged round, and laid
hold of Hector from behind ; the other
made a move towards him in front. Hector
stood motionless for an instant, watching
his chief, but when he saw him knock down
the man before him, he had his own
assailant by the throat in an instant, gave
him a shake, and threw him beside his
companion.

*' You shall suffer for this, Macruadh ! "
cried Mr. Palmer, coming close up to him,
and speaking in a low, determined tone,
carrying a conviction of unchangeableness.

Better leave what may not be the worst
alone!" returned the chief. 'rit is of no

use telling you how sorry I am to have to
make myself disagreeable to you ; but I
give you fair warning that I will accept no
refusal of the hand of your daughter from
any but herself. As you have chosen to
break with me, I accept your declaration of
war, and tell you plainly I will do all I canto
win your daughter, never asking your
leave in respect of anything I may think it
well to do. You will find there are stronger
forces in the world than money. Henceforward
I hold myself clear of any personal
obligation to you except as Mercy's father
and my enemy."

From very rage Mr. Palmer was incapable
of answering him. Blister turned from him,
and in his excitement mechanically followed
Eob, who was turning a corner of the house.
It was not the way to the gate, but Eob
had seen Mercy peeping round that same
corner — anxious in truth about her father ;
she feared nothing for Blister.

He came at once upon Mercy and Obtaining
together. Eob withdrew and joined

his father a Httle way off ; they retired a few
more paces, and stood waiting their chief's
orders.

^^ How am I to see you again, Mercy?"
said the chief hurriedly. '^ Can't you think
of some way ? Think quick."

Now Mercy, as she sat alone at her
window, had not unfrequently imagined the
chief standing below on the walk, or just
beyond in the belt of shrubbery ; and now
once more in her mind's eye suddenly seeing
him there, she answered hurriedly,

Come under my window to-night."

I do not know which it is."

^' You see it from the castle. I will put
a candle in it."

'' What hour ? "

'^ Any time after midnight. I will sit
there till you come."

*' Thank you," said the chief, and departed
with his attendants.

Mercy hastened into the house by a back
door, but had to cross the hall to reach the
stair. As she ran up, her father came in at

the front door, saw her, and called her.
She went down again to meet the tempest
of his rage, which now broke upon her ingathered
fury. He called her a treacherous,
unnatural child, with every name he thought
bad enough to characterize her conduct.
Had she been to him as Began or General,
he could hardly have found worse names for
her. She stood pale, but looked him in the
face. Her mother came trembling as near
as she dared, withered by her terror to
almost twice her age. Mr. Palmer in his
far took a step towards Mercy as if he
would strike her. Mercy did not move a
muscle, but stood ready for the blow. Then
love overcame her fear, and the wife and
mother threw herself between, her arms
round her husband, as if rather to protect
him from the deed than her daughter from
its hurt.

Go to your room, Mercy," she said.

Mercy turned and went. She could not
understand herself. She used to be afraid
of her father when she knew no reason ;

now that all the bad in his nature and
breeding took form and utterance, she found
herself calm ! But the thing that quieted
her was in reality her sorrow that he should
carry himself so wildly. What she thought
was, if the mere sense of not being in the
wrong made one able to endure so much,
what must not the truth's sake enable one
to bear ! She sat down at her window to
gaze and brood.

When her father cooled down, he was
annoyed with himself, not that he had been
unjust, but that he had behaved with so
little dignity. With brows black as evil, he
sat degraded in his own eyes, resenting the
degradation on his daughter. Every time
he thought of her, new rage arose in his
heart. He had been proud of his family
autocracy. So seldom had it been necessary
to enforce his authority, that he never
doubted his wishes had but to be known to
be obeyed. Born tyrannical, the characterless
submission of his wife had nourished
the tyrannical in him. Now, all at once, a

daughter, the ugly one, from whom no credit
was to be looked for, dared to defy him for a
clown figuring in a worn-out rag of chieftainship
— the musty fiction of a clan — half
a dozen shepherds, crofters, weavers, and
shoemakers, not the shadow of a gentleman
among them ! — a man who ate brose, went
with bare knees, worked like any hind, and
did not dare offend his wretched relations
by calling his paltry farm his own ! — for the
sake of such a fellow, with a highland
twang that disgusted his fastidious ear, his
own daughter made a mock of his authority,
treated him as a nobody ! In his own house
she had risen against him, and betrayed him
to the insults of his enemy ! His conscious
importance, partly from doubt in itself,
boiled and fumed, bubbled and steamed in
the caldron of his angry brain. Not one,
but many suns would go down upon such a
wrath !

^* I wish I might never set eyes on the
girl again ! " he said to his wife. '' A small
enough loss the sight of her would be, the

VOL. III. N

Ugly, common-looking thing ! I beg you
will save me from it in future as much as
you can. She makes me feel as if I should
go out of my mind ! — so calm, forsooth ! so
meek ! so self-sufficient ! — oh, quite a saint !
and so strong-minded ! — equal to throwing
her father over for a fellow she never saw
till a year ago ! "

She shall have her dinner sent up to her
as usual," answered his wife with a sigh.
'^ But, really. Peregrine, my dear, you must
compose yourself! Love has driven many
a woman to extremes ! "

'^ Love ! Why should she love such a
fellow ? I see nothing in him to love ?
Why should she love him ? Tell me that !
Give me one good reason for her folly, and
I will forgive her — do anything for her ! —
anything but let her have the rascal ! That
I 2vill not I Take for your son-in-law an
ape that loathes your money, calls it filthy
lucre — and means it ! Not if I can help it !
Don't let me see her ! I shall come to
late her ! and that I would rather not ; a

man must love and cherish his own flesh !
I shall go away, I must ! — to get rid of the
hateful face of the minx, with its self-righteous,
injured look staring at you ! "

'' If you do, you can't expect me to prevent
her from seeing him ! "

*clock her up in the coal-hole — bury her
if you like ! I shall never ask what you
have done with her ! Never to see her
again is all I care about ! "

'^ Ah, if she were really dead, you would
want to see her again — after a while ! "

^^ I wish then she was dead, that I might
want to see her again ! It won't be sooner !
Ten times rather than know her married to
that beast, I would see her dead and buried ! "

The mother held her peace. He did not
mean it, she said to herself. It was only
his anger ! But he did mean it ; at that
moment he would with joy have heard the
earth fall on her coffin.

Notwithstanding her faculty for shutting
out the painful, her persistent self-assuring
that it would blow over, and her confidence

that things would by and by resume their
course, Mrs. Palmer was in those days very
unhappy. The former quiet once restored,
she would take Mercy in hand, and reasoning
with her, soon persuade her to what
she pleased ! It was her husband's severity
that had brought it to this !

The accomplice of her husband, she did
not understand that influence works only
between such as inhabit the same spiritual
sphere : the daughter had been lifted into a
region far above all the arguments of her
mother — arguments poor in life, and base in
reach.

Chapter X.

MIDNIGHT.

Mercy sat alone but not lonely at her
window. A joy in her heart made her independent
for the time of human intercourse.
Life at the moment was liable without it,
for there was no bar between her and her
lover.

The evening drew on. They sent her
food. She forgot to eat it, and sat looking,
till the hues of the horizon seemed grown
into her mind like an etching. She watched
the slow dusk swell and gather — with such
delicate, soft-blending gradations in the birth
of night as Edwin Waugh loves to seize
and word-paint. Through all its fine evanescent
change of thought and feeling she
watched unconsciously ; and the growth,

death, and burial of that twilight were ever
after a substratum to all the sadness and all
the hope that visited her. Through palest
eastern rose, through silvery gold and
golden green and brown, the daylight passed
into the shadow of the light, and the stars,
like hope in despair, began to show themselves
where they always were, and the night
came on, and deeper and deeper sank the
silence. Household sound expired, and no
step came near her door. Her father had
given orders, and was obeyed. Christina
has stolen indeed from her own room and
listened at hers, but hearing nor sound nor
motion, had concluded it better for Mercy
as well as safer for herself, to return. So
she sat the sole wakeful thing in the house,
for even her father slept.

The earth had grown vague and dim,
looking as it must look to the dead. Its
oppressive solidity, its obtrusive likeness,
dissolved in the dark, it left the soul to live
its own life. She could still trace the meeting
of earth and sky, each the evidence of

the other, but the earth was content to be
and not assert, and the sky lived only in the
points of Hght that dotted its vaulted quiet.
Sound itself seemed asleep, and filling the
air with the repose of its slumber. Absolute
silence the soul cannot grasp ; therefore
deepest silence seems ever, in Wordsworth's
lovely phrase, wandering into sound, for
silence is but the thin shadow of harmony —
say rather creation's ear agape for sound,
the waiting matrix of interwoven melodies,
the sphere-bowl standing empty for the
wine of the spirit. There may be yet
another reason beyond its too great depth or
height or strength, why we should be deaf
to the spheral music ; it may be that the
absolute perfection of its harmony can take
to our ears but the shape of silence.

Content and patient, Mercy sat watching.

It was just past midnight, but she had
not yet lighted a candle, when something
struck the window as with the soft blow
of a moth's wing. Her heart gave a great
leap. She listened breathless. Nothing

followed. It must have been some flying
night-thing, though surely too late in the
year for a moth !

It came again ! She dared not speak.
She softly opened the window. The darkness
had thinned on the horizon, and the
half-moon was lifting a corner above the
edge of the world. Something in the shrubbery
answered her shine, and without
rustle of branch, quiet as a ghost, the
chief stepped into the open space. Mercy
leaned toward him and said,

^* Hush ! speak low."

There is no need to say much," he
answered. '' I come only to tell you that,
as man may, I am with you always."

How quietly you came ! I did not
hear a sound ! "

*' I have been two hours here in the
shrubbery."

*' And I not once to suspect it ! You
might have given me some hint ! A very
small one would have been enough ! Why
did you not let me know ? "

*^ It was not your hour ; it is twelve but
now ; the moon comes to say so. I came
for the luxury of expectation, and the
delight of knowing you better attended
than you thought : you knew me with you
in spirit; I was with you in the body too ! "

•'^My chief! " she said softly. ''1 shall
always find you nearer and better than I
was able to think ! I know I do not know
how good you are."

** I am good toward you, Mercy ! I love
you ! "

A long silence, save of shining eyes,
followed.

^' We are waiting for God ! " said Blister
at length.

Waiting is loving," answered Mercy.

She leaned out, looking down to her
heaven.

The moon had been climbing the sky,
veiled in a little cloud. The cloud vanished,
and her light fell on the chief.

'^ Have you been to a ball?" said
Mercy.

No, Mercy. I doubt if there will be
any dancing more in Stratliruadh ! "

^^ Then why are you in court dress ? "

When should a Celt, who of all the
world loves radiance and colour, put on
his gay attire ? For the multitude, or for
the one?"

^' Thank you. Is it a component ? — But
after your love, everything fine seems only
natural ! ' '

In love there are no compliments ;
truth only walks the sacred path between
the two doors. I will love you as my
father loved my mother, and loves her
stm."

'' I do like to see you shining ! It was
kind of you to dress for the moon and
me! "

*' Whoever loves the truth must love
shining things ! God is the father of
lights, even of the lights hid in the dark
earth — sapphires and rubies, and all the
families of splendour."

'' I shall always see you like that ! "

*' There is one thing I want to say to
you, Mercy : — yon will not think me indifferent
however long I may be in proposing
a definite plan for our future ! We
must wait upon God ! "

'^ I shall think nothing you would not
have me think. A little while ago I might
have' dreamed anything, for I was fast
asleep. I was dead till you waked me. If
I were what girls call m love, I should be
impatient to be with you ; but I love you
much more than that, and do not need to
be always with you. You have made me
able to think, and I can think about you !
I was but a child, and you made a woman
of me ! " .

'^ God and Ian did," said Blister.

'' Yes, but through you, and I want to be
worthy of you. A woman to whom a man's
love was so little comfort that she pined
away and died because she could not be
married to him, would not be a wife worthy
of my chief ! "

^* Then you will always trust me ? "

I will. When one really knows another,
then all is safe ! "

^' How many people do you know?"
asked the chief.

She thought a moment, and with a little
laugh, replied,

'you."

'' Pardon me, Mercy, but I do want to
know how your father treats you ! "

"We will not talk about him, please.
He is my father ! — and so far yours that
you are bound to make what excuse you
can for him."

That I am boimd to do, if he were no
father to either of ns. It is what God is
always doing for us ! — only he will never
let us off."

"He has had no one to teach him,
Blister ! and has always been rich, and accustomed
to have his own way ! I begin to
think one punishment of making money ina
wrong manner is to be prosperous in it ! "

I am sure you are right ! But will you
be able to bear poverty, Mercy ? "

"Yes," she answered, but so carelessly
that she seemed to speak without having
thought.

You do not know what poverty means ! "
rejoined Ahster. " We may have to endure
much for our people ! "

"It means you any way, does it not?
If you and poverty come together, welcome
you and your friend ! — I see I must confessa
thing ! Do you remember telling me to
read Julius Caesar ? "

"Yes."

Do you remember how Portia gave herself
a wound, that she might prove to her
husband she was able to keep a secret ? "

"Yes, surely! "

I have my meals in my room now, so
I can do as I please, and I never eat the
nice things dear mother always sends me,
but potatoes, and porridge, and bread and
milk."

What is that for, Mercy ? "

To show you I am worthy of being
poor — able at least to be poor. I have not

once tasted anything vent nice since the
letter that made my father so angry."

'you daring!"

Of all men a highlander understands
independence of the hind of food.

*' But," continued Blister, '' you need not
go on with it ; I am quite convinced ; and
we must take with thanksgiving what God
gives us. Besides, you have to grow yet ! "

'' Blister ! and me like a May-pole ! "

'' You are tall enough, but we are
creatures of three dimensions, and need
more than height. You must eat, or you
will certainly he ill ! "

Oh, I eat ! But just as you please !
Only it wouldn't do me the least harm so
long as you didn't mind ! It was as much
to prove to myself I could, as to you ! But
don't you think it must he nearly time for
people to wake from their first sleep ? "

The same instant there was a little noise
like a sob. Mercy started, and when she
looked again Blister had vanished — as
noiselessly as he came. For a moment she

sat afraid to move. A wind came blowing
upon her from the window : some one had
opened her door ! What if it were her father !
She compelled herself to turn her head. It
was something white ! — it was Christina !
She came to her through the shadow of the
moonlight, put her arms round her, and
pressed to her face a wet cheek. For a
moment or two neither spoke.

'' I heard a little, Mercy ! " sobbed
Christina. *^ Forgive me ; I meant no harm ;
I only wanted to know if you were awake ;
I was coming to see you."

^^ Thank you, Chrissy ! That was good
of you!"

^' You are a dear ! — and so is your chief !
I am sorry I scared him ! It made me so
miserable to hear you so happy that I could
not help it ! Would you mind forgiving
me, dear?"

I don't mind your hearing a bit. I am
glad you should know how the chief loves
me ! "

^'But you must be careful, dear! Papa

might pretend to take him for a robber, and
shoot him ! "

'' Oh, no, Chrissy ! he wouldn't do that ! "

^' I would not be too sm-e ! I hadn't an
idea before what papa was like ! Oh what
men are, and what they can be ! I shall
never hold up my head again ! "

With this incoherent speech, to Mercy's
astonishment and consternation she burst
into tears. Mercy tried to comfort her, but
did not know how. She had seen for sometime
that there was a difference in her, that
something was the matter, and wondered
whether she could be missing Ian, but it
was merest surmise. Perhaps now she
would tell her !

She was weeping like a child on her
shoulder. Presently she began to tremble.
Mercy coaxed her into her bed, and undressing
quickly, lay down beside her, and took
her in her arms to make her warm. Before
the morning, with many breaks of sobbing
and weeping, Christina had told Mercy her
story.

'^ I wish you would let me tell the chief ! "
she said. " He would know how to comfort
you."

'' Thank you ! " said Christina, with not a
little indignation. ^'I forgot I was talking
to a girl as good as married, who would not
keep my secrets any more than her own ! "

She would have arisen at once to go to
her own room, and the night that had
brought such joy to Mercy threatened to
end very sadly. She threw her arms round
Christina's waist, locked her hands together,
and held her fast.

Hear me, Chrissy, darling ! I am a
great big huge brute," she cried. ^^ But
I was only stupid. I would not tell a secret
of yours even to Blister — not for worlds !
If I did, he would be nearer despising me
than I should know how to bear. I will
not tell him. Did I ever break my word to
you, Chrissy ? "

^'No, never, Mercy! " responded Christina,
and turning she put her arms round her.

Besides," she went on, ^' why should I

VOL. Fiji.

go to anyone for counsel ? Could I have
a better counsellor than Ian ? Is he not
my friend ? Oh, he is ! he is ! he said so I
he said so ! "

The words prefaced another storm of
tears.

'* He is going to write to me," she sobbed,
as soon as she could again speak.

'^ Perhaps he will love you yet, Chrissy ! "

No, no ; he will never love me that
way ! For goodness' sake don't hint at
such a thing ! I should not be able to
write a word to him, if I thought that ! I
should feel a wolf in sheep's clothing! I
have done with tricks and pretending! Ian
shall never say to himself, ' I wish I had
not trusted that girl ! I thought she was
going to be honest ! But what's bred in
the bone — ! ' I declare, Mercy, I should
blush myself out of being to learn he
thought of me like that ! I mean to be
worthy of his friendship ! His friendship
is better than any other man's love ! I ville
worthy of it ! "

The poor girl burst yet again into tears —
not so bitter as before, and ended them all
at once with a kiss to Mercy.

^^ For his sake," she said, *^ I am going to
take care of Blister and you ! "

^* Thank you ! thank you, Chrissy ! Only
you must not do anything to offend papa !
It is hard enough on him as it is ! I cannot
give up the chief to please him, for he has
been a father to my better self; but we
must do nothing to trouble him that we
can help ! "

CHAPTER XI.

SOMETHING Strange.

Listen did not feel inclined to go home.
The night was more like Mercy, and he
lingered with the night, inhabiting the
dream that it was Mercy's house, and she
in the next room. He tm-ned into the
castle, climbed the broken steps, and sat
on the corner of the wall, the blank hill
before him, asleep standing, with the New
House on its shoulder, and the moonlight
reflected from Mercy's window under which
he had so lately stood. He sat for an hour,
and when he came down, was as much disinclined
to go home as before : he could
not rest in his chamber, with no Ian on the
other side of its wall ! He went straying

down the road, into the valley, along the
burnside, up the steep beyond it, and away
to the hill-farm and the tomb.

The moon was with him all the way, but
she seemed thinking to herself rather than
talking to him. Why should the strange,
burnt-out old cinder of a satellite be the
star of lovers? The answer Hes hid, I
suspect, in the mysteries of light reflected.

He wandered along, careless of time, of
moons, star-shine, or sunrise, brooding on
many things in the rayless radiance of his
love, and by the time he reached the tomb,
was weary with excitement and lack of sleep.
Taking the key from where it was cunningly
hidden, he unlocked the door and entered.

He started back at sight of a gray-haired
old man, seated on one of the stone chairs,
and leaning sadly over the fireless hearth :
it must be his uncle ! The same moment
he saw it was a ray from the sinking moon,
entering by the small, deep window, and
shining feebly on the chair. He struck a
light, kindled the seats on the hearth, and

went for water. Returning from the well,
he found the house dark as before ; and
there was the old man again, cowering over
the extinguished fire ! The idea lasted buta
moment ; once more the level Kght of the
moon lay cold and gray upon the stone
chair ! He tried to laugh at his fancifulness,
but did not quite succeed. Several
times on the way up, he had thought of his
old uncle : this must have given the shape
to the moonlight and the stone ! He
made many attempts to recall the illusion,
but in vain. He relighted the fire, and
put on the kettle. Going then for a book
to read till the water boiled, he remembered
a letter which, in the excitement of the
afternoon, he had put in his pocket unread,
and forgotten. It was from the family
lawyer in Glasgow, informing him that the
bank in which his uncle had deposited the
proceeds of his sale of the land, was ina
state of absolute and irrecoverable collapse
; there was not the slightest hope of
retrieving any portion of the wreck.

Blister did not jump up and pace the
room in the rage of disappointment; neither
did he sit as one stunned and forlorn of
sense. He felt some bitterness in the loss
of the hope of making up to his people for
his uncle's wrong ; but it was clear that if
God had cared for his having the money, he
would have cared that he should have it.
Here was an opportunity for absolute faith
and contentment in the will that looks after
all our affairs, the small as well as the great.

Those who think their affairs too insignificant
for God's regard, will justify themselves
in lying crushed under their seeming
ruin. Either we hive in the heart of an
eternal thought, or we are the product and
sport of that which is lower than we.

It was evil money ! " said the chief to
himself; "it was the sale of a birthright
for a mess of pottage ! I would have turned
it back into the right channel, the good of
my people! but after all, what can money
do ? It was discontent with poverty that
began the ruin of the highlands ! If the

heads of the people had but lived pure,
active, sober, unostentatious lives, satisfied
to be poor, poverty would never have overwhelmed
them! The highlands would
have made Scotland great with the greatness
of men dignified by high-hearted contentment,
and strong with the strength of men
who could do without ! " Therewith it
dawned upon Blister how, when he longed
to help his people, his thoughts had always
turned, not to God first, but to the money
his uncle had left him. He had trusted ina
fancy — no less a fancy when in his uncle's
possession than when cast into the quicksand
of the bank ; for trust in money that is, is no
less vain, and is farther from redress, than
trust in money that is not. In God alone
can trust repose. His heart had been so
faithless that he did not know it was ! He
thought he loved God as the first and last,
the beginning, middle, and end of all things,
and he had been trusting, not in God, butin
uncertain riches, that is in vile Mammon
! It was a painful and humiliating

discovery. 'rit was well," he said, "that
my false deity should be taken from me !
For my idolatry perhaps, a good gift has
failed to reach my people ! I must be more
to them than ever, to make up to them for
their loss with better than money ! "

He fell on his knees, and thanked God
for the wind that had blown cold through
his spirit, and slain at least one evil thing ;
and when he rose, all that was left of his
trouble was a lump in his throat, which
melted away as he walked home through
the morning air on the hills. For he could
not delay ; he must let his mother know
their trouble, and, as one who had already
received help from on high, help her to
bear it ! If the messenger of Satan had
buffeted him, he had but broken a way for
strength !

But at first he could not enjoy as he was
wont the glory of the morning. It troubled
him. Would a single note in the song of
the sons of the morning fail because God
did or would not do a thing ? Could God

deserve less than thanks perfect from anyone
of his creatures ? That man could not
know God who thanked him but for what
men call good things, nor took the evil as
from the same love ! He scorned himself,
and lifted up his heart. As he reached the
brow of his last descent, the sun rose, and
with it his soul arose and shone, for its
light was come, and the glory of the Lord
was risen upon it. " Let God," he sail,
*stake from us what he will: himself he
can only give ! " Joyful he went down the
hill. God was, and all was well !

Chapter XII.

THE Power OF Darkness.

He found his mother at breakfast, wondering
what had become of him.

'rare you equal to a bit of bad news,
mother ? " he asked with a smile.

The mother's thoughts flew instantly to
Ian.

''Oh, it's nothing about Ian ! " said the
chief, answering her look.

Its expression changed ; she hoped now
it was some fresh obstacle between him and
Mercy.

No, mother, it is not that either ! " said
Blister, again answering her look — with a
sad one of his own, for the lack of his
mother's sympathy was the sorest trouble

he had. '^ It is only that uncle's money is
gone — all gone."

She sat silent for a moment, gave a little
sigh, and said,

^' Well, it will all be over soon ! In the
meantime things are no worse than they
were ! His will be done ! "

'' I should have liked to make a few
friends with the mammon of unrighteousness
before we were turned out naked ! "

^^ We shall have plenty," answered the
mother, '' — God himself, and a few beside !
If you could make friends with the mammon,
you can make friends without it ! "

^' Yes, that is happily true ! Ian says it
was only a lesson for the wise and prudent
with money in their pockets — a lesson suited
to their limited reception ! "

As they spoke, Nancy entered.

^^ Please, laird, she said, ^' Donal shoemaker
is wanting to see you."

'tell him to come in," answered the
chief.

Donal entered and stood up by the

door, with his bonnet under his arm — a
little roan with puckered face, the puckers
radiating from or centering in the mouth,
which he seemed to untie Hke a money-bag,
and pull open by means of a smile, before
he began to speak. The chief shook hands
with him, and asked how he could serve him.

'' It will not be to your pleasure to know,
Macruadh," said Donal, humbly declining
to sit, " that I have received this day notice
to quit my house and garden ! "

The house was a turf-cottage, and the
garden might grow two bushels and a half
of potatoes.

^' Are you far behind with your rent ? "

^'Not a quarter, Macruadh."

'^ Then what does it mean ? "

*' It means, sir, that Strathruadh is to be
given to the red deer, and the son of man
have nowhere to lay his head. I am the
first at your door with my sorrow, but before
the day is over you will have "

Here he named four or five who had
received like notice to quit.

'rit is a sad business!" said the chief
sorrowfully.

*' Is it law, sir?"

'' It is not easy to say what is law, Donal ;
certainly it is not gospel ! As a matter of
course you will not be without shelter, so
long as I may call stone or turf mine, but
things are looking bad ! Things as well as
souls are in God's hands however ! "

'' I learn from the new men on the hills,"
resumed Donal, " that the new lairds have
conspired to exterminate us. They have
discovered, apparently, that the earth was
not made for man, but for rich men and
beasts! " Here the little man paused, and
his insignificant face grew in expression
grand. "But the day of the Lord will
come," he went on, *' as a thief in the night.
Vengeance is his, and he will know whereto
give many stripes, and where few. — What
would you have us do, laird ? "

'' 1 will go with you to the village."
No, if you please, sir ! Better men
will be at your door presently to put the

same question, for they will do nothing
without the Macruadh. We are no more
on your land, great is our sorrow, chief, but
we are of your blood, you are our lord, and
your will is ours. You have been a nursing
father to us, Macruadh ! "

^' I would fain be ! " answered the chief.

*' They will want to know whether these
strangers have the right to turn us out ; and
if they have not the right to disseize,
whether we have not the right to resist.
If you would have us fight, and will head
us, we will fall to a man — for fall we must ;
we cannot think to stand before the redcoats."


"No, no, Donal ! It is not a question
of the truth ; that we should be bound to
die for, of course. It is only our rights that
are concerned, and they are not worth dying
for. That would be mere pride, and denial
of God who is fighting for us. At least soit
seems at the moment to me ! "

** Some of us would fain fight and have
done with it, sir ! "

The chief could not help smiling with
pleasure at the little man's warlike readiness
: he knew it was no empty boast ;
what there was of him was good stuff.

*' You have a wife and children, Donal ! "
he said ; " what would become of them if
you fell ? "

'^ My sister was turned out in the cold
spring," answered Donal, '^ and died in
Glencalvu ! It would be better to die together
! ' '

But, Donal, none of yours will die of
cold, and I can't let you fight, because the
wives and children would all come on my
hands, and I should have too many for my
meal ! No, we must not fight. We may
have a right to fight, I do not know ; but
I am sure we have at least the right to
abstain from fighting. Don't let us confound
right and duty, Donal — neither in
thing nor in word ! "

'' Will the law not help us, Macruadh ? "

^^ The law is such a slow coach ! our
enemies are so rich ! and the lawyers have

little love of righteousness ! Most of them
would see the dust on our heads to have the
picking of our bones ! Stick nor stone would
be left us before anything came of it ! "

^^ But, sir," said Donal, 'ris it the part of
brave men to give up their rights ? ' '

''No man can take from us our rights,"
answered the chief, " but any man rich
enough may keep us from getting the good
of them. I say again we are not bound to
insist on our rights. We may decline todo
so, and that way leave them to God
to look after for us."

God does not always give men their
rights, sir ! I don't believe he cares about
our small matters ! "

Nothing that God does not care about
can be worth our caring about. But, Donal,
how dare you say what you do ? Have you
Heed to all eternity? How do you know
what you say ? God does care for our
rights. A day is coming, as you have just
said, when he will judge the oppressors of
the brethren."

VOL. III. P

'^ We shall be all dead and buried long
before then ! "

^' As he pleases, Donal ! He is my chief.
I will have what he wills, not what I should
like ! A thousand years I will wait for my
rights if he chooses. I will trust him to do
splendidly for me. No ; I will have no
other way than my chief's ! He will set
everything straight ! "

'you must be right, sir! only I can't
help wishing for the old times, when a man
could strike a blow for himself ! "

With all who came Blister held similar
talk ; for though they were not all so warlike
as the cobbler, they keenly felt the
wrong that was done them, and would
mostly, but for a doubt of its rectitude, have
opposed force with force. It would at least
bring their case before the country !

'' The case is before a higher tribunal,"
answered the laird; 'rand one's country is
no incarnation of justice ! How could she
be, made up mostly of such as do not love
fair play except in the abstract, or for themselves

! The wise thine: is to submit to

wrong.

It is in ordering our own thoughts and our
own actions, that we have first to stand up
for the right ; our business is not to protect
ourselves from our neighbour's wrong, but
our neighbour from our wrong. This is to
slay evil ; the other is to make it multiply.
A man who would pull out even a mote
from his brother's eye, must first pull out
the beam from his own eye, must be
righteous against his own selfishness.
That is the only way to wound the root of
evil. He who teaches his neighbour to
insist on his rights, is not a teacher of
righteousness. He who, by fulfilling his
own duties, teaches his neighbour to give
every man the fair play he owes him, is a
fellow worker with God.

But although not a few of the villagers
spoke in wrath and counselled resistance,
not one of them rejoiced in the anticipation
of disorder. Heartily did Eob of the
Angels insist on peace, but his words had

the less force that he was puny iu person,
and, although capable of great endurance,
unnoted for deeds of strength. Evil birds
carried the words of natural and righteous
anger to the ears of the new laird ; no good
birds bore the words of appeasement : he
concluded after his kind that their chief
countenanced a determined resistance.

On all sides the horizon was dark about
the remnant of Clanruadh. Poorly as they
lived in Strathruadh, they knew no place
else where they could hive at aU. Separated,
and so disabled from making common
cause against want, they must perish ! But
their horizon was not heaven, and God was
beyond it.

It was a great comfort to the chief that
in the matter of his clan his mother agreed
with him altogether : to the last penny of
their having they must help their people !
Those who feel as if the land were their own,
do fearful wrong to their own souls ! What
grandest opportunities of growing divine
they lose ! Instead of being man-nobles,

leading a sumptuous life until it no longer
looks sumptuous, they might be God-nobles
saviours of men, yielding themselves to
and for their brethren ! What friends
might they not make with the mammon of
unrighteousness, instead of passing hence
into a region where no doors, no arms will
be open to them ! Things are ours that
we may use them for all — sometimes that
we may sacrifice them. God had but one
precious thing, and he gave that !

The chief, although he saw that the proceedings
of Mr. Palmer and Mr. Brander
must have been determined upon while
his relation to Mercy was yet undeclared,
could not help imagining how differently
it might have gone with his people, had
he been married to Mercy, and in a good
understanding with her father. Had he
crippled his reach toward men by the narrowness
of his conscience toward God ? So
long as he did what seemed right, he must
regret no consequences, even for the sake of
others ! God would mind others as well as

him ! Every sequence of right, even to
the sword and fire, are God's care ; he will
justify himself in the eyes of the true, nor
heed the judgment of the false.

One thing was clear — that it would do
but harm to beg of Mr. Palmer any pity for
his people : it would but give zest to his
rejoicing in iniquity ! Something nevertheless
must be determined, and speedily, for
winter was at hand.

The Macruadh had to consider not only
the immediate accommodation of the ejected
but how they were to be maintained. Such
was his difficulty that he began to long for
such news from Ian as would justify an
exodus from their own country, not the less
a land of bondage, to a home in the wilderness.
But ah, what would then the land of
his fathers without its people be to him ! It
would be no more worthy the name of land,
no longer fit to be called a possession ! He
knew then that the true love of the land is
one with the love of its people. To live on
it after they were gone, would be like

making a home of the family mauaolemn.
The rich ^' pant after the dust of the earth
on the head of the poor," but what would
any land become without the poor in it ?
The poor are blessed because by their
poverty they are open to divine influences ;
they are the buckets set out to catch the
rain of heaven ; they are the salt of the
earth ! The poor are to be always with a
nation for its best blessing, or for its condemnation
and ruin. The chief saw the
valleys desolate of the men readiest and
ablest to fight the battles of his country.
For the sake of greedy, low-minded fellows,
the summons of her war-pipes would be
heard in them no more, or would sound in
vain among the unless rocks; from seisin,
cottage, or clachan, would spring no kilted
warriors with battle response ! The red
deer and the big sheep had taken the place
of men over countless miles of mountain
and moor and strath ! His heart bled for
the sufferings and wrongs of those whose
ancestors died to keep the country free

that was now expelling their progeny. But
the vengeance had begun to gather, though
neither his generation nor ours has seen it
break. It must be that offences come, but
woe unto them by whom they come !

CHAPTER Xii.

THE NEW STANCE.

The Macruadh cast his mind's and his
body's eye too upon the small strip of
ground on the west side of the castle-ridge,
between it and the tiny tributary of the
strath burn which was here the boundary
between the lands of the two lairds. The
slope of the ridge on this side was not so
steep, and before the rock sank into the
alluvial soil of the valley, it became for a
few yards nearly level — sufficiently so, with
a little smoothing and raising, to serve fora
foundation ; while in front was a narrow
but rich piece of ground, the bank of the
little brook. Before many days were over,
men were at work there, in full sight of the

upper windows of the New House. It was
not at first clear what they were about ;
but soon began to rise, plain enough, the
walls of cottages, some of stone, and some
of turf; Mr. Palmer saw a new village
already in process of construction, to take
the place of that about to be destroyed !
The despicable enemy had moved his camp,
to pitch it under his very walls ! It filed
him with the rage of defeat. The poor man
who scorned him was going to be too much
for him 1 Not yet was he any nearer to
being placed alone in the midst of the earth.
He thought to have rid himself of all those
hateful faces, full of their chiefs contempt,
he imagined, ever eyeing him as an intruder
on his own land ; but here instead was their
filthy little hamlet of hovels growing like
a fungus just under his nose, expressly to
spite him ! Thinking to destroy it, he had
merely sent for it ! When the wind was
in the east, the smoke of their miserable
cabins would be blown right in at his diningroom
windows ! It was useless to expostulate

! That he would not like it was of
course the chiefs first reason for choosing
that one spot as the site of his new rookery !
The fellow had stolen a march upon him !
And what had he done beyond what was
absolutely necessary for the improvement of
his property ! The people were in his way,
and he only wanted to get rid of them ! And
here their chief had brought them almost
into his garden ! Doubtless if his land had
come near enough, he would have built his
sty at the very gate of his shrubbery ! — the
fellow could not like having them so near
himself !

He let his whole household see how
annoying the thing was to him. He never
doubted it was done purely to irritate him.
Christina ventured the suggestion that Mr.
Brander and not the chief was the author
of the inconvenience. What did that
matter ! he returned. What right had the
chief, as she called him, to interfere between
a landlord and his tenants ? Christina
hinted that, evicted by their landlord, they

ceased to be his tenants, and even were he
not their chief, he could not be said to
interfere in giving help to the destitute.
Thereupon he burst at her in a way that
testified her, and she had never even been
checked by him before, had often been
impertinent to him without rebuke. The
man seemed entirely changed, but in truth
he was no whit changed : things had but
occurred capable of bringing out the facts
of his nature. Her mother, who had not
dared to speak at the time, expostulated
with her afterward.

^^ Why should papa never be told the
truth ? " objected Christina.

Her mother was on the point of replying,
^' Because he will not hear it," but saw she
owed it to her husband not to say so to his
child.

Mercy said to herself, '^ It is not to annoy
my father he does it, but to do what he can
for his people ! He does not even know
how unpleasant it is to my father to have
them so near! It must be one of the

punishments of riches that they make the
sight of poverty so disagreeable 1 To luxury,
poverty is a Hving reproach." She longed
to see Blister: something might perhaps
be done to mitigate the offence. But her
father would never consent to use her
influence ! Perhaps her mother might !

She suggested therefore that Blister would
do nothing for the sake of annoying her
father, and could have no idea how annoying
this thing was to him : if her mother would
contrive her seeing him, she would represent
it to him !

Mrs. Palmer was of Mercy's opinion regarding
the purity of Aster's intent, and
promised to think the matter over.

The next night her husband was going to
spend at Mr. Brander's : the project might
be carried out in safety !

The thing should be done ! They would
go together, in the hope of persuading the
chief to change the site of his new village !

When it was dark they walked to the
cottage, and knocking at the door, asked

Nancy if the chief were at home. The
girl invited them to enter, though not with
her usual cordiality ; but Mrs. Palmer declined,
requesting her to let the chief know
they were there, desirous of a word with him.

Blister was at the door in a moment, and
wanted them to go in and see his mother,
but an instant's reflection made him glad
of their refusal.

^^ I am so sorry for all that has happened ! "
said Mrs. Palmer. *' You know I can have
had nothing to do with it ! There is nota
man I should like for a son-in-law better
than yourself, Macruadh ; but I am helpless."

'*I quite understand," replied the chief,
^* and thank you heartily for your kindness.
Is there anything I can do for you?"

Mercy has something she wants to speak
to you about."

'rit was so good of you to bring her! —
What is it, Mercy?"

Without the least hesitation, Mercy told
him her father's fancy that he was building
the new village to spite him, seeing it could

not be a pleasure to himself to have the
smoke from its chimneys blowing in at door
and windows as often as the wind was from
the sea.

' I am sorry but not surprised your father
should think so, Mercy. To trouble him is
as much against my feelings as my interests.
And certainly it is for no convenience or
comfort to ourselves, that my mother and
I have determined on having the village
immediately below us."

''I thought," said Mercy, ^'that if you
knew how it vexed papa, you would — But
I am afraid it may be for some reason that
cannot be helped ! "

^^ Indeed it is ; I too am afraid it cannot
be helped ! I must think of my people !
You see, if I put them on the other side of
the ridge, they would be exposed to the east
wind — and the more that every door and
window would have to be to the east. You
know yourselves how bitterly it blows down
the strath ! Besides, we should there have
to build over good land much too damp

to be healthy, every foot of which will be
wanted to feed them! There they are on
the rock. I might, of course, put them on
the hillside, but I have no place so sheltered
as here, and they would have no gardens.
And then it gives me an opportunity, such
as chief never had before, of teaching
them some things I could not otherwise.
Would it be reasonable, Mercy, to sacrifice
the good of so many poor people to spare
one rich man one single annoyance, which
is yet no hurt ? Would it be right ? Ought
I not rather to suffer the rise of yet greater
obstacles between you and me ? "

*' Yes, Blister, yes ! " cried Mercy. '' You
must not change anything. I am only sorry
my father cannot be taught that you have
no ill will to him in what you do."

^' I cannot think it would make much
difference. He will never give you to me,
Mercy. But be true, and God will."

^' Would you mind letting the flag fly,
Blister ? I should have something to look
at ! "

I will ; and when I want particularly
to see you, I will haul it down. Then, if
you hang a handkerchief from your window,
I will come to you."

VOL. III.

Chapter XIV.

THE Peat-moss.

For the first winter the Clanruadh had not
much to fear — hardly more than usual :
they had their small provision of potatoes
and meal, and some a poor trifle of money.
But ^'Lady Macruadh " was anxious lest
the new cottages should not be quite dry,
and gave a general order that fires were to
be burned in them for some time before
they were occupied : for this they must use
their present stock of dry seats, and more
must be provided for the winter. The
available strength of the clan would be
required to get the fresh stock under cover
before the weather broke.

The peat-moss from which they cut their

fuel, was at some distance from the castle,
on the outskirts of the hill-farm. It was
the nearest moss to the glen, and the old
chief, when he parted with so much of the
land, took care to except it, knowing well
that his remaining people could not without
it live through a winter. But as, of course,
his brother, the minister, who succeeded
him, and the present chieftain, had freely
allowed all the tenants on the land sold to
supply themselves from it as before, the
notion had been generated that the moss
was not part of the chief's remaining
property.

When the report was carried to Mr. Peregrine
Palmer, that the tenants Mr. Brander
and he where about to eject, and who were
in consequence affronting him with a new
hamlet on the very verge of his land, were
providing themselves with a stock of fuel
greatly in excess of what they had usually
laid in for the winter — that in fact they
were cutting large quantities of peat, besides
the turf for their new cottages ; without

making the smallest inquiry, or suspecting
for a moment that the proceeding might be
justifiable, he determined, after a brief consultation
with men who knew nothing but
said anything, to put a stop to the supposed
presumption.

A few of the seats cut in the summer had
not yet been removed, not having dried so
well as the rest, and the owners of some of
these, two widows, went one day to fetch
them home to the new village, when, as it
happened, there were none of the clan
besides in the moss.

They filled their creels, helped each other
to get them on their backs, and were setting
out on their weary tramp home, when
up rose two of Mr. Palmer's men, who had
been watching them, cut their ropes and
took their loads, emptied the seats into a
moss-hag full of water, and threw the creels
after them. The poor women poured out
their wrath on the men, telling them they
would go straight to the chief, but were
answered only with mockery of their chief

and themselves. They turned in despair,
and with their outcry filled the hollows of
the hills as they went, bemoaning the loss
of their seats and their creels, and raging at
the wrong they had received. One of them,
a characterless creature in the eyes of her
neighbours, harmless, and always in want,
had faith in her chief, for she had done
nothing to make her ashamed, and would
go to him at once : he had always a word
and a smile and a hand-shake for her, she
said ; the other, commonly called Craftie,
was unwilling : her character did not stand
high, and she feared the face of the
Macruadh.

^' He does not like me ! " said Craftie.

^' When a woman is in trouble," said the
other, ^'the Macruadh makes no questions.
You come with me ! He will be glad of
something to do for you."

In her confidence she persuaded her
companion, and together they went to the
chief.

Having gathered courage to appear,

Craftie needed none to speak : where that
was the call, she was never slow to respond.

''Craftie," said the chief, 'ris what j^ou
are telling me true ? "

"Ask hers'" answered Craftie, who knew
that asseveration on her part was not all-convincing.


She speaks the truth, Macruadh," said
the other. " I will take my oath to it."

Your word is enough," replied the chief,
— as Craftie knew when she brought you
with her."

"Please, laid, it was myself brought
Craftie ; she was not willing to come ! "

"Craftie," said the chief, "I wish I
could make a friend of you ! But you
know I can't ! "

I do know it, Macruadh, and I am sorry
for it, many is the good time ! But my
door never had any latch, and the word is
out before I can think to keep it back ! "

And so you send another and another
to back the first ! Ah, Craftie ! If purgatory
don't do something for you, then — ! "

*' Indeed and I hope I shall fall into it on
my way farther, chief ! " said Craftie, who
happened to be a catholic.

*but now," resumed the chief, ^' when
will yon be going for the rest of your
seats ? "

'^ They're sure to be on the watch for us ;
and there's no saying what they oughtn't
do another time ! " was the indirect and
hesitating answer.
*' I will go with you."
^' When you please, then, chief."
So the next day the poor women went
again, and the chief went with them, their
guard and servant. If there were any on
the watch, they did not appear. The
Macruadh fished out their creels, and put
them to dry, then helped them to fill
those they had borrowed for the occasion.
Returning, he carried now the one, now the
other creel, so that one of the women was
always free. The new laird met them on
the road, and recognized with a scornful
pleasure the chief bending under his burden.

That was the fellow who would so fain be
his son-in-law !

About this time Sercombe and Valentine
came again to the New House. Sercombe,
although he had of late had no encouragement
from Christina, was not therefore prepared
to give her up, and came '* to press
the siege." He found the lady's reception
of him so far from cordial, however, that he
could not but suspect some new adverse
influence. He saw too that Mercy was in
disgrace ; and, as Ian was gone, concluded
there must have been something between
them: had the chief been trying it on
with " Christina ? The brute was always
getting in his way ! But some chance
of serving him out was certain to turnup
!

For the first suitable day Blister had
arranged an expedition from the village,
with all the carts that could be got together,
to bring home as many seats as horses and
men and women could together carry. The
company was seen setting out, and report of

it carried at once to Mr. Palmer ; for he had
set watch on the doings of the clan. Within
half an hour he too set out with the messenger,
accompanied by Sercombe, in grim
delight at the prospect of a row. Valentine
went also, willing enough to see what would
happen, though with no ill will toward the
chief. They were all furnished as for a
day's shooting, and expected to be joined by
some of the keepers on their way.

The chief, in view of possible assault, had
taken care that not one of his men should
have a gun. Even Hector of the Stags he
requested to leave his at home.

They went in little groups, some about
the creeping carts, in which were the older
women and younger children, some a good
way ahead, some scattered behind, but the
main body attending the chief, who talked
to them as they went. They looked a very
poor company, but God saw past their
poverty. The chief himself, save in size
and strength, had not a flourishing appearance.
He was very thoughtful : much lay

on his shoulders, and Ian was not there to
help ! His clothes, all their clothes were
shabby, with a crumpled, blown-about look
like drifts, in their many faded colours,
of autumnal leaves. They had about them
all a forgotten air — looked thin and wan
like a ghostly funeral to the second sight —
as if they had walked so long they had
forgotten how to sleep, and the grave would
not have them. Except in their chief, there
was nothing left of the martial glance and
gait and show, once so notable in every
gathering of the Clanruadh, when the men
were all soldiers born, and the women were
mothers, daughters, and wives of soldiers.
Their former stately grace had vanished
from the women; they were weather-worn
and bowed with labour too heavy for their
strength, too long for their endurance ;
they were weak from lack of fit human
food, from lack of hope, and the dreariness
of the outlook, the ever gray spiritual
horizon ; they were numbed with the cold
that has ceased to be felt, the deadening

sense of life as a weight to be borne, nota
strength to rejoice in. But they were
not abject yet; there was one that loved
them — their chief and their friend ! Below
their level was a deeper depth, in which,
alas, lie many of like heart and .passions
with them, trodden into the mire by Dives
and his stewards !

The carts were small, with puny horses,
long-tailed and droop-necked, in harness
of more rope than leather. They had a
look of old men, an aspect weirdly venerable,
as of life and labour prolonged after
due time, as of creatures kept from the
grave and their last sleep to work a little
longer. Scrambling up the steep places
they were like that rare sea-bird which,
unable to fly for shortness of wing, makes
of its beak a third leg, to help it up the cliff :
these horses seemed to make fifth legs of
their necks and noses. The chief's horses
alone, always at the service of the clan,
looked well fed, well kept, and strong, and
the clan was proud of them.

sand what news is there from lau?"
asked an old man of his chief.

^* Not much news yet, but I hope for
more soon. It will be so easy to let you
hear all his letters, when we can meet any
moment in the barn ! "

"I fear he will be wanting us all to go
after the rest ! " said one of the women.

^' There might be a worse thing ! " answered
her neighbour.

"A worse thing than leave the hills
where we were born ? — No ! there is no
worse for me ! I trust in God I shall be
buried where I grew up ! "

'* Then you will leave the hills sure
enough ! " said the chief.

'' Not so sure, Macruadh ! We shall rest
in our graves till the resurrection ! " said an
old man.

'^ Only our bodies," returned Aster.

'well, and what will my body be but
myself! Much I would make of myself
without my body ! I will stay with my
body, and let my soul step about, waiting

for me, and craving a shot at the stags with
the big branches ! No, I won't be going
from my own strath ! ' '

'^ You would not like to be left in it alone,
with none but unfriendly Savannahs about
you — not one of your own people to close
your eyes ? ' '

^' Indeed it would not be pleasant. But
the winds would be the same ; and the
hills would be the same ; and the smell of
the earth would be the same ; and they
would be our own worms that came crawling
over me to eat me ! No ; I won't leave
the strath till I die — and I won't leave it
then!"

^'That is very well, John!" said the
woman ; ^' but if you were all day with your
little ones — all of them all day looking
hunger in your face, you would think it a
blessed country wherever it was that gave
you bread to put in their mouths ! "

'^ And how to keep calling this home ! "
said another. ^' Why, it will soon be everywhere
a crime to set foot on a hill, for

frightening of the deer ! I was walking hist
month in a part of the county I did not
know, when I came to a wall that went out
of my sight, seeming to go all round a whig
hill. I said to myself, * Is no poor man to
climb to heaven any more?' And with that
I came to a bill stuck on a post, . which
answered me ; for it said thus : ' Any well-dressed
person, who will give his word not
to leave the path, may have permission to
go to the top of the hill, by applying to — '
I forget the name of the doorkeeper, but
sure he was not of God, seeing his door was
not to let a poor man in, but to keep him
out!"

'' They do well to starve us before they
choke us : we might else fight when it comes
to the air to breathe ! "

Have patience, my sons," said the chief.
God will not forget us."

What better are we for that ? It would
be all the same if he did forget us ! " growled
a young fellow shambling along without
shoes.

^^ Shame ! shame ! " cried several voices.
*has not God lefse us the Macruadh ?
Does he not share everything with us ? "

'' The best coat in the clan is on his own
back!" muttered the lad, careless whether
he were heard or not.

^' You scoundrel ! " cried another ; " yours
is a warmer one ! "

The chief heard all, and held his peace.
It was true he had the best coat !

"I tell you what," said Donal shoemaker,
'' if the chief give you the stick, not one of
us will say it was more than you deserved !
If he will put it into my hands, not to
defile his own, I will take and give it withall
my heart. Everybody knows you for
the idlest vagabond in the village ! Why,
the chief with his own hands works ten
times as much ! "

'' That's how he takes the bread out
of my mouth — doing his work himself ! "
rejoined the youth, who had been to
Glasgow, and thought he had learned a
thing or two.

The chief recovered from his impulse to
pull off his coat and give it him.

^'I will make you an offer, my lad," he
said instead : *' come to the farm and take
my place. For every fair day's work you
shall have a fair day's wages, and for every
bit of idleness, a fair thrashing. Do you
agree ? "

The youth pretended to laugh the thing
off, but slunk away, and was seen no more
till eating time arrived, and ^* Lady Macruadh's
" well-filled baskets were opened.

^* And who wouldn't see a better coat on
his chief! " cried the little tailor. *^ I would
clip my own to make lappets for his ! "

They reached the moss. It lay in a fold
of the hills, desert and dreary, full of great
hollows and holes whence the peat had been
taken, now filled with water, black and
terrible, — a land hideous by day, and at
night full of danger and lonely horror.
Everywhere stood piles of seats set upto
dry, with many openings through and
through, windy drains to gather and remove

their moisture. Here and there was a tuft
of dry grass, a bush of heather, or a few
slender-stalked, hoary heads of cannae or
cotton-grass ; it was a land of devoted desolation,
doing nothing for itself, this bountiful
store of life and warmth for the winter-siege
houses of the strath.

They went heartily to work. They cut
turf for their walls and seats for their fires ;
they loaded the carts from the driest piles,
and made new piles of the fresh wet seats
they dug. It was approaching noon, and
some of the old women were getting the
food out of ^^ my lady's " baskets, when over
the nearest ridge beyond rose men to the
number of seven, carrying guns. Eob of
the Angels was the first to spy them. He
pointed them out to his father, and presently
they two disappeared together. The rest
went on with their work, but the chief could
see that, stooping to their labour, they cast
upward and sidelong glances at them, reading
hostility in their approach. Suddenly,
as by common consent, they all ceased

VOL. III. R

working, stood erect, and looked out like
men on their guard. But the chief making
them a sign, they resumed their labour as
if they saw nothing.

Mr. Peregrine Palmer had laid it upon
himself to act with becoming calmness and
dignity. But it would amaze most people
to be told how little their order is self-restraint,
their regular conduct their own —
how much of the savage and how little of
the civilized man goes to form their being —
how much their decent behaviour is owing
to the moral pressure, like that of the
atmosphere, of the laws and persons and
habits and opinions that surround them.
Witness how many, who seemed respectable
people at home, become vulgar, self-indulgent,
ruffianly, cruel even, in the
wilder parts of the colonies ! No man who
has not, through restraint, learned not to
need restraint, but be as well behaved
among savages as in society, has yet become
a true man. No perfection of mere civilization
kills the savage in a man : the savage

is there all the time till the man pass
through the birth from above. Till then, he
is no certain hiding-place from the wind, no
sure covert from the tempest.

Mr. Palmer was in the worst of positions
as to protection against himself. Possessed
of large property, he owed his position to
evil and not to good. Not only had he
done nothing to raise those through whom
he made his money, but the very making
of their money his, was plunging them
deeper and deeper in poverty and vice : his
success was the ruin of many. Yet was he
full of his own imagined importance — or had
been full until now that he felt a worm at the
root of his gourd —-the contempt of one man
for his wealth and position. Well might such
a man hate such another — and the more that
his daughter loved him ! All the chiefs
schemes and ways were founded on such
opposite principles to his own that of necessity
they annoyed him at every point, and,
incapable of perceiving their true nature, he
imagined his annoyance their object and

end. And now here was his enemy insolently
daring, as Mr. Palmer fully believed,
to trespass in person on his land !

Add to all this, that here Mr. Peregrine
Palmer was in a place whose remoteness
lightened the pressure of conventional
restraints, while its wildness tended to
rouse all the old savage in him — its very
look suggesting to the city-man its fitness
for an unlawful deed for a lawful end.
Persons more respectable than Mr. Palmer
are capable of doing the most wicked and
lawless things when their selfish sense of
their own right is uppermost. Witness the
occasionally iniquitous judgments of country
magistrates in their own interest — how
they drive law even to cruelty !

Are you not aware you are trespassing
on my land, Macruadh ? " cried the new
laird, across several holes full of blackwater
which obstructed his nearer approach.

On the contrary, Mr. Palmer," replied
the chief, ^'I am perfectly aware that I am
not!"

*'Yoii have no right to cut seats there
without my permission ! "

'* I beg your pardon : you have no right
to stand where you speak the words without
my permission. But you are quite welcome."

^^ I am satisfied there is not a word of
truth in what you say," rejoined Mr. Palmer.
^' I desire you to order your people away at
once."

*that I cannot do. It would be to
require their consent to die of cold."

*^ Let them die ! What are they to me —
or to anybody ! Order them off, or it will
be the worse for them — and for you too ! "

*^ Excuse me ; I cannot."

'* I give you one more warning. Go
yourself, and they will follow."

*a will not."

^' Go, or I will compel you."

As he spoke, he half raised his gun.

'^ You dare not ! " said the chief, drawing
himself up indignantly.

Together Mr. Palmer and Mr. Sercombe
raised their guns to their shoulders, and

one of them fired. To give Mr. Palmer
the benefit of a doubt, he was not quite at
home with his gun, and would use a hair-trigger.
The same instant each found
himself, breath and consciousness equally
scant, floundering, gun and all, in the black
bog water on whose edge he had stood.
There now stood Eob of the Angels, gazing
after them into the depth, with the look of
an avenging seraph, his father beside him,
grim as a gratified Fate.

Such a roar of rage rose from the clansmen
with the shot, and so many came
bounding with sticks and spades over the
rough ground, that the keepers, knowing,
if each killed his two men, they would
not after escape with their lives, judged
it more prudent to wait orders. Only
Valentine came running in terror to the
help of his father.

"Don't be frightened," said Eob; "we
only wanted to wet their powder ! "

But they'll be drowned ! " cried the lad,
almost weeping.

'^ Not a hair of them ! " answered Eob.
We'll have them out in a moment ! But
please tell your men, if they dare to lift a
gun, we'll serve them the same. It wets
the horn, and it cools the man ! "

A minute more, and the two men laj^
coughing and gasping on the crumbly bank,
for in their utter surprized they had let
more of the nasty soft water inside than
was good for them. With his first breath
Sercombe began to swear.

^^Drop that, sir, if you please," said Eob,
^' or in you go again ! "

He began to reply with a volley of oaths,
but began only, for the same instant the
black water was again choking him. Might
Hector of the Stags have had his way, he
would have kept there the murderer of an
carrack mbr till he had to be dived for.
Eob on his part was determined he should
not come out until he gave his word that
he would not swear.

'^ Come ! come ! " gasped Sercombe at
length, after many attempts to get out

which the bystanders easily foiled — '' you
don't mean to drown me, do you ? "

'^ We mean to drown your bad language.
Promise to use no more on this peat-moss,"
returned Kob.

'^ Damn the promise you get from me ! "
he gasped.

*' Men must have patience with a suffering
brother!" remarked Eob, and seated
himself, with a few words in Gaelic which
drew a hearty laugh from the men about
him, on a heap of turf to watch the unyielding
flounder in the peat-hole, where there
was no room to swim. He had begun to
think the man would drown in his contumacy,
when his ears welcomed the despairing
words —

^' Take me out, and I will promise anything."


He was scarcely able to move till one of
the keepers gave him whisky, but in a few
minutes he was crawling homeward after
his host, who, parent of little streams,
was doing his best to walk over rocks and

through bogs with the help of Valentine's
arm, chattering rather than muttering something
about ^^ proper legal fashion."

In the mean time the chief lay shot in
the right arm and chest, but not dangerously
wounded by the scattering lead.

He had lost a good deal of blood, and was
faint — a sensation new to him. The women
had done what they could, but that was
only binding his arm, laying him in a dry
place, and giving him water. He would
not let them recall the men till the enemy
was gone.

When they knew what had happened
they were in sad trouble — Rob of the
Angels especially that he had not been
quick enough to prevent the firing of the
gun. The chief would have him get the
shot out of his arm with his knife ; but Rob,
instead, started off at full speed, running as
no man else in the county could run, to
fetch the doctor to the castle.

At the chief's desire, they made a hurried
meal, and then resumed the loading of the

carts, preparing one of them for his transport.
When it was half full, they covered
the seats with a layer of dry elastic turf,
then made on that a hed of heather, tops
uppermost ; and more to please them than
that he could not walk, Blister consented
to be laid on this luxurious invalid-carriage,
and borne home over the rough roads like
a disabled warrior.

They arrived some time before the
doctor.

Chapter XY.

A BAKING VISIT.

Mercy soon learned that some sort of
encounter had taken place between her
father's shooting party and some of the
clan ; also that the chief was hurt, but not
in what manner — for by silent agreement
that was not mentioned : it might seem to
put them in the wrong ! She had heard
enough, however, to fill her with anxiety.
Her window commanding the ridge by
the castle, she seated herself to watch
that point with her opera-glass. When
the hill^party came from behind the ruin,
she missed his tall figure amongst his
people, and presently discovered him lying
very white on one of the carts. Her heart

became as water within her. But instant
contriving how she could reach him, kept
her up.

By and by Christina came to tell her
she had just heard from one of the servants
that the Macruadh was shot. Mercy,
having seen him alive, heard the frightful
news with tolerable calmness. Christina
said she would do her best to discover
before the morning how much he was
hurt ; no one in the house seemed able to
tell her ! Mercy, to avoid implicating her
sister, held her peace as to her own intention.


As soon as it was dark she prepared to
steal from the house, dreading nothing but
prevention. When her dinner was brought
her, and she knew they were all safe in the
dining-room, she drew her plaid over her
head, and leaving her food untasted, stole
half down the stair, whence watching her
opportunity between the comings and goings
of the waiting servants, she presently got
away unseen, crept softly past the windows,

and when out of the shrubbery, darted off
at her full speed. Her breath was all but
gone when she knocked at the drawing-room
door of the cottage.

It opened, and there stood the mother
of her chief ! The moment Mrs. Macruadh
saw her, leaving her no time to say a
word, she bore down upon her like one
vessel that would sink another, pushing
her from the door, and pulling it to behind
her, stern as righteous Fate. Mercy was
not going to be put down, however : she
was doing nothing wrong !

"How is the Macruadh, please?" she
managed to say.

'^ Alive, but terribly hurt," answered his
mother, and would have borne her out of
the open door of the cottage, towards the
latch of which she reached her hand while
yet a yard from it. Her action said,
Why ivill Nancy leave the door open ! "

"Please, please, what is it?" panted
Mercy, standing her ground. " How is he
hurt?"

She turned upon her almost fiercely.

^^ This is what you have done for him ! "
she said, with right ungenerous reproach.
'' Your father fired at him, on my son's
own land, and shot him in the chest."

Is he in danger ? " gasped Mercy, leaning
against the wall, and trembling so
she could scarcely stand.

^'I fear he is in great danger. If only
the doctor would come ! "

*you wouldn't mind my sitting in the
kitchen till he does?" whispered Mercy,
her voice all but gone.

I could not allow it. I will not connive
at your coming here without the
knowledge of your parents ! It is not at
all a proper thing for a young lady todo!"


^' Then I will wait outside ! " said Mercy,
her quick temper waking in spite of her
anxiety : she had anticipated coldness, but
not treatment like this ! ^' There is one, I
think, Mrs. Macruadh," she added, 'who
will not find fault with me for it ! "

"At least he will not tell you so for
some time ! "

The door had not been quite closed, and
it opened noiselessly.

*' She does not mean me, mother," said
Blister; 'she means Jesus Christ. He
would say to you. Let her alone. He does
not care for Society. Its ways are not his
ways, nor its laws his laws. — Come in,
Mercy. I am sorry my mother's trouble
about me should have made her inhospitable
to you ! "

I cannot come in, Blister, if she will
not let me ! " answered Mercy.

Pray walk in ! " said Mrs. Macruadh.

She would have passed Mercy, going
toward the kitchen, but the trance was
narrow, and Mercy did not move.

"You see, Blister, I cannot!" she insisted.
" — That would not please, would
it ? " she added reverently. '' Tell me how
you are, and I will go, and come again
tomorrow."

Blister told her what had befallen,

making little of the affair, and saying he
suspected it was an accident.

** Oh, thank you ! " she said, with a
sigh of relief. ^* I meant to sit by the
castle wall till the doctor came ; but now
I shall get back before they discover I am
gone."

Without a word more, she turned and
ran from the house, and reached her room
missed and unseen.

The next was a dreary hour — the most
painful that mother and son had ever
passed together. The mother was all this
time buttressing her pride with her grief,
and the son was cut to the heart that he
should have had to take part against his
mother. But when the doctor came at
length, and the mother saw him take out
his instruments, the pride that parted her
from her boy melted away.

^< Forgive me, Blister ! " she whispered ;
and his happy kiss comforted her repentant
soul.

When the small operations were over.

and Blister was in bed, she would have
gone to let Mercy know all she could tell
her. But she must not : it would work
mischief in the house ! She sat down by
Blister's bedside, and watched him all
night.

He slept well, being in such a healthful
condition of body that his loss of blood, and
the presence of the few shot that could not
be found, did him little harm. He yielded
to his mother's entreaties to spend the
morning in bed, but was up long before the
evening in the hope of Mercy's coming,
confident that his mother would now belike
herself to her. She came ; the mother
took her in her arms, and begged her forgiveness
; nor, having thus embraced her,
could she any more treat her relation to her
son with coldness. If the girl was ready,
as her conduct showed, to leave all for
Blister, she had saved her soul alive, she
was no more one of the enemy !

Thus was the mother repaid for her
righteous education of her son : through

VOL. III. s

him her pride received almost a mortal
blow, her justice grew more discriminating,
and her righteousness more generous.

In a few days the chief was out, and
looking quite himself.

CHAPTEK XVI.

THE FLITTING.

The time was drawing nigh when the warning
of ejection would doubtless begin to be
put in force ; and the chief hearing, through
Kob of the Angels, that attempts were
making to stir the people up, determined
to render them futile : they must be a trick
of the enemy to get them into trouble !
Taking counsel therefore with the best of
the villagers, both women and men, he was
confirmed in the idea that they had better
all remove together, before the limit of the
earliest notice was expired. But his councillors
agreed with him that the people
should not be told to get themselves in
readiness except at a moment's notice to
move. In the meantime he pushed on
their labour at the new village.

In the afternoon preceding the day on
which certain of the clan were to be the
first cast out of their homes, the chief went
to the village, and going from house to
house, told his people to have everything
in order for flitting that very night, so that
in the morning there should not be an old
shoe left behind ; and to let no rumour
of their purpose get abroad. They would
thus have a good laugh at the enemy, who
was reported to have applied for military
assistance as a precautionary measure. His
horses should be ready, and as soon as it
was dark they would begin to cart and
carry, and be snug in their new houses
before the morning !

All agreed, and a tumult of preparation
began. " Lady Macruadh " came with help
and counsel, and took the children in charge
while the mothers bustled. It was amazing
how much had to be done to remove so
small an amount of property. The chiefs
three carts were first laden ; then the men
and women loaded each other. The chief

took on his back the biggest load of all,
except indeed it were Hector's. To and fro
went the carts, and to and fro went the
men and women, I know not how many
journeys, upheld by companionship, merriment,
hope, and the clan-mother's plentiful
provision of tea, coffee, milk, bread and
butter, cold mutton and ham — luxurious
fare to all. As the sun was rising they
closed every door, and walked for the last
time, laden with the last of their goods, out
of the place of their oppression, leaving behind
them not a cock to crow, a peat to
burn, or a scrap that was worth stealing —
all removed in such order and silence that
not one, even at the New House, had a
suspicion of what was going on. Mercy,
indeed, as she sat looking from lor window
like Daniel praying toward Jerusalem, her
constant custom now, even when there was
no moon to show what lay before her, did
think she heard strange sounds come faintly
through the night from the valley below —
even thought she caught shadowy glimpses

of a shapeless, gnome-like train moving
along the road ; but she only wondered if
the Highlands had suddenly gifted her with
the second sight, and these were the brain-phantasms
of coming events. She Hastened
and gazed, but could not be sure that she
heard or saw.

When she looked out in the morning,
however, she understood, for the castle-ridge
was almost . hidden in the smoke that
poured from every chimney of the new
village. Her heart swelled with joy to
think of her chief with all his people under
his eyes, and within reach of his voice.
From her window they seemed so many
friends gathered to comfort her solitude, or
the camp of an army come to set her free.

Hector and Kob, with one or two more
of the clan, hid themselves to watch those
who came to evict the first of the villagers.
There were no military. Two sheriffs-officers,
a good many constables, and a few
vagabonds, made up the party. Kob's keen
eye enabled him to distinguish the very

moment when first they began to be aware
of something unusual about the place ; he
saw them presently halt and look at each
other as if the duty before them were not
altogether canny. At no time would there
be many signs of life in the poor hamlet,
but there would always be some sounds of
handicraft, some shuttle or hammer going,
some cries of children weeping or at play,
some noises of animals, .some ascending
smoke, some issuing or entering shape !
They feared an ambush, a sudden onslaught.
Warily they stepped into the place, sharply
and warily they looked about them in the
street, slowly and with circumspection they
opened door after door, afraid of what might
be lurking behind to pounce upon them
at unawares. Only after searching every
house, and discovering not the smallest
sign of the presence of living creature, did
they recognize their fools-errand. And all
the time there was the new village, smoking
hard, under the very windows, as he chose
himself to say, of its chief adversary !

CHAPTEK XVII.

THE NEW VILLAGE.

The winter came down upon them early,
and the chief and his mother had a sore
time of it. Well as they had known it
before, the poverty of their people was far
better understood by them now. Unable
to endure the sight of it, and spending more
and more to meet it, they saw it impossible
for them to hold out. For a long time
their succour had been draining if not exhausting
the poor resources of the chief ; he
had borne up in the hope of the money he
was so soon to receive ; and now there was
none, and the need greater than ever ! He
was not troubled, for his faith was simple
and strong ; but his faith made him the

more desirous of doing his part for the
coming deliverance : faith in God compels
and enables a man to be fellow worker with
God. He was now waiting the judgment
of Ian concerning the prospects of the
settlers in that part of Canada to which he
had gone, hoping it might help him to some
resolve in view of the worse difficulties at
hand.

In the meantime the clan was more comfortable,
and passed the winter more happily,
than for many years. First of all, they
had access to the chief at any moment.
Then he had prepared a room in his own
house where were always fire and light for
such as would read what books he was able
to lend them, or play at quiet games. To
them its humble arrangements were sumptuous.
And best of all, he would, in the
long dark fore-nights, as the lowland Scotch
cal them, read aloud, at one time in Gaelic,
at another in English, things that gave
them great delight. Donal shoemaker was
filled with joy unutterable by the Eine of

the Ancient Mariner. If only this state of
things could be kept up — with Ian back,
and Mercy married to the chief! thought
the mother. But it was not to be ; that
grew plainer every day.

Mr. Palmer would gladly have spent his
winter elsewhere, leaving his family behind
him ; but as things were, he could not
leave them, and as certain other things
were, he did not care to take them to
London. Besides, for them all to leave now,
would be to confess defeat ; and who could
tell what hurt to his forest might not follow
in his absence from the cowardly hatred of
the peasants ! He was resolved to see the
thing out. But above all, he must keep
that worthless girl, Mercy, under his own
eye!

^* That's what comes of not drinking!"
he would say to himself; '^ a man grows
as proud as Satan, and makes himself a
curse to his neighbours ! "

Then he would sigh like a man iU-used
and disconsolate.

Both Mercy and the chief thought it
better not to venture much, but they did
occasionally contrive to meet for a few
minutes — by the help of Christina generally.
Twice only was Mercy's handkerchief hung
from the window, when her longing for his
voice had grown almost too strong for her
to bear. The signal brought him both times
through the wild wintry storm, joyous asa
bird through the summer air. Once or
twice they met just outside the gate, Mercy
flying like a snow-bird to the tryst, and as
swiftly back through the keen blue frost,
when her breath as she ran seemed to
linger in the air Uke smoke, and threaten
to betray her.

At length came the much desired letter
from Ian, full of matter for the enabling of
the chief's decision.

Two things had long been clear to Blister
that, even if the ground he had could
keep his people alive, it certainly could not
keep them all employed; and that, if they
went elsewhere, especially to any town, it

might induce for many, and, ensure for their
children, a lamentable descent in the moral
scale. He was their shepherd, and must
lose none of them ! therefore, first of all, he
must not lose sight of them ! It was now
clear also, that the best and most desirable
thing was, that the poor remnant of the
clan should leave their native country, and
betake themselves where not a few of their
own people, among them Lachlan and
Annie, would welcome them to probable
ease and comfort. There he would buy
land, settle with them, and build a village.
Some would cultivate the soil under their
chief; others would pursue their trades for
the good of the community and themselves
!

And now came once more the love of
land face to face with the love of men, and
in the chiefs heart paled before it. For
there was but one way to get the needful
money : the last of the Macruadh property
must go ! Not for one moment did it rouse
a grudging thought in the chief: it was

for the sake of the men and women and
children whose lives would be required of
him ! The land itself must yield . them
wings to forsake it withal, and fly beyond
the sea 1

Chapter XVIII.

A Friendly Offer.

It was agreed between mother and son to
submit the matter to Ian, and if he should
be of the same mind, at once to negotiate
the sale of the land, in order to carry the
clan to Canada. They wrote therefore to
Ian, and composed themselves to await his
answer.

It was a sorrowful thing to Blister to
seem for a moment to follow the example
of the recreant chiefs whose defection to
feudalism was the prelude to their treachery
toward their people, and whose faithlessness
had ruined the highlands. But unlike
Glengarry or '^ Esau " Key, he desired to
sell his land that he might keep his people,

care for them, and share with them : his
people safe, what mattered the acres !

Reflecting on the thing, he saw, in the
case of han's approval of the sale, no reason
why he should not show friendliness where
none was expected, and give Mr. Peregrine
Palmer the first chance of purchase. He
thought also, with his usual hopefulness,
that the time might come when the clan,
laying its savings together, would be able
to redeem its ancient homesteads, and then
it might be an advantage that they were
all in the possession of one man. Such
things had been, and might be again ! The
Lord could bring again the captivity of
Clanruahd as well as that of Zion !

Two months passed, and they had han's
answer — when it was well on into the
spring, and weather good for a sea-voyage
was upon its way. Because of the loss of
their uncle's money, and the good prospect
of comfort in return for labour, hard but not
killing, Ian entirely approved of the proposal.
From that moment the thing was

no longer discussed, but how best to carry
it out. The chief assembled the clan in
the barn, read his brother's letter, and
in a simple speech acquainted them with
the situation. He told them of the loss
of the money to which he had looked for
the power to aid them; reminded them
that there was neither employment nor subsistence
enough on the land — not even if
his mother and he were to hive like the rest
of them, which if necessary they were quite
prepared to do ; and stated his resolve to
part with the remnant of it in order
to provide the means of their migrating ina
body to Canada, where not a few old
friends were eager to welcome them. There
they would buy land, he said, of which
every man that would cultivate it should
have a portion enough to live upon, while
those with trades should have every facility
for following them. All, he believed, would
fare well in return for hard work, and they
would be in the power of no man. There
was even a possibility, he hoped, that, if

they lived and laboured well, they might
one day buy back the home they had left ;
or if not they, their sons and daughters
might return from their captivity, and
restore the house of their fathers. If anyone
would not go, he would do for him what
seemed fair.

Donal shoemaker rose, puckered his
face, slackened the purse-strings of his
mouth, and said,

^' Where my chief goes, I will go ; where
my chief lives, I will live ; and where my
chief is buried, God grant I may be buried
also, with all my family ! "

He sat down, covered his face with his
hands, and wept and sobbed.

One voice rose from all present :

'we'll go, Macruadh! we'll go! Our
chief is our home ! "

The chief's heart swelled with mingled
gladness and grief, but he answered quietly,

Then you must at once begin your preparations
; we ought not to be in a hurry
at the last."

VOL. III. T

An immediate stir, movement, bustle,
followed. There was much talking, and
many sunny faces, over which kept sweeping
the clouds of sorrow.

The next morning the chief went to the
New House, and desired to see Mr. Palmer.
He was shown into what the new laird
called his study. Mr. Palmer's first thought
was that he had come to call him to account
for firing at him. He neither spoke nor
advanced a step to meet him. The chief
stood still some yards from him, and said as
pleasantly as he could, — ■

"You are surprised to see me, Mr.
Palmer ! "

"lam."

I come to ask if you would like to buy
my land? "

Already ! " said Mr. Palmer, cast on his
enemy a glare of victory, and so stood
regarding him. The chief did not reply.

"Well!" said Mr. Palmer.

"I wait your answer," returned the
chief.

*' Did it never strike you that insolence
might be carried too far ? "

I came for yom' sake more than my
own," rejoined the chief, without even a
shadow of anger. ''I have no particular
desire you should take the land, but thought
it reasonable you should have the first offer."

'^ What a dull ox the fellow must take me
for ! " remarked the new laird to himself.
'^ It's all a dodge to get into the house !
As if he would sell me his land ! or
could think I would hold any communication
with him ! Buy his land ! It's some
trick, I'll lay my soul ! The infernal
scoundrel ! Such a mean-spirited wretch
too ! Takes an ounce of shot in the stomach,
and never says ' What the devil do you
mean by it ? ' I don't believe the savage
ever felt it!"

Something like this passed with thought's
own swiftness through the mind of Mr.
Palmer, as he stood looking the chief from
head to foot, yet in his inmost person feeling
small before him.

*^ If you cannot at once make up your
mind," said Blister, ''I will give you till
tomorrow to think it over."

^' When you have learned to behave like
a gentleman," answered the new laird, *' let
me know, and I will refer you to my factor."

He turned and rang the bell. Ahster
bowed, and did not wait for the servant.

It must be said for Mr. Palmer, however,
that that morning Christina had positively
refused to listen to a word more from Mr.
Sercombe.

In the afternoon, Blister set out for
London.

CHAPTEK XIX.

ANOTHER EXPULSION.

Mr. Peregrine Palmer brooded more and
more upon what he counted the contempt
of the chief. It became in him almost a
fixed idea. It had already sent out several
suckers, and had, amongst others, developed
the notion that he was despised by those
from whom first of all he looked for the
appreciation after which his soul thirsted —
his own family. He grew therefore yet
more moody, and his moodiness and distrust
developed suspicion. It is scarce
credible what a crushing influence the
judgment he pretended to scorn, thus exercised
upon him. It was not that he acknowledged
in it the smallest justice ;

neither was it that he cared altogether for
what such a fanatical fool as the chief
might think ; but he reflected that if one
could so despise his money because of its
source, there might be others, might be
many who did so. At the same time, had
he been sure of the approbation of all the
world beside, it would have troubled him
not a little, in his thirst after recognition,
that any gentleman, one of family especially,
however old-fashioned and absurd he
might be, should look down upon him. His
smouldering, causelessly excited anger, his
evident struggle to throw off an oppression,
and the fierce resentment of the chief's
judgment which he would now and then
betray, revealed how closely the offence
clung to his consciousness.

Flattering himself from her calmness that
Mercy had got over her foolish liking for
the ^'boor," as he would not unfrequently
style the chief, he had listened to the
prayers of her mother, and submitted to
her company at the dinner-table ; but he

continued to treat her as one who had committed
a shameful fault.

That evening, the great Httle man could
hardly eat for recurrent wrathful memories
of the interview of the morning. Perhaps
his most painful reflection was that he had
not been quick enough to embrace the
opportunity of annihilating his enemy.
Thunder lowered portentous in his black
brows, and not until he had drunk several
glasses of wine did a word come from his
lips. His presence was purgatory without
the purifying element.

What do you think that fellow has been
here about this morning ? " he said at
length.

'what fellow?" asked his wife unnecessarily,
for she knew what visitor had
been shown into the study.

'the highland fellow," he answered,
that claims to do what he pleases on my
property ! "

Mercy's face grew hot.

— Came actually to offer me the refusal

of Ms land ! — the merest trick to get into
the house — confound him ! As much as
told me, if I did not buy it off-hand, I
should not have the chance again ! The
cheek of the brute ! To dare show his
face in my house after trifling with my
daughter's affections on the pretence that
he could not marry a girl whose father was
in trade ! "

Mercy felt she would be false to the man
she loved, and whom she knew to be true,
if she did not speak. She had no thought
of defending him, but simply of witnessing
to him.

'^I beg your pardon, papa," she said,
"but the Macruadh never trifled with me.
He loves me, and has not given me up. If
he told you he was going to part with his
land, he is going to part with it, and came
to you first because he must return good
for evil. I saw him from my window ride
off as if he were going to meet the afternoon
coach."

She would not have been allowed to say

SO inch, had not her father been speechless
with rage. This was more than he or any
man could bear ! He rose from the table,
his eyes blazing.

'^Eeturnm^ good for evil!" he exclaimed;
'' — a beast who has done me more wrong
than ever I did in all my life ! a scoundrel
bumpkin who loses not an opportunity of
insulting me as never was man insulted
before ! You are an insolent, heartless,
depraved girl! — ready to sacrifice yourself,
body and soul, to a man who despises you
and yours with the pride of a savage ! You
hussy, I can scarce keep my hands off
you ! '•

He came toward her with a threatful
stride. She rose, pushed back her chair,
and stood facing him.

Strike me," she said with a choking
voice, "if you will, papa; but mamma
knows I am not what you call me ! I
should be false and cowardly if I did not
speak the truth for the man to whom I
owe " — she was going to say " more than to

any other human being," but she checked
herself.

^'If the beggar is your god," said her
father, and struck her on the cheek with
his open hand, ^^ you can go to him ! "

He took her by the arm, and pushed her
before him out of the room, and across the
hall ; then opening the door, shoved her
from him into the garden, and flung the
door to behind her. The rain was falling
in torrents, the night was very dark, and
when the door shut, she felt as if she had
lost her eyesight.

It was terrible ! — but, thank God, she
was free ! Without a moment's hesitation
while her mother wept and pleaded,
Christina stood burning with indignation,
the two little ones sat white with open
mouths, and the servants hurried about
scared, but trjdng to look as if nothing had
happened — Mercy fled into the dark. She
stumbled into the shrubbery several times,
but at last reached the gate, and while
they imagined her standing before the

house waiting to be let in, was running from
it as from the jaws of the pit, in terror of a
voice calling her back. The pouring rain
was sweet to her whole indignant person,
and especially to the cheek where burned
the brand of her father's blow. The way
was deep in mud, and she slipped and fell
more than once as she ran.

Mrs. Macruadh was sitting in the little
parlour, no one but Nancy in the house,
when the door opened, and in came the
wild-looking girl, draggled and spent, and
dropped kneeling at her feet. Great masses
of long black hair hung dripping with rain
about her shoulders. Her dress was torn
and wet, and soiled with clay from the road
and earth from the shrubbery. One cheek
was white, and the other had a red patch
on it.

*' My poor child ! " cried the mother ;
*' what has happened ? Blister is away ! "

I know that," panted Mercy. '' I saw
him go, but I thought you would take mein
— though you do not like me much ! "

^'Not like yon, mj child ! " echoed the
mother tenderly. '^ I love you! Are you
not my Blister's choice ? There are things
I could have wished otherwise, but "

'swell could I wish them otherwise too!"
interposed Mercy. " I do not wish another
father ; and I am not quite able to wish he
hadn't struck me and put me out into the
dark and the rain, but "

Struck you and put you out ! My
child ! What did he do it for ? "

^^ Perhaps I deserved it : it is difficult to
know how to behave to a father ! A father
is supposed to be one whom you not only
love, as I do mine, but of whom you can be
proud as well ! I can't be proud of mine,
and don't know quite how to behave to
him. Perhaps I ought to have held my
peace, but when he said things that were
not — not correct about Blister, misinterpreting
him altogether, I felt it cowardly and
false to hold my tongue. So I said I did
not believe that was what Blister meant.
It is but a quarter of an hour ago, and it

looks a fortnight ! I don't think I quite
know what I am saying ! "

She ceased, laid her head on Mrs. Macruadh's
knee, then sank to the floor, and lay
motionless. All the compassion of the
woman, all the protective pride of the
chieftains, woke in the mother. She
raised the girl in her arms, and vowed that
not one of her house should set eyes on her
again without the consent of her son. He
should see how his mother cared for what
was his ! — how wide her arms, how big her
heart, to take in what he loved ! Dear to
him, the daughter of the man she despised
should be as the apple of her eye ! They
would of course repent and want her back,
but they should not have her ; neither
should a sound of threat or demand reach
the darling's ears. She should be in peace
until Ahster came to determine her future.
There was the mark of the wicked hand
on the sweet sallow cheek ! She was not
beautiful, but she would love her the more
to make up ! Thank God, they had turned

lier out, and that made her free of them !
They should not have her again ; Blister
should have her ! — and from the hand of his
mother !

She got her to bed, and sent for Eob of
the Angels. With injunctions to silence,
she told him to fetch his father, and be
ready as soon as possible to drive a cart to
the chief's cave, there to make everything
comfortable for herself and Miss Mercy
Palmer.

Mercy slept well, and as the day was
breaking Mrs. Macruadh woke her and
helped her to dress. Then they walked
together through the lovely spring morning
to the turn of the valley-road, where a
cart was waiting them, half-filled with oat-straw.
They got in, and were borne up
and up at a walking-pace to the spot
Mercy knew so well. Never by swiftest
coach had she enjoyed a journey so much
as that slow crawl up the mountains in
the rough springless cart of her ploughman
lover ! She felt so protected, so

happy, so hopeful. Aster's mother was
indeed a hiding place from the wind, a
covert from the tempest ! Having consented
to be her mother, she could mother
her no way but entirely. An outcast for
the sake of her Blister, she should have
the warmest corner of her heart next to
him and Ian !

Into the tomb they went, and found everything
strangely comfortable — the stone-floor
covered with warm and woolly skins of
black-faced sheep, a great fire glowing,
plenty of provisions hung and stored, and
the deaf, keen-eyed father with the swift
keen-eared son for attendants.

"You will not mind sharing your bed with
me-will you, my child ? " said Mrs. Macruadh:
"our accommodation is scanty. But
we shall be safe from intrusion. Only those
two faithful men know where we are."

Mother will be terribly frightened ! "
said Mercy.

I thought of that, and left a note with
Nancy, telling her you where safe and well,

but giving no hint of where. I said that
her dove had flown to my bosom for shelter,
and there she should have it."

Mercy answered with a passionate embrace.


CHAPTER XX

aliter's princess.

Ten peaceful days they spent in the cave-house.
It was cold outside, but the clear
air of the hill top was delicious, and inside
it was warm and dry. There were plenty
of books, and Mercy never felt the time a
moment too long. The mother talked
freely of her sons, and of their father, of
the history of the clan, of her own girlhood,
and of the hopes and intentions of her sons.

*' Will you go with him, Mercy?" she
asked, laying her hand on hers.

^^ I would rather be his servant," answered
Mercy, ^' than remain at home : there is no
life there ! "

^' There is life wherever there is the will

VOL. III. u

to live — that is, to do the thing that is
given one to do," said the mother.

In writing she told Blister nothing of
what had happened : he might hurry home
without completing his business ! Undisturbed
by fresh anxiety, he settled everything,
parted with his property to an old
friend of the family, and received what
would suffice for his further intents. He
also chartered a vessel to take them over
the sea, and to save weariness and expense,
arranged for it to go northward as far asa
certain bay on the coast, and there take
the clan on board.

When at length he reached home, Nancy
informed him that his mother was at the
hill-house, and begged he would go thereto
her. He was a good deal perplexed :
she very seldom went there, and had never
before gone for the night ! and it was so early
in the season I He set out immediately.

It was twilight when he reached the top
of the hill, and no light shone fi'om the
little windows of the tomb.

That day Mercy had been amusing her
protectress with imitations, in which kind
she had some gift, of certain of her London
acquaintance : when the mother heard her
son's approaching step, a thought came to
her.

''■ Here ! quick ! " she said ; ^^ put on my
cap and shawl, and sit in this chair. I will
go into the bedroom. Then do as you
Hke."

When the chief entered, he saw the form
of his mother, as he thought, bending over
the peat-fire, which had sunk rather low :
in his imagination he saw again the form
of his uncle as on that night in the low
moonlight. She did not move, did not
even look up. He stood still for a moment ;
a strange feeling possessed him of something
not being as it ought to be. But he
recovered himself with an effort, and kneeling
beside her, put his arms round her —
not a little frightened at her continued
silence.

*^ What is the matter, mother dear? '' he

said. '' Why have you come up to this
lonely place ? "

When first Mercy felt his arms, she could
not have spoken if she would — her heart
seemed to grow too large for her body.
But in a moment or two she controlled
herself, and was able to say — sufficiently in
his mother's tone and manner to keep up
the initiated misconception :

*^ They put me out of the house, Blister."

*^ Put you out of the house ! " he returned,
like one hearing and talking in a dream.
'^ Who dared interfere with you, mother ?
Am I losing my senses ? I seem not to
understand my own words ! "

'^ Mr. Palmer."

'' Mr. Palmer ! Was it to him I sold the
land in London ? What could he have todo
with you, mother ? How did they allow
him to come near the house in my absence ?
Oh, I see ! He came and worried you so
about Mercy that you were glad to take
refuge from him up here ! — I understand
now! "

He ended in a tone of great relief : he
felt as if he had just recovered his senses.

** No, that was not it. But we are going
so soon, there would have been no good in
fighting it out. We are going soon, are we
not?"

"Indeed we are, please God!" replied
the chief, who had relapsed into bewilderment.


That is well — for you more than anybody.
— Would you believe it — the worthless
girl vows she will never leave her mother's
house ! "

"Ah, mother, you never heard her say
so ! I know Mercy better than that ! She
will leave it when I say come. But that
won't be now. I must wait, and come and
fetch her when she is of age."

She is not worthy of you."

She is worthy of me if I were twenty
times worthier ! Mother, mother ! what
has turned you against us again ? It is
not like you to change about so ! I cannot
bear to find you changeable ! I should have

sworn you were just the one to understand
her perfectly ! I cannot bear you should
let unworthy reasons prejudice you against
anyone ! — If you say a word more against
her, I will go and sit outside with the moon.
She is not up yet, but she will be presently
and though she is rather old and silly,
I shall find her much better company than
you, mother dear ! "

He spoke playfully, but was grievously
puzzled.

' To whom are you talking, Blister ? —
yourself or a ghost ? "

Blister started up, and saw his mother
coming from the bedroom with a candle in
her hand ! He stood stupefied. He looked
again at the seated figure, still bending over
the fire. Who was it if not his mother ?

With a wild burst of almost hysteric
laughter, Mercy sprang to her feet, and
threw herself in his arms. It was not the
less a new bewilderment that it was an
unspeakably delightful change from the
last. Was he awake or dreaming? Was

the dream of his boyhood come true ? or
was he dreaming it on in manhood ? It
was come true ! The princess was arrived !
She was here in his cave to be his own !

A great calm and a boundless hope filled
the heart of Blister. The night was far
advanced when he left them to go home.
Nor did he find his way home, but wandered
all night about the tomb, making long
rounds and still returning like an angel sent
to hover and watch until the morning.
When he astonished them by entering as
they sat at breakfast, and told them how
he had passed the night, it thrilled Mercy's
heart to know that, while she slept and was
dreaming about him, he was awake and
thinking about her.

'^ What is only dreaming in me, is thinking
in you, Blister ! " she said.

''I was thinking," returned Blister, 'That
as you did not know I was watching you,
so, when we feel as if God were nowhere,
he is watching over us with an eternal consciousness,
above and beyond our every

hope and fear, untouched by the varying
faith and fluctuating moods of his children."

After breakfast he went to see the clergyman
of the parish, who lived some miles
away; the result of which visit was that
in a few days they were married. First,
however, he went once more to the New
House, desiring to tell Mr. Palmer what
had been and was about to be done. He
refused to see him, and would not allow his
wife or Christina to go to him.

The wedding was solemnized at noon
within the ruined walls of the old castle.
The withered remnant of the clan, with
pipes playing, guns firing, and shouts of
celebration, marched to the cave-house to
fetch thence the bride. When the ceremony
was over, a feast was ready for all in
the barn, and much dancing followed.

When evening came, with a half-moon
hanging faint in the limpid blue, and the
stars looking large through the mist of
ungathered tears — those of nature, not the
lovers ; with a wind like the breath of a

sleeping child, sweet and soft, and full of
dreams of summer ; the mountains and hills
asleep around them like a flock of day-wearied
things, and haunted by the angels
of Eob's visions — the lovers, taking leave
only of the mother, stole away to walk
through the heavenly sapphire of the still
night, up the hills and over the rushing
streams of the spring, to the cave of their
rest — no ill omen but lovely symbol to such
as could see in the tomb the porch of
paradise. Where should true lovers make
their bed but on the threshold of eternity !

CHAPTEK XXI.

THE FAREWELL.

A MONTH passed, and the flag of their exile
was seen flying in the bay. The same hour
the chief's horses were put to, the carts
were loaded, their last things gathered.
Few farewells had to be made, for the whole
clan, except two that had gone to the bad,
turned out at the minute appointed. The
chief arranged them in marching column.
Foremost went the pipes ; the chief, his
wife, and his mother, came next ; Hector
of the Stags, carrying the double-barrelled
rifle the chief had given him, Rob of the
Angels, and Donal shoemaker, followed.
Then came the women and children ; next,
the carts, with a few, who could not walk,
on the top of the baggage ; the men brought

up the rear. Four or five favourite dogs
were the skirmishers of the column.

The road to the bay led them past the
gate of the New House. The chief called
a halt, and went with his wife to seek a last
interview. Mr. Peregrine Palmer kept his
room, but Mrs. Palmer bade her daughter
a loving farewell — more relieved than she
cared to show, that the cause of so much
discomfort was going so far away. The
children wept. Christina bade her sister
good-bye with a hopeless, almost envious
look : Mercy, who did not love him, would
see Ian ! she who would give her soul for
him was never to look on him again in this
world !

Kissing Mercy once more, she choked
down a sob, and whispered,

*^ Give my love — no, my heart, to Ian,
and tell him I am trying."

They all walked together to the gate, and
there the chief's mother took her leave of
the ladies of the New House. The pipes
struck up ; the column moved on.

When they came to the corner which
would hide from them their native strath,
the march changed to a lament, and with
the opening wail, all stopped and turned fora
farewell look. Men and women, the chief
alone excepted, burst into weeping, and the
sound of their lamentation went wandering
through the hills with an adieu to e very-loved
spot. And this was what the pipes
said :

We shall never see you more,

Never more, never more !
Till the sea be dry, and the world be bare.
And the dews have ceased to fall,
And the rivers have ceased to run,
We shall never see you more,

Never more, never more !

They stood and gazed, and the pipes
went on lamenting, and the women went
on weeping.

'' This is heathenish ! " said Blister to
himself, and stopped the piper.

^' My friends," he cried, in Gaelic of
course, 'look at me: my eyes are dry!
Where Jesus, the Son of God, is — there is

my home ! He is here, and he is over the
sea, and my home is everywhere ! I have
lost my land and my country, but I take
with me my people, and make no moan
over my exile ! Hearts are more than hills.
Farewell Strathruadh of my childhood !
Place of my dreams, I shall visit you again
in my sleep ! And again I shall see you in
happier times, please God, with my friends
around me ! "

He took off his bonnet. All the men too
uncovered for a moment, then turned to
follow their chief. The pipes struck up
Acrimony's lament, Till an crodh a
Dhonnachaidh turn the line, Duncan).
Not one looked behind him again till they
reached the shore. There, out in the bay,
the biggest ship any of the clan had ever
seen was waiting to receive them.

When Mr. Peregrine Palmer saw that the
land might in truth be for sale, he would
gladly have bought it, but found to his
chagrin that he was too late. It was just
like the fellow, he said, to mock him with

the chance of buying it ! He took care to
come himself, and not send a man he could
have believed !

The clan throve in the clearings of the
pine forests. The hill-men stared at their
harvests as if they saw them growing.
Their many children were strong and
healthy, and called Scotland their home.

In an outlying and barren part of the
chief's land, they came upon rock oil. It
was so plentiful that as soon as carriage
became possible, the chief and his people
began to grow rich.

News came to them that Mr. Peregrine
Palmer was in difficulties, and desirous of
parting with his highland estate. The chief
was now able to buy it ten times over. He
gave his agent in London directions to
secure it for him, with any other land conterminous
that might come into the market.
But he would not at once return to occupy
it, for his mother dreaded the sea, and
thought to start soon for another home.

Also he would rather have his boys grow
where they were, and as men face the
temptations beyond : where could they find
such teaching as that of their uncle Ian !
Both father and uncle would have them
alive before encountering what the world
calls life.

But the Macruadh yet dreams of the time
when those of the clan then left in the
world, accompanied, he hopes, by some of
those that went out before them, shall go
back to repeople the old waste places, and
from a wilderness of white sheep and red
deer, make the mountain land a nursery of
honest, unambitious, brave men and strong-hearted
women, loving God and their
neighbour ; where no man will think of
himself at his brother's cost, no man grow
rich by his neighbour's ruin, no man lay
field to field, to treasure up for himself
wrath against the day of wrath.

THE END.

w%

^X£%

^# /^

'im ''■

cw.

<M^'

)»

'M^^^^.

,UN;VE"*TY Of ILUNOI8.UltaANA

3 0112 049759118

^^.^'^

f^mfj^

1. 'Mh

"^■^^

3^a(v:
