h'

^>v->^l

H"

,» t*

^^1

;^

LI B RAR.Y

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS


tyvi922t

v.i

'^#ft^

«i%^^S^

m^^mi

"We

■^ %^-^£>^^'^.%

http://www.archive.org/details/twinsoulorstrang01inack

OR,

THE STRANGE EXPERIENCES

OF

MR. RAMESES.

a Psychological anb Realistic
Romances

TWO VOL Uses.
VOL. I

Fay que mon ane a la tienne assemble,
Range nos coeurs et nos esprits ensemble,

Labour Intend ainsi ;
Tu es mon feu, je dois être ta flamme,
Et dois encor puisque je suis ton ane

Etre la mienne aussi ! "

Philippe Des Fortes. 1575.

London :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

1887.

wall rights reserved

KELLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C, AND
MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

s

CONTENTS OF VOLUME ONE

CHAP. Path

I. — A Rural Home . . . . i

II. — A Letter of Introduction . 7

III.— The Rookery 13

IV. — In the Sanctum . . . . 23

v.— A Rainy Day 34

VI. — Concerning Twin Souls . . 44

VII. — The Stoney-Stratford Family . . 56

VIII. — Physical Slavery and Spiritual Freedom 74

IX.— Lurula 85

X. — The Butler and the Gardener . . 97

f^ XL — Modern Civilisation 104

ti XII. — The Palimpsests 112

fc XIII. — The Dream of Amenophra 123

^ XIV. — Reveries of a Stormy Night . . . 133

>^ XV. — The Millionaire in London . 139
XVI. — New Scenes and New Characters .-158

r^ XVII.— The Deer Forest . . 177

i^^VIII.— Matrimonial Traps . . . .186

^ XIX.— On the Full Tide of Fashion . 196

XX.— To the Highlands Bound . . .206

-^V XXL— Platonic Only 216

V Xxii— The Summit of the Mountain . . 228

^ Xxii— Return to London . . . 237

j XXIV.— The Grand Symposium . . .248

H ps^cboloatcal anb Realistic Romance,

CHAPTER I.

A RURAL HOME.

Though I flatter myself that I am a philosopher, I am not a
recluse. I love my books very dearly, as I do my flower-garden,
my orchard, and my kail-yard, where, like the
Emperor Diocletian, I grow very fine drum-head cabbages ;
but I also love at times to close my library door, to shut
my garden gate, and go forth into the busy world, to mix
with my fellows, hear their opinions and give them mine.
On these occasions I endeavour to rub off the rust and
mildew of rural solitude, to acquire, I will not say a polish,
but a certain smoothness, from the lubrication of social
intercourse. At the same time cultivate my sympathies by
laughing at human nature, whenever, as Beaumarchais says,
1 am not inclined to weep for it. Some people call me -a
VOL. I. r

cynic, others a wit and humorist, while a few consider me
to be a kindly and well-meaning philosopher, and speak of
me as the country people spoke of the poor gentleman in
Goldsmith's " Deserted Village," with a kind of wonder at
the vastness of my knowledge. Others again, who are nothing
if they are not critical, assert that I know too much
to know anything well, and say of me as the envious critic
said in another sense of the late Lord Brougham, that if I
knew a little of the world, I should know a little of everything.
But having a good income wholly unincumbered,
and being untroubled by reckless or extravagant connections
or relatives, and possessing marginal money enough
to keep adding week by week and day by day to one of
the rarest libraries in England without depriving myself of
any other luxury, I manage to be happy enough without
caring very particularly what anybody thinks or says of me.
I am fifty years of age, a widower, and likely to remain so. I
was once in love, very desperately, with one who was as good
as she was beautiful, " but thereof came in the end " a short,
too short, happiness succeeded by " despondency and sadness
" — a sorrowful memory, and regrets for lost joy. I am
to a certain extent selfish — all men are, or ought to be ;

for selfishness, like everything else in this world, is only
bad in excess, like wine, or courage, or prudence, or a
belief in the goodness of everybody. But, though I love
myself tolerably well when I am in good health, which is
pretty nearly always, I love my fellow creatures — especially
when I do not see too much of them — and am glad if I can
wisely distribute a portion of my wealth among the struggling
and the deserving, to strengthen the weak, to lighten
the sorrows of venerable age, or to help the young along
the stony and thorny path that leads to fame or fortune.

I am fond of music and languages. I can play on the
violin and the organ. I can speak French, German, Italian
and Spanish; and understand Latin and Greek tolerably
well; Celtic, Hebrew, and Sanscrit, less tolerably. I
dabble a little in chemistry, have read all the writings of
the old Alchemists and Rosicrucians ; have made the religion,
mythology, manners and history of Egypt, and of still more
ancient nations, my particular study, and have come to the
conclusion that I know little or nothing of any of them. I
am not an Admirable Crichton ; I can neither dance, sing,
fence, ride, wrestle, fish nor shoot ; and when I think of what
I know and compare it with what I don't know, I am almost

1*

I will not say quite — convinced that I am a poor
ignoramus, and that possibly I might pass the threshold of
the great Temple of Isis at the age of three hundred, if
I could live as long in mental and bodily health, and possess
the same love of knowledge at the end that I do at
the beginning.

I have a small house in London, a large one in the
country, and my name is De Vere. I understood, when
a child, that my father desired to call me Triptolemus,
because of his great love for agriculture, and of his
hope that I too would become an agriculturist. He relinquished
his absurd idea of Triptolemus, for which I am
very grateful, and called me Godfrey, after my grandfather.
As regards the hope which he cherished, that I should
become a great agriculturist and improver of stock, it has
not been fulfilled. I cultivate no fields, only a garden, and,
like the Roman Emperor, I live happier among my splendid
drum-heads " — the finest cabbages in the world — than I
should be in the Senate, or on the vice-regal chair of
Canada or India. No vice-regal chair would suit my
caprice or my pleasure. I have a throne on which I sit
comfortably — the great chair in my library — that stands

opposite my writing-table. Here I am monarch of all the
historians, philosophers, sages, wits, poets and famous
story-tellers of all times. They are each and all of them
my subjects, who administer to my pleasure and my instruction.
They never "bore" me (I hate the word,
but use it in default of a better), unless I happen to be ina
lazy condition of mind or body, when I put them back on
their shelves without offending them, to be ready for my use
when I am more worthy of profiting by their perennial wisdom.
In my library, placed on top of my book-cases, are six busts
of great sages, all of comparatively modern origin, for I
have no faith in the marble portraits of antiquity. Shakspeare
the first, though I can't believe that the 
bust can resemble him; second, Geoffrey Chaucer; third,
John Milton ; fourth, George Gordon Byron ; fifth, Walter
Scott ; and sixth, a poet in his way almost as great as any
of them — Ludwig von Beethoven. Lastly, my inner study
and private sanctum — my holy of holies, as I call it to the
housekeeper, who would fain dust it and keep it in order,
but is not allowed to do so, to her sore tribulation (I
believe it is the only sorrow the good old woman has'^ — is
adorned with two ancient sarcophagi from Egypt, each containing

a mummy, as yet unrolled, but to be unrolled on

some great occasion hereafter, in presence of a select and

congenial few, capable of enjoying and appreciating the

ceremony.

One word more about myself, when my personal
revelations must cease. My income is five thousand
pounds per annum. I state this fact, of which I am not
in the least proud, in order that he or she who may be induced
to read the following pages may look upon my
writings with becoming respect, as not being the handiwork
(or head-work) of a common fellow who writes for money,
or of a mere man of genius who expects to live by his
writings, and pay his butcher or his baker as punctually as
if he were a banker.

A LETTER OF INTRODUCTION.

One day I received a letter from Paris from a particular
friend, a member of the Academy and a chevalier of the
Legion of Honour. The letter interested me greatly. Let
rue call the writer, for the purposes of this narrative, the
Vicomte de Palliasse ; that is not his name, but his family is
as old as the first introduction of the palliasse into France,
and it will suit him as well as any other. He informed
me that he had given his friend, Mr. Rameses, a short but
cordial letter of introduction to me, and expressing his confident
belief that he was a gentleman whose acquaintance
I should be glad to make. It was possible, he added, that
the letter would not be personally presented for two or
three weeks. Meanwhile, being of opinion that I ought to
be fully prepared for the advent of a remarkable personage,
he had resolved to communicate such particulars concerning
ing him as he knew or had reason to believe were authentic.
Mr. Rameses, he went on to say, though he was sometimes
called Ramsay, and which some people believed to be his

true name, was not a Scotsman. He did not even believe
that he was a European, though there was a report that his
father or grandfather was either an Englishman or a Scotsman,
who had been in the service of the old East India
Company, and that his mother was a powerful Begum, who
had been attracted by the good looks, stalwart presence or
flattering tongue of the Englishman or Scotsman aforesaid,
and had contracted marriage with him. He was
apparently about thirty years of age, was of commanding
stature and presence, had a jet-black beard, and a luxuriant
head of hair of the same colour, and looked as if he might
have sat for the model of an old Assyrian. He was reputed
to be exceedingly rich, and was certainly learned.
He had travelled in every part of the world between Copenhagen
and Melbourne, and between Kamschatka and
New Zealand, spoke many languages, and was neither
Christian, Jew, Mahometan, Buddhist nor Atheist, but appeared
to be, as far as anybody could make out, a fire
worshipper — an ancient Druid, or possibly a Rosicrucian.
His manners were agreeable and his conversation full of
matter. He was fait soit peu cynical, and such a favourite
of the ladies that the young men of Paris, the copiirchics

especially, held him in detestation, and scores of handsome
young women, who loved money more than matrimony —
or who, at all events, behaved as if they did — had set their
caps at him. But hitherto all their efforts had been in vain.
** I anticipate," said M. de Palliasse, " that Mr. Rameses will
create a sensation in London. All the ladies in Paris,
mothers and daughters, desire much to know whether he is
or ever has been married, but all who are impudent or imprudent
enough to ask him the question receive 'such a reply,
by word and look, as effectually prevents them from asking a
second time. Probably it will be the same in London,
Mr. Rameses has letters of introduction-to a score of your
dukes, marquises, earls, and other fashionable people and
leaders of society. He banks with Rothschild, and is fabled
to be a Croesus. Anyhow, he is a very able and very
handsome man, and seems, if I may believe his words, his
looks, his gestures, to set more store upon the letter I have
given him to you than to any of the others that have been
showered upon him.

*' His intention in visiting London is to study the manners,
the customs, and the characteristics of the English, but I
don't think he means to write a book. He has heard of

your learning, and as he admires you, I suppose, on the
principle of Boileau's saying : ' Chaque sot trouve tou jours
un plus grand sot qui V admire' (for 'sot' read 'sage),
you will admire him and that you will both get on very
well together. Please introduce him to all the Oriental
scholars, especially to the Egyptologists, but don't trust
him alone with your mummies, lest he proceed to un-saddle
them. He is very affable, and very good, but, as
you will soon discover, he is somewhat eccentric. But eccentricity
is nothing, or if it be anything it is a something
that is rather agreeable than otherwise, if it be quiet and
unaggressive. So you know all about Mr. Rameses, or, at
all events, as much as I can tell you. I recommend him
earnestly to your polite attention and amiable services."

It was not until nearly a month after the receipt of
this letter, about which I had not thought much, that,
sitting alone in my study in my small house in Park Lane —
dingy in front, but beautiful enough behind, for the reason
that my windows overlook the fair expanse of Hyde
Park — that a well-appointed carriage drove up to my door,
and that my servant brought me up a letter from M. de
Palliasse, and the card of Mr. Rameses. I hastened down

to the reception-room, and found Mr. Rameses. He was
staid, solemn, handsome, rather sad-looking, I thought. I
gave him a cordial greeting. I had not been five minutes
in his company before I was convinced that the commendations
bestowed upon him by M. de Palliasse were not misplaced.
The only thing that I did not admire about him
was that his eyes were very black. I have a predilection,
though the reader may think it wrong, for blue-grey eyes inman
or woman, and somehow or other associate black
eyes in men with an idea of ferocity. He spoke English
as well as an Englishman — better than many who interlard
their discourse with vulgar colloquialisms and the slang
of the stable and the race-course — but he had a slight accent,
which hinted rather than proved that he was a foreigner.

I had previously arranged to leave London on the
morrow, and, without making any idle excuses, I informed
Mr. Rameses of the fact, and I gave him, at the same time, a
cordial invitation to visit me on a future day, at " The
Rookery," to stay a week or ten days, or as long as he pleased.

I have heard," he said, " of your mummies, and of the
treasures of your library, both in manuscripts and printed
books, and of your rolls of Egyptian papyri, baked tiles or

slabs, and your cuneiform inscriptions. Can you read the

pai:»yri or the slabs ? "

No, unfortunately. I wish I could."

I can," said Mr. Rameses, " as easily as if they were
French or English."

Happy man ! " I thought, for my mouth watered at
the information as the mouth of a hungry epicure waters
when a rare dish steams before his nostrils. " Then," I
said, " you will not pass a dull time in The Rookery, if you
are as fond of ancient lore as I am."

Dull ! " he replied ; "I am never dull. I am sometimes
sad, sometimes weary with the world, with myself,
or with Fate, Fortune, and Circumstance ; but I am never
dull — unless, perhaps, at a fashionable evening party or
dinner, when the gossip of fools goes bubbling up around
mee ; but even then, by a happy faculty of abstraction, my
mind can wander away and go back ten thousand years into
the scenes of a bygone civilization, or fly to the uttermost
ends of the earth."

Here was a man after my own heart. I felt grateful to
M. de Palliasse for introducing him, and doubly grateful to
Mr. Rameses for condescending to make my acquaintance.

THE ROOKERY.

Let me describe The Rookery. It is an old and spacious
house (the guide-books call it a mansion). It was not
built by any one architect, or at any one time, but grew
like the British Constitution, and was the handiwork of
many generations. The oldest part of it dates from early
in the sixteenth century, and this oldest part, originally
small, has received accretions at the hands of successive De
Teres. Our original name was Brown, as I have heard,
which we now write Browne, with a final e, and we took the
name of De Vere on the marriage of the head of the family,
a hundred and fifty years ago, or thereabouts, with a Miss De
Vere, a wealthy heiress. Though of no order of architecture,
but a combination of many styles, the old house is
picturesque, and what is more, it is comfortable. It is approached
by an avenue of elms, of half-a-mile in length, on
the tops of which an ancient colony of rooks has long been
established. Hence the name given to it by my ancestors.

In front is part of a moat, over which is a neat stone
bridge, of antique fashion, that leads to the principal
entrance. The moat, fed by a tiny spring of the purest
water, is as clear as crystal, and is inhabited by a multitude
of gold and silver fish, and by a profusion of water-lilies,
that seem to me to be as full of life and enjoyment as the
fish, and much more beautiful. The house contains three
good reception-rooms, a stately entrance-hall, a picture-gallery,
and my library — consisting of six rooms en suite.
The grounds are extensive and well laid out, containing
fruit, flower, and vegetable gardens (I am my own head
gardener), together with lawns, shrubberies, and meadows,
sloping to an artificial lake. There are, in addition, about
one hundred and eighty acres of woodland, consisting of
venerable yews, oaks, elms, birch, and beeches, and some
very magnificent hawthorns, that began to spread their
green leaves to the breeze and to the blast long before the
days of the so-called " merry monarch."

I do not live alone at The Rookery, for I have a daughter
beautiful, good affectionate, clever, the model of all female
virtue and loveliness, the joy of my heart, the delight of
my eyes, the mistress of my household, the belle of the

county — who has scores of admirers, but not one whom she
herself particularly admires. Her name is Laura ; her age
is twenty-two. She is neither tall nor short ; she has
splendid golden hair, perfect teeth, lustrous blue-grey eyes,
a voice that is all music and melody, and when she sings,
which she often does, not Patti herself could excel her
that is to say in my opinion — which may be wrong ; though
I do not think it is. She has, I think, but one fault — she
loves me too much, who am only her father, and proud of
the relationship, and gives to me the kindness for a
thousandth part of which more than one fine fellow in the
county would be only too happy to marry her.

But at this period of my story, she is absent in Italy, with
a friendly family, for the sake of a little change and recreation,
which she needs ; so that the inhabitants of The Rookery
at the time when Mr. Rameses came to visit me, were my
mother, my sister. Lady De Glastonbury, and her husband,
Sir Henry De Glastonbury, a man about ten years older
than herself. They lived very much abroad, but when they
came to England they always made The Rookery their
home, and were always welcome. Then there was my
second sister, Mrs. Brocklesby, the widow of a London

merchant, who left her with three children and seventy

thousand pounds. Mrs. Brocklesby usually passes the

summer months with me in the home of her childhood, for

the sake of old association, for love of the place, and for

the fresh freedom of a country life which it affords her

children.

When these visitors are with me, I meet my eldest sister
and her husband and my second sister with her children at
breakfast, and see nothing of them afterwards until dinner-time.
The intermediate [hours are spent by me in the
library, into which, by an unwritten and unspoken, but
well understood and implicitly obeyed law, no gossips or
visitors are permitted to enter, unless by special invitation.
When I am wearied with sitting, or studying, or
otherwise [desirous of a change, I betake myself to the
garden, and look after my flowers, my cabbages, and my
gardeners, during which time I may be spoken to by anyone
who meets me accidentally and desires to exchange
thoughts or words with me. My mother, kind soul, has
one great grievance, the only drop of bitter in the otherwise
pleasant cup of her existence, which is that I am a persistent
widower, am not disposed to marry again, and do not

cultivate the acquaintance of the young and beautiful, so as

to give me the chance of falling in love with any one of

them, or any one of them the chance of falling in love with

me, either for the sake of worldly position, or as the French

say, '"''pour P amour de mes beaux yeiix'^

She maintains that I am doing injustice to myself, to my

country, to society, and to the long line of my ancestors,

by not doing what I ought to do to become the ancestor of

other people. To all her arguments I listen with patient

resignation, and sometimes tell her that I am too old —

which insinuation she vehemently resists as an imputation

against herself — that I cannot fall in love by command, that

I never saw but one sweet woman who approached my

ideal of what a woman ought to be, and that she has gone

and left no parallel ; that if another of the same kind should

cross my path, I would look at her, and admire her, but would

not promise to fall in love with her ; that I do not expect

such a being is in existence, and that, all things considered,

I am very happy as I am. " You are a fool, Godfrey,"

says my sister sometimes. "Call yourself old, indeed"

(she is two years older than I am), "why, you are in the

very prime of life, at the time when the blood is warmest,
VOL. I. 2

and the reason strongest, and the imagination brightest !
One of these days, when you are really old, a quarter of a
century hence perhaps, you will be taken in by some
designing minx, who will marry you for your money and make
your life miserable ever afterwards, and serve you right ! "
To this I seldom reply, except by the pococurante assertion,
that sufficient for the day is the evil thereof. But I
can see that my mother and sister believe all the same
that I am not so stony-hearted as I pretend to be, and that
some day or other, while yet in my prime, as they say, that
very wary bird, myself, will set his unsuspecting feet on the
bird-lime and become a captive.

These two ladies, though accustomed to defer to my
will, as the representative of the family, the inheritor of the
blood and fortune of the De Teres, were not altogether
pleased when they heard that Mr. Rameses was coming.
Not that they objected to the presence of a stranger ; on
the contrary, they liked the idea of a visitor. But Mr.
Rameses, according to the account I gave of him, was a
book-worm, a philosopher, a speaker of many languages, a
Rosicrucian, a Pagan, more or less infatuated with the acquisition
of dangerous and useless knowledge, a student of

antiquity, and altogether a person whose companionship was
likely to confirm me in my bad habits of attempting to learn
too much and make me more of a recluse and woman-shunner
than I was already. In vain I represented that I was nota
woman-hater, but that on the contrary I loved and admired
the whole sex, young and old, provided they were not
scolds, slatterns or tipplers. Lady De Glastonbury thought
that a young man, such as she considered me to be, should
not imagine that there could be women to whom such
epithets could apply, and that those who boasted of admiring
and loving the whole sex, did not in reality love anybody.
But I refrained from arguing this particular point,
and endeavoured to persuade the ladies that Mr. Rameses
was not a book-worm, as they imagined, but an experienced
and highly-accomplished man of the world.

But he is not a Christian ! " suggested my mother. " Xo
but he may be as good a man, or better, than some who
call themselves Christians," I replied. " He is not to
blame because geography and the accident of birth made
him a sun-worshipper, and for my part I like the sun-worshippers.
They consider the sun the emblem of Divinity, and
they worship the Divinity through the sun and beyond him /'

Idolatry ! " said my sister. " But never mind, the pool
man can't help his birth and education, and I shall do my
best to make him comfortable, and, Oh ! what a noble thing
it would be if I could convert him to Christianity ! "

I hope you won't try," I replied, " for he might
attempt, by way of revanche as the French say, to convert
you to sun-worship."

My sister smiled, for she is a sensible woman, and saw
that there were two sides to the question. The result of
my little rejoinder was that there was no further discussion
on the subject of sun-worship.

When at the appointed day Mr. Rameses and his Persian
valet arrived, my female folk did the honours of my household
with a grace and a pleasantness that were very
gratifying to me as well as to my guest.

It was evident that Mr. Rameses made a favourable
impression both upon them and upon Sir Henry De Glastonbury.
His noble, I might almost say majestic, presence,
his sparkling black eyes, his dark, but not too dark, complexion,
his faultless white teeth, that owed nothing to
the dentist, his abundant hair, that owed nothing to the
barber, graceful and well-formed hands, his small feet and

high insteps, and the perfect ease and elegance of his
manners, were all well calculated to impress the imagination
of women. I never yet knew a woman who did not
look to the hands and feet of a man, and dislike him if
these portions of his mortal frame were large and ungainly.
And then Mr. Rameses' deference to their sex, without
servility or obsequiousness, or awkward attempts to please
them by unmeaning and over-condescending flattery,
suggested the gentleman — which he was — and put
them as much at their ease with him as he was with
them.

Binns, my butler, a man of venerable appearance, with
beautiful white hair, a rosy face, and with an air of gravity
that would have suited a bishop, looked somewhat askance,
I thought, at the valet of Mr. Rameses, as Englishmen
of his class generally do at foreigners, and Mrs. Grab,
the housekeeper, turned up her nose at him, not too
demonstratively, in fact almost imperceptibly, but still
in a manner sufficiently symptomatic of a latent dislike
that was more likely to increase than to diminish. But of
these matters I took little heed, being quite certain that
when the day came for Mr. Rameses' departure, the " tips "

or " wails," or whatever is the proper slang for gratuities,
which he would bestow upon them, would reconcile them
alike to himself and to his valet.

Thus Mr. Rameses was satisfactorily installed at The
Rookery ; and after a short rest, an ablution, and a lunch,
he joined me by invitation in the inner sanctum of my
library.

IN THE Sanctum.

There is an electricity or magnetism (I was going to write
freemasonry, but that is an artificial institution, whereas
electricity is natural, spontaneous and irrepressible) between
persons of congenial tastes and studies, which sometimes
declares itself with the suddenness of the lightning flash,
and this occurred between Mr. Rameses and me. We
understood each other at the first interchange of looks,
even before words gave expression to the ideas which
prompted them.

Excuse me," he said, " if I look at the backs of your
books. I can never enter a library without an invincible
curiosity to know what books are m it. Ah 1 " he added,

*' I see you have an imaginary library on the back of the
door. Good I All the lost books of the Roman historians
and the Greek poets I The original Homeric ballads !
Eve upon Millinery,' and ' Adam upon the varieties of the
Potato,' ' Nimrod upon the necessity of irrigating the plain

of Shinar, and his purpose in building the Tower of Babel
the nine books of the Sibyls, the reflections of Jonah in the
Whale's Belly, the History of Human Folly, in one thousand
volumes — volume the first, the nine hundred and ninety-nine
unwritten ! Ah, my friend, a thousand volumes
would be all too few for-the mighty encyclopaedia ! But
where are your Invite slabs ? "

I pointed them out to him, and he was soon engrossed
in the perusal of the first that came to his hand.

I really think," he said, " that, for the preservation of
history, the baked clay is better than the printed paper. If
the great Library of Alexandria, burned by Caliph Omar, had
contained nothing but baked tiles and slabs, some of its
priceless treasures might have come down to the present
day as certainly as the worthless thing I hold in my hand,
which is but a mortgage deed on a house and garden."

But not altogether worthless," I said, " because it
proves that three thousand years ago there were mortgages
on land and houses as there are now."

Yes. Human nature, human wants, and human contrivances
to satisfy them, and to discount tomorrow for the
sake of the pleasures of to-day, are the same in all ages.

They were the same three thousand years ago as they were
yesterday, as I can testify."

As you can testify ? " I said, with a slight upraising of
my eyebrows.

Yes, as / can testify. Do you believe in an Eternity
with only one end ? You and I are immortal — at least,
our souls are — and if we are never to end, how can we ever
have begun ? The clothes and habiliments of my soul,
after accompanying me and the earth in seventy or eighty
gyrations round the sun, may wear out. But the wearer remains,
and has to get new clothes, either in this world or in
the next. And why not in this world ? "

Why not, indeed ? " I replied. " But then, we do not
obtain new clothes in this world — that is to say, new bodies
after the old body is no longer capable of clothing the
soul decently or comfortably ; and it is of no use arguing
or endeavouring to find out why not. It is sufficient to
know the fact that we do not and cannot."

But how do you know it to be a fact," asked Mr.
Rameses, " that we do not, or that we cannot ? I know for
myself that this is not my first appearance in the world,
though I most devoutly wish that it may be my last ! You

may not know and you may not believe when told that this
fact is 7?iy particular fact, and that , I know it and feel it as
much as I know and feel that I am alive at this moment,
and that I breathe and talk to you. And if you don't know
it hand won't believe it, the fault is yours, not mine, and
my fact is to me an indubitable fact, in spite of your
incredulity."

Here," I thought to myself, as Mr. Rameses, his black
eyes flashing phosphorescent light, thus delivered himself of
his idea, " is the little eccentricity of which M. de Palliasse
warned me." I never contradict eccentric people. I never
argue with anybody whom I think to be more or less
crotchet — or, perhaps I should use a less offensive word,
and say more or less the victim of hallucination — but, playing
the part of Colonies to Hamlet, fool him to the top of
his bent, and run no risk of making him furious by doubt,
and, above all, by contradiction. So I carefully humoured
Mr. Rameses in his idea.

And on what do you ground your belief in this fact ? "
I enquired, " except what I suppose I must call your intuitive
certainty that it is a fact ? "

By my imperfect remembrance," he replied, "of all that

happened to me in my previous dress or body, which I cas
off more than three thousand years ago. I cast it off after
having worn it for seventy years, and remained a naked soul,
floating along in the atmosphere, until about thirty years
ago, when I came into the world once more, bringing all
my previously acquired knowledge along with me, dull and
vague until my new adolescence, when it burst partially
upon me. But we will not venture further upon the subject
just now. At a future time, if you like to hear it. It
weill tell you the story of my first life — no, not my first, for
I have led many lives — but the life before this, more than
three thousand years ago, and will unfold to you the
record of my hopes, my fears, my knowledge, my ignorance,
my loves, my hates. Would it interest you, do you
think ? "

*' It would interest me very powerfully indeed," I replied,
still humouring him, and not venturing to cast even
the shadow of a doubt upon anything he might choose
to tell me ; for human nature, even in its aberrations
from the straight line, is always human nature to me, and
there are wiser thoughts in mad people's brains than the
world is willing to acknowledge. Not that Mr. Rameses

was mad. No ! He was not only a man of genius, but
of common sense, which for all I know may be much the
rarer quality of the two.

Well," he said, taking a second slab from the heap,
another time, not now. It will be a long story, and may
perhaps weary you."

I was going to reply that it would not weary me at
all, when he suddenly exclaimed, as he passed his finger
over the cuneiform characters, " You have a treasure
here, Mr. De Vere ! A contemporary record of the
building of one of the Great Pyramids. Do you love
money ? "

I do, and I don't. I have more than enough for my
wants and my luxuries, more than enough for urgency, and
for the maintenance of the old family prestige of those
who are to come after me."

That's good," said Mr. Rameses ; " but if you really
wanted or desired money, I would offer to buy the slab
of you at your own price."

If you will read and translate it for me, I will cheerfully
make you a present of it, whatever its worth or its worthlessness."


Worthlessness ! " rejoined Mr. Rameses. " It would
be cheap at any fabulous price you might mention. It
clears up a historical doubt — no doubt to me, however. I
will tell you all about it, and all about the building of the
Great Pyramid, some other day. Meanwhile, I will not
accept your gift. Bestow it upon the British Museum, or
upon some similar institution in Paris, Berlin, Vienna,
Brussels, St. Petersburg, lest it should be lost, injured, or
destroyed in your private keeping. We will talk about it
hereafter."

Mr. Rameses put back the tile in its place, and inspected
another, with much apparent interest, but said nothing.
He next proceeded to the papyri, several of which he unrolled.
" Nothing of much moment here. Records of
battles and victories, renowned in their day, waged and
won by kings whose very names have perished, and for the
sake of the stability of Empires which are extinguished as
completely, and have left as little mark behind them, as the
soap-bubbles that children toss into the sunshine from the
bowls of tobacco-pipes, and wonder at for half a minute
Thus it has been with Egypt and Assyria. Thus it will be
with France, Russia, England, America, and all the rest of

the fussy nationalities, that think they are playing mightier

parts in the world's great stage than ever were played

before ! Let us take a walk in your grounds, Mr. De

Vere. I want to get out of antiquity into the atmosphere

of the living day, and feel the breath of the skies upon my

cheek."

I led the way into the woodland, among the oaks
and beeches, and was gratified to find that Mr. Rameses
had as much admiration for noble old trees as I have
myself, and that he looked upon them with the eyes of
a poet and a painter. " Do you not think," he said,
turning to me as we stood under the wide-spreading
boughs of the very finest old beech in the park, " that
men are a little arrogant in the pride of what they
think their superior wisdom, but which may be nothing
more than their superior conceit, in denying to
trees and flowers the possession of a certain amount of intelligence
? The sense of enjoyment, accompanied as
it must be, if it exists at all, by the sense of pain and
suffering ? "

I have often thought so," I replied, " as regards the
trees —

' That all their leaves

In moms, or noons, or eves,
Or in the starry stillness of the night,

May look to Heaven in prayer.

Or bend to earth and share
Some joy of sense, some natural delight,

* # *

And feel through all their sap God's glory infinite."

Exactly so," said Mr. Rameses. " It is the faculty of
poetry to utter musical truth, and to say what we have all
of us thought, but never found words to express The
Greeks, who imagined that there were Dryads and Hama-dryads
in the trees, and Needs in the water, were nearer
to truth than modern mathematicians are willing to allow.
And the ancient Phoenicians and the Egyptians, from whom
the Greeks borrowed nearly everything they knew, were
nearer to it still. Compared with the Phoenicians and
Egyptians, the Greeks were only babes and sucklings."

That would be considered rank heresy by most of the
scholars of our day ; though I am quite prepared to accept
it as indubitably true. But then my opinion is not worth
much, as my knowledge is small, and I have not studied
the learning of the ancient Egyptians half or a hundredth
part as much as I should like to study it. And human life
is short I"

X

But I am an ancient Egyptian myself," said Mr.
Rameses. " I have been initiated into their mysteries. I
have been admitted into the Inner Circle, and I know,
where others only suspect, Greece and Rome were but the
great-grandchildren of Egypt and Phoenicia ; and all the
inventions and discoveries of your boasted modern civilization,
are but accidental and imperfect re-discoveries of
what was once familiar to me and my ancestors. But we
must have a long evening alone to discuss these matters.
At present I am weary of knowledge, and only wish to feel
that I am alive, like a bird or a butterfly."

We talked no more about antiquity that day ; but the
more I saw of Mr. Rameses, and the oftener I conversed
with him, the more I seemed to be convinced that his
eccentricity was assumed — that he had a wonderfully
capacious memory, in which he had stored a vast multitude
of facts and ideas, all ranged in their proper niches, ready
for use whenever he required them, for his own pleasure, or
that of his listener.

We returned to The Rookery to dinner, where a few
gentlemen of the neighbourhood assembled by special
invitation to meet the distinguished traveller. Mr. Rameses

made himself very agreeable, and my guests were all
delighted with him. But after they had taken their
departure, and we were seated alone in the " sanctum," he
asked me as a particular favour not to invite him too often
into company, and to be allowed, as long as he remained
in my house, to dine alone, or with the family.

"You and I, and Sir Henry de Glastonbury, are quite
sufficient company when the ladies have retired. English
dinner-parties are only the feeding-times of tame beasts,
and I don't care to be one of their number."

I was too much interested in him to thwart his wishes,
and so I gave the promise of compliance, and kept it.

VOL. I

A RAINY DAY.

You don't hunt or shoot, Mr. Rameses ? " said Sir
Henry, at the breakfast-table next morning.

No, I take no joy in kilHng. If animals are to be
killed for my food — and I must say that I am almost a
vegetarian, and eat little but fruit and grain — I like to have
the killing done by an expert, by the poulterer, the butcher,
or the fisherman."

But don't you think that sport — I won't call it killing
is good for the health, and that it leads a man to take
necessary exercise ? "

I don't," replied Mr. Rameses emphatically. " If a
man desires exercise — as every man ought — he can take it
without destroying the life of innocent creatures. Is it not
as healthy to climb a mountain-top for the sake of climbing
as to climb for the sake of the stags or the birds, and for
the mere love of slaughter ? I can understand the hunting
of tigers, Sons, wolves, and noxious animals, but I can't

understand the killing of grouse, pheasants, partridges, deer,
and other harmless creatures for the sake of killing them.
Let the poulterer and butchers do it ; not me ! Why don't
your ruthless sportsmen hire themselves out to the butchers,
and kill oxen, sheep and pigs for the wages of the work and
for the sake of killing them ? "

I am not much of a sportsman myself," replied Sir
Henry, "and must say that my fancy lies in the direction of
encouraging and improving life rather than in the direction
of taking it away. If my health would allow me to live in
England, I would cultivate my old taste — the breeding of
cattle, and the improvement of the stock of all the
domestic animals that are useful to mankind."

Ah ! " said Mr. Rameses, " that is a worthy pursuit.
The horses — the cattle — the sheep of England are superior
to those of every other country, and all because of the care
taken to improve the stock — just as the pears and plums of
France excel those of all other parts of Europe ! It is my
belief that the race of man is quite as improvable by culture
as the race of horses — or of roses and apples."

No doubt ! " interposed I, " but you must remember
that the horses, and the bulls, and the sheep, and the roses,

are the slaves of man — and that man himself is free to
indulge in vices and excesses, and to propagate his kind
when he is drunk, insane or diseased ! "

Just so," replied Sir Henry, " and all ideas of improvement
in the race of man, are idle as long as each man
remains^his own master. " What a blessing it would be if
the diseased, the vicious, the deformed, the ugly, were
prohibited from pairing, and left no successors."

Aye ! or could be controlled by the strong arm of
a benevolent despotism," said Mr. Rameses. " The time was
when this was done ! "

When and where ? " — enquired I.

In the days before history ! "

If before history, how can you know ? " asked Sir
Henry.

From my own experience," replied Mr. Rameses. " I
ha e seen it and known it."

Cracked ? " suggested Sir Henry in a whisper to me —
off his head, as they say ? "

It had been raining persistently all the morning — and
walking up to the window — opening it — and looking out —
by way of changing the subject, which began to alarm

Sir Henry — but which did not alarm me, except for the
fact that my sister just then entered the room, and might
haste heard what we were speaking about, I suggested that
as nothing could be done out of doors we might profitably
adjourn to my study. The suggestion was adopted.
Z^Ir. Rameses no sooner entered the sanctum than he recommenced
the examination of the Babylonian slabs — some
of which he affirmed to form portions of the historical
books of the Kings of Babylon — venerable secrets of little
use unless the Avhole record could be discovered.

That is tantalizing," said I. " The world thirsts for
knowledge, and it would be of the highest interest to the
present and future generations to be able to reveal the
mysteries of all but obliterated history."

If you earnestly desire to pierce into the mysteries,"
replied Mr. Rameses, "you can learn to read for yourself the
arrow-headed records of which you possess so many ;
though it will possibly take a longer lifetime than you or
any man can expect, to piece the fragments together —
even if the-fragments exist. What a poor little mushroom
thing history is \ Soon grown — sooner perished — never
completed ! It is said that Truth endures for ever !

Bah ! The Truth of history is unknown but the Lies of

history are imperishable ! "

Very true, and very sad," remarked Sir Henry. " But
what's the good of complaining ? "

*' Yes ; very true and very sad. But what's the good of
anything ? Except sleep ! That is glorious, and would be
divine if there were no awakening."

'' You are too young, Mr. Rameses," said I, " to indulge
in such gloomy, misanthropical, God-denying ideas as
these. Life is good, and all the beautiful universe is full
of it."

Too young ! did you say ? I am miserably old ! But I
don't want to infect either of you with my melancholy.
Don't call me young ! I am old, very old ! And the oldness
of my head drives the youngness out of my heart."

Excuse the abruptness of the question, Mr. Rameses,"
said I ; " but it relates to youthfulness of heart. I make
bold to ask, were you ever in love ? "

Ever in love ? I have been in love more deeply than
I care to think of ! I am in love now, with my twin soul
of whom I am in daily search, and whom I am compelled
to seek all over the world, under the heavy penalty of daily

misery, until I make her mine. Then I shall be happy ;
and then the end will come ! "

Cracked, very much cracked ! " said Sir Henry in a
whisper to me, as he prepared to leave the room. " Excuse
me to him. I have a horror of people who are not quite
sane. There is no knowing when the insanity will boil
over ! " And then, in a louder voice, he said, as he gazed
for a few moments out of the window, " There is a break
in the clouds. I shall take my usual ride after all. Will
either of you accompany me ? "

You know," I replied, " that I never trust myself
on horseback. Walking's the exercise that suits me
best."

"It suits me too," said Mr. Rameses. " I love to think
as I go, and if a man on horseback thinks about anything
but his horse, he is very likely to come to mischief."

"Good-bye, then," said Sir Henry, "my ride shall be
solitary."

Sir Henry left us, glad to escape from Mr. Rameses.

Left alone with me, putting aside a slab as he spoke, Mr.
Rameses said, " I am afraid that I have startled Sir Henry,
and that he has taken it into his head that I am not

exactly in my right mind. He is welcome to think so if it
pleases him, but I should not like you to share his opinion.
I recognise in you a man in advance of his age, one who is
not shocked at great ideas, even when they run counter to
the preconceived opinions los the world, as I wish to confide
to you the history of my life and my mind. Will you
accept the confidence ? "

I shall be highly honoured. The greatest joy of my
life is to learn, and I feel that I can learn a hundred times
more from you than you are Hkely to learn from me."

"Well," he replied, "the story will be the story of a
soul, as well as of a body, and may possibly make you sad.
Will you be ready to hear it if I begin to-night ? "

Quite ready, and all attention."

Tell me, first — Are you a believer in what is called
spiritualism ? "

A difficult question to answer. I believe in spirit or
soul. And I believe that there is a sympathy — an attractive,
an occult influence exercised by one living soul over another
living soul in this world. I believe that friendship between
man and man is a manifestation of spiritualism ; and that
love between man and woman, if it be pure love, of the

soul as well as of the body, is the highest manifestation of
spiritualism — you may call it electricity if you will — that
can exist in this world. But I do not believe that the
living soul, that has departed from the body in this world,
any longer exercises influence over a soul that still performs
its own functions by means of its own temporary body.
But this is not what the world calls spiritualism."

No," said Mr. Rameses ; " this is not spiritualism.
Spiritualism affirms that the disembodied spirit is still an
active power in our world of embodied spirits."

"I can't believe that," I replied "All ghosts are of
our own making, born out of a foolish or an excited imagination,
and cannot turn tables, or write letters, or perform
conjuring tricks. So if these performances, or others of a
like nature, constitute spiritualism, I am not a spiritualist."

I asked you the question for a reason. I do not, anymore
than you do, believe that spirit manifests itself in
what is called spiritualism. But I believe (and I think I
know) that spirit exerts itself in our living bodies with a
power that is drawn from eternity, and that you and I, in
this mortal life, are subject to the eternal experience of the
spirit or soul that we hold for a time in the physical

embrace of our corporeal frame. Do you follow

me ? "

*' I follow you, but do not clearly understand you."
*' You are willing to understand — I gather that from all
you say ; and if so, you will understand my story when I
have told it you. The eternal nature of the soul, both
before and after this present life — that is my theme, that is
the secret of my history. To-night, if you will be a learner,
I shall be proud to be your teacher. But you, and you
only, are to be my listener. You will perhaps find that as
I am, and as I have been, you are also, and that your mind
will be opened, as mine has been, to many things of high
importance, that, as your poet Shakspeare says, 'Are
caviare to the million.' "

Though not quite satisfied that Mr. Rameses was not the
slave of a fancy, a hallucination, a crotchet, or whatever
else an aberration from the common-place may be called,
I was quite-convinced that if he were mad, it was with the
madness of Hamlet, that his madness had much method
in it, that he knew a hawk from a heron shaw — when the
wind was in the proper quarter — and that I should derive
instruction more or less valuable, or, at all events, intellectual

recreation, from what he had to tell me. He expressed
his desire to take a solitary ramble, so we each betook ourselves
our several ways, and I awaited the night by taking
a good half-da>^s work in my garden, among the flowers
and the cabbages.

life

Concerning TWIN SOULS.

The night that came did not bring Mr. Rameses along with
it. But just as I was beginning to grow anxious on account
of his non-appearance, little Jack Jonas, the son of one of
my tenants, brought me a missive, written with a pencil on
a scrap of paper torn out of a note-book, which informed
me that the writer — Mr. Rameses — had been summoned to
London on urgent business, that admitted of no delay, and
that he would give me notification of his return. I wondered
a Httle, not much, that his urgent business should
have found him out in the neighbourhood of the Rookery,
where he desired to remain unknown — but, as wonder
was not of the slightest use, and no enlightenment could
come of it, except by investigations and enquiries which I
had no desire to make — I dismissed my wonder into the
atmosphere, or into nonentity, if there be such a thing —
which, ejitre iious^ critical reader, is an impossibility.
Anyhow, I speedily forgot all about Mr. Rameses, quite

content to await his re-appearance to hear his promised
story or his non-appearance, and speculated for a full
half-hour or more on the singularity of his character, of
on the doubtful point whether, like Hamlet, he was half-mad,
wholly mad, or not mad at all. But I banished him
from my mind as soon as possible, and buried myself, like
a bee, deep in the petals of a book, from which I expected
to draw wisdom, and from which I certainly drew amusement
— a book by a living author, whom I shall not name,
lest I should excite the ire of other living authors, who
will never acknowledge an author to be great until he be
dead and past rivalry.

I heard no more of Mr, Rameses for three weeks. After
that interval he called upon me in Park Lane. My
daughter had returned a few days previously from her
Italian hoHday, and was sitting with me in the study when
his card was brought. She had heard all about him, and
perhaps more than all, from Lady de Glastonbury, who was
afflicted with an epistolary cacoethes, to a degree more than
usually violent. My daughter was naturally anxious to see
a man of whom she had heard so much ; but, at the
announcement of his name, she fled precipitately, giving the

very feminine reason that she did not wish to appear before
him in a deshabille that I thought showed her off to very
great advantage, but which she declared made her look
a "perfect fright." "Do invite him again to The Rookery,"
she said, as she imprinted a kiss upon my forehead, and drew
her delicate taper fingers through my abundant hair (I have
not the slightest tendency to baldness, having all my life
avoided the use of tobacco), for I long to see him, after the
description Aunt Margery has given me. Do, do, there's a
dear!"

I promised compliance, as she glided like a sylph from the
room just as the foot of Mr. Rameses was heard upon the
stairs.

"You will have thought it strange," he said, after the
customary salutations had been exchanged, " that I should
have disappeared so suddenly from the quiet Rookery,
in which I delight. I owe you an explanation. The
truth is that I felt a malady, to which I am occasionally
subject, coming upon me. On these rare occasions, I hate
to be condoled with or pitied. What is more, I hate sick
people, and myself most of all when I am in a state that
threatens to make me burthensome and disagreeable to

anybody. So I went away, and got well by myself, as I
always do. I sometimes think that if I were a poor man
and desired to gain a large income, I would become a
physician, and cure all my patients (for large fees, be it
understood) by doing nothing and prescribing nothing, and
by no other course of treatment than that of putting on a
pleasant face, and uttering a hopeful prophecy upon everything,
and trusting to all bountiful and all beneficent Nature
to work a cure. There is only one malady that cannot be
cured by hope and wholesome inattention to it, and that
is old age, the incurable disease, not to be scientifically
described except by Anno Domini, or, as some would prefer
it, Anno Mundi. And now that the shadow has passed
over, I am come to invite myself once more to The
Rookery, if you will tolerate me for awhile."

For as long as you please. When will you come ? "

*' In a week, if that will suit you."

"Perfectly."

During this week I have two or three invitations
from great people in London, not very great to me, but
great to themselves and to the outer world of common
Londoners. I have accepted two of them, with a view

of studying the manners of the EngUsh, I was going to
say of amusing myself; but great gatherings do not
amuse me, whether at dinners, evening parties, balls, or
theatres. I go the day after tomorrow to the Earl of
Stoney-Stratford's, who has three unmarried daughters ; —
lovely girls they say. I like to look at lovely girls, if they
be sensible and modest and do not talk slang. Next day,
a fascinating widow, of great popularity, greater ambition,
and with a very small jointure, has made up a party, at an
expense which I am afraid she cannot afford, to meet me —
a poor, mysterious, unknown Asiatic, who is reputed to be
fabulously rich. Shall I go ?

*' Why not ? The proper study of mankind is man and
woman. You may be amused''

Possibly, though it takes a great deal to amuse me. My
next invitation is from what in the slang of the day is
called a professional beauty. I shall go, of course. ' Professional
beauty' tickles my fancy; though a woman who
gains notoriety, and loves it, by her charms, is not superior
in my mind to a professional beauty, who turns her charms to
profit and to pleasure in the harem of an Eastern potentate."

You love the sex, you say, or, at all events, you like

them, and it is your object, being an idle man, not too much
addicted to abstruse philosophy to study them, ^ pour vous
distrain,' as the French would say."

I neither hate nor love the sex. Why should I ? I seek
my twin soul, and I like to look upon lovely woman, in the
hope of finding her. It may be tomorrow, it may be a
thousand years hence, or it may be never ! But why do I
say never ? There is no never ! I shall find my counterpart
soul some day. And then ! Ah ! then — what then ?
Happiness — great happiness, unspeakable happiness — absorption,
annihilation of self, and complete beatitude of
spirit with spirit, never more to be associated with vile body."

"Vile body ! Is not body as divine as soul ? "

Not quite. Is the violin on which you play as divine
as the player ? Is the eye superior to what it sees ? Is
the ear better than music ? Is the tool superior him who
uses it ? Is the perishable greater than the imperishable ? "

The belief of Mr. Rameses in the twin soul was his

craze, his hobby, his eccentricity. I will not call it his

madness. After all, what did it signify ? We are all mad,

more or less, as ha been said over and over again by will,

philosophers, and points ; and if I had asked my secret soul
VOL. I. 4

about it, and my secret soul had replied truthfully, as the
soul always does, I should have been informed by my soul,
that I too might be afflicted with one per cent, of insanity ;
that I live in a glass-house, and that I ought not to throw
pebbles at the glass-house of Mr. Rameses.

I see," continued he, noticing perhaps a slight shadow
of doubt and perplexity on my face, " that you do not
wholly share my ideas with regard to the twin soul that
every man and woman in this world has to find, under
heavy penalty — the penalty of being unhappy until the
death of the body ; unhappy, because soul and body are
both incomplete until the meeting of the predestined pair,
who, being a pair, are yet one. Too often they never meet.
Hence the miserable marriages that are contracted everyday
by ill-assorted bodies, and still worse assorted souls ;
and hence the ill-favoured, imperfect, vicious and wicked
children that come into the world that would be better
without them."

I do not see anything in your theory but a poetical
dream, which, after all, means nothing but t he necessity of
sympathy in love and marriage. Without sympathy, love
and true happiness are impossible."

Very trite and old ; excuse me for saying so," said
Mr. Rameses. "Sympathy is common enough, just as
antipathy is. There are many sympathies to enjoy in the
world, and many antipathies to suffer ; but there is only
one t\vin soul for every man and woman. And the twin
souls are fated to meet sooner or later. If not in youth, in
age ; if not in this stage of existence, in another ; if not in
this poor little planet, the earth, in some other and greater
member of the sidereal system ; if not in globular time, in
infinite eternity. It is my fate to search for my twin soul,
and I must continue the search till I either succeed or die
die in the body, to revive again in the soul elsewhere."

I hope, Mr. Rameses," said I, " that when you look for
the twin soul among the three daughters, for instance, of
the Lord Stoney-Stratford, or at the house of the fascinating
widow, or the professional beauty you speak of, you will not
let them know what you are seeking, lest they should laugh."
Well, if they laugh," replied Mr. Rameses, " I shall be
spared the trouble of further search in their direction, as
one who would laugh on so solemn a subject, cannot be my
twin soul. Nevertheless, I shall not explain my philosophy
to any woman whatever, or to any man, or any cynical

4*

UNIVERSITY 0^
IU.IN01S LIBRARY

derider of mysteries ; and if I have explained it to you, it
is because I think you are really a searcher after wisdom,
and that you do not despise theories merely because they may
appear to be extravagant, or because the densely respectable,
and the still more densely stupid, people who boast of
what they call their ' common-sense,' may agree to laugh at
them. But I will not attempt to discuss the matter just
now, or inflict my theories upon you in a hasty visit, when
your mind may be pre-occupied. When we are alone together
at The Rookery, amid your books, with the mummy
in the corner, and we have exhausted the subject of the
weather, and of the dreary politics of your nation — politics
that savour more of the narrow-mindedness of a parish than
of the broader interests of the wide world, of which that
parish is but a small part — we may indulge in speculations
on the unseen and the unknown. Such speculations, I
must confess, have a singular fascination for my mind."

"And for mine too, if not carried to excess. I sometimes
think, when I am tempted to let my imagination runaway
with my experience, that I am about as foolish as a
gold-fish, imprisoned in a vase of water (to him and his
comrades in captivity the only known world) would be if

he were to launch out into speculations about my library,
about my country, about Europe, Asia, and America, or
about the sun and the moon. Or, again, I often think
that I am even more presumptuous in attempting to fathom
infinitude and eternity than the animalcule in a drop of
water would be, if he thought he were a philosopher or a
metaphysician, a positivist or a Contest, and began to
speculate on the scheme of the Universe."

"The reflection is natural," said Mr. Rameses ; "but
suppose an animalcule, that has escaped from the drop of
water, or a fish that has been liberated from the glass
vase, and seen the world ! / am that animalcule ! / am that
fish ! I have been privileged to pass the boundaries. I
have seen, and I have known."

Ah ! my friend," said I, " seeing is nothing. The eye
is the greatest of deceivers. I have seen much, but I know
nothing. To see is not necessarily to understand or to
know. I have seen the moon, and the stars, but what
do I know about them ? Nothing ! nothing ! nothing ! "

As we thus spoke, a letter, brought by special messenger,
was delivered to me by my serving-maid, for I have no
man-servant in the house, only a butler and a coachman,

who confine themselves, by my express desire, to their own
special business. I prefer neat-handed Phillips in my
household to men-servants. The missive conveyed an invitation
to myself and Miss De Vere from Lord Stoney-stratford
to meet Mr. Rameses. Though the notice was
short, I at once decided on accepting the invitation, to
the apparent joy of my visitor, to whom I handed the letter.
I hope I shall sit next to you at the dinner-table," he
said ; " I hate to be placed with a fair fool, or with a
silent, a solemn, or an unknown man, on either side of me,
with neither of whom I can converse, except about the
weather, for fear if I talked on any other subject, I might
tread on the theological, the political, the artistic, or
perhaps the social coat-tails of my neighbour. Why, in the
name of all that is wonderful, are large dinner-parties given
to bring people together who may not have a single feeling
in common ? I like a dinner-party, not exceeding eight or
nine people of both sexes, who know what to talk about,
and who can accompany, by intellectual intercourse, the
vulgar pleasure, or rather the necessity of eating and drinking.
I would as soon be a pig, and eat swill out of a trough,
as eat my dinner without the civilising sauce of intellectual

conversation. If I cannot find other society at
dinner, I will dine with a book, with the wisdom, the wit,
or the poetry of which I can sympathise, and in which, if
I do not altogether sympathise, I can find something or
other to stir my thought by suggestion."

My soul," said I, " is twin with yours as far as that
idea is concerned."

And with this remark our conversation ended.

<r^ ©

k(§U&'^^

THE STONEY-STRATFORD FAMILY.

The Earl of Stoney-Stratford was an old acquaintance of
mine, an accomplished man — a good man after his kind —
and one that many, if not most, people would have envied,
and with whom they would have been glad to exchange
destinies — even if they had known of two little skeletons
which he had in his cupboard. The skeletons were not very
frightful, and ninety-nine people out of a hundred would
not have considered them skeletons at all — or if they did,
would have quietly locked the door upon them, or bricked it
up hermetically. Skeleton the first was the complaint against
Fate and Nature that had denied him a son, to whom he
might transmit his title. He had, it is true, a son — who
was not a son, in the eyes of the law — and of whom Lady
Stoney-Stratford knew nothing, while the most ardent wish
of his life was the possession of a son in whom Lady Stoney-stratford
should have as much right as himself He had
seven daughters, it is true, but in his eyes, much as he

loved and admired them — for they were comely, and
even beautiful — a son would have been better than
them all.

The other skeleton was an unappeasable greed for other
men's acres, contiguous to his own ; acres of which he could
not dispossess the owners, even by purchase at three times
their value. Why he so coveted these acres — some of them
barren, or scantily productive — was a mystery to all sensible
people; but Lord Stoney-Stratford loved to accumulate
acres for the sake of the acres — as some men love to
accumulate books, pictures, snuff-boxes, walking-sticks, or
old china ; not for any good that these may yield to their
owners, but for the mere sake of possessing them. Had
he owned the acres, he might have been unhappy — but not
owning the acres he was miserable, and life seemed to him
scarcely tolerable. What was his title to him — what were
his other acres — as long as the obstinate Jones and the
equally obstinate Smith possessed the outlying fields, and
would not or could not sell them ? And why could he not
buy a field as easily as he could buy a ship, a bale of cotton,
or a leg of mutton ? But he kept his griefs to himself as
the Spartan boys kept their foxes — under their waistcoats,

defying the world to dis button them and let out the prohibited
animals.

According to public Rumour, who is the greatest of all
possible liars, Lord Stoney-Stratford's affairs were in
some embarrassment. " How," asked Rumour, " could it be
otherwise — when he borrowed money at ten and sometimes
twelve or fifteen per cent, from usurers, to invest inland
that only paid him three per cent. ? " How, indeed,
supposing that Rumour for once spoke truth. He who
scorns arithmetic, be he lord or ploughman, man of genius
or simpleton, must come to grief, if he lives long enough to
allow fate to work out the dreadful problem of income and
expenditure, when they are in disagreement.

Lord Stoney-Stratford's daughters were very costly
articles — very beautiful, no doubt, and they knew it.
Their tastes were very expensive, and if matrimony could
provide the means for indulgence in them, they were not
particular as to the age, height, health, character, colour
or other personal condition of the matrimonial partner —
provided always that the prejudices or opinions of Society
were not too flagrantly outraged. They were not at all
romantic, though they loved romance in other people —

especially in the novels of women who scribble out
of the gushing superabundance of their ignorance of life
and of the rules of EngUsh composition — but for neither of
them was love in a cottage a consummation to be looked
upon except with contemptuous disfavour or positive
repugnance. Lady Stoney-Stratford was an excellent
manager, where her daughters were concerned, and had
succeeded in getting four of them off his Lordship's hands
and her own. She had married two of them to comparatively
small fortunes and a title, and another two of them
for much money and no title. Neither she nor her husband
had cared to build upon other foundations than these ;
though both were equally anxious that their daughters
should live respectably and not offend Mrs. Grundy. The
dinner to meet Mr. Rameses was entirely due to her
ladyship's good management. Mr. Rameses was more or
less the hero of the London season — was indubitably handsome,
and was almost indubitably rich. In addition to these
advantages there was a halo of romance and mystery about
him which would not have encircled him with so much lustre
if he had been an Englishman, but which, being a grand
Asiatic, with a mixture of Scotch blood in his veins — who

might have had half a dozen wives in his time and whom
he might have subjected to the bowstring, or the sack, or the
scimitar — was of a nature to dazzle the eyes even to blindness
of all the young lady devotees at the holy — super-holy —
ever-holy shrine of the ineffable St. Mammon.

The Earl knew all his wife's manoeuvres and sympathised
in their object. If Maud, Ethel, or Gwendoline succeeded
in being well married, and ceased to be a burthen on his resources,
he might purchase a few more acres within sight of
the windows of Stoney Court. It was reported that Mr.
Rameses was a Parsee, a Jew, a Mahometan, a Buddhist, or
worse — but what did it signify, if the marriage could be
brought about with the consent of all parties ? Maud, Ethel
or Gwendoline, might become a Parsee or anything else if
there were a million of money behind ; and perhaps Mr.
Rameses himself was about as much of a Christian as other
people in England ; and might embrace the faith to gain a
wife after his fancy. "What will not woman when she
loves ? " asks the old song. What will not man do when
he lusts ? — might be asked with equal propriety.

There was a large party that night at the Earl of Stoney-stratford's.
There were several ladies, including dowagers

and comely married women, among the guests ; but there
were only four unmarried ones — the three Pierrepoints,
daughters of the Earl, and Laura Brown De Vere, my
daughter. Laura was invited on the suggestion of Lady
Stoney-Stratford — who saw deep into social things and social
folks — who had an idea in her diplomatic head, that if no
young marriageable ladies but her own daughters were
present, the ill-natured critics and criticises might whisper
and hint, louder than if they blew a bassoon, a bagpipe, or ten
thousand trumpets, that the party had been arranged with no
other purpose than to ensnare the millionaire into a marriage
with one (no matter which) of the blooming Pierrepoints.

Mr. Rameses that evening made himself even more than
usually agreeable, and adapted his conversation more to
the supposed tastes of the ladies than to those of the gentlemen
of the party. He was especially cordial in his manner
to Lady Stoney-Stratford, which he certainly would not
have been if he had suspected the real motive of her
diplomacy. But the suspicion never entered his mind.
All the ladies were fascinated by his manner. He was
modest and unobtrusive, but not shy. He was handsome,
and did not appear to be aware of the fact. He was eloquent,

but did not talk too much, and showed no tendency
to monopolise the conversation, or to thrust himself unduly
forward. A slight shade passed over his face as I.ady
Gwendoline, the handsomest of the three daughters of her
host, used the words "awfully jolly !" But it speedily passed
away, to return, however, a few moments afterwards, when
she declared that something or other was a "horrid bore."
It was evident, from the expression which flashed into his
eyes, that Mr. Rameses, even if he had been in search of
the twin soul, would not have looked for it in Lady
Gwendoline's direction.

After the ladies had retired, the conversation among the
gentlemen happened to turn upon the scientific discoveries
of the present time — notably upon the uses to which it was
possible to turn the mysterious powers of electricity. On
this point Lord Stoney-Stratford expressed his opinion that
this age was far in advance of every other since the creation
of the world, and that society was yet on the threshold of
newer and still more important discoveries.

Mr. Rameses dissented. " I have studied this subject,"
he said, " with a care and a profundity that I am positive —
all but positive — that no man living, whoever he may be,

has devoted to it, because I have had unrivalled opportunities.
It is too much the fashion in the nineteenth
century of the Christian era to look upon this particular
century as the culmination of scientific wisdom. Ignorant
conceit ! The ancients knew far more than the moderns,
though they did not spread their knowledge abroad, or proclaim
it by sound of trumpets, and gabble of newspapers,
in the highways and the by-ways. The grandest of modern
discoveries are but re-discoveries of facts and principles
known — not for the first time nineteen hundred years
after the starting-point of the Christian era, but two or
three thousand years before it."

But," interposed the Honourable Augustus Smithers —
a portly man with a very bald head, and a very pompous
manner — " are we not in advance of the ancients, say in the
matter of railways and steam engines ? "

We travel faster than the ancients, undoubtedly," said
Mr. Rameses ; " a fact in which I see no particular advantage
; but the contrary. I see no good in fast travelling orin
fast living. Does fast travelling increase the world's
happiness, or that of the individual ? "

Perhaps not," said Lord Stoney-Stratford. " The good

old coach and four was good enough for mo, and for anybody
who could afford the expense. For those who could
not afford it there was a choice of two pleasures, neither of
them to be despised — that of walking or of staying at home.
The last perhaps was the greater of the two."

"There is much to be said on both sides," said !Mr.
Bangles, a Queen's counsel and a member of Parliament,
who was accustomed professionally to look at both sides of
every possible question. '' The great good that I see in
railways and steam engines arises from the fact that they
enable all the nations of the world to become acquainted
with each other ; and from the smaller or less important fact
that in our day cities have a tendency to grow too large —
much too large — for health, comfort, and amenity, and that
railways enable people now and then to get out of them into
the fresh air of the country."

It is a large subject," replied Mr. Rameses ; " but a
dinner-table is not precisely the forum for its discussion,
especially when the ladies are making music upstairs.
inviting us to join them. Sweet music is better than argumentation."


Let us rejoin the ladies," said Lord Stoney-Stratford,

passing the bottle to Sir. Rameses — who refrained from
filling his glass — and then, rising, led the way to the .


The ladies Maud and Ethel Pierrepoint were playing a
duet from Mendelssohn as the gentlemen entered. " Do you
greatly enjoy music, Mr. Rameses ? " asked Lady Stoney-stratford,
with a more than usually gracious smile to the
millionaire, after he had been listening for a few minutes.

More than I can tell," he answered. " Beethoven
more especially awakens feelings, memories, and mysteries in
me which I cannot describe or account for, and which seem
to me to speak a language without words — ' Lieder one
worse,' as he expresses it — more full of meanings than any
language that ever was spoken. But you will, perhaps,
think me eccentric if I say that the simple melodies of
Scotland and Ireland have a very great charm for me, and
exercise a power over my sympathies which is unaccountable
to me. I sometimes think as I have some Scottish blood
in my veins which I have inherited from a remote ancestor
that my mysterious and occult love for Scottish music becomes
explicable. Do the Ladies Pierrepoint play or sing

Scottish music ? "

VOL. !• 5

I am afraid not," said Lady Stoney-Stratford ; " they
prefer operatic airs — Italian, German, or French. We
think in England that English, Scotch, Irish and Welsh
music is rococo, vulgar ; much too ' tuny,^ as we say."

Tune ? " said Mr. Rameses. " I never heard the word
before j but shall make a note of it. Tune ! Music that
is not ' tune ' is not to my taste. But can Miss De Vere,
do you think, not sing a Scotch melody, let me call it a
tune, in spite of your Ladyship's disapprobation. Mr. De
Vere," he said to me, who had overheard the little colloquy,
does your daughter admire Scotch music ? "

She loves it," I replied ; " and is no mean proficient
either upon the instrument or with the voice. She is one
of those true singers, who do not need to be asked twice,
but who sing as the birds do, because singing is natural to
them."

Laura consented immediately, with all the grace in the
world. I could not help thinking that Lady Stoney-Stratford
looked displeased at her cheerful willingness, as if she
thought a wrong was done to her three daughters by the
fact that any other young girl could do what they could
not.

Shall I sing a sad song or a merry one ? " asked Laura.

*' Oh, a sad song — a melancholy song by all means,"

replied Mr. Rameses. " The Flowers of the Forest," or

*' Lochaber No More." To me there is a charm which

defies analysis, in plaintive memories, in the minor key —

Gay music makes me sad — so prithee, sweet,
Sing me a doleful, melancholy song,
Such as Ophelia, crazed, and scattering flowers,
Sings in the play ! '

And she sang " The Flowers of the Forest," and
Lochaber No More," the melancholy wail of despondent
patriotism, to the great delight of Mr. Rameses.

"These, I suppose, are Highland or Gaelic, and not
Lowland Scotch, melodies ? " said he to me, and also to
Laura.

The * Flowers of the Forest ' is a purely Highland air,"
I replied, "and is full of the peculiar pathos of the love
songs of the Gael. I do not know whether ' Ye Banks and
Braes ' is Highland or Lowland."

It is neither, papa," said Laura ; " but French, adopted

and improved upon by the Scotch, and very likely was

introduced into Scotland or composed by Chatelard, the

unhappy admirer of Queen Mary."

5*

"Would you kindly oblige me with another Scottish
song ? " said Mr. Rameses. " I cannot explain to you or to
myself the singular effect which such music has on my
feelings. It breathes to me of the long, long ago, and sends
me, as it were, up the stream of Time, as if I had first
heard the sad and tender melodies thousands of years ago ! "
Laura, though surprised at the mention of thousands of
years, only thought it an exaggeration of musical enthusiasm,
and at once consented. She was running over the prelude
to the livelier air of the Jacobite song of Prince Charlie's
welcome to Skye, when the pompous Mr. Smithers asked
of the still more pompous Mr. Bangles, Q.C., what the young
lady was singing so much for ?

Don't you know ? '** said Bangles, putting his glass to his
eye with an impudent sneer. " She's singing for the million
—a la Hullah ! "

The observation did not reach the ears of Mr. Rameses,
but it reached mine, and those of the hostess.

Lady Stoney-Stratford smiled, as if she highly enjoyed
the impertinence, while I experienced all over my frame a
feeing of contempt for Mr. Bangles. The word snob dwelt
unspoken on my lips, as I surveyed him from head to foot

in a manner which the French designate by the verb toises
an expression for which the English have no exact equivalent.


That my lovely and pure-minded girl should be suspected
even by a " snob " or a " cad " of displaying her
gifts to please Mr. Rameses, or anybody else, for his money,
was an offence to my delicacy and an insult to my
daughter, meriting contempt, which I was glad to inflict
upon Bangles, and which I extended in a minor degree to
Lady Stoney-Stratford herself, for seeming to approve of it.

The Ladies GwendoHne, Maud and Ethel were more or
less out of humour with Laura's performance, but when I
asked Lady Gwendoline if she would sing an Italian or a
German air, she replied, " Oh, yes ! I hate Scotch music —
but, no, I don't hate it, I don't understand it. It is so
awfully slow and old-fashioned — quite too entirely gone by.
Would you like to hear Chacun lo dice Ciasciin lo sa !
from ' La Filia del Regiment ' ? I think I could
manage it."

*' Oh, do 1 " said I, " it is awfully good ; quite too tremendously
beautiful, in fact."

The Lady Gwendoline saw no mockery either in my

words or on my face, and she sang it " quite too awfully
badly," though apparently to the satisfaction of Smithers
and Bangles, Q.C. These two were marked in the demonstration
of their very quiet and restrained applause.
Mr. Rameses made no sign, except in a faint sotto voce tome,
"This is but shadow; the singing of your daughter
is sunlight, moonlight, starlight. I like a song with a
heart in it, though my heart, I am afraid, is very much like
an extinct volcano."

'' You have more heart, Mr. Rameses, than you care to
acknowledge," said I. " All men of any culture now and
then affect a cynicism which they do not feel. It acts
upon their system, you see, like sauce to fish, or mustard
to beef. I like cynicism if it be gracefully put on —-like a
mask, like a domino, as it were, with bright eyes and good
features underneath it — unseen of the uninitiated."

If anything," replied Mr. Rameses, " could convert
the shadow of my cynicism into the substance it would
be the Stoney-Stratford family."

"Then the twin soul is not to be sought in that
direction ? "

The thought of the twi soul never enters my mind of

my own free will. It always comes unbidden, like a
lightning flash — a divine prompting — a heavenly inspiration
and vanishes as suddenly, leaving its own memory and
my regrets behind it — perhaps not reappearing for a space
of time that seems to me to be centuries, though they are
only the hours and days of ordinary mortals."

The attentions lavished upon Mr. Rameses by his
aristocratic entertainers seemed at first to weary, and
finally to distress him. He was the first to take his departure,
and I and Laura followed after an inter-al of about
a quarter of an hour, during which his merits (no demerits
were even so much as suggested) were freely discussed by
the ladies of the company, with an occasional word thrown
in by the gentlemen.

Do you not think, Jocelyn," said Lady Stoney-Stratford
to her husband, " that there is a singular beauty in his
melancholy face ? I do not think I ever saw a handsomer
or nobler-looking man."

Yes, rather good-looking," replied his lordship.

If he be as rich as he is handsome," interposed Lady
Gwendoline, " and is as open to marriage, as if he were a
Christian, what an awfully great sensation he will make

in Society this season. What do you think, Miss De

Vere ? "

I don't know what to think," replied Laura, with a
repetition of the word tJmik, which pleased me, as betokening
a sense of humour, " except that I think that
ladies think a great deal too much of marriage now-a-days,
and think that there is nothing else worth thinking about."

Very good," said Lord Stoney-Stratford, " though I
myself think it's very natural for girls to think on the
subject that they think interests them most, especially if
they cannot otherwise think at all."

Hear my thought," said I, preparing to depart with
Laura, "which is, that Mr. Rameses will prove a very hard
man to please. It is not mere beauty that will captivate
him, nor wit, nor accomplishments, nor wealth, and that
he is just as likely, if he should ever fall in love at all, to
fall in love for a mere caprice of his fancy, whether the
caprice be fixed upon a duchess or a shop-girl."

*' Shop-girl ! " said Lady Gwendoline. " What a dreadful,
horrid idea ! "

But he's a gentleman," said Lady Ethel, " and would
never dream of such a thing ? "

Mr. Bangles, Q.C., expressed his opinion that there
would" be at least a thousand aspirants during the season
for the honour of becoming Mrs. Rameses, if the tales of
his wealth were true ; even if he had only a quarter of the
money which Rumour, always disposed to exaggerate,
attributed to the handsome and mysterious personage.

And we separated with the conviction strong in my mind
that, if there were to be a bride at all, Bangles, Q.C., had
not greatly over-estimated the possible number of the
candidates for the possession of the heart, the name, the
diamonds and the ducats of Mr. Rameses.

-^

PHYSICAL SLAVERY AND SPIRITUAL FREEDOM.

I SAW and heard nothing of Mr. Rameses for a fortnight
after the dinner at Lord Stoney-Stratford's. He then wrote
to say how wearied he was with London life, and how refreshing
it would be to his mind and body if he could run
down to the Rookery, to the groves and meadows — far away
from the hot pavements, the stifling streets, and the still
more stifling balls of the fashionable season. He could
not find a soul in London, he said, with whom he could
interchange ideas. There was talk and gossip, and babble
all around, but no conversation except on inane subjects
which he did not care to discuss. He wanted to bathe
himself in sunshine and pure air, to tread the green grass
under the blue sky, and to enjoy a little sympathy, which
he thought he could enjoy in my study. Of course I
pressed him to come, and he came. My mother did not
seem particularly well pleased at the idea of the " Pagan "
so she called him — being installed in my house. She

had a misgiving that his presence in the Rookery would
turn out, somehow or other, to be unlucky. My sister
and family had taken their departure, but Sir Henry de
Glastonbury and his wife still remained, and it was not
necessary to consult them as to what visitors I should
receive. Laura was somewhat awed at the mystery that
enveloped the life and character of the handsome Oriental ;
and rather hinted than openly expressed her opinion, that
it might be well if she were allowed to remain in the
background during his visit, and that she should not be
called upon to entertain him in any way.

It was clear that she had not found in him a twin soul
to her own, and that there was no mutual sympathy
between her and him. I told her that Mr. Rameses
desired privacy — that he would pass the greater part of his
time in my library, among my books, my Chaldean slabs,
and my Egyptian papyri; that very probably his hours
would be absorbed in study, or in the unrolling of the
mummy, so long waiting for its opportunity, in which
grand ceremonial only he and myself would be permitted
to share — and that the kindest course the ladies of my
household could pursue towards him, would be to let him

alone, and not to expect him to associate with them, either
at morning, noon or evening repasts, unless he expressed a
decided wish to do so, which I did not think he would.

It was upon these conditions that he returned to and
was accepted at the Rookery. He left strict orders at his
London hotel, that no letters, papers, or telegrams should
be forwarded to him ; obedience to which orders he took
the precaution of securing, by refusing to give his address.

Do you not think," enquired my daughter, " that Mr.
Rameses broods too much over some secret sorrow, and
that it would be wiser on his part not to shut himself up asa
recluse, but to mix freely in society, which he seems so
well qualified to adorn ? "

"Perhaps you are right, my dear, but he is the best
judge of his own mind, his own heart, his own likes and
dislikes, his own pleasures, and his own work. And as for
solitude, it has no terrors for a full mind. The full mind
enjoys it — more especially when it is in its power to break
loose into society, when solitude grows irksome."

Mr. Rameses looked fagged and weary when he arrived,
and sat him down in the seat under the branching full-bolted
beech tree that stands opposite my study window — the glory

of the woodlands, and worth traveling a hundred miles to
admire. Mr. Rameses fully appreciated its beauty and
magnificence, and wished that it could speak to men — as it
no doubt could speak (so he thought) to its fellow trees —
and that it might communicate to our unlearned ears, that
have but seventy or eighty summers to Hve, the knowledge
it had acquired of nature, though not perhaps of men and
women, in the seven times seventy annual growths of its
rings.

"Forgive me ! " he said, " Mr. De Vere, if I come before
you weary — life-weary, world-weary — weary of myself, and
of all the miserable surroundings of this purgatory which
we call the Earth."

What is there to forgive ? " said I. " Weariness is the
result of over exertion. Night is the complement of Day ;
Up is the consequent of Down ; East is the twin sister of
the West, North of South, and Sleep of Over-exertion. You
as a philosopher understand that there is no such thing asa
straight line, except the straight line of eternity. Hereon
the earth everything revolves, and we revolve of necessity.
We go up, and then we go down. Que Voulez vous ?
If you are weary, you have earned the privilege of rest.

Oh, yes, my philosophical friend. Let me stretch myself
on the grass. My weariness is not the weariness of
the bones, the flesh, the blood, but the weariness of the
soul. To-day the animal within me — or, more properly
speaking, without me — seems a drag upon my spirit. The
spirit is dissatisfied with itself, and with its physical husk,
the body. I ask myself why I should be condemned to
button and to unbutton ? Why I should be under the
necessity of rising up and lying down ? Why I should,
like a galley slave, be condemned to dress and undress, to
eat and drink, to sleep and wake, or perform any of the
petty, miserable, degrading functions of animal life, which I
share with the beasts ? And, worse than all, why I should
always be compelled to walk in one dull round of labour
for life, like a donkey at a draw-well, or be doomed, like
Sisyphus, to roll a stone up a steep hill and see it continually
rolling down again to mock me ? Life is not freedom.
Even at its best it is nothing but a slavery to food
and drink, to the elements, and to the law of gravitation."

No doubt," I replied, " but it is a slavery that is very
tolerable."

Very intolerable," he said, " though, if it were not for

the needs of the body, it might in other worlds be
delightful."

But have you ever imagined the kind of world in which
you would desire to live, if you cared to live at all ? "

Many a time and oft I have dreamed of such a world,
and thought that possibly, after suffering so much in this, I
might be purified through deep sorrow and affliction, and
become worthy to inhabit it. Shall I describe my idea of it ? '

By all means."

My beau ideal is non-existence, the Nirvana of the
Buddhists, and absorption into the spirit of the Divinity
of the Universe, which I believe is the ultimate end of all
separate life. Meanwhile, there may be, and probably is,
an intermediate state of comparative happiness — destined
for the good, the just, and the wise — in which the body
shall cease to be an encumbrance to and a tyrant over its
superior, the souL May there not be in one at least of the
innumerable planets and suns that gem the Infinitude, a
real home for immortal beings, purified, exalted, sublimated,
in which life shall be really life, without the seeds of physical
death in it, and in which that miserable abortion Time
shall be unknown ? Time ! What is Time ? The mere

twirling of a little ball round a greater one, in which the
circumlocutions are measured by units instead of by
myriads ! In this great central sun or planet of which I
dream, may there not be spiritual life without physical
death ? May not man, or the superior being who shall take
his place in creation, be independent of the vulgar necessity
of eating and drinking, and of killing his fellow-creature —
an ox or sheep — to feed upon it? May not the atmosphere
in that blessed planet be full of nutrition, and may
not an inhalation of its glorious air be sufficient to feed
the noble beings on sustenance no grosser than that which
the beautiful trees and flowers of this poor world draw
from the sky and the moisture ? "

"I grant the possibility," said I, "and would like to
believe in it."

"And then," said Mr. Rameses, "if there were no
necessity for food in that divine world, there would be no
necessity for clothing. The inhabitants would have no
occasion to rob the sheep or the bear for their fleece or
their skins, to protect themselves against the elements, or
to despoil the poor silk-worms of their webs to make finery
for their women. There is no impurity in Nature, Mr. De

Vere. It is clothes that suggest impurity, and the nude
Divinity is diviner than a Divinity who is draped."

A delightful picture," said I ; " but would there not bea
dark side to it, if these careless, happy, beautiful beings
had nothing to do ? If they had no wants, might they not
subside into stagnation, and be no better in their blissful
state of so-called happiness than if they were maggots in a
cheese, or even senseless stones ? Happy are the stones,
if happiness is the absence of care and effort, and thoughts
of tomorrow ! "

"But," said Mr. Rameses, "it does not enter into my
dream, which may be a reflex of undiscovered reality, to
consider that in my beautiful planet the inhabitants should
be idle. Their speech should be music better than
Beethoven's ; their occupation should be to acquire
knowledge superior to Plato's and Aristotle's ; their pastime
should be love — etherealised and perfected, holy and ever
holy. In our poor imperfect organisation the soul has but five
outlets from the poor, restricted, cabined, cribbed, confined
and wretched body — outlets which we call the five senses,
though they are but three — seeing, hearing, and feeling — for
touching and smelling, which help to make up the five, are

VOL. I. 6

but varieties of feeling. But in ?7iy planet or central sun, I love
to think that the senses may be numberless, and that instead
of three or five, the spiritualised intelligence, embodied as
I would have it embodied, might have fifty — five hundred
five thousand — five million doors of sense, through
which it might find its way into the infinitude ! Why not ? "

Yes, indeed — why not ? I think your dream is philosophic,
and should rejoice to dream with you. As you say
why not ? "

"And your suggestion," remarked Mr. Rameses, half
rising from the green sward on which he had thrown himself,
and supporting himself on his elbow as he spoke,
that my people, the people of my planet, would be
miserable because they had nothing to do, falls baseless.
Nothing to do ? When they would have infinite knowledge
to explore, and find infinite joy in acquiring it. When
they would have infinite love to occupy them — in default
of the infinite knowledge — that could never pall upon them,
but from which they might seek to emancipate themselves
or a change of delight. Where could be the room for
misery, for discontent, or even for the weariness that
oppresses me now as I speak ? "

I grant you all this ! But cui bono ? "

Cui bono ? " replied Mr. Rameses with a groan. " Yes,
cui bono? — the old eternal question about everything,
even to the Great Creator himself, as some presumptuous
idiots have dared to do. It is, however, the cui bono
of this world that perplexes me. Were it a question of
the other world that exists in my imagination as a possibility
of the future, I should be happy to sleep on for ever in the
faith of my dream, a dream far better than any reality I
have ever known in the course of more than one existence."

I did not say, but I thought, that Mr, Rameses had

dreamed so often the very same dream of a previous

existence, that it had become a reality to him, that he

firmly believed in it, and that he had wrought out in his own

mind — by the same process of invention that a great

romanist writes a romance and creates characters that to

him are living men and women, even while he knows that

they are but the progeny of his fancy — and that he could

if he would narrate to me all the feelings, emotions and

experiences of a previous life that he never lived, with a

coherence, a possibility, a sequence, and a general truth to

nature and to possible fact, that would stand the test of

• 6-

critical examination as strongly as if they had been history.
And as for History, what is History ? Who can tell
whether it is truth or falsehood, and if a mixture of both,
what is the per-centage of the lie to the truth in the whole
adulterated mixture? Thinking thus, I expressed no
surprise at the hallucinations, for such I deemed them, of Mr.
Rameses, but resolved to study him with psychological
curiosity, without any more references to or reliance upon
the truth of his facts — or supposed facts — than would be
necessary for the study of Shakspeare, or any other great
writer who has built up fictions more enduring, and
possibly more real, than any of the records of history — often
blurred, and always more or less shadowy. Who for instance
was King Arthur ? What do we he know about him ?
Nothing ! Who were Hamlet and Sir John Falstaff, and
Bailie Nichols Jarvis ? And what do we know about them ?
Everything ! They are our intimate friends, better known
to us than Smith, or Brown, or Jones, or any other people
that we meet at the club. On this principle I resolved to
study Mr. Rameses, to take him for granted, and ask no
questions of myself as to his bona fides, his sanity or his
insanity.

LURULA.

The twin soul, concerning which Air. Rameses so often
expatiated with great and often sorrowful enthusiasm, did
not appear to me to be so extravagant an idea as the ladies
of my household considered it. My mother said nothing,
but looked as if she could have said much, if the matter
had been worth her while to discuss ; while Lady De Glastonbury,
more aggressive, was not only inclined to laugh,
but did laugh in scorn. Eut scorn is a poor thing at best,
and Lady De Glastonbury's scorn did not — as the Americans
say — amount to much. I, being favourably inclined
to study the idiosyncrasies of Mr. Rameses, as those of a
commanding intellect, possibly out of the circle, thought
that, whatever else there might be in the notion, there was
no particular novelty in it.

What, for instance, is Love between a young man and a
young woman, in the blossoming spring-time of their
existence, but the search for the twin soul? The idea

of the twin body is ot" the tlosh, closely, but that of
the twin soul aj-ipoals to trio most occult and sacred
sympathies of that great outlying world of nature, which
infinitely transcends the experiences of merely physical
life, a lite which we share with the flowers, and the
trees, and the oysters. What, tor instance, does it signify,
and in what does it minister to our higher existence, even
in this world, if a youth and a maiden love the same fruit,
the same wine, the same amusement, the same physical
joy? lout if they are inspired to distinct emotion by the
same strain ^yi heavenly music, if they feel unspeakable
but communicable delight in their hearts, in the beauty and
the glory of the same landscapes, of mountain, of wood and
wild, and ocean — if they are inspired by the same noble
thoughts, expressed in the noblest language ; if the contemplation
of the starry heavens o\\ a clear night, when the
overruling sphere is begrimed with rolling worlds, each,
perhaps, more full oi life, joy, and beauty and intelligence,
than our own little grain of sand that lies sweltering o\\ the
shore of infinite immensity — if these delights fill them with
thoughts that no language can express, that glances from eye
to eye, that kindles tom touch to touch, that travels from

smile to smile — is this unity and duality, and perfect
sympathy of soul with soul a thing to be laughed at ? Let the
dreadful Mrs. Grundy who block up all the highways and
byways of society, with their prejudices, their meanness,
their mountainous ignorance, their titanic commonness, and
their all pervading spite and conceit, laugh if they will.
Their dreary mirth is as natural to them as the bray is to the
donkey, and the cackle to the goose. But I believe with
Mr. Rameses in the ineffable bliss of the twin soul, though I
must confess that the possibility of finding it stretches itself
far away into the nebular infinitude of Belief. But
the twin soul is within the bounds of possibility, even in
this world ; and if it can be found in marriage — then is
marriage that brings the twins together, the nearest approach
to Heaven which exists on this side of the celestial gates.

The day after the return of Mr. Rameses to the Rookery,
the London carrier brought him a trunk, the arrival of
which he seemed to expect with some anxiety. He informed
me that it contained two sets of rich oriental
apparel of ancient style and fashion, as used in the days
of Belshazzar, one for a man and one for a woman, which
he had caused to be made at a fashionable milliner's. He

had much aimcuity, ne said, in making the milliner and
her people understand what he wanted them to produce for
him ; but as soon as they were satisfied that he had money-enough
— even though the price they might demand were five
hundred per cent, in excess of what it ought to be — the
difficulties in the execution of his orders (which they greatly
exaggerated) vanished, and his orders were executed with
the utmost deference to his wishes and caprices, as the
more caprices he had the more they were prepared to be
delighted with him and to charge accordingly. I forbore
to ask him what purpose these exceedingly rich dresses
were intended to serve, but he informed me in the evening
as we sat alone in the library in desultory chat,
that he had found, soon after he had first made my
acquaintance, that we two, under his immediate supervision,
should, at the first convenient opportunity, proceed
to the unrolling and swaddling of one or more of my
mummies.

I should like," said he, " to proceed with this work
and if perchance we succeeded in revivifying the embalmed
body and summoning a soul back to take possession of ita
physical garment would be necessary, if the returning

mortal should walk the earth again and be seen of mortal
eyes. But there must be no interlopers, no spies, no eaves-droppers,
and no incredulous fools lurking and prying and
sneaking about, to interrupt — even by the opening of a door,
or a sound out of season — the solemn work in which we
shall be engaged. To bring a long-departed soul from the
far infinitude in which it has been circling like a comet
for two or three thousand years, and link it again to the
physical body which once belonged to it, is a task which no
incredulous person, with profanity in his thought or a sneer
on his lips or in his eyes, can be permitted to witness. Possibly
nothing may come of the experiment. The mummy
which we shall enrol may be an utterly dead mummy, or
the mummy of a fool unworthy of revival, and as incapable
of second growth as an ear of mildewed corn, or its little
soul undeveloped in its mortal life may have long since
passed into the body of a mouse, a bird, a fish, or a mosquito,
or even of a more vulgar insect, and even in that of
an animalcule, floating about invisible in a drop of water,
but living for all that, and eaten or being eaten as the great
economy of nature may command."

But do you really think that within the compass of

the extremest possibility — the dried-up mummy of the dead
body that has been reposing, if not rotting, in the bosom of
the earth that knows it no longer, can ever again receive
the quickening of the immortal spirit ? "

You have heard, no doubt, of the grains of corn buried
with a mummy, and replanted after three thousand years,
when the mummy was exposed to the light of day, that
sprouted and grew and reproduced themselves. And if a
grain of corn, why not the human frame ? "

But the grains of corn never actually died, their vitality
only slept and liberated, but the mummy from which they
were taken was indubitably dead."

I cannot say that I have any particular hopes of this particular
mummy ; but, believing as I do that intelligent and
invisible souls pervade the atmosphere, and are ready to
enter into any body that they may find vacant, whether
the body of a child newly born, that requires a soul
that it may prove that it is alive, or the shell, not utterly
defunct, of a once sentient being such as the mummies
provide, I cannot deny that a mummy may be made to live
again."

I do not altogether deny, but I very greatly doubt.

Who or what is man, that his dead form should be capable
of re-animation, any more than that of the rose or the lily,
which bloomed in their appointed season, quite as beautifully,
perhaps more beautifully than he ? If men can claim
this privilege of revival, why not his dog, or even his
cabbage ? All these live their time, and what more than
our time can be expected for us, even though we may call
ourselves lords of the creation and superior, while we live,
to all other living creatures ? "

Aye," said Mr. Rameses mournfully, " but the rose and
lily, cabbage and dog, expect no immortality."

How do you know ? Did you ever talk to a rose, lily,
a cabbage, or a dog, on this great subject ? "

I grant you no. It is a pity that we cannot interchange
ideas with animals and plants. If we could talk to them,
and they to us, it is probable, and indeed certain, that we
should learn of them many things that it would be important
that we should know. Why are these barriers
fixed between the different varieties of this poor miserable
mortal life ? I believe in perfect faith that I could learn
something from a butterfly if the butterfly and I could
understand each other."

"A very portentous 'if,' " said I, " and if from a butterfly,
why not from a worm or a bee ? "

Yes," replied Mr. Rameses, " and though these barriers
exist between the living, do they exist between the dead —
the revival dead — the immortal spirits that once possessed
bodies, and that may possess them yet again ? When we
talk of a dead body, and say it is the body of a great man
departed, a thing left behind by its former possessor, do we
not admit by the very phrase that the great man still lives,
and was once the owner of the thrown-off covering of
flesh and blood and bones, for which he had no further
use, and that he still lives to provide himself, temporarily,
and perhaps permanently, with another, and possibly a better,
garment of blood and bones than that which he, still
living, leaves to us, to do as we please with — to bury, to
burn, to dissect ? When I speak of my body — does not
the ' me ' and the ' ny ' affirm that ' I ' differ from my
'body,' and that the thing is not me, but once belonged
to me ? "

Indubitably," I replied. " You speak to me, through
me, to my body and my physical organs of sight, feeling
and intelligence, which, however, are not me, but things

that belong to me temporarily, and to use as long as they
are serviceable to me

"Just so, and if the spirit that formerly inhabited the
dried-up mummy — which we shall find with its case in
yonder corner — should come back, saying, ' I am here, and
this body belongs to me now, as it did three thousand years
ago,' shall we not believe what the spirit says ? "

Yes, if it says anything, and if we do not cheat ourselves,
by thinking or believing that the speech is extraneous
to our own imagination, and not the phantom of our own
disordered thoughts."

Ay, there's the rub. We scarcely know what is within
us, what is without us, what is far beyond us, so bewildered
are we in the mist of our senses — which so lead us, and
so mislead us, that we scarcely know the difference between
the clear, bright sunlight that shines above, and the fog
that enswathes us round about."

While he thus discoursed Mr. Rameses, carelessly and
but half consciously, directed his notice to the smaller
sarcophagus of the two that I possessed. Looking now at
them through a powerful magnifying glass, such as merchants
employ when they would test the fibre of textile

fabrics, he examined the lines of the ornamentation on the
Hd. Suddenly concentrating his attention on a portion of
the design which I had often admired for its beautiful but
complicated workmanship, he submitted it to a careful
scrutiny through his glass. After a study of a few minutes,
he pronounced it to be an inscription bearing the name, age,
and date of death of the person enshrined within. " In the fifth
year of the reign of Thoth, died Lurula, priestess of Isis, in
her twentieth summer." " Such," he said, turning to me, " is
the record upon this sarcophagus. Is it not suggestive of
youth and beauty prematurely removed from the earth ?
And Lurula ! What a noble name — the light, or treasure of
the day ! Three thousand years and more have the mortal
remains of Lurula lain within this husk and shell. Were it
mine to aid in and accomplish their revival, to re-endow
them with the soul which they have temporarily lost, what
a glorious task and privilege it would be ! What a delight
it would be to behold Lurula herself — to converse with her,
bringing back, as she might do, the knowledge of which she
died possessed. We might compare it — at least, you and I
might — with that of our time, which we vain gloriously, and
with superabundance of self-conceit, believe to be far in advance

of all the wisdom of the days of Thoth, and all the other
Pharaohs, and of the priests, prophets and philosophers of
ages thousands of years anterior to the Pharaohs, who have
left neither record nor name behind them. Pharaoh is nota
name, but a title, as you know. This will be a great, a
solemn, a holy experiment, my friend, to discover, or if not
to discover, to attract the wandering and eternal soul of
Lurula, far up, perhaps, among the stars — circling blindly
among the comets, may be — and attract it down to this dim
spot, the earth — this small corner of the earth, where you
and I live and breathe at this moment — and lead it back
again into her long-neglected home."

But," said I, with a sense of Euclid and the multiplication
table strong upon me, with a faith or a superstition
in the superiority of matter — at least in this material world
to spirit, where spirit is either not understood at all, or
misunderstood, by people who think that they comprehend,
and don't ** * I had a whole cannonade of "buts" to
discharge upon him, of which these two were the preludes,
when he courteously interrupted me by deprecating the
expression of any doubt, and requesting that there should
be no further discussion during the experiment, even

though the experiment should seem odd in its inception,
and strange and even absurd in its progress, and though it
might extend over a much longer time than either he or I
anticipated. All this was agreed upon, and, though utterly
incredulous as to the re-animation of the mummy, I was
content to be a student of the incomprehensible, and not
to vex by vain questions the mind of the experimenter.
Nothing further upon the subject was said thafevening.

THE BUTLER AND THE GARDENER.

Next morning, as soon as I appeared in the breakfast-room
— being, as usual, the first to descend to the morning
meal — preparatory to a turn in the garden and the inhalation
of the fresh air of early day, which I consider a
medicine, the venerable-looking Mr. Binns, the butler, who
had been up an hour before me, requested an audience.
Of course it was granted, on the supposition that it referred
to my wine-cellar. Binns met me on the gravel path, and
with a solemn air, after a few awkward apologies and stammering
by way of introduction to the weighty matters that
were to follow, gave me notice to quit.

Oh, very well," said I, quite unconcerned, for I had
known him for a long time to be dishonest, though I had
no very ardent desire to be disembarrassed of him, lest I
should get a worse in his place, "but what is your
grievance ? "

Oh, nothing to speak of — at least, not until lately ; but
VOL. I. 7

you see, sir, I am growing old, and I and my missus are

going to set up a public."

Very good. I wish you joy and prosperity. But what
do you mean by saying you had no grievance to complain
of Until lately ? "

Well, sir, I didn't wish to speak of it, but since you
ask me, I must say, sir, that I am a Christian."

"Who denies it? You are, I suppose, as much of a
Christian as the rest of us."

I don't pretend to be better than my neighbours, sir,
but there are things no Christian can stand."

"Very likely. Don't you have enough to eat and
drink? Don't you have the run of the larder and the
cellar ? "

Don't mention it," said Binns apologetically. " I have
nothing to complain of on that score, especially on the
score of the cellar. You trust me to judge of your wine,
and I judge of it, and I take care to the best of my experience
that your wine merchant shall not defraud you by
sending you bad wine, and charging you for it as if it were
first-rate. But it is not that, sir ! It's a case of conscience,
and I make bold to say of our common Christianity, sir."

"Is it possible, Binns, that there can be a question of
what you call common Christianity between you and me ? "

No, sir, not between you and me, but between me and
the foreign gentleman, and his valet and body servant or
slave, or whatever else he may be called. Why, they are
both of them heathen infidels, sir, and their goings on is
shameful, and enough to bring down the fire of Sodom and
Gomorrah on the Rookery."

In what way ? "

Why, this very morning, sir, only an hour ago, I saw
both of them on their knees, clasping their hands, looking
towards the sun, and praying to him as if he were God
Almighty. I can't stand it, sir ! I'm afeard of the
consequences ! "

Well, Binns, I won't argue the question with you. The
faith of Mr. Rameses is not my faith, but I can respect it
all the same ! "

'' Respect idolatry sir ! I can't ; neither can I stay ina
house where such goings on is permitted, or, as I would
say, winked at."

"Well, Binns, if the world is wide enough for Mr.

Rameses and me, it ought to be wide enough for Mr.

7*

Rameses and you. To what and to whom he prays is no

business of yours or mine ! Is your mind quite made up ? '^

*' Quite, sir. The idolatry and praying to the sun, sir,
is too much for me."

Say no more — but if you determine for the remainder of
your days to be as great an enemy of false doctrines, false
pretences, and false speaking, and of all that is not fair,
honest and above board, as you appear to be of idolatry and
the worship of the sun, you will be a very estimable member
of society."

Binns appeared to be surprised, and as if he would
gladly have continued the controversy, if controversy it
were ; but I turned upon him so suddenly after delivering my
shot at him, that he had not a chance to add a word before
I was out of sight. Binns drank more of my wine than
I did myself, be it understood, and was otherwise
objectionable.

Sir Henry De Glastonbury was much amused. His wife
inclined to sympathise with Binns, but my mother and
daughter, quite irrespective of the religious question, were
rather glad than otherwise to be rid of my venerable butler,
whom they more than suspected to be a hypocrite, and who

moreover gave himself airs of such authority in the house
as were not always agreeable.

The gardener was a man of another stamp. He knew
all that had happened between Mr. Binns and myself,
and the cause of it, and had ideas of his own about the
butler, about the sun, and about sun worship, and as in
the intercourse between us, I being my own head gardener
and he but my deputy, we had often exchanged ideas, he
was emboldened to speak his mind about what he called
the " cantankerousness" of Binns in objecting to the religion
of Mr. Rameses. " What's the odds," he said, " if
you be a Christian, a Jew, a Chinaman, or a Parsee, such I
think is the name of Mr. Rameses' religion, if you are true
and good and scorn to tell a lie, or rob, and swindle, or
murder, and love God and your fellow creatures ? I think
a Christian is as good as a Jew, perhaps better, and a Jew
as good as a Christian. There are some Jews as is better
than some Christians as I knows of, and have heard tell of."

No doubt," I said, " that charity is the foundation of all
religion, that of man to man, and of man to God. Charity,
though not everything, goes a great way towards the sum
total of our adoration."

"And Where's the harm," said the gardener, wiping his
forehead, " of thinking that the sun is God's right hand, as it
were ? Excuse me if I be too bold, I don't mean any offence,
but when I see as sure as Spring comes round every year
what the sun does (and what could be done without him ?),
I think that the Parties, as you call them, are not so very
far wrong after all in believing him to be, I will not say
God Almighty Himself, oh no ! but God Almighty's prime
minister, so to speak, in this world — that is as regards trees
and flowers, and vegetables and fruits, and for the matter of
that as regards men and women. Could we live at all — I
am not a learned man, sir, as you know, but I make bold to
ask could we live at all, any more than the trees and the
yards (herbs the poor fellow meant) — without sunshine ? I
say no, sir ! "

I do not wish to be too palpable and direct in attributing
motives (especially bad and mean motives) to anyone, but
I cannot help remembering, apropos of this conversation,
that Mr. Rameses, greatly admiring the perfection to which
Mr. Pipes had brought some varieties of roses in my
garden, had tipped him with two sovereigns. This may not
account, or it may, for the good opinion entertained by my

I told Mr. Rameses of the Binns incident. His
first impulse was to absolve Binns from blame, and to
depart, rather than there should be any difficulty, or a
divergency of interest between me and a good old servant,
whom it might be impossible adequately to replace. But I
resolutely opposed the idea, and would not listen to any of
the remonstrances which Mr. Rameses thought himself
obliged to make to me upon the subject. At last he yielded
on the point, with the less reluctance, after I let him know
as I did very emphatically — that I did not think the loss
of Binns to be any loss at all, but rather a gain to my wine
cellar, and to my comfort, in having no longer to be civil to
a domestic who abused my confidence, and made a hypocritical
pretence of piety as a cloak to his dishonesty.

MODERN CIVILISATION.

I LET Mr. Binns understand that, after his unnecessary assumption
and ill-mannered display of superior theological
wisdom, and his thereby implied attempt to dictate to me
what religious company I should keep in my own house,
his presence had ceased to be agreeable to me, and that
the sooner he packed up his effects, and took his departure,
the better I should be pleased. The strong impression
made upon the mind of Mr. Rameses by the incident
seemed to be one of intense astonishment at the audacity
of a person in the position of a butler in presuming to discharge
himself from service for such a cause, which was
about as absurd, he thought, as if one of my horses had
discharged himself from the duty of drawing my carriage
because of the objectionable morning prayers of a gentleman
whom I chose to receive in my house as a guest and a
friend. He brooded on the subject with as much wrath asa
Carolinian or Virginian cotton planter, half a century ago.

might have displayed if one of his field negroes had given him
notice of his intention to leave his servitude and establish
himself in a shop in New York or Cincinnati, on account
of a difference of opinion between himself and his master.

In the afternoon of that day, in a saunter through
my garden and grounds, Mr. Rameses dwelt pertinaciously
on the subject of the unsatisfactory relations between
masters and servants, employers and employed, which was
characteristic of modern civilisation. At last we rested for
awhile on the rustic bench under the shadow of my
beautiful beech tree, while he opened out the whole subject,
and sought my opinion upon it.

*' Modern civilisation," he said, " appears to me to be
founded on a wrong system, on a base and unworthy
philosophy, the love of self, and the presumed right of
every man to do as he pleases, in virtue of his manhood,
irrespective of his knowledge or his wisdom. In fact, the
curse of the present day is too much liberty, too much
license of individual action, and too little action, or power
of action, for the conscience of the aggregate state as
distinguished from the divergent consciences of the small
men who form big nations ; — the growth, in fact, of the great

democratic idea that all men are wise, that the voice of the
people is truly the voice of God, and that the majority of
men — bad, silly, ignorant, self-willed, and wrong-headed
as they may be, and often are — have the right, as they
unluckily have the power when they are united in political
parties, to impose their will upon and to govern the wise
minority."

"I think with you," I replied, "that the tendency of
modern civilisation is to establish an unwholesome despotism
of the ignorant many over the enlightened few ; of
the hewers of wood and the drawers of water over the
thinkers and the planners ; of the mere distributors over
the producers and constructors ; of the body of Society
over its mind ; and of what may be called, of the leaves and
branches of the great tree, over its sustaining roots and
vivifying sap."

Precisely so," said Mr. Rameses. " The civilisation
which prevails in the West in the nineteenth century after
the birth of Jesus of Nazareth, though said to surpass,
does not even equal, that which existed in the East three
thousand years before that event. If we come to think
of it rationally, freedom in the mouths of the multitude is

like a word screeched by a parrot, used without thought or
understanding. In point of fact and of reason, there is no
such thing as absolute freedom — of thought, of will, or of
action.

"Everything, animate or inanimate, in the Universe,
is subject to fixed, inexorable laws, which must be
obeyed under heavy penalties from which there is no
escape.

The stars and planets, and all the countless orbs of
space, are not free to wander from their orbits, or to disobey
any one of the laws that made them and uphold them
in their appointed places.

*' In the little earth on which men live and die, no man
is free to do as he pleases. The physical, the intellectual,
and the moral laws surround him, control him, coerce him,
and compel him to obedience.

When men agree to live together, liberty is only liberty
by reason of its restriction. Freedom cannot be maintained
unless a certain portion of it be renounced for the
guarantee of the remainder.

The liberty of any nation is of necessity a compromise, a
chain of compromises, by which the few for the sake of the

many, or all for the sake of each, are restricted from flying

out of the circle.

Restricted freedom produces law and order ; unrestricted
freedom, were it possible to exist, would immediately
produce anarchy and the destruction of Society.

There are several varieties of freedom which in modern
times are much discussed, ardently advocated, and to a
certain extent, established. These are — free government,
free land, free labour, free sexualism, free discussion, free
thought, free trade. There is no freedom in any of these
except in name. They are only reputed to be free by a
careless fashion of speech, and an equally careless acceptance
of words without a clearly defined meaning. There
are but two out of the seven I have enumerated, namely,
free discussion and free thought, which in a certain degree
may be thought to be actually existent and accurately defined
; but even these two are but partially free, within
certain very narrow limits.

In this disquisition of mine — precise and clear, and imbued
with the wisdom derived from ancient intuition rather
than from modern experience," continued Mr. Rameses, "I
have kid bare the secret of the civilisation of past ages,

such as men knew it in the days when Nineveh, Babylon,
Memphis, Thebes and Palmyra were the centres of knowledge,
power and glory ; before such transient shows of civilisation
as Greece and Rome arose in the world to supersede
the government and the ideas of heroes and giants by
those of cowards and pygmies."

"Your opinions, Mr. Rameses," replied I, "are based
upon the supposed advantages of despotism over those of
a free government."

Doubtless," he replied, " the Divine Government of the
world and of the universe is a despotism — uncontrolled
and uncontrollable by the wholesomeness of foolish men,
who think themselves wiser than God. God's laws are
always despotic, and may not and cannot be broken or impeded
save at the cost and to the punishment of those who
break and would thwart them. Can a man jump from the
top of a high precipice, without paying the penalty decreed
by the law of gravitation ? Can he offer his body to the
consuming fire without being burned ? Can he abolish the
immutable laws of geometry, and make a straight line
crooked, while still preserving its straightness ? Can he
call upon Annihilation to annihilate anything ? Can he destroy

even the smallest atom that God has created or
reduce any something, however small, mean, and imperceptible,
into nothing ? He cannot. Despotic law, invariable,
invincible law prevents him. We all say that in the Almighty
Ruler of the universe there can be no change or shadow of
turning, and concentrate the great idea in the phrase ' I am
that I am, and ever must and shall be.' There is no absolute
Liberty in the Universe, and there cannot be. Were there
Liberty the whole microcosm might shiver itself into fragments,
to await the action of the mighty hand that should
reconstruct them again into order and into beauty, and to
the divine action of authority and law. * Order,' as your
poet says 'is Heaven's first law, and includes every other'"

You once hinted to me that you might be tempted to
attempt to win a seat in the British Parliament. I suspect
you would have no shadow of a chance, with your notions,
of acquiring the favour of one voter out of ten thousand."

If I did give such a hint," replied Mr. Rameses, " I
must have been suffering from a temporary fit of madness.
To be the nominee of a caucus ! Faugh ! To be the
so-called free slave of a thousand fools, would be unspeakable
slavery, intolerable degradation — from which

my soul would revolt, if my body played my soul so false
as to submit me to it ! In public affairs, were I ever
so foolish as to mix myself up with them, I would be
^ aut Caesar aut 7iihil^ — aut more than Caesar, aut less
than nothing."

Mr. Rameses and I never spoke of politics again. The
subject was odious to him, and more or less alien to my
tastes.

THE PALIMPSESTS.

Mr. Rameses, as we sat together under the shadow of my
venerable tree, and for which I have a respect that is of a
fervency approaching to enthusiasm, both on account of its
beauty and longevity, unexpectedly enquired of me if I had
ever thought on the subject of palimpsests and on the
possible multiplicity of them that yet remain to be deciphered
and explained ? "

No doubt," I answered, " there have been many that
are now hopelessly lost. Ancient parchments are rare, and
carelessly treated by ignorant and indifferent people, who
do not know that under the modern writing traced upon
them may lie concealed many treasures of knowledge of
the bygone time. The monks in their religious zeal for the
multiplication of the Gospel narratives, and in the scarcity
of materials for books that existed before the invention of
printing, were accustomed to write over with the blackest
possible ink, the faintly legible but invaluable manuscripts

which were dimmed and nearly obliterated by time, neglect,
and hard usage."

And it has never struck you," he asked, " that the human
brain partakes of the nature of a palimpsest ? That the
facts, the thoughts, and the experience of bygone days
recorded upon it may remain indelible, though written
over and temporarily effaced by the newer impressions it
receives in the progress of time ? "

"Possibly," I replied, "if we did but know of, and could
take advantage of, the old lamps, temporarily extinguished
by the superior brilliancy cast by the new ones."

"And may not these palimpsests of the immortal mind
be as truly indelible as the palimpsests that are to be
perceptibly and carefully traced on the perishable papyrus
or parchments of our remote ancestors, recoverable from
the misty Past if circumstances, affinities, sympathies and
the eternal harmonies and connections of all Time and
Nature assist in the patient process ? The human brain is
like a sensitive musical instrument — silent, inert, irresponsive,
and niggardly of its hidden wealth, until it is touched
by the skilful fingers of some gifted musician, or by the

Breath of the passing wind, that draws from the strings of
VOL. I. 8

the quiescent Eolian harp the wild weird melodies that
slumber within it — melodies that may be near akin to the
eternal harmony of the spheres."

"A fair subject for poetical fancy," I replied; "but one
that will find few adherents, except, perhaps, among the
Theosophists and Rosicrucians, or among the electricians —
who have given us the telephone, and enabled us partially to
become independent of Time and Space and set their
trammels at defiance."

Time," ejaculated Mr. Rameses, with a slightly contemptuous
curl of his upper lip, " is an old impostor. We have
conquered him in the future by electricity, and can girdle
the earth in forty seconds, as Shakespeare's 'Ariel'
asserted she could do, and made him actually of imperceptible
account. We can also conquer him in the past,
though to less useful purposes ; and we do so, to a great
extent, when we look at the stars in the constellations of
Orion and Andromeda — which we see, not as they now are,
or may be to-day, but as they existed myriads of years ago,
when their light first began to reach our melancholy orb,
Even the Polar star, that shines so brilliantly in the midnight
sky of our Northern latitudes, may have ceased to

exist ten, or a hundred thousand years ago, though it is still
visible to our sight. To the eye of the immortal mind, the
past is present, just as the present will become the past
before we have ceased looking at it. I often bewilder and
please myself by diving down into the mysteries of the bygone
ages, and living such portions of them once again, as
suits my waking — or possibly my dreaming — fancy. Only last
night I wandered in imagination on the Plains of Shinar,
and learned from Nimrod the secret motive of his great
undertaking in raising the tower of Babel."

"And I dare say you thought," I remarked, "that he
was no impious madman, as the world has supposed, but a
great, natural philosopher, and far in advance of his age
and people, and of the natural science of his time ? "

He is supposed," continued Mr. Rameses, " to have

lived about five .thousand years ago, but the paUmpsest which

I fancy I have been able to decipher on the brain tablets of

my memory, cleared of the mythological errors which have

been inscribed on the original manuscript, shows me the

real intention of his mind in building his mighty tower. It

was not designed for any profane, or blasphemous, but fora

highly scientific, purpose — in the midst of a barren plain,

8*

on which no moisture fell, but which if fertilised by rain,
as he thought it might be, would grow corn and fruit
to feed the clamorous multitude, that increased too fast for
the means of subsistence which the country afforded. He
knew that a constant accumulation of heat on high places
draws down to earth the superabundant water that floats in the
clouds ; and his object in building his tower — not to reach
Heaven itself, as the ignorant multitude supposed, but to
overtop the clouds — would, if a fire of sufficient dimensions
were kept perpetually burning on the summit, infallibly
draw to the thirsty earth the beneficent life-producing rain,
and cause the barren wilderness to smile with flowers and
fruit, and the brown and barren ground to become green
with succulent grass."

"The supposition is ingenious, and not by any means
unphilosophical or unscientific," I replied, as Mr. Rameses
warmed in the exposition of his imaginative theory, which
I endeavoured to support by the citation of such modern
facts in its corroboration as had fallen under my cognisance.
"Do we not know," I asked, "from the experience of such
great cities as London, Manchester, and Glasgow, that inconsequence,
it is to be fairly assumed, of the multitude of

tall chimneys that are continually pouring heat — which is
electricity — into the atmosphere above them, a greater
quantity of rain falls than in the adjacent thinly inhabited
and fireless districts ? After any tremendous battle has
been fought, accompanied by the explosion of enormous
quantities of gunpowder, rain is made to fall within a few
hours, or even during the progress of the battle. Are we
not also informed, on the indisputable authority of living
witnesses, that a similar result invariably follows a great
naval engagement upon the ocean ?

Such facts as these, in reference to the action of heat
upon the atmosphere, had been studied by the ancient
fathers of the world more thoroughly perhaps than by the
money-worshippers of this age, and shallow-minded children
who expect philosophers to think for them, and never think
for themselves, and if they do think, for the most part
think wrongly. But they were wholly unknown to, and unsuspected
by, the Jews, to whose tradition the story of
Nimrod and his tower are traceable, whose vulgar and unworthy
idea of the great Creator and Governor of the
Universe was that he was fashioned like themselves, subject
to the same infirmities and passions as they were, and that h

and his fellow-gods, of whom he was represented as continually
jealous, were really afraid that Nimrod would succeed
in building his tower, to reach the no longer safe
altitude which was the supreme God's own appointed .
Poor fools ! not to have reflected that Nimrod
might, if he had lived so long, have continued to build until
the crack of doom, ere he had reached the upper strata of
our atmosphere ; and that if material and patience endured,
a hundred years' work would not have carried the crazy
structure to the height of Chimborazo, or even of little Etna
or Vesuvius !

"And then the folly of imagining that such a hopeless
expedient as to confound their language, and render their
speech unintelligible-to each other, was the only means to
render impossible, or, at least, difficult, the consummation of
their impossible project ! "

"The confusion of tongues, so called," replied Mr.
Rameses, " was indeed a confusion of voices, of which the
modern world has every-day experience whenever men congregate
and dispute. I believe that it consisted on the Plain
of Shinar of nothing more wonderful than the angry vociferations
of an excited multitude of discontented labourers who

had struck or resolved to strike work, either to compel their
employer to increase their wages — a boon or a demand which
Nimrod would not grant, or with which he was unable to
comply. Or the mighty hubbub may have been produced
by the utter want of faith on the part of the clamorous
crowd in the alleged utility of the unremunerative undertaking,
on which the tyranny of Nimrod lavished their
wealth and wore out their bones. This is my reading of
one of the palimpsests that Time has spared.

But it is not the only one that has been buried alive in my
memory, or covered by the dust of ages — not lost or wholly
obliterated, but only encumbered, dimmed, and choked up
by the ruins under which it lay hidden. My second
palimpsest is a Babylonia one, and dates back for nearly six
hundred years before the commencement of the Christian
era, when the great Belshazzar reigned and held his court.

*' In the beautiful city in which I seem to remember
that I served as a priest in the Temple of the Sun, I have
an idea that I was present at the great festival which the
King was engaged in celebrating, even when the conquering
Modes and Persians were thundering at his
gates. Belshazzar, the meaning of whose name is 'the

servant of God assembled more than a thousand
guests, most of them of the priestly order, to eat, drink,
and be merry. Amongst them was the Hebrew Daniel,
whom he had caused to be named Bel-belshazzar, not the
servant of the god Bel or Baal but a servant in the House of
Baal — a distinction that marked his inferior rank in the
hierarchy to which he had been admitted as a sign of
especial favour. In the midst of the rejoicing — as the
ancient Book records — a spectral hand appeared, luminous
amid the surrounding gloom, and wrote upon the wall in
letters of blazing light, in full view of the King on his lofty
seat, with his loveliest queens and concubines around him,
the mystic words, Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin ! The
language was understood by the initiated priests alone, but
was utterly incomprehensible to the Chaldean monarch,
and to the greater portion of the joyous assembly. The
inscription was accomplished through the agency ot
electricity, with all the secrets of which the priests ot
antiquity were as familiar as the scientific enquirers of the
present day — perhaps even more so. The young, pleasure-loving,
and handsome King, as history and tradition record,
was sorely puzzled and alarmed, and Daniel, having acquired

the highest reputation in Babylon as a soothsayer,
magician and prophet, was called upon — as he doubtless
expected to be — to explain the mysterious words — purposely
hidden in a language unknown to the King and to
the crowd, and only intelligible to the illuminati and the
initiated. They are freely and somewhat loosely translated
in the English Bible, ' Mene ; God hath ?iumberedihy kingdom
and finished it. Tekel ; Thou art weighed in the
balances and found wanting. Penes ; Thy kingdom is
divided and given to the Modes and Persians.' It is
evident from the translation that the prophet amplified
single words into sentences, and that these words were
intended by their framers to say much in little, as was customary
with the priests and priests sees who presided ove
the so-called oracles of the gods. Tekel, or Tekle, should
more correctly have been rendered Teiche mile! ' escape all
of you ' ; and Upharsin^ which appears in some of the
versions to have been handed down to us as Press might
more properly read, gu farsui?i^ or ' widely ' ; teiche mile —
gu farsuin^ ' escape all, and scatter yourselves widely ! '
The Persians were at the gates in overwhelming numbers,
and this advice was the best that the priests could have

tendered under the circumstances. The unhappy Belshazzar
rushed out and perished in the endeavour to
escape, with great numbers of his subjects. *In that
night,' says the Book of Daniel, ' was Belshazzar the King
of the Chaldeans slain.' What became of the Jewish
prophet, and whether he was arrayed by the conquerors in
the scarlet robes and golden chain that had been promised
him, I never enquired, but mingled with the flying crowd
that took refuge in the lovely hanging gardens of the noblest
city that ever perhaps was built. This also is a palimpsest."

THE DREAM OF AMENOPHRA.

I HAVE reason to believe," said Mr. Rameses, " that of the
two souls which once animated the two embalmed bodies
which have been encased during so many centuries as
mummies within the two sarcophagi which you have the
good fortune to possess, one was doomed at the time of its
departure from this earthly sphere to revisit its former
dwelling-place, and in a new and possibly superior form to
undergo a probation to fit it for a higher and purer life
in the stars. The other, who had been less blameful and
more pure in the conduct of its mortal life, was destined
to ascend to its reward in the Heaven of Heavens — the
Holy of Holies — to enjoy beatitude for ever. The name
of the first soul, as I read it among the hieroglyphics on the
lid of the sarcophagus, was Lurula, as I have already made
known to you, a priestess in the temple of Isis, and of
the other, Amenophra, the daughter of Memphis, a Pharaoh
who reigned over Egypt in the days of the Patriarch

Joseph, the fortunate Hebrew whom he made the steward
of his household and the prime minister of his kingdom.
Memphis, sometimes called Rameses, was one of the reputed
builders of the pyramid of Cheops, that yet stands
on the banks of the Nile to preach its mighty homilies
on the vanity of human wishes and the immeasurable
presumption and arrogance of mankind."

The soul of the priestess of Isis, according to the beef
of Mr. Rameses, yet haunted the earth, ready to be re-embodied
in female form, to play a part in the great comedy
of human life, while that of the beautiful Amenophra
floated in the region of the stars, and was still able to hold
converse from the Empyrean with the souls of those
whom it had left behind in this lower world. Strong in this
faith, as a reverent worshipper of the great world spirit of
which Amenophra, as well as himself, was an emanation,
he believed that she was able to communicate to him a
portion of the secrets of the universe.

For the purpose of studying the two sarcophagi, Mr.
Rameses shut himself up in my study on the night of the
full moon, that streamed brilliantly on my books and my
busts, and on the pictures on the wall. By his earnest

desire I left him to his solitude — and his dreams on this
occasion — to read by the full radiance of the unclouded orb
which sailed placidly over the clear blue sky, a written
Arabian manuscript, familiar to him, though unintelligible
to me, who was unable to decipher a single one of the
beautifully-flowing characters in which it was written,
although I knew several words of Arabic picked up from
books in the Roman character. He required, he said, to
study a few directions for the careful unrolling of one of
the two mummies, which he expected to find either in
the Arabic MS. or the hieroglyphics so copiously pourtrayed
upon the lids of the sarcophagi.

For this purpose he remained during the whole night in
my solitary library, alone with the books, the mummies, his
thoughts and his dreams ; and when I entered the room in
the early dawn of the following morning, I found him
asleep on the comfortable arm-chair in which I had left him.
On my entrance he greeted me with a placid and happy
smile, and beckoned me with a wave of his delicate white
hand to sit down beside him. " I have had a dream," said
he, " 'which was not all a dream,' a revelation of mysteries
that are not all quite such mysteries as are supposed, and

have held converse with a soul, in the soul's language,
and been told of things which, in the words of your great
poet, Milton, were ' never heard in tale or song from old
or modern bard, in hall or bower, — unattainable by the gross
and carnal multitude, but partially attainable by the earnest
truth-seekers, who know and feel, as Shakespeare says, that
there are more things in Heaven and Earth, than are
dreamt of in our philosophy. Shall I tell you my dream ?
It was as vivid to my mind as a reality; more real, perhaps,
than many of the vulgar capabilities with which we are
surrounded from our cradles to our graves, and which
are the unsubstantial shadows of unimagined realities."

Go on ! Dream or no dream, I hope to be edified by
it."

"By the aid of charms and spells, and incantations —
all of the simplest kind — which I derived from the lore
of the Magi and the Rosicrucians, and the prophets
and seers of a more earnest and a more reverential time
than the present, all based upon the magnetic influence
that pervades all nature, I summoned the spirit of
Amenophra from the upper spheres, where it circulates
among the countless happy and eternal emanations of the

Great Father of the Universe. The star lone, which
Amenophra inhabits, is one of the orbs which revolve
around the sun of our system, and seems to be the magnificent
planet with its four attendant moons which we call
Jupiter, compared with which our little Earth is in bulk no
larger than a pebble on the beach when measured against
an island. In that mighty world, the abode of myriads of
happy spirits that once endured the bondage of flesh, the
great curse that afflicts humanity is unknown — the cruel
necessity that compels us to fight against the penalty of daily
death, and to procreate creatures as miserable as ourselves,
by eating, drinking and digesting. The wholesome
atmosphere supplies all the nutriment the ethereal body
requires for continuous life and happiness. The inhabitants
of Jupiter inhale it in every breath and exhale it pure
and perfect as they receive it. Pain and diseases are unknown
to them. They do not thrust poisons into their delicate
frames, or contaminate their life-currents by rebellious
liquors. They are, moreover, endowed with a greater
number of senses than we poor earth grovellers ; and are
not confined as we are to five doors and windows of sense,
as outlets or inlets to the wonders that surround them.

Men's five senses are resolvable into the one sense of
feeling. The eye feels the light, and we call that operation
seeing ; the ear feels the sound, and we call that result
hearing ; the nose and the palate feel, and we smell and
taste accordingly. Our flesh feels the contact with matter,
and we call touch a sense. The senses of the inhabitants
of Jupiter are not so restricted, but are as innumerable as
their thoughts, and every one of them administers to their
ease, their pleasure, or their delight. Their eyes are both
microscopic and telescopic ; they can pry into and examine
the great and the small, the near and the remote, and can
appreciate the magnificence of littleness and measure
exactly the pettiness of immensity. To their fine ears all
sounds are musical; the flow of waters is a perpetual
melody; the quivering of the leaves on the forest trees
is a chorus of gladness; the voice of the cataract and
the roar of the ocean are like holy psalms or resounding
anthems, singing praises to the great God of the stars and
of the happy creatures that inhabit them.

"All that live and move on this beautiful planet are their
fellow-creatures, with whom they can hold pleasant converse.
They can hea:»the flowers talk and make love to each other.

The birds of the air tell their secrets to them. All created
things of a nature lower than their own, confide in them
and love them.

Their fairy bodies are so light, so flexible, and so strong,
and are endowed with such capability of rapid movement,
that locomotion is as easy as thinking, and they can float
on the waters and in the air with as much facility as sound
can travel through space ; the exercise of their volition
being all that they require to surpass the swiftness of the
eagle in its flight. They need no dull mechanical aid of
wind or tide, or of wings, to bear them wherever they list to
go. The four fair moons that shed a mild radiance on
their balmy nights, are not forbidden to their visits. Distance
to them is in reality as non-existent as on the earth
and ocean, when the electric current virtually abolishes it
by speeding over the telegraphic wires to carry the thoughts,
the needs, and the desires of the long-estranged nations of
the earth to each other.

And not the least of the many blessings which the inhabitants
of Jupiter enjoy, in a world where eating, drinking,
and garments are unknown and unnecessary, is that
there is no grinding, grovelling selfish trade, no systematic

VOL. I. 9

robbery, no warfare of the strong against the weak for the
means of sustaining life ; no false weights and measures,
no adulteration and poisoning of commodities ; no lawyers,
no doctors, no malefactors, no sick people; no rich, no
poor. All the inhabitants are happy, and industriously intent
upon acquiring the knowledge which opens its illimitable
stores before them and satisfies and fills their lives with
perpetually recurring joys, each joy greater than the joy
which preceded it, and all conducing to adoration of the great
Creator of the Universe, at the threshold of whose bright
abode they stand, with permission to enter into the boundless
Paradise of which their temporary home is but the
vestibule.

Amenophra unfolded all these mysteries to me — everyone
of them within her own glad experience since she
left this earth four thousand years ago."

"And do Amenophra and the inhabitants of Jupiter
never sleep ? " I interrupted Mr. Rameses by asking. " And
if they sleep, when, where, and how does the divine forgetfulness
fall upon them ? "

"They sleep at will, untroubled by a dream, on the
leaves of the great water-lilies that grow in the clear waters

fleecy clouds that adorn the blue sky, and prevent the
monotonous beauty of the expanse from palling upon their
sight."

Your description of the happiness of Amenophra tempts
me to long for the death of the earthly body, and inspires
my mortality with a passionate longing to put on immortality.
I think the ideas with which she has inspired you
of the abodes of the just are infinitely more worthy of
contemplation than the Mahometan Heaven resplendent
with lovely houris and teeming with physical delights, or
than the Christian Heaven with its golden pavements, its
gates of pearl, and its superabundance of priceless jewellery,
such as our common-place preachers in synagogues and
conventicles amuse themselves by imagining. But all
possible descriptions of the possibilities of Heaven fall
short in beauty of the description of the great Scottish
preacher, Dr. Chalmers, who affirmed that Heaven was nota
place, but a state of mind. Herein lay wisdom, philosophy,
poetry, and imagination, and nothing can surpass
it in truth and beauty."

Granted," said Mr. Rameses, " to its fullest extent. It

9*

is the state of mind which, according to the spirit of Amends
exists in Jupiter. Heaven is truly a state of mind, as
Hell must be, whether the Heaven or Hell exists in Jupiter
or on this earth."

Very poor and mean are man's notions of Heaven'*
continued Mr. Rameses, " but quite consistent in their
littleness with the narrow intelligence vouchsafed to him,
and with the vulgar physical delights which are all he can
appreciate in a vulgarly physical world, where eating and
drinking are the acme of his enjoyments, and the penalties
entailed upon eating and drinking are the acme of his
sufferings. Truly considered this earth is but a purgatory, a
reformatory, a prison for the peccant soul to be furnished with
a body — though, happily, not to be enslaved to it for ever."

REVERIES OF A STORMY NIGHT.

Some days after the conversation recorded in the last
chapter, the subject of the priestess of Isis, Curule — dearer to
his fancy than her sister Amenophra — was renewed between
Mr. Rameses and myself. " Is it really your belief," I enquired
of him, as we sat alone in my study, surrounded by
sarcophagi, by rolls of papyrus, and by ancient slabs inscribed
and indented by hierographs, in cuneiform characters,
" that it is the hard fate of the priestess of Isis —
your well-beloved Lurula — to endure again the bonds from
which Death released her ? And in her second state is the
memory of her first to remain fresh in her immortal mind ?
And can she, and will she, if you succeed in establishing
relations with her, recall the circumstances in which she
played a part in the childhood of the world ? "

Mr. Rameses replied sorrowfully :

I dream of her as my twin-soul, and I know that my
dream is true, from the infallible indications of electric sympathy

which possess me when I think of her, and strive to
trace her earthly progress since our fates were separated.
I cannot tell if we shall ever meet on this side of eternity.
All is drear and dark, and the palimpsests of my memory
are not susceptible of complete restoration in this world.
She may have passed through many gradations of existence,
since she ministered in the Temple of Isis — gradations of
being, doing, suffering, remembering and forgetting, loving
and hating — if such a divine soul as hers is capable of
hating — or of living and dying. But I have had a dream
of her, as I have had of Amenophra — a dream of her
sorrow, almost of her despair ; a dream of her unfulfilled
desire and of her weary wandering through the wilderness of
this lower earth — in the as yet fruitless quest of her twin soul.
Last night the wind howled dismally through the trees of
the Rookery, though you, perhaps in sound sleep, did not
hear it. But I heard it as I lay dolefully awake. It piped
amid the dark branches of the yew and the cypress, and
amid the fresh green boughs and leaves of the oaks, the
beeches, the birches, the lindens, and the elms ; and my
vagrant imagination distinguished a rhythm, a coronach, a
rune, a wail, as of the priestess of Isis lamenting her doubt

and her desolation which seemed to say in the words of a
poem that has long lingered in my memory —

Merciful Mother Isis, take me back into thy bosom.
Take me back ! oh, take me back ! I have wandered from thee long,
I have strayed in doubt and sorrow through a wilderness of darkness.
Ever searching for the right, ever lapsing to the wrong.
Take me back ! oh, take me back ! repentant and heart humbled,
To the high embattled fortress of thy love that cannot fail ;
For I'm weary, very weary, and I long to rest my spirit
In the shadow of the glory of thy never lifted veil.'

This chant — for such it seemed to me — of a despairing
spirit, was faintly familiar to me — as if I had heard it in a
previous state of existence, and vaguely and but half remembered
it. It passed and re-passed through my brain in the
long night watches, in spite of my will, and of my strong
determination to banish it from my mind.

I slept fitfully, and, in my dreams, seemed to remember
that m the first flush of my early and passionate manhood
I was a priest in the temple of Isis, in the city of
Thebes. The pyramids, at that early period, were
reputed to be of venerable antiquity. Their purpose, their
utility, and their origin were surmised, but not known.
I was devoted to the priesthood from my boyhood, and
became an exponent, as far as I was able, of the inner

mysteries, and of the awful words inscribed upon the portico
of the temple — ' I am all that is, all that ever was, and
all that ever shall be ; no mortal has ever lifted my veil.'
The countless worshippers of the goddess believed in her
with unquestioning faith, and considered her to be the
arbitress of human destiny; the bride and sister of the
Sun, who was the fountain of life, knowledge, and happiness,
the ruler of the seasons, the source of all possible
fertility in man and nature ; without whose aid the propagation
of all plants, and animals, and every form of life, in the
heavens and the earth, and in the waters, was impossible ;
who regulated the motions of the planets, and maintained
the stability of the Universe. As my contemporaries
believed, I believed also. Of Isis, and the Sun, her lord
paramount, I was the minister and the slave. So entirely were
my mind, my body, and my soul, to be devoted to the service
of the Temple that all human affection — if I indulged
it even by a thought, a word, or a look — was considered a
crime against the all-powerful hierarchy of which I was a
member — an act of treason against the Majesty of Heaven.
The punishment decreed against such weakness of the
flesh, was not alone the solemn and ignominious degradation

from the ranks of the priesthood, which was invariably
inflicted upon it, but the loss of life itself, as far as Use could
be lost in the eternal universe, by the laws of which death
was impossible. But, alas ! for me ! The Divine electricity
that throbs in uncontrollable pulsations through all space
and time, and animates every created thing, and compels
the union of body, as well as of soul, in all that live and
breathe, and more particularly in man and woman, made
me feel that I was a man, and drew my soul to a radiant
woman of unspeakable beauty, who was a priestess at the
shrine. I knew it to be written in the records of eternity
that I should love her as man has always loved woman,
and, priest as I was, I yielded to the pleasant destiny that
seemed opening out before me.

But the young priestess received my silent homage as
unconsciously as the sun received the homage of the lotus
that grew on the banks of the Nile, and opened its leaves
to the kindly beam of the noonday sun, and responded not
to it.

But for having dared to aspire to her, and broken in my
heart the vows of celibacy which I had taken on entering
the Temple, I was sentenced to death by the High Priest

of Isis. I suffered the penalty — with perfect resignation to
the will of Destiny — without pain, quietly, as if sinking into
sleep, dreaming a pleasant dream, and cherishing the consoling
hope that, as Death was but the door that opened
into eternity, I should meet again the beautiful object of
my earthly adoration, and wander with her through the
gardens of Paradise, no more to be separated from her, but
living in perfect unison with her for ever and ever. Such
was my dream. Was it not a palimpsest and a
revelation ? "

I think not," replied I ; " only the result of a disordered
nervous system, and of too much brooding over one all-engrossing
subject that had too long held possession of you.
A long walk, followed by a warm bath, will restore the
equilibrium of your mind. Try these remedies."

Mr. Rameses, while retaining his idea, said he would
act upon my advice. He did so, and the subject was not
again renewed between us ; though I cannot doubt but
that he still clung to the truth of his thought, and nursed
his spirit in it.

THE MILLIONAIRE IX LONDON.

In the spring of i88 — , the following paragraph appeared in
what are called the " Society papers," that administer to the
high and low bred gossip-mongers of London, the pabulum
on which they love to regale themselves :

We learn, on the best authority, that the celebrated Parsee or Hindoo
millionaire, Mr. Rameses, has purchased, at an almost fabulous price, one
of the most superb mansions in South Kensington, which he has just completed
furnishing in a style of princely magnificence. He intends, during
the approaching season, to give a series of entertainments, including
dinners, garden parties, balls, concerts, al fresco theatricals, and masquerades,
to which only the elite of the very elite will be invited. He has
secured the services of a distinguished cordon bleu— one of the most famous
gastronomes in Europe — formerly in the service of a Royal personage, and
has engaged to pay him the highest salary ever yet paid to a cook, and a
stylish brougham for his exclusive use. The income of this Asiatic potentate
is said to amount to at least ^i5o,ooo per annum, so that the sinews
of war will not be wanting to keep up the splendour of his avatar in London. '

Whether the writer — a fair and aristocratic penny-aliter
moving in aristocratic circles — knew the meaning of the
imposing word avatar, it is not necessary to enquire.

Another journal, of the same class, announced during the

following week, also on the " best authority," that there was

no foundation for the current rumour that —

"An Indian millionaire, at whom countless fair widows and still fairer
spinsters are setting their caps, presumably in vain, is about to put an
end to all these silly reports, by joining his hand in holy matrimony to that
of the lovely and accomplished daughter of a noble house — the fairest of the
three remaining unmarried daughters out of a family of seven, all happily
and, indeed, splendidly mated. "

It needed far less knowledge of the great world of London
its doings, its jealousies, and its intrigues — than that
possessed by Lady Stoney-Stratford, to convince that clever
personage that the paragraph referred to one of her
daughters — though to which of them she was unable to say.
But the announcement set her ladyship thinking of a thing that
was not, but that might possibly be, at no distant date, if
she played her cards properly. The prize to be striven for
was great and splendid, and fairly accessible to what the
great revolutionist, Danton, called, " de Palace, de Vaudace,
toujours de Vaudace ! " Some envious people call this valuable
quality, "skilful management"; though mere skilfulness
sometimes fails, when audacity is not audacious
enough. Lady Stoney-Stratford was not deficient in either
quality, as the great world of London, especially that small

portion of it called " Society," well knew ; and although it
sneered at her more or less persistently for the reputation
she had thereby acquired, admired her all the same, and
recognised her as a notable match-maker, and a very
superior woman.

Lady Stoney-Stratford's opinion of the possible bridegroom
that might, if all went well, be secured for maud,
Ethel, or Gwendoline Pierrepoint — she hoped it might
be for Gwendoline — was somewhat dubious of his sanity.
All the world admitted that he had strange notions about
a " twin soul," and the felicity of the life to come ; but
after all, she thought, such notions were harmless, and as
for sanity, what was sanity ? She could not tell exactly.
Even her husband was accused by the malevolent world of not
being perfectly sane, because he borrowed money at ten,
twelve, and sometimes fifteen or twenty per cent, per annum
to invest it in acres that did not yield a third or a quarter
of the amount, and — whatever truth there might be in the
charge — no man living, or woman either, was perfectly sane
on all points. Had not the French poet, Boileau, of whose
writings she was a professed admirer, said that all men
were mad, and only differed from one another in the

degree ? And had not a still greater poet, Dryden, intimated
that it was rather an honour than otherwise to be mad, inasmuch
as great wit was nearly allied to madness, and only
divided from it by thin partitions? The "fad" of Mr.
Rameses, as she called it, about the " twin soul," was a
romantic and rather praiseworthy fancy, and she
sincerely hoped the estimable millionaire might find
the anticipated twin in the bosom of one of the Pierre-point
family, to share his thoughts, his love, his sorrows,
and his millions.

It was one of the greatest consolations of Lady Stoney-stratford's
life that all her daughters were " good " girls —
that is to say, they never set their fancies, their caprices, their
whims, or their predilections, in opposition to those of their
mother when marriage, or the possibilities of marriage,
were concerned. In fact, they were all as docile as French
girls before the event of marriage, and during the progress
of the negotiations that led to it ; and understood as well
as any French mademoiselle the conditions of the "absolute
monarchy of the mother," to which they had to submit in
their apprenticeship to the trade of life, a temporary
maternal despotism that was to be followed by the pleasures

and unrestricted liberty of a democratic republic, as soon
as they became " one and indivisible " with a legal proprietor.

The Countess, it must be said, was not altogether easy
in her mind with regard to the agreeableness of Lady
Gwendolen, who was more skittish than any of her sisters —
a skittishness resulting from her too great familiarity with
horses, and the life, language, and manners of the stable —
though the mother was reconciled to the comparative waywardness
of her daughter by the knowledge of her overpowering
love of money, and of the horses, the carriages, the
grooms, the coachmen, the diamonds, and the amusements,
that money could purchase. Her indulgence in slang was,
as her mother rightly thought, a convincing proof of her high
appreciation of money, and of all the coarser joys it could
bring her ; so that, all things considered, she relied upon
Lady Gwendoline's docility, patience, and skill, when she was
told to angle for Mr. Rameses in the stream of Society, where
there are very few fish of his dimensions to be caught.

Whatever Mr. Rameses did, it was his pleasure to do
thoroughly ; and in resolving to play the part of a leader
of fashion in London society, during, at least, one season,
it was his intention to eclipse in taste and splendour, if it

were possible to do so, all other leaders of fashion, from the
Prince of Wales downwards to the most successful railway
contractor, or owner of silver mines in Nevada, or diamond
fields in South Africa. He had the will, the means, and the
recklessness to do as his inclination dictated, and though he
anticipated no enjoyment — except that of having his own
way, which neither he nor any other human being was ever
known to revolt against — from the heavy labours he knew
that he was assuming, he hoped, at least, to have the advantage
of taking a lesson in life's hard school, and of making
the acquaintance of some of his school-fellows, and of learning
much that was good, or at least useful, for him to know,
both in the playground and the study.

In his desperate plunge into the vortex, to make a
figure in London society, and to spend his money like
a prince, he was determined to have his money's worth inexperience
of all that Society could offer him — in splendour,
in excitement, and in what is called " sensation " — so that
when the brief period of his cometary life expired, he might
be remembered as long as Society could remember anything,
and be looked upon as a wonder for one day more than the
customary nine which the fates allow to all abnormal

celebrities. In the ideal world of London Society, Mr.
Rameses had a vague kind of feeing that amid its eddies
the " twin soul," of which he could not prevent himself from
dreaming, might appear when least expected, not necessarily
upon the surface of the great stream, or on its banks, or
even in its depths, nor on the highways or by-ways of the
much trodden thoroughfares of the mighty city. He did
not trouble himself to think whether the " twin soul " would
appear in the shape of a young, artless, and radiant member
of the aristocracy, or of a daughter of the middle classes,

"Poor, perchance,
But rich in native elegance,"

or of a village maiden, gathering primroses in the fields to
adorn the bosoms of the true believers in the faith according
to St. Beaconsfield, or even of a lower grade — a flower
girl standing at a street crossing, offering to the passers-by
her innocent wares — as innocent as their wares, to all outward
seeming. To him, amid the clouds and vapours in which
he lived, moved, and had his being — all gifts of rank and
fortune, all endowments of worldly goods, all personal
graces and accomplishments, were alike unconsidered and
inconsiderable, if not infinitesimal, compared with the great

VOL. I. 10

and predominant idea which had taken possession of his
dreaming fancy, that of discovering the " twin soul," if such
a soul existed either on the earth, or in the planetary-spheres,
from which it could be summoned at his bidding.

Of such " twin souls," he maintained that the records of
history, as well as the traditions of Romance, Poetry, and
Mythology, were full. Was not, he asked himself, the fair
Hero the twin soul of Leander ? Eloise of Abelard ? the
Beggar-maid of King Cophetua ? Laura of Petrarch ?
Juliet of Romeo? Ophelia of Hamlet? Cleopatra of
Antony ? And in a much lower scale of intellect — Nell
Gywnne of Charles 11. ? Josephine of Napoleon Buonaparte ?
Madame de Maintenon of Louis Quatorze ? Mrs . Fits
of George IV. ? and Mrs. Jordan of William IV. ?
And was the twin soul of Mr. Rameses non-existent ? He
could not think so ; she might be Lurulk, or a prima
donna in a London or Paris theatre, or even a ballet girl
unknown to fame or the footlights. He might be destined
to find her, or he might not ; but still, though undiscoverable
in Time, she might be discovered in Eternity.

The hypothesis of a twin soul, as necessary to the
felicity of married life, wa?, according to Mr. Rameses, not

an idle fancy, or a fond aspiration after the unattainable,
as the thoughtless are apt to suppose, but a life based
upon nature and necessity. It was his firm belief that
souls emanate from the giver of all life in twins. Positive
and negative electricity, light and darkness, up and
down, attractive and repulsive, are twin-born, and exist
from all eternity. The one is the completion and the
corollary of the other, the perfect chord in the heavenly
harmony, without which music would be but a clash
of jarring dissonances. Who finds the twin soul and
is happily united with it, finds as much of heavenly bliss
as it is permitted to mortals to enjoy, and remains in
perfect union with nature and his kind, and with the
whole surrounding universe. In perfect alliance with the
twin soul, there is no such thing as discordance of taste,
temper, or aspiration. To think the same thoughts, to feel
the same joys, to be affected by the same sorrows, to be
moved by the same impulses and passions, or even to bestirred
to exertion or melted to softness by the same
breath of melody and music or to feel the same sympathetic
currents coursing through one's veins, and sparkling
in one's eyes; to love what the twin soul loves, to hate

lO'^

what the twin soul hates, if hate be possible to the immortal
spirit — this is to know what happiness really means
in a world where antagonisms are the rule, and accordances
are the exception. Those who find the twin soul, and are
made one with it, need not dream of Paradise, for they
have passed its portals, and the angels have welcomed them
into the blessed domain, from whence expulsion is impossible
in time or eternity.

All the members of the Pierrepoint family had full knowledge
of the " fad," the " craze," the "hallucination," the
fancy " or the " crotchet " of Mr. Rameses — for by these
several epithets they called it— and looked with more or less
indulgence upon it, as not so very heinous an offence
against the respectability, the bienseances^ or the stereotyped
ideas of the Nineteenth Century, as it might be ignorantly
or maliciously considered. Lady Ethel, far more
than Lady Gwendoline, sympathised with it, and thought it
sweetly poetical, and not by any means to be ridiculed.
Lady Maud was neutral — had not, in fact, thought much
upon the subject — but was fully prepared to excuse the
apparent eccentricity, most pardonable in a man with a hundred
and fifty thousand pounds a year, who, if he married

at all — which she did not think he would do — would marry
for love, having no occasion to marry for money, or even
for rank. Was not money, she thought, more than rank ?
And was Mr. Rameses not the reputed son of a Begum, or
Queen, the Maharanee of Nirvanabad, and, therefore, if he
chose to call himself a Serene, or, possibly, a Royal
Highness, could he not do so ?

Lady Gwendoline scoffed irreverently at the idea of his
having a Begum for a mother, and, in her customary slang,
with a woful attempt at wit, asserted — not wishing that her
words should be taken au series — that the son of a Begum
was, of necessity, a Big-humbug. Her wit, if such a strong
word could be fairly applied to so feeble a vulgarism, was
not to the taste of the Earl of Stoney-Stratford, who had
the very highest and deepest respect for a man in the
position of Mr. Rameses, one who could purchase thousands
of acres without being reduced to the ignoble necessity
of borrowing — at an exorbitant rate of interest — thousands
of pounds sterling to pay for them, and whose acquaintance
and friendship he was determined to cultivate. He flattered
himself that it was from no desire to worship the
great Saint Mammon, but from the conviction that it was

better to cultivate the acquaintance of the rich than of the
poor — especially if the rich were very rich, and were never
guilty of the folly, the sin, or the crime, or whichever it
might be, of hoarding up their money, and making no beneficial
use of it either for themselves or their neighbours.
In this respect calumny could prefer no accusation against
Mr. Rameses. His gold fell upon barren places like a refreshing
shower, and his generosity was like sunshine wherever
it penetrated.

The reputation thus acquired by Mr. Rameses was dearly
bought, and became a source of constant annoyance.
Though an Asiatic and a sun-worshipper, he was expected
to contribute towards the building and endowment of
Christian churches and chapels without number, to the
outfit of Colonial bishops and a whole army of missionaries,
to the maintenance of every London hospital and
charitable institution, to countless societies — malignant or
benignant, as the case might be — for the propagation or
abolition of everything, to associations of strong-minded
women and weak-minded men for the encouragement or
discouragement of anything of which they did not approve,
or for the support of measures to be taken in seaport or

the non-prevention of shameful contagious diseases, for the
evangelisation of Tibet, Japan, and China, and for innumerable
other bubbling up in the great, thick, shabby
cauldron of restless and unreasonable philanthropy.

Then there were the Joint Stock Companies, of which the
name was legion, or a hundred legions, of which the avowed
objects were ten per cent, to the enterprising shareholders,
and enormous gains to the contractors. Direct lines to
Kamschatka through the snowy wastes of Siberia, or to the
Indian Ocean through the heart of Central Africa ; for the
exploitation of gold mines in Nova Semble, Ultima Thule,
and Spitsbergen ; for aerial communication with the North
Pole; or great national schemes for rendering the gas
and water supply of every city, town, and village in the
empire as free as the air breathed by the inhabitants ; and
for turning all the wheels of the world's machinery by the
power of the wind, the waves, and the water-currents, from
mighty Niagara to the tiniest brooklet that winds its devious
way through the meadows.

The very capacious waste-paper basket of Mr. Rameses,
and the still more capacious fiery furnace of his great new

mansion in South Kensington, received such cart-loads of
letters, circulars, lists of directors, and speeches at public
meetings, as would, if ground down and reduced into their
original pulp in the paper-mills, have provided new material
out of old for the imprint of " shilling dreadful," or " horrible
pennyworth " of the lives of brigands, pirates, and burglars,
and other pestiferous literature for growing boys, as well as
broad sheets for the dissemination on the desecrated and
disfigured walls of the Metropolis, of quack advertisements,
and hair-restorers, and the sweet syrups of Mrs. Festina
Lente, for the painless extinction of the too numerous
infant progeny of the British Isles, and preventing them from
adorning the twentieth century with their genius or their
beauty. Mr. Rameses sometimes thought he would be
compelled to engage a private secretary to answer all these
letters ; but in the meanwhile came to the conclusion that
a letter burned was almost as good as a letter answered,
and that a fire in the grate was the best remedy for ninety-nine
per cent, of the evil. So he prudently offered the
greater part of his correspondence to Moloch.

The question of the private secretary was nevertheless a
pressing one, and if Mr. Rameses was to play his part in the

great comedy of life — as it unravelled itself to a millionaire in
all its mazy complications — he could not afford, with any regard
to his own dignity, to leave his letters entirely unanswered.
His trouble was to find, to approve, and engage a trustworthy
and gentlemanly person to fill the office, and
vicariously to save him from seeing too much of the worst
side of human nature in the multifarious demands that
were made upon his purse by the imperiously servile, or
the really imperiously unfortunate.

For this purpose he was advised to insert advertisements
in the Times the Daily Telegraphy and the Standard. He did
so accordingly, offering a salary of £,'^00 per annum to the
fortunate candidate. The magnitude of the result bewildered
and surprised him. The letters received in reply amounted
to upwards of fifteen hundred. Among the applicants were
retired officers in the army and navy, from major-generals
and admirals down to simple lieutenants ; from briefless
barristers too numerous to count ; from Oxford and Cambridge
graduates ; from the younger sons and brothers of
peers — all entitled to write " honourable " before their
names ; from disappointed and returned colonists, who
found, as they said, that there was no place like home ;

from the penniless sons of penniless curates, who had been
too uxorious in their early manhood, and had brought
families into the world without the means to maintain them
from men who were too proud to dig, and who looked upon
manual labour, except with the pen, as a disgrace ; from
broken-down attorneys and attorneys' clerks ; from
third and fourth rate journalists ; from promoters and
secretaries of public companies, to whom a rise of salary
from ;!{^ioo to £,2)^o was an object of ambition; and from
the residuum of all the learned professions, elbowed out of
the chance of gaining a subsistence in the hard scramble,
puzzle, and tumble of life. Among these were large
numbers of what the Scotch call " stickit ministers," willing
to preach commonplace and drowsy sermons, but finding no
pulpits to preach from, and no congregations to weary with
their platitudes. Mr. Rameses, on surveying the pile of
letters that arrived from day to day, and from hour to hour,
accompanied by still greater piles of printed testimonials,
and in many instances by the photographic portraits of the
candidates, dreaded that a temporary private secretary
would be necessary before he could deal with the claims
of the expectant permanent ones. On endeavouring to

sort the letters as well as he was able, he discovered to his
surprise that at least one-third of them were from ladies.
Perhaps the " twin soul " might be among them ! The
thought distressed him for awhile, lest in rejecting her for
his private secretary, as he could not choose but do — being
an unmarried man with the fear more or less developed of
the formidable Mrs. Grundy, autocrat of the English
world, before his eyes — he should have banished from his
presence the bright particular star of which he was inquest.
But he took comfort in the thought that Fate was
Fate — that he could not escape it, wherever or whatever it
might be — and that the star of his destiny was much more
likely to descend from the Empyrean, than to be found
among the impecunious and multitudinous daughters of the
middle classes of England.

And Destiny found him a private secretary beyond the
limits of the fifteen hundred, in a totally unexpected quarter,
in the person of a young gentleman privately recommended to
him by his old friend and correspondent. Monsieur Palliasse,
of Paris, as an art student, a philologist, the son of an English
father born in Benares, and deeply imbued with all the
learning of the East, untrammelled by the superstitions

either of the East or the West, and a searcher after Truth,
wherever the Truth might lead him, "convinced," he said,
that no one truth could possibly misfit with or contradict
any other." To these qualifications, such as they were, he
added, those of being young and handsome, a thorough man
of business, an accomplished vocalist and instrumentality,
and without any obvious personal vices or prominent religious
prejudices. His name was Melville, and after sufficient
inquiry he was duly installed in the responsible post of
private secretary to the great millionaire, and the confidential
distributor of his charities. The fifteen hundred
candidates, military, naval, legal, clerical, literary and
Bohemian, living upon their scanty wits, of whom, perhaps,
not above half-a-dozen had ever imagined that they had the
remotest chance of the appointment, severally came to the
conclusion that the world was a very hard world to live in,
and that merit, industry, and high character were of little or
no value in the struggle for existence. None of these people
could do anything but write letters — not always grammatically
— and cast accounts — not always correctly. They were
all too proud to do manual work, though they were not exactly
ashamed to beg, but found that mendicancy was an unprofitable

and sometimes a dangerous trade. The women could
read, and some of them could write — or fancied they could
write novels and verses, and all of them could play the pianoforte
; but not one of them knew how to cook an egg, a potato,
or a mutton chop. All the fifteen hundred aspired to rank
as gentlemen or ladies, and many of them were so, although
without the means to maintain their position, or the spirit
to seek new homes in Canada or the Antipodes, where strong
and willing hands were wanted. But Mr. Melville had the
coveted place, and was not at all elated that he had secured it.

^

o/ixo^

NEW SCENES AND NEW CHARACTERS.

Every sane [man may be said to lead a double life in his
progress through the world, and his intercourse with his
fellow-creatures. Doubtless some insane men also lead
double lives, and not only double, but multiple ones.
The notorious burglar, Peace, Pease, or Pace, whatever
was his name, who reduced burglary to a system, as deftly
conducted as that of a General Provider or a wholesale
linen drapery, was a burglar by night, while by day he
figured as a respectable tax-paying householder, a musical
adept, and a not illiberal contributor to the charities of
the town or village in which he resided. Old Patch, the
equally notorious forger of Bank of England notes, who
flourished at the end of the last century, passed himself off
to, and was accepted by, his neighbours as a quiet, but somewhat
humdrum and prosy country clergyman, and sometimes
as a well-to-do dealer in beeves and sheep and
agricultural produce. Dr. Dodd, who was made by the

and end their career as vestrymen, churchwardens, justices
of the peace, and even in rare cases as members of the
great Imperial Parliament, that rules a nobler empire than
ever fell to the lot of Darius, Xerxes, Aurungzebe,
Alexander, Caesar, or Charlemagne.

Idiots alone are single-minded in this best of all possible
worlds — that is if they have any minds at all — which is
doubtful. Mr. Rameses, as a man of great though irregular
intellect, one who was afflicted by crazes, crotchets, fads,
and wayward fancies, was of necessity many-minded, but, as
was written by Oliver Goldsmith of another person, " e'en
his failings leaned to virtue's side." Though he was a man of
impulse, he never allowed himself to ride Mazeppa-like on
the back of a wild horse through the wilderness, and never
lost the reins of his impulse if it threatened to run away
with him. Though a hot enthusiast, he could if he pleased
be a cold reasoner. He was a man of action as well as of
thought, a materialist as well as a spiritualist, a wise man
in most things, a foolish man in many things ; one who
performed the most generous acts when the fancy seized
him, but who was sometimes parsimonious or what the
world persisted in calling " mean " ; one, in fact, who

* * *i * *

[Here the narrative of Mr. De Vere comes abruptly to a
close, and is continued by another hand ; a man who had
less sympathy with Mr. Rameses in his peculiar notions of
this world and the next, but was open to conviction on any
point that did not conflict too violently with his somewhat
sturdy and obstinate prejudices. The new chronicler of
this veracious history was inclined, as will be seen, to be
tolerant to other people's eccentricities if they did not take
the shape of antagonism to the Decalogue. Unlike Mr.
De Vere, he was fond of society and of a town life. The
great maelstrom of London life, into which Mr. Rameses

VOL. I. n

had plunged head-foremost, was to his taste, though not at
all to that of Mr. De Vere. The pensive and philosophic
recluse of the Rookery returned, therefore, to his
books, his manuscripts, his mummies and his beloved
garden, to cultivate his roses, his strawberries, and his drumhead
cabbages — as dear to him as they were to the Emperor
Diocletian, who much preferred the quiet cultivation of those
magnificent vegetables . to the unquiet cultivation of the
votes and goodwill of the turbulent multitude of Rome.]

Mr. Rameses had requested of Mr. De Vere, as a particular
personal favour, that the mummy of the Egyptian
lady, whom he called Lurula, and supposed to be that of a
priestess of Isis, should be transported to his new house in
Kensington. He promised that the most reverent care
should be taken of the priceless relic, until the day of its
solemn unrolling in the presence of and by the aid of the
most eminent experts and practical philosophers, Egyptologists
and cognoscenti in Great Britain, France, Germany
and Italy, whom he intended to invite for the purpose. He
also proposed to give them a magnificent dinner at the
conclusion of the ceremony, to be attended by His Royal

Highness the Prince of Wales, and as many of the members
of the upper and lower branches of the legislature as could
possibly be induced to be present. He also proposed to
organise a grand concert of Egyptian music, such a
Nebuchadnezzar the king delighted in, and at which the
instruments employed were the cornet, the flute, the harp, the
sackbut, the psaltery, and the dulcimer. The cornet was, it is
to be supposed, the sham or trumpet ; the sackbut the bagpipe
— which the Germans call duel-sack, and the French
with less propriety the cornelius ; — the psaltery was a
stringed instrument akin to the lyre, the lute, and the
harp, though doubtless of different construction. Possibly
the dulcimer was no other than our familiar friend the
violin. All Nebuchadnezzar's instruments were proofs of
the civilisation of the people who invented them or
adopted them, and included no such barbarous contrivances
as the drum, the gong, the bell, the delight ct
children and of all savage and of some cultivated nations
to whom all noise is more or less musical.

The palace of Mr. Rameses, for such it might be deemed,
was due to the taste and ostentation of a great railway
potentate, a princely " navvy " and employer of navvies,

who had accumulated a large fortune out of the labour of
the multitude, and exhausted, or endeavoured to exhaust
all the resources of ancient and modern art in the construction
and luxurious decoration of his dwelling-place.
His breakfast-rooms, his dining-rooms, his smoke-rooms, his
bath-rooms, his billiard-rooms, his library, his picture and
sculpture galleries, his boudoirs, his reception-rooms, and
his bed-rooms, were the admiration of all who, as a great
privilege, were admitted to visit them, and were the talk
and the envy of London. The lucky proprietor, for so the
world persisted in designating him, built this magnificent
abode, and lived in it but for three weeks, when Death,
who, as we all know — though we never seek to profit by the
knowledge — has no respect whatever for money-bags, sat
down one day at the rich man's table uninvited, and maliciously
smote him with apoplexy. He had summoned his
butler to his awful presence, to remonstrate with him on
his carelessness in sending up a bottle of Clos Vougeot
which had been for twelve years less time in bottle than the
Clos Vougeot which he had ordered. He had worked himself
up into a state of excitement over the mistake which
had made him look foolish in the eyes of his guests, to

Mr. Rameses bought this mansion of thelexecutors of the
deceased " navvy," after a vain attempt on their part tolet
it at the enormous rent demanded for it. But he
refused to buy the library or the picture gallery, preferring

to be surrounded by his own books and paintings, all
chosen in consonance with his own refined taste in literature
and art, and dear companions and friends of an otherwise
lonely existence.

The mummy of Lurula was duly installed in the library
on its arrival, placed under a canopy of purple velvet, in a
darkened recess lit up day and night by a Rosicrucian lamp,
of antique workmanship, to which its possessor attributed
the quality of perpetual electric illumination. Beside the
richly embroidered couch on which the sarcophagus had
been placed, stood an ancient Egyptian harp, with ten
strings, such as is represented in the tomb of Rameses III.,
and pourtrayed in Mr. Chapel's erudite History of Music.
This was an instrument on which Mr. Rameses looked with
peculiar veneration, and to which he attributed an antiquity
co-evil with that of the Pyramids. It was certainly a very
old harp, but not so old by twenty-five or thirty centuries
as its gratified possessor believed it to be. But he found
so much pleasure in the thought that Rameses III.,
from whom he was possibly descended, might himself have
drawn music from its trembling strings, that it would
have been cruel to hint a doubt as to its genuineness ;

Mr. Rameses, who had taken his young secretary, Mr.
Melville — half of European, half of Asiatic, birth and education
— not only into his confidence, but into his friendship
and affection, and seldom suffered him to be absent from his
councils or his amusements — asked and obtained the permission
of Lord Stoney-Stratford to bring him to the great
dinner-party. Lord Stoney-Stratford had expressed the
pleasure he would have in making the acquaintance
of the young gentleman, and the matter was arranged
accordingly.

A frequent guest at Lord Stoney-Stratford's table was a
person whom Lord Stoney-Stratford was often blamed by
the world for receiving with so much honour ; an offence,
however, which the censorious world was ready to pardon,
when it reflected that Lord Stoney-Stratford was not a very
rich man, and that the guest he favoured was blessed with
an abundant fortune. The person in question was Mr.
Algernon Pigram — two incongruous names, that ought never
to have been linked together. Mr. Pigram made a figure in

the second stratum of fashionable, or quasi-fashionable,
society in London, and was sometimes invited to a few
aristocratic houses in the first stratum, because he was
rich and a bachelor, or, if not exactly a bachelor, a widower.
Here he occasionally mixed with gentlemen and ladies in
circles which might have been closed against him, had not
these two accidents — wealth and single blessedness — been
in his favour. He was old, ill-favoured, vulgar, dropped
his aspirates where they were imperatively needed, and
picked them up and used them when they were wholly
unnecessary. His personal character — though not tainted
with positive dishonesty — was what is more significantly
than elegantly called "shady." He seemed, like Midas, to
turn everything he touched into gold, and, like Midas, was
known to all men in his true character, in spite of his gold,
by the long, soft ears, hairy and flexible, comparable to those
of Bottom, the Weaver, in Shakespeare's inimitable play,
which Fate had condemned him to wear. He had played
many parts in his life, and succeeded, more or less, in them
all ; but his crowning piece of audacity, accompanied by
his customary good fortune, was the concoction of a pill,
for the assurance of long life and health to all who would

spirited and needy supporters of his government who sought
for them, and was heard to speak of Pigram as a pig both byname
and nature. The great minister was accustomed to say
that he wished it was as easy to make gentlemen as it was
to make Baronets, Viscounts, and Dukes. " A true gentleman,"
said he, in that democratic groove in which his
thoughts were accustomed to run, though he was a born
patrician and proud of being one, " is rarer than a king,
and I have known kings and princes in my time who have
been veritable snobs — sows' ears, in fact, like Mr. Pigram,
and not silk purses." But, fortunately for the peace of
mind of Mr. Pigram, if he had a mind, this whiff of ministerial
disfavour was never blown into his nostrils, and he
was content to dream of the Baronetcy or the Viscount
as certain to be his some day, and to be an enhancement
of his matrimonial chances in the eyes of some fair aristocratic
spinster or widow, who might condescend to share
either of those titles with him. The spinster on whom he
had cast his eyes — not his affections, for he had none — was
Lady Gwendoline Pierrepoint. That splendid young
woman — for splendid she was in physical beauty — though
she loved money much, for the indulgences and luxuries

would probably have married a still greater " duffer " than

Mr. Pigram, for the same advantages.

Mr. Rameses knew nothing of the high favour in which
he stood with the bright Lady Gwendoline, nor did that
beaming damsel care to consider too seriously the fact that
Mr. Rameses was a Pagan, a sun-worshipper, and one who
had no faith in the holy religion in the doctrines of which
she and all her family had been nurtured. But these
matters sat but lightly on the mind of the lady, and scarcely
ever entered into her thoughts. And if they did at times
find an entrance into her solitary meditations, she imagined
that the faith of Mr. Rameses might sit as easy on his
conscience as her faith did on hers. Indeed, she thought
that all religions were more or less the same, if they taught
people to believe in God, to be good, to avoid doing wrong
to one's neighbours, or to anybody else, and that there
was no difference, except in the form, between a Parsee and
a Christian. Thus it will be seen that the Mammon-adoring
lady took spiritual things easily, thought much of the
efficacy of good works, and Httle of the saving influence of
strong, or even of weak, faith, in obtaining entry into
Paradise. But she seldom thought of Paradise at all, ex-lord

Stoney-Stratford, in blissful ignorance of the state
of ;Mr. Pigram's mind and that of Mr. Rameses with regard
to his eldest unmarried daughter, invited both these persons
(I was going to say gentlemen, without reflecting that the
word did not apply to the concocter of the Methuselah
pill) to dine with him in company with Mr. De Vere and
myself, at his house in Stanhope Street, May Fair. It was
shortly after Mr. Rameses had taken possession of his mansion
in South Kensington, and his first appearance in London
Society in the full blown lustre and renown of his millions.
In a tete-d-iete conversation with Lady Stoney-Stratford,
that strong-minded, but womanly woman, Mr. Rameses endeavoured
to clear himself from the imputation of being a

dreamer of dreams, or an idle visionary, wandering through
life in pursuit of a chimera, and losing his hold upon the
realities of life, and with his hold upon it losing all interest
in the great conflict of humanity. He desired to
stand well in Lady Stoney-Stratford's opinion, though
for what purpose it would have puzzled him to explain ;
while, on her part. Lady Stoney-Stratford was only too anxious
for the sake of either one of her daughters — she did not
care which — to encourage the most friendly relations with
so powerful and wealthy a nabob as Mr. Rameses was considered
to be.

You are very eloquent, Mr. Rameses," said Lady
stoney-Stratford, " on the subject of the twin soul, but I
would ask you how you know that the twin soul is inexistence,
and can be discovered either in time or in
eternity ? "

"Because," replied Mr. Rameses, "human souls proceed
from the soul of the universe, which is God, in inseparable
pairs, male and female, like all Nature one and indivisible
of the same essence, the same design, the same aim and
object, the same in life, and in what we poor midges of a
summer day call death, without the slightest knowledge

I grant the possibility of the twin soul," said Lady
Stoney-Stratford, with a deep sigh, " in the next world, but
not in this, and envy the happiness of him or her who discovers
it. But this is a world of contradictions and not
of resemblances, of antipathies rather than of sympathies
— a gross world at the best, in which we and all of us
are slaves to physical surroundings, and the ignoble necessities
of the animal rather than of the spiritual life. I wish
the twin soul had fallen to my lot, and that it may fall to
yours, but I must own that I despair of it, either for myself,
or for you, or any living creature. The happiness
would be too great for mortal to bear, and I resign
myself as in duty bound to the want of it. And, after all,
the loss of what one never had or enjoyed cannot be very
great. So you see I am a philosopher after a fashion, and
do not trouble myself by sighing after the unattainable."

"But," said Mr. Rameses somewhat abruptly, for which
he was rather sorry afterwards, " you could not have
thought that bliss unattainable when you married Lord
Stoney-Stratford, or you would not have married at all. If

the twin soul is not found in the marriage state, it cannot,
one would think, be found anywhere on this side of eternity."
Lady Stoney-Stratford heaved another sigh. "tis a
painful subject, Mr. Rameses," she said, "and we will leave
it if you please until, as Mr. Carlyle might have said, the
Ineffable Eternities,' — as one too great and incomprehensible
in this hard world of antipathies, self-seeking, animosities
and divergencies. Possibly, however, to Lord Stoney-stratford
may belong the triumph of having found his twin
soul in the person of one Mr. Pigram, the proprietor of
a wonder-working pill, a man after his own heart, whose
land abuts upon our own, and who is willing to dispose
of it at a fairly reasonable price to his Lordship, for the
honour of the thing, as he says, and not for vulgar
personal advantage. I should like you to meet him, and
expound to him your sublime theories."

THE DEER FOREST.

Mr. Rameses confided to me the fact that he greatly disliked
to be present at ceremonious dinners, especially if the
company were numerous, and that his beau ideal of a dinner-party
was a partie carrie of four persons, who knew and
understood each other's minds and idiosyncracies, and who
could find something else to talk about than the weather,
the fashion, the last new or old scandal, or the dreary, and
too often acrimonious, polemics and politics of the hour.
He consented to meet Mr. Algernon Pigram, solely to please
Lord and Lady Stoney-Stratford. With Mr. De Vere he
was more at home, and always looked forward with pleasure
to the interchange of ideas with that gentleman, who was
in all respects a man after his own heart, with whom he
could converse on " Foreknowledge, Free-will, and Fate," and
grope darkly, but still pleasantly, in the misty by-ways of
occult philosophy, not to be traversed at dinner-tables, orin
the company of ladies, but in the sacred solitudes of the

VOL. I. 12

study or the library, or in woodland rambles, where the
mind was not occupied with the purely animal necessities
of eating and drinking.

Lord Stoney-Stratford did not care for the conversation
of Mr. Pigram, which was more monosyllabic than was
agreeable to him as a man of the world, and savoured
largely of the Scriptural " yea " and " nay," which, contrary
to the Scriptural dictum, he believed to be evil,
inasmuch as they prevented the flow of rational ideas, and
acted as dampers upon polite and mutually pleasant interchange
of thoughts.

Mr. Pigram, on this occasion, was in the highest of high
spirits, and, in his abounding satisfaction with himself and
fate, diffused his aspirates over the room with a prodigality
and profusion that jarred upon the sensitive ears, and disgusted
the refined taste, of his aristocratic friends. But he
was unconscious of the offence he gave, and it was all atoned
for and forgiven when he announced that on the previous
day he had brought to a successful conclusion a long-pending
negotiation for the lease, at a large rental, of a deer forest in
the Highlands of Scotland, extending almost from sea to sea,
and comprising an extent of many hundreds of thousands of

acres of mountain and moorland, where grouse and red deer
were alike abundant, and where man, with the sole exception
of gillies and game-keepers, was a stranger, an interloper,
and an encumbrance to be jealously excluded, lest
his footfall in the wilderness should scare the sacred animals
that Pigram kept for the sport of such good friends as Lord
Stoney-Stratford. Lord Stoney-Stratford had been, in his
youth, a deer-stalker, and an inveterate slayer of grouse and
ptarmigan, as well as a patient and devoted angler for trout
and salmon in the Spey, the Tweed, and the Findhorn,
and accepted with delight the invitation of Mr. Pigram to
pass a month of slaughter on the Moors. He extended
the hospitable invitation to the whole of the assembled
party, promising the ladies the full monopoly of the rivers,
and to the gentlemen the monopoly of the glens, the carries,
and the hill-tops, that they might supply the poulterer of
London and the great cities with grouse. In our day,
grouse is not to be given away as of old — when a gentleman
would have considered it derogatory to have acted the part
of a poulterer's assistant, or to have condescended to sell
the birds which he had bagged — when sport was sport, and
not a trade, or a business, carried on with a view to profit.

Mr. Rameses and Mr, De Vere declined the honour of
shooting the grouse and the deer of Mr, Pigram ; but the
guests of the evening accepted the invitation with gladness
and a profusion of thanks, that were evidently grateful to
their recipient. Mr. Rameses, contrary to his wont, commenced
an argument with the compounder of the
Methuselah pills and the lessee of the deer forest, on the
iniquity of depopulating whole counties, once the home of
brave men, to create a wilderness for th^fercz nature, and
outraging what he called the right of the people to live
upon the soil, on which they were born, and which their
fathers had cultivated. " The owners of the English soil,"
said Mr. Rameses, running the risk of offending Lord Stoney-stratford,
" have no more natural right to the exclusive use
of the land than they have to the exclusive enjoyment of
the sunlight ; and would doubtless, if they were able to do
so, divide the ocean itself into farms and allotments, and
demand rent for them."

I am a land-owner myself, in a small way," said Mr, De
Vere ; " but as my ancestors bought the acres in hard cash
from the then legitimate possessors, I do not consider
that they wrongfully acquired it, and that I wrongfully hold

it as their representative. But, nevertheless, I cannot avoid
thinking that the present possessors of large landed estates,
the representatives of families to whom the land was
granted by the bygone kings who owned it on behalf of the
people, upon consideration of the performance of certain
duties, which they have failed to accomplish, have become
usurpers, and are in illegal possession of the property of the
State. The lands were granted to these adventurers — for
such they were originally — on the tenure of military service,
and on the express undertaking for themselves, their heirs,
successors, and assigns, of defending the country against
foreign invaders. Consequently, the great landlords of the
British Isles bound themselves to maintain a force sufficient
for that purpose, and to pay and equip all the military forces
of the kingdom. This contract has not been fulfilled.
They have shifted the burden, by Parliamentary agencies,
which they themselves manoeuvred and controlled, on the
shoulders of the general public, and of the landless inhabitants
of the towns. Thus have they escaped, during successive
generations, the annual payment of many millions
of money, and the whole cost of the national defence. By
the system of deer forests, prevalent in the Highlands of

Scotland, the land has been deprived of the strong arms of
the peasantry, who, in case of need, would have been ready
and proud to defend the homesteads of which they have
been dispossessed by the deer and grouse of the sportsmen,"

"A very revolutionary idea," said Mr. Pigram, 'the
realisation of which would throw the whole country back
into barbarism."

"I merely state the question," replied Mr. De Vere.
I have not the slightest intention of arguing it, especially
in the presence of ladies, to whom political and social
economy are necessarily distasteful."

There would be much to be said in favour of the principle,"
remarked Lord Stoney-Stratford, " if we could
begin afresh, at the point from which we started eight
hundred years ago ; but the world is not, and cannot be,
governed by obsolete principles and ideas, however originally
good and unassailable."

But true principles are never obsolete," said Mr.
Rameses ; " or civilization itself would be impossible.
Not that I think much of civilization, as the world now
interprets it — a civilization of which the leading maxim is,
each man for himself — a maxim which, to my mind, seems

to be utterly subservient of Christianity. Each man for all
other men, and the great God of the Universe for all
humanity, even for the lowest member of it, would be the
foundation of a far better religion. The land belongs to
the people just the same as the sea does, and the sunlight
does, and the love of God does — and not to the few who
monopolize it, because they have the power to do so, while
the sea, the sunlight, and the love of God are beyond the
reach of monopoly."

The discussion, contrary to the intention of Mr. Rameses,
would have possibly waxed warm, or branched off into
innumerable unconnected and incongruous ramifications,
had not Lady Stoney-Stratford, who had been watching the
opportunity to withdraw, given the expected signal to her
daughters, who all gracefully retired, and left the philosophers
to their philosophy, such as it was. Mr. Rameses
was the fi erst to follow the ladies to the drawing-room,
anxious to hear sung some of the melodies of Scotland,
which acted on his mind and fancy — and perhaps on his dim
remembrances of a remote past — with a weird and powerful
fascination.

He had no sooner left the table than Mr. Pigram, finding

himself alone with the young secretary, Lord Stoney-stratford,
and myself, expressed a strong opinion, minus all the
aspirates, which he could not help eliminating in his excitement,
that Mr. Rameses was no better than a Nihilist, a
Socialist, a Communist, or a Fenian, in entertaining the
opinions which he did about the land, and especially about
the Deer Forests, which were, in his estimation, one of the
greatest proofs of the high state of civilization to which
Great Britain had arrived — the indirect means, as they undoubtedly
were, of clearing off the surplus population from
the land where their presence was an unmitigated evil, and
consigning them to the abounding acres of Manitoba, Australia,
and New Zealand, where men were so urgently
required. Lord Stoney-Stratford partially agreed with the
plebeian plutocrat, but prudently reserved his opinions, asa
member of the Upper House of Parliament, where they
might, for all he knew to the contrary, be some day or other
cited against him. Young Mr. Melville was anxious to take
up the argument in defence of Mr. Rameses, but his youth
made him reticent, and he held his peace, contenting
himself meanwhile with nursing his wrath against the proprietor
of the Methuselah pill.

Lord Stoney-Stratford maintained a good understanding
with Mr. Pigram on the subject of the land which the
latter was ready to bring into the market, and the purchase
of which, on easy terms, was an object of great desire on
the part of the territorial peer, whose greed for acres it was
impossible to satisfy while an acre remained for sale within
the radius of a day's walk from the country mansion of
his 'ancestors.

*t^^^5+-^^^-'f

MATRIMONIAL TRAPS.

Lady Stoney-Stratford, as already observed, was anxious
that Mr. Rameses should espouse one of her three unmarried
daughters — she was not particular which, though she
would have preferred that his choice should fall upon
Lady Gwendoline. Mr. Rameses was quite unaware of
the hopes he had excited in the breast of the scheming
mother of these three Graces, and had not been greatly
attracted by the charms of either of them, least of all by
those of Lady Gwendoline, who talked slang to an extent
that, to his mind, was more than disagreeable. He had not
the pre-eminent love of the horse which is entertained by so
many rich and fashionable English men and women. He
disliked especially to see a woman on horseback, and had a
positive detestation, if not abhorrence, of the sight of a
beautiful young woman, or of an unbeautiful old one, in the
hunting-field, in pursuit of a stag, a hare, or a fox. He considered
hunting to be an amusement essentially barbarous,

or as an avocation only to be justified by the fact that the
huntsman or huntsman was in pursuit of natural prey,
like the eagle in the air, the shark in the sea, or the Hon in
the desert, in search of the food that is necessary to their
existence. For these reasons the charms of the fair Lady
Gwendoline had no attraction for him, when he thought of
her as a horsewoman — if he ever thought of her at all
when he was not in her society. The softer charms of Lady
Maud were more to his fancy, especially when he sat an
enraptured Listener as she sang the pathetic and tender
melodies of Scotland, in a clear, soprano voice, which might
have made her fortune in the concert-room or on the operatic
stage. She had inherited her love for, and partly her proficiency
in, Scottish music, from her mother — a member of
one of the most powerful clans in the Scottish Highlands.
She boasted of her descent from Malcolm Canoe, who
was a king when the founder of the Stuart family was
nothing more than the major domo, or superintendent, of
the Royal household. Mr. Pigram had no ear for music,
but he had a great admiration and love for horses, and was
not averse from betting on their speed, or their chances, at
Epsom or Newmarket, and preferred the language of Lady

Gwendoline to the more correct language spoken by her
sisters and by the elders of the family. Between the
money-hunting young lady and the money-possessing old
man there was no antipathy on that score : and such antipathy
as existed, was the result of difference of age, social
position, antecedents, education and manners, and was not
shared by the comparatively ancient person who was most
interested.

The match between the two was proposed to her
daughter by Lady Stoney-Stratford, who, though slow
to convince herself of the impossibility of effecting a union
between Mr. Rameses and Lady Gwendoline, on which she
had fixed her heart, and on which she had reared a whole
pile of calculations, was not slow to conceive the great
advantage of a match between the rich — and she might
imagine generous — proprietor of the Methuselah pills and
her penniless daughter. Lady Gwendoline, on her part, was
more reluctant, even obstinate, than her mother expected she
would be, and brought a powerful force of her aristocratic
prejudices to open a deadly fire against the alliance with
the vulgar plebeian, whose only merit in her eyes — though
a very great one — was his money. She even borrowed

some shafts of resistance from the armoury of her mother,
and maintained that a descendant of Malcolm Canoe —
would commit the great crime of mesalliance, worse
even that of lese majeste in condescending to share the
ducats of a parvenu millionaire. But the hideous idea
grew less hideous to her mind the more she familiarized
herself with it. To the ducats — still more plentiful — of Mr.
Rameses no such objections attached, even though they
were not the ducats of a Christian. Possibly, he was as
much of a Christian, if judged by his conduct, as Mr.
Pigram was ; but then Mr. Rameses was not a suitor for
her hand, and his money was not within the reach of her
aspirations. And, moreover, she was fully aware that her
soul was by no means the twin soul of Mr. Pigram, and
that the mysterious electricity that attracts kindred spirits
to each other, or that repels those which are not of kin,
was in her case a repellant. Besides, how could she link
her fate with a man of the name of Pigram ? The name
was odious to her mind, and she would not, she thought,
be called Lady Gwendoline Pigram, or even Pogram, for all
his wealth, were it ten times greater. Her mother was fully
aware of her feelings in this respect, and did not like to consider

it prejudice, though half afraid that it was no other,
and would have been better pleased if the proprietor of the
Methuselah pills had been simply named Brown, Green,
Jones, or Smith. In fact she was fully convinced that the
rose of Pigram would have smelled sweeter if it had been
called Howard, Montgomery, Cavendish, or Grosvenor.

Lord Stoney-Stratford made light of the difficulty, and
undertook to remove it in a confidential tete-d,-tete conversation
with the owner of the peccant patronymic. At least,
he would endeavour to do so, and flattered himself that he
should be able to succeed in it with a little management.
He was of opinion that he could prove to the satisfaction of
the plebeian Pigram that an alliance with the patrician house
of Pierrepoint would be cheaply purchased by the sacrifice
of the surname which he had inherited from his ancestors —
always supposing that he had any ancestors, or could
trace them further back than to his father.

As a prelude to the delicate negotiation, his Lordship
invited Mr. Pigram to dinner at his club, in order that
the matter might be amicably discussed between them. Mr.
Pigram was nothing loth to enter into the question, but
asserted, as a preliminary, that he was not ashamed of his

name, but was, nevertheless, not so obstinately attached toit
as to prefer it to any other. If the wife took the husband's
name on her marriage, he, for one, did not see why the
husband should not take the name of the wife, if sufficient
reasons existed for the change, as, in fact, was sometimes
done, and as had been done lately, and Mr. Algernon
Pierrepoint was a name that would look well in the Court
Directory or on a visiting card. Lord Stoney-Stratford did
not see any sufficient necessity for this, and somewhat
curtly dismissed the suggestion. He added that no man
had any exclusive property in his surname, but might
change it as often as he pleased, provided always that he
did not change it for any fraudulent purpose, or to hide
from his creditors, or to avoid legal process in a civil or
criminal court. " I remember," said his Lordship, " hearing
the law on the subject very lucidly laid down by one of the
most eminent judges that ever adorned the English bench
the late Sir Nicholas Conyngham Tindal, Chief Justice of
the Common Pleas. I was summoned as a witness in that
Court, and examined by Mr. Serjeant Wilde, a blatant
and, I must add, impudent advocate, afterwards elevated
to the Lord Chancellorship, with the title of Baron Truro,

and who married into the Royal Family of England in the
person of Lady Augusta Reste, the legitimate but unrecognised
daughter of the Duke of Sussex, the uncle of her
present Majesty. On that occasion, the Lord Chief Justice
explained the whole law on the subject of surnames,
declaring that all surnames were purely arbitrary, and that
every man was at full Liberty to assume whatever name he
pleased, provided that he duly notified the fact of the
change to any and every one who might be interested in it."
"Possibly," said Mr. Pigram, "if he obtained the permission
of the Sovereign, and notified it through the
Heralds' College, who would demand a large fee for its
agency in the matter! "

Quite a mistake," replied Lord Stoney-Stratford. " The
permission of the Sovereign, though sometimes asked, is
wholly unnecessary, and is only valuable as an advertisement
The Heralds' College is, of course, glad to clutch at all the
fees it can get ; and if fools choose to pay them, so much
the worse for the fools, and so much the better for the
officials of the College."

But is no formality necessary ? " enquired Mr. Pigram
dubiously.

None whatever ! " said Lord Stoney-Stratford. " Nothing
but an advertisement in the newspapers, or a circular
addressed to all the friends and acquaintances of the Smith
who wants to become Smythe, or the Brown who desires to
make himself Green, or the Huggins who thinks that Fits
Hugh is a better name, and a request to them that he, for the
future, be addressed by the new name to which he has
taken a fancy. I knew a very handsome young gentleman
of the name of Catt, who was enamoured of a lovely
woman, and whom the lovely woman was more than willing
to marry, except for her invincible dislike to be called Mrs.
Catt. * It would be very disagreeable,' she said, ' to be asked
by my friends, after two or three years of married life, how
the little kittens were, and if they had got the measles, or
the whooping cough, or had been duly vaccinated. Upon
that hint, Mr. Catt made up his mind to change his respectable
— but not sufficiently respectable — patronymic, and
became either Mr. Cathcart or Mr. Fitzwygram, I forget
which. The lady of his love was delighted, and made Mr.
Catt happy forthwith by accepting his hand and his new
name at the altar."

Mr. Pigram appeared to be much impressed with the
VOL. I. 13

argument, and the facts with which Lord Stoney-Stratford
supported it ; but took time to consider the subject, and
also to satisfy himself that Lady Gwendoline would accept
his hand, if he really consented to the sacrifice demanded
of him — for a sacrifice he could not help considering it. He
had, he thought, done nothing to disgrace the name of
Pigram, which never, it must be said, appeared in the
public notifications of the Methuselah pills, nor had he any
right to cast a slur upon the name of his father — who had
not been a farm-labourer as Lord Stoney-Stratford supposed,
but a well-to-do tradesman in the county town where he
first drew breath. Would not the name of Pogram, he enquired
of himself, be a good substitute for that of Pigram, if he
were compelled to change, and not too violent a departure
from the original ? Or, better still, if any alteration had to
be made in deference to the aristocratic pride of the Pierre-points,
would not Montmorency, Montgomery, Trevor, De
Clifford, or Fitzgerald, be acceptable to the young lady ?
After due cogitation he resolved, though reluctantly, to
adopt, or rather to take violent possession of, the name of
Fitzgerald, which, coupled with the title of a Baronet — which
he hoped to acquire per favour of Mr. Gladstone — would look

well, sound well, read well, and be entirely to the taste of
the Pierrepoints.

In less than three months after Mr. Pigram had come to
this momentous decision, an announcement appeared in
the Morning Post that a marriage had been solemnized
between Mr. Algernon Fitzgerald, M.P., and the beautiful
Lady Gwendoline Pierrepoint, daughter of Lord and Lady
Stoney-Stratford, and that the happy bride and bridegroom
had gone to Fitzgerald's "place" at Pigram Abbey to pass
the honeymoon.

u*

ON THE FULL TIDE OF FASHION.

Mr. Rameses and his entourage is now launched upon the
full tide of London life and the London season — a magnificent
argosy, with all sails set, banners floating in the
wind, a merry company on board, and crowds of enthusiastic
spectators on the shore, cheering the full-freighted
vessel as she proceeds on her voyage to the unknown
shore of happiness — the new world which she hopes
to discover. All eyes watch her. All pens record her
splendour ; all printing presses in a press-ridden land
record her triumphs, and inform the expectant world of
the speed at which she travels, and of the number
of knots which she measures in an hour. But the sad captain
sits in the cabin alone with his melancholy thoughts,
coming from time to time on deck to confer with his chief
mate, Mr. Melville, and to exchange courtesies with the
numerous passengers of both sexes, gaily dressed, exultant
and jubilant, who throng around, happy to have speech of

him, and to sun themselves in the light of his countenance.
The weather is calm and fair, a light, healthful breeze is
blowing, and the sun shines brightly overhead.

Music and rejoicing follow on the way ; the spacious deck
has ample room for the dance, that fair women love to organize,
and that brave men love to assist in — not for the
pleasures of the movement, but for the enjoyment it affords
of close physical contact with the opposite sex, the unrestrained
liberty of touch on the luxurious and suggestive
waist of beauty, and the electric darts that shoot from her
sparkling eyes into the susceptible and inflammable bosoms
of adolescent and maturing manhood. The sad captain sees
all, but enjoys nothing. His mind is far away in the ideal
and the unattainable. He is as greedy of delight as
Tantalus was of water ; but the delight is so distant from
his grasp and taste, as to be only existent in his imagination,
or sparkling with faint lustre in the future that may never
dawn on this side of eternity.

His argosy is no sooner afloat in the full sight of the
vociferous crowd, than he begins to feel the penalties of the
full freight with which she is laden. Property, it has been
said, has its duties as well as its rights ; but it may be said,

with equal truth, that wealth has its penalties and persecutions,
as well as its enjoyments. Mr. Rameses discovered
the fact very speedily. His income, reported by the loud
and quickly-wagging tongues of rumour to be of fabulous
amount, loomed in the eyes of the philanthropic locusts who
longed to eat it up, as large as the fair fields of Britain loomed
in the eyes of the greedy Norman robbers who pounced
down upon it in the time of William the Conqueror. First
and foremost among the hungry swarms of devastating
plagues that buzzed and hummed around him, anxious to
dip their greedy antennae into the honey of his stores,
were the zealots who pretended a desire to Christianize all
the heathen nations of the wide world, and who maintained
in ease and comfort a dozen secretaries, clerks, and underlings,
for every single heathen who pretended to be converted
to the true faith, as taught by Jesus of Nazareth.
Secondly came the enthusiastic would-be builders of new
cathedrals, churches and chapels, tabernacles and conventicles,
for the expounding of the faith to those who already
believed, or pretended to believe, because they conformed
to it. This numerous body of supplicants he endeavoured,
and not wholly in vain, to reduce to silence and acquiescence

in the status quo of ecclesiastical accommodation for the
faithful, by offering to contribute the large sum of one hundred
thousand pounds to a fund for the erection of a huge
Metropolitan Cathedral, upon the condition that it should
be devoted to the worship of the God of the Universe,
wholly irrespective of creeds and formulas, and that the
public would subscribe thrice that amount to the fund. The
offer was as safe to be unaccepted as Mr. Rameses surmised
it would be, and the various devotees of the creeds to
be accommodated in the place of worship common to them
all, never contributed sixpence to the fund, the conditions
of which, when promulgated, drew down upon the head of
the " infidel " Mr. Rameses a perfect whirlwind of sneers and
maledictions. Next in number of the claimants of his bounty
were the spiteful humanitarians, whose name was legion
and who all had schemes for the improvement of the world
and for the means of livelihood to be provided for the secretaries
of the various societies, whose ostensible business it
would be to bring the schemes to completion. Men, women,
dogs, horses, birds, and even insects, were the objects of the
regard of these busy searchers after something or somebody to
take care of; and Mr. Rameses, who had a tender heart for

the whole animal creation, subscribed largely to the funds of
such among the rival societies as recommended themselves
either to his philanthropy, his mercy, or his judgment.

But the promoters of projects of so-called benevolence
were not the only besiegers of his banking account.
Benevolence may be a power in the world, but a greater
power in governing the actions of mankind is the love of
gain to be acquired without working for it, a love that controls
the conduct of the rich quite as powerfully as it controls
the conduct of the poor, a love that exists in the minds
of plutocrats as well as in those of demi-semi-paupers and
beggars, and that builds up joint stock companies, limited
liability companies, for the digging of docks and canals at
Panama, constructs railways, converts inland cities into seaports,
distils sunshine out of cucumbers, brings the waters
of the Atlantic into the deserts of Sahara, hoists a flagon
the North Pole, converts Irish Fenians and dynamite
into gentlemen and peaceable citizens, and makes gloves
out of the fine skins of paupers and criminals, that
are now allowed to rot uselessly in the grave ; and would
render gout and rheumatism impossible by the compulsory
observance of a vegetable and farinaceous diet, and by the

enactment of a law rendering the killing of sheep, oxen,
and other animals for food not only a misdemeanour,
but, if persisted in, a felony. All these schemes found
adherents among the well-meaning people who laid siege
to the ducats of Mr. Rameses, who found more than
enough to occupy his whole time in instructing his secretary
to refuse on his part to contribute a sixpence to any
of them.

Nor were these the only persons who endeavoured to
establish claims upon his liberality, not, however, with a
view to his possible pecuniary advantage, but to their own.
His name of Rameses suggested to many estimable people
of Scottish blood, whose ancestors had borne the honourable
name of Ramsay, that the great new millionaire was of
their race and lineage, a cousin of theirs at the very least,
perhaps a cousin forty or fifty times removed, but still indubitably
a cousin. On the principle that blood was thicker
than water, these people, on the strength of their name and
relationship, wrote to him requesting loans or gifts to set
them up in business, to save themselves from the workhouse,
the gaol, or the hospital, to enable them to emigrate,
to establish a newspaper, or carry to profitable completion

some marvellous invention that would revolutionise
the trade, the manufactures, or the intercourse of the
world. Mr. Melville, knowing the mind of his employer,
did not trouble him with a fiftieth part of these and other
applications, and returned to the remainder such answers
as promised nothing, expressed no opinions, and dexterously
precluded all further correspondence.

But while Mr. Rameses acted upon the principle that he
would rather give away a thousand pounds of his own freewill
and bounty than he would be swindled of a single five-pound
note, or even a solitary shilling, he was open as the
day to melting charity, and devoted a large portion of his
income to deeds of benevolence. As his almoner, Mr.
Melville took all delicate pains, and spared no trouble, to
investigate any claim that was made on his justice, his pity,
or his generosity ; and the widow and the fatherless, and
those who had none other to help them, received kindly
relief and support from the Parsee millionaire, and found
milk and honey where they had previously found nothing
but hard black bread and bitter tears, and roses and lies
in the pathways where nothing had grown but thorns and
thistles. None but Mr. Melville and himself knew the

But the great beneficent giver was himself among the
most unhappy of men. He was alone in the world — all
alone — without a companion, without a mate, without the
twin soul, to share his joys, his sorrows, his aspirations,
and his wealth. There were perhaps thousands of lovely
creatures — lovely in form, though possibly not altogether
lovely in mind — who would have been willing to share his
joys, and the wealth of which he was indubitably possessed,
and not unwilling, perhaps, to share his sorrows, his hopes,
and his aspirations ; but who could not share them to the
divine extent which alone would have satisfied his sensitive
being, for lack of the inexpressible, the celestial sympathy
of soul with soul, spirit with spirit, which was necessary to
the perfect harmony and roundness of his life. All the
womankind of the upper galaxies of Society pitied him
exceedingly, or even blamed him exceedingly, for wasting
his days and his money in single blessedness, and deplored

his infatuation — almost amounting to lunacy, in their
estimation — in inhabiting a splendid palace, filled with
every luxury of furniture, except the one piece of priceless
furniture — a wife. And that that one indispensable article
should be provided to grace the lordly mansion of the
lonely hermit, was the sole object of the thoughts of possibly
hundreds, but certainly scores of them. Possibly, too,
some of these fair syrens were uncharitable enough to
believe the unnatural state of isolation in which the
prosperous gentleman was contented to live, or at least in
which he lived, whether he was contented or not, might be
due to the fact that he was too much married — that he had
left a harem behind him in India — and that a surfeit of
marriage had not only caused the holy institution to become
distasteful to him, but had rendered him incapable of
contracting the obligation in a Christian community. But
these ill-natured sceptics were in the minority, though a
still smaller minority among them were not indisposed to
believe that a still stronger reason for the solitary state in
which the lord of so large a fortune seemed to live, might
be traceable to the fact that there was a Fair Rosamond in
his bower — a fascinating Amy Robert in his castle — and

that King Cophetua was secretly espoused to some lovely
beggar-maid, whom he was ashamed to introduce into the
world of which he was so brilliant an ornament. But these
rumours never reached the knowledge of poor Croesus
himself. And it was well, or they might have had the
effect of inclining his thoughts towards cynicism or misanthropy,
which was alien to his generous nature.

But the current of the aspirations, calculations and schemes
of the fashionable world, as regarded Mr. Rameses, was deflected
from its usual course into new channels scooped outby
the holiday season and the near approach of the vagabond
month of August, when foreign travel, the sea-shore, and the
mountains and moors of Scotland tempted every one with
money and leisure at command to leave home in search of
health, excitement, or mere change of scenery and surroundings.
Mr. Rameses had consented, though not without
misgivings that he should fail to enjoy himself, to pass a
month in the Highlands of Scotland, and to study life and
nature in a deer forest, under the auspices, though not in
the society, of Mr, Algernon Fitzgerald.

TO THE HIGHLANDS BOUND.

The multitudinous passengers that sailed from the Brooches
Glasgow, by the favourite steamer iona, included Mr.
Algernon and Lady Gwendoline Fitzgerald — bound for the
Highland deer forest ; hired at great expense by the proprietor
of the Methuselah Life Pills. Among the guests
whom he had especially invited to visit him, and who were
passengers by the same boat, were Lord and Lady Stoney-stratford,
the Ladies Maud and Ethel Pierrepoint, Mr. De
Vere, Sir Henry and Lady de Glastonbury, Mr. Rameses,
and his secretary, Mr. Melville. The mansion attached to
the extensive domain was large enough to accommodate all
these visitors, and more if occasion had demanded, and Mr.
Fitzgerald had resolved to loosen his purse-strings in honour
of the great occasion, and to do his best to procure sport
and recreation for the somewhat incongruous assemblage of
people whom he had invited to pass the autumnal months
in the hospitable wilderness. The company on board the .

steamer consisted of tourists, holiday-makers and sportsmen,
with a large percentage among them of Glasgow " bodies,"
as they are irreverently called, apparently because they are
supposed to have no souls, who were going "down the
water," as the phrase is, to their pleasant country quarters
in the estuary of the Clyde, at Greenock, Gourock, Wemyss
Bay, Rothesay, Dunoon, Kilmun, Strong, Tigh-na-Bruaich,
and Ardrishaig. Some of the English travellers had
arrayed themselves in the Highland costume, with the
egregious Cockney idea, that the garb was customary on the
mountains, and that it was obligatory upon any one who
aspired to be considered a gentleman. Others, equally
preposterous in their notions, had provided themselves
with alpenstocks, as if there were a Mont Blanc or a
Matterhorn and countless glaciers in Inverness-shire and
Ross-shire, where such conveniences for clambering into
or over dangerous crags and crevasses would be useful.
And others, again, who would not on any account have
made such fools of themselves in Piccadilly or Pall Mall,
had donned the convenient knickerbocker suit, while they
had rendered their lower Urbs ridiculous by wearing a red
stocking on one stalwart calf and a» green one on the other.

One man, with a bundle of alpenstocks in one hand and a
brace of fishing-rods in the other, had attired himself in a complete
suit of pea-green ; a pea-green hat, a pea-green feather,
a pea-green coat and nether garments, pea-green hose, and,
to be quite in keeping, pea-green boots. His appearance, of
which he was evidently proud, procured him among the
passengers the sobriquet of " the pea-green snob." He was
a tall, handsome fellow, the observed of all observers ; and
doubtless mistook the mock admiration extorted by his
fantastic garb, for real admiration excited by his good
looks and comely proportions.

The succession of some of the grandest scenery in the
world, that stretched in ever-varying magnificence all the
way from Glasgow to Inverness, through the Estuary of
the Clyde, the Kyle of Bute, Loch Fine, the Crinan Canal,
to the lovely rock-bound shores of the Island of Mull,
within sight of iona, Staffa, and the Treshnish Isles, by
Ferrara to Oban, and from beautiful Oban to still wilder
sublimities — to Ballahulish and Bannavie, and thence
through the chain of glorious lakes, prosaically called the
Caledonian Canal — has attracted the admiration of millions
of travellers during the last half-century. The fairy region

has often been described, but never yet had justice done toit
by pen or pencil, and never will have ; for words are
weak, and art is tame, when the grander aspects of Nature
have to be pourtrayed. The whole land is grand and
beautiful, and as full of memories and traditions as it is
of physical loveliness.

For over all the hazy realm is spread
A halo of sad memories of the dead,
Of mournful love tales ; of old tragedies
Filling the heart with pity and the eyes
With tears at bare remembrance ; and old songs
Of love's endurance, love's despair, love's Wrongs,
And triumph o'er all obstacles at last,
And all the grief and passion of the past.

There is no district of the same extent in any part of
the known world, with which so many historical and
legendary incidents of romantic and never-failing interest are
associated; and, as Dr. Johnson says of one of the most remarkable
islands of the many that gem the Atlantic on the
western shores of Scotland, the heart is cold and dead, the
imagination torpid and insensible, that can pass among them,
and can behold them, unmoved by the tenderest human
sympathy.

It will always be a matter of regret," said Mr. De Vera,

*' that Sir Walter Scott, when he made the circuit of Scotland
VOL. I. 14

in the steamboat of the Fishery Commissioners, did not sail
up the Caledonian Canal, through the grand scenery of
Loch Ness. What noble materials for a romance he might
have found in the ruins of Urquhart Castle, on a projecting
crag of the lovely lake ! "

I forget the legends, if any, connected with it," replied
Lady Stoney-Stratford, "and should be pleased to be
reminded of them."

In the first place," said Mr. De Vere, " the vaults of
the castle are supposed to contain — deep buried in the
earth — two great iron coffers, the same in size and in
appearance, with not a mark or vestige to distinguish the
one from the other, which have been concealed therein for
centuries. They have been saved from the desecrating
shovels of the ' Dry-as-dusts ' of antiquarianism, and from the
still more desecrating touch of the seeker for hidden gold,
by the legend that one contains the ' Plague,' and the other
an enormous amount of treasure in gold and silver and precious
stones, and that if any mistake were made, and the
wrong coffer were opened, so devastating a plague would
overspread all Scotland — and even England — that the whole
island would be depopulated."

A fruitful idea for the genius of the ' great Wizard ' to
operate upon," said Lady Stoney-Stratford ; " and more especially,"
she added, "if what was supposed to be the right
coffer should have been found to contain, when opened,
nothing but stones and rubble, or sand from the shores
of the lake ! "

Yes, indeed," replied Mr. De Vere ; and a splendid
homily on the old story of the vanity of human wishes he
would have made upon it. But of more value, and more
novelty in his experienced hands, would have been the
fact that Castle Urquhart was originally built and utilized
by a colony of Knights Templar, or Knights of St. John of
Jerusalem. The relations existing between these chivalrous
soldiers of the Cross and the wild and lawless, but picturesque
Highlanders, would have afforded him scope fora
romance of more interest even than ' Rob Roy,' or the
Talisman,' or any other of his matchless fictions."

The young ladies of the party, who, however, confessed
to a better acquaintance with the writings of " Ouida," and
Miss Brandon, and Marie Corelli, greater and purer than
either of them, than with those of Sir Walter Scott, of
which they knew something, though not very much — as they

14*

considered him to be no longer fashionable — agreed in Mr.
De Vere's and their mother's opinion ; and Lady Gwendolen
even thought it an " awful pity " that Sir Walter had
not penetrated the wilds of this " charming " region. How
dreadfully " dull it must have been for the Templar, who
had a " sweetly beautiful " place of their own in " dear old
London," somewhere in Fleet Street, in the very centre of
fashionable society. " Poor creatures ! But I suppose they
hunted and fished, and stalked the deer on the mountains
to amuse themselves ? "

Or chanted Latin hymns in the cloisters of the castle,"
said Lady Maud ; "or made war against the wild cattle-steamers,
that were the only inhabitants ; or perhaps endeavoured
to convert them to Christianity ! They must have
had plenty of society."

Mr. De Vere suddenly, if not impatiently, left the ladies
to their prattle, and sought Mr. Rameses, who was seated
alone at the further end of the steamer, drinking in with
delight the manifold beauties of the gorgeous panorama of
lake and mountain, watching the progress of a storm that
was evidently impending. It burst at last, while they stood
together, protected from the rain in the lee of the funnel,

and enjoying the grandeur of the scene too intensely to
seek shelter in the cabin below, whither the remainder of
the company had made all haste to retire.

' For lo ! the gusty rain with fitful whirl
Beats in their faces, and the lightning flash,
Illumines Heaven with glare blue venomous,
And drags behind it, in its fiery car,
The obedient thunder. Lifting up its voice.
It speaks to all the hills, which answer back."

It is a Strange and powerful fascination that the lightning
has over my imagination," said Mr. Rameses ; " and
with what an eloquent voice the thunder seems to discourse
to my soul, and hint, rather than proclaim, the profoundest
secrets of mighty Mother Nature. The old Asiatic belief,
that is prevalent even in Europe, that thunder is the voice
of God speaking in wrath to the wicked, and calling upon
them to repent of the evil of their ways, does not appear tome
to be superstitious, or to express anything else than the
solemn truth. God is always speaking to the wicked, if not
by the thunder of His heavens, by the still small voice of
conscience, heard alike in the wildest commotions of the
elements and in the quietest repose of the mind. I have
often thought, though perhaps I may be wrong, that those
who feel a coward fear in a thunderstorm, are self-condemned

by the very fact of the abjectness of their

terror ! "

I share your love of the storm," replied Mr. De Vere ;
but not the reasoning which you build upon it ; and
while thoroughly agreeing with the great poet, that our
philosophy is weak and limited, even in its wildest and
widest flights, I hesitate to confound the merely personal
cowardice of the weak and timid with the consciousness of
guilt."

"The question is not to be discussed," replied Mr.
Rameses, " though I strongly incline to the belief that more
can be said for it than is likely to find favour in a mechanical
and prosaic age ; but what an instructive volume might
be written, or perhaps has already been written, on the
latent truths concealed in what a world of wiseacres considers
to be the delusions of the vulgar ! And what a
hold many ideas which ultra-realists maintain to be superstitions
have acquired over the mind and habits of some of
the very wisest of mankind ! Signs, portents and auguries
are veritable powers in the government of the world, and
have been so from the earliest ages of history and tradition.
Rainbows and comets have been pressed into the service ;

even the stars in their eternal sublimity have been degraded
into fortune-telling diagrams and puzzles, and made to
answer the purpose of riddles and conundrums. The idea
of the voice of God speaking to the wicked in thunder, is a
far nobler, and may be a truer, conception of the might and
majesty of the Creator, than nine-tenths of the idle fancies
that have hitherto led men astray, and filled them with false
hopes or groundless terrors."

It was while indulging in such semi-philosophical discourse
as this, that the two travellers and their less philosophical
companions arrived at Inverness, where they were to
pass the next day — unprepared for the gloomy monotony of
a Scottish Sunday, but resolved, nevertheless, to make it a
day of rest, as its Jewish name of the Sabbath proclaimed
that it should be.

PLATONIC ONLY.

A SOMEWHAT close though not intimate relationship had
gradually established itself between the lovely and enthusiastic
Laura de Vere, and the dreamy, calm, and philosophical
Mr. Rameses. They were often thrown together
while exploring the beautiful scenery of the Bent and glens,
the streams and rivers, of the Highlands. They had many
sympathies with each other, and they indulged in the same
unfashionable and unpopular antipathies ; and these very
antipathies became links of sympathy. Miss De Vere had
been strongly urged by the ladies of the Pierrepoint family
to join them in fishing for trout and salmon in the lovely
waters of the Spey, or in the broad expanse of Loch Awe,
or Loch Etive, but she had a great repugnance to the sport,
which she deemed to be cruel. So had Mr. Rameses. Both
of them looked with the same repugnance upon the
slaughter of grouse on the moors, and of ptarmigan on the
crests of the mountains, and Miss De Vere was uncourtly

enough to think that the Prince of Wales condescended 10
act the part of a poulterer's provider, or assistant, when he
shot helpless doves by scores at a time in the preserves of
Buckingham, and looked upon the easy slaughter as an
amusement. Mr. Rameses and the gentle Laura had
nothing but animadversions to bestow upon what Mr.
Rameses called the malicious patience and perseverance of
the deer-stalking in which Mr. Fitzgerald and Lord Stoney-stratford
took such delight. The two had many other antipathies
and dislikes in common, but in minor matters they
differed but slightly — or agreed to differ — without preliminary
consultation. Miss De Vere was of a practical,
Mr. Rameses of a theoretical, tendency of mind ; the one
looked upon the world as it was, the other looked upon it
as he imagined it ought to be ; the one reed upon experience
as a sure staff and support, the other upon hope
as a guiding star.

And yet, with all their divergencies, each had a
powerful attraction for the other, and were irresistibly
drawn into companionship among the solitary wilds of
the beautiful and romantic country in which their lot was
temporarily cast. The scenery almost seemed to realise, in the

mind of Mr. Rameses, his favourite idea of the twin-soul ;
one, yet divided; twin-forces, functions and intelligences
working together, though they knew not how or wherefore,
to the same ends. The twin-souls, about the vision of which
he so dearly loved to speculate and to dream, were like two
rivers that flowed into the same ocean; two eyes that
looked with delight upon the same object ; two hands that
were engaged in the same labour ; two feet that travelled on
the same road ; two lips that breathed the same word ; the
two breasts of a young mother that yielded the same
nourishment to a beautiful infant ; two nostrils partaking of
the same odour, and two ears listening to the same divine
melody.

Lady Stoney-Stratford noticed with disappointment, not
to say displeasure, the growth and progress of a companionship
that interfered more or less with the realisation of a
project that she had formed in her own mind. Ever since
the ill-omened marriage of Lady Gwendohne with Mr.
Fitzgerald — for ill-omened, if not degrading to the house of
Pierrepoint, she could not choose but consider it, in spite of
her lord's personal and pecuniary reasons for looking favourably
upon the alliance — she had cherished the hope that

either Lady Maud or Lady Ethel would, with a little
dexterous management on hei part, win a place in the
affections of the noble and wealthy Indian Nabob, and be
led triumphantly to the altar, to share in the magnificent income
of ;£i 50,000 per annum ; a sum that would almost
purchase the fee-simple of the Pierrepoint estates. The
young ladies themselves were not so simple as not to suspect,
and indeed to know, that such was the worthy
woman's design in their interest, though each of them —
though not caring very greatly about the matter — would
have been better pleased if she, and not her sister, had
been considered the magnet that was certain to attract to
herself the as yet undecided fancy of the millionaire.

Had Lady Stoney-Stratford known all, and had she been
in the confidence of her youngest daughter, she would have
concentrated her anxieties upon Lady Ethel. But she
knew nothing, and suspected nothing, of a possible
mesalliance more fearful than that which had been already
consummated between the proud Lady Geraldine and thrice
proprietor of the Methuselah pills. And it was well for her
peace of mind that she did not, for her temporary ignorance
was real bliss while it lasted. Lady Maud was the

youngling of the flock, the only one among them that had
a particle of romance in her composition. She was
musical, literary, and mercenary, unworldly, and scorned
to turn up her pretty little nose at the idea of love in a
cottage, which she thought was rather a good thing than a
bad one — with all the greater cogency, perhaps, because her
flowery destiny had never brought her within sight of it.

In the very worldly mind of Lady Stoney-Stratford, the
doubt whether either of her daughters would consent to
marry a good man, who, however good he might be, was
not a Christian, was a source of constantly-recurring anxiety.
In fact, the doubt, and the many difficulties that sprung
from it, filled her otherwise tranquil existence with a trouble
that she did not even confide to her husband, from the
fear and almost the certainty that he would not sympathise
with it. All his desire was to add barn to barn, acre to
acre, field to field, domain to domain, that he might be the
greatest landed proprietor in the county. For this darling
object he had consented to waive his objections to an
alliance with "Methuselah," as he delighted with grim
jocosity to call his son-in-law j and for this object he would
have waived his objections, were they thrice as great as

they were, to an alliance with so great and wealthy a
potentate as Mr. Rameses. And when his lady on rare
occasions poured her doubts and fears into his inattentive
ear, he gave the question the go-by with the easiest possible
nonchalance, or with a passing suggestion that the faith of
the Oriental magnifico might not sit very heavily on his
conscience, and that if he made his home in England, as it
seemed most probable he would do, he would conform to
the ways of the country, and go to church on Sundays as
regularly as other professing — but possibly not more real
Christians than he was — were in the habit of doing. Lady
Stoney-Stratford was partly of the same opinion, not
understanding the deep earnestness of character, and the
firmly-rooted faith of the Eastern philosopher, who had
studied for himself the doctrines of all the ancient and
modern religions that had hitherto found acceptance in the
world. If Mr. Rameses would but conform outwardly to
the faith of the English people, she did not consider his
inward conformity to be of much or of any importance.
And she thought that Lady Ethel would not be harder to
please in this respect than she herself was, though she was
not quite so sure of the sentiments of Lady Maui.

It happened one day that Lord Stoney-Stratford was
confined to the house by an attack of his ancient enemy
the gout, and was thereby unable to accompany Mr. Fitzgerald
and Sir Henry de Glastonbury on a deer-stalking
expedition in the forests of Monaliadh, or the Grey
Mountains. The young ladies of the household had also
been imprisoned in their rooms by a temporary tyrant quite
as imperious as the gout — the tyrant Fashion, and its
prime minister the Toilette — absolute ruler of the female
world. Mr. Rameses found himself in consequence,
though quite accidentally, alone for a full hour in the
company of Lord and Lady Stoney-Stratford. The conversation
was artfully, but delicately and diplomatically, led
by Lady Stoney-Stratford to the subject of Christianity in
India, and to the possibility of its extension among the
Hindoo and Mahometan population. Neither Mr.
Rameses nor Lord Stoney-Stratford had any great hopes
that it would make any sensible progress for many
generations, if it ever made any at all. " What can you
expect?" said Mr. Rameses; "the religion of Mahomet,
though that of the minority in India, appeals strongly to
the passions of a pleasure-loving people, and promises the

joys of a carnal and lascivious heaven to a carnal-minded
and lascivious race, as the rewards of a short struggle with
the cares and anxieties of a world that is but a dark and
tearful world at the best. Brahminism and Buddhism, that
were established long anterior to Christianity, have a firm
hold upon the affections and prejudices of the people, and
more than that, teach a doctrine near akin to, if not the
same, as Christians in all its essential points."

"How so?" said Lady Stoney-Stratford, to whom the
statement seemed as new as it was startling.

They both teach adoration and love of the Supreme
Being, and the paramount duty of loving your neighbour as
yourself. They also teach the immortality of the soul."

But not the equality and brotherhood of all mankind,"
interrupted Lord Stoney-Stratford, " or the return of
benefits for injuries, which lies at the very foundation of
the Christian dogma."

Do Christians themselves believe it ? " answered Mr.
Rameses. " Do they ever act, have they ever acted, on
that divine principle ? If they have done so, whence
arise war and slavery, and the persecutions and martyrdoms
of heretics ? Whence come the insurrections and

the revolutions — the robberies — the spoliations — the murders
and the assassinations — that have disgraced humanity
from the creation of the world downwards ? Does a rich
Christian renounce his riches for equitable distribution
among the poor ? Do Christians hold all the good things
of the world in common ? Does the devotes Christian
turn his second cheek to the smiter, after the first has
received the insulting blow ? "

I grant Christianity has not yet reached that high ideal,"
said the lady, " but it is travelling towards it, and will reach
it in God's appointed time."

Meanwhile," said Lord Stoney-Stratford, " it has renounced
idolatry, and believes but in one God, the
creator, the preserver, and the redeemer. It worships neither
images, nor even the heavenly bodies, as some nations do
and have done. The worship of the sun and the stars is
not even yet extinct in India."

Pardon me," replied Mr. Rameses, " it is extinct, if the
word can be applied to that which never existed."

Never existed," ejaculated Lord Stoney-Stratford, with
great surprise. " Not even among the disciples of
Zoroaster ? "

Not even among the disciples of Zoroaster — or the
Parties, my ancestors," replied Mr. Rameses, with unusual
animation. " The Zoroastians never worshipped, never
adored the Sun — never acknowledged him as God — but
recognised him only as the sublime and beneficent manifestation
of God's power and glory — the source of life and beauty
the upholder of the planetary system — which, but for his
mighty and sustaining power, would be hurled into chaos.
There needs no holy books — no Veda — no Koran — no
Bible of the Jews — no Evangel of the Christians — to prove
to the world that, without the light and heat of the Sun, all
life in the world would be impossible ; and the Zoroastians
in acknowledging the fact, and being grateful for it, did
not become idolaters, and accept the shadow of the Divinity
which the Sun is — for the Divinity himself."

Lady Stoney-Stratford winced, as if in sore perplexity, and
more than half inclined to relinquish all further controversy.
Mr. Rameses — seeing her pain — came to the rescue. " I
would not be misunderstood, my lady," he said, " or cause
you even a moment's anxiety on my account. All things
considered, I claim to be as good and true a Christian, in
heart, as the Pope — or the Archbishop of Canterbury — or

VOL. 1. 15

as any martyr that ever went to the stake to seal his faith
with his blood. I acknowledge God, and worship him. I
obey his laws as far as I am able, and love my fellow-man
and my neighbour as myself."

'' I have nothing more to argue about," said Lord Stoney-stratford.
" Nor I," added his wife. " The heart and the
conscience are the guides, and, if they are satisfied, what
right have we to make objections if the life be blameless ?"

Here the subject dropped, and would not have been
renewed, even if the young ladies, having finished their
devotions at the shrine of the great goddess. Fashion, had
not entered at the moment, and rendered all further discussion
inexpedient and improper.

Lady Stoney-Stratford afterwards made her daughters
acquainted with the discourse that had been held with the
Oriental philosopher, and both the young ladies agreed that
Mr. Rameses could never expect that a Christian girl would
marry him.

Lady Stoney-Stratford was convinced after this that her
dream of an alliance of the Parsee with one of her daughters
was at an end — and resigned herself to the inevitable, like
a wise woman as she was.

Next day, mr. Rameses, as if to prove to himself that his
heart was in the right, and that he held his wealth in trust
for the benefit of his suffering fellow creatures — signed
cheques of large amount towards the support of every
hospital in London. He did not even let his secretary
know what he had done ; and, moreover, imposed it as a
command upon the several secretaries of the institutions
which he had benefited, that his contributions should be
only acknowledged in their archives as the benefactions
of an anonymous donor. " This," he thought to himself,
may not be Christianity, nor love to God, but it may belove
to mans*



THE SUMMIT OF THE MOUNTAIN.

Mr. Rameses, with Mr. Melville, and Mr. De Vere and
his fair daughter, were by no means sorry to leave the
solitude of the Highland hills — for to them it appeared
more than solitary for want of the congenial studies and
occupations to which they were accustomed. The society
and pursuits of Mr. Fitzgerald afforded them no inducements
to prolong their stay. Mr. de Vere longed to be
once again among his books, and Mr. Rameses among his
Egyptian papyri and sarcophagi, and to be free of venal
and vulgar companionship. While Mr. de Vere and his
daughter made the best of their way to London, and Lord
Stoney-Stratford remained on the moors — to slay grouse
and deer — Mr. Rameses, accompanied by Mr. Melville,
made a detour from Ross-shire and Inverness-shire into
beautiful Perthshire, in order that the former might gratify
a long-cherished desire to make his ascent of the noble Ben
Ledii — that overlooks the village of Callander. To his mind

Callander is now but a miserable village, but, to the mind
of the Oriental philosopher, all the remembrances of the
spot were sacred, not alone from their immense antiquity, but
from their intimate associations with the earliest religion of
the world — whether called Sabaeanism, Sun-worship, or Fire-worship.
His secretary having, like himself, a strain of
Asiatic blood m his veins, sympathised in a great degree in
his love for the antediluvian faith of the earth's earliest
fathers, and looked forward with curiosity and interest to
the imposing ceremonial that Mr. Rameses proposed to
perform on a magnificent scale. His purpose was to draw
fire from the direct rays of the sun, and to kindle a beacon
that should light up the whole range of the Grampians, and
the hoary summits of Ben Nevis, Schehallion, Cairngorm,

and Ben Clachan, and their gigantic brothers Ben
Lomond, Ben Lawyers, Ben Venue and Ben Coil. It was
a fascinating idea to both of their minds, and associated
with venerable and awe-inspiring traditions.

The fact that September had arrived, and that May
morning was the orthodox anniversary of the Druidical
celebration, did not cause Mr. Rameses to change his plan
or diminish the interest with which he looked forward to its
fulfilment. Mr. Rameses was particularly gratified to find
on his arrival at Callander that the pilgrims of a long-past
age had left their traces behind them upon the mountain,
and that the broad pathway which their pious feet had trodden,
from the base to the summit, was unmistakably marked
by a broad belt of grass, amid the heather that fringed it
upon either side. To a mind so richly stored as was that
of Mr. Rameses, with the antique lore and traditions of
the almost immeasurable past, it was not difficult to recall
in fancy the long procession of Priests, Bards, and Prophets
chanting in full accord their deep-voiced anthems to the Lord
of Life and Light — and through him to the Great Creator,
of whom, and of whose majesty, he was the most glorious
reflection and representative on this poor ignorant Earth.

at last raised her eyes, and, with a slight exclamation of
surprise, though not by any means of terror, became suddenly
aware of the presence of strangers, Mr. Rameses thought
he had never before beheld a vision of such transcendant
loveliness as that which was suddenly disclosed to his sight.
When verbal intercourse had once been established
between the three persons thus brought unexpectedly together,
it was soon ascertained that the fair and mysterious
stranger had but a limited knowledge of the English language.
Mr. Melville, who was an admirable linguist, endeavoured
to come to the rescue by addressing the lady in Persian — but
of this language she was ignorant. Mr. Rameses next
addressed her in Hindustani, which he spoke perfectly, as
did she also. By this means he learned that she was the
sister of the Hindoo wife of a Scottish baronet, who had
been engaged in some high administrative capacity in the
service of a late Viceroy or Governor-general of India, and
that she had come to Europe with her sister. She did not
feel quite at home either in London, which was the usual
residence of the family, and still less in the Highlands, where
they had resided for the summer and autumn for the
benefit of the mountain air, considered necessary for the

inaccessible eyries were on the neighbouring crags — until
all these waifs and strays formed a respectable heap to
aliment the expected blaze of the Certain fire. But they
were not sufficient for the mighty beacon that Mr. Rameses
desired to enkindle. Mr. Melville was therefore deputed
to forage among the lower levels and overhanging precipices,
to gather bracken, roots of decayed heather, and,
perchance, the scorched and lightning-smitten branches of
larch, pine, and rowan, so as to build up a pyre worthy of
such a great occasion as Mr. Rameses had imagined. His
search was more successful than he had anticipated, and he
reached the hill-top once again, suggesting to Mr. Rameses
the pictures he had seen of the Man in the Moon, laden
with sticks and faggots, which he bore in expiation of his
supposed crime of Sabbath-breaking.

When the pyre had been duly constructed a little difficulty
was experienced for want of paper to aid the effort
of the fuel to burst into a flame. The difficulty was
speedily surmounted by the production from the pockets of
Mr. Melville of a quantity of letters and printed circulars,
setting forth the merits of many proposed Limited Liability
Companies, which had either been answered by the indus-the

three lingered around the fire, and Niona — as if by
a sudden and irrepressible impulse — broke out into a joyous
chant, with a clear resonant voice of great power and sweetness.
Neither of her companions understood the words of
the song, though fully cognizant of its occult meaning.
Gradually the jubilant and triumphant strain subdued itself
into a soft lament, as the flames burned lower and lower,

and finally dwindled into a melancholy moan and dirge, as

the last spark flickered faintly and expired in the wood ashes.

The chant ended, Niona, without saying a word, turned
slowly round and began the descent of the mountain. Her
two companions followed silently and reverently down the
grassy slope, without a word spoken on either side till they
reached the entrance to the village.

We part not thus," said Mr. Rameses, in Hindustani,
we must meet again in London."

You will know where to find me," replied Niona, with
a soft smile and a gentle wave of her hand, as she entered
the villa of her sister's husband. And thus they parted.
A deeper impression of the incidents was left upon the mind
of Mr. Rameses than he would have deemed it possible
that so casual a meeting, with one wholly unknown to him
a day previously, could have produced even upon his imaginative
nature.

RETURN TO LONDON.

Mr. Rameses, after his short and unsatisfactory wanderings
in the Highlands — of which the only pleasant remembrance
that he retained was his meeting with Xiona — is
again installed in his palatial residence in Kensington
Palace Gardens. London was said to be empty, though
there were only about four millions of people left in it — all
nobodies in the estimation of the small circle of that which
is called " Society," but each a somebody, and, perhaps, a
great somebody, in his own. Mr. De Vere and his daughter
had returned to the Rookery — Sir Henry and Lady De
Glastonbury had gone home ; the few philosophers, geologists,
astronomers, Egyptologists and antiquaries, with whom
Mr. Rameses had a personal acquaintance, had betaken
themselves, some to America, some to the continent of
Europe, some to the sylvan solitudes of the beautiful
EngUsh shires, and some few to ducal or other aristocratic
mansions — to figure as great Bons among the smaller fercd

7iaturcB of the fashionable world. After a fortnight's
sojourn in the comparative seclusion of his Kensington
home, Mr. Rameses had accepted the pressing invitation of
his well-beloved friend, Mr. De Vere, to pass as short or as
long a time as it pleased him in the Rookery, in companionship
with the well-stocked Library and museum of that
pleasant abode — to muse, perhaps, upon the mysterious
memories of Lurula and Amenophra, and the splendid
beauty of the living Niona — or to dream and speculate
upon the seen and the unseen — upon Life, Time, and
Eternity, and the boundless possibilities of the Infinitude.
In these and kindred speculations, and in the congenial
society of his friend, enlivened by the occasional society of
his friend's daughter, the hours of Mr. Rameses — like those
of Thalaba — "flowed pleasantly by," varied by occasional
visits to the Metropolis, accompanied by his faithful secretary,
for the transaction of his inevitable business — of which
rich men have a fuller share than the poor, though the poor
are often unaware of, and loth to acknowledge, the fact.

As the month of February approached, and the wandering
English of the upper classes winged their flight from the
remotest regions of the globe to the great central heart of

the world's business and pleasure, the thoughts of Mr.
Rameses turned towards the long-previously announced
succession of splendid dinners which, in an evil hour for his
peace of mind, he had consented to give. Though modest
in character, and frugal in his habits, he was not averse
from occasional displays of magnificent hospitality. He
was no lover of money for its own sake. He had no ideas
of hoarding it, and was pleased to possess it in superabundance
— not alone for the good it enabled him to do,
and the well-being it was the means of diffusing, like sunshine
and fertilizing rain, over a large surface — not for the
power over his fellow-creatures which it placed in his hands,
or for the sense of superiority, dear to the hearts of thousands
of good people, who are not aware that they encourage
it. He was philosopher enough to feel that he could have
endured poverty without murmuring against the seemingly
hard Fate that yoked him to it — but also to know and to act
wisely upon the knowledge that wealth was good, when
employed to goodly purpose, and that the best of all rich
men were but trustees for the poor, and for the benefit of
those without whose labour it could not have been called
into profitable existence.

Preparatory to coming to any decision on the choice of
the notable persons who should be asked to partake of the
hospitalities which he intended to dispense on a princely
scale, Mr. Rameses invited Mr. De Vere and his daughter
to pass a fortnight with him in Kensington — partly that he
might have the advice of Mr. De Vere, and partly that he
mirth enjoy the society of his daughter ; partly, also, that he
might bring about an interview between them and the
lovely Asiatic maiden whose acquaintance he had made on
the summit of Ben Ledii.

He could not account for the fascination which, in spite
of his will, the ideas of Amenophra, Lurula, and Niona
were linked in his mind by so many and such occult
threads of sympathy, that he strove in vain to rend them
asunder, and resigned himself to the dreamy hallucinations
without any attempt to break loose from them. He did
not confide his fancies to Mr. De Vere, or even to his
private secretary, from whom he had few secrets — but hid
them under his waistcoat, as the Spartan boys did the
foxes — lest a too prying world should discover them, and
sneer at his infatuation.

Mr. Rameses was one of those happily constituted men

who are never less alone than when alone." The feasting

on his own thoughts was a perpetual luxury. The dearest

and most intimate companion of his thoughts was music —

the music that his deft fingers drew from the great organon

which he was an enthusiastic, though but Httle instructed,

performer. Between the instrument and himself there

seemed, in his own mind, to be a perfect sympathy. He

talked to it — he played with it — he confided to it his hopes,

his aspirations, his wildest fancies, and felt through all his

frame the pulsation of electric waves, as the full, deep notes

succeeded each other in unspoken hymns of praise, love,

adoration, and exultation of spirit. He thought that the

first music that sounded in the ears of human kind was

heard by Eve as she walked in the gardens of Paradise and

heard the Angels whisper together among the trees ; that

the music of the. spheres was no idle dream of ancient or

modern poets, but a physical and mental realty, audible to

every human soul that was attuned to the all-pervading

melodies and harmonies of Nature. Music, he said and

thought, was a divine voice that was powerless to utter evil.

It only spoke praise, love, adoration, cheerfulness, joy, and

sympathetic exultation of mind. Discords might interrupt
VOL. I. 16

the concords that sounded from the seven strings of the
lyre of Heaven — but they were alien, and antagonistic, and
doomed to speedy extinction in the mighty diapason
and full choral symphony of the Universe. Fear, Terror,
and Wrath, might be imaginable in the sudden cessation of
the harmony; but envy, scorn, malice, falsehood, jealousy,
hatred, and all the ignoble passions and propensities of the
perishing flesh, could find no voice in the angelic
language of the spheres — in the voice of God, speaking
from Eternity to Eternity — and regulating the march of
suns, planets, and systems throughout the infinitude. Mr.
Rameses found a sympathetic listener to his poetical
rhapsodies on this subject in Laura De Vere — and in a
lesser degree in the more prosaic, but still poetic, mind of
her father. She was herself a performer on the instrument
and often attended on week days in the parish church
of her native village, to make and enjoy a grander music
than she could draw from the superb grand pianoforte
which she possessed in her own home — and sometimes
found her services in much request on the special occasions
when the vicar, on the more solemn festivals of the Church,
desired to impress the minds of his parishioners with a

holier rapture than that to which they were capable of being
lifted on more ordinary and frequently occurring occasions.
Mr. De Vere himself was of opinion — which he often expressed
to the Vicar in friendly converse after dinner — that
the Protestant Churches of Europe, more especially the
Presbyterian and Calvinistic, ignorantly and perversely
neglected one of the noblest aids and incentives to devotion
when they banished all music except that of the untrained,
and too often harsh and discordant, voices of the congregation
and the school-children, from their Sunday services.
In fact," said Mr. Vere (and the Vicar in his heart agreed
with him though he had not the courage to avow it too openly,
lest he should be suspected and accused of Ritualism, and
even of Roman Catholicism), " all the fine arts ought to be
pressed into the service of Religious worship — not only
music, but painting and sculpture; not only flowers, incense,
stained glass, drapery, but white embroidered robes
and flowing garments for the ministrants at the shrine and
the altar. Nor should the music of the organ and the
human voice, grand as these were, be confined"' he
thought " to the service of the churches, but all, or more

than all, of the instruments in favour with Nebuchadnezzar

16*

which he commanded to be played in the service of Baal —
the only God whom he recognised to be a God — (though
Baal was only one of the names given to the Sun by the
ancient natives of the East) — sackbut, psaltery, timbrel,
harp, dulcimer, flute, lyre, and even the tabor and
tambourine. All these were but the ministrants of sound,
and sound was the gift of God, which, were it withheld from
human ears, would render the earth uninhabitable."
The Vicar, in the estimation of his principal parishioners,
was thought to be somewhat wild and eccentric
in his ideas on the subject, but all forbore to argue
with him, for several reasons, the first of which was that no
one among them felt himself quite able to controvert him,
and was not disposed to enter upon so large a
question.

It was decided by Mr. Rameses, who was warmly
supported in the idea by Mr. De Vere, that to all of the
grand dinners which he intended to give in the season,
there should be a musical accompaniment — instrumental
during the repast, and vocal during the dessert — when no
clatter of knives and forks, the removal of dishes, or the
passing to and fro of waiters, should distract attention from

the sweet strains of the singers and choristers. Miss De
Vere gladly undertook the management of all the details of
this department of the festivals. She knew exactly where
and to whom to apply both for instrumentalists and vocalists,
and especially where she could obtain a well-trained choir of
boys, whose voices she, with all other competent judges of
music, held to be unsurpassable for clear and powerful
melody. She also knew where to find most of the demi-goddesses
of song, whose services were not monopolised by
Paris, New York, Berlin and St. Petersburg — and who did not
require a reward for administering to the enjoyment of an
hour, as much as a year's wages of a dozen hard-working
men.

Mr. De Vere recommended, if Mr. Rameses desired
celebrity for his "symposia," that his guests should not be
exclusively selected from the circle of fashionable Use, but
that they should consist of representatives of all the professionally
intellectual classes, and should include — as opportunity
served — patricians and plebeians, bishops and judges,
generals and admirals, doctors and lawyers, authors and
painters, bankers and merchants, and scientific philosophers
of every class and kind — a perfect menagerie, in fact, of

notabilities, more or less deserving of the eminence
assigned to them in the small world that called itself, and
was called "Society." But how to make a good choice
amid such a multitude was the difficulty that beset both
Mr. Rameses and his adviser. And then there were the
ladies to be considered. But their claims Mr. De Vera
thought might be easily disposed of by the invaluable aid of
Lady Stoney-Stratford, and by garden parties in the beautiful
grounds, and by balls in [the splendid salons of the
mansion. Thus, with dinners, concerts, garden parties and
balls, the hospitalities of the rich Hindoo would indubitably
become a nine days' wonder in the great metropolis,
and sources of envy, ill-feeing, spite, and scandal on the
part of all the non-invited who were above the social rank
of shopkeepers. Mr. Rameses, in the face of the complications
and hard work which he foresaw would be his lot in
organizing these pretentious displays, was at times more than
half disposed to abandon the idea of giving them. After
all, as he thought, what would be the good of them ? beyond
the spreading abroad of money that he did not value, to fill
the greedy pockets of an extortionate crowd of harpies,
who picked the pockets of the poor and committed

wholesale robberies of the rich. But he had gone too
far to retract. All the noble mothers of unmarried
daughters in London were on the alert, with Lady Stoney-stratford
in the foreground, to turn this great occasion to
advantage in the matrimonial market ; and, besides, even
the philosophic giver of the festival had a vague notion,
that he never expressed in words to anybody, that possibly,
amid the crowd of beautiful women that would congregate
around him on the occasion, the guiding-star of his Use
might be discoverable. The idea maintained its hold
upon his mind, as he thought of Niona, the nearest approach
to the bright "twin sou V"' that was seldom absent
from his waking or dreaming fancy.

>^^

7~^ ' \tj *• ^'^

THE GRAND SYMPOSIUM.

The advice given by Mr. De Vere was not exactly suited
at the moment to the fancy of Mr. Rameses. The first of
his series of dinners was not given to dukes, marquises,
earls or bishops, but to philosophers and students of the
wonders and mysteries of Nature. There was not a lord
among the guests, except two, who were invited, not
because they were lords, but because they were men who
had sought Knowledge in her secret and remotest haunts,
held communion with her, and given up their whole hearts
to the fascination of her teaching — who had learned wisdom
from the earth and from the stars, from the infinitely little as
well as from the infinitely great. And these men were not
staid and dull, and devoid of brilliant conversation — as
the multitude are apt to suppose that men of high
intellectual attainments too commonly are — but full of
anecdote, wit, repartee and joyous elasticity. They were
not expected to say good things, just as the flint and steel

when quiescent are not expected to emit flashes of fire, but
which never fail to emit them when properly handled.

Mr. Rameses was not only temperate but abstemious.
His food consisted principally of grain and fruits, and his
drink was water. He was by no means an anchorite or an
ascetic in his hospitalities, but especially liberal in placing
before his guests wines of the choicest vintages, in the excellence
and virtues of which he was well initiated. He
held — with the Apostle Paul, with Noah and Solomon, and
with all the sages of ancient and modern times — that good
wine was one of the choicest gifts bestowed upon mankind
by all-bounteous, beneficent and benevolent Mother Nature.
He was learned, and had been in his youthful time experienced,
in the merits of Chateau Lafitte, Chateau Margaux,
Clos Vougeot, Chambertin, Chateau Yquem, Romance
Conti, Marcobrunner, Rudesheimer, Tokay and Catawba,
and was not to be imposed upon either by retail or wholesale
merchants. He dealt directly with the vintagers and proprietors
of Bordeaux, Burgundy and the Rhineland, and
allowed the virtuous liquors to increase in virtue by age —
for years after they had left the vines which gave them birth
and to mature in excellence as they matured in years.

And though, in this age of fads and isms, crazes and
crotchets, the fact may be denied or not very cheerfully
recognised, good wine is as powerful a magnet to attract
good company, as good wit or the most sparkling conversation
of the beaux esprits of society. The fame of the wine
cellar of Mr. Rameses, the water drinker, was as widely
extended as that of his wealth.

The accessories of a feast are better than the feast itself,
or ought to be so. The coarse tastes of the palate are not
the most refined of all the tastes that should administer to
the luxurious charms of a sumptuous entertainment. The
pleasures of the eye, of the olfactory nerves, of the
touch, of the ear, and, more than all, of the imagination,
are necessary to the completeness of the harmonies that
should pervade every truly artistic banquet. The nectar of
the gods would not taste like nectar if it were presented ina
pipkin, and ambrosia would cease to be ambrosial if served
from a coffee-pot. Who could sup Chateau Margaux with
a spoon out of a soup-plate ? Or Clos Vougeot out of a
porridge pot? Plates of Sevres and of Dresden ware
add — though ravenously hungry and prosaic feeders may
not be aware of it — to the flavour and zest of the delicacies

that are provided in them ; and the perfume of flowers,
and the sweet streams of music, sounding amid the leaves and
spreading branches of the choicest tropical palms and evergreens,
enhance all the pleasures of sense, and prove with
a somewhat different shade of meaning the wisdom of the
words of Solomon when he declared, "that a dinner of
herbs and love therewith " was better than the most sumptuous
feast without that divine condiment. Silver and golden
candelabra, cut glass, sparkling like diamonds, emeralds
and rubies, and mirrors, reflecting a myriad lights, are all
enhancements of the pleasure derivable from the gratification
of the vulgar, and more or less degrading, appetite for
mere food — which is the pabulum of the perishable body, but
is no satisfaction to the imperishable mind, except in so far
as in this purely physical world the mind is dependent upon
the body for its power of communication with the material
universe. Mr. Rameses had studied these things, and
made use of his abundant riches to afford the fullest scope
and play to his ideas.

All the great dinners that he gave during the season were
social successes, and as such were duly recognised in the
prevalent gossip of the time, blazoned abroad by all the

usual organs of publicity — of which the tongues of the
women, young and old, and of the quidnuncs of the clubs
were not the least important. To the dinners were invited
the leaders of the world of intellect and fashion — not without
a sotto voce accompaniment of wonder that Mr.
Rameses should give himself so much trouble about, and
spend so much money upon, a world from which he expected
and could obtain nothing in the way of advantage. But
it was his whim, and had he not the means of indulging it?
His hobby — and had he not the skill of riding it ? But
the success of the dinners, great as it was, was as nothing
to be compared with the success of his garden parties.
These were pronounced, by all the glibbest utterances
of the great little world in which the utterers whirled about
like lively animalcule in a crystal vase, sparkling in the sunshine
or the window of a drawing room — to-be the only
events of the season that were worthy of remembrance —
superior even in claims to the great annual Exhibition at
South Kensington ; that would be all very well in their estimation
if the oi polloi, with their shillings, and the occupants
of the Bath-chairs, wheeling about in everybody's way, were
not admitted.

At these gatherings the beauty of all the beauties, whose
loveliness was recognised by the men, and about whom the
opinions of the ladies were divided into a small minority of
admirers and a very large majority of dissentients from the
popular verdict, was Niona Lai, who was accompanied by
her sister, Lady MacTavish, and her sister's husband, Sir
Hector MacTavish, knight of the Bath and of the Star of
India. The next fair one who received the popular homage
without claiming it, was Laura De Vere. The two young
women were mutually attractive — the one fair as a summer
morning, the other dusky, but beautiful as an autumnal
evening, when the western sky is all aglow with many-tinted
clouds, 'ere yet the moon has risen, or any other
than the evening star-has put in an appearance in the sky.
An idea spread abroad at these gatherings, from not one of
which the dark beauty or the fair were ever absent, that
Mr. Rameses, owing to the marked attentions which he
showed to both of them, was like a moth hovering between
two flames, uncertain in which of the two he should scorch
his gauzy wings prior to the final immolation which the
Ladies Pierrepoint thought to be inevitable. Lady Stoney-stratford,
however, was not without a faintly lingering hope

that the flames in the bright eyes of either Lady Ethel or
Lady Maud would yet prove of superior efficacy in attracting
the golden moth, although the young ladies themselves
had renounced all ideas upon the subject, and looked upon
the Paganism of Mr. Rameses as a fatal objection. But
Lady Stoney-Stratford was a truly British General, and when
she thought herself likely to conquer never acknowledged
defeat or the possibility of it. Besides, she knew that gold
was great, and that the " No," of a young lady might be
changed into " Yes," if pertinaciously ignored or controverted.
Mr. Rameses, the person most interested, thought
no more of the supposed danger which he ran, than the
moth, with which he was ideally compared, thought of the
dangers of the blaze which dazzled and fascinated it. The
lovely Niona was wholly unconscious of the fancies that had
taken root in the minds of the wealth-hunting EngUsh
maidens of aristocratic birth — but Laura De Vere, though
the most mercenary of her sex, knew full well that Mr.
Rameses was not an utter stranger to the kindly and even
tender feeling with which she had almost unconsciously
inspired him. She had no love of money, or of display —
her father was wealthy enough to provide liberally for all

her wants, whether she remained single, or found a husband
in any station of Hfe — and she would have hated herself
if she could have indulged in any scheme, or in any hope of
an alliance with one whom she no doubt esteemed and
respected, but for whom she had never entertained an
affection of a nature different from that which she felt
for her father.

Between her and Niona, with whom she had no thoughts
of rivalry, the latent germ of a sisterly affection had
gradually grown into an overshadowing tree. It had been
to Laura a source of regret that she had no brother, and,
above all, no sister who could sympathise in her joys, her
sorrows, her studies and her amusements. She had unexpectedly
found in Niona the friend, the companion, the
sister she had dreamed of; and every day that they passed
together served to increase the tenderness of the tie that
bound them. Mr. De Vere watched the progress of the
attachment with pleasurable solicitude, hoping that it
might be strengthened as time wore on. Mr. Rameses
also was a highly interested observer of the girlish love
that had grown up in the sympathetic hearts of the two
maidens — who had come into the world under such

different circumstances, and been nurtured upon such
different mental food. Greatly as he admired, and
strongly as he was attracted towards, Laura De Vere, he
more greatly admired, and was still more forcibly attracted
by the inexplicable witchery exercised over his mind
by Niona. " Blood," as has been often said, " is thicker
than water," and the Asiatic blood that coursed through
his own veins acted with a magnetic influence, which
caused their pulses to throb in unison, when the thoughts
of either of them turned towards the land of their birth —
which became more than ever the land of their love, the
further they were removed from it. The fancied resemblance
-which Niona bore to the image he had formed in
his mind of the long-lost priestess of Isis — the beloved
Lurula of his dreams — drew his sympathies more and
more towards her, and withdrew them in a corresponding
degree from Laura De Vere, who, on her part,
gradually ceased to be conscious of exercising any greater
influence upon his mind than that of the mild and equable
influence of friendly sympathy and intellectual companionship.


Lady MacTavish was not happy in her married life, and

Niona partook, as she could not fail to do, of the discomfort
of her position. Sir Hector was a specimen and a remnant
— perhaps the last — of the old Highland gentleman of a
bygone era. He had all the arbitrary notions of a feudal
c hies, longed for the restoration of the ancient privilege of
pit and gallows, to be exercised at will against his refractory
vassals, and treated his docile spouse after the fashion
of the Eastern potentates, who looked upon women as
chattels or toys, slaves to their will, and bound to render
unresisting and uncomplaining obedience to their slightest
caprices. In daily intercourse with such a tyrant — to
whom she was only bound by the sisterly, or half-sisterly, tie
of relationship — it was not to be wondered at that Niona
should look with pleasure and favour upon the graceful
courtesy, the delicate attention, the deferential respect
exhibited towards her by one of her own race, who had
discarded the Asiatic notions of women, and moulded his
thoughts, his character, and his conduct upon those of
Europeans towards the female sex. Mr. Rameses was in
his whole mind, bearing and behaviour, a thorough Eng-
Sh gentleman, of what is improperly called the old

school — but which is neither new nor old — but perennial
VOL. I. 17

and perpetual, and likely to remain so. Under these circumstances,
so novel in the experience of the fair Niona,
the intimacy between her and Mr. Rameses grew more
cordial as the days wore on, and gave additional strength
to the rumours which floated about in Society, that all the
wiles and snares and delicate manoeuvres employed by the
match-making mothers and match-desiring daughters of
the fashionable world, who had set their hearts upon
sharing the comfortable millions of Mr. Rameses, were
likely to be exerted in vain, unless a change should come
over the minds of either of the two interesting Indians —
a change which, to lynx-eyed observers, did not seem possible
on the lady's part, or probable on that of the gentleman's.
And consequently, the secret war against the
rupees of the millionaire languished a little, though it did
not cease in the higher circles of the aristocracy. But
Lady Stoney-Stratford remained alert and watchful —
reposed a Httle, but did not shut her eyes against the
chances and possibilities of the future.

END OF VOLUME I.

KELLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS,

AND KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.



'^

m:^^m

zmm^^Mgrni

>w,:^C^?9^ '^^f^^^^

w^

wmi

'jflk^^

3 0112 049772681

^#i

v-^:

/ 1i

twirl-socii

^^f*m

L I E) R.ARY

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS


Ml922t

£'MMt

b*?0

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/twinsoulorstrang02mack

OR,

THE STRANGE EXPERIENCES

OF

MR. RAMESES.

H p9i2Cbolog(cal an Realistic
Romances

TWO VOL Uses.
VOL. II

Fay que mon ane a la tienne assemble,
Range nos coeurs et nos esprits ensemble,

Labour Intend ainsi ;
Tu es mon feu, je dois etre ta flamme,
Et dois encor puisque je suis ton ane

Etre la mienne aussi ! "

Philippe DES PORTES, 1575.

London :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C

1887.

wall rights reserved. '\

KELLY And CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C, AND
MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME TWO

I. — Parliamentary Honours . . . . i

II. — Dreams and Presentiments . . lo

III. — Hesitancy 21

IV. — The Final Declaration . 34

V. — A Great Downfall 49

VI. — The Despotism of Words . 59

VII. — A Matrimonial Thunderstorm . , 75

VIII.— Falling in Love 86

IX.— A Catastrophe 93

X. — Saadi Ben Ahmed . . . . in
XI. — A Little Love Affair, or what seems

to be so 132

XII. — Unexpected Revelations . . . 145

XIII.— In Richmond Park . . . • i55

XIV.— The Knot is Tied— and Loosened . 167

XV.— The Duel i86

XVI.— A Splendid Wedding . . . 194

XVII. — The Mediterranean and the Nile . 202

Xvii— The Dolce Far Niente . 219

XIX.— In the Shadow of the Sphinx . . 233

XX. — The Pyre of Consecration . 249

H psychological anb Realistic Romance,

CHAPTER I.

PARLIAMENTARY HONOURS.

By an unexpected combination of circumstances, Sir
Hector MacTavish and Mr. Rameses were both invited to
become candidates for the representation in Parliament of
a Metropolitan borough. This particular borough happened
to be blessed or cursed, as the reader may choose to consider
it, with two Caucuses — or two Cauci, if that be the
better word — who considered it to be their duty to guide
the political sheep of the district into such pastures as
pleased them. These caucuses grew like warts or wens
upon the necks of the Radical and Conservative parties,
the one being of opinion that Great Britain ought to
occupy herself exclusively with her own affairs, and leave

all the rest of the world to take care of itself; the other
VOL. n. 1 8

that Great Britain ought to maintain herself as a Greater
Britain, and that, as her Empire was world-wide, so ought
her duties and responsibilities to be, and that not a hostile
gun should be discharged in either hemisphere without her
sanction or permission. Upon the great question of India,
the policies they approved were diametrically opposed to
each other. The Radicals were for letting India drift into
self-government. The Conservatives, on the contrary,
were for continuing the beneficent hold which the genius
of the greatest of English statesmen and administrators had
established over that vast country. Neither of these
parties knew anything about India, except that it was large,
populous, and rich ; but both had an idea, born of conceit,
ignorance, and presumption, that it was their duty to send
into Parliament a man to expound their views, as far as
they were expoundable. Mr. Rameses was a persona grata
to the mole-eyed Radicals, because he was a native of
India, and was thought to sympathise with the Indian
people. Sir Hector was a persona grata to the Conservatives,
because he had once governed a portion of India on
English principles, and was in all probability ready to do
so again if called upon, or at all events to support in Parliament

the existing policy of British statesmanship. Blithe
Radicals misunderstood the character of Mr. Rameses,
as they very soon discovered on approaching him with
their proposals. He would not be dictated to ; he would
not be a delegate or an echo ; he would not be the mouthpiece
of the opinions of shopkeepers, butchers, bakers,
tailors, fishmongers, or even attorneys, or do that which
he was bidden to do by people not half so well informed
as himself, or not informed at all. He would neither
whisper nor roar, nor laugh nor sigh, by dictation, but
would be true to his own soul, and assert himself, per fas
or nie fas, careless whom he might please or whom he
might offend by so doing. The poetical admirers of Sir
Hector MacTavish were a different kind of people. They
chose their man because they knew what he meant, and
because they were assured of his thorough independence of
mind, character, and conduct ; because they knew that he
knew what they didn't know, and that he would not be
driven or led from his purpose by fear or favour, by
cajolery or force, or by the prizes that might be dangled
before the eyes of his ambition and self-seeking. Sir Hector

accepted the invitation to represent his party. Mr. Rameses

18*

refused absolutely even to listen to the persuasions or
representations of any party, least of all a party with which
he had not a particle of sympathy j but went so far as to
recommend them, if they required a native-born Indian
to speak the truth for them, as the truth existed in his
mind, to ask his secretary, Mr. Melville, whether the office
would be agreeable to him. Mr. Melville was young and
aspiring, and consented willingly, even eagerly. He had a
sufficiency of British blood in his veins to appreciate fully
the dignity conferred upon all who had the privilege of
having their letters addressed with the magic letters " M.P."
added to their names ; and, apart from this knowledge, he
had the conviction that he might be useful in Parliament,
and possibly be enabled to carve out for himself an honourable
if not a distinguished career. The caucus that selected
him were gratified with his acquiescence, though their
gratification was somewhat diminished and their pride
in their own power and importance very greatly incensed,
when an unexpected candidate presented himself, who had
not asked their consent to solicit the suffrage of the " independent
" electors, who were not to be treated in any
respect as independent by the self-installed oligarchy of

busy-bodies, who thought they had as much right to the
votes of the inhabitants as they had to the adulterated
groceries and drugs in their shops, and to other commodities
which they retailed to a confiding and defrauded
public by short weight and measure. The candidate who
dared to set the caucus at defiance was no other than our
old friend Mr. Pigram — Fitzgerald — or " Old Methuselah,"
as the caucus speedily learned to call him — who came before
the borough with a long purse, an unblushing amount of
self-assurance or impudence, and a flavour of aristocratic
affluence derived from the Stoney-stratford. Mr. Pigram
Fitzgerald, as already stated, had indulged himself for a longtime
in visions of a baronetcy, as a reward to be obtained by
political subserviency, or even of a peerage, for he was by no
means modest or disposed to set a small value upon himself.
He had even gone so far in dreams of his future greatness —
like Alnaschar in the " arabian Nights " — as to have fixed
upon the title he would assume, either as baron or as viscount,
when a grateful Prime Minister should reward his services.
He discovered, or thought he had discovered (was it not
the same thing ?), that the original Epigrams, like the
Browns and the Snookses, had come over with William the

Conqueror ; that the true name of the family was Bigraime,
and that he was the direct descendant of Hugo de Big-raine,
who had been rewarded for his knightly support by
lands in the fen country, and with the old ancestral manor-house
of Bigraime Abbey.

The name of Mr. Pigram, now Mr. Fitzgerald, was no
sooner announced in the newspapers as a candidate for the
Metropolitan borough of Great Singleton than the blank
walls, hoardings, and vacant gable-ends of all the available
houses in the said borough, together with the sides of
the omnibuses and the cabs, were covered with bills,
posters, and placards calling upon the electors to support
by their votes the pretensions of "Old Methuselah"
to represent them. These tactics produced a rebellion, a
mutiny, or at least a schism in the ranks of the caucus ; the
one section resenting the unauthorised candidature of one
who had presumed to offer himself without their sanction,
the other party feeling it bad policy to resist the pretensions
of a man who had money to spend, and who they thought
had as much right to make a disreputable fortune by the
Methuselah Life Pills as others had to make it by Aunt
Mary's Soothing Elixir, warranted to send troublesome

babies to sleep in the grave, or at the very least to render
them idiotic ; or by Professor Quackenbosch's Infallible Hair
Restorer, warranted to force the incipient moustache to grow
on the upper lip of every smoking boy of fourteen, or even
of twelve, if the smoking boy of that age considered that
he was a man ; or even to endow a slop-basin with hirsute
honours. But the original caucus bore down all opposition,
and by strenuous efforts succeeded in returning ]mr. Melville
by a small but sufficient majority. Thus faded,
perished, grew dim and died, the hopes of a baronetcy or a
peerage that had cheered the heart of the last descendant of
the Bigraimes who came over with the Conqueror.

The discomfiture of Mr. Fitzgerald was not taken very
greatly to heart by any of the Stoney-Stratford family —
by Lady Gwendohne perhaps least of all. Her patrician
pride was great enough to look without much disappointment
on so small a rebuff as her husband — not by
any means her lord and master — had experienced, and
Lord Stoney-Stratford was rather glad than otherwise
at what he called the "pull down" of a would-be upstart.
But "Methuselah" himself was far from being disheartened.


Was it not ? " he asked Lady Gwendoline, who, however,
did not think it necessary to answer the question,
the fate of the greatest statesmen to be sometimes rejected
by popular constituencies? Were not the electors
and non-electors of all boroughs, and, indeed, the whole
population of Great Britain and Ireland, mostly fools, as
an eminent authority declared them to be ? And would not
his hour come, in the fulness of the appointed time, if he
only knew how to wait, and was clever enough to take advantage
of his opportunities ? Had not the famous Macaulay,
the orator, the poet and the statesman, been rejected by
Edinburgh in favour of a local tradesman ? " He would
bide his time, and sit in the House of Commons yet, if
he did not sit in the House of Lords.

Finding no sympathy in his wife in these aspirations, he
indulged then in solitude — over a bottle of choice old port
at one of the clubs of which he was a member.

Mr. Melville bore his honours meekly. He was not
elated at his success, though quietly resolved in his own
mind to turn it to good account in the councils of the
Legislature — especially upon Indian affairs. Mr.
Rameses, in order to render his position secure, and

make him thoroughly independent of the caprices of
fortune, settled a handsome annuity upon him.

The first person to \yhom Mr. Melville hastened to
announce the news of his success was not his best friend,

Mr. Rameses, but to one who was nearer to his heart. It
was Lady Ethel Pierrepoint !

/^

i

DREAMS AND PRESENTIMENTS.

Whence come our presentiments of good or evil ? "
enquired Mr. Rameses of Mr. De Vere, as they sat alone
in the study of the great house in Kensington. " I knew
this morning at breakfast-time that I should see you
to-day, though I had no reason to expect your coming,
and no notification of its probability. Can it be true, as
Thomas Campbell says, in a poem that seems to me to be
unrivalled in its simple grandeur, ' That coming events
cast their shadows before ' ? "

Presentiments," replied Mr. De Vere, " are not easily
to be accounted for, and I shall not attempt to pry into
the causes. The search would be idle."

Calculations of probabilities, perhaps ? " said Mr.
Rameses.

Not so," replied his friend, " or not invariably so.
What are called predictions and prophecies are very often
the result — as easily to be foreseen by attentive observers,

who study the moves on the great chess-board of
what we call Fate, as the corresponding moves of the
pawns, the bishops, the knights, and the other pieces with
which the world's game is played. It needs no gift of
prophecy to foretell that if a man leaps from the top of a
high building to the ground, or discharges a bullet from a
pistol into his brain, that death will ensue. But presentiments
are not to be traced to calculations, and do
not depend upon them. For instance, I take my walk in
the streets of a crowded city, and suddenly think, I know
not why, of a man whom I have not seen or heard of,
perhaps, for a quarter of a century, and five minutes afterwards
I meet that very man face to face (a circumstance
that has happened to me more than once). How am I to
account for its occurrence ? And if the news of a great
battle, or other decisive event, is known and promulgated
at a distance to which the ordinary physical agencies could
not by any possibility have conveyed it (I speak, of
course, of the days before science put a girdle, by means
of electricity, around the globe in forty minutes) how is the
fact to be accounted for by any known material or physical
laws ? '

How, indeed ? " rejoined Mr. Rameses.

"And by the same mysterious agencies, whatever they
may be, are not the strange prepositions afforded to us in
dreams to be received and respected as messages from the
unseen world, not transmissible to our vulgar senses, but
not altogether unintelligible to that power within us, which
exists, acts and is acted upon irrespective of our bodily
perceptions ? For instance, I once received what I must
now consider to have been a message from Australia, from
the disembodied soul of a dear friend, who I did not
know had thrown off the garb of mortality to assume
immortality. The message came to me in the dead
of the night, when I lay, half-sleeping and half-waking,
tossing about uneasily on my pillow, and having no
reason to think of him or anybody else. A fortnight
afterwards the news reached me by letter that on the very
instant when the sudden fancy took possession of me
that all was not well with him in this sub-solar sphere, he
had been drowned at sea, when out on an excursion of
pleasure. I learned on the following day that at the
identical moment when his soul had left his body, a
strange bird had perched upon the great tower of the parish

church of the ancient borough which he represented in
Parliament."

Poor bird ! " interrupted Mr. Rameses.

"Yes, for, with the abominable habit peculiar to the
English, of the lower as well as the upper classes, the
beadle of the parish, noticing the appearance of the
unusual visitor, rushed into his house close by, and bringing
out his gun, took deliberate aim at the unoffending
stranger, and had the diabolical satisfaction — / call it
diabolical, with a proper consideration of the meaning of
the word — of seeing it fall dead at his feet."

"You thought it, probably, a case of the metempsychosis
? "

Yes, and I think so stills"' said Mr. De Vere. " Our
great Shakespear, who left scarcely anything untouched, and
who, as was less truly said of a far inferior man, touched
nothing that he did not adorn, alludes in one of his sonnets
to the rapidity of our thoughts, and their utter scorn of
distance, which he had intimated to the unobservant world
in the finely poetic play of the Tempest in the little speech
of his ' dainty Ariel'

If the dull substance of my flesh-were thought,
Injurious distance should not stop my way,
For then, despite of space I would be brought.
From limits far remote, where thou dost stay.
No matter then, although my foot did stand
Upon the furthest Earth removed from thee,
For nimble thought can jump both sea and land,
As soon as think the place where he would be.' "

I have thought of these matters earnestly and long,"
said Mr. Rameses, with a sigh, '* and have come to a conclusion
which satisfies my own mind — though it may not
satisfy the precise mind of a geometrician, or the dense
mind of a materialist — if such words as precise or dense
can be applied to mind in the abstract. Thought is the
result of spiritual and not of mere mechanical action — else
a watch or a steam-engine might be made to think ; and
thought or spirit, though it exist in the body, is not the result
of body, nor confined to the body. We know that
spirit is, but we do not know what it is; and he who
would confine it to the body, would circumscribe the un-circumscribed,
Hit the limitless, render finite the infinite,
and bend the interminable straight line of God's purpose into
a circle. What we consent to call spirit is not confined in
what we consent to call our mortal life — within the bounds of

the mortal frame — but, even when attached to and linked with
it, has the faculty of indefinite expansion. It is like a light,
that is not imprisoned in the burning substance on which it
feeds, but spreads afar out into the surrounding darkness.
Do you gather my meaning ? "

I think I do — nay I am sure I do. Go on ! "
So the light of the spirit extends beyond the wick that
it consumes, and goes before it into the apparent void.
Thus, when this morning I had a presentiment that I
should speedily be aware of your presence in the flesh — it
was the effusive and diffusive light of my spiritual essence
meeting and commingling with the corresponding light
of your spirit ; that produced the presentiment which has
led to this (not I hope useless) discussion that has grown up
between us."

If the theory could be accepted," said !mr. De Vere,
it would account for some of the phenomena of
dreams."

For all of them, if conjoined with what I must consider
the possible renewals of past impressions upon the tablets of
the brain, to be sometimes deciphered in clear moments by
the cunning reader."

You remind me of what was said by another poet, who
cultivated the fruitage of a mighty mind in the solitudes
of the mountains, and did not waste his energies amid
the vain babble of fashionable Society — I mean Wordsworth
: —

' ' Hence in a season of calm weather.
Though inland far we be,
Our thoughts have sight of that immortal sea,
Which brought us hither,
Can in a moment travel thither,
And see the children sport upon the shore,
And hear the mighty waters rolling evermore. ' "

Beautiful, exceedingly ! " ejaculated Mr. Rameses.

Yes, beautiful exceedingly, whether we apply the poet's
deep insight into the inner faculties of our souls to our waking
reveries and presentiments, or to the dreams that come unbidden
to the mind when the body sleeps, and the immortal
mind revels in unrestrained liberty. I am not a
poet, I am not a musician, I am not an architect, I am not
an orator — and could not be either, if I tried ever so
ardently to develop myself in these capacities. But I have
been a poet in my dreams — an inspired improvisatore (I
use the the word aspired deliberately and with a full
sense of its meaning) — and have poured forth joyous lyrics

with all the spontaneity of a skylark singing a hymn to the
morning, or, with equal spontaneity, a river of melancholy
lyrics, such as the nightingale sings to the evening star, or
the moon, or the listening forest. I have systematically
repeated them in my dreams, because I earnestly wished to
remember them when I wakened. But the waking mind
was a blank. I could not recall a word, or a thought, of any
of my lyrical outbursts."

"The soul spoke in you, and displayed its infinite
superiority to the clay that oppressed it."

In like manner, though I love music as fervently as I

love poetry, I can no more compose a melody in my

waking hours, than I can fly — but in my sleep I can rival

Mozart and Beethoven, and put Wagner to shame. I can,

while in the same state of cerebral exaltation — and utterly

defiant of physical trammels — imagine palaces, cathedrals,

towers and temples, of an architecture that neither Sir

Christopher Wren, nor Indigo Jones, nor Vanbrugh, nor

Vitruvius, nor the builders of Greece, Rome, Babylon,

Nineveh or Egypt, could equal for proportion, for novelty,

for magnificence of bulk, or for elegance of outline. Anyone

of them, if I could but have traced its plan upon paper,
VOL. II. 19

would have enrolled my name among those of the greatest
builders that the world has seen ; but the designs perished
in my brain, as soon as they were pictured in my thought,
and left no more trace behind them than the soap bubbles
blown by an idle child on a summer morning. So also,
though the ideas always fail me, as well as the words with
which I would clothe them, whenever I seek to address a
large assemblage of my fellow-creatures. I can in my dreams
be as verbose as the great Mr. Wordy Rattlesnake or
any other Prime Minister who darkens counsel with vain
words, and far more eloquent than any one who in our day
subdues a listening senate into compulsory admiration.
But on waking, all the fire and glow have departed ; the
ideas which, a few minutes before, were strong and clear
have become vague, shadowy and indistinct ; the words, if
I strive to recall them, as I often do, refuse to obey the intelligence
that would command them ; the words halt and,
stumble like blind cripples that have no one to guide them,
and the body becomes the temporary master and tyrant of
the soul."

"And yet you, oh my friend, who confess to these
experiences, received with gentle scepticism my cherished

dreams of the happiness of Amenophra and Lurula, and
the possible connection of these fair creatures with my
mortal destiny."

"Not exactly with scepticism," replied Mr. De Vere,
*' but with what I may call melioration."

And, saying this, the philosopher of the Rookery approached
a large vase that stood on a pedestal in the
sunlight of the open window, in which three or four
gold fish were disporting themselves.

"These are subjects," he continued, "on which we
can speculate till the brain grows dizzy with multitudinous
perplexities, but on which we can never arrive at any
convincing conclusion, and of which it is impossible in this
little glass vase — the world — in which we move about
for seventy years, or less or more, that we can ever know
anything of the great Universe beyond its little circumference.
What know these fishes of you or me ? What
can they know ? And what can zve know of the illimitable
world in which our lot is cast ? What knows the noonday
midge of yesterday or tomorrow ? What does it know
even of to-day ? "

"Too true," sighed Mr. Rameses. "We know nothing,

19*

but we feel much. And when I say we know nothing, I
am wrong. We know more than in our temporary ignorance
we think we know. I have read your great poet
Wordsworth, and agree with him in believing that :

' Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting,
The soul that rises with us — our life's star,

Hath had elsewhere its setting.
And Cometh from afar.

Not in entire forgetfulness,

And not in utter nakedness,
But trailing clouds of glory doth it come.
From God who is our home ! '

When the two friends parted after this interchange of
their not very conflicting ideas, Mr. De Vere returned to
his books and his garden at his well-beloved Rookery ; and
Mr. Rameses paid a long-promised visit to Sir Hector and
Lady MacTavish — and the beautiful Niona.

G V33~V

Hesitancy.

Mr. Rameses was in love, but, having outlived the sprouting
and budding period of adolescence, was no longer
governed by the feelings that had played the tyrant over his
mind and body, when every beautiful new face became a
new enslaver. He had reached the ^^ mezzo ca?jwnn'' and
summer of life, and the romantic fancies of the spring of
his early manhood had ceased to run hot in his blood. A
serene philosophy had taken the place once occupied
by the passions of the purely animal Use. But if " Love
laughs at locksmiths," as the old proverb says, it laughs at
Philosophy. Should a struggle arise between the two, and
Philosophy acts as the challenger, Love is very likely to gain
the victory. So Mr. Rameses found, whenever the image
of Niona arose in his mind, ot presented itself before his
eyes in the living reality of her faultless form, her soul-speaking
eyes, her sunny smile, and when he heard the
delicious music of her voice. The charm, the fascination,

the glamour and the witchery were so irresistible, that he
yielded himself a willing captive to the might of her gentleness.
And yet a spiritual philosophy mingled with the
physical passion that possessed and governed him. In the
hidden chambers of his brain " there was linked with the
living and present image of the visible Niona the invisible
image of the dead and departed Lurula so indissolubly
that he would have striven in vain to separate them,
even if he had endeavoured to do so. But so far from
making the futile attempt, he encouraged and strengthened
in thoughts, and dreams, and theories, and speculations, the
beloved idea that had gradually become a part of his intellectual
and physical nature. The " twin soul," which Lady
Stoney-Stratford would have rejoiced to know that he had
found — or imagined that he had found — in one of her
daughters, although in her heart she held the idea to be
more the work of an eccentric boy than of a staid
middle-aged philosopher, seemed to the pre-occupied
imagination of Mr. Rameses to have been discovered in
the lovely mortal frame of Niona. The innocent unselfishness
of her character lent her a peculiar charm, and the
differences in their mental qualities and idiosyncrasies seemed

to the fascinated eyes of Mr. Rameses to be no more than
the differences in his own mortal frame, between the right
hand and the left, necessary, however, to the completion of
the structure, or as that between the light of morning and
the darkness of night, both of which went to the formation
of the complete circle of the day. When people speak of
past or present days, they include past or present nights,
and when he spoke of Niona to his own enamoured
mind, he thought of her as a part of himself, he fondly
hoped that she was destined to be (to use the sacred formula)
bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh, as she was already
heart of his heart, mind of his mind, and soul of his soul
now and for evermore.

The love of precious stones which Niona shared with
nearly all her sex, was not distasteful to Mr. Rameses. On
the contrary, it was pleasant to him to think of her as
adorned with such costly diamonds, emeralds, rubies,
sapphires, and pearls as Queens might envy — and strive
in vain to possess — all of them to be provided at his
expense, not only as a gratification to her, but as double,
triple, and even centuple gratification to him to see her
wear them.

The luxury of giving was to the mind of Mr. Rameses
the greatest of all luxuries that pertained to great wealth,
a luxury truly divine, he thought, and which he enjoyed
with an enjoyment as full and complete as the lark and the
nightingale enjoy in singing, or as the great Sun himself
enjoys in shining.

He and Niona were of the same race and faith, believed
in the same Great Spirit of the Universe, of which their own
spirits were the immortal and eternal emanations. He
and she held that it was not chance, but something far
greater and diviner, that had drawn them together on the
summit of Ben Ledii, to render their homage to the
vivifying, purifying, ennobling fire, that was the representative
and assent of God in the maintenance of that infinitesimal
corner of the universe in which their lot was cast,
during the brief day or hour of their mortal existence.

Mr. Rameses lacked the resolution, not only to declare
the love he felt for Niona, but to take the more decisive
step of asking her to go through the ceremony of marriage
with him. He considered that their souls had been
espoused from all eternity, and that the marriage of the
body, however respectable and necessary it might be in

this world, was clearly supererogatory as regarded that holier
union which had been consummated ere this world
existed. But the question remained, was Niona herself, in
her womanly capacity, and with the purely womanly intelligence,
prepared to admit this heavenly marriage as
an indisputable fact ? While this spiritual and celestial
question remained unsolved and insoluble, the physical
and worldly question was as vulgar and commonplace as
it would have been between Mary the Cook and Thomas
the Policeman, or any other pair of men and women, in
high or low Use. To the mind of Mr. Rameses, the
human marriage, considered in this light, was a derogation
from the mystic beauty of the eternal sacrament, that
merely gave the sanction of what is called Society to that
which had not only been already sanctioned, but irrevocably
decreed by God and Nature. Nevertheless, Mr.
Rameses felt that, in deference and obedience to the law,
custom, and binding obligations of all civilized life on this
planet, the consent of Niona must be obtained to this
earthly union, and duly proclaimed from the house-tops of
publicity, so that the door-keepers of the great temple of
Fashion, and the worshippers at the shrine, might have full

knowledge of the relationship which these two persons
were to bear to the world in which they lived, and
especially to the society in which they moved.

Niona, when they met alone in the conservatory of Sir
Hector's house in Grosvenor Place, was aware by observing
a something in his air and manner, in the expression
of his face, in the light in his eloquent eyes, and in his
hesitancy while addressing the few sentences that were
drawn from his lips by the ordinary courtesies of friendly
intercourse, that he had something of more than usual
importance to say to her. The inopportune arrival of the
Ladies Maud and Ethel Pierrepoint at the very moment
when an avowal and a proposal were trembling for utterance
on his' tongue, put a stop to the imminent disclosure
for a time. Mr. Rameses was not sorry for the temporary
interruption ; it gave him ti aie to collect his thoughts, and
strengthened him in the half-formed resolution of taking
counsel on the subject with Sir Hector, the natural
guardian of the fair Niona, in the strange country to
which he had brought her.

The half reformed resolution attained full growth and
maturity in the time occupied by one swing of the pendulum.

The question, plainly put, was plainly answered. Sir Hector
would have been delighted — if the state of his liver had
permitted him to be delighted at anything — when Mr.
Rameses unfolded to him his design of marrying the gentle,
dreamy, docile, beautiful and intelligent Xiona, if she
would accept him. " I cannot answer for Niona, or any
other woman," said Sir Hector, " but I have no doubt
whatever but that her heart has long inclined towards you,
and that she will think herself a happy and an honoured
woman in becoming the wife of one whom she esteems so
highly, and with whom she has so many feelings, ideas, and
sympathies in common. You are both of the same religion,
or the same faith, which is a word I like better. This is a
great advantage in matrimony. Fortunately for me, before
I married her sister, I had taken care that no dispute or
divergency of opinion on the merits or truth of Sun-worship
and Christianity should ever arise between us. She became
a Christian because I wished her to become one, or at all
events she conformed to the ritual and doctrine of the
Established Church of England. She has behaved herself
ever since as a good Christian, or a good Buddhist, should
do — worshipping God, loving her neighbour as much as she

can, on the great Christian principle that I strive to instil
into her mind, that love to God includes the love of her
fellow creatures, the giving of alms according to her means,
the speaking ill of no one, the visiting of the widows and
the fatherless in their distress. She is contented with good
works, for which, according to some who call themselves
ultra-orthodox Christians, she will be damned to all eternity.
But she has not heard this cruel doctrine preached, and
would not, I think, be frightened by it if she did. But
have you thought in what manner, and with what religious
rites, if any, you will be married ?" asked Sir Hector.

I have thought of it seriously," replied Mr. Rameses.
Being in Rome, as it were, I must do as the Romans do.
Being in England, I must, on so solemn an occasion as
marriage, act as if I were an EngUshman. Being in a
Christian land, I must, if I do no violence to my own
conscience, satisfy the opinions of Christian Society. I am
not a Jew, or I might, without offence to Society
or its opinions be married in the Jewish manner; but
being a believer in the faith of Jesus, as taught by Him,
though not in the legends that have gathered around His
great name, I have qualified myself for admission at the

Roman Catholic Church by submitting to the mystic
ceremony of baptism by water — not by fire."

But why Roman Catholic ?" enquired Sir Hector, " and
not the Protestant faith ? "

Because," replied Mr. Rameses, " the word Protestant
is a denial of some part of the original faith. Faith is the
very essence and quintessence of all Religion, and if a
protest against any part of the faith can be allowed, there is
no logical limit to be put to a second, or third, or any
number of protests, until, in commercial language, ninety-nine
per cent, of the faith may be protested against. My
heart is Christian, and, if the love of God and my neighbour,
and the desire to do good to my fellows, and to obey
the immutable and divine laws of the Creator, can avail,
my conduct is Christian also."

Christian, with a reservation, is what you claim to be ? "
said Sir Hector. " Well, I suppose the majority of
Christians have reservations also. But, Xiona ? She must be
baptized, if a marriage between you is to be celebrated by a
Christian priest ? "

All has been foreseen," replied Mr. Rameses. " As I
have determined to make England my future home, I

desire to stand well, for my wife's sake as well as for my own,
in the opinion of the English people. My right hand is not
to know what my left hand has done, or I might enlighten
you on the number and amount of my benefactions to the
Catholic Church ; not only of those which I have contributed
in my own name, but of those which I have contributed
in the name of Niona."

The colloquy might have continued much longer on the
knotty point of seeming conformity thus involved, if Mr.
Rameses had not diverted the discussion from the subject
of conformity into that of religious beef in general. " In
my progress through the world," he said, " I have observed
that people are always apt to glorify themselves for their
adherence to what they call the true faith. But the true
faith, as they call it, is invariably that of the country in
which they happen to have been born. Religions, like
morality, are of geographical growth, much the same as the
fauna ' and ' flora ' of the regions in which they flourish.
The same great idea pervades and underlies them all. I
can quite understand that a Mahometan, a Buddhist, or a
Red Indian, who believes in the Great Spirit Manitou,
or a Negro who believes in Mumbo Jumbo ; or a South Sea

Islander, who thinks it a religious duty to put his feeble old
grandfather to death when the grandfather's age and infirmities
render life a trouble to himself and a painful spectacle
to his descendants — pride themselves, one and all, on their
superior merits in clinging to the faith and worship of their
country and their ancestors, and arrogate to themselves a
superiority over other nations, the people of which do not
think as they think, observe as they observe, and pray as
they pray.

*' I do not believe that men speak correctly when they
say of another that he has changed his religion. The spirit
of religion is of the same essence all over the world, and has
been so in all times. It is only the form and ceremonial
that differ. The ancient Greeks and Romans did not, as
it appears to me, worship several gods — as it is commonly
and ignorantly supposed they did — but recognised only
one God, under several names, just as the Jews knew one
great and supreme God as El Shaddai, Elohim, Jehovah,
the Lord, and the Almighty, and as the English recognize
and worship the one God, as God the Father, the Holy
Spirit, Heaven, and Providence. They also recognize and
worship Him by the* name which Christianity inherited and

adopted from Judaism — in what appears to me to be the
futile and most unhappy attempt to engraft the old religion
of Vengeance, Fear, and Terror upon the new religion of
Peace, Goodwill, and Love, which the Western nations
adopted nearly twenty centuries ago. Jupiter, Jove, and
Apollo, were but one divine Being, and all the minor names
of the deities of ancient mythology, whether male or female,
were only used to describe the functions and attributes of the
sole God and Creator of the Universe. Faith is not sectional
and local, but universal. The true worshipper and believer
sits in the portico of the Great Temple of Knowledge, to
receive and welcome every truth that enters. No truth
is alien or unrelated to any other truth ; and every truth,
great or small, is a link in one eternal and infinite
chain, and cannot possibly misfit with or contradict any
other."

Precisely so," said Sir Hector. " The various attributes
of the great God were made into little gods by priests, for
the benefit of their craft. Did you ever hear of the English
philosopher, Jeremy Bentham, who was accused of Atheism,
and denounced and anathematized by the professional dealers
in doctrine and dogma, for having dared to promulgate, ina

philosophical book, that the dearest wish of his heart was
to maximize religion, and minimize priestcraft '? "

I never heard his name," replied Mr. Rameses, " but
I shall honour his memory from this time forth, and rank
him as high as the Chinese philosopher, ' Kong-Fut-Ze, '
whom Latin pedants — writing in the same unnatural style
as your friend Bentham did in the wise phrase you have just
cited — agree to call Confucius. But to return to the subject
of the beautiful Niona, from which we have wandered,
may I consider that I have your approbation in the proposal
that 1 have resolved to make, that she unite her destiny
to mine, solemnly, publicly, according to the rites of the
Christian Church ? "

Certainly," replied Sir Hector, grasping Mr. Rameses by
the hand, with a grip that almost brought the moisture to
his eyes, " my approbation and my blessing along with it."

Mr. Rameses took his departure, satisfied with Sir Hector,

with himself, and with his prospects of acceptance by

Niona. But he still hesitated to take the final plunge into

the deep sea of uncertainty, and deferred until the morrow

or possibly until a later time — the decision on which his

happiness in this world depended.

VOL. II. 20

THE FINAL DECLARATION.

The deduction of Mr. Rameses which he had resolved to

make personally rather than by letter, was received by

Niona with a joy-that was none the less deeply felt because

it was not manifested by outward rapture. A look of her

eloquent eyes, an affectionate pressure of her dainty little

hand, spoke from her heart to his, and from his back again

to hers, and gave greater assurance than any mere words

could have given that all was right between them. Love's

most sympathetic revealing find expression in the fewest

words —

■• Language can but hint
Dttrid^and'vagneiiriHlBt tie S|nit feds."

And it so happened, in this instance, between these two

exotic existences of Asiatic origin, that had lost none of

their native ardour by their transplantation to a colder dime.

They were both, as the poet of the " Night Thoughts " says

in a now forgotten tragedy —

Soalsinadeofire, and cMUdmaa of tbesrai,"

believers in Destiny, and in the great consoling doctrine
that finds more favour in the fairer Eastern clime from
which they came, than in the frigid North — that whatever
is is right. Mr. Rameses felt an all-pervading happiness
in this assurance, strengthened by the indissoluble love
for such he felt it would be, and must be — of Xiona, The
doctrines of the Sun-worshippers were inextricably mingled
with those of Buda in the mind of Mr. Rameses. Believing
as he did in the past eternity — past only as regards the
earth — and in the immortal spirit in all its countless manifestations
of the metempsychosis, he cherished the idea that
he and Xiona had met in the bygone ages, that she was the
re-embodiment of his dream-love, Lurula, and as such would
be made known to him in the day when their fates should
be once again united in the mystic bonds of the marriage of
souls — that had dwelt bodily apart, but had never been
actually separated.

When the news of the engagement of Mr. Rameses to
the fair Niona reached the ears of Lady Stoney-Stratford
and the members of her family, as it speedily did, the mind
of the match-making mother was greatly perturbed. She

affected to think, and strove to persuade her husband to

20*

agree in her opinion, that Mr. Rameses was indubitably
crazy, and that Lady Maud, or Lady Ethel, on whichever
of the two the choice of the princely millionaire might
ultimately have fallen, had had a lucky escape. That either
of her daughters should have married one whom she considered
to be a lunatic, however harmless the craze of the
lunatic might be, was a consummation not to be thought of
without paint ; though, possibly, if the wealth of the
supposed lunatic could have been shared with one of her
daughters, and the supposed lunatic himself were safely
locked up in an asylum, or otherwise taken care of, the
consummation would not have been considered so very
dreadful. But she did not confide these thoughts even to
her husband, and contented herself with expressing to him
and to her daughters, as well as to her most intimate friends,
that Lady Maud, the one whom she had more particularly
designated as the future Lady Maud Rameses, had had a
very fortunate deliverance from an awkward entanglement.
But this by-play did not deceive the world in which she
moved like a star of the second magnitude, and did not
even deceive herself; and she could not but envy the good
fortune of the Indian lady, and even condescended to hate

her for the good fortune which had settled in the hands of
one who, she thought, was not fitted to prize it. The Earl
himself, though mercenary, was not so ultra-mercenary as
his wife, and had no taste or genius for match-making, or
desire for the marriage of his two remaining daughters.
Next to the possession of many acres, in addition to those of
which he was already the lord, he prized the love and society
of his daughters, and would have felt better pleased if Lady
Gwendoline had escaped Mr. Pigram Fitzgerald, even
if she had not been the fortunate means of a more
honourable alliance with Mr. Rameses, The marriage
with Mr. Fitzgerald, though it had enabled him to
borrow money of that financial potentate, had not added
to his own domestic happiness, and had certainly been
the cause of unhappiness to his daughter. The union
of the proud patrician gentlewoman with the vulgar and
proud plebeian, who was not, and could not become a
gentleman — though he might aspire to become a baronet ora
baron — was by no means a fortunate one. It was unhappy
in its inception and in its progress, and threatened to
become intolerable to the lady, who had sold her youth and
beauty for the gold acquired by the Methuselah Pills,

of which she could not think without loathing. By degrees
the loathing fastened upon her husband, and the pride of the
one at fierce war with the equal pride of the other, produced
a state of mutual exasperation. This growing antipathy of
Lady Gwendoline threatened every day to become explosive,
and to scandalize the upper and mid-upper circles of
fashionable Society, and to increase the sale of the scandal-wondering
newspapers that pander to the curiosity of the
vulgar. High and low, in ever increasing numbers, gloat over
the details of matrimonial infelicity that come before the law
courts, after having percolated through the retentive sieves
of dinner and tea parties. People who have few ideas in
their heads, love to hear or to read of the quarrels of married
people, and the illicit pleasures and divergencies from the
right path of dissolute unmarried women. The similar
divergencies of unmarried, or even of married, men, excite
no particular curiosity, and are held to be matters of such
trivial import as to be unworthy of prolonged and serious
notice. Such, unfortunately, are the notions of modern
Society.

Mr. Rameses was a connoisseur in diamonds and other
precious stones. He possessed a store of them which

had been worn by the Begum, his mother, and which he
had inherited. He seldom looked at them, except to satisfy
himself that they were still safe in his possession. He did
not prize them for their intrinsic value — as estimated by
pounds sterling — but admired them for their lustre and
beauty, which he thought they derived immediately from the
concentration of the sun's rays. He believed that every
diamond was, in fact, a quintessence of the solar light that
had been poured into it during countless ages, ere the dry
land of the globe assumed its present forms and ere the
engulphing ocean swept over the dead and buried civilizations
that existed on the planet, for hundreds for thousands
of years, before the plains of his native India became habitable
; and when, perhaps, a superior, or it might be an
inferior, race of human beings lived to propagate their
kind — to sin, to suffer, and to die — and to be succeeded
by countless generations, neither better nor worse than
themselves. Holding these notions, he looked upon
diamonds with an almost religious reverence — not for their
beauty and scarcity alone, but for what he considered to
be their sanctity.

In like manner emeralds, sapphires, and rubies (green,

blue and red), derived in his mind all their lustre, all their
virtue, all their glory of substance and colour, from the
beneficent and creative light of the orb that gives and maintains
life to tree, to flower, to bird, to beast, and to man.
They were, in his estimation, less perfect and less lovely
than the diamond — which, like the rainbow, contained all
colours within its arch — and severally imbibed and assimilated
but one of the prismatic hues, of which the purest and
most perfect light was a heavenly compound. He did not
wonder at the enormous value that men placed upon these
gems, though the value was estimated by gross commercial
calculations of the amount of gold and silver which they commanded
in the markets of the world, and bore reference only
to their scarcity, and not in any degree to the sanctity with
which he invested them. He also considered diamonds,
emeralds, sapphires, and rubies as moral and psychical
emblems of the best emotions of the human mind.
Emeralds he considered as the representatives and inspirers
of Hope — greener than the first leaves of the Spring, that
gave promise and certainty of the Summer bloom and the
Autumnal fruit ; Sapphires — blue as the skies of the tropics
as the emblems of Faith ; and Rubies — red as the sympathetic

blood or the heart of innocence — as emblems of
Charity; but Diamonds — as concentrating within them
all the colours that formed the divine light of the sun — as
the emblems of true Religion.

With all these fancies in possession of his mind, he proceeded,
on the evening of the day when he became fully
assured that the beautiful Niona returned the love he bore
her, to examine the contents of the strong box in which
his mother's jewels were carefully and securely deposited.
No one — not even his private secretary, or his intimate
friend Mr. De Vere — knew or suspected the existence of
this treasure, and not Mr. Rameses himself knew its
pecuniary worth. His design was to make a selection of
the most beautiful and costly of the gems, to present to his
bride elect, in addition to the comparatively valueless
engagement ring, of which custom and fashion exact the
gift from all upper and middle-class bridegrooms. Most
men, whether rich or poor, and possibly all women without
exception of the strongest-minded, have been dazzled
with the splendour of diamonds. Their principal value, however,
in the philosophic eyes of Mr. Rameses was that these
gems had belonged to and adorned the person of his

mother, and that they were to be his love-gift to his

bride.

Having made his selection, Mr. Rameses put the valuable
articles into a common travelling-bag, and having
ordered his carriage, proceeded to the house of Sir Hector
MacTavish, to seek an interview with Niona. He found
her alone, sitting before a harp, amid the strings of which
her fairy fingers had been idly wandering, without purpose
of melody or harmony, but producing both, in wild, weird,
and fitful snatches of sweet sound.

She was a skilful and accomplished performer on that
graceful instrument, which is far too much neglected by the
ladies of the present day, who prefer the pianoforte as
less trying to the touch of their nimble fingers. The
echoes of the last notes of the chords which she had unconsciously
struck still sounded on his ears as he entered
the apartment. He bore in his hand a packet, which,
wrapped in paper, he had taken from the travelling bag,
and placed it on a little table, with a small vase of flowers
upon it, that stood within reach of her hand. "I have
come," he said, as she rose gracefully from her seat and
advanced to meet him, ''to ask your acceptance of a

trinket or two, which I hope you will do me the honour of
wearing, for the adornment of your fair brow and bosom in
token and earnest of the faith we have plighted to each
other — by our eyes, by our silence, by the pressure of our
hands, and by the sympathy which envelopes and possesses
us both." And as he spoke he undid the loosely-fastened
packet, and took out an oblong case of finely-carved ivory,
tastefully inlaid with gold, which he opened, and disclosed
a superb necklace of large emeralds of the purest lustre,
and held it out for the inspection of Niona. Her dark
eyes sparkled at the sight, and his, as if catching the contagion
of admiration, glowed momentarily with a light
which gems of any kind had never before kindled in them.

Wear this," he said ; " it is the emblem of Hope — of
hope to cheer your spirits should they be depressed, as I,
in beholding it, hope that they never will be during our
earthly union, and which they cannot be in that
immortal union which shall be yours and mine, as we
mount and mount, and fly and fly to the eternal beatitudes
of Amrita."

And next, opening an ivory case of similar material and
workmanship to the first, he displayed a still finer necklace

of the purest sapphires, worth a monarch's ransom. "Wear
this, if doubt of God's goodness should ever throw a
shadow over thy soul. It is the emblem of Faith — of
Faith in thyself, in thy fellow-creatures, and in the Divine
Ruler and Creator of the Universe." And, scarcely giving
her time for admiration or for reply, he produced the
third necklace for her acceptance — the necklace of rubies.
"These rare gems," he said, placing it in her hands, "are
the emblems of Charity. To look at them inspires sympathy
with erring and suffering humanity, and a desire to
remove sorrow from the hearts of the sorrowful, to feed the
hungry, to console the sad, to help the feeble, and to think
well of the world and of all the creatures that inhabit it —
from man who calls himself the lord of it, down to the
fishes in the seas and rivers, and to the four-footed, the
winged, and the crawling creatures of the land, who are as
much the children of God as he claims to be. Last of all,"
he continued, opening a still larger casket, and displaying
a diadem of brilliant, such as the Queen of Sheba or Cleopatra
of Egypt would have thought herself rich in possessing
— " this," he said, in more serious and solemn tones than
when he spoke of the occult virtues of his previous gifts,

is the emblem of the vivifying rays of the Sun, through
whom you and I worship the great God, whose visible
agent he is in this poor Utile world in which we are temporarily
imprisoned, and to all the mightier orbs that revolve
around and receive light, health, and beauty from his
beams. It was holy in the estimation of my mother, from
whom I received it, and is holy to me, its present possessor.
Let it be holy to you, to whom I consign it in sanctification
of our union, and may it bring you, oh ! my love, joy in
this world, peace and joy in other worlds, for ever and evermore
! "

Niona gazed with speechless admiration at all these treasures
as they were severally disclosed to her sight, and
listened at first with almost breathless attention to the
fervent eulogies of their supposed virtues rather than of
their real beauty, which Mr. Rameses, in the heat of his
enthusiasm, addressed to her. When at last she found
words to express the crowd of emotions and thoughts that
struggled upon her tongue for utterance, her words — grouping
themselves into half-formed sentences — were more eloquent
in the effect they produced upon the mind of Mr. Rameses
than his far more eloquent words had impressed upon her.

She was bewildered, but he was cahii and collected, as it
needed not words, but only looks, to convey to the sympathetic
intelligence of his mind meanings of even more
divine, though occult import, than human language could
command.

Let me," said Mr. Rameses, taking the superb diadem
in his hand, and bringing it nearer to the upturned face of
Niona, " place this upon your head, as a symbol alike of our
faith to each other and to God, that I may see how well it
becomes you."

Niona bent her head reverently down while Mr.
Rameses, waving aside the abundant tresses of her jet-black
hair, adjusted the jewel around her brow. Then,
stepping back a couple of paces, that he might better
contemplate the effect, he whispered his fervent admiration
for herself rather than for the bauble with which he had
adorned her, the two words, " Divinely beautiful ! " " Will
you not judge for yourself ? " he added. Taking her
reluctant hand, he guided her to a large mirror — a piece
of furniture indispensable to every well-ordered boudoir and
drawing-room in Europe — that Niona might herself see
how like a Queen of Beauty she looked. At that moment

the full sunshine suddenly burst from the sky — which had
till then been overclouded — and fell full upon her form
and face. The effect was all but magical to the enamoured
eyes of Mr. Rameses.

It is of good omen, my beloved," he said. " The sun
himself sheds his radiance on his most beautiful child, and
blesses you now and for ever."

He added in a lower tone, "And blesses me along with
you."

At this juncture Sir Hector MacTavish entered the
room, and catching sight of the diadem on his sister-in-law's
forehead, said, with an objurgation — one of many of
similar force and profanity which were but too common in
his mouth, and which it is unnecessary to repeat —
Splendid ! and fit for an empress ! The Empress of
India herself has nothing to equal it. Even the pious
builder of the Taj Mahal, the model of wifehood and
womanhood, and of sovereign princesses, might have been
proud to possess it. Perhaps it belonged to her ? "

"It belonged to my mother," said Mr. Rameses, "and
now it belongs to my bride and wife."

Long may she live to wear it ! " replied Sir Hector.

She is a good girl, and deserves good fortune. Go and
show your sister how well you look in the gaud," he added.
Niona, nothing loth, retired from the room for that
purpose and Mr. Rameses, taking advantage of the teU-d-
tete with Sir Hector, informed him that within a month, all
parties being agreeable, the marriage between him and
Niona was to be celebrated according to the rites of the
Christian church ; but only as a preliminary to its celebration
with the more sacred ceremonial (more sacred to
his mind, at least) of the Erastian worship, and in the
presence of the noonday sun.

Sir Hector started no objection ; so the matter was
arranged, and Mr. Rameses took his departure with the
diminished-remnant of his precious gems, a portion of
which he reserved for presentation to Lady MacTavish on
a future occasion.

A GREAT DOWNFALL.

Mr. Bigraime de Fitzgerald (such was the name he
preferred) took in evil part his failure to secure a seat in
Parliament. His mental constitution had been to all
appearance strong from his youth upwards. He had
courage which was all the stouter because he had no
conscience. The positive combined with the negative
quality pointed him out to all with whom he had social or
commercial intercourse as a man well-fitted to hold his own
in the more obstinate struggles and the deeper laid schemes
of a busy life. But the man who invented the Methuselah
Pill, and built up a considerable fortune upon that dishonest
foundation, though as strong in fraud and manoeuvre as
Achilles was in battle, had, like Achilles, a vulnerable point
in his heel. That point was ambition. He was greedy to
ally himself with the aristocracy — to be admitted to the
more exclusive circles of society — and above all to enter
Parliament — a door by which he thought he would be

vol. IL 2 1

enabled, ex-officio to enter any other society that he
pleased. He had missed this chance for the time, and
though he endeavoured to reconcile himself to the disappointment
by the expectation that on another trial, which
he resolved to make on the first opportunity, he felt
keenly, nevertheless, the temporary frustration of his hopes.
It is true that he had made himself the son-in-law of a
peer of ancient lineage, whom he had placed under a load
of pecuniary obligation, which would not be easily or
speedily discharged. These two advantages he highly
prized; but the cup of success had the bitter drop of
Methuselah in it, which kept him out of the society which
his pride, his vanity, and his conceit — whichever it might
be — impelled him to enter, under the penalty of permanent
discontent or unhappiness.

Nor was this the only sorrow that clouded the apparently
brilliant afternoon of his prosperous life. He was rich,
and desired to be richer. Like Midas, all he touched
seemed to turn into gold, but the gold, when too closely
examined, often turned out to be brass or stone. Anxious
to make cent, per cent, of his gains, he rushed into rotten
and illusory speculations, and, losing his investments, lost

along with them his self-control, his temper, and his peace
of mind. He could not keep his ill-humour under decent
restraint, but discharged it in a flood upon the unoffending
Lady Gwendoline, who had never loved, and speedily
learned to hate him. The loss of ;^i 70,000 in one
venture by which he had hoped to convert the sum into
;£"2 70,000 at least, was the climax of several other minor
miseries of a similar kind. Like too many other men and
women, without mental power, or any reliance on the aid
to be derived from philosophy, or the consolations of
religion, he resorted to the dearly-purchased support of
alcoholic stimulant, and too often came back late at night
to his luxuriously-furnished home in a state of brutal
intoxication. Brutal is not the proper epithet to employ,
and must be retracted, and it is retracted accordingly, for
the brutes are temperate and drink water, and revolt indignantly,
even sin a state of bondage, when men would
teach them — as they sometimes endeavour to do — to
imbibe fermented and alcoholic liquors. When seen in
this state he exhibited the natural vulgarity and coarseness
of his nature, and rendered himself more inexpressibly

odious to his tenderly-nurtured and fastidious spouse than

2 1 '•'

UNIVERSITY 0?

he-had become in his sober moments. As time wore on,
matters gradually grew worse between the husband and the
wife, until, disgusted and goaded beyond endurance, Lady
Gwendoline resolved to take refuge in her father's house,
with a firm determination to return no more to that of the
self-degraded man whose fortunes she had unhappily
promised at the altar to share for better or for worse.
Lady Gwendoline thought herself that although she had
shared them for the " worse," she had not undertaken to
share them for the " worst." Insanity brought upon him
in the course of nature she could have pitied, and done her
best to alleviate j but insanity wilfully and wickedly caused
and fomented by his own act she could neither pity nor
endure, all the more because the premonitory symptoms of
delirium tremens rendered her alarmed for her personal
safety. One day, as he lay insensible upon the floor of
his sumptuously-appointed dining-room, having consumed
at one sitting half a bottle of brandy, she called for her
carriage, and left the house, never to return to it.

On his revival into consciousness on the following day,
he resolved that if Lady Gwendoline should finally abandon
his house, he would have recourse to the law for the

restitution of his conjugal rights. For a full month, during
which he was every day more or less under the influence of
alcoholic stimulant, sometimes semi-sober, but more often
wildly or stupidly intoxicated, wishing alike in his sane and
insane moments for the return of his beautiful wife, and
writing to her from time to time letters that were humbly
meant, but that were intermingled with threatening innuendoes
that escaped him almost involuntarily, urging her in order
to prevent public scandal, if not from regard to her duty asa
wife, to return to her home. He promised in the most
abject terms to abstain from all beverages that were
more potent than water, milk, or tea, and to take the
pledge of total abstinence if he could please her by so
doing.

Mr. Fitzgerald was of the number of those who always
remember an injury — who adopt it, make it their child,
pet it, cuddle it, clothe it in purple and fine linen, and
adorn it with jewels, who never lose sight of it, and who
worship it as they worship themselves. By strict adherence
to these self-imposed rules of conduct, they succeed in
making themselves miserable, and all who are related to
them, either by natural ties, or social and commercial

intercourse. The unyielding determination of Lady
Gwendoline never again to return to her allegiance and
her husband's home, which neither threats nor entreaties
could force or persuade her to modify or abandon,
constituted a grievance which he could neither forget
nor forgive, and which assumed larger proportions the
more he thought of it in his sober moments, and
which filled his hard heart with a hatred that would
have often manifested itself in blows, rather than in words,
on the too frequent occasions when the drink demon
was in full possession of such mind as was left to him in
his paroxysms. To his threats of an action for restitution
of conjugal rights. Lady Geraldine responded by a counter
threat of a writ ^^ de lunatico inquiringly And thus the
war between them was protracted and intensified until
peace became more improbable from day to day, and
threatened speedily to become impossible. Meanwhile, the
unhappy man, losing the calm judgment and wholesome control
over the business qualities which he once possessed,
before disappointments drove him to the treacherous aid of
the bottle, suffered a succession of severe pecuniary losses,
which cast over his mind, in the rare moments when he

was able to reflect upon the future, the dark presentiment
of possible bankruptcy.

Lord Stoney-Stratford had strong pecuniary reasons for
keeping on good terms with " old Methuselah," for such he
always called him when he had occasion to speak of him
to the wife of his bosom, though he never used the epithet
in the presence of, or in the hearing of, his daughter, Lady
Gwendoline. Deploring the feud that had broken out
between the couple, and deploring at the same time the
part that he and Lady Stoney-Stratford had taken in
persuading the reluctant Lady Gwendoline to give her
hand, for the sake of money, to a man to whom she never
could give her heart, he endeavoured, as far as it lay in his
power, to induce his daughter to Austen more favourably to
the overtures of reconciliation made from time to time by
her husband when he was sober, and to his promises of
amendment. Lady Stoney-Stratford, who dreaded scandal
in the Society papers above all things, and the wagging of
spiteful and envious tongues at the expense of her and
her family, united her efforts to those of her lord. But
all argument, persuasion, and attempted cajolery, were in
vain. Lady Gwendoline knew her own mind, and was

obstinate in her refusal to listen to terms of accommodation,
and to surrender what she considered to be her
inalienable right to separate herself from a yoke-fellow
whom she despised when he was sober, and whom she
detested when he was drunk. When hard pressed upon
this disagreeable topic, she declared her intention to sue
for a divorce a viJiculo matrujwnu, that she might obtain
the liberty of which she declared she had been defrauded.
She asserted that she was a wife only in name,
that the intimate and sacred relationship that should
naturally exist between married people who were united
by love as well as by law, had never existed, and never
could exist between her and her husband ; and that nothing
less than a complete divorce could do her justice, or restore
to her mind the happiness she had lost. Her father represented
to her that in England, misconduct, drunkenness,
felony, madness itself, afforded no ground for such a
divorce as she desired.

Lady Gwendoline, to whom this revelation of the law
was a painful surprise, became indignant when she fully
understood it. Her father went on to explain to her that
under the circumstances, the only relief that the law

could afford her was a divorce a mensa et tlioro, from bed
and board, a relief which she had already taken into her
own hands.

"Yes," said Lady Gwendoline bitterly, "a relief of
which he threatens .0 deprive me by a suit for the restitution
of what he calls ' conjugal rights,' which 1 would rather
die than submit to. Were I compelled by the law, and by
physical force, to return to the awful, the horrible, bondage
which I have suffered ever since my marriage, I feel I
have courage within me to take either his life or my own,
if this was the only means of escape from the pollution of
his presence."

Lord Stoney-Stratford was surprised at the violence of
his daughter. He had known her only as a somewhat
wayward girl, rather " fast," as it is the fashion to call
young women who catch, more or less, the contagion of
masculine speech and manners from the betting, racing,
sporting, horse-loving, slang-discoursing young men of the
day, and had never suspected that under the apparent haze,
or smoke, or froth or scum of her disposition, there lay concealed
the slumbering res of a volcano of passion. He was
alarmed at her present temper of mind, and forbore to

exasperate a wrath and hate which he saw it was impossible
to reason with, and judiciously reserved, till a more favourable
occasion, the arguments which he thought he could
employ to establish a truce between the belligerent spouses.
What the result was, must be told hereafter.

'-^ k^hy-^^-

THE DESPOTISM OF WORDS.

There had been a quiet little dinner party in the library
of the great house in Kensington, given by Mr. Rameses
to his most intimate friend, Mr. De Vere, and his long
intimate friends. Sir Henry de Glastonbury, Sir Hector
Mac Tavish, and the Anglo-Indian, Mr. Melville. The
party, after the conclusion of the repast, had adjourned
to a smaller apartment, the particular favourite of the
master of the house, when he wished to be alone with
his thoughts, or a book, or a scroll of papyrus. Three of
the company, Sir Henry de Glastonbury, Sir Hector Mac
Tavish, and Mr. Melville, were, more or less, slaves to
tobacco, at certain hours of the day especially. After
dinner Mr. Rameses, and the philosophic Mr. De Vere,
were too tolerant to object entirely to the practice, and
usually endured the infliction of the odious fumes
with what equanimity they could command. Their friends

did not often put their patience to the test of a longer time
than was requisite for the enjoyment of one, or, at the
most, a couple of cigars. The luxury seemed to loosen
their tongues, to clarify their thoughts, to unlock the
stores of their fancy and their memory, and to promote
the flow of their ideas. Upon this particular occasion, the
conversation had, for a time, taken a commonplace and
desultory turn until Sir Henry de Glastonbury, who had
learned for the first time the solemn engagement that had
been formed between Mr. Rameses and the fair Niona,
ventured to congratulate that gentleman on the singular
and happy " accident " which had brought them together
on the summit of Ben Ledii.

"Accident!" ejaculated Mr. Rameses, on whom the
word seemed to act like a spark upon gunpowder. " It was
no accident ! There are no accidents in this world, or in
any other. All that happens is pre-ordained by Fate or
Necessity, and could not happen otherwise. My steps
were led to the remote Highlands of Scotland, and to the
top of Ben Ledii, by fore-ordained from all eternity, and
Niona was bound to be there to meet me by invincible
and uncontrollable Destiny."

"Is there no such thing as free will, in your opinion,
then ? " asked Sir Henry.

"We think there is free will," replied Mr. Rameses, "butin
so thinking we deceive ourselves. Appearances favour
the deception. We flatter ourselves that we are free to act
in such or such a manner, in the great or small affairs of
our lives ; and when two, three or more courses of conduct
seem open to us, and we reflect upon each in its turn, and
deliberately make choice of the one that most strongly impresses
itself upon our minds as the best, most agreeable
and most advantageous to adopt, we delude ourselves with
the idea that we are acting as free agents."

"No doubt," interposed MacTavish, "the quality of
mind — the capacity of forming the judgment, which in the
particular case we may have formed for our guidance, are
the result of all the thoughts, knowledge and training and
experience of our bygone years. 'Tis these that have made
us what we are, and that compel us to decide as we have
decided, and render it impossible for us to have decided
otherwise."

This is called fatalism," said Mr. De Vere, "fatalism
with a sinister interpretation. But when we come to consider

the inherent meaning of the word, it is but synonymous
with the expression that people, who would object to be
called fatalists, make use of when they speak of an ' overruling
Providence ' ! "

"We are the slaves of words," said Mr. Rameses, "and
words, after all, are but poor tools, though they are the best
at our command to express our thoughts. Take the words
miracles ' morality,' ' virtue,' and ' religion,' to which the
world has assigned meanings that do not rightly belong to
them. What for instance was miracle in the ■ original conception
of the word ? It signified something to be greatly
wondered at, because the reason of its existence was not
understood by man's limited intelligence. A blade of grass,
a daisy, a rose, a tree, a worm, a bird, any living creature,
from an animalcule up to a man, from an atom to a planet, are
miracles, if we reverently study and strive to comprehend
the mystery of their being. All creation in this sense is a
miracle. But by perversion and misuse of the word, a
miracle has been made to signify something that is
supposed to happen out of the course of nature, and
in contravention of the laws that govern and uphold
the Universe. In this sense there never has been and

I quite agree with you," said Mr. De Vere. " The word
'morality' offers another, though perhaps a less flagrant
example of the poverty of human speech, and its perversion
by ' civilisation ' — which, by the way, I may observe, is
but ' town life ' as distinguished from rural life, when traced
to its origin from civis — a citizen. Man is said to bethe
only animal that has the slightest idea of morality, or
makes it the rule of his conduct. But when we come to
consider what ' morality ' is, and what it means, we find
that it is conformity to the ' 77iores ' manners, customs or
social observances of the country in which we live, and that
it is a geographical virtue — a local and not a general virtue.
It is not moral in England to have more than one wife — or
to imitate the example of the Eastern nations in keeping
concubines. Abraham, the favourite of God, and David the
man after ' God's own heart ' — according to the Jews —
would not be considered ' moral ' if they lived in England
in the nineteenth century. The cannibals, a fast disappearing

race, who cook and eat their enemies — are guilty of no
immorality in their own country. The savages, who solemnly
and as a religious duty kill their hopelessly infirm grandfathers
and grandmothers, are not immoral in the estimation
of their tribes — of whom the young and strong

men look forward with equanimity to undergo the same
fate when extreme old age and infirmity come upon
them. These poor people are consequently not immoral
in the estimation of their fellows."

"True," said Mr. Melville, who had not as yet taken
part in the discussion. 'jesting Pilate, as he has been
called — though he meant no jest — asked what was Truth ?
And what, we may ask in our day, is Virtue ? As applied
to women it means chastity; but as applied to men, it
means what we call integrity, benevolence, and exemplary
life. It originally signified manliness, strength, courage;
and the man who possessed these qualities, though he were
a robber and a murderer, was a virtuous man."

Yes," said Sir Hector, " we deceive ourselves with
words, and pass bad money instead of good as the coins of
thought and conversation. Take ' Religion ' and ' Education
' as examples of what I mean. Religion is that which

binds or reminds — a very inadequate rendering of what we
feel in our hearts when we acknowledge and worship the
Supreme Being. ' Education,' means the drawing out of
the mental or physical faculties?, and nothing more, and
ought properly to be called instruction. The infant begins
to educate itself as soon as its eyes can distinguish objects,
and when the uses of his hands, feet and legs become obvious
to his nascent intelligence. The savage in the woods,
who can neither read nor write, and whose only access to
history, real or fabulous, is limited to the traditions of his
tribe or nation, is often a better educated man than the
boozy, brutal, ignorant, half-civilised savage or " rough "
who rots and breeds at the bottom of the social scale inmost
European communities. The savage, so called, educates
himself by familiarity with wild nature, by confronting
and conquering physical danger, by conflicts with hunger
and thirst, by stoical endurance of the ills that he cannot
foresee or guard against, and by resignation to the will of
the 'Great Spirit' among some tribes, or to the great
Mumbo Jumbo ' in others. In these mental qualities
he often rises superior to the vile tramps and mendicants,

and the equally vile tradesmen and shopkeepers of our
VOL. II. 22

civilized cities, who cheat and lie and adulterate or poison
the commodities which they retail to the poor. It is an
abuse of terms to say of any one — male or female — that
he or she has completed his or her education. A man
who says his education is finished — or, in other words,
that all his faculties are drawn out or educed — is a fool, and
confesses himself to be one."

Agreed ! " said Mr. De Vere. " I consider that every
year, and indeed every day, in which I do not carry my
education a little — though if ever so little — farther, is a
year or a day wasted."

But of all the words," said Mr. Rameses, " that most
people use, without possessing any clearer notions of their
meaning than if they were parrots or mocking birds, are
the words that lie at the foundation of all our ideas ot
religion, whatever our religion may be. They are ' Infinitude
' and ' Eternity.' We utter them mechanically,
without in reality understanding them, except in so far
that we cannot understand either the beginning or the
ending of the Universe, though we may understand that the
human race had a beginning in this world, and that it will
probably have an end in it. Infinite in space, eternal induration,

such must be what we call the Universe, for want
of a better word. Matter and spirit are alike infinite and
eternal, though matter as we see it continually changes its
forms and its manifestations — rapidly in the living creatures
that are born and die, in the countless planets and worlds
that sparkle in the heavens, seen or unseen by mortal eyes,
and more slowly in the structure and physical vitality of
those glorious orbs themselves, whose existences are possibly
to be calculated — if we could calculate them — by millenniums
of millenniums. Man, the Earth, Time, and the
Stars are all finite. God, who animates all, and from
whom all proceed, is alone infinite, universal, all-pervading,
• and eternal. Man's spirit is an infinitesimal portion
of His essence, and — like God, of whom it is an emanation
it must endure, and has endured for ever, though it
manifests itself in material forms, that resolve themselves
into their original elements at the appointed time."

"Past and future eternity are but words," said Mr.
De Vere, "which imperfect human intelligence employs
to express the vague ideas which alone it is capable of
forming on such a transcendant subject. Rightly considered,
Eternity, in the mind of God, can have neither

22*

past nor future, which are mere measures of Time; but
should be treated of by our finite earthly understandings,
if we attempt to reason upon it, as one eternal Now."

"But is the spirit of Man, which emanates from the
spirit of God, as you allege," said Mr. Melville, " conscious
of its existence in the past, before it entered the
mortal frame ? Our memory does not even extend to our
birth and entrance into the world, and has no knowledge
whatever of the first months after the immortal spirit put
on the garb of mortality."

The body is a clog and obstruction to the spirit," replied
Mr. Rameses. " It allows us a certain amount of
mental liberty, fettered by the material organs and conditions
by which alone it can manifest itself in its state of
temporary captivity ; but once freed from the body by the
kindly agencies of what we call Death, it resumes the
heavenly faculties that slumbered, or were in abeyance,
and sees the whole Past, though it can neither see nor
guess the Future until it shall again become allied with
matter into a portion of the infinite and eternal Now."

Have you ever reflected," said Sir Henry de Glastonbury,
" that the association of soul with body may be what

one division of the Christian world calls Purgatory, akin
to what the ancient Greeks called Hades. A state of
probation in fact, to fit us for higher material development
in its next manifestation in the physical world — in which
it shall enjoy greater privileges — be endowed with keener
and more numerous senses, and be thus enabled to acquire
more extended knowledge, more perfect happiness, and to
experience purer and completer love, than was possible toit
during its probationary state."

Such has always been my faith, ever since the gyves
and impediments of the flesh permitted me to have any
faith whatever," replied Mr. Rameses.

"We are evidently on the threshold of mighty discoveries
as regards the operations of the spiritual medium
that links all things animate and inanimate together in
this world," interposed Mr. De Vere. "What we ignorantly
call electricity, for want of a better word, which enables
us to conquer time and space in the expression of our
wants and feelings, has power over our mind and conduct
of which most men are wholly unaware, and which
but a few suspect vaguely and darkly. The love of the
sexes, for instance, is the result of electric force. Sympathy

for some persons and things, and antipathy to others,
that are independent of our will, and compel us to act
in certain modes, instinctively, as it were, and in spite of
our reason, which is not consulted on the subject, and
which if it were consulted would possibly, and, indeed,
probably, advise us to disregard and struggle against what
it would call our prejudices. For myself, I can truly say
that I never felt an unconquerable antipathy to any
person, which I have done sometimes, though not very
often, without having proof that the antipathy was justified
by the character and behaviour of the individual —
male or female — against whom the silent warning was
given to me, by a power superior to my own. Vice versa,
whenever I felt instinctively attracted to a person, the
attraction was explained and justified by qualities, sentiments,
and feelings akin to my own. In this sense marriages
are made in heaven."

'' Some marriages may be so considered," said Sir Hector.
Marriages that are effected by what you would call electric
affinity, generally result in happiness to the married pair.
Happiness is not to be expected if this electric affinity
does not exist, as in the cases of people who marry for

money or for social ambition, as in the mournful case of
Mr. Bigraime Fitzgerald and the unhappy Lady Gwendoline,
neither of whom had one feeling in common with the
other."

Yet marriages that are originally made in heaven, as
the phrase goes," said Mr. De Vere, " do not always end well.
The husband or the wife, or, perhaps, both of them, impair
the force of the divine electricity that brought them
together, by contact with the selfish vices and contaminations
of the society with which they mingle. One or the
other may become corrupted by selfishness, by ambition,
by covetousness, by intemperance, and may thus impair the
purity and healthfulness of the frame, by which the immortal
spirit can alone manifest itself through the senses,
while it is burthened with a body. Thus the original
sympathy and electric affinity which made the marriage
happy is lessened, and may be altogether destroyed ; and
happiness along with it. It is true that our souls are
immortal, but it is also true that the body has power over
the soul in this world, and when its end comes may liberate
into eternity a soul less fitted to inhabit a higher organism
than that in which it dwelt during its period of probation.

Hence our future rank in the ultimate scale of God's
creation, may be high or low, as we make it in the body.
We may sink into the animal or the animalcule, as Pythagoras
and other ancient sages taught, or we may ascend to heights
unimagined by philosophy or in the dreams of poets."

Be it ours to ascend, for ever and ever," said Mr.
Rameses, " commencing with Heaven, while we are still
on the earth ; material yet ethereal, body yet spirit, and
qualifying ourselves for the possession of the glorified
bodies, which we are to inhabit through countless ages,
until we became wholly spiritualized, and pass through
Aviritsi into Nirvana — made one with the Divinity."

"I should like to know something of your Oriental
ideas of Amritsi and Nirvana," said Sir Henry De Glastonbury.
" To me, they are words, and words only."

"There are more things in the religions of Asia than
Europe is aware of," replied Mr. Rameses. " Things of
deeper spiritual import than European philosophy, except
in the case of a few advanced minds, has condescended
to study, and that were all familiar to Eastern sages thousands
of years before the Christian era. It is a question
whether the powers and uses of electricity, of the discovery

and application of which modern science is so proud, was
not a re-discovery of secrets known to the ancient
Egyptians, Babylonians, and Assyrians, and to the priests
of religions of a still earlier time than the rise or fall of
these nations. Belshazzar was but the dupe of cunning
electricians, and the priests of Baal were the dupers."

Con7iii ! co7imi ! as the French ejaculate when an old
and well-known story is repeated'' said Sir Hector.

The tricks of false priests, in support of their superstitions"'
remarked Mr. De Vere, " would, if truly recorded,
fill many instructive volumes. Doubtless, however, few
would read them, or believe them if they did. ' Magna est
Veritas et prevalent,' is a very trite, but a very wise saying ;
though falsehood unhappily is still greater, and prevails
more largely. Owing to man's ignorance and credulity,
big lies rule the world — have always ruled it — and will, it
is to be feared, rule it for ever."

Mr. De Vere was the last of the philosopher's friends who
rose to depart, after this conversation upon the occult
mysteries of Time, Fate, Life, Death, and Eternity. "When
left alone with Mr. Rameses, he took the opportunity to
congratulate him warmly upon his approaching marriage to

Niona, and to wish him happiness with the woman of his
choice.

one."

My choice, my fate, my destiny, my blessing, all in

And with these words the friends parted.

r-^^-l.^^

A MATRIMONIAL THUNDERSTORM.

The ill-omened and ill-assorted marriage of Lady Gwendoline
Pierrepoint, was certainly not made in heaven, it
judged by its results — but in that other place, not usually
mentioned to 'ears porte.' Even if it had not been for
that deplorable vice to which the husband had addicted
himself, under the stress of pecuniary calamity — which he
had brought upon himself by his undue haste to make himself
richer than he was — the current of their wedded life
would not have run by any means smoothly. They had
not a thought in common ; and weariness, satiety, and
daily increasing disgust, were the speedy results of their
intercourse. Matters had not improved since Lord Stoney-stratford
had vainly endeavoured to restore peace, and the
husband had hastened the crisis by invoking the aid of the
law to compel his unwilling partner to return to a home to
which her presence could bring neither pleasure nor comfort,
except such wicked pleasure as he could derive from

the sense of mastery and victory, and such proprietorship
over a proud human being as a brutal owner of a valuable
animal might exercise over his chattel. Lady Gwendoline,
true to her determination to meet his attack upon her
liberty of action by a counter-attack upon his personal
freedom, had summoned to her aid the legal adviser and
man of business of the Pierrepoint family, in the person
of Mr. Magnus Littledale — the senior partner of an old-established
firm of solicitors, who had grown rich in the
service of many great families, that of the Pierrepoints
among the number.

The object of Lady Gwendoline was to have her husband
placed under restraint, as a dangerous lunatic in the first
place, and to procure a divorce from him in the second.
The first was a difficult task, as the experienced lawyer soon
made her understand ; the second, in the existing state of
the English law, was impossible.

What," asked the prosaic and calm Mr. Littledale, to
his excited and impassioned client, " is lunacy or insanity,
madness or craziness, whatever we may call it ? Madness
has been defined as a constant or occasional departure from
reason. But what is reason? There are people who

reason that the earth is flat, because it appears to be so to
their eyes. Some people are stupid enough to believe that
the end of the world is fast approaching, and will happen
in a few years from the present time. These are considered
mad — as they certainly are in my opinion — as far as that
particular point is concerned, though on all others they maybe
as sane as people generally are who acknowledge that
two and two are four, and that a sovereign consists of
twenty shillings. Great numbers of people who are, in all
respects, competent to take care of themselves, to manage
their own affairs properly, to do justice to themselves and
to all their fellow-creatures, and who are sane on every
point but one — but on that particular point, however
absurd, ridiculous, fantastic, and irrational it may happen
to be, who become frantic when contradicted upon it — are
deemed to be mad.

I have heard of harmless people, sane enough in the
main, who think themselves brittle as glass or crockery, and
are often afraid to move, lest they should break themselves.
The world is not agreed on the criteria of madness. The
great George Stephenson — to whom the world mainly owes
the railway system, which has helped to revolutionize the

modern world — was accused of being mad, for maintaining
that locomotives could be propelled by steam at the rate of
fifteen or twenty miles an hour. Dr. Larder thought everyone
to be mad who believed that steam vessels could cross
the Atlantic. The late Lord Melbourne asserted that the
repeal of the Corn Laws would be an act of madness.
Descending from great things to small, I myself was once
accused of being mad while travelling in Austria, when I
objected to an item in a dinner bill at Vienna, because I
objected to pay for mustard as a separate dish, just as if it
had been an extra bottle of wine, or an extra //«/ of fish or
venison. The same charge was brought against me at
Boston, in Massachusetts, because, during my stay in that
city, I made it a rule, from which I never departed, to walk
six or seven miles every day before sitting down to my
dinner."

All this may be true," said Lady Gwendoline, losing
patience at the elderly lawyer's prosiness; "but surely
there can be no doubt that a man is mad who maddens
himself every day by drinking a bottle of brandy, and
suffers from delirium fre7Jiens ? "

Temporarily mad, no doubt, my dear Lady, but not

so mad, in the eyes of the law, as to justify his friends or
foes for having him locked up in a lunatic asylum. He
may reform, you know, take the pledge, as it is called, and
turn from the evil of his ways ; and, when the mad fit has
passed over, may enjoy as clear a mind, and be as capable
of managing his own affairs as ever he was, and incapable
of harbouring an evil thought against himself or his neighbour.
If you fear violence at the hands of your husband,
and have reasonable grounds for such a belief, the law, if
appealed to, will protect you. The separation, which of
your own will and action you have already resolved upon
and enforced up to this time, may be rendered legal and
permanent, with all the securities that the laws of the
country provide. Beyond this I cannot go on your behalf,
nor can you go on your own."

Lady Gwendoline bit her lip with vexation, to hear the
staid, and, as she thought, the stolid, lawyer express himself
so calmly. But the lawyer, taking no heed of the lady's
irritation, went on to say, with his customary calmness :
The case of your husband — if you wish to prove him
to be insane — is not a case for the lawyers, but for the
doctors. You must get two or three mad doctors — so-called,

possibly, because they are as mad as the persons upon whose
condition of mind they are called to pronounce — to examine
him, without letting him suspect that he is being examined.
They must know his bodily state, and his mental state — his
likes and his dislikes, his whims, crotchets, caprices, and
idiosyncrasies ; and whether any or all of them are reasonable
or unreasonable, benevolent or malevolent, conformable
with, or in contradiction to, natural laws ; whether his
eccentricities and aberrations are transitory or permanent,
harmless or dangerous; whether they spring from a disordered
stomach, or a diseased brain ; and, if they should
prove to be from the latter source, whether the derangement
of the mental functions is curable or incurable. If after
examination of the patient — or victim, as he may turn out to
be — two medical practitioners, duly qualified, agree that he
is insane, and testify to that effect by their signatures, the
supposed or real madman may be confined for an indefinite
period, perhaps for life, either as a pauper, or at the expense
of his friends, if he have any who are able and willing to
support him, in a private lunatic asylum. Do you wish,
Lady Gwendoline, to push matters to that extremity ? "
*' I am pushed to extremity myself," she answered," by

the ill-treatment and the brutality of that awful, that horrible,
man. I go in fear of my life from his violence ! "

Will you depose to that on your oath. Lady Gwendolen
? If you can do so, his attempt — if he make it — to
compel you to return to his bed and board will fail, and we
can defeat it easily."

"Bed and boards"' said she bitterly. ''I never shared his
bed; and, if I shared his board, it was in spite of my
disgust. I would as soon partake of the bed and board
of a dog or a horse, as of Mr. Fitzgerald's, or Mr.
Pigram's. His real name suits him better than his assumed
one."

Humph 1 "' said Mr. Littledale, taking a pinch of snuff.
He was of the old school, and used tobacco in that form, as
his father had done before him. " Has he ever offered you
violence ? '"'

Yes, he has, the unmanly coward I He has threatened
to shoot me — though he has not the courage to do so, for
fear of the gallows — but he struck me a blow with his great
coarse fist upon my bosom 1 "

Enough," said the lawyer. " We shall rid you of hm
without resorting to the writ de lunatico inqiiirendo."

VOL. II. 23

And the divorce," said Lady Gwendoline, in piteous
accents ; " can I not obtain that ? "

Yes, easily ; the divorce a meets et thoro, but not the
divorce a vinculo matrt??ionn, as I have already explained to
you. The law can and will free you of his company, if you
wish it, but will not free you of your matrimonial fetters and
enable you to marry again."

Marry again ! " said the Lady Gwendoline, her fine
eager eyes flashing with the light of passionate hatred, *' I
would not marry the handsomest, the richest, man in
Europe, or in the world, however fair his pretensions might
seem, lest after marriage he should develop into a Pigram !
No, I thank you, Mr. Littledale — once bitten, always shy.
If again free, I should remain so till the miserable beauty
that tempts the eye and the lust of men without touching
their hearts, if they have any, shall be dried and shrivelled up.
No, no ! I say, with the French, vive la libere, as something
too awfully good to be lightly exchanged for slavery ! "
Mr. Magnus Littledale, before the interview came to a
close, succeeded in convincing his fair cent that she had
nothing to fear from Mr. Fitzgerald's efforts to enforce
cohabitation ; that it would be needless to attempt to prove

As a complete divorce was unobtainable she resigned
herself to her fate, all the easier for her to do because her
heart was free from all the entanglements of youthful
passion, or even of fancy, and she thought she had more love
for the horses she rode or drove, than for any admirer or
possible wooer that walked the earth. She determined to
resume her maiden name of Pierrepoint, and, as she heard
nothing of the half-pitying, half-sneering comments of the
Society in which she moved on her altered position, and did
not seek to hear or know of them, the armour of indifference
in which she encased herself protected her from being
annoyed by any little pellets of censoriousness that might have
rattled against her had she been of a more sensitive nature.

Lady Stoney-Stratford was scandalized, as well as deeply
grieved, at the unhappy result of her match-making in the
case of Lady Gwendoline, and resolved to profit by her
dearly-bought experience whenever it became a question of

23*

the marriage of her two remaining daughters. Her three
eldest had married respectively a peer, a baronet, and an
untitled gentleman of good estate, and though neither of
the three husbands was half as rich as the proprietor of the
Methuselah Life Pills, the marriage of each was happier
than mere money could have made it. She trusted that
her other daughters would marry gentlemen, rich and 
do, if possible. Better a comparatively poor gentleman,
with mind and manners, than a rich boor without either.
Lord Stoney-Stratford agreed entirely in his wife's opinion.
He was opposed on principle to the match-making craze
in which so many middle-aged and elderly women take
delight, and thought that love-making should be left to the
fancy of the young, and that the old should confine themselves
to warning when the young showed a determination
to go wrong, and not interfere otherwise.

While he was the subject of these debates in the house
of his noble connections, Mr. De Fitzgerald himself, whose
peculiar temper and habits did not qualify him to bear
either pecuniary loss or contradiction with equanimity,
sulked in solitude, or sought relief from unhappy thought
in efforts to retrieve his monetary ill-luck by Stock Exchange

speculations, or equally factitious support and consolation
in copious libations. He indulged in them to
such an extent at the Hippopotamus Club as to draw upon
himself the censure of the committee, containing a
scarcely veiled threat that a repetition of the display
which he had made of himself in the dining-room would
lead to his expulsion, if he did not think it wiser to avoid
the catastrophe by resignation of his membership. He was
not amusing in his cups, neither was he stood or sleepy, or
languidly quiescent, as some are, but noisy and quarrelsome.
The warnings he had received were unheeded, and an
altercation which he provoked with an unoffending
member, who was quietly dining, led in due course to his
ignominious expulsion. This fact, when reported to Lord
Stoney-Stratford, increased the repugnance with which the
offender was regarded by every member of the Pierrepoint
family, and filled the mind of Lady Gwendoline more
especially with shame and humiliation, that she should
have linked her fate and her name with such a disgrace to
manhood as she felt her unfortunate husband to be.

But the end was not yet, and came in a manner that was
painful as it was unexpected.

FALLING IN LOVE.

Money-hunger, as has already been recorded in these

pages, was the cause of the unfortunate marriage of Hvely

Lady Gwendohne Pierrepoint with the dull and stolid Mr.

Bigraime de Fitzgerald. The natural impulse that draws the

one sex to the other was the irresistible power that inspired

and caused the expected nuptials of Mr. Rameses and the

beautiful Niona. The first of these two forces is peculiar

to men and women, the second prevails throughout all the

rest of God's creation, whether in animal or vegetable

life. This mysterious force is the irresistible provocative of

marriage and union of the sexes in all times and in all

countries. The sympathies and affinities that grow out of

it are the sole cause of the passion that civilised people

call Love, and are akin to, if not identical with, the occult

force which attracts the iron to the magnet. It was this

compulsion, and not the ignoble greed of possible wealth

or worldly position, that drew the thoughts of the young

private secretary of Mr. Rameses towards the person of a

beautiful young woman, whose charms had captivated his
fancy, caused him entirely to forget the Lady Ethel Pierre-point,
and led him to believe that another and superior
beauty was the light of his existence, and that the world
would be utterly dark without her.

Mr. Melville was shy, for many reasons, in confiding the
fact of his entanglement to his friend and patron, and
when, at last, after many delays and struggles with his
timidity, he mustered courage enough to unburden his
mind, he happened inadvertently to make use of a current
colloquialism that grated harshly upon the sensitive ear of
the transcendental philosopher, to whom he was bound by
so many ties of interest and affection.

You have fallen in love, you say, my young friend !
But why fallen ? Love is not a fall, but a flight — a
soaring — an abandonment of the dull earth for the
empyrean beyond and far above the clouds that overshadow
us in our mortal state. It is a flame that mounts
upwards for ever ! No people, except the English, use the
vulgar phrase. An Italian would laugh, or be unable to
understand what you meant, if you said to him ' son
cadiito in more ' ; and a Frenchman would grin politely,

if you told him that you had * tomb en amour ' ; a German
of a practical turn of mind would be inclined to ask
you if you had tumbled into love, and, if so, whether you
had escaped without broken bones ! "

Pardon me, oh, my master in wisdom and knowledge !
for the wrong word that I have employed. But language
is as contagious as scarlet fever, and we all of us carelessly
repeat, like mocking birds, the sounds that are familiar tous."


Be assured," said Mr. Rameses, in continuation of his
theme, " that the love which falls is only love in seeming —
a smouldering heat, born of earthly subterranean fire and
corruption — not the divine flame that emanates from Heaven
and returns to it. Marriage may, in certain circumstances,
be considered a fall, but not so the love which, if it be
true, ought to precede marriage, and endure beyond it,
through all time and eternity. Love 'is Heavenly — marriage
without love may be, and most frequently is, Purgatory.
Marriage without love, or love that has no other
foundation than the gratification of a selfish animal
passion, is but a base partnership in the commercial
business of life, a traffic in lust, an exchange for worldly

pleasure, for fine clothes, splendid adornments, luxurious
living, and lazy enjoyment."

"Very true," interposed Melville, timidly, "but the commercial
aspect of matrimony, base though it may seem in
comparison with the love that ought to underlie it, must
not be neglected, unless love and beggary are to go through
the world together."

We must, in this physical world," replied Mr. Rameses,
"be subjected to the inexorable physical law ; we must eat
and drink, have raiment to cover us, though that is not
always necessary in some happy climates. We must also
have places whereon to lay our weary heads, but we are not
on that account to consider these bodily comforts as the
sole ends of our existence. No doubt you will think it a
mockery in a man so unfortunately and so unmerited
rich as I am, to talk with such contempt of worldly wealth,
but worldly wealth i^ no essential blessing, except in so far
as it confers the power of doing good to our fellow-creatures.
The richest man can but eat with wholesome
appetite, which he does not derive from his gold ; drink
with relish until he is refreshed ; and sleep until nature, exhausted
by toil or struggle, or the mere effort of living and

waking, requires to be re-vitalized by rest. Food, drink
and sleep are as truly the pleasures of the beggar as of the
king. The richest man in the world can but enjoy a good
dinner, a good drink and a peaceful and comfortable rest,
and the poorest man, if in sound health, can do the same !
Man wants but Httle here below,' as was said by the
Persian poet Hafiz long ago, and as has been repeated by
English poets of recent times. It may be objected that
man's factitious wants are too often inordinate, but that
the real needs of his life are, after all, as circumscribed as
those of any other animal. The hungry cock that scraped up
a diamond on a dung-hill did not need it. A grain of corn,
or its equivalent, is needed, of course, in the married
state, but the diamond is mere useless adornment in itself,
good only for silly ostentation, and only valuable in exchange
for food, clothing, lodging, or other physical needs. And, if
it be not a secret with you, confide to me as a friend the
name and condition of the powerful magnet that attracts
you towards her, and whether you feel the attraction to be
mutual ? Is it one of the Pierrepoint family ? "

Mr. Melville blushed to be interrogated on the subject,
even by his best friend, but when the question was asked

point blank, he answered point blank, and very emphatically:
"It is not one of that family. I have no feelings in
common with any member of it."

I am glad to hear it," replied Mr. Rameses. " They
are a selfish race, money worshippers, with whom gold is God.
The Lord Stoney-Stratford enjoys gold for the sake of
power, as most, if not all men do, but he understands
nothing whatever of the duties with which great wealth
burthens its possessor. To Lady Stoney-Stratford gold is
more precious than love ; she is a miserable slave to it, and
draws her cupidity along with her, as the convict in the
galleys of France drags the cannon ball that is attached to
his leg as a sign of his degradation. She has taught her
daughters to expect to marry an Earl, a Marquis, or a
Duke if they are rich, and if not one of such rank, a man
who, if Earldoms, Marquisate, and Dukedoms were for
sale in England, could afford to buy one"'

She has, however," said Mr. Melville, " had a painful
disappointment in her favourite diversion of match-making,
and beeves more in love and less in money than she did
when she promoted the marriage of Lady Gwendolen with
Mr. Fitzgerald. The thought of the quack medicine which
enriched him is painful to her. She no longer holds with

the Roman Emperor that nummus non oles, from whatever
foul source it may be derived. She has changed her
mind, and is nauseated with the evil odours that have
offended her nostrils, ever since she began to reflect on the
degradation attendant on all who profit by the fraudulent concoction
and sale of the Methuselah pills. It is a commerce
which she rightly judges — especially since the man has turned
out so badly — from which peers and peeresses, and peers*
daughters ought to be ashamed to derive pecuniary
advantage."

The secret of Mr. Melville's love affair remained undisclosed,
notwithstanding the slight effort of Mr. Rameses
to discover it. Doubtless Mr. Melville would disclose it
when the hour was ripe, or the humour was upon him.
Meanwhile, Mr. Rameses dismissed the subject from his
mind, as a matter with which he had no concern, or
which did not greatly interest him. Possibly, however,
Mr. Melville himself was less engrossed with the subject
than he at times imagined himself to be, and love did not
so wholly engross his mind as the day's duties and the
schemes and ambitions of the morrow. We shall see
hereafter. Meanwhile fate runs its course, for good or for
evil, alike with him and with all the personages of our story.

A CATASTROPHE.

Call no man happy until you know the end of him, is an
ancient maxim, of which the perennial truth receives many
tragical exemplifications, in our own and in every other
time. Fortune, though for awhile it seems to favour the
bold — to load them with gifts, to anticipate and surpass
their wishes, to turn their seeming calamities into real
benefits, to build palaces for their accommodation out of
mole hills, and convert acorns into forests, for their advantage
and recreation — is apt to trip up their heels at last,
to turn their shiny gold into dull pebbles, and to make their
apparent successes the "whips to scourge them." So it
happened with " Old Methuselah," as his familiars always
called him among themselves, though they took care never
to utter the obnoxious word in his hearing. With an
impatient unreasonableness similar to that of the French
gentleman, in perfect health, who took medicine to make
himself better, he was rich and, wanting to be richer, he

indulged in over-doses of speculation, till the result was

impending bankruptcy — remote perhaps, but inevitable : —

J'6tais riche

Dieu Merci !
Pour etre plus riche,

Me voici !

The hale fool brought himself to the grave by medicine, the
rich fool brought himself to ruin and beggary by greed ; the
first left friends behind him to lament his fate, the second
found none to sympathise with him in the self-inflicted
collapse of his fortunes.

He had but one apparent friend, in the shape of a
real and formidable enemy. That enemy soothed him
in his domestic miseries, rendered him temporarily
indifferent to the gold which in his cool moments
he worshipped. That insidious friend was the Brandy
Bottle, the enemy in his mouth "which stole away
his brains," made the worse appear the better reason, and
converted the grain of the angelic which, perhaps, was
originally in him to a mountainous demon — his foe, his
comforter, his evil genius, his intimate fiend, who sometimes
led, and oftener goaded him to the brink of the
precipice that separates quiet insanity from raging madness.

In his quiet-insanity, when the alcohol steeped his senses
in quasi forgetfulness of the world and its sorrows, he
imagined, in his comparatively harmless hallucination, that
he was still one of the richest men in London, that he
could control all the money markets of Europe, convert
the most desperate financial enterprises into magnificent
fortunes, find the means to tunnel the Pyrenees, bridge the
Straits of Dover, carry to completion the Panama Canal,
or construct a direct line of Railway to China, anything in
fact which engineering could or could not accomplish,
and for which illimitable money and illimitable credulity
were required. But in his furious fits, which became more
and more frequent as his paroxysms of intemperance increased
in number, he became not only dangerous to himself,
but to all who approached him. The language that
fell from his lips in his rage was blasphemous and disgusting.
During these fits his wrath vented itself in foul
anathemas against his wife, which were duly reported to
her by the alarmed attendants, only to inflame the dislike
which she had always entertained for the man with whom,
for the sake of his money, she had consented to link her
fate. Her regret was aggravated day after day when she

reflected, as she could not avoid doing, that the law did
not permit her the privilege and luxury of a divorce, to
which she thought she was entitled by a higher law than
that of England — the law of Eternal Equity.

In one of his lucid intervals, with the fear of beggary
looming darkly before his eyes, Mr. Fitzgerald bethought
himself that money enough to relieve him from temporary
difficulty might be made by the sale of his interest in the
Methuselah Pills — an interest amounting to three-fourths of
the annual profit derivable from the speculation. For that
purpose he consulted his partner — the proprietor of the remaining
fourth — an operative chemist named "Chicory
Doo," who was alone in the secret of this composition, and
duly mixed the simple ingredients of which they were
manufactured, and who, in conjunction with himself, transacted
all the business connected with the advertising, the
puffing, and the sale of the popular article. Mr. Chicory
Doo was a little prim, precise man, with a round head, a
pair of large cheeks, a clean-shaven face, a stubbly crop of
thick grey hair, a pair of sparkling eyes, and a nose of
which the nostrils were much too conspicuous. His manner
was quick and jerky, and the sly and malicious expression

of his face, conveyed the idea to all who had financial or other
dealings with him, that, though he could cheat as well as
anybody, he was not to be cheated by the astute of sharp
practitioners in the art and mystery of roguery. When
shown into the presence of his partner — upon whom he
looked with some slight degree of respect as the original
parent and founder of the Methuselah Pill, not unmingled
with a certain amount of the opposite feeling, for what he
considered the coarse vulgarity of his character — he could
not but entertain some sympathy for the havoc which, in a
short space of time, his partner's excessive indulgence in
strong liquors had wrought in him. Both of these men prided
themselves on their skill in driving a bargain — both entertained
the idea that no one could by any possibility overreach
them — both had an utter disregard of conscience and
moral feeing, and an abiding faith in the folly and gullibility
of the great multitude, who suffered from dyspepsia
and its concomitant ills, and who imagined that every quack
was a worker of miracles, who could control nature — make
old men and women young again — and counteract the
operations of time and decay by infallible nostrums. Mr.
Chicory Doo knew perfectly well the net pecuniary value

VOL II. 24

of the pill he compounded under Mr. Fitzgerald's auspices
but, as is natural to all persons who are asked to buy
anything whatever by a vendor who has not tact or cunning
enough to conceal his eagerness to sell, he grossly
under-estimated the worth of the article which he ardently
desired to possess. But Mr. Fitzgerald knew quite as will
as his partner the yield of the gold mine which he wanted
to dispose of, and fixed upon a sum for the transfer of his
rights which was high, but not inordinate — though treated
as both by the hesitating purchaser. Mr. Chicory Doo —
affecting to be surprised at the estimate put by his confederate
on his share of the speculation — hinted that the " Methuselah
" pill, popular as it might be, was not safe from
opposition and rivalry, and that he, Chicory Doo, was quite
capable of compounding a pill that would supersede the
'' Methuselah."

You cannot do it," said Mr. Fitzgerald. *' You may, it is
true, compound as efficacious a pill, but you cannot call it
the ' Methuselah.' The name is copyright, and will be
strictly protected."

But there are other names as good," said Mr. Doo, with
a smile, " such for instance as the Patriarchal Pill. Methuselah

was not the only patriarch who was blessed with long
life. There are Elijah and Enoch, for example, and Noah,
and Melchizedek. The 'Enoch Pill' would be a certain
success with the English public. With the Methuselah Pill
you secure the fools long life — so they think — but the
Enoch Pill ' would absolve them from death altogether, if
they believed in it. Enoch, as you may be aware, never
knew death, and all on account of his daily taking three or
four of the incomparable medicine that I should name after
him. By heavens, it is a grand idea, with several fortunes in
it : I think, however, that the Melchizedek Pill would be
likely to prove more successful. The name runs glibly off
the tongue and would insinuate itself more pleasantly into
the ear and the imagination of the gentle — and — (don't repeat
the word — the credulous and gullible) public. I can
and will try the Melchizedek Pill, if you insist upon too
large a price for the Methuselah."

'tis all very fine," said Mr. Fitzgerald, with a look and
tone of triumph — as if he anticipated no possible reply to
the climax of his argument, "but you forget, my very
good friend, how largely the ingredient, or I may say, the
element, of faith enters into the favour which the Methuselah

Pill enjoys in the estimation of the public. IMelchizedek —
without faith to back it — would have no chance against Methuselah,
with a faith behind it that has flourished and been
strengthened during a quarter of a century. Faith, as you
have heard — and ought to know — removes mountains;
mountains of incredulity and opposition. I value the faith
of the public in the unfailing efficacy of the Methuselah
Pill at a hundred thousand pounds at the very least."

"A hundred thousand fiddle-sticks," replied Mr. Doo
irreverently, with a loud chuckle. " If your notions are so
extravagant, I calculate, as the Americans say, that we should
leave well alone, and that you should refuse to sell, as I
most decidedly refuse to buy on any such terms. There is
no need for further discussion on the subject. My mind is
quite made up. The pill is only worth two or three years*
purchase, and I will give no more for it. Popularity is not
to be depended upon. Tastes alter — a successful rivalry is
always to be feared, because it is always possible — and we
live in an age of intense and cruel competition, in which
the rule is ' the Devil take the hindmost.' "

Upon this understanding — or perhaps misunderstanding
the negotiations between the two partners came to an

abrupt conclusion. Mr. Fitzgerald was disappointed, but
not disheartened. " Mr. Chicory Doo'' he said to himself,
"is not everybody. There are other fools in the world,
though I do not consider them to be strictly and utterly
fools — not by any means — but only enterprising tradesmen,
ready to risk a little to gain much, and to make their fortunes
by bold but safe speculation. The secret and the fame
of the Methuselah Pill are not to be lightly parted with,
merely because I am in temporary want of money. I shall
advertise my commodity, and the devil's in it if I do not
sooner or later find a purchaser, and defy the selfish, and,
under the circumstances, the dishonest and suicidal, competition
which Mr. Chicory Doo hints at. I made him what he
is, and by Heaven I will unmake him, if he forces me to it !
Instead of allowing him to buy me out, I will buy him out,
and reduce him to his original trade of selling soaps, combs,
hair-wash and tooth-brushes, epsom salts and ipecacuanha, to
servant girls, and depending upon the glare of the red and
green lights in his shop window for the only custom he is
likely to get."

So saying, Mr. Fitzgerald unlocked a secret drawer in his
writing-table, and drew out a small bottle of brandy, which

he emptied at one gulp. Under the stimulus he felt himself
strong enough, for a few minutes, to attempt to do any
wickedness. It was his armour against Fate — and he felt
himself invulnerable while under its protection.

Whenever he was in this state of aggressive exaltation, from
the fumes of alcohol in his disordered brain, his thoughts
reverted to his favourite grievance — the desertion of Lady
Gwendoline. Not that he cared for Lady Gwendoline herself,
or found the slightest pleasure in her society, but that
his pride was wounded by her scorn, and that he desired,
above all things in the world, to be able to punish and to
persecute her — to make her feel that her noble blood was
of no more account in his eyes than his own, which had, in
all probability, "run through scoundrels ever since the
flood," and that the higher the rank on which she prided
herself, the greater his delight would be in humiliating it,
insulting it, ignoring it, oppressing it, and treading it under
the iron heel of his brutality. When this fit of virulent
hatred came over him, he encouraged it by extra potations
from the private stores of brandy which he managed to
secrete from his servants and attendants, and kept carefully
locked up amid his business papers, in close contiguity to

his check book and banking account, safe from all prying
eyes and unauthorised interference.

The non-success of his attempted negotiation with ^Mr.
Doo, annoyed him more than he had expected, and, had it
not been for the treacherous aid of the brandy bottle, would
have preyed still more heavily on his mind than it had
done. For fully three weeks after his fruitless interview
with his scheming partner, he had not been sober for a
single day. His German valet, Fritz, who was accustomed
to his violent fits of inebriation, and usually treated them
as matters of course, that required only sleep on his master's
part, and unobservant neglect and non-interference on his
own, to pass over without harm to anybody, became seriously
alarmed at the long continuance of this particular " bout"'
as he called it, and took the liberty of sending for the
family physician, in case that Mr. Fitzgerald, in one of his
fits, should do violence either to himself or to some one
else. Fritz judged it necessary that the physician should
appear to have called on a friendly, and not on a professional
visit, lest the patient should take alarm, and revolt
at the unauthorised intrusion ; and this was managed accordingly.
The doctor was fore-warned and fore-armed, and

duly informed of all the particulars of the case before he was
ushered into the presence of his patient, who was not
allowed to suspect that the visit of Doctor Ignatius Drugget
was any other than one of politeness. The doctor was an
old and experienced practitioner, and-speedily made up his
mind that the utmost care and the strictest vigilance were
necessary, not only to guard against the effects of delirium
tremens but to prevent scandal and calamity. He knew all
the circumstances connected with the matrimonial disagreements
between Mr. Fitzgerald and his high-born spouse, and
all his sympathies were enlisted on the side of the lady. It
was, he thought, a hopeless case of mania a potius for
which there was no remedy except restraint and enforced
abstinence, at a water-cure establishment, or in a lunatic
asylum. Fritz doubted the feasibility of persuading his
master to submit to the discipline of the water-cure, which,
if he had sufficient strength of will, he might impose upon
himself, and was decidedly of opinion that the stronger arm
of physical coercion, imposed by a couple of stalwart
keepers in his own house — or better still, in a recognised
asylum for hopeless inebriates or other maniacs — would bethe
only proper remedy to apply to the case. In this

opinion, the courtly and polite doctor acquiesced-and
undertook to convey to Lady Gwendoline his concurrence
in the views expressed by the valet, and his willingness to
co-operate in the necessary measures to be taken for the
restraint and possible cure of the patient.

Lady Gwendoline received the intelligence without surprise.
She had long been prepared for it, and only
regretted that the lunacy of her husband was only considered
to be temporary, and could not be declared permanent
and incurable, so that she might be rid of him for
life. She did not know, did not suspect, did not dare to
hope, or, at all events, to express the hope, or to indulge in
it, except in the secrecy of her own mind, that a far greater
physician than Doctor Ignatius Drugget would present himself
— a doctor named Death — to whom all diseases are
equally easy of treatment, and who cures them when all
human skill has been tried in vain. But that great doctor
does not always respond to the wishes of those who believe
in him. On the morning of the next day after Dr. Drugget
had paid him his friendly visit of observation, Mr. Fitzgerald
dressed himself with unusual care and neatness, and,
having caused Fritz to call a hansom cab, ordered himself

to be driven to the house of Lord Stoney-Stratford, where
his wife had taken refuge. No orders had been given to the
servants to refuse him admittance. The pompous flunkey,
with nether garments of red plush, silk stockings, and a
well-powdered head of hair, was at a loss how to act when
Mr. Fitzgerald made his appearance so unexpectedly, and
desired to be shown into the presence of his wife. The
gorgeous domestic ushered him into the reception-room,
leading from the hall, and went upstairs to announce to the
family the arrival of the unwelcome visitor. Lady Gwendoline
was not within ; she had gone out in the carriage
with her two sisters on a shopping excursion half an hour
previously. Lady Stoney-Stratford did not feel disposed,
under the circumstances, to grant an interview to her
daughter's husband, who, she imagined, would be in a disagreeable
if not in an angry mood, and deputed Lord
Stoney-Stratford to act as the representative of the family.
His lordship undertook the task with extreme reluctance,
and debated earnestly with himself for a few minutes
whether it would be prudent to trust himself without witnesses
in the presence of a violent man with a grievance.
But, as he had borrowed money of him, his lordship though

it best to be polite, even if he could not be cordial, and
prepared himself with as much equanimity as he could
assume for an interview from which he would gladly have
been excused. Mr. Fitzgerald rose from his seat as Lord
Stoney-Stratford entered the room, and, advancing slightly
towards him, said abruptly, " Do not be afraid of me, my
lord, though your people give out, and try to make you
believe, that I am never sober. But I am quite sober now.
In fact, I have renounced the brandy bottle for ever. I
know it does me mischief, and I have resolved to abandon
it, once for all. I am, however, compelled to indulge
myself medicinally in a little soothing elixir to calm my
brain when I get excited, as I sometimes do when I think
upon my misfortunes. Excuse me if I take a little of it
now to steady my head, and to tranquillize my nervous
system." He said this very slowly and deliberately, and
drew from his waistcoat pocket a small phial, from which he
calmly drew the cork. Applying the phial to his mouth,
he drank off the contents in one gulp. " I wish your lordship
good health," he said, "and that you will be kind
enough to tell your daughter that I detest her." He had
scarcely uttered the words when he staggered forward, and

fell heavily upon the floor. His lordship, alarmed and
horrified, rang the bell for assistance. The powdered
domestic in red plush responded almost immediately to the
summons, helped his master to raise Mr. Fitzgerald from
the floor, and with difficulty placed him again in the chair
from which he had so lately risen. He breathed almost
imperceptibly for a few seconds, when the machine of life
stopped, and all that remained of the strong man of an
hour previously was a senseless corpse. His lordship took
the little phial from the hand which still held it, and found
a label on it marked " Prussic Acid." It had contained
enough of the fatal liquid — it was afterwards ascertained —
to have poisoned half a dozen men.

Such was the end of the prosperous man, of the vulgar
favourite of capricious fortune, of him who was reported to
have touched nothing that he did not convert into success ;
of one who was greatly maligned, but still more greatly
envied ; and who was continually cited as an example to
all the youth of the little town in which he first saw the
light, worthy of all imitation by those who aspired to rise
in the world, and were not over particular as to the means
by which the rise could be effected.

Lord Stoney-Stratford was greatly shocked and horrified ;
Lady Stoney-Stratford and the Ladies Pierrepoint were
shocked and scandalized; all who were acquainted with
the unfortunate man were, more or less, painfully affected
for a day or two, when they managed to forget the tragedy
and all about it. Lady Gwendolen Fitzgerald, or, as she
preferred to be called. Lady Gwendoline Pierrepoint, was
greatly affected, greatly scandalized, and, if all the truth
must be told, somewhat comforted. It might be an exaggeration
of her comfortable feelings to say that she was
pleased by the sudden light of freedom that had dawned
upon the darkness of her youth and beauty ; but if it were
not pleasure, it was certainly a near approach to satisfaction,
though she could have wished that the man had
had the decency to die in his own house, without creating
scandal in the newspapers. She assumed the customary
weeds of widowhood with a graceful coquetry, that set
off her healthful charms to the greatest advantage, and
positively thought that the weeds became her much better
than the ordinary finery in which she had delighted to
array herself, as long as she could remember her own
beauty, which was for two or three years before she had

entered upon her teens. Lady Stoney-Stratford, though
greatly annoyed that he had insulted the Pierrepoint family
by committing suicide in their family mansion, did not pretend
to any grief or even regret at the fate of her son-in-law
; for though she was a great schemer, she was not a
hypocrite, unless something was to be got by hypocrisy,
and there was nothing to be got by tears or sighs for the
untimely end of poor " Methuselah."

^ -^

SAADI Ben Aimed.

A CARD was one morning left at the mansion of Mr.
Rameses in Kensington Palace Gardens, bearing the name
of Saadi Ben Ahmed. !Mr. Rameses was more affected
than he usually was with anything, when, on his return
from a visit to Niona, he was informed by his attentive
secretary that the card had been left by a stately person of
apparently between forty and fifty years of age, who had
signified his intention of calling again in the course of the
day.

The friend of my youth, my more than brother, the
man whom, of all men living, I most love and esteems
said Mr. Rameses. " The wisest and most virtuous man
that it was ever my privilege to know."

Even as he thus spoke the welcome visitor was announced
; and in a few minutes the two friends were locked
in a warm fraternal embrace. In a few more, Saadi Ben
Ahmed had accepted the cordially offered hospitality of

Mr. Rameses, to share his home during the whole period,
long or short, whatever it might be, of his stay in England.
They had not met for seven years, during which Saadi
Ben Ahmed had occupied himself in studying men,
manners, religion, philosophy, and systems of government
in every quarter of the globe. He had visited and resided
in every civilized country of the world, and in some uncivilized
ones. He had become, he said, a cosmopolitan.
He had been a Frenchman in France, a German in Germany,
an Italian in Italy, a Spaniard in Spain, a Greek in
Athens, a Russian in St. Petersburg, a Turk in Constantinople,
an African in Egypt, an American in the
United States, a Mexican in Mexico, an Australian in
Australia and New Zealand, and an EngUshman in England.
In all these countries he had mixed with the people
and lived the life they did, often concealing his own
nationality for the sake of acquiring more intimate knowledge
than is usually within the reach of the passing
stranger, however observant he may be. He had, during
all that time been absent from India, the land of his birth,
his ancestors, and his affections, intent upon the acquisition
of a wider basis for his philosophy than that ancient civilisation

afforded. He had now come to pass the remainder of
the time at his disposal in London ; to enquire into the present
state and future prospects of the greatest and most
magnificent Empire in the modern world, and to forecast, if
it were possible to do so, the chances that it would be able to
hold its own amid the keen enmities and keener rivalries
that its prosperous career had excited among the slower
nationalities coeval with itself, and the more vigorous
nationalities that had grown up since the discovery of the
western hemisphere, and those equally vigorous ones that
were expanding in the sunny and fruitful regions at the
Antipodes.

"A noble and comprehensive object of inquiry," said
Mr. Rameses, as Saadi Ben Ahmed unfolded his purpose
to his friend, " in the elucidation of which you will doubtless
find as much to condemn, as to approve in the new
civilisation of the European races that are the present
masters of the world, and possibly even more to approve
in the ancient and still enduring civilisations of our Asiatic
races than modern thinkers are willing to confess."

Saadi Ben Ahmed was provided with letters to the leading
statesmen, literati, and the social and financial magnates
VOL. II. 2:5

of the British Isles, but was in no hurry to avail himself
of them, contented to remain for awhile in the comparative
privacy of the household of his friend, with whom he
had had since the days of his early manhood so many
ideas and sympathies in common. Mr. Rameses promised
himself the highest possible intellectual gratification
from the conversation of the accomplished and
experienced traveller. And he was not disappointed. In
order that he might enjoy it still more, he was desirous
that the Englishman in whose society he most delighted,
the philosophical and kindly Mr. De Vere, should partake
with him the advantage of drinking at the well of knowledge,
which had so unexpectedly began to pour out its
refreshing waters at his very feet, and for that purpose dispatched
a message to the Rookery inviting that quiet and
retiring philosopher to abandon his rural solitude and his
darling books, and pass a week or ten days in the great
metropolis, in the society that he was certain would be
congenial to his enquiring mind, and to his daily enlarging
ideas of the divine government of the world. The invitation
was readily accepted, and Mr. De Vere, accompanied
by his daughter, was, on the second day after it

reached them, duly installed in the luxurious home of Mr.
Rameses.

Saadi Ben Ahmed spoke English elegantly and perfectly,
without the slightest foreign accent. When dressed
in his usual unassuming garb of an English gentleman,
which he always wore, except on the rare occasions when
he thought it necessary to appear at a foreign court in
the costume of his native India, no one could have
suspected from his speech or his manner that he was not
an Englishman. His complexion was not so dark as that
of an Asiatic, though slightly darker than that of most,
though not of all. Englishman. His language only differed
from that of cultivated EngUsh gentlemen, in being perhaps
more classical in its phraseology and choice of words
than that used in the last half of the nineteenth century,
both in ordinary conversation and in books, and freer from
all taint, however slight, of slang, or " fast " words, which, in
the ordinary friction of society, and intercourse with various
classes of the people, too commonly permeates the talk,
even of the most refined, and which is not always absent
from literature.

The social and intellectual dinner-parties of Mr. Rameses

25*

never included more than seven or eight, or at most
nine persons, all seated at a round table, and comprising
persons already known to or desirous of being known
to each other — persons who had something to say, who
could say it well, and who could listen as intelligently
as they could talk. No habitual " monsters " or punsters,
or professional wits, and no "wet blankets," were
admitted to his symposia; but only people who were willing
to teach or to be taught, to imbibe knowledge gratefully, or
to impart it cheerfully and unpretentiously, and even unconsciously
— to converse, not to preach or lecture. Acting
upon this principle, he took an early opportunity after the
arrival of his friend Saadi Ben Ahmed to invite four
friends to meet him and De Vere, who would all, he
thought, be interested in hearing the opinions of so
observant and thoughtful a student of mankind in all
quarters of the globe. These were Lord Stoney-Stratford,
Sir Henry de Glastonbury, Sir Hector MacTavish, and
General Jefferson Trelawny, a Virginian gentleman who
had fought as a private soldier in General Lee's army
during the American Civil War from 1863 to 1865, and was
one of the few Southern gentlemen who had escaped

without absolute pecuniary ruin on the collapse of that
cause in 1865. To these were added Mr. Melville, the
private secretary, making eight in all. General Trelawny
was a comparatively recent acquaintance of Mr. Rameses,
and a very favourable specimen of what is called in the
United States the " chivalry of the South" — a man without
any strongly-defined American prejudices, and who prided
himself on his purely English ancestry, without any admixture
of Irish, German, or even of New England, or
what he persisted in calling " Yankee," blood.

The two Asiatics were philosophers, but each had a
different bent of mind. Mr. Rameses dwelt upon spiritual
matters, and strove to fathom unfathomable mysteries of
this life and the next. Saadi Ben Ahmed, on the contrary,
was of a practical turn, and studied the things of this world,
as well as he was able, and was a keenly intelligent observer
of human nature, both in the individual man, and in the
aggregation of men of which nations and races are composed,
and loved to speculate upon the probable course of
the future by the study of the past. Yet each displayed
a vivid interest in the speculations of the other. Their

opinions took divergent courses, but were not antagonistic.
As a great painter may delight in the strains of a great
musician, without being able to rival him in their production,
so Saadi Ben Ahmed took a sincere pleasure in the
sublime dream of the infinite progress and development of
the soul in the inscrutable hereafter, in which Mr. Rameses
indulged; and Mr. Rameses, while fascinated by his
faith in the future Use, was not utterly insensible to the
demands made upon his time and thought by the more
prosaic interests of the present life. The one was a mystic
the other was a reals ; but they did not hate each other
on that account, as they might possibly have done had
they been jealous devotees of antagonistic, or even of
slightly different, religious creeds — a species of hatred not
quite unknown even to the present comparatively tolerant
generation, but which was not considered hatred at all,
but a high degree of Christian love and charity, by our
super-eminently Christian ancestors.

A friendly discussion arose among the friends and guests
of mr. Rameses, on their first meeting with Saadi Ben
Ahmed at the hospitable board of their entertainer, with
the object of eliciting the opinions of that intelligent and

observant traveller on the present state and prospects of
the civilized world. The choice viands and choicer wines
had been duly and leisurely partaken of, flavoured by
pleasant desultory conversation, which had made the
convives known more or less to each other. Though it
may be humiliating to the pride of a spiritual and transcendental
philosopher to admit the fact, it must be confessed
that nothing conduces more readily and happily
among men to open the fountains of mutual confidence —
to unloose "the hinges of the tongue" — than the genial
conviviality of the dinner-table, where the guests are all
intelligent and well-met, and where the surroundings are
such as to please, not only the palate, but the eye and the
fancy. A chance word spoken without purpose may in
such company prove to be a key to open up the closed
receptacles of thought, or to roll off the imprisoning stone
from the well of knowledge, and that word was spoken by
General Jefferson Trelawny, a representative of the best
class of American statesmen and gentlemen. " We have
a great deal too much liberty in America," said he ; " we
allow ignorant negroes, and equally ignorant white blackguards,
to share in the government of the country by means

of the political power which they exercise by their votes for

the legislature, and for the choice of the President."

"That is not liberty," said Saadi Ben Ahmed, "but an
abuse of liberty. No word except religion is so little
understood in the modern world as liberty. Of liberty, in
the true sense of the word, the liberty to live, to labour
and to enjoy the fruits of labour, without coercion, or
oppression, or injustice from any quarter, there cannot be
too much. But of the liberty accorded to the ignorant
many to govern the intelligent few, there cannot be too
little. It is this kind of liberty, falsely so-called, that is
the curse of America, of Great Britain, of France, and of
all ultra-democratic countries. There must be restrictions
upon liberty, if true liberty is to exist."

Exactly so ! " said Sir Hector MacTavish. " Liberty
given to the selfish and grovelling mob to govern the select
body of thinkers is an oppression and a tyranny. It is a
mistake altogether, and operates to the disadvantage and
degradation of society. We might as well permit the votes
of children in the nursery to be given in the selection of
those who are to rule them for their good, as to give the
privilege of voting for the statesmen and legislators who

are to govern a great nation, to the hewers of wood and
the drawers of water, who have not an idea in their heads
unconnected with their vulgares physical necessities.
Enough for them to have Puberty to live and thrive, without
endowing them with the privilege of governing their superiors.'

The world in our day is in all its political relations,"
remarked Mr. De Vere, " but one great city, of which the
various countries and nationalities are but streets, or
parishes, of varying sizes and importance. In these
streets or parishes, the majority of the inhabitants — engrossed
in the daily struggle for subsistence — do not know,
or do not care to examine, whether the little portion of the
city, or the world, in which they are primarily interested —
whether the conflagration raging in the next street may not
extend to their own shops, and affect their property, their
business, and even their lives, who turn a deaf ear to the
entreaties and remonstrances of the wiser few who know
and would guard against the danger, lest any effort they
might make with the fire-engines would take them from
their shops, or render them liable to a tax of a shilling in
the pound on their incomes."

Such," said Sir Henry De Glastonbury, " is the condition

of the once great English nation under the regime of
the multitude, who have governed England since Mr.
Gladstone's malignant Reform Bill came into operation ; and
will continue to govern it, until England is reduced to a third-rate
power, and the sceptre of her supremacy is snatched
from her hands by the United States, or by her own giant
colonies. This old lion has become toothless, as I once
heard an American orator say, and has not the courage to
wag his manger tail in anger, lest it should drop off ! "

Not a true or representative American," said General
Trelawny, "but a 'Yankee' — a veritable, unmistakable
Yankee, whose vulgarity, conceit, ignorance, and presumption
bring our country into discredit."

An irreverent joke, with only too much truth to support
it," interposed Lord Stoney-Stratford.

What I have observed in England and in America,"
said Saadi Ben Ahmed, " as the deleterious and uncomfortable
concomitant of the false notions of liberty inculcated
into the minds of ignorant people, is the craze for what is
falsely called 'equality.' I have nothing to say against
the equality of all men and women in the sight of God and
the Law. The law, in all civilised countries of modern

times — though not, I regret to confess, in ancient times — is
bound to treat, and does treat, the poorest and humblest with
the same strict justice as it does the highest and richest."

"But Law," interposed Mr. De Vere, "is much too
costly, and weighs more heavily on the poor than on the
rich — so heavily on the former as virtually to amount to a
denial of justice."

"This is doubtless a misfortune," replied Saadi Ben
Ahmed ; "but where is the remedy, if lawyers expect to
live by their profession ? The costliness of law, however,
|f affects the question of the recognised equality of all men
before it. But the mischief is, in such ultra-democratic
countries as Great Britain and the United States and the
colonies of Great Britain, that legal equality is held to
include social equality, which is a very different thing.
Legal equality is of possible establishment; but social
equality is impossible. The fool is not the social equal of
the wise man, the robber and brigand of the honest man,
the servant of him who pays for service and exacts it, nor
the ignorant and brutal boor of the educated and refined
gentleman."

In England," said Lord Stoney-Stratford, " the excess

of what is falsely called liberty — which is the curse of the
country, as it is of America — fills the minds of the vulgar
with conceit and arrogance, that would be considered
amusing if they were not disgusting. The coarsest kitchen
drab and scullion considers herself affronted if people of
her own rank and station do not address her as a ' lady.'
If she receives a letter she must be addressed as ' Miss.'
Shop-girls are no longer existent — they are short-ladies .
Drapers' assistants, or counter-jumpers, are 'gentlemen.'
There are no longer ' men ' or ' women ' in the language
of the ultra-democracy, but ' gentlemen ' and * ladies.' Even
the good, honest, noble word of 'wife' is superseded, on
the tongues of the superfine vulgar, by 'lady' or 'Missus.'
Workman ' is considered a title of disrespect, and has
mostly given place to ' operative,' as more ' genteel ' and
respectable.' The title of ' Mr,' instead of ' Esquire,' on
a letter, is held to be an affront by proud shopkeepers who
receive it, and meant as such by him who sends it.
Domestic servants scorn to wear the plain garments that
were good enough for their ancestors, and array themselves
in cheap, tawdry, and flimsy finery, of the fashion of that
worn by their mistresses, so that when they walk abroad

they may not appear to be what they are, but as the equals in
rank to their mistresses, whose style and manner ' they
imitate so abominably ' — days in the plumage of a peacock,
asses in the hide of the lion, unable to conceal their long
ears, or to make other utterance than a braying whenever
they open their mouths."

"All these things," said Saadi Ben Ahmed, "are of
minor importance compared with the pretension of
those vulgar and ignorant people, male and female, who
think that, because personal freedom is their right, they
have a right to govern, or help to govern, others. This
imaginary right has no more foundation in Nature and
reason than the right of young children to govern their
fathers and mothers, and to share in the government of
great states, and of the world, of which all states and
empires form a part. Yet it is foolishly conceded and
acted upon by the shallow empiric, who think that the
voice of the people is the voice of God, and who appeal to
the multitude to decide questions which the multitude
cannot and never will be able to understand. The ultra-democrats
who think themselves wise, are in reality the
greatest of political fools. They do not know that liberty

rests upon restrictions. Every right has its limitations,
and must have them. Every man and woman has a right
to dress as he or she pleases, but no man or woman has a
right, in our present state of civilization, to walk naked in
the streets. Every man has a right to his own life, if he
can maintain it by his labour or skill, or usefulness to
society, but he has no right to take the life of another.
Every one has the natural right to govern himself, but no
natural right to govern anybody else. Modern political
empiric and defenders of an abstract but impossible
liberty, think the contrary, and in Great Britain and
Ireland, France, the United States, and the British
Colonies, have given the privileges which they wrongfully
call and consider a rights to the government of his fellows —
inferiors, it may be, but more often superior to himself — to
every one who has a fixed abode, though it may be but a
hut or a wigwam. The result is the government of a large
portion of the modern world by the necessarily uninstructed,
toiling, and unintellectual multitude, living by
their daily work, and having neither time nor mind to
study and understand the mighty issues of national weal or
woe, glory or shame, which may depend on their suffrages."

It is the greatest mistake of modern times," said Mr.
De Vere, '*'to consider the electoral suffrage as a right,
and as a necessary consequence to extend it, until within
the now more or less restricted circle shall be included
children, and paupers, if not felons and lunatics. The
privilege — I will not outrage my conscience by calling it
right — having been granted, with the restrictions I have
enumerated, the question for the future consideration of
wise and far-seeing statesmen will be that of restricting it
without, however, going so far as to abolish it, which is now
impossible ; allowing household suffrage to prevail, and
even extending it if need be, to manhood and womanhood
suffrage. I would restrict it very considerably."

"To restrict the suffrage now, after iMr. Gladstone's ill-judged,
though apparently necessary, extension of it," said
Sir henry De Glastonbury, " would be perilous — even if it
were possible."

"Neither perilous nor impossible," replied iMr. De
Vere, " nor even unpopular, if cleverly managed. Allowing
the right — if the multitude so consider it — to remain, what
would be more easy than to purify its exercise by exclusion
from the privilege of enjoying it, not only of the criminals

undergoing penal sentences of imprisonment, but of those
minor offenders against the well-being of society whose
offences do not amount to felony ? For instance, I would
deprive of the suffrage every shopkeeper legally convicted
of adulterating the food, the drink, or the medicines which
he retails to the public. This would act very beneficially
if the penalty of disfranchisement extended for a term of
years, say three or seven, after legal conviction of such
offences. I would apply the same rule to all traders who
should be convicted of selHng by false weights and measures."

"Would you not extend it to persons convicted of cruelty
to children and wife-beating, if sentenced for these offences
by a magistrate ? " enquired General Trelawny.

"undoubtedly I would," replied Mr. De Vere, "and
to swindlers, robbers, forgers, and all felons whatsoever,
for at least seven years after the expiry of their ordinary
terms of punishment."

What a revolution and a purification that would be ! "
said Lord Stoney-Stratford. "And so cunningly devised,
moreover, that the sticklers for an extended suffrage could
not object that it was hostile to their darling principle. It
would reduce the electoral lists of the whole country,

urban and rural, by at least twenty-five per cent., and from
every four million of ' free and independent electors '
strike off one million as disqualified to have a voice in the
government of honest men."

I think we are all pretty well agreed upon the question.
But I will go further than most of you," said Saadi Ben
Ahmed. " I express a decided opinion that the privilege of
a share in the government of a nation, as far as the vote of
the individual is concerned, is not only of evil effect
on the government, but on the true happiness and wellbeing
of the voter, unless he be a person of cultivated
intelligence and independent honesty. The possession of
a vote by the ignorant, the idle and the dishonest, fosters
not only arrogance and conceit in their minds, but encourages
in them an unreasonable dissatisfaction with their
lot. The great bulk of mankind in all countries, whether
highly civilized or comparatively barbarous, require to be
governed — wisely and firmly, no doubt, but still to be
governed — by intelligence superior to their own. Left to
themselves, without restraining power over them, their
liberty always does, and always must, degenerate into

licence. Licence grows into anarchy, which, in its turn, pro-vol.
II. 26

duces despotism, in order that any kind of liberty, guarded
by restraint, may possibly exist. Men are naturally dissatisfied
with their condition, whatever it may be, and as
naturally desire a larger portion of the good things of the
world than can fall to their share in their wild and selfish
competition with each other, and the pressure of their own
numbers upon the resources at the command of the whole
community. In the dissatisfaction which grows out of
their struggles to live, they are led astray by the specious
oratory which they mistake for eloquence. Passion is
easily excited, while reason, among the ignorant and prejudiced,
is not easily to be convinced. The shallowest of
men, if they appeal to passion, can make brilliant speeches,
can darken counsel with vain words, make the worse
appear the better reason, tickle the long ears of the multitude
by empty, but high-sounding declamation, destitute
of pith or substance ; — unsubstantial rubbish, unstable as
water or mist, on which nothing can be erected. The
gift of the gab,' as it is vulgarly called, threatens to
become, if it has not already become, the greatest power in
the government of the European nations-and of all democracies
whatsoever."

"A result," remarked Mr. De Vere, "which is in a great

degree owing to the Press, which reports the vapid trash

spoken by the vain people of inferior intellectual capacity,

who love to see themselves in print."

As yet," said Saadi Ben Ahmed, " the happiness of
the multitude has not been the result of European civilization
and the democratic liberty which it has engendered.
Turn where we will we see the upheaval of the lower
against the upper strata of society, which threatens a social
earthquake, fiercer and more destructive than the world has
yet seen. ' Socialism,' or the doctrine of the community of
goods, share and share alike — by the " haves " and the " have
not," by the idle and the industrious, by the ignorant and
the intelligent, by the fools and the wise men — looms
largely upon the horizon, and aspires to be the religion of
the future. All the religions of the last two thousand years
have been established and cemented by blood and misery.
If Socialism is to be the new religion, it is likely, in my
opinion, to be productive of far more bloodshed than any
that have preceded it."

'' Acres nous le deluge' said Mr. Rameses, "but, enough
of this for the present ; let us join the ladies upstairs and

enjoy a little music."

26*

A LITTLE LOVE AFFAIR, OR WHAT SEEMS TO BE SO.

Mr. Melville, though not more bashful than other
young men, even if he were bashful at all, which was a
moot point in his own mind, as well as in that of others
(if, indeed, others had ever considered the question, which
his friend and patron Mr. Rameses had certainly not done),
was extremely reluctant to disclose to any one, especially to
Mr. Rameses, the secret of the love passion with which he had
become afflicted. He was not ashamed of his love, neither
was he proud of it, though, after a vigorous cross-examination
of himself, he was convinced that he felt rather more
inclined to conceal than to avow it. He had struggled
with his more or less oppressive secret for several months,
and had at last come to the resolution of continuing to
struggle with it, rather than risk the condemnation with
which he feared Mr. Rameses and all his other friends
might regard it. He was not impelled to any hasty course

of action as long as he could sun himself in the warmth
and light of love, not the less ardent because it was secret
from all eyes and knowledge but those of the fair
captivates of his heart. He was not, he thought, too
young to run riot in the romantic fancies of amorous
passion, but he reflected that he was too young to marry,
too poor, and too uncertain of the future possession of an
income sufficient to maintain a wife in the worldly position
in which he aspired to move. While in this state of
fascinated irresolution, swayed in opposite directions by
glowing fancy, and hard, dry fact, and while he felt that
his love was strong and his purpose weak, he bethought
himself that he might prepare the way for the avowal
which he longed, yet feared to make, if he engaged Mr.
Rameses in a discussion upon the faith entertained by that
gentleman, that the occult but irresistible action of spiritual
and physical electricity was the true and only cause of all
our loves and all our hates, and that poor mortal creatures
were as impotent to resist the divine attraction as the steel
is to resist the magnet, or the earth to resist the mysterious
and all-pervading law of gravitation. Was not that law, according
to mr. Rameses, the law which governs the life and

the motion of all the planets that circulate round the sun,
of the sun himself, and of all the countless and more
majestic suns that exist in the infinite space where the
weak-imagination, and the still weaker intelligence, of man
cannot follow them ?

The result of the discussion, which he knew was a
favourite one with Mr. Rameses, was a reiteration on the
part of that philosopher that all the phenomena of creation
were the result of positive and negative electricity, and
that they accounted, as far as limited human wit could account
for anything, for what are called up and downright
and wrong, Use and death, love and hate, finitude
and infinitude, time and eternity. " They explain," he
said, " the Ormuzdd and Ahrimanes of the Zoroastrian philosophy,
the representative deities of good and evil, the one
of which could not exist or be comprehensible without the
other, and which are both absolutely necessary to the government
of the mighty worlds in which they obey the irresistible
behests and commands of Ananke or Necessity,
the supreme Lord of the Universe, alike the creator, the
preserver and the renovator of all that ever is, ever was, or
ever will be.

The ideas of Necessity, and irresistible gravitation, and
all-pervasive electricity, as insisted upon by ]Mr. Rameses,
were highly comforting to Mr. Melville. He thought them
the very perfection of wisdom, principally because they
tended to confirm him in his own foregone conclusions,
and encouraged him to yield to the passion that temporarily
governed his thoughts and moulded his desires. No man
seems to any of us to be so wise as the man whose opinion
coincides with our own, and whose prejudices coalesce
and harmonize in every particular with those which we
have come to consider either as intuitions, or as the results
of study, reflection and experience. Mr. Melville,
like most or all warm-blooded and imaginative young
men, in the ages from seventeen to five-and-twenty
or thirty, had been in love, or fancied that he had been
in love, very many times. He had jilted or been jilted
by most of these temporary charmers, and fancied
himself heart-broken more than once by the fickleness
of grey-eyed, blue-eyed, and black-eyed sirens, to
whom he had expressed his homage by letters, by
sonnets, and occasionally by bouquets or "posies";
and was no sooner well out of the entanglements — not

very difficult to break through — than he was in with

another.

But all these were merely taps, not wounds or even
scratches, upon his heart, and were as evanescent in their
effects, though as beautiful while they lasted, as the soap
bubbles blown by a child from the bowl of a tobacco-pipe.
One of the latest attacks of the love measles
from which he suffered, was caused by the charms of
Lady Ethel Pierrepoint. But the malady was not serious,
and was viewed with the most complete indifference
oy the very aristocratic young lady from whom he had
caught it. The next was a little more serious in its
duration, though not in its effects, and was kindled by
the classic and thoughtful beauty of the quiet daughter
of Mr. De Vere. It met with no encouragement,
however, and created a disappointment that might have
been much more severe than it was, had not the too
susceptible heart, or too inflammable fancy of the young
man been suddenly and much more strongly impressed than
it had ever been before by the overpowering attractions of
the new enslaver, who is now to be introduced to the
reader, though her existence was as yet kept secret from

Mr. Rameses, for reasons that were satisfactory for the time
to the mind of Mr. Melville.

It was a beautifully calm, cloudless, and fragrant summer
morning towards the end of June, when Mr. melville
arose from his slumbers, to indulge himself in one of his
usual walks before breakfast, in the pleasant wooded
avenues of Kensington Gardens. It was but an hour after
sunrise, and "all the mighty heart of London was still
asleep," except a few early labourers proceeding to their
work, and a stray policeman here and there, who had
neither a cook nor a housemaid, in all that aristocratic
region, with whom to exchange a nod or other more
demonstrative salutation. The beautiful gardens were as
yet gladdened by human life, but were vocal with
the joyous songs of the early birds that dwelt amid the
leafy branches, especially the blackbird and thrush, the
merle and the mavis " of our ancient poetical speech.
The well-kept and pleasant " Flower Walk " was as yet free
from the presence of the bonnie wee maidens and sturdy
little boys, the wives and mothers, and scheming merchants,
hard-working professional men, or perchance the lazy
loafers of the twentieth century; — a century approaching with

rapid pace to put the nineteenth out of life and countenance,
though not out of memory for the glorious deeds
it has accomplished, and the still more glorious and beneficent
discoveries it has made in the wide and daily expanding
domains of science. The paths were as yet unincumbered
with the "pesky" perambulators — the lazy nurseries'
delight, and the pedestrians' plague and sorrow. The
contiguous, but less lovely lawns, meadows, and grand
walks of Hyde Park, were equally and even more solitary,
because enlivened by the cheery and tender music of
the birds, with which Kensington Gardens were vocal,
and Rotten Row was as silent and untrodden as a
Scottish moorland.

Briskly walking in the fresh free pathways, as free from
companionship or observers, as if he had been in a wilderness,
remote from a great city, Mr. Melville was surprised
to come suddenly almost face to face with a young and
beautiful woman, seated alone upon a bench, beneath the
well-known overruling bower in the " Flower Walk." The
fair stranger seemed to be reading a book, and looked up at
him as he passed. He noticed that she was tastefully and
fashionably, but not showily, dressed, that she appeared to

be about twenty years of age, that she had delicate little
feet and dainty boots, small hands, one of which was un-gloved
— the better to enable her to turn the leaves of the
book which she was reading — that her large languishing eyes
were blue and lustrous, and that her abundant hair was of
a golden yellow, evidently natural, that her lips were rosy
red, and her cheeks also, though not of the too decided
crimson that chemists and perfumers know how to
produce, and that her whole pose and attitude were easy
and elegant. A searching though unobtrusive glance
enabled him to observe all this, as he passed on, wondering
who the lady could be that ventured abroad so early, and
impelling him against his will to gratify his curiosity by
another look at the unexpected vision. He retraced his
steps accordingly, after walking forward for about five
minutes, and found her still seated in the same place. She
looked up placidly and, as he thought, inquiringly at him
as he again went on his way. The impulse was still strong
upon him to see more of her, and after a second interval of a
few minutes he again passed, and emboldened this time by
her quiescence, he took a seat at the extreme end of the
bench, debating within his own mind, in what manner he

should attempt — if he made the attempt at all — to begin a
conversation with her. The state of the weather was of
course the unfailing topic to which most people have
recourse on similar occasions, and it came to the aid of
his hesitation.

"A splendid morning, madame," he said, "and as yet
nobody to enjoy it, but you and I and the little birds !
How delightful it is to hear them ? "

Yes," she replied in a soft, sweet, musical voice, that did
him good to Hasten to, " the dear little things ! I often
think I should like to be a bird myself. Je volerais, vite,
vite, vite ; si j'etais petit oiseau ! "

I see you have read Stranger, madame. So have I, and
I admire him in many things. But he is too French in his
ideas to be altogether to my taste, or that of the English
in general."

I am French myself," she replied in excellent English,
though with a sweet little foreign accent, 'rand you, sir,
you are not quite English, I think ? "

No, not quite, I am partly Asiatic and more than half
Scotch."

The conversation, after this first breaking of the ice.

became more general, and branched off into a variety of
topics, all naturally springing out of each other. Mr. Melville
was fascinated, and took no heed of the rapidly passing
time — not even of the warning reverberations of the church
clocks of the neighbourhood, or of those more sonorous
of the cavalry barracks, that told that it was nine o'clock.
A few successive troops of boarding-school girls, and of
stray pedestrians of more advanced age, taking exercise
after breakfast, were more successful in arousing his attention
to the flight of time, and in making him aware that his
solitude was invaded by a more or less curious and observant
public. The fair lady was the first to notice that the
solitude had become less solitary than it had been, and,
rising from her seat, showed an evident intention of bringing
their colloquy to a close. His first impulse was to offer
to accompany her in her walk, but he resisted the temptation,
fearing that he might give offence. He
was bold enough, however, to say au revoir! — encouraged
to do so by the gracious farewell which she bestowed
upon him from her eyes, accompanied by a slight wave
of her unloved hand, gleaming in the morning light
like a little snow-wreath, its whiteness rendered more

conspicuous by the flash of a diamond ring upon her

finger.

The parting seemed to Mr. Melville like an invitation
and an incentive to a future meeting. In that light
he regarded it when he repaired on the following morning,
early as before, to the shady and flowery avenue
where they had first met. He was not very much
surprised to see her in the same seat, all alone, with
a book in her hand, which she was not reading, and to
receive from her a sunny smile of recognition as he
approached. He would have passed her had her recognition
been less pleasant than it was, but — being young, impressionable,
and more than half-expectant of what would
probably occur — he took his place on the bench alongside
of her, and offered her without scruple the ordinary
salutations of polite, if not cordial, intercourse. The
cordiality was yet in the early bud, and was to grow indue
time into that full bloom to which it usually expands
among susceptible young people of opposite sexes who are not
disagreeable to each other. At their third meeting their
mutual confidences had so far been exchanged that Mr.
Melville had ffiven her his card, and his address, and she

had declared herself to be Rose Adele, widow of the Count
di Molinari, an Italian nobleman, who had died in Paris a
year previously.

The acquaintanceship thus commenced was not allowed
to languish, and was speedily followed by visits to
exhibitions, little tete-astute dinners at fashionable restaurants,
and excursions into the country, with walks in
the glades of Richmond Park, Burnham Beeches, Windsor
Forest, and other popular resorts. The fascination, the
glamour, the love delirium of the young man, grew in
intensity from day to day, colouring his life, shaping his
purpose, and moulding his destiny for good or for evil. The
world for him was robed in the roseate light of the beauty
of the Countess di Molinari, and the full force of the divine
electricity that governs all Hfe in the universe, as believed
by Mr. Rameses, so pervaded his whole being as to render
him as passive as the straw that floats upon the billows of
the ocean, and as little able to resist its power as the tide is
to resist the moon, or the stars to run counter to the
courses appointed around the sun. But she ? Was
she governed by the same mighty impulses ? Was there
any electricity in her nature ? If there were, was it positive

or negative, or dormant ? Could she love, or hate ? or was
she quiescent and indifferent, or merely playing a part ?
Mr. Melville did not enquire. He was whirled about on
the vortex of a growing passion, in a pleasant delirium that
possessed his mind and brain and whole being, and dazzled
him in daily reveries and mighty visions, with the foretaste
and anticipation of future beatitude. But, tot ou tard, tout
se sait, and what revelations of the real and actual life of which
he had become a part were made or discovered by him, will
appear in due course.

t??

o/r\o

UNEXPECTED REVELATIONS.

Leaving young Mr. Melville to his youthful dream, and the
fair Countess di Molinari to feed his fancy with the contemplation
of her manifold charms, the arrival in London
must be announced of one of the earliest friends of Mr.
Rameses, the Vicomte Anatole du Trianon, of Paris, who
proposed to make a considerable stay in England. The
Vicomte had been in his time what the ladies of a certain
class in Paris had called a petit crave or go??imeiix, and
other pet names of more offensive familiarity than respect,
and in the sunny afternoon or shady evening of his life he, in
the estimate of his friends and intimates, had sobered down
into a more or less steady and respectable member of the
upper class of Society in that easy-going and brilliant
capital. He knew everything and everybody, or was
reputed to know, which amounted to really the same thinking
the estimation of the world in which he moved. He

was a member of several exclusive certes in Paris, among
VOL. II. 27

the rest of the " Jockey Club," and was noted for his unconquerable
addiction to the use of English words in his
customary conversation, when French words would have
been far better. He patronised what he called " le sport,"
sometimes swore "by Jingo," and still oftener "by Jove";
had all his clothes made by London tailors, and sometimes
told his acquaintances of the Boulevards quail all ait five
clothier chez Madame de Trois Toils or Mademoiselle De
Labanlieu. He was not an obtrusive politician, but
allowed it to be known on occasion that he had no love for
the Republic, and did not believe in it ; that he thought
Buonaparte was defunct, beyond chance of resuscitation ;
that the French people required above all things a reasonable
assurance of a firm and stable government, that they
might work and thrive in peace, and that the only possible
hope of the attainment of this blessing lay in the re-establishment
of the monarchy in the person of the Count de
Paris. For the rest he was a brilliant conversationalist and
table companion, and was what diplomatists call a persona
grata to Mr. Brown de Vere and to Mr. Rameses, who
knew nothing of his private life, as well as to Englishmen
generally ; though he was scarcely so popular among

his own countrymen, with whose opinions he had Utile
sympathy.

One day at dinner the name of the fascinating young
widow, the Countess di MoUnari, happened to be
mentioned in connection with some of the fashionable
celebrities of Paris.

"Ah," said the Vicomte, with a significant shrug of his
shoulders, " the charming Rose Adele, more commonly
known as Fine, who set the hearts of all the gay young
men of Paris on fire two years ago I '"'

Arthur melville pricked up his ears, and felt a hot flush
upon his cheek, at this unexpected and unwelcome revelation,
and longed to enquire further. But there was no
need, for the Vicomte went on to say, " She was all the
rage while her reign lasted, and half-a-dozen duels, at least,
were fought on her account ; for the cocotte was coquette,
and her favours, or what seemed to be her favours, were as
liberally bestowed as the sunshine"'

"Was not this the slander of Paris — the baseless

slander ? " enquired Melville, with a gasping in his throat

and an angry sparkle in his eye, as he heard the woman that

he loved, so slightingly spoken of.

27*

^^ Qui sait replied the Vicomte. "Paris is not very
reticent of its slanders when pretty women who make
themselves fashionable or notorious are concerned. I do
not answer for the truth of the story, and perhaps I have
no right to repeat it."

Go on," said Mr. Melville, '' I have particular reasons
for being interested. Was there ever such a person as the
Count di Molinari ? "

There was such a person, but whether he was a count
or not, is a question that I cannot answer. He who called
himself the count was a very handsome fellow — a beau
garfOfi — like Anxious of old days, or Doorway of our times,
but nevertheless it was reported that he had been a billiard-marker,
or a waiter in the Cafe Riche. He was also a
speculator on the Bourse, and was believed to have made
some money before he came out full-fledged in all the glory
of his courtship. We don't believe much in counts in
Paris, unless we can trace their genealogy, and know them
to be of the blue blood of the a?ide?me noblesse.'^

Is he still living ? " inquired Melville.

I cannot tell. He has disappeared from Paris, unless
he has returned to his original obscurity as a waiter or a

billiard-marker, or survives in the penal settlement of New
Caledonia or in the galleys at Toulon."

And was the Countess di Molinari this man's wife ? "
asked poor Mr. Melville.

Perhaps she was — perhaps she was not. It is difficult
in such cases as these, to know the truth — even if the truth
be worth knowing. Permit me to ask you if you have met
the fair enchantress ? for she is fair, and a veritable enchantress
of her kind and degree. All the world allows her
to be beautiful. Even the women who were her rivals admit
that much — though with the qualifications usual among
beauties who tolerate no rivalry near their own particular
thrones, or what they imagine to be such."

The mind of Mr. Melville was in a painful conflict of
emotions. The prevailing emotion — or passion rather — was
to treat the whole story as a vile and cowardly invention, a
calumny, a slander, a tissue of lies, to be utterly disbelieved
and resented. But this indignation did not acquire full
possession of his mind. It was accompanied by the shadow
of a doubt, that seemed to assume more the appearance and
shape of a reality, as he weighed and compared all the
alleged particulars of the story of shame and degradation

that the Vicomte du Trianon had accidentally unfolded.
It seemed to him something like treason, if not positive
blasphemy, to link the name of his idol — none the less
warmly and madly idolised, because she had been so lately
elevated to that height in his heart. Even if all he had
heard in her disparagement should prove to be true — which
he could not bring himself to believe — he felt that he
should be constrained to adhere to her through evil report
as well as through good, and to cling to her fervently and
fondly in spite of Fate, Fortune, and the world's contumely.
But how was he to ascertain either the truth or the falsehood
of the story repeated by the Vicomte du Trianon, who he.
devoutly wished had never crossed his path, to disturb the
equanimity of his soul by his ill-omened and mischievous
tittle-tattle. How to proceed in the circumstances he knew not.
He longed to ascertain the truth — though determined, even
if the truth were made manifest, that he would not believe it.
There was no one of whom he could ask information,
or from whom he could obtain any hints that could
guide him to it — except the incriminated lady herself, and
the French Vicomte, who had possibly only repeated
parrot-like what he had heard, and had taken no thought or

pains to be certain of his facts — that might be no facts —
before he retailed them. Saadi Ben Ahmed, he learned
accidentally, had mixed much in the Society of Paris, and
was almost as intimately acquainted with it as the Vicomte.
Without appearing to be particularly interested in what he
might learn he asked that gentleman if he had ever heard of the
Countess di Molinari, once a noted beauty of that capital.

"Yes," replied the Eastern sage, "but I don't really know
much about her ; and the little I do know, or that I may have
heard, may not be true, or even correctly fixed in my
memory. There was a talk among the libertines of that
great sink of iniquity of a fair young woman — who passed
as a countess, and \^ho had been originally, if I recollect
rightly, a '' blanchisseuse de fin ' or getter-up of fine linen —
who had turned the empty heads and still emptier hearts
of the young men, and possibly of some old ones, in admiration
of her remarkable beauty, and one of whom had
rescued her from her low estate, and lavished his gold upon
her for a time. Perhaps she was the countess of whom you
enquire. She was generally known in my day by the
slanderous />/^;?^5j^ donee or gilded youth of the Boulevards
as La Belle Coiileicvre, the ' Fair S?mke,' or ' beautiful

serpent' ! I saw her but once, and certainly thought that the
adjective was not misapplied, though the noun might have
been. There was nothing in her looks or demeanour that
to my mind, suggested the serpent. She was certainly very
beautiful, with a face that beamed with intelligence and
good humour. A sculptor might well have taken her for
his model, if he wanted to represent Hebe, or Euphrosyne,
or Venus herself in her first artlessness, before she had
learned wickedness in the world of the libidinous gods of
Greece and Rome. I suppose, like all young women of her
class, she led a brilliant life while it lasted — perhaps it lasts
still. I don't know, never heard, and never cared to enquire
; though it either has been or will be a repetition of
the old story. Fair flowers like her soon lose their charm
and fragrance in the gay city. Worn one day on the bosom orin
the button-hole of a dissolute man of so-called pleasure,
the next thrown down to the pavement, to be trodden underfoot,
or swept out of sight by the besom of the scavenger."
"Z« Belle Cotdeuvre,'' interrupted the Vicomte, "did
not enjoy so short a reign, to my certain knowledge. She
is still in the very flush of her womanly beauty, and will, I
doubt not, yet break many hearts, or at all events impair

and diminish many fortunes, before the final catastrophe of
old age and ugliness overtakes her — if ugliness be possible
to a creature so resplendent. She has gained many victories
in her time, and other conquests are certain to await her."
Did she not achieve, some months ago, an unenviable
notoriety," enquired Saadi Ben Ahmed, " by nearly killing
one of her numerous admirers, in a fit of jealous', by
discharging a revolver at him on the Boulevards ? "

I think she did," replied the Vicomte, " but the affair
speedily blew over, and has not since been heard of. The
false inamorato was not touched in any vital part, and,
though the fair one took aim at his head, the ball only
grazed his ear. And moreover he was not vindictive — bore
no malice — and took the slight punishment as a reminder of
his error, and a warning to him to behave himself better in
the future, or possibly to » beware of demi-mondaines altogether.
His revengeful inamorata was allowed to walk away
without molestation from the bystanders or from the 'police
des mceiirs.' She escaped punishment for her attempt to
murder the man who had outraged her feelings by showing
attentions to another woman. Such is the ' mode de Paris,'
that has not yet set an example to the world in these respects,

but possibly will do so, in the natural evolution of

our remarkable civilisation."

Young Melville listened with intense indignation to this
recital — not against the ''''belle couleuvre^^ but against what
he considered the scandal-mongers and heartless gossips,
who had either invented the tale, or grossly exaggerated it,
to the injury of the enchanting creature who was its heroine
and its victim. He had a firm, fixed, and obstinate faith,
not to be shaken, in his passionate worship of the idol whom
he had made for himself, and an unalterable purpose, growing
more and more firmly rooted in his mind, the more it
was assailed by the mendacious tongues of society. The
fire that was burning in his mind fed upon obstruction as upon
fuel, and what might have been but a little spark, if left to
itself, expanded into a blaze that might be called a conflagration,
so fiercely did it possess his whole being.

It was with such thoughts and feelings in his mind that,
on the day succeeding these conversations with his new
Parisian acquaintance, he sought the fair Countess, to keep
an appointment which he had made with her to accompany
her in a drive to Richmond and through the Park, and
dine with her afterwards, fete-tete, in his favourite hostelry,
the " Star and Garter."

IX RICHMOND PARK.

A LOVELY day in Richmond Park. It is the middle of the
jocund month of slay. The hawthorn trees and bushes
are in the full delicious radiance and fragrance of their
early bloom ; half a dozen sky-larks are hovering — scarcely
seen, but loudly heard — in " the forehead of the sky," over
which sail whole argosies of snow-white clouds, flecking the
deep blue of the heavens with their fantastic or graceful
masses of welcome colour. Nor have the skies and
clouds all the music to themselves. From the low bushes
and tall trees of the fairy-like woodland come the songs of
the merle and the mavis, whose sweet old names the modern
EngUsh have vulgarised into "blackbird "and "thrush,"
as if the names that were known and used by Chaucer,
Spenser, and Shakespeare, were not good enough for the
people of the nineteenth century, and for the money-grubs
who think that all verse is poetry, and that all poetry is
bosh, which is their slang synonym for nonsense. The

deer, so great an ornament to that and every other park in
which they are permitted to roam, were browsing in graceful
groups, undisturbed by the holiday-makers of the great
metropolis, and Mr. melville and the fair Molinari, the deer
and the singing birds, had all the rural scene to themselves.
Perhaps the human lovers, notwithstanding the temporary
cloud that had come over the serenity of Mr. Melville's
mind, were as happy in the delicious solitude as the birds
that enlivened it. Whatever may have been the case with
the gentleman, the lady, if not happy in the strictest sense
of the word (Who is, except in sleep and in forgetfulness ?),
floated on the full tide of youthful enjoyment of the passing
hour, drinking in the admiration that beamed upon her
from the eyes of her passionate lover, careless of the
morrow that she neither feared nor hoped for, as wholly
absorbed in the present as the happy birds that sang aloft
in the blue sky. Mr. Melville was not quite so careless.
The dark shadow, in spite of himself, came across his
mental vision. He believed in his fair countess — whether
she was a countess or not — and yet disbelieved in her,
trusted yet mistrusted her, longed to know the whole truth
with regard to her, whatever it might prove to be, but

obstinately determined to give it no welcome, even if it
came upon his mind with the force of a mathematical
demonstration. Those lovely eyes ! There could be no
falsehood or treachery in them, and never could have been
any ! Those delicate white fingers could never have
grasped a revolver, except in playfulness ! That softly-sounding
musical voice, that prettily prattling tongue, could
never have feigned the love that the heart did not feel I And
those youthful charms, so innocently artless to his eyes,
could never have been sold to the highest bidder for money
and diamonds, or any other form of temporary and worldly
splendour 1 The thought was a desecration of the pure shrine
of his divinity — profanation, blasphemy, and madness 1 To
look at her was to look at purity, on which there was and
could not possibly be a stain ; and the evil tongues that
spoke in her dispraise, or even so much as hinted that
there could be a flaw in her conduct or demeanour, or the
shadow of a fleck upon her immaculate brightness, were
worse in his estimation than Atheists 1

Oh ! happy love — where love like this is found,
Oh ! heartfelt rapture, bliss beyond compare ! "

bliss unspeakable, until the hour of awaking from the dream,
the trance, the hallucination, whatever it may be, which, in
its soporific balm, steeps the gross carnal senses in divine
innovation and oblivion of the evil world, and all its unhappy
realities.

At last, amid many doubts and fears as to the propriety
of his taking a step so decided, Melville mustered up
courage enough to ask the lovely object of his affections,
who sat tranquilly beside him, whether she knew or had
ever heard in Paris of a certain Vicomte Du Trianon?
The question seemed to annoy her, and brought a flush
to her fair cheek and a light to her brilliant eyes, that
had not flashed in them a moment before. But these
slight perturbations were momentary ; and, passing away,
left her as apparently impassive as before. " I have heard
of him," she replied, her musical voice slightly trembling
with what might have been contempt, and perhaps nothing
more than surprise, as she spoke ; " Heard of and seen
him, without having the doubtful honour of his acquaintance.
He was or is one of the yellow wasps or hornets of
Paris, buzzing in the ears of women, and stinging them • if
they will permit them to come close enough, and deriving

their whole consequence in the society in which they move
from being seen in the company of the gay butterflies of
fashion."

This was said with so much scorn on the tip of her
pretty little nose, that Melville was delighted with the spirit
so unexpectedly displayed — a spirit that seemed to confirm
her in the rank of a virtuous woman, to which, in spite of
the Vicomte's innuendoes to the contrary, he believed her to
belong. " The Vicomte, I have no doubt," said Mr. Melville,
who had taken a strong dislike to him for having
circulated and given credence to a story that threw discredit
upon the antecedents of one in whom he was so passionately
interested, "is one of the fellows that take away the
characters of women both by word and deed ; boast of
their favours, real or imaginary ; and amuse themselves by
retailing and inventing stories to their discredit. ' Oh I fora
whip,' as Shakespeare says, ' to lash such scoundrels naked
through the world.' But you have never read Shakespeare,
perhaps," he added, " and I do ^^Tong to quote him ? "

Oh, I have read him a little," she answered, with a
sweet smile, " and wish I could understand him better.
But he is above the comprehension of us poor French

people. Too grand, you know ! But I quite understand
and agree with what he says about the idle fellows who
amuse themselves by slandering us poor women, never
believing any good of us, and thinking we are all as bad as
they themselves are and mean to be. They wouldn't be
better even if they could. There are hundreds of such
men in Paris, perhaps in London also, who look upon pretty
women with as much favour as they do upon their horses,
perhaps with not so much. But the horses, fortunately,
sometimes kick, and rear, and plunge, and throw their
riders on to the hard stones and break their necks."

And serve them right," said Mr. Melville. " Fortunately,
the pretty young women for whom they make fools of
themselves, are more than a match for them in cunning and
in wickedness, and, if they do not actually cause them to
break their necks, contrive to ruin them, not only in health
and reputation, but in fortune. Nemesis ! Nemesis ! "
What is Nemesis ? " said the blooming Countess.
Fate — Justice — Retribution ! " said Mr. Melville, " the
lord and governor of all human affairs. The predestined
end of all things ; the righting of the wrong ; the readjustment
of the complicated : the final defeat cf the Devil."

The Countess smiled. " Your words are too grand for
my little comprehension. I suppose you only mean that
Nemesis is vengeance ? "

There is no such thing as vengeance in the decrees of
God," replied Mr. Melville, " but only justice."

For small offences as well as for great crimes ? " asked
the lady.

For all offences, great or small," answered Mr. Melville.
" Crime and punishment fly on the same arrow, and
never are, or can be, separated —

If Wrong we do, if false we play,
In summer among the flowers ;
We shall atone, we must repay.
In winter among the showers.' "

The young Countess sighed; a shadow passed over her
face, and a tear stood in each of her bright eyes, and made
its way to her cheek. But she dashed the drops of tell-tale
moisture away with her hand, and smiled like a rainbow
amidst the storm. Turning to Mr. Melville she asked him,
in her gentle voice, to pardon her weakness. " It is a hard
world," she said, " if there is no forgiveness in it."

'Tis a just world, after all"' replied Mr. Melville, " and

governed by immutable law. If one jumps from a high pre-vol.
II. 28

choice on to the hard and stony earth, he must be dashed to
pieces by the fall. Impunity cannot accompany him, either
midway or at the end. But these are not pleasant things
to discuss, though they are true. We have more agreeable
topics to talk about. The world is a beautiful world, after
all, for Love is in it, and governs it, or it would cease to
exist." Mr. Melville had never yet declared his passion by
his words, though his eyes, more eloquent than his tongue,
had long ago divulged it to the bright young woman who
inspired it and maintained it. But the long pent-up
torrent of his feelings suddenly burst its bounds, and swept
away all the impediments that had been imposed upon it by
worldly considerations, and compelled him, in spite of
himself, to offer her his hand, as he had already given her
his heart, in the fullest and fondest belief that she was a
goddess or an angel, and not a mere woman, and that Hfe
would be altogether valueless to him if it were not cheered
by her smile, and fortified by her support. The pressure
of their hands, and the glances of their eyes, were more
eloquent than words to both of them ; and neither of them
thought of the anti-climax it was to their amorous imaginings,
to sit down quietly to a tete-astute dinner at the Star and

Garter. But it was an anti-climax, nevertheless. The
physical nature commands the intellectual; the real exercises
a mastery over the ideal ; and in libations of delicate
Ai Mousseux, which had attractions, not too flagrant or too
pronounced, for the palate and fancy of the lovely "Countess."
She lived but for the present ; thought not of the obstructions
that the record of her past life — certain to be divulged
sooner or later — might place in the way of her future
happiness, rising up like frowning precipices on the flowery
paths that she hoped to tread. They were now, both of
them, delighted wanderers in the enchanted land, though
the shadow of doubt lay more or less palpably on his mind,
and the shadow of a guilty conscience upon hers.

Mr. Melville, sitting placidly in the sunshine, looking
over the lovely landscape and the winding river — visible
from the open windows of the great dining saloon in the
Star and Garter — sipping his champagne, basking in the
smile of beauty, contented, and far more than contented,
positively happy in the present enjoyment, and never
dreaming that it can come to an end, does not yet know
or suspect — the slight suspicions that he may have once entertained
having vanished for ever, as he thinks, in the full

28*

and glorious certainty he has acquired in his easily satisfied
mind, of the truth and purity of the woman that he loves
that the tales told by the Vicomte du Trianon of the
sweetly smiling Countess of Molinari, so innocent-looking,
so mildly angelic in mien and manner, fall far short of the
truth — that she is no Countess at all, but a nameless
adventuress, who has led an immoral if not a criminal life,
and has been consequently shut out from all decent society ;
that, lovely and fascinating as she is, her touch is pollution,
and that the sobriquet applied to her in that Paris that
knows all about her, of '■La belle couleuvre^ but too truly
describes her. But he will know it all tomorrow, and more
than all. Perhaps the knowledge will break his heart, if he
have a heart to be broken. But perhaps not !

*****
The morrow has come. Mr. Melville has been told all.
It has been revealed to him clear as day, but he is not convinced.
He defies proof, holds it in scorn — rises superior
to it; at least, he thinks so. Shall the dead truths of
yesterday, he asks himself, if they are truths, which he
denies, be permitted to efface the living truths of to-day
and tomorrow? Shall the present love be slain by the

mere remembrance of the dead loves of yesterday ? Is
not every thing that happens or can happen pre-ordained,
decreed from all Time and Eternity ? Whatever the
lovely being that holds him in thrall may have been, and he
refuses to believe any evil of her, she and he have become
one for ever and ever — linked together by bonds that are
strong as the electrical life that throbs through the
Universe, and therefore stronger than death or the
world. To r^Ir. Rameses, his friend, his guide, his
counsellor, he will open his whole heart, and endeavour to
strengthen himself in the foregone conclusion to which his
overpowering passion has led him. He will not believe
anything \\Tong — or if there have been a shadow of wrong,
it has assumed a false shape, in the slanders of jealous
rivals. He feels that he is already wedded in soul
to the object set apart for him from all eternity by
Fate — the grand, the impenetrable, the irresistible — and his
weak body and her weak body must yield to the strong
spirit that controls and governs both. Thus he has
argued with himself, and determined that all possible
opposition in man, nature, hell itself, must give way
before him. His resolution thrives on difficulties, and

triumphs over all obstacles. If marriages are made in
Heaven, as he thinks — how shall foul Slander and Hell
prevail against them ? — unless the Hell exists in his own
bosom ? There, however, for the present, he holds all
Heaven, in holding the fallen angel — beautiful, even though
fallen — whom he calls Molinari.

THE KNOT IS TIED — AND LOOSENED.

'Tis a fine bright morning in June, and a marriage is about
to be celebrated in London. One ? perhaps one hundred —
or, in all the compass of the British Isles, perhaps a thousand
or two thousand of these ceremonies — fateful for good or
for evil to the trusting hearts or the calculating heads of
the people who ask and receive the sanction of the law to
the binding contracts into which they enter. But of these
multitudinous happy, or, as they may turn out to be, woeful
engagements, there is but one in which the readers of
these pages have any immediate interest. It is a
small and humble marriage, plain and unpretentious
in all its incidents and accessories, and takes place
in a Registry-office, before an attorney-like functionary
and his clerk. The two witnesses are all but unknown
to the bridegroom and the bride, casual acquaintances,
in fact, who take but the slightest and most perfunctory
interest in the shabby ceremonial. The ring has

been put on the finger of the bride by the bridegroom, both
have signed their names in the register in the presence of
the prosaic officials and the witnesses, the moderate fee
has been paid, and the ceremony is concluded. The bridegroom
has signed his name, Arthur Melville, aged 23, of
Kensington, gentleman, and the bride, Adele Dunois,
spinster, aged 20, of the Rue de Breda, Paris. By this
name (Rose, or Fine, privately claiming to be the Countess
di Molinari) thinks it prudent to describe herself, lest if
she assume a designation to which she is not legally or even
socially entitled, her marriage may afterwards be invalidated.


There is no wedding-breakfast, no display of wedding-gifts
— no stupid throwing of rice, or of slippers — scarcely
even the utterance of good wishes, from the registrar, his
clerk, or from the uninterested and formal witnesses. The
marriage is intended to be private, if not secret, and is quite
as secret as the law permits it to be. The bride and bridegroom
depart from the sordid office and the dingy unlovely
street in a hansom-cab, and disappear unobserved in the
whirling wilderness of London; no one knows or cares
whither.

Mr. Rameses was not offended, though xie was surprised

at the suddenness and the secrecy of the step
which the young secretary had taken. He inclined to
augur unfavourably of it from the want of confidence which
had been displayed. Mr. Melville could not venture to
give any further information on the subject than was conveyed
in the assertions not uncommonly made by young
and ardent lovers when at a loss for reasons to account for
the fine madness with which their passions have inspired
them — that the lady was ravishingly beautiful, that he loved
her to distraction, and had found that he could not live
without her — all familiar asseverations in the mouths of boys
whose trust transcends their reason. That she had no
fortune, he admitted, but what signified the absence of
fortune to one who, like himself, was strong, full of hope,
energy and courage ?

'twas a bold step for one in your position to take,"
said Mr. Rameses. " And who may your enchantress be ?
Is she of good family ? "

"All men and women are of one family," replied the
love-smitten secretary, to whom the question was a difficulty,
"good families and badfamiUes are all God's children,
and receive God's blessings only if they deserve them."

Yes, yes, we all know that, or ought to know it'' said
Mr. Rameses very gravely.

"Love," replied the secretary, "if it be true love,
takes no account of worldly conditions. It is the result,
as you, sir, in the sublime philosophy with which
you have indoctrinated me, of a magnetic force, that
pervades and produces all life in this world, and in every
other, and that governs the animalcule as well as the
planet ! "

Doubtless, my young friend. But when you talk
of magnetism, you must remember that there is a
magnetism that creates and a magnetism that destroys, a
magnetism of Ahrimanes the evil, as well as of Ormuzdd
the good. And all is not electric power that seems to be
so. Our fancies and whims are not electrical. Being mere
fancies and vapid caprices, they possess no creative force,
and produce nothing that has more vitality or substance
than a soap-bubble."

But the love which possesses me," replied the secretary,
greatly excited, " springs from divine, overpowering, irresistible
necessity ! It gives me new Use, new vigour, new
hope, and certainty of immortality with hers whom it has

made one with me, indivisible in soul — now, henceforth,

and for ever ! "

Mr. Rameses smiled at the young man's fervour — and
the hard, practical element that was latent in his character,
asserted itself at the expense of the visionary faculty which
so largely predominated.

The faith you hold may be good for the next
world, but how will it serve you in your hard struggle
through your present stage of existence ? Say, for instance,
during the next twenty or thirty years ? I gather from your
reticence — pardon me if I draw a wrong conclusion from it
that you do not wish to make her known to me, for
reasons that are doubtless satisfactory to your own mind.
If this be so, and the same reasons apply to the society in
which you are accustomed to move, I must perforce conclude
that the lady, however beautiful she may be, however
angelic in her disposition, is not presentable to your friends ?
If this be so, I am extremely sorry for you ; but do not wish
to extort your confidence if you desire to withhold it."

"She has been vilely slandered," replied the secretary,
with flashing eyes, burning cheeks, and rapid and indignant
utterance, that caused his words to fall from his lips as if

This world," replied Mr. Rameses, " is a practical world
full of peccant souls doing penance, and narrow-minded
and prejudiced people, against whose opinions, even if
they be such as we cannot conform to, we must not revolt
against too violently, if we would live peaceably or without
irritating friction. I will not seek to penetrate into your
secret. Under the circumstances, I cannot expect the
advantage or pleasure of your company on the journey I
am about to take. Neither can I expect that you will continue
to be an inmate of my house for the future ; though
it is doubtless large enough to accommodate you, and you
have been both a pleasant and useful inhabitant of it since
we have been connected with each other. I shall require
but a slight portion of your time and sere-ices during my
absence ; and hope sincerely that on my return the slanders

you mention to me, without telling me of what they consist,
against the reputation of the unknown lady with whom you
have linked your fate, will be set at rest for ever, and that
the sunshine of your days will no longer be over-clouded.
I leave tomorrow, and shall not see you again until my
return. Meanwhile, farewell ; and may all good angels
guard you ! "

The two philosophers — the master and the pupil — shook
hands. The young bridegroom took his way sadly, yet
hopefully, to his young and fascinating bride ; and Mr.
Rameses retired to his books and his sarcophagi, and the
society of Saadi Ben Ahmed, somewhat doubtful whether
Ormuzdd or Ahrimanes was the wielder of the magnetic or
anti-magnetic power that had brought his impulsive secretary
under its thraldom — whether it were animal, and of the
earth earthy, or whether it were intellectual, and of the
heavens heavenly.

Before accompanying Mr. Rameses and his companions to
Egypt in his yacht, and narrating what befell them there,
let us follow the rapidly-changing incidents in the career of
Arthur Melville and his lovely bride, with whom he
became more enamoured, in the obstinacy of his passion.

The sensual impulse was not as sensually returned. The
enchanting ^lolinari was as cold as her slave was impassioned.
She froze while he burned. There was no reciprocity,
no mutuality of purely animal feeling between them,
and intellectual sympathy was totally absent. Why the
Molinari married she could not clearly explain to herself.

unless it were to attain the social status in a foreign
country which she had forfeited in her own. But if this
object were attainable — of which there was Httle prospect —
she had failed to reach it. And if she were cold, she was
at the same time fickle ; and she had grown weary of the
raptures of Melville, which she could not share, and, unaccountably
even to herself — except on the principle of the
old French proverb, " L'o?i revisit toujours a ses premiers
amours " — she remembered the happy days she had spent
with her very handsome and rich lover, who had first discovered
her in her low estate, as a " blanchisseuse de fin" and
raised her to the glittering but evanescent rank of a fashionable
beauty, in the gaily immoral circles of the French
metropolis. As the ill-luck, or, it may, perhaps, have been
the good luck, of her new husband — Chance, Fate, Fortune,
or Destiny, threw her in London in the way of that very
person, who was no other than the Vicomte du Trianon himself,
who, in a sudden access of truthfulness, had divulged to
Mr. Melville the antecedents of the fair flower that he had
plucked from its stalk, worn upon his bosom for a time, and
then discarded it to replace it by another flower equally
tempting and beautiful — a lily, a camelia, an orchis, a gara

few days after this chance meeting, the fair and false
Molinari packed up her valuables, and started for Paris with
her old lover. She left a short note for Melville, bidding him
farewell, recommending him not to make any attempt to
trace her, informing him at the same time that his search,
even if successful, would be useless. She added the starting
postscript that she had a previous husband living, and that
consequently, if Mr. Melville chose to consider it in that
light, her marriage to him at the Registry Office was null
and void.

On opening this missive, Melville turned pale with consternation,
which was shortly succeeded by fury, and by
actual — not merely by metaphorical — gnashing of teeth. His

VOL. II. 29

first impulse was to follow her to Paris, whither he felt sure
that she had gone — to discover with whom she had gone,
for he was confident she had not gone alone ; to take vengeance
upon the partner of her flight in the first instance,
and next upon her, if she would not return to him ; for he
still, amid the hatred which surged in his heart, and
throbbed in his veins, felt that he might possibly forgive
the treason — the worse than treason to the majesty of truelove
— of which she had been guilty, if she would crave
forgiveness, fall upon his neck with tears, look straight into
his eyes with those glorious orbs of hers, and vow once
again to love him. His resolution was speedily taken.
He took the train for Dover the same evening, and before
noon the next day found himself at Paris, in search of
the guilty wanderer, who had done her worst to blight his
life by her falsehood and ingratitude.

His first object was to enquire for the Vicomte du
Trianon, whose complicity in the flight of the Countess was
not known to or even suspected by him. He did not find
him at the Jockey Club, of which he was a member, and
could gain no intelligence of him, except that he had gone
to London some weeks previously. He next applied to

He angered for a week in Paris, hoping, though almost
hopeless, that the ubiquitous and prying police of the grossly
immoral capital would be able to give him some information
of his lost diamond — with a fatal flaw in it, but still in
his fascinated eyes a diamond. Chance did more for him
than the police, and just as he was seriously meditating a
return to his duties in London, leaving in the hands of the
detectives the task, to be well rewarded if successful, of
discovering the runaway, he saw in the Bois du Bologna,
where he was sauntering objectless, an open carriage
drive slowly past him. He recognized the Vicomte du
Trianon at a glance, as one of its two occupants, and to
his rage and horror discovered in The other ^^ La belle

couleur " herself, radiant as the summer morn, laughing

29*

at some remark, witty or otherwise, of her companion,
showing her lovely white teeth, fringed by her rosy lips, and
hearing distinctly as the carriage swept by, her tinkling
laugh, that, notwithstanding his anger, sounded like sweet
music in his ears. " The traitorous villain has stolen my wife,"
he said, or at least thought, andadded to the assertion another,
still more emphatic, that he would be revenged, and would
shoot him — not murder him, but kill him in fair fight ina
duel, if his aim were good enough. Melville was unable to
follow on foot the carriage which contained the guilty pair,
but, as he calculated that the Vicomte was merely taking a
drive in the Bois, and that he would return again to Paris,
he engaged a passing vehicle, got into it, and told the driver
to wait until he gave the signal to drive through the
Champ Elysees to Paris, in the rear of an open caleche
which he expected to pass shortly. His manifest object
was either to trace his wife and the Vicomte to Paris, or to
stop them e7i route, accuse them to their faces of the crime
they had committed, and there and then to demand satisfaction
of the Vicomte.

He had upwards of half an hour to wait, and as soon
as the unsuspecting Vicomte's carriage came abreast of

The carriage stopped at the famous restaurant the
Cafe Anglais on the Boulevards, and the Vicomte du
Trianon descended first, and gallantly helped the
"fair snake" to alight, which she did in the most
graceful manner, showing her dainty little foot and
ancle, and her dainty well-formed leg, enclosed in pink silk,
to a height towards the knee that excited the obscene
admiration of the idle passers-by, who stopped to gaze at
the fashionable little woman. Two minutes after they had
entered the Cafe, and before they had had time to seat themselves
comfortably at one of the little tables to order then:
repast, Melville, pale with suppressed rage, confronted them.
The Vicomte looked surprised, as indeed he was, for
though he was acquainted with melville, he was not

acquainted with the relationship in which that gentleman
stood to his fair companion, who, on her part, exhibited
most remarkable self-possession.

I do not wish to make a scene here," said Melville,
speaking in French to the Vicomte, " will you step with me
into the street for a few minutes ? "

Sit down," said the Vicomte, " and calm yourself. Is
your business very urgent — and unfit to be discussed before
a lady?"

'not to be discussed before this lady, who is my wife,"
replied Melville in a semi-whisper, clenching his right hand
with a violent effort, his eyes sparkling, his lips quivering,
his veins throbbing with rage.

Your wife ? " said the Vicomte with genuine surprise,
I did not know you were married." And then, turning
to his companion, he asked her, "Can you explain this,
ma chere. Do you know this gentleman ? "

I do not ! " she said with the greatest composure. " I
never saw him before, to my knowledge. But you know
him, it appears — What is his name ? "

Melville," replied the Vicomte.

Melville ! " repeated she. " Monsieur Melville, you have

''I have made no mistake, no — Madame di Molinari,
that you once called yourself, now Mrs. Melville as I have
the right to call you — I have made no mistake, except the
fatal mistake of having once so far believed in you as to
marry you ! You, Monsieur Le Vicomte, you are a traitor, a
seducer, a hypocrite, a villain ! One of us two shall not
survive the injury you have done me ! " And so saying he
walked out of the Cafe, taking no heed of the astonished
waiters, who had gathered gaping around him as soon as they
became aware of the serious nature of the conversation
that was going on, and left the Vicomte and his imperturbable
companion to their dinner.

The Vicomte, who heard for the first time the relationship
in which his fair friend stood to the outraged Melville,
was bewildered a little by the accusation which had been
made against the lady, and by the cool firm denial with
which she had met it.

Tell me the truth, ma dure" he said at last, " that I
may know how I stand with this mad EngUshman. I shall

have to fight him whether or no, but I should like to know
whether he has any real cause of quarrel with me, as he
evidently supposes."

"He is a jealous fool," she replied. "Possibly he
labours under the delusion that I am his wife, but Dieu
Merci, I am not ! and if I were, I would run away from
him. // est bete, tres bete, affreusement bete ! Shall you be
obliged to fight him if he challenges you ? "

Noblesse oblige' said the Vicomte, " and honour also,
but I shall not kill him. Perhaps, however, he will find
out the mistake he has made with respect to you, and
apologise. But we shall see. Meanwhile we must dine. I
have ordered a choice little dinner, and a bottle of Chateau
Margaux, old, and of the first quality, of the vintage of the
comet.' You would perhaps prefer Champagne ? Ai
Mousseux ? "

I would," said she, and the Vicomte proceeded to fill
her glass, which she raised to her lips, red rosy lips, with a
smile on her beaming eyes, and the mellifluous wish " a ta
santa, mon cher."

The Vicomte, notwithstanding the coolness, the admirable
self possession and ineffable indifference of the

THE DUEL.

The merely animal passion that too often assumes the
high and holy name of love, if stung by ingratitude, unworthy
treatment, and perfidy, sometimes degenerates into
the bitterest hatred. Such — for a short time, if not permanently
— was the result in the mind of Arthur Melville,
occasioned by the treachery and the well-nigh incredible
insolence so unblushingly displayed by the lady whose
Parisian cognomen of La belle couleur seemed to him, at
last, to be well bestowed and thoroughly well deserved.
He felt that, though he hated the Vicomte du Trianon, he
hated the partner of his guilt still more intensely, and
debated within himself whether it would not be better
that his vengeance should be wreaked upon her rather
than upon him. To shoot her in a paroxysm of rage
would be murder, but to kill the Vicomte in fair fight
would, according to the Parisian code of honour and of
morality, only amount to justifiable — and, in fact, to meritorious
— homicide. With these conflicting emotions operating

in his mind, he sought out, on the following morning,
M. de Palliasse, whom he knew to be a friend of Mr.
Rameses, and who had been the means of making him
known to Mr. De Vere. M. de Palliasse was confined to
his bed by indisposition, and consequently unable to act
the part of a second in the duel — a part which, had he
been able to perform it, would have been by no means
disagreeable to him, or to any other Parisian of similar
social standing. He did the best he could under the
circumstances, by giving him a letter to his particular
friend, M. Victor Raboche — a fire-eating journalist, and
one of the editors of the Ca-ira. M. Raboche was a
politician of extreme views ; a young man who, though
arrived at the legal years of discretion, seemed, for all that
was known and could be reasonably predicted of him, as if
he never would or could arrive at discretion or moderation.
When made acquainted with all the circumstances, he expressed
his readiness to act as second, and dropped unmistakable
hints that, if the case were his o^^^l, he would
not be contented unless he killed, or maimed his antagonist
for life.

M. Raboche delivered the cartel to the Vicomte du

Trianon, who, on his part, had recourse to another journalist
to act as-his friend — for the journalists of Paris all seem to
consider that liability to fight duels and to act as seconds
in their usually harmless, though not always bloodless,
encounters is a part of the qualification necessary to the
successful exercise of their profession. The second chosen
by M. du Trianon was one Felix Carting, a noted writer
of realistically-obscene but highly-popular novels, as well
as an ill-conditioned newspaper critic. The duel was
arranged between them to be fought on the following
morning, with pistols, in the Bois de Vincennes.

The morning dawned dull and misty, under the depressing
influence of what the French who inhabit the sunnier
regions of Bordeaux and Marseilles call " les affreux brouillards
de la Shifted The state of the atmosphere was
thus unpropitious for the combatants to take good aim at
each other, even if they wished to do so. M. du Trianon
did not wish to do Mr. Melville any injury, even to the
slight extent of wounding him in the fleshy part of the
arm or thigh. Mr. Melville had more vengeful ideas, and
though possibly he did not wish to kill his adversary, would
have been gratified rather than otherwise to maim him for

life. The challenged man took careless aim : the challenger
a more deliberate one. Both fired simultaneously. Melville
was unhurt, but his opponent staggered and fell
heavily to the ground. A sudden shriek from a female
voice was heard, and from behind a tree that had hitherto
concealed her from the belligerents a young woman rushed
forth, with hair dishevelled and frantic gestures, whom
Melville immediately recognised as La belle coiileuvre. She
threw herself hysterically upon the body of her fallen lover,
with loud cries and lamentations. The surgeon in attendance
found that Melville's ball had entered the right side
of his antagonist, inflicting a serious wound. As the
injured man was lifted carefully into the carriage by the
doctor and the seconds, the Coiileuvre, darting a look of
fury at Melville as she also stepped into the vehicle, hissed,
rather than spoke : " Imbecile ! je te mantis! "

Beware of her," said Raboche ; " the Vicomte is said
to have been her first lover — though, perhaps, he was
neither the first nor the second, nor even the twentieth !
Anyhow, he will be properly taken care of — and you, also,
should take care of yourself, lest justice should open its
eyes and stretch forth its hand to inconvenience you."

Melville took the hint. He had nothing further to
detain him in Paris, not even to wreak vengeance upon the
woman to whose wiles and perfidy he had fallen a victim,
though somewhat sorely tempted to do so. Taking the
first train to Bologna, he was soon on his way to
London.

Thus ended his dream of romance, and with it all his
lingering and cherished belief in the Heaven-directed
and Heaven-inspired magnetic and electric force, as the
irresistible power that compels men and women to love
each other — or fancy that they do so.

M. Raboche, in driving with him to the railway station,
informed him for consolation that his marriage in London
with La couleur was undoubtedly a worthless formality,
inasmuch as the lady had at least two previous husbands in
Paris, and perhaps half-a-dozen others who had passed asher
husbands, of whom the Vicomte du Trianon was undoubtedly
one, and that, in all probability, as long as her
youth and beauty lasted, she would have as many more. If
the Vicomte survived his hurt — as he probably would — and
grew weary of her, as was more probable still, she would
not lack wealthy admirers — always on the look-out for fresh

Phrases and Aspasia — who would lavish their gold upon
her for the brief summer of her charms.

M. Raboche knew Paris well, and the manners, customs,
and the vices of its people — both high and low — and
Melville, with a bitter pain in his heart, or what was left of
it, was convinced, against his will, that his French friend
spoke the truth. He confessed — thinking, if not speaking,
to himself in vulgar slang — that he had been "done,"
thoroughly, and ignominiously \ that vengeance on the
woman who had '' done " him, would be deprived of all
dignity if he resorted to it. She had, however, gained
Httle by her dishonesty beyond her amusement, a few
jewels of no very ruinous value, and the pleasure such as
anglers feel in hooking a harmless fish, which is of no use
to them after they have secured it. He could only explain
her desertion of him on the supposition that the
Vicomte was one of her early lovers, that she had a return
of the affection — or the fancy — with which he once inspired
her, and that the Vicomte's magnetism was of greater force
and efficacy than his own.

This was but poor consolation to him, if any, in
his affliction. Before he reached London he was

partially reconciled to his fate, especially when he reflected
that nobody except Mr. Rameses knew of the
entanglement into which he had rushed, and that even he
was unaware of the depth and foulness of the pit into
Which he had stumbled. He resolved, however, as Mr.
Rameses knew his secret, that he would confide the unhappy
result to his sympathy, and entreat him to give no
hint to a living soul of the misfortune that had befallen
him, and of the causes that had led to it. But his faith
was shaken in the doctrine, both of physical and intellectual
magnetism as the predisposing cause of the
attraction of the sexes to each other. But when this
doubt possessed him, he asked himself whether any intellectual
force whatever had impelled him towards La Belle
Coideuvre ; and whether the force, such as it was, was not
wholly and grossly physical ? He decided in his own mind
that it was, and was of the earth — earthy — and of
diabolical rather than of divine origin.

And yet he doubted whether the promptings of
the flesh were not as worthy of credence as the
promptings of the spirit, or how, he asked himself, could
animal life be perpetuated in this otherwise miserable

world? All created things, even the trees and the
flowers, were impelled by sexual affinities and desires,
and how could a young man escape them? Thus he
cogitated, until the arrears of the work which he had perforce
neglected during his absence in Paris, compelled him
to divert his thoughts and energies into the normal
channel from which they had been diverted by his rash
romance. For the love too often born of idleness, hardwork
is the best remedy. And so he found it.

VOL. II. 30

A SPLENDID WEDDING.

On the return of Mr. Rameses and his party from Egypt,
after the lapse of six weeks subsequent to the catastrophe
recorded in the last chapter, a great marriage was celebrated
in London. It had been talked about for many days previously
at all the dinner-tables and five-o'clock teas of Belgravia,
Tyburn, Kensington, and in still wider circles
(though these were wide enough), and had even formed the
topic of gossip in the clubs of Pall Mall, St. James's Street
and Piccadilly, where politics and horses, rather than
weddings, form the subjects of discussion. The marriage of
a handsome Asiatic, in the prime of manhood, supposed to
be a prince in his own country, to have an income of at
least a hundred and fifty thousand pounds sterling per
annum, which rumour had magnified into a quarter of a
million — (some rumours had it half a million) — and who
had been naturalised as a British subject, and determined
to make London his home, and to shine a bright particular

star in society, was not an event of every-day occurrence, or
to be lightly talked of. So the marriage of the Prince, or
the Rajah Rameses, had been the nine days' wonder of the
metropolis prior to its celebration, and promised to be a
wonder of another nine days after that event ; that is — if any
possible wonder could endure for so long a period in
this very fast era, when the telegraphic wires and cables and
other marvellous agencies of electricity virtually annihilate
time and space, not only to make " two lovers happy *' as
the mad poet of a bygone and slow age imagined might be
done, but deprive every event of novelty almost as soon
as it has happened. The fame of the bridegroom's marvellous
wealth, and of the bride's equally marvellous beauty,
was widely spread. The first was universally conceded ;
the second was considered of more doubtful authenticity,
especially by the ladies, young and old, who had met her at
balls, or dinners, or evening parties, or places of public
resort. That she was not quite so fair of skin as an Englishwoman,
was perforce allowed; though the assertions of
some, that she was as black as an Ethiopian, or brown asa
mulatto, were generally held to be exaggerations. Very
marvellous stories were in circulation as to the splendour of

30*

the diamonds with which she had been presented by her
future lord, the least gorgeous of which was reputed to
excel in brilliancy and value the Koh-i-noor or " Mountain
of Light " itself. No one knew for some days what the
religion of the happy couple was, or whether they were of the
Mahometan or other Eastern faith, or merely Pagan unbelievers
and idolaters. But all speculation on the subject was
set at rest, or supposed to be, by the announcement that the
marriage ceremony was to be celebrated with all imaginable
pomp at the Romish Cathedral, by a cardinal archbishop,
and that the two greatest prime connie of the day had
been engaged on almost fabulous terms to lend the aid of
their magnificent voices to the chants, the hymns, and the
responses ; that a choir of boys from the ages of twelve upto
fourteen and fifteen had been engaged to swell the full
tide of melody and harmony in the cathedral, and that the
keys of the great organ were not to be touched by any
inferior fingers than those of the most renowned organist,
who had been especially summoned from a great city and a
mighty Dom, or Duomo, either in Germany or Italy, for the
purpose. This gentleman it was stated was to receive a fee
of two hundred guineas for his rendering of the magnificent

Wedding March of Mendelssohn, that glorious hymn of
triumphant tenderness, which no music composed by man
has ever, so far as is known, surpassed in grandeur, sublimity,
and all-conquering softness.

These and other announcements had caused an unusual
flutter of excitement, which had extended itself from the
upper circle of all the Duchesses, Marchionesses, Countesses
and Baronesses of London, down to the cooks, nursery-maids,
ladies'-maids, and shop-girls, and the idle women
of all the parishes contiguous to the cathedral, and caused
a greater crowd of carriages of the aristocracy to block up
the avenues of approach, than had been known within
recent memory.

There wire twelve bridesmaids, six of them of a
marriageable age, and six of them merely children, all
dressed alike, in the most expensive manner, by the most
fashionable milliners, with assumed French names, each
with an exorbitant bill to present in due time, and which
they truly imagined would be more willingly paid, if they
called themselves Josephine, Alphonsus, or Adeles, than
if they called themselves by the names of Sarah Smith or
Mary Brown, to which they were legitimately entitled.

Each fair girl was presented by the bridegroom with a
bracelet of diamonds and rubies, and each innocent child
with a gem of which she did not stand in need to enhance
her beauty, but the gift of which was held to be essential
to maintain the unique grandeur of the occasion.

Among the bridesmaids were the Ladies Maud and
Ethel Pierrepoint, and Miss Laura De Vere, and a very
galaxy of youth and beauty, some of the component parts of
which were not a little envious of the good fortune of the
lovely Niona, who had secured in the market of matrimony
such a glorious prize as the Prince, or the Rajah, Rameses,
whichever he might be.

The wedding breakfast was reported in the newspapers
of the following morning to have cost at least three
thousand pounds. The flowers alone, composed of the
choicest and most expensive of exotics, were estimated at
more than one thousand pounds of the money, and were
the admiration of all the " snobbery " of London, great and
small, and excited the wrath of all the Socialists and Social
Democrats of the teeming hive who inveighed on the
following Sunday in Hyde Park against the misgovernment
of the world by Fate and Providence (or the Devil),

who dealt out the gifts of fortune in such a partial
and unjust manner, as to allow an upstart rich man
to spend in perishable flowers in one morning as much
money as would have provided a thousand workingmen
and their starving families with food and drink fora
week.

Unwholesome and prurient publicity was rampant on
this particular occasion, for the amusement, but certainly not
for the instruction, of all the idle women of high and low
estate, of Duchesses and of shop girls — who, thanks to the
School Board, could read the penny papers — the dresses
of all the bridesmaids were minutely described, with the
superadded information of the names of the fashionable
milliners who supplied them. If the same sort of information
were not provided for the gratification of the
omnivorous readers of the cheap tattlers, together with the
names of the tailors who made the dress-coats, vests, and
nether garments of the gentlemen, it was, perhaps, because
there was and could be no interest to anybody to know
that all the dress-coats were black, and all the rest of the
costume of the same hue, except the shirt and the cravat.
Though it might possibly have been of interest to some

people if they could have been informed whether the dress
suits were all paid for, and if not, how long a credit had
been given by the tailors, or whether it were probable that
these often-defrauded and long-suffering tradesmen would
ever be paid. But the names of all the guests, male and
female, who were present, were duly paraded to the world,
which, if it cared anything about the matter for one day,
forget all about it on the second.

But the demi-semi-educated public, of high or low birth,
of prosperous or unprosperous condition, were, if not instructed,
amused by the useless information that the newspapers
afforded them ; and by the end of the week, had
utterly forgotten that such an event had been celebrated.

The bridegroom and the bride took few people, and
only such intimate friends as Sir Hector and Lady Mac
Tavish, Mr. De Vere, and Saadi Ben Ahmed, into their
confidence as regarded the place where they were to
spend the honeymoon. As soon as the wedding breakfast
had concluded, and all the ridiculous speeches thought to
be appropriate to such occasions had been made, a
travelling carriage drawn by four showy, but serviceable
horses, drew up to the mansion of Mr. Rameses, and the

wedded pair took their departure, amid such customary
manifestations of good will as old slippers and rice are
supposed to convey in communities Which are not classed
as Pagan or Superstitious, but which cling nevertheless
fondly, or it may be only blindly and thoughtlessly, to
observances which, whatever they may be, are certainly
neither religious nor Christian in their origin.

Before taking his departure, Mr. Rameses had left with
the private secretary a sealed letter, not to be opened until
the morrow, directing him where to follow, in due time, to
the destination appointed for their next meeting. That
destination was Cairo, a city that had peculiar fascination
in the mind of Mr. Rameses, more than half an ancient
Egyptian in blood and descent, and almost wholly an
ancient Egyptian in his adherence to the creed of the
Pharaohs, as it prevailed in the days before Moses and Aaron.

As the first stage, in that long journey, the coachman
was directed to drive by easy intervals of travel
to Southampton, where the superb steam yacht of Mr.
Rameses lay on the waters, all ready — with an experienced
captain and a picked crew — to receive him and his bride on
their arrival.

THE MEDITERRANEAN AND THE NILE.

Mr. Rameses, as has already been noted, was passionately
fond of music, a passion that the lovely, and in every
respect sympathetic, partner, whom he had chosen from all
the world, to share the joys and sorrows of this mortal life,
enthusiastically shared. By dint of patient enquiry and
liberal payment, he had succeeded in drawing together to
his service a dozen accomplished performers on the flute,
the clarion, the horn, the trumpet, the bassoon, and other
wind instruments, and who, in addition to the qualifications
for the working of a ship as seamen and engineers, possessed
a knowledge of music, and were fairly good executants.
He called this " Band," so carefully got together, the
Silver Band," for the reason that he provided them all
with silver instruments, because he thought silver to be
more capable of the soft sweet melodies and harmonies
that he loved than the brazen or wooden instruments
usually employed.

Happy is the bride that the sun shines on," if the old
song and proverb are to be believed. Of happy augury to
the fervid imagination of Mr. Rameses was the brilliant sunshine
that poured from the unclouded sky as the Niona
steamed through the Solent into the British Channel.
Music and rejoicing followed on the way, and happy
thoughts possessed both bride and bridegroom, as the yacht
coasted the lovely shores of the Southern Counties of
England and the Western shores of France, and found, even
in the usually rough swell of the Bay of Biscay, a calm
and a welcome that filled every league of the voyage with
pleasantness. Delightful were the days, but still more

delightful were the walks upon the deck in the silent night.
under the deep blue sky, that disclosed the awful majesty of
the starry heavens with a vivid distinctness rarely seen in
the " misty, moist," atmosphere of the British Isles.

How sublime is religion in the awful presence of the
stars," said Mr. Rameses to the sympathetic Niona, "and
how petty and mean is Theology as propounded in the
creeds of Europe and the modem world which believes
in the rare intervals when the engrossing cares of eating,
drinking, sleeping, money-making and procreating permit
them to think of higher things. Credulous as budding
childhood that listens to a fairy tale, the multitude think
this poor, almost infinitesimal, grain of sand on the eternal
ocean is the especial, if notitia exclusive, object of Almighty
love, and that for its benefit alone all the countless orbs of
Heaven came into existence. The crowds who believe the
monstrous fable call themselves Jews, Christians, or Mahometan.
They are religious people — after their own fashion
as religion is interpreted by warring theologians, but not
religious except in the narrow circle that bounds conventional
morality, observance of the social laws and conformity
to the ideas of their fathers and grandfathers — religious serfs,

Niona shared to the fullest extent the religious enthusiasm
of her husband. His faith was her faith, his
thoughts were her thoughts, his hopes were her hopes,
his aspirations her aspirations, and his love her love.
She was the " twin soul," of whom he had dreamed
and thought — ever since he had been able to think
at all — the crown and completion of his spiritual life —
the heaven of his earth, the pulse of his heart, the
union of fair body with pure mind, the corporeal and
the mental in perfect accord and harmony — the basis
of the only happiness for man and woman that is
allowed or possible in this probationary world.

I think with you," she said in reply to his reflections on
the glory of the starry heavens, " that the modern world
has not advanced in religious thought very greatly beyond
the mythologies of antiquity. Priestcraft has increased
— religion has diminished — Clericalism has become
a trade or a learned profession, like that of law or medicine,
depending for its existence and maintenance on the fees
paid by those who believe in it."

Every true man," said Mr. Rameses, " ought to be a
priest of the High God, after the order of Melchizedek.
Every father of a family, worthy of the name of a father, is
by nature a Pope, a holy father in function and duty as well
as in name, and should teach his children to lead pure
lives, to cultivate their spiritual nature, to learn and to
obey the divine laws that govern the Universe, and to look
upon this poor world as but the entrance, after the time
appointed for all living, into a higher and a better one. To
teach this noble doctrine needs not the intervention of any
extraneous and mercenary advocate. The Religion of the
heart and soul transcends the trade religion of the
Chapels, the Churches, the Cathedrals, the Mosques and
the Temples, the Pagodas, and the Synagogues as

It appears to me," remarked the secretary, who had
been a privileged listener to the discourse " that the Jews in
the time of closes, whose ancestors had been slaves in
Egypt for three or four hundred years, when they obtained
their freedom under that great leader, were unable to

emancipate themselves from the slavish ideas to which
their long and hard bondage had accustomed them ;
that their sorrowful experience as slaves, condemned to
unreasonable labour, in building pyramids and other ostentatious
and unproductive works, had rendered them more
than willing to receive as divine truth the notion that God
had imposed work upon mankind as a curse rather than a
blessing ; that their sole notions of felicity were derivable
from the pleasures and the freedom that they expected to
enjoy in this world, and not in the next. They do not appear
to have acknowledged that God was a spirit, or that
the soul of man was immortal. Nations far older than the
Israelites had nobler ideas. Job was a philosopher of a
higher intelligence than Moses and Aaron, and, had he
been a lawgiver, would have promulgated the more
spiritual faith. Far superior Ito anything in the Hebrew
creed was the faith of our Indian ancestors — true spiritual
philosophers and enlightened sages, at a time when Europe,
if inhabited at all, except by wild beasts, was only inhabited
by the rudest barbarians."

"No," said Mr. Rameses, "the Druids, who are the
earliest worshippers we know of, were not barbarians. They

In calm, sunny weather, amid discussions like these,
cheered and varied by the strains of the well-trained Silver
Band — whenever soothing or inspiriting music was needed,
or was congenial to the moods of mind of the transcendental
but supremely happy couple who were taking their
nuptial holiday upon the waters — the time passed so
pleasantly and imperceptibly that the yacht entered the
Mediterranean before they were aware of the distance they
had traversed. And here, inspired by the genius loci, the
speculations and discussions of the pair took a new direction,
which they followed willingly, into wide and fascinating
and not altogether unprofitable regions of inquiry.

As the yacht passed through the Straits of Gibraltar, the

VOL. II. 31

Silver Band striking up the cheerful air of " The British
Grenadiers," in homage to the British garrison of the frowning
fortress, Niona, who had lain in her state-room neither
wholly asleep nor wholly awake, had a dream of the origin
of the Mediterranean, of which she could not banish the
remembrance from her mind, as she afterwards paced the
deck with her husband to inhale the invigorating freshness
of the morning. She hesitated for a time to repeat the
vision that haunted her, until she could assure herself that
it was remarkable enough to be welcome in the telling to
the sympathetic mind of her husband. She had notions of
her own with regard to the dreams recorded in history,
tradition, and mythology, that forbade her to regard all the
ideas that passed over the receptive mind in sleep, or semi-sleep,
as idle and worthless. Just as our waking thoughts
are often foolish, extravagant, grotesque, or utterly inane,
so she considered that our dreams might be, and often
were, ridiculous, inconsequent, contradictory, and absurd.
But, in like manner, if our waking thoughts were sometimes
noble, and founded upon the teachings of experience, or
the promptings of an intuition for which we could not
account, she imagined that our dreams might sometimes

3^'

Tell me," said Niona to her husband, " if it were a
mere dream, born of my idle fancy, or an imprint on my
somnolent memory of what I had thought of, or read, or
heard of before, and which came back to me in my solitary
silence ? The mind — if vision it were, and not a revival in
my mind of previous, though long-forgotten, knowledge —
disclosed to me the mighty events of five, or, it may be, often
or twenty thousand years ago, when the Mediterranean
was dry land — a fertile valley between Europe and Africa,
thickly peopled by a highly-civilised but corrupt race, enervated
by their wealth and by the vices that grow out of
it. Between what is now known as Gibraltar and Ceuta,
the opposite coast of Africa, stretched a long expanse of
sandy shore, on which the waves of the Atlantic had flowed
and ebbed in their appointed courses for millenniums.
From that point eastwards to Asa Minor, the teeming
territory was inhabited by many millions of people, divided
into many hostile nations, governed by mighty monarchs
continually at war with each other, who filled the lovely
and fertile land with desolation and ruin to gratify their
lust of dominion. Upwards of a hundred great cities, with
towers and temples, and all the pomp of architectural

Time is non-existent, or is not taken into account in
our dreams. A minute of a dream may represent and
include the events of many years, and I saw in mine that
in the progress of the ages, the narrow strip of sea-sand
that separated the projecting points between the Rock of
Gibraltar and the Pillars of Hercules was gradually invaded

by higher and higher tides of the great Atlantic, that
stretched apparently limitless beyond, and that threatened
annually to submerge the low-lying valleys, of which the
protecting ridge of partially elevated shore formed the
barrier against the ocean. The danger was observed by
many of the natural philosophers and astronomers of the
time, who calculated, or thought they calculated, accurately
the movements of the heavenly bodies and their effects
upon the little world on which the little insect, man, crawls,
and thinks the stars were created for him to look at and
for nothing else ; but as the danger, even according to
these philosophers, was exceedingly remote, no heed was
paid to their warnings, and the thoughtless multitude
sinned and suffered, ate, drank and made merry, made
war and peace, lived and died, and left the world
to their descendants — neither worse nor better than
themselves, and scarcely worthier of remembrance in the
after-cycles of Time than the green leaves, the fair flowers,
or the dancing midges that sported in the sunshine for
their brief hour a thousand years previously. But at last
the appointed, and slowly but certainly approaching
catastrophe burst upon the doomed centre of civilization.

The inhabitants of the neighbouring countries, terror-smitten
at the awful extent of the visitation, and looking
upon their neighbours as worshippers of false gods, because
their faith differed from that which they themselves had
been taught for ages to believe — and which they believed
without understanding — considered the Deluge as a judgment
upon the myriads of drowned people for their sins
and their idolatry, inflicted upon them by the true God ;
and went on sinning in their own way, as if the judgment
and the warning were not intended for people as spotlessly
pure as they were in their own conceit. They never once
suspected that the portentous cataclysm was the certain
result of natural laws in operation throughout the universe,
and having no more reference to the virtues, the crimes or
the existence of mankind, than a thunder-storm bears to
the existence of the wasps or other flies that are a nuisance
to men or cattle in the countries where they so unhappily
propagate. And the awful judgment, as the priests and
philosophers persisted in calling it, had no effect whatever
on the faith or morals of the countless generations that
succeeded them, or tended in the least degree to increase
their reverence for the Eternal Ruler of the universe, or to

A dream ! an intimation ! an inspiration ! a revelation
: " said Mr. Rameses, when Niona concluded the
recital, to which he had listened with all-absorbing
attention. "There can be no doubt that a mighty
Deluge swept over a large portion of the inhabited world
at some remote period anterior to the birth of Authentic
History, if any such phenomenon as authentic history has
come down to us, but of which a vague record is preserved
in the traditions of the East and the West, as a fact that is not
to be disputed. The Jewish record, which was once accepted
by Christendom, and which represents the Deluge as having
submerged the whole Earth, is no longer believed by
Christian thinkers, or only blindly accepted by the
gregarious multitude, who have neither the will nor the
capacity to think for themselves. Even the Jews, to
whom the modern world owes the story, have discarded it,
except as a venerable fable, no more entitled to positive
credence than a fairy tale. And your dream, oh, my love,
even if it be nothing more than a passing fancy of the
mind, originally formed in the waking state, but intensified
in sleep — when the soul, disencumbered of physical weight,

is free to soar into the illimitable past or into the
illimitable future, possesses all the elements of probability
of which the Mosaic treatise is deficient. The souls of
Amenophra and Lurula, if they were two souls, and not
one, seems to me to be your soul also, oh, my beloved !
my thrice beloved — my twin soul ! — mine from all past
eternity, and part of my immortal being to all futurity ! "

The matter-of-fact reader of these pages, having followed
the fortunes of Mr. Rameses to this point, will perhaps close
the book in disgust, or weariness, or apathy, if he or she be
expected to receive as probable the transcendental hallucinations,
as he or she may possibly consider them, of a man of
the world like Mr. Rameses, and may say of him and his
flights into the world of imagination, as Festus said to the
great apostle of Christianity : " Paul, thou art beside
thyself ! much learning doth make thee mad ! " and Mr.
Rameses, strong in his spirituality and Oriental faith,
might reply, as St. Paul did to the incredulous Roman :
I am not mad, most noble Festus, but speak the words
of Truth and soberness," and add : " Truth, as I understand
it — and soberness of argument that invites confutation, if
confutation be calm as my belief, and is supported, not
only by appeals to my reason, but to my inner consciousness."

THE DOLCE FAR NIENTE.

What is usually called the " Dolce far Niente," for want of
an English synonym equally elegant and convenient,
signifies a state of physical rest, in which all the sensations
are pleasant, and free from the desire or the necessity of
bodily exertion. But in this state the mind is not
necessarily inactive, or the imagination lulled into quiescence.
During the whole of his voyage over the sunny
waters of the Mediterranean, Mr. Rameses might be said
metaphorically to have been a dweller in the enchanted
Palace, or the impregnable fortress of the " Castle of Indolence,"
to have fed his mind on the magical and slumberous
fruit of the Lotus, and to have allowed his thoughts to wander
uncontrolled into the wide and hazy regions of speculative
philosophy. The idea that his beautiful bride was endowed
with the mysterious faculty that has acquired in our day
the name of "clairvoyance" had long been familiar to his
mind. This occult force, faculty, or pretension, whichever
it may be, was in bygone ages stigmatized as witchcraft,

and demoniacal possession, and attributed to a compact
with the infernal powers for the injury and the deception
of mankind. In modern times it is more commonly
stigmatized by those who do not believe in the genuineness
of its manifestations as knavish and mercenary imposture,
because it seems to contradict ordinary reason, and consequently
invites denial and exposure. But if it merely transcends
ordinary reason, without contradicting it, no denial,
whether supported or unsupported by argument is sufficient
to disprove its claims to credence. If men believed
nothing that they could not comprehend, their incredulity
might extend to the why and wherefore of the existence of
the human race, if riot of all creation. None but people
of very limited intelligence, consider human reason to be
illimitable. What is merely incomprehensible, may be
positively true, in spite of all the mathematicians and
materialists that ever existed, from the days of Archimedes
to those of M. Comte and the modern school of Atheism,
Agnosticism, and Positivism.

So thought Mr. Rameses. " We see into the past," he
said to himself, "and why not, under favourable mental
or physical circumstances, into the future ? There are

countless millions of planets, suns, galaxies, and constellations
scattered over the infinitude of space, whose light
takes fifty thousand, or fifty times fifty thousand years of
time, as we measure it, to reach our eyes. We see these
mighty worlds not as they may exist to-day, but as they
existed ere their light began to travel earthwards, and
which may in the interval have been extinguished by
the decree of Almighty power — that dooms whatever
lives, whether animalcule, man or planet, to die or
change its physical form at the time appointed. Physically
we are thus enabled to see with dim eyes into
the Past, and if physically we are able to enjoy — faintly
although it be — this power and privilege, may we not
spiritually enjoy the still greater, and to us the more
interesting, privilege of looking back into the history of our
own small planet, and to the deeds of the men and women
who inhabited it before us ? Not to every one is accorded
this high gift. Not often in any of us does the slavery of
soul to body cease for any appreciable period. Not every
soul is so free from the impurities, infirmities, and trammels
of the flesh as to be capable of receiving or even of
understanding the highest truths, and none but those who

in the successive incarnations of the spirit, have in
each incarnation to which they have been doomed in
the advance from mortal evil and suffering into immortal
good and happiness, deserved to take a step
in the illimitable progression, are so highly and holily
privileged."

Such a soul animated, in the thought of Mr. Rameses, the
lovely body of Niona, and explained the impulse which
bound him to her in life, and would bind him to her in death,
whenever that great change — but not end — occurred to
either the one or the other. This change, the commencement
of a new life, when it came, he fondly hoped would come
upon them both simultaneously, and realize the beautiful
phrase of the Oriental nations, coeval with and anterior to
the sacred books of the Hebrews, "lovely they were in
their lives, and in their deaths they were not divided."
Meditating much on this subject both before and after
his happy marriage, he debated with himself whether he
did not possess the power of will — exercised through the
magnetic or electrical agencies that pervade the universe —
to induce in her soul, in sympathetic unison with his own,
that state of spiritual exaltation which temporarily liberates

the mind from the-impediments opposed by the body to
the expansion of the faculties ?

He had not long to wait before an answer came to his
inquiries, which, if not wholly conclusive of the existence
of the power which he suspected, tended to confirm his
belief in it. Two or three days after her recital to him
of her dream of the Deluge, she lay apparently in a
peaceful sleep on a couch in the cabin of the yacht. Taking
a seat noiselessly beside her, lest he should disturb her
slumbers, he gazed for a few minutes silently upon her
face, fearing the while that even his reverently loving look
might be rude enough to ruffle the serenity of her repose.
He had been absorbed since he arose in the morning,
in the idea that fascinated and haunted his mind, the
doctrine of the transmigration of souls, as it had been
taught by the priests and philosophers of Egypt and
Phoenicia, and the still further east of Asia, for thousands
of years before Pythagoras had taught it to the Greeks.
He still brooded on the subject as he sat quietly beside
her, and watched the gentle leavings of her bosom and
listened to the regular breathing that issued from her
beautiful ripe red lips, as she lay in her innocence before

him. He had remained silent for at least ten minutes,
wrapt in his meditations, when he was suddenly startled to
hear her — in a low sweet voice, scarcely louder than a
whisper — pronounce the one word

li Pythagoras ! "

She lay silent for fully a minute afterwards, when she
slowly opened her eyes, and looking earnestly at her
husband, clasped the hand which he had instinctively
extended towards her. " I have been dreaming again," she
said, " and seemed in my dream, though it cannot have
lasted for many minutes, to have lived whole years of life
as a priestess in the Temple of Isis. The vision was even
clearer and more vivid than that which possessed my
sleeping spirit when the events of the Deluge passed
in a long sequence before me. It was so palpably
defined, so free from obscurities and contradictions, so
natural and truth-seeming in all its details, that it impressed
me even more thoroughly than the events which befel me
yesterday, and are still fresh in my remembrance."

Do not fatigue yourself, dear love," said Mr. Rameses,
by repeating it to me now. Tuesday is lovely. There is
not a speck of cloud, or a haze of vapour on the clear blue

sky. A soft cool breeze is blowing, and a walk on the deck

will refresh you after your slumbers."

Niona arose and mounted with Mr. Rameses to the deck,

and, sitting down at his side, proceeded to unroll the

picturesque panorama of her vision while the colours were

yet fresh on the mind's canvas. " I know," she said, "that

many estimable people despise dreams. You, oh, my love !

are not one of them. Many dreams, as all the world is

prepared to admit, are idle and worthless, born in the

temporarily disordered brain of the sleeper, when the

physical and mental faculties do not work harmoniously

together. But I do not think that the vision from which I

have just awakened is a dream of this nebulous kind, or I

would not repeat it even to you. It was much too vivid

and real ever to be forgotten. I seemed to live over again

all the days and years of my youth in the sacred city of

Thebes. I sometimes wandered alone at early morning

through its stately avenues, and sometimes mingled with

the crowd of worshippers who thronged on festal occasions

to the great Temple of ' Am-Ux ' — so called in the ancient

language, from Am, the soul, and Ux, or Ox, the Universe

stood in the marble portico to watch the devotees as
VOL. II. ^2

they entered the Holy of Holies, to bend in awe and adoration
before the shrine, where the sacred fire of Heaven,
tended by vestal virgins in their white robes, with garlands of
flowers upon their foreheads, was kept continually burning.
I saw, again, clearly defined as I passed, the old familiar
and magnificent temples to the gods and goddesses — not
worshipped as living powers, but simply as emblems of the
might, majesty, and goodness of the supreme and only
God. I also stood at the gate of the magnificent palace of
Pharaoh Thothmes, the most powerful monarch on the
earth, and witnessed the procession of princes, nobles, and
notabilities who accompanied the Pharaoh to the temple of
Am-Un, preceded by musicians, with shales and drums
and other instruments, amid the admiration of the
shouting crowd, who bowed their heads and knelt before
him as he passed. I looked again on the lofty towers, the
long avenues of pillars and obelisks, each bearing commemorative
inscriptions and hieroglyphics, to be read and
pondered by the priests and philosophers as they passed to
the Temple. I gazed for long hours on the calm features
of the gigantic sphinxes, placed in the public squares, to
hint at the mighty secrets which they were supposed to

know, but to hide with an impenetrable veil from the curiosity
of the multitude ; and wondered, as I passed, whether
to me would ever be given the privilege of knowing and
understanding even the least of the mysteries of the Universe,
or of beholding so little as the dark shadow of the
ineffably inscrutable.

"One morning, soon after sunrise, as I sat alone
in the spacious porch of the Temple, I saw two men
approach up the avenue of obelisks that led to it. One
was a venerable priest, whom I knew as Amen Ra, the
chief ministrant and hierarch of the great Temple of Isis,
over the gate of which were inscribed the awful words : ' /
a?7i all that hath been, all that is or ever shall be. Xo mortal
hath ever lifted my veil' He was a man of serene and
benign aspect, slightly bent with the load of nearly fourscore
years and ten, but had a bright, clear eye, and walked
with the firm and resolute step of a man in his prime. He
was clad in a loosely-flowing robe of purple velvet, of which
the hems and sleeves and the broad bosom were embroidered
with threads of gold studded with precious stones,
and hieroglyphics of doctrine. The other was a fair youth

of about twenty years, plainly clad, but shewing in every

32*

lineament of his beautiful face that the divine fire of
genius sparkled in his eyes and animated his heart. He
looked with profound respect and reverence upon the
venerable companion of his walk, and seemed to ponder
deeply upon every word that fell from his lips. I also had
seen him before, and recognised him as a student from the
distant western land, imperfectly known in Mizraim, inhabited
by a pale-faced people, slowly emerging out of
barbarism, who worshipped many false gods and goddesses,
whom they represented in human form, and to whom they
attributed the vilest human passions of lust, revenge,
jealousy, and unreasonable wrath. They were represented
in Egypt as slowly emerging out of mental darkness into
the light of a durer faith. This student was known to the
philosophers and hierophants with whom he associated as
Pythagoras,' and his object in visiting Thebes, the oldest
and most celebrated city in the world, was to study the
wisdom of the priests of ' Am-Un ' and ' Isis,' the maxims
of religion and morality which they inculcated, and the
arts and sciences with which they were acquainted, and
carry the knowledge thus acquired to his own country and
teach it to the people. He had been for five years in

Thebes, imbuing his mind every day with experience, and
confirming himself in the new faith, that had taken such
possession of him that he was enabled finally to abandon
the last lingering belief in the superstitious errors that had
been instilled into his mind in his credulous and receptive
childhood.

They both entered into the Temple, and I followed
them. The morning worship was about to commence, with
a ' Hymn to the Rising Sun,' with which it was the invariable
custom to sanctify the day and dedicate it to the
service of the Great Spirit, of whose glory the light of the
sun was but a faint and feeble emanation — but, faint and
feeble as it was, too transcendently powerful for human eyes
to look upon dazzled, or without incurring the penalty
of death or blindness. A choral company of boys and
women, with voices scientifically trained, numbering three
or four hundred, raised a triumphant hymn of praise and
welcome to the new-born day, the choral harmonies swelling
as they sang, into waves of music, loud as the sea when
the wind lashes it into thunder. When this chant had
concluded, it was followed by a joyous outburst of prolonged
harmony that shook the Holy Fane as with another

tempest of sound, from batteries, shales, trumpets, bassoons,
trombones, sackbut, and other instruments,
mingled at intervals with the shriller melodies of fifes and
flutes. The spacious edifice seemed to my entranced senses
to float like a ship in an ocean of divinest harmony, wafting
me to hitherto unknown regions of beauty and delight.

"As soon as the music ceased, the venerable Hierarch,
standing before the high altar, addressed the kneeling worshippers
in a strong, clear voice, distinctly audible to the
remotest corners of the holy place. His exhortation was
short and eloquent, and impressed upon the multitude the
duty they owed to the body and the soul which animated it,
and dwelt particularly upon the sin of which many of them
were habitually guilty — of cruelty to the animal creation,
the humblest and meanest members of which, he reminded
them, were the creatures of the Great Spirit that animated
the Universe. ' All of these,' he said, ' are capable, Hke
men and women, of infinite progression or retrogression,
according to their obedience or disobedience to the immutable
laws of the Supreme Being and the spiritual movements
of the Universe. Thus,' he went on to say, ' the
soul of him who systematically, wickedly, and cruelly maltreats
and tortures his camel, his dog, or other four-footed

friend and assistant of his labours, and ministrant to his
luxury — when the death of his material body liberates his
soul or mind to find another physical habitation, may be
doomed to suffer the pangs which he has inflicted in his
human life, and become a prisoner in the helpless body of
a beast of burden, or may even be fated to a still more
painful penance, in the body of a vrorm, or a small insect,
invisible to human sight, shut out in his amazing littleness
from all but infinitesimal communion with the beneficent,
benevolent and all-pervading nature that surrounds him.' The
listening multitude bowed their heads at his words, and
uttered, as if simultaneously, a loud ' Amen 1 ' And then
again the choristers lifted up their voices in another solemn
and tempestuous hymn of praise and glory. The shales,
the batteries, the trombones, the bassoons, and other
instruments were sounded in triumphal harmonies — and the
crowd slowly and reverently departed, and I along with them.
"Then my vision changed, and I formed one of a
small group of spectators who had gathered on the seashore,
far away from Thebes, to take a final farewell of
the beloved student, Pythagoras, as he stepped on a trireme,
to proceed to the vessel anchored at a short distance,
which was to convey him back to his own semi-barbarous

country, where he was to impart to such as his countrymen
as thirsted for knowledge, the hitherto unknown doctrines
of the sublime spiritual philosophy of the Egyptians.
As he waved his hand to the friends he was leaving, I
awoke from my dream, and saw you at my side, oh ! my
beloved, and thought for awhile, ere my awakening thoughts
concentrated themselves upon the realities around me,
that I was still in Thebes — four thousand years ago."

Your sleeping and my waking soul were in sympathetic
union, when you uttered the name of Pythagoras," said
Mr. Rameses. " Your thought communicated itself to
mine — or mine to yours — not merely by mere accident and
coincidence, as materialists might suppose, but by spiritual
affinity — acting and re-acting, each upon each, with an
attraction as certain and irresistible as the steel to the
magnet, and the law of universal gravitation."

It was now full noon, and the " Silver Band," agreeably
to the invariable custom imposed by Mr. Rameses, appeared
upon deck, to enliven the voyage by the performance of
the melodies and harmonies which he loved. He requested
them to play the " Wedding March " of Mendelssohn, and
to its magnificent strains the yacht made her way through
the calm blue waters to Alexandria.

IX THE SHADOW OF THE SPHINX.

Ox the arrival of the Niona at Alexandria, on the second day
after this conversation, Mr. Rameses was surprised to learn
that his friend Saadi Ben Ahmed had preceded him to that
city, having been unexpectedly summoned from London,
where he had made arrangements for a prolonged stay. mr.
Melville was deputed to call at his hotel, and invite him to
come on board the yacht as soon as he could make it convenient,
as Mr. Rameses and Xiona were not inclined to
exchange their luxurious quarters in their floating home for
the inferior accommodation of an Alexandrian hotel. On
presenting himself to the sage, Mr. Melville was grievously
pained to learn that the wound inflicted upon the Vicomte
du Trianon in the unfortunate duel which the wickedness of
La Belle Couleur had provoked, had, contrary to the
expectations of the physicians and surgeons who had
attended upon him, proved mortal, and that Madame or
Mademoiselle de Molinari had, to the surprise of all acquainted

with her character and antecedents, manifested an
extremity of grief that was, to all appearance, wrung from the
agony of her heart. The first impulse of the young secretary
was to return to Paris, and court such penalty as the laws
of France might impose upon him. "Do nothing of the
kind," said Saadi Ben Ahmed, " if you are wise. The
tribunal would certainly acquit you if you submitted yourself
to its judgment. Society has already acquitted you.
The only aggrieved person is the ^Molinari — if she be really
aggrieved. Even if she be, she will speedily console herself
with a new lover, unless her reputation belies her real
nature. I cannot, however, but regret that the victim was
the foolish man, who did not know that he had wrongfully
possessed himself of another person's wife — and not the
heartless woman, who knew that she was injuring a husband
who had loved and confided in her."

Mr. Melville, in his solitary reflections, as he returned to
the yacht, persuaded himself that the advice of the philosophical
man of the world was sound and prudent ; that no
good could come of his offered self-sacrifice, even if it were
accepted ; that though his hand had inflicted on the
Vicomte du Trianon the penalty of the wrong he had done,

The immediate result of these cogitations was a determination
to unbosom himself to his best friend,
Mr. Rameses, and to be guided by his counsel. The unhappy
young man acted on this resolution, and on his
return to the yacht confessed to his sympathetic employer
all the circumstances attendant upon his infatuated wooing,
and still more infatuated marriage with the beautiful but
wicked woman who had cast her fatal glamour over his
imagination.

"■ You could not avoid falling into the snare that had
been set for you," said Mr. Rameses. " You are young,
susceptible, inexperienced, with hot blood in your veins, and
the fowler that entrapped the bird was cool, wary and unprincipled,
and fascinated your eyes by the too powerful
witchery of her bodily beauty. The great error which you
committed was to contract a secret marriage. Had you
divulged your intention before taking the final step, the
catastrophe and all its guilty results might have been
avoided. Law is costly, vexatious, and dilatory, but for
your own future peace of mind and freedom of action, you
must have recourse to that cumbrous machine, to remove
the impediment of the marriage contract out of your way.
I will be answerable for all the expenses, whatever they may
amount to."

The young secretary kissed the hand of his benefactor,
burst into tears, respectfully refused the pecuniary aid so
generously offered, and resolved to adopt the advice which
had been offered.

Saadi Ben Ahmed came on board the yacht the next
morning, and it was arranged that he should accompany
Mr. Rameses, and Niona and the secretary, to Cairo, after

It was a whim, a fancy, a vague longing, born partly of
curiosity, partly of superstition, and partly of religious enthusiasm
; but the idea — which might more properly be
called a presentiment — had gained such possession of her

she knew not how or why, that she could not but resign

herself a willing slave to its tyranny.

After a stay of a few days in Alexandria, Mr. Rameses
and his party proceeded to Cairo with the intention, after
visiting the Pyramids, to take a voyage up the Nile to the
site of Thebes, which, almost equally with the Sphinx, was
hallowed in the minds both of Mr. Rameses and Niona,
by venerable recollections inherited from their race and
ancestry. They stayed but three days in Cairo, where they
found nothing to interest or to detain them. Saadi Ben
Ahmed engaged two comfortable vehicles, one for Mr.
Rameses and his bride, one for himself and Mr. Melville,
and a guide in charge of the provisions and water necessary
for the day's consumption. He took especial care to
make a compact with the guide, whom he knew, to exercise
influence over the greedy Arabs, that swarmed like vultures
or cormorants about the bases of the Pyramids on the
arrival of strangers, from whom they expected to extort
backshish^ that he and his party should be left unmolested,
on condition that every Arab who kept at a distance
should receive a double gratuity, but that anyone who
approached within sight or hearing should receive — nothing.

were thus enabled to record and predict the periodical
re-appearances of planets and fixed stars at the place
in the heavens to which the summits of the mountains
pointed. In other Avoids, they held that the
Pyramids were artificial mountains, erected for astronomical
and religious purposes by a highly ingenious, cultivated,
and imaginative people ; and that the absolute power
possessed by their monarchs was such as to command an
almost limitless supply of compulsory labour, to complete
these stupendous scientific and religious monuments. The
Sphinx, they considered to be carved out of the solid
rock at a comparatively modern period, when the
primitive religion of the Starry Heavens had lost its early
simplicity, and become encumbered with a grotesque
mythology, personifying under animal forms, hybrid or
semi-human, the powers and attributes of the Great
Creator, and departing almost entirely from the purer
religion of their ancestors.

Niona shared to the fullest extent these opinions about
the Pyramids, but attached to the numerous sphinxes that
guarded in ancient times the approaches and porticoes of
the temples of Amen, Isis, and Serapis, and especially

These and similar reflections occupied the thoughts
of her two elder companions, in the bright sunshine
of the early morning as they proceeded on their journey
from Cairo to Ghizeh, or Jeeseh — a drive of ten miles
over a good road, pleasantly shaded with trees. The only
one of the party who, on arriving in front of the Sphinx

had any desire to scale the side of the greater or two lesser
VOL. 11. zi

Pyramids, was Mr. Melville. After having partaken
of the temperate and refreshing luncheon of fruit and
bread, and a supply of pure water in stone jars, with which
they had provided themselves, he went alone to scale the
stony height of the greatest of the three pyramids as far
as was practicable, leaving the rest to their meditations and
the conversation in which they loved to indulge. Saadi
Ben Ahmed, who had studied his fellow creatures in
every quarter of the globe, east, west, and at the far
antipodean realms — destined one day to be the paramount
powers of the world, and to reign over it, vice Europe,
effete and superseded, as Egypt, Assyria, Greece, and
Rome had been by the growth of newer and more
vigorous nations — led the conversation. It concentrated at
last into an examination of the present condition of religious
and scientific opinion in the Christian states of Europe and
America, and a comparison of it with the state of men's
minds when the paganism of Greece and Rome was being
undermined by philosophic scepticism, and finally overthrown
by the new and rising faith of the religion of Jesus
Christ and his apostles Peter and Paul.

They all agreed in tracing many fatal resemblances

poor dreaded to appear to the world as if they were poor,
or to be known by their fellows in their true character ;
and preferred to pass their days in a pitiful masquerade
of false pretence, as if they did not belong to the class in
which the hard necessities of life, and the pressure of
their own overwhelming numbers, had placed them. Imperfect
Science was dethroning perfect Faith, though it
only pierced the thin outer rhine of the great sphere of
knowledge. Love had degenerated into Lust, Hypocrisy
had arrayed itself in the garments of Religion, and paid
it a tribute, not because it believed in Religion, but because
an appearance of Religion was "highly respectable."
The loudly expressed and recorded opinion of the
majority was socially and politically regarded as the voice of
the Almighty. Society and Fashion, however perverse and
foolish they might be in their thoughts and actions, had
become idols, false gods — Fetishes and Mumbo Jumbos —
whom educated and uneducated people agreed to worship,
or, if not to worship, to obey. The ignorant many
tyrannized over the wise few. So shadowy and so flimsy
were the pretensions of the respectable-looking crowds who
frequented the churches and chapels on one day out of

inapplicable to worldly necessities, or impossible of realization
in a wicked world, or as if diabolical hatred in human
government was of greater power and efficacy than Divine
Love.

What would the spirit of the Sphinx say, if the Sphinx
had a spirit and a voice to give it utterance ? " enquired
Saadi Ben Ahmed, turning to Niona.

Niona imagined that the spirit of the Sphinx animated
her as she replied, " It would say, as I say, that all these
symptoms prefigure the inevitable end. After the sickness
that afflicts modern civilization will come dissolution and
death, and after Death the new spiritual Life that will arise
out of its ruins. Science will attain to its utmost possible
and inherently narrow limits, and will strive in vain to overthrow
the Faith that infinitely transcends it, because not
circumscribed by the petty bounds of our perceptions, and by
what we ignorantly call common sense Common sense is
an impostor when it pretends to account for everything, even
in this world, and has not the faintest glimmering of any
other, except when it confesses humbly that other worlds of
body and spirit exist, of which it can know and imagine
nothing. Thus saith the Sphinx, as I sit in its shadow."

Mr. Rameses remained awake and watchful, on a
couch at her bed-side, until the dawn of the next morning,
when she opened her eyes, bright and sparkling as
usual. " Beloved," she whispered, as he bent over her,
'' I am better, though I once thought my last hour in this
world was approaching. But I feel strong again, and know

that I shall not die until I have seen Thebes. Take me
thither, and let your Silver Band make sweet music as
we sail up the holy river to the once holy city."

Thy will shall be done, oh my beloved ! Thy wish shall
be accomplished ; and at Thebes we shall join our hands,
our hearts, and our souls together, in a union more heavenly
than that we effected in London. We shall be made one in
Time and Eternity, at the shrine of the Temple of Isis, by
the light of a fire, kindled direct from the Sun's rays, as was
the practice of your ancestors and mine in that early morning
of all civilization and all religions that have come down
to this dark and misty evening of the world's history."

THE PYRE OF Consecration.

It was not until a week after the conversation between Mr.
Rameses and Xiona, already recorded, that her health was
considered to be so satisfactorily re-established as to permit
her taking with prudence the voyage up the Nile to Thebes.
When all doubt on the subject had disappeared from the
anxious mind of her husband, he engaged the two most
commodious Nile boats that money could procure, and had
them fitted up with all necessary and appropriate luxuries
for the comfort and ease of the travellers. He took care to
provide himself with an abundant supply of sandal wood,
cinnamon wood, and branches and logs of palm, in order to
kindle a fire direct from the Sun's rays in front of the
Temple of Isis — or what remained of it — in honour of his
union with Niona, and as a befitting supplement to the
religious ceremony that had been previously performed in
London, and as a mystic reminder that neither of them
considered the faith of their remote ancestors to be so

devoid of pious significancy as the later civilization of the
world thought and asserted. The deft musicians of the
Silver Band were summoned from the yacht lying before
Alexandria, to accompany the party in one of the dabeeahs,
and to discourse sweet melodies and harmonies on the
voyage of three hundred and fifty miles to the mournful
remains of the once grandest and most sacred city in the
world.

Niona was in a flutter of pleasurable excitement and
expectation. Thebes was her dream by night and her
thought by day, and the strain upon her nervous system was
so great, that it became absolutely necessary, in the opinion
of her husband and all around her, that the visit should
be made as soon as possible, that her mind might be
restored to its usual equanimity. If she could but
have known what the end would be, would she have
clung to her hope so passionately ? Alas ! and thrice Alas !
Could we, any of us, know what sorrows the gratification of
our fondest wishes might bring upon us, or what blessings
might flow from apparently cruel disappointments, we might
learn to look upon the granting of our wishes with fear, and
on our disappointments with hope. We might reflect, if we

were wise, that unkindly Fate might dwell in the bright
sunshine, and kindly comfort rain on us unexpectedly from
the thunder-clouds. Blessed is the veil that in mercy hides
the future from our gaze, and that, if we could lift it, would
in all human probability disclose to us, whoever we may be,
or however highly placed, more sorrows than joys.

Happy are those who cannot see
Through the dark vistas of Futurity,
But happier far who never seek to know
What Heaven in mercy veils from men below,
And oh ! most sad, most miserable lot,
To see the Future though we wish it not.
To read our Fate's enigma in the gloom.
Yet have no cunning to avert the doom ! "

Meanwhile, the veil being withdrawn, the thoughts of
Mr. Rameses, as well as of Saadi Ben Ahmed and Mr.
Melville, were as hopefully and pleasurably bent on the
voyage up the Nile as were those of Niona. The low-lying
shores of the renowned river, with the villages and
groves of palm-trees on either side, offered but few attractions,
either picturesque or historical ; and were it not for
the charms of social intercourse among congenial minds,
varied by the enlivening or soothing music of the Silver
Band, the voyage of three hundred and fifty miles on the
broad bosom of the Father of Waters would have been

wearisome and monotonous. But wearisomeness was not
of their party, and monotony was banished from among
them by the discussions prompted by the overflowing of
the full minds of Mr. Rameses and his friend Saadi Ben
Ahmed, and the sympathetic reception of their converse by
Niona, and the earnest attention of the young secretary,
who was more of a i^oet and a philosopher than he was
yet aware of.

For how many millenniums, I wonder," said Saadi Ben
Ahmed, as the dabeeah breasted the down-pouring current of
the Nile, " have the rains of Central Africa formed and fed
this mighty river, running its daily course, for what we
poor mortals, from want of a better phrase, call ' for ever
and ever,' and how many millenniums has this mighty river
been engaged in depositing its mud and slime and superfluous
earthy spoil on the low-lying shores of the sea into
which it discharges itself, so as to build up, imperceptibly,
century after century, this fertile land of Egypt? And
at what remote period did men first take possession of
the new-made soil, and from whence did they come ? All
history is but a thing of yesterday, full of lies, of fables
and contradictions, and of truths, perhaps, which we do

not know to be truths, and which we lack the power
and the means to test or to investigate."

Such great questions are easy to make, but impossible
to answer," said Mr. Rameses. "The men of to-day
know no more of what happened on their planet a few
thousand years ago, which are but yesterdays in the life of
our perishable earth, than the roses of this morning know
of the roses that flourished in the days of Zoroaster. Our
living generations take small or no heed of the business of
the generations that preceded them, and in their lazy contentedness
with their own ignorance, which they neither
can nor wish to escape, placidly or apathetically accept the
abundant fables, taking no trouble to doubt or even to
laugh at them."

Yes," rejoined Saadi, " our prolific Mother Earth has
produced trees, grasses, flowers, insects, beasts and men
for countless millenniums, and men have produced and
elaborated systems of civilisation for quite as long ; and the
trees, grasses, flowers, insects, beasts, men and systems of
civilization have lived their day and died, to be succeeded
by new ones, of possibly a better species. The civilizations
of China, India, Assyria, Babylon, Phoenicia, Greece and

Rome, were but successors to or inheritors of civilizations
perhaps totally different, either for better or for worse, and
they have all disappeared, leaving no traces of their bygone
existence, except in mysterious monuments, as in the
pyramids of Egypt, the monoliths of Salisbury Plain and
Carnal, or in the equally, or still more, ancient monuments
of Mexico and South America. All of them do nothing but
excite a curiosity which they fail to satisfy."

True," said Niona, who had listened attentively, " and
there were doubtless civilisations which have left no traces
even in enigmatical stone behind them, not even a furrow
on the earth's surface, and that are shut out from human
sight and remembrance beneath the waters of the ocean. I
have not only a faith that the Mediterranean covers with
its indulgent waves the sites of many once mighty
empires in which art, science, philosophy, literature and
religion flourished as luxuriantly as they do now — perhaps
still more beneficially to the races that inhabited them — but
that the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans are the graves of
empires. And if this be true of the past, shall not Europe
and Asia, in the fulness of the time appointed, be engulfed,
as other continents have been, by the irresistible and shifting

sea, and the now-hidden depths again expose to the sun the
long-buried continents of antiquity ? "

"1, too," said Mr. Rameses, "have also dreamed —
imagined, or calculated — that the Equator of our earth was
not always the Equator — the Pole not always the Pole, and
that the earth did not always revolve on the plane of the
Ecliptic. Spirit and matter, or some say Good and Evil —
the Good paramount — form the Universe which has endured
from and will endure to all Eternity. Matter undergoes perpetual
modifications imposed upon it by the life-producing
spirit, whether it manifests itself in the infinitely small, orin
the infinitely great. " Small'" and " great '"' are only words
employed to express ideas that mislead us. Nothing can be
either small or great in the Universal mind of the Creator.
Wonderful alike, if truly considered, is the animated matter
in the body of the minutest animalcule that lives, loves, and
perhaps hates, in a drop of water, or that moves in the
stupendous orbs of Sirius, Arcturus and Aldebaran, or the
possibly still more stupendous orbs that the human eye,
aided by the utmost resources of daily advancing Science,
has never yet seen and never will see."

It was amid the indulgence of thoughts such as these,

that the party, after a journey of five days, arrived
at Thebes, to explore its ruins and contrast the dead
old city with the ever young and living Nile, on whose
banks it once reared its towers and temples in glory
and in majesty. The glory and the majesty and the religion
that produced them have disappeared, but the Nile, fresh
and free, still bears its fruitful waters to lands that without
their help would be as barren as the Sahara ; and a new
swarm of ephemeral humanity, a new religion, and a new
civilisation have taken the place of those which have
perished, only to perish in their turn, whenever the great
Spirit of the Universe shall so determine.

Such were the ideas that occupied the minds of
Mr. Rameses and Saadi Ben Ahmed, as they stepped
on shore to explore the perishing and desecrated
remains of the magnificent Temples of Serapis, Am-Un,
and Isis, that once made Thebes the pride of the Eastern
world.

They had explored the two divisions of the defunct
metropolis of Mizraim, one on each bank of the Nile, before
they had fixed on the site of the Temple of Isis, which
they only suspected, but did not know to be the true one.

from the fragments of once imposing obelisks thrown upon
the ground, and of the rude remains of sculptured sphinxes
which they supposed had originally stood on either side of
the portico. Here, after much deliberation, they had
resolved to kindle the emblematic fire, before which Mr.
Rameses and Niona were to renew their plighted troth, for
life and death, for time and eternity, and sanctify, by the old
faith of their ancestors, the compact into which they had already
entered, and hallowed by the new faith of Christendom.
Neither of them thought the solemn ceremony to be
senseless or nugatory, though it might appear to be so in
the estimation of the fashionable society of London, which
had witnessed and was aware of the previous ceremony
performed in a Christian cathedral with all the pomp and
splendour consistent with the ideas of the times. But to
them it was a new holiness added to the old holiness, which
had gone before ; the flourish to the signature, the setting
to the gem, the crown to the king, which did not make
him a king, but was the emblem of his power, the baptism
of fire, and the seal of the heavenly and eternal upon the
earthly and transitory —

' Love's holy Hame for ever burnet
From Heaven it came, to Heaven returned. '
VOL. II. 34

In all these respects the concluding ceremonial was
satisfactory to their hearts and minds, to their thoughts of
the present, and to their aspirations of the future, and they
never asked themselves whether it were in accord or
discord with the public opinion of their contemporaries.

Having selected the spot for the entanglement of the
pyre of consecration, a few of the willing mariners of the
yacht Niona, the chosen few who formed a portion of the
Silver Band," were employed to convey from the Nile
boat the logs and branches of fragrant wood that had been
obtained at Cairo for the purpose. The pile was arranged
under the direct personal inspection of Mr. Rameses. It
was fully twelve feet in height, and six in diameter at the
base, tapering upwards in pyramidal form, and pointing
spire-like to the clear blue sky. Angus Cameron, a stalwart
Highlander from the Island of Mull in Ross-shire, and a
member of the Silver Band, who in his earlier days had
often assisted at the not wholly obsolete Druidical ceremony
of kindling the Certain fire, on the first morning of May
on the top or slopes of the lordly Ben-More, in his native
island, took a delighted interest in the performance.
Nor did the other members of the Silver Band feel wholly

indifferent to the ceremony, useless as it may have seemed ;
for a bonfire is always attractive to onlookers, and there
is a fascination about the mounting flames which few people,
young or old, are able to resist. Mr. Rameses had provided
himself with a powerful lens, to collect the sun's rays, and
with incense to cast upon the flames, so that nothing was
wanting to the befitting and decorous observance of the rite
on which Mr. Rameses and Niona had set their hearts —
nothing but the much-desired absence of the prowling
Arabs of the desert, who were certain to be attracted to
the spot by the double-edged incentive of greed and
curiosity. This was, however, a matter of easy management
in the hands of Saadi Ben Ahmed, who knew their
ways and spoke their language. He was able without
much difficulty to purchase their withdrawal out of sight
and hearing, by a preliminary payment of backsheesh, and
the payment of a second instalment if they kept to their
bargain, a method of arrangement which had proved
successful with their fellows a few days before in the shadow
of the Sphinx.

Niona grew more excited as the time approached for the
kindling of the mystical "fire of consecration," to which

she looked forward with religious emotion. As she and
Mr. Rameses, accompanied by Saadi Ben Ahmed and Mr.
Melville, proceeded from the Nile boat to the place appointed
for the ceremony, among the ruins of a once
magnificent temple, preceded by the Silver Band, playing
Mendelssohn's " Wedding March " — selected for the
occasion — Mr. Rameses thought that his bride, arrayed
in her bridal robes, wearing a coronet of diamonds
that sparkled through the gauzy web of the white
veil that covered her head and face, had never before
looked so heavenly beautiful. Her eyes seemed, in
the glamour that his passionate love had cast over her, to
glow with a light from the skies that far surpassed in its
intensity the garish lustre of the gems that adorned her
forehead, while her animated countenance suggested the
immortal youthfulness and beauty of Hebe and Euphrosyne,
as represented by the poets and sculptors of Hellas,

On arrival at the yet unkindled pyre, Mr. Rameses,
turning his gaze to the noon-day sun for the short space that
his eyes permitted him, unblinded or dazzled, to do so,
formed a prayer in his silent mind to the ineffable Creator
of the sovereign luminary of the world, that the fire which

he was about to draw from its beams would sanctify the
love between the wedded pair who now stood erect in its
presence, and make it as pure, intense, and eternal as the
light of Heaven. A similar thought or prayer passed
through the mind of Niona as she eagerly watched the
brilliancy which shone in the lens which her husband
steadily directed upon the small heap of stubble and shreds
of perfumed paper which had been placed in contact with
the pyre. In a few minutes the wished-for flame leaped
upon the combustible mass and rapidly mounted amid
the branches and twigs placed to receive it. The
blue smoke clomb and curled in the clear air, and
spread around, as it diffused and ascended, an odour as of
incense in a cathedral.

Niona, as she felt the pressure of her husband's
hand upon her arm, and his kiss upon her lips, as
they stood reverentially before the crackling and ascending
flames, suddenly uttered a sharp cry of either joy
or pain — none could tell which — and fell back senseless
into the arms outstretched in a moment to receive her.
She breathed but one word, heard alone by Mr. Rameses —
the word Love — and, closing her eyes, became unconscious
and helpless.

Saadi Ben Ahmed, who had studied medicine in
his youth, both in India and in Europe, and had a little
medicine case in his pocket, administered such restoratives
as he thought advisable. He endeavoured to feel her
pulse, but it was imperceptible ; put his ear to her heart,
but heard no faintest movement of the mechanism within ;
and shaking his head mournfully, knew that the spirit had
returned to the God who gave it. The over-sensitive
Niona had expired of strong mental excitement, acting upon
a weakened frame. The body was tenderly and sorrowfully
borne by the awe-stricken mariners of the Silver Band to
the Nile barge, which had brought them so joyously and
hopefully to the fatal ruins of Thebes, so sacred to the
heart of the living Niona, and so more than sacred to the
heart and soul of her afflicted husband. The return to
Cairo was immediately commenced. The body was laid
reverently in the cabin of the dabeeah, which none
presumed to enter, except Mr. Rameses, who sat silently by
the side of the lovely corpse — lovelier even in death than it
had been in life — and refused all comfort, all sustenance,
all sleep both by night and by day. On arrival at Cairo,
the body was embalmed, placed in a sumptuous sarcophagus,

preparatory to its final interment in a mausoleum at Thebes,
which Mr. Rameses had determined to erect, under which
she and he should lie side by side together.

The tale is told. Mr. Rameses was stunned, but not
vanquished ; reconciled to live on because Destiny had so
willed it ; reconciled to a further term of earthly existence,
but not in love with it ; ready for death and
hopeful of its coming, that it might open the glorious
gate through which his spirit would pass into a higher,
holier and happier state of being, in which he and his
soul's partner should be united in perfect and eternal

beatitude.

*****

It is only necessary to record, in conclusion of the story,
that Mr. Rameses, after this heavy blow, lost the little love
that he had ever felt for the enormous wealth he had
inherited, and that he resolved to distribute it while he
yet lived, instead of bequeathing it by will after his death,
for the fulfilment of purposes on which his heart was set.
He bestowed munificent gifts upon his dearest friends,
amongst whom Mr. De Vere held the foremost place, Saadi
Ben Ahmed the second, his brother-in-law. Sir Hector, the

third, and his young secretary and disciple, Mr. Melville,
the last — besides devoting large sums to the endowment of
charitable and educational institutions in India, Egypt and
England. He applied the remnant to the erection of a
magnificent mausoleum at Thebes, on the site of the *' fire
of consecration," whence the beautiful spirit of Niona had
taken its last flight from its mortal habitation, resolving
that the edifice should rival the renowned Taj Mabel in
splendour and costliness, if money, skill and architectural
genius could accomplish the feat. He has wholly disappeared
from London life, is sometimes a quiet guest of Mr.
De Vere at the Rookery, but passes most of his time in
Egypt, with his friend, Saadi Ben Ahmed, engaged in the
necessary preparations and plans for the great mausoleum
that, in the fulness of time, is destined to receive his
mortal remains, to rest alongside those of his beloved
Niona.

THE END.

^

J^«

^M^

^m.

?^«^l^

^^^^4r''-^

Ml

0112 049772673
