4:f 'i-x^'-it ii

fi^^

> ^f/^

1-v,

OF THE

NINETEENTH CENTURY

VOL. I.

Three vols.

THE CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET. By

Walter Besant and James Rice. Three vols.

'MY LOVE!' By E. Lynn Linton. Three

vols.

FROM EXILE. By James Payn. Thre

vols.

A VILLAGE COMMUNE. ByOuiDA. Two

vols.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

of tu

NINETEENTH CENTURY

BY

W. H. Matlock

AUTHOR OF THE NEW REPUBLIC ETC.

'DEFECERUNT Scull MEI IN Salutary TUUM '

IN TWO VOLUMES— VOL. L

CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY



\^Ali rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

r

r

BOOK I

"? VOL. I. B

CHAPTER I.

HE talents, the family, and the fortune
of Ralph Vernon were all
quite distinguished enough to
make it worth the world's while to attend
to him ; and the result was that he was at
once condemned and courted. This was
not perhaps a matter that it is very
hard to account for. His manners and his
amusements led him to consort with the
careless, whilst his deeper interests were
really those of the serious ; and thus, let
him be in what society he would, he was
always in a moral sense more or less an

B 2

outsider. He had little of the gay good-fellowship
which is the virtue most prized by
the pleasure-seekers ; he was on the surface
far too much of a pleasure-seeker not to
irritate those who are busied with thoughts
of duty : and his faults, actual or imputed,
when they came to the general ear, repelled
the one class without attracting the other.

It was supposed that he had trifled with
the affections of numerous women ; it was
supposed that he had wasted any amount of
talent ; it was supposed that, from knowledge
or want of knowledge, he was without any
kind of Christianity, and that, from want of
earnestness, he was quite unmoved by its
substitutes ; he was supposed to have many
friends warmly attached to him, and to be
himself incapable of any warm attachment.
And this marked want in him of all that is
thought most lovable was made more marked
still by his singular charm of manner, which,

for the time being, was certain to win everyone.
Such was the general Impression of
him, which, whether true or no, was at all
events not groundless ; and there was many
a mother in London of the best and purest
type who thought his character so cold, so
unprincipled, and so repulsive, that he could
atone for it only by becoming her daughter's
husband.

The number of these mothers was at last
reduced to one. Ralph Vernon became engaged
to be married. Theyf<i:;^r<^<? was young,
clever, beautiful, and deeply attached to him ;
nor in the case of most men would the event
have seemed unnatural. But the general
sentiment with regard to Vernon was merely
wonder as to what could be here his motive :
for most of the world thought what a rough-tongued
cousin of his said, ' You may see med
— d if Ralph's ever In love with any one.'
Let his motive, however, be what it might,

his engagement caused, or was caused by, a
very visible change in him. All of a sudden
he seemed to become serious ; and for many
months one might have thought him a new-man.
The father of the bride-elect was at
the time absent in Afghanistan, and the
marriage was put off till his return the following
year. Vernon, meanwhile, said good-bye
to his idleness ; he was even not liberal in
the days he allowed for love-making. He
devoted himself instead to his various county
duties ; he studied such subjects as education
and pauperism ; he projected the building of
schools and cottages ; and he tried to become
acquainted with the great mass of his
tenantry Finally, when in 1880, came the
renowned general election, he stood in the
Conservative interest for his own division of
the county, and lost the battle by less thana
dozen votes.

This sudden devotion to public affairs.

however, was not construed altogether to his
advantage. It was supposed to argue lukewarm
ness in love, rather than zeal in politics ;
nor was the rumour at all wondered at that
the lady took the same view of it. Vernon,
it was said on all sides, was not behaving
"well ; It was added by many that he wished
to back out of his engagement ; and the
latter opinion was certainly confirmed by
the sequel. In due time the lady's father
returned, and the various legal preliminaries
where at once to be got over. What, then,
were the feelings of all who heard it when
Vernon insisted, as one condition of his
marriage, that any children that might result
from it should be brought up as Catholics !
The father and the family of \}^^ france were
all fiercely Protestant ; and this move of
Vernon's made an end of the whole matter.
The rupture was abrupt and painful ; and he
was himself severely criticised. That he had

any interest in religion was what nobody
gave him credit for ; and he was supposed,
in this case, to have used it as a last excuse
in his desperation.

His conduct directly afterwards did not
disarm the censorious. He was soon reported
to have formed another intimacy, and to
have given another lady a strong sentimental
claim on him. Then, the report went on,
he had repeated his former conduct, though
this time perhaps more judiciously. There
had been no formal engagement, the world
supposed ; there had been no need, therefore,
for any definite subterfuge. A simpler expedient
had been quite sufficient : he had
buried himself somewhere in some retreat on
the Continent. This second drama had been
of a strictly private character ; but there are
acute observers who can pierce through any
privacy ; and the comments made on it were
not of a friendly nature. Indeed, when the

news was known that after all his misdemeanours
Vernon was enjoying himself ina
charming Provencal villa, surrounded by
books, and supplied with a first-class chief, one
of the keenest and most discriminating of all
his feminine acquaintances was at last tempted
to speak of him as a voluptuary of the very
worst species.

In spite, however, of every ill report,
there were a certain number who always
stood up for him, and who maintained stoutly
that there were two sides to his character.
They could not deny that what the world
said was true of him ; they declared only
that it was not the whole truth. There was
one of these in especial — Alic Campbell
by name — who looked upon Vernon as the
best friend he had, and who knew much of
his inner history that was quite hidden from
others. When Vernon went abroad, he had
begged Campbell to go with him ; but

Campbell for certain reasons had felt constrained
to refuse. Vernon had written from
Paris to him, to renew his entreaties, but
without the desired result. About a fortnight
later he returned to the charge once
more.

CHAPTER II,

Y dear Allcc,' he wrote, ' I am at
last settled ; and I will now take
no denial. You must and you
shall join me. Could you only see where
I am, I should have no need to implore
you ; you would come Instantly, and come
of your oven accord. As it is, I can only
trust to vaulting ; but you surely will not
refuse me. Come to me do, if for no more
than a week or two, and share with me this
beautiful Southern solitude. Share my villa
with its cool portico — a villa just large enough
for two children of Epicurus. Share my

garden with its myrtles, and its oranges, and
the softly swaying gold of its great mimosa-trees.
Yes, I am here in the South and the
clear sunshine ; and I am not, as you prophesied
and as half my heart urged me, in
any of the winter haunts of English fashion
and frivolity ; but I am embowered safely by
myself on the greenest of all the promontories
that Europe juts into the Mediterranean. I
am settled at the Cap de Juan. I have,
indeed, chosen a lovely spot, and already I
love it tenderly. All day long, through the
leaves of my dark evergreens, and through
arched bowery openings, the sea shines and
sparkles. You and I may change and grow
weary ; and we have both had much to weary
us. But this bluest of blue seas seems to be
always one-and-twenty; and as I breathe its
breath, full of eternal freshness, the thrill and
the dreams of youth once more revive in me.
And ah, the view! In a vast majestic

crescent the French coast of mountains
curves away towards Italy, with its succession
of pearl-grey headlands dying faintly
and far off Into the distance. Midway, about
ten miles from here as a boat sails, a line of
milk-white houses, Nice lies along the sealevel.
Range upon range is piled up behind
It, blue with far-off haze, or green with nearer
olive-woods ; and bright over all, like the hills
of another world, are the jagged Alpine
summits with their white snows glittering.
All day long the lights and the tints vary.
New mists form and melt upon the mountains
; the sea changes from one glow to
another. The wave-worn sea-rock, pierced
with its clear shadows, has always new hues
and aspects ; so have the silver gleams that
sleep In the spreading stone-pines. The
whole face of Nature is like the face of a
living thing. It Is the face of a Cleopatra.

Age cannot wither it, nor custom stale
Its infinite variety.

*Alic — you who are coughing, sneezing,
and blowing your nose In England — will not
this tempt you ? Your first Impulse will be,
I know, to refuse me. You are not In spirits,
you will say, for the sunshine ; you have no
energy left to make any exertion. I am quite
familiar with the mood of mind you are In.
You are like a man who is sea-sick at the
extreme end of a steamer, and who yet will
not move himself to make his way to the
middle. You are arguing to yourself with
the unique logic of grief, *' I am comfortless,
and therefore nothing shall comfort me." Let
me try to move you to a brighter and a
healthier mind.

You are wretched, you tell me, because
you want to marry a certain person, and because
you find that, though she loves you asa
friend, she will never love you but as a
friend only. Now, I am going to speak very
gently to you, and yet I hope convincingly.

I-am not going to tell you any such idle lies
as that your loss is a trifling one. I am not
going to tell you that it is an atom less than
you feel it to be ; and you would, I think,
injure your character by trying to undervalue
it. No ; I will not tell you to undervalue
your loss. I will only show you — a thing
you have quite forgotten — how to value your
gain. Perhaps you will say I am not in a
position to do so, for in some ways certainly
you have been somewhat reticent. You have
told me much about your own feelings, about
your own devotion, and about the moral result
that all this has had on you. But about
the object of these feelings you have told mee
little. I know neither how you met her nor
how you wooed her ; nor anything about her
character, except that her ways are simple.
You have not told me even her name. But
I don't think this matters. Let the difference
between our two situations be what it may,

your case in many ways has been also mine ;
and I am going now to speak from my own
experience.

I, as you know well, was not long since
to have married ; and during a good year's
novitiate I was preparing my whole being for
its solemn new condition. My character
during that period underwent a profound
change. My bright-coloured hopes and purposes
lost their airy wings. They fell to the
solid earth, and found for themselves plodding
feet. I felt I was no longer my own. My
life was owed to another ; and for the first
time there dawned on me the true sense of
responsibility. But circumstances combined
to make my marriage impossible ; and after
I had already learned to mentally mix my life
with another's, our two lives were again made
separate. When first I realised this, it was
like waking out of a dream. I was conscious
of a loneliness I had never known before ;

and even now, with my shattered marriage
prospects, my manhood seems to He In ashes
about me. But what do I find has happened ?
Something glad, strange, and altogether unlooked
for. Out of the ashes of my manhood
has re-arisen my youth — my youth, which I
thought I had said good-bye to for eternity ;
and the divine child has again run to meet
me with its eyes bright as ever, and vrith the
summer wind in its hair. The sun has gone
back for me on the dial. I am three years
younger again. The skies seem to have grown
bluer, and m}^ step more elastic. Once more
free and unfettered, I feel sometimes as if I
were walking on air; and I have the delicious
sense of having lost a burden, even though I
may have lost a treasure as well.

You will see my meaning better when I
go on to tell you that, though I have recovered
the buoyancy of youth, I have by no
means recovered its ignorance. I still retain

VOL. I. C

a certain salvage of wisdom, sad and bitter
enough in some ways, and yet good for men
like us two to remember. It is this — listen
patiently. There is nothing in the world so
intensely selfish as a woman's deep affection ;
and the stronger and more single-hearted it
is, the greater becomes its selfishness. A
man's passion is generous when compared
with a woman's love. A man's passion, at
its worst, lasts but a short time ; even while
it lasts, its demands are limited ; and, what is
more than this, a good man will restrain it.
But the truer and more sensitive a woman Is,
the more thoroughly will she let her love
master her ; the less effort will she make to
retain the least control of it.

And what a master it is ! Its jealousy
is cruel as the grave, and its demands know
no limits but the imagination of her that
makes them. A woman who loves thus is
not content with the chastest bodily constancy

; she is not content even with the
constancy of an undivided tenderness. These
she takes for granted : they are not the
things she craves for. What she craves for
is the constancy of your whole thought and
intellect. You are to have nothing in your
mind that you do not confide to her ; you are
to stifle every interest with which she cannot
be associated. If you want any mental help,
it is she alone who must help you ; and she
had sooner you were helped ill by her than
well by another person. She will be as
jealous of your friendships as she is of your
affections, and as jealous of your thoughts
and tastes as she is of your friendships. She
cannot patiently conceive of3'ou as in relation
to anything excepting herself. She desires
to absorb your whole life Into hers ; and the
larger part of it, which she naturally cannot
absorb, she desires to see perish. Her
pleading, earnest eyes will be for ever saying

to you, " Entreat me not to leave thee.
Where thou goes I will go ; and go not thou,
my love, whither I cannot follow thee."

What ! — with all the world of thought
and imagination before us, are men such as
we are to be tied and bound like this ? For
my part, the wings of my spirit seem to have
all the winds in them ; and I have a heart
sometimes likes a hawk's or a wild sea-gull's.
It is not a heart that is hard, or that does
not soften to companionship. I could often
perch tenderly upon some beloved shoulder,
and bend my head to listen to words of
tenderness. But if the hand that I trusted
but once closed to lay hold of me — dared,
from love, to use the least pressure to keep
me — I should start and struggle, and feel I
had suffered treachery. I will stoop my
neck myself ; but no one else shall ever draw
it an inch downwards. Why do we want
companionship ? What is a man's need for it ?

Were my life really a bird's, I would gladly
have a she-bird to fly with me ; but I would
have her only because we were bound both
of us independently for the same resting-place.
That and that alone should be the fatherless
fetter we were united by. But a woman who
loves deeply will never love like this. She
has no wish to be your companion on these
terms. It is not the common end that she
cares for, but the united struggle ; and she
reveres her wish to soar, chiefly because it is
an excuse for clinging to you. Thus, on the
same principle, she will go nowhere in the
mental world herself unless you are there to
support her. She thinks it a kind of treason
to you to try and walk independently. She
cultivates her weakness, that she may be
always trusting to your strength ; and though
her weight might be dragging you to the
ground, she would never think of It, never
see it, but if possible she would only lean the

heavier. Was ever selfishness so pitiless and
intense as this ? And yet, by a strange
magic, It looks so like self-devotion, that a
man, if he be not a brute, can hardly fail to
be crushed by It. Such love, Alic, may be a
thing that suits some temperaments, but
surely neither yours nor mine.

And now I am once more my own. Ah,
the sweetness and rest of this serene self-possession
! But lately I felt, when I was
looking even at the sea or the mountains,
that I was not permitted to love them. The
shadow of another would always seem to
cleave to me and claim me ; and I could no
longer let my spirit, as I used to do, go
floating on the lonely waters. But now I
can look everywhere without fear. I can say
to the sea, when It makes me In love with
loneliness, " I violate no allegiance due to
any companionship." I can say the same to
the forest, when its leafy smells woo me, and

the murmur of its brown branches. I can
say the same in society, when bright eyes
and altering voices stimulate me, and I feel
that many women are far better than one.
Then, too — though I will not dwell upon this
here — were there a God to turn to, I could
turn to Him in solitude. And now in the
morning, as I awaken, I often turn to my
pillow, and kiss it, and say, ''No head but
mine can ever dare to press you." All the
walls of my bedroom seem to smile kindly
and quietly on me. By my bedside I see my
dear companions, my books — so varied and
so unobtrusive — that will themselves tell me
all they can, and will ask for no confidence in
return ; and there, too, I see my letters,
which have now the new charm for me, that
no one but myself will ever want to open
them.

Yes ; I have learned the truest secret of
Epicurus, that the friendship of a man is

more than the love of a woman. Friendship
is always a free gift ; and It is always given
readily because It Is never owed. Love, too,
begins as a gift"; but a loving woman will
never leave it so. Before you know it, she
will have turned it into a debt ; and the
more she loves the debtor, the more oppressively
will she extort the utmost farthing
from him. But between friends, Allcc, the
intercourse Is always free. I could have no
thought that it would be treason to conceal
from you. I could form no ties or friendships
that would do you any wrong. And
yet — if I may alter Shakespeare In a single
word —

And yet, by heaven, I hold ray friend as rare
As any she belied by false compare,

Come, then, and lay all this to your
heart ; for your heart, I know, will assent to
its truth as mine does. Marriage would suit
you no better than me. It allured me first

with its many pleasing promises ; and in the
same way it is now alluring you. It can give
much to numbers ; I do not deny that for a
moment ; but neither you nor I were made
for it. In missing it, as I have said before,
you are no doubt a loser ; but my advice to
you is, do not brood over the loss ; think of
the gain, for the gain is far greater. Recall
your imagination from the solace you would
have had in marriage, and dwell on the joys
and the freedom that you keep because you
are sin!2:le.

Freedom — yes, you have that still. You
have not the caprices of any one else to bind
you. ]\Iy dear Alic, think of sour priceless
freedom ! I say think of it ; but I want you
to use it also. I want you to come to me,
away from your frosty England, and let me
see the Southern sunlight laughing in your
glad grey eyes. If you will, all my house shall
welcome you. I\Iy champagne is excellent ;

my cigars and cigarettes are excellent — I had
them all sent from London ; and my bookcases
are well stored with poets, and with your own
philosophers. At the end of one of my walks
is a certain marble seat. You look straight
down at the sea from It, and it Is overarched
with myrtles. There Is a perfect wilderness
of green shade behind It ; and in the midst of
this, like an enchanted lamp, Is a great
camellia tree, burning with scarlet blossoms.
Close at hand there is a little table, just fit to
support a bottle of Burgundy, and a quaint
old glass goblet for each of us. It is an
entrancing place. It Is a bower after your
own heart. And there we might sit together,
in the calm, delicious mornings, talking or
silent, just as the mood prompted us. Sometimes
we might quote to each other our
favourite poets ; sometimes we might solve
again the old insoluble questions we have so
often discussed before, and which are still

eating my life out ; sometimes we might watch
in quiet the waves and the rocks before us,
and often, too, some gay, bright-coloured ,
floating lonely with its white plume
of a sail, and its brown fisher at the stern
bending over his own reflection. Yes, Alic,
if you will only come out to me, we will contrive
to elude the Furies. We will look into
life together more clearly than we used to do ;
but it shall be a personal oppression to us
no more than it used to be. We will only
enter here on a new phase of youth. We
will have free, cloudless days, and nights of
moonlight. We will drive, and ride, and sail,
and explore the whole country. We will
know the folds of the hills grey with olive-trees
; we will listen to the sound of mule-bells
; we will see how the middle-age lingers
in the wild hill-villages. Then, too, my own
immediate neighbourhood — that is delightful
also. The whole of my green peninsula is an

Eden of woods and gardens ; and the life
that surrounds you there is like a living idyll.
Old brown crones crouching under the olive-trees,
the peasant proprietor tilling his small
field, the neatly dressed nursery-gardener
surveying his glass frames, the retired
domestic tradesman smiling over the gate of
his little villa-garden — these are the living
images that surround one, and that give to
one's thoughts such a quaint, delightful setting.
A strange mixture, too, on all sides
touches one of homely plenty and of wild
luxuriance. Cabbages and palm-trees grow
in the same enclosure. Between beds of
kitchen stuff are strips starred with anemones,
and pink almond-blossoms tremble among the
apple-trees.

*Ah, my old companion, will not these
pleasures move you ? Write, write to me
quickly, and say they will. Only in that case
I have something further to tell you. If you

would enjoy the seclusion I have described
to you, you must come and enjoy it speedily :
and for this reason. On one side of me
is a beautiful marble villa, with immense
gardens and long winding walks ; and on the
other side, with immense gardens also, is a
large disused hotel, whose proprietors last
year were bankrupt. It is built like an old
chateau. It has quaint vanes on the gables ;
and flights of marble steps lead up to the
doors and windows. It is just at the cape's
point ; and its domain of gardens, with their
long walks and terraces, and their arches of
trellised roses, are bounded on three sides b}^
the sea. Those gardens, silent and lifeless,
not a soul but the gardeners now walks in
them — the gardeners and myself, and, who
should you think besides '^. Poor Frederic
Stanley — the cleverest of our Oxford idlers ;
who, since we knew him, has been first a
guardsman, and is now a Catholic priest

How time does change some men ! Stanley
here for his health : he Is broken down
with work. He looks, I fancy, rather askance
at me ; but we have often little reserved
conversations together.

However I am wandering from the point.
What I want to tell you is this. Up till now
the hotel and the villa have been alike
tenantless, and I have been able to use both
gardens as my own ; but that happy period
is now drawing fast to a close. Some
English people, whose names I do not know,
though no doubt I shall soon make their
acquaintance, are coming, or perhaps have
already come, to the villa. And as to the
hotel, what do you think has happened ?
Our friend the Duchess has taken it — it is
still furnished — for the whole of next month,
and Intends having a large party there. So
you see that very soon I shall be saying
good-bye to solitude. This last piece of news

I have only this instant learned, and from the
Duchess herself. I can't exactly say if I am
glad or sorry. I shall have at all events a
very enlivening neighbour ; and her company
always charms me. It is not the charm now,
as it must once have been, of beauty and
sentiment. It is what at fifty supplies their
place, and rivals them ; it is the charm
of mundane humour. This bright, gay
humour of feminine middle-age, it always
seems to me, is a very rare gift. It is a
highly artificial product, and is almost
peculiar, I think, to one class of society. It
requires to develop it a combination of two
things in the past — the susceptibilities of the
world of romance, and the indulgence of
them in the word of fashion. However, be
our friend s charm what it will, I am at this
moment going to enjoy it ; as in another five
minutes I shall be at dinner with her.

And this at last brings me to a con

session which \vill amuse you. Where do
you think I am writing you this letter? Not
in my philosophic garden, not in my quiet
study. All about me is gas-light and gilding,
and a murmur of garish life. The figures
surrounding me are gamblers and Parisian
cocottes ; and I am breathing, not the scent of
the sea or of flowers, but of patchouli and
faint stale cigarette smoke. I am in the
reading-room at Monte Carlo. I drove over
here this morning — or rather, my coachman
drove me — partly to try a new pair of horses,
and party for the sake of the starlight drive
back again. The Duchess is staying for a
day or two at the hotel attached to the
rambling-rooms, and it seems she has a little
dinner party every night in the restaurant.
To-night the Grantlyss are coming. You
remember Grantly at Oxford ? He is now
in the First Life Guards ; and his wife is a
lovely American, whose face is even prettier

than her dresses, and, if possible, even more
changing.

'A propos of the women here, there is
one on the sofa opposite me, who is really
divinely lovely. Whenever I look up from
my writing, I am met by her soft large eyes,
half sad and half voluptuous in their tenderness.
She is as different from the Avoient
near her as day from night, or rather as the
stars from gas-light. She is one of the fallen ;
I fear there can be no doubt about that ; but
refinement — even a sort of nobleness — can
outlive virtue. There is not a touch of paint
on her ; and her dress, which fits her perfectly,
is strangely simple. If I have any
skill in reading the looks of women, there is
something of a higher life yet lingering in
that soft, pleading face, that she half hides
from me bv her arose crimson fan. Some
women have a glance that makes me long to

VOL. I. D

talk to them, just as clear sea-water makes
me long to plunge in it.

Write to me soon. I am obliged to stop
now.

By the way, besides the Grantlyss, there
is another guest expected, who is to me more
Interesting. I mean Lord Surbiton. He
was the first man of letters I ever knew ; and
when I was seventeen, he seemed to me little
short of a sod.

Good-bye ; I must be going. My fair
one is rising too.'

CHAPTER III.

HE Duchess's stately figure was
familiar at ]\Ionte Carlo, and many
an e}'e followed her as she entered
the gorgeous restaurant.

Garcon,' she said, as she took her seat
at the large table reserved for her, ' Pompey
et gi^eno, extra sec — the last champagne on the
wine list. You must put three bottles in ice
instantly, for in five minutes we shall be quite
ready for dinner. And — wait, wait a moment,
man, for I have not done speaking to }-ou —
we are not going to pay thirty-six francs
again for a single dish of asparagus ; so you

will perhaps have the goodness to recollect
that. And you must lay another place if you
please, as we shall be five dining this evening
instead of four.'

Captain and Mrs. Grantly appeared
almost immediately, and with them was an
elderly man in close attendance on the latter.
The young guardsman and his wife were a
very characteristic couple, and looked like a
bright embodiment of the spirit of modern
London. The appearance of their companion
was very different. His dress was
too showy for what is now correct taste, and
his jewelled scarf-pin and sleeve-links were
both of enormous size. But on him these
splendours seemed to lose half their offensiveness.
They were plainly the fashion of a
past generation, not the vulgarities of the
present one : they even heightened by contrast
the strange effect of his face, with its
worn weary cheeks, and his keen glance like

an eagle's. This was none other than the
renowned Lord Surblton — the poet, diplomat,
and dandy who had charmed the last
generation.

The whole party had been winning largely
at the tables, and their spirits were quite in
keeping with the glittering scene around
them. The crowd which filled the restaurant
was to-night even more gay than usual. All
the men were at least dressed like gentlemen,
and most of the women were far more
splendid than ladies. Fashionable exiles
from the English world of fashion were
detected in numbers by the amused eyes of the
Duchess ; and with them the fair companions
who had caused their exile or were sharing It.
It was said even that royalty was not absent,
and that there thus was a divine element
unrecognised in the midst of the human.
Everywhere there was a flashing of restless
eyes and diamonds ; furred and embroidered

opera-cloaks were being disposed of over the
backs of chairs ; long gloves were being
unbuttoned and drawn off; and white hands,
dancing with rings, were composing deranged
tresses. Above was the arched ceiling glowing
with gold and pictures ; and the walls,
florid with ornament, returned every shaft of
lamplight from the depths of immense mirrors,
or the limbs of naked goddesses.

Now, this,' said the Duchess, * is exactly
Avhat I enjoy : charming company, a charming
scene before one, and — let me tell you
all, for I myself ordered it — a really excellent
dinner. However,' she went on, as she
unfolded her napkin, and looked with a slow
smile at the menu, ' we must be temperate in
the midst of plenty ; for remember, Mrs.
Grantly, you and I and your husband are to
go back to the tables again for one half-hour
afterwards — only one half-hour, mind ; and
then, as Lord Surbiton suggests — he is always,

as we all know, poetical — we will have our
coffee outside, and compose our feelings
under the stars of heaven.'

What ! ' said Mrs. Grantly, ' and is Lord
Surblton not coming: back to the rooms with

us ?

Not he,' said the Duchess. * He's not
half a man at gambling. I don't think your
poets ever are. But where,' she exclaimed
presently, as she save' that a chair was vacant,
where is mr. Vernon ? Has any one seen
our 'Mr. Ralph vernon ? We can't possibly
get on without our one unmarried young
man ; though, to say the truth, till this moment
I had quite forgotten to miss him.'

j\Ir. Vernon ! ' echoed Mrs. Grantly with
a laugh. ' I'd advise you. Duchess, not to
count upon him. I saw him on the hotel
steps only ten minutes ago, and what do you
think he was doing ? Why, he was talking to
that beautiful creature we were all admiring

at the tables — the woman with the red fan
and the long dark eyelashes. I don't know
what she was saying, I'm sure, but she had
her hand on his arm, and he was bending
down to her

Oh, ho ' began the Duchess, with a

soft low laugh. But Lord Surbiton interrupted
her.

Vernon ! ' he said ; * can this be the
Ralph Vernon that I once knew, some thirteen
years ago — a dreamy eager boy, who
used to come and show me his poetry ? '

To be sure it is,' said the Duchess.
Poetry, painting, and heaven knows what
else — I believe he has tried all of it.'

Ah !' said Lord Surbiton ; ' I once had
great hopes of him. I once thought he was
signed with the veritable sign of genius.'

*Well,' replied the Duchess, 'and he is
very clever, I believe.'

Men who are clever,' said Lord Surbiton

solemnly, ' we can count by millions : men
with genius we count by units. As for Vernon,
his early verses were beautiful, in spite
of their crude language. They had the same
charm in them that his ideal eyes had — little
of the gladness of youth, but all its sweetness
and its hunger.'

It seems,' said the Duchess, ' that this is
a young man who is very much to be envied ;
for in addition to all these charms, he has two
others that women think irresistible — a fortune
and a history.'

Yes,' said Lord Surbiton, with a wave
of his jewelled hand ; ' women are always
attracted by a man with a history, because it
always means that he is to be either blamed
or pitied.'

And what,' said Mrs. Grantly, ' may Mr.
Vernon's history be ? '

Ah ! ' said the Duchess, * that's just what
we don't know, and that's the very reason

why we find It so interesting. Never be too
curious, my dear, about a friend's history ;
and then you can always stick up for him
with a clear conscience.'

Look ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Grantly, ' here
the charmer comes. I only hope he won't
be trying all his fascinations on me.'

Vernon was full of regrets for being behind
his time ; but these he discovered were
met with nothing but laughter. Mrs. Grantly
assured him at once that they knew all about
him and his doings. ' And this Is the man,'
she went on — ' now, I ask you all to look at
him — who says he has come abroad for the
sake of philosophic solitude ! '

And why not ? ' said Vernon ; ' I think
I am quite consistent. Solitude Is my wife,
and society Is my mistress ; and I like to live
with the one, and be always intriguing with
the other.'

Well,' exclaimed Mrs. Grantly, * since

we are your society for the moment, our collective
place in your heart is, I must say, not
very honourable.'

Never mind about that,' said the
Duchess. ' What my suspicions rest upon is
Mr. Vernon's solitude — that retiring villa of
his at the Cap de Juan : especially now we
hear all this about red fans, an whisperings,
and hotel door-steps, and long eyelashes.'

My attentions on the door-step,' said
Vernon, * were of the strictly Platonic order.
There is something rather touching in that
woman, when one comes to talk to her.'

Very likely,' said Captain Grantly drily ;
there always Is. Touching is the exact word
for it. And what's her rank, Vernon ? Is
she a princess or a duchess ? '

If she's a princess,' said Vernon, ' she
must have lost her principality ; for she was
dreadfully in want of a thousand francs to
gamble with.'

Very likely,' said Captain Gravity ; * they
all are.'

The Duchess, meanwhile, was surveying
the motley scene before her. ' I confess,' she
said with a soft smile of amusement, ' this is
hardly the place one would come to if one
were in search of Platonic attachments.
Now, look round, all of you, and take stock
of the company. There are plenty of men
one knows — of course, one expects that ; but
the women with them — did you ever see anything
like it ? Come, Mr. Vernon, you
understand these things. Just observe the
couple behind you — they can't talk English,
so we needn't mind discussing them — are
they man and wife, do you think ? Or that
fine lady, with the hair sprinkled with gold-dust,
whom Lord Surbiton seems to admire
so — what relation should you say she was to
the old Jew she is dining with ? Upon my
word, Mrs. Grantly,' she added presently, ' I

don't believe that, our two selves excepted,
there's a single woman here you could possibly
call respectable.'

That's the very reason,' said ]Mrs.
Grantly, ' why I like being here so much.
It makes me feel like an ano^el. But talking
angels, there goes a genuine one, if you
like, for you ; there goes Colonel Stapleton.
Oh my ! and isn't he grown fat and ugly !
You'd never have thought — would you ? —
that that man was once the best dancer in
London. And, Duchess,' she went on, ' I
hope you admire the big checks on his coat.
'Twould take four of him, I guess, to play
one game of chess upon.'

Colonel Stapleton was a florid man of it
might be five-and-forty. Despite his inclination
to stoutness, he held himself well and
gracefully, and had an air about him of
dissolute good-breeding. He had one other
charm, too, of which Vernon was at once

made sensible — a taking and very musical
voice, which, as he stopped for a moment to
speak to a friend dining, could be heard
distinctly at the Duchess's table. * The one
with the red fan ? ' he was saying gaily ;
yes, she, if you like it, is a regular out-and-outer.
She's down here, so she tells me, with
some fellow who belongs to the " Figaro." '

Vernon and Captain Grantly both overheard
this. The former was somewhat
annoyed, and the latter amused at it, though
he was at the same time frowning over his
wife's late observations. * Poor old Jack
Stapleton ! ' he said ; ' Jessie can't bear him,
though I'm sure I don't know why. He's as
good-hearted a fellow as ever lived, and is
nobody's enemy but his own.'

To be sure,' said the Duchess. * We all
of us know Jack Stapleton. If he was a
little bit thinner, your wife would be only too
delighted with him.'

Mrs. Grantly, however, was by no means
silenced.

Look at his back,' she said, ' as he's
sitting down to his dinner. Isn't selfishness
written In every curve of It ? The way ' — she
went on, as she leant over to the Duchess —

the way that man behaved to a young girl
I know Is something more than words can
describe to you.'

Jessie ! ' exclaimed her husband sharply,
as If determined to change the subject, ' look
behind you for a minute. There's the old
hag — don't you see her ? — who tried to collar
your money this afternoon at the tables. It's
worth while watching her just to see how
she claws her wine-glass.'

I hadn't observed her,' said the Duchess.

Well, she at any rate has no compromising
diamonds, and no wicked Lothario to attend
to her

Mrs. Grantly's eye lit up with a sudden

laughter. * Lord Surbiton/ she said, as she
touched his arm with her fan, and pointed
out the old woman in question, * I guess I
can show you one virtuous woman here.
Her morals, I am sure, are strictly unimpeachable.
I'll lay you six to one on them
in black-silk stockings.*

Lord Surbiton eyed Mrs. Grantly with
a look of somewhat sinister gallantry. ' If
your feet and ankles,' he said, ' are as lovely
as your hands and wrists, I shall proudly pay
the bet, even if I have the sad fortune to
win it'

In that case,' said Mrs. Grantly drily,
I shall ask you to make your bets with my
husband. If you will do so with him on the
same principle next Ascot, we shall still
manage, perhaps, to keep out of the workhouse.'


Mrs. Grantly, though she said what she
chose herself, could always hold her own to

perfection ; and Lord Surbiton's gaze v\'as
now at once withdrawn from her. But a few
minutes afterwards, when he again turned to
her, there was a change in his whole expression
that she was not prepared for. His
worn face, as a friend had once observed of
him, was like a battered stage on which the
scenery was always shifting ; and it now had
a strange appearance, as of some ruinous
transformation-effect. Every trace of its late
look had gone from it : it gleamed, instead,
with a grave uncertain tenderness, like a light
from a lost boyhood ; and even his artificial
manner when he spoke did not destroy the
impression.

You have shown me,' he said, ' one
virtuous woman. Let me now show you
another. Do you see the two who have this
moment entered ? '

The eyes of all the party were turned in

VOL. I. E

the same direction. There was no mistaking*
for an Instant who It was that had attracted
him. Standing close to the door, and looking
about her in some uncertainty, was a tall
English girl. In company of an elder lady.,
The two had apparently come there to dine,
and, being strange to the place, did not know
where to bestow themselves. The crlrl's
hesitation, however, could scarcely be called
embarrassment. The scene seemed to distress
far more than to embarrass her ; though
it would hardly have been unnatural If it had
done both. There was a proud reserve, however,
in her graceful movements and attitude,
which, amongst such surroundings, sufficed
at once to distinguish her. She was very
pale, with a brow and throat like a magnolia
blossom ; only her lips, in the words of
Solomon, seemed by contrast * a thread of
scarlet ;' and her large clear eyes were dark
as the darkest violet. She stood there In

the glare and glitter like a creature from
another world.

Lord Surbiton broke silence in slow,
measured accents. ' It looks,' he said, ' as if
an angel had descended in the midst of us,
like a snow-flake.'

There was a pause. The apparition
astonished the whole party. vernon s eyes,
in especial, were fixed intently on her.

Angel or no angel,' said the Duchess
presently, * I can see, even from this distance,
that she gets her clothes, not from heaven,
but Paris : and nothing costs so much as
well-made angelic simplicity. However
joking apart,' she added, and more seriously
upon my word I quite agree with Lord
Surbiton. It is literally an angel's face ; and
a very high-bred angel's into the bargain.
But, good gracious ! — what a place to bring
her to ! '

Suddenly the two strangers were observed

E2

Library

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

to move forward into the room, while the
younger one first started, and then broke
into a smile.

'Look!' said the Duchess with interest,
they have evidently found some one they
know here. Let us try and discover who
it is.'

Oh my ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Grantly, ' I can
see who : and — would you believe it ? — why,
it's Colonel Stapleton! Duchess, you don't
know what you missed. You should have
seen how he jumped up when he saw them,
like a beer-barrel on springs! And there's
your angel. Lord Surbiton — there she is,
shaking hands with him. Well, all I can say
is, that I wish her joy of her company.'

Come, Mr. Vernon,' said the Duchess.
as dinner drew to a close, ' you seem very
silent and abstracted. This interesting young
lady has clearly made an impression on you.'

Haven't you noticed him ? ' said Mrs.

Grantly ; * he's been watching her all the
time ; and I can tell by his face that he's
jealous of Colonel Stapleton. However, Mr.
Vernon, there Is one crumb of comfort for
you; she has not been dining at the same
table with him.'

^ No,' said Captain Grantly, ' but she's
looked round and smiled at him every ten
minutes. Keep yourself calm, Vernon, and
don't go calling old Jack out for it.'

I should think,' said Vernon, with a
gravity he was quite unconscious of, ' that
they are relations of some kind or other —
cousins,' he went on meditating, * cousins
probably, or perhaps even niece and uncle.'

Capital ! ' exclaimed the Duchess. ' He's
thought the whole matter out to himself.
Mr. Vernon, your tastes are, I must say, most
versatile. You begin the dinner with Venus,
and you wind it up with Diana. But tell me,*
she went on, as she pushed her chair back,

THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

and sedately prepared to rise, ' are you a
gambler as well as a lover ? For if not, you
will perhaps smoke here with Lord Surblton,
while we three go back to the tables for a
little ; and then we will all meet presently
outside for our coffee.'

EFT tête-à-tête with Vernon, Lord
&j^^X Surblton fixed his eyes on him,
Cow ^ drawing meanwhile from his
pocket a gorgeous gold cigarette case.
That tobacco,' he said solemnly through the
soft smoke-puffs, ' which has the subtlest of all
aroma, was grown amongst the haunted hills
of Syria.' This probably may have been true
enough : he omitted to add, however, that he
had bought it himself in a spot no more
haunted than Bond Street. But the old elaborate
manner which had once impressed
Vernon, now ac^ain arrested him ; though his

eyes had still been straying In the direction of
the fair stranger.

It Is a long time,' went on Lord Sur-bolton,
' since I last saw you ; or to one, young
as you are, It must seem long

I like to be called young,' said Vernon,
for I have at least one sign of age In me,
and that Is I am beginning to value my
youth.'

Happy philosopher,' cried the other,
who can value the treasure while you still
possess It ! When last I saw you, 3'ou were
just leaving Eton, and you had not learnt
such wisdom then. You came to me one
morning before luncheon, sad and eager, with
some verses of yours, that you might ask
what a poet thought of them. I suggested
that you should read them aloud to me, but
you were too modest to do so ; so I took
them myself, and read them aloud to you.
When I had finished I looked up, and there

were two large tears trembling In my young
bard's eyes.'

What ! ' exclaimed Vernon, * and do you
really remember that unfortunate boyish stuff
of mine ? '

Boy,' said Lord Surbiton, 'your verses
were not stuff ; and there are certain things
which / never forget —

Oh Goddess, I am sick at heart, o'erwom

With weariness,
For the weight of Hfe is bitter to be borne

Companionless.

That is how your verses began : you see I
can quote them still. Professedly, they were
a sort of prayer to Diana : but really they
were far more than that. They were the
voice of youth that is heard through all the
ages — youth crying in its solitude for some
high companionship. There is nothing,
Vernon, so unutterably melancholy as a boy's
passionate purity : and for me you were then
the symbol of the eternal longing of boyhood.'

How well said Vernon I remember
that little poem of mine, though I confess I
am surprised that you do ! I remember the
day I wrote it, and the sound of it still rings
in my ears ; but there is one thing wanting —
one thing quite gone from me — and that is the
sort of longing I meant to express in it. My
thoughts and my aspirations of those days
have become a mystery to myself. I am
startled to find sometimes how utterly I have
lost the clue to them.'

That is always the way,' said Lord
Surbiton, ' when life is still developing,
and one form of eagerness succeeds and
dispossesses another. It Is in virtue
of this process that you now see your
youth to be valuable. In the middle age
of your boyhood you longed sadly for
the unattainable; in the boyhood of your
middle age, you Idealise the attainable.
Happy philosopher, I again say to y(3u — philosopher,

lover, poet, and man of the world in

one !

I doubt,' said Vernon smiling, * if I now
idealise anything ; and I fear, Lord Surbiton,
that you idealise me. I am no longer a lover,
nor even a would-be poet.'

Not a poet on paper, it may be ; but a
poet in the way life touches you, and in the
demands you make on it. To be a poet in
this sense, you need never have written a
line ; and yet the name may fit 3'ou, without
any violence to its meaning. The imagination
is for every man the co-creator of his
universe, and those men are poets whose
imaginations create most gloriously. And
yet, my dear Vernon, you say you no longer
idealise ! I shall as soon believe that as that
you are no longer a lover. Why, within this
last couple of hours, you have been making
love to one lady, and longing, we all thought,
to make love to another.'

Ah ! ' said Vernon ; ' but the excitement
of making love Is very different from the still
devotion of loving. What I have ceased to
be capable of, what I have lost even the power
of imagining, Is a single passion that shall
sway or fulfil one's life. Love seems to me
now to be very much like temper. Your
dearest friend can Irritate you Into the one ;
the most commonplace woman can trick you
into the other : and you adore In the latter
case, and you accuse and abuse in the former,
in a way which by-and-by you can only
stupidly wonder at. I do not want to speak
cynically about this. A cynic is a foolish
fellow who either is ignorant, or pretends to
be, of a good third of an average man's
motives — those that are not contemptible ;
and I know that love, as a fact, can be pure
and true and faithful, and that it is really to
many the one thing worth living for. I only
speak for myself; and all that I can see In

it Is a passionate perversity both of judgment
and of feeling. It exaggerates the
value of the special individual, just as
cynicism does the opposite for the race in
general. The concentrated praise is as false
as the diffused censure. Each is equally
silly to the eye of the calm judgment. ]\Iy
wish now is for no emotion but such as
I can master. I wish to possess myself,
not to appropriate others ; and with regard to
women I agree with the poet Donne —

I can love her and her, and you and you ;
I can love any, so she be not true.'

I did not expect,' said Lord Surbiton,
when I called you a lover, to find you still
content at thirty with the intangible charms
of a moon-goddess. As we live on, we are
obliged to take the attainable, and do our
best to idealise that. You say you are not
constant. Well, no true artist is ; and you
have the artist's temper, I see, just as you

have the poet's — two things which by no
means always go together : indeed to unite
them is a rare triumph of character. Many
poets perhaps might have drawn a Des-demons
: only an artistic poet could have
drawn an I ago also. What marks the poetic
temper is the intensity of its sympathy;
what marks the artistic is the versatility.
The artist not only feels much, but he also
feels many things ; and in this way he
always preserves his balance. Every one
at the beginning has had the makings of
several characters in him. The artist has
the makings of an indefinite number. Most
men, farther out of their possible characters,
harden or settle down into one, but the artist
never does ; for character is nothing but
prejudice or trick grown permanent, and the
artist has no character, just as the chameleon
is said to have no colour. Thus when vulgar
critics declare with regard to some artistic

writer's creations — as often and often they

have done with regard to mine, for instance

'' Here are his own feelings ; he has drawn this
man from himself," they are at once right
and wrong. He has not only drawn this man
from himself, but he has drawn all ; for he
becomes himself some new man to be drawn
from, every time he suppresses some newly-combined
nine-tenths of himself This, Vernon,
is the true artistic versatility ; and her
Grace — who by the way is an uncommonly
shrewd woman — at once saw you possessed
it. You can respond in the same half-hour,
she told you, to the beauty of Diana and of
Venus. Such versatility is the true elixir of
youth ; it makes even the wisdom of are
supple. ]\Iy dear fellow,' he said, somewhat
coming down from his pedestal, 'constancy,
though we know its value for most
men, is the elixir of middle age. It makes you
five-and-forty at once, and it keeps you there.'

Vernon at this moment let his eye
wander, and a sudden exclamation broke
from him which at once put a stop to philosophy.


Damn It ! ' he said, ' we have been
talking of dead Diana ; and meanwhile the
living one has taken flight, and deserted us.'

Lord Surblton turned his head, and saw
that the fair stranger and her companion had
gone. Where feminine beauty was concerned,
he was always prompt and practical ; and heat
once set about rising, though his movements
were somewhat slow.

She can't have gone far,' he said. 'We
shall be sure to see her again somewhere ;
and her Grace, or Captain Grantly, will find
out all about her for us. Or falling these,
there is that fellow, Stapleton.'

He took Vernon's arm with a sedate and
leisurely dignity, and the two left the restaurant.
They paused In the cloak-room

which Is just outside, and Lord Surbiton was
being helped by a garcon Into a magnificent
sable overcoat, when a female figure appeared,
with a look that at once attracted him.
This was none other than the lady of the red
fan. She had come for her opera-cloak ;
and before Vernon was even aware of her
presence, Lord Surbiton, with as qi:Ick a
gallantry as his years permitted him, was
arranging it tenderly for her, over her finely-shaped
shoulders.

He was sufficiently delighted with his
performance thus far ; but a still greater
pleasure awaited him. The lacy cast a
glance at him with her soft, appealing eyes,
and murmured, ' Merci, milord! She did
not blush, but she looked much as if she
wished to do so. Lord Surbiton at once
laid his hand on his heart, and was begging
to be told hove he was honoured by madame
knowing him. ' Ah ! ' she replied, ' and need

VOL. I. F

a renowned man ask ? Why, the poems and
the romances of monsieur are as much read
in Paris as In London Here she caught
sight of Vernon; and, with the quietest
smile In the world, * I am going,' she went
on, ' once more to the tables. Will not you
two come, and join sour luck with mine ? '

Lord Surbiton was completely charmed
with her, and regretted not a little that to do
this was Impossible. He was almost aware
of a slight pang of jealousy when she bid
Vernon to put in more securely a diamond
pin that had become loose in her hair.

Vernon's hands lingered over the soft
brown plaits. ' You are very lovely,' he
said, ' though, of course, you don't need to
be told that ; and my morals will let you
play with my heart, though my prudence, I
fear, will not let you play with my fortune.'

He was in the middle of uttering this,
when he glanced aside for a moment, and his

eyes met those of the girl to seek whom he
had just risen from the dinner-table. It was
but a glance she gave him ; and then her fair
head was averted : but the glance and the
gesture were only too expressive to him.
She seemed at once to comprehend and be
surprised at the scene he was taking part in,
and to turn away from it with contempt, pain,
and aversion. A disagreeable sense of shame
at once came over him ; nor were his reflections
made pleasant by what he observed
next moment. As the girl, with her companion,
was quitting the cloak-room, he was
just able to see her face light up for an
instant ; and directly afterwards Colonel
Stapleton entered.

The Colonel seemed almost as versatile
as Lord Surbiton himself ; for he was quite
as familiar with the fair Aspasia as he had
been a moment before with the pale and
virginal stranger. vernon and Lord Surbiton

had been conversing with the former lady In
French; and his lordship, who was somewhat
deaf, had pronounced her accent perfect.
The Colonel, however, to whom she
turned Instantly, composedly addressed some
chaff to her In the homeliest English possible;
and she with an equal fluency though with a
strong foreign twang, replied, ' If you don't
look out, I shall smack your nasty little head
for you

Vernon started at this astounding utterance,
as if an adder had stung him. ' Good
Heavens ! ' he exclaimed to himself, ' what
an absolute fool I am!' And not without
some brusqtierie, which the fair one mistook
lor jealousy, he succeeded in withdrawing
Lord Surblton, and making a hasty exit.
'Pier French,' he muttered, *may be the
French of the Faubourg, but her English is
very certainly the English of Regent Street.'

Lord Surblton, however, had completely

missed the above piece of badinage ; and
pausing on the hotel door-steps, and laying
his hand upon Vernon's arm, ' What a woman
that is ! ' he exclaimed, with a slow gravity.
'It is in her class, after all, that the soul of
the old world still lives on, with its passion,
its grace, and its intellect ; and we, in our
barbarous virtue, actually affect to look down
on her. A woman like that ouo^ht to have
lived at Athens, and have had a Pericles
for her companion, and a Socrates for her
pupil.'

Vernon made no response to this. His
thoughts were still busy with those clear
eyes that had humbled him. ' So much,' he
said bitterly to himself, * for a woman's power
of insight ! She looks nothings but scorn at
me, and yet smiles like a sister at that fat,
sensual beast there ! '

Before long Lord Surbiton began again,
as they went in the direction where they

expected to find their party. ' Ah, my dear
Vernon ! ' he said, drawing a deep sigh that
made his satin necktie creak, * it is the artist's

gift ' Here he paused for a moment to

eye critically two young ladies who passed
him. * It is the artist s gift,' he resumed, ' to
discern between good and evil ; it is his
doom to be the servant of neither. He
surveys life as a Caesar surveyed the circus :
and the affections and lusts of men can say
nothing to him but morititri te salutary.
He belongs to a middle race who are neither
divine nor human, and he cannot really ally
himself with any human being. This is why,
when he dies, there are no flowers strewn on
his tomb — no rosemary for remembrance, or
pansies for tender thoughts ; but only the
bloodless laurel — the leaf, not of love, but of
homage.'

Lord Surbiton ' — it was the voice of the
Duchess — 'when you've done quoting poetry,

you'll find us all here, ready for you to
discover us.' She was seated with the
Grantlyss outside the cafe, at a round table
laden with cups and liqueur-glasses. ' See
she went on, ' we have ordered everything,
and we have been so thoughtful that we have
even kept chairs for you.'

It seems to me,' said Lord Surbiton,
'that your Grace has kept two a-piece
for us.'

Ah ! ' said the Duchess, laughing, ' those
two other chairs are for some particular
friends of mine, whom I asked just now to
come and have their coffee with us. Now,
Mr. Vernon, here is a riddle for you. Who
should you think these particular friends are ?
Why, your fair paragon of the restaurant, and
the old lady, her aunt. I met them five
minutes ago, as we were coming here from
the gambling-rooms, and it flashed on me all
of a sudden who the aunt was. You, Lord

Surbiton, will remember her. She's the
widow of Sir Edward Walters, who was our
Minister for so many years at Stuttgart ; and
the girl — I remember her too quite well now —
is that beautiful Cynthia Walters, who was
made such a fuss about In London three
seasons ago, and then got ill, and has never
appeared since. Her home, it seems, Is now
with her aunt in Florence.'

Look out, Duchess,* said Captain Grantly.
Here they are coming.'

Lady WALTERS was a woman of
great sweetness of manner, yet
with a touch now and then of
subdued humour. She produced the impression
that she had once known the world, but
that she hardly knew it now ; for knowledge
of the world can be forgotten like other
knowledge, and from certain gentle natures it
slips away easily.

She and Lord Surbiton had an extremely
friendly greeting, and settled down at once
into a talk over old days. As for Vernon

his position was less comfortable. The
Duchess introduced him to Miss Walters,
who had at first been unaware of his presence :
but the instant she recognised him the smile
died on her lips, and she acknowledged his
bow as coldly as any young lady of fashion
who seems to deny an acquaintance in the
very act of formally making it.

Vernon felt utterly worsted by her perfect
savoir faire ; and what added not a little to
his suffering was that the Duchess should
witness his discomfiture, without knowing
what he felt sure was the cause of it. Too
proud or self-conscious to risk any further
repulse, he listened silently to the girl's
answers, as the Duchess put her through a
rapid catechism. ' We have taken,' she said,
'a villa beyond Nice, in the country. We
arrived but three days ago, from Florence.
We came over here this afternoon for the
music ; but missed our train back again, and

SO had to remain for dinner. I don't know
what we should have done If Colonel Stapleton,
whom I have known from a child, had
not secured a table for us. I think this place
horrible. I was here once before, and I
detested It.'

Vernon watched her intently as she was
o^ivlnor these answers. The moments were
few ; but to him they were like a long dream.
He seemed to become familiar with all the
folds of her drapery, and each outline of armor
figure that her dress revealed or hinted at.
There was a subtle air with her of fastidious
fashion, from her hat to her pointed shoes
and the long black gloves concealing her
dainty hands. But this was not all, or at
any rate vernon thought not. She seemed
not only a woman of fashion, but a woman
of fashion who had the soul of a sibyl In her;
and her clear eyes seemed touched with some
high wistful melancholy.

The impression she made on the Duchess
was different. Her Grace had found Miss
Walters somewhat chilly in manner ; so she
brought her questions pretty soon to a close,
and addressed herself to Mrs. Grantly.
Vernon hoped with trembling that now might
be his chance : but no, it was not to be. Miss
Walters turned away from him, and seemed
lost in the scene before her. That scene was
one which is certainly unique in Europe, and
it was now wearing its strangest and most
striking aspect. The large place, with its
gleaming buildings round It, was a lake of
transparent shadow, dotted with countless
gas-lamps, and full of the vague whispers of
fountains and human life. On one side flared
the hotel they had lately quitted ; on another
the great casino, pale like a skeleton from
globes of electric light. On another, where
the buildings were lower and more broken, tall
palms might be seen, with their plumes In the

clear sky ; and beyond were balustrades of
marble, and spaces of dark sea : whilst behind
and in grim contrast rose the barren towering
mountains, and dwarfed the world at the foot
of them into a small cluster of fire-flies.

Lord Surbiton had been on the watch to
attract Miss Walters's attention, and he now
saw his opportunity.

This place,' he said as he fixed his eyes
on her, ' always seems to me like the moral
sewer of Europe — a great drain's mouth open
at the foot of the hills. There is a tragic
irony even in its loveliness.'

Tragic or not,' said the Duchess, ' we
have had a most amusing dinner here; haven't
we, Mrs. Grantly ? Though I'm sure I've
forgotten by this time what it was we were
talking about.'

A proof,' said Lord Surbiton, ' of how
well your Grace was conversing. True conversation
is like good champagne. It exhilarates

for the moment, but next morning
we feel no trace of it'

Vernon here broke silence. * If true conversation,'
he said, ' is like good champagne,
true love is like bad. False and true love
may seem jiist the same when we taste them.
We only detect the true when we find that
our head aches afterwards.'

That,' said Lord Surbiton, still looking
towards Miss Walters, ' is why a serious
passion is so great an educator. But its work
only begins when the pain it causes has left
us. Strong present feeling narrows our sympathies
; strong past feeling enlarges them.
Thus a woman of the world always should
have been, but should never be, in love. She
should always have had a grief : she should
never have a grievance.'

'Why,' asked Miss Walters coldly, 'do
you say this of a woman of the world
especially ? '

Because it is only in the world, or in
what we call society, that intercourse with our
fellows is really a completed fine art. It there
is what elsewhere it only pretends to be. ]Men
who profess to think gravely or to have grave
ends speak of society as the type of what is
vain and frivolous. Perhaps they are right —
who knows ? Yet society is the logical end
of the whole of this world's civilisation ; and
of all the follies that I ever set any store b)',
fashion is the one I could still find most to
say for. Fashion,' he continued, 'is the
daintiest form of fame, and sometimes of
power also ; and were it only as wide and
lasting as it is delicate, it would unite in itself
the objects of all human ambitions.'

'Are the objects of ambition,' said Miss
Walters, ' the chief objects of life '■ '

Men in general,' said Lord Surbiton,
are the puppets of three forces — ambition,
love, and hunger ; but love destroys the

appetite ; ambition destroys love ; and fashion
absorbs, or at any rate sways, ambition

These general maxims did not much
delight the Duchess, and she betrayed at this
juncture that her thoughts had been somewhat
Wandering.

Captain Grantly ! ' she exclaimed, ' I
wonder whose are those horses that are
waiting there at the door of the casino —
the pair of greys, I mean, In that rather
smart-looking carriage. I watched them
drive round, five minutes ago ; and the
near one, do you know, is really a first-rate
stepper.'

This profane interruption put a stop to
Lord Surbitons eloquence, for Miss Walters
turned roved, and began to look at the
horses : whilst her aunt, hearing a railway
whistle, consulted her watch, and said they
must soon be moving. ' However,' she
added, ' there must be plenty of time yet, as

Colonel Stapleton said he would come and
see us safe to the station.'

I, too,' said \''ernon, ' am reminded to
think of moving; for I see my carriage is
already there waiting for me.'

What I ' said the Duchess, ' and is that
fine turn-out yours, ]mr. vernon ? Well,
here's luxury for a young man o^ thirty I '

By Gad, my dear chap, you arc a swell,'
said Captain Grantly, putting his hand on
Vernon's shoulder.

Wealth has a certain power over those
even who are least touched by it. It calls
their attention to the man possessing it, if
only to make it worth their while to despise
him ; and vernon knew in an instant that
Bliss Walters turned to glance at him. Once
again he was about to attempt speaking to
her, when he was interrupted by the arrival
of Colonel Stapleton.

Here's a go ! ' cried the Colonel, panting

VOL. I. G

and out of breath, ' IVe been looking for you,
Lady Walters, for the last twenty minutes ;
and now your train's gone, and you must stop
the night here. If you'll let me, I'll get you
rooms directly at the Hotel de Paris. The

Princesse de and the Prince for the time

being have just cleared out unexpectedly ; so
I know they can take you in, and we'll show
Miss Cynthia a little more of the life here.'

If you stop, you know,' said the Duchess,
there is my maid who can look after you.
I can lend you almost everything ; and you
can buy a tooth-brush here.'

Miss Walters turned to Colonel Stapleton
with a hasty frown. ' No — no,' she said ; ' let
us do anything rather than that. This place
is perfectly unendurable.'

Vernon observed her closely, and with
extreme surprise. She spoke in a manner
that Vv'ould have been rudeness to any common
acquaintance even of long standing, but the

Colonel, strange to say, was not in the least
abashed by it ; he only e)'ecl her with a look
of quiet amusement. ' Come, little vixen,' he
whispered, ' don't be naughty. I'm sure
Aunt Louisa will give her vote for staying.'

But Lady Walters wished to do no such
thing ; and she was already inquiring nervously
if there would be any difficulty in
getting a carriage. ' Comes'' said i\Iiss
Walters, taking hold of Colonel Stapleton's
sleeve, 'be good, and go and tell her about
it. We mean to go somehow, so you mayas
well make yourself of use to us.'

He was forestalled, however, by Captain
Grantly, who had at once volunteered to go
off to the livery-stables, and was just starting
when he was recalled by the practical
Duchess. ' You may as well find out first,'
she said, ' where it is Lady Walters wants tc
be driven to ; for at this time of night they
will often refuse to take you.'
G 2

Oh ! ' said Lady Walters, somewhat
troubled by this, ' It Is to the Cap de Juan.
It Is a long way by the road, I'm afraid.
Perhaps, after all, we had better remain here.'

Vernon felt all the blood rush at once to
his face ; and for a moment his heart stopped
beatlnsf.

The Cap de Juan ! ' exclaimed the
Duchess ; ' why that settles everything.
Come Mr. Vernon, now Is your opportunity.
My dear Lady Walters, here Is a young man
with a carriage and horses ready, who Is only
too anxious to take you back to your very
door-step.'

A rapid look of annoyance passed over
Miss Walters' face. ' We couldn't think,' she
said, with a cold politeness, ' of taking Mr.
Vernon's horses so great a distance. He is
hardly aware, perhaps, of the journey there
Is before us.'

On the contrary,' said Vernon, ' I am

particularly well aware of it, for it is the very
journey that Is also before me. If I am not
much mistaken, we are all but next-door
neighbours. Your house, I think, must bethe
Chateau St. John ; and, if so, our two
gardens touch each other.'

After this there was nothlncr more to be

o

said. Circumstances had at length played
into Vernon's hands ; and another caprice in
hl:s life was to be at least partially gratified.

Well,' said the Duchess, as the carrlaofe
drove off, ' I'm glad Mr. Vernon has got what
he wanted, though Miss Cynthia, at first, was,
I must say, very snubby to him. However,
one can never judge by this. Perhaps, when
we go to the Cap de Juan, we shall find them
an engaged couple. Who knows ? '

I know,' said ]airs. Grantly, ' and I'll bet
you anything we shall not. A man like ■Mr.
Vernon will never marry. He's exactly,' she
added, dropping her voice, 'like a younger

THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

edition of Lord Surbiton ; and I guess they're
a couple of shams — the two of them.'

I think said the Duchess, ' that Mr.
Vernon is charming.'

Yes — to know,' said Mrs. Grantly, ' but
not to depend upon.'

ERNOX and his friends were meanwhile
hastening homewards. Lady
Walters had addressed to inn a
few kind civilities, eyeing him the while with
a look of trustful friendliness ; but her niece
had hardly said anything, and the three soon
sank Into silence. Every influence, indeed,
seemed to persuade to It — the easy motion
of the carriage, the rhythmic tramp of the
horses, the soft fanning of the night air, and
the pageant of sea and mountain that was
sweeping past them like a dream. Here was
a gaudy villa, surmounted by a huge coronet.

the home of some Russian gambler ; herewith
domes and minarets, a dwelling yet
more fantastic. Scents of flowers blew down
to them from the gardens ; and over the
garden walls hung spiked aloes and cactuses.
Then presently the scene grew wilder. On
the right, wooded gorges slanted up into the
mountains ; and on the left, the sea below
them broke into fairy bays. All this seemed
to absorb Miss Walters ; and her eyes being
thus occupied, Vernon was able unobserved
to observe her. He had once remarked In
one of his more delicate moods, that a woman
whose dress is the perfection of fashion, is
never herself the perfection of real refinement.
But he now felt inclined to modify this judgment.
The vanities of this world seemed,
on the girl before him, as natural as Its own
petals to some delicate hot-house flower ; so
that she was as little troubled by their possession
as the saint Is who has renounced them.

The effect of her presence,' he wrote that
night in his diary, ' was at once charming
and singular. It did not at first concentrate
my thoughts on herself ; but it moved Hke a
wind amongst them, and stirred them in all
directions. Vague aspirations of many kinds
awoke in me. I longed in grotesque rotation
to make poetry, to ride hard, and to pray ;
and when something roused the aunt, and
between two sleeps she talked a little to me,
I was annoyed and jarred by having the
silence broken.'

Lady Walters, it is true, had begun somewhat
abruptly. ' What a pity it is,' she said,
as though following up some train of thought
of her own, ' that poor Jack Stapleton never
married ! He is naturally such a kind, good
creature. It is self-indulgence that has
ruined him.'

'And do you think,' said Vernon, 'that
marriage will always save a man ? '

Not always,' she said, ' and it never
affects a man as it does a woman. Yet some
men, Mr. Vernon, are ruined for the want of
it — often those with the warmest and sweetest
natures. You know the man that his friends
call a-006^ fellow — who, like a sunflower
always turns towards happiness. If such a
man has a wife he cares for, he will live that
he may make her happy ; but if left to himself,
shall I tell you what will happen to him ?
He will live, not to give pleasure but to find
it ; and to like consorting with happy people
is a very different thing from trying to make
people happy.'

Perhaps you are right,' said Vernon with
a slight involuntary sigh. ' But how should
you say that marriage affected women ? '

Ah ! ' said Lady Walters, ' in another way
entirely. When a woman marries with affection
her whole character changes. She grows
absorbed in the things that absorb her husband

; and, through him, they become really
a new life to her.'

If I thought of marrying,' said Vernon,
it would be with a different hope. I should
hope to find a wife, who, if she had my
tastes at all, had had them before she knew
me ; and that her already possessing them
were a cause of her sympathy ; not that her
acquiring them for my sake were the signs of
it. I should like her life to stand on its own
basis ; and in her pursuits I should like to
have a constant rival, that should keep my
affection fresh with a kind of sinless
jealousy.*

Lady Walters smiled at him incredulously,
with half-closed eyes. ' I am afraid, Mr.
Vernon,' she said, ' you've never been in love
yet.' Then the conversation dropped ; and
it was soon evident that she had ac^ain fallen
asleep. Vernon was pleased to have been
able to talk in Miss W^alters' hearing, since

he found her so difficult of direct access ; and
he now fancied that she looked a little less
coldly at him. Presently she asked him of
her own accord the name of some place they
were passing. He answered her question ;
but he found he could get no farther. In
spite of himself he was still embarrassed in
her presence. The remembrance that her
first sight of him had been in the middle of
his foolish scene with the Frenchwoman,
abased him in his own estimation : he was ina
thoroughly wrong position. He leaned his
head back, and looked up at the stars, and
was soon completely lost in another deep
reverie. All of a sudden the tenor of his
thoughts betrayed itself. He broke out aloud
with a single line from Hamlet : —

Oh, what a rogue and peasant slave am I !

He spoke the words abstractedly, and fora
second or two seemed not to know he had
uttered them. Then he recollected himself,

and there might have been an awkward
moment, if Miss Walters with ready tact had
not come to the rescue.

I know that hne so well she said ; ' but
I can't remember where it comes from.'

It is from Hamlet said vernon, ' a pla)-
I know by heart ; and I often catch myself
repeating bits aloud from it.'

With this there ensued a little conversation
about Shakespeare, then about poetry
generally ; and matters very soon were proceeding
more smoothly. Vernon had once
again found his footing. His thoughts, his
feelings, and his words began to flow freely
as usual ; and when he looked into ]\IIss
W^alters' eyes he found she did not avert
them. The character of the drive in a single
instant changed for him ; and it quickly became
as delightful as it had been disappointing
hitherto. To all intents and purposes he
was alone with this fair stranger ; and she

was visibly now beginning to take a certain
interest in him. Gradually, too, he became
aware that her presence had some magnetic
effect upon him. Her hand, her lips, her
eye, even the soft furs on her jacket, and
the faint perfume from her handkerchief
touched his being, and made the blood in his
veins tingle : whilst at the same time all in
him that was most refined or delicate, seemed
suddenly to be coming uppermost under the
attraction of her presence. The moral recoil
from the low and frivolous to whatever was
pure and delicate, was in itself a pleasing shock
to the Intellectual voluptuary : whilst the
sense that he had to efface a bad Impression
gave double earnestness to his efforts to
create a good one. To a man of Vernon's
temperament an experience of this kind was
a luxury.

And yet, on his part, there was no acting
or Insincerity. His goodness, to say the least

of It, was as genuine as his evil ; and his voice,
his look, and his manner, as he now spoke
to Miss Walters, were all instinct with a
chivalrous and a quite natural reverence.

I am so glad,' he said at last, ' that I
happened to have my carriage, and was able
to take you away from that horrid place
there.'

If you think the place horrid,' she said
gently, ' why do you go yourself to it ? '

One might ask, I am afraid, that question
about many things. I went there to-day for
distraction — to escape from my own company.
It did well enough to distract me : but one
wishes to shake the dust off one's feet afterwards.'


Like my question,' she said, ' that will
apply to many things. But are you living
quite alone out here ? '

Yes,' said vernon, ' with no company
but my books and thoughts ; and, though I

came here on purpose to be with these, I am
glad sometimes to escape from them. I had
hoped to have brought a friend with me ;
indeed, perhaps he may still come. The
best escape from one's thoughts is a friend
one is really fond of.'

That Is hardly a flattering: llorht,' she
said, ' In which to regard a friend. There
are some unhappy people whose only chance
of peace lies in forgetting themselves ; but
such people, I believe, have made themselves
unfit for friendship. I look on a friend as a
person who will help one to find, not to lose,
oneself. If you want to lose yourself, you
should always live in society, and agree with
Lord Surbiton that life's highest reward Is
fashion.'

Are you then,' said Vernon, ' not fond of
society ? '

Of course for happy people society is
a healthy thing ; but how one mixes in it

depends on one's own character. One can
be the fashion, and yet not be oneself a
fashionable, as one sees in the case of many
of the greatest people in London. I may
myself have been less in the world, perhaps,
than most women of my age ; but still I have
seen plenty of smart society ; indeed, I have
several relations who seem to live for nothing
else : and, so far as I can tell, nothing
hardens the heart like fashion. To a genuine
fine lady — who is a \<y:\ different person,
by the way, from 2. grande panic — it is a thing
next to impossible to value character rightly.'

And yet many of the qualities,' said
vernon, 'that secure most applause in society,
are the fruits, as Lord Surbiton told us, of
some deeper life in the past. Take singing,
for instance : what an effect real expression
has ! — and to express feeling in song, the
singer must himself have felt.'

Perhaps so ; and for that very reason

VOL I. H

the most touching singing has sometimes
almost disgusted me. What a use to make
of some buried and sacred sorrow, to conjure
its ghost up that it may secure a drawing-room
triumph for us ! '

One may, of course,' said Vernon, * exaggerate
views Hke these, till they become
false and fantastic. But I am quite sure
you are right to some degree. To be
always in society is to be always with mere
acquaintances, and with acquaintances who
like you for your least genuine qualities. I
have met many a man, staying in country
houses, who must have been sickened, as he
went to bed, by what he had said or laughed
at in the smoking-room ; and yet the night
after he has done just the same. To be
always in this way with the world, is to be
always estranged from oneself ; and one's
true self, like other sensitive creatures, will Intime
die of neglect, or at least be ruined by it.

Do you remember,' said Miss Walters,
what I said just now — that a true friend is a
person with whom we can find, not lose ourselves
? I,' she went on, with a sigh and a
slight shudder, ' have had friends of two kinds
true and false ; and they have both done
all they could for me.'

She shuddered.

Are you cold ? ' murmured vernon,

leaning forward and looking at her. ' Let

me put that shawl over your shoulders for

you.' No lover could have done the office

with more tenderness, or at the same time

with more respect. Then for a moment he

laid his hand upon hers, and asked, ' Are you

warmer now ? ' The look, the touch formed

a new crisis in their relationship ; and they

both grew aware of this by a new tone in

their voices. Vernon himself was surprised

at what had passed. He had never thought

she could have so softened towards him ;
H 2

but he knew that it was so by her two words
as she thanked him. And now with a soft
sensation, he felt his heart expanding ; and
grave and secret thoughts welled up to his
lips, and began to demand utterance. Should
he go on and utter them, fixing his eyes on
hers ? To do so, he knew, would be an
exquisite self-indulgence. It would be like
a passionate mental kiss to the beautiful
creature opposite him. But for a moment
he vacillated ; and there was a short moral
struggle in him. Had he the right intention
that could make that kiss lawful ? Might
not the very feelings he wished to express
be wronged by his then expressing them ?
Was such mental passion as this, with its
spasm of self-abandonment, in reality much
better than its coarser physical counterpart ?
Conscience, however, was weak, and was
swept aside by impulse.

Shall I tell you,' he said, ' why I have

come out here ? I have lost my seh"", and I
^vIsh to find it again. I wish to see how I
stand with my conscience, and to know what
I really value. This is a task in which no
friend can help one ; one must enter into one's
own chamber and be still, for it. At present,
it seems to me sometimes that I hardly have
a self ; but I feel, like a man in a dream, that
I am being swept passively through changing
states of consciousness. Some may be
pleasant enough, some dull and dreary ; but
they are all shadowy things ; I have no
abiding part in them, nor is one bound by any
chain to the other. I seem to be svv'ept
through them, just as we in this carriage are
being swept through this ghostly landscape.
What I want is. to wake myself from this idle
dream of the world, and to crew back again to
the realities I was once familiar with. Such
a waking is a long, weary process ; and a
friend's presence may soothe one in it though

he cannot help it forward. Is that,' he said,
looking at her, ' Is that a wrong view of
friendship ? '

It Is not my view,' she said, 'but no one
can answer for another. If I had to seek a
self that was lost, I should like to have a
friend with me.'

To encourage you, yes : but not to share
your labour. You, for instance, could not rearrange
my life for me ; and yet it is a great
help to me, even this little talk I have had
with you. You and I are near neighbours
now. Do you think we shall ever become
friends ? '

She gave him for the moment no direct
answer, but murmured half abstractedly, ' I
wonder how far you have wandered.'

That,' said Vernon, ' is what I want to
find out myself.'

After this there was a pause, whilst the
two sank back into their own reflections, and

the changing fields and trees, as the carriage
hurried onwards, surrounded and swept away
from them.

Miss Walters at length bes^an aQ^aln.
Perhaps you are surprised,' she said with a
faint smile, ' at hearing me talk so decidedly
about the world, and society, and friendship.'


You certainly talk,' said vernon, ' as If
you had had experience.'

I have had experience,' she said. * I
have had much — too much — of it. I have
been a rambler, amongst other honors. I
won more than two thousand pounds once
at trente et qiiarantc. Do you think that was
very nice of me ? ' And she fixed her eyes
on him with a look which he could not fathom.
You see, if I hate Monte Carlo, it is not
because gambling has ruined me. And now,'
she went on, ' I am going to say one thing
more, which sounds also like the maxim of a

rather experienced person. It is an answer
to what you asked me just now. I have
Httle belief, as a rule, in friendships between
men and women — I mean when both the
people concerned have youth and imagination.
One or the other gets generally more or less
than was bargained for.'

I shall be thankful,' said Vernon, ' for
the very least you will give me. You would
find me a very safe person. A man's days
of friendship begin when his days of love are
over; and I,' he went on, knowing that he
was making love all the time, ' am in my
days of friendship.'

You and I then, perhaps, are exceptions
to the general rule. There are exceptions. I
can at least say this much for myself, that I
am far more likely to be a friend than to
have one.'

She said this with a curious unconscious
bitterness that perplexed and startled Vernon.

You must let me show you,' he murmured,
' that you are wrong there.'

She paused, and then said abruptly, * I
hope you didn't mistake me. I didn't mean
that I thought you would fall in love with
me. Perhaps you are just as safe from that
sort of thing as I am.'

You are very young,' said vernon, ' to
be talking in that way.'

Youth and age,' she said, ' should not be
counted by years. Xo nun dying a living
death in a runner)' could be more shut out
from all dauQfer of love than I am — from all
hope and from all fear of it.'

After this there was silence, till Lady
Walters woke up, and Vernon soon afterwards
was saying adieu to his friends on
their own door-step.

But the night was not yet done for him.
He had refused to enter ; he was anxious to
be by himself again ; and, having sent his

carriage away, he walked back through the
gardens. In his own lamp-Ht villa a delicate
supper was prepared for him, but he did
nothing more than taste it, and he went out
again into the mellow night air. He was like
a man who had eaten a sort of moral opium,
and his breast was full of a sweet, fantastic
tumult. There was a magical resurrection in
him of the wild romance of boyhood. He
leaned his elbow on a pale glistening
balustrade, and looked out over the sea.
Sea of Romance,' his unuttered thoughts
began in him, * once again you have your old
charm for me. Inarticulate whispers of
ambition, of passion, and of music float up tome
from your enchanted surface. Sea of
Southern moon and of Italian twilights, what
eyes of famous lovers have looked out on
you ! The most musical of the world's love-songs
have mixed over you with the vesper
breezes ! Pale, restless waves, rocking under

the stars of midnight, the Hmbs of the mermaids
know you : the nautilus floats upon
your bosom! Yes, and in me, too, up from
the depths of my being, thoughts and longings
are rising that sing like mermaids. What do
they sing of ? Is it of her eyes and lips ?
Are they singing to her spirit that it may
stoop down to mine?' He turned back to
his garden. That, too, was enchanted. Were
Oberon and Titania holding revel there ?
Bush and blossom seemed populous with
airy presences. Every passion, every pleasure
of his life, became a separate fairy,
with its body some faint perfume, and its
dwelling-place some half-closed flower-bell.
In luxurious agitation he ao^ain returned to
his sea-view. Far away over the waters the
lights of Nice were glittering fair and distant
like a braid of golden stars. On a little
headland near him, covered with myrtles,
another light twinkled, solitary', dim, and only

just distinguishable. It came from a shrine
of the Virgin, and his wandering gaze fixed
on it. Suddenly into his dream-vvorld there
floated scents of incense, glimmering altars,
and sounds of imploring music. ' Star of the
sea,' he murmured, ' star of the morning,
refuge of sinners, pray for me ! '

Going indoors, he sat down to his desk
and wrote his diary of the day's proceedings.
Miss Walters filled up a large space in it, and
a fragment of what he said about her has been
already quoted : but so hard is it to be honest
to even a piece of paper, that he made
no mention whatever of his qualms of conscience
or his own self-accusations.

HEN Vernon woke next morning
some unlooked-for news awaited
him. A fresh, delicious air stole
through the open window, and fanned his
cheek delicately as he lay thinking. He
was enjoying the memory of his last night's
adventure, which seemed to promise him a
new life in his solitude, when his eye caught
something which showed him he had overslept
himself. This was a pile of letters on a table
by his bedside ; and on top of the pile was
one in the handwriting of Campbell. What

was his astonishment when he found that It
was dated ' Cannes ' !

My dear Vernon,' ran the letter, ' when
you see where I am, you will of course set
about being angry with me ; and at first sight
no doubt I seem to deserve that you should
be. A month ago, when you begged me to
come abroad and to take a villa with you, I
refused you steadily, once or twice a little
brusquely ; and this with no better excuse
than that very poor one — my feelings. I
said I did not feel up to it, and upon my word
that was true, Vernon — bitterly, deeply true.
I had no heart to travel, and, though you may
smile when I say so, the wretchedness I then
suffered was crushing me. But I am better
now ; life has been going a little more kindly
with me. I can enjoy my dinner again sometimes
; I can laugh at a joke sometimes. My
pleasure in my books and pictures is returning
to me; and now it has actually happened that

you find me abroad as my best chance of happiness.
Here I am, doing the very thing by myself
that I refused so churHshly to do with you.
But I am coming over directly to see you,
and make my peace with you ; and you will
perhaps put me up for a night. You will forgive
me, I think, when I tell you all my story.'
Vernon was easily roused into the
brightest animal spirits ; nor did such sentiment
as that of the night previous at all tend
to interfere with them. Campbell's letter was
like a burst of sunlight to him, and he smiled
and whistled in his bath like any happy
schoolboy. He immediately telegraphed,
Come at once. I and my carriage shall fetch
you at two o'clock.' He ordered his breakfast
in the open air, at his favourite spot
under the myrtles ; and as he sat there with the
liquid morning round him, food, he thought,
had never tasted so well, nor nature looked
so beautiful.

VOL. I. I

The friend he was thinking of was a very-different
man from himself. What had at
first attracted the two was a certain delicate
dllettanteism, and an indifference to the
games and sports by which so many men's
leisure is occupied. But deeper doAvn in
their character this likeness ended. Whereas
Vernon was restless and loved the Avorld,
Campbell was shy and restful and inclined
to solitude ; and whereas Vernon had played
with his affections, Campbell had kept his
laid up in a napkin. There are passions,
however, that lie near affection, although they
are always ready to ruin it ; and to these
Campbell had yielded with a quite sufficient
openness. He had even treated the questions
Involved in them with a certain ruthless humour,
which was as coarse as that of Rabelais,
and had in part been borrowed from It. But
there had been a flavour of innocence even about
his vices. They had never approached his

heart near enough to corrupt it; and now that
at last it was really touched and troubled, he
had told the fact to his friend with a simplicity
almost childish.

This frankness and depth of feeling had
been something: of a riddle to vernon. He
had been not honos quit of his own engagement
when he heard of Campbell's love affair ;
and he had pitied his friend sincerely. He
looked on him as caught in a trap he had himself
just escaped from : and when he found that
Campbell the lover interfered with Campbell
the friend, the above feeling was intensified.
But now as he sat at breakfast, with a volume
of Horace beside him, he was happy in the
thought that the lover's days were waning,
and that the friend would be ao^ain restored
to him. He had just lit a cigarette, and with
a lazy smile was watching the silvery-blue
smoke-wreaths as they rose and melted over
him into the green myrtle shadows, when he

heard on the gravel the sound of a firm footstep,
and, looking up, he saw Alio Campbell
before him.

Nothing human could be brighter than a
pleased greeting of Vernon's ; it had all the
quick radiance of a pool in morning sunlight :
and he felt as happy at this moment with his
old friend as a child is with a new plaything.
Campbell, too, for his part was glowing
with o-lad excitement, though there was a
pathetic tone in his voice, if Vernon had
cared to note it. Campbell was, however,
extremely hungry ; he was by no means indifferent
to the minor pleasures of the table,
and Vernon's breakfast was excellent. Food
had the best effect on the lately dejected lover ;
his laugh came gaily, his eye gleamed with
humour. There is many a heartache that
can be made to cease on occasion by the
modest soothing of a good patc-dc-foie-

Here,' cried vernon at last, ' are two
disciples of Horace ; we have tried many
philosophies, but we return to this at last.

Hue vina et ungiienta et nimium breves
Flores absence ferre jube rosie,

Dum res et aetas et Bonorum

Fila trim patiuntur aera.'

Campbell smiled, and asked for some
more Burgundy.

My dear Alic,' Vernon went on presently,
' I wrote you a letter only yesterday,
full of advice and prophecy : and now, strange
to say, before you have got either, you have
taken the one, and fulfilled the other. I
described to you, too, all the charms of this
nook of mine ; but now, look about you, and
enjoy it with your own eyes.'

Campbell looked about him in silent,
but evident, admiration. He had been a
considerable traveller, and his eyes had
known the world's fairest and most famous
prospects ; but he admitted frankly that till

nov; he had never seen such a paradise.
Vernon was delighted ; and filling a glass
with wine, ' It will be a lite island in onr
lives,' he said, ' the enchanted time we will
spend here. We have both had our troubles
It is true, but, after all, we are still young :
and it seems to me on a day like this as If
life could have no sorrow except from want of
power to be happy enough. Look between
those two palm trees at the hills with their
misty amethyst. See the astounding blue
above us against the green of the stone-pine !
See how the living azure is cut by the yellow
mimosa-blossom ! The beauty of all this
foes through and through me like some notes
of a violoncello. It is a cry, like certain
dance music, after some consummation of
pleasure unknown to us. You can kiss, you
can embrace a woman ; and she can love you
back again. But nature — you can't kiss the
sea; you can't embrace the mountains. If

one could only see God, and break ones
heart in praising Him, that perhaps might
ease one.'

A servant here made a moment's interruption,
carrying Campbell's only luggage —
a hand-back — and skins to know if it should
be taken upstairs to a bedroom. ' Of course,'
said Vernon ; and then turning to Campbell,
My dear Alic,' he went on, ' it is indeed a
delight to think you are really here. It is a
pleasure beyond hope. But tell me — is that
little bag all you have brought over with
you ? You couldn't travel with so little
luggage if you were married.'

I admit,' said Campbell, smiling, ' that
freedom has its advantages. One would lose
a Q^reat deal in losing: it.'

One would lose,' said Vernon, ' all that
makes life bearable, as you would soon have
felt had your affairs gone otherwise. But
about the rest of your luggage, if there's nota

very great deal of it, we might drive over
to Cannes this afternoon, and bring it all
back in the carriage.'

My dear Vernon,' said Campbell, * I
have got all I want for the night ; and I
must be returning to Cannes tomorrow.
Don't let us waste our one dav in diviner.'

Our one day ! ' exclaimed Vernon. ' God
bless my soul, what do you mean by one
day ? Why, you are going to stop here at
least three weeks with me.'

My dear fellow,' said Campbell very
slowly, ' God knows I should like to stay
with you ; but it is not to be.' And he fixed
his eyes upon Vernon with a wistful, serious
tenderness — it might almost be called solemnity.
It was quite plain that he was resolute.

This to Vernon was like a thunderbolt
out of a clear sky. He was at once startled,
bewildered, and disappointed.

Not stay with me ! ' he exclaimed.

Why, what on earth do you mean, AHc ?
Even if you are still a little melancholy, as I
can well believe you are, you will be surely
far better here than moping about in holes
and corners by yourself. Why can't you stay ?
tell me ? '

When Campbell answered, his voice had
almost sunk to a whisper, and he looked at
Vernon with eyes that begged for sympathy.
Because,' he said, ' I have to go on to San
Remo. I have to be there tomorrow.
Vernon, my — my friend is there. This is
the reason why I have come abroad. I may
see her tomorrow evening ; I think, at
farthest, the morning after : and at one time
or the other I shall receive my life or death
at her hands.'

A sudden unwelcome lio^ht at last broke
in upon Vernon. ' Her — her ! ' he said.
Why, what on earth are you talking about ?
It surely can't be true that I have taken your

letter wrongly ? I thought, when you told
me your case was mending, that you simply
meant that you had fallen out of love again,
and that you saw that the marriage state
was not a thing worth sighing over

Campbell eyed Vernon for a moment or
two with a curious, sad amusement. * You're
an odd creature,' he at last said, smiling.
You know something of the world ; at least
you have seen many men and women : and
do you think that a man who has really loved
a woman, can cast his love to the winds in
the course of a single fortnight ? What a
strange notion you must have of the nature
of human affection ! '

Vernon, who had not only conceived such
a thing quite possible, but who had in this
case actually taken it for granted, received a
sudden check from those grave words of his
friend. He was not embarrassed by what he
had said himself — he knew Campbell far too

well for that ; but he felt that to Campbell's
mind he had betrayed a singular ignorance ;
and the first thing that struck him was the
absurdity of his own situation. A look came
into his eyes that fully confessed his fault ;
but it was the gleam of humour rather thana
tear of contrition ; and his expression vias
not unlike that of a naughty child's, who has
been caught for the fifth time committing-some
minor mischief. Campbell understood
the expression perfectly ; but it neither pained
nor chilled him.

I don't mind you laughing,' he said.
True feeling can always stand being laughed
at. vernon ' — and here his own voice sank
low again — ' this love of mine has lain down
with me and risen up with me for a whole
year. I have become a new man since first
it took possession of me.'

So it seems,' said Vernon, ' and a very
much unhappier one.'

Yes,' said Campbell simply, ' it has made
me very miserable. I was ill for several
weeks.' His lips quivered a little, and he
raised his clear eyes upwards. His look,
thought Vernon, was like a young saint's in
meditation. Something seemed in his mind
which he was a little timid of uttering ; but
at last he again turned to Vernon. ' I think
all this trouble,' he said, 'has been brini^inor
me nearer God.'

Vernon now began to realise that Campbell
was really changed. Was this the Campbell
who, but a single twelvemonth back,
delighted to dwell laughingly on the coarsest
side of passion, and used God's name rarely
except to give point to an epigram ? Vernon
saw the change, for he had keen moral perceptions
; it oppressed him, and at the same
time he respected it. Still, however, a faint
hope lingered in him that Campbell might
not be beyond repentance. He repeated

all the arguments he had before used in
his letter, and added others of a more
homely and practical nature. ' You have
often told me,' he urged, ' about your own
circumstances. You are a rich bachelor ; you
would be a poor husband. I have seen
myself that you have always lived in luxury ;
and you have always travelled whenever the
fancy seized you. Marriage would therefore
mean to you, on your own showing, the complete
loss of all your personal liberty. You
would be fettered in every movement and
almost in every thought of your life.'

I know well,' said Campbell, ' all I should
have to give up ; and I value it as much, or
nearly as much, as you do. I should have to
give up many, many luxuries, which to mein
my self-indulgence have till now seemed
necessaries — mental necessaries as well as
bodily. I should have to think about all
sorts of little expenses — a thing I hate doing.

As you say, my wings would be clipped
for travelling. I could no longer drink the
best Burgundy, or smoke the best cigars, or
buy books with fine engravings in them. I
should lose all this ; but what I should gain
would far — far outweigh it. All this is a
riddle to you, Vernon ; for you have never
known affection.'

You wouldn't say that, I can tell you
replied Vernon, ' if you had seen me last
night' And he gave a short account, in a
tone of reserved banter, of what he called his
adventure with Miss Walters.

Adventure ! ' repeated Campbell. * Yes
that is just what you consider a love affair.
With you, it is a little incursion into an
enemy's country ; and your aim is presently to
get back safe again. But when any man loves
truly, does he act or think like this ? Was
it an adventure for the Dolorous Mother
when she saw her son die on Calvary ? '

His high-strung state of feeling betrayed
Itself In every accent ; and Vernon at last
realised that his friend was beyond his arguments.
He put his hand kindly on Campbell's
shoulder, and in a tone of compassion
that was trying to rise to sympathy, ' My
dear, dear fellow,' he said, ' whatever you
Vv'ish for yourself, I wish. I should be very
glad for you to be happy, even though I lost
your old you by it.'

Thank you,' said Campbell, smiling ;
but, as time draws on, my hopes get very
shadowy. I build only on some slight
expression which my friend let drop about
me to a third person, and it Is more than
possible that I quite deceive myself I feel,
in going on to San Remo, as if I were goings
my own execution. By this time tomorrow
perhaps I shall be the forlornness
creature imaginable.*

'And in that case said Vernon, 'what

should you do then ? You would come back
to me, wouldn't you, and let me cheer you
up a little ? '

Campbell's whole expression altered ; the
lines of his mouth hardened. ' I know exactly
\vhat I should do,' he said. * I have already
faced the alternative. If necessary, I shall
oho straight off to Vienna, and shall find distraction
in a complete course of sensuality.
I am told that for a life of pleasure Vienna
is the best of capitals.'

Nonsense,' said Vernon sharply. 'You
would do nothing of the kind.'

I should,' replied Campbell. * I was
never in my life more serious. I have
already settled the exact route I should
travel by, and the hotel I should first put up
at. I am a man of strong animal passions.
I can easily make a complete beast of myself.
Nothing in the world could deaden mental
pain like that.'

Damn It ! ' exclaimed Vernon with a
sudden angry energy. * For God's sake,
Campbell, do talk like a rational being. It
makes me sick to hear you speak in that way.
A moment as^o I had begun to admire and
to envy you ; and now you have spoilt all.
Because some woman It chances, does not
love you, Is that any reason why }'ou should
cease to respect yourself? Affection, you
sav, raises the soul to God ; and, for auQ^ht I
know. It may very possibly do so. But If
you are crossed In love, does that make God
valueless ? Are your views about God
dependent on a girl's views about you ? If
your passion really raises you, It cannot let
you plan debasing yourself. If in cold blood
sou can thus plan debasing yourself, then all
I can say Is, that I don't think much of your
passion.'

You would not be so hard,' said Campbell
meekly, ' if you had ever felt as I feel.
VOL. I. K

What a lover plans Is never in cold blood.
Half the vice in the world, Vernon, is caused
less by sin than by sorrow. However,' he
went on, his tone again softening, ' I didn't
come here to croak my woes to you. Let us
think about other things, and let us explore
your paradise.'

CHAPTER II.

ERXOX was charmed to escape
to more indifferent subjects, and
by a quick reaction Campbell
became cheerful. The friends found plenty
of small things to amuse and interest them.
They went over the villa ; they inspected
books and etchings ; they scrambled about on
rocks ; they Vv'alked through olive-groves ;
they climbed up a wooded hill, and examined
a quaint old chapel. The chapel suggested
a sudden thought to Vernon. ' Come,' he
said, * and let us look up Stanley.' The news
that Stanley was in the neighbourhood was
a fresh distraction for Campbell, and for the

K 2

time seemed quite to banish the unfortunate
thoughts that saddened him. Stanley was
living at a small, somewhat rough pension,
that was not far from Vernon's villa. They
learnt that he was at home ; and a prim little
white-capped maid left them to announce
themselves. They found him upstairs, in a
small, bare sitting-room, bending over a table,
writing. His face was fine and delicate ; but
had contracted now a slightly stern expression,
and suggested at once thought and physical
suffering. When, however, he saw who were
his visitors, his eyes lit up with a smile of
such frank and surprised pleasure, that for a
moment the sternness vanished ; and Vernon
presently, though not without some mis-elaine,
asked him if he would come to
dinner. To his surprise Stanley accepted
gladly; but added, ' If I come this evening, I
must send you away now ; for I have certain
work which I am obliged to finish to-day.*

Poor Stanley ! ' said Vernon, as he and
Campbell walked away together. ' How
delighted he was to see you, Alic ! and
I don't think he much minded seeing me.'

On the contrary,' said Campbell, * I
thought he seemed particularly pleased at it.
Why should you think he minded it ? '

I don't know ; but I always vaguely
fancy, if I haven't wanted to see a man, that
he hasn't wanted to see me. Besides, I
haven't the least doubt that he thinks me
rather a brute.'

Do 3'ou mean to say that's the first time
you've ever been to call on him ? '

I'm afraid it is,' said Vernon. ' But I
shall go again now. Do you know, it almost
made me cry to see the pleased way in which
he smiled at us. I am always touched when
a man who looks stern is really made glad by
a trifle. But I'll tell you, my dear Alic, what
our present business must be. We must order

some specially nice things for dinner this evening
; and I think, in spite of everything, we
shall have a very happy little symposium

Nor, when dinner came, was this anticipation
falsified. The unlooked-for re-union of
the three old friends produced in each of them
a genial glow of spirits. Stanley, whatever
might be his private habits, betrayed at Vernon's
table no trace of asceticism. He was
naturally a moderate man ; but to-night at
least he ate and drank what he wanted, and
in a quite natural way he remarked that the
champagne was good. Talk flowed freely
about the early days at Oxford ; and memory
lit up all of them with the reflected sunshine
of youth. The only one whose spirits were
at all forced or uncertain was Vernon himself
The thought that Campbell was resolved not
to stay with him vexed him with a suppressed
persistency ; and with this presently another
bes^an to mix itself— the thought of Miss

Walters, and the strange charm cf her presence.
It thus happened that at moments
he would appear absent. But wine came to
his aid whenever his will failed him, and
drove his straying wits back to his guests
and table.

When dinner was over, the three adjourned
to the library, and Stanley and Campbell fell
to discussing one of their college tutors. This
Vv^as a man of great beauty of character, who,
though somewhat rough externally, had had
upon all his pupils the most powerful moral
influence ; and the mention of him led the
talkers to other serious matters. Vernon at
the beginning had occasionally put in a word
or two ; but he had relapsed gradually into a
mere listener — a listener at first attentive,
then a trifle drowsy ; till at length, by gentle
stages, he had sunk off into sleep.

The tone of the others presently dropped
lower.

Look ! ' said Stanley as his eyes fell
upon Vernon, ' what a curious expression in
repose he has! He is the most careworn
sleeper I ever saw, and yet of all waking men
he is the most careless-looking. Do you
think he Is happy ? '

He has his troubles,' said Campbell, ' no
doubt, like the rest of us. To make him
happy, he wants one or two things — he should
have less of a heart, or more of one. Somebody,
I remember, once said of him bitterly,
that he got more love from his slightest friend
than he ever gave to his greatest. Perhaps
there Is some truth in that : and yet, though
the man who said It Is one of the most staunch
of creatures, I could depend on Vernon in
some ways more surely than on him. Were
there any urgent need, I could ask Vernon to
take any trouble for me. He would hate the
trouble, yet all the same he would take It ;
and he would serve you better, when the

service was only a nuisance to him, than
many men would who might feel it a genuine
pleasure.'

That just fits in,' said Stanley, ' with
what I heard the other day about him, from
an old woman here, whose cottage I sometimes
visit. This woman had a poor, lame
child, who was taken out in a mule-cart, with
some of its brothers and sisters. The cart
broke down, and could not be brought home
again ; and the little cripple was naturally in
great distress. Vernon that moment chanced
to be passing by. He at once took it up and
carried it two miles, to its home, and the day
after ordered a boot with steel supports for
it, which the surgeons declare will give it the
use of its legs again. I happened to meet him
just after he had done carrying it, and he said,
'don't shake hands with me; I've been
touching a beastly child ! " '

Have you ever looked at his books?'

asked Campbell presently, as he glanced
round him.

No ; I have never been in this room
before. He asked me to breakfast once, but
I was unable to come, and I gathered by his
manner that he thought he had done his duty
by me.'

'His library,' said Campbell, 'made me
smile rather. A good half of it consists of dry
treatises on theology. Look at his writing-table,'
he went on. * Do you see those three
books on it — one on top of the other ? I
took them up before dinner, and they are
'* Horace," '' The Spiritual Combat," and
'' Lord Chesterfield's Letters." '

I remember that at Oxford,' said Stanley,
he would continually talk of theology ; but it
was never with any reverence, though sometimes
with thought and knowledge.'

Yes ; religion with him,' said Campbell,
is merely an intellectual question — a tiresome

riddle, that piques him because he can't

answer it.'

The conversation continued for some time
longer, whilst the subject of it still slept
heavily. At last Stanley, who kept early
hours, declared that he ought to go. ' But I
won't wake Vernon,' he said. ' Poor fellow,
he looks tired enough. You shall say goodnight
for me ; and I hope, Campbell, that I
may soon see you again.'

I am going tomorrow,' said Campbell.
I am obliged to go ; but, if you would be in, I
might come and see you in the morning. I,
too, have my troubles ; and I am afraid I
have been boring Vernon with them.'

By and by vernon woke up with a
start, and asked where was Stanley. ' What
a brute I must have seemed to him ! ' he said,
when he knew that his guest was gone. ' I
ask a fellow to dine with me ; then I sleep
like a pig all through the evening ; and now

for my pains, I wake up with a splitting headache.
Let us go out — shall we ? — and take
a turn in the garden.'

Vernon was somewhat silent as they went
through the moonlit walks. At last he said
abruptly, ' What made me sleepy to-night was
my having taken too much wine. I did it to
keep my spirits up, for I was gloomy about
your going. Of course Stanley wouldn't say
anything ; but I know quite well he must
have thought me a beast.'

That,' said Campbell, ' I am quite sure
he did not, for just before he went he
was warmly praising you. He was telling
me of your kindness to some little crippled
girl.'

My kindness to what 1 ' exclaimed
Vernon. ' Oh, I know what he must bethinking
of Poor little dirty brat — she literally
reeked of garlic ! How the devil did
Stanley hear about it ? But now tell

me he went on, ' must you really go tomorrow
? Is it all quite decided ? Can't
you stay even for a day or two, and let me
show you my beautiful neighbour ? '

Campbell shook his head. ' Xo, Vernon
no,' he said.

But she is very beautiful,' said Vernon,
and dresses exquisitely, and has all kinds of
high-minded views about the hollowness of
fashion, and about genuine friendship, and
falling in love, and so on. I would let you
flirt with her, if you wanted to.'

You forget,' said Campbell, ' that I am
leading" a consecrated life.'

\\^ell, she won't un-consecrate you. She
has done with love, she tells me : though I'm
not sure myself if I quite believe her. Is it
Sterne — or who is it ? — who says, '' Talking
of love is making it ? " '

Campbell was silent, and Vernon began
again.

I think my true mother! he said, 'would
be that of wooer-inordinate to my male
friends. Whenever any one of them had set
his heart on a lady, it should be my business
to awake her love and tenderness ; to teach
her lips to kiss, her breast to move with a sigh
or two, and her eyes to look expressively.
Then without any peculation I would transfer
my complete prize to my client. Would
you on these terms have made me your
agent ? You may be sure when the time
came I should have no temptation to cheat
you.'

This was said with a smile ; but Campbell
answered in a tone of unexpected seriousness.


*My dear Vernon,' he said, 'what a
thoroughly immoral man you are ! '

Immoral ! '

Yes ; you really are. I am not in the
least joking. You are one of the most immoral

men I ever knew. What you said just
now Is only another proof of it.'

My dear fellow,' said Vernon, ' I was
only chaffing you.'

Yes ; but the man In jest Is the key to
the man in earnest. Besides, I didn't judge
you merely by what you said just now. I
have known you for ten years, and have been
your friend ever since I knew you. I was
looking only this morning at one of your
early photographs, and since that was taken
I can see how your face has changed. In
some ways you have hardly aged at all ; you
still look very, very young. But youth is
sometimes prolonged by a sacrifice of all that
is best In it ; and ah, Vernon, there Is one
look gone from your face which that photograph
reminded me was once there ! And
shall I tell you what has destroyed it .^ It Is
what I call your Immorality. It is this perpetual
trifling with your highest and finest

feelings. That the feelings are high and fine
I don't deny for a moment. It is in that
that the badness lies. You are making a
playground of what should be your holy of
holies. You may not be indulging your
grosser appetites ; but you are making yourself
incapable for ever of any earnest affection
; and this is the surest way in which you
can quench the Spirit. It is not eclipsing the
light, as lust does ; it is putting the light out.
Pure affection can extinguish lust ; but if you
extinguish pure affection, what then ? Would
a man who has done that ever be fit for
• heaven, even though in the world's sense of
the word he were as moral as any anchorite
? '

There was something in Campbell's manner
which, despite his plain speaking, made
Vernon listen without anger or impatience.
He seemed a little annoyed, however, and
anxious to change the subject.

Heaven ! ' he said wearily ; ' and do you,
Campbell, really believe in heaven ? '

More than you do,' said Campbell, with
the same gentleness. ' I am not wanting to
preach to you. I am only trying, like a friend
that loves you, to show }'ou the reason of
your being so ill at ease. This is a delicate
thing to do, and even a friend can do it
only when he is himself feeling deeply. A
year ago I could never have spoken like this
to you. Perhaps six weeks hence I shall be
again unable to do It.'

I know you mean kindly,' said vernon.
But, honestly, I didn't quite understand you.
What on earth makes you think that I am ill
at ease ? '

You are, though you may not acknowledge
it. I can see it In your face, I can hear
it in your voice sometimes. With all your
bright spirits, and with all your gaiety, you
have done your nature a wrong which you

VOL. I. L

feel In spite of yourself My own sins, God
knows, have been many. It is perhaps because
of them that all this sorrow Is come
upon me. But there Is something worse,
Vernon, than even the garment spotted by the
flesh. What Is commonly called Immorality,
does Indeed stain life ; but yoicr immorality
eviscerates it. It leaves you a husk — a shell ;
a tissue It may be of supersensitive nerves ; but
with no true self within to be informed by
them. You have not arrived at that state yet,
but there are moments when you feel or fear
the beginning of It.'

I may have causes for care,' said Vernon,
other than you dream of ; perhaps, Indeed,
of an exactly opposite nature. You tell me I
do not believe In heaven, and perhaps I
don't ; but at least I feel daily the want of a
belief in It. My unhappiness, if I have any,
arises not from having no woman to love, but
from having no God to believe In.'

Campbell looked at Vernon with a friendly
Incredulity. ' My dear Vernon he said,
you are the most irreligious man I know.
The same course of conduct that deadens
human love deadens divine love also ; nor
indeed would you play with the first, if you
had any real sense of the second. I know quite
well that you think about religion, and read
about It ; but you know quite well also that
it is not an active power in your life. It is
nothing more than an abstraction. You
have continually told me that nothing in life
absorbs you, whereas religion, when a reality,
is all an affair of loving.'

Not of loving only, but of believing also.
You can't love a beings whose existence you
are not sure of; and it is quite conceivable
I am not speaking about myself, for that,
after all, is a matter of little interest — it is
quite conceivable that affection may in many
cases be chilled by want of belief, just as

L 2

belief may become useless for want of proper
affection. Love robbed of belief Is like a bird
whose nest has been stolen. It tries every
tree, but finds no twig to rest upon There
was a short silence after this ; and then presently
Vernon began again. ' In one point
at least he said with a cold laugh, * you are
wrong, Campbell, In your judgment of me.
You said that religion had no effect on my
life. It was a religious question that caused
the breaking off of my marriage.'

If you had been very much In love, if
you had been very anxious to marry, would
that question have stood in your way ? '

It would have stood in my way, I sincerely
hope. In any case. I can think of no
self-indulgence so wanton, so complete In its
cruelty, as bringing children into the world,
and giving them no faith to guide them.
It would indeed be making a tragic toy of
affection, to let it lead one Into blowing soap-bubbles

of conscious fretful vanity. Happy
unconscious matter ! The man is worse
than a murderer who informs it with aimless
wretchedness.'

And this,' said Campbell, ' Is the religious
man's view of fatherhood ! My dear Vernon,
you have much to learn yet.'

Vernon made no reply to this. He had
seen that Campbell, in spite of a friend's
fondness, had but a scanty faith in his conduct
with regard to the breaking off of his
marriage ; and a feeling of not quite unnatural
anger had begun to swell up in him.
But ' He means well,' he almost directly said
to himself, and he forced the anger down.
Its only outer sign was a few moments' coldness
; and when next he spoke, it was once
more with sympathy.

You have told me much about love,' he
said, as they moved back to the villa ; ' but
you have told me very little about your own

love-story. You met your goddess abroad ;
she has very simple tastes ; *' first she would
and then she wouldn't," and now she is doubtful
whether she will or no. I knew this
much, but that is all. Do you mind telling
me her name, and a little more about her ? '

Not to-night,' said Campbell. ' No — nor
tomorrow morning, I think. Had I better
or surer hope, I would dwell on and tell you
everything. But I can't now. I can't go
over those scenes again. I would sooner not
even tell you who she is, unless I can tell you
some day that she is or will be my wife. I
shall know that soon. Ah, me ! '

And are you still resolved,' said Vernon,
that Vienna is your only alternative ? '

Perhaps,' said Campbell sighing, ' I am
not resolved that it shall be ; but I know that
it is.'

The conversation then turned to brandy
and seltzer-water, and the two friends retired.

\'

CHAPTER Il

Campbell next morning paid a
short visit to Stanley, and in
£;:vS=:^<Q4 the afternoon he was sone.
Vernon's last words to him were, ' If you are
not successful, come back to me, and give up
Vienna. You have told me pretty plainly
that I'm not far off from a devil ; so if its the
devil you want to go to, )'ou may at least
choose one who is fond of you.'

There was more in his manner, perhaps,
than he was altogether conscious of ; for this
last farewell of his touched Campbell and set
him for some time thinking. As for Vernon

himself, his spirits at first sank low enough, and
his villa looked very blank to him. But he was
not a man tamely to sit down with dejection ;
and, having mourned his friend's loss for an
hour or so, his imagination suddenly wheeled
round to Miss Walters. The effect was as
quick on him as that of a glass of absinthe.
He would at once hurry off and call at the
Chateau St John ; and such a thrill did the
prospect send through him, that he felt his
present solitude was not without its advantages.
Even a friend like Campbell might
have been perhaps a little de trop just then.

He had rung the bell at the Chateau ; the
hall door had been thrown open, and with a
confident inquiry he was already on the
point of entering, when the servant informed
him that the ladies had left for Nice.

Left ! ' echoed Vernon in astonishment.

They left yesterday, sir said the servant;
but they will be back early this evening, as

I believe they are expecting a gentleman hereto
dine with them.'

vernon at once concluded that this
gentleman must be himself, and he resolved
to hasten home to inquire if no note had
arrived for him. He was spared, however,
this trouble by the servant adding the next
moment, ' A gentleman, I believe, sir, who
is comines from Monte Carlo.'

This simple announcement worked like
magic on Vernon. A sudden twilight of
jealousy fell on his whole soul ; and at the
same instant the stars of romance shone out
again. The expected guest, he felt convinced,
could be none other than Colonel Stapleton ;
and the thought that the beautiful Cynthia
could be touched by so gross a rival, seemed
to withdraw her to some untold distance.
But such are the ways of certain kinds of
affection, that this fancied distance only
increased his longing for her. His impressions

of her, mental or sensuous, became all more
vivid than ever, and he was soon lost In a
deep, passionate reverie. Her eyes, her lips,
her hands, the texture of her cheek and
throat, the feather In her hat, the tones of her
voice, her gestures — all these In their several
ways touched him ; and she dwelt in his
mind as some strange, delicate mystery that he
was resolved to make his own.

Having Indulged to the full in this kind
of dreaming, the thought of Campbell once
more came back to him. He paced the same
walks that evening that Campbell had lately
paced with him ; and he attentively thought
over their last night's conversation, and looked
longingly In the direction of the Chateau St.
John. * Ah me ! ' he cried, * and am I really
the brute that Campbell tells me L am ?
Am I really heartless and selfish, and with
no health left in me ? '

He went indoors to his library; and took

down a volume from his book-case of Latin
authors. He sat for some time poring over it
motionless ; but at last a low voice broke
from him, and he began thus translating aloud
to himself: —

Highest and holiest, mightiest and al-mightiest,
most pitiful and yet most just, unseen
and yet ever near to us, fairest and yet
most firm, ever before us and yet past our
studying; never new, never aging, yet renewing
all things ; striking the proud with age,
and they know it not : whose work never
ceases, whose quiet is never broken ;
gathering, 3'et nothing needing ; sustaining,
replenishing, and protecting ; making, cherishing,
and maturing ; seeking, yet having all
things : Thou lowest, and passion stirs Thee
not ; Thou art jealous, and lo ! no care
touches Thee ; Thou repented Thee, yet
Thou has no contrition ; Thou art angry, and
yet Thou abides calm ; Thou meanest Thy

works change, but Thy counsel endures forever
; Thou finest what Thou hast never
lost, and Thou takes It back home to Thee.
Thou art never in want, and yet Thou art
pleased with winning ; Thou hast no covetousness,
and yet Thou takes usury. Thou
art paid more than Thy due that Thou mayest
be made man's debtor ; and who has aught
that has not been always Thine ? Thou
mayest, yet west no man anything ; Thou
gives gifts, and behold Thou loses nothing.
And what, oh, what is this that I say concerning
Thee, my God, my life, my holy and
sweet desire ? or what, when he speaks of
Thee, can be said by any man ? and yet woe
to him that speaks not, since even the dumb
praise Thee.' ^

The book over which Vernon was bending
was the ' Confessions of Augustine.' As he
read he felt his eyes moisten, and at last he

^ Si. Augiistuie's Confessions book i. chap. iv.

'What's Hecuba to me, or I to Hecuba?'
he exclaimed. * Do I really mean that ? or
Is it only another form of self-indulgence ?
My God, what am I ? Is there anything in
me not contemptible ? '

He hid his face in his hands, and remained
for some time motionless. When he moved
himself, he did so with resolution. He
opened a drawer in his writing-table, he took
out some paper, and after a certain further
hesitation he abruptly put pen to it.

What he wrote was as follows : —

Why should a man wince at the sight of
his inmost thoughts ? Is he not a coward, if
he does not dare confront them ? Ah me ! I
am a coward ; I wince and I hold back ; false
shame overcomes me. But my heart is
troubled ; my spirit is bruised and beaten,
and courage at last has come to me from my

wretchedness. I may pretend I am happy ;
but, O my God, I am not happy ! It Is true
that my friends or the delicious sunshine
make my blood beat with pleasure, and many
other such trifles excite me. I become excited
childishly ; and I forget myself Into a
bright false happiness. But all the while
there is a worm gnawing at my heart, and
whenever I am quiet I feel It. I have tried to
deceive myself; I have tried to say this Is not
so. But I can deceive myself no longer ;
and now I will face the truth. I will see
what 1 am ; I will examine this mangled self
of mine. Yes — I will put my thoughts Into
shameless black and white ; they shall have
a solid body that I cannot pretend eludes
me. Quick ! — though I am shuddering, let
me get the icy shock over ; let me plunge
into confession. What should make me hesitate
? No one will see these pages, with this
blurred image of my soul cast on them.

Whenever I wish it the fire can keep my
secret.

What shall I say ? Shall I speak as in
reality my soul pines to speak ? I will.

O my God, holiest and mightiest, most
pitiful and yet most just, what I pine for is to
speak to Thee. Let me write Thy name —
let me brand it in writing, not think it only in
faint and fleeting thoughts. Let me rouse
my ears with the sound of my own voice crying
to Thee. O God, what I long for is to
lay bare my soul — to open it, to disrobe
it, to expose it naked before Thee ; and
to cry to Thee to have pity, to have pity, and
to look upon me !

And yet, how dare I, impure and faithless,
loving nothing — so they tell me — and
nobody ? For Thou art pure and holy ;
and my very friend has told me that I
am viler than most men. Am I so ? Oh,
teach me to know myself; humble my

pride ; enlighten me ! My God, I am not
mocking Thee. What I ask of Thee is what
my heart is crying for. Teach me to know
myself.

And yet if indeed Thou hearest me, I
must seem like one mocking ; for Thou
knowest how faith has failed me, and how
bewildered and dark my mind Is. Even
whilst I am crying to Thee, whilst I am trying
to open to Thee all my secret being, I
know not, I am not sure. If you have any
existence — you, the God I am crying to.
Perhaps you are only a dream — an Idea — a
passing phenomenon in man's mental history.
And yet surely, if Thou existent, Thou wilt
not, even for this cause, turn away from me,
quenching the smoking flax. May it not
be that Thou art revealing Thyself tome,
through my wretched sense of Thy
absence ?

But from me why art Thou absent ? Is

it through my sins, through my own loveless
nature ? Have I nothing In my soul fit to
offer Thee ? And for this cause hast Thou
put me far away from Thee ?

I may be evil now ; I maps be In outer
darkness ; but I know that I was not always.
I was once near Thee ; I was once ever with
Thee. That was when I was a little child.
O my God, I will confess to Thee through
my childhood.

I was no saint, Thou knowest ; I was a
little, worldly child, yet I will maintain even
to Thy face that as a child I loved Thee, and
with a child's frankness I was always In secret
turning to Thee. I thought of Thee in my
play ; I thought of Thee in riding my pony.
Hardly an hour passed In which, without
kneeling, I did not say some word to Thee,
Nor did this end with my childhood ; for as I
grew older, and as my thoughts multiplied,
more and more In secret did they fasten upon

VOL. I. M

Thee. And I grew very greatly to fear Thee,
and yet I was not afraid to love Thee ; for
my own sins were small, and I washed them
out with nightly penitence. Often hast
Thou heard my childlike lips confessing
them.

But as I thought upon Thy perfections,
and as I looked round upon the world, a new
sense grew in me. It was a sense of the
world's sin, and of how Thou wast being
grieved and blasphemed everywhere. Of
men's sorrow, and want, and poverty, I had
not heard much. What touched me was the
misery of the sin that they lay wallowing in.
The thought of this was never quite absent
from me. It haunted me day and night
through all my later boyhood. It very often
subdued me in my gayest moments. Thou
knowest how for this reason a great city was
hateful to me. In the same way, although
I could see my schoolfellows unhappy, and

be little moved by it, yet many a time when
I have seen some young soul corrupting
itself, I have said, *'' I would die, if he might
be saved from sinning." O God, Thou hast
heard me, if Thou hearest anything. Thou
knowest, too, how my pillow has been
damp with tears from my thinking on these
things.

Thus the time drew on when there was
a new thing to happen to me. I was to draw
near to Thee at Thy Son's altar. For this
cause, I turned my thoughts upon myself
more earnestly ; and I cleansed my heart as
I had never done before. And I received
Thy Son's self into me with fear and trembling ;
and I was drawn closer, O Thou Holy One,
to Him and Thee. And at the same time
also my early life was expanding. My
passions and the world's excitements began
to stir me, and shot new colours into existence
; and I hoped for love and for comm
2

penmanship, and I longed for beauty. The
sadness and the rapture overcame me that
tog-ether stir men to singing. But Thou, O
my God, wert present in all this. If I longed
for the love of a woman, it was that both our
faces might turn to Thee. And I saw Thee,
too. In the blue sky and In the sunset, and In
the reedy river with the moon In it, and in
the sea, and the sea shore. And each year I
was tempted with more and more temptations,
but I still kept watch over myself, and always
in my trouble I cried to Thee. I spoke to
no friend about these things. I communed
with Thee only, and I tried very hard to
carry the cross of Christ. When I have been
dining with gay companions I have seen
His face before me, beyond the lights and
classes. I have seen Him worn and sorrowful,
pleading with and reproaching me. He
has often said to me in the midst of my
laughter, " I Iiavj su.Tcrcd so nvL::h for thy

sake, canst thou not suffer even a little for
Mine ? "

I lived like this for some four or, it might
be, five years, and then the time began when
Thou wert slowly to be withdrawn from me.
Why was this, my God ? Was it for my
sins ? And if so, for what sins ? When,
when did they begin ? For Thou wast not
withdrawn from me through my forgetting
Thee, but through my ever thinking of Thee.
I studied much and many things ; and whatever
I studied, I applied it to Thy Church
and Thee. And new lights broke on me,
and new roads of knowledge ; and my soul
suffered violence, and the sight of its eyes
was changed. For by-and-by, though the
change came very slowly, all that I had once
been taught about Thee, the Sacraments also,
through which I once thought I approached
Thee, became to me like outworn symbols.
I struororled to stay the chancre. I called to

Thee, Thou knowest how often, to keep it
from me. Thou knowest how, as I felt my
prayers grow faint, and their words lose their
meaning, I still said to Thee every night and
morning, " I believe ; help Thou mine unbelief"
Thou knowest, too, when Thou
gayest me no answer, how I tried to find help
thus, " He that doeth," I said, "shall know of
the doctrine ; " and I tried with fresh diligence
to do my daily duties, hoping that in this way
might my faith revive again. But it never
did revive. On the contrary, all this while
I was receding farther from Thee ; and
the more earnestly I sought Thee, the less
near did I seem to come to Thee, till at
last I was like a blinded bird, I knew not
whither even to try to fly; and this body
of mine, this Temple of Thy Holy Spirit,
has been left empty ; and vain thoughts
and desires had been holding and still hold
festival in It.

O my God, if Thou art, ^vhy for me art
Thou not ? \\^hy art Thou thus withdrawn
from me ? Is it because I have sinned ?
Can that be the reason ? Surely this Thou
knowest, that it was not what men call sin
that made my eyes dim to see Thee. It was
not the lust of the flesh, nor the pride of life,
although both of these assailed me. and if
since then evil things have had hold on me,
I have sinned because I first lost Thee ; I
have not lost Thee through sinning. There
is no man or woman that for Thy sake
I could not renounce easily, reserving no
more care for them than to work for their
souls indifferently. No — what I have lost
Thee by is not sin ; it is rather the very things
whereby I resisted sin ; it is my reason, my
intellect, and my longing for what is true. I
have lost Thee, my God, through my earnest
search to find Thee.

And yet, for all this, do I dare to say I

am sinless ? It may be that I am far worse
than I think I am ; for has not my very friend
told me that I am viler than most men ?
Does he speak truth ? Perhaps. For in
many ways — it may be in all ways — he is a
better man than I am. The ties and the
affections of this life — those joys and sorrows
with which Thou hast surrounded us — touch
him, and take hold of him, and leave deep
marks in him ; but me they touch only as
the shadows in a dream-night. Perhaps, then,
here is the secret. Perhaps I am vile, not
knowing it, because to renounce all for Thy
sake would be so very small a pang to me,
and a sacrifice to Thee is worthless of that
which costs us nothing. What then ? Must
one love Thy creatures before one can love
Thee ? Must one not rather love Thy
creatures because of Thee ?

Thy creatures ! Were they Thine I
could indeed love them. I should know that

there Alas in them some eternal worth and
value. But, without Thee, what are they
more than shadows are ? What are they
more than I, who am the most frail and vain
of shadows ? They get no hold on me, nor
I any on them. For a little while one pleases
me, and then a little while and it does not
please. It comes near me ; presently It recedes
again, and another is pushed into the
place of It ; and In me there Is left no regret,
nor any pain In my heart. And how shall
this be otherwise ? And what shall give these
ghosts substance ? Why, without Thee,
what but a mere ghost is the universe, even
to its farthest stars '■ Of the only cosmos man
can ever know or conceive of, he Is himself the
co-creator ; and with the ending of his consciousness
the All ends also. It falls like a
house of cards when one card Is taken away
from It. Such is it without Thee. And
yet it is told me that If I loved my fellow-ghosts,

above all if I would take to my
heart some one of them, they would then be
ghosts no longer ; and that, they being thus
made real to me, I should again discern Thee.
This may be true. There may be some
philosophy in it By Love as well as by the
Word, the Heavens are perhaps made. But,

my God, wouldst Thou only reveal Thyself
first to me, wouldst Thou only show me that
Thou indeed existent, I would love all things
then for Thy sake !

And yet should I .^ I am not certain
of that even. For, my God, if Thou existent
Thou lowest all Thy creatures, and they are
all infinitely precious. How, then, am I to
inflame or influence my heart, that I should
permanently love some one of these more than

1 love the others ? I am perplexed, I cannot
tell. Yet I know — even my common sense
tells me — that it is only in this way that loving
men do love.

Nay, this, too, Thou knowest of me, that
I have, as a fact, striven to love In this way.
I sought to marry and to be faithful all my
life to another ; and I trusted that with
another's eyes I might again discern Thee.
But even this hope failed me. For what
return did she whom I chose make to me ?
She gave me no help that I needed ; but
proffered me comfortless comfort, and help
that I had no need of. Instead of showing
me T/iee, she turned away and prepared to
worship uie. She would have made me into
h€7' God, instead of guiding me to mine. And
for a time this consoled me a little ; but I soon
grew wears of it, and more restless than ever.
For how should this blind passion satisfy me ?
I did but blind her to Thee. She did not
show Thee to me.

It seems, then, that I have tried everything.
And now, my God, what remains forme
? How shall I plant my foot firm in this

land of shadows ? I am not In pain. Ah,
if I were in pain there would be more hope
for me ! I would not complain to Thee that
I did not feed upon roses, if Thou wouldst
vouchsafe only that the thorns might wound
and tear me. And yet, O God, Thou knowest
I am distracted still by trifles, by pleasures
that are no pleasures, and by pains that are
no pains. And Thou hast given me high
spirits, and Thou hast hidden my soul in a
raiment of light laughter, and in what, even
to me, sometimes seems contentment. But
my brain is empty ; I know not where to
turn. To this thing and to this thing I would
apply myself; but whenever I begin to stir
myself, the reason which Thou hast given me
plucks me by the ear, and hisses in a whisper,
To what purpose ? Are not all things
vanity ? "

And what is this I say ? To whom am
I speaking ? I am speaking to One of whose

^

very existence I am doubtful. I am not certain
if I would stake a hundred pounds upon
it. Oh, my forlorn hopes ! i\Iy reason trips
me, I am entangled and thrown down. Fool
that I am — wretched, wretched fool ! And
yet, though I am thus lying prostrate, thrown
abject and confused upon the ground, I will
not be hindered. O God, I still will speak
to Thee. I will call Thee to witness that
at least I have been near Thee, that I have
known Thy presence, and that, far away
though I be from Thee now, though this
world of shadows may now blind my eyes
to Thee, there nothing is in it anywhere
that I have longed for as I have longed
for Thee, there is nothing I have desired in
comparison of Thee. Thou hast been to me
my all, my life, my light, and my salvation.
Thou hast been the one wealth of my soul —
its one and only fire; and all that has hidden
Thee has been but as burning ashes.

Am I mad ? Am I a hypocrite ? Am
I dreaming? Am I lying to myself, as I
write thus ? Am I playing a part before
myself to deceive myself ? O my God, after
all, is it nothing but my own sin, my own
lovelessness, that stands between me and
Thee ? Dost Thou put me away, seeing
how lightly I have esteemed Thy creatures ?
Have I, as Campbell said to me, quenched
Thy Spirit ?

How odd Campbell's name looked, stuck
in like that !

My God — is it not possible that I may
plead my cause thus with Thee ? May I not
justify myself to Thee, and say, the worse I
am now, the more does this show how I loved
Thee ? Thou wast present in every affection,
in every energy of my life ; therefore with
Thy withdrawal every energy, every affectionis
ruined. Yes — I might say this, but for one
thing. Ah me, my God, behold what is now

happening to me ! The desire of Thee has
long made me miserable ; and, ah, more
miserable that I am ! even my desire for
Thee is now deserting me. My heart is
ceasing to ache for Thee. A hateful peace is
slowly soothing it to its death. My soul is
getting colder and colder ; warmth is leaving
it, as it leaves a man who is dying. O my
God, remain with me ! Keep my pain and
my desolation alive in me ! If Thou wilt not
fill the void in my heart that Thou didst once
fill, let the void remain void, let nothing else
fill it. Give me no peace, unless it be Thy
peace. Torment me, but forsake me not.
Scourge me, keep me wretched and restless
till I find Thee ! This is indeed a sincere
prayer. O my God, is it a wrong

one ?

Here he came to a long pause, and threw
his pen down, as if he would write no more.
He looked round the room wearily, and

Stared In a kind of stupor at the various
books about him. At last his eye fixed on a
volume of Herbert Spencer ; and for many
minutes he was motionless. Then, seizing
the pen again, he rapidly added what follows.

Our own inward condition — our own sins
and loneliness, and the bitter strife between
them — to the teachers of the present clay
what trifles do such things seem ! — or at best,
what a storm In a saucer ! To the prophets
of humanity, an unskilful bricklayer Is a
more tragic object than a ruined soul ! '

Several times during the long course of
his writhe, Vernon had ozone to the window,
and peered out. He now went again once
more, and the moon was setting — the moon,
which during his after-dinner walk had been
so heh In the middle heavens. This showed
him that the night must be far spent. Presently
his eye fell on a small side-table, and
there lay an object so common-place that it

seemed to him like a spectre. It was a letter
he had not before noticed that had come for
him by the evening's post. The writing,
which was large and decided, might have
been either a man's or woman's ; and he
fancied it was familiar, though he could
connect no name with it. He broke open
the envelope, as if the sight of it half
dazed him ; and the first words he read sent
all the blood to his cheek.

Dear Mr. Vernon,' — began the letter,
When I saw you the other day, I quite forgot
to tell you that my very heart was broken.
(' What ! ' thought Vernon, ' can this be from
Miss Walters ? ' He went on reading.)
xVnd only a clever young man like you
can be of the least comfort to me. My poor
little darling sky-terrier Prinny — the thing
on this earth I have loved best and longest
was run over and killed the other day by a
young man with a tandem. Only conceive

VOL. I. N

it — a tandem ! And this young gentleman
could have hardly held in a donkey. Had
he been one of my own stable-helps, I should
have known pretty well what to do with him.
And now you — if you will, I want you to
write an epitaph for me. My angel is being
embalmed by a very accomplished bird-suffer,
and is to have Christian burial when
I feet back to E norland. Your verses shall
have a most honourable place ; so be a goodman,
do, and write them for me.' And
then followed the bold signature of the
Duchess.

With a tired, sleepy smile Vernon again
sat down at his writing-table. A thought
had struck him suddenly ; and seizing the
pen, he scribbled these hasty lines : —

Thou art gone to sleep, and we —
May we some day sleep like thee !
Prinny, were this heart of mine
Half so true, my dog, as thine,
I my weary watch should keep
For a something more than sleep !

Whatever besides sleep the exhausted
writer may have longed for, sleep, at least,
now unexpectedly fell upon him. His eyelids
grew heavy like lead, the pen dropped
from his hand, and, sinking back in his chair,
he became lost to consciousness.

N 2

^'-^^j'^HEN vernon awoke it was already
daylight : the Venetian shutters
were barred with the red gleams
of morning. His eyelids ached, and he looked
about him bewildered.

What has happened to me ? ' he said
to himself. ' Am I awake, or is this a nightmare
? '

He paced about the library, at hast almost
staggering ; but by-and-by he recovered himself.
He mounted to his bedroom. It had
a ghastly, alien aspect. There was his bed,
cold, smooth, and slept in, with his nightshirt

folded lying upon it. He ruffled the
sheets and pillow, that he might seem to his
servant to have passed the night as usual ;
for, as to lying down, it was the last thing he
now thought of. Then he tore his clothes
off and plunged into a cold bath. He redressed
himself ; he made a large cup of coffee
over a spirit-lamp ; and having drunk it,
he softly stole out of doors.

The long shadows of the clear day in its
infancy made his garden wear an unfamiliar
face for him. But the living breath of the
air, fresh with the dew, and quick with the
smells of flower-beds, woke In him new pulses.
He paused and looked about him that his
spirit might ' drink the spectacles The sea
was a pale sheet, sharply dark at the horizon,
where it washed with its long levels the reddening
tract of sunrise ; and it was strewn

1 His spirit drank

The Spectacle. — Wordsworth.

with floating fragments of the crocus and the
rose of the sky. The faint promontories of
Italy slept in a veil of vapour. Inland lay
the far hill-villages, white scattered specks on
the huge slopes of the mountains ; and below
them were sombre ranges of far-reaching
mounded olive-woods. These were unchanging
in their soft, impassive darkness ;
but except on these the light was brightening
everywhere : and presently, far beyond them,
all the gigantic highlands flushed in an instant
from grey to a shining rose-colour, as
they caught the risen splendour on their bleak
frosts or dews.

Vernon, as he looked, felt himself come to
life again, but to a life of clear sensation
rather than clear thought. Thoughts, however,
of some kind must have begun to dimly
stir in him ; for he soon found himself moving
in a definite direction. It was the direction
of the Chateau St. John. He passed through

a wicket, Into a large open expanse studded
with heath and furze-bushes. The sea was
on one side of It ; It was traversed by several
paths ; and, for the sake of the air and view,
he had often before wandered In It. Here he
paused. Beyond were the tufts and plumes
of the luxuriant Chateau shrubberies, and
between these, by glimpses, the Chateau itself
was visible. Vernon's eye fixed on the line of
windows. The blinds were down ; the whole
house seemed slumbering. The path where
he stood led to a marble Q^atewav, through
which one entered the gardens and passed
Into an avenue of orange-trees. Towards

o

this gateway, though he could not explain
why, he was, In another moment, moving.
Last night he could write his thoughts ;
now they were too vague for analysis.

He passed through the gates with a feeling
of hope and peril ; he might have been
entering the charmed bounds of a sorceress.

And yet the place was already known by
heart to him ; and only a week ago he had
roamed at his own will in it. A maze of
paths branched from the orange-avenue. He
instinctively chose one that led far away from
the house, and that brought him by-and-by to
a long succession of gardens, terraced on the
hill-side, and leading down to the sea. He
stole on rapidly, past urns and statues, fountains
and set flower-beds ; he descended by
broad flights of steps from one level to
another ; and he at last diverged into a steep
winding path, which dived into a natural
tunnel amongst certain fantastic rocks. This
brought him presently, after several turnings,
to the strand of a tiny bay. On either side
was a curve of sheltering cliffs, not lofty but
precipitous, and plunging straight into clear
grey-green sea-water. The strand was a
little platform, gravelled carefully, and backed
by a bed of violets.

Here he paused, and at last began to
meditate. Slowly his vague feelings turned
into thoughts and images. His vigils of the
night came back to him, with the strange
projection on paper he had made of his own
condition : and they took a ghastly aspect as
the air of the morning breathed on them.
Mixed, too, with these phantasmal memories
were thoughts of a different order, which soon
began to reveal themselves with semi-transparent
bodies. They were thoughts of the
clear-checked mistress of the grounds where
he was now trespassing. No sooner had he
become conscious of this, than a memory
came back to him of certain sayings of Campbell's
; and he exclaimed to himself, with
weary self-reproach, ' Do I think again of
yielding ? What Is it that has brought me
here ? I do not love this girl. I have no
wish to bind myself All the fine and all the
high feelings she stirs in me — they are not

serious : I attach no worthy meaning to them.
I am merely trifling with them in the very
way Campbell warned me of. Let me be
brave for once — let me make one sacrifice ;
let me call my imagination away from her.
And yet — ah me — those lovely, lovely lips others
! '

At this moment a slight noise startled
him. He turned quickly round, and there, at
the distance of a pace or two, she was herself
standing before him. In an instant, like bats
from daylight, his scruples took wing, and hid
themselves. He was conscious of a shock, as
of all his will yielding. For a little while he
stood silent and looked at her, feellnor nothing
but his own blood beatings, and letting his
eyes rest on her. Seen thus in the dawning
she was a fresh surprise to him. His
memory, It Is true, had retained her image
clearly ; but it had let the image tarnish, and
lose Its exquisite delicacy. He saw she was

far more lovely than In his thoughts just now
she had seemed to him. She was dressed ina
way that, it was evident, was meant only
for solitude. She had a long cloak on, with
a border of broad sable. It was fastened
round her throat, with additional closeness, by
a small brooch of diamonds ; and below it
descended a pale-blue satin dressing-gown.
She had apparently taken what at waking
she could first seize upon ; for on her slim
shoes there was a glimmer of gold embroidery,
and on one of her hands was a long
evening glove. The other was bare, and
held a pale, dewy rose in It.

Vernon's rapid glance took In all these
details ; and the same impression was renewed
In him that he received at first meeting
her. Everything about her was dainty,
almost Fine in Its daintiness ; yet, in relation
to her, it seemed natural as her own complexion.
And she herself, with the early

light caressing her — had that complexion
stolen a tint from morning ? Had the dews
of night washed her violet eyes clearer ?

Miss Walters was the first to speak ; but
she only exclaimed, ' mr. vernon ! ' and he
for the first moment could only exclaim,
Miss Walters ! ' He was not, however, a
man to remain long tongue-tied ; and very
soon, with a smile, he was begging pardon asa
trespasser. ' Before you came here,' he
said, ' these gardens were a favourite haunt
of mine ; and I thought that, under cover of
the morning, I might venture in, just once
more, undetected.'

And I thought,' said INIiss Walters, with
a chance at her own costume, ' that I might
be undetected also. I certainly did not come
out expecting to confront company.'

The soft, low voice in which these words
were murmured, showed Vernon that she was
not displeased at meeting him. Directly

afterwards she happened to drop her glove. She
fixed her eyes on him smiHng, and said, * Pick
that up, will you ? ' It was a simple request to
make, but it had in it that subtle note of command,
the assumption of which by a woman
is one of the first signs of an understanding.
Vernon realised this perfectly, and his
heart swelled with rapture. He was fully
launched now on the tide of luxurious feeling;
and he murmured secretly, as his eyes met
his companion's, ' My own ! my own ! ' The
consciousness of having even in thought
applied such a phrase as this to a woman,
might be to many men a sharp self-revelation ;
but Vernon knew himself far too well
for that. No lover, however, of the most
earnest and genuine kind could have put
more tender expression than he did into his
voice, when he asked her presently, ' Are
you always so early a riser as this ? '

No,' she said; 'but I slept badly last

night ; and the morning looked so beautiful.
I huddled on these things, as you see —
anything I could get together ; I stole out
noiselessly, and found myself in a fairy-land
of roses, silent and fresh with dew. I hardly
know these gardens yet. They are all a
wonder and delight to me. I had never explored
that little tunnel before ; and you may
judge how surprised I was when I found you
standing here.'

Let me show you,' said Vernon, * the
mysteries of your own domains. Let us go up
again, and I will be your valet de place!

She turned, and she went with him. His
whole being was possessed with the sense of
her near companionship. They wandered on
together through the more sequestered walks,
slowly and often pausing, for the sake of
some sight or sound. Now it was a bird's
song that arrested them, now a prospect — a
fan-palm, an arch of roses, or the peaks of

VOL. I. o

the distant Alps : and such things as these
were for some time all they talked about.
Impersonal, however, as the conversation
seemed to be, a sense of mutual ease between
them was growing under its kindly shelter ; nor
was this to be wondered at. Conversations
which are impersonal in form, are sometimes
intensely personal in spirit. The subjects
spoken about are like the masques worn at
a ball ; and a passion can be declared plainly
under the guise of praising a view. Things
on the present occasion had not come to this :
but the conversation was full, on both sides, of
oblique hints of feeling ; and the subtle response
of Miss Walters to every sight of
beauty revealed to Vernon new depths in her
character. She saw a thousand minute things
that his eyes had passed over, even to the
play of the dewdrops falling from leaf to leaf ;
and when he pointed out to her the wider
and bolder prospects, the feelings they stirred

in her seemed to be more deep than his own.
She looked, he thought, amongst the dews
and the roses, Hke the spirit of the morning
facing its own creations.

Presently he was preparing to turn up a
certain path, when with a quick movement
she put her hand on his arm, and stopped
him. ' Not that path,' she said. ' It brings
us in full view of the house ; and to the
observation of the servants, I think, we should
be a somewhat mysterious couple.'

When a woman once shows herself conscious
that she is doing anything clandestine, a
man can rarely avoid some slight change in his
manner towards her ; and vernon now, as
they diverged into a different path, felt that
he turned to her with a slightly less disguised
admiration. Any such freedom, however,
spent itself like a relapsing wave, as his look
encountered hers. Hers showed no fear

of, or no offence at, him. It was full only
of a sad, earnest Inquiry, as though she were
wondering what were his feelings. As she
thus regarded him, she betrayed something
he had not before noticed. In spite of its
radiant aspect her face bore signs of weariness,
and under her eyes were streaks of
transparent purple.

*Yes,' she said absently, as Vernon remarked
on this ; ' last night I was very wakeful.
And you,' she added — * I think the same
fate must have been yours. Why, Mr.
Vernon, how is it that this has escaped me ?
You are more than tired ; haggard is the
only word for it. Has anything painful
happened to you ? *

Vernon was silent for a few moments ;
then he answered smiling, * You make me
speak to you ; your voice acts like a spell on
me. I spent last night face to face with a
spectre. I spent it face to face with that

dead self of mine which I told you I had
come here to find again.'

Yes,' she said ; * you told me. To some
people your words might perhaps have had
no meaning. But I understood them. I
have seen and known things that made them
quite plain to me. Tell me, then — have
you so soon found what you were seeking
for?'

Not it — no ; but the phantom of it. It
was the piteous phantom, not the returning
friend. At least I think so ; for just now I
can be sure of nothing. Some day, perhaps,
I may be able to tell you better.'

I, too,' she said, ' have something that I
may perhaps X.^ yotc — some day.'

Vernon was silent for a moment ; and
then he said to her, * Give me that rose as a
pledge that you will keep your promise.'

It is not 2, promise! she murmured ; ' it is
2i perhaps only.' But at the same time with

a slow, regretful movement she gave him
the pledge he asked for. As he took the
flower from her, their hands touched ; for a
few seconds they lingered in light contact,
and then gently, and with no resistance on
her part, Vernon took hers in his own. Ashe
held it, he looked into her face silently ;
by a slight movement he made her turn round
to the sunrise, and raising the rose in his
hand, he laid it against her cheek. * And you
are pale,' he said, ' like one of these creamy
rose-petals. See what you have given me —
it is your own image.'

Miss Walters made no answer, excepting
with her eyes and with her cheeks, whose
living rose-leaf flushed with a faint carnation.
A pause here might have been not without
embarrassment. Vernon felt this with the
instinct of the true love-maker, and he lit on
a new subject instantly. He saw that in her
left hand she was holding a small volume,

and with a voice quite altered, he asked,
What have you got there ? '

*You would hardly guess perhaps,' she
said, with a little, flickering smile. 'It is a
Bible. I always keep it by the side of my
bed, and I always read a verse or two in
the morning when I get up. I make my
selections in a way no critic would approve
of; and I'm sure I can't explain to you what
my exact principle is. This morning I chose
shall I tell you what ? Let us sit down
upon this bench for a moment, and I will read
it out to you. No — ' she said, putting her
hand on his, ' you must not take the book
from me. I don't want you to see the context.
" Awake, O north wind ; and come,
thou south ; blow upon my garden, that the
spices thereof may flow out. . I sleep, but
my heart maketh : it is the voice of my
beloved that knocked, saying, Open to me,
my sister, my love, my dove, my undefiled :

for my head is filled with dew, and my locks
with the drops of the night." '

The selection of this passage was a slight
shock to Vernon, or rather the fact that,
having selected It, she should have thus read
it to him. But so absent from her seemed all
consciousness that it could have any personal
application, that he Instantly felt ashamed of
so vulgar a suspicion of her.

They are beautiful verses,' he said, ' and
you read them beautifully. I am going to
ask you an odd question, seeing that this
is only our second meeting. Do you say
prayers In the morning, as well as read the
Bible ? '

I am a person,' she said abstractedly,
who has said many prayers — many, many,
many. I have passed nights of watching,
just as last night you did. But women
endure and suffer with more patience than
men do.'

With more patience, yes ; because they
have less to suffer.'

Do you think that is true ? ' she said,
smiHng sadly.

Not of all women — no ; but of women
like you it must be. The sufferings we talk
of are those of the heart and spirit. I don't
know your history ; your burdens may have
been more heavy than mine ; but they have
been burdens of a nobler kind ; they have
been such as are laid only on those who are
fit to bear them. It is far easier for the saint
to carry the cross, than for the sinner to find
or raise it again when he has once dropped it
in the snow.'

Again she looked at him with the same
sad smile. ' Do you think,' she said, ' that I
am a saint, then ? '

No,' he answered ; ' you are not a saint.
But I think you are listening for the sounds
that the saints hear.'

Presently he resumed. * I might perhaps
have thought you were a saint already, if it
were not for one reason.'

And what reason is that ? '

Do I venture to tell you, I wonder ? It
is entirely a subjective reason. Well — it
is this. If I knew that you would never
know it, or that, knowing, you would forgive
or forget it, I feel quite sure that I should
touch your lips with mine.'

As Vernon said this, he again put out his
hand to her, but, instead of meeting it, she
raised hers to her face, and for a moment hid
her eyes with it.

Remember,' she said presently, ' nothing
like that must ever come into our friendship.
I have set you apart in my own mind from
all other men, and you must learn to think of
me not as others have done.' She seemed to
be half pleading with and half warning him ;
and her words came with a singular soft

solemnity which at once fanned his feelings
and made him resolved to check them. ' You
must think of me,' she went on, 'just as I am to
think of you. I am your friend, or, if you like
it, your sister : and near relations, you know,
are only absurd when they are sentimental.'

Vernon could not understand her. She
was evidently all in earnest ; but there was
something in herself, some subtle power in
her presence, by which her words were more
than neutralised. ' Surely,' he thought, * this
is not the voice of a sister ; and when
feelings are merely sisterly, it is never worth
while saying so.' He was stung by a hybrid
impulse — the wish to obey her words and the
wish to yield to her fascination.

I will think of you,' he exclaimed, ' in
any way you tell me to : and you shall let
me call you by the name you have yourself
taught me — my sister, m)^ love, my dove, my
undefiled. May I call you that ? '

She made no answer, but she clasped her
hands before her ; he could see that she
clasped them tightly : and she sat motionless
with her eyes turned upwards. At last she
said, * Could you only call me that truly, I
would give up everything ! *

What,' murmured Vernon, * should
hinder me ? My love, my dove, my undefiled,
I shall always connect you with
the clear dews of the morning ; and your
friendship will revive my life like a second
baptism.'

You are reckoning without your host,'
she answered, still looking straight before her.
You know nothing about me yet, nor who
it is you are speaking to.'

What is wanting in my knowledge,' said
Vernon, ' Is made up by my instincts. Think,
we have only met twice ; and yet already you
are my friend and my sister, and you have
already — at least, I think so — put a new life

into me. I feel like a dusty flower that has
had dew fallen on it.'

She rose from where they were sitting,
and began to walk on slowly. He followed
her in silence, watching her graceful movements.
A long branch of roses dangled across
the path. She drew it towards herself, and
stood still, smelling one of the blossoms.
Presently, not looking at Vernon, * I think,'
she said, * you had perhaps better beware of
me.'

For my sake or for yours ? '

Not for mine, certainly. There is little
need for me to beware of anything.'

Nor for me either,' said Vernon. ' You
will not ruin my peace. I should perhaps bea
better man if you were able to. Friendship
is all I ask for, I neither expect more
nor wish for it. As long as you care to
meet me, let my heart throb as I think of
you. If you withdraw your caring, no matter

how capriciously— well, I will not reproach
you.'

I doubt,' she said smiling, *if even I could
take things quite so easily as all that. However,
we shall see — we shall see. We shall
have plenty of opportunities. And that
reminds me' — here all of a sudden her manner
became conventional — ' I fear you called upon
us yesterday and did not find us at home. It is
my fault that you had your trouble for nothing.
I had written you a note myself the day
before, to say that we were called away, and
to ask you in my aunt's name to dine last
night with us. But — you see this is what it
is to be a methodical woman ! — I left it on
my dressing-table, and it never was taken
at all. You would have only met Colonel
Stapleton.'

What sort of man is Colonel Stapleton ?'
said Vernon abruptly. ' I barely know him to
speak to.'

Oh,' she said carelessly, * you can see
what he is in a moment. He hunts and
shoots, and has travelled over half the world.
I am fond of him, for I've known him ever
since I was so hio^h ; but there's nothing
whatever in him ; and I don't know that you
missed much in not dining with us.'

The night before,' said Vernon, ' I had a
little dinner of my own. My guests were an
old college friend, who, I am sorry to say, is
gone ; and a poor Catholic priest, who is
staying near here for his health — an excellent
man, but a little depressing sometimes.'


A priest ! ' said Miss Walters.

Not one of these country priests. My
friend is an Englishman, whom I once knew

well — a fellow called Frederic Stanley.

You seem surprised. Do you know him ?
He is stopping here at the Pension!

Know him ! * she replied. * He is a sort

of cousin of mine, and is the truest friend I
ever had in the world. Mr. Vernon,' she
went on, ' whatever relationship yours and
mine may be, Frederic Stanley was really
like a brother to me. I could once have told
him anything ; I could have asked his advice
in anything. But I shall never do that again.
There is one thing gone from my life — gone
like many other things.'

Why,' said Vernon, * should his being a
priest estrange you ? '

It doesn't,' she said. ' I was not thinking
of that. That, in itself, would rather help to
unite us. It is nothing that he knows of that
divides us now. Perhaps you — but let me
look once in your eyes again ; just look at me,
please, for one moment steadily — perhaps you
will know what it is some day. But about
Fred Stanley,' she went on. * I should like
you very much to be friends with him ; I feel
so sure he could help you. I have an instinct,

in your case ; I have a power of divination
which tells me so.'

We are old friends already said Vernon ;
we were at the same college together.'

You are not yet friends In the way I wish
you should be, or I am sure you would not
have spoken of him as you did just this
moment. You call him depressing, and I
think I know what you mean by that. You
remember him as he once was, full of feeling
for art and poetry, and full of Interest in
everything from science to society ; and you
misjudge the change in him.'

In some men,' said Vernon, ' religion
kindles poetry ; it seems to have quenched
his. There is something now about him that
is hard and prosaic'

If this is so, I can tell you the meaning
of it. His right hand has offended him, and
he has cut it off deliberately. There is no
one who naturally is more alive to beauty, or

VOL. I. p

to whatever can flatter delicately ambition, intellectual
pride, or the senses ; and under the
priest's surface. If }'ou can only once get under
it, you will still discover the man of the world
and the poet ; only you will discover them
crucified. He has given his best as a sacrifice
to the God who, he thinks, loved men ; his
best, remember, not that which has cost him
nothing. You will detect his love for poetry
In his very silence about it. Try — to please
me, try — to make better friends with him.'

I will try,' said Vernon, ' both for your
sake and for his. But tell me this, will you
what you have just said makes me ask you
are you yourself a Catholic ? '

No,' she said with decision ; * that Is a
thing I never could be. I admire goodness,
and I hate evil — you might realise how
intensely, if you only knew my history ; and
amongst my Catholic friends have been the
best people I have known. But how, with

their eyes open, they can swallow so much
nonsense — I suppose there is some explanation,
but I confess it is quite beyond me.'
What sort of nonsense ? '

Frederic Stanley, for instance, thinks
he could absolve me from my sins. I confess
to him, and then he wipes the sin out. That
is his notion. Now he might advise me,
were I able to take advice, how to avoid
repeating my sins ; but it is ridiculous even
to fancy that he could relieve me of those I
have committed.'

It is quite as mysterious to me,' said
vernon, 'that God should forgive sins at allas
that He should forgive them through
Stanley's agency.'

It may be so,' she sighed. ' I don't know

what to think about it. A God Vv'ho is not

merciful is a monster ; a God who is just

and merciful seems an impossibility. Perhaps,

after all, there is no mercy needed except
p 2

from one human being to another ; and as to
what we do to ourselves, perhaps that matters
nothing.'

Vernon looked at her in surprise. ' Do
you really think that ? ' he said.

She cast her eyes down, and began to put
on her glove. She seemed occupied with the
beauty of her own delicate hands. Present
however, and not without hesitation, ' I'll tell
you,' she said, ' what I really do think.
Religion, when a good man is possessed by
it, makes him unselfish, and eager to work for
others ; but it makes a woman selfish. It
centres her whole anxiety on keeping her own
robe taintless ; and it is always sending her
to her looking-glass that she may examine
her moral toilette. In the language of religion,
this is female virtue par excellence.
Well, I can't help thinking — I hope you
won't be shocked at me — that there are
other virtues in God's eyes more important

than this; and-that it will be asked us first,
what work have your hands done ? not,
whether we have kept them quite clean in
doing it

I have myself,* said Vernon slowly, and
not without some surprise, ' been inclined to
accuse Catholicism of the same fault in its
teaching. But the fault — and I am sure it
exists — is really not in Catholicism, but incertain
times and teachers ; perhaps, too, incertain
pupils. What the Church teaches
is, that we all of us, women as well as men,
have two duties — one to ourselves, the other
to humanity ; and that these are like the two
feet on which the pilgrim goes to God. It is
easy to sneer at the self-regarding virtues ;
but the Church is a true philosopher when
she insists to man on their necessity. Unless
we work for others, we shall have nothing to
offer God : unless we keep our hearts pure,
we shall be unable to offer it.'

'Are you, then said Miss Walters, *a
Catholic ? '

I don't know,' he murmured, ' what I am.'
Just now,' she said, * you asked me a

question, and I believe I evaded it. You
asked me if I said my prayers. I am now
going to ask the same question of you.
Do you ? '

Very ill ; but still I do say them.'

Then if you do,' she said, holding out
her hand to him, ' pray for me. Now, go.
The clock is striking eight. I must get back
to the house.'

Her hand was in his. He held it, and it
was not withdrawn from him. Here again
there was a sharp, distinct struggle in him.
Should he do something, or should he forbear
from doing it ? Impulse urged him one way ;
conscience, with clear voice, the other : and
In a few seconds again conscience yielded.
Nearer and nearer to himself he drew his fair

companion. She, as If spell-bound, offered
no resistance. Presently he was sensible of
the warmth of her face close to him : a
moment more, and he had done what he said
he longed to do ; he had kissed her on her
sad, proud lips.

The touch recalled her to herself. ' Go,'
she said, ' go ! You don't know what it is
you are doing to me.' xA.nd without another
look she was gone.

Vernon found his way homewards In a
new, confused excitement. A wild pleasure
was struggling with self-reproach, and he
hardly knew the exact nature of either. His
mind was a mystery to himself, like a magician's
crystal globe. There seemed to be in
it a white vapour rising, which Avould take
presently some conjectured shape.

iHE after-taste of the above interview
was to Vernon not without
bitterness. He was beset by two
reflections of an opposite nature, and each
in its own way annoying. One of these
was, ' I was a fool to kiss her.' The other,
I was a still greater fool not to ask her when
I might be allowed to see her again.' He
had already made his formal call at the
Chateau ; he could not repeat it without some
sort of invitation ; and it might be a day, it
might perhaps be even two, before his new
romance could be proceeded with. Fate,
however, proved more kind than he had anticipated

; for in the course of the morning
the following note arrived for him :

Dear Mr. Vernon,' it ran, ' there is a
little town among the mountains here called
St. Paul du Var, which my aunt has seen from
a distance, and much wishes to visit. We
have some thoughts of going there this afternoon
; and if you have nothing better to doit
would give her great pleasure if you would

come with us.

Sincerely yours,

Cynth ia Walters.'
Then came the following postscript :

Remember, if you are to be ever a
friend of mine, you must never act again as
if you were more than a friend.'

He seized a pen eagerly, and had begun
to write an acceptance, when he was cut short
by a very unwelcome interruption. The
mother had arrived of his little crippled protege,

and was begging to speak to him about
her child's condition. ' Damn her ! ' was his
first exclamation ; and then to the servant he
said, ' Let her come tomorrow.' The man
closed the door, but in another moment
Vernon had recalled him. ' No,' he said ;
you may tell her to come in now.' A breath
of garlic announced the old woman's advent.
Vernon forced a smile and held his handkerchief
to his nostrils. The story was this :
the boot required altering ; one of the steel
supports grazed the poor child's ankle, and, sofar
as Vernon could gather, she was in great
suffering. ' Let her take the boot off, and I
weill come tomorrow.' It was on his lips to
say this, and to say it with some impatience.
But he happened to look into the old crone's
face, and his purpose altered. ' I will be
with you,' he said, ' in the course of the
next hour, and Avill take the child to Nice
with me, where the boot shall be refitted on

her.' Biting his lips with irritation, he wrote
Miss Walters an unwilling refusal, and started
presently on his distasteful work of mercy.
I wish,' he murmured, ' the little animal was
at the devil. Here's another day she's spoilt
for me.' By-and-bye, however, he saw a
brighter side to the question. * After all,' he
thought, ' it has perhaps turned out for the
best. Had I been with that girl, I should
have committed myself more and more. I
should have said much and meant nothing.
Or else — my God, what a brute I am ! — I
should have been using the very thoughts
that I should like to hold most sacred as so
many dominoes in an idle game of love-making.
I have done that already this
morning. Campbell was right about me ! '

Reflections such as these kept recurring to
him throughout the day ; but they were not
without their rivals. The memory of Miss
Walters — her beauty, her delicate feeling, her

Strange, ambiguous phrases, and the touch of
her hand and lips — these would recur also, and
make him again long for her company. His
business with the child detained him some
hours at Nice, and it was latish when he got
home again. But the events of the day had
done little to calm his mind. Prudence, desire;
and conscience still stung and distracted
him.

When he entered his library, he found
another letter awaiting him, in an envelope
not unlike the one he had received that
morning. But he was disappointed ; it was
not from Miss Walters. It would have told
its own authorship, even without the Duchess's
signature. ' I hope,' it ran, ' that you have
composed me those verses. However, It is
not about these that I am writing ; and I
shall not dun you yet. What I want to tell
you is that old Surbiton Is coming over to
the Cap tomorrow for me, to give a proper

blowing up to the head gardener at the Hotel
there ; and, as we all know how particular he
is about his eating, I want you, if you will, tolet
him come to you for luncheon. If I may
give you a hint, I will tell you he worships
truffles. There's another man here — a good
sort of creature in his way. You would perhaps,
if he comes, let him trespass on your
hospitality also.'

The prospect of any excitement pleased
Vernon at the moment. He wrote out a
telegram to the Duchess, that was to be sent
the first thing next morning. He summoned
his chef, and had a long conference
with him about a luncheon : then, thoroughly
wearied, he took himself off to bed ; and Lord
Surbiton, truffles, and bliss Walters in turn
engaged his thoughts, as by dreamy stages
they decomposed into unconsciousness.

E sent next day to the station to
meet Lord Surblton, who In due
time arrived. He was not
alone, however. The other man mentioned
by the Duchess had escaped Vernon's
mind for the moment ; and it was with no
great feeling of pleasure that he discovered it
to be Colonel Stapleton. He had had a
nodding acquaintance with the Colonel for
many years previous ; he had had a vague Impression
that he hunted, shot, and gambled ;
and he had had passing glimpses of him at
various London houses. But as for thinking of

him for two minutes together, he had never done
this till the dinner at Monte Carlo. Colonel
Stapleton since that evening had been a vivid
personality to vernon, and a personality distasteful
to him to a degree he could not
account for. He was aware that in some
vague way he might regard the man as a
rival ; but his distaste was different from the
mere distaste of jealousy. He grudged him
Miss Walters' acquaintance, not because there
was much that could attract her in him, but
because there was so little. ' Brute ! ' he had
murmured several times to himself, ' how I
hate those swimming eyes of his ! I can't
bear to think that her eyes should look at
him.' This, however, he had himself seen
they had done ; and whenever he recollected
how often and how smilingly, Miss Walters
seemed withdrawn from him to some mysterious
estranging distance. But that was
not all. In the very process of this withdrawal

she became more alluring to him ; and
he felt himself at such moments grow sick
with a new longing for her.

The Colonel's reappearance made him
again conscious of this ; and it required
all his tact to prepare to receive him civilly.
It was a moment's consolation to him, as he
welcomed the two guests, to find that Lord
Surbiton looked somewhat bored with his
companion ; and Vernon at once, in his own
mind, taxed the Duchess with the arrangement.
Here at least he was right. Her
Grace dearly loved arranging.

Matters, however, went better than he
had hoped for. The Colonel's manner was
one of extreme good breeding ; and his frank
and evident shyness at intruding on a bare
acquaintance, at once made Vernon genial
without the trouble of trying to be so. Presently,
too, at luncheon Lord Surbiton lit
up into vivacity. All he had wanted hitherto

had been some subject he could discuss
strikingly ; and he soon found, in the science
of good living, one suited equally to himself
and his small audience.

I often think,' said the Colonel, ' that
the best meat I ever tasted was a piece of
mutton in the desert, that was cooked for me
by a young Coptic girl.'

Lord Surbiton turned to him with a keen
glance In his eyes. * The Coptic Church,' he
said, * shows a singular lenity, does It not,
in Its rule over the human affections ? '

Certainly,' said the Colonel, ' when I
studied Its constitution, you could be married
and unmarried by It, just as the fancy seized
you. You could be married when you went
to Egypt, and unmarried when you left It.
What one gained by the arrangement was a
wider field of choice.'

But suppose,' said Lord Surbiton, ' one
of these women became attached to you ;

VOL. I. Q

might there not be some difficulty then in
getting quit of a lawful union ? '

I shouldn't think so said the Colonel,
despatching a fine truffle. ' Besides, distance
can divorce one, as well as the Coptic Church

Lord Surblton sighed. ' I regret much
he said, 'that I have hardly set foot in
Egypt; and I have yet been a constant

wanderer. Like Shelley's Plaster,

•

I have known
Athens and Tyre, and Baalbec, and the waste
Where stood Jerusalem.'

Colonel Stapleton stared. ' I, too, have
been in the East,' he said quietly. ' I was at
Jerusalem only a year ago.'

Not,' said Vernon, ' as a religious pilgrim,
I suppose ? '

The Colonel brushed a speck of dirt from
his finely-shaped internal. 'No he said ;
but I went there with a remarkably unrepentant
Magdalene. She had had something

to do with some one who had something to do
with India ; and I came across her at a loose
end in Cairo. It was a curious thing to see
a woman of that kind amongst the sacred
scenes one has heard about, and all that kind
of thing. She, now — this woman — what
should you think her great wish was ? Not
to see Olivet, or Jericho, or any of those
places. Upon my word I doubt if she had
ever even heard of Abraham. What she
wanted to see was a certain dance at
Damascus.'

Lord Surbiton's eyes shot with a fire of
intelligence, and his mouth emitted the ghost
of a hollow cackle. ' I know the dance you
mean,' he said. ' I've seen it myself several
times.'

I mean this,' said the Colonel ; and he
gave a minute description.

I must confess,' said Vernon, ' that I
don't myself see the point of it.'

Q 2

Why, my dear fellow,' replied the Colonel
In a slightly aggrieved tone, * it s the most
damned suggestive thing Imaginable. Though,
upon my word,' he went on, ' I don't know If
It beats some of the plays In Paris. Have

you, Lord Surblton, seen ? ' and he named

a certain play and theatre. ' You have }
Well, in the second act, did you ever notice
how the women's dresses were cut ? '

Lord Surblton with regretful Interest
confessed that he had not. The Colonel at
great length enlightened him. It was now
Lord Surbiton's turn to impart instruction,
and he repaid the Colonel In kind ; It may
also be said with usury. His vivid power
both of imagination and description made
most of what he said quite unfit to be
chronicled ; and the Colonel's eyes, as he
listened, swam with attentive moisture.

By-and-by they all adjourned to the
garden, where a table, under the myrtles, was

set with wine and coffee. This turned Lord
Surblton s thoughts into quite a new direction,
and, greatly to Vernon's pleasure, he began
quoting Horace. Colonel Stapleton since he
left Eton had been no great student ; but the
sound of the Latin tongue reminded him of
one classical quotation. Post grandis,
Callirrhoe. He had hardly aired this small
fragment of learning, when his manner
changed suddenly ; and, slightly embarrassed,
and not without some feeling of delicacy,
That line,' he said, ' was not very well
chosen by me, since, after Mr. Vernon's
praiidiicm, I have to call upon his next-door
neighbours.'

Confound him !' thought Vernon. 'What
the devil does he come over here at all for ? '

But Colonel,' said Lord Surbiton, * you
are to help me as her Grace's emissary.'

I will be back in half-an-hour, if our host
will excuse me presently.'

An Idea flashed upon Vernon. ' Will you
bring" your friends with you,' he said, ' and
we will all see the Hotel garden together ? '

Certainly,' said the Colonel, with gay
good humour. ' I forgot to ask you If you
had seen much of them, since that evening
when you carried them off In triumph. I
watched you as you drove away, and a fine,
spanking pace those horses of yours went,
too?'

Who are you talking of ? ' exclaimed
Lord Surbiton. 'Is it that lovely Miss
Walters ? By all means bring her, If such a
goddess will deign to appear among us.'

Upon my word,' said the Colonel, 'she
is a nymph or a goddess. Did you ever
see any one with a turn of the neck like
that ? She's about the handsomest woman
in Europe — Miss Walters is; at least,
that's my opinion ; and full of fun when you
only get to know her as I do. Then, the

dear old aunt too — what a capital old lady
that is! IVe the greatest retard for Aunt
Louisa

You, I suppose,' said Vernon, * have
known them for a long time ? '

God bless my soul, yes ! Why, when I
first knew ]\IIss Cynthia she used to sit on
my knees and kiss me. But ' — the Colonel
suddenly started, and his voice dropped with
alarm — ' who's this coming here ? It looks,
for all the world, like the parson.'

Vernon turned and saw It was Frederic
Stanley. ' Well,' said the Colonel hurriedly,
I'm off to the Chateau, and in half-an-hour
I'll be back a£:aln.'

As for Stanley, he began with a quiet
apology : ' Your servant, Vernon, never told
me you had visitors ; but merely said that I
should find you here In the garden.'

Sit down, my dear fellow,' said Vernon ;
I'm perfectly charmed to see you.' But

he felt, at the same time, that the priest
was out of his element ; and was a little
nervous when he made him known to Lord
Surbiton.

The event, however, set all his fears to
rest. Lord Surbitons versatility was more
than a fancied gift in him ; and on Stanley s
appearance his entire demeanour changed.
His furrowed face invested itself with a look
of thoughtful gravity ; and in his tone and
gesture, as he acknowledged his new acquaintance,
there was the most perfect mixture of
fitting respect and dignity. Vernon thought,
as he watched him, that he had never seen
a truer gentleman. Stanley too, in becoming
a priest, had by no means forgotten the
savoir faire of the guardsman ; and now that
the Colonel was gone, the trio were presently
quite at ease together. The picturesqueness of
the scene was such as to strike all of them.
The blue of the sea that glowed through anarch

of myrtles, the glitter of the glasses, the
red flash of the Burgundy, and the gold of
the pulled-up oranges, not to mention themselves
in the green shadow — all this to three
graceful scholars again suggested Horace,
and the calm of the Horatian philosophy.
Lord Surbiton broke out into several apt
quotations, which both the others would in
turn either cap or continue ; and he exclaimed
presently with all his pomp of utterance,
' If every pleasure, as Epicurus said it
did, springs somehow or other from some
satisfaction of the senses, it is poetry, it is
literature alone, that makes them last a lifetime.'


Epicurus,' said Vernon, * would, I think,
have admitted that. He was the wisest, in
his generation, of all the old philosophers ;
and the popularity of Horace is one of the
best proofs of this.'

True,' said Lord Surbiton. * There is

something, to me, much finer in the Epicurean
calm than in the Stoic fortitude. The man
who is stern, is repressing his emotion ; the
man who is calm has killed it. Think how
the two schools looked on death, for instance.
The Stoic looked on it with a defiant frown ;
by the act of an iron will he resolved not to
wince at it. He braved it — ' and here in
Lord Surbiton's eyes came a slight flash of
the Devil — * as a clumsy but virtuous peasant
might brave some wicked nobleman. But
the Epicurean had no need of resolves, or for
making heroic faces. He met death, as
Metternich met Napoleon, with the reserved
grace of a man who is the superior in all but
power ; and who yet gives power its due.
Horace, as you say, Vernon, is a proof
of this. His odes show us more clearly
than anything the pathetic dignity, the
politely concealed contempt, the easy self-possession,
and the superb high breeding,

with which the Epicurean poet greeted and
treated death.'

Whatever we think,' said Stanley, ' about
the religious view of the matter, that sort of
philosophy is now no longer possible.'

Goethe's mother,' said Vernon, 'found it
so ; and so did our Charles the Second.'

I was thinking,' said Stanley, ' not of
death then, but of life. What I meant was
that a life of the proudest calm, though enriched
with all the pleasures that can stimulate
mind or body, is an ideal that now no man
of insight can be satisfied with. Wee hear
much, it is true, about the sublime calm of
Goethe. I have almost thought myself that
that sublime was very near the ridiculous.
But, even were It not so, we are In Goethe's
age no longer. There is a new spirit now
abroad in the world ; we are becoming roused
to the sense of a new duty. I am speaking
of the modern conception of progress, and

the duty of each one of us to humanity.
Your Epicurean with his calm, in the face
of a thought Hke that, is Hke a man who
sits on his luggage when his train is leaving
the station.'

Surely,' said Lord Surbiton, with a smile
of surprised courtesy, * the Catholic Church
generally does not regard progress so complacently
: and humanity as an object of
worship I should have conceived in her
eyes to be little better than Antichrist.'

Do you remember the last words of an
expelled Pope on his death-bed, and the
answer his attendants made him — '' Because
I have loved righteousness and hated iniquity,
therefore I die in exile " ? " Because God
has driven thee the heathen for thine inheritance,
and the uttermost parts of the earth
for thy possession, Vicar of Christ, in exile
thou canst not die." Well, in the same way
one may speak of the Church always. She

cannot be outside progress, because she herself
is everywhere. What she rejects in the
spirit of Modern Secularism, is not its truths,
but its false and delirious expression of them.
The religion of humanity, the religion of
human progress — these are really implicit parts
of her system ; and it is she alone that can give
them a reasoned meaning-many people,
we know, think them to be new revelations.
Suppose we call them so. The life of the
Church is a series of new revelations. She is
human nature perpetually unfolding itself

I should have conceived,' said Lord
Surbiton, ' that the Catholic type of sanctity
was a thing fixed for ever, and that it could
make no terms with progress.'

That is true,' said Stanley, ' in one sense,
but it is not true in another : for change and
fixity are not of necessity incompatible. The
type of a perfect soldier may always remain
the same ; but it includes a change of conduct

according to changed conditions. His part
may be sometimes action ; sometimes a mute
vigilance : and it is the same with the saint,

o

in the world's changing ages. Myself I fully
recognise that we are now being swept
onwards into an era of new duties, and that
Almighty God may be demanding a larger
service from us.'

I, too,' said Lord Surbiton, 'can tell that
a change is coming. You and Vernon will
see it ; but it will find the eyes of me and my
generation closed.' He was silent for a
minute or two, whilst he lighted a large cigar.
I am not a Catholic, Mr. Stanley,' he resumed,
'but I am a student of human history;
and, putting our obvious differences aside,
my view of the Church has been yours. I
am glad to find that I have so orthodox an
authority for it. She has seemed to me to
have embraced, and to have been the only
cause that has done so, all that the most

many-sided genius ever could or can be busy
^vIth. She was at once a perfect saint, and a
perfect woman of the world, and she could
understand all man's lowest Impulses, and yet
still for ever lead him up to the highest.
Me,' he went on sighing, 'she has taught at
least one lesson — that there is little in this
world worth a regret on losing it.'

You are the last person, my lord,' said
Stanley with politeness, ' one could expect to
hear say that. You have fame, position,
fortune — all that the world can give you.'

It is these blessings,' said Lord Surbiton,
'that have made my heart so teachable. It
may be wisdom to despise the world ; but to
despise it thoroughly you must first possess
it.'

These words were uttered with a ghastly
kind of Impressiveness, and received the
reward they courted — a moment's complete
silence. This was ended presently by sounds

of a new quality. The music of female voices
was suddenly heard approaching, and mixed
with them came the Colonel's crackling
laughter.

Vernon's heart had begun to beat quickly.
He turned his head, and there was the group
before him.

You see said Lady Walters, * we have
come to return your visit ; and we hope you
will show us your villa, as well as her Grace's
gardens.' But Vernon had little time for
thinking of Lady Walters. Her niece was
there, standing side by side with the Colonel.
She had just, as she said presently, been
driving her pair of ponies ; and she still had
on a tight-fitting cloth dress, beneath which
protruded the tip of a varnished boot. The
sllghdy masculine air which her present
costume gave her, made a piquant mixture
with her natural grace and softness. It
seemed to hint to Vernon of some new side

to her character ; and it touched him, he
knew not why, with a quick twinge of jealousy.
The way she greeted him did not dispel this
feeling. She was perfectly frank and friendly :
she was, Indeed, too frank. He sought in vain
from either her eye or hand any sign of their
strange, secret intimacy. ' Good heavens,
he thought, * and it was but yesterday that I
kissed her ! '

In an instant, however, he was distracted
by another scene enacting itself. Stanley,
hearing strangers approaching, had withdrawn
to a little distance. He had not even heard
that the Walters were at the Cap de Juan ;
and he now first learned the fact by finding
them there facing him. Vernon narrowly
watched Miss Walters, as the meeting was
taking place ; and he saw how truly she had
spoken when she called Stanley a brother. * I
had been meaning,' she said. * to have sent
you a note yesterday : but now to-night you

VOL. I. R

must come — won't you ? — and dine with us.'
Stanley assented, and directly afterwards
withdrew himself.

The next step with the others was now
to see Vernon's villa ; and Vernon In showing
it began to feel more prosperous. The
Colonel, It is true, showed a wish to engross
Miss Walters ; but events at present would
often stand in his way. She was anxious to
be told about various books and pictures,
and on these points she could only appeal to
Vernon. Indeed for a good five minutes he
was almost tete-astute with her, as they turned
over together a portfolio of old engravings.
During this time their eyes met once ; and
for a moment hers softened as if in recognition
of their Intimacy. Directly afterwards,
however, came an odour of Less bouquet, and,
looking up, Vernon saw the Colonel behind
them. ' Fine engravings,' said the latter,
some of those, I should think.' And then

in an undertone, when Miss Walters' back
was turned, * And devilish free, too, a lot of
those old plates are.' He said this with a
smile, and a glance at the closed portfolio.

Vernon answered him with extreme, coldness.
' There is nothing, you may be sure,
that is free in that portfolio ; or I should not
have been showing it to Miss Walters.' But
the Colonel was quite unwounded. He only
glanced over his shoulder to see that they
were unobserved, and pulled from his pocket
a small morocco book with a lock to it. ' If
you want,' he said, ' to see modern art, just
look into that. I got it at Nice this mornings
Vernon looked, but it was for an instant only.
The contents were a series of photographs,
such as in England the police would seize
upon ; and he gave it back with a curt ' Thank
you ' to the Colonel.

The above incident, so far as Vernon's
peace was concerned, was the worst preparation

possible for what was about to follow.
The party presently set out for the Hotel
gardens ; and, during the short walk thither,
kept more or less together. The head
gardener was summoned ; the directions of
the Duchess were given, and the little group
was on the point of moving on again. Vernon
looked towards Miss Walters, hoping she
mio^ht fall behind with him. A look was
enough ; he did not repeat it ; in an instant
he felt what had happened — she was attached
to Colonel Stapleton. Step by step did these
two separate themselves, letting the others
go on ahead of them, and pausing at times
on pretence of examining something, that
they might keep or increase their distance.
Vernon's heart was full of pain and bitterness,
and he walked almost silent by Lady Walters
and Lord Surbiton. Suddenly a surprise
was caused by the sight of another party,
which made his lordship exclaim, ' It's lucky

that her Grace isn't here! ' The trespassers
proved to be a certain set from Nice, amongst
whom Vernon recognised a few of his own
acquaintance. Of this number was a certain
Mrs. Crane, one of the fairest and freest of
the married women of London. She not only
knew Vernon, but his companions also ; and,
quitting her own party, she advanced to meet
the others, whom a halt had again united.

I'm dying,' said Mrs. Crane, 'to get out
on that reef of rocks there, but the people I'm
with have not got a spark of enterprise ; and
my boots have such high heels that I aren't
venture alone.'

Let me be your guide,' said Vernon ; ' I
know the way perfectly.' And he fixed his
eyes on her with a look of shallow tenderness.

I,' said Miss Walters, ' should like to come
too. I have often watched those rocks and
wished I could get out to them.*

The instant she spoke Vernon turned

sharp round to her. Mrs. Crane noticed the
movement. But the impulses of the jealous
reverse themselves in a flash of lightning, and
the eager gesture was followed by the coldest
of tones. * The walk is perfectly easy,' he
said, ' if Colonel Stapleton will give you a
hand now and then. I have been there myself
continually.'

Both the elders declined so rough a pilgrimage,
and the two younger couples set off
by themselves. Miss Walters still with the
Colonel, and Vernon with Mrs. Crane.

Well, Mr. Vernon,' said that lady presently,
' I've not seen ^^ou since that charming
Sunday last summer, when we went down
together on the drag to Maidenhead. At
least I have seen you, though you were far
too well occupied to take any notice of me.
I saw you at Monte Carlo, and I saw, too,
who it was you were talking to. However,'
she added, as she balanced behind her towards

Miss Walters, ' you've a prettier one now to
play with — that is, if Colonel Jack will allow
you.'

What has he grot to do with it ? ' said
Vernon, a little brusquely.

What has not he ? There he is now side
by side with her. My good friend, don't you
wish you were in the shoes of one of them ? '

Upon my word,' said Vernon, ' I can't
say I do. If ever I want Miss Walters she
is my next-door neighbour, so I could well
spare her for an hour or two, even if all my
heart were set on her. Besides, at the present
moment, how could I even wish to better
myself? You're very pretty, and Fm very
agreeable ; and when there's nobody better
to hand, you know quite well that you have
a. caprice for me.'

Love and its kindred feelings can make
the wisest men like children, and when it
does not make them children in the best sense

of the word, It will often make them childish in
the worst. It can not only bring back the
simplicity, but also the tempers, of the nursery.
Of these last, one of the least lovely forms is
a sullenness towards one person, expressed
by effusion towards another. It was this
form of temper which now overcame Vernon.
He could not spend his day in making love
to Miss Walters, so he resolved to spend it
in making love to Mrs. Crane. Nor was
Mrs. Crane In the least displeased at
this. It was strictly true that, amongst
a hundred other caprices, she had one
that she could quite distinguish for Vernon ;
and as all that she demanded of most
of her male friends was, not that their
devotion should be constant, but only that it
should recur on occasion, no jealousy of a
rival made her In the least cold or difficile.
Vernon and she were thus soon on the
tenderest terms, as they had often been before

for five or six hours together ; and by the
time they had reached the special rock they
were making for, they were pretty well advanced
in a very unmasked flirtation. This
was just what Vernon in his present mood
wished for ; and when the two others joined
them, and the four sat down together, he hoped
that his conduct would not escape Miss
Walters. This was a child's bit of temper, but
he had a man's self-possession in showing it.
He betrayed no sullenness to the person he
wished to wound ; he addressed her instead
with an easy, genial indifference, which he
knew would be more effective ; and an intuitive
sense thrilled him that each of his
smiles was freezing her.

At first, however, when she looked about
her she was lost in the lovely prospect. He
could see how its beauty sank into her, like
a stone into a clear well. ' What a contrast,'
she said, ' between that grey cliff and the

water ! And how one little plume of foam
tosses over the sunken rock ! '

Yes, beautiful,' said Vernon civilly, with
a slight, fatuous laugh. ' It's all as charming
as can be ; though, for my own part, the love
of scenery is one of the many things I have
outlived, I think.'

Mrs. Crane patted him with her pretty
gloved hand, and said, ' You tell that to your
grandmother. Don't flatter yourself, my dear
man, that you've outlived the sweets of life
yet.'

You are right,' said Vernon, as he looked
at her ; ' for I have not outlived you.'

Mrs. Crane acknowledged the compliment
with an impertinent little grimace, that became
her admirably ; and then, turning sharp
to the Colonel, she made an observation on a
slight red mark on his temple. ' What on
earth have you been up to ? ' she said. ' Has
Colonel Jack been fighting ? '

*Upon my soul,' cried the Colonel, 'It was
something rather like it. What made the
mark was a pistol bullet.' This announcement
created the right surprise, but the
Colonel plainly was talking with no eye to
effect ; nor was there the least bravado in the
way in which he told his story. He had been
sleeping, it appeared, the preceding night at
Nice ; and, arriving late there from Monte
Carlo, he had walked to his hotel from the
station. In a lonely place he had been beset
by two men, it seemed with the intent of
robbing him. ' One of the fellows,' he said,
a little chap, I knocked down in a moment.
The other fired a pistol at me ; and then, not
seeing me fall, he bolted. There have been
several cases of the same sort this winter ;
and for the future,' he went on, producing
a revolver, ' I shall not go out late without
this.'

The weapon was a small one, finely

chased with silver, and Mrs. Crane inquired
if it would really kill a man.

It's killed two men already said the
Colonel. ' If it hadn't been for that, I should
have been a dead dog at Alexandria five
years ago.'

The tone cf the speaker was in all this so
modest, that Vernon was conscious of a kind
of grudging respect for him ; but what most
amazed him was the aspect of Miss Walters.
She was staring at the Colonel, not with the
least interest or anxiety, but simply as if his
face fascinated her. As for him, he was
guiltless of any wish to be serious ; and
his next observation showed it. ' Bless me,
Miss Cynthia,' he said, putting his hand on
her arm familiarly, * what a knowing coat
you've got on to-day ! Just turn my way and
let me look at it. How many inches round
in the waist does that make you ? '

She at once roused herself, and with a

smile and a frown together, ' Two Inches
more she said, ' than I should be without
it.'

There was nothing In her manner that
could be set down as coquetry ; yet vernon,
whose perceptions were In a super-sensitive
state, detected something in It that made
him turn sharp away from her. Presently
they all rose, and began to set about returning.


Mrs. Crane, though she was not piqued
on account of bliss Walters, Alas far too true
a woman to be able to keep silent about her ;
and as she and Vernon were descending the
rocks together, she again opened the subject.

Come,' she said, ' and tell me honestly
how you like her.'

I hardly know her,' said vernon drily.

Exactly ; and I doubt if you ever will.
I've seen her at Florence before now ; and
all the foreigners were at first sight in love

with her. But it was at first sight only.
She's as cold as ice afterwards. Every man
I've heard speak of her, has told me the
same story.'

That fellow Stapleton,' said Vernon,
seems to get on well enough with her.'

Mrs. Crane broke out into a little, malicious
laugh. ' My dear man,' she said, ' I saw all
along you were thinking so. I can see when
a man's jealous as plainly as I can see what
his necktie is. But you must be a goose if
you're jealous of fat Jack Stapleton. He
was a dangerous man once, I grant you ; but
if he wants any conquests now, he has to go
rather farther afield for them : and, from my
own little observations at Monte Carlo, I
suspect he goes farther afield pretty often.
Besides, as for that girl there, he might just
as well be her elder brother, or her uncle.
He must have grown tired of kissing her
before she was well out of the nursery. Just

listen now, how she chatters to him. That's
not the tone of a lover.'

Miss Walters' voice, it is true, was at that
moment raised slightly. She was preparing
to cross the last piece of broken ground ; and
Vernon distinctly heard her, as she declined
the Colonel's assistance. ' Thank you,' she
said, ' I can get on quite well by myself.
Really, my dear Jack, there's no need for you
to be so affectionate.'

Vernon knew not why, but he uttered an
inaudible oath to himself.

When they regained the gardens, Mrs.
Crane found her own party had flown, and
Lady W^alters announced with a smile that
Lord Surbiton had done so likewise. He
had been carried off by a fascinating Polish
countess. ' Why, it's the very woman,' said
Mrs. Crane, * that my own husband's in love
with. And of course he's gone off too. Now,
isn't that like a husband ? '

*My dear,' said Lady Walters, *you
needn't put yourself out. You know the
train that they are going by, and I said that
I would send you In our carriage to the
station. Or if you like to wait for dinner,
we should be very happy to see you. These
gentlemen too, In case they have no other
designs for themselves — we should be exceedingly
glad if they would enliven us with
their company.'

She looked round with an inquiry at
Vernon and Colonel Stapleton. The latter
at once assented ; Vernon declined, having
business, he said, that evening. ' Very well
then,' smiled Lady Walters, ' we will hope
for you at some other time.' He trusted
that Miss Walters would take notice of this
refusal ; but he found she was standing even
more near to him than he thought she was.
The branch of a rose-tree had caught Itself
in her hat, and he heard her, in a constrained

voice, asking him if he would disengage it
for her. He was started by her tone, and
still more by the look she gave him. There
was something in both of them, timid,
piteous, and appealing. She reminded him
of some wounded animal. He was in no
mood, however, to be moved by impressions
of this kind. He did the service she asked
of him with the same easy politeness as
heretofore ; but when in the process, by
accident, his hand touched her shoulder,
he recoiled from it as if he had touched
hot iron.

He discovered, the moment after, that
Mrs. Crane as well as himself had declined
Lady Walters' invitation ; and a new inspiration
seized him. ' Why should Lady Walters,'
he said, 'be at the trouble of having
her horses out ? I can see Mrs. Crane to the
station, if she has no objection to waiting
here.'

VOL. I. s

Mrs. Crane's eyes flashed with a pleased
intelligence ; and the matter was so settled.

In that case,' said Miss Walters, 'we
may as well be going back.' And the parties
prepared to separate. As she took leave of
Vernon, her voice seemed still unnatural,

And are you never,' she murmured, * coming
to see me again ? ' This was not, however,
the last thing he heard of her ; for turning to
her aunt she said, *We may as well dine
punctually, as Frederic Stanley does not
like late hours.' These simple words had
a sudden effect in one quarter. Colonel
Stapleton with a frown drew Miss Walters
apart a little ; his face changed ; he
had evidently lost command of himself.

What ! ' he exclaimed in an undertone,
and is Mr. Stanley going to dine with
you ? '

He is,' she answered coldly. ' Do you
happen to have any objection ? '

Objection ! ' cried the Colonel, still
between his teeth. ' My dear girl, are you
an utter, absolute idiot ? What the Devil 's
the good of my coming, if you've got that
confounded parson with you ? '

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : Printed BV

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street Square

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 35. 6d. each.

The Wanderer's Library.

Merrier England in the Olden Time. By G, Daniel. lust.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities. By Thomas Frost.
Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings. By C. Handley. Illustrated.
The Wilds of London. By James Greenwood.
The Old Showed and the Old London Fairs. By T. Frost.
The Story of the London Parks. By Jacob Haywood. Illust.
Low-life Deeps. By James Greenwood.
The Life and Adventures of a Cheap Jack. By C. Handley.
The Lives of the Conjurors. By Thomas Frost,
Th e World Behind the Scenes. B y Percy Fitzgerald.
NEw'fINE^ART work. Large 4to, cloth extra, 2ij!

Abdication, The:

An Historical Drama. By W. D. Scott-Mon'CRIEFF. With Seven
Original Etchings by John Petrie, R.A W. Q. Richardson, R.A.,
J. MacWhirter, A.R.A., Colin Hunter, R. Macbeth, and Tom
Graham. \ In preparation.

Crown 8vo, Coloured Frontispiece and liiustrauons, cloth gilt, 7J. 6rf.

Advertising, A History of.

From the Earliest Times. Illustrated by Anecdotes, Curious Specimens,
and Notes of Successful Advertisers. By Henry Sampson,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 639 Illustrations, js. 6d.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook of.

From the German of A. Rosengarten by W. Collett-Sandars.
Crown 8vo, with Portrait and Facsimile, cloth extra, 7J. dd,

Artemis Ward's Works :

The Works of Charles Farrer Browne, better known as Artemis
Ward. With Portrait, Facsimile of Handwriting, &c.

Barley (Rev. C. W.), Works by :

English Surnames : Their Sources and Significations. By
Charles Warning Barley, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ^s. 6d.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature. By Charles W.

Barley, Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London;

With some Account of their Predecessors, the Early Goldsmiths ; together
with Lists of Bankers from 1677 to 1876. By F. G. Hilton Price.

A New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs of.

By Henry Morley. New Edition, with One Hundred Illustrations.
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21J. per volume.

Beautiful Pictures by British Artists :

A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series.

The First Series including Examples by Wilkie, Constable,
Turner, Already. Landseer, Machine, E. M. Ward, Frith,
Sir John Gilbert, Leslie, Anselm, Marcus Stone, Sir Noel
Paton, Feed, Eyre Crosse, Gavin O'Neil, and Maddox Brown.

The Second Series containing Pictures by Armytage, Feed,
Goodwill, Henley, Horsey, Marks, Nicholls, Sir Noel
Paton, Pickersgill, G. Smith, Marcus Stone, Solomon,
Straight, E. M. Ward, and Warren.

All engraved on Steel in the highest style of An. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney Armytage, M.A.
This hook is well got up, and good engravings by Teens, Lamb Stocks, and
others, bring back to us Royal Academy Exhibitions 0/ past years." — Times.

Small 4to, green and gold, 6j. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7J. 6d.

Bernstein's As Pretty as Seven,

And other German Stories. Collected by Ludwig Bernstein. With
Additional Tales by the Brothers Grimm, and 100 Illustrations by
Richter.

NEW NOVEL B Y THE A Author OF " THE NEW Republic."

Belgravia for January, 1881,

Price One Shilling, contained the First Parts of Three New Serial,
viz. : —

1. A Romance of the Nineteenth Century, by W. H. Matlock,

Author of " The New Republic."

2. Joseph's Coat, by D. Christie Murray, Author of "A Life's

Atonement." With Illustrations by F. Barnard,

3. Round About Eton and Harrow, by Alfred Rimmer. With

numerous Illustrations.
•»* The Forty-third Volume of BELGRA VIA, elegantly bound
in crimson cloth, full gilt side and back, gilt edges, price js. 6d., is now
ready, — Handsome Cases for binding volumes can be had at zs. each.

Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform in size for standing.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks:

Academy Notes, 1875. With 40 Illustrations. ij.
Academy Notes, 1876. With 107 Illustrations, ix.
Academy Notes, 1877. With 143 Illustrations, ij.
Academy Notes, 1878. With 150 Illustrations. \s.
Academy Notes, 1879. With 146 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1880. With 126 Illustrations, is.
Grosvenor Notes, 1878. With 68 Illustrations. \s.
Grosvenor Notes, 1879. With 60 Illustrations. ij'.
Grosvenor Notes, 1880. With 56 Illustrations. is.
Pictures at the Paris Exhibition, 1878. 80 Illustrations.
Pictures at South Kensington. (The Raphael Cartoons, Sheep-shanks
Collection, &c.) With 70 Illustrations, ix.

The English Pictures at the National Gallery. With 114

Illustrations, zi.

The Old Masters at the National Gallery. 128 Illusts, is. 6d.
Academy Notes, 1875 79. Complete in One Volume, with

nearly 600 Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue to the National Gallery.

With Notes by Henry Blackburn, and 24.2 Illustrations. Demy 8vo
cloth limp, TT.

UNIFORM WITH "ACADEMY NOTES."
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1878. 117 Illustrations, is.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1879. 125 Illustrations, is.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1880. 114 Illustrations, is.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1878. 95 Illusts. is.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1880. 120 Illusts. is.
Walter Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1378. 112 Illusts. is.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1880. 100 Illusts. is.
Royal Manchester Institution Notes, 1878. 88 Illustrations, is.
Society of Artists Notes, Birmingham, 1878. 95 Illusts. is.
Children of the Great City. By F. W. Lawson. With Facsimile
Sketches by the Artist. Demy 8vo, zs.

Folio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, 21J.

Blake (William) :

Etchings from his Works. By W. B. ScOTT. With descriptive Text.
*' Th£ best side of Blake's work is given here and makes a really attractive
volume, which all can enjoy. . . . The etching is of the best kind, more repined
and delicate than the original work'* — Saturday Review.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, yj. ^d.

Boccaccio's Cameron;

or, Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated into English, with an Introduction
by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A With Portrait, and
Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.

Bowers' (G.) Hunting Sketches:

Canters in Hampshire. By G. Bowers. I. Gallops from

Gorseborough. II. Scrambles with Scratch Packs, III. Studies with
Stag Hounds. Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 21J.

Leaves from a Hunting Journal. By G. Bowers. Coloured in

facsimile of the originals. Oblong 4to, half-born d. 2tj.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d.

Brand's Observations on Popular Antiquities,

chiefly Illustrating the Origin of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and
Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis. An entirely
New and Revised Edition, wit h fine full-page Illustrations.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged and Revised by the
Author. Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
VoL I. Complete Poetical anb Dramatic Works. With Steel Plate

Portrait, and an Introduction by the Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers — Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches

Bohemian Papers — Spanish and American Legends.
Vol. in. Tales of the Argonauts — Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories— Condensed Novels, &c.
The Select Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry. With
Introductory Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait of the Author, and 50
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7^. 6d.

An Heiress of Red Dog, and other Stories. By Bret Harte.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, zJ. 6d.

The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte. Cap.

8vo, picture cover, rs. ; crown Svo, cloth extra, 3J. 6d.

The Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches. By Bret

Harte. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2J.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte. Fcap. Svo, picture

cover, IS . ; cloth extra , 2s. 6d . ^

Small crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with full-page Portraits, 4J. 6d.

Brewster's (Sir David) Martyrs of Science.

Small crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Astronomical Plates, 4s. 6d.

Brewster's (Sir D.) More Worlds than One,

the Creed of the Philosophy er and the Hope of the Christian.

THE STOTHARD BUN VAN. — Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7J. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates by

Stothard, engraved by Good ll ; and numerous Woodcuts.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, ^s. 6d.

Burton's The Anatomy of Melancholy :

What it is ; its Kinds, Causes, Symptoms, Prognostic, and several
Cures of it. In Three Partitions ; with their several Sections, Members,
and Sub-sections, Philosophically, Medically, and Historically
Opened and Cut-up. A New Edition, corrected and enriched by Translations
of the Classical Extracts. [/« the press.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Letters and Journals.

With Notices of his Life. By Thomas Moore. A Reprint of the
Original Edition, newly revised, with Twelve full-page Plates.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14J.

Campbell's (Sir G.) White and Black :

The Outcome of a Visit to the United States. By Sir George
Campbell, M.P.
Few persons are likely to take it uP without Jiniskins: it." — Nonconformist.

Post 8vo, cloth extra, is. 6d.

Carlyle (Thomas) On the Choice of Books.

With Portrait and Memoir.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Century (A) of Dishonour :

A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealings with some of
the Indian Tribes.

Small 4to, cloth gilt, with Coloured Illustrations, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children:

A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With Eight Coloured-pictures
and numerous Woodcuts by the Author.

Demy Bvo, cloth limp, zs, 6d.

Chaucer for Schools.

By Mrs. Haweis, Author of " Chaucer for Children."
We kail vjith pleasure the appearance of Mrs. Haweis' s 'Chaucer /or Schools'.
Her account of ' Chaucer the Tale-teller ' is certainly the pleasantness, chastest,
and at the same time one of the soundest descriptions of the old. master, his life and
tvorks and general surroundings, that have ever been-written. The chapter cannot
be too highly praised'" — Academy.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, gilt, 7J. 6d.

Coleman's Humorous Works ;

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and Slippers," and other Humorous
Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Coleman. With Life by G.
B. BuCKSTONE, and Frontispiece by Hogarth.

Conway (Moncure D.), Works by:

Demonology and Devil-Lore. By Manure D. Conway,

M.A. Two Vols., royal 8vo, with 65 Illustrations, tZs.
A valuable contribution to mythological literature. . . . There is truck
good "writing, a vast fund of humanity , undeniable earnestness, and a delicate
sense of humour, all set forth in pure English." — Contemporary Review .

A Necklace of Stories. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A.

Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
This delightful ' Necklace oj Stories ' is inspired with lovely and lofty
sentiments' — Illustrated London News.

The Wandering Jew, and the Pound of Flesh. By Moncure

D. Conway, M.A. Crown Svo, cbth extra, 4J. td. \ Intki ■ i

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Map and ministrations, 2J. 6^.

Cleopatra's Needle:

Its Acquisition and Removal to England. By Sir J. E. Alexander,
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Illustrations and Maps, 24J.

Cope's History of the Rifle Brigade

(The Prince Consort's Own), formerly the gath. By Sir William
H. Cope, formerly Lieutenant, Rifle Brigade.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, yj. 6d.

Cornwall.— Popular Romances of the West

of England ; or, 1 he Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions of Old
Cornwall. Collected and Edited by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New
and Revised Edition, with Additions, and Two Steel-plate Illustrations
by George Cruikshank.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13 Portraits, 7J. dd.

Creasy's Memoirs of Eminent Etonians ;

with Notices of the Early History of Iron College. By Sir Edward
Creasy, Author of "The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Etched Frontispiece, 7J. 6d.

Credulity, Past and Present.

By William Jones. Fas. A., Author of* Finger-Ring Lore*' &c.

Two Vols., demy 4to, handsomely bound in half-morocco, gilt, profusely
Illustrated with Coloured and Plain Plates and Woodcuts, price £^ js.

Encyclopaedia of Costume ;

or, A Dictionary of Dress — Regal, Ecclesiastical, Civil, and Military —
from the Earliest Period in England to the reign of George the Third;
Including Notices of Contemporaneous Fashions on the Continent,
and a General History of the Costumes of the Principal Countries of
Europe. By J. R. Blanche, Somerset Herald.
The Volumes may also be had separately (each Complete in itself) at £1 13*. td. each :
Vol. I. THE DICTIONARY.

Vol. II. A GENERAL HISTORY OP COSTUME EN EUROPE.
Also in 25 Parts, at 55. each. Cases for binding, 5^. each.

** A comprehensive and highly valuable book of reference. . . . IVe have
rarely failed to find in this book an account of an article of dress, while in most
of the entries curious and inst-active details are given. . . , Mr. Planches
enormous labour of love, the production of a text ivhich^-whether in its dictionary
form or in that of the ' General History,' is within unintended scope immeasurably
the best and richest work on Costume in English. , . . This book is not only
one of the most readable works of the kind, but intrinsically attraction and
amusins."—ArHE.ii/E.i!M.

A most readable and interesting work — and it can scarcely be consulted in.
vain, whether the reader is in search for information as to military, court,
ecclesiastical, legal, or professional costume. . . . All the chromo-lithographic.
and most of the woodcut illustrations— the latter amounting to several thousands
are very elaborately executed ; and the work forms a livre de luxe which renders
it equally suited to the library and the ladies' drawing-room" — Times.

NEW WORK hy the AUTHOR OF 'primitive MANNERS
AND C US TOMS .crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Crimes and Punishments.

Including a New Translation of Beccaria's " Dei Delitti e dalle Pane."
By James Anson Farrer.

Crown 8vo, cloth gill, Two very thick Volumes, js. 6d, each.

Cruikshank's Comic Almanac.

Complete in Two Series : The First from 1835 to 1843 ; the Second
flora 1844 to 1853. A Gathering of the Best Humour of
Thackeray. Hood, Mathew, Albert Smith. A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 Woodcuts and Steel Engravings
by Cruikshank, Line, Handel's. &c.

Square 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, los. 6d.

Dickens.— About England with Dickens.

With Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer and Charles A. Wanders
\ In preparation.

Second Edition, revised and enlarged, demy 8vo, cloth extra,
with Illustrations, 24J.

Dodge's (Colonel) The Hunting Grounds of

the Great West : A Description of the Plains, Game, and Indians of
the Great North American Desert. By Richard Irving Dodge,
Lieutenant-colonel of the United States Army. With an Introduction
by William Blackmore ; Map, and numerous Illustrations drawn
by Ernest Grist.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12J. 6d.

Dora's Memories of our Great Towns.

With Anecdotic Gleanings concerning their Worthies and their
Oddities. By Dr. John Dora, F.S.A.

Two Vols., crown Bvo, cloth extra, 21J.

Drury Lane (Oi) :

Fifty Years' Recollections of Author, Actor, and Manager. By
Edward Stirling.

^' Mr. Stirling s twy volumes of theatric %l recollections contain, apart from
the interest of his own early experiences, when the London stage tuas a very different
thing from-what it note is, a quantity 'f amusing and interesting facts and
anecdotes, nev and old. The book is onewhic't m-iy be t ken sup in a spare quarter
of an hour or has-hour-with a tolerable certainty of lighting upm something of
interest." — Saturday Review.

Demy 8vo, cloth, i6j.

Duty's India, Past and Present;

with Minor Essays on Cognate Subjects. By Shoshee ChunDER
Duty. Rii Bahadur.

Crown 8vo, cloth boards, 6j. per Volume.

Early English Poets.

Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Groat,

*'Mr, Groat has spent the most laborious and the most enthusiastic care <m

the perfect restoration and preservation of the text . . . From Mr. Groat lut

always expect and always receive the final results of most patient and competent

scholarship"— 'E.XAViiUKH

1. Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Com I 3. Herrick's (Robert) Hesperus

Poems : Christ's Victorie in des. Noble Numbers, and Complete
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth, Collected Poems. With Memorial-christ's
Triumph over Death, and | Introduction and Notes, Steel Pore
Poems. With Memorial-ins 1 trait, Index of First Lines, and
production and Notes. One Vol. Glossarial Index, &c. Three Vols.

2, Davies' (Sir John) Complete j 4. Sidney's (Sir Philip) Com-poetical

Works, including Psalms I. plate Poetical Works, including all

to L. in Verse, and other hitherto ■ those in "Arcadia." With Portrait,

Unpublished MSS.j for the first time Memorial-Introduction, Essay on

Collected and Edited. Memorial I the Poetry of Sidney, and Notes,

Introduction and Notes. Two Vols. ' Three Vols.

Imperial 8vo, with 147 fine Engravings, half-morocco, dearly

Teutonic, Italian, and French Masters

(The). Translated and Edited from the Dome Series, by A. H.
Keene, M.A.I. With numerous Illustrations.
Cannot fail to be of the utmost use to students of art history* — Times.

Crown 8v9, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 6j.

Emanuel On Diamonds and Precious

Stones ; their History, Value, and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With
numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain.

Demy 4to, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 36J.

Emanuel and Gregoo.— A History of the Goldsmith's
and Jeweller's Art in all Ages and in all Countries. By E,
Emanuel and Joseph Gregg. With numerous fine Engravings.

[/« preparation,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7J. 6^.

Englishman's House, The :

A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building a House,
with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson,
Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j.

Evolutionist (The) At Large.

By Grant Allen.

"Mr. Allen's method of treatment, as explanatory of the scientific revolution
known as evolution, gives a sort of personality and human character to the trout
or the strawberry blossom, which invests them, with additional charm, and makes
many of his pages read more like a fanciful fairy tale than a scientific work.
Mr. Allen's essays ought to open many a half-closed eye." — Manchester
Examiner.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with nearly 300 Illustrations, 7J. 6d.

Evolution (Chapters on) ;

A Popular History of the Darwinian and Allied Theories of Development,
By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S. Eden. &c, fin preparation.
Abstract of Contents : — The Problem Stated — Sketch of the Rise and Progress of
Evolution — What Evolution is and what it is not — The Evidence for Evolution —
Evidence from Development — Evidence from Rudimentary Organs — Evidence from
Geographical Distribution — Evidence from Geology — Evolution and Environments —
Flowers and their Fertilisation and Development— Evolution and Degeneration —
Evolution and Ethics — The Relations of Evolution to Ethics and Theology, &c. &c.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2ij-.

Ewald.— Stories from the State Papers.

By Alex. Charles Ewald. \^In preparation.

Folio, cloth extra, £x lis. 6d.

Examples of Contemporary Art.

Etchings from Representative Works by living English and Foreign
Artists. Edited, with Critical Notes, by J. Coins Carr.
It would not be easy to meet with a more sumptuous, and at the same iim4
a more tasteful and instructive drawing-room book." — Nonconformist.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Pairholt's Tobacco :

Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant and its
Manufacture, and its Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By F.
W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwards of
100 Illustrations by the Author.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 4J. 6d.

Faraday's Chemical History of a Candle.

Lectures delivered to a Juvenile Audience. A New Edition. Edited
by W. Crookes, F.C.S. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 41. 6d.

Faraday's Various Forces of Nature.

New Edition. Edited byW. Crookes. F.C.S. Numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Finger-Ring Lore:

Historical, Legendary, and Anecdotal. By Wm. Jones, F.S.A. With
Hundreds of Illustrations of Curious Rings of all Ages and Countries.
One of those gossiping books which are as full of amusement as of instruction
" — Athenaeum.

NE IV NO VEL B Y JUSTIN McCARTHY.

Gentleman's Magazine for January, 1881,

Price One Shilling, contained the First Chapters of a New Novel,
entitled "The Comet of a Season," by Justin McCarthy, M.P.,
Aurnor of "A History of Our Own Times," " Dear Lady Disdain, "&c.
Science Notes, by W. Mattie Williams, F.R.A.S., will also
be continued Monthly.

*^^* Now ready, the Volume for ]VLY to December, iso, cloth extra,
price 8j. 6d.; and Cases for binding, price 2s, each.

THE R US KIN GRIMM.— Square 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ;
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

German Popular Stories.

Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar Taylor.

Edited with an Introduction by John Ruskin. With 22 Illustrations

after the inimitable designs of George Cruikshank. Both Series

Complete.
The illustrations of this volume . . . are of quite sterling and admirable
art, of a class precisely parallel in elevation to the character of the tales which
they illustrate; and the original etchings, as I have before said in the Appendix to
tny ' Elements of Drawing' were unrivalled in masterfulness of touch since Rent'
brandt (in some qualities of delineation, un-rivalled even by hit). . . . To make
somewhat enlarged copies of them, looking at them through a magnifying glass
acid never putting two lines where Cruiks/tank has put only one, would be an exercise
in decision and severe drawing which would leave afterwards little to be leami
in schools"— Extract from Introduction by John Ruskin.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2J-. 6d.

Blenny's A Year's Work in Garden and

Greenhouse : Practical Ad vice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management
of the Flower. Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Glenn y.
A great deal of valuable information, conveyed in very simple language. The
amateur need not wish for a better guide." — Leeds Mercury.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, 7J. dd.

Golden Treasury of Thought, The :

An Encyclopedia of Quotations from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by Theodore Taylor.

New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ^s.^d.

Greeks and Romans, The Life of the,

Described from Antique Monuments. By Ernst Gull and W.
KONER. Translated iron the Third German Edition, and Edited by
Dr. F. HuEFFER. With 545 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 75. dd.

Greenwood's Low-life Deeps :

An Account of the Strange Fish to be found there. By James Greenwood.
With Illustrations in tint by Alfred Concave.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, jj, 6d,

Greenwood's Wilds of London:

Descriptive Sketches, from Personal Observations and Experience, of
Remarkable Scenes, People, and Places in London. By James Greenwood.
With 12 Tinted Illustrations by ALFRED Concave.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 4J. 6</.

Guyot's Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography ia its Relation to the History of Mankind.
With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray ; 12 Maps
and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and copious Index.

II

Square imo (Tauchnitz size),

Golden Library, The ;

Ballad History of England. By

W. C. Bennett.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of

the Echo Club.

Byron's Don Juan.
Emerson's Letters and Social

Aims.

Godwin's (William) Lives of

the Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the

Breakfast Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the

Breakfast Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities.

Complete. With all the original Illustrations.


Irving's (Washington) Tales of

a Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

the Alhambra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and

Occupations of Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both

Series Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale

for a Chimney Comer, and other
Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier.

cloth extra, 2.s. per volume.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

d' Arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round
Table. Edited by B. Montgomery
Ranking.

Pascals Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical la-production
and Notes, by T. M'Crik
Dad.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Saints


St Pierre's Paul and Virginia,

and Trie Indian Cottage. Edited,
with Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.
Shelley's Early Poems, and
Queen Mab, with Essay by Leigh
Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems : Lion

and Cythna, &c

Shelley's Posthumous Poems,

the Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzl,
St. Irvine, &c.

White's Natural History of Sel-borne.

Edited, with additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon), Poems by :

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth extra, 8j.
New Symbols. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ds.
Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7J. Sd.

Hall's(Mrs. S. Sketches of Irish Character.

With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by Machine, Gilbert,
Harvey, and G. Cruikshank.

'^Tfu Irish Sketches of this lady resemble Amiss Milord's beautiful English
sketches in 'your Village,' but they are far more vigorous and picturesque and
iright."—BLjLCK.vfooD's Magazine.

Post 8vo, cloth extra, ^.6d.',SL few large-paper copies, half-rob., los. 6d,

Handwriting, The Philosophy of.

By Don Felix de Salamanca. With 134 Facsimiles of Signatures.

Haweis (Mrs), Works by :

The Art of Dress. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Illustrated by the
Author. Small 8vo, illustrated cover, \s. ; cloth limp, \s. 6d.
"A well-considered attempt to apply canons of good taste to the costumes

of ladies o f our time Mrs. Haweis writes frankly and to tk*

Pointy site does not mince matters, but boldly remonstrates with her (rvn sex

on the follies they indulge in We may recommend the book to the

ladies whom it concern f is. "— At hkn mum.

The Art of Beauty. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, with Coloured Frontispiece and nearly loo
Illustrations, lo. 6d.

The Art of Decoration. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Small 4to,
handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, sos. 6d. \ In the Press.

*J^ See also Chaucer, p. S <>/ ^-^^ Catalogue.

SPECIMENS OF MODERN POETS.— Ctov/d. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

HeptalOgia (The) ; or, The Seven against Sense.

A Cap with Seven Bells.
Of really good parodies it would be difficult to tame more than half-a-dozen
outside the ' Anti-jacobin,' the " Rejected Addresses,' and the ' Ballads of Bon
Gautier.' . . . It is no slight praise to say tJuxt the volume before us bears
comparison with these celebrated collections. . . . But the merits of the book
can-not be fairly estimated by means of a few extracts ; it should be read at length
to be appreciated properly, and, in our opinion, its merits entitle it to be very
widely read indeed'" — St. James's Gazette.

Cr. 8vo, bound in parchment, %s. \ Large-Paper copies (only 50 printed), 15J.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord Herbert of

Carbury. Edited, with an Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins.

[In the press.

History of Hertfordshire.

By John Edwin Russians.

This Magnificent Work, ranging with the highest class of County
Histories, the result of many years' labour, is now completed, and in course
of delivery to Subscribers.

It is comprised in Eight Parts, imperial quarto, each containing the
complete History of one of the Eight Hundreds into which the County is
divided, with separate Imagination, Title, and Index. Each Part contains
about 350 pages, and is printed in the most careful manner on fine paper,
with full-page Plates on Steel and Stone, and a profusion of smaller Engravings
on Wood of objects of interest in the County, and the Arms of
the principal Landowners, together with elaborate Pedigrees (126 in all),
jaw for the first time printed.

The price to Subscribers is Two Guineas each complete Part. Purchasers
are guaranteed the possession of a work of constantly increasing
value by the fact that only three hundred and fifty copies are printed, the
greater number of which are already subscribed for.

Seventy-five copies only, numbered and signed by the Author, have
been specially printed on Large Paper (Royal Foro), price Four Guineas
*each Part,

Complete in Four Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, i2j. each.

History of Our Own Times, from the Accession
of Queen Victoria to the General Election of 1880. By Justin
McCarthy, M.P.

•' Criticism is disarmed before a composition which provokes little hut approval.
This is a really good book on a really interesting subject, and words piled an words
could say no more for iv"— Saturday Review.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, hothouse's

The Dead Hand :

Addresses on the subject of Endowments and Settlements of Property.
By Sir Arthur Hothouse, Q.C, K. C.S.I.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4J. 6d.

Hollingshead's (John) Plain English.

I anticipate immense entertainment from the perusal of Mr. HollingsIuaA's
Plain English,' which I imagined to be a pJdhlo^icxl lurk, but which I Find to
be a series of essays, in the HoUin^sIiexdian or Sledge-hammer style, on those
matters theatrical with which he is so penitently conversant." — G. A. S. in the
Illustrated Losdox News.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2j, 6d.

Holmes's The Science of Voice Production

and Voice Preservation : A Popular Manual for the Use of Speakers
and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, L.R.C.P.E.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7^. 6d.

Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals.
With Life of the Author, Portrait, and Two Hundred Illustrations.

Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.

Hood's (Tom) From Nowhere to the North

Pole : A Noah's Archaeological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by
W. Brandon and E. C. Barnes.

Th amusing letterpress is profusely interspersed 7vith the jingling rhymes
which children love and learn so easily. Messrs. Brandon and Carries do full
justice to the writer's meaning, and a pleasant result of the harmonious cooperation
of author and artist could not be desired." — Times.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 75. dd.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works,

including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-mots, Pans, and Hoaxes.
With a new Life of the Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7J.

Home's Orion :

An Epic Poem in Three Books. By Richard Hengist Horne.
With a brief Commentary by the Author. With Photographic Portrait
from a Medallion by Summers. Tenth Edition.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 'js. 6d.

Powers Conflicts of Capital and Labour

Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and
Review of the Trade Onions of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell.
This book is an at temp , and on the whole a successful attempt, to place the
work of truce unions in the 'east, and their objects in the future, fairly before the
public frown the working mean s point of view." —V kl. Mall Gazette.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, i2j. 6d.

Hueflfer's The Troubadours :

A History of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. By
Francis Suffer.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Janvier.— Practical Keramics for Students.

By C. A. Janvier.

Will he found a useful handbook by those who wish to try the manufacture
or decoration of pottery, and may be studied by all who desire to ktww something
of the art .'^ — Morning Post.

A New Edition, Revised and partly Re-written, with several New
Chapters and Illustrations, crown Svo, cloth extra, ^s. 6d.

Jennings' The Rosicrucians :

Their Rites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and
Serpent Worshippers. By Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.

Jerrold (Tom), Works by:

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook

Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of "The Garden that Paid the Rent,"

&c. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The combination of hints on cookery with gardening has been very cleverly

carried out, and the result is an interesting and highly instructive little work.

Mr. Jerrold is correct in saying that English people do fit make half the use of

vegetables they night ; and by showing how easily they can be grown, ands obtained

fresh, he is doing a great deal to make them more po^^'ular." — Daily Chronicle.

Household. Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom
Jerrold. Post Svo, cloth limp, ■zs. 6d. \ In the press.

Two Vols. Svo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14J.

Josephus, The Complete Works of.

Translated by Whiston. Containing both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."

Small Svo, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 6j.

Kavanaghs' Pearl Fountain,

And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and JULIA Kavanagh. With

Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.

*• Genuine new fairy stories of the old type, some of them, as delightful as tht

hist of Grimm's ' German Popular Stories,' For the most part the

tories are downright, thorough-going fairy stories of the most admirable kind.

. Mr, Moyr Smith's illustrations too, are admirable." — Spectator.

Crown 8vo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates, is. 6d.

Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and

Imitate it. By Daisy Warehouse Hawkins. With 17 Illustrations
by the Author.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Portraits, js. 6d,

Lamb's Complete Works,

In Prose and Verse, reprinted from the Original Editions, with many

Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with Notes and Introduction,

by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and Facsimile of a Page

of the " Essay on Roast Pig."

**A complete edition of Lamb's writings, in prose and verse, has long been

wanted and is now supplied. The editor appears to have taken great pains

to bring together Lamb's scattered contributions, and his collection contains a

number of pieces which are now reproduced for the first line since their original

appearance in various old periodicals" — Saturday Review.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, ioj. dd.

Lamb (Mary and Charles) :

Their Poems, Letters, and Remains. With Reminiscences and Notes
by W. Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's Portrait of the Essayist,
Facsimiles of the Title-pages of the rare First Editions of Lamb's and
Co bridge's Works, and numerous Illustrations.
•• Very many passages will delight those fond oj literary trifles I hardly any
portion will fail in interest for lovers of Charles Lamb and his sister." — Standard.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, y.

Lamb's Poetry for Children, and Prince

Doris. Carefully Reprinted from unique copies.
The quaint and delightful little book, over the recovery of which all the hearts
cf his lovers are yet warm with rejoicing." — A. C. Swinburne.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Maps and Illustrations, i8j.

Lament's Yachting in the Arctic Seas;

or, Notes of Five Voyages of Sport and Discover)' in the Neighbourhood
of Spitsbergen and Novaya Zemlya. By James Lament,
F.R.G.S. With numerous full-page Illustrations by Dr. Lives.
** After wading through numberless volumes of icy fiction, concocted narrative
and spurious biography of Arctic voyagers, it is pleasant to meet with a real and
genuine volume. . . . He shows much tact in recounting his adventures, and
they are so interspersed with anecdotes and information as to make them, anything
but wearisome. . . . The book, as a wfwle, is the most important addition
trade to our Arctic literature for a long time." — Athenaeum.

Cro\\-n 8vo, cloth, full gilt, js. 6d.

Latter-day Lyrics :

Poems of Sentiment and Reflection by Living Writers ; selected ad
arranged, with Notes, by W. Davenport Adams. With a Note on
some Foreign Forms of Verse, by Austin Dobson.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j.

Lares and Penates ;

Or, The Background of Life. By Florence Caddy.

The whole book is well worth reading, for it is full of practical suggestions.
• . . We hope nobody will be deterred from taking vp a book which teaches »
good deal about sweetening poor lives as well as giving grace to wealthy ones." —
Graphic.

Crown 8vo, cloth, full gilt, 6j.

Leigh's A Town Garland.

By Henry S. Leigh, Author of "Carols of Cockayne."
If Mr. Leigh's verse survive to a future generation — and there is no reason
why that honour should not be accorded productions so delicate, so finished and so
full of humour — their author will probably be remembered as the Poet of tht
Strand." — Athenaeum.

Second Edition.— Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.

By Andrew Wilson, F.R.S.E., Lecturer on Zoology and Comparative
Anatomy in the Edinburgh Medical School.
"// is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigator ^
tho in the intervals of his more serious prof essional labours sets himself to impart
knowledge in such a simple and elementary form as may attract and instruct,
with no danger of misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this
little volume, made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr.
A ndreiu Wilson, lecturer and examiner in science at Edinburgh and Glasgow, at
leisure intervals in a busy professional life. . . . Dr. Wilson pages teem itfith
matter stimulating to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the truth*
of nature"— Saturday Review.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d,

Life in London;

or. The History of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the
whole of Cruikshank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lights on the Way :

Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J. H. ALEXANDER, Bea.
Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author of
•• Thoreau : A Study."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys. 6d.

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.

Including "Outre Mer," "Hyperion," " Kavanagh," "The Poets
and Poetry of Europe," and "Driftwood." With Portrait and Illustrations
by Valentine Bromley.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works.

Carefully Reprinted from the Original Editions. With numerous
fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, y.

Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences in a.

By a Sane Patient.

The story is clever and interesting, sad beyond measure though tu subject
he. There is no personal bitterness, and no violence or anger. Whatever may
have been the evidence for our author's madness when he was consigned to an
asylum, nothing can be clearer than his sanity when he wrote this book ; it is
bright, calm, and to the point " — Spectator.

Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page Plates, cloth boards, i8j.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian verse by Robert French Duff,
Knight Commander of the Portuguese Royal Order of Christ.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

In the Ardennes. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

50 fine Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Uniform with "Pictures

and Legends." Square 8vo, cloth extra, loy. td.
This is another 0/ Mrs. Macquoid's pleasant books of travel, full of useful
information, of picturesque descriptions of scenery, and of quaint traditions
respecting the various monuments and ruins which she encounters in her
tour. . . . To such of our readers as are already thinking about the year S
holiday, we strongly recommend the perusal of Mrs. Macquoid' s experience-the
book is well illustrated by Mr. TfU)?nas R. Mcu-quoid." — Graphic.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy and Brittany. By

Katharine S. Macquoid. With numerous illustrations by Thomas R.

Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.
Mr. and Mrs. Macquoid have been strolling in Normandy and Brittany,
and the result of their observations and researches in that picturesque land
of romantic associations is an attractive volume, which is neither a work cf
travel nor a collection of stories, but a book partaking almost in equal degree
oj each of these characters. . , . The illustrations, which are numerous,
are drawn, as a rule, with remarkable delicacy as well as with true artistic
feeling." — Daily News.

Through Normandy. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

90 Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 75. td.
•' One of the few books which can be recur as apiece of literature, whilst at
the same time handy in the knapsack"— British Quarterly Review.

Through Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

numerous Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Sq. 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.
The pleasant companionship which Mrs. Macquoid offers, while wandering
from one point of interest to another, seems to throw a renewed. charm
around each of t-depicted scene." — Morning Post.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 2J. 6d.

Madre Natura v. The Moloch of Fashion.

By Luke Limner. With 32 Illustrations by the Author. Fourth
Edition, revised and enlarged.

Handsomely printed in facsimile, price 55.

Magna Charta.

An exact Facsimile of the Original Document in the British Museum,
printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, with the
Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Matlock's (W. H.) Works :

Is Life Worth Living P By William Harrel Matlock.

New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6^.
*' This deeply interesting volume It is the most powerful vindication
of religion, both natural and revealed, that has appeared since Bishop
Butler irate, and is much snore useful than either the Analogy »r the Sermons
0/ that great divine, as a refutation of the peculiar form assumed by

the infidelity of the present day Deeply philosophical as the book

is, there is not a heavy page in it. The writer is 'possessed,' so t» speak,
with his great subject, has sounded its depths, surveyed it in all its extent
and brought to bear on it all the resources of a vivid, rich, and impassioned
style, as well as an adequate acquaintance with the science, the philosophy
and the literature of the t/ay."— Irish Daily News.

The New Republic ; or, Culture, Faith, and Philosophy in an
English Country House. By W. H. Mallock. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 7.5. 6d,

The New Paul and Virginia ; or. Positivism on an Island. By
W. H. Mallock. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. By W. H. Mallock. Small 4to, bound in parchment, 8j,
A Romance of the Nineteenth Century. By W. H. Mallock.

Two Vols., crown 8vo. [/« the press.

Mark Twain's Works :

The Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected

throughout by the Author, With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra-js. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain. With

100 Illustrations. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 7* . 6d. Cheap Edition, illustrated
beards, 2s.

A Pleasure Trip on the Continent of Europe : The Innocent

Abroad, and The New Pilgrim's Progress. By Mark Twain. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, zs.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. By Mark Twain.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

A Tramp Abroad. By Mark Twain. With 314 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.
The fun and tenderness of the conception, of which no living man hut
Mark Twain is capable, its grace and fantasy and slyness, the wonderful
feeling for animals that is manifest in every line, make oj all this episode of
Jim Baker and his jays a piece of work that is not only delightful as mere
reading, but also oJ a high degree of merit as literature. . . . The book is
full of good things, and contains passages and episodes that are equal to the
funniest of those that have g07ie before'' — Athenaeum.

Milton (J. L.), Works by :

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise Set of Rules for the

Management of the Skin ; with Directions for Diet, Wines, Soaps, Baths,
&c. By J. L. Milton, Senior Surgeon to St. John's Hospital. Small
sto, is. ; cloth extra, \s. 6d.

Tke Bath in Diseases of the Skin. Siam 8vo, u.; cloth extra,

IS. 6d.



Post 8vo, cloth limp, zs. 6d. per vol.

Mayfair Library, The:

The New Republic. By W. H.
Mallock.

The New Paul and Virginia.

By W. H. Mallock.
The True History of Joshua

Davidson. By E. Lynn Linton.

Old Stories Re-told. By Walter

Thornbury.
Thoreau : His Life and Aims.

By H. A. Page.

By stream and Sea. By 

Senior.
Jeux esprit Edited by Henry

S. Leigh.
Juliana. By the Hon. Hugh

Rowley.

More Juliana. By the Hon.

Hugh Rowley.
Puck on Pegasus. By H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.
The Speeches of Charles

Dickens. With Chapters on Dickens
as Letter Writer and Public Reader.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by
H. Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By
Brilliant-Savarin.

The Philosophy of Hand-don
Felix de Sala-wanting.

By

Manna.

Other Volumes

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by
W. Davenport Adams.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series.

Carols of Cockayne. By Henry

S. Leigh.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies,

Follies, and Frolics. By William

T. DOBSON.

Pencil and Palette: Biographical
Anecdotes chiefly of Contemporary
Painters, with Gossip about Pictures
Lost, Stolen, and Forged, also Great
Picture Sales. By Robert Kempt.

The Book of Clerical Anecdotes
: A Gathering of the Antiquities,
Humours, and Eccentricities of "The
Cloth." By Jacob Haywood.

The Agony Column of (the

Times," from 1800 to 1S70. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.

The Cupboard Papers. By

Fix-Eec.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected

by W. Davenport ADAMS.[/«>r«j.

Pastimes and Flayers. By

Robert Macgregor. [/« the press.

Melancholy Anatomise: A

Popular Abridgment of " Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy." [In press.
are in preparation.

New Novels.

THE BLACK KOBE.

crown 8vo.
THiii CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET.

and James Rice. Three Vols., crown 8vo.
FROM EXILE. By James Payn, Author of

"A Confidential Agent," &c. Three Vols., crown 8vo.
A ROMANCE OP THE NINETEENTH

By W. H. Mallock. Two Vols., crown £vo.
MY LOVE. ByE. Lynn Linton. Three Vols.
A VILLAGE COMMUNE. By OuiDA. Two Vols.
TEN YEARS' TENANT. By Besant and RiCE, Three Vols.
A CONFIDENTIAL AGENT. By James Payn. Three Vols.
A LIFE'S ATONEMENT. By D. C. MuRR.\Y. Three Vols.
QUEEN COPHETUA. By R. E. Francillon. Three Vols.
THE LEADEN CASKET. By Mrs. Hunt. Three Vols.
REBEL OF THE FAMILY. By E. L. LiNTON. Three Vols.

By WiLKiE Collins. Three Vols.

By Walter Besant

"By Proxy,"

CENTURY.

[/« the press.

[In the press.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Small 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, zs. 6d.

Miller's Physiology for the Young;

Or, The House of Life : Human Physiology, with its Applications to
the Preservation of Health. For use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs. F. Fenwick Miller.
"Ah admirable introduction to a subject-which all who value health and enjoy
life should have at their fingers' ends"— Echo.

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

North Italian Folk.

By Mrs. Commons Carr. Illustrated by Randolph Caldecott.

A delightful book, of a kind which is far too rare. If anyone wants to really
know the North Italian folk, we can honestly advise hit to omit the journey, and
read Mrs. Carres pages instead. . . Description with Mrs. Carr is a real gift. .
// is rarely that a book is so happily illustrated*— Con TB.HfO'RA'sy Review.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits, price 6s. per Vol.

Old Dramatists, The

Ben Jonson's Works.

With Notes, Critical and Explanatory,
and a Biographical Memoir by William
GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel
Cunningham. Three Vols.

Chapman's Works.

Now First Collected. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the Plays
complete, including the doubtful ones;
Vol. II. the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay

by Algerian Charles Swinburne.
Vol. III. the Translations of the Iliad
and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works.

Including his Translations. Edited,
with Notes and Introduction, by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.
Massinger's Plays.

From the Text of William Gifford.
With the addition of the Tragedy of
'* Believe as you List." Edited by
Col. Cunningham. One Vol.

Crown 8vo, red cloth extra, 51. each.

Ouida's Novels.— Library Edition.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castlemaine.

Tricotrin.

Puck.

Folle Fine.

By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.

Dog of Flanders. By Ouida.
Pascal. By Ouida.

Two Wooden Shoes. By Ouida.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

By Ouida.
By Ouida.
By Ouida,
By Ouida.
By Ouida.
By Ouida.

•«* Also a Cheap Edition of all but the last two, post 8vo, illustrated
boards, zs. each.

Post 8vo, cloth Ump, is. 6d.

Parliamentary Procedure, A Popular Handbook
of. By Henry W. Lucy.

Crow-n Bvo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Illustrations, 7J. 6d.

Poe's Choice Prose and Poetical Works.

With Baudelaire's " Essay."



LiBKAKY Editions, mostly Illustrated, crown 8vo, cloth extra, y. 6d. each.

Piccadilly Novels, The.

popular ^iQxizi tg t^z SBe^t ^uti^ori.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ? By

Mrs. Alexander.

Beady-Money Mortify. By

W. Besant and James Rice.

My Lite Girl. By W. Besant

and James Rice.
The Case of Mr. Craft. By

W. Disant and James Rice.
This Son of Vulcan. By W.

Besant and James Rice
With Harp and Crown. By W.

Bksaut and James Rice.

The Golden Butterfly. By W.

Besant and James Rice.
By Celia's Arbour. By \V.

Besant and James Rice.
The Monks of Helena. By

W. Besant and James Rice.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay. By

W. Besant and James Rice.

The Seamy Side. By Walter
Besant and James Rice.

Antonio. By Wilkie Collins.

Basil By Wilkie Collins.

Hide and Seek. W. Collins.

The Dead Secret. W. Collins.

Queen of Hearts. W. Collins.

My Miscellanies. W. Collins.

The Woman in White. By
Wilkie Collins.

The Moonstone. W. Collins.
Man and Wife. W. Collins.
Poor Miss Finch. W. Collins.
Miss or Mrs. ? By W. Collins.
The New Magdalen. By Wilkie

Columns.

The Frozen Deep. W. Collins.

The Law and the Lady. By

WtLKiK Collins.
The Two Destinies. By Wilkie

Coins.

The Haunted Hotel. By Wilkie

Columns.

By Mrs. H.

The Fallen Leaves. By Wilkie

Collins.

Jezebel's Daughter. Collins.

Deceivers Ever. By Mrs. H.
Loveth Cameron.

Juliet's Guardian.

Loveth Cameron.
Felicia. M. Bentham-Edwards.
Olympia. ByR. E. Francillon.
The Cap el Girls. By Edward

Garrett.

Robin Gray. Charles Gibbon.

For Lack of Gold. By Charles
Gibbon.

In Love and War. By Charles

Gibbon.

What will the World Say ? By

Charles Gibbon.

For the King. Charles Gibbon.

In Honour Bound. By Charles

Gibbon.

Queen of the
Charles Gibbon.

Meadow. By

In Pastures Green. By Charles

Gibbon.

Under the Greenwood Tree.

By Thomas Hardy.

Garth. By Julian Hawthorne.
Ellice Question. By Julian

Hawthorne.
Thornicroft's Model. By Mrs.

A. W. Hint.

Fated to be Free. By Jean

Angelo.

Confidence. Henry James, Jun.
The Queen of Connaught. By

Harriet Jay.

The Dark Colleen. By H. Jay.
Number Seventeen. By Henry

KiNGSLEY.

Oakshott Castle. H. Kingsley.

Patricia Kimball. By E. Lynn
Linton.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels — continued.

Alae Atonement of Lean Dundas.
By E. Lynn Linton.

The World Wel Lost. By E.
Lynn Linton.

Under which Lord 9 By E.

LvNN Linton.

"With a Silken Thread. By E.
Lynn Linton.

The "W aterdale Neighbours.
By Justin McCarthy.

My Enemy's Daughter. By

Justin McCarthy.
Linley Rochford. By Justin

McCarthy.
A Fair Saxon. By Justin

McCarthy.
Dear Lady Disdain. By Justin

McCarthy.

Miss Misanthrope. By Justin

McCarthy.

Donna Quixote. By Justin

McCarthy.
Quaker Cousins. By Agnes

Macdonald.

Lost Rose. By Katharine S.

Macquoid,

The Evil Eye. By Katharine

S. Macquoid.

Open ! Sesame ! By Florence

Marryat.

"Written in Fire. F. Marryat.

By Jean Mid-touch

and Go.

dlemass.

Whiteladies. Mrs. Oliphant.
The Beat of Husbands. By

James Payn.

Fallen Fortunes. James Payn.
Halves. By James Payn.
Walter's Word. James Payn.
What He Cost Her. J. Payn.
Less Black than we're Painted.

By James Payn.

By Proxy. By James Payn.
Under One Boos. James Payn.
High Spirits. By James Payn.
Her Mother's Darling. By Mrs.

J. H. RlDDELL.

Bound to the Wheel. By John

Saunders.

Guy Waterman. J. Saunders.

One .Against the World. By

John Saunders.
The Lion in the Path. By

John Saunders.

The Way We Live Now. By

Anthony Trollope.
The American Senator. By

Anthony Trollope.
Diamond Cut Diamond. By

T. A. Trollope.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2j. each.

Popular Novels, Cheap Editions of.

[Wilkie Collins' Novels and Besant and Rice's Novels may also be had is
cloth limp at-zs. 6d. See, too, the Piccadilly Novels, /<?r Library Editions.'}

Maid, Wife, or Widow? By

Mrs. Alexander.

Beady-Money Mortify. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.
With Harp and Crown. By

Walter Besant and James Rice,
This Son of Vulcan. By W.

Besant and James Rice. j

My Little Girl. By the same.

The Case of Mr. Craft. By
Walter Besant and James Rich.

The Golden Butterfly. By W.
Besant and James Rice.

By Celia's Arbour. By Walter

Besant and James Rice,

The Monks of Helena. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

Seamy Side. Besant and Rice.

Grantly Grange. By S. Beauchamp.




Popular Novels — continued.
An Heiress of Red Dog. By

Brat Harte.

The Luck of Roaring Camp.

By Bret Harte.

Gabriel Convoy. Bret Harte.
Surly Tim. By F. E. Burnett.

Juliet's Guardian. By Mrs. H,

Loveth Cameron.
Deceivers Ever. By Mrs. L.

Cameron.
Cure of Souls. By Maclaren

COBBAX.

Antonio. By Wilkie Collins,
Basil. By Wilkie Collins.
Hide and Seek. W. Collins.
The Dead Secret. W. Collins.

The Queen of Hearts. By

Wilkie Collins.

My Miscellanies. W. Collins.
The Woman in White. By

Wilkie Collins.

The Moonstone. W. Collins.
Man and Wife. W. Collins.
Poor Miss Finch. W. Collins.
Miss or Mrs. ? W. Collins.
NewMagdalen. By Collins.
The Frozen Deep. W. Collins.
The Law and the Lady. By

Wilkie Collins.

The Two Destinies. By Wilkie

Collins.
The Haunted Hotel. By Wilkie

Collins.
Fallen Leaves. By Collins.
Felicia. M. Bentham-Edwards.
Roxy. By Edward Eggleston.
Filthy Lucre. By Albany de

Fonblanque,
Olympia. By R. E. Francillon.

The Capet Girls. By Edward

Garrett.
Robin Gray. By Chas. Gibbon.
ForLackof Gold. By Charles

Gibson.

What will the World Say ? By

Charles Gibbon.

In Honour Bound. By Chas.

GiBBO.V.

In Love and War. By Charles
Gibbon.

By Charles

For the King.

Gibbon.

Queen of the Meadow. By

Charles Gibbon.

Dick Temple. By James

Greenwood.
Every-day Papers. By A.

Holiday.

Under the Greenwood Tree.

By Thomas Hardy.

Garth. By Julian Hawthorne.

Thornicroft's ModeL By Mrs.
A. Hunt.

Fated to be Free. By Jean

Angelo.
Confidence. By Henry James,

JUQ.

The Queen of Connaught. By

Harriet Jay.
The Dark Colleen. By H. Jay.

Number Seventeen. By Henry
Kingsley.

Oakshott Castle. H. Kingsley.

Patricia KembaU. By E. Lynn

Linton.
The Atonement of LeamDundas

By E. Lynn Linton.
The World Well Lost. By E.

Lynn Linton.
Under which Lord ? By }^Irs.

Linton.

The Watergate Neighbours.

By JffSTiN McCarthy.
DearLadyDisdain. By the same.

My Enemy's Daughter. By

Justin McCarthy.

A Fair Saxon J. McCarthy.
LLQley Rochford. McCarthy.
Miss Misanthrope. McCarthy.
Donna Quixote. J.McCa^thy^

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Popular Novels — continued.
The Evil Eye. By Katharine

S. Macquoid.

Lost Rose. K. S. Macquoid.
Open! Sesame I By Florence

Marryat.
Wild Oats. By F. Marryat.
Little Stepson. F. Marryat.
Fighting the Air. F, Marryat.
Touch and Go. By Jean

MiDDLEMASS.

Mr. Dorillion. J. Middlemost.

Whiteladies. ByMrs.OLiPHANT.

Held in Bondage. By Ouida.

Stratford. By Ouida.

Chances. By Ouida.

Under Two Flags. By Ouida.

Italia. By Ouida.

Cecil Castlemaine. By Ouida.

Tricotrin. By Ouida.

Puck. By Ouida.

Folle Farine. By Ouida.

Dog of Flanders. By Ouida.

Pascal. By Ouida.

Two Little Wooden Shoes. By

Ouida.

Signa. By Ouida.
In a Winter City. By Ouida.
Ariadne. By Ouida.
Friendship. By Ouida.
Walter's Word. By J. Payn.
Best of Husbands. By J. Payn.
Halves. By James Payn.

Fallen Fortunes. By J. Payn.
What He Cost Her. J. Payn.
Less Black than We're Painted.

By James Payn,

By Proxy. By James Payn.
Under One Roof. By J. Payn.
High Spirits. By Jas. Payn.
The Mystery of Maria Bo^et.

By Edgar A. PoE.

Her Mother's Darling. By Mrs.

J. H. Liddell.

Gaslight and Daylight. By

George Augustus Sala.

Bound to the WheeL By John

Saunders.

Guy Waterman. J. Saunders.
One Against the World. By

John Saunders.

The Lion in the Path. By John

and Katherine Saunders.
Match in the Dark, By A.

Sketches.

Tales for the Marine*.

Walter Thornbury.

The Way we Live Now.

Anthony Trollops.

The American Senator.

Anthony Trollops.

Diamond Cut Diamond.

T. A. Trollops.

A Pleasure Trip on the Continent
of Europe. By Mark Twain.

Adventures of Tom Sawyer.

By Mark Twain.

An Idle Excursion. By Majuc

Twain.

By

By
By
By

Fcap. 8vo, picture covers, u. each.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of *' That Lass o' Lowliest'*
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By Author of *« That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs. Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard Graham.

Large 4to, cloth extra, gilt, beautifully Illustrated, 3ij-. 6d.

Pastoral Days ;

Or, Memories of a New England Year. By W. Hamilton Gibson.

With 76 Illustrations in the highest style of Wood Engraving.

*' Thi volume contains a prose poem, leith illustrations in the shape of wood
engravings-more beautiful than it can well enter into the hearts of most Then to
conceive. Mr. Gibson is not only the author of the text, he is the designer of the
illustrations : and it would be difficult to say in which capacity he shows most of
the true poet. There is a sensuous beauty in his prose which charms and lulls
you. . . . But, as the illustrations are turned to, it will be felt that a view
pleasure has been found. It would be difficult to express too high admiration of
i^ exquisite delicacy of most of the engravings. They are proofs at once of Mr.
Gibson's poster as an artist, of the skill of the engravers, and of the marvellous
excellence of the printer's work"— Scors'swn .

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Planche— Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.

By J. R. Planche. Edited, with an Introduction, by his Daughter,
Mrs. Backwardness.

Two Vols. 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ioj. 6d.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men.

Translated from the Greek, with Notes, Critical and Historical, and a
Life of Plutarch, by John and William Langhorne. New Edition,
with Medallion Portraits.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Primitive Manners and Customs.

By James A. Farrer.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, y. bd.

Prince of Argolis, The :

A Story of the Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Moyr Smith. With
130 Illustrations by the Author.

Proctor's (R. A.) Works:

Easy Star Lessons for Yoiing Learners. With Star Maps for

Every Night in the Year, Drawings of the Constellations, &c. By Richard
A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. \ In preparation,

MyUis and Marvels of Astronomy. By Rich. A. Proctor,

Author of " Other Worlds than Ours," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ts.

Pleasant Ways in Science. ByR. A. Proctor. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.6j'.
Rough Ways made Smooth : A Series of Familiar Essays on

Scientific Subjects. By R. A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ts.
Our Place among Infinities : A Series of Essays contrasting

*ur Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities Around us. By

Richard A. Proctor. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6f .
The Expanse of Heaven : A Series of Essays on the Wonders

of the Firmament By Richard A. Proctor. Crown Svo, cloth, dr.

Wages and Wants of Science Workers. By Richard A.

Proctor. Crown Svo, \s. 6d.

"Mr. Proctor, of all writers of our time, best conforms to Matthew
Arnold s conception of a man of culture, in that he strives to humanist
knowledge, to divest it of whatever is harsh, crude, or technical, and so makes
ii a iovrce of happiness and brightness for alL^—WKSTHiNsrss. Rkvibw.

26 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7J. ^d.

Pursuivant of Arms, The ;

or, Heraldry founded upon Facts. A Popular Guide to the Science of
Heraldry, By J. R. Planche, Somerset Herald, With Coloured
Frontispiece, Plates, and 200 Illustrations,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, yj. dd,

Rabelais' Works.

Faithfully Translated from the French, with variorum Notes, and
numerous characteristic Illustrations by Gust AVE DoRE.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, and a beautifully
executed Chart of the various Spectra, 7J. td.

Rambosson's Astronomy.

Rambosson, Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated
B, Pitman, Profusely Illustrated,

Second Edition, Revised, Crown Bvo, 1,200 pages, half-roxburgh, I2j. Sd.

Reader's Handbook (The) of Allusions, References,
Plots, and Stories, By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.

Dr. titter has produced a ivonderjuily comprehensive dictionary of references
to matters which are always cropping up itt conversation and in everyday life, and
writers generally will have reason to feel grateful to the author for a most handy
volume, supplementing in a hundred ways their onvn knowledge or ignorance, as
the case nay be. . . , It is something more than a mere dictionary of quotations,
though a most useful co7npa7tion to any work of that kind, being a dictionary
of most of the allusions, references, plots, stories, and characters which occur in
the classical poems, plays, novels, romances, 6r»c., not only of our own country, but
of most tuition, ancient and moderns' — Times.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 6j.

Richardson's (Dr.) A Ministry of Health,

and other Papers, By Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, profusely Illustrated, ioj. dd,

Rimmer's Our Old Country Towns.

With over 50 Illustrations. By Alfred Rimmer.
Two Vols., large 4to, profusely Illustrated, half-morocco, £f2 16s,

Rowlandson, the Caricaturist.

A Selection from his Works, with Anecdotal Descriptions of his Famous

Caricatures, and a Sketch of his Life, Times, and Contemporaries.

With nearly 400 Illustrations, mostly in Facsimile of the Originals. By

Joseph Gregoo, Author of "James Gillray, the Caricaturist ; his Life,

Works, and Times."

Mr. Gregoo' s excellent account of the works of Thomas Rowlandson , . .

Illustrated with some 400 spirited, accurate, and clever transcripts from kit

designs. . . . The thanks of all who care for what is original and personal in

art are due to Mr. Gregoo for the pains he has been at, and the time he has expended,

in the preparation of this very pleasant, very careful and adequate

memorial." ^^ Ell Mall Gazette.

Handsomely printed, price 51.

RoU of Battle Abbey, The ;

or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy
with William the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, a.d. 1066-7.
Printed on fine plate paper, nearly three feet by two, with the principal
Arms emblazoned in Gold and Co lours.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 45. 6d. each.

Secret Out" Series, The.

Magician's Own Book :

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from Actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cramer. 200 Illustrations.
Magic No Mystery :

Tricks with Cards, Dice, Balls, &c,
with fully descriptive Directions ; the
Art of Secret Writing ; Training of
Performing Animals, &c. Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.
The Secret Out :

One Thousand Tricks with Cards, and
other Recreations ; with Entertaining
Experiments in Drawing-room or
White Magic." By W. H. Crbmkr.

The Pyrotechnist's Treasury;

or, Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With
numerous Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing :

A Collection of Graceful Arts, Games,
Tricks, Puzzles, and Charades. By
Frank Belleww. 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky :

Very Easy Tricks, Very Difficult
Tricks, White Magic, Sleight of Hand.
Edited by W.H. Cramer. 200 Illusts.

The Merry Circle :

A Book of New Intellectual Games
and Amusements. By Clara Belleww.

Many Illustrations. ' 300 Engravings.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 6s.

Senior's Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By Will AM
Senior (red Spinner), Author of " Stream and Sea."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page Tinted Illustrations, js. 6d»

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed
from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes. Puns &c. ; with a Collection of Sheridaniana,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Signboards ;

Their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable
Characters. By Jacob Haywood and John Camden Rotten.
With nearly 100 Illustrations.
Even if we were ever so maliciously inclined, we could not pick out all Messrs,

Haywood and Rotten s plums, because the good things are so numerous as to defy

tht tost wholesale depredation'* — Times.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, gilt, 6j. dd.

Slang Dictionary, The :

Etymological, Historical, and Anecdotal. An Entirely New
Edition, revised throughout, and considerably Enlarged.
We are glad to see the Slang Dictionary repnn-ed and enlarged. From a high
scientific point ofvievj this book is not to be despised. Of course it cannot fail to
be amusing also. It contains the very vocabuia. y of unrestrained humour, and
oddity, and grotesqueness. In a word, it provides valuable material both for tht
student of language and the student of human nature"— Academy.

Shakespeare :

Shakespeare, The First Polio. Mr. William Shakespeare's

Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true

Original Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Haggard and Ed. BcoaNT,

1623. — A Reproduction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile

by a photographic process — ensuring the strictest accuracy in every detail.

Small 8vo, half-roxburgh, 7J. dd,

*' To Messrs. Chatty and Winds belongs ike merit of having done mart

to facilitate the critical study 0/ the text of our great dramatist tkoK all the

Shakespeare clubs and societies put together. A complete facsimile of the

celebrated First Folio edition of 1622 for half-a-guinea is at once a miracle of

cheapness and enterprise. Being in a reduced form, the type is necessarily

rather diminutive, but it is as distinct as in a genuine copy of the original,

and-will be found to be as useful and far more handy to the student than the

latter"— ArHsujBUM.

Shakespeare, The Vanstone. Beautifully printed in red

and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved £acsiimle <^
Droeshout's Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales from Shakespeare. By

Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and
plain, by J. Move Smith. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, ios.6d.

Shakespeare Music, The Handbook of. Being an Account of

350 Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of
Shakespeare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Roffk. 4to, half-roxburgh, js.

Shakespeare, A Study of. By Algerian Charles Swinburne.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 8s.

Exquisitely printed in miniature, cloth extra, gilt edges, ar. 6</.

Smoker's Text-book, The.

By J. Homer, F.R.S.L.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 55.

Spalding's Elizabethan Demonology :

An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by them. By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.

Crown 4to, uniform with "Chaucer for Children," with Coloured
Illustrations, cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.

Spenser for Children.

By M. H. Tory. With Illustrations in Colours by Walter J.
Morgan.

Spenser has simply been transferred into plain prose, with here and titre m
Une *r stanza quoted, inhere the meaning and the diction are within a cktWt
comprehension, and additional point is thus given to the narrative without the
cost of obscurity. . . « Altogether the work has been well and carefully dane
—The Times.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 9J.

Stedman's Victorian Poets:

Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence Stedman.
*• We ought to be thankful to those who do critical work with competent sk3i
and understanding. Mr. Stedman deserves the thanks of English scholars;
. . he is faithful studious, and discerning"— Satvkdav Rkvikvt.



Post 8vo, cloth extra, 5J.

Stories about Number Nip,

The Spirit of the Giant Mountains. Retold for Children, by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith,

Crown 8vo, with a Map of Suburban London, cloth extra, 7^. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of London :

A Residential Guide to Favourite London Localities, their Society,
Celebrities, and Associations. With Notes on their Rental, Rates,
and House Accommodation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7J. 6a?.

Swift's Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of the
Maps in the Original Edition of "Tulliver's Travels."

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 2.\s.

Sword, The Book of the :

Being a History of the Sword, and its Use, in all Times and in all
Countries. By Captain Richard Burton. With numerous Illustrations.
{^In preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7J. dd,

Struts's Sports and Pastimes of the People

of England ; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations, May
Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions, Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time. With 140
Illustrations. Edited by William Hone,

Swinburne's Works :

The Queen Mother and Rosamond.

Fcap. 8vo, 5^.

Atlanta in Corydon.

A New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6*.

Chastened.

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, ^s.

Poems and Ballads.
First Series. Fcap. 8vo, 91. Also
in crown 8vo, at same price.

Poems and Ballads.

Second Series. Fcap. 8vo, 9*. Also
in crown 8vo, at same price.

Notes on '* Poems and Ballads."
8vo, IS.
William Blake :

A Critical Essay. With Facsimile
Paintings. Demy 8vo, i6j.

Songs before Sunrise.

Crown 8vo, los. 6<^.

Bothwell :

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, izr. td.

George Chapman :

An Essay. Crown 8vo, 7J.

Songs of Two Nations.

Crown 8vo, 6j.

Essays and Studies.

Crown 8vo, 12*.

Erechtheus :

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, dr.

Note of an English Republican

on the Muscovite Crusade. 8vo, u.

A Note on Charlotte Bronze.

Crown 8vo, 6s.

A study of Shakespeare.

Crown 8vo, 8j.

Songs of the Springtide. Cr.

8vo, 6j.

Studies in Song.

Crown 8vo, 7*.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7J. dd.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours,

in Search of the Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and in Search
of a Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's droll page Illustrations,
in Colours, and Life of the Author by J. C. Rotten.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, 6j.

Tales of Old Thule.

Co Elected and Illustrated by J. Moor Smith.

Four Vols, small 8vo, cloth boards, 30J.

Taine's History of English Literature.

Translated by Henry Van Lain.
•«* Also a Popular Edith on, in Two Vols, crown Bvo, cloth extra, \<fi.
One Vol. crown Bvo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas:

Chancery," "Jeanne Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," "The Fool's
Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife," " Anne Boleyn," " Plot and Passion."
*^* The Plays may also toe had separately, at Is. each.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Frontispiece and numerous
Illustrations, 7J. 6d.

Thackerayana :

Notes and Anecdotes. Illustrated by a profusion of Sketches by
William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents
in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his everyday
reading. With Hundreds of Wood Engravings, facsimile from

Mr . Thackeray's Original Drawings.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 7J. 6d.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence.

With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by ALLAN Cunningham,
and over 50 fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.
^ Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 7J. 6d.

Thornbury's (Walter) Haunted London.

A New Edition, 'Edited by Edward Walford,.M.A., with numerous
Illustrations by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Mr. Thombu-ry knew and loved his London. . . , He had read tnvck history,
and every hy-lane and every court had associations for hint. His memory
andhisnote-bcoks were stored-with anecdote, and, as he had singular skill in the
matter of narration it will be readily believed that Then he took to writing a set
book about the pla es he knew and cared for, the said book would be charming.
Charming the volume hejore us certainly is It may be bes'un in the beginning, or
middle, o^ end, it is all one: wherever one lights, there is some pleasant and curious
lit of gossip, some amusing fragment of allusion or quotation." — Vanity Fair.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Times' Clubs and Club Life in London.

With Anecdotes of its famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries, and Taverns.
By John Times, F.S.A. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Times' English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters, &c. By John Times,
F.S.A. With nearly 50 Illustrations.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14J.

Torrens' The Marquess Wellesley,

Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Forming Vol. I. of Proconsul
and Tribune : Wellesley and O'Connell : Historic
Portraits. By W. M. Torrens, M.P. In Two Vols.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Illustrations, 7J. 6^.

Turner's (J. M. W.) Life and Correspondence;

Founded upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow-academicians.
By Walter Thornbury. A New Edition, considerably
Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimile
from Turner's original Drawings.

Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, with Map and Ground-Plans, 145.

Walcott's Church Work and Life in English

Minsters ; and the English Student's Monastic, By the Rev.
Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, Bed.

The Twenty-first Annual Edition, for 1881, cloth, full gilt, 50J.

Walford's County Families of the United

Kingdom. A Royal Manual of the Titled and Untitled Aristocracy of
Great Britain and Ireland. By Edward Walford, M. A., late Scholar
of Balliol College, Oxford. Containing Notices of the Descent, Birth,
Marriage, Education, &c., of more than 12,000 distinguished Heads of
Families in the United Kingdom, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive,
together with a Record of the Patronage at their disposal, the
Offices which they hold or have held, their Town Addresses, Country
Residences, Clubs, &c.

Large crown Svo, cloth antique, with Illustrations, 7J. 6rf.

Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler;

or, The Contemplative Man's Recreation : being a Discourse of Rivers.
Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by IZAAK Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by
Charles Cotton. With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris
Nicholas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations.

Carefully printed on paper to imitate the Original, 22 ia. by 14 in., 2J.

Warrant to Execute Charles I.

An exact Facsimile of this important Document, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots.

An exact Facsimile, including the Signature of Queen Elizabeth, and a
Facsimile of the Great Seal.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with numerous Illustrations, 4J. 6d.

Westropp's Handbook of Pottery and Porcelain
; or, History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Fodder
M. Westropp, Author of " Handbook of Archaeology, " &c. With
numerous beautiful Illustrations, and a List of Marks.

Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, xs.

Whistler v. Ruskin : Art and Art Critics.

By J. A. Macneill Whistler.

CroA^Ti 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, zs. 6d.

Williams' A Simple Treatise on Heat.

By W. Mattie Williams, F.R.A.S., F.C.S.

This is an unpretending little work, put forth for the purpose of expounding
in simple style the phenomena and laws of heat. No strength is vainly spent in
endeavouring to present a mathematical view of the subject. The author passes
over the ordinary range of matter 10 be found in most elementary treatises on
heat, and enlarges upon the applications of the principles of his science — a subject
which is naturally attractive to the uninitiated. Mr. Williams's object has been
well carried out, and his little book nay be recommended to those who care to study
this interesting branch of physics"— VowLAR Science Review.

A HANDSOME GIFT-books Small Svo, cloth extra, Ss.

Wooing (The) of the Water-Witch :

A Northern Oddity. By Evan Daldorne. With One Hundred and
Twenty.fi ve fine Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.

Crown Svo, half-bound, 12s. 6d.

Words and Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out of the Way Matters. By
Believer Edwards. [ In the press.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Wright's Caricature History of the Georges.

(The House of Hanover.) With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs,
Broadsides, Window Pictures, &c. By Thomas Wright, M.A., F.S.A.

Large post Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Wright's History of Caricature and of the

Grotesque in Art, Literature, Sculpture, and Painting, from the
Earnest Times to the Present Day. By Thomas Wright, M.A.,
F.S.A, Profusely Illustrated by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.

J. OGDEN AND CO., Printers, Z72, ST. JOHN STREET, Eg.

rj^

:\(

1^

L J^IM^

%

»

""mmmi^r.

-\ r

^ "-^ k^

^

^.K-^j->> r

TviS?-^

^^

^m^

if

OF THE

NINETEENTH CENTURY

VOL. II.

Three vols.

THE CHAPLAIN OF THE FLEET. By

Walter Besant and James Rice. Three vols.

• MY LOVE ! ' By E. Lynn Linton. Three

vols.

FROM EXILE. By James Payn. Three

vols.

A VILLAGE COMMUNE. By OuiDA. Two
vols.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

of the

NINETEENTH CENTURY

BY

W. H. Matlock

AUTHOR OF 'THE NEW REPUBLIC ETC.

'DEFECERUNT OCULI MEI IN Salutary TUUM '

IN TWO VOLUMES— VOL. IL

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY

isti

wall rights f served]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

\0\ II.

~^7 — ^:? c^

CHAPTER IV.

^^f^OW,' said Vernon to Mrs. Crane,
we will come in and have some
tea together ; and you must give
your own orders as to when you will have
the carriage

Mrs. Crane was a woman who, as had
once been said of her, could kiss with her
eyes almost as unequivocally as with her lips.
Several times during the afternoon she had
already done this with the former ; and they
had not many moments been left alone with
the tea-things before she repeated the operation
with the latter. She was lying back in

B 2

the depths of an easy chair, and seated on
one of its arms, Vernon was bending over
her.

If you were nice,' she said presently,
you'd ask me to stop and dine with you. If
the others wouldn't wait for me, I don't see
why I should go hurrying after them.'

Very well,' said Vernon, still smiling
down at her.

She pulled a peacock's feather from a vase
beside her, and began to touch his face with
it. As she continued looking at him, he felt
he was becoming magnetised. His face was
drawn down to hers, and once more he kissed
her. ' Naughty boy ! ' she murmured, patting
his cheek tenderly. Vernon now felt as if a
net had been thrown over him — a net of the
coarsest kind, and yet he could not escape
from it. ' Don't you think you're a naughty
boy ? ' she went on after a moment's silence ;
and then contemplating him, she uttered his

Christian name. ' Ralph,' she said. * That's
what you're called, isn't it ? Ralph — little
Ralph — is that what Miss Walters calls
you ?'

A shadow at this juncture flitted across
the window. Vernon sprang from his seat,
Mrs. Crane recovered herself like an expert,
and her husband, a few seconds after, was
ushered into the library. He was a small
dissipated-looking man, and was apparently
in very bad humour. ' So here,' he said to
his wife, after a word or two for form's sake
to Vernon, * so here you are, are you ? Why
the deuce you must go off to those rocks is
more than I can tell. We've returned this
way, which we had not meant to have done ;
so you can come home with us after all, and
your friends need not be at the trouble of
sending you. It's lucky for you, Mr. Vernon,'
he went on, with what was meant to be
pleasantry, *that you've not got a wife.

They lead one a pretty dance, I can tell
you

Mrs. Crane and her husband were gone.
Vernon clasped his hands on his forehead ;
he drew a deep sigh of relief ; and hurrying
upstairs to his bedroom, washed his face in
cold water.

Oh that beast of a woman,' he exclaimed,
and more beast I to talk to her ! '

The relief he felt, however, was only
comparative. The reflections he was left with
were composed of many disquietudes. His
thoughts first went straying towards the
Chateau St. John ; and he was restless with
conjectures as to what was now passing there.
For a moment he repented that he had refused
Lady Walters' invitation ; but he was
still aching with jealousy, and so this feeling
was only momentary. Had he really gone,
his mind might have been somewhat tranquillised.
The Colonel's behaviour at dinner

was subdued, indeed almost sheepish ; and
he left directly afterwards, by the earliest
train available. As for Miss Walters, her
ways had had a sad touching softness In them.
She had done her best to harmonise the
Colonel and Frederic Stanley ; and, finding
the former quite unresponsive, had given most
of her conversation to the latter.

The Colonel's departure, however, produced
a strange effect on her. She all of a
sudden became constrained v;Ith Stanley, Instead
of, what might have seemed natural,
becoming more at home with him. She did
not, it is true, relapse into reserve or silence ;
on the contrary she talked on with a kind of
nervous persistency, and seemed anxious to
keep her aunt a party to the conversation.
But her ease of manner had altogether quitted
her, and was replaced by a liveliness that
sometimes verged on flippancy. Stanley,
though not on the outlook for any behaviour

of this kind, still could not fail to be slightly
struck with it ; but it was not till later in the
evening that he gave any serious thought to
• the matter. By-and-by, however, as her
custom was, Lady Walters went to sleep by
the tea-table; and her niece, whose boudoir
opened out of the drawing-room, took Stanley
to inspect it and its contents. It was pretty
enough, but as yet was in some confusion ;
though even the confusion was not without signs
of taste in it, especially when seen as now under
a lamp with a shade of rose-colour. Some rich
oriental stuffs had been thrown over ugly
sofas ; some flowers and palms had been
already arranged effectively; there was an
easel in one corner, with a picture of some
sort resting on it, and every table was littered
with books and bits of bric-a-brac. It was on
the books that Stanley's attention centred.
He was far too wise a man to be always or
even often moralising, or to think he advanced

his faith by referring to its claims perpetually.
None the less, however, was it a
part of his very life ; by a process he was
often unconscious of, it coloured his view of
everything ; and his zeal for souls, though
many might see no trace of it, was still and
silent, not from sleep but from watchfulness.
When therefore on running over Miss Walters*
books, he found volume after volume of the
most pronounced sceptical literature, it was
but natural in his case to revert to her altered
manner, and, at least tentatively, to put two
and two together.

Something of the truth, it seems, was
divined by Miss Walters, for she said presently,
* I'm afraid, Fred, you won't much
approve of my library. I suppose you think
it is wrong to read Strauss and Renal, and
books about geology and evolution.'

There is hardly a book here,' said Stanley,
* that I have not read myself, and I don't

think that wrong in me. The wrong or right
of a book depends on what the reader gets
out of it, and out of modern science one may-get
good or evil, just according to the condition
that one approaches it in.'

swell,' said Miss Walters, Don't let us
talk religion, please, this evening ; for you
know quite well that we shall never agree
about it. Tell me, if you're not above gossip,
a little about Mr. Vernon. It was from him
I first heard you were here, so I know he's a
friend of yours ; and as he's our next-door
neighbour, it is only natural that I should bea
little curious.'

Did you never,' said Stanley, ' meet him
before in London ? '

'No,' she said, 'though ot course I had
vaguely heard of him. What I did hear I
confess I did not much fancy ; though there
were always people, I think, who believed in
his good qualities.*

Once said Stanley, * I used to see a
good deal of him ; but that was before things
had changed with me. Since he has been
here, I have often walked and talked with
him ; but it was some time before he ever
thought of calling on me ; and as, from his
point of view, all the advantage to be gained
was on my side, I did not like unasked to
inflict my visits upon him. This last week,
however, the ice has been broken ; and now
we are good friends again. Poor fellow ! — it
makes me rather sad to hear of him, and I
don't wonder if he is looked at in many different
lights.'

This conversation put the two on an easier
footing. Miss Walters lost her flippancy and
became soft, grave, and natural. Stanley
went on to praise Vernon in many ways.
Naturally,' he said, ' he was a man of the
finest feelings, and I think of the most generous
aspirations. But there is something

wrong In him, I can't tell what. He was like
a peach-tree : always blossoming, and being
always nipped with frost. He can do a kind
thing, which would make one love another
man ' (and he here told the story of the little
crippled peasant-girl), ' but he does it as
though he were anxious to disarm affection.
Perhaps it is the craving for pleasure and the
exactions of a brilliant vanity that have been
eating his heart out silently. And yet even
on this view he puzzles me. I have seen him
in scenes of pleasure ; and yet pleasure has
hardly pleased him. He has taken it as a
man might who was looking for an angel, and
was consorting meanwhile with the publicans.'
Miss Walters was quite silent and Stanley
resumed sadly, ' And yet the world — not only
its sins but its vanities — has a power we little
dream of. With quiet unobtrusive persistence,
it can work miracles of evil on us. It was
only to-day, as I listened to Vernon talking,

that I thought there was a remnant in him of
what might once have made him a saint ; and
two Ones of Dante flashed across my mind as
I looked at him, " If vain thoughts had not
been a petrifying fountain to your soul, and
pleasure as Pyramus to the mulberry tree."
What a true, what a perfect simile ! I know
nothing in any poetry that can equal it.
Pyramus, do you remember, was killed at the
foot of the mulberry tree, and it was his death-blood
that stained the fruit red. It is pleasure,
and dying pleasure, you see, that stains
the whole fruit of life.'

Stanley had been looking towards Miss
Walters, but not at her, while he was speaking.
She, however, had had her eyes fixed
on him, glazed with mute attention. When
he ended she still said nothing, and her
silence made him at length turn to her. She
was pale as ashes, leaning back in her chair,
and was now staring straight before her.

Is it not very hot ? ' she gasped.
Would you mind opening the window a
Httle wider.'

Stanley rose to do so, and when he came
back to his place she had her handkerchief
pressed to her eyes, and was in a flood of
silent tears.

The subject of the above conversation —
at that moment how was he employing himself?
He was again seated at his writing-table,
as he had been two nights previously ;
and the pages of his confession were lying
open before him. He glanced at them, but
with no look of sympathy. His mouth, which
could smile so softly, had a hard, unpleasant
curve in it ; and, as he took up his pen negligently,
there was a shadow of a sneer about
his nostril. When he began to write, this
expression deepened ; nor was it out of
keeping with the following deliberate sentences.


I am a brute — a dolt — a hypocrite. If
I met my own double, how my gorge would
rise at it ! " For God's sake," I should say,
"■ keep that filthy beast away from me." And
yet, upon my word, I am wiser than some of
my betters, I think. Were I the Deity that I
addressed the above whisperings to, I should
supposing my own existence — make short
work of the whimperer. I should first kick,
then kill him. Can I believe it? But two
nights since I thought I would lay my mind
bare to God ! It seemed then to me a little
rose-garden of delicate scented sorrows. I
forgot, I suppose, that if the scented sorrows
were there, there was an open sewer stagnant
side-beside of them. Ah, the shattered
fabric of my whole moral existence !
If a man cant respect himself, there are
but two escapes from torture — to die, or to
respect nothing.

'Wretched, wretched me, will no one

redeem or comfort me ? No — no one ; and
indeed I do not deserve It. As I look round
my heart there Is nothing but unreality everywhere
— selfish sham affection, a profanation
of what might have once been highest In me ;
and this, when thwarted, turning — ugh ! — to
ill-temper and appetite. Good heavens — it
was the other day only that I sat In judgment
on Campbell when he told me what he
should do In his misery : and here have I
been doing the same thing ; or if I haven't it
Is through no merit of mine — the same
thlno" — but not with the same excuse for It.
What my poor Campbell dreaded was a pain
that only his own truth made possible. My
pain was only a wretched, diseased petulance.
And yet — am I right there ? Oh, my Cynthia,
have I no true feeling for you ? '

Here he paused, and laid his pen down
suddenly. The fact of having written her
name sent a quick shivering thrill through

him, and her Image came before him with a
strange painful vividness — her image, and
that of the Colonel close to her. Then all the
events of the afternoon repeated themselves,
in a series of sounds and pictures. Not only
did her laugh come back to him, the clear
colour of her cheek, and the curve of her
vestal lips, but a number of trivial details also
the feather In her hat, her slightly soiled
grey gloves, and her sleeve-sinks, shaped like
a horse's curb and snaffle. The impression
she made on him was, he came to see, a complex
one. She was instinct, as when first
he saw her, with an air of high refinement ;
but there was a something about her too
that was not quite In keeping with this.
What was it ? He could not tell ; or he
could tell one thing only. It was connected
with that side of her character which made
her tolerate Colonel Stapleton. The remembrance
of this man gave Vernon a sick

VOL. II. c

\

sensation — a man, so it seemed, with a wholly
corrupted mind, utterly past the power of
thinking a clean thought. This was Miss
Walters' friend — her Intimate chosen comrade.
Vernon was not now jealous of
him ; Indeed such an emotion would be, he
felt, ridiculous ; but there was something
inexplicably tragic in that clear-eyed girl's
familiarity with him ; there was something
horrible in her want of horror of him. The
eyes of the Vestal looking full into those of
the Satyr, unknowing of the beast's nature ;
his oily laugh mixing itself with the ripple of
hers ; his coat-pocket in her very presence
bulging with his hateful photographs — these
images stung Vernon as they presented
themselves, and filled his heart for Miss
Walters with a strange passionate solicitude.
Again he had recourse to his pen and
paper. He continued on the same sheet;
but it was not now to accuse himself.

Cynthia, my darling,' it was with these
words he began again, * I am sending a mute
voice to you from my dwelling to yours.
You have moved me — you have moved me :
I feel your Hfe upon mine, and a longing,
intense to bitterness, is stirring me now for
your sake. Is it love, my Cynthia t It maybe,
but I can't vouch for that. It seems tome
like a wish on your behalf, far more than
on my own. And yet I still would wish you
in some way to open your heart to mine. I
should like to have some possession in you.
Keep one look in your eyes for me, and forme
only ; and, ah, your lips ! — shall I dare to
breathe of them ? Whenever I think of you,
I think of a '' garden enclosed," my love, my
dove, my sister, my undefiled. I think of
dews, and roses, and of grey wet aloes, and
of sleeping morning seas, and purple borders
of camerarius. Has the spirit of the morning
passed into you ? or has your spirit passed

C2

into the sights and smells of the morning ?
Cynthia, you are also a mystery. I cannot
yet understand you. We have all had our
troubles. We have all done things to be
repented of. Oh be true, my lovely one, to
your own noblest self; and may our holy
God keep guard over you ! '

Vernon cast his eye back again over this
and his previous pages. The whole of his
manuscript was written without break or date,
and, so far as appearance went, might have
passed for a coherent composition. As he
looked he smiled — not with a sneer now, but
with a sense of soft whimsical humour.

I begin,' he said to himself, * with an
address to God ; and I end it with a note to
Miss Walters. I am like a girl I was once
told of, who used to dose over her evening
prayers ; and who caught herself murmuring
as a conclusion to "Our Father," **I am very
sincerely yours, Kate Dixon." '



The bitterness of the earlier evening had
by this time passed away from him ; and he
closed his eyes that night a little more In
peace with himself ; although for many causes
he was still sad and feverish.

CHAPTER V.

<g^|^^Y the following morning, whether
through self-knowledge or self-deceit,
he found he had settled
with his conscience to pursue Miss Walters'
acquaintance, and to become her friend in the
closest degree possible. It was not therefore
without some palpitation of the heart, that he
received a letter brought to him, in her own
hand-writing. It bore the date of the preceding
night ; and he was still in bed when
it reached him. Why was it sent thus early ?
What could she have to say to him ? Would
she decline his future acquaintance, and

express contempt and anger at him ? His
conscience was by this time smiting him, and
reminding him of Mrs. Crane. His courage
failed him ; and it was some minutes before
he broke the envelope.

You will be surprised at hearing from me,'
the letter began abruptly, ' especially, I think,
after the last few hours we spent together.
You were angry with me, I do not know
why. But let that pass ; I am not going to
reproach you with it. Reproach you ! I
can't help laughing at having written that.
What earthly right should I have to reproach
you ? And yet, I am going to do something
even stranger. I am going to presume farther
on our short, our very short acquaintance.
I am going to break through every
rule of common sense, of common etiquette,
of common everything. I hope you will not
think me a mad woman. I hope you will
understand me. I hope — I believe you will.

I am acting on a perception sharper than
common sense, which I do not think is
deceiving me. And shall I tell you what
makes me bold to do so ? When I met you
the other day in the garden, I hinted that I
had had my sorrows. Now I tell you the
fact plainly. I won't beat about the bush
any longer ; I am miserable. Sometimes my
misery is good enough to keep its distance
for a little ; but before long it overtakes me ;
and I live in a helpless terror that it may add
to itself. It has overtaken me now — yes
now, within the last few days, since I have
been here, since I have known you. Tonight
it has become unbearable ; and I can't
help writing to you. But why to you — you of
all people ? Oh, I can't explain ; but I think
you will understand why. You have had
your sorrows also ; and you have told me
you have. You are looking for a something
you have lost, and that you long to find

again. So far, you are a faint, faint image of
me. A faint image only — I don't wrong you
for a moment by thinking you more than
that. But even that gives you sympathy ;
and what I want is a friend. Will you be a
friend to me ? Will you treat me as a
woman who you know wants help and tenderness
? I am utterly lonely ; I shall die if
I am not supported.

And now, listen. I don't want to alarm
you. I am not inviting you to a series of
confessions, scenes, and hysterics. Don't ask
me about my unhappiness ; it would do you
no good to hear about it ; but be my friend.
Talk to me as if you trusted me ; try to talk
to me as if you respected me, and believe me
I long intensely to do and to be good. Try
to know me — will you ? You have not to
come far to see me. I am not asking ver'
much of you. Indeed, Mr. Vernon, why
should I be mock-modest ? As I write, I

am sitting opposite to a looking-glass : and
that reminds me that many men would come
much farther for my company. It is not a
thought that I have any reason to be proud
of. What I want to remind you of is, that if
in the end you should not care to help me,
you will at least have had a little amusement
in finding that I am not worth helping.

One word more. When next we meet,
don't allude to this letter. Act if you will,
upon what I have written ; and form your
own conjectures from it ; but as for itself, let
us consent not to mention it. So much
depends, in the building up of a friendship,
on what is said, and on what is not said. A
thought understood, or written, may help to
produce intimacy ; when the same thought
uttered would produce only embarrassment,
and perhaps estrangement. I think when
you have read all this, you will see I amusing

something more than a conventional
form, when I sign myself, very sincerely
yours,

Cynthia Walters

To this was added a postscript, that had
been written the next morning. ' I am very
unwell. I have passed a wretched night :
but unless I am unfit to appear, my aunt, I
know, means to ask you to dine this evening.
She is devoted to you. Don't answer my
letter, unless no invitation comes for you. If
you dine with us, I can draw my own conclusions
from you ! '

As Vernon read this, a new life seemed
breathed into him. The disappointments
and the barren self-reproaches of yesterday
were dispelled by a tumult of anticipations,
and his whole being expanded. As for Mrs.
Crane, she was quite forgotten. His late
conduct with her ceased to give him any

uneasiness. The memory of it fell off him
like a cloak, and seemed so little a part of
himself, that he needed no repentance to get
rid of it.

The day, however, proved a weary one ;
till at last, about five o'clock, the invitation to
dinner came. The long blank suspense had
made his expectations keener, and by the
time he came to dress his agitation was
almost painful. His hands shook as he
forced his shirt-studs into the button-holes ;
and he murmured to himself as he was tying
his white neck-tie, * I feel for all the world as
if I were just going to my dentist'

Never till this evening had he entered the
Chateau St. John. A long corridor led from
the hall to the drawing-room ; and as he followed
the servant over the noiseless carpet,
he could almost have thought he trembled.
Much to his relief, when the door was flung
open, Lady Walters was alone down to receive

him ; and he was thus able to recover
himself before Miss Walters entered. The
old lady was full of a pleasant if not a wise
kindness. Age seemed to have mellowed out
of her all the suspicions which give chaperons
a practical value ; and Vernon saw that
whatever intimacy he might contract with the
niece, the aunt would accept it on trust as the
fittest possible. Her niece, it was evident,
was in her eyes nothing short of perfection.
Vernon remarked on the taste with which the
drawing-room had been arranged. ' It is all
Cynthia's doing,' said Lady Walters. On
the chimney-piece were two delicate miniatures.
* They,' said Lady Walters, * were
painted by Cynthia. They are her father
and mother. That screen, too, is hers also,
with the panel of lilacs and laburnums. But
she has most of her things in her boudoir,
which I have no doubt she will show you
afterwards.'

'Miss Walters said Vernon, 'was, I
think, only in London for one season, and I
was at that time out of England.'

Yes,' said Lady Walters, * only for one
season. But I hope' she will go back next
year. She is so much stronger now than she
has been ; and it is a pity that a girl, so young
and beautiful as she is, should see so little of
the society of her own country. She hates
society, so she says herself ; but I don't think
that such hates are the right thing at her age ;
and whatever they may say, young people
don't really feel them.'

Just at this moment a door opened.
There was a soft rustle of skirts, and then
Miss Walters entered. Her appearance
might • well have justified her aunt's last
observation. It would have been hard to
imagine a form that seemed more made for
the world, or who could have added a
tenderer charm to its most delicate pomps

and vanities. She was all In creamy white,
with but two touches of colour upon her — a
red rose-bud In her hair, and a red rose
blown upon her bosom. Her whole toilette,
as she softly advanced forwards, was like the
art of a Greek sculptor, translated by a
Parisian modiste ; and with Its double air at
once of fashion and simplicity, it deepened
the rapt expression of her dark regretful
eyes.

All Vernon's embarrassment aofain rushed
upon him at the sight of her ; but it was not
of long continuance. There are certain
difficulties In which a woman Is always a
man's superior; and this was one of them.
In Miss Walters' manner there was no trace
of consciousness or of confusion. Her ofreetlno-
was the perfection of calm high-bred gracefulness.
Not by a glance even, or a gesture,
which should be visible to him only, did she
seek to allude to the smallest understanding

between them ; and Vernon himself could
hardly believe it possible that this was the
same woman who had appealed to him so
passionately only a few hours before. One
good actor, however, sustains another. He
felt instantly that he was in stronger hands
than his own ; and this girl who had been so
lately asking for help, had already been first
to give it. He was restored to ease by her
almost in spite of himself. All his apprehensions
were replaced by a delightful form
of excitement : and he often thought, during
the course of dinner, that he had never In
his life felt so strong a stimulus to talk his
best, whether about grave things or gay. In
the presence of those two companions it
seemed as though a new home were receiving
him : nor was this charming sensation to
be wondered at. He had fair reason to be
certain of two most flattering facts, that the
young lady admired, and that the old lady

was fond of him ; and he, in especial, delighted
himself at every proof of the latter,
because it seemed to reflect upon him a
softened pleasure from the former. Thus,
impatient though he was in general of any
personal catechism, he bore with positive
pleasure Lady Walters' numerous questions.
Many of them would have been irritating
from their mere generality, if they had not
expressed an interest to which he attached a
value, and if Miss Walters had not been
present to make it worth his while to answer
them. He was questioned about his tastes,
his books, how he employed his time, and if
he had ever been in any service, diplomatic
or military ; and finally, if there were any
pursuit to which he meant to give himself
for the future.

'When Goethe,' said Vernon, 'was about
my age, he called it a solemn period. He
was able by that time to take stock of his

VOL. II. D

powers and character ; and he renewed his
resolves and deliberations as to what use he
should put them. I am by way, here, of
doing the same thing, and all my longings are
leading me towards some kind of public life.'

Lady Walters smiled, and shook her head
at him. ' Take my advice,' said she, ' and
keep clear of that. Political ambition is as
cruel a passion as gambling. It takes just as
much out of your life, and adds just as little
to its pleasures. A man with a good position
like yours is far happier when he is
content as he is. I should envy a country
gentleman more than a prime minister.'

Vernon smiled softly, and turned his
eyes to Miss Walters. ' The public life,' he
said, 'that I am dreaming of, might perhaps
have no connection with even the wish for
office.'

Miss Walters answered with a look,
which said, * you will explain afterwards.'

For purpose of explanation there was
certainly no lack of opportunity. In the
course of the evening, as had happened
before with Stanley. Miss Walters took her
guest and showed him her own sitting-room ;
whilst her aunt meanwhile closed her eyes
peaceably. At the prospect of another leU-astute,
Vernon's shyness was again returning ;
but when he found himself alone with Miss
Walters, he saw that his fears were groundless.
So complete was the nerve and tact
with which she managed the situation, that any
awkward scene, or clair dissentient was quite
out of the question. It seemed as though
she had given him a kind of mental chloroform
; and that she had, while he was under
it, done in a day the work of weeks on him.
He felt that between them there were now no
formal barriers ; by some noiseless mao-ic
they had all been swept away ; and he could
speak his mind to her with a calm but

D 2

entire confidence. He had no spasmodic
wish to extort or to make confessions ; but
her presence seemed to act on his thoughts
as the moon does on the sea it illuminates.
They moved under her influence, and stirred
with a new life in him ; and he had the
delicious fearless sense that when he spoke
he should be understood by her.

See she said, ' here are all my books,
and the signs of how I employ myself. That
picture over there is of a nun praying. Sometime
or other I will let you see it by daylight.
Frederic Stanley, I fear, looked rather askance
at my library. It made him think that
I was very wicked. It will make you think
I am very dice. Which of the two faults
do you think is the greatest shock to a
man ? However,' she went on, ' I have not
done my reading out of baseness. I had my
reasons for it.'

• What reasons ? '

I vas brought up chiefly among
Catholics, and I once had thoughts of joining
the Church myself. Thoughts ! — I was on
the ver' point of plunging. I was on the
brink of a precipice, and the sea of faith was
under me. The lonofinof to throw myself off
was thrilling up my back bone, it seemed :
but something held me back, and I regained
my senses. Well — since then, I have been
trying to see more clearly what an impartial
world has got to say on the matter ; and I
feel now that I have been saved from a
mental suicide.'

Which is the best,' said Vernon, with a
half-serious smile, ' to kill your own thoughts,
or to be killed by the thoughts of others ?
Will the Professor save you any more than
the Pope ? '

You,' she said abruptly, ' don't believe in
the Pope, do you ? '

*Once,' Vernon answered, 'I was enraged

to be married ; the marriage was broken off,
and for this reason — I insisted that my
children, if I had any, should be brought up
Catholics.'

Yes,' she said, * I had heard that much
about you ; and had I been the lady in question,
I should have acted just the same. I
could never — no matter how much I loved a
man — I could never bind myself at the altar,
that I could rear my children upon a lie.
But that is a question,' and she here smiled
softly, ' that a brother and sister can have no
need to quarrel over.'

To me,' said Vernon, ' it is the only
question of interest ; and I want you to tell
me this. Have your books of science and
history led you to anything better than
Catholicism ? '

It is not a question of better, if by better
you mean more comforting. If that were all,
you would have found me in sackcloth long

ago. Could I only with my eyes open believe
the Church true — were it on one side
not so ridiculous — could we only discover
some new proof of its authority '

That,' said Vernon, * you may be quite
sure we never shall : and If the Church on
one side is ridiculous, so Is every grave conception
of life. If we cannot be persuaded
by the proofs that are now before us, we
should certainly not be even If one rose from
the dead. It Is we ourselves that must be
changed, not proofs that must be multiplied.
It is not the pole, but the needle, that needs
to be re-magnetised. A fact, or a thought
may in itself be single ; but Its relations to
men and women may be infinite.'

'Talk low,' said ]\Iiss Walters, 'for my aunt
must be still asleep.' The doorway into the
drawing-room was only closed by a portiere.
She rose, and pulled this aside for a moment.
Yes,' she said, ' she is sleeping. She has

been very tired to-day. Go on, Mr. Vernon ;
only speak softly.'

Vernon went to the window and opened
it without noise. A breath of the night air
came in, warm and scented, and the moon was
shining with a clear, unclouded brilliance.

This,' he said, ' is the same moon that
all the world looks at. But what different
thoughts it wakes nightly in a million hearts!
And it is the same with scientific discoveries,
and with thoughts and arguments. If you
want another illustration, let us take our own
personalities. You are one single soul, you
are one single human character ; but are
there two other souls to whom you have ever
seemed the same ? Have you ever affected
anyone as you affect me ? '

She had followed him to the window, and
was standing close beside him. He had
obeyed her injunction to the letter, and he
certainly now spoke low enough. She had

hung her head, as though the better to Hasten
to him, but she now raised it when he finished,
and fixed her eyes upon his.

How do I affect you ? ' she said ina
voice that had sunk to a whisper. 'So
much depends upon that, that I have
hardly courage to ask you.'

Vernon took her hand, he drew her
towards himself, and slowly bent over her till
his lips were approaching hers. For a
moment or two she had remained passive,
but she now gave a slight start away from him,
though she did not withdraw her hand.

Remember,' she exclaimed appealingly,
*what I have already said to you. Nothing
like that must ever come into our friendship.*

Vernon made no answer ; and as if by
some silent understanding the two walked
out together into the moonlight. They were
both of them emerging also into a new period
of their existence.

Whatever might be awaiting them
in this new period, the portal by
which they entered it was one of
unearthly beauty. The gardens lay before
them In mysterious light and shadow, and
seemed to lure them onwards. Distinct out
of the mist of foliage rose the black spires of
cypresses, and here and there an almond-tree,
like a fountain of pink moonlight :
whilst beyond, with a dazzling sparkle, the
waves shook dreamily.

The window opened on a flight of marble

Steps. They paused for a few moments, and
then went down together. Miss Walters'
last injunction had been spoken with an
appearing emphasis ; but to any outside observer
the result would have been hardly
obvious. Her hand was on Vernon's arm,
and seemed to lean on it ; and they were fora
long time silent as only lovers can be.
But though they were silent, the night was not
sint round them. The green frogs made a
chorus of soft innumerable murmurs ; fountains
gleamed and splashed half-hidden
amongst]the orange-trees ; the roses trembled
in the balmy moving air ; the leaves of the
eucalyptus whispered ; and through all these
sounds continuously came a yet gentler sound
of the sea.

The hour filled them as it has filled
so many thousand others, with a sense of
dreamy spiritual voluptuousness : and secret
thoughts in both of them came floating up

out of their hiding-places, and gathered in
soft impatience for the time when they should
find utterance.

Miss Walters was the first to speak.
You must tell me,' she began, * about your
public life, and the way you want to employ
yourself And you must tell me too,' she
went on more tenderly — * you must tell me
another thing, for I do not quite understand
you. You believe in a God, don't you ? — I
think you do — and that it matters something
whether we do right or wrong ? Of course
it matters to others, so far as our acts touch
them, I know all about organ and fiction,
which is the prig's duty to his neighbour. But
I am not speaking of that. I mean as regards
ourselves.'

If I believe anything,' said Vernon, ' I
believe that it does matter. If this poor
human race of ours is worth a moment's unselfish
care, it is worth it because we each of us

have a soul to be saved or lost. I have, and
so have you.'

Do you really believe that ? ' she said.
The question was put so earnestly that Ita

little embarrassed Vernon. ' You remember,'
he answered, ' what I have said to you
just now. One may know that a proof exists,
and may yet fail to be touched by it. The
soul may become demagnetised, and may
cease to point to God ; but one may know he
Is still somewhere, though one cannot tell
where. That Is my condition, and the condition
I am struggling to escape from. I
have come here as I told you, to arrange my
plans for doing so. It Is a hard, hard work,'
he continued presently, ' this piecing together
of a broken self again. I only see hope In
one thing, and that, as I said at dinner. Is
public life.'

And Is your only hope then,' she said,
In that kind of strong distraction ? Do you

wish to forget your loss, not to retrieve
it?'

You think of public life,' he said, ' in the
same way your aunt does. You heard her
advice at dinner to me : it was full of the old
spirit of goodness. Rest and contentment,
her moral was, are the truest springs of happiness.
But the time for that teaching is
gone, or is fast going ; even Frederic Stanley
feels this : and though the spiritual air is
growing each day darker about us, yet through
the disastrous twilight burns the shape of a
new duty — the duty to spend and to be
spent for others. I call it new, but it is not.
It only speaks in an ampler language. Look
at me ; I have wealth, and power, and I
think some talents. It is to others that I
owe these ; that is the sense that haunts me ;
and the greater a man's power or place is, the
greater, in God's eyes, is the number of his
creditors. If I ever find God aofain, it must

VOL. II. E

be with hands full of good deeds, not only-clean
of evil. Perhaps when I have something
to bring him, he will again show his
face to me. Such at least is my rather
forlorn hope. It may turnout true, as I often
used to say to myself, ''He that doeth shall
know of the doctrine." '

You speak of work in the world. What
sort of work are you thinking of ? '

There was a time when I actually made
a beginning of it ; but since I put my hand
to the plough, I have looked back again ; and
I am in a worse state now than ever.'

You stood for Parliament and you were
not elected. Yes, I had heard of that ; but
that was surely no fault of yours.'

No, and besides, that was merely a piece
of by-play. I should have liked to have been
in Parliament, certainly ; but my wishes to do
good did not stand or fall with my active part
in politics.'

Well,' she said, ' and have they been
wishes only ? Have you given the struggle
up ? Have you exchanged life in England
for a dream by the mediterranean ? '

One of the oldest,' he said, ' of all old
mysteries is the division between will and
wish. I have still the wish to act, but at present
I have lost the will: and though our
work may be all cut out for us, vre can't do it
if our arms are broken. I began my activity
under a passing emotional stimulus ; but that
has now gone and has left me as weak as
ever. For a life's work, unless one's own
advancement is included in it, one needs some
other motive than the strength of one's own
conscience. On a night like this, alone, and
with you beside me, what dreams I might fill
my soul with, of deeds done, and of hope and
faith recovered ; but to see one s castle in a
dream is one thing, and to build it with brick
afterwards is quite another thing.'
2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF fLLiN9IS

Vernon felt on his arm Miss Walters'
hand press heavier, and she looked at him
with liquid eyes.

'Am I, then,' she said, ' any help to you
in your dreaming ? '

As she spoke they paused, and looked at
the scene about them. They had just
emerged from a walk of winding shadow, and
found themselves suddenly face to face with
the sea. It was close to them. They were
on a long curved terrace, and the quiet ripples
were lapping on Its marble border. The sight
for a moment held the two wanderers breathless,
but presently they had to turn to a
matter a little homelier. The air was warm,
but Miss Walters shuddered slightly as a
breath from the waves swept up to her.
Vernon remarked it tenderly.

It is nothing,' she said. ' However, just
round that corner, in the boathouse, is a hat
and a shawl of mine, which Jack Stapleton

left there. I think I will go and fetch
them.'

They entered and found the things ; and
again they paused together. Into the dark
gloom of the boathouse ran the waves in
silver tendrils ; the boat softly and slowly
rocked with its freight of shadow. In the
course of a few seconds they could distinguish
the oars lying in it. The same thought seized
both their minds simultaneously, and they
exchanged a glance in silence. Vernon at
last said, ' Shall I row you ? ' She gave no
direct answer, and he had time to reflect a
little. * But what,' he added, 'would your
aunt say ? It must be getting late by this
time.'

Oh,' said Miss Walters, * she never asks
me questions. If I am not in the drawing-room,
she goes to bed without enquiring forme
; and she will think that, to avoid waking
her, I sent you home through the gardens

not that she would in the least mind, if I were
to stop out till midnight with you, except for
my catching cold.'

Come then,' said Vernon, and he drew
the boat towards him; but she was still silent.
He jumped in and began to arrange the
cushions, and then in the shadow he held his
hand out to her. At last by her movement
he saw that she had consented. She gave
him her hand, her form leant on his for a
moment, and in a moment more they had shot
out into the moonlight.

For the first five minutes or so Vernon
pulled with vigour, and between themselves
and the shore there was soon a good interval.
Then his exertions lessened, the oars began
to splash with a gentler dreamer cadence, and
a consciousness of the situation dawned softly
upon both of them. The imagination at times
like these acquires stronger powers than
ordinary ; it transfigures places, and it does

what it will with distance. It seemed to these
two that they had left the world behind them :
they were solitary adventurers on some far
enchanted ocean. There awoke in both of
them a strange sense of exultation ; and at
last Vernon murmured, ' Listen, and I will
sing to you.' He seemed to have scarcely
spoken when the following song broke from
him: —

Hollow and vast starred skies are o'er us,
Bare to their blue profoundest height ;

Waves and moonlight melt before us
Into the heart of the lonely night.

Row young oarsman, row young oarsman,
See how the diamonds drip from the oar ;

What of the shore and friends ? young oarsman,
Never row us again to shore.

See how shadow and silver mingle
Here on the wonderful wide bare sea,

And shall we sigh for the blinking ingle —
Sigh for the old known chamber — we ?

Row young oarsman far out yonder.
Into the crept of the night we float ;

Fair faint moon-flames wash and wander,
Wash and wander about our boat.

Not a fetter is here to bind us,

Love and memory loose their spell !

Friends of the home we have left behind us,
Prisoners of content, farewell.

Row young oarsman, far out yonder,
Over the moonlight's breathing breast ;

Rest not, give us no pause to ponder,
All things we can endure but rest.

The song ended ; but It had broken the
spell of silence. Miss Walters murmured
some vague words of applause ; and then said
abruptly, though in a low voice like music, ' I
want you to tell me one thing. You made a
new start in life, under the influence of some
strong emotion. What emotion was that?'

Vernon smiled slightly. ' It was emotion,'
he answered, * connected with my plan of
marrying.'

She smiled also. ' That is surely an odd
way of putting it. Was it falling in love,
then, that nerved you to do your duty?'

Indirectly you may call it that,' said
Vernon naively. ' I realised that to marry was

a very solemn step, and that it was the deathblow
to everything that had hitherto made life
enjoyable. It was as that I welcomed it. I
would die through it into a new life. I resolved
that thenceforward I would only live
for duty. My personal interests would all be
blighted ; and I would lay up interests for
myself that should be more than personal. I
looked on marriage as a sacrament not of joy
or rest, but of sacrifice.'

How strangely you talk,' she said, ' it is
not like a human being. You might be some
cold sea-creature floating on its own element.
What, if these are your feelings, made you
ever think of marrying 1 '

Perhaps,' said Vernon, ' I have given a
wrong account of myself. It is not every one
that can write his own history truly : our
hearts and memories are littered with false
materials. Some people think — perhaps you
are one of them — that a man, with a will todo

SO, can of course confide to another his
motives on any given occasion. Bnt it is not
so. There are actions we may account for ina
dozen contradictory ways, and yet be doing
our best, at each attempt, to be truthful. Try
to catch on paper your own face in a looking-glass.
Does the power to do that come tous
for the wishing ? It is as hard sometimes
to describe your tastes or motives as to take
a pencil and draw your own expression. Each
is equally likely to elude your most painful
touches. I perhaps made a wrong stroke
just now. Let me rub it out, and see if I
can't do better. Of course it was love that
made me first think of marrying ; but I don't
think love acted well by me. He came like
a porter, bearing a great pack of duties, which
he left inside my door, and then he went
away again.'

Miss Walters smiled at this whimsical
simile. ' Then it was not true love,' she said,

if it played you a trick like that. True love
never goes away till you drive it.'

No,' said Vernon, ' I suppose it was not
true love ; and vet at the time it must have
seemed very like it. However, the whole
affair proved a fiasco in all ways. When I
gave up my frivolous interests, I wished to
live for larger ones. ]\Iy wife that was to
have been wished me to live for her. She
used often to say to me, " Am I the chief thing
in your life ? " '

'No doubt,' said ]\Iiss Walters, 'she would
have been ready to live for you.'

Only too ready,' said Vernon. ' But that
was not what I asked of her. I wanted to
find God, not to be made a fetish.'

'Still,' said Miss Walters, 'you are talking
like a merman. Would there have been no
help to you in the sense of her near companionship
? '

If you mean by her, — the special person

I speak of, I doubt if there ever would. It
it true that at one time I could honestly say
/ love you to her. But the love that I long
for is but half expressed by / love you. One
must be forced to add, You comprehend me ;
and you give a new life to ny thoughts because
I can speak them freely to you. Or perhaps
this would be more accurate — Because you
enable me thus to speak them, you are indirectly
creating them!

And have you never felt that ? ' she
said.

Vernon's voice dropped low, and he looked
with fixed eyes at her. ' That,' he said, ' is
what I feel with you. I could speak to you
of my aims and hopes as I have never spoken
to any woman before. My inmost thoughts,
at present, are like dim spirits in prison. At
your spell they would come forth and embody
themselves. You would touch my lips, I
should speak ; and there would be a new

world born In me. I feel your power now —
here, as we are floating on together. Some
of my thoughts you have set free already ;
they can breathe, they have acquired shape,
they may take a part in guiding me. Do I
speak now like a merman ? — do I speak like
a cold sea-creature ? '

Vernon was far from conscious of the
directness of the declarations he was making ;
but he was conscious certainly of the passion
with which he made them. There was a tone
in his voice which, had his words been merely
about the weather, would have winged them
like fire-tipped arrows to the woman they
were addressed to. She would be unable,
and he felt this, to miss their appealing
earnestness. He looked at her as he spoke,
to see the effect he made ; but her expression
baffled him. Of one thing only he could be
certain ; and that was, that he had not confused
her. Then suddenly the thought flashed

across him that this was a woman who was
used to be made love to. In an instant the
air was peopled with hosts of phantom rivals,
with whom she shared secrets that would be
hid from him for ever. The hands of
another man had lain clasped on hers ; on
her lips were the memories of another man's
kisses ; perhaps her heart was already in the
grave of some dead lover. These imaginations
fired him with a new longing for her.
He would snatch her, he felt, from the arms
and the lips of others ; she should be his, and
his only.

He drew his oars into the boat, and sat
himself in the stern beside her. He was
doubtful how she would take this, but he
was reassured in a moment, for she moved
a little to make room for him. Still she
did not speak, she only softly looked at
him.

Miss Walters,' he said, ' Cynthia — why

are you silent ? Are you angry because I
tell you how you have helped me ? '

She gave a strange smile which seemed to
have something of pity in it. ' Once upon a
time,' she said, ' perhaps I might have helped
you ; but I can never do so now. You have
known me too late for that. And yet I am
wrong. I can help you in one thing ; I can tell
you to beware of me. I say this for my sake,
and for yours. I might so easily bring such
untold evil on both of us.'

Vernon put his hand upon hers, and
said in a whisper, ' I am going to ask you
one question.' She turned her ear to him,
and pressing her hand hard, almost painfully,
he said, 'Are you married to some one else?'

She drew back as if relieved, and shaking
her head, murmured ' No.'

Then,' said Vernon, his voice once more
getting stronger, ' what harm can our nearer
friendship bring us ? Harm I — it can bring

only good.' His hand was still upon hers,
and now in silence he drew her towards himself,
and he could hear her heart beating.
For a moment she yielded passively to him ;
she was then again reluctant, holding her
head averted, whilst her breath came quickly.
Then again, and another change came over
her. He felt her yield once more like a
branch that breaks slowly. Her hand was
on his shoulder, and his lips were on hers.

Whoever once had kissed them, he had
made them his own now ; such was the
thought that thrilled him. And yet in his
caress there was no warm vehemence. It
was passionate, but its passion was tempered
by a gentle earnest reverence, and a sense
of solicitude that he could not account for.
She seemed to have lost herself far more
wholly than he. It was she, however, who
first found her voice again. She slowly drew
back from him, as if she were waking up

from a dream, and looked at him with
reproachful eyes.

Oh, why,' she murmured, clasping her
hands tightly, ' why have you done this tome?'


Done what ? ' he said. * Surely I have
done no wrong to you. Is It doing a wrong
to you If I can make you love me ? '

If you could do that,' she said, with a
faint, unnatural laugh, ' it would be yourself
you were doing a wrong to. But ' — and her
voice softened — 'you have not done that; no,
you have not done that.'

What ! ' exclaimed Vernon in bewilderment
; ' and do you not love me then ? '

He turned to her in expectation of her
speaking, but she said nothing. She was
looking straight before her with her eyes fixed
on the distance, lost in some self-questioning.
Then her lips quivered a little, and she shook
her head slowly. That was her only answer,

VOL. II. F

and for a time there was complete silence between
them. Presently, however, a sudden
change came over her. A new smile lit her face
up, like the gleam of a spring morning ; and
with a soft expression of passionless, pure affection,
' Oh,' she said, ' but I do indeed wish
you well. I do wish all that is best for you.
God has given you many gifts ; I wish you
not to squander them. I wish you strength
and endurance, and a clear, unclouded faith,
that you may act up to the brightest light
that is in you. And if the thought will be
any help to you that by doing yourself justice
you are giving me pleasure, that help I may
indeed venture to offer you. Come,' she
went on, * bend down to me once more. No —
not your lips, but your forehead; and I will
kiss you once there, as a sister or as a mother
might. The touch of my lips, like that, can
do no wrong to you. And now — take your
oars. It is late ; let us row back.'

The two said nothing more till they
were again floating into the boat-house.
Vernon's mind meanwhile was in a state of
dim commotion. He had partly the sense of
a delightful rest in loving ; partly a sense of
hunger only half pacified. * She must be
more mine than as yet she is was one of the
thoughts that shaped themselves ; and with
many variations this kept on recurring to
him. But below all there lurked another of
a somewhat different character, which, only
half-perceived, gave Its special tone to the
rest. This was, ' Let me love her never so
well, our tie will still be slight enough. She
has told me she could never unite her life to
mine. I need have no fear that she will
ever prepare a yoke for me. No, we will not
unite ; we will meet on some neutral ground,
in some lonely, sacred grove, far from the
home of each of us. She shall be my spiritual
mistress.'

F2

He little thought how soon this mood
was to change in him.

They walked back towards the Chateau,
and the first pale glimpse of it keenly suggested
parting.

Vernon paused in his walk, and turned to
her. ' And is a sister s kiss,' he said, ' all
you can ever give me ? '

'All,' she said. 'You must ask for
nothing more.' She moved a pace away, and
stood still, confronting him. ' Do you seeme,'
she vent on. ' Will you please to take
a good look at me. My eyes are clear ; my
lips and my cheeks look young enough. You
perhaps think me a good woman. Well,
shall I tell you the truth ? To make me
fit to give what you are asking for, you
would have first to cast seven devils out
of me ! '

Vernon was well accustomed to feminine
self-reproaches. ' Hush,' he said ; ' it is foolish

to talk like that. We have all done wrong,
and it may be right at times to acknowledge
It. But exaggeration of that kind must be
always morbid.'

I do not exaggerate. I have already
ruined one man's happiness, as you will
perhaps realise some day, without my telling
you. If you were to count upon my love,
I should ruin your happiness also.'

Nonsense ! ' said Vernon, with a quick
but tender sharpness. ' Of course, for all I
know, you may have behaved ill to some one,
but you have not ruined your nature, you
have not stained your heart, by it. I can see
you better than you can. It is wrong, it Is
unreal, to talk oi yourself as if you were a
Mary Magdalene.'

You are right,' she said, with a cold
calmness that surprised him. ' You are
right,' she repeated ; and then hiding her
face in her hands, ' I am worse,' she exclaimed,

in a whisper choked with sobs, * I
am worse, far worse, than any Mary Magdalene


All kinds of conjectures as to her possible
past history had floated through Vernon's
mind. But to think of a thing as a
possibility, does not always prepare us for
hearing it at last as a fact ; and he, as he
heard, stood for a time petrified, feeling his
temples grow deadly cold, and the skin on
his forehead tighten. For a long time he
could do no more than look at her — at that
form pure as a snowdrop, drooping her head
so near him, her hands still hiding her face.

At last he said in a low tone, ' Speak tome
! ' But she gave him no answer. Then
softly and gently he tried to remove her
hands. At that moment, however, a sound
was heard from the house : it was the sound
of a window closing.

Come,' she said starting, ' this has lasted

long enough ; ' and she began to move quickly
forwards, with her face still turned from
him.

Lady Walters was already gone to bed,
and a footman was busy putting out the lights
in the drawing-room.

'Is the hall-lamp burning?' said Miss
Walters. ' Mr. Vernon's greatcoat is there.
The lamp is out } Then give me a candle,
and I will open the door for him myself.'

She tried to hold the candle so that its
light should not fall on her face, and she still
refused to look at him ; but when it came for
her to unfasten the door, it was hard to avoid
doing so.

Don't make me look at you ! ' she said,
as they stood together. ' How shall I ever
be able to meet your eyes again ? Don't you
hate me ? Don't you despise and loathe me ?
Tell me you do ! Let me at last have justice
done to me ! I can't bear being thought

good, when I am worse than the worst of
women

Vernon took the candle from her hand
and set it down on the table. ' Look at me,'
he said, * and see if you think I hate you.'

There was a tone in his voice by which
she seemed conquered ; for with a helpless
resignation she let him put his arm round
her, and draw her towards himself. Then
timidly she raised her face to him ; it was
like a poor, piteous child's ; and he, withall
the tenderness of a compassionate elder
brother, stooped and kissed her.

Her eyes filled with tears, and she
faintly faltered, * Thank you.'

God bless you ! ' he said. He pressed
her hand and was gone.

^^^^HE following morning Vernon sent
i^ a line to Miss Walters, to say that,
unless she would not receive him,
he would call at the Chateau In the course of
the afternoon. The note In Its wording was
altogether common-place ; and alleged as
his excuse for coming his desire to see her
picture. She wrote him no answer, and he
appeared accordingly. The servant's manner
at the door at once showed him he was
expected, and with a beating heart he was
ushered into her own sitting-room. There she

was, Standing before her easel, calm and
graceful. Again his fears of a painful meeting
were dissipated. She had recovered all
her self-control and luxurious air of worldliness
; whilst the pallor in her cheeks and
her expression of languorous melancholy
might have passed as the effects of a late
ball, not of sorrow. Her hold over Vernon
was increased by this new aspect of her ; the
touch of her hand acquired a new charm for
him. He stood with her by her easel, and
they discussed her picture. The feeling and
power displayed in it made a genuine impression
on him, quite apart from any thought
of the artist ; but connected with her it had
a special and startling meaning. It was buta
single figure, that of a kneeling nun ; who,
despite her attitude, seemed less in prayer
than in meditation. There was a crucifix on
the wall above her; a devotional book of
some sort lay on the ground beside her ; and

tightly grasped in her hand was a species of
small scourge.

Presently came a silence. She had moved
a few steps away, and Vernon was still looking
at the picture.

*Well she said at last; 'and do you still
think I am worth speaking to ? '

He turned from the picture instantly, and
went towards her. She had seated herself ina
chair, and her face was bent downwards.
He bent down over her, and, taking her face
in both his hands, he made her look at him.
Do I still think so ? ' he exclaimed. ' I care
a thousand times more for you than I should
ever have done otherwise. I see your goodness
and your truth a thousand times more
clearly. Only you mustn't talk of yourself
again in the way that you did last night.'

He smiled a little, and she smiled in
answer. Then she said sadly, ' But it was
quite a true way.'

He drew a low seat forward, and sat
down beside her. * Listen to me,' he said,
my Cynthia, if you will let me call you that.
What we all live by, what we all live down
to, or live up to, is our own conception of
what we ourselves are. If we subside into
thinking that we are altogether lost and
wicked, we are sure sooner or later to become
what we think we are. To revive our goodness,
we must realise that it is not dead. We
must see it still in ourselves, and see that It
is still breathing. But sometimes, if we trust
to ourselves only, this becomes impossible.
Our goodness gets so placed that we can no
more see it, than you can see your own back
hair in your looking-glass. What we should
then do Is to turn to another, and see our own
reflection in the looking-glass of another's
judgment of us. We may thus discover a truth
we could never have taught ourselves. We
may find that we are worthy of our own

reverence still, and that what is best and
highest in us is not killed so easily as we had
thought it was. Let me be the glass in which
you will study your own condition. Learn in
my reverence for you how pure and noble
you are ; and only in my sorrow for you that
you may have ever shadowed your purity.'

She looked at Vernon with a curious,
mixed expression. In her eyes was an
earnest gratitude, but on her lips a faint smile
of compassion. ' Even yet,' she said, ' I
think you know very little about me.'

Surely,' he said, ' I know all that I need
know. I have no wish to trespass on your
secrets, or to stir up memories that I wish to
be laid to rest for ever. Believe me, I can
see you more clearly than you see yourself.
A woman may err and yet not ruin her
nature, nor are those the holiest women who
need no repentance. None in God's eyes have
renounced what is good and pure, who still

even from far oft long for it. Certainly you
do that'

Yes she broke In, * you are right there !
Oh God, how I have longed and prayed for it !
I don't suppose you could find a woman who
had a clearer sight of what Is good than I
have : and yet no one can have shut herself
out from It more hopelessly. You say those
are not the holiest women that need no repentance.
It maybe so ; I am not even sure
of that. But, at all events, good women when
they need repentance, repent. They do the
one thing that I cannot do.'

All can repent,' said Vernon, * except
those who have made peace with evil.'

No ; for we may love what we have no
power to return to. Is not that what Judas
did ? I am not, I think. In any danger of
hanging myself : it would not be a graceful
death. But In my bed-room upstairs — this is
perfectly true, what I tell you — I have a

bottle of laudanum ready, in case I should
find any day that I was unable to endure myself.
No doubt,' she went on, ' I could
repent, If I were only my own mistress. But
I am not. You see, that makes all the difference.
I am the property, heart and soul,
of another.'

A sick sensation came over Vernon. He
looked at her in silence, with an expression of
horrified inquiry. She, however, had still
complete command of herself.

We are each of us,' she continued, ' as
we live on, building up within ourselves a
second self, like the frightful monster in
** Frankenstein," over whose actions we have
no control, but for which we are still responsible.
Out of my own past I have built up
such a monster. It is my tyrant. It dogs
me ; it strides after me. Though I hate it, I
cannot escape from it.'

Vernon listened with a quick sense of

relief. Her words did nothing now but increase
his pleading earnestness. * Hush,
hush ! ' he said. ' You must, indeed, not
speak like that. It is weak, wicked, foolish.
Listen to one thing which will force you to
see how wrong you are. Since you have
known me, you have done an angel's work.
You have breathed a new life into me. All
my better self has gained strength again —
and through your influence. Do you think
a corrupt tree can bring forth good fruit ? '

I / she said, ' and have I been of

help to you ? '

Yes,' he answered, ' and I only knew it
last night — last night when I parted from you
and found myself alone. Do you know what
I did then ? I prayed for you — upon my
knees for a long time, and half the night as
well, as I was lying wakeful. I have always
been accustomed to say a word or two of
prayer every morning, but these latterly have

been cold and brief. They have seemed only
to keep up a sort of bowing acquaintance with
a God that I could hardly speak to. But
last night, when I had you to pray for, my
words and my feelings rose as they have not
done since my boyhood : and for the first
time since then I felt that my prayers were
answered.'

She raised his hand to her lips, and gently
kissed It.

I was awake,' he went on, * at the dull
gray daybreak. I saw

The casement slowly grow a glimmering square ;

and oh, my child of the morning, my whole
soul went out to you. I have become a new
man for your sake in one short evening.'
• * Don't talk like that,' she exclaimed, ' or
you will make my heart break ! Leave me to
myself. You can do nothing, nothing forme.'


VOL. TI. G

I can,' he said, ' and I mean to. I am
not to be frightened off so easily, nor does
what you say discourage me. You talk of
your past, and you say that it Is your master.
It is so In some degree — such Is the case withall
of us. But the greater its power is, the
more should that encourage you. For what
is the past ? Are not you every day, every
moment, creating It ? And if your bad deeds
as they drift behind you become a monster,
will not your good deeds and struggles turn
behind you into a legion of angels ? A bad
past Is like a snake, whose head is the present.
Bruise the head, and the coils will no
longer crush you. Just consider; by next
year this year will be your past.'

What use,' she said, ' would be one year
of good against so many years of bad ? '

It will be the David,' said Vernon, ' that
will kill the Goliath who pursues you.'

She shook her head, and at the same time

smiled faintly. ' Some animals,' she said,
when they are caught in a trap, cannot be
induced to leave it, even when the door is
open. I am told you cannot get horses out
of a burning stable. As you said yourself,
one may have a wish to do the thing and yet
be without the will.'

You have roused my will,' said Vernon ;
I will rouse yours. I will put my arms
round you, and carry you off by force. We
will have a moral elopement.'

You talk of eloping ; but who can elope
from self ? Will you ever give me strength
to outrun my own memories ? '

Yes,' he said ; ' that is the very thing I
will do. Let me help you to form a new
present, and whilst that is forming let us
consent to bury the past. Then by-and-by,
when we again go back to it, and roll the
stone away from the door of the sepulchre,
you will find no festering corpse, but only the

G 2

grave-clothes purified, and two white angels
keeping watch over them.'

He spoke with a mixture of so much
fire and tenderness, that she seemed at last
conquered by it. Her face softened, her lips
relaxed and trembled, and her eyes, wide
open, began to fill with tears. His, too,
moistened. Then slowly she bent forwards
towards him. ' Come to me,' she said.
Come nearer to me.'

He slipt from his low seat, and knelt close
to her. They might have passed, so far as
grouping went, for a mother with her child
praying. Like a mother too, with utter frankness
and innocency she gave him a single
kiss, and passed her hand over his hair.

Thank you,' she said ; ' you are very good
to me. I will struggle, and hope against hope.'

Vernon resumed his seat, and, the little
scene over, they were both calm again.

I shall not,' he said presently, 'be a very

hard taskmaster. You will let me walk and
talk with you ; you will let me lend you books :
and, if you are sad and desponding, you will
let me raise your spirits. Let us try a quiet
life together here, on these terms : and we
will see what comes of it. If you want to tell
me more about yourself, tell me. If not, I
will never trouble you with my curiosity.
And you too — you must do your part by me.
I want help just as much as you do, and you,
if you will, can give it me.' He paused here,
and there was a debate in him of some
moments. There was something he was
prompted to say by impulse, and withheld
from saying by judgment. At last his eye
fixed itself on her exquisite hand and wrist,
as they lay before him on her dress of grey
velvet.

Tell me,' he said, ' do you think that this
would be possible ; do you think that you
and I could ever make a life together ? '

Don't ask me now she said. ' How
can I tell you what might happen some day?'

'Some day! What — must I wait for some
day The feeling that had been a spark was
now a flame already. ' Cynthia — tell me, my
loved one — have you no love for me now ? '

She looked at him mournfully for a short
time, and in silence. * Surely,' she said at
length, ' you do not doubt my affection. I
have said to you what I thought I should
never have said to any human being — what
I have not had courage as yet to say
even to God. I would willingly think you
had moved me to the deepest of all feelings
for you. What may happen some day I
cannot tell, but the special thing has not
happened yet.'

And yet,' he pleaded, ' you have kissed
me as a lover might'

If I have,* she said, ' the more shame forme.
I dare give you nothing at present approaching

what you mean by love. It would
be unfit for you to accept it of me. Take my
friendship, my gratitude, my affection. They
may not be worth much, but they at least will
not dishonour you.'

Well,' he said ; ' I can wait. I will bide
my time, and till I see some new sign in you,
I will never again trouble you with my importunity.


j/([^OT many days had elapsed before
Vernon wrote thus In his diary : —
I am Hke a pinnace that has

sHd out of a storm into a water of glassy calm.

I have a sense of shelter around me, as of

crags and gleaming woods.

Hie fessas non vincula naves
Ulla tenant : unco non alight ancona morse.

I have at last found rest In finding something
for which to labour, and in the literal
sense of the expression it is a labour of love.
Love — that hackneyed word ! — a week ago
what a wretched sound it had for me ! and

now, as I hear or speak of It, it throbs with
meaning like an organ-pipe. The choicest
lamb of all the flock had lost itself. My
wanderer, my white wanderer, I am carrying
you home to the fold. My holy and precious
burden, you little know what you have done
for me. I had strayed from the fold myself ;
I had lost all count of its whereabouts ; but
now, with you in my arms, I am finding my
way back again. It is for your sake only
that God begins to look on me ! '

Vernon smiled as he re-read this, and then
continued writing. * During the present year
I have made several expeditions with her
aunt and her. I have been their guide, and
have shown them some of the most striking
places to be found within driving distance.
We have seen old fortified villages, with their
girdle of brown ramparts, rising on hilltops
over their own grey olive-yards. We have
explored for miles the windings of happy

valleys, walled on each side with hanging
pine-woods, and paved with meadows of the
interest green imaginable, and we have
wandered under willows and alders, by the
margin of snow-fed rivers. She is growing
happy, she is growing at peace with herself.
I have watched her violet eyes, and her
cheeks like rose-leaves, and I have seen how

Beauty born of murmuring sound
Has passed into her face.

More than this — I have been twice with her
to the chapel in the cork-wood, for Vespers
and Benediction, and I have seen her praying.
I too — had I only been alone, my God, I
could have prayed too. My care for her has
opened my heart again, has revived my faith
again. Surely I know, and see, and with my
whole mind assent to this, that what we are
and what we make ourselves is something of
infinite and eternal moment. Vice and virtue
are as heaven and hell asunder. Space, with

its million stars, is as nothing to the gulf between
them : and Thou, my Judge Eternal,
it must be that Thou art all in all. Soften
her heart ! Cleanse her from all iniquity !
Let me brine her back to Thee ! Mother of
Purity, she has knelt to Thee also. Oh
mother inviolate, consoler of them that
weep, refuge of sinners, pray for her !

She is with me all the time I am writing.
I feel her in the air near me. She surrounds
me ; she is touching me whether her body
be there or no. I don't know exactly how to
describe what has happened. I could almost
believe, not in the transmigration of souls,
but somehow in the transmigration of bodies ;
for, fanciful as the expression sounds, it seems
at times to me as if it were her blood that was
beating in my temples. A part of her body
seems to be mixed with mine. When I am
half asleep, if I put my hands to my face, it
seems to be her white hand caressing me ;

and sometimes I have started up in the night
feeling almost certain that her lips were on
mine, kissing me.'

Moods, motives, and affections are generally
complex things. With Vernon in the
present case they were so in a marked degree,
as may be detected in the above extract. But
any one who had judged him merely from what
he thus wrote of himself, would have probably
done him injustice. The passionate sentiments
which he indulged himself in committing
to paper, he committed to paper only.
He kept his promise to Miss Walters, alike in
letter and in spirit. He avoided all allusion,
not only to the painful confession she had
made to him, but also to his own feelings with
regard to her. His one constant effort, in all
his intercourse with her, was to direct her
thoughts from anything that was personal to
either of them, and to fix them on general
questions and the wider interests of life. He

made her dwell on such subjects as poetry,
scenery, and pictures. He discussed various
characters with her In fiction and in history,
and the various tastes, qualities, and occupations
that make men's lives so many-coloured.
He tried to fill her mind with a yet graver
order of questions — the various social problems
that are perplexing the modern mind,
and to extend by this means her ideas of individual
duty. He often spoke to her also of
the chief axioms of religion, and the history of
the Christian theologies ; but he was careful
to approach them on their intellectual side
only, and to make no appeal to her feelings.
Despite, however, the Impersonal nature of
this conversation. It became Inspired, under his
management, with a delicate, earnest devotion
that Is often wanting to more direct love-making.
It. would be Indeed wrong In this
case to say he was making love at all. An
impression of love, he doubtless did convey

to her, because, after its own fashion, his
nature was then stirred with It ; but he did
not do this Intentionally. What he Intended
to express, and what was always present with
him, was an anxious, tender solicitude that
whatever was best and purest should be what
she most admired. He became almost
morbidly sensitive to anything that had the
least taint In Its beauty, and he tried by his
presence to inspire her with a repulsion for
It. He seemed as subtle and insidious in
suggesting good thoughts to her as the devil
is supposed to be In suggesting evil. As to
evil, especially of the kind she was in danger
from, it was his wish that she should not so
much condemn as forget it. The wound
would heal better, he thought, If Its progress
were not examined; and every subject which
they thought of or discussed together, he tried
to administer to her as a sacrament of self-respect.
He became too, In this way, a revelation

to himself. Subtle moral Instincts,
which had been for years dormant, and as he
thought dead, now woke to life again ; and he
found himself once more regarding the world
with the solemn earnestness of his boyhood.

Beneath the surface, however, there were
certain things that troubled him. Now and
again her manner jarred on him slightly,
though it was some time before he could
explain why to himself; he had also two
sources of a more defined uneasiness. One
of these was the suspicion, which he could
not be sure was false, that In speaking of
religious questions he had assumed a stronger
faith than he felt in order that her faith might
gain strength from it. The other was the
discovery, on his part, that she was singularly
shrewd in her apprehension of religious difficulties
— shrewder, indeed, than he conceived a
woman had any right to be : and often, when
she Insisted on the grave nature of some of

these, he was tempted to borrow an answer
from Dr. Johnson : — ' That may be ; but I
don't see how you should know it.' He
several times smiled to catch himself feeling
this ; and he at once translated his temper
into the thought that really had excited it —
She has logic enough to see her way into
an objection, but not logic enough to see her
way out of it.'

These matters at times made his mind
misgive him ; but they could not embitter,
except for passing moments, the new life he
was leading. Every morning when he awoke
there was a day of duty before him, but it was
duty allied with the keenest form of pleasure.
His imagination wove for him a luxurious
world of enchantment ; and his conscience
looked down on it and said that It was very
good. He seemed to himself like a rapt
votary praying in a temple of roses, and he
several times repeated an expression that

Campbell had used to him : ' I am leading a
consecrated life.'

He was in this condition, whatever view
may be taken of it, when he received one
morning a letter from Campbell himself.
This was the first news of him since the
day on which he had set out for San Remo.
That was not a fortnight ago ; but to Vernon
it seemed years : and yet, so much meanwhile
had his own affairs absorbed him, that
he had not had time to wonder at Campbell's
silence.

'Well,' thought Vernon, as he surveyed
the envelope, 'his post-mark is San Remo.
That, at least, is of happy augury.' Here,
however, he was not quite accurate, as the
date of the letter showed him. He had misread
the post-mark. It was Sorrento, not
San Remo. The letter ran thus : —

My dear Vernon, — I should have written
long ago to you, could I have written with

VOL. II. H

any certainty. I have been waiting till I
could do that : but I may as well wait no
longer. I am not yet in Hell ; still less am
I in Paradise. You must think of me as one
of those who are — not contented, but still
hopeful in the flame. When I left you, I
returned to Cannes to collect my luggage,
and there, amongst my letters, I found the following
: — '' The plans of the person in whom
you take an interest have changed since you
were last told of them. She will not be at
San Remo, and she is anxious that you should
be told of this, as she has heard of your
movements, and of course knows the cause of
them. She is very anxious also about
another thing, and one which I beg in advance
you will not let discourage you.
She is very anxious that at present you
should not know where she is, and that at
present you should not even try to see her.
You could, no doubt, by taking some trouble,

discover her : but if you regard her wishes
you will certainly not do so ; neither will you
do so if you regard your own interests. My
only fear is that this note may not reach you,
before you are already on her traces. It is
for your sake I am writing, even more than for
hers. Were I not sure that by pressing
your suit now you would be ensuring your
own disappointment, I should not be so
urgent that you should yield to her strange
fancies. She is a curious Q-irl. I don't in
the least feel that I know her : but this I do
know, that, however she regards you, it is at
least not with indifference. You have moved
her in some way, and I think very deeply :
so it is well worth your while to have a little
quiet patience." I need not, my dear Vernon,
quote you any more of the letter. The rest
was only to tell me how the writer had heard
ot my movements, and that she herself was
leaving Florence for Sorrento. Well — what I

H 2

did was to go straight off to Sorrento myself,
that I might learn more from my informant.
I have not learnt much — at least not much
that I can communicate. The details are all
too slight to be conveyed by writing. But I
have hope ; I believe that I have hope. Ah,
Vernon, the love of a woman who knows no
evil, almost makes evil Incomprehensible to
oneself ! Soft, tender, and innocent as my friend
Is, the thought of her Is like a fire upon some
of my past life. Tastes and habits, which I
was long used to laugh over, now only fill me
with indignant, burning shame. I don't quite
know how long I shall stay here. I am
awaiting more news. I mean to be patient,
and not to attempt hurrying on things ; and
if nothing is to be gained by my remaining
here, I may possibly find myself in a week's
time on my way back to England. In that
case I will propose myself to you for a day
or two ; or, if you should not be able to receive

me, I could at all events get a bed at
Stanley's Pension!

This letter set Vernon thinking. But a
few short days ago, the feeling expressed in
it would have been a riddle to him ; and now,
as though a sixth sense had been added to
him, he sav it all clearly. ' And yet,' he reflected,
* between Campbell's case and my
own what a difference ! — more than a difference
— what a contrast! He turns to another,
and finds she raises him. I turn to another,
and find I must raise her. Still,' he continued,
' here is one bright thought. Let me
take it as a happy omen. If love has on
Campbell the effect he says it has — the effect of
a second cleansing baptism — /^^r sins surely are
fast being washed away. Her transgressions
will vanish like a cloud, and like a thick cloud
her sins. The shadow on her life will be as
though it had never been. No — not so ; let
me think this rather, that the fire of repentance

will make the gold of her purity still

purer. And yet ' his train of thought

seemed here to halt for a moment — * I do not
yet know her thoroughly. I know she has
much to repent of. I know she has much to
purge away. It is not that knowledge that
troubles me. I should love her far more
could I bring her safely home again than I
should have done if she had never wandered.
What is it, then ? Or is it nothing — a fancy
merely ? Is she not safe home already ? I cannot
tell. There is something in her still remote
from me. There is some " untravelled region
of her mind " which I cannot get to. When I
am with her, when I am face to face with
herself, I am conscious of it, I know not
how. I feel always as if there were some
third presence watching us — some ghost that
will not reveal itself. Ah, Cynthia ! will
you never be quite open with me ? Must
your eyes still have glances that I cannot

tell the meaning of? Must my heart still
ache, and still be anxious as I think of you ? '
He was wandering in his garden when
the above thoughts invaded him, with the
leaves of Campbell's letter still fluttering in his
hand. The uneasiness he felt was a surprise
to him, dimming all his prospects like an
unlooked-for driving mist, and he was trying
to rouse his spirits by the morning air and
sunshine. At this juncture a note was
brought him from Miss Walters. ' I have
got,' she wrote, ' a small piece of news to tell
you. It is not very tragic, but still I am
sorry for it. My aunt and I are going away
for a few days, to stay at San Remo with
Mrs. Charles Crane. She's a connection of
that slangy little woman that you seemed to
find so amusing ; but is not in the least like
her. She is related to my aunt in some way,
and is a very old and a very true friend of
mine. She's somehow related, too, to poor

Jack Stapleton, whom I know you dislike so ;
but that's neither here nor there. Well — it
can't be helped. Go we must, and that
either tomorrow or next day. I want to
know if you will come over this morning, so
that we may make the most of the little time
that is left to us. You needn't go to the
house ; but you will find me, at about eleven,
by the little bay with the tunnel — the place
where I caught you trespassing. Ah, those
happy days that I have spent with you ! I
hate to think that there is to be even so short
a break in them ! Dear, dear friend — come
to me. I do want you so.'

Vernon's anxieties, though somewhat
vague in their nature, had had one effect upon
him more intense than themselves. In proportion
as they seemed to divide him from
Miss Walters, they made his desire to be
close to her more keen and more absorbing
than ever : and the above note struck on his
life like a flash of returning sunlight. The time

she had named for the meeting was but half-an-hour
distant ; and there wanted still ten
minutes to it when he found himself at the
trysting-place. Early as he was, however,
she was there before him. She was sitting
on a rustic bench, with an open book on her
lap ; but she seemed not to be reading, only
watching the sea-water. The sight of her at
once took him out of his solitary thoughts,
and as if by magic set him down in a new
world. The change was wonderful, and gave
him an intoxicating sense as though he were
being carried through the air rapidly to some
untold distance. She rose to meet him with
a bright, soft smile ; and every movement of
her lips and figure charmed him with an
insidious magic. She had on a new dress, of
a delicate shade of brown, which fitted her to
perfection. Her hat, her gloves, and the
border of her pocket-handkerchief were all of
the same colour. From the worldly point of
view she had never looked more fascinating.

She read his admiration in his eyes, and she
met his glance with a more than usual tenderness.
She held his hand too, in greeting
him, with a more lingering pressure.

I'm glad,' she said presently, * that you
like my frock. It's my maid's handiwork.*
And then turning her back on him, ' Does it
fit well ? Tell me.'

The temptation was too much for Vernon.
He put his hand on her shoulder, and let
it slip down to her waist. She made no
struggle ; he felt her yield to his touch ; and,
still holding her, he led her back to the seat.

You are looking beautiful to-day,* he
murmured.

I'm glad of that,' she said. * I should
like your last impressions to be nice of me.
Don't you admire my rose too ? '

It was in her button-hole, and Vernon
stooped forward to smell it. As he was
slowly drawing back, her breath stirred his
hair. He raised his eyes, and his lips were

close to hers. Neither of them spoke : they
each drew a breath sharply : in another
instant the outer world was dark to them, and
their whole universe was nothing but a single
kiss.

It might have seemed natural, when they
again woke to daylight, that Vernon should
now renew in words his former declaration of
affection. But for some secret cause he was
not moved to do so. The occurrence just
narrated had not put him in tune for it : and
the only sign, when they spoke, of what had
just passed between them, was not in the subject
spoken about, but in the peculiar tone of
their voices.

Vernon said, * Had you been long waiting,
when I came ? '

About twenty minutes. I was out
earlier than I thought I should be. I brought
a book with me and read a page, and since
then I have been watching the water. The
little bay is like a pool of crystal. Those

rifts in the rocks — I have been fancying them
sea nymphs' grottoes ! And the open sea
outside — how broad, and blue, and free ; and
how gaily the sunlight dances on it ! Do
you see what I have been reading ? It is
the translation you made for me from the
Odyssey, of the journey of Hermes to
Calypso. This is just the day, and this is
just the place, for it. Read it over again tome.'


She closed her eyes to listen, and Vernon
read.

The Slayer of Argus on Pieria's crest

Pitched for a moment, then from off the steep
Dropped Hke a diver to the sea's broad breast,

With feathered ankles, and the wand of sleep ;
And as a sea-gull fishing skims its way

Over the seedless fields where none may reap,
Wetting its white wings with the puffs of spray.

So went the God, breathing the breeze and brine.
Until at last he reached the isle, that lay

Very far off, in strange seas sapphirine.
There on the beach he lighted, and he went

Straight to the cave where dwelt the nymph divine
With the renowned locks luxuriant :

And in the cave he found her. At her side

A great fire burned of smelling wood that sent
A fragrance of split cedar far and wide ;

And she meanwhile with lips of melody
Sate singing, and a golden shuttle plied !

Miss Walters here interrupted him, with
a smile. ' I think,' she said, ' I should have
made a very good Greek nymph. I should
have looked very pretty in the water. How
delightful to have winged one's way as Hermes
did, and to have felt the sea-wind blowing
over all one's limbs, and to have been at peace
with nature ! Calypso could yield herself to
all the beauty round her. She had no feud
with the gladness of the violet-coloured sea,
and the sunshine, nor with her lawny uplands
of green parsley and violets. Had I been a
Calypso, I might have sheltered you as a
Ulysses — for you know you are a wanderer —
if you would not have been too proud to share
a cave with me.'

Vernon glanced at her for a moment, and
her look certainly was curiously in keeping

with her wishes. But his eyes did not dwell
on her. He abruptly folded his arms, and
subsided into complete silence. Presently
his brows contracted ; his face assumed a look
of distress and pain, and then again this
softened into sadness. At last he turned to
Miss Walters, and spoke very tenderly.

Cynthia,' he began, ' there are certain
subjects about which we agreed to be silent
for a time

She interrupted him. * I know there are,'
she said a little wearily ; 'but don't let us talk
about them now.' And as she said this she
moved a little nearer to him.

The sense of her touch was like a dissolving
charm. It might have been Calypso
herself that was pressing so softly to his
side — Calypso acclimatised to the air of the
present century. He felt a thrill pass from
her body to his, and a strong impulse was
rising in him to fold her once more in his

arms. But impulse was this time thwarted,
and will gained the victory.

Don't be afraid,' he said. ' I am going to
talk of nothing that will pain you ; but I want
to ask you one simple question — perhaps
two.'

His eyes, as he spoke, were full of a pure,
grave earnestness, and, as she caught their
expression, she gently drew back a little.
He now put his hand out to her, but she
would not take it. She only said, still speaking
wearily, ' Well — ask what you want to
ask me.'

'Do you remember,' he began, 'that when
first I knew you, you told me you were
unhappy. I want to ask if you are at all
restored to happiness now ? '

I have been very happy with you,' she
said, 'very, very, very! I never thought
when I came here that I should ever be so
happy again. Then all the world was blank,

and dark, and hateful to me ; and now this
place — these delicious gardens — I have grown
to love them ; and it is you who have made
me do so.'

When Vernon next spoke, he did so with
more embarrassment. H e even blushed a little,
and his words came slowly. * Tell me this
too,' he said. * Do not you find that the
memories and the thoughts that troubled you
have passed away like a dream ? They have
been no real part of your pure, high nature.
You have had but to shake your wings, and
you have soared away from them.'

Whilst you are with me,' she said, * such
things never trouble me. You always give
me a sense of safety and protection, as though
your arms were round me. I can venture to
take a happy interest in all that I once cared
for ; and the shadows that used to threaten
me are obliged to keep their distance. Even
when I am alone at night they know that I

am going to meet you in the morning, and
that now, when I wake up, I have something
each day to look forward to. It is your doing
yes, yours — the whole of this.'

I am glad,' he said hurriedly, ' if I have
been of any help to you ; but this new peace
of mind surely does not depend upon me ?
What I want to feel sure of is, that you have
recovered your old trust in yourself, and that
you are again reconciled with your best and
purest nature.'

You have taught me,' she said, ' to love
what is best and purest. I shall go on loving
them if you are there to encourage me. I
shall love them for your sake.'

What on earth,' he said, * have I got todo
with it ? You hardly, I think, understand
my question. Good is good, no matter what
I think about it ; and you had loved it, and
hated its opposite, long before you had ever
heard of my existence. Isn't that so ? '

VOL. II. I

It is,' she said. ' By nature, I think, I
was a very good person.'

Well then, what I want is that you should
recover your own nature. It is this that I
have asked of God, in my prayers for you.
I wish you to love goodness for its own sake
and for yours. Do you think virtue is virtue
or purity is purity to us, if we value them only
as the taste or the toy of another ? What I
want you to say to me is not " I love virtue because
you love it ; " but " I love you because
you love virtue." '

She hung her head for a moment as if lost
in thought, and he watched for her answer.
Presently there broke from her a little, soft
murmur of petulance. * Why do you vex
me ? ' she said ; ' you are spoiling our last
morning.' And then raising her eyes she
fixed them full upon him. As he meet their
gaze they seemed to expand and deepen, and
soften second by second into a liquid tenderness.

Her lips parted a little, a flush stole
over her cheek, she opened her arms as if to
call him to herself, and at last, in a breathless
whisper, she said ' Come ! ' She saw that he
did not stir, and she moved her head imperiously.
' Come,' she repeated, ' come closer.
I want you here. There Is something I wish
to tell you.'

He did as she commanded; he moved
quite close to her, and In another Instant her
fair arms were round him, pressing him to her
breathing bosom. Her lips were close to his
ear. ' My own one,' she said, ' I love you ; '
and still holding him, and almost In the same
breath, 'you must pay me,' she said, 'for
having told you that. Kiss me — kiss me on
the mouth, and say that you love me too.'

In lovers' ejaculations there is considerable
sameness probably. It may be enough to
say that Vernon's response had all In It that
could mark the most earnest feeling ; and fora

few delightful moments her embrace brought
perfect peace to him. He had no thought
except that she was holding him.

My own one,' she went on presently,

this has come at last ; but it has been growing
up in me ever since I saw you. My first
dislike of you at Monte Carlo was only the
other side of attraction. I wanted you for
myself — I'm sure It must have been that
really, and I couldn't bear to see you in unworthy
company.' At last her arms released
him, and the two exchanged glances. ' Tell
me,' she murmured, ' are you happy now ? '

Yes, and no,' he said ; and there was then
a long silence. ' Cynthia, even yet you have
not answered my question.'

What question ? ' she said. ' Do you
mean if I love goodness ? Oh, if I do not
yet' (and she pressed his hand to her lips),

you shall teach me to. You shall teach me
everything. You shall do exactly what you

will with me. I will follow you like a dog.
I will breathe your breath, I will think your
thoughts, I will only live through you. Every
thought of my mind, every passion of my
body, shall be yours, and yours only. You
shall fill my being so completely that there
shall be no room in it left for evil.'

My beloved,' said Vernon, ' you want a
better guide than me.'

'You are quite good enough. You are
all I should ever long for.'

But suppose I died by the way : what
then ? What I am anxious for is, that you
should have a securer helper. I hope I do
not vex you ; but let me talk on a little.
What I want to be assured of is that, supposing
I were to be taken from you — suppose
I were die, for instance — you would still have
the same incentive to be true to your highest
nature.'

If you were to die,' she said, ' I think I

should. I should wish to follow where you
had gone before.'

Well, put death out of the question.
Suppose, simply, that somehow I did not
care for you ? '

In that case I don't know what would
happen. Why do you ask ? Cannot you be
content to let things be as they are ? I love
you, and you help me to love goodness ; but
without your help I don't know that I could
be sure of myself Why should I pretend
what is not true ? My memory is still full
of the past ; no magic can alter that ; and if
you went from me, and made a vacuum in
my present, the past would probably rush
in and fill it up.'

Listen to me,' said Vernon, with a
sudden coldness in his voice. ' Let us suppose
I am very fond of the smell of eau-de-cologne.
Do you think that if I had none
left in my bottle, I should dip my pocket-handkerchief

In the next drain as a substitute
? '

I think you would be very silly if you
did,' she said, her voice growing cold also.

Then would you not be equally or even
more silly, if, on losing a comrade in the
search for the thing you loved, you were to
try to console yourself by seeking the thing
you hated ? '

Only the worst of it is, you see,' she
said with a slight laugh, ' that the things that
would console me are not things I hate. If
it were so I should not be what I am. When
drunkards have not got wine, they will drink
stuff out of the next spirit-lamp.'

Cynthia,' he exclaimed, with an Intensity
that was half anger, half earnestness, ' I will
not have you speak like this ; you do not
mean it, and I cannot endure to hear you.'
Then his voice softened. 'What is it — tell
me — what makes you so distrust yourself .'^

Forgive me if I just now spoke a little
roughly. It all comes from my intense care
for you. My Cynthia, let me take your
burden, if you will not be afraid to trust me.

Surely it is not that .' Here he hesitated

and looked in her eyes pleadingly. ' It is
not — is it — that you love that other man
still?'

She flushed scarlet, and she turned her
face away from him. * No,' she said ; * good
God, no ! '

What, then, Is it ? You are a complete
mystery to me. If only I knew the truth, I
could be of so much more help to you.'

Don't ask me,' she said. * Why harp
upon this one subject ? Is there any use in
trying to stir up all the dregs of my nature ?
In all conscience I have told you enough
already. Do you know,' she went on with a
smile of expiring tenderness, ' you must
be, I think, a very innocent-minded person,

or you would have understood it pretty well
by this time.'

Is that so ? And have you nothing more
to tell me ? '

She bit her lip, and said, in a low tone,
Nothing.'

Vernon rose from his seat, and walked
away for a space or two : then he came
slowly back again, and stood confronting
her. She did not look at, or seem to notice,
him, but she began to trifle with a bunch
of charms upon her watch-chain. When
Vernon spoke he did so very quietly — with
a quiet, indeed, that was not unlike apathy.

Then in that case,' he said, * I suppose
I have done all I can do. I am sorry for
it, for at first I was more hopeful. I thought
at first I might have come to really know
you ; but it seems I have overrated one of two
things — either my own power of understanding
you, or your wish to be understood.

Still, even thus, I have one thing left to ask
you. Give me credit for at least good
intentions; and believe that I have never
wished to vex or pain you needlessly. I
have never asked you a question out of any
idle curiosity, nor do I wish to do so now ;
and now that I have come to a part of your
character to which you can give me no clue,
there is nothing let for me but to cease
troubling you to no purpose.'

There occurred at this moment an unforeseen
interruption. A servant made his
appearance through the arch of the little
tunnel, and announced to Miss Walters that
Colonel Stapleton was in the drawing-room.

Tell him,' she said, * that I am coming
up immediately. I will be with him in a few
minutes.'

She waited till the man was out of sight,
and then she rose to go. * Good morning,
Mr. Vernon,' she said coldly as she swept

past him. ' I suppose I shall hardly see you
again to-day — or, indeed, for some time to
come — as we may possibly go tomorrow.'

She was already on the first step that led
up to the gardens, when he had overtaken
her and had grasped her hand. She turned
round and faced him, with a stare of cold
inquiry. ' Cynthia,' he said to her, speaking
between his teeth, ' you shall not go up and
see that man.'

x\nd pray why shall I not ? Colonel
Stapleton is one of my oldest friends. Have
the kindness, Mr. Vernon, to let my hand

go'

Cynthia,' he said, still detaining her, ' for
God's sake do not be angry with me.' He
looked on her flower-soft cheeks and longed
bitterly that she would aorain touch his with
them. ' I only speak for your good ; that
is the one, one thing that I long for. I can't
bear that your sacred lips should talk to a

man like that, who is everything — who is
everything that a man should not be. His
friendship can do you no good. It is no real
friendship, and I hate to think of your enduring'
it.'

Nonsense ! ' she said indignantly. * What
harm do you suppose this man can do me ? *
She stopped suddenly, and then with an
angry flush — ' You don't suppose,' she said,
do you, that Colonel Stapleton could be the
the ?'

Good God, no ! ' Vernon broke in, interrupting
her. ' Lite as it seems I know
you, I know you too well for that'

She seemed hardly to hear his words,
but went on with a scornful laugh : * If I
could have got any harm from his company,
I should have got it, you may be sure, long
ago. If my morals, that you seem so anxious
about, are ever in danger again, it will be
from some new friend, not from any old

one. The women that men make love to
are those they have only just seen. I believe
you, Mr. Vernon, can bear witness in that —
not those they have been familiar with for
seventeen years.'

You mistake me,' he said ; ' I am not
jealous of Colonel Stapleton in the commonsense
of the word: I am only jealous
of him in the way that God might be. I
love you so well that I am jealous of the
very tone of your mind : and is there one
thought that you really wish to cherish, in
which this man could sympathise, or which
you could so much as utter to him ? '

Words could not have been spoken with
more piteous earnestness ; but she showed no
sign of relenting. Rather, the more he
pleaded, the more did she seem to harden.

Really, Mr. Vernon,' she said, in the
same unrelenting tone, ' if one is to cut
all one's acquaintance who do not come upto

such a lofty standard as yours, one would
be obliged to go into a convent. I have far
too much need of indulgence myself not to
extend some to others: and I believe that
your own young lady friends are not above
suspicion. Including myself, I have seen
you amusing yourself with three of them,
and I can t say that of these any one has been
a model of virtue. Come,' she went on
abruptly, ' do you not see I am waiting } I
cannot wrench my hand from you, if you
still persist in holding me ; but I believe I
am speaking to a gentleman, and once more
I must ask you to let me go.'

Vernon released her without a word.
Good morning,' she said with perfect coldness
and self-possession, as she turned away
from him. But he stood silent, and only
stared at her; nor, as she disappeared, did
he make any attempt to follow her.

ERNON returned to his house ina
state verging on stupor. He
found his late breakfast waiting
for him, among the dishes of which was a
mayonnaise of lobster ; and the very sight of
it turned him sick. But though he could eat
nothing, he made up for the want by drinking,
and he got through the better part of a
bottle of fine Chambertin. From drink he
had recourse to tobacco, and from his cigarettes
he again went back to his Burgundy.
He had not the least wish to drown thought
in intoxication. All he wanted was somehow

or Other to sustain himself. He was battered,
bruised, and crushed. He had not known a
shock of this kind before, and he staggered
under it in lost bewilderment. He ached
through and through with a forlorn sense of
desolation ; and he sometimes muttered to
himself in the words of Lear :

Down thou climbing sorrow,
Hyste7icapassio^ down !

The wine by-and-by began to have
some effect upon him ; he went out of doors,
in the hope of getting rid of this ; and he
turned with unsteady steps towards the hotel
gardens. He wandered about there for he
knew not how long, abjectly, like a wounded
animal, or like a scapegoat, and bearing
a kindred burden. At last, however, his
wretchedness took the shape of resolution,
and, returning in-doors, he wrote the following
note to Miss Walters : —

Cynthia, I must see you. If you are

really resolved that we are to part for ever, you
shall at least not part from me as you did
this morning. Something more I must say
to you, and say it before the day is over. Do
not refuse to hear me. I beseech you give
me an opportunity. You have never been
out of my thoughts since that moment when
you turned away from me. Your last words
have been bruising me, they have been
weighing me down ever since. I could have
borne it better that you should have beaten me
with a horsewhip, than that you should have
spoken as you did then. I could almost
think that till to-day I had never known
sorrow. It is not for myself I am sorry;
it is for you, for you only. If you are tired
of me, send me away ; but oh, do not send
your own soul away from your own self. It
seems to me now that I have no feeling left
but one, and that one has swallowed all the
others. It is an intense desire that you may

VOL. II. K

become true to yourself. As for me, think what
you will of me. I am asking you for nothing
on my own account. And yet I am wrong ;
I am asking for one thing. Do not be angry
with me ; if I have done anything to pain you
forgive me, and see me if for only one half-hour,
and let me say what I have to say to
you. Come to me to-night in the garden.
Be at the seat we know of — will you ? Write
me one line to say yes or no. I shall have
no peace till I get your answer.'

The servant who took the letter brought
back to Vernon word that an answer would be
sent in the course of an hour or two. At last
it came. It was only a pencil scrawl. ' Why,' it
ran, ' should I be angry with you? Yes, come if
you like. I will be there at ten this evening.'

The tone of this did not altogether reassure
him, and when he reached the rendezvous,
his heart was still aching. She was not
yet there, and his spirits sank still lower. Ashe

waited the moments seemed Hke hours to
him, and a clear presentiment shaped itself
that she would never come at all. The night
was soft and lovely, the fountains splashed
and glimmered, all nature was full of the same
luxurious languor that had so well accorded
with the earlier stages of his passion. But
now all was changed. His passion had
passed from romance into hard reality.
There was nothing now in it akin to the scent
of flowers, or the splash of fountains, or the
glimmer of moon-lit seas ; and the human
anxieties that could be affected by things like
these now seemed to him but silly toys and
child's-play. He waited in weary impatience
for he knew not how long, and still she did
not come. At length through the quiet he
heard a faint, far sound. It ceased for a few
minutes, and then again he heard it. It was
now sharper and more clear, and he recognised
it as the sound of carriage-wheels. Presently

K 2

a gleam of white was visible, slowly gliding
amongst the orange trees ; and in another
moment Miss Walters was before him — softly
perfumed — daintily dressed as ever.

I thought,' he exclaimed, * that you were
never coming ! I thought you were drifting
altogether away from me ! '

I couldn't come sooner,' she said softly
and calmly. ' Forgive me for having kept
you waiting.'

Her tone and her expression were both
ambiguous, as though two minds were being
balanced in her, the one against the other.

Has he, then, only just left you ? ' asked
Vernon coldly.

If by he' she said, ' you mean Colonel
Stapleton, he has only just left us. I was
obliged to wait till he was gone. I could
hardly, you see, ask a guest to excuse me, on
the ground of having an assignation in the
garden.'

I am not vexed with you said Vernon,
*for having kept me waiting. I am only
grateful to you for having come at all. Sit
down by me, Cynthia, for a little, and let me
talk to you.'

She folded her hands before her, and fixed
her eyes on the ground. ' I am listening,'
she said. ' Please begin, will you ? '

Vernon, however, was for a good while
silent. He seemed to have some difficulty
in finding either his words or voice. At last
he began, speaking ver)' low and slowly.

Do you know,' he said, ' why I have
peeped you to meet me here ? I have had
one reason, and one only. It is because I see
into your character — see down into the inmost
depths of it, and because I see how
noble, and pure, and beautiful it really is.
My Cynthia, you are akin to all that is best
and holiest ; and if my death could help
you, I would very gladly die for you. Till

this morning I thought you were safe, and
that I had no more cause for anxiety. You
looked at peace ; and myself, I had seen you
praying. I watched your eyes in the chapel,
as they were fixed on the altar. I listened to
your voice, as it said to God's mother, " Pray
for me." My own one, I had hoped that all
was right with you. But now, suddenly
and without warning, you tell me I was
quite deceived. You said very little today,
but the little was like a ghastly flash
of lightning. It revealed an unsuspected
cavern that I have not explored — that I
knew nothing at all about. I do not understand
you yet. Cannot you bear to trust

me ?

What more can I tell you ? You know
too much already.'

Too much and yet too little,' There
was a long pause.

I am sorry,' she said at last in a constrained

voice, ' that I ever told you anything.
It was very foolish of me.'

For God's sake,' he exclaimed, ' don't
say that ! Surely I have been some help to
you, even thus far. You are less unhappy
now than you were when first I knew you.'

She gave a low, bitter laugh. ' Certainly,*
she said, * I could not possibly be more so.'

You make it very hard for me,' said
Vernon, ' to say what I wish to say ; you
perplex me so that I get almost bewildered,
as to my own meaning. Will you bear with
me for a minute or two, and let me try to
collect my thoughts ? I am so miserable that
I feel as if I were turning silly.' He was
silent for some time, leaning his forehead on
his hand. At last rousing himself, and with
a wretched look in his eyes, ' Listen,' he said ;
I think I can speak now. You told me
when first we met that you were very unhappy,
and what I have been trying to do

has been to show you that you were not just
to yourself. I have been trying to force you
to see the good that I see in you. My
Cynthia, I see it now ; for your souls garden
is still white with lilies which, with pure hands,
you may place upon God's altar. It is this that I
have been trying to show you. And I thought
you had seen it too, just as one sees a thing
when one wakes up from a dream, and finds
one is not drowning, but is safe in bed. I
thought that whatever wrong you may have
done, had become to you "but a sleep and a
forgetting ; " and that you were reunited to
your own taintless nature. But now you tell me
that you are still not sure of yourself, that the
very thing you hate has still some mysterious
hold upon you, and that it is I only —a chance
support like myself — who keep you where
you are. If I were taken from you, you
might again be false to your true self, you
say. And yet how ? Where is your danger }

All Other affection, so you tell me, is dead in
you.'

My meaning,' she said, looking straight
before her, *is, I think, simple. If a woman
has some one to lean upon, who will fill
her life with affection, and will not only show
her what is right, but will give it a living
meaning for her, then she will love the right
and be true to it. Her human love will
make all other love clear to her. But suppose
she Is left alone — with no one to guide
her, or even to care whether she is guided !
But why should I talk ? You are not a
woman. You can never know what to a
woman affection is. You talk of losing
affection as you might talk of putting down
one's carriage, or getting rid of an extra
footman ; whereas in reality it is like tearing

out half one's sinews. No ; If I were

left alone, I could certainly not answer for
myself When a woman has once found

pleasure in a way she ought not, misery will
always, If it comes to her, lay her bare to
temptation. It is not a new affection by
which such women are tempted. It is simply
by the hunger for distraction.'

But what I can't endure,' he said, ' is to
think that what sullies you, can distract you
even. It wouldn't distract you — at least not
in the way you mean — to stand in the street
and let a mob pelt and spit at you. Why
should it distract you, then, to let a far worse
insult be put upon you ? Cannot you understand
the state of mind I wish for you ? '

Perfectly,' she said ; ' it is an extremely
simple one : indeed, no one by nature could
have had it more strongly than I had.
But you could as easily give a tumbled
plum its bloom back, as give that back
to me. One may recover many thing
when one has lost them ; but one will never
recover that. If I live to be old enough I

may perhaps be childish ; but I shall never
again be innocent'

He rose from his seat, and began pacing
slowly up and down before her. His abstraction
and prolonged silence seemed to
chill and harden her.

Well,' she sid, ' and do you understand
me now ? It was better to be honest with
you, even if I have made you think me too
depraved to be spoken to. I at least love
truth, if I have no other virtue ; and I would
far sooner that you did not care for me at
all, than that you cared for me under false
pretences.'

You are not depraved,' said Vernon, 'and
I do not think you are.'

It is foolish of you,' she said, ' to eat
your own words in that way ; nor is it the
least comfort to me to hear you do it. If I
were not a lady, I could describe my own
character far better and more tersely than

you have done ; only, unfortunately, the only
word I could use is not generally found ina
well-bred lady's vocabulary.'

Vernon sat down by her and was about
to begin speaking ; but she did not give him
time.

Come,' she said, ' am I looking well tonight
? Why don't you kiss me, and tell me
how soft and pretty I am ? Isn't that what
you say generally when you talk to girls
like me ? By the way, I have found a word
that will at least describe what I might have
been, had circumstances only favoured me —
an hetaifa. If I had lived at Athens, I
should have performed that part capitally. I
was made for a life of pleasure, I think, if

if .' She stopped abruptly for a

moment, and then broke out once more — ' If
only there were not something in me that had
made all my pleasure a hell'

Vernon had been listening to her hitherto

aghast, silent, and motionless, but he caught
at this last sentence, and eagerly bent forwards
to her.

My Cynthia,' he said, ' my poor, unhappy
loved one, do you think people really
bad are unhappy in the way that you are ? I
am torn as I think of }'0u by two conflicting
impulses — to worship, and to pity you.'

The word pity stung her. ' Thank you,
she said, ' but I have no wish to be pitied.
I am as much too proud for your pity as I
am too depraved for your worship.'

Her voice, as she said this, had an icy
coldness ; but just at the last word or two it
trembled ever so little, and in another moment
her face was hidden in her hands, and
she was sobbing violently.

Oh, can't I do anything to stop this-^'she
gasped. Tf I can't I shall die. 1 have been
often told so by the doctors. My heart is
all wrong, and I might die at any moment.

And yet why should I net ? It would bethe
best thing for me. Then at last — then
at last I might be at rest.'

Vernon took her hand, but it was cold
and limp, and wet with tears that had fallen
upon it. He spoke to her with the most
tender kindness, and said all he could to
comfort her.

Oh, why,' she said, ' are you so hard
upon me ? Why do you send me away from
you when I tell you I am only good for your
sake ? Oh, you have been cruel — you have
been cruel to me. If you only knew, when
a person is in my condition, how easy It is
to wound them — how the least hard word
can be like a dagger to them ! '

Indeed,' said Vernon, ' I did not mean
to be hard on you. If I had hurt you by
the way I have spoken, I'm sure I may say,
like the schoolmaster when he whips the
boy, *' It hurt me most." '

'Yes she said, 'you might say that just
like the schoolmaster, for it would not be
true,' and she looked up at him timidly with
a little faint smile of humour. This to him
was like a gleam of returning sunshine : and
now her voice softened and she besfan to
speak pleadingly. ' Why,' she went on, ' if
you really wish me to be good, won't you
let me begin with thinking that you are
pleased with my goodness ? Let me do
that first ; and I will learn afterwards to love
goodness for its own sake.'

Yes — and for your oven sake also ; for
the sake of your own self-reverence. I wish
you to shun and to flinch from evil as you
would from a wound, or from hot iron.
And surely you do now, if you only knew
yourself. Surely you wrong yourself by
your own fears, don't you ? Tell me, my
Cynthia, my love with the saint's eyes, is
what I say not true ? '

She had ceased sobbing now, but her
eyes were still damp with tears. As he said
this she suddenly collected herself, and with a
forced firmness in her voice, said, after a
pause, ' No; it is not true.'

Cynthia ! '

Don't speak in that tone — please don't.
If you don't wish to kill me, please be kind
and patient with me. Oh, God, how my
heart is beating ! Will you listen ? ' she went
on, gasping. ' I have several things to tell
you, which perhaps will make you think a
little more kindly about me. Ever since I
knew you — since that night when we drove
home together, and you spoke to me about
your having wandered from your true self —
ever since then I have been struggling,
battling with my evil. Then afterwards,
when some impulse moved me to confess to
you, I have tried yet more earnestly ; and I
have had temptations fawning upon me which

you little knew about — yes, during the last
fortnight, since we have been at the Cap de
Juan

Temptations ! ' echoed Vernon.

Yes,' she said ; ' but I can't tell you what
or whence. I can only say they were from
some one that you never saw or heard
about. And oh, how I prayed, and
prayed, and prayed, and received no answer !
You little thought what a poor creature there
was, within a few hundred yards of you.
Well ! what do you think has helped me ?
My only hope and help has been the thought
of you. Roman Catholics pray to dead
saints. . Why should I not get help of the
same sort from a living friend ? '

You shall ! ' exclaimed Vernon ; ' all help
that Is mine to give you. But there Is one
thing that I must once more beg of you.
Don't go on yielding either in word or
thought to these extravagant self-accusations.

VOL. ir. L

Let me only whisper to you, Go, sin no
more ; and, if I may venture to use the
words. Neither do I condemn thee.'

She looked him in the face wistfully.
'What I say of myself is not at all extravagant.
I know you think so ; and each time I see
you do I feel that I am still deceiving you.
You think, I believe, that there is some
pretty story connected with me. You think
no doubt that I am some sort of Juliet : not,
I am sure, that poor Juliet had much to tax
herself with. But I must shatter that bubble
if I can. And yet how can I ? How can I
begin ? Oh, me ! the wretchedness and the
shame of it all ! '

My darling,' said Vernon, ' if to tell me
is any relief, tell me. But if not, let things
rest as they are. I can trust you without
forcing your confidence.'

That is the very thing,' she said. ' You
trust me too much. It will relieve me to tell

the entire truth to you — that Is, if I can only
manage it. And don't be afraid I shall
break down over it, and make a scene again.
I am quite myself now, and' my heart has
done throbbing. Would you mind walking
a little with me ? I think I could talk better
then.'

Her manner was perfectly calm now,
yet without hardness. They rose at her last
request, and walked along the path together.
Vernon offered his arm to her, but she gently
refused to take it. ' No she said, ' not now
if you please. I mean you first to know
better who it is you are talking to. Well —
to begin with, you know this much already,
that I am only received in society because
the world knows nothing about me. I am
there upon false pretences. That is hardly a
pleasant sense to have always with one.
However, we will let that pass. I have two
things besides that to tell you : one is how I

have treated a certain man ; the other, how a
certain man has treated me. I can tell the
first story easiest, and I will begin with that.
Rather more than a year ago I made a retreat
with a friend of mine — It Is the very
Mrs. Crane we are going to visit at San
Remo — at a quaint little watering place between
Genoa and Spezzla. For me It was
really a retreat — a retreat in the religious
sense. I was very unhappy about myself,
and I had been trying to take up with religion.
Didn't I tell you that I very nearly
became a Catholic ? Well — Mrs. Crane there
-made friends with a man, who having
nothing better to do fell deeply in love wide
me. Love is hardly the word for it. He
simply worshipped me. He thought me a
saint. He told me that I had saved him
from all kinds of evil courses.'

Did you care for him ? ' said Vernon.

Yes ; I liked him. I had an intense respect

for him. I was trying to be good myself,
and I respected all goodness then. But I
did not behave well. I encouraged him. I
made him think I cared more than I really
did for him, and at last he asked me if I would
marry him. I had dreaded for a day or two
before that this might be coming. I told him
No. I had really not the least love for him,
and yet it was difficult to give him too hard
a denial. I suppose I had become so demoralised
that I couldn't bear losing an ado



mire. Well, in course of time he had to
return to England, and I managed to put
him off with some indefinite hope, which I
believe he still indulges in and regards as his
most sacred treasure. If ever a woman played
with a human soul, I have played with his.'

She paused. ' You have shown me,' said
Vernon, * how right I was in what I have
said to you. You look on your own misdeeds
in far too gloomy a way. God knows that we

should be all of us more careful than we are
in matters such as these. But there are
many good women who might make much
worse confessions.'

Perhaps,' she said ; ' but you must remember
when I knew this man I fancied
myself to be going through the most solemn
religious experiences ; and yet even then my
wicked vanity was misleading me. However,
it is not for its own sake that I tell you this
incident. It is for an accidental reason, and
one that is personal to yourself.'

To me ! '

You,' she said hurriedly, ' to you. But
we won't stop to talk about that now. I must
get through the task I have set myself, and
the worst is not over yet.' Here her voice
failed her. She caught hold of Vernon's arm,
and gulped down a spasmodic sob.

Don't go on,' said Vernon, ' if it gives
pain to you.

I must,' she said. ' I will be brave and
get it over. Only two months after this man
had left me, I was staying at Nice, with some
rather fast friends I had. One reason why I

hate Monte Carlo so is because .' Once

more she stopped. Then tightening her
hold on his arm, so as almost to give him
pain, she put her lips to his ear, and spoke Ina
quick whisper. ' I used often to go over
there with a very bad person — a man. I
used to gamble there — anything to drown
thought. He used to bank with me, and I
won a lot of money. I couldn't touch it —
not a penny of it. I gave it all away to
charities. Do you understand what I have
just said to you ? *

I do,' said Vernon sadly. * My poor,
poor Cynthia!' Presently he added, * I must
beg your pardon for one thought, which did
cross my mind this morning. I mean about
Colonel Stapleton ; for I know, from what he

has told me, that at that time he was away in
Palestine.'

He was,' she said. ' I had not seen him
till the other day for a long time.'

Well ,' said Vernon, as if he expected
her to continue.

Haven't I told you all ? I believe I
don't quite know what I'm saying. I wish,
for one reason, that you were a worse person.
You would understand me so much more

easily. What I have to tell you is .

God help me, I am sorry I began this. It is
nothing that can be said exactly in so many
words. It's a question rather of what I am,

than of what I have done. Stay ,' she

exclaimed. ' I think I know one way of enlightening
you. Come with me into my
sitting-room. The window is open. There
will be nobody about by this time, and I will
only keep you a moment.'

He followed her into the house in silence.

She went to a large despatch-box that stood
on one of her tables by a lovely vase of roses,
and she slowly opened It.

What I am going to show you,' she said,
I have myself only glanced at ; but the very
fact that such a thing should be sent me will
throw some light for )'ou on the character of
the sender, and the sort of character which I
have let him impute to me. It comes from
the person I told you of.'

She put into Vernon's hands a small
oblong something, which in the dim light he
did not at first see clearly. ' It is locked,' she
said. ' I believe there is a key somewhere.'

But she was stopped In her search by two
sounds behind her. The one was an exclamation
from Vernon, the other was the fall
on the floor of the object she had just given
him. It lay there at his feet. It was the book
of photographs that had been shown him by
Colonel Stapleton.

There was a pause of some seconds, while
the two stood staring at each other. At last
Vernon said, in a low distinct voice, ' I have
seen that book before. I know too who it
has come from.'

Then his voice failed him. He sank back
in his chair as if dizzy, and his eyes were
fixed on the ceiling in a dull stony stare. As
for her, she had sunk helplessly to the ground,
pressing her face against the low cushions of
a sofa. So far as human life went, the room
was a ghastly silence. The only sounds heard
were the tick of the small carriage-clock on
the chimney-piece, the croaking of the frogs
outside, and the faint splash of the fountains.
Silence seemed to both the only thing possible.
There was nothing in either mind that could
lead to a wish to break it. Suddenly, however,
there was the noise of a door slamming.
The effect was as quick on Miss Walters as
the kiss on the Sleeping Beauty. * Quick,'

she said to Vernon. ' It is Brabant coming — •
our butler. I know his footstep. Get into
the garden till he's gone ; but don't go away,
unless you mean quite to leave me.'

Vernon went as he was bidden. He
could hear Miss Walters' voice as she was
talking to the servant. He heard a door
closing, and then she re-appeared at the
window.

I am coming out,' she said. ' Don't let
us go back into the room again.' She spoke
very solemnly, and there was a strange calm
in her face. ' I shall not keep you long,' she
said. ' I am come to say good-bye to you.'

Vernon answered nothing, he only stood
and looked at her. ' Am I not fit,' she said
at last, ' to have even a good-bye said to me ? '

Again he gave no answer, so far as words
went, but he drew a little nearer to her, and
softly folded her in his arms. Her face as
she looked at him was full of astonished

gratitude, but there was no trace of a smile
on it ; it seemed even more sad than before.

Oh,' she murmured presently, * you are
very, very kind to me. You are being kind,
as it were, to a person upon her death-bed ;
for of course now it is all — all over between
us;

All over ! ' he echoed.

You can never,' she said, ' be my friend
now you know me, especially now you have
found out how I have been lying to you.
But oh the shame of it all ! I was always so
afraid you might guess it ; and I couldn't
bear to think you should know who the
person was.'

He took her hand and placed her arm in
his, and they moved away towards the
shadow of some orange trees. She was
quite passive ; she went exactly as he guided
her : but she seemed reassured a little by
all his tender treatment. Presently she

been as^aln, and her voice sounded like a
child's.

I was so young,' she said,' ' when he
made me bad first ; and at one time, long,
long ago, he had been really good and nice
to me. I don't know when he became
different. I suppose when I got prettier. I
had hardly left the school-room, I remember,
when he bes^an to lend me horrid French
novels. I didn't understand them ; that was
one thing; at least not till a long time afterwards.
I have had — ' and she gave a little
nervous laugh — ' I have had, you see, to live
up to my education.'

At last Vernon spoke. ' By-and-by,'
he said, ' when I have gone away from you,
I shall pray Almighty God to damn that
man's soul for ever.'

'Hush! hush!' she said. 'It was my
fault as well as his. I knew what was right
then as well as I do now. But you see by

this time, don't you, that I can never again
be what I once was ? I know you are
horrified at me ; but I can't help it'

I believe,' said Vernon, slowly and with
effort, ' that some feelings of moral revulsion
are pride In Its hardest form. I might be
pleased perhaps to think you had never sinned ;
but God would condemn that feeling, and I
condemn it also. The shepherd loves the
lost sheep when he finds it, even though it
is lame and wounded by Its wanderings ; and
surely he knows best what Is loveable. You
will be a far finer character when you come
to your soul's home again, than you would
have been had your never left It.'

When ! ' she repeated. ' Yes, you may
well say that ; but that when Is never. I can
still see the gates of that very home you
speak of, but I see them

With dreadful faces thronged and fiery arms.

There is no way back into Eden.'

I was foolish,' said Vernon, ' in the way
I talked this morning. I don't ask you any
looser to become an innocent orlrl again. I
ask you to become a holy woman instead ;
that is far better. Amongst the highest
saints in heaven, will be faces deepest scarred
by the battle. You are right, very likely, that
there is no way back into Eden ; but — I am
not a great quoter of texts, yet I still remember
this one : '' We all die in Adam, but we
may all live in Christ." '

She looked at him with a piercing eagerness,
and said, ' Do you really believe that ? '

Vernon was embarrassed, as he had been
once before already, by her direct questioning.

'I believe it,' he said slowly, 'and you
will help my unbelief.'

She dropped her eyes, reflecting. ' Sit
down,' she said, ' on that seat for a moment.'

It was strange how, through all her
sorrows, the feminine fascination of her

command still continued. Vernon obeyed
silently. No sooner had he done so, than
softly, like a shadow, she sank on her knees
before him. ' If you will not mind hearing
me, I am going to say a prayer,' she said.
With a movement of kindness that was then
almost mechanical, he laid his hand upon
her shoulder ; her hands were folded before
her face. Vernon was glad that she was
not watching him. He felt that his thoughts
were wandering far from hers, and that his
face, rigid and melancholy, would at once
have betrayed the fact. Presently a low sound
broke from her, and he caught the familiar
accents, as of a little child's ' Our Father.*
He meanwhile, in a bitter and blank wonder,
let his eyes stare at the stars and the palm-branches,
as he thought, ' Does prayer mean
anything ? '

That night he slept a heavy, dreamless
sleep. He had not yet had time to settle either

[6i

into hope or misery ; and his last memory
as he sank to sleep was simply one of Miss
Walters' parting words : ' Will you see me
tomorrow morning ? If we go to San
Remo that day, it will not be till the afternoon
at any rate.'

VOL. IT.

M

HEIR meeting next day began with
a low-toned .quiet, that came of
Intense exhaustion. The first
things said referred to the Walters' movements,
and Vernon learned that they were
actually going, in the course of the next
few hours.

For one reason,' she said, ' I am rather
glad. There are so many things I can
write far more clearly than I could say
them.'

Vernon meanwhile had had time to be
struck with one thing ; and this was a curious

change in the style of Miss Walters' dress.
In place of her usual dainty toilette, what she
wore now might have been almost called
dowdy, but for the unconscious grace which
her figure and bearing gave it.

I never saw you,' he said, ' in that frock
before.'

She smiled faintly. ' Thereby hangs a
tale,' she said. * I used to wear this dress
when your friend Mr. Campbell knew me.'

Campbell ! ' exclaimed Vernon. ' Do
you mean Alic Campbell ? '

Didn't I tell you ? ' she said. ' I meant
to have done so ; but I was so confused last
night.'

Are you, then, the person that has
changed his whole life for him ? Good God !
why, but a fortnight back he was here in
this very place, and he was telling me all
about you ; only he never said your name,
neither did I mention yours. He was with

M 2

me only a night, and then went on his way,
little dreaming he had been so near you.
Do you know where he was going ? To
a friend of yours, that he might hear news
of you.'

Miss Walters gave a long sigh of relief.
What an escape ! ' she said. ' I knew he
was coming abroad to hunt for me ; but I
got my friend, Mrs. Crane, to contrive me
some respite. He has been at Sorrento, I
know, with her, talking night and day about
me. Perhaps, now, you wonder less why I
reproached myself.'

He thinks you a saint, poor fellow ; and
has been trying all he can to become worthy
of you.'

I know he thinks me a saint,' said Miss
Walters ; ' and that was what I could not
bear. It is more crushing to be thought
better than it is to be thought worse than
you are. Yet I should not be surprised at

Allcc Campbell's misjudging mee. He only
thought I was Avhat at the time I was really
trying to be. I seemed to him to be a very
simple person. Yes — this is the dress he
knew me in : I think almost the only dress.
I really did hate the world just then ; and I
tried in every way to mortify my vanity.
I wore the same dress this morning, as a
sign of the same spirit. I couldn't bear to
put anything on that should make my wicked
body seem beautiful'

Vernon answered her in an oddly absent
manner : ' And has the spirit of that time
come back to you ? '

Do not you know it has ? ' she said
vehemently ; ' and if you will only help me it
.shall never leave me again. Oh, please be
kind to me, and let me lean on you for a
little while longer, and don't refuse me your
support, because I tell you I can't do without
it. It's quite true — I shall go straight to the

dogs without you.' But Vernon gave no
answer : he was simply staring into vacancy.
What is it ? ' she asked, half frightened.
Is anything the matter with you ? '

Then he fixed his eyes on her. As he did
so she seemed to divine his meaning, and her
lip quivered with a sort of expectant terror.

You told me,' he said, ' about your
unhappy time at Monaco ; and at that time
Colonel Stapleton was in the Holy Land.'

He spoke very slowly, and her cheeks
turned from pale to scarlet. With a sudden
effort she regained command of herself ; the
flush died from her cheeks, and she said to
him in a sad clear voice, * Do you think such
affection as Colonel Stapleton gives a woman
is of a kind that is likely to keep her faithful
during his absence ? '

Cynthia, my dear, Cynthia ! ' cried a voice
in the adjoining drawing-room, ' is that you ?
and are you talking to Mr. Vernon ? Ask

him to stay and have breakfast with us. It is
ordered at twelve o'clock.'

It is my aunt exclaimed Miss Walters.
*Yes, Aunt Louisa, we will be with you
in another moment. Come ' — and she turned
to Vernon — ' our conversation is over now ;
and now — at once — I can speak the utter,
utter truth to you. You have got now the
lowest dregs of my cask.'

Must we go yet ? ' Vernon whispered.
Only one word more with you ? '

No,' she said. * / must go, even If soit
need not. It Is twelve already. Come, will
you have breakfast with us ? '

She was about to push the curtains aside,
and go into the drawing-room, when Vernon
caught her by the arm, and forcibly drew her
near him. ' God bless you ! ' he murmured.
God guard and save you ! ' And, instead of
kissing her, he made a hasty sign of the cross
upon her.

CHAPTER VI.

f^^^^HAT afternoon, left to his own
thoughts, he did what he had not
done for a fortnight. He called
upon Frederic Stanley. He found him In
his little bare sitting-room, apparently deep
in thought at a table strewn with papers ; but
Vernon's entrance brought a pleasant smile
to his face.

'It Is a long time,' began Vernon, 'since
last I came to see you.'

Stanley detected Vernon's feeling, and
adroitly disclaimed the apology ' Had I
more room for visitors,' he said, ' I would

have asked you to come before now. I fear
you will think that I affect to be very Inaccessible.'


He spoke in this way out of a quick sense
of delicacy. The emotion betrayed by Miss
Walters, when he dined at the Chateau St.
John, he had set down to a feeling on her
part for Vernon ; and though this particular
conjecture was wrong, it had led him more or
less to the truth. He had gathered that between
the two there had arisen some special
intimacy, which he hoped might result in
good ; and it was little surprise to him that
he was himself lost sight of. What did surprise
him most, however, was the dejection of
Vernon's aspect, which was but ill concealed
by his constant efforts at talking. Indeed, at
last he ceased to attempt concealment.

Stanley,' he said, ' the last time I was
here — the day I came with Campbell — I asked
a favour of you. I wonder if you would now

repeat it. Will you come and dine with me
this evening, and name your own hour ? I
am out of spirits for many reasons, and to
give me your company would be an act of
Christian charity.'

You look worn out said Stanley. 'You
have had, I trust, nothing much to trouble
you. I will certainly come to dinner. Shall
we say six thirty ? '

The rest of that afternoon was to Vernon
a vigil of misery. The painful excitement of
the last two days was ended, and he now for
the first time grew conscious of the effect those
days had had on him. It was as though he
had been bruised all over In an accident, and
the bruises one by one were becoming distinct
tortures. Every movement of thought or
memory made him feel what his condition
was. Several times, as he dwelt upon Miss
Walters, tears too quick for repression filled
his eyes and fell from them. In another

moment, as he still dwelt upon her, sorrow
gave place to loathing ; and loathing in its
turn to intense attraction. At one time it
was, ' Can I ever touch her again ? ' at
another, ' Why did I not make her my
mistress ? ' And then again sorrow obtained
the mastery. The hysterics passion had its
own way with a vengeance ; tears blinded
him, and he let them fall helplessly.

The sum of his sorrows, however, did
not end here. He had the thought of
Campbell also to prey upon him — Campbell,
the friend whom he'had supplanted, or towards
whom* at least he had played a supplanter s
part. But this sorrow was of a somewhat different
order. It did, it is true, but add to and
complicate his wretchedness ; but it braced, it
did not unnerve, him. It demanded his judgment
even more than it roused his feelings.
Finally, there was an image that did both
equally. It was the image of Colonel Stapleton.

When he had run the round of his other
wretched reflections, he found fierce relief in
his hatred of this man. At first he was busied
with various schemes for fighting him ; but,
considering the pretext, this did not seem
possible. He would be blasting a reputation,
most likely, in the very act of avenging it.
Nothing was left him, at any rate for the
time being, but to fan his anger by the most
elaborate expressions of it. ' May he die
slowly, and may the Spirit of God curse him !
May he cry for eternity for a single drop of
water, and may none be given him ! May
my own death be sweetened by the sound of
his shrieks in Hell ! ' Such were a few of the
ejaculations in which his anger embodied itself ;
then anger in its turn would again collapse
into sorrow. * My angel, my angel,' he would
say, 'what has this devil done to you!' And
the procession of tortured thoughts would
begin once more where it started from.

Such excitement, however, brings its own
relief, and by the time Stanley came Vernon
was wearied into a sort of quietude. But
though the waves had ceased to lash themselves,
there was only night over them,
and with their spent force they were still
murmuring disconsolately. ' The meaning
of life is still blind as ever to me,' was the
thought that was now filling him. ' God
will not answer; all the heavens are silent.
In the infinite hush of space is but one
solitary sound — the tides of human history
as, without any purport, they moan like a
homeless sea.'^

Vernon did not season his dinner with
this forlorn philosophy ; but its results were
visible in his sad and spiritless conversation,
which was relieved only by an occasional
show of irritation at the mention of two subjects.
These were none other than Campbell

^ ' The meanings of the homeless sea." — Texxysox.

and Miss Walters. Stanley, as was not unnatural,
spoke often about them both— of
Miss Walters guardedly, of Campbell with
more freedom ; but Vernon's answers were so
short and listless, that it was plain there was
something wrong with him. Stanley could
not guess what, though he tried many solutions.
By-and-by, however, he thought he
had found a clue.

May I ask,' said Vernon, with a tone of
reviving interest, * what sort of work it is with
which you are always occupied ? '

I am writing a small volume,' said
Stanley, ' on the teachings of Saint Thomas
Aquinas. I am doing so at the suggestion of
the Archbishop, who wishes to issue a series
of primers, containing each an account of some
great Catholic theologian.'

Happy man,' said Vernon; 'how I envy

you !

Do you mean you envy me because of

the kind of work ? Or do you envy me
merely because I have work at all ? '

A little,' said Vernon, 'because you have
work at all, but chiefly because it is work that
subserves a cause you worship.'

I knov/,' said Stanley, ' that you do not
worship my cause ; if you did, you would
belong to it. But your envy has a moral that
may apply even to you.'

Vernon drank a glass of wine and stared
blankly at Stanley. ' I wish to goodness,' he
said, * I could find out how that was.'

Well,' said Stanley, speaking now a little
drily, 'if you will not be offended with me, I
will try to tell you. A man of your powers,
and in your position, may have either the
fullest of lives or else the emptiest ; and if he
does not achieve the first, he will probably
have the second thrust upon him. I am
not speaking of religion ; I am speaking of
common happiness.'

'Well,' said Vernon, 'go on. I am listening.*


A fool, if he be rich,' said Stanley, ' Is
occupied very easily. There is no saying
what trifles may not content him. But a
strong man's mind Is like a corrosive acid.
It eats through countless interests that suffice
to absorb others. It even takes the gilt off
vice, and it makes gambling vapid. What
It asks is, " Give me something to work for
that I can feel is worth the work." Now
for the bulk of mankind there is a ready
answer to this. They must work to live, or
at least to live In comfort ; and all that they
need do Is to make a virtue of necessity.
But the rich man's task is by no means as
simple as this. He has not to make a virtue
of necessity, but to make a necessity of
virtue. By an act of will and choice he must
take that yoke upon him, that the larger
number are born with. He must choose some

line of action ; he must devote himself to
something. What makes a man is the sense
that he has committed himself.'

True,' said Vernon ; ' but the struggle
lies in choosing. In choosing a life's work
it is just the same as in marrying. Life
hight be lived with a hundred different
women ; it can with consistency be lived with
only one ; and however charming might bethe
choice I pitched upon, her one welcome
would be drowned by the ninety-and-nine farewells.
It is all very well to say choose ; but
what is to make one choose ? '

No doubt it is often difficult,' said
Stanley. ' It is one of the rich man's trials.
That is the very point I am urging. But
such choices, or, if you like to put it so, such
renunciations, are made daily. Every one
makes them who meets with any success in
life. The soldier does, the statesman does,
even the man of fashion does. Every one

VOL. IT. N

of these men, in some sort, takes the veil.
He chooses one part, and he renounces
others. Let him once do this, and his Hfe
is thronged with motives. He walks firmly,
with firm ground under him. For the first
time he becomes, properly speaking, a man.'

He may gain his manhood,' said Vernon,
but he says good-bye to his youth.'

'Well,' said Stanley, in a slight tone of
contempt, * would you keep youth beyond its
time ? Belated youth is sillier than second
childhood. You ask me what is to drive you
to your choice ? I should say many things
might do so. Ambition might, or commonsense,
or a natural interest in the welfare of
others ; or, as to the point of marrying, natural
affection. You see I am putting religion, for
argument's sake, quite out of the question.'

Yes,' said Vernon ; *and, so far as I am
concerned, that prevents you from understanding
me. Given religious faith, all the

rest becomes simple. Things worthy of
your self-devotion at once surround you on
every side, and you welcome — you do not
deplore — your sacrifices. Happiness comes
to you then bea very different process — by
supernatural sight, not by artificial blindness.'
I think said Stanley smiling, ' you are
paying religion a somewhat misplaced compliment.
It, no doubt, does bring us happiness,
but it does not bring it to us ready-made
out of a bandbox. You don't have a
good cry and then get a sugarplum. Indeed,
too many tears, I believe, and too
many sensations of peace, are less often
signs of religious depth, than of shallowness.
One of the worst spiritual signs we can
detect in ourselves is, that we are touched
with the pathos of our own condition. I
remember a young Catholic who once told
me of the doubts he was tempted by, and
who had resolved very rightly to submit

N 2

reason to faith. '' Of course," he said at
last, *' I can never forget my difficulties, but"
and the tears filled his eyes — " I will wear
them round my head, as an intellectual crown
of thorns." I advised him to do so, but not
to talk about it : ''If you suffer patiently
God will bless you ; but do not suffer before
the looking-glass." Religious life, Vernon,
you may depend upon It, has, when it is
worth anything, a very prosaic side to It'

'I,' said Vernon, * connect religious life
with emotion less, perhaps, even than you do.
Faith would redeem me not through the
heart, but through the intellect. To do our
work in the world we must suppose that men
are lovable, and worth working for ; but it
would quite content me to believe the fact
without feeling it. Love In this case Is like
gold, and belief is a sort of paper currency.
If the bills of faith were only endorsed by
the intellect, I should be quite content, and

should be in no hurry to cash them. The
only wages I should ask for my work, would
be to know that my work was not wasted.
That knowledge, my dear Stanley, would
guide me through the shadows, though I
have not the least expectation that it would
conjure me into the sunshine.'

Surely,' said Stanley, * you don't want
faith to tell you that you could at least do
something that would be of some use in the
world. There are certainly some whose
lives you could make easier.'

I measure,' said Vernon, ' my fellow-creatures
by myself. If I have no soul, they
have no souls either ; and if I am a fool to
be pleased by the best of the world's playthings,
they are even greater fools if they
are pleased by worse ones. If I consider
myself not worth working for, how can I
find satisfaction in working for inferior replicas
of myself ? '

Of course said Stanley curtly, ' you can
never know till you have tried. But I am
wrong ; you have tried. You were very
kind to the lame child here. You would find
it easier than you think to discover some
path of duty.'

Listen,' said Vernon ; ' you speak of
that child. You may say, if you like, that
what I did for her was a kindness. Very
well, then ; consider this. A certain old
peasant woman has an extremely dirty
daughter. This fact, even were the daughter
healthy, would hardly make me radiant.
Why should it do so, because I have made
her but half a cripple ? The result of my
kindness at its best is something that is less
than uninteresting.'

Why did you do it, then ? '

Out of good nature, I suppose. I have
plenty, I think, of that. My dear Stanley,
we are talking openly, so, perhaps, I may say

to you what I should say to no one else. I
have tried philanthropy on a more extended
scale. I happen to have about nine thousand
a year. Of this I give a good two-thirds to
entirely unselfish purposes — I do so at this
moment. But I get no pleasure from this ;
or if at times I do, my reason very soon
steps in and destroys it. It acts, as you
said most justly, like a corrosive acid upon
it. But you were only thinking of frivolous
pleasures. I assure you I find them all
equally destructible.'

Stanley looked at Vernon in perplexed
surprise ; and then with a faint smile, ' You're
a curious man,' he said.

Excuse me,' said Vernon, * I am not at
all curious. I only have a habit of applying
logic to everything.'

Yes,' said Stanley ; ' and natural love to
nothing.'

I could love well enough said Vernon,

if .' Stanley stared at him. He had

stopped short abruptly ; his eyes were fixed
upon the ceiling ; and he was biting his lip
as if in acute pain. Presently, with a visible
effort, he recovered himself. — * If,' he resumed,
* if I could be sure of two things —
that the woman I loved had a soul to give
to God, and that she cared to give it. But
even then, you see, an assent of the reason
is needed. Belief should precede, or at least
accompany, feeling.'

If you would listen to me,' said Stanley,

I should tell you that love was far more
likely to produce belief, than for belief to
produce love.'

You are speaking, I think,' said Vernon,

of the love of man for woman. Surely for
you, then, that is a somewhat singular doctrine.
As far as I can understand the
Catholic view of life, its chief aim and object
is the love — not of woman, but God.'

You are perfectly right there.'

Very well,' said Vernon ; * rob life of its
aim, and begin your amours then. A
woman, then, is a mere animal like yourself;
and if your desires are very strongly set on
her, she will be far more likely to quench
your religious longings than to excite them.
So far as I can see, there is but one single
way in which human love can be allied with
divine love, and blessed by the Christian
Church ; and that is by treating it as a
mutual exhortation on the part of those concerned
in it to the service and love of God.
In so far as it is more than this, in so far as
their attention fixes itself not on God, but
on their own two personalities, it seems tome
that it must be, from your standpoint, a
concession to human weakness, not an element
of Christian strength.'

You are wrong,' said Stanley. ' You are
confusing two things — the characteristic error

of the whole modern school. Let me explain
to you how the Church regards the matter,
and you will find that her view is a more
liberal one than yours. The Church teaches
that, sin only excepted, God made everything.
He made man and He made man's affections,
and He implanted in each of us, what Saint
Thomas calls an interiors instinct, by which,
when developed, we recognise His existence.
From my point of view, as you call it, that is a
fact, is it not, as much as the law of gravity ? '

I have no doubt of it.'

Very well, then ; the fact remains, whether
or no we believe in it. Apples fell to the
ground before the days of Newton, and souls
may be moved to God even before they
know of His existence. One of the chief
ways in which they are thus moved is
through the affections. These human affections
are the expressions of God's will, and,
rightly exercised, they are in themselves good.

There is something holy in the love of a
brother as a brother, or of a wife as a wife ;
but these are not to be confounded with the
love of God, any more than they are to be
divorced from it. They are so like it however,
that they prepare the way for It.'
Stanley looked at vernon and saw how worn
his face was. ' Do you see,' he added gently,
what my meaning is ? '

Partly,' said Vernon ; ' and yet it does not
meet all my question. Still, I shall think it
over.'

He said this sadly, and with an absent air
as if his thoughts were wanderings.

I hope,' said Stanley, who had been
watching his face anxiously, 'that you did
not mistake my meaning when I spoke about
religion and emotion. Emotion, that is affection,
is the very heart of religion ; and the
surest way to be for ever cut off from God, is
not to be misled by the intellect, which does

but divert your eyes from Him ; but to quench
your powers of loving, which is putting your
eyes out.'

He says the same thing that Campbell
said,' thought Vernon when Stanley had departed.
'After all, I suppose there is something
in it. Something ! — why, once, when I
had faith like Stanley's, I might have said
the same myself A pure human affection is
the calix of Divine faith. But what is my
condition ? Stanley has not touched upon that.
What haunts and threatens me is the foregone
conclusion that Divine faith is a lie.'
This set of thoughts seemed for a long time
stationary, occupying his mind like the figure
in a kaleidoscope. But at last a touch came,
and the figure changed. That touch was
given by the image of Miss Walters, as, with
her ' pale, predestined face,' she came gliding
like a ghost across his imagination. * My
own ! ' he exclaimed aloud, as he started from

the sofa he was lying on, ' you may at least
reach God through me, though I may never
reach Him through you.' This passionate
thought filled and overmastered him, and the
listless bitterness he had felt all through the
evening disappeared before it. ' I must write
to you,' he said, 'even though I cannot speak
to you.'

His pen moved rapidly ; he never paused
to hesitate. ' You entirely fill my thoughts,*
he began. ' Your image haunts me ; your
eyes are looking at me. My white angel,
my pure lily of Eden ! Yes, you are that by
nature. For God's sake, my own one, be
true to yourself. For God's sake, I say ; —
well, and for mine too, if you like it — for
mine too. All my life is turned into one
long, mute prayer for you, that you may put
away from yourself every taint of evil. Hate
it ; learn to hate it ! Let it revolt you as it once
revolted you ! I will do all I can ; but don't

trust to me only. Help me too ; try to see
with your own eyes. My sight is very feeble ;
I am but a poor guide to God. I am like a
blind man leading the blind. I only discern
a glimmering, feeble light, and I am trying my
best to feel my way towards it, carrying you
with me. Will you not try to open your own
eyes also, and give me a little counsel — a
little assurance? My head is heavy; my
eyelids ache with sadness. Did I not love
you, I should have only asked to possess you.
Your lips and arms could have given me all
I longed for. But love is stronger than
passion, and its demands are limitless, not for
the lover, but for the loved. I am not trying
to use fine language when I say that I am
consumed with care for you. Scales have
fallen from my eyes ; I see now what I never
saw before, and that is the meaning of Christ's
love for men — His longing for their salvation.
Oh, Cynthia, could I only die for you — could

I only take your sins on my head ! Pierce
my hands with nails — let me hang on the tree
in agony — If only I might bear your sins and
leave you once more spotless ! I would be
scourged, and spit upon ! I would let my
whole life be broken !

Cynthia, my knowledge of you has indeed
worked a change in me ! '

vor IT.

ERNON's state of mind next
morning was little changed ; he
was still possessed by the same
sorrow and solicitude. This, it is true, was
not utterly unrelieved. The woman who had
thus so completely filled his imagination, had
confessed — had insisted on her love for him.
In this fact certainly there was food for
satisfaction ; and flying gleams of the most
delicious happiness would at moments illuminate
all his mental landscape with

The light that never was on sea or land.

But these did but serve to make his gloom

O 2

gloomier; and his heart ached with pain
whenever it beat with pleasure. In this
sombre condition he betook himself out of
doors, to chew the cud of his disquietude.
First he paced his garden, but its bounds
seemed soon too narrow for him, and he
strayed into the public road. Not far from
his own gates were those of the Chateau St.
John ; and as he was passing these, he could
not but pause. He leaned his forehead
against the bars, and looked up the winding
drive. It was a green vista of eucalyptus
and of orange-trees, with here and there a
cloud of foamy lilac-blossom ; but its soft
beauty did but fill Vernon with bitterness.
The one thought that kept on repeating itself
was, * My Cynthia, could I save you, I would
die for you.' Once a carriage passed, which
had two well-dressed strangers in it. At the
first sound of wheels he had suddenly faced
about, in the fantastic hope that it might be

Miss Walters coming back again : but after
an instant's glance he turned away impatiently.
He could not endure the sensation
that he was stared at. Not long after he
heard more wheels approaching ; but this
time he had no impulse to look ; he tried
not even to listen. Listen, however, he soon
found he must, when the following sounds
struck on him.

John ' — it was uttered in a voice that,
though somewhat raised, was like velvet — 'is
this where Lady Walters lives, do you know ? '

I believe it is, your Grace.'

Is it worth trying, I wonder ? ' — this was
addressed to another person. 'Shall I go
and leave a card on her .^ Come — get up
for a moment ; you must be sitting on my
card-case.'

In answer to this injunction came a slight
leonine groan ; but it was quickly drowned,
for the velvet voice welled forth again,

Upon my word,' It said, ' if that is not Mr.
Vernon ! '

Vernon at this was compelled to turn and
show himself, and there face to face with him
in a large open carriage, were the Duchess,
Lord Surbiton, and a smart-looking young
lady of some sort.

Well,' said her Grace, * and you are a
nice young man, you are ! I have been
here for two whole days, and you have never
once been to show yourself.'

Vernon replied that he had not known of
her arrival.

The fact of the matter Is you're a great
deal better employed. This Is far more romantic.
Isn't It, than red fans and restaurants ?'

What Is ? ' said Vernon absently.

What ? to be looking through a gate
up a lovely young lady's avenue — especially
when It's a young lady you have already
carried off In your carriage. However, Mr,

Vernon, you go further than the gate, I
suppose, sometimes

The Duchess did not laugh ; but her
voice when she was amused had a certain
subtle quality which not only expressed her
amusement, but transmitted it. It passed
now into Vernon like an electric shock. He
was instantly confronted with an absurd
image of himself, and to his own intense surprise,
he heard himself burst out laughing.

Certainly,' he said, ' I was not waiting to
take her another drive, for both she and her
aunt are away at the present moment.'

Very well then,' said the Duchess, * there
is one question solved. We will put off
leaving our cards, and will go straight home
again. Wait a bit, though. Lord Surbiton,
you had better get out and walk, or else
you'll be having indigestion again, and be
unable to eat your dinner. Come, out you
get — I know exactly what is good for you.

And listen,' she added, when Lord Surbiton
had at last descended, • you may as well give
me my boa back again. You won't want
it, you know, when you're getting warm
walking.' Then turning to Vernon, 'And
now,' she said, ' since you're not waiting for
anybody, suppose you come back with us,
and let us give you some tea. Whenever I
see anyone now, I am dying to show my
mansion to them.'

Vernon mechanically accepted this invitation.
He took his seat opposite the young
lady, and was vaguely conscious of being
introduced to Miss Ethel somebody. ' Mr.
Vernon,' the Duchess said — ' a philosopher,
and a great admirer of every species of
beauty. Miss Ethel's eyes were sparkling,
and they watched the Duchess continually,
as though every instant she was expecting
some amusement.

Has Lord Surbiton,' she said presently,

got indigestion ? What a very unromantic
thing for a poet ! '

My dear said the Duchess, ' it is no
wonder he has, considering the way he feeds
himself. When he arrived the other day to
stay with me, what should you think he had
brought with him ? A cold plum pudding,
if you please, wrapped up in his carpet-bag ;
and he actually eats slices of it at six o'clock
in the morning. What did he do, Mr.
Vernon, that time you were good enough to
entertain him ? One thins: I know he did
not do — and that was to give my orders to
the gardener. What I told him to say was
that I could have no ants on the walks, and
that they were to be all killed with boiling
water. Now I ask old Surbiton if he made
this quite clear to the man, and that when 1
give an order I mean it ; and all I can get
out of him is that Countess somebody — I
don't know her name or nation — has the

finest ankle he ever saw. I told him ankles
were all very well ; but it's not so nice when
you have ants biting them.'

'Yes,' smiled Miss Ethel, 'but didn't
Colonel Stapleton give your message ? '

As for Colonel Stapleton,' said the
Duchess, ' he's even worse than Lord Sur-briton.
He seems to have spent his entire
time with Miss Walters, till the wind was
taken out of his sails by — who should you
think ? The curate. It strikes me, Mr.
Vernon, that you have not ,been doing all
you might have done, if you let your special
young lady fall into other people's hands like
this. I assure you our fat Colonel is full of
her. I was going to have asked him over to
stay with me, only I was afraid Mrs. Grantly
would have his eyes out. However, he shall
come for my fancy ball. That will be quite
safe. There will be no time then for
quarrelling.'

I think,' said Miss Ethel, ' Colonel
Stapleton is very amusing.'

Do you know him ? ' asked Vernon with
an odd blank abruptness.

'Oh yes. He has stayed with us twice
for A scot week. We have a small house
near the racecourse

Amusing ! ' said the Duchess. * Oh yes,
of course he is : and so useful, which is
far better than amusing. He's going to
order me all my Chinese lanterns, and my

blue and red fire, and 1 forget what

else. Oh, some Strasbourg pies, and some
specially dry champagne. I quite delight
in the Colonel. He's a most unselfish
creature.'

Vernon listened to all this, as though It
were a noise in a dream, making little effort
himself except at some random smiles.
Presently under the wheels came the crunching
of new-laid gravel, and in another

moment or two they were at the door of the
great hotel.

Vernon had been in the building several
times before ; but when he now entered, he
saw such a metamorphosis, that for the time
being at least he was surprised into common
attention. Where there had hitherto been a
bleak solitude, there was now life and luxury.
The large entrance hall was green with palm-trees,
and gay with flowers. The white
marble floor was strewn with oriental carpets,
and on the softest of these was a yelping
Pomeranian dog. There were larger tables
draped with bright-coloured heavy cloths, and
covered with books, photograph-frames, and
a thousand-anemone knick-knacks. A stout
English butler and a spruce groom-antechamber
gave to the scene a dignity all their
own, and busy under their direction were
some footmen with red waistcoats. Hardly
had her Grace entered when a variety of

orders, in tones of silver conveying a will of
iron, went flying in all directions. ' Put that
plant nearer the wall.' ' Where are you
going with those Venetian glasses ? ' ' How
often have I told you that those doors are to
be never left open ! ' In answer to which
came the rapid but hushed response of ' Yes,
your Grace ; ' ' No, your Grace.'

Now, Mr. Vernon,' said the Duchess,
'you must come and look at the drawing-room;
or rather, to be ^//z/^ accurate, I should
say one of the drawing-rooms ; for I assure
you our splendour here is quite palatial, and
we have five or six of them. There ! ' she
said as they entered, ' it's getting to look
loveable ; but there are still some screens and
things that I want a little advice about.'

i\Iy ! Mr. Vernon, and is this 3'ou again ?'
exclaimed a lady, slowly raising herself from
an exceedingly deep arm-chair. It was none
other than Mrs. Grantly, looking the picture

of piquant languor, and arrayed In the most
charming of tea-gowns. ' I guess, Duchess,'
she said, ' I'm just tired out. I've been around
for the last two hours showing Barnes whereto
place the flowers. Well, Mr. Vernon, and
how are you by this time ? Are you getting
along pretty well out here ? '

Vernon made some answer to this, but
one so little In his usual manner, that Mrs.
Grantly was struck by It. ' Duchess,' she
exclaimed, ' here Is Mr. Vernon quite out of
sorts. He thinks, like Lord Surblton, that
all life is hollow.'

That's a great deal more than Lord Sur-briton
himself Is,' said the Duchess, ' at least
at six o'clock In the morning. I've been telling
him, and I may now tell Mr. Vernon, that if
they think life hollow, they had better go in
as I do, not for cold plum-pudding, but for
old furniture. Look, Mr. Vernon, there is
my last purchase — those six Louis 6"^/^^ chairs.

I bought them at Grasse, out of the house of
a certain notary. Four thousand francs is
the sum he has done me out of ; and now his
daughter, I hear, is going to law with him,
because she declares they are an heir-loom.'

Vernon praised the chairs with as much
interest as he could muster, and then forced
himself to say something a propos of the fancy
ball.

You'd better,' said the Duchess, ' be getting
a dress ready, for I can tell you, we shan't
allow any idle make-shifts — none of your black
dress coats with a bit of pink satin tacked onto
them.'

I have a dress,' said Vernon. 'It is a

Spanish pedlar's. It makes me look rather a

blackguard, but I suppose that doesn't matter.'

Oh, dear no,' said the Duchess. ' It will

only make you popular.'

'And when said Vernon, 'is this festivity
to be } '

As soon as we can manage It. I don't
quite know yet who will be in the house, but
I shall know more presently, when the post
comes. I mean to ask about a hundred from
Cannes, and about half that number from
Nice.'

At this moment tea made Its appearance,
and with the tea a large budget of letters.
You must excuse me,' said the Duchess, as
she tore open envelope after envelope, ' but
these are all from our expected guests. I
think,' she went on presently, when the work
of Inspection was over, ' I think we may
manage the ball towards the end of the
coming week. Money Moreton comes tomorrow,
who will of course lead the cotillon,
and I must have a talk with him about it.'

The sight of the post's arrival made Vernon
restless. He longed to go home to see
if there were no letters for him ; but the
Duchess loved conversation, and he was unable

to get free. At last, however, a sudden
rescue came. Captain Grantly entered the
room, with the 'Sporting Times' in his hand.
In an instant the Duchess turned to him, and
a sudden gust of the spirit sent her thoughts
in a new direction. ' Well, Captain Grantly,'
she exclaimed, ' and what about the City and
Suburban ? '

Vernon saw his opportunity, and at once
made use of it ; but when he was at the door
he was again recalled for a moment. * Mr.
Vernon,' said her Grace, *come and dine with
us tomorrow. We shall be a larger party by
that time.'

He had no excuse to plead, so he accepted
and went his way.

This plunge into the common noises of
life confused him at first as a sudden fall
from a cuff might. It made him feel for the
moment doubtful where he was. Perhaps m
some degree this was a slight relief to him,

VOL. II. p

but the shock soon wore away, and his former
cares returned to him. When he entered his
own house, however, he at once found food
for excitement. Lying on his table was a
letter from Miss Walters. It was dated ' San
Remo.'

We arrived here,' she wrote, ' at about
six o'clock. There was such a lovely sunset
such spaces of clear primrose, fading behind
violet hills. I don't know why — but as I
looked at it, it made me think of you. Perhaps
it IS because I associate you with everything
that is pure, and suggests withdrawal
from earth.' As Vernon read this he raised
the letter to his lips and kissed it. * The post
goes at ten,' it went on ; ' and I have very
little time ; but I must, I must write to you.
I have been so saddened this evening. Mrs.
Crane has been talking to me about Alic
Campbell — only for a few minutes, it is true ;
but she will begin again tomorrow. It is so

hard — I was going to say so tiresome ; but
this is not the thing that I want to write about.
It is you — it is only you. I want to tell you
how good, how forbearing you have been tome
; and yet words can never give my meaning.
No, my own, and nothing ever can,
unless some day or other my life does. I was
miserable when you knew me, but it was with
a hopeless misery. There was no germ of
any amendment in it, and the only effort I
made was a lazy effort to kill it. Don't you
remember what I said to you that first morning
in the garden, about my thinking that the
Church laid too much stress upon purity ? I
tried to persuade myself that we daily — even
the best of us — did things far worse than
those special things that tormented me. But
oh, I could not. I was but a very half-hearted
liar to myself; and you at a touch
put all my lies to flight. Had you not done
that I should have gone on sinking deeper.

p 2

You found me not so much drowning* as being
sucked down in a quicksand ; and you held
out a hand to help me. If you do not let me
go, I shall by-and-by, I hope, free myself;
but oh, I have one prayer to make to you.
Do not be too hard on me. Make a little
concession to my extreme weakness. Let
me love you and love goodness for your sake,
a little while longer, without asking me to do
more than that. Some day, if you will still
help me, and hold me, and keep me pressed
close to you, I may be able to say what I
suppose you want me to say : — *' I love God
even more than I love you ; and yet for this
very reason I love you more than ever." But
I can't say that yet. Have patience: I shall
learn in time. I wonder, I often wonder —
was God ever as kind to a sinner as you
have been ? Your own unhappy Cynthia.'

All this covered several pages, and from
the middle of them there dropped out a small

packet. The nature of this was explained ina
brief postscript : ' I have found In my despatch
box the enclosed little picture of myself.
I hate It for what it reminds me of ;
but if you can allow it to remind you only of
me, perhaps you might like to have it.'

Vernon undid the wrappings of silver
paper, and found within a small oval photograph,
finished with extreme skill like a
miniature. There Miss Walters was ; there
was no mistaking her. She was in a white
ball dress, with her fair shoulders visible, and
a scarlet and silver opera-cloak clinging, but
barely clinging to them. Her eyes looked
full at you ; her cheek rested on her beautiful
clasped hands ; and round her fair hair was a
wreath of the darkest myrtle-leaves. Vernon
gazed at it fascinated ; It seemed to speak to
him. There was In her cheeks a deeper
rose-tint than, when he had known her, was
habitual. He could have almost fancied that

they blushed because he looked on them.
What did the picture mean ? Her expression
in it, her very attitude, was ambiguous. It
might be that of a Magdalen in sanctity, on
the brink of relapsing into sin; or a Magdalen
in sin on the eve of seeking for the Saviour.
As he continued looking, the Duchess and
her friends faded in his memory till they became
nothing but Irksome shadows ; and his
one impulse was to immure himself with the
image of this beautiful woman. The direction
his thoughts were taking became soon apparent
to him. * If she will not be God's,' he
said, ' she must and she shall be mine ! ' He
looked at the picture again, and he noticed a
new detail in it. On her bosom there hung
a locket. His attention fixed on this, and it
seemed to him that it bore some inscription.
There was a small magnifying glass on the
table close at hand, and with its aid he deciphered
two initials. They were * J. S.'

*Jack Stapleton!' he exclaimed, and
seizing the picture he tore It into small fragments.


He was a sober man again. He now
went back to her letter. He read It, and he
re-read it. There was much In It, but not
all that he longed for. The anxiety that had
preyed upon him, the anxiety for another's
sake, once more took hold upon him ; and
when night came he had still failed to be
comforted.

The day following he wrote again to
Miss Walters. His letter expressed the
same solicitude as his last one, and his day
was occupied with the same thoughts about
her. As for himself, and his own private
claims on her, these were cauterised, so to
speak, by the fire of his unselfish longings.
Her welfare, not his own satisfaction, was in
literal truth the one thing that engrossed him
at least the one personal thing. There is

THE NINETEENTH CENTURY,

that exception necessary. For with his
wishes for Miss Walters wider thoughts
would mix themselves ; and he could no
but identify the hopes of the human race, asa
whole, with those he entertained or despaired
of for one woman in particular.

Much to his annoyance a certain recollection
haunted him — the recollection of his
engagement to dine that night with the
Duchess.

"^T was not to be helped, however.
As eight o'clock was striking, the
tall doors of the hotel were being
thrown wide to receive him. Well-trained
servants, with all the manners of London,
were adroitly helping him to get rid of his
great-coat. More doors were opened, and
then, sharply and in an instant, came the
sea-like murmur of the polite world conversing.


The Duchess's party had indeed increased
by this time. The dim air of the drawing-room,
starred with subdued lamp - light,

seemed full of varied colourings, from the
dresses of divers ladles. Vernon as he
entered had almost a sense of shyness. His
eyes were not dazzled, but he felt as if his
mind were blinking. He was breathing an
atmosphere that it seemed he had long been
a stranger to. Here was the London world
once more enfolding him with its familiar
sights and sounds, and full of the memories
of the pleasures it once gave him. He felt
it to be all unreal. It gave him a giddy
sense, as if he had just come off a steamer.
Still he was obliged to exert himself ; it was
impossible to shrink into a corner. Before
long he discovered an old acquaintance or
two, and as he moved from one to the other,
he felt himself getting more at home again.
When they went into dinner, Miss Ethel
fell to his share, looking exceedingly bright
and pretty ; and she reminded him with a
slight tone of reproach, that she had met him

before in London. The long dinner table,
with all its gleam and glitter, gave vernon
an experience like that of a saint's inverted.
He was being dazzled by a vision — not of the
next world, but this ; and it seemed to be
moving him to renew his old communion
with it. Miss Ethel's brightness began presently
to tell on him. It was of a quiet,
almost a demure kind, but it possessed the
power of provoking men to respond to it >
nor did Vernon prove an exception. Champagne
too came to assist Its influence, and
very soon he began to laugh quite naturally.
By the middle of dinner he had become so
mundane In his mind, that he turned round
and glanced at his neighbour on the other
side. He wondered Ashen he had done this,
that he had not done so sooner. She was a
dark woman, singularly beautiful, with voluptuous
long-lashed eyes. In a minute or two
these eyes met Vernon's, and said plainly

that she would be very glad to talk to him :
and upon this he achieved one of the prettiest
of all toy adventures — the breaking that dainty
delicate ice-film which exists between guests
in the same house, when they have not been
introduced formally.

After dinner, when the gentlemen had
rearranged themselves, Vernon found that
sitting next to him was the Lord Lieutenant
of his county — a peer of great distinction,
and a Conservative ex-minister. Here was
a new distraction. The noble lord at once
plunged into politics and home matters ; and
he soon gave them a flattering personal turn.
I can tell you,' he said, ' you made yourself

extremely popular in shire. I was

talking the other day to one of the farmers
from your part, who calls himself — so he
told me — a Radical. Well, in spite of your
politics, you had won his heart, I can assure
you ; and I hear the same story of you in

various other quarters. The Workmen's
Conservative Club, which you did so much
to help forward, is getting on admirably. I
hope sincerely that you are still thinking of
Parliament. I've not the least doubt, for my
own part, that if there were a petition, we
should unseat Tom Bowden ; and in the event
of another contest, no one would have a chance
against you.'

All this discourse put Vernon in better
spirits. He began to feel he was waking up
in earnest. He waived the allusions to himself,
although he was not insensible to them ;
but he plunged with interest into various
questions of politics ; and the image of Miss
Walters, which had been hitherto still watching
him, seemed to melt at such magic words
as land, labour, and capital.

Meanwhile, there had been a change
made in the drawing-room. A large curtain
at one end had been raised, and displayed the

drop-scene of a charming miniature theatre.
The gentlemen once more showed themselves ;
and, to the slight alarm of certain of them, it
appeared there were to be some charades.
Vernon was pressed to take part, but he refused
stoutly. His sadness, banished for a
moment, was already coming back to him.
He found, however, that no denial would betaken
; and when he realised that he would
be acting with his dark-eyed neighbour of
the dinner-table, he consented with sufficient
grace.

As the corps dramatique were retiring
to mature their plans, he discovered a
familiar presence, which had till now escaped
him. This was Mrs. Crane, exceedingly
well pleased with herself for being of the
Duchess's party, and looking at him with
a charity all her own. She informed him
she was not going to act herself, but that she
was ready to do her best in the green-room,

and that she would rouge or powder anybody,
provided it was not a woman. Nothing
could have been less pleasant to Vernon
than the apparition of this lady ; and though
he tried to be as civil as he could to her, he
left her on the very first opportunity.

The charades began. Vernon felt from
the first moment that he and his dark-eyed
beauty had some sort of attraction for each
other ; and when the concluding act came,
it was his part to make love to her. From
old habit he could not help infusing a flavour
of personal tribute into the tender things he
said to her : and when, at the end of the scene,
he had to lead her off the stage, he continued
the process till he had brought her out of
doors into the moonlight. There he remained
talking with her, leaning against a great
vase of geraniums. All his attentions to her
were as unreal as a ghost's ; but for this very
reason he did not attempt to check them,

and they certainly to one observer looked
marked enough. This observer was Mrs.
Crane, who was leaning against the window-curtains
; and, as she observed, the small
passion broke in her, which, by straining a
compliment, might perhaps be called her
jealousy. It was a passion certainly of no
very dreadful intensity. It might lead her
to laugh from malice ; it would never make
her pale from rage ; and instead of poisoning
its object, she would be far more likely to
play him a practical joke.

CHAPTER III.

HE events of that evening were
not without their after-effect on
Vernon. He carried away with
him from the Duchess's a certain amount of
excitement, which deranged his mind and
was very far from pleasing it. Since his intimacy
with Miss Walters, it was as though
he had been descending deep into the hidden
places of life, and the world on the surface,
with its laughter, noise, and sunlight, had
faded away to a mere shadowy memory. His
only companions had been thoughts ot sin.

VOL. IT. o

and holiness, and the awful gulf between
them ; and his only lights had been tapers at
shrines for prayer. But now the darkness
seemed to be slowly parting, and the day and
the things of day appearing like grey clouds
through it. Sounds which he thought he had
said good-bye to for ever, once more assailed
his ears, and mixed themselves grotesquely
with the voices to which only he had of late
been listening. He felt as though two worlds
had come into collision, and he was surrounded
by the dissolving fragments of both of
them. The world of prayer, of penitence, and
of aspiration, where sin was the one calamity,
and communion with God the one success
worth striving for ; the world, on the other
hand, of balls and duchesses, of private
theatricals, and the gossip of Mayfair —
these two worlds seemed to have struck and
wrecked each other, and each seemed equally
unreal.

So Vernon felt when he lay down to rest ;
so he felt too when he awoke next morning.
But next morning there was a new symptom in
him. The world which had thus come back
again, he now felt had brought with it a breath
of grateful air. He had been amused for
moments, and had forgotten the burden that
was bound to him ; and it was on his lips —
only he checked himself — to say in so
many words, ' I have climbed up out of a
charnel house, and have breathed the air of
heaven.'

He was first conscious of this change of
disposition when he began to write to Miss
Walters, which he did that afternoon. His
words and thoughts would not flow freely as
hitherto. The intense solicitude which had
racked him for days into misery was more or
less relaxed. It was not that his intention
for a moment wavered. He was still resolved,
as much as ever, to help her ; but

Q2

he was now master of the resolve, the
resolve was no longer master of him. He
was not happy, he had not become lighthearted.
He was in some ways more wretched
than ever ; but a vision of happiness, a vision
of gay spirits, had, like a gleam of sunshine,
once more broken across his life. * Ah,
Cynthia, Cynthia,' he thought, ' why do you
compel me to be serious ? Could I only be
sure that you had recovered your own natural
strength, that you were strong and confident
in your own self-respect, how happily we
might walk together ! Our fears, our hopes,
our anxieties need not be kept always on the
stretch. What could I not give to be able to
laugh again without an aching heart ! ' The
consciousness of such feeling in himself had,
so far as he knew, one effect only. It
turned his moral devotion to Miss Walters
from an impulse into a duty. Because he
found some difficulty in writing to her, he

only wrote more earnestly, and with intense
consideration.

He had just completed this task — it was
then about four o'clock — when two male
figures passed the windows of his library.
A moment after these were announced and
entering. They were Lord Surbiton and the
Conservative ex-minister. The visit, it appeared,
was one of more than ordinary compliment.
There was something like business
at the bottom of it, and of a very flattering
nature. The ex-minister had just received
intelligence that a relation of his own, who
sat for a certain borough, was to accept the
Chiltern Hundreds, and it was now suggested
to Vernon that here was a new opening for him.
The conversation lasted for some time, and
then Vernon was left to consider the matter
over. The new range of prospects that were
now presented to him stirred his mind like
fresh bracing sea-wind, and he wandered out of

doors to digest the sudden excitement. He
paced nearly the same ground that he had paced
two days ago, but with different thoughts
to busy him He passed again the gates of
the Chateau St. John, but he did not stop
now to peer through the bars and meditate.
Instead of that, he again had recourse to
Stanley.

My dear fellow,' he exclaimed, as he
broke Into the priest's sitting-room, * I have
come to have another talk with you.'

Stanley stared at his visitor. It was
hardly the same Vernon. A new light
danced In his eyes, there was a happy smile
on his lip. ' Stanley,' he went on, ' I
have taken your advice at last. I am going
to commit myself, or at least I shall try todo
so. There Is another chance of my
getting into Parliament, and if matters turnout
as I think they will, I shall be going home
directly.'

I am very glad to hear It,' said Stanley.

You will find,' he went on, smiling, ' that to
have a useful purpose before you, will change
your views about many things.'

It not only will,' said Vernon. ' It has
already done so. I have a little property in
the East end of London. A project has
revived in my mind with regard to that,
which I had a year ago, but which I have
since let drop. It is for a kind of workhouse
arranged on a new principle, which shall give
more relief than such places do at present,
and yet be without what I consider their
chief drawbacks. I made the plan for the
building myself, and had arranged nearly
every detail. I thought, for a sort of motto
above the door, to put this : " Come unto me,
all ye that travail and are heavy-laden, and I
will refresh you." '

x\nd who was the '*!"?' said Stanley.

Did that mean pott ? Take care, Vernon,

take care ! Have we not already agreed to
distrust too eager emotion ? '

Vernon, however, was not to be disheartened.
All his serious thoughts, all his
anxieties to find something in life worth
working for, forced themselves into the mould
of this new excitement ; and Stanley, as he
heard him talk, began to feel stronger hopes
of him. Vernon indeed at this moment drew
vigour from three sources. First there was
the thought of Miss Walters. She was a
beautiful woman, she had a strong hold on
him, and it seemed in his power to redeem
her whole character. Then there was this
prospect of active life suddenly breaking in
on him ; and lastly there was the pleasant
world at the Duchess's, which was stinging
him back into common social consciousness.
This last influence indeed so far increased
upon him, that on the following day he proposed
to give a luncheon-party : and the idea

being approved by everyone, arrangements
were made accordingly.

The life of Miss Walters meanwhile had
been outwardly less eventful, but not less so inwardly.
Whenever she could she retired to her
own bedroom, the view from which was beautiful
: and at a table by the window she pored
over Vernon's letters. The first that reached
her from him, after she had left the Chateau
St. John, was the one to which she recurred
the oftener. The strength of the feelings it
stirred in her may be gathered from the very
first words of her answer.

My beloved,' she wrote, with the accent
duly inserted — a fact which made her smile
herself after she had written it, ' I should be
indeed ungrateful if I did not live for you,
since I know you would die for me. As I
read your letter, it was as though you were
close to me — as though your arms were round
my waist holding me. Will you ever know

what to a woman that sense is of being held,
of being clasped, of being supported ? It
seems to draw the very soul out of one. —
If you were here I could fall on my knees and
worship you. Between these two last sentences
do you know what I have done ? For a good
ten minutes I have been leaning forwards,
with my face upon your letter, thinking,
thinking, thinking about you. It was very
silly, no doubt ; but oh, my darling, could
you only know what my thoughts were ! You
need have no fear for me, as long as you fill
my being. There is no room for any evil
then. But I won't bore you with my affection
any longer. I will tell you what has
been boring me. Dear Mrs. Crane has been
at me again about Alic Campbell. She is
always asking me if I don't like him ; and I
believe if I have ever said a word in his
favour, she has written off and told him of it.
I do like him in a way. But he treated me

like a saint, and a simple saint into the bargain,
which you know I am very far from
being. That is one thing in him which was
always jarring me. But he is your friend.
I would like him for your sake, if he only
would not love me. Well, Mrs. Crane has
heard from him, and he is coming, it seems,
back from Sorrento soon. What shall we
do ? Poor fellow, I am very sorry for him.
He will want to come to you, at least for a
day or two. You told me he would do that.
You must think over what had best be done
about it.'

The next letter she received from Vernon
contained the full news of the arrival of the
Duchess's party, and of his own intercourse
with them. This, however, was very soon
told ; and he then passed on to graver subjects,
repeating his former advice, and his
former wishes for her welfare. ' As to mere
affection,' he said in concluding, ' I cannot

express myself properly. But you must
remember me as I have been, when I have
been speaking to you ; and with the aid of
this memory you must read between the
lines when I write to you. If I did not care
as I do for you I could pour out fine expressions
by the page; but to be really
serious makes me silent'

This letter crossed that of Miss Walters's
which has just been given above, and, though
she tried to avoid the impression, it struck
her as a cold return to it. It seemed to
blow like a chilly air over her ; it produced
in her a sense of isolation ; and though she
succeeded in concealing its exact nature from
herself, she could not avoid giving it some
expression. This took the form, when she
wrote that day to Vernon, of begging him to
come to San Remo. * We are planning an
expedition,' she said, ' into the mountains
behind here. They are so beautiful — a world

of woods and gorges, where every valley has
its snow-fed river in it, and every height its
village and its domed sanctuary. We think
of going next Friday. Oh, if you could only
come ! We want it to be Friday, because
on Saturday the other sirs. Crane — the one
you know, will be here for a night or two,
and I would so far rather go without her.
Try and come. It is a very short journey,
and hour by hour I feel I want }'ou more.
I told you,' she went on — her pen was now
running away with her, ' that I felt as though
your arm was round me. Do not withdraw
it ; I might so easily fall away again. To
see you even for one day would be a kind of
sacrament to me. Come to me — oh, do
come — keep my life full of you, or something
else will fill it. I can throw a new
light, I think, on the way in which you have
helped me. You have made me believe
again in the possibility of goodness in men.

Before I knew you I thought they were all
bad. The Duke of Wellington said that the
cause of panic in an army was the belief
on the part of each soldier that the others had
lost confidence, and would not obey orders.
I was suffering from a kind of moral panic.
Human nature is not logical, and the feminine
nature, I suppose, is the least logical
part of it. It is for that reason that example
helps me so. I am not logical, my love.
All my trust in goodness, and all my strength
for it, is founded upon you.'

The letter went, and before she could get
an answer to it, there came another from
Vernon. In this there was more description
of the various doings at the Duchess's, and a
long account of the suggestions made to him
apropos of standing for Parliament. ' If this
plan,' he wrote, ' really comes to anything, it
may require me to return very soon to
England. If I were not anxious for you,

I should go happily ; but how can I be
happy when every step I take, my heart
is almost broken with anxiety for fear a
poor wounded child I am carrying may be in
pain ? '

As Miss Walters read this, she was conscious
of a painful agitation. She repeated
an action which she had already described to
Vernon. Her head drooped, she leaned
heavily upon the writing-table, and her face
rested blindly on the letter that lay before
her. 'Going' — she thought — 'going back
to England ! and so little said of his
sorrow for leaving me ! ' These were her
two thoughts, and long as she remained
motionless, there were none but these that
occupied her.

By-and-by, however, a revulsion of feeling
came. She reproached herself and said,
I am selfish. Why should I be always
troubling him ? ' And she set herself then

and there to write to him in a changed
tone. ' I have been wrong,' she began. * I
have been crying to you Hke an unrestrained
child, and I believe I have fostered my sense
of weakness by thus going on deploring it.
Surely it is time that I now felt confident ;
and your last letter, I think, has given me
some reason for being so. It has made me
feel that I can take an unselfish interest in
the career which I hope may be opening to
you. And what a relief to fix one's thoughts
on something utterly apart from one's own
condition — one's own bad or good, and to
project one's interests outwards ! When you
come on Friday, as, my love, I know you will,
what joy it will be to me to talk all this over
with you ! Did I not tell you that I could at
least do one thing for you — that I could
stimulate you to make the very best use of
your powers ? Even now I foresee that when
you come over here, there will be a new light,

a new gladness in those eyes of yours, whose
looks I know by heart ; and which so many a
time I have known full of sadness only.'

In this account of herself, undoubtedly there
was a certain amount of truth ; and she did her
best to bring her feelings into accord with
it altogether. She took Vernon's letter in
her hands, as if she would grasp her nettle,
and went out of doors with it. The house was
fronted by a long strip of garden, which had
a pleasant terrace as its boundary, overhanging
the public road. Beyond the road was
the railway ; beyond that moved the glossy
blue of the sea ; and the view for the
saunterer was framed by the fronds of palm-trees.
It was to this terrace that Miss
Walters took herself; and attempting to
compose her thoughts she paced it to and fro
slowly. Her dress was still of extreme simplicity.
She was very different from the
Miss Walters whose entrance had been so

VOL. TI. R

noted in the restaurant. Still, since the day
that Vernon had marked the change, she
had become more scinde again in some ways.
Her dove-coloured velvet hat, it is true, was
old and faded. Her dress, of the same
colour, was faded too, and was of a
common stuff; but by some magic on her
maid's part or her own, its simplicity savoured
more of the world than of the cloister ; and
she was gloved and shod daintily now as
ever. She had studiously avoided lately
much contemplation of herself in the glass ;
but to-day as she went out, she could not
avoid noticing that she looked beautiful, and
that the faded tints became her ; and in
.spite of her sorrow, there went through hera
thrill of vanity. In an instant this was
cast into the treasury of her dominant passion
; and she said to herself, with her heart
full of Vernon, * My body at least is worthy
of your acceptance.'

Had she wished on the terrace to consult
another looking-glass, she might have found
one in the many glances that were turned
to her from the road below. But of these
she took little heed. So absorbed Indeed was
she in her own thoughts, that a servant from
the house had overtaken her, without her
having heard his footsteps. In his hand was
a tray, and on the tray was a telegram.
Her eye fell first upon the name of the
sender. It was Vernon. Her face flushed
with pleasure. She crushed the paper In her
hand, and continued her walk at an Increased
pace, feeling that between her palm and
fingers she was clasping tight a treasure.
She would not read it yet ; she would enjoy
the throbs of uncertainty, ' Perhaps,' she
thought, ' he may be coming even before
Friday — this evening — this afternoon — perhaps
by the next train.' This last possibility
was suggested by the noise of a railway

2

whistle ; and presently, like a black reptile,
smelling of smoke and coal-dust, the train
went sliding by. She watched the carriage
windows, hoping to detect his face at one
of them ; but not having done this, she
resolved to inspect the telegram. She half
unfolded it ; but then she stayed. Uncertainty
still charmed her ; and she looked
at the unread paper with a smile of pensive
tenderness. It was still not opened, when
the sound of her own name startled her.
It did more than stare her, for she knew
the voice that uttered it. It was that of
Colonel Stapleton. Instinctively she thrust
the telegram into her pocket ; and in a
state of mind that was at first but blank
astonishment, she stood stock still for a
moment, and then went forward and greeted
him. As she did this, there was a smile on
her lips that came of long habit. It is
impossible to make an entire change in one's

manner to a person who is unconscious of
any reason for a change. Some change in
hers, however, there without doubt was, for
the Colonel at once declared she was
grumpy,' and ' out of sorts.' When this
meeting took place they were standing near
a small summer-house ; and by a rapid move
of the Colonel's in another moment they had
sat down in it.

'Come,' said he, 'what on earth is the
matter with you ? You shouldn't treat mein
this way, for I can only stay ten minutes.
I've come over with some lawyer's papers,
for Molly Crane to sign, and in another
half-hour I shall have to start for Nice again.
I heard you were in the garden, so I couldn't
help having one try at finding you.'

The news that the Colonel was going
gave Miss Walters great relief, and brought
a smile to her face that was perhaps more
cordial than she meant it to be ; for the

Colonel took her by the chin and turned her
face towards him. At his touch, however,
she started back abruptly, though the smile
did not desert her.

Remember, Jack,' she said, ' I'm going
to have no more of your nonsense. We are
too old, both of us, for that kind of thing.'

I'm not,' said the Colonel, * though I
believe, at this moment, I'm in too great a
hurry for it. However, I shall be back
here to have another look at our Molly, ina
couple of days. I've engaged a room — a
first-rate one— at the Hotel Victoria. Such
a view from it, I can tell you ! You must
come,' he went on, fixing his gleaming eyes on
her, ' and see it yourself one of these days
little cross, vindictive minx that you
are! '

When the Colonel said he was in a
hurry, he really spoke the truth. There was
a certain bal masque at Nice that evening, to

which he was going to escort a select party of
friends ; and so anxious was he that he
should not miss this, that he very soon was
taking leave of Miss Walters, though without
informing her as to the joys that lay
before him.

As soon as he was out of sight. Miss
Walters took out the telegram, and now she
at once read it. It was not a lengthy document
; it consisted simply of this ; ' I can't
come on Friday. I am asking a party that day
to lunch with me. I will explain by letter.'

The curtness and the coldness, as she
thought it, of this despatch had an effect as
sudden on her as that of a physical blow.
Her first outward expression of her inward
feelings was a rapid movement to the
parapet of the terrace, on which she leaned
her arms, and looked fixedly towards the
railway-station. 'What a fool I was she
murmured, ' to have driven Jack away ! '

An hour after this she was in her bedroom
kneeling, for the most part silent, but
now and again whispering, * How wicked I
am ! Shall I never make myself good for
anything ? ' The same night she began
another letter to Vernon.

I don't know,' she wrote, ' if I shall send
you this. I shall see as I go on. I don't
like to trouble you, and to make you
wretched ; but nothing that I could tell you
could make you half so wretched as I myself
am. You tell me to say my prayers ; you
tell me to love God. I try to do both. I
have tried each night to do so. But I feel
more or less as you do. It is not a man's
privilege only to find his reason at war with
his faith. A woman sometimes can have
the same greatness thrust upon her ; she,
too, can doubt the reality of all that she
thinks most valuable. I have had bitter
experience of this, these days I have been

away from you. All the holy things that we
were brought up to long for, and for which,

till I had ruined myself, I did long what

do you think they now seem to me ? Like
one of those fabulous rocks in the middle of a
great ocean, which sailors see sometimes, and
which then disappear suddenly. What tricks
are played one by the various faculties of
one's being ! Yes ; I believe one five
minutes, and I disbelieve another. You know
my opinion about the Catholic Church. I have
often told you how impossible it is to me to
believe In its teachings literally. Well — what
do you think I have done, and done in real
good faith, more than once lately ? I have
prayed to Saint Mary Magdalene ! What
does it all mean, my friend, this bizarre confusion
of emotion, thought, and judgment "^
If I had no faith, I should not be so
miserable as I am. That Is what seems so
hard to me. I have enough faith left to make

me miserable, but not enough to make me
hopeful. My faith has lost its courage ; but
like other cowards, it can still bully. My
life is bitter with the lees of a belief whose
finer spirit is evaporating.

Do you not see how, when one is in this
state, the desire for self-respect becomes of
the same nature as one's belief and faith ?
Self-respect, it is always being whispered to
one, is nothing ; neither is there any need for
any self-condemnation. It is our judgment
of our past, not our past, that fills us with
self-reproaches.

My friend, out of this chaotic mind of
mine your love might call peace and order.
But now — what shall I say to you ? I begin
to feel, or at least to fear, that your love is

getting . But no. I will not finish the

sentence. I will wait till I hear what you
say tomorrow morning. My darling, I dread
your letter.'

Vernon's letter arrived. It was full of
regrets that he could not come to San Remo
on Friday. It was full too of little details
and incidents that he judged would amuse Miss
Walters ; and it begged for her sympathy
in his hopes of a new career. It was impossible
to say that it was not written most
affectionately. But for all this, her Instinct
observed a want in it — not a want she could
blame, one only she could shudder and wonder
at. It did not put him In a different
light before her, but her own relation to him.
Her answer expressed this.

Dear she wrote, continuing her last
night's letter where she had left off, ' I have
got yours of this morning, and I think I will
send you what I have already written. I am
sorry you can't come on Friday, but I have
no doubt you are amused better where you
are. So far as I can gather, }-ou are very gay.
That must be pleasant. And now let me tell

you that I have done one thing that you told
me to do. I have been reading between the
lines of your letters, and doing this very carefully
; and I feel that a change is coming
over them. I can't explain to you what or
where it is. You write still as kindly — even
as lovingly as ever. But my instincts, as you
know, are very quick ; and my instincts tell me
this — that you, though you do not yet know
it, are getting tired of me. I do not complain.
I know I am not worthy to keep you :
and yet you cannot wonder if I feel it a little
bitterly, when I see my last hope in this
world, and for aught I know in another,
slipping so soon — so soon away from me.
My aunt and I are coming back in a day or
two.

A letter has been sent on to us from
your dear friend the Duchess, to ask us to
come to her fancy ball. I think we shall go.
I have a dress with me which I once wore in

Florence ; and I shall have It done up at
Nice, where we stop for a night on our way
back. Of course you will go. I expect you
will find it very amusing.

I am sorry to have to write as I have
done. It took me some time to bring myself
to do so ; but it is best to be quite honest,
at least with the people one is fond of.'

What reply to expect to this Miss
Walters did not know. The effort she had
made in writing it, and in acknowledging
to herself what she had said in it, left her in
dull dejection. At luncheon, however, this
was • somewhat broken in upon by an unwelcome
and unexpected sight. When she
went down into the dining-room her aunt
and Mrs. Crane were already seated: but
they v.^ere not alone. Miss Walters perceived
that there was a beautifully dressed visitor
with them, whom in a moment more she
recognised. It was the other Mrs. Crane.

This lady was fresh from the Cap de
Juan, and was full of accounts of the Duchess
and her doings. Many smart people were
shy of Mrs. Crane; but Mrs. Crane was
never shy of them. Everyone of a sufficient
position was spoken of by her with a familiarity
that implied anything but contempt,
though it continually took the form of it : and
an immense amount of gossip was rattled off
by her during luncheon about Ally this and
Mabel that, with their proper style and title
sometimes added in a parenthesis. Vernon s
name occurred several times. He was going
to give a luncheon-party, he had written a
charade, he had taught a young lady to play
lawn-tennis, he had frequent private conferences
with the Conservative ex-minister.
All this, however, was being only dropped
by the way, amongst the other flowers of information
that Mrs. Crane was scattering, till
Miss Walters said with affected carelessness,

Mr. Vernon seems to be contributing
much to the general amusement, and I have
no doubt to his own

There was something in her tone — a
certain pain or pique in it — that touched
as it were a spring in Mrs. Crane's being.
Mrs. Crane had amused herself so well at
the Duchess's with a certain young guardsman,
that Vernon's coolness to her had quite
escaped her memory. But when Miss
Walters spoke, it somehow or other came
back to her, and seemed in common justice to
demand some slight punishment. Memory
and imagination at once came to her aid, in
friendly struggle as to which should be most
active.

Mr. Vernon,' she said, ' may amuse
other people well enough, but he amuses
himself even more. Perhaps, however, it is
ill-natured to say that, for there was one

Other person at least who I imagine has been
as well pleased as himself.'

Miss Walters, as she heard this, drew a
sharp breath, and her hand closed tightly on
a fork she was idly trifling with. Her eye
fixed on Mrs. Crane with a helpless stare of
attention, and she was struggling for self-possession
to make some common remark on
the matter. Her aunt, however, saved her
the trouble.

And is Mr. Vernon,' she said smiling,
a great admirer of young ladies ? What
should you say, Cynthia ? You and he are
such friends.'

Mrs. Crane shrugged her shoulders a
little. ' As for young ladies,' she said, ' it
depends what we mean by that. Mr.
Vernon likes them married. There's one who
just suits him at the Cap de Juan now, and he
sits in her pocket every evening.'

Miss Walters at last contrived to force a

smile to her lips, and to utter three words,
while it was still on them. ' Who is that ? *
she said.

It was the lady with the dark eyes, to
whom Vernon had made love in the charade.
She's one of my best friends,' Mrs. Crane
said, * so of course one can allow for her little
eccentricities ; but we all know that dear Lily
is not bashful.'

Miss Walters discovered after luncheon
that Mrs. Crane was going to stay at San
Remo for a day or two, and for the first time
in her life she sought her company voluntarily.
She proposed that they should go a walk together.
During the course of this tete-astute,
Mrs. Crane was brought back to the subject
of Vernon's doings, and induced to give more
particulars, which she did on the following
principle. Mr. Ruskin has observed that one
of the commonest faults in painting is the
representation by the painter of more than his

VOL. IT. s

eye sees. He thinks he has seen distinct
leaves, whereas really he has only seen green
shadow. Mrs. Crane was afflicted with
exactly the same delusion. She saw shadow,
and she thought she had seen kisses. The
little scene on the terrace, after the charade
was over, was presented in this way to Miss
Walters, and a number of other incidents of
something the same nature.

The following morning when Mrs. Crane
met Miss Walters, ' My dear child,' she
exclaimed, 'what a lovely frock that is
of yours ! You weren't looking half so
well yesterday. Indeed, I did think you
were wearing the willow for a certain
friend of ours, whose little doings we talked
about. But this, I suppose, is put on in
honour of Colonel Jack ; as to-day, I believe,
he is going to honour San Remo.

CHAPTER IV.

ERNON's time meanwhile had
been passing pleasantly enough;
but though his conduct here and
there might have been such as to explain, it
was in no case such as to justify, Mrs. Crane's
conception of it. The letter, therefore, that
Miss Walters had sent to him, when she received
his telegram, was an unexpected and
inexplicable blow. Its immediate result was to
rouse his anxiety for her to a greater intensity
than it had ever reached before ; and he
proceeded at once to write to her, with even
more than his accustomed earnestness. He

S 2

was full of wonder at the impression he
had given her ; he was hurt bitterly at
having hurt her. But next day, when he
thought the matter over again, he could not
deny that there was some foundation for her
charge, even though there might be no direct
truth in it. The brightness of the world certainly
had attracted him. It had come to
him like fresh air and sunshine ; and it had
been little short of rapture to him to be able
to laugh gaily and talk lightly again. He
could not deny, too, that amongst the fair
guests of the Duchess there were several
whose good graces he had found some
pleasure in winning. He had felt himself to
be popular ; he had felt himself to be fit for
the world. He had felt himself to be liked
by many ; and he had found this a refreshing
change after having been loved by one. He
acknowledged all this to himself; but was
there, he asked, any wrong in it ?

What answer, he wondered, would this
letter of his eHcit from her ? He had to
wait a day before it excited any. It reached
Miss Walters the afternoon of her walk with
Mrs. Crane, and that evening she was unable
to write anything. But by the evening
following her answer was written and posted.
Vernon at last received it.

My dear, dear friend,' she said, * I have
received that last kind letter of yours. You
will think that my answer to it is very strange.
I am intensely weary ; there is the same
languid heaviness in my mind that there is
in the air before a thunderstorm. I cannot
tell, but I think, perhaps, that this may be a
good condition for me to write in. I am not
perturbed for the moment by any violent
feeling.

You know how little sanguine I have
been about my own case. My mind misgave
me all the time, that I needed more help than I

had any right to expect of you. The intense,
the tender devotion that you have shown
for me, and for my welfare — I know how
true it has been. I do not for a moment
doubt it. I am not one of those unjust
women who say that a feeling cannot be true
because it does not last for ever. We do not
judge of bad feelings in that way. Why
should we judge so of good ones ? No ; I believe
that you have had at heart my welfare in
the truest and best of ways. I believe that you
have loved, and that you do love me. Were
I other than I am — were I only now what I
once might have been, we might have been
happy all our lives together. It is my fault,
it is not yours, that what has happened has
happened. I am speaking deliberately, and
with the conviction that I speak truth, when
I say that the only love, the only devotion
that could have saved and redeemed me,
would have been a devotion too sad and

sorrowful for your bright nature to have
endured It.

Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel ?

I am not applying that line to you, but
somehow or other you suggested It. What
I would say with regard to you Is, who expects
a swallow to carry a millstone ? I in
life should be a millstone hung about your
neck. You could not lift me. There is
nothing left for you but to spread your wings
and leave me.

Dear, the strongest persona I hold I could
have had on you, would have been through
your lower nature. Had you had less self-command,
less self-denial, I might have held
you through that. I know It, though I ought
not to know it. But you can command yourself
; and I revere your strength, because I
realise your temptations. I must explain
myself I say the strongest personal hold.

What is actually your strongest feeling for me,
indeed what is practically now almost your
only feeling for me, is your desire that a soul
should save itself. But listen to me. It is ^
soul, not ny soul, that you are anxious for.

You remember the little lame child you
so kindly carried to its home. You carried
it in your goodness ; but you were glad to
put your burden down. I am to you like
that poor child.

I have no anger against you as I write
this. I feel no bitterness cr desperation ;
though these may very soon come on me.
But I am calm, just yet.

I have not formed this judgment of you
from your own letters only. I have heard of
you from a third person — a person I cannot
endure, and who, I am sure, said what she
did say out of a more or less defined ill-nature.
The person I speak of was Mrs.
Crane, who tells me that she has been at the

Duchess's ; and seems to have kept a sharp
eye on your doings. There are several
things she told me which I, of course, do not
believe for one instant. But, subtracting the
falsehood, I could easily see the truth. I
could see how, as the world and its brightness
once more came back to }'ou, your
letters to me grew not less kind, not less
purely intentioned, but shorter and less
earnest. If a man would really redeem a
woman, she must be all in all to him. That
is a truth, dear friend, you have not learnt
yet. I think — yes, I think that, had I been
different, I might perhaps have taught it to
you. But never mind. The dream is over.
Had it been longer, the awakening would
have been harder to bear even than it is.
After all, what does it matter ? You know
many women as bad as I am, perhaps even
worse, and you think their company pleasant

enough, and you never waste a tragic thought
on them.

Well, we have talked about the world.
It will be in the world that we next meet.
The fancy ball is the day after tomorrow,
and we do not return till that evening. We
shall meet again there. I wonder if you will
recognise me.

I told you Mrs. Crane had been over
here. Someone else comes to-day. Ah
me!'

She had added in a postscript, * No, you
are not all I thought you were. Surely were
you what a man ought to be, you would be
able to love in a more human way than you
do. There Is something wanting in you.
You are good enough to make me wish for
holiness ; not good enough to make me able

to attain to it. You are .' But here she

stopped, and tore off the leaf on which all this
had been written.

miss WALTERS in her letter had
spoken no more than the truth.
Until the ball Vernon was notable
to see her, neither was there any chance
of writing to her. It is true that the ball
was to be the following evening, and the
interval of waiting was not long. But to him
it seemed long. He was perplexed, bewildered,
miserable. Miss Walters filled his
mind to the exclusion of all other thoughts.
They had been driven away by her letter, as
though by a scourge of cords. He could fix
his attention on nothing excepting her. His
grave plans for the future, his pleasant amusements

of the hour or the moment, were all
ruined by her image. It shattered his peace
like a persistent street organ. It would not
let him alone. It forced itself on his consciousness.
What should he think of Miss
Walters ? What of himself } He could give
himself no answer. In forlorn hope of comfort
he betook himself to Stanley, with whom
lately he had been having much serious intercourse,
and talked long and earnestly with
him about our influence over others, and the
responsibility that influence lays on us.

His acquaintance with Miss Walters was
the first incident in his life that made such influence
a reality to him. That opened his eyes
to the vast and appalling issues that might hang
on his own conduct. It seemed suddenly to
have placed in his hands the entire future of
another ; and he trembled when he saw the
value of what he was thus unexpectedly
holdings He had resolved, however, with the

most Intense sincerity, that he would do his
utmost ; or rather, he had not so much resolved
as been seized with a desire to do so.
The desire had come first, and the resolve
afterwards ; and the thought that here at
least was one good deed made plain for him,
had been a taste of the bread of life to one
who spiritually was starving. But now, it
seemed as if this bread was to be like Dead
Sea fruit. It was turning to ashes in his
mouth. And why ? How had he been false
to his trust ? What on earth had he done
that Miss Walters should write thus to him ?
His first impulse vas to tax Mrs. Crane with
lying, and he trusted very soon to set the matter
right again. But by-and-by he began to
suspect uneasily that in Miss Walters' impression
of him there might be some amount of
truth. He might be wanting, possibly,
in that personal solicitude which was the
thing she seemed to hunger for, and which

indeed he had himself professed ; and this
misgiving was haunting him when he went to
talk with Stanley.

By the time, however, the conversation was
over, he had worked off some of his more painful
excitement, and went away once again prepared
to be sanguine. But his hopes now were
of an anxious and solemn kind. The night
before the ball he spent alone, thinking over his
life, his powers, and what he should really do
with them ; and his earnest purpose with regard
to a single woman tinged with its earnestness
all his other resolutions. As for Miss
Walters he had fears about her of which he
could not define the nature. The closing words
of her letter, in especial, made his mind misgive
him : * I told you Mrs. Crane had been over
here. Someone else comes to-day. Ah
me ! ' Who was the someone else ? What
did it all mean ? There were moments that
night, as he tried to compose himself to sleep,

when he hardly dared to think of this ; and
when after hours of weary tossing, his
eyelids at last closed themselves, he had been
forced to stifle arbitrarily all such doubts by
determination.

With the following morning, however,
they all came back again, and his excitement
before long had grown a physical pain to him.
One picture only was before his eyes all day.
That was his meeting this very night with
Miss Walters ; and as he dwelt continually
upon this single prospect, he felt, or hoped
he felt, that the personal love she longed for
was growing distinct and strong in him.

Evening at last drew on. He had invited
Stanley to dinner. The priest's company
was the only thing that soothed him.
He went upstairs to prepare himself before
his guest's arrival ; and here he experienced
another jar to his feelings. His fancy
dress, now that the time had come for

wearing it, seemed a hateful and degrading
mockery, and he several times thought of
avoiding the ball altogether. How could
he bear to be making a fool of himself
outwardly, when his whole inward being was
as dark as death itself, and concerned with as
serious issues ? But to remain away was even
more hard than to go ; so he overcame his
reluctance, and put on his costume. It was a
relief to him, beyond any of his expectations,
that this was quiet both in form and colour,
and required no alteration, or, as he would
now have called it, disfigurement of his face.
It is true that there should, by rights, have
been a gaudy scarf about his waist, but he
would not submit to this ; and he found
himself, when his toilet was completed, all
in black with the exception of some coarse
stockings. He was simply a Spanish pedlar —
a familiar figure in every town on the Riviera.
He looked so little fanciful, that he might

pass unnoticed amongst any Southern crowd.
He even found something in his appearance
that actually harmonised with his feelings.

Stanley remarked, when he came to
dinner, on the sombre aspect that this dress
gave Vernon, and said with a laugh, ' I should
feel rather afraid of you, if I met you on the
Cap de Juan, in any of these dark lanes. By
the way,' he went on presently, ' you have
not heard, I suppose, about Alic Campbell.'

Vernon started. ' H heard what about him ? '

He is coming to-night, to sleep at my
little Pension. I o-ot a telegram from him a
few hours ago. He is on his way back to
England ; but he only says a word or two.'

The mixed shock and pleasure which this
news caused was not, in one way, a bad
thing for Vernon. It brought him face to
face with an anxious practical embarrassment,
and acted on him as a species of moral
shower-bath. His first fear was that Camp-vol.

II. T

bell would come to him that evening, before
he was safe out of the house : and
his wish was to write to him before
meeting him. ' What time does he come ? '
he asked of Stanley. The answer somewhat
reassured him. It could not well be
before half-past ten.

Vernon abruptly rose from the table.
Stanley,' he said, ' will you excuse me fora
minute or two ? I will write Campbell a
note. I have something particular I wish
to say to him ; and I shall be more at ease
when I have got it off my mind.'

He went into his library, and before long
came back again. ' Perhaps,' he said to
Stanley, * you will give this to Campbell.
Life is full of sad coincidences. This afternoon
I received, sent back to me, a letter I
wrote to him some three weeks ago, begging
him to come and stay with me. There is
something ghastly in having your own

words sent back to you, especially when
you have in many ways much changed since
you wrote them.'

After this Vernon became more restless ;
and his eyes began to gleam with an unnatural
excitement, which contrasted curiously
with the worn look of his face. When
dinner was over, he went to the open
window, and remained there for some moments
silent. The evening was warm, but
the moon had not yet risen, and the sky was
thick with stars. A soft breeze came blowing
up from the sea, and brought a splash of
waves with it. Vernon sniffed the air, as if
it were a kind of smelling-salts, and proposed
to Stanley that they should go outside and
enjoy it. Stanley assented. No sooner were
they on the gravel than Vernon began to step
out vigorously. At an increasing pace they
made the circuit of the garden ; they did the
same thing for the second time. Then the

T 2

garden bounds grew too small for Vernon,
and nothing would satisfy him but that they
should wander out upon the rocks. The
project pleased Stanley ; he was himself being
braced by exercise. The rocks In question
were part of the same reef as that on which
Vernon with other companions had been
clambering not so long ago ; and access was
to be had to them from his own garden, as
well as from the Duchess's. In a few moments
more he and Stanley had descended
a winding path, and found themselves almost
on the sea-level. The long reef before them
was Indented with miniature fiords, In which
the dark water swayed and gleamed under
the starlight. Here the breeze breathed
fresher, the noises of the waves came clearer,
and the naked skies and stars towered
over them in the treeless air.

Presently Vernon began abruptly, ' We
have often, Stanley,' he said, * talked about

human affection ; and even yet I hardly
know what to think about it. Is it more
than, or is it less than, a desire for another's
good ? '

It includes that,' said Stanley, ' but it is
beyond doubt more than that. A desire for
another's good, and a wish or will to work
for it, is what we should have for every
human being ; but if, in speaking of affection,
you mean that special personal longing
which is what we mean by the word usually,
then affection is more than a mere zeal for
souls. Indeed, it is almost impossible to
have the latter, unless you have at least the
capacity for the former. You must have at
least the power of being fond of some one
or of some special ones, or you will never
have the power of being zealous, in God's
sense, for all.'

To me,' said Vernon, * that longing for
the individual seems sometimes but the

intensity of self-indulgence. Stanley, for
reasons which I cannot explain to you, this
has been brought home to me with a fearful
personal force. In following one's own
salvation, one mays be stealing the salvation
of a friend.'

I have no wish,' said Stanley calmly,
to enquire into any of your secrets ; but the
case you state I can very easily imagine. It
is by no means uncommon. The life of the
Christian is full of such paradoxes, and the
Christian philosopher accepts and is not
daunted by them. I have been studying
you, if you will let me say so, for some time
past ; and in a certain way your condition, I
think, is singular. The most sensitive part of
you is the intellect, just as with many men it
is the senses ; and there has fallen full on
your intellect the dissolving forces which are
at work in the world about us. They are
everywhere ; in the air we breathe, in the

light we see by. Only on your mind the
scattered rays have been localized. The
denials of the intellect have gone far, in your
case, towards paralysing the affirmations of
the affections.'

Vernon was picking his way carefully over
the ledges of the rocks ; and this slow fashion
of walking gave him full time to attend to
Stanley. At last he said in a slow constrained
voice, with his eye fixed on the
sea : —

That is just my stumbling block. The
intellect does deny the affirmations of the affections.
Against my will it annihilates them.*

And why is that ? ' said Stanley, with
sudden vigour. ' Is it the fault of your intellect
or your affections ? My dear Vernon, I
know quite well that our intellectual difficulties
are not things to be pooh-pooh'd, nor can
they be in all cases set down as wickedness
or perversity. But believe me, that in many

cases intellectual denial is based upon moral
trifling. The intellect Is a mill. It will
grind if you bring grist to it : if not, it will
only turn and turn. And what brings grist
to it ? First and foremost I should say that
love did. In that thing, so despised of you —
a man's common natural affection for another
human being— is the germ not only of all
morality, but of all philosophy. To love
another, is to affirm the external world ; it is
to create creation, it is to open the eyes to
God. What can the senses do for you ? Can
they even prove to you that you are not alone
in the universe, and that all its shapes and
seeming are anything but modes of your own
aimless consciousness ? No — were it only for
the senses, you would be unredeemed in
dreamland. There Is a passage,' Stanley
went on, ' in the writings of a modern English
physicist — one of the bitterest of the younger
generation of English freethinkers — which

seems to me very happily put, and which I
know well by heart. The inferences, he says,
of physical science are all inferences of my real
or possible feelings ; inferences of something
actually or potentially in my consciousness, not
of anything outside it. There are, however
some inferences which are profoundly different
from those of physical science. When I come
to the conclusion that you are conscious, and
that there are objects in your consciousness
similar to those in mine, I am not inferring
any actual or possible feelings of my own, but
Yovv. feelings, which are not and cannot by any
possibility become objects in my consciousness! ^
I agree with you,' said Vernon ; * that
is very happily put. It is your first step towards
redeeming yourself from dreamland to
realise that you are not the only dreamer. I
was trying some time back to write down my
own feelings with regard to life ; and my one

^ Leciin-cs and Essays, by W. K. Clifford, vol. ii. p. 72.

complaint was that I lived in a world of
shadows, and that my fellow-beings had no
living reality for me.'

Exactly,' said Stanley ; ' that is the very
point I am insisting on. To a man who does
not love, his fellow men will be shadows.
What gives them reality for you is the act of
loving — of loving some other creature of a
like nature with yours. Love truly is in that
way creative. It is the passionate affirmation
of a fact which your senses never can assure
you of. It seems to be small, and to deal
with passing and local issues ; but it contains
in it the assent of your nature to the reality
of the universe. Look at the stars above us
• — look at the sea about us ! It is but a commonplace
of philosophy, which no school
doubts of, to say that all the worlds are held
in the hollows of our own minds. The only
universe you would ever know, or dream or
think of, would perish, so far as you could

tell, with your perishing, were it not for one
belief — that in that universe there were other
minds like yours, which like yours reflected
it. Doubt this, and you must then doubt
everything ; but if you love, you will be unable
to doubt this. The man can never logically
be a sceptic who can say what a man I
know said to a woman who is now dead: 'ein
your soul also, there is for me a universe.
Time, space, and eternity — these are there
also ; so too is the infinite world of matter,
from Orion and the Pleiades to that blue
forget-me-not in your bosom." '

At this moment they were rounding a
small headland that ran out between Vernon's
garden and the large domain of the hotel.
The reef of rocks stretched right ahead of
them, brown and black, towards the open sea.
The moon was still arisen, yet the rocks
looked more distinct than they would have
done under mere starlight ; and here and

there it seemed a wan colour flickered on
them. This was remarked both by' Vernon
and Stanley ; and when they had gone some
paces farther, they suddenly came on the explanation
of it. Far up, beyond a slope of
shrubs and cypress trees, were a thousand
lamps burning, and coloured fumes of emerald-green
and ruby were floating up into the clear
night air ; whilst in the midst of all stood the
great hotel itself, looking like some palace
of enchantment — a mystery of cloud and
marble.

The thought of Miss Walters came to
Vernon with a renewed intensity. He
turned to Stanley and said, ' I must go :
my time is come. I will go this way, I
think, through the Duchess's gardens, if you
can get back without having me to guide you.
Your companionship, my dear fellow, has
been more comfort to me than I can tell you ;
and there is one thing which, if it did not

trouble you, I should like you to do for me.
I told you I had jotted down some of my
thoughts on things — especially such things as
religious faith and affection. I did my best
to be honest, and I wish you would read over
what I wrote. I left it on my writing-table in
the library, in a blue envelope. If you go
through the house you will find it there. And
by the way,' he added, as Stanley and he were
separating, ' if Campbell does not want to goto
bed directly, I shall be back from the ball
soon. He will find me in by half-past twelve.
I am very tired. I shall be sure to be back
by then. Last night I slept ill. To-night
I am looking forward to sleeping better,
and more calmly.'

HEN Vernon parted from the priest,
climbed from the lonely rocks, and
at last entered the Duchess's brilliant
portals, he was like a man just dead
coming to life in another world. Before his
eyes in gay confusion was a throng of moving
colours, amongst flowers, and lights, and palm
trees ; and on his ears in quick cadence
burst the measured crash of waltz music.

He was at first quite bewildered ; he
could recognise nobody. At last he saw the
Duchess, who was standing near the ball-room
door. He exchanged a few words with her,

and she rallied him on the severity of his
appearance. But while she was speaking
another sound startled him. It was the voice
of Colonel Stapleton. vernon did but catch
a word or two. but these few words were
enough. ' The fact is the Colonel was saying
to somebody, ' I've been away from Nice
for some days ; and, of all the places in the
world, at San Remo.'

The Duchess heard the Colonels voice
also, and at once called to him. ' Well,' said
her Grace, 'and where is she ? I'm dying to
have another look at her.'

Coming,' said the Colonel gaily. ' Something
has tumbled out of her hair, and she's
gone into the cloak-room to get it put straight
again.'

'We're talking, l\Ir. Vernon,' said the
Duchess, 'of your friend ]\Iiss Walters. If
you haven't seen her yet, I can tell you, you
should at once go and look at her. We had

expected, you know, that we should have had
you in attendance on her, instead of our fat
friend here. Look, now — there she is, with
a dozen men round her already. Go at once
and talk to her.'

Vernon looked as the Duchess bade him,
and there Miss Walters was ; but for sometime
he was rooted to the spot. His limbs
seemed to be giving way under him. He
could not move an inch. What he had heard
since he entered the ball-room had, to all
appearance, petrified him ; and he could only
stare about him stupidly.

Can't you see her ? ' said the Duchess,
as she was turning away to speak to a new
arrival. ' There she is ; I believe she calls
herself '' A Snow-drop." '

Thus urged, Vernon moved mechanically
towards the place where Miss Walters
was. She was all in white. Her dress was
trimmed with snowdrops, and she wore in her

hair a wreath of the same flower. She had
her usual calm manner, which seemed to show
that admiration came to her as a thing of
course ; but through this calm more animation
than usual showed itself ; her eyes looked
larger and more luminous, and her cheeks
had a deeper flush on them. No wonder
she was the centre of an admiring circle.

As he drew nearer he saw she was slightly
rouged, and that the darkness under her eyes
was not only that of nature. In the case of
most women he would have thought nothing
of this, but here it gave a strange shock to
him. He joined the group, pressing his way
into it with a something that, had he been
less preoccupied, he would have felt to have
been almost roughness. But he could think
of no such trifles now. He moved like a
somnambulist more than a waking person.
In a moment Miss Walters caught his eye.
She advanced in a marked way to meet him,

VOL. II. u

and the others perforce had unwillingly to disperse
themselves. * Come with me,' she
said, * to that window for a moment. I can
talk to you only for a moment now

Only for a moment ! ' he exclaimed.
Good God, Cynthia, tell me what is this that
has happened to you ! '

Be In this window,' she said, ' at half-past
eleven. I can't talk to you now — not
with all these people about me ; and I can t
get away before. But be here then, and we
will go for a little Into the garden. Remember
the place — that door close by the
ladles' dressing-room. I shall escape there on
pretence of finding a smelling-bottle, and shall
be with you, unobserved, in an Instant.
Don't talk to me to-night in public if you can
help It. I don't think I could bear it. Now
go away, and amuse yourself. I know you
have many friends here.'

They went back to the throng, and were

almost instantly parted In it. But Vernon
was utterly unable to collect his wits to talk,
and he could hardly reply coherently to the
commonest greetings or inquiries. Before
long he had found the scene unendurable,
and he escaped by himself into the garden.
The walks about the house were too bright
with lamps. What he wished for was silence
and darkness. He found his way into a bypath,
and slowly paced up and down in meditation,
waiting wretchedly for the appointed
time to arrive. On Miss Walters herself he
could hardly bear to let his thoughts rest ;
but the image, if not the thought of her, was
continually present to him. His thoughts,
however, found another object, and this was
Colonel Stapleton. His whole being grew
concentrated into a hatred of this man, and
signs of the feeling began to rise to the surface,
in the shape of broken muttering.
May God in heaven for ever damn and

U2

curse you ! May I be cursed myself, so that
I only secure your everlasting misery. Beast,
the clay you were made of, was black and
fetid with the vilest sewage of life ! For your
own filthy pleasure you have broken and
trampled on the whitest and purest soul
that ever looked out of the holy eyes of
woman. God curse you, you dog ! May I
die to-night and awake in hell tomorrow, if
only I might gloat for ever there over your
everlasting agony ! ' Such were the sounds
that came from his lips half audibly ; and in
this condition he wandered to and fro, for
he knew not how long. He was roused by-and-by,
however, by hearing a step behind
him, and in another instant a hand was
laid on his shoulder, and a rough voice
was ordering him to be off and about
his business. The stranger addressed him
in a mixture of French and English — the
former broken, the latter coarse. The meaning

of the Incident presently became clear.
The man was one of the house servants, and
Vernon in his pedlar's dress had been seen
and mistaken for some suspicious character ;
nor, when he cast a glance down at his garments,
could he much wonder at what had
happened. The servant departed with many-apologies,
and some suppressed amusement
and Vernon, annoyed at the interruption, went
back towards the house. He consulted his
watch. Time had passed faster than he had
thought possible. It was a few minutes after
half-past eleven. He hastened to the appointed
window, from which a flight of steps
led down into the garden, and there Miss
Walters was. She had plainly been waiting.
She was looking about her anxiously. He
ascended a step or two. She came down to
meet him. ' You are too late,' she said in a
low tone.

Too late ! ' he echoed.

Yes she said. * Someone else has discovered
that I was about to escape into the
garden. It Is with difficulty that I have secured
ten minutes or so, alone. He will be
looking for me presently. I told him I would
remain here. But come now, let us move
away quickly. The time is short, for whereever
I go I know he is sure to find me. At
the end of the straight terrace there is a
bench — take me to that.'

They passed down the walk in silence,
nor did either speak until they had sat down
together. Then Vernon very gently put his
arm round her waist, and tried to draw her to
himself But she would not permit of it.
No,' she said passionately, ' that must never
happen again. I am not fit for you. We
know both of us — we have quite agreed by
this time — that I am not fit for you.'

Cynthia,' he exclaimed, * tell me what all
this means ! Who is it that is coming hereto

look for you ? I am not asking you out
of any captious jealousy. If it were anyone
who would be good to you, and for his sake
you chose to leave me, I would tease you
with no prayer to keep you.'

That is just it,' she cried bitterly. * I
knew you would let me go. That is just the
bitterness. You have the same care for me
that a priest might have or a doctor ; it is not
the care of a human being that loves me. It
is my welfare you care for, it is not me. I
am your penitent or your patient ; I am not
the one woman who could make life happy
for you.'

You are wrong,' said Vernon ; ' for I do
love you. If you knew how wretched you
had made me, you would not doubt my
love.'

Her eyes softened, and she looked at him
with a despairing tenderness. * You speak
the truth,' she said. ' You love me enough

to be made wretched by me, but not enough
not nearly enough to be made happy by
me.'

Tell me,' said Vernon in a whisper, ' who
is it that you say will come here to look for
you ? '

You asked me she said, ' if he was a
man who would be good to me. He is not.
He knows no more of goodness than he
knows of Hebrew ; and he has no more compunction
for the soul that he has crushed by
his kisses than he would have for a beetle
that he trod on, in his path, by accident'

What do you mean ? ' said Vernon. ' It
seems that my head is swimming. I must
know who you mean. I need not ask his name.
But for God's sake tell me — what have I done ?
What horrid crime have I committed that you
should leave me for him ? Surely, my own one
surely, my angel, it is not too late to come
back to m^y arms again. He can never —

surely this is not possible — have recovered
his old influence over you ? '

Oh, my heart ! ' she exclaimed, pressing
her hands hard on it. ' How my heart is
beating.'

He put his arm about her waist, and she
now made no resistance. She let herself
be passively drawn towards him, and once
again she was resting quietly in his embrace.
As she yielded she fixed her eyes on him,
and said with a quick painful gasp, ' He has
recovered everything ! '

There was a long silence. Neither looked
at the other. By-and-by Vernon again spoke
to her, but her eyes were closed, and she
would give him no answer. He took her
hand, and then again he spoke to her, but
there was still no answer ; and he now saw
that she was unconscious. He tried to revive
her by fanning her, but this produced no
effect. He then bethought himself of a fountain

close at hand, and he hurried off to dip
his handkerchief in the water. On his way,
however, he heard footsteps ; and he stood
aside for a moment under the shadow of a
cypress tree to Hasten. The sound came
nearer. It was a mans firm tread. He
was walking slowly; and presently Vernon
caught, whistled softly, a fragment of a
vulgar song, popular in London music-halls.
A moment later, and the man's figure
was visible. It was Colonel Stapleton. One
of the many pet dogs of the Duchess was
trotting by his side, and with a soft kind
caress he stooped down to pat it. The moon
that was now risen shone full on his face — on
the sleek blonde moustache, the well-trimmed
beard, and the waterish grey eyes, with their
somewhat puffy lids. It shone, too, on his
well-shaped hands, and glittered on his heavy
gold rings. At sight of him, Vernon was, as
it were, fascinated. His eyes fixed themselves

on the Colonel ; his teeth were set
and his hands clenched themselves till the
nails tore the palms.

The Colonel never dreamed that he was
watched.

I'm getting a big boy now —
I'm getting a big boy now —

Such was the burden of the ditty with which
he was enchanting the ear of night, as he
went past the cypress tree. At that instant,
from the shadow, a Spanish pedlar sprang on
him, and laid a hand upon his throat. It was
like the grip of a v/ild beast in its strength,
its rapidity, and its savageness. The Colonel
was utterly unable to free himself from the
grasp of his unrecognised assailant, who said
nothing, but whose shadowed face was fixed
on him. The Colonel knew in an instant the
strength of the grasp that held him. He
made no effort to free himself, nor did he
seem in any degree to lose his presence of

THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

mind. What he did was the work of a single
instant. In a single instant from his pocket
there had flashed out a small revolver : a
sharp sound for an instant broke the silence,
and the form of a Spanish pedlar fell flat and
motionless across a bed of purple camerarius.

About half an hour previous to the
above incident, a battered and
dirty carriage had arrived at
Stanley's Pension ; and Campbell, seated at
supper in the little brick-floored salle-manger,
was opening Vernon's letter.

My dear, dear Campbell,' it ran, 'do you
remember some idle words of mine, for which
you reproved me ? I said that my true
metier would be that of wooer-inordinate to
all my male friends. I would make love for
them, and when once I had won the heart of
whatever woman was in question, I would
hand it over to the man who wanted it. I

remember also I said to you, Would you let
me do your wooing for you on these terms ?
Campbell — God, Destiny, or the Devil heard
me when I said that. Unhappily I have fulfilled
my metier, only I cannot hand the heart
over to you, that I have won. Do you know
who my neighbour is, at the Chateau St.
John — the woman about whom I spoke to
you — the woman I drove home at night with ?
You need not tell me the name of your
friend. I know it ; she is my neighbour. I
could not help what has happened. I never
knew that I was fighting against you, till it
was too late. The event in many ways has
been to me a sad one. I have become much
changed since that day when last you left me.
If you can bear to do so, come and see me
directly. You told me that my face was
changed from what it was when first you
knew me. Perhaps when next you see me
it may have suffered one change more.'

Campbell had supped alone, as Stanley
was upstairs busy ; but when Stanley by-and-by
came down again, he found Campbell with
his face white as a sheet. He rose abruptly,
and seized Stanley's hand. 'Stanley he
said, * do you know the news you brought mein
that letter ? Do you remember,' he went
on In a whisper, * what I told you about myself
the last morning I was here ? The
woman I told you about was Miss Walters ;
and Vernon is going to marry her.'

Stanley started and remained quite silent,
staring in Campbell's face. Presently he cast
his eye down to some papers he had in his
hand, and said, * I have been just reading
some of Vernon's thoughts. He wants you
to go and see him. Will you come to-night .^
Can you bear it ? '

I don't know said Campbell, ' what I can
do or bear ! Then suddenly he exclaimed,
Yes, I will go. I will face everything ; and

you, Stanley — will you come with me ?
Come ! '

The two men set out together, and they
went silently along the white moon-lit road.
On their way the silence was only once
broken. Once Campbell opened his mouth,
and said, * I hope Vernon will be happy.'

They reached the garden gates ; they saw
lights in Vernon's villa gleam through the
leaves like glow-worms. When they got near
the door there were several men standing
about, and conversation of some sort was proceeding
rapidly. ' Stanley,' said Campbell,
I wish you would go in first, and see if he
has people with him

Stanley advanced, and the group at the
door eyed him. He was recognised in a moment
or two by one of the servants, who at
once advanced to meet him, and said something
to him in a very subdued voice.

Stanley was led by the servant into a

small dimly lighted vestibule at the back of
the villa, and remained there for some
minutes. When he came out, he set himself
to find Campbell, and he at last discovered
him in the library. He was reading. He
had found open on the writing table Vernon's
letter to himself, which had that same evening
been sent back to the writer ; and it had
now at last reached the person it was
addressed to. One or two of the passages
arrested his attention, in spite of the perturbation
of the moment, and in a dreamy dazed
way he kept reading and re-reading them.
What do I find has happened ? ' — this was
one of the passages — * Something glad,
strange, and altogether unlooked-for. Out of
the ashes of my manhood has re-arisen my
youth — my youth which I thought I had said
good-bye to for eternity ; and the divine child
has again run to meet me, with its eyes
bright as ever, and with the summer wind in

VOL. II. X

its hair.' There was another passage also —
Oh, the sweetness and rest of this serene
self-possession.' He was repeating these last
words to himself when Stanley entered.

Campbell said Stanley, in a strange unnatural
voice, * there is another shock in store
for you. Shall I break it to you slowly, or
can you bear it now ? It has to do with the
most solemn of all human events.'

Campbell rose with a sort of desperate
look, and Stanley whispered a few words in
his ear. ' Good God,' gasped Campbell, and
he seemed to be almost tottering. Stanley
grasped him by the arm, and led him into the
vestibule. There on a sofa was something
like a human form, covered with an oriental
tablecloth, with gaudy arabesques on it, and
fringed with heavy gold. Stanley slowly
raised one extremity of it, and a face was
visible, calm and 'placid like a boy's, only
bloodless and with no colour in it.

Campbell stood over it as if petrified.
Some words he had just been reading came
into his mind. ' Out of the ashes of my manhood
has re-arisen my youth. Oh, the
sweetness and rest of this serene self-possession
! ' Except for this, his mind seemed like
an utter blank, till with a start he turned to
Stanley, and said piteously, 'And she — —
what of her ? Does she know of this ? '

Stanley looked into Campbell's eyes fixedly
for some moments, and in the room there was
a deathly silence. At last he said, ' She
knows nothing, and she never will.'

In the Protestant part of the Cannes
Cemetery may be now seen two headstones,
not close together, for it was found impracticable
so to place them ; but still not far apart.
Under one of them sleeps Vernon, more
soundly than he had done during the last
three weeks of his life, witfi the leaves of his

confessions clasped on his breast and buried
with him. The other headstone bears this
inscription, suggested by Alic Campbell, —

CYNTHIA WALTERS.

She died suddenly of Heart Disease,
April the both, isti.

Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.'

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

^^
