%l

For

L

186, STRAND, LONDON,

ND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALI

ARE ISSUED TO AND RECEIVED FROM SUBSCRIBERS IN £

TERMS.

FOR SUBSCRIBERS OBTAINING Their BOOKS FROM A COUNTRY Bookstall ,

6 Months. I ///(

E Volume at a time £0 12

in fn*re than One Volume are not available fov this class e/ Subset

,V0 Volumes „ 17 6

in mitre Ian Two Volumes are not available /or this class of Subscribe

.Three Volumes „ 1 3 2

FOUR „ „ 1 8 2

SIX „ „ 1 15 3 I

TWELVE „ ., 3 5 5



"L I E> Mary

OF Thou
N IVLRS City
or ILLINOIS

82*5
M\22v

v.\

THE REBEL ROSE. ^

Jl "glotjel.

Say, pretty Tory, where's the jest
To wear that colour on your breast,
When that same breast confessing shows
The whiteness of the Rebel Rose 2'

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

publishers in ordinary) to ^£r ^^taj^sts the ^ixztxi.

1888.

[All Rights Reserved

CONTENTS OF VOL. I,

CHAPTER

I. IN THE LOBBY
II. ON THE TERRACE .

III. 'who shall separate us?'

IV. MARY BEATON

V. ' IF YOU WERE QUEEN '
VL MADAME Spinosa AT HOME
VIL TOMMY TRESSEL
VIII. 'about CHAMPION?'
IX. THE PRINCESS AT HOME
X. ROLFE BELLARMIN .
XI. LITERA SCRIPTA
XII. MARY'S RECEPTION .
XIII. THE BOTHWELL PART

I

























^

CHAPTER I.

IN THE LOBBY.

'WMt^' BELLARMIN, can you tell
,5 me who that handsome girl is?'
asked Lady Saxon ; ' I have been
watching her this honos time. What is she
doing here ? and why does she dress in that
eccentric fashion ? She looks a cross between
a lady-housebreaker and Mary Queen of
Scots.'

The question was put in the lobby of the
House of Commons, on an evening in May,
to one of the most rising young men of the
Conservative Party. This was Mr. Rolfe

VOL. I. I

Bellarmin, Lady Saxon's latest favourite. She
was determined to make a victim of him, it
was said, and he seemed quite willing to be
victimized.

The lobby was full. A great debate was
going on, and many strangers were waiting
on the off-chance of somebody leaving his
place in one of the galleries and going away,
thereby bequeathing a seat to some fortunate
successor. Lady Saxon, who was a clever
woman, and regarded life from the dramatic
point of view, was wont to say that to stand
in this inner lobby of the House of Commons
on such an occasion was to feel the pulse of
England. To-night the very air was exciting.
An important by-election — an election,
that is to say, caused by some unexpected
event, such as a resignation or a death — was
going on, and its result might be made known
at any moment now ; and the result would be
one of much moment and significance. Everyone
in the lobby seemed to have the shadow
of this coming event on his face : every face
had its own look of importance and preoccupation.
Telegrams were flying off by the
score from the clicking little room in the outer

lobby. A little mob had collected round the
post-office. The floor was strewn with more
than its usual quantity of torn paper. Members
were gathered in knots, their hats tilted
over their foreheads after the approved fashion
of the House of Commons, and were talking
earnestly, or chaffing each other noisily.
Other members passed to and fro in an alert,
eager manner. Only the policemen on duty
kept their stolid, bored expression.

Several ladies were dotted about among: the

o

groups. One or two, who waited against the
wall while their escorts asked questions or
applied for orders, looked a little shy and
awkward ; but for the most part the ladies
in the lobby seemed sufficiently at ease, and
were eagerly snatching at all the information
they could get from the various politicians who
came in their way.

English political life was in a curious condition
just then. An ominous calm prevailed
for the moment ; it had followed a storm, and
everyone felt that it was sure to be followed
by a storm. The Tories were in office, but
hardly in power. They had succeeded in
turning out Sir Victor Champion, after he had

I — 2

held office for some years ; but they had
turned him out only by a small majority, and
by the help of votes on which steady, old-fashioned
Toryism could not always count.
The fire-new, energetic, and compact little
band of Tory Democrats, as they chose to call
themselves, supplied the votes which turned
out Sir Victor Champion, Lord Saxon, and
the other Liberal Ministers of various shades,
and put the Marquis of Bosworth, Lord
Twyford, and other Tory nobles and gentlemen
into office. But the Tories had lost
their great statesman, De Carmel, the only
man who could stand up against Sir Victor
Champion. Lord de Carmel's death had
brought Lord Bosworth to the front as leader.
Lord Bosworth was a Tory of unbending
will and inveterate prejudices ; the political
sun must stand still for him ; but then, would
it stand still ? people asked. In truth, there
seemed a lack of some stimulating purpose on
either side. Victor Champion's Ministry had
not been Liberal enough for the Liberals out
of doors. Champion was kept back by his
Whig colleagues, so his Radical adherents
and his Tory opponents declared. But it

seemed impossible to believe that he would
not do his best to get hold of the country
again. A good war-cry on either side would
be a great thing, everybody said. The trouble
with the Tory Government was that if the sun
would not stand still for them, neither would
the Tory Democrats. The trouble with the
Liberals was that they lacked a cause and a
cry.

The lady who asked the question of Mr.
Bellarmin was herself of most striking appearance.
She was not in her first youth — thirty
she frankly owned to, and probably she was a
little older. But is it not conceded that a
beautiful woman of thirty is at her most
dangerous age ? She was extremely handsome.
Hers was a beauty that told of a
passionate melodramatic temperament. The
most optimistic soothsayer would hesitate to
predict for Lady Saxon a life undisturbed by
any whirlwind of emotion. She was luxuriant
in form, tall — more than commonly tall — and
her height was increased by the style in
which her bright yellow, rather curly hair was
brushed up from the nape of her neck and
from her oval forehead, and coiled in a mass

on the top of her small, very finely-set head.
The upper folds of the coil were so much
lighter than the hair beneath that they suggested
a coronal of gold, such as might have
been borne by some early Saxon princess.
The coronal was placed, however, a little on
one side, thus giving her a certain air of
defiance and coquetry, bringing to mind,
also, the rakishly-worn /c(fpi of a dare-devil
young French soldier. Her dark eyebrows
and large dark eyes where in curious contrast
with the golden hair, which evidently
did not owe its glory to art. Her mouth was
ripe and red, and had a slow way of smiling
that was one of her greatest fascinations. She

o

was in evening dress, having rushed from
dinner to hear her husband speak, and wore
a long plush mantle, the colour of heliotrope,
which was a little thrown back, and showed
glimpses of a neck and arms half veiled in
lace, and of what sculptors call heroic size.
Perhaps a fastidious observer might have said
that there was just a little too much of her in
every way ; that nature had made her a little
too tall, too yellow-haired, too dark-eyed,
too handsome ; that there was something

almost oppressive in her beauty ; that there
was a faint suggestion of lack of refinement,
as in a dinner-table too prodigally adorned
with plate and hot-house flowers.

Lady Saxon was quite entitled to feel at
home in this political atmosphere. She was
married to the Marquis of Saxon, eldest son
and heir of the great Duke of Athelstanee, and
one of the Whig leaders in the House of
Commons. Lord Saxon had been up, and
was now down, and his speech was creating
some talk in the lobby. Rolfe Bellarmin,
when he approached Lady Saxon, had expected
that she would say something about
her husband's speech, and was surprised to
find her mind occupied with the unknown
beauty.

He laughed pleasantly. The laugh brightened
his fine-featured, poetic, almost melancholy
face, which, when in repose, looked like
that of a mediaeval hero of romance. But
when he laughed his ringing laugh, and above
all when he baited his opponents on the
floor of the House in his pugnacious schoolboy
style, he seemed what he was, a 
Tory Democrat, the leader of

the little party which had been instrumental
in bringing the Conservatives into office.

That young lady has every right to get
herself up as Mary Queen of Scots, Lady
Saxon. She is the Honourable Mary Stuart
Beaton.'

'And who is the Honourable Mary Stuart
Beaton ?'

You haven't heard of our new Pretenders
? There was an article about her in
Tie Piccadilly last week. It was called
*• Nineteenth-century Jacobites." '

Lady Saxon smiled. ' I like my politics and
my scandal at first hand,' she said. * But I'm
behind instead of before the newspapers in
this case. Mary Stuart ! what does that mean ?
I retract my remark about the lady-housebreaker,
since she is a friend* of yours. Her
Majesty has a distinguished look, and is
certainly very pretty. Tell me about
her.'

Lady Saxon turned a critical gaze upon a
little group of ladies and gentlemen who had
just been brought into the lobby. Anybody
could, have seen at a glance that this particular
lady about whom Lady Saxon was

inquiring was the principal figure in the
group ; one could as well have failed to pick
out Diana herself in the midst of a group of
her maiden huntresses. There was, indeed,
something of the huntress in this young
woman's aspect, in her height — she, too, was
taller than the ordinarily tall woman — in the
erectness and freedom of her carriage, in her
slimness and the poise of her head, and in the
clinging robe of black velvet, which fell in
straight wide folds from the waist, and looked
odd and picturesque in contrast with the more
inflated draperies of the fashionable London
women. Whether by accident or design, the
costume reminded its beholder of that style of
dress which we associate with portraits of the
Scottish Queen. The stiff long bodice, made
with a sort of modern adaptation of the old-fashioned
stomacher ; the rosary and cross
hanging from the girdle ; the bonnet peaked
in front and edged with large jet beads ; the
full lace ruffle — all harmonized with a face
startlingly Stuart in outline. This nineteenth-century
representative of the White Queen
bore a curious resemblance to some of the
best-known and most authentic portraits of

her hapless prototype. She had the oval face
and long slender neck, the rather high forehead,
over which dark brown hair with a ruddy
tinge through it parted in natural waves, the
long straight nose, the full, clear, almond-shaped
hazel eyes, and fine arched brows,
even the little pointed chin with the dimple
upon it. The face was full of decision and of a
certain innocent pride ; it was not without the
shade of proverbial Stuart melancholy. But
this was only noticeable when the features
were in repose, and then it gave to the countenance
a pathos and feminine sweetness that
was perhaps its greatest charm. Yet surely
the tragic could have no association with this
Mary Stuart, whose smile, suddenly illuminating
the face, was so frank and bright, and
whose manner when she talked had almost
childlike animation.

Miss Beaton is the lioness of a certain
coterie,' answered Bellarmin. ' She holds a
sort of court of her own, so they tell me, and
gives herself, quite naturally, I suppose, the
airs of exiled royalty.'

A queen of the gipsies !' said Lady Saxon
scornfully.

Come now, Lady Saxon, that complexion
doesn't look like gipsy blood.'

Charles the Second looked like a gipsy,
didn't he ?' Lady Saxon interjected.

'Well, Miss Beaton doesn't, as you see.
If you were a Legitimist, I should tell you that
there stands your lawful Queen — your Queen
by Divine right. You count yourself English,
I suppose, now ?' he added.

I am English, of course,' replied Lady
Saxon composedly, ' though I was married to
a German.'

Bellarmin bowed. Certainly Lady Saxon's
pronunciation of the letter ' r ' was too trill-like
to bear out the current rumour that she
was of Teutonic origin. Though many fanciful
pen-and-ink sketches had been made of
Lady Saxon in ' society ' publications, nothing
more was known as positive fact about her
than that Lord Saxon had married her in
Frankfort some eighteen months previously,
and that she had been the widow of a certain
Baron Langenw^elt, ennobled for scientific
discovery.

But tell me,' said Lady Saxon, still looking
towards the quasi-royal group, 'tell mee about

this Miss Beaton. What are you talking of?
Is it a joke or a mystification, or a case of the
bend sinister ?'

Nothing of the sort. I am quite serious.
That o^irl is the legitimate descendant of the
Stuartss. You can study her genealogy in the
Almanach de Gotha," Lady Saxon, if you
doubt me. She starts from Henrietta Maria,
Duchess of Orleans, who, according to
scandalous chronicles, was poisoned by her
husband. Henrietta Maria left a daughter,
married to a Prince of Savoy. Miss Beaton's
mother, through whom her Stuart blood runs,
was a Bavarian Princess, and she married an
Englishman — Lord Beaton — a Legitimist, a
Tory of the old school, of the " Divine right,"
*' Church and King" order.'

In short, a Conservative — like you,' put in
Lady Saxon, fixing her dark eyes upon the
young man, and smiling one of her enigmatic
smiles.

Not in the least like me,' returned Bellarmine.
' Like Lord Stonehenge, if you want
an Illustration,' and he glanced towards a tall,
slight, aristocratic-looking man with a peaked
Vandyke beard, who was standing near Miss

Beaton, and was at the moment speaking
to a portly white-haired lady, evidently one
of Miss Beaton's companions. Lord Stonehenge
was a Catholic, a Jacobite by education,
whose ancestors paid homage at St. Germains,
and whose association with the English Court
ended when the dynasty of revolution began.

I am interested in Lord Stonehenge,' said
Lady Saxon. ' His place Is not far from a
queer little nest of mine. You don't conserve
traditions, then, Mr. Bellarmin ?

I am a Tory of the new-fangled sort,'
replied Bellarmin ; ' that Is, not a Tory at all
in the old-fashioned sense — what Lord Saxon
would call a Tory. 1 only conserve the traditions
which are not rotten enough to crumble
away of themselves. There I differ from your
leader — your Champion of Christendom, as
they call him — who wants to go at established
Institutions like St. George at the dragon.
Social evolution Is my theory. Lady Saxon,
though I and my Progressive Tory Party did
turn out you Liberals the other day.'

'You should be in 02ir camp,' said Lady
Saxon, her eyes still gazing into his ; * you
have nothing in common with the Tories, and

you know it. But you like to be master of
the situation, Mr. Bellarmin. You love a free
fight. You must be always in opposition,
showing up abuses and bullying the place-holders.
You have it in your power now,
while the balance is so even, to turn out
any Government. That has been your aim
and ambition. Oh, I know ! It is a proud
position for so young a man ; but — will it
last ?'

Till the General Election,' said Rolfe, ina
tone rather of question than of assertion.

You refused a place in the Ministry ?'
continued Lady Saxon.

'Yes; the place of a Junior Lord,' put in
Bellarmin.

Ah well ! you see, Mr. Bellarmin, I do
know some political secrets which the newspapers
only hint at,' she went on. ' You
were quite right not to commit yourself, I
may tell you ^/la^.' There was meaning in
her tone.

I suppose I understand you, Lady Saxon.
You think that Sir Victor Champion will soon
ave to face the country on a new issue. Well,
the time may come to^fdemolish the House

of Lords — fifty years hence, perhaps, but I
don't quite see it now.' Bellarmin lowered
his voice, and glanced cautiously round. ' I
am quite ready to believe that you know
a great many political secrets, Lady Saxon.
Perhaps you wouldn't mind giving me the
straight tip about these mysterious negotiations
some knowing ones are talking of — of
the mine which people say Champion is
springing beneath the foundations of the Constitution.'


Lady Saxon's eyes shot out a gleam.

Oh, I cannot tell you anything about that
she said slowly. She drew a deep breath,
and, involuntarily, perhaps, pressed her hand
to her bosom. ' Sir Victor Champion is a
great man,' she said ; ' a man of indomitable
will, of infinite resource. His enemies have
not done him justice, nor,' she added, *his
friends.'

Has he any friends ?'

Not so many as worse men ; but those he
has are true to him said Lady Saxon.

Yet his secrets get out, you see !' Bellarmine
answered.

You think so ?'

I have proved it, have I not ?'

I am amazed, I confess,' said Lady Saxon,
after a moment's pause. ' How did you get
to know ?'

About these negotiations ?'

If you choose to call them so,' she replied.

What else could anyone call them ?'

Well, no matter what they are called ;
don't fence with me. Surely we know each
other too well for that. How did you get to
know ?'

The shadow of an emotion passed over
Bellarmin's face at her appeal, but he shook
it off. He was evidently under constraint,
and tried to hide what he was feeling under
a mask of conventional banter. He laughed.

Come, isn't that rather cool on your part,
Lady Saxon ? You want me to tell you
everything. And you, who hint at a great
deal, but will never really tell one a political
secret.'

I don't so much want to find out what you
know, as how you came to know,' Lady Saxon
said emphatically. * After all — If there are
traitors in Sir Victor's confidence — men who
reveal his most secret purposes '

Lady Saxon seemed moved to generous
anger.

Lady Saxon,' said Bellarmin gravely
there was nothing of the kind. There was
no underhand revelation of anything. There
was no treachery of any sort.'

Lady Saxon's eyes flashed with a delight
which she hastened to conceal. All this talk
had been a little fencing match between her
and Bellarmin, and, quite unconsciously, Bellarmin
had been vanquished. Lady Saxon had
never before heard one word of any negotiations
going on between Sir Victor and any
set of politicians. Bellarmin had taken it for
granted that she must be aware of the whole
matter through her husband, and had had a
hope that, by playing a bold game, he might
get to know something of Lord Saxon's purposes.
He gained no addition to his stock of
Information. She gained much. She learned
that there zuere negotiations. She knew that
her husband had not been told anything about
them, and, from Bellarmin's last answer, she
also learned that the negotiations were carried
on seal-officially with him on behalf of his
party. That was the only construction to be

VOL. T. 2

J>

put on his declaration that there had been no
treachery.

Let us come back to our Princess,' said
Bellarmin, as if he wished to turn the conversation.
* See how these men are doing
homage to her, here in the lobby of the
House of Commons,' he laughed. ' There's
something odd, and incongruous, and picturesque
about the whole thing, Lady Saxon.
It takes my fancy. It is going back to Sir
Walter Scott, and Flora Macleod, and all
that sort of thing. It's dramatic ; it's refreshing
in these days of the Birmingham caucus
and the divided skirt ; don't you think so ?'

I agree with you that Miss Mary Stuart
Beaton has a sense of the dramatic,' said Lady
Saxon rather absently.

She would have preferred to talk about this
unknown scheme of Champion's, the leader of
the Opposition — this great coiip which people
said he was meditating, and which was to
shatter or cement the Liberal Party. She
wanted to talk about practical politics, and not
about visionary dynasties. The interest she
had felt in Mary Stuart Beaton was imperiously
expelled by another and more powerful

interest — an interest that lay deep, deep at
the core of Josephine Saxon's heart. She
herself became conscious that her bosom
was answering to an emotion not warranted
by the mere casual mention of her husband's
chief, and she tried to pull herself together.
Making a peremptory little sign to Bellarmin
to await her pleasure, she suddenly nodded
aqd smiled to a lady who came up at that
moment.

How do you do, Lady Mavis ?'
There was a half-whispered colloquy.
Just come from Ellesmere. It was too
terrible. We are getting as serious as the
Bostonians. Everybody in corners with dictionaries,
trying to see how many words they
could make out of Sardanapalus — that sort
of thing. Then guessing words : somebody
gave Cupid and Psyche, and Lady Ellesmere
the bride — who they say learns her lesson
by heart every morning, and is too stupid and
too lovely for anything, said, " But who is
Psyche ? I never heard of Psyche." '
Had she ever heard of Cupid ?'
Well, my dear, she couldn't come to a
better person than you to learn about him.

2 — 2

Have you begun your parties yet ? Ask me
soon to a little dinner, only don't put me
beside one of your horrid Radicals. Since
you gave Hodge his vote the Ladies' Gallery
has become a bear-garden — a pair of Radical
shoemakeresses talking so loudly that It was
Impossible to hear any of our side. I spoke
to the doorkeeper, but it was of no use ; he
couldn't do anything.'

Oh, poor Mr. Samuelson,' Lady Saxon
said. * I didn't ever suppose that he had any
Radical tendencies.'

All creatures of that sort have Radical
tendencies,' Lady Mavis affirmed in a manner
that ought to have settled the question.

I always fancied that he was a mild Conservative,'
Lady Saxon said.

'My opinion Is,' Lady Mavis Madhouse
gravely declared, ' that doorkeepers ought not
to have any political ideas of their own. I
do not believe that politics were meant for
doorkeepers.'

Lady Saxon bantered her friend upon certain
Primrose League proceedings In the
provinces. It was evident that the Tory
Party depended mainly upon Lady Mavis

Redhouse for its maintenance and consolidation.


Bellarmin marvelled at the frivolity of
woman — especially of political woman.

There were barbed congratulations on Lord
Saxon's speech, and parting allusions to coffee
on the terrace.

Rolfe Bellarmin, watching Lady Saxon's
face, fancied that he had a clue to the changes
in her manner. He did not doubt that she
was acquainted with the springs which moved
the figures in this game of politics. It was
whispered that Lord Saxon, heavy Whig and
unimaginative, unambitious leader of the less
progressive Liberals, was not in complete
sympathy with Champion's bold views on the
subject of reform. Bellarmin suspected that,
whatever coit Champion might be meditating,
he had not the absolute certainty of
Lord Saxon's support. He made a shrewd
guess that Champion calculated upon startling
Lord Saxon into acquiescence, or upon
his power of educating his party so secretly
and so rapidly, that Lord Saxon would one
day find himself in the rear, and comparatively
powerless. But in that case, what was Lady

Saxon's attitude ? She was too clever to
be kept in the dark. There were not two
opinions on the subject of Lady Saxon's
cleverness, though it was often said that she
lacked self-control, that she made her likes
and her hates too apparent to outsiders.
Some of her words just now in reference to
Champion gave the impression of unguarded
and devoted admiration. Bellarmin had not,
however, observed any sign of intimacy between
the Liberal chief and the wife of Lord
Saxon. Sir Victor was not met in Lady
Saxon's drawing-room. Though they were,
of course, acquaintances, it would seem that
their acquaintance was only superficial. To
be sure, there had been hitherto but few
opportunities for social intercourse. Lord
Saxon's marriage had taken place the last
autumn but one. The Liberal Ministry had
come into short power in the following summer,
and during part of their term of office
Lady Saxon had been kept out of the whirl
of London life by the birth and death of her
first child — a son. She had only taken her
place as a leader of fashion in London a few
months ago. Her social prominence had been

coincident with the dawn of her friendship
with Bellarmin.

This friendship had constituted a sort of
crisis in Bellarmin's career. He began to
find out that, Hke other men, he seemed to
have a dual nature. He sometimes wondered
whether it was to his best or his worst self
that Lady Saxon appealed. There were
moments when he felt a sense of passionate
revolt against her influence, moments when
he had thought of marriage as a possible
refuge or corrective. But her ascendency
remained. No other woman, so far, had been
able to enchain even temporarily the young
politician's affections. The political atmosphere
was to him so keen and so necessary
a stimulant, that to love outside its radius
appeared to him an impossibility. Unmarried
girls he found painfully insipid. This is a
conclusion to which many a London man
arrives even without the splendid contrast
presented by a Lady Saxon. The whole
situation was piquant. There was a double
charm in the fact that the lady of his admiration
stood in the first rank of his opponents.
Could she win him over ? Dared he trust

himself within the enemy's Ones ? Was she
playing with him, or was she in heroic
earnest ? Was she goddess or diplomatist,
or mere every-day excitement-loving coquette ?
All this speculation heightened the charm
and danger of the position. No definite word
had been spoken. The draught was too
strong to be taken without consideration of
consequences. Bellarmin dallied with the
cup ; but the fumes from it were mounting.

Lady Saxon turned again to Bellarmin,
and lightly touched his arm with her gloved
finger.

When are you coming to see me, to talk
of Important things ? To-morrow ?'

You have only to name your own time,
always provided that It Is not an hour when
the division bell is likely to ring.'

To-morrow ; it is an ofT-day. At six
o'clock. I have a great deal to say to you
about serious things. Your eyes keep wandering
to your Stuart Princess,' she added ina
bantering tone. * Take care ; remember
the fate of Chastened. Who is that tall man
with her — the man with the white moustache
and the scar on his forehead ? He looks

the dignified parent in a play. Is he her
father ?'

Oh no ! Her father is dead. That is
General Falcon, an Englishman, I believe,
who was in the Austrian service, and has
given up everything to act as her — what shall
I say ? — I really don't know — Prime Minister,
Master of the Horse, Chief Secretary,
manager, factotum — anything you like to call
him.'

I don't particularly want to call him anything,'
answered Lady Saxon, a little disdainfully.
' I can understand what the office is.
A pretty young pretenders — is that what you
called her } — wants just such a picturesque,
and stately, and unimpeachable sort of personage
to introduce her, and manage her
affairs. Oh yes, one knows all that !' There
was a tinge of bitterness in Lady Saxon's
tone. Her hearer might almost have fancied
that she herself had known what it was to
face the world without an introducer. ' Unprotected
youth and beauty are at a disadvantage
in these days. Well, I should
imagine that General Falcon's figure and
moustache would count for ever so much with

a jury of British Philistines, and will impress
society greatly. Is your Stuart Princess
going to assert her claims to the throne of
England ?'

Oh no !' said Bellarmin, again with more
eagerness than was quite pleasing to Lady
Saxon, for it showed too strong a measure
of interest in the lovely unknown. ' I can't
think that anything so absurd is dreamed
of She has very sensible friends in this
country, I hear — some of the Tory Catholic
set — and they won't let her be led into nonsense.
There is a notion that she has come
over to claim some money or estates, or something
that once belonged to the ancestral
Stuartss.'

You seem to be well up in her affairs.
Have you been presented at her court ?'

Not yet ; but I shall get an introduction.
I think the whole thing is most interesting.'


Do you ? I don't, somehow. I can remember
the Tichborne case ; that excited mea
little at first, but it became so tiresome.
Claimants to anything are bores.'

I would rather look at my Mary Stuart

than at the gentleman who called himself Sir
Roger Tichborne,' said Bellarmin.

No doubt Lady Saxon answered coldly.

One can't help admiring her,' Rolfe went
on injudiciously.

I think I detest her already,' Lady Saxon
said. ' I hate shams of every kind. Perhaps,'
she added with a curious burst of candour,
which was characteristic of the woman, ' because
I'm a good deal of a sham myself.'

Lady Saxon, in truth, was a lite out of
tune. When will men learn, or will they
never learn, that women do not delight in
hearing the praises of other women ; especially
when these praises come from masculine
lips that might be employed in saying more
appropriate things ?

Meanwhile Miss Mary Stuart Beaton was
conducted by Lord Stonehenge, the gentleman
with the Vandyke beard, and some
members of the House of Commons, to the
entrance of the Legislative Chamber, in order
that she might have a front view of the
debate. Passing through the outer door,
between the great leather chairs where the
twin doorkeepers sit, one comes on a sort of

hall, out of which the division lobbies run,
the * No ' lobby on the right of the visitor,
the * Aye ' on the left ; straight In front are
the swinging brazen doors which open only
to Members of Parliament, and within which
is the debating chamber Itself. On the extreme
left of the left-hand door Is a kind of
niche, with a small leathern seat. On this
seat. In this niche. It Is the privilege of women,
and only women, to stand. They are escorted
in there, not more than two at a time, by a
member of the House ; and standing on that
perch, and looking through the plate-glass
encased In the brass of the door, they can
see Mr. Speaker on his throne and the members
of the Government on the Treasury
bench at his right, and leaders of the Opposition
at his left, and leaders of Independent
parties below the gangway. The Ladies'
Gallery, be It observed, Is above and behind
the Speaker's chair, and Miss Beaton might
go there for ever and not see what the
occupant of the Speaker's chair Is like, or
how the House looks from the natural or
pictorial point of view.

Miss Beaton had not looked upon this sight

before, and she ran across the tessellated
pavement of the lobby with the eagerness of
a girl anxious to see something new, and the
careless freedom of one who has got it well
into her mind that she is at liberty to do anything
that she likes in the way that pleases
her. Her escort, ]mr. Leven, a Scotch
member, descended from a family which had
forfeited its title in the rebellion of 1745, was
a little behind her ; and her skirts were long
and trailing, and he was afraid of treading on
them. He had to plunge forward, however,
for she was positively about opening the brass
door, and calmly entering the sacred precincts
of the House itself, where the apparition of a

woman would create as much bewilderment
and consternation as her Intrusion into the

Mosque of Omar while the services of the

Mahometan were going on.

This way, please,' he said breathlessly ;

'not into the House. This little perch — this

perch here.'

Oh ! am I to mount on that ?'

If you please. Do you know that you

were going into the House of Commons

itself ?'

Mary laughed, not in the least abashed by
the knowledge of the sacrilege she had so
nearly perpetrated. She mounted lightly to
the perch, and studied the front view of the
House for a moment in silence.

I feel rather ridiculous here,' she said,
looking down on Lord Stonehenge. ' I am
like a schoolgirl mounted on a penitential
stool. I think I am rather too tall for this
sort of perch; I'll get down. Oh! what is
happening ?'

Two members were rushing wildly past,
and thrusting their way into the House.
One of them was waving a telegram in his
hand. Miss Beaton remained on her perch
for the moment, eager to see and hear. She
saw the member who bore the telegram break
through the groups who were standing at the
Bar, and while the doors of the House were
yet swinging open, she could hear him say in
quite a loud and excited tone, ' Fourteen
hundred majority for Tressel !' Then there
was a tremendous burst of cheering from the
opposition benches, which was again and
again renewed. It utterly bewildered a member
of the Government, who was haranguing

from the Treasury bench. He could not
at first understand the meaning of this
strange Interruption ; did not know what had
happened, and stumbled hopelessly in his
oration.

Mary dropped lightly to the floor without
touching Lord Stonehenge's reverential hand.
She and her escort came out into the lobby
again, and ]mr. Leven explained the meaning
of the telegram and the cheering. The
election had gone in favour of the Radical
candidate by a large majority. But that was
not all. The victorious candidate was Tommy
Tressel, a very advanced and audacious Radical,
an independent, eccentric sort of man.
But ^/la^ was not all. Tressel had been representative
of the constituency for a longtime
; but his Radical opinions had been
growing more and more pronounced of late,
and he had been making furious attacks upon
the House of Lords. His opponents taunted
him with having betrayed his constituents,
and promised him that he should never get
into the House again — at least for that constituency.
The General Election, whenever
it came, would settle him, they said. Whereupon

Tressel promptly applied for the Chiltern
Hundreds — In other words, resigned his seat
and came forward again as a candidate for
the same place, in order to give his constituents
a chance of saying whether they
approved of what he had said and done or not.
And now behold he Is sent back to the House
with an immense and wholly unexpected
majority to encourage him. No wonder the
Radicals cheered.

Yet another Incident occurred. Sir Victor
Champion and Lord Saxon were passing out
in deep conversation, and the moment Sir
Victor was seen, all the Radical members in
the lobby set up a wild cheer ; and other
Radicals came rushing out of the House, and
joined in the cheer, and soon quite a crowd
formed around Sir Victor, cheering for him
as if he were the hero of the hour. Sir Victor
looked pleased ; Lord Saxon scowled.

What's the row about now ?' Lord Saxon
asked, when the cheering had at last subsided.


Oh, Tressel's election, of course !' Sir
Victor said carelessly.

But I don't see what wee have to do with

that ; I mean, what you have to do with It.
Why should they cheer you because Tressel
has been elected ?'

Sir Victor said nothing. Lord Stonehenge
whispered a word or two to Mary, who nodded
assent ; and then he stopped the two statesmen,
and presented each to Miss Beaton.
Lord Saxon, a tall, heavy-jawed man, with a
stolid face deeply flushed, a full, reddish
beard, and a shambling groom-like way of
walking, felt awkward, and looked it, and
said only a formal word or two. Sir Victor's
eyes darted upon Miss Beaton, and fastened
on her face. He felt and showed the deepest
interest in the meeting, and before many
seconds had made it clear to Mary that he
understood all about her history and genealogy.
Lady Saxon and Bellarmin watched
the movements and gestures of the little
group.

Come, you had better take your turn, and
do homage with the rest,' Lady Saxon said.
She was willing to do without Bellarmin now ;
she wanted to come in the way of Sir Victor
Champion.

The interview between Miss Beaton and

VOL. I. 3

Champion was over. Lord Saxon saw his
wife, and came across and spoke to her.

I want to know why Sir Victor has not
been to see me,' said Lady Saxon, in a low,
rapid tone. * Make him come here. You
seem annoyed, Saxon. Has anything happened
?'

Nothing much — talk to you by-and-by,'
Lord Saxon said, brightening a little.

Then he turned and motioned to Sir Victor,
who was about to pass on, merely lifting his
hat to Lady Saxon.

My wife wants to speak to you,' he said.
Lady Saxon moved forward, and held out her
hand. Sir Victor joined them.

Lady Saxon's opportunity had come.

ox THE TERRACE.

IR VICTOR was a man the first
sight of whom gave one the idea
that he trod the earth with a
peculiarly firm tread. His walk was not a
stride nor a plunge, but an assured, rapid,
masterful walk, each foot seeming to take
a steady hold of the ground until the other
had found its place. Sir Victor moved
with the air of one who believes that all he
sees belongs to him. He had a large forehead,
strongly marked features, heavy eyebrows,
and quick gleaming eyes. His face
was almost smooth-shaven. He kept his
head .thrown back as he walked. He was not
handsome, but he was commanding in appearance,

and few who looked at him would have
thought of mentally Inquiring whether he was
handsome or not. There was something
stern, something tragic about his face. His
forehead seemed scarred with the thunder.
As with Marcellus in Virgil's poem, darksome
night appeared, amid all his triumph,
to gather its black shadow around his head.
Women admired him, that was certain — admired
him and were afraid of him — admired
him all the more because they were afraid
of him.

He had been a very successful man thus

far. He had entered public life with some

fortune to back him, but with no aristocratic

connexions. He had married both fortune

and rank. His wife had died after a year,

but his success was assured. His marriage

had been the turning-point in his career.

Now he had come to be the maker of peers,

and the patron even of dukes. He had a

consuming ambition. His friends said it was

a noble ambition ; his enemies said that it

was an ambition ruinous to his country. It

was not a selfish ambition in the lowest sense,

but If it led him wrong, It would be likely todo

infinitely more harm than any merely
selfish ambition could have wrought in such a
position as that of a modern English statesman.
Had Sir Victor only coveted of^ce,
rank, power, influence, for himself, and been
content with such acquisitions, he might have
had enough to sate the most greedy ambition,
and yet have done no great harm to anything
except his own nature and his own soul. But
the ambition of Sir Victor Champion was to
have his owen name inseparably associated intime
to come with some great change wrought
in the condition of his country. His admirers
insisted that his only desire was to have his
name remembered in connection with some
great good deed done by or for England.
But his enemies would have it that he was
resolved to be remembered in history at England's
expense, if he could not be remembered
in blessings. Both sides, it is likely, were
partly right ; were seized of half the truth.
The ambition which identifies our country's
glory with our own does not always regard
our own glory as identical with that of our
country. The aspiring youth who fired the
Ephesian dome was only a fool for his pains,

or a madman ; it is a comfort to reflect that
there are not many ambitions like his. Buta
man of very different quality might have
set fire to the temple under the impression
that he was only illuminating it while inscribing
his own name in letters of flame round its
dome.

Lady Saxon, having got her opportunity,
was determined not to lose it. She wanted
to bring Sir Victor Champion to her side herein
the full light of the House of Commons
lobby. She had deeper and much stronger
reasons for this desire, but one of her minor
and superficial reasons was to inflict a sort of
punishment on Bellarmin, who had been thinking
a great deal too much about Miss Beaton,
and her claims and her beauty.

We have not met for a long time, Sir
Victor,' Lady Saxon said, turning her eyes
upon him, and then letting them droop ; * except
in the most casual and commonplace way.
We have not met to talk.'

No, we have not been floated together,'
Sir Victor answered in a deep melodious
voice, which fell caressingly on her ear, and
made the blood rush for an instant to

her cheek. ' I am glad to find you in
town

Lady Saxon looked up again straight into
his face. There was something at once
seductive and defiant in her glance. Her expression
was peculiar. She seemed to be
commanding Sir Victor's attention, and to be
appealing, at the same time, to a claim upon
his sentimental regard, which only he and she
understood. Lord Saxon, it was evident, suspected
no such claim. His heavy head was
bent, showing the bull-like conformation of
neck, and giving him an appearance of dull
obstinacy, in striking contrast with the alert,
dominant expression of the Liberal chief.
The eyes of both Sir Victor and Lady Saxon
turned for a second upon him, and met again.
Lady Saxon laughed in a forced manner, but
her voice faltered in spite of herself

The current has drifted us together at
last,' she said ; ' but you might have found
me before.'

Look here, Josephine,' Lord Saxon broke
in, ' I have got to go away for a while, you
know. I dare say Champion won't mind seeing
you back to the Ladies' Gallery, or the

Terrace, If you want to go. I'll meet you
later on at Lady Warrington's.'

'Very well,' she answered, and gave him a
smile as she added, ' that means there will be
nothing much going on here, and that there
is to be a political caucus at the Dorrlngtons*
instead. Saxon doesn't often go with me to
an evening party.'

Lord Saxon strode away.

I don't think I need give you the trouble
of mounting up to the Ladies' Gallery with
me. Sir Victor ; I have heard enough for one
night, and it Is hot and stuffy up there. Why
do you gaze up in that sort of way ? I think
I had better get home, and go on to Lady
Warrington's. Shall I see you there 1'

Sir Victor shook his head. He seemed to
be hesitating as to what he should say next.
She watched him narrowly. She was eager
to see whether he would take her at her word
and let her go.

Will you come for a turn on the Terrace ?'
he asked at last, in a low tone. ' The night
is delightful'

She could hardly restrain a deep breath of
exultation.

'Yes, thanks, since you are so good. Indeed,
I told one or two women that I should
be on the Terrace.'

Come this way,' Sir Victor said, and she
swept out of the lobby with him, making, as
she passed, a parting bow to Bellarmin, who
had just been presented to the mysterious
Stuart girl, and who appeared by no means
unhappy, even though Lady Saxon was leaving
him.

Lady Saxon and Sir Victor passed out of
the lobby into a corridor lined on both sides
with the schoolboy-like numbered lockers
in which members keep their papers. They
went through a swinging brass door on the
left and made their way down a tortuous
staircase, darksome as that of a gaol ; and at
the bottom of this sordid staircase to another
door, which conducted to a stone passage
on the right. Wheeling round to the left
again, they were at a gate through which
they suddenly passed into all the beauty and
glory of the soft night of early summer, and
found themselves on the Terrace where the
river washes the southern walls of Westminster
Palace. There was a moon shining,

but its brightness was dimmed by the amber
glow which poured down from the library
windows above, and the lamps set at intervals
along the balustrade illuminating the wide
stone walk. A fitful breeze swept up from
the water. The river, closed in here by the
two stone bridges with their cavern-like
arches and triangular jets of light, had a
ripple on it and looked alive. The reflections
of the lanterns in the barges lying along
the embankment seemed to dance in the
depths. Opposite rose the great square
blocks of St. Thomas's Hospital with their
spectral windows, and the tall gray shot-tower
lower down lost itself in the mist. A little
steamer puffing and groaning, and the roar
of the Charing Cross train, gave life and
commonplace reality to the scene, which otherwise
had a curious solemnity and impressiveness.


I am always ashamed of that vile dark
staircase,' Champion said in his conventional
manner, as they walked up to the end and
turned again ; ' and yet I think we ought to
keep it as it is, if only for the reason that
the Terrace looks so much more attractive

because of the caverns through which we
have to get to it. Don't you think so, Lady
Saxon ?'

I have been thinking of many things
since wee came out, but not of that,' she
answered.

Perhaps Sir Victor did not wish to notice
the significance of her tone ; or perhaps his
mind was occupied with the late election and
Tressel's majority ; or perhaps he had thrown
off the statesman for a moment, and was enjoying
the picturesqueness of the place and of
the evening.

Sir Victor Champion had a quick and
vivid interest in almost everything. Certainly
there was hardly anything in which he
could not promptly get up a genuine interest.
He had a liberal knowledge of art, science,
history, poetry, romance, the acting drama,
architecture, Japanese colouring, and old
china. His power of throwing himself from
subject to subject gave some excuse for the
allegation of his enemies, that a fatal levity,
a want of depth and adhesiveness, was
destined to mar his best gifts and make his
career dangerous to his country. He soon

became conscious of the beauty of the scene,
and found a pleasure in expatiating on it to
Lady Saxon. As they walked along the
Terrace he began pointing out to her what
he regarded as the most interesting objects,
and he was launching into quite an eloquent
dissertation on the history of Lambeth Palace
and the Dollars' Tower. Lady Saxon's
bosom heaved with impatience. She had
not come there to be told of the Dollars'
Tower.

We walk together side by side, the first
time for years,' she said, in a low tone of
impassioned remonstrance ; ' and you can
only talk to me about Lambeth Palace !
Victor !'

Her voice dropped to the lowest, softest,
most plaintive note of appeal as she looked
into the statesman's face and called him by
his name. He stopped and turned to her
in some surprise.

Lady Saxon ' he was beginning to

say.

Lady Saxon !' she repeated in low wistful
protest.

Josephine,' he said. ' Josephine ! How

many years is it since I called you by that
name ?'

She did not answer. They had reached
the end of the Terrace and turned. Sir
Victor glanced at his companion. Lady
Saxon in her splendid beauty, with her stately
carriage, her arms folded in her rich mantle,
and her eyes gazing earnestly into the night,
had about her a suggestion of the dramatic
which was not without attraction for Sir
Victor. His temperament required the
stimulant of drama. He wondered what
was passing in her mind. He half expected
some theatrical outburst ; but it did not come
then.

Have you noticed those thin white tracks
along the lattice-work pattern of the pavement
?' she asked quietly. ' There are
three of them. See ! the middle one is very
distinct.'

They are the marks of many footsteps,'
he replied ; ' the tracks of the men who have
walked up and down here.'

The tracks of the men who have made
and are making history. V021 are of them,
Victor. I think that if I were a writer, I

could compose a poem or a satire by the
inspiration of those three narrow paths.
Think of the big schemes that have been
worked out here in the brains of ambitious
men ; and think of the agonies of disappointment
some of those men must have suffered
as they paced these stones, when their schemes
had come to nothing.'

• Yes,' said Sir Victor. ' You have a quick
imagination, Josephine. These stones could
tell many a soul's story.'

Think of the women who have walked
here, too !' Lady Saxon went on ; ^ of the
hopes that might be spoken, and of those
that might not even be whispered ; the fears
and the ambitions for the husband, or for
the lover — I wonder how much oftener for
the lover — the light flirtations, the intrigues,
the heart tragedies. But I don't want to
talk of intrigues ; the heart tragedies ! Oh,
I've seen enough of the House of Commons,
Victor, to know that love often walks along
this place masquerading as policy.'

Not with me. I am not one of the
politicians who turn the House of Commons
into the background of a flirtation.'

Why not ? Politicians, I suppose, are but
human, and want some pastime in the intervals
of their serious business. Mr. Bellarmin is
not the only one of you who finds it here ready
to hand.'

What makes you Instance Bellarmin ?'

He comes naturally to one's mind.
People are talking of him just now. He Is
young, handsome, and a power in his way ;
and he will be a greater power still, before
very long. Remember, he Is the leader of
the party which turned us out of office. He
has a future.'

You are right,' said Champion thoughtfully.


A woman who bound him with her chains
might feel proud of her captive,' said Lady
Saxon.

Report speaks of you as that woman,
doesn't It ?'

Is that why you have avoided me ?' she
asked, In a different tone. * Let us be frank
with one another. Surely we have known
each other too well for masks to be necessary
now.'

- It would be more prudent to wear them.

would it not — at any rate in this place ?' he
replied, waiting till they had passed through
the knots of people who were gathered about
the various little tables in the middle of the
Terrace.

Not at all she said. ' No one would
be surprised that I should be here with my
husband's friend and leader. But tell me, why
have you avoided me ?'

Because, Josephine, I felt that there might
be danger in our intimacy.'

Danger !' she repeated ; * to which of us ?'

I scarcely know. I was afraid that the
position might be painful to you. Our past
has some troublous associations. I thought
it probable that, as Lady Saxon, you might
wish that past forgotten — or at least ignored.'

Not one memory of it which links me with
you. I cherish these associations ; they are
sweeter to me than rank or riches — sweeter
to me than anything on this earth. They are
myself.'

'Josephine !'

If all that makes the good or ill of my
life were to crumble into nothingness t/iey
would remain. . . .' She paused and placed

herself with her back against the balustrade
which fronted the river. The two were in
shadow, and far out of hearing of the merry
groups scattered here and there by the tea-tables.
* Do you ever think of those old days,
Victor ?' she went on, in a voice of smothered
emotion ; ' those dear old days when we were
so much to each other !'

I have remembered them always, Josephine,
with tenderness and gratitude.'

He, too, spoke with emotion. To a critical
listener it might have seemed only the echo
of her emotion.

You loved me ?' she asked eagerly ; ' even
though you left me.'

I loved you indeed ; and for many a long

day I missed you. But ' He hesitated.

You put the case harshly '

Well, be frank. You owe me that.' She
spoke with agitated insistence.

I find a greater difficulty in touching upon
the past with Lady Saxon than I might have
done with — Madame Langenwelt.'

You know that Langenwelt married me
after that — because I refused to accept him
on any other terms she put in coolly. T had

VOL. I. 4

become indispensable to him. The trade
would have collapsed without me.'

He was ennobled ?'

Oh yes, a patent of nobility bought out of
the proceeds of quack medicines !' She laughed
an odd tuneless laugh. ' It's a queer sort of
career, isn't it ? Not altogether unlike that
of Emma Harte, Lady Hamilton — you remember
— only I'm better educated. I have
to thank Langenwelt for that ; and I'm not
going to make a mess of the wind-up as she
did. Good heavens ! In the days when I
exhibited at sixpence a head, who would have
dreamed that I should ever have the right to
go into dinner h^ior & yoicr wife !'

Josephine,' said Champion, in some embarrassment
and much pity, ' it pains and
perplexes me to hear you talk in this wild
way. Your outspokenness is alarming. I
beg you for your own sake '

Oh !' she interrupted, with a gesture of her
hands as if she would fling away pretences.
Outspokenness is the most highly priced of
luxuries to me. I can't afford to indulge in it
often. You shouldn't grudge it to me on an
occasion like this. You and I, Victor, have

the faculty of appreciating a situation — as they
say in the theatres — at least I used to think
so. There's something dramatic about our
meeting to-night, isn't there ? And to be in
this place — of all places — the theatre of your
glory ! You sacrificed me that you might
play your part here ; and it's only fair, now
'my turn has come, that I should be allowed
to do a little melodramatic spouting of my
own.'

Again she laughed.

Just then some passing member took off
his hat. Lady Saxon bowed.

A lovely night,' she remarked indifferently,
and so warm for the time of year ! Do we
lose anything by enjoying this delicious air ?
Who is speaking ?'

You have lost nothing ; only old What's-his-name
hammering away still for the Government.
He was awfully put out by the cheers
for Tommy Tressel's election — hasn't quite
recovered even yet.'

The member moved on. Lady Saxon turned
again to Champion. She put out her hand
and touched his for a second as it rested on
the balustrade.

4—2

umm "^

You don't know how I've longed for this
meeting. I've dreamed of it — I've rehearsed

it I've ' She broke off with a low

passionate ejaculation. * You don't seem
moved. You are your old self still — impassive
— carried away sometimes by your
intellect — never by your heart.'

And you are still your old self, too,' he
answered gently — * impulsive and emotional
as you always were.'

To you all this is nothing,' she went on
bitterly. * A mere episode in a Parliamentary
session — as I was in days gone by. But I'm
going to be something more than an episode
now, Victor. We meet on equal ground. I
can be of use to you. I can further your
projects. I can be a valuable ally instead
of the shame and the hindrance you once
thought me.'

Ah, Josephine, your reproaches cut me
like a knife.' His deep voice, which in debate
or invective was Sir Victor's most powerful
weapon, thrilled Lady Saxon's ear and heart.
Think of our position f/ien, and you will
admit that they are a little unjust. Come.
Can we not bury the past ? Can we not

make a compact from this night to be friends
dear friends and comrades ?'

You must hear first what I have got to
say. Oh, I'm not reproaching you. I think
I admire you for your impassiveness, and the
cool judgment which made even love subordinate
to political ambition. I always knew
that I couldn't love a man unless he were my
master.'

Surely your husband is a man whom you
can love, and who might make himself your
master ?'

Lady Saxon threw her head back with a
cynical disdainful uplifting of her chin. * My
husband ! I once read of a woman of whose
husband it was said that he was " her slave,
her drudge, and her convenience." Lord
Saxon is my slave, and he is my 'convenience."
'

There was silence between them for a few-moments.
Lady Saxon was the first to break
it.

I have never loved any man but sou,
Victor. I may tell you this, even though my
frankness alarms you. You and I are above
shams. I only ask you to be frank with

me — brutally frank, if that is to tell the
truth.'

'I'll be as frank with you, Josephine, as
your courage and generosity deserve.'

That is well. Let us talk our minds out fora
few minutes only. Yes, I loved you, Victor
as I cadi love ; and at first, when you left
me, I hated you. I wanted to be revenged
on you. Then, as I watched your career, I
admired you for what you had done. I felt
glad and proud that you had bought success
even by the sacrifice of me. At a distance, I
began to understand you better — to see what
your genius had seen so quickly and unerringly.
Your time had come. Your opportunity
was before you to seize or to leave.
It was a choice between giving up me, and
giving up a grand future. You chose wisely.
You gave up — me. You gave up your Agnes
Sores, your Aspasia. Don't you think that
is a pretty way of putting it ?' she said suddenly,
with a scornful laugh. ' Well, I thank
you. If you hadn't chosen so, what should I
be now, instead of being what I am ? You
made me Lady Saxon, and I shall have made
you Dictator of England.'

No one has ever understood me as you
understand me,' he said, with low-toned fervour.
' You have a noble, sympathetic soul,
Josephine. You, too, feel that compelling
force which drives our destinies, and which I
have always felt so strongly within me. I
have a mission which to me is more than
love.'

I know it. I know that I, too, have a
mission. Yes, we stand on equal ground
now, Victor. We will fight side by side. We
mus fight — either for or against each other.
We breathe the same political atmosphere.
Your life is mine. The current has drifted
us together. You say, " Let us make a compact
from this night to be friends and comrades."
Yes ; but on one condition.'

Name it. Whatever you ask shall be
agreed to.'

'You loved me once. I had great influence
over you. I am content to take a secondary
place ; but I must have no rival there. \\ e
will not talk of love— you and I. My burst
of melodrama is over. This only I ask you.
I know you too well to doubt the truth of
your answer. Do you love any other woman ?

1 love no woman in the world, Josephine,
unless it be yourself. Since my wife's death,
I have given myself up completely to politics,
and I have no thought of marrying again.
The first place is yours.'

The i-^^^;^^ place,' she corrected. / I will
yield the first to England ; but I will not
yield it to a woman. There shall be no misunderstanding.
This is not a drawing-room
conspiracy. I have said that we will not
talk of love. Let us bury the past then.
So ! The compact is made. Your hand
upon it.'

They clasped hands silently. His was cool
and firm. He could feel hers through her
glove trembling and feverish.

WHO SHALL SEPARATE US ?'

O W tell me of your plans,' she said
impulsively. ' What is in your
mind ? What are the prospects
of the party ? I want to understand your
ambitions — your personal ambition.'

^ Personal ambition ?' he said doubtfully.
I don't say that a man is bound to shut his
mind and heart against such a feeling ; no, I
don't go so far as to say that. But is it not
his duty to foster within himself only that
truer and nobler ambition which devotes
itself to the real greatness of his country, and
the abiding happiness of his people ?'

There was a ring of the House of Commons
peroration which did not please Lady

Saxon. ' Are you ashamed of acknowledging
your personal ambition to me ?' she said,
turning the full light of her eyes upon his.
Did I not always know you were ambitious?
Did I not always urge you to give your ambition
full play ? You took me at my word
then ? Did I not admire you all the more ? —
well, yes, let it be admire — did I not admire
you all the more because of your ambition ?
Ah ! times and things may have changed,
but I shall never forget — I have never forgotten
— the days when it was allowed me
to share your ambition. I share no ambition
now.'

Yet surely you have conquered for yourself
as splendid a position as an Englishwoman
could achieve. You are Lady Saxon. You
will be Duchess of Athelstanee.'

Yes,' she answered ; ' and the triumph is
sweet to me, though sometimes — sometimes,
Victor, I ask myself whether Bohemia wasn't
a pleasant place to live in than Mayfair. I
exult in it, and I scorn it at the same time ;
for all that sort of thing isn't my highest ambition,
and never was, and you know it. But
we have dropped the curtain on old scenes,

My husband cares about nothing except in a
dull, heavy, prosaic way. He doesn't care
one straw for the highest prize and the highest
fame that political life could give. I always
longed to be the wife and the comrade of a
fighting man ; and now — well, I don't want
to talk of myself, I want to talk of you. You
are meditating a great stroke. I know that
much. I don't ask you what it Is ; I only ask
if I can help you in it.'

Help me ? Without knowing what it Is ?
without asking ?'

Yes,' without knowing — without asking, if
you wish. It will be enough for me to know
that I am helping you In some scheme that
holds your heart.'

Josephine, ycu deserve my full confidence,
and you shall have it. Yes, I am sick of
being one of a party ; I am sick of compromise
and cold counsel, and postponement,
and — and surrender. I am determined to
make a great Radical Party and to lead it, as
I have never yet been able to lead. The
time has come to appeal to the imagination
and the passion of the English people. How
could such a people be enthusiastic about

petty modifications of the suffrage and peddling
schemes about local government and
county boards ? We have no longer a great
party, because we have no longer a great
principle. I mean to appeal to the English
people on behalf of the first step to the
creation of a commonwealth, of an educated
democracy.'

The first step ?' she asked, with all the
seeming of breathless interest.

'The abolition of the House of Lords.
Let us have our Sovereign and our people ;
the Sovereign of the people, with no privileged
class or chamber to intervene. Loose
the bonds of England, and let her go. Then
for the first time we shall see what an English
commonwealth is capable of attempting and
achieving. We shall gather our colonies
round us as the bird gathers her young.
Come the three corners of the world in arms,
and we shall shock them.'

He spoke in a tone kept purposely low,
and his voice dropped to a whisper now and
then as they passed in their walk some other
promenaders. But his look and manner were
full of enthusiasm. He always spoke like a

man addressing an audience whom he has to
persuade and carry with him.

Have you spoken to anyone of this as
yet ?' she asked.

Not as yet ; at least not in any distinct way.'

Not to Lord Saxon ?'

Not to Lord Saxon. He is your husband
; but you won't mind my saying that he
is not a man to warm to such a scheme. At
least, he is not a man with imagination to
take to it at once.'

You see, it would pull down the House of
which he is one day to be a member,' said
Lady Saxon thoughtfully.

Do you know, I don't think such a consideration
would influence Saxon in the least,'
he said. ' I do him that justice. I am sure
that if it could only be got into his mind
that it would be for the good of England, he
would give the scheme his heartiest support.
I hope to be able to convince him that it is
for the good of England ; but I don't believe
it would do to flash such a proposal on him
at the present moment. When it takes shape
and he finds that it is a reality, he may then
come to it.'

He will never come to it,' Lady Saxon
said firmly. * You may make up your mind
to that, Victor. Sooner or later, you will
have to separate from him.'

'You think so.'

I am convinced of it. It might be possible,
perhaps, through my influence to pull
Saxon up to a division on some general
declaration of a wish for some reform of
that kind.' She paused. ' Beyond that I
doubt.'

Your influence over him is strong.'

I suppose so. I have not cared to exercise
it in political matters.' She seemed
to be reflecting. ' I don't knows ; it might
be possible to carry him over the crisis
which would oust the Tories. That even
would be something worth trying for. I
suppose it is your idea ultimately to go to the
country.'

Yes, when I have declared my purpose in
the House.'

You will not take Saxon with you. There
is bound to be a split of the party. Well,
what then, if it be strengthened from another
source } At the worst you can separate

from him. You will be better without the
Whigs.'

He looked at her earnestly, full of admiration
for her courage and her quick decision.
He could not help thinking to himself, ' If I
had such a wife !'

I know what was passing through your
mind this moment,' she said. * You were
thinking how it would be with you if you had
a wife with courage and ambition.'

I was indeed. How did you know ?'
I knew — oh, well, because I was thinking
at that moment — if I had a husband with
courage and ambition. Well, I can help you,
I think, Victor.'

I should welcome help from you.'
I know there is one man whom you would
like to bring to your side ; a very different
sort of man from my husband.'

There is one man,' Champion said slowly,
to whom I have even made a sort of overture,
because he has talents and imagination
and any amount of courage, and, I presume,
ambition, and because he has a mind free
from stupid tradition and inane party prejudice.'


Yes ; we mean the same man,' she said
composedly.

Are you sure ?' he said, with a certain
degree of hesitation.

'We both mean Mr. Bellarmine.'

Yes — you were right just now when you
said he had a future. I think highly of him.
He Is forming a party which he has purposely
pledged to nothing but a name ; and I do not
see why Progressive Toryism and Educated
Democracy should not be accepted as meaning
one and the same thln^.'

Lady Saxon looked keenly Into his face to
see whether he was speaking these words In
irony or sarcasm. But he was not ; he
was quite in earnest. He had little of the
humorist in him. He was considering in
all gravity whether the two designations
might not, by bold and clever manipulation,
be made out to mean the same thing for
political purposes.

What has Mr. Bellarmine said ?' she asked.

Hardly anything, so far.'

Of course you didn't speak to him yourself?'


Oh no ; that would never do. It Is too

early for that. I got a man to open the
thing to him in a tentative sort of way.'

Who was the man, Victor ? Tell me.'
The manner in which she took possession

of his confidence had a certain fascination for
him. He had for so long been such a lonely
man, that her frank assumption of cainaraderie
and companionship had a sweet and soothing
sound in his ears.

'Of course I will tell you. It was
TresseL'

That man ! Victor, you have made a mistake.
Bellarmin would never treat as serious
anything coming through TresseL'

I believe Mr. Tressel is profoundly serious.
I think he showed it by his pluck in resigning
and standing another contest,' Sir Victor said,
looking at her with puckered brows. He did
not like being told that he had made a mistake,
and especially such a mistake.

'Very possibly; I know little or nothing
about him. You probably know the real
man. But the world does not take him
seriously ; and Mr. Bellarmin would not have
any way of knowing that you had got at the
man's true self No ; Bellarmin would not

VOL. I. - ::

open his mind to him. You must try again,
and through some one else.'

You are the leader now, not I,' he said,
with a smile that gave a peculiar sweetness to
his melancholy face. 'Well, Josephine, tell
me the man you would recommend.'

I don't recommend any man. I don't think
it's a man's office. I recommend a woman.'

The smile passed from his face, and was
succeeded by a look of wonder.
A woman ?' he said slowly.
A woman, Victor — the one woman who
could be trusted in anything that concerned
you. I offer you my own wits, such as they
are, for this purpose. Let me negotiate with
Mr. Bellarmin. See, there he is.'

She stopped suddenly, and made Champion
also stop. She looked towards the doorway
of stone through which one comes on to the
Terrace from the interior of the House. Bellarmin
was coming out, escorting Miss Beaton,
and Miss Beaton's retinue. A peculiar light
flashed in Lady Saxon's eyes as she saw the
group.

You know who the lady is ?' Sir Victor
said, in a low tone.

Oh yes ; I have heard. A woman whose
friends tell her she is the legitimate Queen of
England. What childish absurdity — in days
like these, too !'

If Bellarmin should become devoted to
her,' Sir Victor said, ' she will not be likely to
inspire him with much Inclination for the
abolition of the House of Lords, and the
cause of a Democratic Commonwealth.'

Lady Saxon looked curiously at him, once
again wondering whether he was not speaking
in satire. But no ; Sir Victor was quite in
earnest. He was considering within himself
whether it might not be to the disadvantage
of his position if Bellarmin were to be taken
captive by the feminine representative of
Divine right and the cause of legitimacy.

We must intervene,' Lady Saxon said with
alacrity and emphasis. ' He has had no time
yet to be influenced by her. He never saw
her until to-night.'

Perhaps, up to this moment, Sir Victor had
not been very cordial in his reception of Lady
Saxon's generous offer. Champion was never
much of a believer in the use of the petticoat
in politics. In spite of his asseveration to

5—2

Lady Saxon, it was said that more than once
in his life he had been strongly under the
influence of some woman ; but that influence
had not shown itself in his policy. Now,
however, as he looked at Miss Beaton and at
Bellarmin together, and saw how beautiful
she was, and how young she was, he did
begin to admit to himself that the intervention
of a brilliant and fascinating woman like Lady
Saxon would have some advantage. He saw
that her eyes were lighted already with the
flame of battle. He admired her. He felt a
pride and a new delight in her professed
devotion to him. They continued their
walk.

You accept my service, Victor ?' Lady
Saxon asked.

Most cordially. I put my trust fully in
you. Speak to Bellarmin. Tell him as
much as you like, or as little.'

And we are friends and comrades once
more ?'

Friends and comrades once more. Who
shall separate us ?'

Just then they turned again, and came
towards Miss Beaton and Bellarmin.

MARY BEATON.

BRIGHT gleam of Interest lighted
up Mary Beaton's eyes when Lord
Stonehenge presented Bellarmin.
She had been hearing a good deal lately of
the bold, brilliant young political free-lance ;
but she had not remembered just at that
moment that he was so young, and it was
with a pleased surprise that she saw the handsome,
well-shaped, well-dressed youth brought
to her notice as Mr. Rolfe Bellarmin. Her
very first words, much more abrupt than
ceremonious, were sweeter to Bellarmine's ear
and heart than the most courtly turn of compliment.


Mr. Rolfe Bellarmin ! I am delighted

but I never thought you were so young — and
you have done so much.'

Their eyes met, and hers were all brightness
and vivacious kindliness. He felt his
cheeks flush with a strange feeling, half
modesty, half mere delight. Her frank, sweet
expression seemed to single him out at once
with especial interest. She held out her hand
to him, and he bent over it with the deference
he would have shown to the princess of a
reigning house. His instinct at once told
him that thus he must meet the free and
friendly graciousness of her reception. He
spoke a few words of gratefulness, of gratification
that she had heard of him, and he addressed
her as ' Madame.' He had heard
Lord Stonehenge do so, and he assumed that
this was done in recognition of her illustrious
birth, her claims, and her peculiar position ;
and Bellarmin did not find that it qualified or
compromised his allegiance to the Sovereign
of England to give to this beautiful, interesting
and most friendly creature any title which
her friends wished to adopt for her, and which
she was willing to receive. Mary Beaton
really felt much interested in him. He was

young, like herself, and there was a glance in
his eye which spoke of a vivacity somewhat
wanting in those who chiefly surrounded her.

Yes, I have heard of you,' she said ; ' and
of your party of young Progressivess. I like
anything fresh and original, Mr. Bellarmin,
and I am afraid,' she said in a somewhat
lower tone, ' that I have a leaning towards
anything which is called young.'

She threw a somewhat mischievous glance
backward at an elderly lady with a prim face
and white hair, dressed a la Marquise who
stood behind her, and at the stately, soldierlike
old man whom Bellarmin had described
to Lady Saxon as her factotum. General
Falcon was gazing at her intently, and surprised
her glance. A sudden gleam shot from
his eyes, and for a moment transformed his
calm, severe face, giving it an expression of
fierceness, almost of malignity. It was as
though he interpreted and resented Miss
Beaton's playful look. Both Mary and Bellarmin
were struck by this unexpected fire.
Mary laughed lightly.

Now, you wouldn't think that General
Falcon was touchy on the subject of his

years ?' she said, in alow tone ; * but I assure
you he is as vain as my dear Lady Struthers,
who will tell you, if you ask her, why her
hair turned gray so prematurely.' She shook
her head in an amused manner at the General,
who bent his ceremoniously, but did not speak.
'All the same, Mr. Bellarmin, I did not expect
to find you so young,' Mary went on.
It's such a strange thing with all you English
statesmen and politicians — you are all so old.
I mean the others are all so old. I am told
of some one who is said to be a rising politician,
still quite young ; and I see a man of
forty, forty-five, or fifty perhaps. Look at
Lord Saxon. I always heard of him as a
young man — and look !'

She shrugged her shoulders with a pretty
movement of wonder and protest.

Yes, we think Lord Saxon quite a youthful
and rising politician,' replied Bellarmin ;
and then,' he added, with a glance towards
Lady Saxon and the Liberal chief, who were
moving off to the Terrace, ' there's Sir
Victor.'

'Oh, tell me about Sir Victor!' Mary cried
eagerly. ' It doesn't seem to matter with

him whether he is young or old. I've heard
and read all kinds of things about him. I
want to know why he has got the nickname
of " Lucifer " ?'

It came out of a joke of Tommy Tressel's,'
answered Bellarmin. ' Champion was
making a speech in one of his most highly
wrought moods, just a trifle too highly
wrought perhaps ; and he was glorifying his
own political career, and showing how absolutely
consistent it was. " My mission is to
bring light," he exclaimed, and then Tommy
Tressel was heard to murmur dreamily the
one word " Lucifer !" So the House laughed,
and it stuck to Champion.'

But I thought Mr. Tressel was a devoted
follower of Sir Victor Champion's ? Was not
that why they cheered Sir Victor so much
just now ?*

Oh yes ; but Tressel likes to have his
fun with Champion's little weaknesses all the
same. He does Champion real service ; he
will do anything for him almost, and he pays
himself with a laugh every now and then.
Another man would expect a baronetcy, or a
Privy-chancellorship, or a place in the Administration,

or a peerage. Tressel cares for
none of these things. He considers himself
amply repaid by being allowed to make fun
of his chief sometimes.'

Quite a court jester,' Mary said scornfully.


Well, one doesn't altogether despise
Chicot the Jester,' replied Bellarmin ; ' but
Tressel is much more than a mere jester.
He is one of the most disinterested public
men I know.'

A man ought to have ambition — a high
ambition, I mean. I am attracted by Sir
Victor Champion. He has a high ambition,
everyone says. Yet it may be a little wearisome
sometimes to those around.' Mary
spoke in a different tone, as if her mind had
been drawn along some new line of thought.
General Falcon has great ambition for me,
and it wearies me sometimes. I think, perhaps,
I should like Mr. Tressel now and
then to come and say amusing things and
make me laugh.'

Her manner touched Bellarmin. There
seemed to him something curiously pathetic
in the position of this young girl. ' She

must be lonely,' he thought. All her views
of life must be strangely coloured by the
conditions under which she had been brought
up. He had an odd desire to talk to her
about herself — to get at what she really felt,
and thought, and hoped for.

There is Lord Stonehenge,' Mary said
suddenly. ' Now, he is young ; but yet he is
so grave and serious that I never could dare
to approach him with the frivolity of youth.
I am afraid you were very much shocked
just now. Lord Stonehenge,' she added, turning
towards him, * when I was so near
blundering into the very midst of the House
of Commons ?'

Not so shocked as ]Mr. Leven, who has
an intense reverence for the forms and traditions
of the House,' said Lord Stonehenge,
smiling in his grave, sweet manner. ' Besides,
you have an ancestral claim, Madame, to a
place on certain occasions in another House.'

Mary smiled.

We mustn't bring Mr. Bellarmin into
our traitorous schemes. I see he is thinking
already of Tower Hill and the block.'

I think nothing would be more delightful

than to die on Tower Hill,' Bellarmin answered;
'that would be dying like a gentleman
— like a brave loyal Englishman of a
better time than ours.'

Is that the faith of the Progressive
Tories ?' Mary asked. ' Do you speak for
your party, Mr. Bellarmin, or only for yourself
? You see, I have learned something of
your political phraseology already.'

Meanwhile General Falcon and Lady
Struthers, who was Miss Beaton's gouvernante,
chaperone, Mistress of the Robes or
such-like anomalous functionary, had been
communing together.

Madame expressed herself anxious to
see the Terrace, Lord Stonehenge,' said
Lady Struthers. ' Is the present an appropriate
time for Madame's wish to be gratified
r

'Just a moment, my good Struthers,'
Madame said, apparently in no impatient
anxiety for the Terrace. * I want you to tell
me, Mr. Bellarmin ; are there any of your
celebrities in the lobby just now ?'

Lord Stonehenge has just been saying
that there are not any,' General Falcon

observed ; ' and Lord Stonehenge knows
everybody.'

On the contrary,' Lord Stonehenge gravely
Interposed, ' I know very few. I seldom come
here. Mr. Bellarmin is ever so much a better
guide.'

There Is no one, I'm afraid,' said Bellarmin.


Miss Beaton studied the lobby.

What a strange-looking, venerable old
man ! I never saw a face like his before.
Who Is he ? He Is a celebrity, surely.'

Yes ; In a sense,' replied Bellarmin.
He is an odd sort of person. That Is old
Clarence Greenleaf He has sat for one and
the same constituency for fifty-seven years.
He has never spoken In the House ; there Is
a tradition that he once presented a petition.
He boasts that he has never missed a division.
The House Is his home. It Is all
the world to him. He has neither kith nor
kin. He was never married. He knows
everybody a little, and nobody well. He
likes to make the acquaintance of anyone
who Is a celebrity, or Is even talked about.
He calls himself a Liberal, but in reality he

has no politics. I see him looking at you
with intense interest. I have no doubt he is
planning in his mind how he may get presented
to you.'

Poor old man !' exclaimed Mary, to whom
the picture seemed a pathetic illustration of
the life of the House of Commons. 'Will
you present him ?^

'May I.?'

Oh yes ; if he cares about it.'

He will only be too delighted. You maybe
sure that he knows all about you already.'

Bellarmin crossed the lobby, and immediately
returned with Mr. Greenleaf, who
came alonsf making a succession of solemn
bows, and had taken off his hat the moment
he first put himself in motion.

Madame has been kind enough to say
that she wishes you to be presented to her.'

Madame is all graciousness,' the old man
said, in a thin, reedy voice, and again bowing
lowly before Mary. ' I had the great honour
of knowing Madame's father. He sat for a
while in this House before he succeeded
Madame's honoured grandfather in the title.
I had the honour of seeing Madame herself

when Madame was a child, in the palace of
my illustrious friend the late Grand Duke of
Schwalbenstadt. May I trust that Madame
will grace and favour us by making a long
stay in England? — which is indeed her country
in some sense.'

England, I hope, is my country in every
sense, Mr. Greenleaf,' Mary said; ' I was not
born here ; but it is my country. It was the
country of my ancestors.'

Madame cannot claim the country more
eagerly than the country claims her,' and he
bent again as he might to a queen on her
throne. Then Mary bowed, and, so to speak,
dismissed him. The old gentleman went
away delighted with himself. He had contrived
to let her know, he thought, that he
understood her position and her claims ; and
without compromising himself had almost
given it to be understood that on the whole
he rather favoured them than otherwise in
his secret heart. Mary, for her part, was
amused.

I think Mr. Greenleaf managed his part
very prettily,' she said; 'he almost made a
profession of true allegiance to me. But I

saved him from compromising himself with
the Hanoverian people. I stopped him justin
time.'

You have made him very happy,' said
Bellarmine. * He will become quite a figure
at every dinner-party for the next few weeks
on the strength of this Interview with you.'

The young man laughed softly as he spoke,
but his laugh had something tender In It, and
was rather the outcome of that curious compassion
he was beginning to feel than of
any sense of amusement at the unconscious
assumption of the young Pretenders. 'At
any rate, she Is perfectly sincere,' he thought.
I am glad she has faith In herself.'

Miss Beaton's eyes roved round In eager
curiosity. Now they looked up at the groined
telling ; now down at the tessellated pavement
and at the Inscription in Old English
letters which surrounded It. ' General Falcon,'
she said imperiously, ' why haven't I been
here before ? I want to go all over the
House.'

It can be very easily arranged, Madame,'
returned Falcon. ' I am sure that Mr. Leven
or Mr. Bellarmine '

'Are entirely at your service, Madame
put in Bellarmin. ' Would you like to see the
library and the reading-rooms now, before we
go on to the Terrace ?'

The little party moved along the corridor,
Bellarmin and Mary in front, Falcon closely
following them. Mary examined the oak
presses as she passed, and looked in at
open doors, and asked questions about
everything, sometimes turning to Falcon as
to her recognised protector, more often to
Bellarmin.

I like this place,' she said. ' It excites
me. Watching people and things here is like
seeing the heart of England beating. Isn't
it so ?'

Yes,' replied Bellarmin, his eyes fixed
upon her.

Here is the heart of a crreat nation,' Mary
went on enthusiastically ; ' here, in Westminster.
Oh ! I wish ' she stopped

abruptly.

What do you wish ?' asked Bellarmin.

Never mind. You people who are at the
core of it all, and who sit here and make the
laws, don't seem to notice or to care about

VOL. T. 6

the wrong and misery that are crying at the
very doors of this Westminster

They were about to enter the library, and
had just passed the door that leads Into the
newspaper room and the members' tea-room
beyond. At the side of this door, the side
nearest to the library, stands a desk, beside
which members often stop to read letters or
to write a hasty note, or to confer with somebody.


Let us not go in just yet,' Bellarmin said;
■" I can't take you Into the library under these
new regulations. Let us stop here a moment.
I am anxious to hear you on this subject.' He
was really much interested in Miss Beaton's
views, and was glad to have a chance of
knowing how the condition of things in England
impressed her.

The little party came to a stand accordingly.


Oh, I haven't anything to say which can
be new to you. I have only my own crude
notions. I judge hastily, perhaps, by what I
see. Well, for instance, it was only yesterday
we walked about some of your streets —
General Falcon and I — I like to go about

among the people in that way ; for how could
I do any good if I did not know ? We had
a friend with us, a lady who is interested in
that work ; and we went into some alleys and
houses. Oh, Mr. Bellarmin !' Mary stopped
short, and clasped her hands excitedly.

'Well?' he said.

It chills me to the marrow ; it makes my
blood freeze, to see these hideous contrasts —
this terrible poverty, that lavish wealth. It's
like death behind a carnival mask haunting
everywhere — when one is driving in the
streets and the Park ; when one is going into
smart parties. Oh ! do you remember the
face of that man last night ?' She turned to
General Falcon and then again to Bellarmin.
A man was trying to sleep as he cowered in
the doorstep of a fine house — and the woman,
the girl, the child who was trying to get
coppers by sweeping a crossing ! Oh ! what
sights for a Christian country ! Thank God
that I am not really Queen of England ! No,
though — I wish I were, I wish I were Queen
of England only for one day, as somebody
was Caliph of Bagdad, or wherever it was.
I would do something for the poor. I would

do something, too^^jfor the rich; for while
things go on as they are in England — look
you she said, sinking her voice to a low,
grave tone, ' these rich cannot enter the
Kingdom of Heaven.'

What can they do ? They can't help
being rich,' Falcon said abruptly.

No, can't they ? Can't help being rich !
And people as good as they starving in thousands
all round them, at their gates, on their
doorsteps. And they can't help being rich T
she cried, in her childish way, the tears starting
to her eyes. ' I feel sometimes, when I
am sitting down to my good dinner — when I
am putting on my jewels — as if I were the
most cruel and heartless girl who had ever
lived. And I can do so little. They will
let me do so little. I think to myself how it
will be with me when I stand up before the
judgment-seat. Shall I be asked, How much
have you ? or, How much have you given
away ?'

It is quite true,' said Lady Struthers in an
aside to Lord Stonehenge. ' The misery in
London preys upon her frightfully. She gives
away all that she can. She would have sold

her jewels if It had not been represented to
her that they were heirlooms.'

Bellarmin heard the aside. Mary had
moved to another table. He followed her.
But money given away in thoughtless charity
does no good to anyone, the giver or the receiver,'
he said.

Thoughtless charity ? No ; but could
true charity ever be thoughtless ? And see
what you have made of it, what they have
made of it, whoever they are, who are always
preaching against thoughtless charity — yes.
and practising very faithfully against it, I
haven't the slightest doubt. What have they
made of things, and of life here in England —
here in London ? Could any thoughtless
charity make a worse hand of it ? Can you
get me to believe that the condition of things
is right and satisfactory in which one woman
spends a thousand pounds in flowers for a
single ball — the show and pleasure of one
night — and another, just as good as she, gets
three halfpennies — yes, they told me it is so,
three halfpennies ; a penny and a half — for
making a shirt.'

IF YOU WERE QUEEN.

HAT would you do if you were
Queen ?' Bellarmin asked.

He was deeply interested in
her vivid faith — in her own power to settle
much-perplexed economical problems.

I can't tell you offhand,' Mary answered,
with a certain self-sufficing imperiousness of
manner. ' But I can tell you this, Mr. Bellarmin,
I would do something". I would
devote my life and my thoughts and my care
to it. I would set my heart on settling the
question ; and I should end in setting it. I
would never rest happy while a single honest
Englishman or Englishwoman was starving
for want of employment, and hundreds of

thousands of other Englishmen and Englishwomen
who never wrought one stroke of
work in their Ives were sinking into the
mere corruption of too much wealth. Yes, if
I were Queen — Queens can do so much !'

Things are very bad in America — in the
United States Lord Stonehenge struck in.
^ The contrast between extreme of wealth and
extreme of poverty is equally terrible there, I
am told.'

Yes,' Mary answered, shifting her ground
with quick, sweet, woman-like disregard of
logical consistency ; ' but then America has
not a Queen. Everything is left there to dragon
at the mercy of politicians and political
economists and all that ; and there is no presiding
influence, no presiding sympathy, to
intervene and give a chance to something
better. Well, I should try, if I had the chance.
Now nobody cares. It is everyone for himself
and God for us all — only fancy God being
for the set of wretches who were everyone tor
himself!'

She flung her handkerchief on the desk with
the air of a sovereign who throws down his
truncheon to signify that enough has been

done in a duel, that the fight is over, and that
the combatants must now be parted.

There was nothing new in what she had
been saying. Bellarmin admitted that to himself.
H er logic was crude, her facts were faulty.
It was all just the same sort of thing that he
had heard many a woman say before. Almost
every sweet natured, intelligent woman in
countries like ours has said the same at one
time or another. The fact is that women
never did, and never will, acknowledge the
absolute authority of economic law. The intelligent
women do not go the length of saying
that there is no fixed economic law ; only they
have the impertinence to suggest that men
have not yet got an absolutely certain knowledge
of the exact interpretation of the law.
Woman is by nature a mutinous creature, and
on this question of political economy she will
not allow herself to admit that her husband or
her brother or her father is infallible. * They
are a poor lot, these women ; they can never
reason,' says Mr. Hunks, M. P., after a futile
attempt to persuade his wife that the eternal
conditions of human society justify starvation
and the three-halfpence for the making of a

shirt. Bellarmin was not without some secret
misgiving about the woman's view of the
subject. He fancied sometimes that she had
got hold of her half of the truth, and that the
man had not quite got hold of his, and that
some day or other an attempt must be made
by statesmanship to bring the two halves together
in the construction of a sound social
system. But even if Bellarmin did not admit
to the full all the feminine reasoning of jNIary
Stuart Beaton, he was none the less charmed
with her fresh sweetness of nature, her generous
impulsiveness, her bold self-confidence,
her simplicity, her quick and flashing sympathy.
A man, he thought, felt braver and
better for talking to her ; for hearing her talk.

Can you do nothing in the House of Commons,
Mr. Bellarmin ?' she suddenly asked.

Nothing ; nothing whatever. Nothing, at
least, that you would call anything. I am
speaking now of what we call independent
members. They can't do anything. Even
if wee saw our way to any proposal — and we
don't — what could we do ? Put on some
motion by the favour of the ballot for a
Tuesday night ; and if we succeeded in getting

an early date, bring on our motion, and
be counted out.'

But why don't you all stand together, you
independent members, and not be counted
out?'

Because,' he answered gravely, ' we English
are a practical people.'

Mary said no more, and they passed into
another corridor, and after some further
wandering, and an attempt to hear part of a
speech from the back row of chairs in the
Ladies' Gallery, they went down to the Terrace.
As they were going down, a telegram
was thrust into Bellarmin's hand. He glanced
at it ; this is what it contained :

*Am coming up to town to-night. Shall be at Spinosa's.
Be sure to go ; want to talk to you.

Tressel.'

Lady Struthers thought all that she heard
about politics in England very shocking. It
was her first visit to the House of Commons,
and she asked many questions — wanted to
know who the men in wigs were sitting at the
table, and why members got up and walked
this way and that like a flock of sheep when

the bell rang ; and if it were a division, why
weren't Sir Victor Champion and Mr. Bellarmine
in their places ; and since it was all of no
consequence, what was the good of wasting
people's time for nothing ? General Falcon,
who, in a quiet way, was amassing a good
deal of information, had already made a mental
note of Tressel as a man who ought to be
propitiated on the subject of clary Beaton's
claims to the forfeited Stuart property.

These two principal members of Miss
Beaton's household differed in one important
respect. Falcon was reticent, and made his
observations in secret. Lady Struthers blurted
out her opinions with an undesirable lack of
discretion. People who knew both looked
upon Lady Struthers as a harmless, good-natured
person, but there were many who regarded
Falcon with vague dislike and distrust.

As has been seen, Lady Saxon and Sir
Victor were passing by when Mary Beaton
and her companions came out through the
massive doorway on to the Terrace. Mary
noticed that Lady Saxon paused in her walk;
noticed also the look she turned on Bellarmin.
An involuntary movement on Bellarmin's part

also Struck the young girl. She was going to
ask him a question about the regal-looking
woman whom she had remarked in the lobby,
and whom she concluded to be a person of
consequence, when General Falcon pressed
rather eagerly forward.

Mr. Bellarmin, can you tell me — who is
that lady ?'

That is Lady Saxon,' replied Bellarmin,
the wife of Lord Saxon, to whom we spoke
in the lobby.'

The wife of Lord Saxon ! Is it possible ?
She has not been long married T

'About two years,' answered Bellarmin carelessly.
' Why do you ask ?'

Oh, for no particular reason. I fancied
that I recognised her as a lady whom I have
seen in Schwalbenstadt.'

Lady Saxon's first husband was a German,'
said Bellarmin. He turned to Miss Beaton.
Do you admire Lady Saxon ? She is considered
one of the most beautiful women in
London.'

Yes ; I think her very beautiful,' answered
Mary, a little constrainedly. ' But I don't
know that I like her. They say, Mr. Bellarmine,

that women are not fair judges of one
another. I am quite sure that I should not
Hke to have Lady Saxon for an enemy, or
even for a friend.'

The words made Bellarmin colour a little
and wince — almost start. They touched him,
even hurt him, in a curious way. Miss Beaton
saw that she had given him pain.

Oh, I ask your pardon !' she said earnestly.
I am so sorry — I forgot that Lady Saxon
was a friend of yours. I really meant nothing,
Mr. Bellarmin ; it was only my absurd, impulsive
way of saying right out any nonsensical
idea that comes into my mind.'

I hope you will always speak to me in the
same frank way,' Bellarmin said, he, too,
yielding to sudden impulse ; and he spoke
the words with a certain emotion which a
little surprised Miss Beaton.

General Falcon was standing near them,
looking impatient. Just then a soft sheet of
summer lightning enveloped the scene, and
there came a long low roll of thunder.

Come, Madame,' General Falcon said imperatively
; ' it is time to leave this place ; a
storm is coming.'

My good Falcon, there is no need for
haste ; we are near enough to shelter if rain
should come.'

But you ought not to remain any longer,'
Falcon remonstrated. ' Madame will perceive,
too, that she is keeping Mr. , this

gentleman, from his Parliamentary duties,
which, I have no doubt, are highly important.'
General Falcon spoke in accents of hardly
suppressed passion. Miss Beaton looked up,
surprised. A cloud gathered on her face.

^ You must forgive the zeal of my friend
General Falcon,' she said, turning to Bellarmine.
' He is always somewhat too anxious
about me.'

General Falcon's zeal for you doesn't need
any excuse,' Bellarmin answered ; ' it can only
recommend him to all your friends.' Bellarmine
really felt what he said ; he was not in
the least angry with Falcon.

'The acquaintance is too short for Mr.
Bellarmin to presume to call himself one of
Madame's friends,' Falcon interposed rudely.

Bellarmin now, indeed, felt angry, and was
on the point of expressing his anger in words-miss
Beaton stopped him with a look.

You are forgetting yourself, General falcons
she said coldly and with decision. * I
have to ask Mr. Bellarmin, as a favour tome,
to forgive your rudeness, and to believe,
as I do, that it is not meant to give
offence.'

At this moment Lady Saxon, who had
again passed, stopped and turned. Her
keen eyes and quick perceptions took in the
whole of the little group. She saw the embarrassed
look of Bellarmin ; the enforced
composure of Miss Beaton ; the smouldering
fury in Falcon's eyes. Another flash of
summer lightning illumined and emphasized
the living picture. Lady Saxon could not,
of course, understand its meaning; but it told
her of some existing elements of discord, and
she was pleased. She marked out Falcon
from that moment as a man to be studied.
Then, with the manner of one who yields to
a sudden impulse, she advanced towards the
group. Lord Stonehenge was with her now,
as well as Sir Victor Champion. She came
directly to where Miss Beaton stood.

I have asked Lord Stonehenore to make
me known to Miss Beaton,' she said. ' My

husband, I believe, has already had the honour
of being presented.'

Bellarmin felt surprised. It was not like
Lady Saxon to seek acquaintanceship with
one of her own sex in this informal fashion.
Her manner was graceful and winning, and
Mary frankly accepted the courtesy, though
with a certain dignity which was observed by
both Sir Victor and Bellarmin. There was
some desultory conversation about the beauty
of the night and the summer lightning, and
the debate which was going on. General
Falcon and Lady Struthers were presented ;
and then Lady Saxon and Bellarmin fell back
a few steps. She asked him to take her to
her carriage, and bade good-night to Miss
Beaton, saying that she hoped to be permitted
to call upon her shortly.

I dare say we shall meet later on this
evening,' she said to Rolfe. * Where are you
going ?'

I am going to Madame Spinola's,' he
answered.

Madame Spinola's !' repeated Lady Saxon.
I don't know Madame Spinola.'

I didn't suppose that you ever found your

way into Bohemia, Lady Saxon,' Bellarmin
said. 'It's a country that befriended me
when I was a homeless waif, and I owe it
some gratitude. No, I'm afraid I shan't turnup
at any of the places that you are going
to this evening.'

Good-night,' she said. There was something
caressing in her voice. The footman
was holding her carriage-door. She stepped
forward, then turned her head back, looking
at him half over her shoulder. ' Remember
tomorrow,' she murmured, still in the same
caressing manner. Presently she had stepped
into the carriage. The door was closed, and
she was whirled oft.

Rolfe Bellarmin lingered a few minutes in
the stone-paved square at the entrance to the
Ladies' Gallery. He took out a cigarette and
lighted it, and said a few words to the policeman
on duty. It was getting late now — the
deep notes of Big Ben sounded the quarter
to eleven — late, that is, to outsiders. For
busy fashionable women with a ball or two
on hand, as well as for members of the House
of Commons, real night business was only
just beginning.

VOL. I. 7

Two or three broughams were drawn up in
the courtyard. One of these, which had the
appearance of a carriage let out by the season,
Bellarmin conjectured to be that of Miss
Beaton. He wondered if she, too, were going
on to some ball, and decided that she was
not. Mary Stuart, in her black velvet gown
and coif-like bonnet, seemed an incongruous
figure against the unpoetic background of
London society. Why did she dress like her
far-off ancestress ? Was it part of the masquerade,
part of the game ; or only a girlish
whim ? Was she rich, or a mere high-born
adventuress with whose shadowy claims
General Falcon was trading } Rolle recalled
all that he had heard, or fancied now that he
had heard, of Miss Beaton's parentage and
connections. No ; he felt sure that she was, if
not rich, certainly not poor. He had a dim
recollection of having read in some book of
memoirs of an estate left to the Stuartss in the
latter days of Anne, by a devotee of their
cause, and confiscated by the Hanoverian.
There was some reality then in the claims she
had come to urge, and about which, in talking
to Lady Saxon, he had by some momentary

freak seemed to know a great deal more than
he actually did know.

The girl interested him. She was old-world,
poetic. She appealed to the romantic
vein in his nature. She stood out in his
imagination like some moonlit statue that once
seen is never forgotten. As he strolled irresolutely
down the covered archway, he had a
vague intention of i^^oing to seek her. A
curious consciousness of disloyalty to Lady
Saxon checked the impulse, and he crossed
into Palace Yard, a sudden contrast to the
cloistral enclosure he had left.

There seemed something at once fantastic
and work-a-day in the aspect of the place — -a
blending of the past and the present ; of the
ideal and the actual. Bellarmin had in his
nature a greater admixture of the dreamer
than he would have been ready to admit.
He was struck by this thought to-nio^ht. The
great square, with its innumerable lamps, its
bustle and movement, the men passing to and
fro, the carriages and cabs, the newspaper
messengers hurrying with latest intelligence
to the shed where their horses stood saddled ;
and then the majestic walls of the building,

7—2

the spectral Clock Tower rising aloft, the
gray, solemn, time stained Abbey, which appeared
so little in keeping with the roar and
rush of the London night — all had been
suddenly magnetized for him by some new
spell of association, and had been perfumed
by that essence of poetry, which, ever since
Helicon's diviner days, is most often distilled
by a woman.

But Bellarmin did not trace his vague sense
of intoxication to its subtle source. He believed
that what he felt was a keen thrill of
triumph in the success which had made him
part of this throbbing life around him, and
which had set him here to help in weaving
the threads of England's destinies. It seemed
only the other day that he had come to Westminster,
an obscure youth, with apparently no
chance of ever distinguishing himself. And
now — now !

Tve turned out the Liberals, and Champion
is making overtures to me,' he said to himself.
And then another thought set his
pulses tingling. Lady Saxon's boudoir was a
dangerous place ; Lady Saxon was beautiful ;
it was her whim to play the game of political

intrigue. He knew this ; he had often told
himself that ' forewarned is forearmed ;' but
already his fancy was revelling in anticipation
of the morrow — of the hour in her companionship.
He half hated himself for this eager
longing. There were times when he almost
hated Lady Saxon for her influence over him.
Her cool fencing excited and irritated him.
It was alternate allurement and recoil — pastime
becoming conflict.

With an effort, he wrenched his mind away
from Lady Saxon. He had much of the
typical schoolboy's enjoyment of contrast and
variety.

Now for Bohemia,' he said half aloud.

He delighted to jump from serious debate
to rollicking fun ; from the atmosphere of
pathos and poetry into that of club gossip
and drawing-room frivolity. He got into
a hansom, and gave the order to drive to
Madame Spinola's.

MADAME Spinosa AT HOME.

HE Countess Spinola lived in a
small old-fashioned house in the
Buckingham Palace region.
The Countess Spinola was an Englishwoman
married to an Italian, and it was well
understood that he and she were poor ; at
least, that they had but slender means.
According to all received traditions of satire
and fiction, Count Spinola ought to be in
such circumstances a mere sham nobleman,
and his English wife ought to be a woman of
real position sacrificed to him. But it was
not so in this case ; Count Spinola was unquestionably
a man of high and genuine rank,
and nobody quite knew what his English wife

had been. Some people said she had been
an actress ; some whispered that she had been
an artist's model, and that if you wanted to
appreciate to the full her claims to be considered
beautiful, you had only to go to the
South Kensington Museum, and see the
painting of Andromeda chained to the rock,
which was done by the lately deceased chief
of a romantic school of art. But all this was
only talk, and no one had anything substantial
to say against Madame Spinola, except that
she was very pretty, that she was poor,
and that nevertheless she and her husband
managed to see a good deal of society. Their
parties might indeed be said to represent a
certain phase of London society, and a book
professing to describe London life would
certainly not be complete unless it took in
Madame Spinola and her set. The Countess
Spinola was very pretty, and, oddly enough,
she, the Englishwoman, was dark-haired, and
her husband, the Italian, was fair. Not many
women came to Madame Spinola's parties.
Perhaps she was too pretty to make women
anxious to go near her. A lady of fashion
once laid it down as a canon of good taste

that no really well-bred hostess ought to be
prettier than every one of her guests. The
reason why women kept away from the place
could not be because Madame Spinola flirted
a little now with this man and now with that,
for she did not flirt nearly so much as many
ladies did, whose drawing-rooms nevertheless
had in them more petticoats than pantaloons ;
and, indeed, Madame Spinola's flirtations were
very general, and so evenly distributed as
almost altogether to disarm ill-nature itself.
Still, the women did not come much ; only a
few came who were well known to Madame
Spinola, who were regular ' pals ' of hers, and
would have kept to her through thick and
thin ; and some, like a certain Mrs. Rivers,
who would go to any house at which there
was a man to be seen or a supper to be
eaten.

Madame Spinola, however, did not seem
much to miss the fair sex. Her house was a
rendezvous for agreeable, lively, distinguished,
and sometimes fast men. She could hardly
be said to give formal parties. She never
issued invitations ; but she was at home on
certain nights in the season, and her friends

were free to go and see her then, and one
might come very late, for the meetings were
well kept up. If she anywhere met a man
she liked, she told him he might come and
see her on any or all of her evenings ; and
then he was on the free list, so to speak. If
he wished to bring some friend into the circle,
he asked Madame's permission, and it was
generally given, and the permission put him,
too, on the free list. If a man only came
once in the season, the Countess was satisfied
; but if he did not, she gave him to
understand that he was not to come any other
season. There were some faithful friends
who came every night regularly, and stayed
till the very end.

There was always a little supper very late
in a rather small room below-stairs ; Madame
Spinola passed round among her guests the
word who should go first, when so many had
remained as to make it impossible that all
should sit down together. Her principle was
to send down first those she least cared for ;
they did not usually sit very long over their
supper, having the disturbing consciousness
that others, among whom was the hostess

herself, were waiting for a turn. Then those
who came last stayed over their supper and
their drinks as long as they liked, and cigars
and cigarettes were lit up, and people made
themselves really happy. The supper was
simple, but, in its way, it was dainty : delicious
little sandwiches, galantines, and that appetizing
dish which one meets with so often in
New York, but is so rare in its appearance in
London —-the real chicken-salad. There was
good sound claret ; there were some excellent
wines in huge straw-sheathed flagons ; there
were brandies and soda; there was really fine
whisky. Madame Spinola kept no man-servants
; the waiting was done by two bright
and quick-witted, as well as nimble-handed,
Tuscan girls.

It was said that people sometimes played,
and played highly and deeply, at Count
Spinola's house ; and this was talked of asa
possible explanation of Madame Spinola s
frequent entertainments. Madame Spinola
wore diamonds, fine diamonds. ' Who gave
them to her }' folks inquired, with meaning
glances and shrugs. If there was any gaming
indulged in at the Spindles', it is certain that

Bellarmin never saw it ; although at one time
he was a frequent guest. Perhaps the explanation
of the entertainments is as simple
as that of many a social mystery. Count
Spinola, although he had but a small income,
certainly had an income, and a regular one ;
and the pair had no children, Madame was
still very young, very lively, very fond of
company, and her husband was very fond of
her. Is it not within the limits of bare possibility
that she may have liked to spend some
of her income on a succession of little parties,
cheap in themselves, but which often brought
her in the season a company that the riches
of the richest City stock-broker might have
failed to attract to his vast dining-table ? Is
it not credible that Count Spinola may have
been glad to be able to afford his wife this
one pleasure which she so loved, and may
even have been willing to pinch himself in
other ways that she might not be deprived of
this enjoyment ? May he not have admitted
to himself that he owed her some recompense
for having bound her youth and her charms
up with his elderly companionship ? But this
IS not the fashion of reasoning in Vanity Fair.

Now, Mr. Bellarmine, don't you attempt to
go away without supper, and don't attempt
to go down with the first lot. I won't have
it ; you must stay, and you must wait forme.
I haven't seen you for ever so long ;
and Tommy Tressel is coming, and he's
the hero of the hour, is he not ? I am in
rare good fortune to-night. Now, your
word !'

I pledge myself,' Bellarmin said, * to take
you down to supper. Hear me swear.'

Bellarmin was very popular in this circle,
and, indeed, in most circles. His good spirits,
his bright ways, his flow of talk, his utter
freedom from pretentiousness, made him a
favourite. He never patronized any man,
and he did not carry the tone of the House
of Commons always in his voice. He never
took account in private life of what a man's
politics might be, and therefore he was welcome
to out-and-out Radicals as well as to
'no surrender' Tories, and even to pale-blooded,
lymphatic Whigs, with whom — Lady
Saxon notwithstanding — he was naturally less
congenial. One of those who now rushed upmost
vociferously to greet him was big Ross

Bingley, a journalist, the noisiest, the cheeriest
of men. With his big frame, his big head,
his big beard, his big voice, his big laugh,
Ross Bingley was a living type of bigness.
He had been a war correspondent and a
resident foreign correspondent, and now he
was settled down in London journalism. He
hated numbers of men whom he did not know,
for Bingley, unlike most journalists, was a
fierce politician ; but he liked everyone he
knew. He could spend hours in execrating
Champion's most devoted followers, and if he
had been brought into personal relationship
with Champion he would doubtless soon have
come to adore him too. He could talk many
languages and play on many instruments, and
he had been in love a great many times in a
great many countries. Now, a London home
and a wife claimed him as their own ; his pith
helmet, which he used to wear in his war-correspondence
days, was, metaphorically
speaking, a hive for bees, like that of the
noble old warrior in the poem, and Mrs.
Bingley ruled him.

Now, Mr. Bellarmin, you must talk to me.
No, no. You must not go away ; at least.

Viol. just yet. I have not seen you for ever so
many ages.'

This was spoken by Mrs. Rivers, who
caught his arm to emphasize her appeal.
Bellarmin protested that there was nothing
he so longed for in existence as a talk with
Mrs. Rivers ; and as he looked into the dimming
beauty of her eyes and heard her
voluble tongue going, he began to moralize
mentally, and to preach to himself a little wan
and outworn sermon on the nothingness of
human hopes. Short, comparatively, as had
been his experience of London society, he
could almost remember Mrs. Rivers a beauty.
She was one of the first of the galaxy of professional
beauties who were publicly recognised
as such, and dubbed with that name of doubtful
compliment. When Bellarmin heard of
her, she was the central star of almost every
social constellation. Men of rank and fashion
and wealth and genius swarmed around her,
scrambled to get near her, were proud to be
seen with her — even to be seen saluting her
in the Park. Now, nobody cared twopence
about her ; she had to ask men to come and
sit by her ; she had to insist on their talking

to her ; she had to get up and cross the room
to arrive at some particular man who would
not arrive at her. In her bright days she had
never troubled herself about women, and now
women never troubled themselves about her.
What had happened in the meantime ? She
had ' gone off;' she had gone down ; she had
gone out. But there were others who had
started as professional beauties with her, who
were keeping the field as professional beauties
still. She had not quite lost her charms,
although her lustre had faded, and her figure
had got too firmly set, and her movements
were stiffer— at all events, were less supple —
than they used to be. She had had a quiet
separation from her husband. They did not
get on very well together. There was no
scandal ; she had never been seriously talked
about with any man, but after her separation
from her husband she got into a way of
drifting about the social world which was fatal
to her. She had to make herself too cheap.
The allowance from her husband was small,
and she knew that if she gave cause for scandal
it would be stopped altogether. In the
days when her beauty was fresher and more

prized, she could of course have found
admirers who would have lavished money
upon her. But if she was not good enough
to depend on goodness, neither was she bad
enough to depend on badness. She must
have society — the society of men ; she must
have admiration, or, at all events, the profession
of admiration, and she made this too
plain. Men began not to care about her —
began to avoid her, to think her a bore, even
to speak of her as a bore. Women sometimes
talked of her as ' poor old Mrs. Rivers ;'
and she was hardly outside forty yet ! When
she went to a party, which in the season she
did every night in the week, Sundays included,
her mind was always set on finding
some good-natured man to take her home. It
was not for the sake, or in the hope, of being
flirted with, or made love to, or being complimented
; it was wholly and entirely to escape
the payment of her cab-fare. If she had to
pay all her cab-fares, she could not go out to
parties ; and if she could not go out to parties,
she could not live.

Bellarmin was always very kind and good-natured
to Mrs. Rivers. He had taken her

home many a time, although he had come to
know honos ao^o what was the reason of her
anxiety for escort. She touched him with a
curious feeling of pity. He was amused in a
half-melancholy way to observe how she succeeded
now and then in getting hold of some
very young man, to whose vanity it was
pleasing to suppose that he was ' mashing ' a
married woman, who had been, perhaps even
still was, accounted a professional beauty. Soon
the very young man dropped off Perhaps he
heard someone talk slightingly of ' old Jennie
Rivers ; ' and his feeble, factitious love-light
went out at once. Another youth would, no
doubt, succeed to him; but the succession must
every season be more and more interrupted,
and at last must come to an end altogether.

What then would remain for the poor creature
who had staked all her earthly happiness
on society and on men's admiration ? If she
sank into being recognised as a mere bore
among men, the women certainly would not
invite her to their parties. How could she
live without these parties } They formed
part of her means of living. She did not
very often get asked out to dinner now, but

VOL. I. 8

Still she had some dinner invitations ; and
when she was not lucky enough to have a
dinner on hand, she ate no dinner, and made
up for the want as soon as she decently could
by going to the refreshment-room of some
evening party. There she consumed her
sandwiches with only too keen an appetite ;
and she drank her wine with a heart as merry
as well might be under all the conditions.
Sometimes her first really solid meal in the
day was made at a ball supper-table. When
the season was over, she got invited a good
deal to country places still. People in the
country regarded her yet as one of the reigning
queens of society, and were astonished
when some irreverent young man or woman,
fresh from the West End of London, described
her as an old bore. There is not,
after all, very much that is more truly tragic
in the world than such a career, such an
ambition, such a game of life, such a failure,
such an end. Mrs. Rivers is but the type of
many a woman who hangs on to the skirts of
London society.

Mrs. Rivers talked with a curious little
emphasis on wholly unimportant words. The

truth was that she never quite knew what she
was talking about, and so got into the way of
trying to supply meaning by emphasis. Her
mind was as nearly as possible empty of all
but her own little schemes, and shifts, and
dodges. In her professional-beauty days,
men delighted in the vapid chatter which
rippled through such full red lips. The lips
were full and red still, but somehow the value
of a professional beauty depends very much
on what society says of her. She may be a
beauty still to the cool, impartial eye ; but if
society ceases to regard her in that light, then
there is no use protesting ; there is an end to
her beauty. So men now began to value the
chatter at its real worth, now that they had
ceased to believe in the loveliness of the lips
through which it flowed.

I saw you the other day, Mr. Bellarmin,
but you did not see nne ; at least, I suppose
so ; I must hope so. It was in Palace
Yard ;' and she laid as much emphasis on
the word * Yard ' as if there were serious
possibility of his supposing that she had seen
him on Palace roof. * You were driving by
in a hanson!

8—2

I do drive into Palace Yard in a
hansom pretty often, Mrs. Rivers. I think
that I pass a great part of my time in
hansoms.'

You are so much occupied, so much
sought after, I wonder you have time to
come here to-night, to honour a company Hke
this with your presence. Do you know, I am
told that you are invited out to more dinners
than any other man in London.'

Nothing of the kind, I can assure you. I
am not by any means such a favourite in
society. Besides, it wouldn't be any use. I
have to dine so often in the House of Commons
; I can't help it. If I am in a thing, I
like to stick to it, Mrs. Rivers.'

Yes, I see. And how is your beautiful
princess ?'

My princess !' repeated Bellarmin, with a
startled and somewhat displeased glance back
at Mrs. Rivers, from whom his eyes had been
roaming.

Oh, I heard 2^:)ou\, you this evening. The
jkjdy who is said to be so like Mary Queen of
Scots, and whom the society papers are talking
about, and who, they tell me, is going to

set up some claim to the Crown jewels, or the
revenue, or the Duchy of Lancaster.'

Or the Crown itself ?' suggested Bellarmine.


Well, I dont know. Perhaps even the
Crown itself. But tell me all abotct her. Is
she coming here to-night ?'

Here ! Oh no !' Bellarmin said, with a
sudden wonder that he could not conceal.

Oh no ? How oddoi you, Mr. Bellarmin !
You seem to be quite shocked at my question.
But what was there wrong in it ? Why might
she not be here ? There is nothing surely in
our dear hostess which should make it so
very extraordinary that even a young lady of
great family should condescend to cross her
threshold.'

My dear Mrs. Rivers, I never meant anything
of the kind. I was presented to Miss
Beaton for the first time an hour or two ago,
and I am a great friend and admirer of our
hostess, as T am a great friend and admirer of
yours ; but you know the political ways of
people differ so much, that I was a Utile
astonished at the thought of an uncompromising
representative of Jacobitism and

'' Divine Right " being found in this cosmopolitan
assembly, where the red Republican
lion lies down with the Peace Society-lamb.'


Mrs. Rivers did not in the least understand
what he was talking about ; but she looked
up and saw some woman passing who had
occasionally slighted her, and she was delighted
to be seen in apparently deep and confidential
conversation with the fashionable and
brilliant Bellarmin, the enigma of so many
conjectures and speculations. At the same
moment she thought she detected in Bellarmine's
manner a desire to escape, and she
could not allow him to go while her critic and
enemy was still in sight.

But now, Mr. Bellarmin, there is something
I wanted so much to ask you about —
something very particular indeed — and you
can tell me ;' and Mrs. Rivers began exploring
all the corners of her mind to discover something
on which she wanted to get Mr.
Bellarmin's opinion.

Delighted, Mrs. Rivers — tell you anything
you want to know,' Bellarmin said vaguely.

But Mrs. Rivers had fastened on to her

hostess, who was passing. ' Kitty, dearest,'
she whispered in a tone quite audible to
Bellarmin, ' may I stay for the second lot too ?
I do so love to hear Mr. Bellarmin, and I
want to congratulate Mr. Tressel.'

But, Jennie, love, I am afraid we shan't
have room.'

'Oh, but I mus now — I must'' Mrs.
Rivers implored, and her once lovely features
underwent an odd little contortion like what
children call ' making a face.' She was really
on the brink of the fountain of tears. She
had been so little used in her bright days to
be contradicted and crossed in anything ; the
best places had always been for her.

You dear old silly !' the good-natured
hostess exclaimed, * of course you must have
your way. I'll pack off somebody else. Never
mind ; I'll manage it somehow. Oh, here is
Tommy Tressel ! Tommy, Tommy, we all
congratulate you !'

How d'ye do, Kitty ?' Mr. Tressel drawled
out in languorous accents as he entered the
little drawling-room, and with a single glance
of his half-closed eyes seemed to take in
the individuality of every creature in it.

How do, Bellarmin ? I'm going to have a
row with you.'

Oh, 1 am so delighted,' Countess Spinola
exclaimed ; ' Tm so glad when you have a
row. It is such fun.'

But I am afraid of Tressel,' Bellarmin
said ; * I always find that I am bound over to
keep the peace when I meet him, as Captain
Boabdil found when he was suddenly confronted
with Downright.'

Now who is Captain What's-his-name,
and who is Downright ?' Madame Spinola
asked. ' Are these nicknames of men in the
House ? Is it true that they call one man
"Pussy," and somebody else "the Goat"?
What do they call you, Tressel ?'

They call me " Drawl," ' replied Tressel
promptly, ' and they call Bellarmin "Rattle"'

This was pure invention, struck off on the
spur of the moment.

You haven't looked at me, Mr. Tressel,'
Mrs. Rivers complained, with appealing eyes.

Haven't I really, Jennie ? Then I will.
Come and let me look at you.'

This was exactly what Mrs. Rivers would
have delighted in; she just wanted Tressel

to sit beside her and look at her. But Tressel
turned away immediately, and began to talk
to someone else. In Countess Spinola's
little drawing room the manners were free.
Men went there — at least, men of Mr. Tressel's
order — because they were wanted to go,
and because they liked it. They did not feel
under any strict obligation to be attentive to
the women they met there. The women were
called by their Christian names, as often as
not with the addition of the word ' dear.'
Mr. Bingley usually went a step further, and
called each woman ' darling.' Tressel did not
get as far as the use of 'dear' or * darling.'
His manner rather said, ' Oh yes, I see you
are there ; I suppose I ought to call you
"Jennie," and say something nice. There
now, I have called you 'jennie," and said
something nice ; run away and play with
somebody else.' Yet Mr. Tressel was no
woman-hater, or report belied him.

Tressel — the Honourable Spencer Christian
Tressel — was a tall, thin man, with a
swaying body. He always looked through
life with half-closed eyes ; but he saw a good
deal. His profile was aquiline, and in its

outline thus suggested something of the force
of character and the strong individuality
which the half-closed eyes and the languorous
accent might have hidden or denied.

Spencer Tressel was the younger son of a
nobleman. He had offended his father very
early in life by avowing Radical opinions.
Good-natured people said he had only assumed
these opinions to spite his noble parent, and
that if his father had become a Radical, the
son would have declared himself converted
back to the Tory faith. However that might
be, Spencer Tressel stuck to his opinions.
He further offended his father by marrying a
very poor and very pretty girl. His father
made him only a miserable allowance ; his
brothers dropped his acquaintance. He discovered
suddenly that he had great capacity
for political writing, and he got an engagement
to write leading articles for a bright and
audacious evening paper. He lived manfully
with his wife on his earnings as a journalist,
and the pair were as happy as birds in soft
spring-time. The happiness was almost as
short-lived as a spring-time. The young
wife took sickness and died. Tressel disappeared

from the sight of all friends and
acquaintances for a long while. No one
knew where he was ; he held communication
with nobody. People were beginning to forget
him, when he suddenly turned up in
London again. He never made the slightest
allusion to the death of his wife, and he never
said a word about his long absence. Sometime
after he told a friend that he meant to
marry for money, and he did marry a good-natured,
uninteresting widow with an immense
fortune. Not long after this second marriage
a distant relative of his, who had never taken
the slightest notice of him, got into some sort
of quarrel with Tressel's father, and, to annoy
him, made a will leaving his whole fortune to
Tressel, and died soon after the will was
made. Probably if this event had happened
a little earlier, Tressel would not have married
the rich widow. But he was very kind and
attentive to her, though he did not in anyway
give up his life to her. He made politics
his business, as he said — his amusement,
as others preferred to put it. He was always
assailing and denouncing the Peerage, and
especially members of that highly privileged

body who had had the good fortune to
serve their country as foreign ambassadors.
Tressel's father had been at the head of several
embassies. Tressel now had a great house in
one of the most fashionable squares, and was
understood to be a good deal of a wire-puller
in the interests of the extreme Radical Party.
Perhaps the principal stimulant to his taste for
wire-pulling in this direction was the good of
his country, according to his understanding of
it; perhaps it was to be found in the fact that
whenever a Tory Ministry was displaced,
Tressel's father and elder brother straightway
had to bundle out of office.

Are you going my way, Bellarmin, when
you leave this ?' Tressel said, as there set ina
general movement and scattering, some
guests having come from the supper-room,
others preparing to go down.

Going any way — I don't much mind.'

'Well, walk my way then. Don't let's
drive. I hate driving.'

All right,' Bellarmin answered. ' I will
discourse with my philosopher.'

TOMMY TRESSEL.

HE selected guests, the initiated
ones, the guests of this night's
second circle, were settling down
to the table. Madame Spinola sat at the
head. Her husband, who scarcely ever spoke
to anyone, took the other end. There were
only three women — Madame Spinola, Mrs.
Rivers, and a clever eccentric woman of
fashion, Lady Cora Mallory, who went in for
amusing herself in life, went wherever she
pleased, and did not care what people said of
her. She was a widow ; she was only thirty
years old. She had just enough money to
live pleasantly, and she found the ordinary
society of the season dull. Bellarmin came

down to supper, and Tressel, and Bingley,
and Colonel Towers and some others. Colonel
Towers was a man who lived happily and
proudly on the reputation of being managing
diplomatist and secret wire-puller to the inner
circle of the Conservative Party — at present
the party in office. He had been for sometime
in the House of Commons, and he had
never spoken there. Some people believed
in Towers and his confidential relations with
the Tory chiefs ; others, and they formed the
majority, did not. Tressel always affected a
profound belief in him.

You ask Tressel what he was going to
make a row with me for, Madame Spinola,'
Bellarmin said, as they were sitting down.

'Oh yes; yes, Mr. Tressel — Tommy
Tressel, what were you going to blow up
Mr. Bellarmin for ?'

It's this — do you know that they counted
me — at least they counted one of my supporters
— on his great motion Tuesday night ;
and you promised me long ago the support of
your whole Progressive Priggism party — ain't
that what you call it ? You promised me that
the whole five of the Progressive Prigs, yourself

included, would be in their places to
support my man — as I couldn't be there
myself.'

It was a favourite joke of Tressel's to
assume that the Progressive Democrats only
numbered five : a favourite retaliation of
Bellarmin's to talk as if they numbered
hundreds.

'You outrageous humbug!' Bellarmin
promptly replied. * Do you pretend to forget
that the bargain was conditional ? I promised
you all the influence I could bring to bear on
the Progressive Tory Party to get some small
proportion of them — fifty or sixty, let us say —
to keep a house for your man on condition
that he let us go to a division the moment he
had fired off his own speech. We couldn't
stand having the thing argued by solemn
blockheads on both sides of the House. 1
can stand you, Tressel, on the expediency of
extinguishing all our embassies and legations
abroad, and it amuses me to hear the anecdotes
and the bits of scandal about the pompous old
ambassadors and the wives of the secretaries
of legation. That sort of thing, my good
fellow, is amusing enough ; but I can't stand

hearing it argued out. Why didn't you get
your fellows to hold their tongues ?'

I don't believe you ever showed up at all
better employed up in the Ladies' Gallery,
that was about it, wasn't it ? — or out on the
Terrace ? If you had been in the House you'd
have seen there were lots of fellows on both
sides dying to show that they had travelled,
and each of them wanted to drag in his
imaginary experiences of some particular
court or capital. It wasn't that they wanted
to argue the thing. They didn't care a bit
more about the right or wrong of it than you
do, Bellarmin.'

Or than you do, Tressel'

I have thrown my soul into it.'

Safest thing you could do with your soul,
if you can only manage to keep it there,' said
Bingley, with a great jolly laugh at his own
joke.

Is that you, Bingley ? Didn't see you
before. I know you have been trying a joke,
because you laughed and no one else did.'

It was always a great thing when people
could get Bellarmin and Tressel together at
the supper-table in Count Spinola's house.

The two chaffed each other unendingly, and
the animated rapidity of the one man set
curiously off the languorous slowness of the
other.

Oddest thing in the world,' Tressel observed
; ' the House of Commons will never
take either Bellarmin or me at our word. /
say that I am a serious politician, and they
won't believe that I am. /le says that he is
not a serious politician, and they are firmly
convinced that he is.'

What do you think about mr. Bellarmin's
seriousness ?' the hostess asked. • Do tell us,
pray ; Bellarmin won't mind. Will you, Bellarmin
?'

There were occasions when the Countess
Spinola's manner to men, and her way of
speaking generally, did suggest that after all
there might be some truth in the story that
the pretty creature was the daughter of a
washerwoman, and had begun active life as
an artist's model.

I shan't mind,' said Bellarmin. ' I'll tell
him if he guesses right. Now then, Tressel.
Oblige the company.'

I think Bellarmin is one of the most serious

VOL. I. 9

politicians in the House of Commons — the
most serious, I should say, after myself,' said
Tressel, calmly taking a rosebud from a vase
near him and fastening it into his button-hole.
He has been devoting himself for several
years back with the most indomitable perseverance
and energy to the task of finding
out what his political opinions are.'

The two women laughed in a somewhat
puzzled manner.

^ And he has just this evening discovered
that his political opinions are incompatible
with allegiance to the reigning house,' continued
Tressel solemnly.

Good gracious, Tommy Tressel, what do
you mean ?' asked Madame Spinola.

The age does well enough for commonplace
people like you and me, Madame
Spinola, but it's too crude and practical for a
poetic creature like Bellarmin,' said Tressel
gravely. ' Bellarmin has found that England
is getting vulgarized by American Republicanism
and the almighty dollar and the
liberty of the press, and all that sort of
thing, don't you know. Bellarmin thinks
that sentiment and chivalry are dying out,



and he can't get along without sentiment and
chivalry

Bingley gave a hoarse guffaw.

Quite right, Bingley ; you can't either.
Well, Bellarmin intends to revive them by a
revolution, a new dynasty — a queen whom he
thinks one might die for with some feeling of
satisfaction. Tower Hill; the block; a declamation
on the scaffold ! That's Bellarmin s
form nowadays.'

A new dynasty ! not really ? The block !
the scaffold !' cried Mrs. Rivers in horrified
accents. * Oh, Mr. Bellarmin !'

Bellarmin's sense of humour was not easily
tickled this evening. He saw nothing amusing
in Tressel's joking. He seemed absorbed in
the peeling of a peach, which he placed daintily
on Madame Spinola's plate.

Go on,' said she to Tressel ; * Ws you that
are the rattle now. Mr. Bellarmin doesn't
even condescend to answer you. How much
of it is serious ?'

Every bit of it,' said Tressel. * Don't you
know, Madame Spinola, that there's a regular
Jacobite faction in London ? Lord Stonehenge
is at the head of it — on my honour, I

9—2

assure you — White Cockades, and all the rest
of it. Only *' Charlie over the Water" is a
fascinating young woman got up after the
Mary Stuart pattern. She was in the House
this evening, I'm told. Old Greenleaf tumbled
up to me on Piccadilly half an hour ago in a
state of intense excitement to tell me that he
had been presented to her ; and he said that
Bellarmin was dancing at her skirts along
the corridors instead of leading his five Progressive
Prigs in the House.'

By Jove !' exclaimed Bingley, who had
caught the name of Mary Stuart, and turned
from a whispered conversation with Colonel
Towers. ' It's the cheekiest thing I have
heard of for a long time. Takes one's breath
away, don't it .-^ In a country like this, whereby
Jove ! we are all devoted to the reigning
house and to every member of it, I say.'

'We all know that voiture Bingley,' said
Tressel languidly. * You are quite a tame cat
among the royalties, ain't you now ?' Tressel
himself had that reputation, his Radical
opinions notwithstanding ; and Bingley, who
had never been presented to a single member
of the august family, felt that the speech was



barbed. ' But suppose now,' Tressel went
on, ' that the Prince of Wales was banished
from the British dominions, and had to take
up his residence in — say, Camden, Oneida
Co., I wonder if you'd follow him there into
exile.'

Everyone laughed except Bingley, who said
emphatically :

I was talking to Colonel Towers about it,
and he quite agrees with me that something
ought to be done.'

I'm quite with Towers there,' Tressel
gravely observed.

Oh, you, too, think that something ought
to be done, Tressel ?'

I think that something ought to be done
always ; and, indeed, I am of opinion that
something is always done. But in this particular
instance, Bingley, what is the emergency
?'

Well, haven't you seen that thing in the
Park Lane Pictorial f

What thing ?'

The portrait of that audacious foreign
woman you are talking about, who presumes
to call herself lawful Queen of England

No, I haven't seen that,' said Tressel,
now pretending unconsciousness.

What does it matter ?'

Oh, this mus be your Princess, Mr. Bellarmin,'
Mrs. Rivers whispered.

'Well, it seems she is a Miss Beaton,'
Bingley began, in an explanatory tone.

But you said she was a foreigner.'

So she is — at least, her mother was a
foreigner, and she herself was brought up
abroad.'

She is not a foreigner,' Bellarmin interposed.
' She is an English lady, the daughter
of an English nobleman.'

Mr. Bellarmin knows ^// about her,' Mrs.
Rivers said, with a little malice in her tone.

I have had the honour of being presented
to Miss Beaton; I have the honour of her
acquaintance. Look here, Bingley, my good
fellow, I would not advise you to get into the
way of talking disrespectfully of that young
lady. She has a good many friends in England.'


But why does she call herself Queen of
England ?' Madame Spinola asked.

I never heard of her calling herself Queen

of England,' Bellarmin answered. ' Her
friends say that she is the legitimate Queen
of England ; and so in that sense she is.
Only for the Act of Settlement, she would
have as much right to be Queen of England
as Lord Saxon will have to be Duke of
Athelstanee when his father dies.'

Oh, Mr. Bellarmin; you are talking treason,'
Lady Cora exclaimed, with a laugh. ' This is
quite delightful ; Jacobitism in the nineteenth
century— the White Cockade ! Oh, I like
this !' Seated at table as she was, she broke
into a rattling version of the famous Jacobite
song, nor would anything stay her until she
had finished her verse. ' Now then,' she
said, ' tell us all about our rightful Queen.'

I am only mentioning dry, hard historical
facts,' Bellarmin said ; but his cheek was a
little flushed for all that. ' This lady claims
to be the heiress of the Stuartss, and she is
the heiress of the Stuartss. Nothing on earth
can alter that.'

Count Spinola spoke for the first time.
She stems, I suppose, from Henrietta Maria,
Duchess of Orleans ?'

She does.'

Oh yes ; then it will be this way,' and he
gave a full detailed account of Mary's pedigree.
Count Spinola was a living, moving
Almanac de Gotha.'

Exactly,' Bellarmin said ; ' there is the
case. If anyone in his senses can deny that
this lady is the heiress of the Stuartss, then
all I can say is that he would deny anything.'


Bingley was chafing with impatience. * We
don't care about that,' he exclaimed. ' What
we say is that the Constitution of England
has put the reigning family on the throne,
and anyone who sets up a claim against themis
a traitor and a rebel, by Jove ! and ought
to be clapped into the Tower or Newgate,
and sent from there to the scaffold.'

Very good, Bingley, very good indeed !
Your sentiments do equal honour to your
head and heart,' said Tressel. ' But then I
knew what they would be, of course, knowing
my friend Bingley as well as I do. I don't
yet know what the Park Lane Pictorial has
been saying about this young and lovely
creature. She is lovely, ain't she ? I haven't
much curiosity on the subject of the Stuart

pedigree, but I do feel some curiosity about
^/laL May I be allowed to know what she
is like ?'

Look at this,' said Bingley, handing him
the paper.

The Par Lane Pictorial was a journal of
which Bellarmin had never \o his recollection
heard before. It was now passed from hand
to hand, and eagerly studied by each possessor
in turn, so that it was some time
before it reached Bellarmin. When it got
to him he found that it was a pretentious-looking
* society paper,' which published
weekly portraits of distinguished and fashionable
and beautiful women; and the portrait
in this number was that of Mar)' Beaton,
evidently taken from a photograph. Beneath
the portrait was an inscription in Latin, setting
forth Mar)''s parentage and pedigree,
and declaring her — ' the law for constituting
the succession alone standing in the way ' —
Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, Defender
of the Faith. A short memoir accompanied
the portrait. Bellarmin saw the whole thing
with unspeakable dissatisfaction. It was most
unlucky, he felt convinced ; its appearance

was most untimely. It would set people
against her ; it would be assumed by those
who did not know anything about her to be
published with her authority and connivance.

There was something about it which seemed
to him utterly out of harmony with what he
supposed were Mary Beaton's own feelings
and temper. It was not of any political or
personal responsibility on Mary's part that
Bellarmin was thinking ; but there was a
vulgarity about such an appeal to publicity
which he felt sure would be bitterly hurtful
to her nature. As to her claims, Bellarmin
did not suppose that anything could do much
good or harm to them ; but he shuddered to
think of what might be said in public and
private about this ill-omened publication.
Then he pulled himself up with almost a
laugh at his own concern about a woman to
whom he had spoken for the first time a
little while before.

Well, what do you think of that ?' Bingley
asked impatiently of Tressel.

Simply a statement of fact, it seems to me.'

Of course it's a mere statement of fact,'
said Bellarmin.

You see,' Tressel continued, ' all that this
says is, that except for the Act of Settlement
this young lady would have a rightful claim
to the throne of England. But that's so,
ain't it ? And where is the crime in saying
it ?'

But at such a time; and in such a way, to
put out a portrait of this woman in their
windows, and a Latin proclamation under it)
declaring her Queen of Great Britain and
Ireland and Defender of the Faith ! Why
the publisher ought to be taken out and shot
shot before his own door.'

I must say,' interposed Colonel Towers,
I do think that you two men make far too
little of this. Do you think they would stand
this sort of thing in any other country ?'

Such a thing might do some harm in a
foreign country ; don't see how it could do
any harm here,' Tressel said drily.

I don't know. I am not by any means of
your opinion. I think I must talk to some
of the chiefs about this. These are strange
times. There is a great deal of restlessness
everywhere.'

Suppose you put a question in the House

about it, Towers Tressel suggested, with a
keen glance at Bellarmin. Nothing would
have delighted Tressel more than to see
Towers make a fool of himself.

I should hardly like to do that,' replied
Towers, with a look of great solemnity ; ' at
least, not without taking advice — in a manner,
getting authority. It would hardly do in
my case, Tressel. Of course, I am not in
office '

And a great shame, too,' Tressel interjected.
'So we all say, I can assure you.'

I don't know, Tressel ; I don't know,
really. These things are difficult to manage ;
and there are so many men who want office,
you know, and have to be conciliated. I
always make it a point when a Ministry of
our men is being formed — I always make it a
point to say to our chief, Lord Bosworth,
'Never mind me — never mind about me;
you know I would rather be out of office than
in, so far as personal feeling goes. Provide
for the men who want office; Til work with
you all the same — you'll give me your confidence
all the same.'

And he does, of course, just the same,'

Tressel said ; ' I haven't the slightest doubt
of />^^/.'

'Yes, yes, just the same.'

But about this Princess. Do make a row
in the House about her, Towers — do now,'
the hostess appealed to him. ' It would be
such fun — such capital fun. And won't you
get me a seat in the Ladies' Gallery ? I
should love to be there.'

I think it is rather a matter for Tressel,'
Colonel Towers suggested. ' You see,
Tressel goes m for being independent ; he
doesn't acknowledge any authority ; he has
no responsibility. Besides, you go in fur out-and-out
Radicalism, Tressel — sort of disguised
Republicanism, isn't it ? — so it would come
better from you, perhaps. You can't be
supposed to have any sympathy with the
sentiment of divine right.'

There I can't quite agree with you.
Towers. I go in for sentiment ; I am altogether
a man of sentiment.'

Most of the company screamed with
laughter at this announcement. Tressel
went blandly on :

I am a man of sentiment altogether. I

am touched with the melancholy beauty of
that hopeless claim, that lost cause ; and then
I am a slave to the charm of female loveliness.
No, Towers ; I can't do it : for you,
on the contrary, I should think your duty was
clear.'

Does she go to the House ?' Mrs. Rivers
asked confidentially of Bellarmin.

I believe she went there for the first time
this evenings.'

Will you take me down to see her ? Oh,
please do !'

My dear Mrs. Rivers, she is not on show ;
and even if she were, I am not her showman.'


Now I Have made you angry — oh yes, I
have; I can see it; but, indeed, Mr. Bellarmine,
I meant nothing.'

I am quite sure of that,' Bellarmin said.

Anyhow, you will look into this thing,
Towers,' Bingley shouted ; ' you won't let it
drop out of sight. Mind, I reckon on you.
If you don't, I'll get someone else ; it shan't
be allowed to pass unchallenged, I can tell
you.'

'about champion?'

ELLARMIN and Tressel were
walking through the Green Park
They are badly advising that
girl,' Tressel said abruptly.

Who are they ?'

I don't quite know ; the people, whoever
they are, who have her in hand. Why did
they get that thing put into the Park Lane
Pictorial ? Why such a thing anywhere ?
and, in any case, why the Park Lane
Pictorial 7

Oh, they know nothing about it.'

Don't they } You bet they do ; someone
does. If I know anything about anything, I
know that the Park Lane Pictorial never

published that portrait and that memoir, and
the whole lot of it, without being well paid.'

Oh, but that is impossible. She would
never listen to such an idea.'

Bellarmin spoke with angry surprise.

She wouldn't, eh ? Well, you ought to
know, I suppose — better than I, at any rate.'

Tressel cast a keen glance at Bellarmin's
face as he spoke.

Anybody who knew anything of her would
know that. As a matter of fact, I judge from
inference only. I met her for the first time
in the House of Commons to-night.'

Yes, very good. Then somebody about
her is doing things without her knowledge ;
and she ought to be put on her guard.'

Lord Stonehenge certainly would not
tolerate anything of the kind,' Bellarmin
said.

No, no ; of course he wouldn't. In point
of fact, no one who knows London would doit.
But the people who have this girl in hand
don't all of them know London. Anyhow,
there it is. You had better give someone the
straight tip, or tell her yourself.'

You speak as if you had some knowledge

of her affairs,' said Bellarmin, with an interest
which he could not disguise.

I have some knowledge of the affairs of
most people,' replied Tressel, ' and I am
always, in a quiet way, on the look-out for
information ; there's no knowing when it
may come in handy . A habit acquired in
journalism ; and not a bad training for a
politician. Try it. I do happen to know
something about Miss Beaton's claims and
Miss Beaton's adherents — Stonehenore among
them.'

Does he want to marry her ?' Bellarmin
asked abruptly.

Don't think so ; no, Stonehenge is a
dreamer, a man of chimeras ; like many of
these Catholic people, a man who half
believes in the King's Evil and the virtue of
royal touch — by a Legitimist Sovereign, of
course. A man who cherishes, as a sacred
heirloom, the historic wig of his Majesty
Charles the Second ! No, Stonehenge doesn't
want to marry her. They are only hoping to
put the thin end of the wedge in — by the
way, did anyone ever try to put the thick
end of the wedge in ?'

VOL. I. 10

If it were not too ridiculous, one might
imagine some deep-laid scheme.'

Oh, there won't be a civil war just yet,
unless you start it — you might turn the Irish-american
energies in that direction. Not a
bad notion ! A second Stuart hid for the
Irish support! Stonehenge isn't such a fool,
though he is a Legitimist. There may be a
plot against the throne in the brain of that
white-moustached old ass who got the sabre-cut
at Solferino. Why always a sabre-cut ?'
added Tressel meditatively. ' Have you observed
that Fanatics, Foreign Fenians, and
Legitimist Agitators, which all comes to much
the same thing, have generally — in novels and
out of them — got a sabre-cut somewhere ?
Why not a bullet-hole ? However, a bad
whist-player will try to force his enemy's hand
with the ten of trumps. . I dare say that's the
General's notion.'

But Miss Beaton's claims ? Has she any
at all — any that are real ? I have heard
something of an ancestral estate.'

Oh yes ; she has a do7id fide claim on an
estate in the palatinate of Lancaster, left by a
Stuart adherent in the latter days of Anne,

when the old woman herself seemed inclined
for a Stuart restoration. It was left to the
eldest princes in the Stuart family, and in
default, to the eldest succeeding princesses
of the line. There's the whole pretension in
an historical nutshell.'

Well T said Bellarmin.

Well ! The Hanoverian Ministers simply
seized the property for the Crown. It's conceivable,
however, that a Prime Minister of
England — say, an enthusiast like Champion,
possessed with fantasies of reform — might be
wrought upon to recognise the claim on the
part of the undoubted representative of the
Stuartss — merely as a family possession.
However, enough about that. Now, what
about Champion }'

About Champion ?'

Quite so. About Champion. Are you
coming to terms with him ? You may speak
out with me. I know all about it ; and I saw
Champion to-day, and he particularly wished
me to see you in an easy informal sort of way,
and get to know what your ideas are on the
whole subject. First, the thing itself; next
the time when.'

10 — 2

Bellarmin was silent for awhile. He was
surprised to hear that Sir Victor had made
Tressel his confidant on such a subject. Bellarmin
himself was inclined to believe in
Tressel on the whole as a sincere and serious
politician ; but he never supposed that a man
with the intensity of conviction and the lack
of humour which alike characterized Champion
could be got to put himself and his schemes
into the power of a teller of scandalous anecdotes
and a maker of cynical jokes.

I see that you are a little astonished, my
youthful politician, to think that Champion
should make me his emissary. It does seem
odd, doesn't it ? But I managed to work it
out of him and to work myself into him. I
have my peculiar advantages, don't you see ?
and I got him to see them. I talk to everybody,
and so nothing is inferred from my
talking to anybody. Then I am not a serious
politician ; everybody says that, and what
everybody says must be true. Therefore, of
course, nobody would believe that so tremendously
serious a politician as Lucifer would
think of taking me into any confidence. Then
if I were to let out the secrets, nobody would

give them a moment's attention — seeing it's
me, don't you know ? Then again, if the
worst came to the worst, I could be disavowed
so easily. Oh, it's only Tressel's absurd talk
nobody minds ///;;/, and the thing is at an
end, don't you see ?'

Yes ; there is a good deal in what you
say. But this is a serious business. Has
Champion told any of his colleagues in
office ?'

Not one. Most of them are mere puppets,
whom he can set in motion when he
likes, and move in any direction he pleases.
Saxon he is a little afraid of ; but he thinks
it safest to keep Saxon in the dark for the
present. Saxon is the sort of man who
accepts accomplished facts. If Champion
can say to him, " Look here, this is a definite
policy, to which I am pledged in my own
mind : will you go with me or desert me ?"
he thinks there would be his best chance for
nailing Saxon.'

Well, what does Champion want of
me ?'

Champion thinks you are a clever young
fellow, with some fresh ideas and plenty of

gOj who has made enormous strides in the
political race, and has the faculty of keeping
the House amused by showing it game.
The House always likes that. He thinks
you must be about as tired of the stupid old
ways as he is himself. That's why I stick to
Champion ; because he wants to do something
new and plucky. Champion thinks
that you would have wit enough to see that
some reform of this absurd old anomaly must
be made soon, and that a clean sweep would
be as easily done as a little trimming and
clipping. He fancies that you are a sort of
man who would rather be identified with a
great reform, which is inevitable, than care
about the barren honour of opposing it. He
thinks Progressive Toryism might very properly
include in its progress a march over the
ruins of the House of Lords. He wants to
form a new party ; and he is eclectic ; and he
wants you to belong to it. Will you see
him ?'

No, I think not. I don't see the use ; I
don't fancy I could do him any good — just
now, at all events. The House of Lords, as
it is now constituted, has got to go. Everyone

with the prophetic eye must see that. I
should Hke my Progressive Tories to have a
hand in the construction of the new Chamber,
whatever it is to be — of course Champion
would eo for some sort of Second Chamber ?'

Oh yes ; / wouldn't, if I could ; but he is
strong on it, and I don't much mind either
way.'

But I doubt about the time ; and I am
inclined to think that Champion's notion of
springing this scheme upon his old colleagues
will lead to a smash. I don't see my way toit,
Tressel ; that's all I can say. If I were
to advise him, I should tell him he ought to
take Lord Saxon into his confidence at
once.'

He won't do that. Look here, Bellarmin,
it's not Lord Saxon I'm afraid of, so far as
this business is concerned.'

No. Who else ?'

Lady Saxon. I've some reason to suspect
that she and Champion are old pals,
and he would be easily managed by a clever
woman like that.'

I don't believe there is an atom of
foundation for your suspicion about her and

Champion— about their having been friends
before her marriage,' said Bellarmin hastily,
yet with an uneasy recollection of the conference
on the Terrace.

All right,' said Tressel. ' Good-night.'

THE PRINCESS AT HOME.

ARY BEATON lived in a wonderful
lite house, very near the walls
of old Kensington Palace. It was
only chance which had given her a domicile ;
but it seemed sometimes to her, when she was
in a mood of exaltation, that the hand of
Providence itself had settled her down in the
immediate neighbourhood of the Palace where
Queen Anne died, beneath the very shadow
of its walls.

The house General Falcon and Lady
Struthers had succeeded in getting possession
of was a long ancient low-roofed building.
It had only one story above the ground-floor,
and that upper story held only bedrooms.

The whole day-life and evening-life
of the house was therefore on the ground-floor
; and the reception-rooms ran out of one
another in a quaint and curious way. In
each room there were long low windows,
some of them shadowed by the trees of the
Kensington Gardens ; some of them looking
on the walls of Kensington Palace.

When it was decided that Mary Beaton
should come over to England and set up her
claims there, General Falcon went on in
advance to find a suitable dwelling for her;
and, after a while, Lady Struthers came to
help him in his quest. General Falcon decided
from the beginning that the heiress of
the Stuartss could not condescend to occupy
any house in one of the new and fashionable
quarters. Belgrade Square he put aside,
after some consideration, rather as being
under the social and historical condition undesirable,
than because the rental was beyond
Mary's means, though that was certainly the
case. It had, of course, the traditional attraction,
to a Legitimist, that it was the scene of
the famous pilgrimage to do homage to
Charles the Tenth. But times had changed

since that time, and General Falcon could
not find any fragrance of divine right and
exalted self-sufficing legitimacy lingering
now along the stuccoed lines and ridges of
Belgrade Square. Eaton Square he held to
be as utterly out of the question as Cromwell
Road itself. Park Lane would not do ; it
was occupied far too much by hangers-on to
the Hanoverianss, as he put it, and by the
aristocracy of birth and of money who habitually
went to Court. There was too strong
a savour of Marlborough House about it for
his purpose, he thought. So, when after the
coming of Lady Struthers, and when things
seemed well-nigh desperate, a strange chance
threw the long low old-fashioned house at
Kensington in his way, Falcon thought he
saw the finger of Providence distinctly intervening
for his guidance. He took Lord
Stonehenge into council, and they arranged
for a long tenancy of the house.

Everything was prepared for Mary's reception
by the Dowager Lady Stonehenge,
Lady Struthers, and General Falcon in permanent
council ; and when all was done,
Lady Struthers and Falcon went back to

bring their young mistress to her London
home.

Nothing could exceed the delight of Mary-seaton
when she first ranged through the
rooms of that delightful old house. She
thought she could never have enough of it.
She studied all its peculiarities, and all its
views and glimpses. She kissed Lady
Struthers a dozen times in her rapture ; she
felt almost inclined to kiss dear old Falcon
too, so she told Lady Struthers in private
confidence. With all her little dignities and
airs, Mary was a thorough girl.

Mary was very fond of Lady Struthers,
after a fashion ; but it was not surprising that
she sometimes found this scion of the aristocracy
a little tiresome. Lady Struthers
prided herself on the length of her pedigree.
Her mother had belonged to a noble Highland
Catholic family, and she herself had
married, she considered, beneath her rank.
Sir Peter Struthers had begun his career as
an apothecary's assistant, and had ended it asa
Court physician. He had doctored various
foreign royalties. He had died after making
an unaccountable, and to his wife, eminently

unsatisfactory will, by which the bulk of his
fortune had gone to his children by a former
marriage, while Lady Struthers was left buta
moderate annuity, and the consoling reflection
that she was suffering lor having
demeaned herself by such a union.

It had seemed natural enough that Lady
Struthers should accept the position of
governess to Miss Beaton ; and at the Court
of Schwalbenstadt, where the young lady was
brought up, Lady Struthers had revelled intitles
and high life, and had become so accustomed
to addressing her acquaintances as
princess, countess, or baroness, as the case
might be, that she found some difficulty in
adapting herself to humbler society in
England. It was a disappointment to Lady
Struthers that Miss Beaton's claims were not
at once recognised, and that she did not
immediately receive invitations to all the
greatest houses. The Catholic coterie was
all very well, and Lord Stonehenge had
proved himself a valuable ally ; but Lady
Struthers wanted and expected something
more than that.

General Falcon and Lady Struthers had

this in common, and perhaps almost this only,
that they were both devoted to their young
mistress. They had watched her growth up
from childhood with pride and delight. They
had bent before her pretty wilful ways, admiring
her the more for them. Would she
be a Stuart if she were not wilful ? They
had yielded her an exaggerated deference,
exulting in the thought that her nature was
too sweet for adulation to spoil it ; and even
when scolding her for her shortcomings, and
tutoring her in what they conceived to be the
duties of her position, they had never succeeded
in inspiring her with any wholesome
awe of themselves. Gradually Lady
Struthers's supremacy had waned ; now she
was a mere picturesque dummy — for she was
certainly very picturesque with her snowy
hair and her stately presence — an amiable
chaperone whose ideas of propriety never interfered
with her charge's inclinations.

General Falcon, however, seemed with
years to become more exacting and more
tenacious of such authority as he held over
Miss Beaton. In truth, Mary sometimes felt
a little puzzled by his manner, and impatient

of his system of surveillance. His humour
was by turns querulous, suspicious, and
curiously emotional — tender, even impassioned.
She would have been more annoyed
by the ill-temper, were it not that the tenderness
appealed to her warm heart, and to all
that was romantic and queen-like in her
nature. His affection, she thought, was
something more than mere personal devotion.
It was devotion to the memory of her
dead parents ; to a cause. It was the living
example of that mysterious poetic fascination
which the Stuartss had always exercised over
their followers.

The day after the visit to the House of
Commons, Mary was in her own room, her
peculiar place of retreat, some time before the
regular breakfast-hour. It was her custom,
after the fashion of the Continent, to have
her coffee alone in the room early, and then
to meet her household circle at a set dejeuner
a la foti7'chette about noon. She seldom saw
General Falcon till the time of the midday
meal, and after that they usually began and
got through the business they had to do — a
business which generally consisted in 

dismissing absurd and impossible
suggestions from unthinking and unsolicited
advisers. On this particular morning, however,
General Falcon sent a formal message
to say that it would gratify him if Madame
would kindly allow him to wait on her. In
all superficial intercourse he treated her with
an almost exaggerated ceremony. Madame
at once accorded the interview, and Madame
shrugged her shoulders and pursed her lips
and pouted, well knowing that she was to be
scolded. She did her best to escape censure ;
she met Falcon with a look of sweet disarming
welcome, but Falcon was not to be disarmed.

As he entered — gray, erect, with the scar
on his forehead conspicuously white — Mary
thought she had never seen his face sterner
or more ill-tempered. She was puzzled by a
certain air of excitement and forced self-repression
which she noticed in him.

What now, I wonder,' she murmured half
aloud, and with a mocking accent ; ' London
air is too stimulating for the General's nerves.
Come, something is wrong,' she went on in a
louder tone. 'Well, let us have it out. What
have I been donor

Falcon was silent for a few moments.

I am afraid that you shocked Lord Stonehenge
and Mr. Leven last night,' he said.
You were near going actually into the House
of Commons ; and you only laughed and
made fun of it.'

Well, there was nothing to weep over, was
there ? Why should Lord Stonehenge care ?
He is one of us. As for Mr. Leven '

And then you kept rambling about the
Terrace with Mr. Bellarmin, as if you were a
schoolgirl. A man like Lord Stonehenge
could not approve of that.'

Mary gave up all thought of conciliation.
I wish you would not speak to me as if I
were a schoolgirl,' she said petulantly.

I wish you would not act as if you were a
schoolgirl,' he answered as petulantly. ' I
wish you would try to remember that you are
not of the schoolgirl's age or of the ordinary
schoolgirl's position '

I wish you would try and remember my
position a little more than you do. You
scold me in a very disrespectful and disagreeable
fashion. What have I done that
was so bad ? Come, tell me of all my faults ;

VOL. I. II

and Heaven send me patience to listen.
Give me a bead-roll of them. But stay a
moment. I presume the task will be pretty
long. Let us make ourselves comfortable.'

She pushed a soft and heavy armchair
towards him with an air of mock humility,
and settled herself on a great heap of cushions
converted to the duty of an ottoman. She
settled herself down very comfortably, unfurled
her fan, and waved it gently before her
face. She did not look at Falcon — her eyes
were upturned. Had she looked, indeed, she
might have been surprised by the gaze bent
upon her : a fierce, melancholy longing, almost
tragic in its intensity. It was as though
Falcon had dropped his mask for a moment,
and allowed play to the emotion he had been
trying to conceal by his petty fault-finding.
His eyes literally devoured her, and his face,
lighted by the gleam of ardour, seemed for an
instant youthful once more. But Mary saw
nothing of this ; she appeared to be languidly
studying the painted ceiling. There was a
minute of silence, and then she said :
I am waiting, General Falcon.'
Waiting !* he said dreamily, pulling himself

together with a start, and turning his
eyes away. ' For what, Madame ?'

Waiting to be lectured ; to be scolded ; to
be told of all my various sins of omission and
commission. Won't you tell me ? I only
want to be put right. I'll promise not to be
aggravating,' she said coaxingly.

Oh, it isn't any use !' he exclaimed with
sudden sharpness. * I haven't any influence
over you — now ; any longer. I had better
give up.'

General Falcon,' said Mary solemnly,
what would you have ? Did not I play my
part properly last night ? You said that you
wanted me to know influential people in the
political world — people who would take up
my claims and see the justice of giving me
back the estate which these Hanoverianss confiscated.
Well, isn't Sir Victor Champion an
influential personage ? You are extremely
unreasonable. '' Thou shalt praise me today,
O Caesar !" This was the least that I
expected.'

Madame, it is not for the descendant of
the Stuartss to boast of an introduction to an
adventuress like Lady Saxon.'

II — 2

rm not boasting, General. Quite the
contrary. I behaved prettily to Lady Saxon
last night from a sense of duty — and indeed
I thought I had put quite the right infusion
of "dignified reserve" — that's your phrase —
into my manner. Is she an adventuress ?
Then my instinct did not deceive me. It's
always so comforting to know that one may
put trust in one's instinct. Of course I should
have supposed her to be a very great and
high-born lady, if it hadn't been for my little
inward monitor which labelled her with a big
'' D," Doubtful. What do you know about
Lady Saxon, General Falcon ?'

Enough to make use of her.'

You are dreadfully melodramatic. Tell
me the mystery. I adore a mystery

There is none,' said Falcon. * Let me
advise you, Madame, to treat this lady with
a certain amount of reserve, not to become
too intimate with her — not, for example, to
discuss your private affairs with her, your
likes and dislikes, your theories, your feelings.
Yes, it is the want of that dignified reserve in
your manner which I complain of. In your
conversation with Mr. Bellarmin '

Ah, I understand,' Mary interrupted with
scornful amusement. ' You are jealous ot
Mr. Bellarmin. That's it. You are jealous
because he is young and good-looking, and
famous and agreeable, and because he interests
me. . . . Good gracious ! What have I
said now ?'

A sudden wave of red rushed to Falcon's
face and overspread his forehead, except
where the scar seamed it, leaving his cheeks
pallid. His eyes flashed angrily. He bit
his moustache and rose abruptly.

Madame, I was right when I accused you
of levity.'

And I, when I told you that you were
melodramatic,' she retorted. ' What did you
object to in my conversation with Mr. Bellarmine
?'

He made an impatient gesture, and moved
a few steps from her without answering.

Oh, I know ! You want me to be stiff
and formal and superficial to everyone but
yourself. You did not like my talking to
him so openly about what I thought of the
poor people and the state of England — and
everything. Why, I wonder ? General Falcon,

for Heaven's sake let me be myself
sometimes — -a young woman with heart and
sympathies and — yes — some wish to amuse
herself I want to have a taste now and then
of a girl's natural life. I am tired of this
sham sovereignty. I am weary of it all.'
She spoke with impetuous warmth. General
Falcon had stepped nearer her again. He
did not look at her. His face, still working
with some untold emotion, was turned towards
the window.

God knows that I am weary of it, too !'
he cried, with a burst of passion.

There was silence for a moment or two.
You speak strongly, General,' said Mary,
with a puzzled, wistful glance at him. ' Are
you tired of me ?'

He turned to her with a gesture of apology.

Forgive me, Madame. I forgot myself.'

Why are you unhappy ? Are you tired
of me ?' Mary repeated.

Well — yes — in a manner.' The General
spoke now in a forced, mechanical voice,
dropping out the words slowly, as if he were
deliberating while he uttered them. ' I am
not tired o{ yoti ; but I am tired of trying to

make you do the right thing and see things
in the right way. . . And I see that you rebel
against the restraint — I see that I bore you;
I see that my influence over you is weakening
day by day — and — yes, I get tired and
sore and sorry ; and I don't see what is to
come of it

He threw himself into his chair with a
heavy sigh.

My father would be grieved if he could
know of this,' Mary said softly, more as if she
were talking to herself than remonstrating
with Falcon. ' He would be so sorry. If
he could only have known that the friend
he loved best and trusted most would come
to weary so soon of the task of taking care of
his daughter !'

How dare you talk in that way !' Falcon
exclaimed, starting forward tremulous and
excited. ' You — you are a wicked girl — a
wicked, heartless girl, to play upon me like
this — to bring up your father's name — to say
that I have wearied of taking care of you, when
you know that I only live for you — Oh, say
what you please, torture me as you choose ;
but don't cry — don't, don't begin to cry !'

For there were tears in the girl's brown
eyes, and she put up her handkerchief to hide
them. General Falcon sat like one terrified,
not knowing what to say or do. After a
moment or two, Mary looked at him with a
serious face and eyes that were still moist and
wistful.

General Falcon,' she said, ' tell me, what
is it that you want } You cannot make me
Queen of England, you know.'

I can't make you Queen of England,' he
repeated ; and his eyes were fixed upon her
with a rapt gaze that seemed more befitting a
lover than an elderly guardian. ' Would I if
I could } I have dreamed so many wild
dreams, Mary — dreams in which you were
the central figure — dreams of glory and of
poetry, and of love.' His voice dropped in a
sort of caressing cadence, and the girl started
and blushed. ' I have dreamed so much,' he
went on, ' that sometimes I can hardly tell
the real from the unreal — the possible from
the impossible. I often think that dreams are
my only real life.'

General Falcon,' said Mary, in a soft voice
of compassion, ' you idealize me, you know

You mustn't do that. Tm only a girl ; and a
very frivolous girl sometimes, as you tell me
yourself.'

Mary Stuart was only a girl when she
came to Holyrood ; but she had in her face
and her voice that magic which made men
forget that she was the queen, and made them
dream wild dreams of ambitious love and
daring deed — ay, and do the deeds ! There
are women still who have such magic, my
Princess — women with the dangerous gift of
fascination by which a man may be turned
into a madman or a hero. You are one of
these, Mary. You have that gift ; but there
clings round you something more than the
magic of the woman. There is the magic of
an historic cause.'

I know it replied Mary soothingly. ' I
like to feel that some of the romance of the
dead and gone Stuartss is revived in me ; and
there are moments — oh, many, many — in
which I am proud and glad to be a Stuart.
You must not think that I undervalue your
devotion, or that I don't know what it means.'

Do you know what my devotion means,
Madame ? My Princess, my Queen, if you do

know, you are wiser than poor old Falcon,
who makes himself wretched in trying to
understand it

He laughed a quavering, uncertain laugh.

Devotion like yours is the birthright of
the Stuartss,' said Mary affectionately, touching
his hand lightly as she spoke. * I accept it
as such, dear old friend, and I will try to tease
you no more. Dream no more dreams, Falcon,
about magic charms and heroic deeds and impossible
thrones. Make me glorious and rich
if you please, in a matter-of-fact nineteenth-century
fashion. Curry favour if you like with
her Majesty's Ministers, present and to come,
and settle me in my historic inheritance with
my historic thousands. In good truth, Falcon,'
she added, with a laugh, ' I think we shall
need them ; for though this house isn't a
palace, and I am not a pauper, I am quite
certain that we spend more than we ought'

You mus spend money,' Falcon answered
impatiently. ' You must keep up an establishment.'


It seems to me, my good General, that I
myself am something of an adventuress. I
fancy that my Stuart dignity might be supported

without a hall-porter and with a fewer
number of men in livery ; and that I might
have a better chance of heaven, and should
be a worthier daughter of the Mother Church,
if I spent more in charity and less upon this
vain state and show. But we have talked of
this often enough ; and now I hope that our
quarrel is over for to-days

Yes, thank Heaven !' murmured Falcon,
in a relieved tone.

He seemed to have descended to the 
level. His emotion was past
now ; and he leaned back composedly in his
chair. Mary came and sat herself on one of
the broad arms of the chair, and laid her left
hand caressingly on his shoulder. At first
he winced at the touch ; then, as if with an
effort, he put up his right hand and placed it
on hers.

Yes, dear old friend,' Mary said ; ' you
shall give me the list of all my sins, offences,
and negligence — but no more now. Some
other time. I am going to coax you. I have
a great, great favour to ask of you. You mistake
me to the East-end and let me see the
sort of life that goes on there ? Come, promise

now. I'll be as sweet as honey to you for a
whole week if you will say that I may go.'

She bent down and looked into his face
with a childlike coquetry that was irresistible,
at least to General Falcon. He gazed at her
fondly, admiringly. Then he moved his hand
from hers and timidly touched her soft cheek.
The contact might have been magnetic, he
withdrew his hand again so quickly ; and he
gave a sort of shuddering sigh.

Promise,' insisted the girl.

Yes, you shall go,' he answered. ' You
shall go with me — alone with me.' There
was a wildness in his manner of pronouncing
the last words of which he himself seemed
to become conscious, for he added in a
different tone, and after a moment's pause,
Perhaps it is as well that you should see for
yourself what life is.'

Exactly my own notion, and what I have
been trying to impress upon you ever since
we came to London. I want ever so much
to see an East-end music-hall ; and I don't
want to be seen and known. Listen. May
I go in boy's clothes ? I should like that,
because I should be so much more free ; and

nobody could suspect who I was — don't you
see ?'

I am afraid that you would never be fit
for a queen,' he said, in a half-melancholy
remonstrance.

Ay, every inch a queen !' she said ; and
she sprang to a standing position, and stood
before him straight as a spear, tall, with one
hand raised to her forehead as if she were
placing a crown there, and the other held on
her bosom as though it grasped the symbolic
orb.

General Falcon had in his time seen many
queens and empresses, and princesses of all
sorts, nationalities, and even colours ; but he
thought in his heart that he had never looked
on so queenly a form as that which now stood
before him and challenged impeachment of
its right to sovereign state.

Mary threw herself down upon her
cushions again.

I want to go to Court !' she said defiantly.


To Court ! But, Madame, surely you
don't think of what you say ?'

Indeed, Falcon, I am afraid I very seldom

think of what I am saying, or at least of what
I am going to say. I do now and then begin
to think of what I have said after I have
said it, and the reflection is not always
encouraging. But I mean what I am saying
this time ; I want to go to Court.'

If you wish to be presented at Court
merely as the Honourable Mary Stuart
Beaton, daughter of an English baron, I
presume that could be arranged Falcon said
doggedly. ' But I should hardly have
thought you would condescend to such a
performance.'

I want to see the sight, but I suppose it
wouldn't be the proper thing. It would belike
a recognition of the Hanoverian family.
No ; we must not do that. But I want to
see the Queen in private ; do you think you
could manage that ?'

See the Queen in private ?'

Yes ; I want to talk to her about the
condition of England — the poverty, the
misery ! I am sure she could do something
if only her eyes were opened to the
real truth. I am sure she is not allowed to
know anything about the wretched condition

of SO many of her subjects — I mean of the
people who are her subjects for the time.
You may be certain that her Ministers, and
her courtiers, and the ladies who are about
her, take good care to keep her in perfect
ignorance of the truth. Well, / want to see
her, and tell her all. It is my duty. I must
not stick at points of etiquette where such
interests are concerned.'

Falcon smiled compassionately.

Madame, you may take it from me that
the Queen knows as well what is going on
all over the country as any man or woman in
the land. She has the newspapers read to
her regularly ; she keeps herself thoroughly
informed.'

Yes, read to her — there it is, you see ;
you admit it yourself. Read to her ! Of
course they only read the pleasant parts ;
they leave out all that could distress her, or
make her think that she had duties to perform
which they don't want her to be troubled
about. / understand these things, General.
Why, I remember so well when I was at
the Residenz in Schwalbenstadt, the newspapers
were all carefully examined before

they came under the eyes of the Grand Duke,
or the Grand Duchess. The Ministers and
Court people would not let either of them
know a word that would give them any
trouble. / let the Grand Duchess know all
the truth of some stories, I can tell you ; and
how the Court people hated me for it ! Ah,
yes ; / know.'

Mary Beaton sighed with the air of one
on whom long and varied experience has
forced the knowledge of hard realities.
General Falcon became more compassionate
than ever.

My dear child,' he said, with fatherlike
tenderness, 'this Court here is not in
the least like any of the little Courts you
have seen. The Queen knows everything;
and if there was anything in her power todo,
she would do it.'

Mary dropped the discussion, but did not
feel satisfied. After a moment of silence,
she began again :

I should like to know the Princess of
Wales, General.'

General Falcon was becoming impatient.

Madame, you must know very well that

sort of thing can't be for the present. 
you let such ideas get into your head at
such a time ?'

Well, we are all so dull here. You are a
brave soldier and a good, dear friend, Falcon ;
but you are not lively. Come now, are you ?
You know you are not.'

No ; I am not lively,' Falcon admitted
grimly.

And Lady Struthers, dear thing — she is
very obliging, and knows languages, and has
an exalted and very proper notion of '' the
high life," as they say in French novels,
Mary laughed softly ; ' but you wouldn't call
her a very amusing companion, would you ?
And I'm tired of the people we have to meet,
and the solemnity of it all. Everything so
ordered, and so stately, and so cold, and such
a sham. If one were a queen actually — a
queen reigning — I suppose one would pull
one's courage about one grandly, and put up
with it. But to me, and as we are here, it
has no reality. It is all stiff, chilly, stupid !
I want to be amused ; and, yes, I want someone
to admire.'

Falcon looked suddenly at her ; she caught

VOL. I. 12

the expression of his face, and broke again
into a Httle peal of musical laughter. Falcon's
features were convulsed as they had been a
little while ago ; and he kept his eyes down
as if afraid they would betray him.

Positively,' said Mary, 'your look means,
"Why don't you admire me .^" You vain old
hero ! Well, I do admire you very much ;
but then I am so accustomed to you that I
don't think of you. What I mean is that I
want to see someone from the world outside
whom I could admire as a hero.'

Madame !' burst fiercely from Falcon's
lips. Then he checked himself, and laughed
discordantly. ' Exactly,' he said ; ' you are
so accustomed to me that you don't think
about me. What if some day I were to do
something which would force you to take me
into account in your life — something wild,
daring — if I were to act one of those dreams
1 spoke of just now ? You would be obliged to
think about me then, Madame.'

What sort of dream ? I don't understand
you to-day. General Falcon,' Mary spoke
uneasily. ' Of course, I take you into account
in my life. Don't you know that I'm very

fond of you ? You don't need telling, surely.
And now that I haven't a single relation left,
you are closer to me than anyone else In the
world. But I don't think of you In a — in a
girl's way, General.'

No ; you don't think of me in a girl's
way,' he repeated with a sardonic emphasis.
Well, let us look around. There's Lord
Stonehenge. Everybody who knows Lord
Stonehenge must admire him.'

Oh, Lord Stonehenge ! yes, indeed. I
do admire him very much. He is a man of
gold. He knows everything one could want
to know. He is ever so kind '

He Is very handsome,' Falcon interjected,
as if he were saying, ' Don't pretend to forget
that.'

He is very handsome ; yes, that one sees,'
she admitted. ' He is not very young.'

Quite young for such a man,' Falcon declared
authoritatively. * He is only just over
forty.'

Only just over forty !' Mary made a little
grimace. ' Oh yes, I admire him ; I think
he is a little shy of me ; and do you know,
my good Falcon, an idea has once or twice

12 — 2

come Into my mind that some of you are
making up a little scheme to marry me to
Lord Stonehenge ?' She spoke with the
utmost composure, and looked quietly into
Falcon's eyes, waiting for a reply. Falcon
appeared embarrassed.

Madame,' he said gravely, ' if any hint of
that kind were to reach Lord Stonehenge's
ears, he would be shocked and horrified.'

Mary glanced at herself in the glass and
smiled.

You understand quite well,' he replied
almost gruffly. ' Lord Stonehenge would
regard it as presumption on his part to lift his
eyes to the daughter of the Stuart kings. It
would be impossible for him to devote himself
as he does to you and your cause if any such
talk were to get about. I beseech you,
Madame, to guard your impulsive utterances.'


I observe, my dear General, that you
have not disclaimed the intention all the
same Mary said quietly. ' I never supposed
that Lord Stonehenge was a party to it, or to
anything half so amusing. Suppose that I
were to take a liking to him,' she added — * to

fall in love with him — what would have to be

done then ? Should I have to propose to
him ? And suppose his modesty and his
devoted allegiance were to compel him to
refuse, where should I be then ?'

I don't think you ought to talk in that
way, Madame.'

Well, let us talk in some other way. I
wish you would tell Lady Struthers to write
and ask Mr. Bellarmin to dinner.'

Mr. Bellarmin !'

Yes ; I think he is very clever, and he
amuses me ; and I'm sure he has a career
before him, and he isn't like everybody else.
I want him to dine here, General, or somewhere
else where I am to be. I want him
asked to Lord Stonehenge's when we go
down there. See about that, General Falcon.'

I have no doubt, Madame, that whatever
you insist upon can be done. But I would
have you remember that some people call Mr.
Bellarmin a political adventurer.'

What is an adventurer, General, in politics
? You say Lady Saxon is an adventuress.
I have a notion that I am a political
adventuress. Now, how do you define a

political adventurer ? Is it one who goes inquest
of adventures, and to whom life is only
a game ? I wish I were a man, and an
adventurer in that sense. It must be delightful.'
Mary allowed a half sigh to escape
her.

Well, what we call a political adventurer
is a man who has no fixed principles ; who
goes into politics rather to advance himself
than to advance any great cause.'

But, my good General Falcon, what an
immense number of adventurers there must
be in English political life ! I never name
any public man without being told by somebody
that he is utterly unprincipled, that he
has no good purpose whatever, that he is
only thinking of himself and of his own
ambition, and so forth, and so forth. I don't
see in that case how Mr. Bellarmin can be
any worse than most other men ; and he has
certainly the advantage of being young and
handsome and agreeable. He may amend,
Falcon. He may repent. He may develop
wonderful principles some day ; he may bethe
moral hero of the coming England.
Meantime, let us have him to dinner.*

Madame is mistress in her own household.'


Is she, Falcon ? Really now, is she ?'
Mary smiled at him mischievously ; she had
apparently forgotten her promise not to tease
him. ' I am so glad to hear it ; for there are
times, do you know, when I should not quite
have thought it.'

Mary Beaton was, it must be owned, in a
somewhat provoking mood to-day. Falcon
stood under severe self-restraint.

I hope,' he said, ' that neither Lady
Struthers nor I have been unduly interfering.'


Oh no, no, my dear creatures, you have
been absolute perfection. I fancy you are a
good deal too near perfection for me. But
you will remember Mr. Bellarmin, Falcon ?
I am sure that he is not by any means perfection,
and he will suit me all the better for that.'

I will speak to Lord Stonehenge,' said
Falcon stiffly.

Thanks. And now about the East-end.'

That shall be arranged, Madame, since
you are set upon it — a little, perhaps, after
the Stonehenge visit

And mind — I shall wear boy's clothes.
Now you know you have promised ; and in
return / have promised — to admire you — to
consult you — to adore you — seriously, to be
so sweet to you, General, and so good ! I
shall never believe in your affection again if
you are going to be as inflexible and as unyielding
about the proprieties as you try to
be on most occasions.'

Unyielding about the proprieties ! And
I have consented to allow the heiress of the
Stuartss to go to an East-end music-hall in
boy's clothes ! Unyielding ! Oh, Mary, my
Princess, you see too well how blind and
foolish are my affections.' He rose and strode
up and down the room. Mary looked at him
with amusement, in which there was a faint
trace of perplexity.

Now, General, if you must be theatrical,
imagine that I am the Queen of Scots as an
archer of the Guard. You know she was upto
a good many pranks. It's in the Stuart
blood ; that reflection will comfort you. I
know you like to please me,' she went on ina
different tone ; ' and 1 suppose I do like to
try your patience sometimes. There's not

the least doubt that when I get married I
shall try my husband's patience and temper
terribly. You don't like me to talk of marrying,
General ; but I suppose that 1 7;iay take
a husband some day ? I'm not in the Act of
Settlement, you know ; and there's nothing to
prevent me from marrying a shoeblack.'

Indeed, Madame,' he exclaimed bitterly,
I have almost brought myself to believe that
your marriage would be the best thing for
you and for me. I shall at once set about
introducing suitors to your notice.'

That's right. Understand, I shall want
to govern this husband absolutely. I shall
take positive delight in conquering him and
taming him, and making him obedient and
submissive '

Yes ; and you will despise him if he is
obedient and submissive,' said Falcon, with a
melancholy laugh.

I wonder would that be so, do you think ?
I don't know at all. I haven't followed out
my track of thought so far. 1 have only got
to the subjugation point ; I have enjoyed in
advance many a triumph over his complete
subjugation and his final acknowledgment that

he was subjugated ; that he was my captive
and my slave, and so forth. But I haven't
studied the question beyond that point. That
has been my sky-Hne, my horizon. I haven't
asked myself how I should feel to my slave
when he had meekly put on his collar and
accepted his yoke. You don't like all this
nonsense, do you, Falcon ? I can see by the
look on your face that you disapprove of it
highly !'

Excuse me, Madame. I was not venturing
to express disapproval or approval ; but I
would remind you that I came at this early
hour to talk over some matters of business
before luncheon — and that luncheon-time is
now near at hand.'

You are right, General Falcon ; your
words recall me to myself, as the people say
in the plays. Well, let us get to business. I
dismiss my phantasies and my, as yet, untamed
husband. Go on, I am all attention.'

So General Falcon went into a great
number of questions of policy and expenditure,
and so on ; and one might have fancied,
from the way in which Mary lolled carelessly
upon the cushions and toyed with the fan in

her hand, that she was not Hastening to a
word he said ; but she every now and then
drew her eyebrows together and interrupted
him with a shrewd question, or made a quiet
keen suggestion which showed that she was
not altogether the frivolous girl that she
seemed.

ROLFE BELLARMIN.

ELLARMIN lived in St. James's
Place, a small street opening out
of stately St. James's Street. His
was not an august habitation. He was not
rich; his father allowed him enough money
to live like a gentleman in London, to pay for
gloves and cabs and all the rest of it, and was
willing to make such an allowance to him forever.
But, as our readers will see, Bellarmin
had not yet opened out any career for himself
in a paying sense. He had been drawn into
political life and had made a mark there, and
he meant to stick to it. Up to the present,
however, he had not got any money out of it;
and therefore he took care not to live extravagantly.

His lodgings consisted of a sitting-room,
a bedroom, and a bath-room. The
sitting-room was rather small, and it was
encumbered, as is the sitting-room of every
bachelor member of Parliament, with piles of
blue-books and Parliamentary papers of all
kinds. Newspapers, of course, were scattered
all around. The chairs, the sofas, the tables,
the floor were encumbered with books and
papers. The books that Bellarmin kept in
his sitting-room were not, however, the books
that he read. They were the books that he
intended to read, or that he told himself he
intended to read. They were first the bluebooks,
and then the works of various kinds
which Bellarmin meant to study in order to
supplement the knowledge to be derived from
the blue books. For example, there came to
him the latest blue-book on the affairs of
South Africa. Now to understand and to
test the statements in the blue-book, it seemed
necessary to get a number of non-official books
about South Africa ; and Bellarmin got them
with full Intent to read them. But then came
In the blue-book on bi-metallic ; the blue-book
on our dealings with Russia In relation

to the Afghan Boundary ; the blue-book on
the employment of pit-brow girls ; and on all
these and various other subjects Bellarmin
wanted to get additional information, and so
trot in additional books from the London

o

Library. When he set out on his political
career he wanted to study everything — to
know everything. But then came in the
social attractions — the dinners, the luncheons,
the garden-parties, the visits to country houses,
the race-weeks here and there ; and Bellarmin
wanted to accomplish all that too. Arthur
Pendennis said of himself and his position in
London Society, ' I am in the swim, and, by
Jove ! I like it.' Bellarmin was in the swim,
too, and, by Jove ! he liked it. One result
was that the blue-books got less and less
studied, and that they accumulated more and
more. Bellarmin was loath to acknowledge
even to himself that he had abandoned any
particular subject, and so he would not get
rid of the blue-books which he had once
fondly believed that he could master. Nor
had his acquaintance with Lady Saxon, nor
had his appreciation of the charms of Mary
Beaton's society tended in any way to expand

[91

his opportunities for the study of the South
African question, and bi-metals and the
work of the pit-brow girls.

The books which he said he must not
allow himself time to read, but which he did
read pretty often nevertheless, were all in his
bedroom — a room comparatively large for a
set of London apartments. There were the
books that he loved ; a few of the classics of
ancient and the classics, too, of modern days.
There also were various novels and memoirs
and biographies got from Muche's Library and
never destined to be classic at all, but which
Bellarmin sent for because people were talking
about them, and in such matters, too, his
ambition was to know everything.

On the walls of his sitting-room were displayed
the ordinary West-end lodging-house
frames and engravings. But in his bedroom
he had some really fine etchings given to him
by artists or bought by him here and there,
and some curious swords and pistols and fans
and bronzes ; and he had a long japanned
box which contained his Court suit, cocked
hat and all.

The mantelpiece in his sitting-room was

littered with letters and cards of invitation.
There was no mirror there ; this was an
alteration Bellarmin had insisted on. He
could not stand the lodging-house looking-glass
over the lodging-house chimneypiece.
So he had the glass taken away, and he
substituted for it a screen which he well-nigh
covered with photographs of celebrated
persons, and of men and women who were
personally interesting to him. But there was
no photograph of Lady Saxon there. Doubtless
she must at some time or other have
given him one ; but if so, he did not display
it ; probably he kept it treasured apart and
away somewhere.

Was there In life anywhere a happier man
than Rolfe Bellarmin ? He was young, he
was handsome ; he had a graceful figure,
slender but vigorous, and there was an almost
antique air of good-breeding about him,
although he was nothing of an aristocrat by
birth, but, indeed, only the second son of a
very successful business man in one of the
great provincial cities. The Bellarmine, to
be sure, were understood to have good blood
in their veins, even though of later years some

of them had succeeded and some of them had
failed in the effort to make money in the ways
of commerce and industry. Rolfe's father had
a great ambition, not for himself, but for his
sons ; and, as the elder loved business and
the younger detested it, he resolved to make
a liberal allowance to Rolfe and start him in
life as a gentleman. Rolfe took to the calling
very kindly. He passed through the training
of a public school and a university in the
regular fashion; but he had some extra
studies in Paris and Bonn as well ; and then
he went boldly into politics. He had the gift
or the genius of success. He threw himself
upon a constituency, and was elected. No
one expected him to make much of a figure
in Parliament. He seemed cut out for mere
social success ; but he contrived to play a
conspicuous political part from the very beginning.
There was something winning
about his youth, his bright ways, his refined,
mediaeval-looking face, and his well-modulated
voice ; and, let it be added, his audacity,
which was in such odd contrast to his appearance.
He had an absolute faith in himself.
After he had made his first speech — which
VOL. I. 13

was what someone called ' a rattling success '
a friend of long experience in Parliament
cautioned him that he must take more pains
to catch the tone of the House. ' Catch the
tone of the House !' was the reply of that
brazen youngster — 'that abominable singsong
? Not if I know it. Let the House
catch my tone — if it likes, or if it can.' The
sage adviser shuddered ; but young Bellarmin
went his own way, kept to his own tone ; and
before two sessions he had a little knot of
imitators. He was always taking divisions,
moving adjournments, coming boldly up to the
rescue of some forlorn ' independent member '
to whose Tuesday evening crotchet no one but
Bellarmin would think of giving countenance.
He despised no one ; he made friends everywhere.
He soon attracted the notice of the
Conservative leader — for Rolfe had gone in
as what he liked to call a ' Progressive Tory ;'
and the leader was pleased with his buoyancy,
his brilliant animal spirits, his evident delight
in all the life and all the ways of the House
of Commons. Bellarmin had a good stock of
more or less superficial information on almost
all subjects likely to come up in Parliament.

He knew enough of most things to be able to
make some use of any fresh facts ; at all events
he knew enough to be able to talk without
talking obvious nonsense.

One evening he came in rather late, flush
from a dinner-party, with gorgeous flower in
faultless dress-coat. A debate was obviously
breaking down ; the Conservatives, then in
Opposition, were trying to make something
out of a foreign question on which a motion
had been put down for papers ' on going into
Committee of Supply.' The Government had
laid some papers on the table to meet the
demand ; had, in legal phrase, paid so much
into court, and the Opposition did not seem
able to carry on the discussion in face of that
fact. The leader, for reasons of his own,
particularly wished it to be carried on for the
whole evening. Some of his weighty men,
his big guns, were not yet on the field, and
he kept looking anxiously at the doors.

In came Bellarmin. 'Ask Bellarmin to
speak,' the leader said, in a voice low as an
evening breeze, but distinctly audible to
Bellarmin as well as to the party whip, for
whom it was intended.

13—2

Bellarmin felt his cheek glow with pride
and delight. To be thus specially invited to
take part in a failing fight by his leader was
a compliment such as one might have had
from a Caesar or a Napoleon on the field of
some desperate battle.

The whip came to Bellarmin. ' Chief
wants you to speak,' he whispered.

'What is it all about?' asked Bellarmin
breathlessly. ' What am I to say ?'

Oh, it's right — information in papers
wholly insufficient ; pitch into Ministry — you
know,' was the comprehensive and luminous
reply; and the whip scuttled away after having
thrust a blue-book into Bellarmin's hand.

Bellarmin began to read, the letters all
dancing before him. Just at that moment
the Minister who was speaking came to an
end of his discourse with the declaration that
he was convinced the universal judgment of
the House would admit that the Government
had produced ample and sufficient information
for the guidance of all honourable
members, and that the House might now
be permitted without further delay to get
into the business of supply.

The hint was enough for Bellarmine. The
moment the Minister sat down — in deed, before
he had got to his seat — Bellarmin leaped to
his feet after the manner of one who has
been choking all the evening with the hitherto
vain desire to unburden his soul of something
it is his duty and mission to say.

'Mr. Speaker,' he began, 'the right
honourable gentleman who has just sat
down has been talking of the ample and
sufficient information contained in the pages
of the blue-book which I hold in my hand.
Ample and sufficient information ! I wonder
if the right honourable gentleman really
believed that he could either cajole or bully
the House into an acceptance of the contents
of this worthless book as ample and sufficient
information ?'

The Minister in question was a man of
violent temper, and Bellarmin knew this, and
expected some interruption, which might give
him a chance of even a momentary glimpse
into the contents of the blue-book. The
Minister sprang to his feet.

I rise to order, Mr. Speaker,' he said, ina
tone of half-suppressed fury ; ' I wish to

ask you, sir, if it is in order for an honourable
member to charge a Minister of the Crown
with a desire to cajole or bully the House of
Commons ?'

Bellarmin did not care three straws how
the point of order was decided. He was
only trying meanwhile to get some rapid
notion of the general subject of the blue-book.
Up to this moment he did not know
whether it was a question of home or foreign
politics. Now, to his immense relief, he saw
it had something to do with Russia.

His chief, appreciating the situation, came
to his assistance in good time.

'On that point of order, Mr. Speaker,' he
blandly said, * may I direct your attention to
the fact that my honourable friend ' — oh,
how Bellarmin's young heart beat with pride
to hear the great Conservative leader speak
of him as ' my honourable friend '! — * did not
accuse the right honourable gentleman of
any desire to cajole or bully the House.'

Cries of 'Oh, oh!' from the ministerial
benches interrupted the orator, and now the
House began to fill in the eager hope of a
scene of some kind.

I do not understand the meaning of these
interruptions,' the Conservative chief went
calmly on ; ' I fancy the honourable gentlemen
who indulge in them do not understand
their meaning any more than I do. I said
that my honourable friend did not charge
the right honourable gentleman with any
desire to cajole or bully the House. My
honourable friend put a mere hypothesis.'
There were new cries of * Oh, oh !' ' Yes, I
repeat it ; a mere hypothesis. He merely
asked whether the right honourable gentleman
really believed that he could either
cajole or bully the House into a certain
belief — into the belief that these papers
contain ample and sufficient information.'

This ingenious interpretation was greeted
with delighted cheering from the benches of
Opposition, and much laughter and divers
manifestations of various emotion from other
quarters.

The Speaker rose with becoming gravity,
and said that although it might have been
better perhaps if some other form of expression
had been used, he could not take it
on himself to declare that the honourable

member had been actually transgressing the
rules of order.

Bellarmin had got all he wanted ; he had
seen that the blue-book was something about
Russia, and was quite content.

Once fairly started on the designs of Russia
and the danger to England from a Ministry
blind or indifferent to such designs, there was
no reason why Bellarmin should not go on
talking for hours. Every now and then he
read at random from the blue-book some
paragraph or passage, and then demanded of
the House, in language of indignant eloquence,
whether such pitiful crumbs of information
doled out to Parliament on such a
subject could be held to satisfy the just
demands of the House of Commons, or to
fulfil the duty of a Government. Not half a
dozen members in the House had read one
line of the blue-book, or had the least idea
whether the information contained in this or
that paragraph was ample or inadequate.
The Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs
could be seen rapidly fluttering the pages of
his blue-book to get at some of the passages
which Bellarmin was criticising ; but before

he had quite time to possess himself of the
meaning of one paragraph Bellarmin was off
to another.

At last Bellarmin's chief, who was listening
with a bland and smiling face, saw that his
heavy men had come up. ' Tell Bellarmin
he may stop whenever he likes,' he whispered;
and Bellarmin, winding up with some sentences
of glowing patriotic passion, sat down,
much relieved, and wondering within himself
what he had been saying all the time. ' That
was very well done,' his chief whispered,
turning round in his place to nod to Bellarmine
; and Bellarmin felt, like Othello, that ' if
it were now to die, 'twere now to be most
happy.'

Bellarmin had now got far beyond that
stage of his career when a sour de force of
this kind could be expected of him. He was
the recognised leader of a party ; a small
party, it is true, but a party that had considerable
influence in putting the Liberals out
of office, and had at present much influence
in enabling the Conservatives to stay in office.
Bellarmin's little group was composed almost
altogether of young men. They had faith in

what they believed to be the principles of
Progressive Toryism. Progressive Toryism,
they held, could do everything for England
by taking necessary reform in time. Progressive
Toryism must move with the age ;
must invigorate itself with the spirit of the
time. Progressive Toryism was great in
catch-words. Why not ? Youth always has
faith in catch-words.

When Progressive Toryism proudly proclaimed
that ' we march with the movement
of the times,' Progressive Toryism was as
well satisfied as though it were really marching
; in fact, was quite assured that it was
marching. Bellarmin represented the juvenis
mundi of Toryism ; the youthful
ardour which, believing it could not live without
a principle, was satisfied to live with a
catch-word. It was the old story of Ixion
and the cloud. Ixion believed he was embracing
Juno while he was only throwing his
futile arms around a cloud. Bellarmin and
his friends believed they had got firm hold of
their principle, and were all the time in possession
only of their catch-word. The elders,
for the most part, had found out long ago

that they could get on very comfortably without
either catch-word or principle.

Bellarmin's social success was not the least
wonderful part of his career. He had come
up to London almost unknown ; he never
saw the interior of the House of Commons
until the day when he came to take his seat
there as a member of Parliament. He suddenly
found that he had the gift of knowing
people ; the gift of being taken up by society.
He had not been aware that he had this gift ;
he had not thought anything about it. He
wanted to be in the political world ; he was
ambitious of a seat in Parliament ; and he
had vague notions that when he got into the
House of Commons he should be able to do
something in some line or other ; but he had
not bestowed one thought on mere success in
society. He got suddenly taken up, however,
by this and that great house. He soon
became a man whom it was the right sort of
thing, the necessary thing, to have at people's
houses. * We must have Mr. Bellarmin, of
course,' smart people said, all the more because
it was not by any means easy to have
Mr. Bellarmin.

Bellarmin enjoyed all this mightily. He
had not quite got over, even yet, the delight
of seeing his name in the newspapers. The
one thing he wanted was someone to write
to and tell all about his success ; his speeches
in the House of Commons, his dinners, his
luncheons, his visits to great country houses.
His brother would not care a straw for
hearing anything of the kind ; and although
he knew his father would feel gratified by the
fullest accounts of his son's success, yet somehow
Bellarmin felt ashamed to say much to
him on the subject when he wrote home.
Many times he found himself wishing that he
had a sister to whom he could send honos confidential
letters telling her about his good
fortune and his enjoyment of life ; telling her
what the newspapers said about him, and
what various great ladies said to him, and
how kind they all were, and how easy after
all it was to get on in good London society.
One can write these things to one's sister.
To a sweetheart one can't exactly ; she would
be sure to think her lover was forgetting her
in the society of people much smarter than
she ; she would be jealous of the great ladies,

and would assume that they were, as a matter
of course, young ladies and handsome, and
that they were making love to the lover —
and that the lover was falling in love with
them — and the sweetheart would let all thisbe
seen only too plainly in her letters ; and
then the lover would write about such things
no more, and would keep all his little triumphs
to himself. But the sister would not
mind, even though the kindly great ladies
were all young and lovely ; the sister would
never feel jealous or think herself forgotten ;
and she would read with delighted eyes every
word of praise that was spoken of her brother,
and would never for a moment think him
egotistic or grow tired of his writing always
about himself. So Bellarmin just wanted a
sweet sister to write letters to ; and in the
fulness of his still young and fresh heart he
once let out as much to Lady Saxon. She
looked at him out of her deep eyes, and said :
Let me be your sister, Mr. Bellarmin. I
am sure I should like to have such a brother;
and I have no brother.'

Come to me to-day, best of brothers, at

three o'clock ; I want to talk to you about
something very important and interesting ;
don't fail me on any account.'

This was the whole of a first little letter
signed ' J. S.' which Bellarmin received after
the compact was made. It was the prelude
to a volume. Lady Saxon had taken on herself
the part of a sister ever since the day
when she invited him to put a brother's confidence
in her. She was too young as yet
even to affect that mother's place in a young
man's interest which coquettish matrons
sometimes find very attractive with youth.
But the sister's part was suitable to any age,
and allowed of a charming and easy familiarity
between her and her adopted brother.
It was the part of an elder sister decidedly,
and permitted Lady Saxon to take the initiative
in giving advice, or even administering
reproof when occasion suggested. She saw
that Bellarmin very much enjoyed the position
thus given to him, and was quite delighted to
be petted as a brother or even scolded as a
brother. The scolding, indeed, was only
petting in another and sometimes a more

captivating form. What could be more delightful
to a young man than to be sent for
to the boudoir of a beautiful and clever woman
in order to receive a scolding for not having
done something which, according to her
judgment, would have been for his political
and personal advancement ?

Lady Saxon seemed to move in an atmosphere
of sensuous emotion. She carried her
atmosphere with her, around her, wherever
she went. Her looks, her movements, her
figure, her voice, all gave out with them that
bewitching sense of womanhood, of woman's
sex, which is so magnetic to the temper of a
young man. The quietest, most ordinary
words she spoke seemed to ask the man
whom she was addressing, ' Why don't you
make love to me ? I know you are longing
to do it. I look into your eyes with mine,
and I read all your feelings there. Come,
make love to me ; I shall not be angry ; you
may get nothing else by it, but at least you
shall not get a scolding nor a lecture on
morality.' This was one of Lady Saxon's
fascinations. She seemed to put herself
frankly on man's level, to accept him and his

passions without affectation of thinking him
any better than he was. She won many a
man's heart by letting him plainly see that
she quite understood his sensuous feeling
towards herself ; that she did not blame him
for it, that she knew it could not be otherwise
; that she knew what he would have if
he could, and that although he was not to
have it, yet he was not to be censured by her
in any way because of his impulses and his
desires. She was not, in truth, a passionate
woman. Had she been so, she could not have
exercised over so many men the supremacy
which she enjoyed so much. The lion-tamer
does not feel the fierce rage of the lion. Had
she been a passionate woman, she could not
possibly have escaped the scandal which, sofar
at least, had not seriously affected her
fame.

Short as had been Lady Saxon's career in
London, she was already notorious for daring
flirtation. There were men who envied
Rolfe Bellarmin his position, and there were
men who, it was whispered, shared the position
with him. Lady Saxon had more than
one elder brother in the political world.

Society wondered and speculated upon the
meaning of Lord Saxon's complaisance.
Was he still infatuated, blind, or only indifferent
? Lord Saxon was a man whose
feelings it was difficult to guess. Habitually
silent, heavy and awkward, he looked utterly
unemotional. He was supposed to be entirely
engrossed In politics. He had never been a
London man in the conventional sense. He
was scarcely known in fashionable drawing-rooms.
His early manhood had been stormy,
and it was said that he had occasioned considerable
uneasiness to the Duke his father.
He had gone for racing, had patronized ballet-girls,
had committed follies. He had built a
theatre at the command of a beautiful burlesque
actress, who had a great reputation
for ruining men. She did not quite ruin
Lord Saxon. She deceived him, and he
found her out, and from that time a change
took place in his manner of living. He gave
up racing and ballet-girls and theatres, and
took to politics instead. He had become, ina
certain sense, a power In politics. He was
looked upon as a sort of skid to the Liberal
wheel, and likely to retard any violent inno-
VOL. I. 14

nations. He was slow to make up his mind
as to the course he would pursue, and equally
slow to swerve from it. He was always
opposed to wars and daring schemes of reform.
He could make a weighty speech, the
result of deliberate preparation and careful
verification of facts and statistics. But his
delivery was awkward and hesitating, his
voice monotonous, and he had none of that
magnetic sympathy, that spontaneity and
attractiveness to the hour, which distinguished
his enthusiastic and impulsive colleague. Sir
Victor Champion. He worked hard, and
took as much pains in acquiring statistical
information as if he had been qualifying for
an examination in political economy. He had
serious ideas as to the duties of landed proprietors,
and the abuse of aristocratic privileges.
He had little time for social, or, it
might even be said, for domestic enjoyment.
In the early days of his reformation ambitious
mothers had made a dead set at him, but to
no avail ; and he had so long been given upas
a match that the sudden announcement of
his marriage was a shock, rather than a disappointment.
No one knew anything about

the affair till it was an accomplished fact.
The Baroness Langenwelt had never been
heard of till she appeared as Lady Saxon,
and burst in her wonderful beauty on English
society, an ample justification of any act of
folly.

Lord and Lady Saxon did not go about a
great deal together, and Lady Saxon had
admirers, but that was all. Lady Saxon was
a very clever woman — far too clever a woman
to allow her influence to become weakened
by disuse. She knew the man she had to
deal with — knew his weakness and his
strength, knew that she had captivated him
in the first instance by her daring independence,
her impulsive frankness, and a certain
imperious air of mastery combined with that
peculiar sensuous witchery that has been
spoken of She knew that she was not the
more likely to retain her hold upon him by
adopting the attitude of a patient Grizel.
The Cleopatra part was much more effective,
and she could play it well. Perhaps she
had spoken truly when she described her
husband as her slave and her convenience.
She had only to exert her power of fascinated



tion, and she could bend the great, heavy,
sullen-looking creature in whichever direction
she pleased. But she did not always please
to exert herself, or even to disguise the fact
that he bored her supremely. She bade him
do this or do that ; attend her or absent himself,
and he obeyed, rewarded by a contemptuous
smile or caress. It was her mood just
now to be deeply interested in politics, and
to keep him closely in that groove. She had
an ambition to open a salon, and to make her
drawing-room a rallying-point of the Liberal
camp. She wished to attract Champion to
her house. She urged her husband to invite
him — to insist upon his coming. But Champion
did not come. His personal relations
with Lord Saxon were not of an intimate
kind. He evaded the invitations, pleaded
disinclination for society. And then Lady
Saxon had a wild, vindictive longing to make
her power felt somehow ; to undermine his
influence ; to split his party. She had a
vague intention of working against him — of
using Bellarmin as a weapon. But first she
must discover, if any opportunity of discovery
presented itself, whether Champion was in

very truth indifferent as he seemed. She
would make the opportunity, and for this
reason she frequented the House of Commons.
Her humour was of this kind, when
suddenly, by favouring chance, she and Champion
were drawn together for the first time
since they had been lovers. And now her
mood in relation to Bellarmin had changed.

LITERA SCRIPTA.

:ORD AND LADY SAXON lived
in Seamore Place. There was a
stately, forbidding-looking mansion
in St. James's Square ready for their occupancy
when the old Duke should be called to a
better world ; but this was an event which, for
other than filial reasons, Lord Saxon would
gladly see postponed as long as possible.
He was not anxious to change his seat in the
House of Commons for one in the House of
Lords.

Lord Saxon before his marriage had a set
of rooms in Athelstanee House, in which mansion
the Duke and Duchess and their unmarried
daughters only lived for a few weeks

in the season ; but though there was space
and to spare for two establishments, it did
not suit Lady Saxon to be domiciled even fora
few weeks under the same roof as the
Duchess.

Lady Saxon had an Oriental taste which
she had exercised in the decoration of her
house in Seamore Place. She was fond of
bizarre effects and brilliant colouring, and
when she appeared in public liked to be seen
with a retinue. Her private apartments;
which looked out upon the Park, were furnished
after her own fancy. It was her
custom to receive her intimate friends here
when she returned from her drive at six
o clock ; and to have the entree at this hour
was quite a different thing from being invited
to Lady Saxon's formal parties.

Bellarmin had often passed through the
Moorish anteroom, with its wonderful arabesque
ceiling, its fretwork carving, its hanging
lamps in filigree silver, its huge vases
and magnificent draperies ; and he knew the
pretty little Japanese waiting-maid. Lady
Saxon's latest caprice, who stood outside her
mistress's boudoir and looked as though she

had just Stepped out of * The Mikado.' She
ushered him into a most strange and luxurious
apartment, the walls of which were hung with
red and gold peacocks embroidered upon a
blue satin ground, where each low chair
and divan was a marvel of exquisite embroidery
; and each cabinet, bronze and bit of
lacquer-work might have taken its place in
the South Kensington Museum.

But Lady Saxon's sanctum was not in the
least like a show-room in a museum. It WcxS
very gorgeous, but the eye rested nowhere
on an inharmonious spot of colouring, a piece
of defective grouping, or an incongruous
etiect. Lady Saxon's old Tokio and Satsuma
ware was the joy and envy of connoisseurs,
but it did not obtrude its costliness, and
merely blended agreeably with the background.
No one would have suspected that
the quaintly-shaped pottery bowls, which were
filled with hothouse flowers, or enclosed palms
and tropical plants, were almost unique as
specimens of their period.

On first entering this room, Bellarmin had
felt a sense of bewilderment, so many uncanny
monsters peered at him from walls and tables.

Lady Saxon had a fine taste in monstrosities.
Sea serpents, with grotesque human heads,
twined the legs of the tea-table ; dragons
guarded the fireplace ; demons with tails and
fins climbed over the chairs, or did duty as
footstools ; strings of hideous ivory masks
festooned the drapery of the mantelpiece.
But after a time the confusion of colouring,
the demons and the monsters wrought themselves
into the curious fascination of the place
and of its occupant.

Lady Saxon called this room her confessional,
and certainly it seemed a spot which
might well invite confidences of a tender kind,
and she herself appeared a fitting priestess of
such a shrine. She sat in a low, wide lounge,
propped up by gold-embroidered cushions,
and she wore a sort of robe of some rich
velvety material of a deep yellow colour,
which toned with her yellow hair. She
looked, Bellarmin thought, like some wonderful
orange-coloured Hly or orchid, such as he
had seen in tropical houses. There was in
her whole appearance — in her glowing eyes,
her slow smile, the soft undulations of her
form, something rare, exotic, and enervating

to the senses. She did not rise as he came
in, but held out her hand to him with a welcoming
look. At the sight of her a glow
suffused his being. It was a kind of intoxication.
He longed to press her hand to his
lips; but upon this he could not venture.
Lady Saxon, in spite of her audacity, had an
imperious way of dealing with her admirers,
and of keeping them at a respectful distance.
She was always on guard, even when she
seemed most open to attack.

In her hand she held a copy of the Park
Lane Pictorial, and it was open at the portrait
and biography of Mary Beaton.

You see,' she said, ' I am studying the
genealogy and the claims of our heroine of
last night. It's all very ridiculous.'

Bellarmin took a chair near her. ' Yes,'
be said, with a faint hesitation, ' it is ridiculous.'


But it is picturesque,' Lady Saxon went
on. * Your Mary Stuart is delightfully
picturesque. The old gentleman with the
scar is picturesque too, and so is the white-haired
housekeeper, who talked so much of
the Grand Duchess of Schwalbenstadt. I

think that if I were to ask the Princess and
her suite to one of my parties, people would
find them attractive. This would be an odd
house, wouldn't it, for your Pretenders to
make her debut in ? I shall ask Miss Beaton
to dinner; and I shall invite some highly
respectable members of the House of
Commons, and a detachment from the Lords,
to come and inspect the claimant to the
throne of Great Britain.'

Lady Saxon's laugh jarred upon Bellarmin.
He did not want to talk of Mary Beaton.
Her name seemed as much out of place here
as at Madame Spinola's.

The people who put that thing into the
Park Lane Pictorial have done her an injury
and an injustice,' he said, with some warmth.
Such a flourish of trumpets is absurd. She
can't help being a Stuart ; and there's the
beginning and end of it all.'

'Is it ? Then why is she here ? She
might just as well have stayed in Schwalben-
start.'

One finds it conceivable that Miss Beaton
might wish to see her own country,' said
Rolfe. ' Her father was an English baron.

But I believe there is a claim,' he added,
'to a property in the North which was confiscated.'


*Ah!' said Lady Saxon. 'And it is intended
that some chivalrous young member
with influence in the House should bring
forward a motion for inquiry and restitution !
Is that to be your part, Mr. Bellarmin ? In
the meantime, Liberal and Tory politicians
are to be attracted and conciliated. I should
say that Miss Beaton might have a very
good chance of getting her claims recognised

if ' she paused as though she were

deliberating. ' No, no, Rolfe ; there are
graver issues than that coming up. There
is something more important for you to do
than play the part of political paladin to a
pretty ambitious girl.'

I have neither wish nor intention to play
the part of paladin, Lady Saxon. Tell me
of these graver issues, if we are to talk
politics.*

Lady Saxon leaned back against her
cushions, and looked at him thoughtfully
for a minute or two. Bellarmin sometimes
wondered if her eyes actually had some

magnetic quality, and if she were conscious
of it, and made use of it. Certainly they
affected him peculiarly.

Yes, we are to talk politics,' she said ;
'and first I am going to give you some
tea.'

There was a tray near her, with a silver
service, and a tiny crystal liqueur-flask.

Koto,' Lady Saxon called, and the Japanese
girl appeared with some fresh tea. Lady
Saxon poured out a cup and gave it to
Bellarmin. He did not refuse the little glass
of liqueur that Koto handed him.

I will see no one,' said Lady Saxon.

Koto made an obeisance and disappeared,
and Lady Saxon and Bellarmin were alone
again.

Lady Saxon had put down the Park Lane
Pictorial, and now leaned forward, her hands
clasped on her knee, still looking intently at
him. ' Have you anything to confess today
?' she asked abruptly. ' There's something
on your mind. Come, out with it.'

His voice trembled a little, and his eyes
seemed unable to move themselves from hers.

I have something on my mind, and in my

heart, at this very moment. Are you really
not afraid to know what it is ?'

Afraid ! I was never afraid of anything
in my life, or of anybody, except myself. Goon.
I shan't flinch, however dreadful it
may be.'

I shouldn't mind that. I shouldn't mind
if you showed some sort of feeling, so long
as you were not scornful and angry, and
didn't forbid me to come near you. I'm a
mortal coward if there's a risk of losing your
friendship.'

Oh, that would stand a shock,' she
answered softly. ' I think I can promise
you that, short of murder or high treason,
you won't lose my friendship — if you care to
keep it. I like you, Rolfe Bellarmin. I am
proud of you — I wish you success and happiness.
I have your career as close to my
heart, I am as fond of you as if — if you were
my brother.'

Oh,' he exclaimed, ' that's it ! I don't
want to be your brother ! That relation is
impossible with you. Why are you so kind
to me, Lady Saxon ? Why do you encourage
me to say daring things ?'

Because I want to inspire you to do them ;
because I am daring and ambitious for myself
and for those whom I admire. Now I've
one virtue, Mr. Bellarmin, and that is frankness
; and I am going to be frank with you.
I can read your thoughts, and I'll read them
to you, if you'll let me.' She gently furled
and unfurled a fan of yellow feathers which
had lain beside her, and went on very deliberately
: ' You are in a state of irritation
against me, against circumstances, against
everything. You are angry because wee are
only what we are ; you are distrustful of yourself,
and you are distrustful of me. In spite
of what you said a moment since, you have
an impulse to end everything, to keep away
from me, and to break off in a highly virtuous
and melodramatic fashion our harmless
and pleasant friendship. You want to have
done with this brotherly and sisterly sham —
that's what you call it yourself. You fancy
yourself the good young hero from the
country, who falls a prey to the London Peg
Washington. That's how it is, Rolfe.' She
touched his cheek with the feathers of her
fan, and looked into his eyes with more of

tender reproach than mirth. ' But, my dear
boy, you are no more the virtuous hero from
the country than I am Peg Washington. It
went out of date, all that kind of sentiment,
before you came into Parliament. Progressive
Toryism must keep pace with the times,
you know.'

Oh, Lady Saxon, don't be cruel to me !'
The younor man reddened, and put out his
hand imploringly.

I am a good thought-reader, then ? Well,
I never pretended to be younger than I am,
and to be stupid and to know nothing of
men and their moods. To do myself justice,
Rolfe, I may say that I never in my life
pretended more than was absolutely necessary.'


You shouldn't laugh at me,' he said, rather
sullenly.

I didn't mean to laugh at you, my poor
boy, and I think I understand young men.
Experience is my magic. It's the only sort
of magic labelled *' that is the genuine
article," mind that. This brother and sister
business, Rolfe, is difficult to keep up. You
are quite right. It is a sham. But, my

brother, when one cannot have realities one
must make the best of shams.'

There was a note of plaintive regret in her
voice, which dropped in sighing cadence.
Bellarmin fancied that her eyes were tearful.
He imprisoned the hand and the slowly
swaying fan. She let her hand remain in his
for a few moments, then gently withdrew it,
and shook her head sadly. New purposes
and plans were in her mind since she last
received Bellarmin in her confessional. She
had made her compact with Victor Champion.

I can't be your brother !' he exclaimed
passionately. ' My feeling towards you isn't
in the least brotherly, I'm quite certain of
that ; though what I do feel about you in the
very depths of my heart puzzles me a great
deal more than Lord Bosworth's foreign
policy. Look here, Lady Saxon, you won't
mind bluntness, I know. I'm not fool enough
to imagine that what I feel or don't feel
makes any difference to you. If I thought
you really cared an iota, I shouldn't think for
an instant about what was good or bad for
myself. But / can't do the Platonicss. I
want to take your hand — I want a thousand

VOL. I. 15

mad things — Heaven knows what I want ; /
don't !' Rolfe spoke in a quick, boyish,
agitated manner, looking at her straight all
the time, but she kept her eyes on her fan.
A man who wouldn't lose himself, risk
everything, give up everything, for a woman's
sake is a cad,' the young fellow cried ; * but
when there's no question of that, and the
woman doesn't care, and he is only certain at
best of hurting himself severely, and perhaps
of being laughed at ' — he broke off.
Well ?' she asked calmly.
He had better not make any pretences to
her or to himself I think you are dangerous
to me, Lady Saxon, and that's the truth —
complimentary or uncomplimentary, as you
may take it.'

I will take it as complimentary,' she
answered, ' since I want to believe that you
are not making pretences, but have a real
feeling for me.'

4 slave a real feeling for you. It's horribly
real, and that's the worst of it. But I should
not feel like that about you if you were my
sister ; I should be very sorry if anyone felt
for my sister — supposing I had one — in that

way. Being with you is like taking opium —
one wants more and more of it. Yes, the
thought has come into my mind more than
once lately that it wouldn't be a bad thing if
I were to give up altogether, and run away
and keep away until I am cured.'

And then, after a month or so, come back
and marry some charming girl with a fortune,
or a rich widow — she need not be too young
that would be a certain way of advancing
your career ! You might indulge in the
luxury of political principles then. You have
an example before you.'

In Sir Victor Champion,' he answered in
her own vein. ' Providence might not be
equally kind to me.'

Lady Saxon gave a little laugh. ' So, on
your way here you were meditating how to
make your escape ? You needn't let it trouble
you any longer. From this moment, Mr.
Bellarmin, you are free. I release you from
all vows and promises. This has been your
prison, and I have been your gaoler. Well,
give a last look round, and take your liberty.'

She glanced about the pretty fantastic room
and up at the embroidered peacocks. He

15—2

followed her eyes, then rose and stood by the
mantelpiece, where he seemed lost In the examination
of one of the grotesque ivory faces.

'You are free,' she repeated, pointing with
her yellow fan as she spoke. 'Why don't
you go ?'

I don't mean to take my liberty,' he
answered stolidly, looking at her straight ;
not now — not in this way. I am ashamed
of what I said to you.'

Why — if it was true ? I dare say that my
influence is pernicious. Are you sure that you
don't mean politically and not morally ?'

Perhaps.'

Do you take me for a Delilah ? Are you
afraid of being drawn by my wiles from the
straight paths of Progressive Toryism into
crooked Liberal ways ? Oh, my poor boy ! I
am a more disinterested counsellor than any
of the rest of them. / don't make my living
by politics.'

He echoed her laugh, but in a remorseful,
discomfited fashion.

How cruel you are ! I don't deserve your
taunts. You know well that your sympathy
and counsel are inexpressibly valuable to me.'

Then why give them up ? Why make
difficulties by saying things you don't mean ?'
Her voice had become plaintive again. ' I am
ambitious for you, Rolfe — not for the party.'

Oh, don't you see ? Don't you know ?'
he cried, starting to his feet. ' You mus
know how it is I*

Lady Saxon's manner changed suddenly.
In her rippling laugh there was a sound of
mockery.

Do I see ? Do I know ? Oh, how poor
our English language is ! One realizes that in
private theatricals and the great moments of
life. All this peroration, and the climax not
arrived at yet! In French, it would have
gushed out with all the spontaneity and naturalness
in the world. "Je t'aime!'" and she
clasped her hands dramatically on her bosom.

Or '' I 'o t' amo ;" or — do you know Spanish,
Mr. Bellarmin ?'

She stopped, seeing his white face. Rising,
she stood before him and laid her hand on
his arm, looking at him with a sort of caressing
command. She was almost as tall as he.

Well then,' he said fiercely, * in plain
English and without peroration, I ^Azn^ I

love you — I am afraid I do — yes, and it's nota
sentiment that I'm proud of.'

Lady Saxon did not in the least resent his
roughness.

My poor Rolfe,' said she. moving back
slowly to her seat, ' I'm not going to be
melodramatic or to let you be melodramatic
either. Do you think those three words
haven't been said to me in most of the
European languages, and do you think I am
any the worse wife to Lord Saxon on that
account ? Of course I knew that the Platonic
mood would not last. It never does last.
People make up their minds to separate — or
they don't. Either way, there is an end to
the Platonicss. But what then ? Would it be
such a serious thing even if you did love me ?
I also — love you !'

Josephine !'

Yes, in a manner — in a sort of fashion.
But I love some other things far better. I
love my ambition for you best of all.'

This last shot of hers told upon him.
Where is the ambitious man who does not
delight to hear from the lips of a beautiful
woman that his fame is dearer to her even

than himself? But with all his delight, and
the sudden revulsion from his fervid mood,
there came to the young man — he was still
very young — a pang of distrust in his own
capacity, a dread, amid all the confused pain
and rapture, that the woman's enthusiasm was
rating him far too high.

Dear Lady Saxon,' he said tenderly, and
he touched her hand as he spoke, ' you are
very good to me. I'll try to talk sensibly and
not to worry you about my feelings.'

The touch and the tone had something
remorseful in them. The passion had gone
from his voice. Somehow she had calmed
his heated mood. She had wished to turn
him in another direction from that to which
he was tending, and he answered obediently
to the rein.

You mustn't expect too much from me,'
he went on. 'You mustn't think too much
of what I can do in politics. You must not
indeed.'

What man of your years,' she asked Impatiently,
' has made such a place for himself
in the House of Commons } Why, you are
only a boy !'

Yes, perhaps there it is — a sort of political
infant phenomenon ; and we know what the
infant phenomenon grows up to. I was very
young when I first got into the House — and
quite unknown ; and I had plenty of schoolboy
cheek, and little reverence for my seniors
except one — De Carmel — who \yas my hero
and my ideal — and I rattled away at anything ;
and I could do the thing easily and talk
nonsense fluently, and I suppose I talked
better than people expected, and so I was
set down as a rising young man. But one
can't always be a rising young man, can one ?
and I sometimes doubt whether I have anything
better to show after these years than I
had in my first session.'

He lowered his voice and spoke those last
words pathetically. He had really often felt
the doubt rising within him lately.

Come,' she said, ' I think all the better of
you for these little gleams of distrust now and
again — these bursts of stage-fright. They
show that you have the true artistic temperament.
But the real actor never gives way to
his stage-fright ; he fights against it and
conquers it. What you want, my friend,

is a field, and I am going to show you
the field;

She paused complacently. She enjoyed
all this. He looked at her, and he too waited.
Did any sudden sense of distrust spring up
in his mind ? She, the wife of Lord Saxon,
how did she propose to find a field for an
enterprising young Tory Democrat ? Was
she speaking as Lord Saxon's wife ? She
quickly settled that question.

I want you, Rolfe, to join with Victor
Champion. That is what I mean that you
should do.'

With Victor Champion ! But — don't you
understand ? My dear Lady Saxon, it is out
of the question. But you don't know he
added blankly.

You absurd boy ! Why, of course I
know. Somebody made overtures to you in
Victor Champion's name, and you have been
artfully trying to keep it from me. Oh yes,
I saw all that yesterday ; and it was all
cloudy, and you couldn't see your way. That
was all right. That was Then ; but now it is
Now. That makes all the difference.'

Bellarmin involuntarily drew back. ' I

don't see that much has changed since then,'
he said.

Don't you ? I do. T/ie7i Sir Victor
Champion was only feeling his way. Avow
he sees it. Then he was only thinking of
going on. Now he has made up his mind to
go on. The old Whigs are done with, Rolfe ;
their day is past ; they sleep in ancient
history like the monumental figures of the
knights and their dames lying side by side
with folded arms on the tombs in the ancient
churches. They are gone. You see that, at
least, Rolfe ?'

Oh yes, of course !' he answered impatiently.
' Every fool sees that.'

Rude young man ! because / see it ?'
No, no ; it is only a saying. Please go on.'
Well, the fossil Conservatives can't do
much, can they ? Your whole career goes to
show that you don't believe they can do anything.'


They can't do anything of themselves, certainly.
But if they could be '' educated upto
the acceptance of some modern ideas, they
might be made a useful party under a leader
who could lead.'

Yes ; and where is he ?'

Ah, De Carmel is dead f

'Yes — and Lord Bosworth is alive! My
dear Rolfe, no one knows better than you
that the day has quite gone by when a man
in the House of Lords could be the real
leader of a great English party. Could you
but ask De Carmel what he thought !'

Yes, I suppose that is so ; I suppose he
began to feel that lately himself in the Lords,'
Bellarmin assented somewhat reluctantly. * I
used to believe in the House of Lords
once, because of its picturesque side, I
fancy. Radicalism is so confoundedly unpicturesque.'


The young man got up again and stood
somewhat in the attitude of a declaimer, with
one hand clenched upon the palm of the
other. Curiously enough, this was a gesture
common with Champion in debate, and Lady
Saxon knew this and noted his unconscious
imitation.

I wish I could believe in the possibility of
a great leader in the House of Lords,' Lady
Saxon said, with a sigh and a distinct shrug
of the shoulders.

You, Lady Saxon ! Why do you particularly
wish that ?'

Don't you see ? Because I am an ambitious
woman — wildly ambitious — not for myself
: I have got about all that a woman can
well get in that way — but for any man in
whom I take a real interest. Don't be too self-conceited,
Mr. Bellarmin. I dare say that I
should be a model wife and famous helpmate
if only there were no House of Lords.'

I don't quite understand.' He sat down
once more close to her.

No ? Well, I suppose not. I'll tell you.
If Lord Saxon's father were not an old manif
Lord Saxon were not doomed by fate to
succeed him in that hopeless House of
Lords — well, I really believe I should turn
all my energies to the task of driving on my
poor, heavy, reluctant husband to the career of
a great leader in politics. You know he has
some capacity, Rolfe.'

We all know that he has capacity. Some
say that he has great capacity.'

But what is the use ? He must go into
the House of Lords, and when once he gets
there he becomes a mere figure-head — if hebe

even so much — and he will be quite content
and happy. No ; I can't make anything
of Saxon. I want to make something of
you, and it is to be done through Sir Victor
Champion.'

What is Champion going to do ?' Bellarmine
asked.

Great things, Rolfe. To create a new
party — call up a new spirit in English politics.
In any case, your place is with him.
The future is with him, and will be with you,
if only you make up your mind, pull yourself
together, and take my advice.' She paused,
and gazed at him from under her level eyebrows.
He looked at her in return, but did
not answer. ' I know Victor Champion,' she
said steadily ; her voice seemed clear as a
bell. ' I discovered what was in him — well,
never mind how long ago. I am not going
to tell you that ; I don't make up ; you can
see that for yourself Yes ; I appreciated him,
and he appreciated me. If only we had had
the good luck to get married then, it would
have been better for me now, and better for
him — aye, and better for you too, perhaps, in
one sense, for you would never have been in

this dangerous confessional of mine. I should
have been a devoted wife to him.'

Why do you tell me this just now ?'
Bellarmin asked, with something like annoyance
in his voice. He remembered Tressel's
hints, and he wondered what Tressel knew.
He had not come to Lady Saxon's confessional,
surely, to hear her confession of tender feelings
towards Sir Victor Champion.

So you are jealous already, my Impetuous
youth,' she replied, with a kindly glance at
him. ' You are jealous of those old days long
before your time. Where were you then, I
wonder ? Eton, Harrow, where ? You forget,
my dear friend, that I saw the sun before
you did, and had time to get through and get
over a good many likings and loves — if you
will put it that way — before you had grown
out of the hands of your nursery governess.
Yes, Rolfe, my heart ought to be an extinct
volcano by this time ; but somehow it isn't.'

He wanted to press her a little on this
subject of Sir Victor Champion ; quite without
premeditation he put his hand on her
wrist to check her, and call her attention.
Her pulse was beating as steadily and calmly

as that of a Roman soldier on oruard. A
shadow of surprise and disappointment — dissatisfaction
of some sort — passed over his
face. Lady Saxon caught sight of it as it
passed, and read its meaning.

You think I tell you all this too coolly,
too composedly — with a candour which
our French friends would call brutal ?' she
said.

I don't call it anything — only I don't quite
know why you tell it to me,' he answered
bitterly.

No — to be sure ! You men are to have
all the flirtations and all the loves you please,
and to go from one woman to another woman ;
and if a woman only confesses to a man that
somewhere about the time of his birth she
did rather like another man, lo and behold,
our heroic youth is angry and offended.'

I am not quite so young as all that,'
Bellarmin said, almost roughly. ' Sir Victor
Champion is not quite old enough to be my
father — and you could not by any possibility
pass yourself off for my mother.'

Are we not wandering from our subject ?'
she asked with a smile.

Very much, I think,' he answered, almost
with a frown.

Yes — well, let us go back to it. You were
asking me why I told you of my old devotion
to Sir Victor Champion ?'

Why you told me — and now ?'

Quite so, dear impetuous youth. For this
reason — that you should plainly understand
why I am working for Sir Victor Champion
now. Because he is the only man whom I
loved — in my youth ; the man I would have
married if I could, then. Such a memory is
sacred to me — such a past !' She put all the
emphasis of her sweet and thrilling voice on
that word ' past,' giving it a significance in
Bellarmin's ears which set his pulses tingling
once more. ' Such a past has to me the
sanctity of a dying bequest. Victor Champion
understands me as perfectly as I understand
him : I want to help him — if I can — to
success, because of the past. I want to help
you to success because of the present ; because
I am fond of you, Rolfe ; and I want
you to go in and win — don't you see ?' In
these closing words, which spoke of him, she
dropped all her melodramatic style, and her

manner was, seemingly, simple and natural.
She put her hand in kindly, tender fashion on
his. The young man's mind was passion-tossed
; the touch charmed away all his distrust
— for the moment. He caught her fair
plump hand and kissed its fingers. It was
not a small hand — why should it be small ? —
Lady Saxon was a woman of what sculptors
call heroic size — but it was very white and
soft. It had perhaps too many rings on for a
lover's kisses ; Bellarmin kissed more ring
than finger. Lady Saxon smiled at him in a
soft, bewildering way.

No, no, we mustn't have any raptures,
please. We are talking politics now; we have
done with — even Platonicss for the present.
I want you to think over all that I have said ;
I want you to allow yourself to come in Victor
Champion's way, and get to know what he
really intends to do. You will soon find that
he is the man who really sees his way, and
that the next great — truly great — English
party is to be called into existence by him. I
will not, if I can, have you left out in the cold.
I want you to understand him — to appreciate
him — to work with him — to be his right hand

VOL. I. 16

man — in time to succeed him. There, you
have my whole meaning, and my whole secret
is out now.'

She rose to her feet — hastily, in an impulse,
as that of a woman who has betrayed herself
has allowed herself to say what she did not
intend to say.

No more to-day !' she cried out with passion
in her voice ; and then she stopped for a
moment and seemed to control herself, and
smiled, and spoke in a quiet tone. ' No more
to-day, Rolfe. We have said enough — at
least, I have said enough.'

One word.' He put out his hand, and
she sank again on her divan as if she would
listen. * Sir Victor Champion knows nothing
of this ?'

Of what ? Of my talking to you in this
way — about this P'

Yes, Lady Saxon.'

Rolfe ! How could you ask such a question
? Do you think he would accept a
woman's intervention in such a thing? or that
I would put you in such a position ? Ah !'

I ought not to have asked the question,'
Bellarmin said, abashed.

You ought not — no; but I forgive you.
You don't quite, ^tn^e understand me yet.
No, I talked to you on my own account ; for
I have set my heart on your success. I want
you to promise that you will think well over
what I have said. That isn't much for me to
ask, after — after what you told me. And if
you come in Champion's way — well, do not
keep coldly out of his way. Now that's all.
Good-bye, Rolfe, my brother — shall I still call
you my brother ?'

She took the young man's hand in her
own and looked into his eyes with her own
swimming eyes, and almost seemed as if she
would draw him towards her. Her voice
seemed the voice of sincerity itself. Bellarmine's
heart was deeply touched. Dusk was
setting in, and the dimness and the perfumes,
and the strange gorgeous colouring of the
room, heightened the sense of half-poetical
intoxication under which he felt himself
languishing. He spoke passionately.

^ Oh !' he cried. ' Vozi do me harm ? . . .
I must have been mad to think it ; I am mad
sometimes — when I have been kept away
from you, and when you seem cold and sweet

16 — 2

and mocking — when I remember that you are
Lady Saxon, and I poor Rolfe Bellarmin.
Josephine — to say that I am yours — ready —
glad to be counselled by you, and I know
that you would never counsel me against my
honest convictions, Is to promise everything.
What should I wish for more than to be led
on to success — by yozi P'

He flung himself down on a stool before
her In an adoring attitude, his eyes, beaming
with all a young man's ardour, upraised to
hers. She stooped over him from her greater
height ; but even as she did so, seemed to
interpose her soft hand as a barrier between
him and her.

You must go,' she said, ' go at once. Yes,
I accept your devotion — for your own sake —
for the sake of your career — because you are
dear to me. If you will. But I will not urge
you against your convictions. I only ask you
to keep your mind open — to give yourself this
chance to become the man of the future. But
go now. Write to me to-night, Rolfe — a letter
straight from your heart — no conventionality !
From your very, very heart.'

She said the words very low, almost in his

ear, her head near to his. Now, as she ended,
she bent her face lower still, so that it seemed
to him her lips actually touched his forehead —
actually sealed the compact with the lightest,
faintest suggestion of a kiss. Faint and light
as it was, the touch brought the blood to Bellarmin's
cheeks and a wave of passion to his
heart. He rose from his seat ; but she said
to him vehemently :

Go ! you must go now,' and almost pushed
him from her.

So Rolfe left her ; he passed the little
Japanese girl in the ante-room and went
downstairs dreamlike, and found himself in
the glaring street. That night he wrote to
Lady Saxon from the House of Commons a
letter in which for the first time he committed
to paper and to written words a wild and
passionate declaration of his gratitude to her,
in which he spoke of the bond he had made,
and protested his lasting devotion — his
love.

He went home in the early morning hours,
after a droning debate. He slept uneasily,
and his first waking thought was of the letter.
It brought him a pang of shame, of dread.

almost of remorse. It seemed to him that
under the influence of an intoxication which,
in his saner moments, he could recognise as
intoxication, he had signed away his liberty.
Whether Lady Saxon attached any importance
to the deed — and this he was
hardly vain enough to think, or, as he put
it to himself, to hope — the fact remained the
same.

Lady Saxon read the letter with delight ; she
read it with full satisfaction. She wanted to
captivate Champion, but yet not to lose Bellarmine.
She was never content with any flirtation
which did not give her the triumph of a written
declaration of love. Such letters were to her
just the same trophies of conquest as the rings
which the clever wife of the Genie in the
Arabian Nights — what marvellous stupid folk
these Genies were ! — used to wear and delight
in. In Bellarmin's case there was a little more
than the ordinary joy of victory. Josephine
had a pervading idea that the letter might
turn out to be useful somehow, and at sometime;
she did not exactly know when. It
might in all the varying changes of the coming
days happen to be of some importance to her

that she could produce a letter from such a
man as Bellarmin, telling her that he loved
her. So she put It carefully apart from other
letters; and she felt pleased, and her conscience
was quite at rest.

Mary's reception.

UT In spite of Bellarmin's impassioned
declaration — in spite of his
still more impassioned letter, Lady-saxon
did not feel certain of her prey. Love
had not blinded her cool judgment, and she
saw through his reactionary moods and impulses,
and his struggle with the worst part
of himself; Lady Saxon had watched such a
conflict many a time before. It always amused
her, and her interest in the doubtful issue
never lost its keenness. There was a good
deal of the instinct of the savage in Lady
Saxon ; she liked to inflict pain — to know
that she had the power of inflicting it.

She had an unconquerable egotism, a thirst



for power, for excitement, for mental stimulant
of some kind. In her life she had felt one
passionate, consuming attachment ; and that
had been for Victor Champion. When she
had laid her snares for Lord Saxon the thought
of Champion had been as prominent in her
mind as that of the splendid position she might
achieve. She had won the position ; and
though it delighted her less than she had
fancied it would, she exulted in it nevertheless.
There was still something she wished to win
something which she meant to hold as well
as the position she had gained, if possible ;
but for which she would throw up the position
if needs be. This had been the end and aim
of her interest in politics. The fact that
Champion was her husband's colleague gave
dramatic point to the situation and intensified
its zest. Lady Saxon was in some sense an
anachronism ; she would have better suited
an earlier civilization. She was unscrupulous
enough for a Medical Court; she would have
revelled in the luxury and the intrigues of the
Lower Empire.

For the present, with her one supreme
object still in view, Lady Saxon was resolved

to feed her craving for power and excitement
as best she could. Bellarmin's admiration still
gratified her. Besides, he had now become
an instrument which might be turned to useful
account. By winning Bellarmin to Champion's
side she might come nearer to her great aim.
And, in any case, Bellarmin amused her ; and
he should not marry the nice girl with money,
which was the fate his friends predicted for
him. He should be her slave, her toy ; and
if he were in any danger of being attracted by
Mary Stuart Beaton — well, Lady Saxon would
advance daringly into the enemy's country.
All the movements should be made under
her own eyes, and if she were to be worsted,
which was improbable, she would at least
have the excitement of the fight.

So some days later, when Bellarmin was
lunching in Seamore Place, Lady Saxon
announced her intention of calling on ' the
Princess ' that afternoon ; and she told Bellarmine
that it was her wish he should also pay
his respects to the representative of the Stuartss.

He was surprised, and showed it ; he stammered,
and for a young statesman exhibited
a most ingenuous confusion.

Yes,' said Lady Saxon. ' The Princess
holds her Court to-day. I have found out
all about it. I want to see what sort of
ceremony goes on at this English St. Germains.
Shall I be permitted a fauteuil, do
you suppose ?'

Bellarmin said that he ought to be at the
House.

Nonsense!' she rejoined ; ' it is only solid,
serious politicians like Lord Saxon who are
interested in statistics, and who put in an
appearance at question-time. Come, I insist
upon your going. Stay,' she added in an imperious
undertone. ' These people will have
gone presently.'

Lady Saxon had been giving one of those
informal little luncheon-parties for which she
was famous, where anybody and everybody
might be found — except Lord Saxon. He
exercised some slight jurisdiction in the matter
of dinners ; but his wife asked whom she
pleased to luncheon. She usually had a politician
or two of the less serious type — she
was not particular whether Tory or Liberal ;
a favourite actor or actress ; a bishop, perhaps
; possibly a foreign anarchist as mild asa

sucking lamb, at her table, and some smart
young Guardsman and frisky woman of
fashion. After luncheon, cigarettes were
smoked In a fantastically decorated den
behind Lord Saxon's study, and coffee and
kiimmel were handed round, and a certain
laxity of conversation — just a piquant flavouring
— was permitted.

There followed a good deal of light talk
and explanation about ' the Princess ' and
her claims, which somehow grated disagreeably
on Bellarmin. The young man was ina
feverish and contradictory mood. He had
a vague longing to escape from the scene, to
breathe another atmosphere, and yet he was
like the prisoner In an opium den, held by
a fascination which he could not and would
not resist. And all the time he felt disgust
at himself and contempt for his own weakness.
The other guests went away; and at last
he was alone with Lady Saxon In the dully
gorgeous room. In which the fumes of the
scented cigarettes and odours of the aromatic
coffee and the kummel blended with Eastern
perfumes for which she had a fancy. Lady
Saxon seemed In keeping with the room ; she

was quaintly dressed in some soft yellow-brown
Liberty stuff — the colour she was so
fond of, with her yellow hair piled above her
forehead, and a barbaric-looking jewel fastening
the lace at her throat. She came close to
the young man and smiled at him in her
peculiar way.

Well she said, ^ you are thinking of
something.'

*You were at the German Embassy last
night ?' he said.

'Yes.'

And Champion was there ?'

Yes.'

And you sat and talked to him the whole
evening, in a little side-room.'

Yes,' she said again. ' Are you going todo
me the honour to establish an espionage
over my movements ? Would you like to
know of what we talked ?'

You and he never seemed to have anything
to say to each other — till quite lately.
People have remarked it. Tell me, Josephine
?'

Poor boy,' she said in her sweet, mocking
tone, ' you are so impetuous ; you let your

feelings run away with you. That is not
wise — in a politician. You know that I have
your good at heart. I don't want you to
take the fever too severely. It is such a
wasting fever, Rolfe ; it saps youth and
energy and hope ; no good comes of it, and
it isn't a thing you can get over and be done
with. It breaks out sometimes years afterwards
; and then — oh ! one can hardly be still
for that restless longing to be ' — her voice
sank almost to a whisper — ' to be with the

She moved abruptly away from him. He
looked after her with a sort of sullen wrath in
his eyes. It had flashed over him that it was
not of him she was thinking.

Presently she came back, and spoke in her
light caressing manner.

Did I not tell you that you were to come
here less often — that you were to go and
devote yourself to your country's service and
make up your mind how far her institutions
needed reforming ? It isn't good for you to
hang about me. You mustn't call me Josephine.
I never said that I allowed that.
You mustn't write me letters which ' — she

laughed at him rebukingly, ' which are so
pretty and so sweet, but which might occasion
some uneasiness to Lord Saxon if —
which isn't possible — they fell into his hands,
and if he didn't understand his wife so
thoroughly. So now go and put yourself
into a hansom and meet me in half an hour's
time at the Court of St. Germains.'

There was something in the aspect of Mary
Beaton's drawing-room when Lady Saxon
entered it, which made her think of the old-time
Court to which she had so jestingly
alluded. The house was early Georgian, and
the lofty rooms were panelled, and had the
corner fireplaces and the high narrow windows
and stiff ornamentation of that period.
The portraits on the walls added to the illusion
; the high-bred melancholy Stuart countenance
seemed to haunt the place. Even
the Beacons appeared to have been of the
Cavalier type, and two or three vivid paintings
of Italian noblemen bore no relation to modern
London. The furniture, old-fashioned and
Georgian too, had been collected by Falcon
and Lord Stonehenge ; both determined that
the surroundings should harmonize with the

prominent figure. Mary Beaton was seated
in a high-backed chair against a background
of tapestry, which filled in a sort of recess,
and represented in faded colours some of the
adventures of Ulysses. General Falcon, ina
sort of undress uniform, stood very erect
near her chair, and Lady Struthers, standing
behind it, had the air of a lady-in-waiting.
Mary Beaton's costume of rich brocade, quaint
and straight falling, with a full ruffle of Mechlin
lace framing her throat, and at her side a
quaint chatelaine with a veritable pomander,
said to have been the property of the Queen
of Scots, was in keeping with the scene.

There were a good many people in the
room, but scarcely any who belonged to Lady
Saxon's world : some standing about, others
sitting on the slim-legged stools and settees ;
others looking at the collection of miniatures
on the cabinets which were of historic interest
; a few passing in and out to the
garden — a walled-in enclosure with some old
beech-trees in full leaf, and a grassy lawn
and brilliant borders. The birds were singing
there, and the scent of roses, which in
this sunny, sheltered corner had come early

into bloom, floated pleasantly in. Above the
subdued hum of conversation there rose
every now and then a word in French or
Italian or German. Miss Beaton was talking
in French to a venerable Catholic dignitary
with cassock and cross, who was listening
attentively to her words. Lord Stonehenge
stood near the priest, and in the group, respectfully
standing also, Lady Saxon, to her
great surprise, saw Sir Victor Champion.

The little circle broke up as Lady Saxon
entered. Her appearance seemed to produce
in all some slight start of wonder. General
Falcon made an abrupt movement. Lady
Struthers went through a sort of preening
process, and put on her blandest smile. She
was much gratified by this recognition of her
mistress's social claims and her own on the
part of the fashionable world. Mary got up
and bade her visitor welcome, her greeting a
pretty mixture of girlish cordiality and native
dignity. Sir Victor bowed gravely, and
moved apart with the priest, whom, with his
characteristic many-sidedness, he had drawn
into a discussion on ecclesiastical literature.
It was this alertness and receptivity, this

VOL. I. 17

quick desire of culture in every field, and
openness to every claim and conviction, which
made Sir Victor Champion the object of such
admiration among his friends and sarcastic
commentary among his enemies.

This thought flashed through Lady Saxon's
mind while she was uttering sweet conventionalities
to her hostess. It was like him to
be attracted by the romantic and historic
associations that clung round the descendant
of Mary Stuart. It was like him to wish to
inspect more closely this fantastic flower of
bygone chivalry, blooming in prosaic modern
London. Lady Saxon was not much disturbed
by the thought so far. She had no
kind of affinity with such ideas and associations.
What sort of feudal instincts could
she possess, any more than Emma Harte,
that Lady Hamilton to whom she had once
likened herself? She only said in her mind
that Sir Victor liked to be in touch with
everything, and that he was curious about
the charming claimant. He liked a sensation
— that taste he had in common with herself;
and she recognised and made allowance
for the temperament. But she knew very

well that the sensations he liked were of a
more poetic kind than those which delighted
her most. Lady Saxon had an odd candour
towards her own soul. She knew the pretence
and scorned it, even when she made it.
She knew that she had never appealed to that
poetic strain in Champion. She knew — only
she did not care much now — that she could
never appeal to the poetic strain in Bellarmin.
That subtle, moonlight sentiment of life was
for such women as Mary. For her, passionate
sun-glow, ripe fruit, red wine. Still
she hated the girl who had inherited the
crown of romance — the girl who could inspire
poetry. Why should INlary Beaton be the
daughter of the Stuartss ? Why should
Josephine Saxon be an Emma Harte ?

Lady Saxon said a great many pretty things
to Miss Beaton, and she was gracious to
Lady Struthers also and to General Falcon,
the latter of whom replied with sardonic
courtesy. A steady look interchanged between
the London lady and the soldier
Legitimist — the paladin adventurer whose
changing lot had thrown him among strange
scenes and strange people — told a great deal

17-2

to both. Lady Saxon had no definite personal
association with Falcon, but she knew
that he had crossed her path in the past, and
that he remembered her. She guessed more
than this. It seemed to her that there was
some sinister design in the manner in which
he turned his gaze direct from her to Sir
Victor Champion, standing apart, conversing
with the priest, and back again, with a kind of
malign exultation, to her face. She was a
fearless woman and indifferent to consequences,
but for the moment she had a spasm
of the heart. Then her natural courage reasserted
itself

If I have a secret, he has a secret too,'
she thought, ' and I will find his out and turn
it into a weapon. If he can do me harm, I
can surely be of use to him ; it might be
worth while for each to buy off the other ; and
failing the rest, if there's war, I never knew
the man who was too strong for me.'

All the time that she was thus taking inward
counsel, she smiled on Mary and her
companions ; she complimented the girl on
her pretty house, and Lord Stonehenge and
Falcon on the taste which had arranged it

SO appropriately. She told Mary that Lord
Saxon was most anxious to meet her ; that
her father-in-law took deep interest in the
question of Miss Beaton's pedigree. She
declared that the portrait in the Pa7^k Lane
Pictorial hid not done Miss Beaton justice,
and asked if she had not fell: angry with
the artist to whom its execution had been
entrusted. The girl flushed a little.

I did not know about it,' she said, ' and I
did not like it ; I was very angry with General
Falcon for giving the people my photograph.
I am not an actress — or '

She paused ; and just then a smile of bright
girlish greeting broke over her face as she
glanced suddenly towards somebody who had
that moment come in.

Lady Saxon, without looking round, felt
jealously certain that it was Bellarmin, and
she was right.

He, too, looked glad ; he was thinking, * I
knew she had nothing to do with that Park
Lane Pictorial affair.' He had overheard her
words. The deferential manner in which
he returned Mary's greeting irritated Lady
Saxon. He did not perceive her for the

moment, and there was a buoyancy about
him as if he had determinedly shaken off
some stupefying influence. What had made
him late ? Ah, it was explained ; Tommy
Tressel, cool, indifferent, with his half-shut
eyes and smile of gentle cynicism, followed
Bellarmin, and was forthwith presented to
the representative of all the superstitions he
was supposed to hold in abhorrence. Tressel
in a drawing-room and Tressel on the floor
of the House of Commons were two different
beings.

Ah !' said Mary to Bellarmin, with frank
cordiality, * I wondered whether you would
get the card that I told Lady Struthers to
send you. You seem to have so many
addresses, Mr. Bellarmin. Do all English
politicians belong to all those clubs ?'

I have to thank you, Madame, for having
done me the honour to remember me,' said
Bellarmin.

I was very sorry not to see you when you
called the other day,' Mary went on. ' I
want to talk to you, Mr. Bellarmin — more
problems in political economy that I want
explained. Oh, if I were a statesman, what

would I not do ! I did not dare to tell Sir
Victor Champion just at first what I am
thinking about. Why don't you do something
for your own people instead of — ah !
Mr. Beilarmin, I know a great deal more
about the poor people round your Houses of
Parliament, I think, than you do. But never
mind, we have a plan — Lord Stonehenge hasa
plan ; he will talk to you about it by-and-by.
Lady Saxon, you are not going yet ; I want
to show you my garden. I am so proud of
my garden.'

I have a plan, too,' said Lady Saxon, ' in
which ]mr. Bellarmin may be included if he
pleases ; I want you to dine at my house,
Miss Beaton, and meet my husband and the
Duke of Athelstanee and some of our political
friends.'

She had come forward, and as she looked
at Bellarmin the young man flushed, and
Mary saw the flush — saw that his bright
boyish ease suddenly left him. She saw, too,
that he and Lady Saxon exchanged no formal
greeting.

Mr. Bellarmin has been lunching with me,'
said Lady Saxon, 'and he was so disingenuous.

or so polite, as to let me think I had given
him the information that it was your reception-day
; I sent him on to announce my coming.'
Her manner clearly conveyed to Mary
Beaton's sensitive ear that Lady Saxon, and
Lady Saxon alone, had been the object of
Bellarmin's visit : that he would not have
come had she not bidden him. The girl felt
a little shock of recoil from both the woman
and the man. She regretted her warmth.
Her manner became ever so little constrained,
though she smiled brightly.

Your plan is a very delightful one, Lady
Saxon,' she answered, ' and I gladly agree toit.
My dear tyrant must be consulted however,
I presume,' and she glanced up at Falcon.
My guardian, Lady Saxon, seems to look
upon the acceptance of an invitation as
seriously as if it were the signing of a State
Treaty.'

General Falcon and Lady Struthers will,
of course, come too,' said Lady Saxon, turning
to Falcon, who bowled with his characteristic
solemnity.

They would not consider it becoming that
my youth and inexperience should go anywhere

without their protection,' laughed Mary.
Is it not so, General ? Do you understand
that Lord and Lady Saxon wish us to dine
with them, and to make acquaintance with
some of their political friends ? Could anything
please you better, since you are so
anxious that I should learn exactly how
England is governed — from the people who
govern her ?'

It appears said Lady Saxon, her eyes
turning from Tressel and Bellarmin to Sir
Victor, ' that Miss Beaton is in a fair way to
establish a political salon.'

Ah ! Sir Victor ! I felt much flattered
when he came here of his own accord to-day.
I am fascinated by Sir Victor, Lady Saxon,
and his greatest charm is that he is not in
the least political — or — what do you say ? —
Philistine. He mio^ht be a Catholic, or a
Jacobite. And he is an English Radical !
You puzzle me, you English statesmen,' she
went on, ' you seem so out of keeping with
your professed characters. There is Mr.
Bellarmin, who calls himself a Tory, and you,
Mr. Tressel — I heard you speak in the House
of Commons, but I could not see you ; I heard

you denounce Royalty and Aristocracy and all
the rest — and yet '

'And yet — I am /ie?^e,' put In Tressel, with
languid courtliness which amused Mary.

People were coming and going. Every
now and then Miss Beaton would move
forward to greet some fresh arrival, to take
leave of a departing guest, or say a gracious
word or two to someone who looked neglected.
Her manner, notwithstanding its girllshness,
had a queenly assurance which might have
provoked a smile had It not been so entirely
unconscious. Lady Saxon could not help
observing, not with unmixed satisfaction, that
the young Pretenders showed considerable
aplomb in her reception of certain guests, and
In the way she warded off attention from mere
lion-hunters. Madame Spinola was one of
these. She had made her way into the
house In Kensington by grace of an Introduction
which she had been at a good deal of
trouble to procure from one of Mary's foreign
friends. She had already made an attempt
to entrap Miss Beaton into a promise to come
to one of the Bohemian parties which have
been described. But Lady Struthers rose to

the occasion, and, sustained by the combined
dignity of all the dead Stuartss, and of their
living representative, replied with her stateliest
air that it was not considered politic for
Madame to mix much in London society just
at present. To dine at the Marquis of Saxon's
in order to make acquaintance with the Duke
of Athelstanee, and to attend a reception at
the house of Madame Spinola, whom the
experienced old lady at once gauged as third-rate,
where things not to be classed together in
Lady Struthers' mind. Nor was Miss Beaton
favourably disposed to the lady who was addressed
by the Scotch member, Mr. Leven,
with such easy familiarity, and whom she heard
talking in terms of assured intimacy about
Rolfe Bellarmin' and 'Tommy Tressel.'
Mary noticed later that when Madame Spinola
effusively welcomed Bellarmin the young
man's tone and manner became unconsciously
and almost indefinably free and flippant. She
overheard also some slight criticisms from
Tressel upon ' poor Jennie's ' grief and rage
at not being able to pay her respects to
Bellarmin's Princess,' which were not intended
for Miss Beaton's ear. And Mary's

colour heightened for a moment, and she
wondered what manner of women these were
whom Mr. Bellarmin appeared to know so
well ; and she was half indignant, half gratified
to observe from his chivalric air when he spoke
to her how differently he rated her from such
as they. The question rose involuntarily —
was his deference a tribute to her as a woman
or as a Stuart ? There was a faint bitterness
in the girl's heart as she passed on, leaving it
unanswered.

The knots of talkers changed and broke
up. Lady Struthers was devoting herself to
a mediated Royalty, and, in rapid French,
was making such of the bystanders as were
familiar with that language aware of the fact
that she was on terms of intimacy with various
Serene and Imperial Highnesses. She was
also expatiating volubly on the merits of iced
strawberry squash, and explaining to her
illustrious guest that it was a mistake to
suppose roast beef and plum-pudding the
national English dishes, that distinction being
claimed by strawberry squash ; and at intervals
the deep rolling voice, with its suspicion of
Highland accent, might be heard above all

the feminine buzz and general clatter urging,
in tones of deferential entreaty, ' Encore du
*' Squash," chere Princesse ' — ' Chere Princesse,
encore du " Squash !" '

General Falcon, drifting about after Mary
Beaton in the manner of a lord-inviting,
found himself detained in a little group of
which Lord Stonehenge and Tressel made
part. He found that they were arranging
for a visit to Stonehenge Park, the ' plan ' to
which Miss Beaton had alluded, and about
the exact date of which she had evidently
been first consulted. This was an irritation
to Falcon's jealous heart ; the greater when
he found that Bellarmin had been asked
without his knowledge or interference, and
that it was intended Sir Victor Champion
should be invited ; and yet he could not even
in his own mind find any reasonable objection
to the move, which, with the eye of a
tactician, he saw was a wise one.

You enter into our idea, of course,' said
Lord Stonehenge ; ' Mr. Tressel would like
to bring about a rapprochement between
these two ; and it is important to us that
there should be a feeling of harrnpny on

all sides on the question of the Stuart
claims.'

Tressel blew away the smoke of an imaginary
cigarette and gave a comical side-glance
out of his half-closed eyes.

I'm not going to say anything about the
Stuart claims,' he said, ' they are beyond me.
I shall confine myself to Hanoverian grants
and hereditary pensions for the present.'

We count upon you, General Falcon,'
Lord Stonehenge said.

You do me honour, Lord Stonehenge ;
but I fear that I shall be of little use to you
in your political conversations.'

Come now,' Tressel languidly observed,
you don't imagine that hard-worked politicians
go down to a beautiful place in the
country in the Whitsuntide recess merely to
talk politics.'

Yes, I do,' Falcon answered bluntly.

Quite wrong, my dear fellow, I assure
you. Buttercups and daisies, and a beautiful
old castle full of historic associations, and a
library full of rare books — and a pretty girl —
nothing in the world more calculated to
warm the cockles of Lucifer's heart — or, as

Stonehenge puts it, to promote a feeling of
harmony. I ain't quite so sure of the harmony
on Bellarmin's part, though.'

Tressel's remarks grated upon Stonehenge
almost as unpleasantly as they did upon Falcon.

You will come ?' he said, turning to the
General.

Undoubtedly, Lord Stonehenge. I could
not refuse an invitation which does me so
much honour,' and the grim old soldier bowed
himself out of the conversation.

Wonder it don't get upon Miss Beaton's
nerves sometimes to have such a companion
always hanging about her,' said Tressel.

He is devoted to her, and she knows it,'
Lord Stonehenge answered gravely.

Something about his eyes rather suggests
the idea of the private madhouse,' Tressel
observed.

Oh, come ! he was a splendid soldier, and
he Is a man of considerable capacity,' Stonehenge
remonstrated.

Just you wait and see. I don't exactly
claim to be an inspired prophet,' Tressel replied
; ' but I do observe that what I predict
does somehow always come to pass.'

'You haven't predicted anything in this
case,' said Stonehenge good-humouredly.

No ; then you'll find that what I haven't
predicted — what I keep to myself — in this
case will come to pass.'

THE BOTH WELL PART.

I^^E AN WHILE Lady Saxon, too, had
been moving about, having come
Tiers across several people whom she
knew. She had exchanged a few words with
Bellarmin, upon whom the double fascination
was working, and who was like a moth
between two flames. She left him presently
and got into conversation with an attache
of a foreign embassy, who expressed some
surprise at seeing her in Mary Stuart Beaton's
circle. Lady Saxon, In her turn, said to
Champion, when chance threw them together
:

I was not prepared to find you in the
Pretenders's Court.'

VOL. I. I 8

'Why not?' he rejoined. 'She is a very
fresh and Interesting young woman — quite a
picturesque figure. I don't know if anything
can be done for her,' he added, In a reflective
sort of manner. The manner vexed Lady
Saxon, partly because his reflections were
about Miss Beaton, partly because he was
reflecting about anything while supposed to
be engaged in conversation with Josephine
Saxon.

Have you any ambition to be a nineteenth-century
General Monk ?' she said saucily.

General Monk !' He did not understand
her at first. ' Oh yes ; I see. No, I was
not thinking of a Stuart restoration ; only of
a possible restoration of Stuart property.'

A little wave of people who were near
broke upon them, and Lady Saxon found
herself talking to someone else with the
annoying idea that Sir Victor had purposely
escaped from her. She had a wonderful
knack of seeing all that was going on around
her without even seeming to turn her eyes
away from anyone with whom she was talking.
She saw now that Bellarmin was standing
at Mary Beaton's side, and that General

Falcon was close by with a set frown on his
face. General Falcon evidently did not like
Bellarmin's attentions to Mary Beaton ; and
the mere fact made Lady Saxon like them less,
for it showed that Falcon thought there was
something serious in them.

Yes, I am delighted with my glimpse into
your Parliamentary life,' Mary was saying.
I mean your House of Commons life. I
think the other House is lifeless and dull.
But your House of Commons! I don't know
how any Englishman could live without
trying to take part in that sort of battle.'

As Mary spoke, a little bunch of roses of
a peculiar reddish colour which she wore at
her girdle, and with which she had been carelessly
toying, fell to the ground. Bellarmin
moved to save the bouquet from being trodden
on by the bystanders, but Falcon was beforehand
with him. Stooping his erect form and
gray head, he picked up the flowers and gave
them back to his mistress, who did not seem
to have noticed her loss. She gave him a
little nod, more impatient than grateful.

General,' she said laughingly, ' you watch
me as closely as a heron watches his prey, or

18—2

a master his pupil. I am sure that you are
afraid of my becoming corrupted by dangerous
doctrine, or of saying something that
would be unbecoming in a Stuart. Mr.
Bellarmin isn't a Socialist or a dynamite,
or even a Whig, dear tyrant. And do you
know this is the third time in the last hour
that you have interrupted the flow of my
conversation by restoring some lost property
which I could very well have done without
for a time ?'

Falcon drew himself up stiffly. He averted
his face for a moment that Mary might not
see how deeply he was wounded. Lady
Saxon's eyes met his full. She smiled, and
he turned away again quickly. ' I am very
sorry, Madame,' he said, in a deep resentful
voice, * that my small services annoy you so
much.'

On the contrary, dear General. I am
quite aware that they are my salvation.
There's no saying what would become of me
if it were not for you. But you know school-children
like to tease their masters sometimes.'


Are those flowers from your own garden,

Madame ?' asked Bellarmin. ' They are very
curious ; I never before saw roses that colour.*

They grow In Schwalbenstadt, and nowhere
else replied Mary. ' The dear old
Grand Duchess Invented them. I like them
because they remind me of my childhood. And
do you know that General Falcon, who, in spite
of his tyrannical ways, can be quite courtier-like
when he pleases, gets them over for me ;
and every day makes me a pretty little posy.'

Mary scarcely glanced at Falcon as she
thus alluded lightly to his devotion ; but Lady
Saxon, with her keen woman's perception,
divined how that arrow would strike home.
The wave of emotion which for an Instant
swept over the stern man's face, and which
no one else perhaps would have observed
for whom it could have had any particular
significance, revealed to her experienced gaze
what the thoughtless girl was so far from
suspecting.

Bellarmin still examined the flowers. He
admired their peculiar colour and praised their
perfume, and he quoted In courtier-fashion
the well-known line, ' The fairest rose in
Scotland grows 0.1 the topmost bough,' and

made a playful allusion to Mary Stuart's
device of the crowned red rose.

Would you like to have them ?' said
Mary simply ; and with a little gesture of
graceful condescension, which was quite spontaneous,
and had a sort of regal absence of
affectation, she gave Bellarmin Falcon's posy.
The young man accepted it as he might have
accepted the gift of a sovereign. Falcon
made an abrupt passionate movement, as if
he would snatch away the bouquet. The
scar on his forehead showed dangerously
upon the red flush which rose ; but he restrained
himself His arm dropped heavily
to his side, and he was turning away.

Just then Mary said, her eyes still wandering,
' General, I don't think you are doing
your duty as a gallant soldier ought. I am
sure that Lady Saxon must want some iced
coffee or something. Take her to the tea-room,'
and with a little imperious wave of her
hand she dismissed him.

Lady Saxon saw it all. Her heart thrilled
with mingled exultation and anger. She was
inclined to think that Mary meant offence to
her in thrusting Falcon on her.

So you have to be polite to me, General
Falcon ? Your young mistress commands it
she said, as he gravely offered her his arm,
murmuring, 'You will permit me, madame.'

I try to be polite,' Falcon returned
grimly,

But you don't much care for this sort of
thing ?'

I don't much care for mixed assemblies.'

Something in the tone in which he said
this, and the look which accompanied his
words, made Lady Saxon's cheek flame. She
was at once alarmed and offended. She said
nothing, however, but, putting on her most
gracious air, let him take her to the tea-room,
where she drank a cup of iced coffee and
played with some grapes. Presently she said
to him :

I should like to take a turn with you in
the garden.'

Lady Saxon had a keen memory for faces,
and a sensitive faculty which forestalled
memory itself by association. She had had
to live on the defensive very much during
certain years of her life, and even in these
her later days, when smooth success strewn

beneath her feet made her path so comparatively
easy and pleasant, she found caution
necessary. It occasionally happened that a
disagreeable association surrounded some face
which she supposed she was seeing for the
first time ; and then the association resolved
Itself Into memory, and justified Itself. A
chill, uncomfortable sensation had passed
through her when. In the central lobby of
the House of Commons, she had first seen
Falcon's marked face, with the heavy drooping
moustache that reminded her, she could
not tell why, of a hawk's wing ; and the steely
gray and restless eyes — eyes In the depths of
which something tyrannous and cruel might
be read, she thought. But on that evening
Lady Saxon's mind and heart had been so
fully occupied that she had not troubled herself
about General Falcon and her vague
qualms concerning him. They had come
back to her later, however, and she had remembered
the man In a dim, indefinite way.
Yes, she knew that they had met before. He
had seen her in England in her Bohemian
days before the Dulcamara enterprise of her
first husband had been covered by a patent

of nobility ; he had seen her. perhaps, with
Champion before Victor had become famous.

Lady Saxon was not a woman to wait for
danger and let it choose its own time for
finding her out. She always preferred to go
forth to meet it.

'We have met before, General Falcon,'
she said, turning to him with a fearless smile ;
your face is quite familiar to me.'

He bowed. ' We have met before,
madame.'

I never forget a face like yours,' she went
on ; ' perhaps,' she added, with a benign, encouraging
glance, ' a face like mine is not
easily forgotten.'

I remembered your face perfectly,' he
replied ; and he looked at her straight as he
spoke.

He could not help, soldier that he was,
feeling a little thrill of admiration for her
courage.

Yes. I am glad. Not with any disagreeable
association, I hope T

There was nothing particularly disagreeable
in it — to me, madame. I have met you
on several occasions in the company of your

late husband — who was not then Baron Lane
; and I have seen you on two or
three occasions, about the same time, in the
company of another person.'

Lady Saxon was silent for a moment. She
recollected now that Falcon had gone to her
husband for treatment of his wound. She
recollected what Langenwelt had told her of
its probable effect upon Falcon's life and
temperament.

I understand,' she said, with a composure
that, under the conditions, did her credit.
General Falcon — a soldier — means to remind
me that he knew me when I was poor and
humble, and under a cloud.'

Oh, madame !'

The steely eyes flashed ; the heavy moustache
moved in deprecation.

What else ?' she blandly asked. ' What
else could I understand ? Well. I dare say
you know all about me and my worst days —
my poverty and my struggles, and how a
quack adventurer made use of my youth and
my — well, I suppose I may say beauty — to
advertise his drugs. What then ? Perhaps
General Falcon thinks my husband, Lord

Saxon, does not know ? General Falcon Is
mistaken. My husband does know — all.'

Her audacity deceived Falcon for a moment.
When, later on, he thought over It, he felt
almost certain that she had lied. Now It
occurred to him that she was brave enough
to have trusted to Lord Saxon's Infatuation,
and to have secured herself by telling him
the truth.

I was not thinking of that, madame,' he
replied. ' I was not thinking of Lord Saxon.
I have not to think of him. I was thlnklno^
of others — whom it might have been my duty
to caution — against '

Mary Beaton's silvery laugh rang out in
the soft summer air as she, too, came with a
little group of people from the tea-room.
Lady Saxon looked meaningly towards her
and then unflinchingly at Falcon, who, at the
sound of Mary's voice, had started and glanced
in her direction.

Lady Saxon laughed too ; and lightly
touched his arm with the gold handle of her
parasol, forcing him to meet her gaze. ' Do
not be so impatient to go to her ; she does not
want you. It Is only natural that she should

prefer Mr. Bellarmin's society to that of her
guardian. Your Mary Stuart likes to be
amused, General, and you are too old to play
the part of a Chastened. That of Both well
would suit you better. I shall suggest to her
that she had better be careful.'

Madame, you would not dare '

Dare is an odd word, isn't it, for a man,
especially for a soldier, to use towards a
woman ? I am not afraid of anyone in the
world, General Falcon. I am not even afraid
of my husband ; and, though that may seem
strange to you, I am not in the least afraid of
any stories you may think proper to tell of
me. They couldn't do me any harm. They
might hurt me, perhaps, if I were struggling
for a place in society — if I were, in a fashion,

on probation. But as it Is ' Lady Saxon

drew her parasol into a perpendicular position
and lowered It with an air of magnificent
disdain. She wished to Imply that society
would not believe stories about a woman who
was Marchioness of Saxon and might any
day be Duchess of Athelstanee. ' I warn you,
however, General,' she went on, ' that I know
your SQQVQ.X.y and that though you cannot injure

me, it might be better for you and for your
mistress and for the success of your hopes to
make a friend of me instead of an enemy.'

She spoke coldly, and made a move across
the grass as if she would put an end to the
conversation and join her hostess. Falcon
stopped her with a creature of entreaty, and
she turned back towards him, still cool and
smiling. She saw that he was at her mercy.

^ Come !' she said, ' you see that your secret
is more important to you than mine — if I had
any particular secret, which I haven't. I can
be bon camarade if I choose, and, in any case,
I am not fond of telling tales out of school.
1 should really like to help you — if we were
to decide upon being friends — just for the
mere interest of the thing. There's something
quite picturesque in the idea of an old
soldierlike you, reckless and heroic, chivalrous
and all the rest, madly in love like some knight
of old — and with a princess claimant, too !
You should win your suit by some daring
stroke — the Bothwell sort of thing, you know ;
and if your Mary Stuart has the blood of her
ancestress in her veins, that kind of wooing
might well appeal to her. I assure you,

General, that I should be quite sorry to work
against anything so romantic. It would be
too commonplace to marry your princess to a
young London Tory Democrat whose highest
ambition would be gratified by a summons to
Windsor.'

Every shaft that she had aimed struck
home. Falcon writhed inwardly with fury
and pain ; and yet he realized in a strange
confused way that there was a certain affinity
between the reckless spirit of this woman and
his own. Her extravagant suggestions, contemptuously
as they had been uttered, seemed
an echo of the wild imaginings of his brain —
of thoughts and impossible projects which had
haunted his dreaming and waking hours. He
felt Instinctively that there were passionate
chords in her nature which made her comprehend
his mad love for Mary.

Lady Saxon,' he said, with Impulsive
appeal, * you know how — you understand
what a man feels — something tells me that
you do. A man such as I am, for whom
youth has gone — all its crackling fires swelled
into one terrible flame that burns — and burns
and that nothing can quench except '

He Stopped short, and laughed in harsh,
quavering tone. ' You are a woman who
knows — you have a soldier's spirit. I like
the way you face danger. I'll keep your
secret, Lady Saxon, though you deny that
you have one, and I will trust to your woman's
generosity to keep mine.'

Falcon's tone and manner were not without
dignity. They touched Lady Saxon curiously.
She had been perfectly sincere when
she told him that she Vv'ould rather be his
friend than his enemy.

You may do more than rely on my
generosity,' she said. ' You may rely upon
my help. Perhaps I may be of greater service
to you than you think now. and you may not
be sorry that I have surprised your secret.
Come to me if ever you want a woman's
advice — and trust me. I know it all : I know
what your love is, and what It means to you.
I know what you dread and would avert —
whom you like and whom you dislike. Don't
ask me how I know all this. It is enough
that I (1^0 know, and that no one else does.'

Lady Saxon's voice was low, but her
manner was intensely melodramatic. She

delighted in the melodramatic. She was
never so much herself as when she was playacting.
Now she had a purpose in her melodrama,
and felt such a pride in its success as
Hamlet must have felt when he found that
his lines of tragedy had caught the conscience
of the king. She made a movement which
signified that she had no more to say. She
did not wish to mar her latest effect by another
word on the subject just then. ' Come,' she
said, ' will you see me to my carriage ? I
am going now to bid Miss Beaton goodbye.'


Falcon followed her across the lawn to
where Mary was standing among a rapidly
thinning crowd. Lady Saxon bade her a
gracious farewell, and again spoke of the contemplated
dinner-party, which it was decided
should take place upon a day fixed after the
Whitsuntide vacation.

'We are going to stay with Lord Stonehenge,'
Mary said, ' and we shall not be back
till after the recess.'

I, too, shall be out of town,' said Lady
Saxon, ' but my holiday-place will not be so
delightful as yours. Miss Beaton. You have

never seen that part of the coast. It is so
wild that you could hardly imagine it comparatively
near London. I have a den of
my own down there. I almost wish that I
were going to have one of my misanthropic
fits and to retire to my eyre by the sea.'

I could never have suspected you of misanthropic
fits, Lady Saxon,' put in Bellarmin,
with a certain forced gaiety.

It is true, though — an effect of early barbarism.
Miss Beaton. I was not trained like
you to the restraints of polite society. My
girlhood was an odd unconventional one.'
She darted a fearless glance at the bystanders
as she spoke, and laughed her ringing little
laugh, which seemed to proclaim that she
considered herself above criticism ; * I like to
break away from my shackles sometimes

And your eyre by the sea is near Stonehenge
?' asked Mary, interested. This was a
new view of Lady Saxon's character which
appealed to hen

Yes, high up on the cliffs. Lord Stonehenge
can show it to you if he pleases. I
wish I were going to be there to show it to
you myself — and to you, Mr. Bellarmin ; you

VOL. I. 19

would believe in my misanthropy then.' She
gave him a smile that said, ' You see I know
all about the visit and the snares that are
being laid for you, and I am quite indifferent.'
Then she went on : ' You didn't know, Lord
Stonehenge, that I possess the loneliest and
most romantic of ruined castles about ten
miles from your own ?'

You mean Petrel's Rest ?' replied Lord
Stonehenge. 'I go so seldom beyond my
own gates when I am down there — but I
have seen the place. I did not know that
Lord Saxon ever used It

I dragged him there once — In our honeymoon
days. It was a freak of mine — and I
fell in love with the old ruin, and he made it
over to me as a wedding present. I keep a
very primitive staff there, and when I am
tired of London life and country-house parties,
and want to draw a breath of freedom,
and to be a savage again without shocking
anybody's prejudices, I run down there all by
myself for a day or two.'

Lady Saxon departed, having left a dramatic
Impression behind her. Falcon saw
her into her carrlac^e, and then came back to

the grounds. He did not join the rest, but
sought refuge in a quaint little strip of flower-garden
partly screened from inquisitive eyes
by a projecting wing of the house and by a
spreading beech-tree, through which the soft
breeze gently rustled and seemed to chime
with the hum of voices and laughter beyond.
The windows of Mary's sitting-room looked
out on the rose-beds and grassy walks. There
was a broken sun-dial in the centre, and Falcon
leaned his arms upon it and gazed up miserably
into the foliage of the beech-tree. He
felt the dull, heavy pain of his old wound
throbbing: in his head, and the humiliation
and the anxiety he had just been undergoing
seemed part of the wound's pain somehow.
Lo ! the very secret of his heart of hearts —
the secret with which he would not trust the
winds or the birds of the air — which he had
long tried to keep a secret even from himself
had been snatched from him by a woman
who was not fit to breathe the same air as his
queen, his stately innocent princess, the lady
of his love. It seemed an insult to Mary
that his secret — and hers : it must be hers
when the time was ripe — should be in the

19 — 2

keeping of Lady Saxon. The maddest
thoughts shot tormenting through his distracted
mind. If he could but kill her! — but
he must stoop to her, give her his confidence,
profess to trust her, profess to be her friend,
see her in familiar companionship with his
mistress. One word from her might put out
for ever the light of poor Falcon's tortured
life.

Mary's guests were melting away. Only
a few remained. Tressel, in close conversation
with Lord Stonehenge, had gone towards
the house after having made his farewell bow
to Miss Beaton, and Bellarmin wondered
within himself what political log-rolling could
have induced Tressel to pay an afternoon
call and deny himself for two whole hours the
luxury of a cigarette.

Must you go, Sir Victor ?' Mary asked, as
she saw Champion coming up to her, evidently
with the intention of taking his leave.

I am sorry to say that I must. I have
even outstayed what ought to have been my
limit of time.'

I am proud of having had so much of
your time given up to me,' said Mary sweetly.

It Is an honour any woman might well feel
proud of.'

'You are not " any woman," Miss Beaton.'

Ah ! that is nicely said. I like to hear a
great man pay a pretty compliment.'

I didn't know that I was doing anything
of the kind. I was only going to explain
why I was so glad to outstay the limit of my
time here, Madame.' He paid her the further
compliment of recognising the formal mode of
address which her courtiers adopted, in so
dainty and courtly a manner that the young
girl — for she was but a girl, our Princess
Mary — felt her heart give a bound of gratified
vanity.

Well,' she said, * it Is a triumph for me to
have kept you beyond the limit of your time.
But I hope I haven't done harm, like the girl
in Scott's novel who keeps the brave knight
by her side, while the standard of England,
which he was sent to guard, is torn from Its
place.'

Sir Victor's cheek flushed slightly. His
enemies had a way of saying that he had no
regard for the standard of his country. But
it was plain that Mary meant nothing of the

kind. She noted his momentary pause, however.


Have you not read Scott ?' she asked.
I am told no one in England reads Scott
nowadays. We do read him abroad.'

Oh yes ! I know Scott well,' Sir Victor replied.
What was there which Sir Victor could
say he did not know ? ' No, Miss Beaton ;
the comparison will not hold. Your influence
will never be employed to keep any soldier
of England from guarding her standard ; and
to prove it, I am going along now to my post
at Westminster.' He took her hand and bent
over it, as though he were doing homage to
a recognised princess, and he, too, made his
way back through the tea-room and out into
the street.

Bellarmin was almost the last. Presently
he, too, made his farewell.

Are you going to the House of Commons
too ?' Mary asked.

Yes,' he answered ; ' but I am afraid that
my absence from the post at Westminster
wouldn't be of quite so much importance to
England as that of Sir Victor Champion.'

Bellarmin had been speaking in a constrained

manner. He was dolnof his best to
compel himself to look on Mary Beaton as a
woman utterly away from him, and to keep
her out of his heart. Mary suddenly seemed
to notice something strange in his voice and
his manner. Wholly unsuspicious of the real
cause, she looked at him with open and sympathetic
eyes, and asked :

Are you not well, Mr. Bellarmin ?'

Oh yes, Madame, quite well.'

You don't look like it. You are doing
too much in the House of Commons. Of
course you are going to Stonehenge Park ?
That will do you good.'

I don't intend to go to Stonehenge Park.'
No !' she looked at him in wonder. * Oh,
surely you W\\\ go ! I look forward to meeting
you there. Yes ; you will go T

He shook his head. ' No ; I think not.'
But you wull go if I command you ?' she
said, with a smile which went through the
young man's heart.

If you command — oh, then '

I do command.'

Then I will go ;' and a thrill of joy and
fear shot through his heart.

Thank you ever so much ; you have made
me glad. Good-bye

She had made him glad too, though his
heart had remorse and dread in it as he left
her, and knew that his resolve to keep away
from her had died of her first entreaty, u

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

6^, C. d-* Cff.

W. H. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

186, STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS
Novels ARE ISSUED TO AND RECEIVED FROM SUBSCRIBERS IN SETS ONLY.

TERMS.

FOR SUBSCRIBERS OBIAlNING THEIR BOOKS FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL—

6 Matin. ISMonthH.

For ONE Volume at a time £0 12 1 l

(Novel in mart than One Volume are not available for this class 0/ Subscription. J

For TWO Volumes „ 17 a 1 11 6

(Nwvtls in mart than Tw» Volumes art not available fer this claus of Sttkstriptxon. )

For THREE Volumes „ 1 3 2 2

For FOUR „ „ 1 8 2 10

For SIX „ „ 1 16 S 3

For TWELVE „ „ 3 6 5

K)-

OF Thou

N IVLRS City

or Ill Noise

fniZ2r

THE REBEL ROSE

Jt>^d

^ itot)cI.

Say, pretty Tory, where's the jest
To wear that co our on your breast,
When that same breast confessing show;
The whiteness of the Rebel Rose?'

IN THREE Volumes.
VOL. II.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

JJiiblislurs in ©rliinanj txj ^cr-fttnjcstn the Queen.

1888.

\^All Rights Resej-ved.l

CHAPTER PAGE

I. STONEHENGE PARK I

II. AMONG THE LILIES . . . .28

III. 'the WHITENESS OF THE REBEL ROSE ' . 47

IV. 'what would YOU HAVE ME DO ?' . 7 2

V. THE STONEHENGE NEGOTIATIONS . . 95

VI. petrel's rest . . .-131

VII. LORD SAXON . . . 153

VIII. LADY SAXOn's Dinner-party . . 182

IX. SIR victor's master . . . 204

X. *l HOPE OUR ROADS MAY NEVER PART ' . 226

XL TO]\LMY TRESSEL APPEARS . . . 243

Nil THE Twofold NEGOTIATIONS . . 265

XIII. 'ANGELS WITHIN IT ' . . . 281

•o^-

CHAPTER I.

Stonehenge PARK.

!^TO§HE visit to Lord Stonehenge was
arranged to take place about the
time of the Whitsun vacation.
There was to be a ciirioys collection of guests
under the picturesque and ancient roof of the
great house of Stonehenge Park. Time was
to be given to Sir Victor Champion to be
melted by Mary Beaton's charms, and to make
an impression on Rolfe Bellarmin. This
latter opportunity was to be Champion's stud
pro quo. * If you give us a chance of winning
you to our money claim, we will give you a
VOL. II. 20

chance of winning Bellarmin to your side
against the House of Lords.' The position
had not been openly defined in bald terms
such as these, though that valuable intermediary
Tressel had made it his business to
throw some subtle hints into the Jacobite
conclave. Lord Stonehenge, who had none
of the gifts of a politician, and took very
little interest in the strife of parties and the
manoeuvring of leaders in the House of
Commons, hardly appreciated the full significance
of Tressel's suggestions. He had
nothing in common with the Radical Tressel,
and had been a good deal surprised to see
him turn up at Mary Beaton's reception.
Still he was quite aware that, for the sake of
Miss Beaton's claims, it would be well to
have Tressel's good word in the House,
though he did not yet know how or when
those claims were to be advanced. He accepted
Tressel's ideas, therefore, with polite
cordiality ; and though no deliberate scheme
of the kind would ever have shaped itself in
Stonehenge's brain, the true meaning of the
visit came to be tacitly recognised by more
than one of the party. Mary Beaton and

Rolfe Bellarmin knew least of the immediate
political purpose of the visit when the invitation
was given. Mary thought it was got upas
a pleasant holiday and novelty for her, and,
till he came to the house, Bellarmin did not
know that Champion was to be his fellow-guest.


Mary Beaton noted with keen and artistic
interest all the features of the beautiful region
through which they passed. She and her
chaperone Lady Struthers, and her cavalier
General Falcon, had been brought by special
train from London some seventy miles to the
nearest station to Stonehenge Park, where
they found Lord Stonehenge's carriages, and
from which they had still some miles to drive.
The country had a sort of cultivated barrenness.
There were bluff chalk-hills rising
abruptly, and covered with box and gnarled
funereal yews ; and below these were green
pleasant valleys, and rich apple orchards, and
picturesque thatched cottages, and perhaps a
quiet stream meandering beneath spreading
beech-trees. Now they would come upon a
stretch of common with its clumps of black
heath, like ill-shapen mounds, and shrubs of

20 — 2

gorse lifting golden plumes, and tall bracken
spreading its fronds over the dead brown
refuse of last autumn ; or now the road would
wind round by some wooded hillside where
straight green larches and sombre esteemed
firs lifted their pyramidal tops above
the undergrowth of hazel and alder. And
oh, how beautiful were the mossy boles of
the big trees ! and how delightful it would be
to set one's feet on the crisp red-brown carpet
of withered leaves, or to lie stretched on the
dry moss, and look up to the blue sky through
lattice-work of foliage, or watch the gleams of
sunlight slanting downwards, and the shadows
shifting their pattern, as the wind stirred the
boughs overhead ! All these things affected
Mary with a curious melancholy interest. It
was like passing through some land she had
known in childhood, and till now had forgotten,
or had seen in some tender dream
of the morning. It was all so thoroughly
English, but English of the past, and not of
the present ; the ideal England which some
of us, and she was of the number, would fain
believe to have once been real. The girl's
eyes were moist ; why, she did not know.

The carnage passed through the lodge-gates,
and there was a mile or two of stately
pleasaunce, where deer lifted their antlered
heads and scampered away among the fine
old trees, till at last the house came in sight.
Lady Struthers' honest heart swelled with
pride and joy at the thought of being welcomed
and lodged in such a place. She drew
back her shoulders and let her full chest
expand, and her eyes sparkled even more
brightly than their wont ; but she kept her
proud and glad emotions to herself. Not for
worlds would she have had it supposed that
her life from childhood upwards had not been
passed in halls with which Stonehenge Park
could at best only compete.

One might be very happy in a place like
this,' Mary said, with a sigh. ' It seems so
much more real, so much more like a home,
than our big dreary barracks of palaces in
Germany.'

Oh, well, of course ! there's no place like
England,' Lady Struthers affirmed, 'and you
as an Englishwoman must feel that as well as
L Lord Stonehenge has quite a nice home
of it here ; very nice indeed. It reminds mea

good deal of my aunt's place in Perthshire,'
observed Lady Struthers reflectively. ' She
was my mother's half-sister, and a great
heiress ; and if all had had their dues, her
property should have come to me as the
rightful inherited. But my uncle married
again, and had a son, at the age of sixty-five
— a woman the family couldn't countenance,
my love — and that's how wicked reprobates
flourish, while virtuous paupers have to
grub along as best they may. I got nothing,'
pursued Lady Struthers mournfully, ' excepta
parcel of Mechlin lace and a diamond heart
the jewel, Madame, which you admire. I
trust my dear mistress and pupil will honour
me and my aunt's memory by accepting it asa
wedding gift, at such time as she shall have
made her choice of a husband, which will, I
am convinced, be in accordance with her
illustrious ancestry. It should have been an
entire partake! and Lady Struthers sighed
deeply, ' if my aunt's wishes had been duly
considered — a parure that would have been
worthy to take its place among historic, nay,
even royal jewels ; but bygones must be bygones,
as I am always telling General Falcon.

It's not for us poor mortals to keep up ill-feeling"
when even in Revelations the devil
was only let loose for a thousand years.'

General Falcon's eyes spoke scorn of Lady
Struthers' wanderings. Just then, however,
the carriage drew up at the entrance to Lord
Stonehenge's house.

On the steps to receive them stood Lord
Stonehenge, and when the carriage stopped,
he came down the steps bareheaded, and
handed Mary out. With him, a little in the
background, were two men — one old and thin
and stooped, one young and thin and straight
and a dark-haired, bright-eyed boy. After
Lord Stonehenge had handed Mary out and
welcomed her, the boy came forward with a
smiling face, and the assured grace of one
who knows that his turn comes next. Lord
Stonehenge presented him to Mary as Don
Jose, Prince of Saragossa.

Don Jose prettily dropped on one knee,
and took Mary's hand and touched it lightly
with his lips. General Falcon's heart swelled
with exultation. 'We are recognised,' was
the thought that passed through his mind.
Mary blushed and smiled, was confused and

pleased. All this was delightful to Lady
Struthers, whose demeanour seemed instantly
to acquire an even greater stateliness, and
whose curtsey to the young Prince was
worthy of the seventeenth century. Lady
Struthers disdained the modern bob. ' We
might almost fancy ourselves again at the
Residenz,' she murmured to her mistress.
Then Lord Stonehenge presented Monsignor
Valmy and the Rev. Dr. Amblaine, the first
of whom, as became a most true and fervent
Catholic, Mary greeted with a deep reverence.


Don Jose was the heir — the recognised
heir — of a lost cause. He was the head of
the elder branch of an exiled royal family.
He was a representative of Legitimacy, of
Divine Right. He was like Mary Beaton, ina
certain sense, but then he had the advantage
over her that his was a country of revolution
and hers was not. The Crown might
be going a-begging any day in his country ;
and his house might put in a claim and make
it good. He was a claimant of admitted rank
and account. Diplomacy kept its eye upon
him ; he was never quite out of the calculations

of European statecraft, of foreign
offices and embassies, and chancellors and
drawing-rooms, and coteries and petticoat-cries.
But in Mary Beaton's country no
palace revolutions were looked for, and European
diplomacy regarded the throne of Queen
Victoria as pretty safe. Therefore Mary
Beaton, as compared with Don Jose, was like
the niece of a rich man who has any number
of healthy children and grandchildren, while
Don Jose was like the nephew of one who
has neither chick nor child of his own, but
has some few nephews or nieces, all of whom
he cordially detests, but some one of whom
he will have to choose for the inheritance of
his possessions. No doubt any practical politician,
in looking shrewdly over the field,
would have betted heavily against Don Jose's
chances ; but no practical politician would
have troubled his head about Mary Beaton
at all. , Don Jose was far from being a
favourite ; indeed, he had the field against
him ; but Mary was not in the running. That
was the difference, and it certainly was a very
considerable difference. It particularly impressed
itself just now on the mind of Mary

Beaton herself, and she even wondered
whether it did not impress itself upon the
mind of Lord Stonehenge as well. Mary was
not certain yet whether Stonehenge was a
mere dreamer and visionary or not.

Stonehenge House was a vast pile of redbrick
and gray stone ; it stood upon the brink
of a broad lake. The grounds around were
of immense extent ; a pine-wood was but an
incident in the visitor's drive. Lord Stonehenge,
when he was staying at this place,
never left his own grounds, never passed
beyond his own gates, unless when he had to
visit some sick tenant or neighbour — poor
neighbour, that is to say, for he did not hold
much intercourse with his nearest rich neighbours.
One was a newly-made Radical
baronet, the other was a no Popery Tory
squire ; and Lord Stonehenge naturally did
not greatly care for either.

Although Lord Stonehenge was a devoted
Catholic, his actual demesne enfolded the
parish church and the vicarage, and even the
graveyard, where the rude Protestant and
Puritan forefathers of the hamlet sleep. He
was not unpopular among his Protestant

tenantry ; he always acted liberally, and he
was not in any sense a bigot. He might
have been very popular if he had cared for
popularity ; but he loved quietude and ease,
and the society of people who thoroughly understood
him ; and at present his mind was
filled with fancies and dreams — fancies which
he tried to discourage, and dreams which
used to be day and night thoughts and projects
to generations of his ancestors.

The outer door opened into a great hall,
almost the full size of the middle block of the
house. Ancestral portraits, most of them by
famous painters, hung on the walls. Suits oi
armour and stands of arms were there, the
empty mail coats seeming not inapt representatives,
now in their emptiness, of the cause
for which they had once been tinted and
battered on many a battle-field. The hall had
a great stand, in which were grouped sticks
and staves and cudgels and stocks of various
kinds. Lord Stonehenge had a taste for the
accumulation of sticks from all parts of the
world. His friends who knew his taste often
brought him a present of some desirable and
uncommon sort of staff.

It was all new and interesting to Mary.
She had never stayed before in a great
English house. Her own ancestral home
had been sold in her grandfather's time, and
it had not occurred to her to regret it ; but
now, amid her ejaculations of surprise and
pleasure, she could not suppress a deep sigh.

This makes me sad in a kind of way,' she
said, turning with her sweet frank smile to
Monsignor Valmy, who, standing a little apart,
with his thin hands folded before him, and a
gentle benevolent curiosity on his somewhat
severe countenance, was watching her intently.
' I was so delighted with my little
house in Kensington,' Mary went on, 'and
so glad because the portraits of some of my
own people looked down upon me from the
walls, and in England, their own country.
But now, after all, when I see this place, I
can't help feeling an alien and an exile.'

Lord Stonehenge made a little movement
of almost impassioned protest, but he did not
speak. Perhaps shyness kept him silent.

Surely that is an impossibility, Madame,
if you turn in this direction,' said Monsignor
Valmy, in suave, tender accents, and he motioned

towards a part of the hall where hung
a collection of Stuart portraits, conspicuous
among them a fine likeness of Mary Stuart.
This particular painting is said to have been
done by a French artist during that brief
period when, in the flush of her youth, her
loveliness, and her happiness, Mary Stuart
presided as Queen Consort at the Court of
France. She is represented in the dress of
that Court. A royal mantle of crimson velvet,
edged with nineveh, falls from the shoulders;
she has the ungraceful puffed sleeves and the
more becoming long-waisted jewelled bodice,
with high collar and small ruff, which is
thrown back, opening deep in front, and shows
the shape of her long slender throat. Dark
chestnut hair — dark, save for the ruddy tinge
running through it — waves upon the broad,
candid brow, and is confined by three rows
of pearls, with one large pendant drop below
the parting. The face, a perfect oval, turns
a little towards the left shoulder ; the large,
dark, almond-shaped eyes have a clear penetrating
gaze, and an almost child-like purity.
The brows are delicately arched ; the nose is
fine and straight, and the lips gracious and

slightly pouting. In spite of the girlish
serenity and sweetness of the countenance, it
has that expression of melancholy so characteristic
of the royal Stuartss. It was impossible
not to be struck by the resemblance
Mary Beaton bore to this portrait, even in
that very pensive shade which gave so pathetic
a charm to her bright young beauty. It
was remarked by several. General Falcon
looked earnestly from the pictured to the
living face. Involuntarily Lady Saxon's
words rose in his memory : ^ You may be
her Bothwell !' A red wave overspread his
forehead, through which the scar shone livid.
Monsignor Valmy seemed an appropriate
figure against the Stonehenge background.
He was Don Jose's tutor and travelling companion,
a Jesuit priest, whose ascetic life was
printed in the lines of his thin, clear, wasted
face. His hair, which fell almost to his
shoulder beneath the brett which he wore,
was prematurely gray. He looked seventy.
In reality he was about fifty. He had fine
delicately-cut features of the Dantesque type.
There was power in his steady serene eyes,
and a greater sweetness than subtlety in his

smile. He had an air of culture and dignity,
and his manner, like that of most Catholic
priests of high birth and position, was singularly
bland and courteous.

Monsignor Valmy's chaplain and secretary,
the Rev. Dr. Amblaine, hung in the background.
He was a very young man with a
hectic flush, and apparently of a consumptive
tendency. Mary heard later from her host
that he had, in fact, but poor hope of prolonging
his life. He was a scholar, and she heard,
too, that he had an almost morbid love of
books, and a taste for the personal possession
of editions which the public could not easily
get at. A little room full of books, all his
own — his very own — was his happiness.

The library at Stonehenge, in which they
had tea, must, one would fancy, have been a
Paradise to poor Dr. Amblaine. It was a
great oblong room, with three tall windows
looking out on the lake, and its collection of
books and manuscripts was almost unique fora
private owner's house. But, in fact, it gave
little joy to Dr. Amblaine. He had been a
few weeks at Stonehenge Park, and was to
be there only a few weeks longer. But he

had already set up his own little store of
books in his own room ; and he stole every
possible moment to go and look at them, and
to take down this one and that from its shelf,
and open it tenderly, and pat its cover and
stroke its back and study its title-page and its
imprimatur fondly, and utter little half-articulate
and gladsome words over it. Nor did
he want to keep his treasures all to himself.
He was only too delighted when he could
entice some one of the company into his room
and win, by gentle extortion, a few words of
admiration and of sympathy. All this seemed
curiously pathetic to Miss Beaton, when, after
she had been some days at Stonehenge, she
made him thus happy ; and she would not
even smile, though Don Jose did his very
best to force her into mirth by his odd interjections
and furtive grimaces.

Don Jose was a clever, sweet, precocious
boy of fourteen. He was an odd compound,
lor he had the frolicsomeness of an English
schoolboy, the unleavened conceit and whims
of a Parisian lad, and occasionally an interval,
short indeed, of the Spaniard's melancholy
gravity. When Lord Stonehenge had placed

Mary in a chair near one of the windows,
through which floated a gentle breeze from
the lake, bearing sweet scent of June roses
and honeysuckle on its breath, and was busying
himself in getting her tea, Don Jose rushed
forward with a funny little gesture of mock
humility.

No, no !' he exclaimed ; ' she is my Princess
the head of my family — the Queen of my
house ! I am her page. I must pour her
wine. I must bring her tea. I and no one
else.'

Lord Stonehenge laughed.
^ But I am her host, my Prince,' he said.
No matter,' cried the Prince ; and he
sprang to the table, poured Mary's tea, and
handed it to her, kneeling on one knee the
while.

And Mary laughed too, and accepted the
homage, and leaned back in her chair, sipping
her tea and feeling delightfully at home. She
fell into conversation with Monsignor Valmy
presently, and asked some questions about the
services in the private chapel at Stonehenge.
She regretted that she had as yet no chaplain
of her own, and that though the Oratory was
VOL. II. 21

not far from her house, she attended the
offices of her Church less regularly than had
been her wont abroad. The priest bent upon
her a look of fatherly regard.

You feel the need of religion ?' he said.

It is difficult to lead the religious life in
London,' said Mary thoughtfully.

And yet it is in London, where material
interests and enjoyments throng around us
like a vast army of shadowy forms, darkening
and vitiating the spiritual atmosphere, that
the religious life seems a greater reality as
well as a greater need than here, for instance,
where the air is pure — morally and physically,'
said the priest, with a grave smile.

Yes, I know what you mean,' cried Mary ;
I feel that it is as you say ; we are surrounded
by shadows. I often fancy that other people's
realities are my shadows. And then to go
into the solemn security of our own Church,
and to feed our own souls, and give no food
to the starving, ignorant souls outside, seems
to me no less selfishness than to feed our
bodies and let the poor die of hunger at our
doors.'

Madame, you allow your mind to dwell

too much upon the sufferings of the poor,'
interposed Falcon abruptly.

I have often had the thought which
Madame's words suggest,' said Lord Stonehenge,
in a dreamy tone. ' We rich and
exclusive Catholics in England are, in the
spiritual sense, like Dives. Well,' he added,
in a lighter manner, ' we are introducing one
alien presence into our fold here — if not two.
When Mr. Bellarmin arrives, he will find
himself the only one of the party who is nota
Catholic'

Mary made a little involuntary movement
of interest as he spoke. She had been wondering
since her arrival in the house whether
Bellarmin was already there, and if not, when
he was expected. Falcon asked the question,
When does Mr. Bellarmin come ?'

In a day or two,' replied Stonehenge.
Presumably, he is less necessary in the
House of Commons than Sir Victor Champion,
who follows him when the Whitsuntide recess
begins.'

You are right,' Monsignor Valmy said
presently, ' in qualifying your remark about
the alien presence — in one instance, at least.

21 — 2

Sir Victor is as yet outside the fold, but
his instincts are leading him to look over
the pale. His mind has in it much of the
Churchman ; his sympathies are with the
Church;

I have sometimes thought,' Stonehenge
said with a smile, ^ that Champion would
make an admirable Cardinal.'

He would like the office, I dare say — many
of its functions, at least. But has he not a
little too much mysticism, rationalism, even
ecclesiastics about him to be quite effective
as a Prince of the Church ?'

Yet you look to his being Prime Minister
of England,' said Stonehenge.

Oh yes, that is different. In England you

govern '

Yo7i govern !' Stonehenge said again with
a smile. * Why don't you say we govern ?
You are an Englishman.'

Yes ; but T am in spirit a mediaeval
Englishman — an Englishman of the days
when England still believed in her saints,'
answered Monsignor Valmy.

'Well, you were going to say something
when I interrupted you.'

I was going to say that in England you
govern by talking, and therefore Champion is
a destined Prime Minister,' said Monsignor
Valmy. * But a Prince of the Church must
be trained to the art of silence as well as
speech, and do you think Sir Victor could
ever learn that ? No ; he must be always in
some place where he can use the great gift
which Heaven has given him. He would
make a marvellous preacher. If he were one
of us,' Monsignor Valmy added meditatively,
I should like to appoint him to preach in
some West-end church, to stir the hearts of
the light-minded and to compel Protestants to
go and listen.'

I am afraid there is a very worldly side to
Champion's ambition,' Lord Stonehenge said.
The redemption of souls might serve as an
avocation for him ; it would never be his
vocation.'

Os domini sublime dedit,' Valmy said
quietly. * A man of genius and heart looks
naturally up from the world. Have you seen
much of Sir Victor Champion ?' he added,
turning to Miss Beaton.

Yes,' she answered ; * he has called on me

several times lately, and we have talked a
good deal together.'

And you like him ; you admire him ?'

Oh yes,' she replied frankly ; ' who could
help admiring him ? I confess that I like
him best when he puts on that courtier-like
old-world manner which suits him so well. I
am not so much interested in him when he
talks generalities to me as he might to an
ordinary young London lady, and asks my
plans for the season.'

Perhaps that is Champion's diplomatic
way of trying to find out something about
you, Madame,' said Lord Stonehenge; 'something
about your own and your friends' projects
and ideas, which he might think it
impolitic to ask directly.'

I would rather he questioned me outright
about what he wanted to know,' said Mary.
But I think he must have discovered after
the second visit that I did not like him so
well as the man of society, for he became the
courtier again.'

And Mr. Bellarmin ?' pursued the priest
blandly.

Oh, Mr. Bellarmin ' — and Mary's colour

rose slightly — ' he too has been to see us three
or four times. But Mr. Bellarmin is different.
He is younger, naturally more of the London
man. Mr. Bellarmin amuses me, and he interests
me too ; for he seems to have two
sides to his character. I don't feel with him
as with Sir Victor, that I ought to be on my
best behaviour.' She laughed a half-conscious
laugh, which both . Monsignor Valmy and
Lord Stonehenge noticed.

Alas for Bellarmin ! It was quite true that,
in spite of his prudent resolves, he had found
occasion more than once to visit the young
Pretenders at her house in Kensington. It
would seem uncourteous, unfeeling, he argued
to himself, to slight the frank invitations,
almost commands, of a lady in Mary Beaton's
peculiar position — a stranger in her own
country, a victim, so Bellarmin put it, to the
accident of her illustrious birth.

At first Miss Beaton was enchanted with
everything at Stonehenge Park. She loved
to wander over the great old house from room
to room, and corridor to corridor. From the
foot of the two wide flights of stairs which
met in the middle of the hall, one might look

Up to a glass dome, and through it see the
shadow of a little turret that commanded a
view of the whole country round. Mary
delighted in mounting this tower, and gazing
over the broad, fair English landscape on
the one side, to the more barren stretch of
country, the bleak cliffs and misty sea on the
other. She persuaded herself sometimes that
she saw on the horizon the outlines of Lady
Saxon's eyre, Petrel's Rest. She had thought
many times, since that day of her reception, of
Lady Saxon, of her brilliancy, her beauty,
her vivid intriguing life, and of her frank
confession of an occasional longing for solitude
and savagery. Somehow Mary thought
of Lady Saxon most often in association with
Bellarmin, and then the young girl's cheek
would flush painfully — she did not dare to
ask herself why — and she would shrink and
determinedly turn her mind away.

The people at Stonehenge humoured Mary
Beaton's fancies, and permitted her to throw
completely aside the flimsy pomp and ceremony
which, in London, Falcon so strongly
insisted upon. Thus, here, she was more of
the merry schoolgirl than the dignified young

claimant who had declared herself * every
inch a queen.' Lady Struthers remonstrated
feebly, but she could not gainsay the Prince
of Saragossa and Monsignor Valmy, who
took Miss Beaton's view of things. Mary
was charmed with little Don Jose. The boy
had picked up some London slang, which he
found great pleasure in airing for Mary's
amusement and social education. They became
comrades, and used to have long
rambles and rides together. Still there was
want of force, of interest, of movement about
all this, and Mary found herself secretly
wishing that Mr. Bellarmin would appear.
He had not come on the day first appointed,
but had put off his arrival two days on the
plea of committees and debates.

She wanted him to come before Sir Victor.
A day or two of his bright companionship
without the constraint of the elder and graver
statesman's presence would be pleasant, Mary
thought. For Mr. Bellarmin was young, and
Sir Victor was — oh, well, not old, not exactly
old, but elderly. Sir Victor seemed quite an
elderly person to Mary Beaton. She had
always been a good deal mixed up with

elderly people ; she was under the care and
in the close companionship now of elderly
people, and she yearned for the society of the
young, as one weary of gray skies and dun
clouds might yearn for the sunshine. Perhaps
this condition of feeling, all natural and comprehensible
as it was, might serve to account
for the fact that elder people sometimes
grew a little displeased and impatient with
sweet Mary Beaton. They suspected that
she yearned for younger companions sometimes,
and it made them bitter. Certainly it
made General Falcon bitter. General Falcon
looked out for the coming of young Bellarmin
with alternate sinking of the heart and rising
of passion. The mere mention of Bellarmin's
name brought a scowl to Falcon's face. He
was beginning to fancy that he had been
wrong in his first estimate of Bellarmin's
position. He had believed him to be enmeshed
in Lady Saxon's toils ; he now
suspected that Lady Saxon's influence was
not entirely paramount.

It was evidence of a certain feline craft in
Falcon that he should seem to countenance
and even encourage any apparent admirer of

Mary Beaton, whereas in reality the serious
suggestion of her marriage coming into his
mind as a possibility, nay, a certainty in the
future, set all his strongest passions at work,
and turned him for the time almost into a
madman. He had appeared eager to welcome
both Bellarmin and Sir Victor Champion
to the house in Kensington, and to seize on
the evident attraction of both to his charge
as a factor in his political schemes ; but now
that the attraction seemed to have become
more distinct, he regarded it with a mixture
of abhorrence and terror. Yet he still placed
so severe a restraint upon himself that only
Lady Saxon, had she been in his company,
could have read the morbid workings of his
diseased mind.

AMONG THE LILIES.

OR days before the Stonehenge
visit, Bellarmin's soul had been
sorely racked. Soon after he had
sent away the fateful letter which was Lady
Saxon's trophy, a terrible revulsion of feeling
came over him. He felt like one who has
sold his soul to the Spirit of Darkness. Never
had he been deceived in his cooler moments
by Lady Saxon's tenderest protestations and
professions. He knew that she did not love
him, that she was not a woman to love anyone
in the true sense. His heart revolted at
the thought of her treachery to her husband.
He felt himself degraded by the servitude he

had allowed her to impose on him, and now
from servitude he had made it slavery. He
had written to her a declaration of love ; and
it was not true ; he did not love her. He
was dazzled by her, allured by her, infatuated
by her : his senses betrayed him to her ; but
he did not love her ; and he knew it now only
too well. He had a hideous presentiment
that his letter would yet be made to play
some part in some scheme of Lady Saxon's.
So little faith had he in her, when he was not
under the bewildering sway of her presence
and her charm, that he actually found this
thought taking possession of his mind — the
thought that the letter had been drawn from
him to be used in some way against him.
And added to all this was the feeling that
now he had cut himself off from Mary Beaton
for ever. Little hope, indeed, had he ever
that Mary Beaton could care for him, or that
anything could come of it even if she did.
But still he was free to think of her, to fill
his soul with thought of her, to hold her
always in his heart. Now he must try to
think of her no more. The bond-slave of
Josephine Saxon must not admit the thought

of Mary Beaton into the profaned sanctuary
of his heart. He felt that such transactions
have their own code of honour, and he must
order his heart so that it should not give out
its feelings to any other woman. * A man,'
he said to himself savagely, ' ought to be one
thing or the other ; he ought to be either
good or bad ; he ought to have the courage
of his goodness or the courage of his badness ;
he ought to be — not like me '

Bellarmin was for the time distinctly unhappy.
He seemed to have lost interest in
everything. He was out of tune with political
life. There were moments when he
wished he had never come up to London ;
never got a seat in the House of Commons.
The world, his world, seemed all darkened ;
he could not see the sky or the stars anywhere.
He was as one who suddenly finds
that he has lost sight or hearing or power of
movement, and whose senses are paralyzed
by the appalling knowledge. He had come
to understand that in the terrible struggle
between the two forces in his nature the
spirit of evil had conquered, but not cast out,
the spirit of good ; that the conquered spirit

lay, a perpetual ache and agony, deep in its
prison in his heart.

Still, Bellarmin was young, and whether
he would or not, his forces were elastic, and
he soon determined to make the best of his
Stonehenge visit, to put on an appearance of
brightness, to meet Mary bravely, and to be
in the world like a man of the world.

These thoughts were in Bellarmin's mind
as he came down by the train — the same train
which had brought Mary Beaton. He found
the party drinking tea in a quaint garden on
one side of the house — a garden laid out in
fancifully shaped beds, bordered with box.
and almost closed in by red brick walls, on
which hung big yellow Mareschal Noel and
Souvenir de Malmaison roses. The roses
were bloom in sunny sheltered regions now;
they grew in profusion at Stonehenge, and
the very air seemed heavy with them. Lady
Struthers was at the tea-table ; General Falcon
and Monsignor Valmy were conversing
together, and Mary and Lord Stonehenge sat
a little apart. They both rose as Bellarmin
was ushered towards them, and Lord Stonehenge
went forward to greet his guest ; but

Mary held back, looking very stately and
slender as she stood beside a bed of tall
white lilies, and indeed not unlike the lilies
themselves, Bellarmin thought. A little blush
came to her cheek, however, when at last
Bellarmin shook hands with her.

I am glad to see you,' she said simply.
We were beginning to think that you didn't
mean to come.'

Oh,' he answered, ' I have had tiresome
committees — a tedious time altogether, with
only the consolation of feeling that I was
doing my duty — which was not much of a
consolation after all, under the conditions —
and the satisfaction of knowing that I should
get a holiday anyhow at Whitsuntide.'

Everyone gets holidays at Whitsuntide,'

said Mary, * and then ,' she was going to

say, * and then Sir Victor will be here ' — but
added, * we were going to give you a longer
holiday.'

Have you seen Sir Victor Champion ?'
asked Stonehenge, and felt immediately
that the question needed some preparation,
for Bellarmin gave a quick, surprised
look.

Seen him ? Yes ; every day. But I have
had no particular talk with him.'

He is coming here in the Whitsuntide
recess,' said Lord Stonehenge calmly.

Coming here !' repeated Bellarmin, still
surprised, and glancing at Mary ; ' I did not
imagine that I was to meet Sir Victor Champion.'


You don't object ?' said Lord Stonehenge.
I know that you differ politically — perhaps
not as much as people think. Here, political
differences count for as little as those of
creed,' and he made a gesture towards the
priest. ' You will find Monsignor Valmy a
perfectly delightful companion. So I hope
you, and Miss Beaton too, will find Sir
Victor. I have an idea, Mr. Bellarmin, that
if you were in the House of Lords you
would sit on the cross-benches in more senses
than one.'

Mary laughed, and so did Bellarmin.

I dare say you are right,' said Rolfe.
Anyhow, I haven't the faintest dislike to
staying in the same house with Sir Victor.
Quite the contrary ; it is what I have often
wished to do ; but I have never been given

VOL. II. 22

the chance. I am delighted to meet him outside
the field of politics.'

Mr. Bellarmin !' cried Lady Struthers
from the tea-table, handing him at the same
time a fragrant steaming cup, and the cream
jug, * it's a fresh brew. Do you take sugar ?
though it is not the fashion in England to
take sugar, I observe. The first cup was
delicious, Mr. Bellarmin ; our second wasn't
so good ; but this is going to be quite as excellent
as the first. And strawberries ? I
always assure foreigners that strawberry
squash is really ^/le typical English dish ! I
tell Madame, Mr. Bellarmin, that there's one
good you get by living out of one's own
country for a number of years. You notice
things and you get perspective. If I ever go
back to Schwalbenstadt I shall introduce the
dear Grand Duchess to English strawberry
squash.'

That evening both Mary and Don Jose
were in particularly lively humour. The girl
seemed to have been endued with a spirit of
playfulness and innocent gaiety that contrasted
with her former vague depression, and which

was to Bellarmin peculiarly captivating. The
young Prince of Saragossa, still hailing her as
his queen, made himself her cupbearer, and
poured her wine and waited upon her, somewhat
to the embarrassment of Lord Stonehenge's
solemn butler. Bellarmin fell into
the boy's fancy, and gravely paid homage to
the pretty Pretenders. The priests smiled
benignantly ; General Falcon scowled in sullen
dissatisfaction. To Lady Struthers and Stonehenge,
each in a different fashion, the proceedings
savoured too much of a jest on the
sacred subject of divine rights to be altogether
agreeable.

But Mary Beaton and Bellarmin were very
happy, perhaps neither of them quite knew
why. When dinner was over, they all went
back together to the drawing-room. The
windows stood wide open to the terrace, and
the lake shone silvery in the moonlight. Don
Jose vaulted forth, and ran down to the boathouse,
where a tiny skiff was moored ; and
presently they heard his clear boy's tenor
ringing out a sort of boat-song in Spanish,
which sounded like an invitation to follow
him.

22 — 2

Miss Beaton paused a little irresolutely on
the sill.

I am going on the water,' said she, looking
back into the room ; and then she turned
again and sang an answering call.

She had a very sweet but not very powerful
mezzo-soprano voice, with a pathetic note in
it that struck Bellarmin as peculiarly in
harmony with that slightly melancholy strain
he had noticed in her character.

Madame,' said Falcon abruptly, ' you will
not trust yourself alone on the lake with the
Prince, who, to say the least, is young and
heedless.'

But indeed I shall, my good General,'
replied Mary, with pretty wilfulness ; * and
we shall sing duets on the water to which
you may join chorus from the bank if you
please. Lord Stonehenge, let us have coffee
in the boat-house ; and you gentlemen may
talk politics or science or anything you like
while Don Jose and I enjoy ourselves.'

And I,' said Lady Struthers, ' shall beg
to remain indoors if Madame and his Highness
will excuse my attendance. The lake
has no attractions for me. I am not fond of

leading the me de canard, which appears to
delight you so in England.'

We make a virtue of necessity, Lady
Struthers,' put in Bellarmin.

Dr. Amblaine and I will enjoy a game of
draughts or a little literary conversation,' went
on Lady Struthers. ^ The pleasures of intellectual
intercourse have not come much in my
way since we left the cultivated circle of the
Residenz. I must confess that I am disappointed
in English society,' and she threw a
rebuking glance at Bellarmin. ' It seems tome
that the entree to the highest circles in
London, political or social, is far from being a
guarantee of intellectual distinction.'

Quite true, Lady Struthers,' answered
Bellarmin. **'You must amuse us," is the
first command of smart society. It doesn't
say, " You must improve us." '

Miss Beaton went lightly out into the
garden, singing still as she walked. Bellarmin
followed her. He carried a white knitted cloud.

Lady Struthers beseeches you to put
this on.'

She let him wrap the shawl about her head
and shoulders.

I have never heard you sing before,' he
said.

'Oh, I sing very passably, I assure you,'
she replied ; * but I have a perverse and gamin
taste for street-songs, and General Falcon
doesn't encourage me in it.'

He thinks it unbefitting your — ' Bellarmine
was going to say ' pretensions ' but
stopped himself, and added, ' your illustrious
descent.'

Exactly, and there he is wrong. Mary
Stuart never thought about what was befitting
or unbefitting her dignity ; and yet she was
always a Queen. That's part of the bore of
sham royalty,' Mary added, with a sigh. * One
has, metaphorically speaking, to keep the
sceptre and crown perpetually e7i Evidence.
Now I am sure if your Queen, when she was
much younger — say, had taken a fancy to sing
johnny Peel," or '' Up in a balloon, boys,"
everyone would have thought it quite pretty
and nice.'

Bellarmin laughed. Mary turned her bright
frank eyes to him. They were sparkling with
amusement.

I have only seen the people in their

wretchedness,' she said, and her face became
suddenly sad again. * I want to see them in
their places of entertainment. Mr. Bellarmin,'
she clasped her hands with a girlish impulsive
gesture ; ' I am going to carry out the most
daring project when J go back to London. I
should shock you so terribly that I long to
tell you what it is. But I dare not. I have
only brought the General to consent by dint of
coaxing and promises of the strictest secrecy.'

I dare say I can guess,' said Bellarmin.
A private box at the Oxford or the London
Pavilion.'

Oh dear no ; nothing half so much in the
world. But don't ask me another question.'

Whether by design or accident, they had
made a little detour, and instead of proceeding
straight to the bank of the lake near which
Don Jose was paddling, they turned up by a
small inlet crossed by an ornamental bridge.

Tell me,' said Bellarmin, looking at her
in a half-amused, half-earnest manner, ' what
is the meaning of it all ?'

'The meaning of it!' Mary repeated ; and
she stopped short on the bridge, and looked
up at him. * The meaning of what ?'

This sham royalty, as you call it. What is
it to end in ?'

'Noblesse oblige,' said Mary a little haughtily.
I am the last of the Stuartss.'

That — ! of course. No one doubts it.
But '

He paused. He had a vague impulse to
question her that he might discover to what
extent she herself was aware of any political
or social machinations on the part of her
adherents. Though Mary Beaton had been
magnet powerful enough to draw him at once
to Stonehenge, it puzzled him a little why he
had been invited there. He wanted to find
out what was expected of him, how far he
was supposed to espouse Miss Beaton's claims,
why Sir Victor Champion had been asked,
whether the meeting between him and Sir
Victor had been arranged by the Jacobite
clan with a view to furthering the minor Stuart
business, or by Champion himself for a greater
political purpose. His embarrassed manner
quickened Mary's curiosity.

Well,' she said, ' what is it that you are
wondering about ?'

I'll tell you ; I'm wondering about two

things : why General Falcon and Lord Stonehenge
were so good as to press me to join
this party, and, by the way, why does General
Falcon scowl at me so fiercely now that I am
here ?' He saw in the moonlight the red
blood rise to Mary's face, and overspread its
milky whiteness.

You were asked because — well, I'll be
frank with you — because I wanted to have
someone new and entertaining and fresh from
the outside world about me. I am tired of
all these fossilized interests. As for my
General, perhaps it is that which makes him
cross. I can't be responsible for his whims ;
they puzzle me quite as much as they can
puzzle you.'

Madame,' said Bellarmin, with real feeling
in his voice, * I am more than honoured ; I
am deeply grateful. If you knew what a
sweet and soothing beneficial influence you
have over me, you would not be surprised
that I thank Heaven for the kindly impulse
which made you wish for my company.'
There was a little pause. It seemed to
Bellarmin that the red deepened on Mary's
half-averted cheek.

And the other thing you were wondering
about ?' she asked presently.

The other thing ! Oh ! why is Sir Victor
Champion coming ?'

Mary looked round at him with a bright
little laugh.

Well, I don't mind confiding to you the
least little faint hint of a very tiny political
conspiracy, which Lord Stonehenge got from
Mr. Tressel, and which he let out to me only
yesterday. Mr. Tressel just suggested that
Sir Victor would not be sorry to see something
of you In a friendly, informal way. Oh,
Mr. Bellarmin, it is too delicious that /
should be mixed up in your English Parliamentary
intrigues ! I wish you were on Sir
Victor's side. I believe in him.'

You wish I were on his side ?' said Bellarmin
slowly.

Not against your convictions, of course ;
I think, on the whole, that what interests me
about you is that you are a frajic-tireur.
Still, I believe I should not be sorry if your
convictions were to take the same form as
Sir Victor's.'

You believe that he has sincere convictions

; that he has the good of his country at
heart ?'

Oh, I am certain of it ! No one could
watch his face and see the light kindle in his
eyes when he talks of what is near his heart,
and not feel that he Is intensely in earnest.
I have seen him several times lately. He is
very good In explaining things to me, and he
has such a pretty way of recognising me as a
Stuart, and all that, as if he were Indulging
the whim of a child he was fond of. Oh yes,
I believe in Sir Victor. I am a little afraid
of him. I shall not dare to be frivolous before
him as I am this evening ; but I admire
him immensely, all the same.'

The thought came into Bellarmine's mind,
as he walked along by Mary Beaton's side,
that it was curious these two women, Josephine
Saxon and Mary Beaton — women as unlike
in character and temperament as if they had
been born In different planets, and showing
that dissimilarity most, it seemed to him, in
the strange conflicting influence they exercised
upon himself — should both feel such
genuine and apparently intuitive confidence
in Champion's political sincerity. Josephine's

frank admission of a former acquaintance with
Champion dispelled any dark suggestions that
might have rankled in Bellarmin's mind. Her
arguments and her appeal in their late interview
had, almost unconsciously to himself,
affected him strongly. Now they seemed to
receive additional strength from the fact of
Mary's partisanship. It was a curious convergence
of opposing forces. Mary's enthusiastic
expressions grated slightly upon him,
but they set him thinking. If this bright,
intelligent girl were so imbued with belief in
Champion's high purpose, was he right in
refusing to hear what Champion had to bring
forward in his own support ? They had
crossed the bridge, and now, by a turn in
the shrubbery they had been skirting, came
suddenly upon the boat-house — a kind of
open pavilion with tables and lounges, where
the gentlemen were sitting and enjoying their
cigarettes, and where coffee was being served.
Mary did not wait for any coffee, but stepped
into the canoe in which Don Jose was established,
and presently the two had paddled out
into the lake.

Monsignor Valmy and Lord Stonehenge

called out admonitions to keep near the shore.
The boy and girl laughed and murmured
together, and in a few moments their voices
burst on the still, soft night, blending in a
rollicking Rhine song. It was very charming
and poetic, Bellarmin thought. He sat somewhat
apart, near the wide entrance arch of
the pavilion, silent and dreamy as he smoked
his cigar, and gazed at the white figure in the
boat, and the noble head and the play of
features and eyes which seemed spiritualised
by the moonlight. The two young people
went on, singing song after song, pushing out
into the lake, so that their voices sounded
softer and more distant ; and now they turned
a little point and were hidden by a drooping
willow, though the sweet, ringing melody told
that they were not far. After a while they
stopped singing altogether. It could be seeii
that they had landed on an islet in the middle
of the lake, where there were more willows
and another pavilion.

Meanwhile the men had fallen into general,
half-political talk, and the question of Mary
Stuart Beaton's inheritance was brought up.
General Falcon was explaining the position

to Monsignor Valmy, and while the echo of
Mary Beaton's and Don Jose's first duet still
lingered in his ear, Bellarmin was roused
from his dream-like reverie by a pointed
question.

THE WHITENESS OF THE REBEL ROSE.

ELL me, General Falcon,' Monsignor
Valm}^ said quietly, * what
you want Sir Victor Champion
to do — what you want Mr. Bellarmin to do.'
He looked towards Bellarmin as he spoke ina
manner that plainly invited Bellarmin to
take part in the discussion.

'Am I in this .'^' Bellarmin asked, half
rising, and then drawing his chair nearer to
the little group, which was gathered round a
small table, on which coffee and cigarettes
were placed.

Surely ; I was just saying to General Falcon
that we should all like to know what he

wants you, for example, to do in regard to
these claims.'

You see, we assume your sympathy and
willingness to help us,' Lord Stonehenge
said.

I shall be only too glad to help you,'
Bellarmin replied, ' if I can see my way.'

Exactly ; we want General Falcon to give
you the light to help you to see your way.'

Dry light, as Bacon puts it,' Monsignor
Valmy said quietly ; ' light free from all
colouring matter, I suppose Bacon meant.
We want to give you that sort of light and
none other. We want to have the case put
fairly before you, so that you shall judge for
yourself on the facts.'

I have studied the question pretty closely,'
Bellarmin answered, 'and very sympathetically.
It seems clear to me that there is no
constitutional or legal claim, in the technical
sense of the words.'

Mr. Bellarmin doesn't understand the
question,' Falcon interposed, with harsh voice
and scowling face.

I have studied it to the best of my ability,
General Falcon,' Bellarmin said, determined

not to lose his temper. ' If I don't understand
it, that is the fault of my intellect and
not of my eftbrt. It is well to have everyone's
opinion

Oh yes ; go on, please, Mr. Bellarmin !
Stonehenge exclaimed, turning eyes of expostulation
on the impatient Falcon.

I am particularly anxious to hear Mr.
Bellarmin's full and candid expression of
opinion Monsignor Valmy said gravely.
He is one of our friends. General Falcon,
not one of our enemies.'

I ask Mr. Bellarmin's pardon,' said Falcon,
in a strange contradictory flash of penitence
which puzzled Bellarmin. ' I know he
means to be a friend.'

Now, Mr. Bellarmine Lord Stonehenge
interposed, a little impatiently.

I don't see any claim that you could possibly
sustain in any court of law, for instance,'
Bellarmin explained. ' I don't see how the
Government '

The Crown ?' Monsignor Valmy suggested.


Oh, well — it isn't the Crown really — it is
the Government. The Crown will, as a

VOL. II. 23

matter of public policy, decline to do anything
but what the Government advises.
Now it seems to me that as a question of
generosity there is a strong case — and as a
question of public policy, even, a very good
case. I think in this instance generosity and
public policy would go together.'

Generosity !' Lord Stonehenge began, Ina
doubting tone of voice.

Yes, I was coming to that point,' Bellarmine
went on. ' Are you disposed to make
an appeal to the generosity of the country ?
Would you be willing to do that ? Would
Miss Beaton consent ?'

Do you mean, to make an appeal in forma
pauperis ? Is that what Mr. Bellarmin recommends
?' cried Falcon.

No, General Falcon. I didn't recommend
anything of the kind. I didn't recommend
anything, In point of fact. I only
asked a question or two, for the guidance of
myself and of all of us. It is one thing to
make a legal claim in a court of law or even
in Parliament. It is another to appeal to
Parliament for fair play and moral justice and
generosity — in a matter where It is frankly

admitted that we have no legal claim — I mean
legal in the narrow and technical sense.'

I think Mr. Bellarmin is putting the case
very well,' said Monsignor Valmy.

I am afraid he is putting it only too well
too accurately, I mean,' Lord Stonehenge
added.

Well, my idea is this,' Bellarmin went on,
I think the claim could be put in that way,
in such a manner as to command the attention
and sympathy of the House of Commons
; and I don't say that a resolution might
not be carried recommending the case to the
consideration of the Government ; then, of
course, all would depend on the action of the
Government.'

In other words,' Monsignor Valmy said,
it would depend on who were the Government.'


Precisely.'

There was a pause full of meaning. The
same thought was in the minds of each of the
men.

Yes,' said Lord Stonehenge, with a sudden

vivacity of emphasis ; * it would all depend

on who were the men in the Government — I

23—2
LIBRARY

uNWERsnt OF iui»wa

mean on who was the man at the head of the
Government.'

Bellarmin understood clearly. He thought
it would be well to let his listeners know that
he understood.

Now,' he said slowly, * we are on the eve
of a crisis of some sort. Everyone is agreed
upon that, and what everyone says does now
and then happen to be true — at least, it is
unsafe to count on its never coming true. I
don't think it would be well to bring up this
claim under unfavourable circumstances.
Better wait a little, perhaps. Our modern
Tories have utterly forsworn or forgotten all
memory of their ancient traditions, and the
King over the Water. The more stolidly
Tory they are, the more inveterately they
are opposed to any recognition of a — well — a
past condition of things. It would not be of
much use trying on anything under them.
But suppose there should be a change of
Government ?'

Yes,' Monsignor Valmy observed quietly,
suppose there should be.'

There may be before long,' Lord Stonehenge
said significantly.

In Other words,' Bellarmin said, taking a
long puff at his cigarette, and sending the
smoke out before him straight as the path of
a bullet ; ' suppose Sir Victor Champion were
to come into office ?'

As Prime Minister ?' Monsignor Valmy
inquired blandly.

'As Prime Minister — yes. I suppose he
will either come in as Prime Minister or not
come in at all'

In that case, Lord Stonehenge,' Monsignor
Valmy asked with a tone of ingenuous curiosity,
' how do you think Sir Victor Champion
would be affected towards these claims ?'

In that case,' Stonehenge answered
gravely, * I should hope favourably — after a
while, at least.'

Yes,' said Bellarmin meditatively. The
answer he had received was exactly what he
had expected. Their hopes were centred on
Champion.

Will Champion carry the country with
him ?' Monsignor Valmy asked, still in a tone
of simple artlessness.

In what ?' Bellarmin rejoined with manner
equally guileless.

Monsignor Valmy smiled.

For myself,' Lord Stonehenge said abruptly,
with the air of one who comes daringly
to what others are only thinking of, ' I would
much rather see the House of Lords reformed
than reorganized — and reformed or reorganized
by its friends than by its enemies.
Champion has a highly cultivated mind, and
he has a deep vein of sympathy in his nature.
I prefer Champion as a reformer to — to Mr.
Tressel, for instance.'

The priest gave a little shudder.

The plain common sense of the thing
then,' said Bellarmin, ' is that we should keep
these claims quiet until we see whether Sir
Victor Champion is likely to come into power
soon ?'

May I ask who are understood by "we?'
General Falcon demanded angrily.

We ? Well, I meant those who are
anxious to see justice done to Miss Beaton's
claims,' Bellarmin answered with perfect good
humour.

I was delighted to hear Mr. Bellarmin include
himself in the number,' put in Monsignor
Valmy.

So was I,' added Lord Stonehenge, with a
courteous bend of the head to Bellarmin.

Only I did not quite understand,' said
Falcon, not altogether appeased. There was
a pause. Lord Stonehenge broke it.

'We were thinking of something of that
kind — of waiting quietly until we see what
Champion will do and what will happen.
But we are not what are called practical
politicians, Monsignor Valmy and I — and I
am sure General Falcon would be very angry
with me if I were to call him a practical
politician.'

I am a soldier,' said General Falcon.

Exactly,' Monsignor Valmy rejoined
sweetly. ' And I am a priest. We are
neither of us qualified to advise Lord Stonehenge
on a question of practical politics, and
so we are all grateful for Mr. Bellarmin's
advice.'

Apparently the matter was regarded as
settled. The claims were bound up for the
present with the fortunes of Sir Victor Champion's
next move, whatever that might turnout
to be.

Bellarmin removed his cigarette from his

mouth, and thoughtfully laid down the
smouldering end. He looked round the little
group.

I should like to ask one thing — I ask it
in all sincerity and faith, and with the fullest
friendliness. These claims — these particular
claims — are an end, and not a means ?'

The priest, who had been gazing abstractedly
out on the lake, the clear-cut outline
of his ascetic features defined against the dim
leafy background, turned to Bellarmin with
a ray of keen interest lighting his face into
a look of less other-worldliness.

Do we quite understand ?' he asked
softly.

*/ don't understand,' Falcon exclaimed
bluntly.

Lord Stonehenge turned to Bellarmin.

• Do you mean, Mr. Bellarmin, that these
claims are all that we consider ourselves, on
Miss Beaton's part, entitled to make — that
on their being satisfied we are prepared to
give a receipt in full ? If that is what you
mean — yes ; certainly.' Nevertheless, Lord
Stonehenge sighed as he spoke ; and the
spirit of his ancestors, loyal to the death to

Stuartss of old time, seemed to glow in his
refined Vandyke face. ' These money claims
are final,' he went on in a tone of determined
resignation. ' We have no other money
claims to make. The Princess — Miss Beaton
only wants what is her own by right.'

Yes ; all that I quite understand. But
what I would ask is, whether there is any
idea of making these claims a sort of test of
public feeling as to other possible claims — I
am sure you understand my meaning. Believe
me, such an idea would end in nothing but
utter disaster, ridicule and disgrace.'

Disgrace !' Falcon cried, his eyes aflame
with wrath.

Yes, General Falcon,' Bellarmin replied,
turning to him with some warmth ; ' disgrace
to the advisers who ruined a just claim, and
exposed to public odium the noblest of —
clients' — he was going to say 'women,' but
somehow he preferred to leave the sex out
of the question — 'the noblest of clients, by
mixing both up with absurd and hopeless
dynastic intrigues.'

Monsignor Valmy's pale, delicate complexion
seemed to deepen a little in th

moonlight as Bellarmin spoke these words.
Lord Stonehenge remained quite self-possessed.


Mr. Bellarmine he said, * is naturally afraid
of being mixed up with a Stuart restoration
scheme in 'the nineteenth century.'

No, indeed,' Bellarmin broke in warmly.
I was not thinking of myself — I could go
into a scheme or keep out of it, just as I
thought best to do. I was not thinking of
danger — of real danger — for — for anybody.
I was thinking: of ridicule. I was thinking
of public odium — so hard for a woman to
bear.'

The sex which he would fain have kept
out of the controversy here boldly asserted
itself, and came in.

I was thinking of all that — and of the inevitable
ruin of these very claims themselves,
no matter how just they may be. That is
what I was thinking of, Lord Stonehenge.'

Again there was a pause ; and through the
silence of the arbour there floated the sound
of Mary Beaton's laugh as she chatted with
the young Prince — that sweet frank laugh
which, with all its sweetness and its girlishness,

had in it an imperious ring. Involuntarily,
at its sound, the men moved forward a little —
all except the priest, and he remained still,
with that bland inquiring smile on his thin
lips, as if there were in his mind no thought
of the girl round whom centred these curious
out-of-date suggestions of conspiracy and revolution.
They could see the boat as it lay like
a fairy skiff on the shining lake, and the slim
youth with his picturesque Spanish face, and
the slender, proud, bright maiden, whose dark
wavy hair and contour of feature and smile
and gesture seemed to have in them something
traditional, which woke in the mind
memories of Holy rood and of reckless,
winsome Mary Stuart. How out of keeping
with the commonplace fret, the vulgar rush
and scurry of nineteenth-century existences,
were these two living representatives of dead
dynasties! ^ It had an odd, bewildering effect
this spell of the past. Bellarmin felt a
tightening of his heart, he scarce knew why ;
and then a rush of impetuous desire to bear
her away from it all — from the network of
scheming and calculations and false hopes
and associations that were at once tragic and

poetic and absurd. He longed to sweep away
the glamour of her Stuart ancestry, the poor
pretence of princess-ship, and to appeal to her
bravely, honestly, as the tender, true-hearted
simple English girl that she was — that, and
nothing else. For it had come to this with
Bellarmin in certain moods of reaction, when
the other wilder passion lost its sway over
him. These thoughts were moving him to
the very depths of his being while Lord
Stonehenge said gently :

I quite understand, Mr. Bellarmin. I
didn't put my meaning well — at least, I
certainly did not mean to say that you were
concerned about yourself. What I meant was
that you were afraid some unwise political
schemes — or dynastic schemes, if you like —
might be astir. But you may be quite
reassured. Monsignor Valmy and I — and
General Falcon, of course — are sane men.'

Leave me out !' Falcon exclaimed impatiently.
' I would go my own way if I
could.'

Bellarmin made a movement as if he would
pull himself out of dreamland, a gesture not
lost upon Falcon.

'You see,' Bellarmin said. * There was
some ground for my misgivings, after all

None whatever,' General Falcon retorted.
I would go my own way if I could — but I
can't ; and I understand that as well as any
practical politician who ever lived. Only I
don't want to be taken as approving of every
arrangement which I accept just because I
can't have any other.'

Monslgnor Valmy Interposed :

It Is not easy, perhaps, for Mr. Bellarmin
to realize our position. We have nothing to
renounce — I mean there Is nothing which
It Is In our power to renounce. No declaration
on her part could make the Princess —
could make Miss Beaton other than what she
is. Suppose she were to say that she renounced
being a woman — would she not be a
woman all the same ? Suppose you were to
say you renounced your right to be your
father's son, would you be any less the son
of your father ?'

All that I can quite understand, looking
at It from your point of view — of course mine
Is quite different.'

With you it Is only like the case of a man

who withdraws from the candidature for the
Presidentship of the United States, or the
office of Lord Mayor of London,' Lord
Stonehenge suggested, with a quiet smile.

Well, yes, if you like to put It In that way
yes, I believe in the right of a people to
choose its own chief magistrate, whether
for perpetuity or for four years or one
year.'

And you a Tory !'

*A Tory Democrat Monsignor Valmy
suavely interposed.

A Tory who believes that the world goes
round, and that something must come of the
discovery of the electric light,' Bellarmin said.
But what I was going to say was, that I quite
understand your principle, and that I greatly
respect it. All that I want to impress on you
is this — I am only talking now of Parliamentary
affairs ; it would be absurd of me to
offer you advice in any other matters — I only
want to impress upon you that your last chance
for your real claims — excuse me, I mean your
money claims — would be gone with the House
of Commons — gone with Sir Victor Champion
gone with any and every English statesman

if the claims were accompanied with the
faintest — the very faintest — whisper of dynastic
intrigues or even hopes.'

There are no intrigues,' Lord Stonehenge
said slowly and distinctly ; ' none whatever.
I think I may tell you also, Mr. Bellarmin,
that to men like Monslgnor Valmy and myself
there are no hopes within the range of any
horizon that the eyes of our intellect can
compass. If the right order of things is
ever to be restored, it will not be in our
time.'

It will be in Heaven's time,' Monsignor
Valmy said, bending his head.

We of this day and generation can do
nothing.'

'That is quite enough,' Bellarmin replied
gravely. ' You have satisfied all my scruples
and fears. Pray forgive my bluntness ; I had
to ask these questions.'

Even while they were speaking, General
Falcon had abruptly quitted the pavilion. It
was evident that even if he had no hopes, he
was not willing to admit the fact. Bellarmin
was the first to observe that he had gone.
Bellarmin said nothing then on the subject ;

but In his mind the ways of Falcon boded
trouble.

To Mary Beaton also Falcon's manner
seemed ominous. In truth, she had been
puzzled and vexed by his fitful moods of late,
his strange alternations of capricious faultfinding
and jealous affection. It was a relief
sometimes to turn to Lord Stonehenge, in
whom she always found a grave, respectful
devotion and care for her Interests, which In
many ways appeared more abstract than personal.
She had come to rely upon him In an
undemonstrative fashion almost more than
upon any other of her counsellors, and the
thought had flashed through her mind several
times during the past week or two that if she
were In any real difficulty, it would be to Lord
Stonehenge that she would apply for advice.

He was waiting for her alone at the little
landing-place when the skiff shot to shore,
and the young Prince of Saragossa, with his
exaggerated air of deference, bent on one
knee to the ground, and held the boat steady
while Mary Beaton stepped on land.

Madame,' said Stonehenge, * I think that
you have been long enough out of doors.

There is a mist rising, and we must be careful
of your health.'

Mt is you !' exclaimed Mary. * I thought
that solitary figure could only be Falcon,
waiting to rebuke me for my misdeeds. Has
he commissioned you to scold me ? Now I
am sure that you have all been talking politics
and discussing my claims, and the rest. And
Mr. Bellarmin took the sober nineteenth-century,
House-of-Commons view of the
matter ; and my poor General was indignant,
and went off in wrath ! Wasn't it
so ?'

We were discussing your claims, Madame.'


And you all quarrelled over them ?'

No ; we did not quarrel. We came to
the conclusion that it was best to let them
rest, as far as Parliament is concerned, till a
Prime Minister came in who would give them
his sympathy and support, and that may be
before long.'

And the Prime Minister will be Sir Victor
Champion ! I think I can count upon his
sympathy, if I can count on nothing else.
Well, it was a wise conclusion to come to,

VOL. II. 24

Lord Stonehenge ; but I am afraid it did not
suit General Falcon's temper, which seems irritated
against us all — myself included. Then
he went away in anger, and he left you as his
deputy to give me my scolding. 7 am quite
accustomed to being found fault with, and
made angry, so that you need not have any
scruples about beginning.'

Madame, I could not be so presumptuous,
unless anything serious — if it were a question
of your safety ; and then '

And then ?' repeated Mary, looking up at
him as she moved on by his side.

And then, Madame,' he said, in a tone
very unusual in him, ' I think it would be
easier to die for you than to make you
angry.'

She felt the thrill of his emotion ; it alarmed
and bewildered her a little. Was he, too,
becoming melodramatic ? She glanced up
at him again in a troubled way, and her
voice changed as she answered, with an
attempt to speak lightly :

One at least of your name. Lord Stonehenge,
vowed his life to the service of a
Stuart, and he gave it up at Newbury. I

was looking at his portrait yesterday, and do
you know that your face and his are very
much alike ? But those days are past,' she
added, ' happily for you and for me

Their ;spirit lives yet,' said Stonehenge,
and it will endure in me so long as my life
endures.'

He stopped and gazed at her solemnly,
she, too, standing still. A shaft of moonlight
pierced the thick foliage of a little grove
through which they were passing to the house,
and fell upon Mary's fair face and noble form.
The white scarf had dropped from her head,
but she held it loosely with her two hands
interlaced at her breast. Stonehenge bent
forward, and, taking one of her hands in his,
stooped low over it, and touched it with his
lips.

Madame,' he said, with an old-world
chivalry which might have befitted the
cavalier who had fallen at Newbury, ' this is
my act of homage to the queen and to the
woman. In all faith and sincerity, I lay my
heart and my life at your feet. They are
yours to do with what you will.'

The young girl started and crimsoned

24 — 2

deeply, and the tears gathered in her eyes.
She hardly realized the meaning of his words ;
she only felt that he was intensely in earnest.
She did not know whether this was a part of
the fantastic dream — the romantic fealty of
subject to sovereign, which even in these
prosaic times seemed the birthright of Stuart
blood — the rich breath of perfume from the
still unfading white rose ; or was it the red
rose of love which was held out to her — the
mere every-day offer of marriage from man
to woman ? She could have wept aloud in
the feeling of strangeness and loneliness and
odd humiliation that came over her. What
was she, that this man should rate her so
high ? Would he feel the same to her if she
were only Mary — Mary, with no noble name,
no historic lineage ? Was she any better off,
after all, in her sham royalty than the princesses
who could never know what it was to
be loved for themselves alone ?

Lord Stonehenge,' she cried impulsively,
why do you think of me like that } I'm nota
queen ; and I can't accept your life, or — or
anything except your friendship, and that I
do value with my whole heart. It is more

to me than even you perhaps could understand.'


I feel glad and happy to hear you say
that,' he answered quietly. * Since friendship
is the name you prefer, we will call it so ;
but, Madame, I want you to know fully that
everything else is included. What / call it
does not matter to you, and need never cause
you a moment's responsibility or uneasiness,
since in future it will not be for me to ask,
but for you to demand, or to bestow if
you think good. That is the privilege of
queens, you know,' he added, with a gentle
laugh.

They walked on for a few moments in
silence, and then, as if determined that she
should feel no doubt or embarrassment, he
resumed his ordinary manner, and began to
tell her the subject of their conversation in
the pavilion.

I don't understand General Falcon,' said
Mary thoughtfully ; * his manner is so strange
and variable. In truth,' she went on, ' I do
not know what he wants of me — or for me.
I sometimes fancy, Lord Stonehenge, that he
is so anxious to have these money claims

settled because, living in London, we are
spending more than we ought, and getting to
the end of our resources.'

Oh no, Madame,' interposed Stonehenge
hastily. ' Surely you need not be troubled
about that !'

It does not trouble me, even if it were the
case. I don't suppose that I shall come to
the workhouse, anyhow. And what right
have I to be better off than thousands of poor
creatures ? What does make me unhappy
sometimes is that I seem to have so little to
give away. I see so much misery, and I can
do nothing to remedy it.'

Mary sighed deeply. They entered the
house just then ; Lady Struthers, heroically
waiting her young mistress's pleasure, was
nodding in the inner hall in company of the
Reverend Dr. Amblaine, whom the bonds of
courtesy still detained.

The poor priest found no sympathetic soul
in Lady Struthers, but he had talked to her
about his beloved books all the same, and
had accepted the receipt for a cough mixture
which had benefited an hereditary prince.
And then he had watched her as she nodded,

and had pondered upon the emptiness of
an existence such as hers. Mary Beaton,
graver than was her wont, bade them goodnight,
and went at once to her own apartments.


WHAT WOULD YOU HAVE ME DO ?'

S^^fARY BEATON came down to
j^M ^ breakfast the next morning appal
gently in as light spirits as at
dinner the previous evening. She chattered
frivolously to Bellarmin, and playfully abused
him for acting the Tory and being at heart
the Radical. She, too, had determined that
her manner should give no indication of any
serious thought about him, either personal or
political, and if occasionally they both relapsed
from their prescribed parts, it was only
when they were alone, and, so to speak, off
their guard. She teased the Prince of Saragossa,
and rallied Falcon upon his unsociability
in a way that certainly did not tend to

put that veteran Into good humour. To the
two priests and Lord Stonehenge she was
quite different — womanly, sweet, and faintly
deferential. It was as if she wished the
priests to understand that she reverenced
their office, and to convey to Lord Stonehenge
that his curious outburst of the night
before had made no impression upon her,
except to increase her friendly regard.

This was not quite the case, however.
Mary had passed a perturbed night, and was
putting some strain upon herself this morning.
Of course she knew now that it rested with
her to become Lord Stonehenge's wife. She
had no thought of being his wife. She had
never considered such a prospect as within the
range of things possible to her. But she was
touched, nevertheless — the more touched because
he had wooed her so delicately, and in
such courtier-like fashion. She knew that he
would never definitely press his suit ; and he
had so phrased it as to leave her the choice
of accepting his true meaning. He had given
her to understand that it was for her if she
pleased to stretch out her hand to him, as
might a queen whose rank did not permit her

lover to approach her on equal terms ; and
he had also made it clear to her that if she
did not choose to regard him in the light of a
lover, she had the right to demand, and it
would be his joy to tender, the loyalty and devotion
of a subject. Such chivalrous homage,
far-fetched though it might be, was well calculated
to thrill the heart of a young girl with
womanly pride and tender exultation.

A little later, Falcon, with much formality,
requested an audience. Mary bade him come
to her in the boudoir of the suite of apartments
which Stonehenge, with much forethought
and study of her fancies, had caused
to be arranged for her use. She was tired,
and a little overwrought and preoccupied,
and in no mood for his querulous reproaches
on her thoughtless way of talking, her want of
dignity, her failure to appreciate the gravity
of the occasion, and the necessity for ruling
her conduct in such a manner as to further
the objects they had in view, instead of retarding
them.

You have not come to Stonehenge Park

o

for a mere holiday, Madame,' said Falcon, ina
tone severe as though he were chiding a

naughty schoolgirl. ' It is not only for amusement
that the guests under this roof have
been brought together.'

Indeed, General, there seems to me little
likelihood of amusement under this roof or
any other, while you represent the skeleton at
the feast. I thought that when people went
out of town for the Whitsuntide recess they
usually called it a holiday.'

You understand my meaning perfectly,
Madame. You were not so blind to your
interests when we first came to London.'

To judge by your manner, General Falcon,'
retorted Mary, ' I did not seem to play my
part any more to your satisfaction in London
than I appear to do here.'

Oh, I wish you would play a part — any
part that pleases you, so long as you chose it
out and kept to it, Madame,' replied Falcon
gruffly. ' But you act a dozen different parts
a day, just as the humour takes you.'

Assign me a part then, my good Falcon,
and I'll do my very best to play it and to keep
to it for the whole of this day.'

I want you to impress that young man
Bellarmin more than you do. He is a rising

man, they tell me, and he might do service.
He seems well inclined.' Mary glanced at
Falcon in surprise ; there seemed to her something
covert, dangerous in his tone — a sort
of studied self-repression. He corrected himself.
'I don't like him,' exclaimed the old
man, with a sudden gesture that betrayed
more than the words. * 1 suffer when I see
him with you, my Princess,' he went on with
something of pathetic appeal. ' It wounds
me ; it offends me ; it is sometimes more than
I can bear.'

You — General ?' began Mary falteringly.
How — what would you have me do ?'

My liking or my disliking is not to the
point,' Falcon answered, resuming his former
tone. ' Everything, everything of that sort
should be subservient to your interest.
We are playing a game — a great political
game.'

So you have often told me,' said Mary
wearily ; ' and in good truth, General, I am
tired of the pastime.'

That is how you regard it ! Yes ! Crowns,
hearts, fortunes, the divine rights which you
have inherited from your ancestors — what are

they to you ? Only a part of the pastime,
which you relished at first, and which is now
becoming tiresome to you !' He paused fora
moment. Mary stood silent — conscience-stricken
perhaps. ^ Madame, I want you to
impress this young man, whose political influence
can be turned to our service. You
have your part to play towards him, as towards
Champion, Tressel — the rest. Is it too much
to ask that you will play it becomingly ?'

A demure little smile flickered on Mary's
lips. She said, with a spark of girlish mischief,
' I had a faint hope, General, that I
was making some sort of impression on Mr.
Bellarmin.'

Is that your sense of what is befitting for
you ? — you ! that you should act the schoolgirl
— the hoyden ; run about the garden at
night, play silly pranks ; sing music-hall
songs '

Mary flushed a deep crimson. She drew
herself up in as stately a fashion as he could
have wished. ' Now, General Falcon, you
go too far. We have had enough of this.'

Madame, if I go too far, as you say, it is
because, for the sake of your dignity, I dare

to make you angry. I speak, at least, with
the authority which was committed to me by
your father.'

Any allusion to her dead parents instantly
turned the current of Mary Beaton's displeasure.
•' Well i^' she said in a softer tone.
But speak gently ; and remember ' — she
hesitated and smiled again, this time sadly —
remember that I am only a girl.'

Madame,' he replied, not noticing her last
words, * you know what I mean. The pretty
levity which might very fittingly attract a
man of Sir Victor Champion's age and great
qualities and renown, and to which in that
case I have nothing to say, would be out of
place with a man so much younger, so much
less distinguished. I want you to impress Mr.
Bellarmin with the sense of your position ;
of your personal dignity as well as the dignity
which you inherit. I want you to show yourself
a princess — the descendant of a line of
kings. He comes of the middle-class — that
hateful English middle-class ! They respect
only those who look down on them and keep
them at a distance. A man must be a gentleman
— more, an aristocrat, to understand that

a princess may be friendly with him, and
remain a princess still.'

Mr. Bellarmin seems to me a very perfect
gentleman,' said Mary. ' Quite a chivalrous
sort of youth, and on the old feudal pattern.
Is that English middle-class ? Well, I approve
of English middle-class. And Sir
Victor Champion — he is not middle-class
then, since I am to be permitted a touch of
levity in my manner to him ?'

You wilfully misunderstand and mock at
me. Levity is too strong a word. I should
not have used it. You have a certain manner
ah, I know its charm ! — a girlish impulsiveness,
which, to a statesman of mature years,
would be but a delicate compliment, a condescension
'

I see. Rank may stoop to elderly renown.

But tell me — I am curious — is Sir Victor

Champion middle-class ?'

He comes of the middle-class. Yes.'
Then through all my condescension, I

must impress him too with a sense of my

dignity ?'

You must, Madame. I especially request
it.'

Observe, I want to learn my part, which
seems a complicated and rather contradictory-one.
Is there anybody else, General Falcon,
to whom I may be affable, or must be haughty
anyone who is to be impressed with a sense
of my dignity ?'

Yes, there is, Madame — one for whom it
is far more needed than for any other.'

Indeed, dear Falcon ; and who may that
person be ?'

Yourself, Madame.'

Mary laughed gleefully.

I thought we were coming to that,' she
said. ' Well, now, what about Lord Stonehenge
?' Her voice faltered a little ; she
gave him a furtive glance from beneath her
drooped lashes. ' How am I to comport
myself with regard to him ? He is an aristocrat
— I suppose you will concede that — and
equal to drawing subtle distinctions. Is it to
be a case of dignity or impudence ?'

Madame !'

Don't be shocked. I was only alluding
to the name of a picture — Landseer's — don't
you remember ?'

No, Madame, I don't,' said Falcon decisively,

with the air of one who turns the
picture to the wall. ' But 1 wanted to speak
to you about Lord Stonehenge. I am glad
you brought up his name.'

I am glad I did anything right, General.
Well ?'

Play off Champion, and — yes — and this
young Bellarmin, against Stonehenge and the
priests,' Falcon said, with a sudden vehemence
that almost startled Mary, accustomed as she
was to his changing moods. * Let Stonehenge
see that you have other friends.'

I don't understand you at all this time,
my good Falcon. Tell me what you do
mean ?'

I don't distrust Lord Stonehenge,' Falcon
said hurriedly ; ' I don't wish you to distrust
him ; but we must show him that we have
other friends. About these money claims he
is of no use at all. He can't be of any use.
We must look to Champion for that. Lord
Stonehenge had better get to know that, and
be reminded that there are higher claims that
not he, nor any man on earth, must talk of
compromising.'

General Falcon,' Mary spoke very gravely,

VOL. II. 25

I cannot understand why you speak in such
a way of Lord Stonehenge. If any woman
ever had a true friend, I have one in Lord
Stonehenge. Do you think I don't know
that ? He is as true to me as — as yourself.'
She turned on him a searching, half-alarmed
look, which seemed to disconcert Falcon, for
he lowered his eyes to the ground. ' I will
play no part with him — or — with anybody. I
weill be myself; what God made me. Princess
or no Princess, what do I care ? Ah, yes,
I do care ! Do not be afraid, General, that I
shall act in any way unworthy of my Stuart
blood. I will keep my own self-respect. I
will not stoop to intrigue or double-dealing.
I am a Stuart, yes — but I am an honest
English girl, and — and — I will not play off
Mr. Bellarmin against Lord Stonehenge, or
Lord Stonehenge against Mr. Bellarmin ; or
Sir Victor against either — oh, you make things
too hard for me ! Is there nothing due to
myself ? Am I to have no consideration ?
Because I am a Stuart, and have claims — and
rights — which sometimes — Heaven forgive
me ! — seem as shadowy and unreal as if I
were a stage-princess and nothing more —

because of these, am I not to be allowed the
rights — and the feelings that other girls
have ? No, I can't bear it. I will not have
it, Falcon '

Tears gushed from Mary's eyes, and an
hysterical sob choked her voice. She waved
her hand in an agitated manner, in sign that
Falcon should leave her.

He bent on his knee at her feet, and kissed
the hand with which she was dismissing
him.

Oh, my Queen !' he exclaimed passionately.
It is because you are the girl — the woman,
that I seem hard with you — because you are

so adorable — because Oh, how can I

explain ? Mary, forgive me. Have patience
with me.'

I forgive you. General — if I have anything
to forgive,' said Mary, recovering herself at
the sight of his agitation. * But I am tired
and a little overdone, and I am weary of all
this talk about playing parts and securing
allies. Let me be for the present; and when
I am enjoying the roses and the moonlight,
and — and Don Jose's fun, don't frown upon
me and poison all my harmless pleasure. It's

25—2

only for a few days, General. Let me be
happy for a few days.'

He left her ; and for the rest of that day
was soft and tender in his manner as she
could wish.

I fancy *' the zeal of your house has eaten
him up," ' said Bellarmin.

He spoke of General Falcon, whose moody
manner had been the subject of discussion ;
if, indeed, that could be called discussion, in
which Mary's part consisted only of constrained
and embarrassed answers. They
were walking alone together in the grounds
of Stonehenge, and their footsteps had turned
towards a little pine-forest, not far from the
house, which was one of Mary's favourite
resorts. Mary was grave, and seemed depressed.
Bellarmin was grave, too. Sir
Victor Champion was to arrive that day.
He was concerned also on Mary's account.
He feared that her poor little project would
only break to pieces among all the schemes
that were going on ; and he was daily growing
to have more and more distrust of the discretion
of General Falcon.

There was a little summer-house standing
on the green moss just at the pine-wood's
edge.

Let us go in,' Mary said abruptly. ' I
want to sit in that summer-house ; it is of
bark, and it reminds me of Karl August's
summer-house of bark — that Goethe was so
fond of — in the park at Weimar. Don't you
remember ?'

No, I never was at Weimar.'

How strange ! Why don't you go at
once ?'

He did not particularly want to go anywhere
at the time, away from the spot where
they were standing.

I am so busy with politics,' he said ; ' I
am tied to London.'

He spoke almost sullenly. He was a little
vexed with her for dropping the subject of
Falcon. She seemed to guess his thoughts,
for she said, in a meditative but resolute
manner, as she sat down on one of the bark
seats :

'Yes, I know it. Indeed, I am afraid
Falcon makes a conscience out of me. He
compels himself to believe that whatever is

of advantage to me is the right thing to do.
I almost think I could make him run away
from a battle if I could only appear at the
critical moment and tell him that it would
interfere with my plans if he did not instantly
quit the field. It is very serious having the
soul of a grown man thus on one's conscience.'

I have an instinctive impression that
General Falcon doesn't like me,' Bellarmin
said. ' I am sorry, for I wanted to like him.
He hardly takes any pains to conceal his
dislike.'

Oh ! that is it .'^ He thinks you are too
light and frivolous, I fancy,' Miss Beaton said,
with an evident effort to seem unconcerned.
And then I don't suppose he takes much to
anyone who interests or amuses me. He
has not really any conscientious objection to
my being amused ; but he thinks I ought to
be amused in a more queenly sort of way. I
should not be surprised if he were to get it
into his mind that you abet me in my frivolity
instead of discouraging me. But, pray,
don't try to win his affections by joining with
him to discourage me. Life is in general a
very melancholy piece of business, Mr. Bellarmin.

The sadness seems to peep out upon
us from all sides, as something gruesome
appears to do sometimes when we are walking
in the dark — don't you know ? And I think
we want every help to get us out of the gloom
and the morbidness as often as we can. At
least, I find it so,' she said, with a half-suppressed
sigh.

Yet surely life must have been very bright
and happy for you ?' Bellarmin said, in a tone
of the deepest interest.

You think so ? Why ?' said Mary, turning
upon him with a sort of mournful
solemnity. * Because my mother died when
I was only a child ; because my father died
when I was only a girl ; because I have no
kith or kin who are in any true way dear tome
; because I have to live the life of a sham
Princess ; because lam surrounded by a tiny
mock Court ; because I have to do the things
I don't want to do, and can hardly ever do
any of the things I want to do ; because I
have always been walled about with forms
and ceremonies ; and because I know that I
am a centre of all manner of plans and
schemes which are not likely to come to anything

; because I hardly ever knew any young
people or could talk to other girls freely ;
because — oh, a lot of other because, which I
don't mean to run through ! If all this
means happiness, then indeed, God-mercy,
I am the very happiest young woman in
England !'

Bellarmin was infinitely touched by her
words, which seemed to him but the echo of
some of his own thoughts. He was impressed,
too, by the evidence of the clear good sense
and reasonableness which her little speech
contained. It broke down all the barriers
of reserve he had set up within himself.
Madame,' he said, with a certain diffidence
and yet with impulsive earnestness, ' may I
speak to you a lite freely ? You will not
take offence at what I say ?'

She fixed her deep, soft eyes on him.
Yes ; say what you like, Mr. Bellarmin. I
know you would not say anything which was
meant to wound or to vex me. I am not a
woman to take offence at the words of a
friend.'

It is this : why allow yourself to be employed
in these visionary schemes ? Why

keep chasing a phantom ? You must have seen
for yourself long ago that there is no chance,
no hope, or even ghost of a chance. Why
waste away the sweetest years of your life In
an ambition which can come to nothing, and
which I don't believe is your ambition at all ?'

And it is Mr. Bellarmin who speaks to mein
this way,' she said, with a dreamy far-off
look In her eyes ; ' Mr. Bellarmin, of whom
his friends and his enemies alike say that he
is the most ambitious man In England !'

Do they say that of me ?' Bellarmin asked,
with a shadow coming over his face. He
would have wished her just then to think of
him as made for something better than mere
political ambition.

Yes ; they say that of you. They say
that you threw in your fortunes with the
Tory Party, because you thought there were
much better chances for a man of talent or
genius, or whatever It is, with the Tories
than with the Liberals. See how I have
learned your political gossip and your political
vocabulary already ! Yes ; they do say
that ; and do you know, Mr. Bellarmin, I was
rather attracted by it. It seemed interesting ;

the idea of the young man thus letting his
ambition go its own way. If I were a man,
I should be in your House of Commons. It
seems to me the only place left now where
the honourable ambition of a man of spirit
can find outlet or goal. And you preach tome
against ambition !'

I am not so ambitious as I was,' he said
slowly ; ' at least, in the same sort of way. I
think differently about some things ; I have
altered my standard of value ; I shall perhaps
alter it more and more. Besides, even if I
were acting only out of mere ambition, it is
an ambition which has clear, practical objects
before it — objects that one might in reason
hope to attain.'

And mine has none such,' she said gravely.
I understand what you mean. But you
don't quite know what my secret ambition
really was. Shall I tell you } From my
childhood up, those around me kept telling
me I was like Mary Stuart. Well, it became
my pride to be like her ; my one ambition to
be more and more like her. Yes ; you can't
know, you couldn't know, how this ambition
filled my soul, and governed almost every



movement I made. To be like Mary Stuart ;
to captivate hearts of women as well as men,
just as she did ; to be a great politician like
her — even to go to the scaffold like her — that
was my dream. It was charming enough
over there, when one was a sort of star of a
small Court, and had nobody near but those
who flattered one's vanity, and taught one to
believe in one's self. But here — well, one
learns a different lesson. It is like coming
straight from the dream of the morning into
the cold, hard life of a London street, where
you are jostled by a whole crowd, and known
by nobody. My dream is over.'

As she stood up, and let her hands fall by
her sides with the gesture of one who dismisses
an illusion for ever, she looked more
like Mary Stuart than she had ever seemed to
Bellarmin before. His soul was filled with
sympathy, with pity, with intense admiration.


From that dream,' he said softly, ' who
could wish to rouse you ? Not I, at least.
But the other illusion, why encourage it ; why
keep it up ? It can only end in the most utter
disappointment; even, perhaps, disaster.'

She turned upon him vehemently, passionately.


What would you have me do ?' she
asked.

Live here in England and be happy,
since you like the place. Give up all the
appearance and the retinue of a Court — the
sham royalty ; drop the part of exiled Princess
— you don't seem to like it, or to believe
in it any more than I do ; meet society as an
Englishwoman, as the daughter of an English
peer — as what you are. You will find in
English life all you want — all that even 

ambition can want ; and you will have the sense
of being real.'

She smiled, a rather wan and melancholy
smile.

Yes, they are right, Mr. Bellarmin. You
are an ambitious man. Perhaps all men are
like that in one way or other. Don't you
notice that you have not appealed to me by
one single word which did not concern my
personal ambition or my personal feelings of
some kind ? Why did you not tell me that
if I settled down to the quiet life of a London
lady I might have plenty of opportunities of

doing some good for the poor and the miserable,
about whom you have so often heard
me lamenting ? I suppose you suspected that
there was nothing very deep and lasting in
the tone of the lamentation — that it was of
the same order of sentiment as my sham
Mary Stuartism, and my sham pretensions to
the place of a princess. But, do you know, I
think you were wrong — I think you judged
me wrongly. I think if anyone could show
me how I could better serve some unhappy
human creatures, I might be glad to give up
my life and my claims and my aerial royalty,
and to live and die a benevolent old maid !
There — I have been talking enough about
myself, and enough of nonsense — for once ;
and see, Mr. Bellarmin, there is Sir Victor
Champion.'

The statesman was coming towards them
in the company of Lord Stonehenge and
Monsignor Valmy. He was deep in conversation
with the priest, and his fine intellectual
head, with its clear-cut features and rather
long hair, was bent in grave interest. Both
Mary and Bellarmin noted the firm elastic
manner of his tread, his look of force and

vitality, and the dominance which his whole
bearing suggested.

He is a great man,' said the girl, almost
below her breath.

Yes, he is a great man,' Bellarmin answered.


Sir Victor's face lighted with pleasure — and
something more than pleasure — at the sight of
Mary Beaton. His manner of greeting her
was peculiar. He took her two hands in his
as a fatherly old friend might have done, but
he bowed over them with all the deference of
a courtier.

THE STONEHENGE NEGOTIATIONS.

T was perfectly well understood at
Stonehenge that Sir Victor Champion
was to be pleased and conciliated.
Nobody said this ; nobody distinctly
gave it out ; certainly neither Lord Stonehenge
nor Monsignor Valmy uttered a word
on the subject to the general company ; but
the purpose was afloat all the same. The
nearest approach to any open allusion to this
policy was made one morning by Stonehenge
to Monsignor Valmy in one of the libraries —
the house had several libraries.

How does one best please a great man ?'
Stonehenge asked, as if abstractedly.

By making him think he is pleasing everybody,'
was the ready and quiet answer.

Stonehenge smiled.

I believe you are right,' he said ; ' but
are there not great men who don't care to
please ?'

I never met one. Great men, like small
men, get sour and rough when they think
they have not the art of pleasing. A man
must care for men before he can become a
misanthrope.'

Everyone, according to Horace, drags his
tail. Everyone, according to the American
politician's expression, has his axe to grind.
There was some silent preparation for the
grinding of axes at Stonehenge. Lord Stonehenge's
icy integrity of purpose did not in the
least interfere to keep him out of this general
grinding operation. He was one of the men
who will readily do, for a cause, things which
they would disdain to do for themselves. He
was therefore willing to go out of his way to
conciliate Champion, and even to conciliate
Bellarmin, for the sake of Mary Beaton's
claims. The money claims are, of course,

understood ; Lord Stonehenge knew far more
about Mary Beaton's pecuniary affairs than
she did herself, and knew that her suspicion
was correct ; and he knew that Falcon was
playing a venturesome game, and that if the
money claims on the British Government
were not soon acknowledged, the poor Princess's
Court and state dignity, such as they
were, must all too soon contract, or even
collapse. He was fully convinced of the
moral and even the legal justice of the claims,
but he knew they would stand in need of
vigorous and clever Parliamentary pushing.
A man like Bellarmin might be very useful ;
but a man like Sir Victor Champion would be
invaluable.

Monsignor Valmy was of the same mind as
Lord Stonehenge, and was prepared to assist
him in his projects ; but the priest's motives
were not quite the same as those of his host.
Monsignor Valmy was particularly anxious
that Lord Stonehenge should marry. It was
about time, he thought. Stonehenge was no
longer young ; Stonehenge's brother, who
would succeed in the event of the elder having
no son, was a good-for-nothing creature, a

VOL. II. 26

purposeless idler, and a man about town.
Therefore Monsignor Valmy wanted Stonehenge
to marry, and the dearest wish of his
heart on that subject was that Stonehenge
should marry Mary Beaton.

Sir Victor Champion came to Stonehenge
Park very much because Mary Beaton had
attracted him, and he wished to see more of
her, but principally to have the opportunity
of talking over Bellarmin. Bellarmin came
to meet Mary Beaton because she had bidden
him ; not because he intended to be false to
Lady Saxon's claim upon him — but perhaps
because his conscience revolted against that
claim, and Mary's influence was like a soothing
anodyne. Mary had come to be amused,
and she found, alas ! that amusement was not
precisely the object she had attained. She
did not analyze her feelings, however, but
allowed herself to drift as the current bore
her. And Bellarmin did the same ; and he
relaxed his guard upon himself and allowed
his scruples to be lulled under the sweet charm
of her society.

So these two young people grew into closer
intimacy and companionship ; and almost unconsciously

to both, neither of them looked
forward with any great eagerness to Sir Victor's
arrival. It seemed to Mary, somehow, that
the best part of her holiday would be over ;
and Bellarmin found reason to believe, from
what Mary had said to him, that Sir Victor
would try to make a political convert of him.
Lady Saxon had prepared him for this too ;
and he remembered his promise to her, and
faithfully intended to keep it. But she had
not given him to understand that Champion
would go out of his way to make immediate
overtures. The idea was a little embarrassing,
but he could not run away. Indeed, he had
no wish to run away, and he was only made
uncomfortable by his own attitude of uncertainty
and Sir Victor's coolness. Nor was
his discomfort in any way diminished by the
manner in which Sir Victor devoted himself
to Mary, and the increasing gratification
which — he told his vexed heart — Mary was
learning to feel from the great statesman's
attentions.

Certainly Sir Victor Champion was very
much attracted by Mary Stuart Beaton ; and
certainly also no one suspected the true nature

26 — 2

of the attraction less than Mary herself. Falcon
observed it, and grew more and more
silent and sullen ; and Bellarmin noticed it
and was jealous, though he told himself that
he had no right to care ; and Stonehenge saw
it, and his manner to Sir Victor became even
more courteous, and his manner to Mary even
more gentle and friendly still. But the sadness
in his refined face deepened ; and there
seemed in it a yet greater likeness to his
melancholy-featured ancestor who had given
up his life for the King at Newbury.

To Mary, and even contrary to her expectations,
Sir Victor's presence was a relief and
a pleasure. She was a little wayward, this
girl, and there had come upon her a vague
reaction, after her innocent flirtation with
Bellarmin. She felt so safe with Sir Victor,
who was so much older than the rest, not
very much younger indeed than Falcon ; for
what difference is there between a man of
forty-seven and a man of sixty-five in the
eyes of a girl of twenty ? And then the man
who would be Prime Minister of England
was upon a plane far removed from that occupied
by the others. It did not occur to her

that he might be looked upon as a possible
suitor. She need not stand upon ceremony
with him, or have any fear of giving cause for
misconstruction. His great gifts and his important
position in the service of his country,
justified her in granting him privileges to
which even Falcon could not object. In this
regard, she had the pleasing consciousness
that she was fulfilling Falcon's behests, and
that in a way that was perfectly natural to her.
She had got over her first little shyness with
him. She even presumed sometimes to make
a jest of his political prospects. ' When you
are Prime Minister and busy abolishing the
House of Lords, you won't have time to explain
the British Constitution to me,' she
would say laughingly. But in the meanwhile
she begged him to tell her all about the Constitution
and about many other matters besides
; and she would listen to him with the
deepest attention, and would ask him sudden
naive questions about the English Court and
about the business of statecraft, and about the
great measures he had helped to make law.
Sometimes, too, they would talk seriously about
legislation and the amelioration of national

evils ; and he would listen to her ignorant
criticisms on life, which were withal so fresh
to him, and encourage her to give out to
him her crude enthusiasms with an interest
and indulgence which would have made some
of his political followers, anxious to get the ear
of their chief for their own particular theories,
turn pale with wrath and envy. Thus Mary-found
a constant and delightful companion in
Sir Victor, and was innocently flattered by
his attentions. She had perhaps visions of
doing good, and of exercising a beneficent
political influence ; and she had already made
him promise to go with her to visit her Southwark
parish, that he might see for himself the
poverty and the misery which she fancied he
had never had time to look into ; and he was
going to help her in emigrating some of the
starving artisans ; and he was going to give
consideration to the feasibility of providing
food for the children who came breakfasted
to the Board schools, and went home with
little prospect of a dinner. All this so filled
her mind, that she almost forgot the Stuart
claims and the part she was expected to
fulfil. Had she remembered, she might

not have succeeded in playing her part so
well.

There was a certain strain of mysticism and
of veneration in Champion's nature that struck
a chord harmonious with that devotional
tendency so marked in Mary Beaton, and
which was perhaps an hereditary trait in her.
To Sir Victor, the society of the priests was
a source of peculiar pleasure. He liked to
lead up to philosophical and metaphysical discussion,
to talk of the development of creeds,
to compare rather than to contrast the doctrines
of schools, to endeavour to enter into
the feelings of the worshipper of Past, and
the self-suppression of the hermit in the
Thebaid. Materialism was the only form of
human belief or disbelief into which Champion
found himself absolutely incapable of entering,
which had for him no meaning, and won from
him no sympathy. Monsignor Valmy also
delighted in such subjects of discussion, and
Champion found something strangely congenial
in the strain of spiritual idealism which
the ecclesiastic infused into his conversation.
Monsignor Valmy's Catholicism was of the
widest range ; to one not of his own faith he

rarely talked of creed, save in its most abstract
sense. Men not of his own faith sometimes
found fault with his very wideness of
view and his comprehensive, candid tolerance
of differing opinion. It was the arrogance of
the Roman churchman, they would have it ;
he was so satisfied of the final triumph of his
own Church, that he already regarded every
other human creature as one of the same fold,
whether the other human creature would have
it so or not. The gentle resignation and
sweet piety of Dr. Amblaine had, on the
other hand, a soothing effect on the mind of
the world-fretted statesman, and helped him
the more to enjoy his holiday at Stonehenge.
It was one of the peculiarities of Champion's
complex nature that, iconoclast as he was
supposed to be, iconoclast as indeed in one
sense he was, his soul was suffused with the
sentiment of reverence and religion.

One day Monsignor Valmy touched delicately
on this seeming contradiction.

It sounds strangely in my ears, Sir Victor,'
he said, ' when I hear people talk of you as a
man of revolutionary ideas. I always think
of you as, in spirit, one of tis — of us who

believe in the guiding Hand from above, in
faith founded at the beginning of things, and
in the Divine order of the universe.'

I understand you,' Champion said musingly
; ' I confess it is a thing by which my
own mind has sometimes been vaguely
puzzled. But you will not think me arrogant
when I say that I believe the destroyer of
the form is often he who is most profoundly
reverent of the spirit. Would you not admit
that something of the kind might be said of
Pascal ? — not that I am vain enough to compare
myself with Pascal. It is the tendency of our
progress, or what we call progress, to thicken
and increase the outer layers which envelop
the soul of a national or a religious institution,
so that the miner light shows more and more
dimly, until at last it ceases, to most eyes, to
be visible at all. Then is the time for the
reformer to rend and tear away ; and while
he is doing this, he seems no doubt to be
putting the light out, but his only object is tolet
it blaze forth to the world again in all its
pure and pristine brilliancy. I hold,' he went
on after a brief silence, during which the
priest's eyes had been steadfastly fixed on his

face — ' I hold that the reformer is as much
the product of previous causes and effects as
the very condition of things it is his mission
to destroy. He is but an instrument, and has
no power of controlling the tendencies and
the sometimes contradictory impulses which
guide him this way or that, but always to a
certain goal — unrecognised, it may be, even
by himself. What seems a stupendous egotism
may be but instinctive submission to a compelling
destiny

Yes,' answered Monsignor Valmy. ' Amid
all our philosophies and attempts at solution of
the many problems of life, it seems inevitable
that the soul should fall back upon the idea of the
Hebraistic God — the personal ruling divinity.'

You are right,' said Champion. * It is a
strange feeling,' he went on thoughtfully, his
dark eyes dilating as they always did in
moments of earnestness, ' to find one's self,
after having tried to worship the Pantheistic
God, as all with the artistic temperament are
sure to do, in touch once more with the
Hebraistic Deity of our childhood. Wasn't
it Heine who said at the last, '' The Pantheistic
God is of no use " ? One is forced, as

you say, to submit to the idea of a celestial
despotism — the edict given forth from above
and to the practice of a blind faith. The
worst of it is, a horrible doubt whether our
drafts of faith will be honoured. It does
sometimes seem, in our disheartened moods,
as though the Demiourgos had been permitted
to make a world and where laughing at his own
experiment ; and it is this kind of mood,
Monsignor Valmy, that the Church and its
discipline alone can combat successfully.'

We have the law from above and the
interpreter here below,' replied Valmy. * It
is often said that the discipline of the Church
exercises a stultifying effect upon man's w411.
Not so ; the object of discipline is to train
and purify and eventually free the will, so
that it becomes, in a sense, a separate entity.
Sorrow, struggle, and experience are needed
for this ; and the spiritual education that the
Church gives may be more rapid and effectual
than that wrought through the illusions of
life. Face to face with love and death —
either in spirit or body — the Pantheistic God
vanishes As he uttered the word ' love,' a
certain far-off human emotion seemed to light

the priest's thin ascetic countenance. He
looked dreamily towards Bellarmin as he
spoke. ' What support is there in flower or
sunset, in forest glory or beauty of trackless
sea, to the soul fighting in the open ? " My
God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me ?"
becomes its natural utterance in the hour of
crisis.'

What puzzles me most,' broke in Rolfe
Bellarmin, who had come nearer during the
discussion — ' what puzzles me most in the
method of humanity's government, is that
process of education by illusion. It makes
us sceptics at one stage or another. We
go through so many phases that sometimes
it is impossible to believe in the reality
of any of our emotions. That's the most
hurtful sort of scepticism, I think, and the
most likely to make us feel that everything is
chance, or that a devil has the management
of affairs. Seems an odd form of education,
don't it, which creates distrust in the Avhole
scheme ? I have sometimes got hold of a
notion that our bodies are taken possession
of now and then by wandering spirits, and
that we die and are born again many times in

our lives. One looks back upon a love that
is dead, a condition of mind that has completely
altered, an enthusiasm that has vanished to
the winds, and the remembrance of which only
provokes a smile ; and though there runs a
certain slight thread of continuity through all,
the man who passed through each of these
stages is, without doubt, a different I.'

Bellarmin spoke with bitterness. He was
thinking of experiences of his own.

Ah !' began Mary Beaton impetuously ;
I, too, have felt the same.'

She had come nearer also. It sometimes
seemed as though Champion unconsciously
exercised a sort of magnetic influence, so that
when he talked, those who were a little apart
dropped their own conversation and drew
towards him. The girl glanced at Bellarmin
with quickened interest. They had been
sitting together, and their talk had touched
upon one subject after another in a vague,
fugitive manner till, a little while before, they
had subsided into silence. It was a rainy
afternoon, and several of the party had collected
in the vast hall, which was large enough
for each one to pursue his or her separate

avocation quite alone and apart if so inclined.
The sound of falling drops on the glass dome
overhead, the subdued light entering through
stained windows, the oak-panelled walls and
massive carved mantels, the dim faces of the
portraits, the spectral suits of armour, and,
indeed, the whole atmosphere of the place,
produced a dreamy sense of languor, and a
not disagreeable melancholy that was conducive
to such a tone of conversation.

I don't believe that we are ourselves,' the
girl went on, in an eager tone ; * I mean that
I half believe in the theory that we have all
lived before, and that everything we do and
think and say is just carrying on what we
were in some former Hfe — like a flower that
springs up again when summer comes, the
same that it was last summer, only that it is
another flower.'

A new rose on the old stem,' said Monsignor
Valmy, smiling indulgently upon her.

Monsignor,' said Mary, turning to him ina
reverential manner, ' I hope that you do
not find anything heretical in my fanciful
idea, which, after all, is so old and so much
in people's minds nowadays.'

The bosom of our Mother Church Is orreat
enough surely, and tender enough, to enfold
all theories which, in darker ages, have
brought troubled humanity nearer to the
Divine Ruler,' replied Monsignor gravely.
I have never thought of the theory of reincarnation
as totally opposed to the Divine
revelation which we have received. It would,
on the contrary, seem to throw some light
upon difficult problems with which, however,
we need not greatly concern ourselves, seeing
that God has given us faith and light for our
guidance in this present life, and the assurance
of a most blessed spiritual condition when it
is ended.'

The priest leaned back in his chair, and his
eyes were hovered to the cross on his breast,
as he were silently communing with his soul.
There was a little pause. Presently Champion
said, glancing from Miss Beaton's face
to the portrait of Mary Stuart which hung
near to where she was sitting, ' Madame's
theory might certainly gain corroboration
from that picture, and would open out a field
of very romantic speculation.'

At least,' said Stonehenge, who had come

in a few moments before, ' it would go towards
explaining that curious thread of destiny
which seems to run through all human relationships,
and which draws certain groups
of persons together. Has it ever struck you,
considering the inexhaustible capabilities of
life, how limited is the sphere of each of us,
and how, in spite of continual efforts that some
of us make to change surrounding conditions,
we are impelled by persons, associations, tendencies
— all sorts of intangible but irresistible
influences — to follow a course perhaps entirely
opposed to our wishes and inclinations ?'

In fact,' said Champion, 'every group represents
a psychological drama, for the
denouement of which we can only wait.'
Then he branched off abruptly to discussion
of the Greek Fate, and its influence upon
later drama. ' Fate works on groups,' he
said ; ' never on one sole human being. Man
is never alone with Fate ; the Greeks understood
this.'

Shut off from the outside world though
they were, the little party found no lack of
interest and amusement. A week passed
very quickly amid such surroundings as those

of Stonehenge Park. They did not go out
on the lake again after dinner ; but it was
discovered that the Reverend Dr. Amblaine
had a passion for the violoncello almost equal
to that with which he cherished his books,
and that Champion added to his varied gifts
a fine cultivated taste in music. So there
were concerts every evening within doors.
The Prince of Saragossa and Miss Beaton
sang duets to the accompaniment of piano
and violoncello ; Lady Struthers performing
on the former instrument, and the two young
people representing an operatic scena in
dramatic fashion. Then Mary's sweet, clear
voice would sometimes break into a Border
song or a melancholy Scotch ballad, and
Champion himself was more than once caught
joining in a spirited Jacobite chorus. Sometimes
Bellarmin would steal out through the
open window into the night, and from the
shelter of a trellis of roses he would gaze into
the lighted room and upon the fair face of
Mary Stuart Beaton, as she stood by the
piano, with her bosom gently heaving under
the stiff brocaded bodice, and her soft brown
eyes upraised and alight, and all her heart in the
VOL. II. 27

pathetic words of the well-known song which
thrilled her listeners :

Yester-e'en the Queen had four Maries,

The day she'll hae but three :
There was Mary Beaton, and Mary Seton,
And Mary Carmichael, and me.'

It was a mournful plaint, and the young girl's
voice trembled with genuine emotion when
she reached the last verse.

Somehow it hurt Bellarmin that anything
so tragic should be associated with his bright,
winsome Mary. The same thought must
have been in Champion's mind, for he went
up to her when she had ended, and said with
affectionate insistence :

Oh, do not sing that again while we are
here ! Do me this great favour. The feeling
you put into it is too real. Vou ought to
awaken only joyous memories. Our Mary
Stuart shall recall no darksome suggestion of
Holy rood. The brightness and the bloom
shall be hers. Let the tragedy remain in the
past.'

Notwithstanding his earlier designs, it is
possible that Sir Victor was so much engrossed
with Mary Beaton's society as to be willing

to let all vulgar worldly considerations go by
for the moment. Or, perhaps, with a certain
Epicurean thoroughness, which characterized
his temperament where his pleasures were
concerned, he wished to enjoy to the full the
idyllic charm of this country visit without too
hastily introducing a discordant element. It
was enough to talk ecclesiastics with Monsignor
Valmy, literature with Stonehenge and
Dr. Amblaine, abstract Jacobitism with Falcon,
and to explore the recesses of Mary's
intelligent mind without bringing practical
politics to the fore — at any rate, for a day or
two. However that might have been, he did
not rush at Bellarmin. He was extremely
courteous and friendly to the young man, but
nothing in his manner showed any desire fora
private conference. Bellarmin began to
think that Miss Beaton must have been mistaken,
and that no purpose beyond that of
enlisting Champion's sympathy in the question
of the Stuart inheritance had been in
anyone's mind. Perhaps he was, after all,
just a little disappointed. He was not, then,
so important a personage as people imagined.
Some two or three mornings after Sir

27 — 2

Victor's arrival, Bellarmin was standing on
the terrace looking vaguely over the trees
and the lake and the whole landscape. He
was moody and discontented, though he
hardly dared to analyze his feelings ; and he
was beginning to be conscious of an uncomfortable
questioning within himself as to why,
having obeyed Miss Beaton's command and
come to Stonehenge Park, he now remained
there, when he did not seem to be much
wanted. The whole of that morning he had
not seen Mary. She did not seem inclined
to visit the summer-house now. ' She is
better occupied,' he said to himself; and then
came the murmur, ' I think I'll go back to
London.'

This is better than London, Mr. Bellarmine,'
a rich and musical voice said at his very
ear. Bellarmin almost started. The words
sounded so like an answer to his thought, that
for a moment he doubted whether he had not
expressed his thought aloud. But Sir Victor
Champion, who had come out of the house
and was standing beside him, was evidently
offering a general observation. So Bellarmin
agreed that the terrace at Stonehenge was a

better place on which to pass a fine morning
than even the terrace of the House of
Commons.

You know the history of this place, no
doubt,' Sir Victor said carelessly ; * Lord
Stonehenge would have told you.'

I have a rough general idea,' Bellarmin
answered, not feeling quite sure whether Sir
Victor really wanted to talk about Stonehenge
Park or not ; ' I haven't had much chance of
hearing Lord Stonehenge talk about it.'

Not yet ? No ? Well, it is one of the
most delightful narratives in the history of
our great family houses. I am satisfied that
no country is so rich as England in the history
of houses — family houses. But I must not
anticipate Lord Stonehenge's description.
He can show you everything — the exact spot
of which each tradition speaks. Get him to
show you. He will like to be asked. He is
shy. He wants to be made to talk — to be
drawn out.'

I shall be delighted to hear something
about it from you, meanwhile. Sir Victor. I
am sure you know all about it just as well as
Lord Stonehenge.'

No, no. It would be unfair — in a man's
own house. Besides, as I have got hold of
you, Mr. Bellarmin, I think I should rather
talk to you about something else — just
now.'

My time is come,* Bellarmin said to himself.
Aloud he said, * Anything you wish.
Sir Victor.'

Suppose we walk up and down, Mr. Bellarmin.
A little chilly still, don't you think
so?'

Bellarmin remembered Osric's way of falling
in with the Lord Hamlet's changes of
mood concerning the weather. But he said
nothing on that subject, and the twain began
to pace up and down the great terrace.

We are the only two politicians in this
house at present,' Sir Victor said, * you and I.
One can hardly call Lord Stonehenge a politician
— he lives in a more rarefied atmosphere
than that of politics ; although I, for one,
have not admitted that a politician may not
breathe the very purest air.'

When are we coming to the point ?' Bellarmin
asked himself ; ' when are we to hear
of the new political combination ?' Sir Victor

apparently was not coming to it at all, for he
only said :

I have observed your Parliamentary career
with great interest, Mr. Bellarmin. You seem
instinctively to have gone the right way about
it. A young man now must seize the attention
of the House of Commons if he wants to
get a chance within any reasonable time. It
was different in my early Parliamentary days.
Then, we young men were supposed to be
bound down by all sorts of forms and rules
not to open our mouths until the middle of
our second session, and so on. All that was
absurd. I believe in young men, and the
fresh breath coming in from the outer world.'

There was a subtle suggestion in all this
that Bellarmin's early escapades in the House
of Commons were the outcome of deliberate
purpose and keen Parliamentary foresight.
Bellarmin was pleased, but he felt that he
could not accept the praise with a clear conscience.


I am afraid that it was schoolboy impetuosity,
Sir Victor, and not any reasonable
purpose.'

No, no. I am sure you do yourself injustice.

It only amounts to this, that you
came in under new conditions, and you saw —
instinctively perhaps — that there were new
conditions, and what they were. I have
observed other young men who came in
about the same time as you, and if you will
excuse me for saying so, under more favouring
auspices — such as the traditional influence
of great families, and all that — and they are
yet waiting to begin, while you have already
well, made a name.'

Bellarmin could not but feel gratified. Sir
Victor's words sounded genuine.

Of course you have yet to make your
way Sir Victor went on. * But you will do
that. The quick judgment which has guided
you so far will guide you still farther. You
have not been speaking quite so often of late.
That, too, is well — in a young man who
wants to show that he can be something
more than a young man. You were right at
first, and you are right now.'

I fear I only followed my humour in both
instances,' Bellarmin said, with a boyish
smile. At first Bellarmin had felt somewhat
as a snake might have felt when about to be

brought within the sphere of the serpent-charmer.
He fancied that he was, in a sort
of way, entrapped into the magic circle, and
that he would need to have all his faculties at
work if he would escape with his freedom.
But as he got into easy talk with Sir Victor, he
found this sensation began to fade, and he felt
with each instant less and less necessity for
keeping on his guard. Sir Victor did not seem
to be greatly interested in any partizan plots or
scheming. He appeared only to be occupied
with a kind of professional or artistic interest
in the Parliamentary career of Bellarmin himself.
He spoke as the veteran general of
division might talk, when in sympathetic
mood and in the sheltered familiarity of private
intercourse, to the promising young
cadet whom he has already seen more than
once under fire.

Well, yes ; I said that you had got into
the right way instinctively ; but in all such
cases what we call instinct is only unconscious
intellectual foresight. You began, of course,
where I began — where we all begin. Strange
what a fascination for young Englishmen that
conservative principle has ! There is something

romantic and poetic about it, I suppose.
One venerates it — like an old English ruin
with the ivy clinging round it.'

Must one cease to venerate the ruin, Sir
Victor ?'

Oh no ; I hope not — surely not ; but one
finds he can't live in the ruin and make it his
home. I found that You are finding it. I
should not hasten my discovery if I were you,
or my disillusion, or whatever it is. It will
come in time. Let it wait.'

People say you would like to rush things.
Sir Victor, don't they ?'

Do they ? Yes ; I suppose they do. But
that is quite a mistake. The only foundation
for it is that I like to have the country prepared
for a change that is inevitable. To go
back to our ruin — when I see some of the
walls of the house beginning to crumble, I
think it well to set about arranging for rebuilding
or removal. I don't believe it wise
policy to wait till the roof comes crashing in.
That is my idea about the House of Lords.'

Sir Victor looked Bellarmin frankly in the
face. There was frankness, more than frankness
— there was an implied fulness of confidence

in the words and the look. The plans
about the House of Lords were supposed to
be so entirely confidential between Champion
and his closest political agents, that any agent
who made the very disclosure he was sent
out to make might be repudiated by his
chief. This had been put very plainly to
Bellarmin by the unabashed Tressel. Bellarmin
was therefore all the more surprised to
hear Sir Victor now refer so openly and
directly to his policy about the House of
Lords. It could only be a compliment to
Bellarmin. Bellarmin accepted it accordingly.

You see you have raised the question
yourself Sir Victor said, with a good-natured
smile. ' You were thinking about the House
of Lords, of course, when you spoke of what
people were saying of me, and my desire to
rush things.'

I am afraid I was thinking of that,' Bellarmin
answered, a little angry with himself
for having given Sir Victor his chance so
easily, and a good deal amused too.

Yes ; why not ? I am not at all sorry
that you have come to the question so frankly
and directly.'

Did I come to the question frankly and
directly ?' Bellarmin asked.

As you have touched upon it, I may say
that I am rather glad to have a chance of
saying a word or two, in the way of explanation,
perhaps.'

Bellarmin bowed. He did not want to
commit himself too rashly again.

You must understand that I had no idea,
or hope, or wish even, to induce you to
separate yourself from your party at such a
stage of the question. You understand that ?'

I was not quite certain,' Bellarmin answered
rather coldly ; ' it was all somewhat
vague.'

Vague ? Oh no ! I wanted to give
your party — your friends — a fair chance. I
wanted them to do nothing more than simply
say they don't pledge themselves to oppose
all reform in that direction. But I don't suppose
they will do even that.'

Oh, surely, yes,' Bellarmin said hastily.
No man in his senses goes in for finality in
politics now.'

They will say they do, I am afraid, in
that.'

They may refuse to say anything, at some
particular moment, on some sudden demand.
That I could quite understand. No one hasa
right to make a sudden call on a great party
for a declaration of policy on some question
which has not yet come up.' Bellarmin spoke
warmly now.

Of course not ; such a demand would be
unreasonable, and your friends would be quite
warranted in refusing to answer it. But they
won't be content with that, Mr. Bellarmin.
You will find it before long. Your leaders
will pledge the party to what they will callan
absolute, final, and irrevocable decision.'

It can't be ; it is impossible. They would
have consulted me,' he was going to say, but
he checked himself. * They would have consulted
all of us.'

They certainly ought to have consulted
you. I was quite willing and anxious, as you
know. They do not seem to have thought it
necessary. But they have made up their
minds all the same.'

Made up their minds ! — about what, Sir
Victor ?'

Sir Victor looked at him with a benevolent,

or even a compassionate smile. * I see they
have not taken you into their confidence,' he
said. *Well, Mr. Bellarmin, it is just this.
Their leaders had the opportunity, the full
opportunity, of consulting and co-operating
with me as to the course which a scheme
of reform in that direction ought to take,
and they rejected it — positively and finally
rejected it. I see you are surprised at this,
and I don't wonder at your surprise. I own
I was a little astonished myself, although I
didn't expect much. Well, we can talk about
this another time, if we haven't talked about
it enough already.'

Bellarmin felt touched to the very quick.
Sir Victor had put the thrust home. So then
his own party, his own leaders, had been acting
without him, had never consulted him —
never, apparently, thought him worth consulting
; and all the time he had been fancying
himself a sort of leader, an ally, at least, who
must be thought of and consulted at any crisis.
Could it be true ? It must be true. Champion
was up to many political crafts and
Parliamentary arts ; but no one had ever
accused him of a readiness to say the thing

which was not. It must be true ; and this,
then, was the return for all the bold service
he had rendered, the risks he had run, the
chances he had deliberately thrown away !
Sir Victor Champion had thought him worth
consulting, and he had held back and refused ;
and this was his reward. The young man's
heart burned within him. He was in the
Coriolanus mood.

The truth is — I believe — I am told,' Sir
Victor said hesitatingly, 'they don't quite
appreciate anything original and brilliant,
especially anything humorous.'

Bellarmin could not help thinking that
people generally said that Sir Victor himself
was sadly lacking in appreciation of the
humorous. But that was not a matter quite
to the point just then.

Surely De Carmel,' he said, naming the
brilliant Tory leader, once the light of the
Commons, then a funeral lamp in the Lords,
now extinguished altogether — 'surely De
Carmel was not of that way of thinking i^'

Ah, De Carmel ? Well, no ; not he. De
Carmel, of course, was a sort of Bohemian, a
sort of Zingaro ; he had a sort of Maugrabin

art and humour of his own. I never thought
very highly of it myself — not very highly.
But even he, when he got into the Lords,
became so different. He always seemed to
feel that, after all, he was only an outsider —
that he didn't belong to the place ; he had to
be very respectable, and to go in specially
for consulting all the proprieties and the conventionalities.
Like Miss Bothering, you
know, when she got elevated into Lady
Isabel — you remember — Pendennis ?'

Yes ; Bellarmin quite remembered.

It was something like that with De Carmel
in the Lords. Besides, he was absolutely in
the leading-strings of Lord Bosworth ; and
Bosworth lately became quite determined,
they tell me, that the party was to be altogether
respectable in its action, and that
eccentricity of any kind must be resolutely
discouraged. So De Carmel, who made the
party by his eccentricity — what a man like
Bosworth would call eccentricity, Mr. Bellarmin
— what you and I would call originality,
brilliancy, boldness, spirit — and so even De
Carmel had to conform himself. Very absurd
; but why did a man like him ever

consent to swamp and submerge himself in a
dull marsh like that ?' Sir Victor asked quite
angrily.

Bellarmin was not thinking much just then
about De Carmel's reasons for consenting to
be transferred to the House of Lords. He
was thinking of Champion's words about himself.
Could it be possible, then, that the
leaders of the party to which he had attached
himself and had devoted himself looked upon
him only as a sort of tannin, whose freaks
were to be tolerated when his party was in
Opposition, because such freaks annoyed and
thwarted the men in office, but were to be
repudiated the moment the Opposition had,
and partly by his means, been transformed
into an Administration '^ And could it be that
he, who had always gone in for the right and
duty of Conservatism to move abreast with
the best movements of the age, was to be
pledged by his leaders to a policy of stupid
and impossible finality, no consent or concurrence
of his being given or even being
asked ? Bellarmin would gladly have persuaded
himself that his strongest feeling
of dissatisfaction was on public grounds.

VOL. II. 28

They will wreck the party,' he said to himself
grimly.

Well, you will find that your leaders are
pledged to finality,' Sir Victor said with a
smile, ' and that they have pledged you too.
I can't offer them another chance. I see, by
the way, that Tressel has a motion down
about the House of Lords. I don't know
whether he means to bring it on. He is an
odd sort of person, Tressel, as you know.
One can't pretend to control him. If he
should bring it on, that might give them an
opportunity of qualifying in some way what I
understood to be their decision. But I don't
believe they will qualify it. Bosworth is
master for the present. Well, I shan't move
until the right time. Of course you will
understand that this little morning talk of
ours is entirely between ourselves ? Ah !
here comes Lord Stonehenge. Get him to
tell you all about this place.'

Sir Victor left Bellarmin, and presently
attached himself to Monsignor Valmy,to whom
he poured forth a dissertation on the inner
discipline of the order of the Jesuits. Monsignor
Valmy listened with a bland sweet smile.

PETRELS REST.

MYSTERIOUS note was brought
to General Falcon one morning-just
before the break up of the
Stonehenge party. The messenger had orders
to wait. The note was addressed In a bold
slanting hand. It was sealed and impressed
with a curiously twisted monogram, and ran
thus :

Petrel's Rest, June .

The bearer of this will have a carriage at
the Stonehenge Arms, in which you can be
brought here at once. I want particularly to
see you ; and I don't want any fuss made
about my sending for you, or about my presence
in this neighbourhood, though there is

28—2

no reason why the fact shouldn't be chronicled
in the county newspapers.

J. S.'

Falcon sent a message to the effect that he
would be at the Stonehenge Arms in half an
hour. He made a short cut through the park,
and was at the lodge gates soon after the
bearer of the missive had passed through. He
found a quiet-looking dog-cart standing in
front of the inn, with a foreign servant beside
it. The man touched his hat, and asked in
German if he were the gentleman going to
Petrel's Rest. Falcon got into the vehicle,
and was driven at a rapid trot along the lanes
in the direction of the sea.

The country about Stonehenge Park was
well wooded and garden-like, with here and
there a patch of pine-forest, which gave variety
and picturesqueness to the landscape. Nearer
the coast it grew wilder and more barren-looking
— bleak downs and wastes of moorland,
with scarcely any sign of habitation, rising
gradually ; and then an abrupt dip, as if a
sort of natural rampart guarded the jagged
fringe of land, which, with its beetling cliffs,

its hidden gulfs and inlets, and its rugged forbidding
appearance, suggested thoughts of
mediaeval romance, and tales of smuggling
and piracy, and dark and dangerous deeds.

Nothing could have been more isolated
than the situation of Petrel's Rest. It was
four miles from the nearest railway-station,
and there was scarcely a hamlet or even a
cottage within sight of it. The little tongue
of land upon which it was built jutted out in
the centre of a gloomy bay, closed in by lofty
promontories that terminated in bold precipices
of black rock. From the moorland, one seemed
to look down upon the gray beacon-like tower,
the foundations of which were washed on three
sides by the waters of the bay ; but after
passing through the belt of pine-wood that
stretched from the downs to the very gates of
the place, it was difficult to believe that the
country at the back was in reality higher — the
cliff seemed so like a mountain crag, the still
bay with its rocky walls so like a lake ; while
the descent from the tower platform was so
perpendicular, that without going to the very
edge of the terrace it was almost impossible
to realize that the sea lay so close below.

The castle had evidently been fortified atone
period of its history. Part of it had fallen
into ruin ; and, indeed, the square tower and a
small wing of more modern date, built on at
the back, seemed the only portions fit for
habitation. It stood in a kind of courtyard,
with great iron gates and a stone archway
carved with armorial bearings. The gates
stood open now, but one could well fancy the
clang with which they might close upon some
hapless prisoner or little band of armed desperadoes.
The place seemed a survival of feudal
times, and in its grayness, its look of age, its
fortress-like simplicity, seemed so strangely
out of keeping as a background with the
personality of Lady Saxon — brilliant, modern,
meretricious — that Falcon was set wondering
and speculating upon the motive which induced
her at times to seclude herself in so impregnable
an eyre. ' She does not bring her
husband here with her,' he said to himself,
with a grim smile. ' I should like to know
who has been given the key of those rusty
gates.'

He was admitted by another foreign servant,
an elderly man, whose face seemed familiar to

the eyes of the old General. It was Falcon's
boast that he never forgot the countenance
of any man or woman with whom he had
once conversed for ten minutes.

I think that I've seen you before he said.
You used to receive Doctor Langenwelt's
patients ?'

I was in the service of the late Baron
Langenwelt/ replied the man, bowing.

General Falcon began to understand that
Lady Saxon might find it convenient to
employ foreign servants in this residence of
hers, and especially servants who had known
her as Madame Langenwelt. Doubtless they
were well paid.

He followed the butler through a dim hall
lined with tapestry, and in which a fire of
pine-wood burned brightly, and into a sort
of boudoir, where it was evident from the
gorgeous colouring, the heavy Eastern carpets,
the magnificent hangings, the luxurious divans,
and fantastic Parisian knick-knacks, that Lady
Saxon's taste reigned supreme. There was a
fire here also. Bowls of roses were scattered
about ; a stack of French novels lay on a
book stand near one of the couches, on which

was Stretched the skin of a leopard. The
effigy of an Indian god held a jewelled casket,
which was open, and filled with the most exquisite
sweetmeats.

Lady Saxon was not in the room. The
servant told Falcon that she had been informed
of his arrival, and would appear presently.
He lingered, putting another log on
the hearth and drawing down the outer blind.

You prefer this country to Germany ?'
asked Falcon.

Each, yes ! Bad-Schwalben is a dreary
place in the winter, when the roads are blocked
with snow and there is not a single visitor.'

I should have thought that this place must
be quite as dreary as Bad-Schwalben in the
winter,* said Falcon.

The man gave his shoulders a shrug, and
answered civilly :

One does not wish for more than the good
of his family. Her gracious ladyship has
given my wife and son and daughter-in-law a
home here.'

Ah !' said Falcon.

The man withdrew, and in a few minutes
Lady Saxon entered. She greeted Falcon

with a certain impetuosity of gesture which
called up the idea that she had thrown off her
shackles, and bade him be seated. She looked
anxious, a little excited, he thought, but quite
at her ease.

'You have cut short your visits in the
country ?' he remarked.

Oh !' She threw up her hands with an
impatient movement. ' Heaven preserve me
from male dummies and fools in petticoats.
Have you heard, my brave Falcon, of that
irresistible longing sometimes which comes
over the civilized savage, to throw off his
clothes and execute a war-dance in his native
paint and feathers ? I came here to dance
my war-dance. You may be sure that there
is nobody to tell tales.'

You are alone, then ?'

Alone !' she repeated sharply. ' Did you
suppose that I had brought Lord Saxon with
me?'

No, I did not suppose that.'

Lord Saxon is with the Duke, who has a
fit of the gout. Lord Saxon is one of those
amiable husbands who indulge their wives'
whims, even when the whims are a little

wounding to marital vanity. Lord Saxon is
a model of all that is agreeable — in a husband.
She put out her hand and took one of the
sweetmeats from the casket, and ate it delicately,
' Will you have one ? They are filled
with a liqueur that is as expensive as attar of
roses.'

Falcon politely declined the proffered luxury.

Perhaps you are surprised that I should
have sent for you in this sudden sort of way ?'
Lady Saxon said, in an abrupt manner.

No, I am not surprised,' Falcon answered
grimly.

Meaning, I suppose, that nothing I could
do would surprise you in the least ?' Lady
Saxon said, with a laugh. 'Well, we are
confederates — pals, I presume, we may be
called, in a sort of way — at least, for one
particular purpose '

Yes,' Falcon said, with a face of unabated
gloom.

You don't seem as if you altogether liked
it?'

I am not good at paying compliments,
Lady Saxon.'

I don't want compliments — you may believe

I have had my share of them already.
Well, I sent for you because I was impatient
to know what was going on at Stonehenge
Park. Who are there, and what are they
doing ? I came down here to be near at
hand, if there was anything that had to be
done.'

What could there be to be done ?' Falcon
asked.

That is exactly what I want to know.
Where there are plots there can be counterplots.'


I don't know that anything that could be
called a plot is going on at Stonehenge Park.
There are talks, and perhaps arrangements,
about the property claims '

Stuff! I don't care about that. I wouldn't
have come in this secret way down to this
place to hear about some trumpery money
claims. Tell me of what I want to know '

But, Lady Saxon, I don't understand what
you mean — I am too dull to guess. What is
it that you want me to tell of ?'

Tell me about the plans for marrying oft
your Princess — that is what interests me; tell
me about ^Aem '

There are no such plans !' Falcon exclaimed
angrily, and with a face literally-darkened
by emotion. ' Who has dared to
say that there are any plans like that ?'

You are too simple for this world, General
Falcon. I tell you that there are such plans ;
I will tell you what it seems you don't know,
although it is all going on under your very
eyes. The priests want your Princess to
marry Lord Stonehenge ; she herself wants
to marry young Bellarmin '

Oh !' he exclaimed, and he clenched his
hand.

Yes ; in her heart she would like to
marry him. She is only a woman, your
Princess. And he is handsome and young
and fascinating ! Oh yes ; I can read a
woman's heart as well as the heart of a
man.'

Lady Saxon — he ! A man of low birth
of no position '

Oh ! Are you then a prince in disguise,
General Falcon ? It is not only men of royal
lineage who may presume to love ^'•our Mary
Stuart ! But you need not be unhappy about
Bellarmin. If it ever comes to a serious question

with her, and if she has any pride, I
shall be able to settle that matter.'

You, Lady Saxon ! How ?'

Never mind. All in good time. But
now — now — there is another — now, I am certain
— my heart tells me — Victor Champion
wants to marry her ! He does ! He is there,
is he not — Victor Champion ? — he is there
already ?'

Yes, he is there ; but I believe he has
only come to patter politics with these other
men — he could not have the audacity to
hope '

The audacity to hope — and he the greatest
Englishman of his time ! The audacity to
hope what General Falcon hopes ! Yes, my
poor Falcon — as your Princess sometimes
calls you — yes ; the great man intends to
marry your Princess, if he can.'

He shall not, by God !' Falcon exclaimed.

I am glad I have stirred you up at last.
General Falcon — I thought I should find you
sensitive. But how, may I ask, do you intend
to prevent it? If she doesn't marry Champion
she will marry Stonehenge or Bellarmin.
It will be all the same for you.'

I will do anything to prevent it !' he exclaimed,
and he let his hand fall heavily on
the table.

Well, you will have, perhaps, soon to exert
all your powers, whatever they are, in that
way. Now I will speak out to you — I will
act on the square, as they say. I don't mean
to let her marry Bellarmin ; I don't want her
to marry Champion — I couldn't endure ^/la^ ;
I would rather kill her or myself than have
that happen ! But, for the rest, I don't care
whom she marries, or when she marries,
or what happens to her in this world or the
next '

I wish you wouldn't speak of her in that
manner,' Falcon said sternly ; * it is not right
for me to hear it.'

A sense of the degradation of his alliance
with Lady Saxon was aroused in him as he
heard the woman thus speak of his Princess.
Lady Saxon understood him, and changed
her tone.

I am sorry if I have hurt you in any way,*
she said gently ; ' although she can laugh at
you when she is in the mood for laughter —
which I fancy is pretty often.'

Let us leave her out of our talk as much
as we can.'

Yes, yes ; forgive me ; but, as you see, I
have my own feelings, too, and sometimes
they are too strong for me. Well, I want
you to be on guard ; to keep your eyes and
ears open, to see who walks with her most
and talks to her most '

I can't play the spy, Lady Saxon. That
is not at all in my line Falcon interposed
with a certain dignity.

Play the spy !' she said contemptuously.
He calls it playing the spy just to observe
what lover comes nearest to the woman he
himself loves !'

Oh, how you degrade her and me !' Falcon
groaned.

Have you no influence over her ? Can't
you get her away from Stonehenge Park —
get her out of Champion s way ? I wish we
had her here,' she went on in a lighter tone —
and all the while she kept her eyes fixed on
Falcon's face. ' What a charming bower this
would be for a captive Stuart Princess ! How
safely she might be immured here — kept in
gentle and honourable captivity by some

gallant Bothwell who wished to save her

from political plotters, and prevail on her to

marry him ! What a charming and romantic

notion ! She is a romantic young Princess,

too. I fancy the enterprise itself would have

a charm for her. See, General Falcon,' she

rose from her chair and went to the window,

drawing aside the curtains that veiled it.

See how lonely it is in this bay! Look at

the descent of that cliff on which our eyre is

perched ! Look how far down the sea breaks

at its feet ! Who could come near her

without her faithful gaoler's consent ? And

see my little schooner yacht below — how

temptingly it spreads its wings ; how easily

a yachting excursion might be planned,

and the yacht come to an anchor here I

One would not need here a company of

armed Border men to enact the Bothwell

episode.'

General Falcon followed her to the window.
He, too, looked out upon the blue, hazy sea,
and down at the tarn-like bay, the lonely
cliffs to left and right. He turned abruptly
away, and paced moodily up and down the
room ; then he stopped in front of her.

Lady Saxon,' he said, ' have you any
purpose in these strange words V

Yes,' she answered boldly. * I have a
purpose, but the time is not ripe for it yet ;
nor are you, my good Falcon, ripe for it
either.'

They were both silent. Falcon's face
worked with emotion. A vision of an earthly
Paradise opened itself before him. His Mary
—his Queen — a captive in his power — alone
with him in this wild place, to be won by his
daring, by his passionate entreaties, by his
deep respect, by his ardent love . . . the
bare thought was intoxicating. Lady Saxon
watched his face. A kind of reflex emotion
kindled in hers. If she herself might only
be borne away hither by the man that she
loved ! Then — let the world go by !

I wanted you to see this place,' she said
presently. ' That is one reason why I sent
for you here. If you come to think of anyway
in which it might be of use to you in
your plans, I shall be happy to lend it to you
for a week or two. The servants are to be
trusted.'

Falcon made no answer. He appeared to

VOL. II. 29

be considering deeply. Lady Saxon left the
window and seated herself on the couch,
which was covered with the leopard-skin.
Come here,' she said; ' I want to talk to you.
I want to hear about Champion. How long
has he been at Stonehenge ?'

'Something less than a week.'

And Bellarmin ?'

A little longer.'

A week !' she repeated. ' And he never
told me that he was going. Does he talk

with her — hang about her — behave like a

«

lover ? You know what I mean. I am speaking
of Champion.'

It appears so.'

But he is interested in everything that is
new, fresh, picturesque. Her birth, her position,
the historical associations — all this would
attract him. He has such an extraordinary
power of projecting his sympathies. It is his
temperament. I know him so well.'

You know him so well !' repeated Falcon
slowly.

It does not mean love,' Lady Saxon went
on, as if speaking to herself, and taking no
notice of Falcon's interruption. ' He is nota

man to lose his heart to a girl ; he

who ' Her mind framed the words, * he

who loved me.' But she said aloud, ' He
who, since he became a widower, might have
married any woman in England had he
chosen. But the name is historic ; he might
fancy that such a marriage would increase his
power. It would be a mistake. He could
not gain anything from her. But it is possible
that his imagination might mislead him.
His first marriage was a sacrifice to ambition.'


Falcon heard her in grim silence. Then
both were silent for a few moments. The
minds of both were travelling swiftly through
the region of possibilities. Lady Saxon
heaved a sigh rather of satisfaction than
alarm. She was not afraid. Champion was
once more under her influence. This time
she could defy ambition.

When does he leave Stonehenge Park ?'
she asked, turning on Falcon almost fiercely.

To-morrow, I understand. The House
has already met.' Falcon's tone seemed to
indicate resentment at Sir Victor's absence
from his Parliamentary post.

29 — 2

Mere routine business,' said Lady Saxon
impatiently. ' And Bellarmin ?'

He, too, goes tomorrow ; but they do not
travel together. Sir Victor takes an early
train.'

'What about Bellarmin and Champion?'
Lady Saxon questioned. ' Have they come
to any agreement — any political agreement ?
You know the rumours.'

I neither know nor care anything about
your Parliamentary intrigues, except in so far
as they concern the Stuart claims.'

But you can observe. You know, at
least, whether these two have had any private
conversation ?'

They walked together for some time on
the terrace one morning. I should say they
had been talking politics, and that Bellarmin
is favourably disposed towards Champion's
views, whatever they may be.'

Ah !' Lady Saxon seemed to be considering
deeply. Presently she abruptly
changed the conversation. ' I don't wish
this visit of yours here talked about.'

Falcon bowed. ' Certainly not, Lady
Saxon.'

There's no object in chatter. Not that I
want to make a mystery ; but it would annoy
me to be invaded.'

Falcon bowed again.

I shall return to London in a day or two
she resumed. * We shall meet there.'

You have not forgotten that Wednesday
is the date fixed for your dinner-party to Miss
Beaton ?'

No ; I had not forgotten.'

Lady Saxon seemed moody and thoughtful.
After a little while General Falcon took his
leave, refusing the luncheon which she offered
him. He was driven back in the direction
whence he had come.

Lady Saxon had a wild impulse to waylay
Champion, to bid him come to her at Petrel's
Rest. Her heart throbbed at the thought.
There had been tender passages between
them in London. He had come to the confessional.
But her love made her timid. She
did not dare to assert her hold upon him too
imperiously. There was an iron hand, she
knew, beneath the velvet glove. The heart
that beat under that caressing manner could
be steel at times. She would wind her meshes

more closely round him. She would make
herself necessary to him. She would not resent
even his attentions to Mary Beaton.
Her woman's craft got the better of her
woman's impulse. He should not dream that
she suspected him — that she had played the
spy. She told herself that she understood
the reason why he had dallied at Stonehenge
Park. He did not wish to appear too eager.
It would not be wise to let Bellarmin imagine
that the trap had been laid and baited, and
that he was to be secured forthwith. She
told herself all this. Nevertheless, she wrote
to Champion a letter, which should meet him
in London — a letter, in its earlier pages, more
political than personal, ignoring the fact that
he had not told her of his proposed visit
to Lord Stonehenge, but taking for granted
that he had accepted the invitation in order
to gain a good opportunity of getting at
Bellarmin's views. Bellarmin's adhesion obtained,
and with it the chance of his band
being augmented by other Democratic Tories,
and also the adhesion of the extreme Radical
or Tressel Party ; then the Whig section, in
the person of her husband, might be cautiously

attacked. Lady Saxon gauged the situation
with a keenness and grasp that might have
been envied by many a trained politician.
She threw out subtle suggestions, showing a
man's courage and a woman's finesse. She
gave adroit hints concerning the wires by
which certain of the political puppets might
be pulled to his side. He should see clearly
that her influence was far-reaching, that her
assistance was not to be despised.

And then from a politician she became
suddenly a woman of the world — bright,
amusing, witty. She described her country-house
visits with a satirical humour — a clever
seizing of characteristic points only possible
to one who had regarded life from another
level. It was a very well-schemed letter.
There was a touch of veiled sentiment at the
end, a note of repressed passion, a suggestion
of regret amid all the splendours which surrounded
her — regret half bitter, half melancholy,
for the ' beautiful past ' — that, had
Champion failed to be touched by it, would
have proved him something more than man.

Champion's answer arrived by return of
post. It was couched In the brilliant, tender.

poetic Style, peculiarly his own, and which,
when he chose to employ it in winning a
woman, became irresistible. Lady Saxon did
not object to a certain delicate diplomatic
reserve. She was alive to the desirability of
caution in the correspondence of a statesman.
At least, he showed her that he understood
her talent and her power, and he appreciated
and frankly accepted her devotion to his
interests.

LORD SAXON,

ORD SAXON sat in his study one
morning. His face wore a troubled
look. He had been reading
the papers, and the papers had a bad effect
on him. The papers were most of them full
of attacks upon Champion. This in itself
would have annoyed Saxon, but there were
other considerations too. He saw that nearly
all the papers had got filled with the idea that
Champion was planning some grand coup to
make himself more popular than ever, and to
get himself back into office ; and he did not
believe in anything of the kind ; it was all lies
and nonsense. Still, the lies and nonsense
vexed and disturbed Lord Saxon all the same.

If you feel perfectly well, and people come
telling you one after the other that you look
very unwell, you may not believe them, but
their assurances make you feel uncomfortable.
So with Lord Saxon. He did not believe
that his friend and leader was deceiving him ;
but to be always reading assertions which
pointed that way made him feel not exactly
distrustful, but decidedly uncomfortable.

Lady Saxon had, he knew, gone off on one
of her eccentric trips to Petrel's Rest. H$
was expecting her return some time during
the day, for he had been given to understand
that they had a dinner-party that evening.
Suddenly she burst in upon him in all the
glory of her beauty and her splendid vitality,
and with a certain radiance of the morning
about her.

Well, Josephine,' Lord Saxon said in his
effusive manner ; but a change came over his
face as she entered, and the cloud lightened.

You didn't expect me quite so early, dear.
I wasn't altogether sure myself that I could
get up in time for the first train. But it was
lovely driving over the moors this morning ;
and I had things I wanted to see about. I

am too late for your breakfast though, I see.
No, I don't want anything more. I had
some coffee at a station. Have you been dull
these days, breakfasting without me ?'

It was Lady Saxon's chief concession to
the domestic virtues to breakfast late every
morning with her husband. It kept him ina
good humour — not that Lord Saxon was
ever in a bad humour with her. It made him
believe in her ; and she got over her duty
early in the day, ' swallowed her physic before
it had time to stand,' as she put it to herself.

Yes, of course — you know,' he said with
awkward fondness.

He did not ask what she had been doing
at Petrel's Rest. She had long ago given
him to understand that she did not choose to
be asked questions about her movements, and
that he must be content with such information
as she herself volunteered. Lord Saxon
was not inquisitive, and made much concession
to his wife's mood. On the whole, the
strain of independence and originality in her
pleased him. And then he vas always delighted
to have her with him, ready to take
her on her own terms.

Yet In spite of her radiance and her beauty-she
seemed agitated, excited, he thought.
Something had put her out. ' Women are
easily put out Lord Saxon reflected. It is
their way ; if not, they wouldn't be women —
certainly not charming women.

You were looking worried,' Lady Saxon
said. ' What is the matter ? Anything wrong
in politics T

Nothing that I know of. I have been
reading the papers, and I'm so sorry poor old
Greenleaf — don't you know — is dead.' He
read her a paragraph from a paper :

Death of a veteran M.P. — We regret
to announce the sudden death of Mr.
Greenleaf, one of the oldest members of
the House of Commons, and who represented
the same constituency for more than
fifty years. The death was sudden ; it took
place in the House of Commons library about
two o'clock yesterday. Mr. Greenleaf was
reading in the library, and perhaps had fallen
asleep. Some of the officials of the House
were testing the division bells ; and the bells
were made to ring sharply. Mr. Greenleaf
started up on hearing the sound, and was

heard to cry, ''A division already ?" and he ran
towards the door. The only other member
in the library was Mr. Bellarmin ; and Mr.
Bellarmin called out, '* No, no ; they are only
trying the bells ; the House is not sitting." Mr.
Greenleaf, however, hurried on, and just ashe
reached the nearest door he fell on the
floor. Mr. Bellarmin and one of the librarians
ran to his assistance, but they found that the
poor old gentleman was dead. It used to bea
boast of Mr. Greenleaf s that he never
missed a division of the House.'

Poor old creature !' Lady Saxon said carelessly.
' It was the right sort of way for him
to die.'

Seems to me terrible,' Lord Saxon said ;
a sudden death like that. Fancy being full
of life one minute and dead the next !'

Oh ! but a poor old thing like that — what
did it matter?'

Sudden death is not only for the old.
Poor Greenleaf!'

Why, Saxon, you are quite tragic over
this dreadful old man. He had lived long
enough.'

Lord Saxon said no more on that subject.

His wife evidently could not be trot to feel
for poor old Greenleaf and his sudden death.
Lord Saxon turned listlessly to some other
part of the paper he held in his hand. Lord
Saxon felt that one of the duties of his position
was to read the papers every morning,
and accordingly he read them. Sometimes
they made him very angry ; more often they
made him yawn. ' The fellows seem to know
so little about anything,' Lord Saxon often
said. He was very conscious of his own
defective education ; and he was satisfied, ina
stolid, resigned sort of way, that his was a
very slow intelligence. When he found that
on some political question he knew more of
the realities of things than some writer of a
leading article in a newspaper, he was not
elated, he was merely disappointed. This
day he was particularly displeased.

What's the good of reading a paper if the
fellows who write don't know half as much as
one knows one's self ?' he said irrelevantly,
without waiting for an answer to his question,
as he tossed aside one of the dailies over
which he had been poring.

Lord Saxon was a man absolutely without

self-conceit. He honestly understood his
own capacity, and was inclined to overrate
the abilities of others. He was selfish in a
certain sense — that is to say, he did not know
how to deny himself any momentary gratification
which he coveted ; but in a broader
sense he often showed himself quietly self-sacrificing.
He stuck to politics and the
House of Commons because the family traditions
and his father's wish told him that he
ought to do so ; and he had even drilled himself
into an interest in politics, and had trained
and hammered himself into a really powerful,
hard-hitting, straight-from-the-shoulder sort
of Parliamentary debater. He was often
taken for a haughty and sullen man, when he
was, in fact, only shy, slow of speech, and
awkward. A spoilt child, he had at least
some of the characteristic virtues of spoilt
childhood if he had most of its characteristic
vices. He loved his father dearly, and thus
far he adored his wife : he put absolute
trust in her.

Lady Saxon stepped rapidly towards her
husband, and stood for a moment behind his
chair, looking at him with a curious contemptuous

smile on her face before she
spoke.

What is the good of reading the papers ?'
she said. ' Well, I like to make sure that
** the fellows" don't know what I know.
Think of the thousands of people who read
those articles as if they were gospel. It
amuses me to know that I am ever so
much better informed than they are. It's
like having private proof of the spuriousness
of the Bible, or like hearing a man tell the
House of Commons from the Treasury
Bench that the Government never did make
certain proposals to some foreign Power
after he has himself shown you in confidence
a copy of the despatch and the reply.
Well, but what have the papers been saying
now ?'

Stuff about Champion.'

But they are always talking stuff about
Champion. What are they saying now ?'

Saying that he is planning some great
£Soup — some popular thing — to get back into
office.'

I wish to Heaven he were !' Lady Saxon
said emphatically.

Lord Saxon looked up amazed.

'Why so, Josephine ?'

Because I am ambitious for him and for
you. I hate to see two such men out of
office. You ought to be In power ; you ought
to be governing England — you two. Why,
your father says it himself — he said it to me
the other day.'

Ah, but he might not quite like some of
Champion's notions, all the same.'

He would when he came to understand
them,' Lady Saxon said, In a tone of decision.


Lord Saxon was a little puzzled by his
wife's manner.

Did you see Champion when you were at
Petrel's Rest ?' he asked suddenly.

Why should I ? I went away for quiet.
No ; I didn't go near Stonehenge Park. I
didn't want to go there. I didn't fancy
myself with all these Jacobites and Legitimists.
But Sir Victor Champion, of course,
thinks it is his business to know everybody —
and he is quite right.'

Of course ; of course.' Lord Saxon was
turning over something slowly in the recesses

VOL. II. 30

of his mind. At last he seemed anxious to
put away the topic of conversation.

By the way, Josephine, who are coming to
dinner to-day ? — besides Champion, I mean.'

Lady Saxon had moved from him and
begun to open some letters which she had
brought in with her.

Who are coming to dinner to-day ?' she
said presently. ' The Princess, of course, to
begin with.'

The Princess } Which Princess ?'

The Stuart Princess ; the young Pretenders
; the lovely Jacobite.'
Miss Beaton, do you mean ?'

Miss Beaton, yes.'

Dear Josephine,' Lord Saxon said, with a
heavy smile, ' don't call her a Princess, please.
She isn't any Princess. I wonder if she has
any sense that she can let people talk about
her in that way — it's nonsense.'

I suppose she likes it. It was only my
fun, dear, calling her a Princess. I wish you
would pay her some attention, Saxon ; it
would look well from you. And she is so
much admired.'

Oh! she is a deuced nice-looking girl, and

all that,' Lord Saxon conceded, not with the
air of one who is deeply engrossed in the
subject ; ' and Champion thinks her clever —
so I am told.'

Told — by whom ?' Lady Saxon's voice
had a little suggestion of sharpness in it as
she put the question to her unconcerned
husband.

Don't quite remember, Josephine, I'm
sure. Everybody, I think.'

The people who are coming ! — let me
see.' She named two or three great political
peers.

Oh, that lot !' her husband said, with an
air of profound depression.

Must, Saxon, must — you grumbling person.
They want to meet the fair Princess — oh ' I
beg pardon — of course, I mean Miss Mary
Beaton.'

'All right, Josephine. Is there no one new
or interesting except Miss Beaton ?'

I don't know whether you would call her
aide-de-camp, or master of the horse, or whatever
he is, interesting, General Falcon.'

Certainly not,' Lord Saxon replied promptly,
for him. ' And do you know, Josephine,' he

30—2

said, partly rousing himself up, * there's something
odd about that man — something I can't
quite make out. I must have seen him somewhere
— I can't remember if that's it. His
face impresses me in a devilish uncomfortable
sort of manner — kind of man to cut his throat,
or do something of that kind, in some odd,
unexpected public way.'

My dear Saxon, what very horrible ideas !
But we have to ask him, you know ; and
that dreadful old Lady Struthers. They
are supposed to be in attendance on Miss
Beaton, and they would expect to be asked.'

Oh, of course — of course ; they would
expect to be asked.'

'There is Mr. Bellarmin. Do you call him
interesting ?'

Yes, I call him interesting. He is coming
to the front in the House — I should like to
see more of him.'

You might easily do that ; he comes here
very often,' Lady Saxon replied carelessly.

To your luncheons, I suppose. That set
isn't in my line.'

Not political enough,' suggested Lady
Saxon ; ' though that doesn't quite apply.'

No. They are too 1 don't care about

their talk — too many fireworks.'

Let us say that they are too epigrammatic
for you,' said Lady Saxon. ' You must have
had some of Mr. Bellarmin's fireworks in
the House.'

Oh, he is a clever fellow. Some people
say he is self-conceited and a puppy and all
that ; but I don't quite think it of him. He
would get on if he had money, but I am told
he has no money ; and by Jove, Josephine,
it's hard for a fellow to get on — no matter
how clever he may be — without money. I
have thought of that sometimes.'

Lady Saxon had thought of it a good deal
in former days, and could have illustrated it
by experiences of her own had she been so
minded. Just now, however, she did not care
to pursue the theme.

Well, that's about the whole lot,' she said,
when she had given him the names of a few
more of their guests.

Lord Saxon went back abruptly to Bellarmin.


Bellarmin's looking out for a woman with
money, I have heard men say. I should think

he could find one easily enough — he is a
handsome', well-set-up fellow. But that always
seemed to me the deuce of being poor — that
one has to look out not for the woman he
would like to marry, but for the woman with
money.'

He looked at his wife as he spoke. Lady
Saxon smiled on him with gracious affection.

Now,' Lord Saxon went on, in a meditative
way ; ' if a girl like Miss Beaton had
money and were to take a real fancy for a
young fellow like Bellarmin, that wouldn't behalf
a bad thing for both of them. They say
he sticks very closely to her.'

Lady Saxon winced and chafed under these
remarks. She would not so much have minded
the idea of Bellarmin's marrying for money ;
but it made the nerves of her vanity sore to
hear him talked of as an admirer of Miss
Beaton. And if Saxon of all men had heard
of such a thing, and noticed and remembered
it, rumour could not speak altogether falsely.

My dear Saxon, it is something new to
hear you entering into these marriage speculations
and love-makings ! 1 never thought
you observed things of that kind.'

One sometimes observes more than people
fancy, Josephine.'

The words were carelessly spoken, and
had no special meaning. Lord Saxon was
feeling a little surprised at himself for indulging
in so much gossip, and was wondering
where he had got it. But Lady Saxon almost
started ; and she turned her head away for a
moment.

You were speaking of Sir Victor Champion,'
she said presently, In her tenderest
tone ; ' I want you to think about him,
Saxon.'

My dear Josephine, I think a lot about
him ; I am always thinking about him, more
or less.'

But I want you to believe In him ; to trust
him ; to trust in him ; to trust In him fully ; to
have entire faith in him ; to trust yourself to
him. He Is a great man ; all his views are
great. I want you and him to govern England
together.'

She came over to him and leaned upon his
shoulder, and bent her head down winnlngly
over his and gazed into his eyes. He did
not understand her ; he had no perception of

her meaning ; but he felt the fascination of
her manner and her eyes.

Look here,' she went on earnestly, and
with that dash of the melodramatic which had
grown to be characteristic of her ; ' I want
you to be a great man, Saxon ; my husband !
I want to be proud of you ; I a?^ proud of
you, as it is ; but I want you to do great
things ; I want you to be a great English
statesman. You have all the brains and all
the courage '

Not all the brains, Josephine, dear ; no —
no ; but I hope I have courage enough' — if
one only saw one's way, and if '

Lord Saxon paused, and sighed in a heavy
perplexed manner, strange in one ordinarily
so stolid and composed. Lady Saxon did
not notice the sigh, but exclaimed eagerly :

Exactly ; there it is. One don't always
see one's own way ; and then is the time for
trusting someone who does.'

Lord Saxon raised his head a little, and
looked at her in some surprise.

Yes, Saxon ; I know what I am saying.
Sometimes, perhaps, you may not quite see
your way — you are a slow old darling now and

then ; but when you do see your way, who
can tread it so firmly and so boldly as you can ?
Oh, I have been so proud of you often —
proud of my husband. Dear, I couldn't care
for any man in all the world if he were not
ambitious — ambitious of greatness.'

But, Josephine, my dear — I don't understand
; really I don't.'

y It's this ; Victor Champion always sees
his way. No man in England can read the
signs of the times as he can. I want you to
go with him ; to believe and to know that
what he does is wise and right ; and not tolet
anyone estrange you from him. You must
promise me that 1 You will promise me
that ?'

She threw her arms fondly round his neck,
and drew his head closer to her.

Saxon faintly struggled with the embrace ;
but only in order to give expression to his
perplexities.

Well, but, Josephine, who talks about our
being estranged ? Are we not the best of
friends ? Why, everyone knows that I am
devoted to him. They are always reproaching
me with being too devoted to him — some

of them are. What does It all mean ? Is he
really planning something ?'

Dear, how should I know ? But of course
his mind is always full of England's future ;
of course he must be thinking of something
great. Whatever it is, I v^dint yotc to be in
it. Promise me, Saxon, that you will not
brightly allow any people or any idle talk to
come between you and him. You must
promise me that ; I ask it for your own sake.
I want to see you and him always associated
I want you and him to govern England.'

'Josephine,' Lord Saxon said gravely,
there are only three people in the world, I
think, that I care for really — and you know
who they are — yourself, and my old Governor,
and Champion. It would be a curious thing
that you and Champion wanted me to do and
that I did not do, wouldn't it ? You wouldn't
ask me to do anything that I oughtn't to do ;
and neither would he, I am sure. So there's
nothing to promise, is there ?'

That is promise enough,' she said, and she
touched his forehead with her lips.

He drew her down to him closer, and folded
one arm about her, gazing up at her beautiful

face, which she held back slightly averted.
Something of almost poetic yearning shone in
Lord Saxon's dull eyes, and lightened his
heavy, reddened features. For a moment or
two he did not speak.

Well ?' she asked laughingly. ' Bear !
What is it ? You have been so remarkably
sociable of late, that I have almost forgotten
my nickname for you.'

Have I been less bearish in society of
late, Josephine ? I am never bearish to you.'

Never, dear — I must pay you that compliment.
But, really, your sublime resignation
to circumstances while we were doing our
visits was something beautiful to behold. It
was I who showed the wild beast, and had to
run off to my lair.'

I wonder why you like to rush off in that
wild way to Petrel's Rest ; and why you
won't let me go with you. I should enjoy
doing " Darby and Joan " there with you once
or twice in the season, Josephine. I get a
little tired of it all.'

'' Darby and Joan," and " John Anderson
my Jo," are not in my line, Saxon, as I told you
when we married, dear. Nevertheless, if you

wish it, I am willing to do that or anything
else, at one of the other places — not at Petrel's
Rest. That's my own particular lair ; and I
love it the more because you gave it to me to
growl in, and because you are such a gentleman,
Saxon, that you respect my whim still.
A woman likes that, you know '

You are a strange creature, Josephine he
said in fond pride.

You knew that from the first. I always
told you that I wasn't the Patient Grizel sort of
woman, or the conventional beggar-maid, who
waited so submissively for King Cophetua to
step down to her. I have often thought that
the beggar-maid must have felt the pinch of
her gold-embroidered shoes, and must have
longed to take them off and go barefoot again
now and then. I have walked barefoot, Saxon
yes, barefoot after a caravan, when I was
a little girl ; and I too have felt the craving
to take off my smart shoes sometimes. But
Queen Cophetua wouldn't have liked her
king to see her when she had one of her wild
fits on. She would have wanted to go all
alone from the Palace, and forget for a little
while that she was a Queen.'

But she would have been glad to come
back to the Palace and to Cophetua once
more ; and she might not be sorry then that
she was a Queen,' said Saxon tenderly.

Dear Bear — dear practical, statistical
politician ! can it be possible that / am
making" you poetic ?'

I don't pretend to be poetic, or out of the
common, or — or anything like you, Josephine.'
Lord Saxon reddened to a deeper tint than
even was natural to him. 'But I think I'm
not quite the stolid, statistical sort of person
you make me out, or I couldn't have wanted
so madly to marry you. There never was a
woman in the world that suited me as you
do — and I couldn't have cared for you if you
had been the conventional kind — of one sort
or the other. I've known plenty of them —
Griefs and Vere de Teres, and beggar-maids,
too, by Jove ! — and you were the only
one I wanted to settle down with as my wife.
Perhaps I'm slow at showing what I feel.
You don't like me to be demonstrative ; you
don't like to be effusive either, and I'm not sure
if I don't admire you all the more for that —
but there it is. It's a fact. And sometimes,

by Jove, Josephine ! I wish that we could
leave it all — the show and the business and
the House of Commons — for a bit, and go
and set up a cabin somewhere in the Wild
West by ourselves.'

That wouldn't please me, Saxon, for more
than a day or two. The show and the business
is what I like, just as I liked the booths
and the fairs in the old caravan days. You
know I never pretended to you that I was
anything but a caravan child, who might
have grown up to be something too dreadful
to think about, if a kind, generous man
hadn't been touched by my youth and my
innocence ' — Lady Saxon gave a queer little
half-pathetic laugh as she spoke — sand my
beauty, I suppose, and if he hadn't taken me
away and educated me and married me. The
taint of the caravan clings to me still. I like
glitter and show. I like a retinue, I like —

this ' and she waved her hand towards

the splendidly furnished room. ' But you —
well, I can understand that the society business
bores you. You should be glad that
you have a wife who is capable of doing it
alone, and will leave you with your bluebooks

in peace. . . . But the real business
of your life— you couldn't get away from it if
you would, and you would not if you could
politics, statesmanship, government ! All
that. It's in your blood. You have inherited
it from the Athelstan and the
Saxons and the rest. Do not think I am not
proud of that ! T/iis is your part in the world,
and I want to spur you on to reform of old
abuses, to power, to the governing of a great
nation. It is to this you will come if you join
Victor Champion.'

She had moved from him as she talked, and
stood before him, her eyes alight, her bosom
heaving.

A vague expression of doubt and trouble
crept over Saxon's face,

Can there be anything ? Are the papers
on the scent ? . . . Do you know anything,
Josephine ? It is not possible. I will not
believe that Champion could have spoken of
any project he may have in his mind to anyone
before he spoke to me.'

No, no !' exclaimed Lady Saxon eagerly,
how could you imagine it ? But I have
intuitions — even you have said so. Didn't I

foretell Glengordon's resignation ? I can read
the signs of the times more quickly than you.
There will be a chancre — a crreat scheme —
and Champion will speak of it first to you —
to whom else ?'

Saxon rose from his seat with a reluctant,
preoccupied air. ' Well, it will come, if it is
to come,' he said slowly. ' Not too soon, I
hope.'

I hope that it will come before the Session
is over,' she answered ; ' and that England
will have to thank you for a big thing.'

You are all at me,' Saxon went on — ' you,
the Governor, the papers, everyone. You
all talk of my doing something big before —
before ' He hesitated.

Before you fossilize in the House of Lords
as Duke of Athelstanee,' she put in.

No — yes. I sometimes think, Josephine,
that you will never be Duchess of Athelstanee.'

What do you mean ?' she asked, her face
blanching. This was a contingency she
had never contemplated. She meant to be
Duchess of Athelstanee. ' You are not ill,
Saxon — you — why, you look in the most
robust health.'

I am big enough, and red enough, and
muscular enough, and all that,' he answered,
laughing a little grimly. ' But I didn't want
to frighten you, Josephine. I did not really
mean that the Governor might outlive me,
though I shouldn't be surprised at it. He is
better after the grouse on the moors than
I am. I don't quite know why I said that,
unless it's because I have been feeling rather
down lately — a fit of the blue-devils — a sort of
lethargy, and queer sensations now and then.
Liver, I suppose. Everything is liver with
us London men. We smoke too much, and
drink too much, and live too hard when weare
young fellows.'

You should see a doctor,' said Lady
Saxon. ' I have often told you, dear, that it
is a sluggish liver that makes you so disinclined
to go out among people. Call in
Gentes ; I wonder why you have such an
invincible objection to being photographed
and to seeing a doctor ?'

Perhaps because I am afraid of the result
in both cases,' answered Lord Saxon. ' I
know that I'm not a beauty, and I've always
had a queer instinctive kind of notion that I

VOL. II. 31

was not altogether sound in the wind. Anyhow,
I hope that I am not a coward, and if
there should be anything wrong with me, I'd
rather know it. I'd rather know anything
than live on in a fool's paradise. A fellow
can take a long breath then, and look round
him. There's only one thing — by Jove,
Josephine, if you were to play me false, I'd
rather be hoodwinked into believing you
true !'

Lady Saxon kept her eyes lowered. ' You
love me so much, then ! I am glad. About
this doctor ? I am anxious.'

Oh, I am rather ashamed of having got
funked. I was so blue last night that I
wrote a note to Scourfield making an appointment.
I shall look in on him on my way to
the House.'

Scourfield !' repeated Lady Saxon, for her
husband had named a famous specialist. She
made no further comment, however, and they
separated.

Lady Saxon thought no more of her husband.
She went to plan the arrangement of
her little dinner-party. She liked to plan her
dinner-parties. Lord Saxon's house had become

famous for its little dinners since Lady
Saxon had become its mistress. Lord Saxon's
father made it his study to advance his son to
political leadership. It was a fine tradition
in that great Whig family that the eldest son
should always be a political leader in the
House of Commons, and that the father
should find liberal means for the elder son to
fulfil all the social as well as the political
duties of leadership. The Duke of Athelstan
had wished his eldest son to be married
as soon as possible, and to be married to the
daughter of some great English Whig peer.
But Lord Saxon disappointed his father in the
two conditions : he did not marry early, and
he did not marry the daughter of an English
Whig peer. He remained until his fortieth
year unmarried, and then he came home
from Germany bringing with him as his wife
the widow of a doubtful baron, some Residenz
doctor who had been ennobled because he
restored to imaginary health a dyspeptic or
hypochondriacal German prince. Still, the
Duke was heroic enough to make the best of
things even then. Lord Saxon's reckless
youth had inspired the Duke with a secret

31 — 2

dread that he might be entrapped by even
a less eligible co-mate than this widow of a
doubtful German baron. And there were
other and more occult reasons, which, however,
the Duke would not readily have acknowledged,
that made him willing to indulge
his son in all ways.

So Lord Saxon's father accepted Lady
Saxon, and even put on a goodly show of
welcome for her. She was very handsome ;
she proved to be very clever, and there was
nothing against her — at least, there was
nothing known against her ; and she flattered
the old man a great deal, and before long
had talked him over. Lady Saxon's father-in-law
came to put some trust in her, and to
regard her as a sort of fellow-conspirator and
colleague. She had a genius for political
combinations and for dinner-parties, and the
head of the house gave her full means of
testing her capacity. The Duke was old,
and was anxious that his son should make a
name and an influence in the House of Commons
before destiny, cruel in two ways,
should remove the father from the House of
Lords and entomb the son alive in the father's

vacated place. Thus the stiff festivities at
the family mansion, in which men only had
taken part, now gave place to a more brilliant
and even more lavish form of entertainment
at the house in Seamore Place.

LADY SAXOn's Dinner-party.

ORD AND LADY SAXON were
in their drawing-room receiving
their guests. Lady Saxon, full of
animation and talk, looked more than usually
Juno-like and magnificent in her rich draperies
and her wonderful parure of uncut
sapphires and diamonds. Who could have
believed, even on her own confession, that
she had once walked barefooted behind a
caravan ? Lord Saxon, on the other hand,
was duller and heavier than his wont. He
had a stupid, preoccupied air, and when he
spoke he seemed hardly to lift his eyes from
the ground.

Lord Saxon s father, the Duke of Athelstan,

had arrived. He was a hale, handsome,
erect old man, who, people said, looked,
but for his white hair, younger, straighter,
and of keener vitality than his son. There
had also come the Duke of Nornside, old-young,
dandified, unmarried — to the eternal
disgrace of chaperones — who had succeeded to
his dukedom in his minority, and who prided
himself upon having seen a good deal more of
the world than most people — all other Dukes
included ; his mother, the Duchess of Norn-side
; an Archbishop, and several people belonging
entirely to the world of fashion and
politics.

Presently Mr. Bellarmin was announced.
Despite all his recent troubles of spirit, he
seemed to bring with him that which was his
peculiar charm — a certain breath of youth and
sweetness and enjoyment of life, not altogether
congenial with that somewhat luxurious and
languorous atmosphere.

Anything in your House to-day, Mr. Bellarmin
?' the Duke of Nornside asked.

No, nothing to speak of — a local Sunday
Closing Bill ; it was talked out. By the way,
you weren't there, Lord Saxon ?'

No returned Lord Saxon monosyllabically
; and Lady Saxon darted a glance at
her husband. For the first time since the
morning it occurred to her that he had seen
Sir Oscar Scourfield that day.

The Duke of Nornside began to talk politics
at once. It was not that he took great
interest in the subject ; but he had a way of
talking familiarly about anything that came
up, whether he knew much about it or not.
I dare say you fellows are breaking your
hearts to get back into office, eh, Saxon ?
eh, Mr. Bellarmin ? Are you and your Tory
Democrats — your merry men — isn't that what
Tommy Tressel calls them ? — going to help
these Liberal fellows to get back again ?'

Bellarmin smiled, and made a jesting rejoinder.
Lord Saxon's heavy brows met ina
slight frown. The Duke of Nornside never
allowed himself to be disturbed by the consciousness
of having made a malaprop
remark, and added a few more in the same
strain.

The system of government by party is
really deplorable,' said the Archbishop,
shaking his head despondingly.

But what to put in its place ? That's the
point cheerfully observed the elder Duke.

We don't want to get into office,' broke
in Lord Saxon brusquely. ' Fact of it is,
what the country wants now is quiet. We
have been putting in a lot of change lately ;
and I am sure people want to be let alone
now for a little. So do I.'

Yes, but people say that Lucifer is getting
restless. He wants to stir up the Constitution,
don't he ? — to make a sensation i*' said
the Duke of Nornside.

I don't believe a word of what people or
the men on the papers say ; it's they who
want to stir up things for a sensation,' said
Lord Saxon decisively. ' Champion's all
right.'

You are a great believer in Champion,
Lord Saxon,' the Archbishop said, with
another shake of his head.

Well, naturally. I ann a great believer in
Champion. He gets hold of the people somehow
— don't you know ? One can't tell how
he does it. Wonderful head !'

Wonderful voice !' the Archbishop conceded.


Wonderful tongue !' the Duke of Nornside
put in.

Yes, he has a wonderful tongue,' Lord
Saxon replied simply. ' But it is not all
tongue, as some of you fellows try to make
out. You say that you believe it ; but I don't
fancy you really do. Champion is a great
man ; and of course he is a great friend of
mine.'

But you don't want to go in for all sorts
of revolutionary schemes — abolishing the
House of Lords and all that ?'

Of course I don't ; but no one does.
Don't you believe a word of it.'

Still, by Jove !' the Duke exclaimed, * you
know everybody is saying things, and everybody
can't be wrong.'

Everybody ? Who is everybody } The
fellows on the evening papers ? or Tommy
Tressel ?'

No ; Tommy Tressel told me it was bosh,
and that there was nothing going on ; but I
always believed all the more that there was
something. I know Tommy was only trying
to put me off the scent.'

But you don't really imagine,' Saxon said

very gravely, and supporting his chin with
one hand while he looked fixedly at the young
Duke, and his face wore an expression not
altogether unlike a scowl — ' you really don't
imagine that Champion would, in any case,
make a confidant of Tommy Tressel ? Come,
you can't believe that ?'

Don't know what I might not believe of
Champion.'

Lord Saxon's face changed its frown or
scowl into a rugged smile.

I verily believe,' he said, ' some of you
fellows think Champion is the devil' And
just at this moment the name of Sir Victor
Champion was announced.

Sir Victor paused for half a second on the
threshold, and flashed his deep brown eyes
round the room and over the company. His
eyes had the peculiarity of seeming to rest on
every one in a company at the same moment ;
and Champion could always individualize with
a glance every one of such a group. Lady
Saxon went forward to meet him. There was
a radiancy about her as she held out her hand.
She felt sure that things were going well with
him ; and she had a sort of pride of ownership

in him and his plans just then. She thought
there was something significant in the very
pressure of his hand. He began to talk at
once ; ostensibly to the Duchess of Norn-side,
really to the company generally, about
some new play which he had seen and admired ;
and he even quoted some lines from it, giving
them out with far finer dramatic effect than
can always be commanded by actors even of
the highest class. While he was still declaiming,
Mary Beaton was announced. Perhaps
no other comer could have drawn attention
away just then from Champion's declamation
; but the curiosity about Miss Beaton was
intense and overpowering, and Champion
stopped in the middle of a sentence. Even
the Archbishop was not so devoted, or so
bigoted in his devotion, to the Act of Settlement
as not to be curious to see something of
the young lady who was given out as a Stuart
Princess, and was alleged to have at least a
moral right to the Crown of England.

Bellarmin, caught in the toils of Lady
Saxon, with whom he had been exchanging
a few low-toned words, half bantering, half
serious, about what she called ' the Stonehenge

negotiations turned, too, at Mary's
entrance.

Though it was in reality only a day or two
since he had parted from her, there seemed a
lapse of years between then and now, and he
had a fantastic sense of a gulf fixed between
them. He had returned to London with the
determination to put away all hope of winning
her, to deck himself once more in Lady Saxon's
gilded chains, and to deaden the tender
memories of Stonehenge Park by plunging
into the whirl of social and political excitement.
But everything seemed to stand still
for him as she approached, and the lights and
the forms and the faces of the people round
him, and even Lady Saxon herself, in all her
luxuriant beauty, paled and dimmed and became
unreal as the phantoms of the Walpurgis
night might have seemed to Faust when he
beheld the vision of Margaret. How fair
and sweet and noble she looked — his White
Queen — as she paused, with a certain stately
expectation, just within the threshold of the
door, and seemed to wait for her host to lead
her forward. Mary Stuart Beaton might in
truth have been the Blanche Reine, for, true

to her traditions, she had arranged her costume
of stiff white brocade, with its pointed bodice
and straight folds, and a curious little coif of
rose diamonds upon her chestnut hair, so as
to forcibly suggest her illustrious ancestress
of unhappy memory ; while General Falcon,
with a foreign star and order on his breast,
and Lady Struthers, in ruby velvet and
Venetian point lace, seemed by no means
unfitting attendants to a young lady of royal
descent.

Lord and Lady Saxon advanced to welcome
her, the latter with considerable effusiveness ;
and the Duke of Athelstanee, the Archbishop
and the Duke of Nornside were presented.

Lady Saxon did not approve of what she
called the table d' hot e system of dining. She
had arranged this dinner after a plan of her
own. She broke up the dining-room into
several small tables, each accommodating six
persons. She carefully arranged who was to
dine with whom, and thus made thoughtful
provision for each party to allow of political
combinations and political confidences, with a
leaven of beauty and wit and fashion to give
vivacity to the lump.

There were three tables set out this evening.
Lord Saxon presided at one, Lady
Saxon at another, and the Duke of Athelstanee
at the third table. If you did not sit with
Lord Saxon, then perhaps you sat with Lady
Saxon — and you could not grumble at that ;
and if not with Lady Saxon, then be pleased
to remember that you sat with the grandest
old Whig peer in England, the living head of
the house of which Lord Saxon was only the
heir-apparent. There ! Thus each guest
might reason to himself

At Lord Saxon's table sat Mary Beaton,
Sir Victor Champion — had Lady Saxon displayed
her usual generalship in this respect ?
but she had so arranged that she could
watch him from where she sat, and she had
placed the two as far apart as is possible
at a round table — the Duke of Nornside,
Lady Mavis Redhouse, who was tall and
dark and had a fixed dreamy smile, and was,
in fact, or liked to be thought, the Primrose
League Egeria of the ultra-Tory Party ; and
Lady Eastgrave, a beauty in her meridian,
who wore a marvellous Paris costume of black
and yellow, and whom Lady Saxon had placed

there with an artistic sense of variety as
presenting an exact contrast to the modern
Mary Stuart. Lady Eastgrave had yellow
hair — not bright gold like Lady Saxon's,
but a beautiful crept arrangement fresh from
Bond Street, which only the eye of a
hairdresser — or a woman — could detect as
postiche, yet which seemed worn more as a
concession to fashion than with a view to
artifice. She had black eyebrows and clear
dark eyes, and the thin high-featured face
which one associates with a certain type of
the English aristocracy — the type which holds
its head erect and looks vacuous and bored
as it tools along the Ladies' Mile, which clips
its ^'s with high-bred scorn, and languidly
vituperation Radical abuses, and is never anything
but Whig-Tory or Tory-Whig. Lady
Eastgrave's colour was a little fixed, and her
diamonds were magnificent. She seemed at
once ingenuous and blasee, and turned directly
to Miss Beaton and made a remark on some
commonplace subject, which, however, conveyed
with fine directness, * I know who you
are, and I want you to know that I know.'
Mary Beaton, seated between her heavy

taciturn host and the young Duke of Norn-side,
had an opportunity for making a mental
note upon the lack of brilliancy displayed by
the British peer. Lord Saxon said very little,
and there were long pauses between his
sentences. He asked some questions about
the little Schwalbenstadt Court. His notions
about the government of Schwalbenstadt appeared
dim, and he was constantly recurring
to Frankfort — a city which seemed to have
made a more abiding impression upon him
than any other he had ever visited. This
was natural, perhaps ; but Mary did not know
that it was there he had married Madame
Langenwelt, and so was at a loss to understand
why German life should be regarded
solely from the standpoint of .
Then Lord Saxon said that he
thought English people were worse educated
in the matter of geography than any other
people on the face of the globe ; and he told
Mary that he was always busy — that he didn't
find being out of office made much difference
in the amount of work that he got through ;
and that if a fellow did his duty conscientiously
in the House of Commons, and got up his
VOL. II. 32

facts, there was no time for anything else —
the only result of being in office was that
you had to trust to other people to get up
your facts for you ; but he always liked to getup
his own facts if he could.

The Duke, on the other side, kept up a
sort of rippling monologue. He was very
good-looking. The aroma of rank and fashion
which seemed to exhale from him would have
delighted the lady novelists who make their
heroes talk French, and who revel in ' le
high-life.' The Duke did not talk French or
even very grammatical English. He, too,
clipped his '^s,' and he drawled a little, and
put in ' don't you know ' at the end of every
sentence. His eyes had a funny twinkle ; he
looked exquisitely clean and well got-up. His
hair was shorn very close and parted in the
middle ; and he seemed to feel that his station
involved certain duties, one of which was that
of being affable to everybody.

The Duke asked, too, about Schwalbenstadt.
He was very communicative about his opinions
and his fancies. He was very fond of travelling.
He always had travelled a great deal.
In fact, he would like to be at it now, going

round the world on a bicycle, don't you know,
and that sort of thing. ' But I am tied by
the leg. Must stop in England. Fact is,
I'm a conscientious fellow. In these times I
think a fellow ought to stay at home. It's
his duty, don't you know, and a word to his
people now and then, and seeing to his farms,
and making friends out in the hunting-field,
and that sort of thing ; why, it might help to
stop a revolution, don't you see, and everyone
says there is a revolution coming.'

The Duke paused and looked at Mary, not
certain as to how far he was treading on
personal grounds. ' I hope you are not
going to start a revolution, Miss Beaton.
It would lead to no end of bothers, don't
you know. And then there's the Act of
Settlement ; you can't get over that.'

I don't want to start any sort of revolution,'
replied Mary ; * though I think you need
one, Duke, to put crooked things straight.'

Oh, that's all Champion's doing !' murmured
the Duke. * It's he who upsets things.
He has got a bee in his bonnet ; he istoo clever.
Saxon will find it out. They say he wants todo
away with cs ; and we couldn't stand that,

don't you know. You should write a book,
Miss Beaton, if you want to put things
straight. The fellows wanted me to write a
book, though perhaps you wouldn't believe
it — about the Turkish war. I was out there,
and I talked to no end of distinguished people.
I could throw no end of light on things, if I
could only remember what they said, but I
can't ; I didn't even put down headings. You
should always put down headings of the conversation
when you talk to distinguished
people. The fellows said that if I'd give 'em
the facts they'd work them up, and I wish I
had; for Bellairs — Bellairs — you know Bellairs
of the Guards ? You must have heard that
he is the most stunning liar — really the most
awful liar. He has written a book all about
the same things and the same people ; and
there isn't a word of it true.'

Mary wished that she had had Bellarmin
next her instead of the Duke of Nornside ;
and Lady Saxon, in arranging her guests'
places, had the amiable intention of provoking
Rolfe's jealousy by the spectacle of Mary
Beaton engrossed with the Duke. So she had
put him at her own table in full view of the

fair Stuart, with the Duchess of Nornside; the
wife of a foreign Ambassador, the Archbishop
and General Falcon. At the Duke of Athelstan's
table sat Lady Struthers, the Ambassador,
an ex-Lady-in-waiting, a brilliant
American beauty, and a handsome Guardsman.


But Mary Beaton's eyes and her attention
had wandered across the table. She was
listening to Sir Victor Champion's silvery
voice as he assured Lady Eastgrave that
French dramatic art is too subtle to be popular
in England, and deplored British realism and
the terrible system of making points and
playing to the gallery. He described Rachel
and her exhibition of tragic passion in the
famous recitation of Adrienne, a few lines of
which he repeated with something of the same
magnetic charm as that of which he had been
telling. And so on to Bernhardt.

She is a maigre put in Lord Saxon, who
had joined in the theatrical discussion. ' I
incline to the Grand Turk's opinion. I like
plenitude and bountifulness in a woman.'

Oh, she is a fatigue maigre,' said Lady
Eastgrave. * Her bones are very small'

The Duke meanwhile had got on to
psychology. ' I believe in intuition, don't you
know. I buy my pictures and my bric-a-brac
by intuition ; and I choose my friends by intuition.
I get on ever so much better than
the fellows who reason. People who reason
always go wrong. There's Champion, don't
you know,' and the Duke lowered his voice.
He reasons. He's a what-do-you-call-it 1 —
makes black seem white — sophist — rhetorician.
/ never went in for rhetoric — couldn't
do it, don't you know. When I'm at the
Dilettante Club, and fellows begin about
philosophy and Egyptian antiquities and all
that sort of thing, I shut up. But I don't
make mistakes. Champion does. You should
follow out his policy and his mistakes, and
you'll find they all come from reason.'

I don't think he makes mistakes,' Mary
said in a tone of grave reproof. ' I don't
understand anything about English policy,'
she added ; ' but he seems to me to know all
about everything.'

Uncommonly interesting man,' assented
the Duke. ' If Bellairs was here, he'd have
all that down for his memoirs. It'll be valuable

Stuff fifty years hence, though it is only about
actresses. That's what these literary fellows
think of Why, a lot of headings of conversation
of eminent men, don't you know, areas
good as a life insurance policy. It might
be the Eastern question, you know, and that
would be history, paid for accordingly.'

Mary laughed. * I wish he would say
something about political questions,' she said.
This talk about books and pictures and the
drama is charming ; but he seems thrown
away on such things. He is a maker of
history, and I always want to hear him tell of
his own deeds.'

Tell you what,' whispered the Duke ;
if you want him to talk politics, Miss Beaton,
I'll try if I can't draw him out.'

Oh no, please !'

Yes ; you'll see.'

Then be very careful, or he will see what
you would have, and refuse to be drawn
out.'

Oh, I'll manage him all right !' So, byway
of managing him all right, the Duke
blurted out, ' I say. Sir Victor, what are you
going to do with us f

Whom do you mean by ics, Duke ?' Sir
Victor asked, with a determined smile which
had something ominous in it.

Us ? Well, of course, I mean our unfortunate
House of Lords. Everyone says
you are preparing to make some grand attack
on us. Papers all say so, don't you know.'

I don't read the papers very much,' Champion
said.

Oh, well, they say it every day ! They
say Tommy Tressel and you are up to something.'


Fancy,' Lord Saxon interposed, ' Sir
Victor Champion and Tommy Tressel being
associates !'

Everyone says they are, though, all the
same,' the persevering Duke went on.

Mr. Tressel,' Champion said gravely, ' is
a very capable man, and, so far as I can judge,
a very sincere and earnest man. A man maybe
witty, and may be even cynical in manner,
and yet be a sincere politician, Duke.'

I didn't say a word against Tommy
Tressel, Sir Victor. I like Tressel. I like
his dinners, and I like his stories ; uncommonly
spicy stories Tressel tells. And I like

Mrs. Tressel and her stories ; she is as good
as a play, Mrs. Tressel — uncommonly good-natured,
too, don't you know. I think
Tressel has some very sound opinions. Had
a long talk with him about the Bonaparte
the other night, and I quite agree with him
that they're no good — ought to be done away
with, don't you know. It wasn't I, it was
Saxon, who repudiated Tressel.'

I didn't think he was the sort of man to
be in close association with Champion,' Saxon
said. He was gazing steadfastly all the time
at Champion. Champion said nothing.

Then you won't divulge your projects in
advance. Sir Victor ; not even for the benefit
of Miss Beaton ?*

Pray don't bring me into so indiscreet a
proposal, Duke,' Mary hastened to interpose.

There is nothing Miss Beaton could ask
me that I could refuse to tell her,' Champion
said, with a bend of the head and a gracious
smile directed at Mary.

Now then, ask him,' murmured the
Duke.

Thank you ever so much, Sir Victor,'
Mary replied ; ' but I have nothing to ask,

except that you won't think I was foolish
enough to ask you anything.'

Champion bowed again in acknowledgment.

Do you know,' he said, addressing the
company generally, ' that I have lately come
across a most interesting relic in a rather
curious way ? It is a bundle of proofs of
Walter Scott's '' Several of the Peak," with
Scott's own corrections and additions, and
charming little annotations for Ballantyne's
instruction ;' and he went on to dilate on the
interesting nature of this treasure-trove.

He won't be drawn,' the Duke whispered.
Hush, pray !' Mary said. ' You didn't go

very well about it, Duke.'

Extraordinary that such things should get
into the papers !' Saxon suddenly said, as if
he had not heard a word about the proof-sheets
of '' Several of the Peak." '

But if they're not true, why don't somebody
contradict them ?' the Duke asked, still
trying to manage his little game.

Oh, well, I don't believe in writing to
the papers to contradict things,' said Saxon
quickly. ' If a man began at that sort of
work, he would never get done with it.'

But there must be something in it all,' the
Duke urged.

Lord Saxon looked again at Sir Victor ;
but Sir Victor either had not heard or would
not hear what they were saying. He had
now gone off on the question of reputed
plagiarism among living authors. Lord
Saxon's heavy features wore a look of something
like pain. The idea was forcing
itself into his mind that his old friend and
colleague was keeping something a secret
from him for some reason ; and that for some
reason, too, the secret was partly made
known to his wife. But it was quite clear to
him that the present moment was not the
time for asking any questions, and that in no
case could the Duke of Nornside be considered
an appropriate questioner. So Lord
Saxon tried to appear greatly interested in
the subject of reputed plagiarism.

SIR VICTOR S MASTER.

SLIGHT lull occurred at Lady-saxon's
table while the little 
took place between
Sir Victor and the Duke of Nornside.
Bellarmin noticed that though Lady Saxon
smiled sweetly upon the Archbishop, and
interjected an occasional remark into his
somewhat florid dissertation upon recent
archaeological discoveries in Central America,
her attention was strained, and she was, in
reality, listening to the conversation at the
other table. Bellarmin, too, followed it with
interest, and was for a few moments scarcely
so ready in his replies to the frank confidences
of his transatlantic neighbour as he

had been at the beginning of dinner. He
was particularly struck by the few sentences
which Lord Saxon uttered, and by the general
manner of his host, which somehow to-night
seemed to suggest a greater depth and
reality in the man than his demeanour ordinarily
indicated. Bellarmin had never known
much of Lord Saxon personally. He had
always avoided him, having got the idea,
perhaps truly enough, that Lord Saxon
avoided him. He had made up his mind
that Lord Saxon was haughty, self-opinionated,
and rude. But quite lately he had found
himself beginning to change his opinion. It
was clear to him that Lord Saxon liked to be
talked to by those who knew how to talk
frankly and unaffectedly, and thus to encourage
him in talking in the only way he could
talk — frankly and unaffectedly. It seemed
to Bellarmin that one explanation of that reserve
in Lord Saxon, which so many people
took to be pride and sullenness, was found in
the fact that for Lord Saxon there was no
alternative but frank, unaffected talk, or complete
and stolid silence. To-night he found
himself curiously drawn towards Lord Saxon.

It would be well,' he found himself thinking-for
the man who should win and hold Lord
Saxon's friendship. And the woman who
had won his love ? If she should lose it ?'

These thoughts were in Bellarmin's mind
as the ladies passed out of the dining-room.
It was plain that, for some reason or other,
Sir Victor Champion had kept Lord Saxon
out of his confidence with regard to the move
he was about to make. The question which
seemed very doubtful indeed to Bellarmin
was whether the disclosure, when it came,
would not come too late for Saxon ; whether
his loyalty to Champion would stand so much
of a strain ; whether he would not feel that
he had been deliberately deceived, and would
not renounce the political companionship of a
leader who had thus slighted him. Bellarmin
thought of his own feelings the other day,
and he felt somewhat in sympathy with Lord
Saxon — had even a sort of compassion for
him.

There was talk of Sir Victor Champion in
the drawing-room among the ladies. Lady
Mavis Redhouse reproached her hostess, half
banteringly, half in earnest, for placing her in

such close proximity to her political archenemy.
Lady Mavis was a dame of high
degree in the Primrose League. She had all
the courage of her opinions, and sometimes
even flaunted the Primrose skirt. She was
poor and proud, and her good looks were
waning. She had been for some years a
widow, and had apartments in Hampton
Court. She had been a great politician, and
professed to have carried two counties and
three boroughs by her own personal exertions.
She detested the Radicals, of whom
she believed Sir Victor to be the chief, but
tolerated the Whigs ; declared a certain admiration
for Lord Saxon as being a man of
principle, and at heart one of themselves.
She was a professional diner-out, and never
refused an invitation to this particular house,
because, though she inveighed against Lady
Saxon's political eclecticism in the matter of
her guests, she was as likely to meet a Conservative
as a Liberal ; and, on the whole,
thought it advisable to embrace opportunities
for encounter with wavering partisans on
both sides, for she liked to be talked of as a
wire-puller. People were glad to have her

because she was amusing in her way, and she
was an aristocratic institution, and would not
go to the house of a newly-enriched or ennobled
manufacturer or City man : * No, not
if his wife begged me on her bended knees,
my dear,' Lady Mavis said complacently.

I wonder what poor dear De Carmel
would have said !' she exclaimed pathetically.
She prided herself upon a close friendship
with that late renowned Tory chief.

He would have advised you to make the
most of your opportunities,' replied Lady
Saxon, laughing. ' Poor Lady Mavis ! I
must arrange to put you between two Conservatives
next time. Only think. Miss
Beaton, the last time Lady Mavis lunched
here, she had the misfortune to sit beside
Mr. Tommy Tressel !'

Mary smiled with grave graciousness, but
did not speak. It was not her way to talk
much in the company of ladies with whom
she was not perfectly congenial.

Tommy Tressel is a Jacobin,' said Lady
Easterave. ' I should hate him if he did not
tell such amusing naughty stories. But I
know that he would put on the red cap ina

minute and sentence us cheerfully to the
guillotine. He wants to do away with us.'

Like Sir Victor Champion,' put in Lady
Mavis savagely.

Oh no,' softly interposed the foreign Ambassador's
wife, who spoke English with
scarcely an accent, and was sweetly neutral
in politics. ' Sir Victor has the qualities of a
statesman. Of course, it is his wish to destroy
something. That is the way with them all
when they are reformers. But he Is not a
Jacobin. It Is only the hereditary right, is It
not, that he would do away with ? But and
she threw up her pretty hands, ' It Is a grand
power in England — the aristocracy !'

I am told that in private Champion says
he would be quite willing to do away with
the Church — our Church. I have always suspected
him of a leaning towards Rome said
the Duchess of Nornside. ' He thinks It's too
troublesome an undertaking, though if he could
find a man who would undertake knocking it
to pieces quietly, he would let him try.'

Just as if he were sending for a plumber !'
cried Lady Mavis. * My dear Lady Saxon —
don't say anything to me in praise of such a

VOL. II. 33

wretch ! — he zs a wretch. We all know it.
He must know It himself. He can't help
knowing it.'

Come, now — my husband was a colleague
of his — and I am sure you won't say Lord
Saxon is a man to patronize wretches,' Lady
Saxon said with a smile.

Lady Mavis shook her head. * Ah, my
dear, Lord Saxon will find him out in time.
I always said so. He will find him out very
soon. There will be a split-up before long.
Everyone says the wretch is planning some
frightful stroke of policy now — some horrible
plot against his own sovereign and his own
country. I don't believe he could be happy
if he were not doing something to degrade
and dishonour his own country. Look abroad !
Look anywhere. Nothing is felt but contempt
and pity for us — pity for England, my
dear, because of that wicked man.'

Lady Saxon, on her part, felt the most
utter contempt for Primrose League dames
who talked and argued after this fashion.
But she had a secret pleasure in drawing the
talk out sometimes. And she was anxious,
for reasons of her own, to get known as a

votary of Sir Victor Champion. ' Perhaps he
doesn't mean to be wicked,' she suggested.
I give him credit for patriotism, Lady Mavis.
But what is this great plot people are talking
of ?' she asked, with a simplicity that seemed
delightfully childish. ' I don't believe there
is anything of the kind. Lord Saxon would
have known ; and Lord Saxon would have
told me.'

Lord Saxon ! My dear, Lord Saxon is
the last person in the world Sir Victor would
consult about a plot of that kind. No ; it is
his policy not to let Lord Saxon know anything
about it, until it bursts upon the world
and Lord Saxon is no longer able to prevent

it;

Well, you know everything that is going
on.'

I know most things,' Lady Mavis replied
decidedly ; ' and so, I think, my dear, do
you.'

All the same, I fancy you are mistaken
about this. Tell me — why do people think
Sir Victor is meditating any move ?'

Why ? Because he appears to be doing
nothing. Don't you know that when children

o n o

00 2

are perfectly quiet they are always at some
mischief? It is just the same with him.
Months and months nothing, or next to
nothing, has been heard of him — writing
essays on history, they say. Essays on
history, indeed ! As if that sort of work
would satisfy him or his master !'

Sir Victor's master, dear Lady Mavis —
whom do you mean ?'

The devil, my dear — who else ?'
Everybody laughed — except, indeed. Miss
Beaton ; and just then the entrance of the
servants with coffee put a stop for the moment
to Lady Mavis's anathemas. Lady Saxon
moved about among her guests. She talked
with much cordiality to Mary Beaton, and
asked many questions about the visit to
Stonehenge Park, about Sir Victor Champion,
about Bellarmin. But Mary was grave
and reticent. She could not have defined the
feeling which made her shrink from discussing
these two men with Lady Saxon, but it
was very distinctly present with her. Lady
Struthers felt gratified by the demeanour of
her young mistress. This stately grace reflected
credit upon herself, and was in every

way befitting a Stuart Princess. Certainly
no one would that evening have suspected
the strain of frolic and dare-devilry which was
a part of Mary's nature. In truth, the girl's
mood bordered upon melancholy. She was
a little bewildered, too. Her experience of
English society had so far been limited, but
she found nothing in it that harmonized with
her temperament. The want of reality oppressed
her. She seemed to be assisting at
a masque, In which each had a part to play,
and wore a costume appropriate to the part.
She felt a momentary scorn of her own part
and her own costume. What man or woman
with one grain of poetic instinct, with one ray
of ideal craving, has not felt the same when
moving in the world of so-called pleasure ?
The women were narrow and artificial, walled
round by the prejudices of their order, of the
political creed to which they had been born,
knowing no language but the shibboleth that
prevailed in their own particular circle. She
had already discovered that unmeasured reprobation
of Sir Victor Champion was a
characteristic of certain phases of English
society. She had not expected to find it

here, in the house of his colleague and friend.
Was sincerity an impossibility with people
such as these ? Did convictions mean
nothing ? Was loyalty to a leader only a
profession on the floor of the House of Commons
?

By-and-by the conversation drifted on to
current gossip and scandal — to the talk at
Pratt, on a ' society ' night as retailed to Lady
Eastgrave — so she said — by her husband.
She was careful to inform the company
generally that he had gone off suddenly on a
short yachting excursion. She was sure that
everybody must be wondering that he was
not with her this evening.

The old Duchess of Nornside murmured
maliciously that this view of the subject had
not occurred to her ; and Lady Mavis Red-house
whispered to Miss Beaton that she
supposed Lady Eastgrave wanted them all to
believe that the little difference about Count
Canna had been squared. The American
beauty, who had not long been over, and was
in the first modest flush of success, did * not
want to seem too green,' and appealed to
Lady Struthers as to what was quite the

smart ' thing to do under given social contingencies,
with a frank directness that called
forth the eloquence of that authority on Court
usages.

The gentlemen came in while Lady East-grave
was giving her views upon a political
conversazione at which she had been assisting,
and where a certain Lady Eleanor
Fitzgriffin had made a long Radical speech,
in which she proclaimed that ' the sun of
England's liberty and progress was rising
from the borough of Northampton.

Lady Mavis shook her head. ' Good
gracious ! I don't know what we're coming
to.'

Oh yes,' Lady Eastgrave continued, ' and
several members of Parliament made wild
speeches, and one man was invited to make
a speech on the strength of his having been
a defeated candidate for a provincial borough.
Why, I have a cousin who actually goes in
for provincial politics, and is standing for the
town council of Manchester !'

Manchester is rather low form ; but we
must all begin in the provinces, you know.
Lady Eastgrave,' said the handsome Guardsman,

who was thinking of going on the
stage.

It seems to me,' said Lady Mavis, ' that
we get everything from the provinces nowadays.
The picture-buyers come from Liverpool,
the heiresses from Leeds, and the new
peers from Burton-on-Trent. I sat at dinner
next to a man from Birmingham last night,
and he assured me that nobody ever is born
in London now. People all come up from
the provinces.'

Sir Victor found an opportunity of coming
up to Lady Saxon and saying a few words for
her private understanding.

Everything is going well. I want you to
know that ; and I shall have Bellarmin with
me, I am sure — thanks to you for that.'

I am working for you.' Lady Saxon
reddened under his earnest look, so deeply
did the look and the word of recognition
touch her. For the moment she forgot her
jealousy, her vague distrust. ' You will have
more than Mr. Bellarmin with you, I hope,'
she added quickly ; and glanced towards the
part of the room where her husband was
standing.

You hope so — you think so ? I am not
so certain ; but if it should be as you think,
then it will be your doing also.'

No ; he believes in me ; but he believes
in you, too — trusts you, thinks it impossible
that you could have any project on foot about
which you had not consulted him. He is
stupid — ah ! stupid enough to kill one with
boredom ; but he has a sort of loyalty — it's
in the blood. It's one of the privileges you
Radicals can't despoil them of, Victor. There
is something in 'grace," after all.'

Could I ever deny it ?' he exclaimed, with
low-toned warmth. ' The courage of race,
the loyalty and chivalrous sense of honour,
the noblesse oblige traditions — who could deny
that such things be ?'

o

He glanced involuntarily in the direction
of Mary Beaton. It seemed to Lady Saxon's
jealous heart that he unconsciously indicated
this girl as the inherited and the embodiment
of true nobility. She lost command over herself
for a moment.

I understand,' she said. * You have been
studying the qualities of race at the very
fountain-head. I forgot for the moment that

you had but just come from the camp of the
Legitimists. Tell me. Are you, too, captivated
by the charms of our young Pretenders ?
She has a long list of admirers, I hear —
Bellarmin, Lord Stonehenge, the ex-Prime
Minister ! In good truth, the young lady has
cause to be proud of her list of victims — or
should we say her suitors ?'

Champion's steady gaze did not falter before
the flash of Lady Saxon's eyes as he answered
quietly : 'Miss Beaton could hardly fail to
interest even a man so preoccupied as I am.
But you, Josephine, know that there is one
woman who claims my warmest regard.'

Yet you are cold — unemotional,' she whispered
passionately. * Your letter the other
day! It was the letter of a diplomatist, not
of a — of a man of heart. Must I still — must
I be always a sacrifice to policy ?'

No — a trusted comrade — a woman who
can for the moment put love in the second
place. You gave England the first place.
Remember our compact. At this crisis you
would not have me anything but reserved in
my letters to Lord Saxon's wife.'

She changed her tone at once.

Victor — yes. I will keep to our compact
but — I am a woman !' She gave her
shoulders a little impatient shrug and moved
towards a picture on an easel, which stood ina
more distant part of the room. She appeared
to be pointing out its beauties to him
while she spoke in a low rapid tone. ' You
must speak to Saxon as soon as possible. If
he guessed that Bellarmin had been sounded
that Tressel had your confidence — your
hope of him would be at an end. And it is
in the atmosphere — you know how whispers
are carried by the birds of the air. The
papers are full of it. There is a rumour that
the Tories want to forestall you. Speak to
him at once — vaguely at first. Get his
promise. He will be a drag on the wheel,
of course ; but trust to time and to me.'

I suppose you are right — I have no doubt
you are right,' said Sir Victor. ^ I will speak
to him, yes. The opportunity may occur this
evening. Better here than in the House of
Commons.'

Yes. I am o:oino^ to the Festivals' ball
when these people have left. Will you come
on there afterwards, Victor ?'

I— at the Festivals' ball ? That isn't in
my line, I am afraid. No. Let us meet tomorrow
at the House, and take a turn on the
Terrace.'

She gave a little nod of assent.

It is quite as well that we should be seen
together, especially there,' she said. ' It will
give a sort of contradiction to these rumours
of a split between you and Saxon.'

She moved away, and began to talk to the
Archbishop. Sir Victor, too, passed on, and
seated himself beside Mary Beaton. Lady
Saxon fell into a mood of sullenness, which
was shown clearly enough on her face. It
was only for a moment, however. She recovered
herself and her smiles, and was the
brilliant hostess, the coquettish beauty, once
again.

Bellarmin was by Miss Beaton's side.
The young man's heart had been heavy
within him during the evening ; but he
smiled, and jested, and uttered complimentary
nothings, as men and women do in the great
world, even when the fox is gnawing their
vitals. He had scarcely talked to Mary
that evening until now ; and even the little

interchange of commonplaces which had first
passed between them had seemed to his guilty
conscience a treason to her, and a treason to
Lady Saxon. Now they spoke of Stonehenge
Park, and of the roses and the lilies, and the
walled garden, and the still lake, and of the
almost conventual calm which seemed to have
settled over everything there, and which had
such a soothing effect upon those who came
within its influence. Mary spoke with tender
regret of the pleasure Monsignor Valmy's
conversation had given her, and of the services
in Lord Stonehenge's beautiful oratory. It
was a trait in the young man's character, that
while he professed all the modern materialism,
he loved to indulge a certain devotional
tendency by dropping in occasionally at the
Catholic churches while the mass was going
on. The sacred music, the tapers, and
flowers, and swaying censers, and fumes of
incense, the pageantry of it all, gave him a
dreamy sense of satisfaction, and appealed to
the mediaeval strain in him. He was wont to
say that he preferred the music at the Carmelite
Church to that at the opera, and that
music could only be fully enjoyed in silence,

and under accompanying conditions of solemnity.


He had thus lightly explained to Mary his
presence in the chapel, the first time when
she had observed him, quietly seated under
the shadow of a pillar, and evidently anxious
not to obtrude his attendance. And then she
had smiled in grave, sweet rebuke, and had
said : * Ah ! the Divine Voice is speaking to
you, though you do not know it.'

He thought of her words now, and of the
exalted look on her face — a look that he had
never seen in the face of any other woman,
though he had known several who were good
and religious enough, he thought, to be angels
on earth.

Religion is much in your life,' he said
abruptly.

Yes,' she answered with her gentle seriousness
; ' it is a part of me, or I am a part of

it. I mean ' She paused an instant, and

then added with some slight hesitation :
Once, you talked to me of giving up the
sham Court and the part of exiled Princess,
you called it — and indeed, it often appears tome
a sham, and I am weary of the part. That

is when the world presses upon me, and I
see only the hollowness and the vanity of it ;
in other moods, I know that there is for mea
reality in it which nothing could change
altogether. Well, Mr. Bellarmin, I could not
tell you, and perhaps you would not understand
how the religious feeling is mixed up
even with what you call the sham royalty.'

Miss Beaton,' he said earnestly, ' I used
the words only in the superficial sense ; I knew
that you agreed with me too. It was because
I feel so — so deeply about you, and I cannot
bear the idea of your being in a false position.
But in the real sense, of course, you do come
of a line of kings and queens, and nothing
could alter what is in your very blood, or make
you different or less royal, either by birth or
nature. And if you only knew how much I
am concerned about you, and how much good
it does me to hear you speak in this way '

'Well,* she said, still hesitatingly, 'you
know that it was for religion the Crown was
lost ; and perhaps it is a wild fancy, but it
may be that England will return once more
to the faith which made her greatness. Ah,
yes, it is so ; and she will dwindle and die

new life is not put into her, the life of religion.
I have a deep and a stedfast hope, Mr. Bellarmin.
Sometime — sometime — it may belong
hence — truth ?:c^7/ conquer. It seems tome
that what you need now in England more
than anything is the sense of religion —
such as we Catholics have — some of the old
superstitions, as you would say ; the dear, dead
traditions of your men who lived for piety. I
think England would be greater if there were
more men in her like — well, like Lord Stonehenge.'


Why do you instance Lord Stonehenge ?'

Because — I hardly know. Because he is
a very fervent Catholic, and the embodiment
of all that past, all that I am talking of — but
you wouldn't understand.'

^ Oh, you must not say that !' exclaimed
Rolfe in low-toned almost passionate insistence.
' 1 do understand '

He broke off abruptly.

Madame,' said Falcon grimly at Mary's
elbow, ' Lady Saxon wishes to present the
German Ambassador to you.'

Mary's eyes, which had been fixed on Bellarmin's
face in a kind of wonder and tenderness,

turned away with a sudden startled
consciousness. Bellarmin got up. He felt
a sick revulsion. Had Falcon overheard his
agitated expostulation and guessed the secret
his tone might well have betrayed ? It would
almost seem so, his face was so thunderous.

Indeed, all the evening Lady Saxon had
easily seen that there was something disturbing
the mind of General Falcon. The symptoms
would perhaps not have been noticed by
anyone else ; but they told the story to her.
She saw that, for all his effort at politeness of
manner, he was unable to keep his attention
fixed on the passing conversation, and that he
looked anxious and troubled when his eyes
rested upon Mary Beaton's face. She saw
that he sometimes glanced at herself with the
glance of one who has something he^wishes
to talk about, yet shrinks from saying.

VOL. II. 34

I HOPE OUR ROADS MAY NEVER PART.'

After a little while the party broke
up, only two or three of the men
lingering downstairs lighting their
cigars and drinking seltzer water. Champion
took Saxon's arm, and in his impulsive, imperious
friendly manner led him into a room
opening off the hall, which was, in fact. Lord
Saxon's study.

Come here,' he said ; ' I want to talk to
you.'

Champion flung himself on a couch and
pulled forward a chair, in which Saxon seated
himself more deliberately. Saxon had one
thing on his mind — one only, just then.

I wonder how these things get into the

papers ?' Saxon said. ' It's rather annoying,
don't you think ?'

What things ?' '

'Things about your getting up some scheme
or other in alliance with Tressel.' Lord
Saxon got the words out slowly, and evidently
was under the influence of strong emotion.

As to schemes, Saxon, a man in my position
must keep always looking forward to the
future. It is out of the question that things
could always remain stagnant as they are.
English political life is not a marsh or a
dyke.'

No, of course not. I quite feel all that
with you — quite ; and you know that I want
to follow wherever you give the lead, if I
possibly can.'

I never could doubt your loyalty and
comradeship, my dear Saxon.'

'No; if I'm good for anything, I'm good
for that. But it is rather annoying when
fellows like Nornside go about telling one of
great schemes got up by one's leader and
one's party, of which one has never heard a
word one's self.'

You can have the most absolute trust in

34—2

me, Saxon. I shall take no decided step
in anything without consulting you ; I shall
mature no scheme without having your judgment
on it.'

Then you are thinking of something ?'
Thinking of many things. I have to
think of many things. Why, our party has
to be literally recalled to life. It is inanimate
— all but inanimate. Its lungs must be
filled with the breath of a new life. You see
that, I am sure.'

Yes ; I see that,' Saxon answered, in a
rather depressed tone ; ' I see all that ; but I
want to know what is going to be done before
T am asked to do it.'

Surely you can have no doubt on that
point ?'

Well, that is all I want. I think, Champion,
I am entitled to expect that much. I
hope I shall see my way to go in any direction
just as far as you want to go ; I am sure
I shall see my way ; but I am slow, and I
want time to think things over. I haven't
your inspirations, and I like to talk matters
out.'

A man,' Champion said evasively, * has to

act sometimes on a sudden impulse, and trust
to the confidence of his colleagues, to understand
him and his reasons and to go with
him, even if, perhaps, they are taken by
surprise at the moment.'

Yes, yes ; I admit all that ; when a thing
has to be done on the moment and won't keep.
But that's different, and then all the man's
colleagues are in the same boat, and nobody
can complain.'

Champion made no reply at the moment ;
indeed, the Duke of Nornside, coming up
with some question, gave him an excuse for
not replying. But the impression on Saxon's
mind was one of deepening uneasiness. He
could not help thinking that something was
going on which was kept from his knowledge
— not purposely kept, he still hoped and
believed. All could be explained satisfactorily
in the end, no doubt, when the right
time came ; but meanwhile he felt perplexed
and distressed.

While Champion was talking with the
Duke, he made a gesture to Saxon not to
move away. Presently the Duke had lighted
his cigar and said good-night. He was free

again, and able to continue the conversation.
Perhaps Champion had not been sorry to
have an opportunity of thinking over things.
He could think over things very keenly, even
in a moment, and even while he was talking
with someone whose concerns did not come
into his thoughts. Every stranger, man or
woman, who got a few moments' talk with
Champion, could tell of something delightfully
interesting that he said, and tell of the fluency
and earnestness with which he had said it.
Those who knew Champion pretty well, knew
that he generally poured forth this easy conversational
eloquence in order to give himself
time to think of something entirely different,
and in which he felt a genuine interest.

That man is a bore,' Saxon bluntly observed.


They were quite alone now. All the men
had gone. Champion resumed his seat on
the couch, and Lord Saxon, after carefully
closing the door, came back and threw himself
into the arm-chair.

Champion laughed. ' No, no ; I didn't
find him so. Do you know, I don't believe
I ever met a bore. Every man has his uses.'

I wish I could find that so,' Saxon said.

Wait till you come to forty years, Saxon

I am not far off forty years,' Saxon answered,
not appreciating the reference to
Thackeray's ballad. ' By Jove ! I mayn't,
perhaps, ever get there, all the same.'

How do you mean ?' Champion asked, in
great surprise.

Well, I have been looking up Scourfield
to-day — you know him, of course — and he's
been looking me up. And he says I must be
awfully careful, and all that; and tells me
things are looking rather serious ; I must
avoid shocks, and a lot of that sort of thing. 1
have not said a word to my wife, and I don't
mean to — just yet, anyhow. It would do no
good ; the whole thing will probably come all
right ; even /le don't say it won't, although he
is a tremendous alarmist. So I haven't told
her. I tell you, Champion, because if ever I
should seem to shirk political work, you will
know the reason why, and you won't tell anyone
'

At that moment there was a rustle of
silk in the vestibule ; the door opened, and
Lady Saxon appeared, a radiant sultana

carrying a bouquet and a large feather-fan,
and with a soft furred wrap falling from her
shoulders.

She glanced keenly from her husband to
Sir Victor, who had risen at her entrance.

I see that you are deep in politics,' she
said. ' I won't interrupt you. I am going
to my ball. Good-night.'

You are going to your ball,' Lord Saxon
repeated mechanically, his eyes fixed upon
her. He had risen too. Something in his
expression and his manner struck Josephine,
and thrilled her with a vague uneasiness.
She looked again at Champion. His bland
smile reassured her.

We have been discussing bores,' he said ;
and I have been insisting to Saxon that I
do not find even the Duke of Nornside a
bore when he talks politics. Allow me,' and
he helped her to adjust her cloak.

Good-night !' she said again. ' No, don't
come out with me. Good-night, Saxon —
unless I should find you up when I come
back. I shall look in here. Meantime, I
leave the destinies of Europe in Sir Victor's
keeping and yours.'

Lord Saxon went out with her to the carriage.
He seemed unusually solicitous about
her to-night. When he came back Champion
exclaimed impetuously, and with real feeling :

But, my dear Saxon, what you have told
me is alarming. You must have rest. You
must not take any trouble or thought about
anything !'

Oh, well, there is no need for being so
careful as all that,' Saxon replied with a smile.
I have no doubt I shall pull through all
right, and I don't want my wife to be frightened.
She has not a notion that I am in
the least out of health.' He was silent for a
moment, and then he added, in a burst of
frankness much out of keeping with his odd,
shy reticence : ' Things would be different
with my wife if anything were to happen
to me while the Duke was alive, and if I
shouldn't leave a son behind me. I've been
thinking all day what a pity it was my poor
little two-days' old chap didn't live.'

Yes, it was a pity. Champion could well
understand that. He had good reason to
suspect that owing to the peculiar circumstances
of Saxon's marriage, the old Duke

had a great deal in his power ; and that though
under any contingencies Lady Saxon's income
was of course secure, her settlements
were not so magnificent as would have befitted
a future Duchess of Athelstanee married in
the regular and orthodox way. The childless
widow of the heir-presumptive, with no prospect
of reigning even as a sort of regent, and
no special claim upon the younger brother,
who would be head of the house, would
certainly find things very different. These
thoughts ran through Champion's mind, but
he only said :

My dear fellow, you must not think of
such a terrible possibility. As you say,
Scourfield is an alarmist — doctors always are ;
it is their trade. How many of them have
predicted the same sort of thing for me myself!
And even he tells you all will be right.'

Well, that's how it is,' said Saxon slowly ;
and I think that was one reason why I
wanted to know something about what you
were going to do. I should like to act with
you, and to follow you as long as ever I
could.'

Champion paused for a while. He was

really much shocked by what Lord Saxon
had told him. He knew that Saxon was
neither an alarmist nor a hypochondriac ; and
he assumed that Saxon had rather minimized
than magnified the seriousness of his condition.
He felt a pang of conscience at having
kept all his project from Saxon thus far,
although he still believed he had good ground
for the course he had taken. But he knew
that he must say something now. He must
tell%omething — not too much.

Well, Saxon, I have for a long time, as I
think you already know, been turning my
attention to the question of reforming the
House of Lords, so as to make it a real living
institution, and put it in harmony with the
spirit of the times. I am convinced that this
can. be done as a genuine reform, not as a
work of destruction. But I also confess to
you that I do not as yet quite see my way to
the precise scheme of reform which I should
like to submit to your consideration. It is of
little use talking over mere abstract propositions,
especially between men who, like you
and me, are, I hope, pretty well agreed as to
principles.'

I hope SO ; 1 hope so,' Saxon said eagerly.

I am sure of it ; 1 am for reform, not
revolution ; and so, of course, you would
naturally be. I am now telling you the
direction my thoughts have long been taking ;
but I may tell you more ; I have been lately
coming to think that this must be the next
great reform. Yes, the next ; I acknowledge
that I have advanced to that point. But the
principles of the scheme of reform — now I
wish you would think over them ; think over
them carefully, deeply, at your leisure ; and
I do hope we shall agree.'

Lord Saxon's mind was greatly relieved.
He believed that he was now in full possession
of the confidence of his friend. He
thought he could easily understand how the
mere fact that Champion was thinking over
such a scheme had found its way into the
perceptions of others, and got crystallized by
the breath of rumour into the form of an
actual scheme already made.

I tell you this at once,' he said ; ' I will
think the whole thing over, and with a sincere
wish. Champion, to be able to help you in
your work. I will go with you as far as ever

I can fairly see my way ; and I hope our
roads may never part ; I do indeed !'

I think we understand each other, Saxon,'
Sir Victor said ; and then for a second time
his conscience smote him. But he reduced
it to quiescence and even to acquiescence
very soon. ' Saxon is an overgrown schoolboy,'
he said to himself, ' with a schoolboy's
pluck, and a good deal of the stolid capacity
for dealing with simple subjects which belongs
to some of our public schoolboys. He must
not be told all until the fighting-time. Murat
himself would not expect to be told long in
advance when his cavalry were to move,
and where.' This illustration seemed to him
effective, and it contented him. But, to do
him justice, he was far from content with
what he had heard about Saxon's state of
health. There was a curious tradition in the
family of the Duke of Athelstanee that the
eldest son succeeded in two generations, but
never in the third ; and the Duke of Athelstan
had succeeded his father and his grandfather.
Lord Saxon represented the fateful
third generation.

Nothing more was said between Lord

Saxon and Sir Victor Champion that night.
Sir Victor was, on the whole, not dissatisfied
with what had happened. He would have
preferred to keep all his plans unknown to
Saxon until the moment should come when,
in his opinion, it would be expedient to take
him into full confidence ; but as apparently
this could not quite be done, he thought things
had, on the whole, turned out very welland
that he had played his cards cleverly ;
which it always pleased him to think.

Lady Saxon came home comparatively
early from her ball, and she looked into her
husband's study, as she had promised. She
found him there, alone, sitting in the same
moody and meditative attitude as when she
had interrupted the talk between him and
Champion.

She went up to him and bent over him,
placing herself on the arm of his chair. The
perfume of the fading flowers she carried, the
rich sensuous atmosphere that surrounded
her, seemed to envelop and partially intoxicate
him. He made a little passionate
movement and leaned back against her, his
head resting upon her bosom, without speaking

a word. So he remained for some
moments. As she looked down upon the
heavy, flushed face, with its thick red beard,
its drooping eyeHds, and rather coarse features,
the vision of another face, clear-cut,
refined, pale, and all alight with genius and
sensibility — that eagle look, the silky hair,
the magnetic influence which to her was so
irresistible — a weave of passionate determination
swept her being. Yes — every gift, every
allurement of hers should be turned to the
service of this other man whom she loved.
She would crown him, her king of men — and
afterwards — his love. She felt a certain
hatred of her husband at that moment ; she
could have thrust him from her with her
beautiful firm arms, which were so strong.
But she wound them round him more closely,
and she put her lips to his forehead. * Well?'
she asked ; and she could not hide the tremor
of anxiety in her voice — 'Sir Victor has gone.'*'

He left half an hour ago.'

And you were talking — you did not talk
about bores all that time ? Has he told
you anything fresh in politics? Any new
scheme ?'

Yes ; he has told me, In vague terms —
there are no definite lines laid down as yet —
of his scheme for reforming the House of
Lords. It will be the next great measure.'

Lady Saxon drew a quick, long breath. He
felt her bosom heave and her heart beat where
his head lay. It seemed to him that he could
hear the heart-throbs loud and tumultuous.

You are excited,' he said ; ' I did not think
you took so much interest in the constitution
of Great Britain.'

War-horse scenting the battle,' she answered
; ' my wild spirit thrills to the sound of
the fanfare. I am ambitious for you, my
husband. You cannot be the leader, but he
is a great leader ; and I want your name to be
written with his in history.'

Saxon did not answer except by a heavy
sigh.

And you, Saxon she went on ; * he was
here to consult you, I suppose — to ask for your
co-operation ? What did you say ?' She
caressed him again, and he yielded to the
caresses with a kind of stupefying enjoyment,
and as though he would willingly have let statecraft
go by then. ' Are you in this with him T

I have promised that I would go as far as
I could. Don't let us talk about It all now,
Josephine. After all, it is only in the air, a
long way off Why should you care so
much ?'

I have told you. Oh, it is grand, it is
glorious, to see a general making ready for the
battle, to see a reformer willing to risk personal
popularity, even the break up of a party — for
the sake of the reform.'

Saxon seemed to rouse at her words. He
moved, releasing himself from her enfolding
arms, and turned half round, facing her.

The break up of the party ?' he said slowly,
and with a disquieted look upon his face. ' You
must have misunderstood me. The party is
agreed upon principles. It never could come
to that.'

It would come to the break up of a party,
she said quickly, ' if the Progressive Tories
joined us.'

Oh ! Bellarmin. Well, I suppose Champion
is calculating on that. Don't let us have
any more politics now, Josephine ; I am not in
the mood, somehow.' He leaned towards her
again, and put his head upon her shoulder
VOL. II. 35

and kissed her soft neck. ' Tell me that you
love me,' he said. * Seems an odd thing fora
husband to want a wife to say, when he is
as sure of her as I am of you, I suppose ; but
I do want to hear you say it. Tell me
that you love me, Josephine.'

You know it so well,' she answered ; * but
if it pleases you to hear the words, I will say
them again and again : I love you — I love
you — and again, I love you.'

TOMMY TRESSEL APPEARS.

HE bells in the churches were all
chiming and tolling one Sunday
morning after Lady Saxon's
dinner-party : the bells in the great cathedrals
and parish churches and fashionable chapels-offense
tolling with deep rich sound, suggestive
of good revenues and influential congregations
; those in the smaller Nonconformist
meeting-houses clinking in mild persuasive
appeal, as if some sense of the old-time disabilities
and disqualifications still lingered in
their metallic hollows.

This Sunday morning found Bellarmin in
his rooms in a meditative mood. Our poor
youth was burning his candle pretty freely at

35—2

both ends. He had come into public life with a
magnificent constitution, which was well-nigh
destined to serve him as Gretchen's beauty did
her, and prove his ruin. The man who sets
out with the consciousness that he has great
physical resources behind him is very apt to
act on the assumption that they are inexhaustible,
and the too-familiar fable of the
hare and the tortoise is thus illustrated over
and over again in the race between the cautious
invalid and the reckless Hercules. Bellarmin
loved to tax his splendid powers of action and
endurance. He would do everything — would
give up nothing. It delighted him to sit up
all night at some long exciting debate, and,
when the House adjourned, to bring some
two or three friends home to his lodgings and
talk over things and smoke cigars until the
sunlight streamed in, and then to declare that
it was too late to go to bed, and accordingly
take a bath and start for a walk to Hampstead.
He was fond of society ; he liked dinners and
receptions and balls. He was fond of dancing
as he was fond of riding, and of debating, and
of fencing, and of the companionship of pretty
and intellectual women. He carried no one

liking to excess or extravagance ; but the
truth is that he was in this one characteristic
akin to Goethe's Edward : ' Nights liberties
holland, aber view und vielerlei holland ;'
he Heed far too many things, and he was not
always able to contrive to pack them all comfortably
and satisfactorily into the compass of
his daily life. So he treated that daily life as
people once used to treat the old-fashioned
carpet-bag : he stuffed in what he pleased,
whether the bag was made to hold it or not.
He was beginning to suffer tortures about
Mary Beaton ; and also, it must be owned,
tortures about Lady Saxon. There were
moods in which he hated Lady Saxon.
Again, there were moods of passion and revulsion
when that worst half of him, which
her influence roused and strengthened, came
uppermost and got the better of the purer
self. Sometimes he dreamed of Lady Saxon
of his avowing his love to her, and of her
returning his words with passionate welcome ;
and he cried out in ecstasy, and the dream
was gone ; and in his first half waking moment
he seemed to see the sweet face of Mary
Beaton turned wonderingly, reproachfully on

him ; and he called her name and cried to her
for pity and forgiveness before he quite knew
that he was in his own room and all alone.

Conscience,' says Scott, ' anticipating time,
already rues the unacted crime.' Bellarmin's
conscience had no crime on it, acted or unacted,
to rue ; but he sometimes suffered as much
agony of remorse and shame as if he had
actually been Lady Saxon's lover, or had
tried in serious earnest to make her love him.

I don't love her — no — I don't love her,' he
would say to himself again and again. Yet
when that other mood came, and he was
stung and maddened by a sense of unworthiness,
he would fly from the thought and
presence of Mary as from an accusing angel,
and would go and steep himself in the glamour
of Lady Saxon's fascinations, would frequent
the houses where he might meet her, would
follow her at parties and public places. A
glance, a smile, a little upward movement of
her chin, beckoning to him, would bring him
away from any talk in any crowd to get to
her side. Lady Saxon paraded him as her
victim, and he knew it ; and he was sometimes
furious with himself, and yet he had no power

to break away. The turn of her neck, the
movement of her arms, the rise and fall of
her eyelids, sent a fire and a fever through
him. All the time he well knew that she
appealed only to the sensuous in his nature
and the cynical in his mind. But she did
appeal to him ; other influences, which might
have been much stronger, let him pass unchallenged.
There were moments when he
felt a sort of morbid longing to cut himself off
from Mary Beaton for ever, to do something
which would make it impossible to have any
hope of winning her. Indeed, he had not
now any hope of winning her. She liked
him ; she liked to talk with him — she had
often told him so with a friendly frankness
which, he thought gloomily, was enough in
itself to give death to a lover's hopes. And
so there came morbid moments to him when
he almost thought it would be well to do
something which would put him once for all
out of pain — as if anything could put him out
of pain — on account of Mary Beaton. Why
not marry for money ? he sometimes thought,
with grim humour. Then he could not rack
his brain about Mary any more ; and Mary

would probably not think enough about him
even to be angry with him, or to be sorry for
him, or to despise him. Youth finds comfort
sometimes in this queer sort of self-torture.

He did not reflect very deeply on the
political situation in these days. Lady Saxon
was too clever a woman to talk much to him
about the Radical schemes, or to try and
influence him now more directly than by
adroit allusions. She gave him to understand,
however, that Lord Saxon had been taken
into Champion's confidence, and that the
Whig section was prepared to go with the
more advanced Liberals. There seemed to
be a tacit agreement among them all that he
was to be let alone for the present ; only
there was a grave cordiality and suggestion
of friendly understanding in Sir Victor's
manner of greeting him when they met in
the lobbies of the House which pleased and
conciliated the young man more than he
would have liked to acknowledge even to
himself

The bells were still ringing, when a rapid
hansom rattled up to Bellarmin's door, and
brought that young man a letter and a messenger,

who had been sent out with an
instruction to bear back an answer.

This was the letter which Bellarmin, not
without difficulty, contrived to puzzle out :

Dear Bellarmin,

I want to see you at once ; matter of
importance. I have sent copy of this by
messenger to each of the half-dozen clubs
which I find given as yours in Dod. The
moment I hear where I can see you, I put
myself into a cab and I appear.

Yours,

T. t;

Bellarmin did not need the help — doubtful
help in any case — of the cramped and oddly
intertwined initials, to know that the letter
came from Tommy Tressel. He wrote a rapid
line, saying, ' Appear here.' Not more thana
quarter of an hour had passed when Tressel
appeared. His manner, as an apparition,
was in curious contrast with the eager and
hurried style of his letter. He lounged into
Bellarmin's room with the air of a man who
has no thought on his mind but the question

how he Is to kill the dull and heavy time.
Bellarmin only gave him a greeting, but did
not ask him any question. Tressel was
finishing a cigarette when he came Into the
room. He stopped to light another before
he began.

Well, it's this,' he said as if he were continuing
an explanation, or answering some
inquiry ; ' Lucifer will be having a fit If he
don't get into negotiations, or communication,
or something, with somebody. So I thought
I'd come, don't you know ?'

This was not precisely clear even to a mind
strung to expectation.

Come where ?' Bellarmin asked.

Well, I didn't tell him that ; but I thought
I'd come and see you.'

All right,' Bellarmin said composedly, and
without showing the slightest sign of curiosity.


The fix Is this : Lucifer is taken with a
sudden burst of public spirit and patriotism,
and that sort of thing, and he still wants to
give the Tories a chance of helping him
in his grand scheme — making It a national
scheme, he says, not the scheme of a party.

All rot, of course ; but that's his humour.
Now I happen to know that there are one or
two of the Tory bosses who would like this
well enough if they could educate their party
quietly up to it. I was talking to one of
them, and he wants to sqq yozL

Why on earth does he want to see me ?'

Progressive Tories, and all that. He
wants to know how far you would go in the
way of reform, and how many you could
count on bringing with you. He thinks the
House of Lords is doomed unless it can be
reorganized. Of course, I want it doomed
and not reorganized ; but I think Champion
has got hold of a good idea for putting new
life into our party, and so I go with him.
Now the question is, Will you see Lord
Twyford ? and will you see him to-day — at
once ?'

Bellarmin was surprised, and a little perplexed.


I meet Lord Twyford in the ordinary
way pretty often,' he said.

Exactly ; but this isn't in the ordinary
way ; this is to be in an extraordinary way.
You see, we don't want anything of this to

get into the evening papers. Now if you
were to go and call on Twyford openly,
somebody would see you, somebody would
be there ; and the story would go about that
Twyford was trying to nobble the Tory Progressivess.
How many of them are you —
five, ain't they ?' This was Tressel's familiar
joke about the number of Bellarmin's host.

But we are on Lord Twyford's side in
politics.'

Nominally, yes ; but you are free-lances
to a certain extent, and nobody knows that
better than the Tories. You may be fighting
for your own hand any day ; you may come,
if things run very close, to hold the balance.
These are ticklish times, don't you see ?
Everyone feels that Lucifer is up to something
; it's in the wind. Now, as he is in this
heroic and public-spirited mood, and wants
to give the Tories a chance of showing how
heroic and public-spirited they are, I suppose
the best thing to do is to let men like
Twyford, who have the brains and the sense,
know what he wants to do and seize the
opportunity if they can. I wouldn't give
them any chance if I were Lucifer ; but, then,

I'm not Lucifer, and I'm not public-spirited,
and there it is.'

Still, I can't see why Lord Twyford wants
to consult me, or if he does, why he doesn't
write to say so.'

My good young Tory Democrat, it
wouldn't do at all. Twyford is very honest
and straightforward, they say, and he has a
conscience, he says ; but all the same this is
a risky business for him, and he wants to
look before he leaps. The great trouble is
Bosworth. Bosworth hates Champion, and
hates reform and new ideas, and so on ; and
if he thought Twyford was negotiating in
advance with you, the game would be all up.
But if Twyford can tell him that you fellows
are determined to support Champion unless
some terms of reorganization can be agreed
on, then, perhaps, he may frighten Bosworth
into compliance.'

Tell me, Tressel, did Lord Twyford say
he wanted to see me, and about this ?'

Of course he did. What else would make
me get up so early, and send hunting about
all over London to find you ? Six messengers
in six hansoms at once !'

I don't much like that sort of thing,'
Bellarmin said.

• Should think you wouldn't. I didn't like
it, I can tell you. Put it even at only a
shilling each way, that's twelve shillings, and
the prices of provisions rising every day,'
said Tressel, with a manner of intense simplicity.


Still,' Bellarmin went on, not heeding
Tressel's interruption, ' if Lord Twyford really
wishes to see me '

Precisely. So I say. That's how I put
it. As it is he wishes to see you, not you
who wish to see him — I dare say you wouldn't
care if you never set eyes upon him again
it's all right then ? You'll go ?'

I don't know, Tressel ; I really don't know.
I feel some difficulty '

'Naturally ! always feel some difficulty
about everything. But we must act, all the
same. Don't you see what a good thing this
is for you, who cherish the noble ambition to
be a leader of a party, if only of a party of
light horse ? Don't you see that it recognises
you as a party ? Twyford is a solid man —
solid, that's the word — eminency respectable,

going in for conscience and principle, and all
the good old domestic and political virtues ;
a man well in the running to be a meritorious
Prime Minister in some quiet day to come —
shouldn't wonder a bit, as things go. Well,
when a man like Twyford recognises your
party as a party, it's a score. Should think
it would please some of your roaring boys,
Bellarmin. How many of them are there ?
Five, all told ?'

Bellarmin had been thinking of something
of the kind himself, and he paid no attention
to Tressel's stock joke about the number of
what the Paris journals used to call the 'fraction
Bellar77iin' Our young friend had his
weaknesses ; and one of them was a certain
boyish vanity about the little party he had
called into existence. The more solemn and
pompous section of the great Tory Party had
hardly condescended to recognise it as a factor
in the political game. Since the days of De
Carmel, Bellarmin had never felt quite certain
whether the leaders of the party understood,
or did not understand, the honest service he
and his band had rendered to what ought to
be, he thought, the common cause. Nowhere

was, at last, the hand of recognition held
out ; in an indirect and furtive sort of way, it
is true —-but still held out by one of the high
Tory leaders. Would it be wise or well to
stand too much on scruples, and refuse to seethe
outstretched hand ? The Earl of Twyford
was a man of political and personal integrity ;
a man also of honourable ambition ; a little
viewy in his politics ; a curious mixture of
intellectual courage and moral timidity. He
had never been in the House of Commons,
his father having died when he was very
young, and he had therefore missed all the
rough training and practical discipline of the
popular chamber. In his earlier career he
had bright dreams about the House of Lords
winning back its political influence, and becoming
once more a real factor in the constitutional
problem. He tried to get the Peers
to sit longer, and to show themselves active
and eager for work, and he started several
debates himself, chiefly on Colonial questions,
for he had an idea that the House of Lords
might assume a sort of moral protectorate
over the younger and weaker colonies. But
nothing came of it. Irresponsible and elderly

men do not care to take the trouble of debating,
when there is to be no result or consequence
of the debate. Twyford gave up his
struggle, not without a sigh, and turned his
thoughts in new directions. But it was
always understood that he was one of the
few Peers who would have welcomed some
reasonable and promising scheme for the reorganization
of the House of Lords.

Made up your mind ?' Tressel asked.

*Yes, I'll go.'

That's right. I thought you would.'
'Where?'

My house. Nobody minds me. It don't
matter who comes to see me — everybody
knows that everybody comes to see me. If
the Pope, the Emperor of Russia and Prince
Bismarck were to be seen on my doorstep arm
in arm, nobody would infer anything. Nobody
takes Tommy Tressel seriously. Shouldn't
wonder if Twyford were to drop in on me at
luncheon-time to-day ; he may, perhaps.
Won't you drop in ?'

Yes, I'll come. Tell me — what about
Lord Saxon and the old Whigs ? Are they
in this thing ?'

VOL. II. 36

No ; there's the fun of it. I have backed
up Lucifer in his growing resolve to throw
them over. I have told him that it is utterly
impossible to think of getting the Whigs over
to our side ; and that, for my part, I think the
time has come when the Radicals ought to decline
having anything to do with them. This
falls in very well with Champion's humour
just at present. He don't quite know what
to do with Saxon. Fact is, he despises Saxon
intellectually, but is half afraid of him all the
same.'

I rather like Lord Saxon, as far as I know
him,' Bellarmin said ; ' and now is that dealing
fairly with him ? Is that quite in accord
with the public-spirited and patriotic humour
you talk of ?'

I dare say it's partly my doing. I want
Lucifer to throw Saxon overboard — show him
that we don't care what the Duke of Wellington
used to call one twopenny damn — not
even a sixpenny or shilling damn, which
would be a cosy sort of thing, but one poor
little twopenny damn — for himself and his
Whigs. Then there's nobody else on our
side to be talked with. All the rest of

Lucifer's old colleagues are only looking
round to see which way the cat jumps. They'll
go in for any enterprise which they think will
land them on the Treasury Bench.'

Seems a little like a conspiracy between
Champion and some of the Conservatives
against Champion's own colleagues,' Bellarmin
said.

Seems like that, does it ? No, I couldn't
say that. You see, what most of them want
is only office, and Lucifer will give them
that — if he succeeds — and they couldn't have
it without him anyhow. And as to Saxon —
Saxon won't take the jump, and what's the
good of talking to him ?'

There will be a row when he comes to
know of all this.'

Of course there will ; but it won't matter
then. It would come anyhow. I have had
several letters from Lucifer lately ; and the
burden of them all is, that never, never, never
will he submit to Saxon's dictatorship. I can't
find out that Saxon has tried any dictatorship.
He don't know or suspect anything about
the real meaning of this business. But there
is something uneasy about him in Champion's

36—2

mind of late. Champion is getting more and
more unwilling to have anything to do with
him. I am very glad, for my part ; but I am
not so sure if it's all right with Champion.
I begin to think that I hear a familiar sound
too familiar in politics, my brave leader of
free-lances.'

What sound are you talking of ?'

As if you don't know ! The rustle of the
petticoat, of course. Lady Teazle behind
the screen, don't you see ? Champion and
she were close friends once — and these old
loves renew often. Don't you remember the
story of Millie Moidore when she got married
and went off the stage and reformed ? One
day her husband thought she had relapsed a
little, and accused her. She owned up handsomely,
and said, '' You know I hadn't seen
him for ever so long, and one must oblige
suc/i' an old friend." '

Bellarmin's cheek flushed. He was turning
angrily on Tressel, and then he wisely
bethought himself, and said nothing on that
subject.

'Well,' he said, making a desperate effort
to conceal his vexation, * I shouldn't wonder

if I did look in upon you at luncheon-time.
If any friend of yours happens to be thereof
course I shall be delighted to see him.'

One has to meet all sorts of people,'
Tressel replied laconically. * By the way,
how does the Princess get on ? Our friend
Lucifer seems very much gone there too
don't he ?'

I really don't know — I haven't seen — I
know nothing about it,' Bellarmin said, with
a new flame of anger from a new source.
Rather absurd, wouldn't that be ? Rather a
disparity of years ?'

How young you are, Bellarmin !' Tressel
said ; ' I envy you, by Jove ! I, too, can
recall to memory a happy and ingenuous time
when I really believed it was part of the
inexorable decree of Providence that only
the young and beautiful should presume to
fall in love with the young and beautiful, and
that elders — like Lucifer, for example — never
thought, except in the paternal sense, of beautiful
young women ; and that even if they
did, it wouldn't matter, because the beautiful
young women wouldn't accept their attentions.
I am a married man, Bellarmin —

very much married, indeed — and you needn't
be alarmed about me. But if I were not —
well, I am getting to be an older, and you
are young ; you are a good-looking fellow,
and I — well, Tm not a beauty. But I have
lots of money, and I presume you haven't a
great deal. If you were devoted to a girl —
a London girl, at all events — and you asked
her to marry you, and I went to the girl's
mamma and said I wanted the girl to marry
me, how would it end, do you think ?'

I know what you think, at any rate,' said
Bellarmin, recovering his good temper. * You
think it would end in the girl's becoming Mrs.
Thomas Tressel.'

You bet your pile on that,' said the
genial cynic ; and he thereupon took his
departure.

Bellarmin was sorry when Tressel had
gone, for the terrible struggle between the
two natures — between the two imprisoned
souls ; between the two men, the two creatures
in one body — was racking Bellarmin's
heart again the moment he was left alone.
Again he cursed himself for being in the
slightest degree under the thrall of Lady

Saxon ; again he felt ashamed of himself ;
again he almost made up his mind that, merely
for being in the smallest way a slave to her
influence, he was unworthy to come into the
presence of a woman like Mary Beaton. ' To
what avail ?' he asked himself many a time in
bitterness ; ' to what avail my hanging on to
this girl's train ? She does not care about
me ; she couldn't care about me, even if she
could really care about anyone, and the
thought of her marrying me is absurd. What
should I do with her if she were to marry
me ? What should I do with a Princess-claimant
at my modest breakfast-table ; a
Stuart heiress to be daughter-in-law to my
father ; and a claim to the throne of England
to be brought on as a Tuesday evening
motion in the House of Commons ? Anyhow,
a man who has sold his soul to Lady
Saxon has no business to put himself in the
way of a woman like Mary Stuart Beaton. I
had better stick to my politics and my speech-making,
and my political conspiracies, and mix
only with the women who are fit for such
work, and are free to make their personal
fascinations a factor in politics. That must

THE REBEL ROSE.

be my sphere — the only sphere and the only
people I have any right to belong to.'

In this genial mood of mind he set out
for Tommy Tressel's, to meet Lord Twyford
and conspire.

THE Twofold NEGOTIATIONS.

R. TRESSEL lived in St. James's
Square, and when Bellarmin appeared
at luncheon-time, he was
seated at table with his wife and Lady
Cora Mallory, Ross Bingley, the journalist, an
attache to the Chinese Legation, and Colonel
Towers. Tressel was eating nothing and was
drinking only iced water, while the most
delicious of dishes and the finest claret and
still hock were handed by the velvet-footed
servants. But that, as everyone knew, was
Tressel's way.

Mrs. Tressel, however, did ample justice to
her luncheon ; so did Lady Cora Mallory ; so,
needless to say, did the other guests, except,

perhaps, the Chinese attached, who appeared
a little bit embarrassed and uncertain how to
manipulate his implements, in whose wellbeing:
kind-hearted Mrs. Tressel took the
deepest interest, openly deploring the absence
of edible birds-nests and sea-slugs, which
lingering recollections of her 'Child's Guide'
taught her to associate with China.

Mrs. Tressel was a bountiful-looking and
bounteous matron, not handsome, but extremely
good-natured. She had a certain
Malapropian reputation for always getting
hold of the wrong end of a story ; and a good
many amusing anecdotes were told of her,
few of which probably had any foundation.
There were people who said that Mrs. Tressel's
ingenuous good-nature masked all the guile of
a woman of the world, and that if she were to
disclose all she knew about matters social and
political, London society would be considerably
disturbed by her revelations. Mrs.
Tressel beamed a welcome upon Bellarmin,
and made room for him between herself and
the Chinaman, from whom she had been inquiring
how many wives his countrymen were
allowed. She wanted to know all about the

marital arrangements of the Celestial Empire,
and asked a good many naive questions, when
the Chinese gentleman explained that his
countrymen usually found that more than two
wives gave trouble, and required to be constantly
sent back to their relatives as a punishment
for insubordinate conduct. Certain great
personages sometimes had four, and the Emperor
had six, he added, with a gleam of
national pride lighting a countenance which,
in its immovable gravity, was almost equalled
by that of the host.

Tressel was convulsing Lady Cora over a
witty story with a fine French point which he
drawled out, his eyes half-shut and scarcely a
muscle of his face moving.

Presently Lord Twyford came in ; and he,
too, did justice to the dainty fare, though ina
refined and somewhat abstracted manner.
Colonel Towers greeted the Conservative
chief with effusive geniality, and at once made
a point of jerking political allusions and House
of Commons jokes into the conversation, and
launched into a discussion about the feeling
in the provinces and the Tory manoeuvres
during the Whitsun recess, which Lord Twofold

laughingly put aside as inappropriate to
a Radical table. There was a good deal of
light talk, and, of course, Miss Beaton's name
came up, and Bellarmin was plied with questions
as to the Stonehenge visit, of which all
London seemed to have heard. Was it true
that Lord Stonehenge was going to marry
Miss Beaton } Did Sir Victor Champion
mean to play the part of a Bolingbroke and
espouse the Stuart claims } What were the
actual claims ? — a forfeited estate sounded so
romantic, et cetera. And now, had not Lady
Saxon taken the Pretenders up, and was she
not trying to marry her off to the Duke of
N outside, in order to get her out of Champion's
way — for had not all the world read in the
society columns of the papers the names of the
guests at Lady Saxon's dinner '^ Had they
not even been telegraphed in the English intelligence
to America }

Lady Cora Mallory made the first move,
and perhaps in malice prepense insisted upon
carrying off Ross Bingley and Colonel Towers,
who she had found out were engaged, like
herself, to Madame Spinola for a party on
the river that afternoon. Colonel Towers

had a shrewd suspicion, notwithstanding the
unembarrassed air of Lord Twyford and
Bellarmin, that some wire-pulling was going
on ; and he would fain have lingered to take
such part as was possible in the performance,
or at any rate to be in a position to declare
his knowledge of the whole matter. Mrs.
Tressel discreetly withdrew with the attache,
and the other three gentlemen were left
alone.

Lord Twyford was a delicately-made and
nervous man. He passed for being the intellectual
and the educated man of his party ; he
had published translations from Pindar and a
volume on ' The Science of Thought.' His
friends believed that he would be a statesman
one day ; he was only just over forty years of
age. He had intellectual courage enough to
go to the edge of some political crisis ; but
then his physical nerves failed him, and he
drew back and would not make the spring ;
and then he racked his brain for plausible
reasons to persuade his friends and himself
that he had drawn back deliberately and out
of pure statesmanship. At each new venture
he said to himself anew, ' I am determined

upon it this time ; I see my way ; I will not
draw back.' Then, when he did draw back
after all, he said to himself, * Of course I was
quite right ; I only wanted to see if it ought
to be done, and I saw that it ought not to be
done.' Still his friends counted on his doing
great things — some day ; and there was a
general impression that the policy which was
to revivify the Conservative Party and make
it popular while yet Conservative, was to
come somehow from Lord Twyford.

Lord Twyford had taken early notice of
jBellarmin, and had talked a good deal to the
young man whenever he had an opportunity.
He admired Bellarmin's talents and especially
admired his ' go ' — the reckless way in which
Bellarmin would fling himself into some Parliamentary
gap or at some political obstacle,
clearing it by mere rush and dash. That was
exactly what Twyford could never make up
his mind to do, and he admired such a quality
in Bellarmin as some very weak woman
admires physical strength in a man. Of
late they had not met very often, and they
had a good many general subjects to talk
about.

Now if )ou two,' Tressel said, ' would
excuse me for a few moments and smoke
your cigarettes in happiness, although for the
time bereft of me, I should like to get rid of
a few letters and messages which won't well
bear delay.'

Tressel's meaning was quite understood.
Lord Twyford and Bellarmin were left together.


Delicious cigarettes !' said the Peer.

Everything is excellent in Tressel's house,'
Bellarmin assented.

Yes ; that luncheon now ! Where could
you have got anything nicer ? — and the
wines ! And Tressel cares nothing for eating
or drinking. Gives perfect dinners, and eats
none of them. Takes a chop and a cup of
tea earlier in his study ! What does our dear
Tressel really enjoy ?'

Cigarettes and political excitement.'

Yes, exactly. By the way, speaking of
political excitement, ain't you expecting some
of it in your House pretty soon ?'

They tell me so,' Bellarmin answered.
But we are always expecting something or
other in our House.'

This time isn't there solid reason for the
expectation ?'

Yes ; I suppose so.'

And don't it concern our House this
time ?'

I am told that it does.'

Bellarmin was perfectly determined that he
would not bring the talk to the point. Lord
Twyford must do that for himself, or leave it
undone. Bellarmin had long been a little
uncertain as to the position which he held in
the favour and confidence of certain peers
high up in the Conservative Government ;
and he was resolved that Lord Twyford must
make the first move. There was a pause,
and then Lord Twyford made the move.

'Well, Mr. Bellarmin,' he said, with a little
confidential cough, ' I suppose we may come
to the point ; we understand each other.
Champion is planning a great coup, and
everybody seems to know of it, except — (he !
he !) — his own colleague, Lord Saxon. Now
the one great question for us is, what are we
to do ?'

Exactly,' Bellarmin said ; and he thought
to himself, ' So it is we, then ?'

'Well, I'll tell you frankly what I think,
and then I'll ask you what you think. I
quite admit that the House of Lords wants
to be reformed — modified in some way. If
the change don't take that form, it will take
a form less acceptable to some of us. Therefore,
I say, let the reform come spontaneously
and from within ; let it come from the Conservative
party and the House of Lords
itself. That is my conviction

Lord Twyford's delicate face had quite an
heroic look as he spoke. Bellarmin was
warmed into confidence in a moment.

Yes,' he said earnestly ; ' I have long been
convinced that the House of Lords must be
remodelled, that it must be made capable of
development, must be popularized, or it must
go. I don't see why it should not freely
accept reform, and I certainly can't see why
its friends should refuse to listen to a fair
proposal.'

For myself, I should be inclined to go
farther. I don't see why its friends should
not make the fair proposal.'

Oh, make it ? Do you think you could
bring your people up to that. Lord Twyford ?'

VOL. II. 37

Well, now, there is just the question. If
De Carmel were alive, then indeed '

Yes ; but Mirabeau is dead, as the French
waiter said.'

Lord Twyford smiled. * This conversation,'
he said, ' is so very interesting that I
think I might venture on another cigarette.
Yes, that is, of course, my difficulty ; but I am
not dismayed by it. We must encounter difficulties
— ne cede males, sed contra, you know.
They have given up quoting from the
classics in your House, I am told. A pity,
I think.'

Come, come !' Bellarmin said ; * we had
an Irish Attorney-general there lately who
quoted Greek.'

Did he really ? How odd ! Well, I seethe
difficulty, but I don't mean to let it
frighten me ;' and Lord Twyford looked
heroic again.

Still Bellarmin had not got to know exactly
what Lord Twyford intended to do, and that
was precisely what he wanted to know before
he could become quite communicative on his
own account. Bellarmin had come, as he understood,
to talk over the possibility of inducing

the Conservative Government to o-q into
council with Sir Victor Champion as to a
scheme for the reorganization of the House
of Lords. He had come to think such a
project desirable and even possible. But to
all appearances Lord Twyford was disposed
to go for a project much bolder.

Do I quite understand, Lord Twyford ?
You can only go into this project with
Champion or without him. Which do you
propose to do ? He is in the field ; at least,
we are assured that he is to be — and he is
willing to be our ally — your ally,' said Bellarmin,
hastily but distinctly correcting himself.
' How do you propose to deal with
him ?'

'Well, I'll be quite frank with you, Mr.
Bellarmin. What I want to do is this : I
want to screw the courage of our people upto
the level of undertaking this reform themselves,
and adopting the earliest opportunity
of making their resolve publicly known. 1
want them to announce it in your House and
the House of Lords the same night. That
would take the wind out of the sails of the
Radicals and the Revolutionists ! We should

37—2

gain time ; we should gain everything. We
could prepare a scheme at once simple and
grand ; I have the idea in my own mind just
now — simmering, only simmering — and we
should have all the reform in our hands.
Well, I have not said a word yet to Bosworth
about this. Of course, it's all only an idea
yet. It will be terribly hard to screw him upto
the proper pitch ; but it will be a great
thing if I can show him that the best men of
our party will be with him if he will only
make up his mind that way. Now I want
to know about you and your friends. Will
you go with us ?'

First about Champion. As I understand,
you propose to cut him out — that is the plain
way of putting it'

We are in office, in the seat of authority.
If we are willing to accept a scheme of reform,
it is our right and our duty as a Government
to undertake it.'

What would Sir Victor Champion say to
all that, after his voluntary offer to co-operate
with you ?'

What should he say ? He can still cooperate
with us. We, of course, should

invite his co-operation. He declares he only-wants
the House of Lords reformed ; he
don't care by whom.'

Yes, men say these things ; and, to a
certain extent, they mean them. St. George
goes out to rescue the lovely — I forget her
name — and he asks some hero and brother
saint to come along and see fair. The
brother saint runs ahead or finds a short cut,
and rescues the lovely creature himself. Of
course, St. George is very glad that she is
rescued ; but still, I suppose, he wanted to
play the leading part in the drama himself.'


Lord Twyford smiled.

^ Your illustration is amusing,' he said, * but
I don't think it quite applies in this case. No
man has a right to claim a monopoly in reform.
A true reformer ought to rejoice when
his work is anticipated.'

He ought to, and when men are governed
by maxims, he will. But that time is not
yet'

^ You don't seem very encouraging. May
I say that I expected a little more of the
venturesome from Mr. Bellarmin ?'

Oh, well now, don't let me be misunderstood.
I was only thinking of the matter as
between you and Champion, and the difficulty
you will have in inducing your people to take
the initiative. But so far as my friends and
I are concerned, we will go with you heart
and soul in any scheme or policy which you
are at all likely to sanction. That I can safely
promise you.'

Lord Twyford bowed his head in acknowledgment
of the promise, but did not seem
quite satisfied. He had evidently expected a
warmer encouragement. ' You appear to
think it will be hard to induce my people to
take the initiative ?'

Hard to make them take the initiative ! —
impossible, I should say ; but of course you
ouo^ht to know all about that much better than
I. It seemed to me, that with Champion
actually in the field, your people might be
induced to co-operate with him — partly to
prevent him from doing too much. But as to
their being prevailed onto start the thing themselves
— well, I can't see it. Lord Twyford.'

Still Lord Twyford said a little peevishly,
is it worth while taking so much trouble,

and risking so much, merely to be Champion's
jackal ?'

A true reformer,' Bellarmin gravely said,
ought to rejoice when his work is anticipated.'


Lord Twyford's good - humour returned ;
and he smiled graciously. ' I am afraid that
my people are not true reformers yet in that
sense. They will want to be convinced first
that the thing is inevitable ; and then, perhaps,
if they see that, they will like to get the
credit of doing it themselves. But to prevail
on Bosworth to accept such a scheme in order
that he may become Champion's jackal— well,
that would be difficult.'

It was clear that Lord Twyford thought
the hour had come for the great deed of his
lifetime. Bellarmin could not get out of his
mind the idea that there was a sort of treachery
to Champion in Twyford's project. That,
however, seemed no affair of his. Only a few
words more were spoken on the subject ;
each man understood the other, and each
was a little disappointed. Lord Twyford had
expected to find in Bellarmin more of the
recklessness of a free-lance ; Bellarmin had

expected to find in Lord Twyford less of the
craft of a politician.

Well I must be going,' the peer said.
Charming interchange of ideas ; strictly confidential,
of course ; needn't say. Oh, here's
Tressel, just in time.'

CHAPTER XIII.

ANGELS WITHIN IT.

'T is a pleasant walk through the
Green Park into Piccadilly, and
thence by Berkeley Square towards
Hyde Park. And somehow, about half-past
four, Bellarmin found himself in the neighbourhood
of South Street, M ay fair ; and it was
not unnatural, however inconsistent with some
of his recent resolves, that he should remember
the Benediction service at the Farm Street
church, the Catholic church to which Mary
Beaton often went. It occurred to his mind
that the service would be going on now, and
that the sermon would be over by this time,
and that the music would have a soothing and
satisfying effect upon his nerves and spirit.

So he turned into the church ; and he had not
been seated many minutes before he recognised
Lady Struthers' snow-white coiffure and
nodding plumes, and beside the old lady's
portly presence a slender, perfect form, and a
stately little head framed in a coif-like bonnet
and rising above a full dainty ruff, and a
gracious clear-cut face with tender lips, and
deep eyes turned now in calm adoration
towards the high altar, and now bent again in
extremest reverence.

The organ and the choir voices were sending
forth a sweet solemn chant, and presently
the pure notes of the soprano solis thrilled
upward like the song of the lark in its ecstatic
effort to ascend to the heavenly blue. The
candles of the altar were being lighted one by
one ; and they shone in the soft religious light
like stars of a near and mellowed lustre.
There came forth a procession following the
crucifix, before which a gray-haired old man
in gorgeous vestments walked backward, and
after him a file of priests in alas and golden
copes, with tapers, and banners of blue and
gold. The image of the Mother and Child
rising from a bank of beautiful white flowers

was borne aloft while the censers swayed
rhythmically, and the incense went up in clouds,
and made an atmosphere of heavy perfume.
The feeling of unreality which had first oppressed
Bellarmin on entering this scene, after
the light social talk and the more momentous
political conversation at Tressel's house,
seemed to fade away and give place to the
perception of a consoling spiritual actuality,
underlying a certain theatrical effect, which
in the Catholic ritual always jarred upon his
rationalistic mind. He did not bow his head
as the other worshippers did when the procession
passed, but he watched it with a vague
feeling of wonder and increasing interest, and
then an unconsciously deepening sentiment
of awe. In his ordinary mood he would have
seen a harshness in the gilded images, the
starry banners, the gorgeous copes, a sort of
prosaic homeliness in the soiled vestments
and the crumpled lace of the minor attendants.
There was a want of religious enthusiasm
in the faces of most of the acolytes ;
there was something in the whole which, in
any other mood than his present, might have
provoked him to a feeling of antagonism.

But now, notwithstanding this impression, the
ceremonial appeared to him in a dim fashion
symbolic of that spiritual essence hidden beneath
the outward pageantry and frolic of life
that Divine voice which speaks to the
listening soul through sobs and laughter,
through the roar of crowds, through all worldly
turmoil and clangour. There are moments of
brief, sudden illumination, when the eternal
truths shine out from the mere emblems, and
// is there — // is with us — the Christ crucified
; the martyred Ideal. For to many the
command ' Take up thy cross ' may not be
read, ' Crucify the material ; live the higher
life in pure aspiration and scorn of the mean
and ignoble ;' but rather, ' Crucify for the hour
those finer and more exquisite instincts and
sensibilities of your nature ; surrender them to
the grim, inexorable edict of circumstance, of
condition ; of what life and its limitations have
made duty for you.'

In condition of mind and soul, of which
such mood as this of Bellarmin is but a pale
reflection, men of old time walked with God.
In these later days of worldly fret, men and
women who, in rare moments of exaltation,

recognise the Divine Force working within,
and impelling to faith in the unseen, the
noble, the unselfish, do still hold commune
with God. It would not appear strange to
them, then, were the heavens to open and
the unseen world be revealed ; and in very-truth
the angels of that world do sometimes
pass in human guise, and, holding forth a
beckoning hand, lovingly bid us draw nearer
to the Holy Presence.

So it seemed to the young man, perturbed
in soul and heart, for the moment irked by the
world, yearning for a higher ideal and for the
purer light which for him shone in the eyes
of a girl. He waited, kneeling, till Tvlary
came down the aisle. She had lingered in
prayer some moments after Lady Struthers
filed away with the rest of the congregation.
Oh, that one little prayer for him might pass
her lips ! She made her reverence to the
altar and walked with eyes gazing straight
before her. She came so close to his bowed
form that her dress brushed his shoulder, and
her little hand, clasping her missal, almost
touched his head. She did not see him.
Her look was rapt and earnest, as if she were

not thinking of the common things of life,
with which, he told himself bitterly, he must
be associated in her mind. Yet in all its
sweetness and earnestness her face was sad,
he thought. This angel held out no beckoning
hand to him ; but he rose at once and
followed her closely ; and when she took the
holy water he dipped his fingers into the font
as soon as she had turned from it. He had
a glancing fancy that thus some grace or
virtue might be imparted to him.

It was not till they both stood outside the
church that she turned suddenly and saw him
near her. He felt a thrill of wonder and
delight at seeing the look of glad surprise
which came into her face ; it was something
more than mere surprise — something deeper
and more personal : it seemed a tender and
welcoming interest.

She held out her hand, and he took it in
his almost silently. Perhaps his face told her
something she had not quite known before.
Her bright smile faded, and she grew grave ina
moment, though not less gentle and tender,
and she still looked at him in her clear, questioning
way.

I did not think you would have cared to
come to our service in London she said.

I have been lunching at Tressel's,' he
answered, ' and I passed by here, and so I
went in, and — and I saw you.'

Mr. Bellarmin,' she said wistfully, ' you
look a little worried and troubled. Tell me,
is anything wrong with you ?'

Oh yes,' he said recklessly ; ' there's a
great deal wrong with me. Any sort of lifelike
mine must seem all wrong, I suppose,
when one gets under that kind of influence
you and I have just come from. It is an
influence, even for one who doesn't believe
in it. But I am not really troubled. I am
always happy when I am '

He checked himself abruptly. He had been
near saying, ' When I am with you.' She
took up his words simply : ' I, too, am always
happy when I am under that influence. Life
would be very sad and difficult, I think, without
the Church to go to for strength and comfort.
You couldn't have come to a better
place, Mr. Bellarmin, if you were disturbed or
unhappy ; and I think you must have felt it
so in your heart, or you would not have come.'

She bade him good-bye, and was moving
to her carriage, beside the door of which
Lord Stonehenge and Lady Struthers stood.
Bellarmin Hated his hat, but did not go near
to speak to them. It smote him with a
vague pain that Mary had not asked him, as
she often did when they accidentally met, to
come and see her at some particular time
near at hand.

On an impulse he said, ' May I call upon
you tomorrow ?'

Mary shook her head.

I am going to be away part of the time
tomorrow ; and when I come home from —
from the business I have to do, I shall be
tired and stupid, and I think I shall want to
be alone ; but come some other day — come
soon.'

He took leave of her, and Lord Stonehenge
helped her into the carriage, and Rolfe
went on to the Park.

The thought of her and of the chanting
and the service was with him all the evening,
though he dined at a house where he met
Lady Saxon. The talk during dinner touched
upon the wonder of life in London — its drama,

its never-ceasing change and movement, its
picturesqueness and its sordid misery, its
vivid contrast, its solemnity and its frivolity ;
the strange beauty to be found even in its
winter skies and fog veiled streets, and leaden
livid river ; and the subtle fascination there
was in its grimness and gloom and mystery
for those who had once fallen under the spell
of its enchantment.

It was contended that though London possesses
a magic as peculiarly her own, and ina
certain sense no less potent than that of
Rome and other far-famed historic capitals,
no poet or romanist or painter has ever
completely represented her infinite charm ;
that poetry, romance and painting have left
some of her most peculiar charms untouched.

Someone spoke of the extraordinary variety
of feelings which might be evoked merely in
the course of one day's experience among the
shifting scenes of the great city. Bellarmin
smiled a little sadly to himself as he joined in
with the speaker.

Later on, he went to a crowded party at
the magnificent studio of a noted Academician
— a Sunday evening semi-Bohemian party

VOL. II. 38

where a celebrated French comedian and
obedience played a scene from a Palais
Royal farce which had but just escaped the
Lord Chamberlain's prohibition, where champagne
corks flew, and empty laughter resounded,
and beautiful women in art-costumes
postured against tapestry backgrounds, and
lovers whispered, and art-critics took the
opportunity to furtively examine the pictures
and appraise the bric-a-brac, and where in
dim corners and amid aesthetic groups there
hovered that ideal which is exhibited on the
walls of the Academy, and sold at Christie's
and bargained for by American railway kings,
but which had no place in dim churches, and
but little affinity with the saints.

Bellarmin flirted and jested and applauded
the mummers, with the consciousness all the
time of moving and talking in a dream. He
looked in towards morning at a late club,
and in the gray dawn went to rest and to
dream more vividly still of Mary Stuart
Beaton.

He had a kind of instinct that the business
to which she had alluded was one of her
Southwark sister-of-mercy expeditions. He

had heard her speak more than once of the
particular quarter she visited ; and although
he would not for the world that she should
imagine he wished to obtrude himself upon
her, yet somehow, before the meeting of the
House next day, he drifted along the purlieus
of Westminster, and thence across the
bridge and down into the Southwark region.
It was a new locality to him, and had a
curious, unaccustomed bourgeois air, very 
that of the West-end he had quitted, or
the City in all its rush and roar and suggestion
of momentous issues and terrific responsibilities.
Bellarmin got into the Borough
Road, where great omnibuses rolled heavily
along the tram-lines, and where carts and
waggons lumbered, but where there were no
private carriages to be seen, and very few
cabs. Then he found himself in a tangle of
lanes and alleys and dismal narrow streets,
pervaded by the smell of decaying fish and
vegetable refuse and mouldering rags — streets
which were mostly given up to the pliers of
petty trades : the cobblers who buy old boots
and turn them out in a wearable condition as
new ; the button-holes, and fish-smokers, and

38—2

fur-pickers, and rag-sorters, for whom there is
no place in better-class quarters.

It seemed, on the whole, a fairly decent
community, in spite of its filth and squalor.
The women who hung about the doorways,
most of them with babies in their arms, were
not vicious or debased looking, but only
grimy, and unkempt, and stolid, and miserable,
and hopeless. The men looked hopeless
too, but few of them were drunken —
alas, poor souls ! there was not money enough
for the gin-palaces to flourish ! The children
were pale and rickety and blotched, as, indeed,
was little marvel, seeing that their lives were
passed in foul courts where not a breath of
pure air might ever penetrate. Here and
there, in a more open space, ropes were
stretched, and the ragged garments of the
population hung out to dry, adding a damp
and mouldy odour to the noxious smells that
loaded the atmosphere.

Bellarmin wandered on, stopping now and
then to give a few pence to some tattered,
wistful-eyed girl, or to a group of starved
street Arabs, who soon collected at his heels
in goodly procession, eager to direct him anywhere

that he would go. They were at last forcibly
dispersed by a dealer who stood before
his window, in which were displayed a variety
of cheap and common goods — men's shirts of
coarsest cotton at a shilling apiece, and boots
roughly vamped at three-and-sixpence a pair
and who descried in Bellarmin a possible
philanthropist.

This man was a churchwarden, so he told
Bellarmin, who stopped to talk with him,
and he was, so he said with some pride, the
best-to-do tradesman in the parish ; but he had
his distresses, and just now he hardly knew
how to carry on, for his brother-in-law who
helped him in the shop had run away with
eight shillings out of the till. From him
Bellarmin gained much practical information
as to the ways and wants of the parish. It
was a very poor parish, perhaps the poorest
in all London. The vicar himself had hardwork
to live and feed his family, let alone
keeping the church lighted and the things
together, and feeding the poor people.

Things weren't quite so bad as they had
been, though. Once not one of the West-end
charitable ladies, who went down singing

at the East-end, had ever heard of or thought
of visiting this God-forsaken spot. But now
• — and here a strange thing happened, and
Bellarmin's attention was strained to an extraordinary
pitch of alertness — now there was
a lady, a real West-Ender, and as handsome
as a princess ; and he didn't know but what
she was a princess, for the old gentleman
who came with her mostly treated her as such,
and old Jacobi, of the second-hand book-stall
in London Road, declared she was the walking
image of a print he had of Mary Queen
of Scots : she had come often of late, and
she gave teas to the old people, presents of
clothing and prizes to the school-children,
and it was all through her that the soup-kitchen
and the creole had been started.
The man went on to tell him that she was
there that very day ; that she was at the
school-house now with the vicar and some
other gentlemen, one of whom — and the dealer
looked mysterious — was uncommonly like the
pictures in the Comic Illustrated of Sir Victor
Champion. The dealer didn't know as he
had any politics himself; he had voted for
the Conservatives last election, because they'd

told him as he oucrht to stand by the country ;
but if the Liberals was going to do better by
that parish, why he was willing to let Sir
Victor have his vote, and it wasn't much odds
any way ; and if Bellarmin would like to see
for himself that the people were not such a
bad lot, taking them all round, he had only
to look into Green's Gardens, where he would
see an average selection.

Just then a customer came, and Bellarmin,
who really wanted to know what manner of
people these were to whom his Lily Queen
devoted herself, asked one of the urchins to
show him the way to Green's Gardens — a row
of dingy, miserable, dilapidated two-storied
houses, looking out upon a foul, ill-smelling
court, and offering melancholy satire upon the
bare suggestion of flower-beds.

There was a little flutter of excitement
about the place, however, amid all its
wretchedness. Bellarmin was not long in
discovering the cause. Had not his Princess
passed that way ? In good truth it might well
have seemed to the dwellers in that dreary
street that angels were abroad upon this soft
June afternoon. It was not difficult to identify

the ' beautiful lady ' who had come to the
rescue last week, when the gaunt, hard worked
mother of seven, in No. 5, broke her mangle,
her only means of earning a scant subsistence,
and whom starvation threatened, till by some
miracle the mangle could be repaired. The
angel had performed the miracle, and the
mangle was at work again. And then there
was the decrepit cobbler, who had started in
life afresh now that ' the lady ' had provided
him with tools and leather. And there was
the deaf widow, who used to support herself
handsomely by making band-boxes, till, as she
grew deafer, the shop people lost patience
and refused her orders, until ' the lady ' came
and went herself to a great warehouse, and
somehow managed to get the poor old dame
a certain weekly order for the few dozen that
she was able to turn out.

And then there was the family which were
to be emigrated to Australia, whose passage
she had paid, and whose clothes she had
taken out of pawn ; the head of that family
never quite knew how it was that he became
the possessor of a little nest-egg which the
vicar handed him before he sailed, as the gift

of an anonymous friend. It must be owned
that Bellarmin's impulsive liberality that day
was somewhat in ratio with the blessings
poured upon the beautiful lady whose name
and position no one seemed to have exactly
ascertained. But, anyhow, some hopeless
hearts were gladder, and some starved bodies
more content that night, because of what he
had done.

When he had visited most of the dwellers
in the Gardens, he made his way as quickly
as he could towards the Borough Road again.
He had a nervous dread lest Mary should
see him, or get to know of his presence there.
By chance, however, he struck upon a little
square with a church and a red-brick schoolhouse,
and more lines and more clothes
fluttering in the wind ; and as he passed at
the end of the square the faint sound of a
sweet, fresh voice that he knew fell upon his
ear, with just that little imperious intonation
in it which told that his Princess was at
that moment very earnest and intent on the
carrying out of some project for the people's
good.

Bellarmin could not but pause and look

from behind his screen of bulging sheets.
She was there, standing very straight, and
looking very slender and stately, in her plain
black dress and little close bonnet, and with
a part of her profile only visible to him.
There was quite a group of them, just outside
the church door. General Falcon stood
by, and Sir Victor Champion ; yes, there
could be no doubt about that. His face was
turned towards Mary, and had a look of deep
attention, as if he were revolving her project,
whatever it might be, in his mind, and taking
all its practical bearings, before he flashed
into enthusiastic advocacy. Bellarmin had
often seen the same kind of look on his face
in the House of Commons, only that then it
had not the tinge of strong personal interest
which warmed it now. Bellarmin felt a
darting pang of jealousy. U Ae were on the
eve of becoming Prime Minister, and had a
great fortune, and might not only restore to
the last of the Stuartss her forfeited inheritance,
but take from her counsel and inspiration,
and perhaps bring into practical working
some of her visionary plans for the good of
England Ah, well ! he was glad for

Mary's sake that she had enlisted interest so
powerful.

There was no doubt that if Champion, as
Prime Minister, were to urge Mary's claims
in the House, they would be carried. Liberals
and Tories alike would be fired to an impulse
of generosity towards one so beautiful,
winning, and so good. The act of forfeiture
would be reversed in a manner becoming ina
magnanimous Government, and a wise and
lofty-minded sovereign absolutely secure of
the affections of her people, and able to smile
at the bogie of a Stuart pretender to the
throne. Then all this shadow and sham and
net of intrigue and assumption would fall
away from Mary. Her claims having been
recognised and acceded to, she would stand
forth in an assured position, free to live her
own life and do her good works as she pleased.
Ah, yes ! he was glad — very glad. But he
wished that he could be the great Minister,
and that it might be in his power to do all
this for her.

A clergyman in a long rusty coat and felt
wide-awake — evidently the vicar of the parish
was in the group : a man with a tired, commonplace

face and stooping gait, and eyes
alight now in wonder and hope, as he glanced
eagerly from Miss Beaton to Champion.
Probably he, like the dealer, would be quite
willing to turn from Tory to Liberal, if the
latter party were likely to do better than the
former by that particular parish. Then there
was a little woman in brown alpaca and a
shabby bonnet, twinkling with jet — a schoolteacher
or district visitor, probably — all agape
with astonishment and delighted expectation,
who would put in her modest word when Sir
Victor asked the vicar a question, and he
turned to her. They were all in full conclave.
Bellarmin wished that he could hear what it
was about, and wished, too, that he might
join in it. It was only a very little reform, easy
enough to a rich philanthropist, and scarcely
involving a question of legislation, though
Mary, in her anxiety, felt sure that an Act of
Parliament might be passed immediately to
set everything right. It was only about the
starting of free breakfasts for the hungry
scholars whom a beneficent State provided
with a mass of valuable knowledge, but
whose empty stomachs were not equal to the

task of assisting their minds in its digestion.
Had Bellarmin gone boldly forward he would
have been welcomed, and he might have
secured for himself several opportunities
which fell to Champion of enjoying Mary
Beaton's society, and benefiting his fellow-creatures
at the same time. But he felt sore
and sad, and he turned quietly away behind
the sheets, and wandered out of the labyrinth
of alleys by a different path.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

A New Serial Story

by W. E. Norris

commenced in the
January Number
i ^" "1 of

THE Temple BAR MAGAZINE.

To be obtained at all Booksellers'.

A New Serial Story

by Jessie Fothergill

commenced in the
January Number

C ^'' \ of

overleap.) ^'-

THE TEMPLE BAR MAGAZINE.

To be obtained at all Booksellers'.

W. H. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

w

RoBHl (

186, STRAND, /-LONTDON,

AND AT THE RAILWaSiT^POKSTALLS.

NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO AND RECEIVED Ft^OM^UBfeCRIBERS IN SETS ONLY.

T E R M ^ \

FOR SUBSCRIBERS OBTAINING THEIR BOOKS FRffff^ GlIUNTRY BOOKSTALL"
I J \ * Months. I

For ONE Volume at a time i.wa*^.\£0 12 l 1

(Novels in mere than One volume are nei avaii^iUe/or f^s last 4/ Subscription.)

For TWO Volumes „ •♦r" .! 17 6 1 11 6

(Never in more Ruin Two Volumes art nol avaiUtUi^j^M\is class of Subscription.)

For THREE Volumes „ ^Tj | 1 3 2 2

For FOUR „ ., ^^ } 1 8 2 10

For SIX „ „ 1 15 3 3

For TWELVE „ ,. 3 5 5



■^ — ^

OF Thou

N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



THE REBEL ROSE.

^ iXot)cI.

Say, pretty Tory, where's the jest
To wear that colour on your breast,
When that same breast confessing shows
The whiteness of the Rebel Rose ?'

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. TIL

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

publishers in a^rliittarj} to Ijcr ^ttvijfstji) the Qiucn.

1888.

[Awl Rights Rc'sei-rd.^

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER

I. ' BOSWORTH won't HAVE IT '

II. THE PILOT-BALLOON .

III. 'IF I CAN LOVE YOU, I WILL '

IV. PASSION IN TATTERS
V. * WHAT OTHER REASON COULD THERE BE ?

VL THE East-end EXPEDITION .
VII. ' I THINK I SHALL SAY YES '
VIII. ' A STROKE OF HATE AND TREASON '

IX. champion's motion .

X. ' YOU ARE MY PRISONER '
XL ' TO petrel's REST — QUICK !'
XII. A CATASTROPHE
XIII. THE LAST

I






1 22












CHAPTER I.

BOSWORTH won't HAVE IT.'

Iff^i^EAR MR. BELLARMIN; Lady
Cora Mallory wrote, —

I never see you now —
never. You must come and dine with me
on Sunday — just one of my tiny, quiet little
dinners, such as you iced to say you liked.
I want you particularly, for I am going out
of town so very soon. Do, like a good
creature, throw over everything else just for
this once, and come to me.'

Then there was a little postscript :

I think Lord Twyford will dine with me.

VOL. III.



He will be coming up from Lord Bosworth's
on Sunday.'

Come,' Bellarmin said to himself, ' that
explains the urgency. Twyford wants to tell
me the result of his dealings with Lord Bosworth.
Yes ; of course I shall go.'

Lady Cora Mallory was a relative by marriage
of Lord Twyford. She was a widow ;
she was fairly rich ; and she lived to please
herself. She had a small house in a Mayfair
street ; she kept no men-servants except her
coachman and her groom, and they did not
live in the house. She gave pleasant little
dinners and luncheons; and she was supposed
to have no political opinions, and to entertain
Trojan and Tyrian alike. This was of course
the reason why Lord Twyford selected her
house as the rendezvous for Bellarmin. No
suspicion would be roused in any mind by
the fact that Lord Twyford had met Bellarmine
at Lady Cora Mallory's house. Lady
Cora was a connection of his, and Lady
Cora's pretty little house welcomed to its
friendly bosom everybody who was worth
knowing, and perhaps, indeed, some few who,

in the strict sense, were not worth knowing.
So Mr. Bellarmin went to the Httle feast on
the appointed day.

There were two ladies besides the hostess,
and there were Lord Twyford and a brother
of Lady Cora's just home from sea — he had
a command in one of the squadrons — and
Bellarmin himself. The dinner was excellent ;
the talk was bright and varied. Lady Cora
talked a great deal, and was a woman of incessant
movement and gesture. She was
thought handsome by some people. Those
who did not think her handsome were willing
to admit that she was ' impressive.' Some
less kindly persons hinted that she was
'oppressive.'

Presently the ladies left the room, and
Lady Cora's brother found that he had to
hurry off somewhere. Lord Twyford and
Bellarmin were alone. Lord Twyford pushed
the claret-jug to Bellarmin, and there
was a moment of silence which Bellarmin
determined that it was not his part to
break.

I have been seeing Bosworth,' Twyford
began with a little uneasy cough ; ' in fact, I

39—2

went down there early on Saturday, and only
came up this evening.'

Yes,' said Bellarmin.

'Yes.' Then there came two uneasy little
coughs, little clearings of the embarrassed
throat, and Lord Twyford went on : * Fact
is, Mr. Bellarmin, some of your friends have
been acting rather indiscreetly, I think. I
suppose it is very hard to keep things altogether
private ; but I fancy there has been
some indiscretion somewhere.'

Not with me,' Bellarmin said firmly.

Oh dear no. No one could think anything
of the kind about you. But, do you
see, it has got out somehow that Champion
has been making arrangements, sending up
pilot-balloons, sending out scouts. It's got
about, and it has specially got to Bosworth's
ears. I must say, Bellarmin,' Twyford went
on, suddenly becoming familiar — ' I must say
there does appear to have been something
like treachery or underhand-dealing of some
kind. Someone has peached — isn't that the
old-fashioned slang phrase ? — someone has
been peaching to Bosworth. I found he had
got hold of the whole thing, and he was

wild about it. How he looks at it is, that
Champion has been only trying to humour
us, while all the while he is making serious
arrangements elsewhere. He has been humbugging
us, he says — Bosworth says, I mean
and he has been mystifying Saxon. He's
going to play a downright Radical part, he
says — I mean Bosworth says — and to appeal
to the country from a regular revolutionary
platform.'

Oh, that's mere nonsense,' Bellarmin said.
He could hardly hope to get the support of
my friends if he were going to mount a
revolutionary platform.'

1 knows — I know ; but you can understand
that what Bosworth calls a revolutionary platform
you and I might call a platform of
reasonable reform. Anyhow, Bosworth has
regularly taken fright, and all our slow
fellows with him ; and he shies like a horse.
He vows we were just about to be made the
cat's-paw of Champion and the demagogues ;
and seme of our men, whom I had all but persuaded
to take my views, now start back and
say Bosworth is right.'

Then Lord Bosworth won't make any
move ?'

My dear fellow, I shouldn't so much mind
even that. I am afraid he will make a
move, and that, like the crab, he will go
backwards.'

I am sorry for it,' Bellarmin said gravely.
There is a great chance lost to the Conservative
Party — a chance of identifying
themselves with a real popular reform, and
at the same time keeping the real reform
from degenerating into a sham revolution.'

*Yes; I am sorry for it, too,' Lord Twofold
said with a gentle sigh. ' It was an opportunity
! One would have liked the grand
old Conservative Party to stand in an attitude
of something better than mere resistance.
One might have had an ambition to have
a share in some bold and generous movement
forward. But there it is, you see ; Bosworth
won't have it.'

I think that ought to be the motto of
Conservatism since De Carmel's death,' Bellarmin
said bitterly — ' Bosworth won't have
it.'

There is too much truth in that ; but what
can we do ? We can't get on without Bosworth.



Are you getting on with Bosworth ?'

Well, no ; it don't seem like getting on,
does it ? It seems more like getting off, I
should say. But some of our men won't do
anything except just as Bosworth tells them.'

Against Bosworth and stupidity,' said Bellarmin,
' the gods themselves contend in vain.'

Oh, well, Bosworth is a brilliant man in
his way, and you must admit that his foreign
policy is bold ; but, as you say, he is somewhat
narrow-minded, and very determined. Anyhow,
there is the condition of things ; and I
was anxious to let you know, in strictest confidence,
of course, at the earliest moment possible.
You will have to decide as to your own
course. Perhaps I ought not to have told you
all this so fully ; but I felt bound, especially
to you ; and I thought it was but right to let
you know at once that the thing is at an end
so far as we are concerned. Shall we go upstairs
?'

Yes ; just a moment. About this treachery,
Lord Twyford ; can you tell me anything
more clearly ?'

Twyford indulged in a little embarrassed
chuckle.

Well, I don't know ; I don't think I can
tell you much ; indeed, I don't know very
much myself. But Bosworth implied it tome,
if he didn't exactly say it, that he had
had positive information conveyed to him
about Champion's intentions.'

Positive information } Did he say from
whom he got the positive information ?'

I think (he ! he !) Bosworth — rather gave
me to understand that it came in the form of
anonymous information.'

There did not appear to be anything more
to say. They were about to leave the room
when Lord Twyford suddenly stopped.

I thought at first of resigning,' he said ina
low confidential tone ; ' indeed, I had almost
made up my mind to it. But Bosworth
wouldn't hear of it. And after all one must
compromise, I suppose. Perhaps things are
not exactly quite ripe with us yet ; with the
Conservatives of the old school, I mean. It
would be impossible to bring up some of our
country squires ; we haven't had time to educate
them.'

Will things ever be ripe,' Bellarmin asked,
if men of higher intellect and more enlightened

Opinions do all the compromising, and the
pig-headed dullards are allowed to have their
own way in everything ?'

You put it rather sharply,' Lord Twyford
said, with just a faint tinge coming on his delicate
features ; ' but of course there is something
to be said for your view of the matter.
I don't dispute that at all. But, in a practical
way, what good could be done by my withdrawing
from the Government now ? Would
not that be merely to leave the — ah, well, the
class of persons you describe somewhat
severely — to have their own way in everything
?'

It would leave them alone with the country,'
Bellarmin replied warmly ; ' face to face with
the country and alone

Lord Twyford remained silent for a moment.
He felt within himself that there was force in
what Bellarmin had been urging. Still, he
thought it was hardly the moment to withdraw
from Bosworth ; it might create a wrong
impression through England. It was not
timidity or nervousness that restrained him,
he told himself ; oh ! nothing of the kind — only
statesmanship.

Bellarmin, much reflecting, walked to his
club after having left Lady Cora Mallory's
house. He was beginning to think that there
was a good deal of the demoralizing in this
noble same of politics. ' Here is Lord Twofold
— in private life, a man of honour and of
virtue ; even of piety, it is said. Yet, having
worked hard in secret yesterday to induce
his leader and his party to adopt a certain
policy, he will now work hard in public tomorrow
to frustrate and defeat that very same
policy. No doubt he will get up in the House
of Lords and argue against, and condemn it,
and denounce it. And no doubt, too, if it
were to be stated in the papers that he had
conferred with Bellarmin on the subject, and
endeavoured torrance a combination between
Bellarmin and himself in favour of the policy
he was now to oppose, Lord Twyford would
get up in the House of Lords and publicly
deny that there had been any such conference
for any such purpose. And only the other
day even, while professing a desire to cooperate
with Champion, and to induce the
whole party to co-operate with him, Lord
Twyford's chief idea was to get beforehand

with Champion and cut him out, and obtain
the whole credit of the reform for the Conservatives.
If this is what a man of the
highest reputation for honour will do,' Bellarmin
asked himself, 'what may we not expect
from the men who have no especial reputation
that way, but are content to be only like other
men ? We can understand Don Quixote.' he
thought, ' and we can also understand Gil
Bias ; but how to combine Don Quixote and
Gil Bias and make them one ?'

Bellarmin's suspicion of treachery had not
at first turned in the right direction. It was
true that, partly by assuming what she guessed
but did not know, partly by adroit questioning,
partly by pulling the wires which she had
at her service in the different camps, Lady
Saxon had ascertained the existence of what
she called to herself ' the Twyford overtures,'
and had summed up in her mind, with tolerable
accuracy, the substance of the interview
between Lord Twyford and Bellarmin. Lady
Saxon had by no means underrated her value
to Champion as an ally. A beautiful woman
who chooses to play the game has forces at
her command far more subtle and effective

than those of male state-craft. Lady Saxon
might at times have made a more accurate
count of heads than any of the whips on the
Liberal or the Conservative side. As a minor
instrument, Colonel Towers was very easily
manipulated; and Ross Bingley, the journalist,
who always contrived to gather loose ends
together and pick up bits of information,
nobody knew how, that gave the clue to more
important information still, was a no less
lightly wielded tool.

Bellarmin soon saw clearly that Lady Saxon
knew a o^ood deal about the business. It is
easy work, of course, for people skilled in
such delicate manoeuvring to reveal much
without actually saying anything. And then,
too, there was a temptation, only possible
when a woman's good opinion was in question,
to let her see that he was not considered
by his party so unimportant as she might
have imagined ; and the more he recognised
her real knowledge, her tact, and her diplomacy,
the more he realized that she was no
mean political counsellor, no ordinary feminine
partizan, the more dangerous became the
position and the greater the temptation.

Bellarmin had never mentioned Lord
Twyford's name to her ; he had not even
suggested that the Conservatives had an idea
of checkmating Champion. But Lady Saxon
read the move, and she talked it over with
Champion ; and the two resolved that the
Bosworth Conservatives should be checkmated
in their turn. So a whisper pierced
the ear of the Marquis of Bosworth himself.
'You are sold to the Championites,' it insinuated
; ' Lucifer has dug a pit into which
you must tumble if you move forward. You
had better fall back behind the lines of your
Torres Vedras of ancient Toryism, and wait
there until better times, as the dear old Tory
Duke waited until Napoleon's men had spent
themselves. To try to compromise with
Champion is to try to sup with Lucifer without
a long spoon.'

If Bellarmin was variable and perturbed
during these days, Mary Stuart Beaton, too,
was under the influence of moods and impulses
which made her seem at different
times a totally different person.

Her temperament was like a lake that reflects
sunbeams and clouds as the sky changes ;

and there blended strangely in her nature a
certain French gaiety and elasticity with a
Northern courage, an open-air hardihood, and
a strain of religious mysticism and melancholy
devoutness that seemed to give round for
the fantastic suggestion of a parallel between
her own personality and that of Mary of
Scotland, whom she resembled in feature.

The devotee was prominent just now. The
creole and School Board breakfast schemes,
and a wild project for expending some of the
Stuart inheritance, as soon as she should
come of age, in building a Catholic church
and proselytizing in Southwark, filled her
mind to the exclusion, for the moment, of
those queenly escapades which tormented
General Falcon and made Lady Struthers
shudder. She had not lately teased her
guardian to let her mount omnibuses, and
visit music-halls and doubtful places of entertainment,
and was, on the whole, as well
behaved as the most exacting Legitimist
could have desired his liege lady to be. And
then, too, it was the height of the season,
and somehow, notwithstanding her attitude
of separateness from ' the Hanoverianss,' the

young Princess, as people called her, had got
caught in a perfect vortex of fashionable
society. After her dedtlt among the Whigs
at Lady Saxon's house, the Duchess of
Nornside took her up and introduced her to
many notable persons. Then Lady Mavis
Redhouse launched her among the Tories,
and she was even the lioness at a great
reception given by the Marchioness of Bosworth.
She did not go to Ascot, but created
some sensation at the summer meeting at San-down
Park ; and one night at the Amphion
Club, Rolfe Bellarmin, sitting beside Lady
Saxon, one of a noisy little group with long
tumblers on a table before them, was startled
by the apparition of a tall, slim figure in a
straight brocaded gown, with a pale, proud
face and deep wondering eyes, and dark
chestnut hair bound by that old-fashioned
jewelled coif which Mary was fond of wearing.
She had come in with Lady Eastgrave,
and the two women might have been embodied
types of the old time and the new.
Nothing could have been more in the
nineteenth-century mode than Lady East-grave's
low-cut, skin-like bodice, sleeveless

arms, crinoletted draperies, and fashion-book
yellow coiffure, ornamented with diamond
frogs and beetles.

Bellarmin rose involuntarily, and a frown
came over his face. He did not Hke to see
Mary Beaton here, and with Lady Eastgrave,
though the errant husband was ostentatiously
to the fore. Lady Saxon noticed the gesture,
and laughed scornfully.

You are thinking that your Princess looks
a little out of place in this atmosphere of
cigarette smoke ; but Mary Stuart liked a
romp sometimes, you know, and I dare say
she would have appreciated this sort of thing
intensely.'

Mary Beaton did seem to enjoy the comic
singing which was going on, and she did not
seem to mind the cigarette smoke. She
laughed at the buffoonery, and every now
and then glanced wistfully towards Rolfe,
who, however, scarcely spoke to her, but devoted
himself in a marked manner to Lady
Saxon. He did not understand her, so he
told himself with something like a throb of
indignation. Why had he wasted sentiment
and adoration upon the saint of Farm Street,

who could come down so readily from her
pedestal and lend herself with such apparent
zest to a mundane scene like this ? Another
time, when he met her again at the Amphion
Club, he could not help saying something of
the sort to her, and remarked with a sarcastic
emphasis that he knew no one who so perfectly
combined the world and the Church.
Mary coloured for a moment, and then became
silent and stately and reserved, so that for a
week or so there was a slight coolness between
them.

He met her often at parties and receptions.
In truth, Miss Beaton had now become quite
a famous personage. It was altogether the
thing to go to her little Court, and to talk
about her, and laugh at her pretensions, and
admire her beauty, and, in the aesthetic circles,
to imitate her style of dress. She was growing
accustomed now to seeing her appearance
and her dresses and her ancestry described in
the papers. The more serious papers even
discussed her property claims, and it began
to be generally understood that Sir Victor
Champion would bring them forward, and
that the Tories would offer no opposition,

VOL. III. 40

and that the Sovereign would generously
assent to their recognition. So that, from a
worldly point of view, everything seemed to be
going well with our poor Princess, and there
was certainly no practical cause for General
Falcon's sour looks and odd, abrupt manners.
The relations between Falcon and the
others of his young mistress's household
were becoming more and more strained
with every succeeding day. The curious
thine was that the more difficult Falcon
became to deal with, the more Mary made
effort to bear patiently with him, and to meet
him with unfailing sweetness and affection.
At one time she was ready enough to reply
to his rough words by imperious words of
her own ; she was ready enough to laugh at
him, to make mockery of him and his tempers
and his ways. But of late she was almost
always gentle, forbearing, considerate. There
was that change in her which, let us hope,
would be seen in any of us who suddenly
found that he or she had been taking for
mere outbursts of ill-temper what were really
but the symptoms of malady and of pain. But
to the outer world, to all who came into association,

even into close association with him,
there was no appearance of any sort of malady
or ill-health in Falcon. No man ever carried
sixty-five years with more careless ease.
His tread was as firm and as light as that
of a man of thirty. He seldom troubled to
put his foot into his horse's stirrup in order
to mount : he vaulted into the saddle with
the elastic spring of a boy. He managed all
his mistress's affairs as shrewdly as ever.
But his manners were becoming every day
worse and worse, more imperious and more
rude to all those around him. Lord Stonehenge
was deeply concerned, and could only
account for the change in him on Mary's own
supposition, that anxiety in regard to her
fortunes and cause had preyed upon him,
and had shaken his nerves. It had always
been understood that Falcon's old wound at
times rendered him irritable and uncertain.
But people wondered how Miss Beaton was
able to endure him ; and as she became more
and more talked about in London, the most
absurd stories were got up as to the origin
and extent of his guardianship, and the most
fantastic guesses hazarded to explain the 



extraordinary power he was said to have over
her, and which no extravagance of ill-temper
on his part seemed to lessen.

In truth, Mary was herself in a depressed
and fluctuating state of mind and nerves.
Amidst all her gaiety and occupations and
religious exercises, she often felt lonely and
astray and bewildered. Life seemed to her
something like a theatrical performance in
which hardly anything was real, and very
little was satisfying. She was troubled and
perplexed — she did not know why. She
clung to her benevolent schemes, and to
her Church, and to her old friends who she
believed loved her ; and she thought Falcon
loved her best of all, and with most of a
father's love. What did it matter, then, about
his humours and his contrariety and his
strange wild outbursts of affection, since the
affection was, and had always been, the most
disinterested upon which she could rely ? She
believed in Lord Stonehenge, and clung to
him after a fashion. She was always gentle
to him and sweet, but she could not help
sometimes feeling a little pang, a little doubt
and dread. She could never forget that

night when he had offered her his heart
and his Hfe. She believed in Sir Victor
Champion, too, and admired him, and took
pleasure in his company. But — there was
just that faint doubt in regard to him also.

THE PILOT-BALLOON.

GREAT many notes in Tressel's
hieroglyphic writing were flying
about. Tressel was in his element.
He professed to be acquainted with all the political
moves, to ' tap ' all the secret wires, and,
though a Radical, to have private, prompt, and
trustworthy information as to the doings in
the Tory camp. Of course he knew all about
the failure of Lord Twyford's efforts to educate
his party. He told Bellarmin that there
would very probably be a split in the Cabinet,
and that Lord Twyford was trying to makeup
his mind that his conscience required him
to resign— Lord Twyford was rather famous
for breaking up Cabinets by resigning at some

critical juncture. ' I have written to Twyford
giving various very good reasons against
such a course, for it wouldn't suit our game,'
wrote the genial cynic to Bellarmin. ' Lucifer
is simply wild to get in, and will certainly go
mad if he is not allowed to make a move.
He mustn't rush his fence ; and I mean to
make the preliminary move myself, by bringing
forward at once my stock motion about
the House of Lords, which I had intended to
drop out this year in view of more definite
measures. I saw Lucifer yesterday — in a
great state at the idea of being deserted by
the Whigs, and after all thrown over by your
party. I told him that I believed in a party
militant, and that he need not look after
Saxon, for it was of no use. What 1 hold to
is this : Lucifer's old colleagues and many of
our lot are traitors, eagerly looking for some
plan which will bring them back into office.
They ought at once to be blooded with a
resolution pledging them. The Tories cannot
and will not reform the Lords. Very possibly
Twyford might want to try ; but he could not
carry his party or the Whigs. Their game
is *' the integrity of the Constitution," to

shilly-shally with you Progressivess, and to
throw you a few crumbs ; but you will be a
fool if you accept them.'

Tressel had for a long time taken the
House of Lords into his particular care.
Regularly every year he brought forward a
motion denouncing it as an anomaly, and
inviting the House of Commons to say that
the time had come when the hereditary principle
in legislation ought no longer to be
permitted to prevail. Tressel puzzled people
with his motion. Everyone knew that he
did not want to be taken into an Administration
— and yet was it possible to suppose that
he was really in earnest about his annual
motion, or about anything else ?

Tressel's motion was to come before the
House of Commons on Tuesday. Tuesday
is the day set apart by Parliamentary procedure
for the motions of private members,
as the phrase is — members who do not belong
to the Administration, or, it may be added,
to the front bench of Opposition. Many a
young reputation has been made by a Tuesday
motion ; many an ambitious light has
been snuffed out some fatal Tuesday by the

peremptory action of a ' count.' A capable
man who has convictions, and who thinks he
sees his way to securing a Parliamentary
position, generally ties himself to his Tuesday
motion, as Sindbad tied himself to the lump
of meat, in order thereby to be lifted to some
desirable elevation. The man with convictions
wants his measure to be so lifted ; the
other man wants the lift for himself. The
man with convictions has gained his end when
some Government takes up his motion ; the
other man, when some Government takes up
himself. In either case the man brings on
his motion once in every session, year after
year, until something comes of it. Many a
motion grows upon the House by this familiarizing
yearly process of presentation. First
it is a phantom, a theory, a dream, a crotchet;
then it solidifies, assumes shape and proportion,
and is seen to be real and practicable ;
then comes a day when the author of the
motion joyfully withdraws it, having received
at last the long-desired and welcome assurance
of the Government that they will take
charge of it themselves ; and next it is an
Act of Parliament. And the man is a heretic,

a heathen, a 1 turk, who dares from that
time forth to say that any country could be
worthy of the name of civilization which did
not enjoy the blessing of such an enactment.
Sometimes the author of the annual motion
is absorbed into the Government and rolled
round in Administration's diurnal course, and
the motion is bequeathed to some other
aspirant, or, it may be, is heard of no more.

These are the successes, personal and political,
of the Tuesday motions. The successes
are rare, far apart, far-shining. Who shall
tell the sad story of the failures ? Who shall
tell of the long speeches carefully prepared
and elaborately rehearsed — rehearsed, it may
even be, before a select circle of friends invited
and expected to admire — and which
were snatched away in their beauty's bloom
on the floor of the House of Commons by
the abhorrent shears of a 'count'? Who
shall tell of the many Tuesday motions which
were each to have made its author a lion, but
which only made him a bore ? The philosophic
mind ought to look with curious and
compassionate interest on each Tuesday's
motion, and on him who ventures to attach

himself to its fate. That fate seems sometimes
to follow mere caprice in deciding what
to do with the man — whether to make of him
a political idol or only a Parliamentary log of
wood.

The Ladies' Gallery was always full when
Tressel was going to speak ; it was crowded
this evening. Not that the ladies who
generally frequented the Gallery were great
admirers of Tressel ; t-he majority of the
women who attend the debates in the House
seem somehow to be generally the wives,
sisters, and daughters of Tories ; but even if
they detested Tressel, they found him amusing
all the same. Mr. Samuelson, the doorkeeper
of the Ladies' Gallery, had a hard
time of it now and then. Mr. Samuelson
was a tall, bland, somewhat melancholy man.
He had an air of mild deprecation. He was
civil by nature, and it was a struggle against
his feelings when he was compelled to be
peremptory with ladies in the interests of
order and in obedience to the strict injunction
of his superiors. For the dames and demoiselles
in the Gallery, the dames more especially,
will talk, and are often very demonstrative.

Solemn warning placards exhibiting
the word ' Silence ' admonish the ladies to be
chary even of whisper ; but the ladies are not
obedient. They will chatter to each other ;
they will allow members to hang over the
backs of their chairs and talk with them —
perhaps — who knows ? — even flirt with them.
Some of them are apt to lose their heads
when an exciting division takes place, and to
'shout amid the shouting crew,' as Cleveland
the pirate, in Scott's romance, tells his loved
one that he shall soon have to do. Mr.
Samuelson remonstrates : ' Ladies, I 7mis^ ask
you to keep silence. Madame, you really
miss not make such a noise ; the 
has just sent up to say that it must
not go on.' But of what avail such platonic
remonstrance ? Mr. Samuelson can't drag a
lady, body and bones, out of the Gallery ; he
can't put a gag into her mouth or a padlock
on her lips ; he can't inflict any manner of
condign punishment on her ; and the ladies
do not pay much attention to his efforts at the
maintenance of discipline. A momentary lull
is all he can ever hope to bring about. So
he goes through life with a sort of deadened,

deprecatory, distressed air. On his face ot
benevolent appeal seem to be inscribed
the words : * These women — what can one
do?'

Bellarmin was giving a little dinner that
night within the precincts of the House to
Mary Beaton, Lady Saxon, Sir Victor, Falcon,
and two or three other friends. The idea of
the dinner had originated with Lady Saxon.
She said she had never dined in the House
of Commons, and people told her it was
getting to be the thing now for women to
dine there, and she wished someone would
ask her ; and Bellarmin delightedly became
the someone, and asked her. Then, at a
Ladles' Night of the Gala Club, in the impulse
of the moment, he asked Mary, and
she seemed pleased as a school-girl might be
with the thought of an unfamiliar enjoyment
and experience. So Bellarmin made his arrangements
well in advance. The afternoon
of Tressel's motion was chosen, and places
were found for the ladies in the Gallery.
Mary had been more than once offered a
place in the Speaker's own Gallery ; but it
did not amuse her nearly so much to be there

as to be in the public gallery consecrated to,
and bearing the name of, the Ladies.

There was a look of girlish expectation on
her face as she got out of the carriage in the
quiet little courtyard of the Ladies' Gallery
and greeted Bellarmin, who was standing at
the oak door to receive her. Her manner
was more kind and cordial to him than it had
altogether been of late, and the young man
felt a sense of peace and satisfaction steal
over his soul. He would not have her go to
the Gallery yet. Tressel would not begin fora
while, and there was a little cloistral garden
on the side of the House of Lords which he
wanted to show her ; and there was the
window on the great staircase, with the inscription
on brass setting forth how the
standard weights and measures of England
were buried there ; and there were some
frescoes, and many other interesting things,
which could only be seen properly by daylight.
So they wandered under Gothic
arches, through still gray courts, where
only a stray policeman lingered, or some
official with his black bag passed into one
of the offices, or an unsociable member taking

a solitary stroll doffed his hat and cast a
curious glance at Bellarmin, whom, of course,
everyone knew, and his Stuart Princess.
These more secluded precincts of the House
of Commons, which are so little known and
frequented, have a strangely tranquillizing
effect on overwrought nerves. The very suddenness
of the contrast seems to intensify the
feeling of tranquillity, and it is difficult to
believe that a few paces this way or that, a
few stairs surmounted, a few corridors passed,
and one is in all the clatter and bustle of
Palace Yard, and all the life and movement
of the lobbies.

Besides the ladies who were to dine with
Bellarmin, Lady Mavis Redhouse was in the
Gallery, and Madame Spinola and Jenny
Rivers had somehow managed to secure
places. Mrs. Rivers had heard about Bellarmin's
dinner, and was wondering whether
he would have the heart not to bid her to the
feast, and whether she would have to be content
with such mild fare as might be served
her in the little sitting-room appropriated to
the ladies.

There was a buzz of impatient whisper ;

people were saying that it was not going to
be an amusing night after all; and Mr. Samuel-son
was gliding round behind the chairs,
giving polite little bits of information concerning
the orator who was up and who sat
down as Mary came in, and blandly answering
questions as to the probable business of
the evening. One thing the ladies who were
familiar with the place felt certain of was, that
the House would not be counted while Tressel
himself was speaking, whatever might be the
fate of the motion when his speech was over.
On this particular evening the House was
more crowded than was usual, even for a
speech of Tressel's. Serious men who had
been counted out again and again upon some
motion whereon they had set their hearts,
wondered sadly at the perversity and the
levity of the House of Commons, but came
down themselves all the same to listen to
Tressel. Tressel's speech was full of humour,
drollery, and odd, quaint hits. One little
trick of surprise which he had, was to reach
what seemed to be a climax of satire or caricature,
and then, as by a sudden after-thought,
cap the climax with some utterly unexpected

extravagance. Long as the House was
familiar with Tressel, it never yet could
forecast the moment when this rhetorical
artifice was about to be played off, and it
was always taken with a fresh and ingenuous
surprise. Of course Tressel did not go deep
into things. That was not his way ; he did
not care about it ; he left that sort of work to
others who had a taste for it. But there was
no man who could touch off the superficial
absurdities of an anomalous institution or
system as Tressel could ; it was hard not to
think ridiculous in itself and in its essence
anything upon which Tressel was for the
moment casting ridicule. In this instance the
institution was, even in the opinion of its best
friends, only to be secured against ridicule by
the plea, not of sanctuary, but of sanctity. This
time Tressel started a new view of the absurdity
the principle of hereditarylegislation.
He dwelt on the wrong it inflicted on some of
the hereditary legislators. He painted an
amusing picture of a man of genius, energy,
and eloquence — a man born for political life
and political power — who was making a great
career for himself in the House of Commons,
VOL. III. 41

when suddenly his father dies, and the unfortunate
heir is condemned to what Tressel
called penal servitude for life in the House of
Lords. His career is cut short in a moment;
for what scope has he in the House of Lords?
Who minds anything said by anybody in the
House of Lords ? Fancy a chamber of legislation
about whose divisions, on the rare occasions
when divisions do take place, nobody
in or out of Parliament cares three rows of
pins. Demosthenes himself couldn't be really
eloquent in such an assembly ; at the very
best he could only be academical. He couldn't
indulge in invective — the House of Lords of
our time would be scandalized at invective —
only the mildest of satirical jokes would suit
the atmosphere of the place. * I sometimes
think,' Tressel declared, * with a shudder —
yes, Mr. Speaker, with a positive shudder —
that only the merest accident saved me — me
myself — from being in succession to a seat in
the House of Lords !'

Lady Mavis Redhouse found her Tory
patience utterly failing her as Tressel went
on. ' Oh, the wretch, the odious vile creature !'
she was heard to ejaculate at short intervals.

Mr. Samuelson craned over the heads and
backs of rows of ladies, and implored her to
be silent. She tossed her head and went on
as before. As Tressel did not stop, she suddenly
jumped up from her chair, turned her
back upon the orator and the House, and
began an animated conversation on the
wickedness and vulgarity of Radicals in general
with a grim dowager who had a place behind
her. Mr. Samuelson thought it best to
be out of the way while this dialogue was
going on, feeling all too keenly that he was
powerless to silence it ; and so he betook himself
to the little ante-chamber which is set
apart for him, and occupied himself in imaginary
tasks. But he was not fated to have rest
even there. Madame Spinola, who adored
Tressel, stopped on her way as she passed
wrathfully from the Gallery, looked in upon
him, and asked him in angry tone :

I wonder, Mr. Samuelson, if the wife of
some Radical member from the provinces
were going on in the way that Lady Mavis
Redhouse is doing, would you be quite so
patient as you have shown yourself to her ?'

I have remonstrated with her ladyship, I

41 — 2

do assure you I have, madame. I try to be
perfectly impartial, madame, I do indeed ;
but what can one do with Lady Mavis ? Now
I ask you, madame, what can one do with
her?'

I should know what to do with her,'
Madame Spinola replied, with a laugh and a
scornful toss of the head and a wrathful shake
of the skirts, and she left the unhappy Samuel-son
in deepened distress. Her last declaration
was not of any practical advantage to
him ; for she had not deigned to tell him what
it was that she would have done to Lady
Mavis. He was thinking sadly of this at the
time. Mt is all very well,' he thought to himself,
even said to himself; ' but these ladies
don't help me. That lady didn't help me ;
she didn't even tell me what she would have
done to Lady Mavis, and I am sure I don't
know what to do.'

The House did not attach any importance
to Tressel's motion. It was only his way : an
odd clever fellow, Tressel ; pity he could
never be in earnest ! Therefore most persons
regarded the interest of the evening as over
when Tressel had made his amusing speech.

Of course the Treasury Bench would not take
any serious notice of it, honest Tories said.
Just a few good-humoured words treating the
whole thing as lightly as possible, and then a
division and away to dinner. Pity De Carmel
was not alive and in that House ! No one
was able to * chaff' Tressel so cleverly and
so pleasantly as De Carmel used to do. But
the thing would be easily dealt with anyhow,
and nothing could come of it.

Bellarmin did not feel so well assured. The
warnings of Sir Victor Champion weighed on
his mind. He leaned forward to catch every
word of the reply from the Treasury Bench ;
and he saw that Champion had settled down
in his seat on the front Opposition bench,
evidently expectant of something to come.

The Minister who rose to reply was Sir
Rowland Chase. The sudden translation or
apotheosis of De Carmel to the House of
Lords, some little time before his death, had
brought Sir Rowland Chase to the front — it
could not be called the leadership — of the
House of Commons. Sir Rowland was a
country squire, still young in the political
sense, and in whom Providence in its inscrutable

wisdom had permitted to combine all the
narrow-mindedness retained by Oxford withall
the narrow-mindedness boasted by the
after-dinner speakers at the annual agricultural
show of his native county. It was not
that Sir Rowland Chase had any deep-rooted
convictions in statesmanship and political
philosophy ; it was only that he had but one
set of ideas, and he could not see his way into
any other. Sir Rowland therefore blundered
along dismally, while his party seemed still
uncertain about running with the hare and
holding with the hounds ; that is, while it was
still uncertain whether it would not try to
dish ' or * euchre ' Sir Victor Champion, by
going in boldly for indefinite promise of reform
under the inspiration of Tory Democracy.
Now, however, that the influence of the Marquis
of Bosworth had prevailed, and the
words ' No surrender ' had been passed round
as the motto of the Conservative Government t
Sir Rowland saw his way and was happy.
No one could say 'Jamais' to any political
demand with a lighter heart or clearer conscience,
or an intellect more stolidly convinced.
Now had come his first opportunity of saying

Jamais,' and he rose to the occasion with a
proud spirit ; the spirit of twelve generations
or so of unheard Toryism.

Jamais !' That was all about it. Never !
The Government would never give the
slightest encouragement countenance to any
proposal for change in the constitution of the
House of Lords, come the proposition from
whom it might, and Sir Rowland looked
sternly across the table at the front bench of
Opposition. The times did not call for change;
the one desire, the one determination, of the
men on whom alone England could rely, was
that we must hold fast to our long-cherished
English institutions. These institutions had
been created for us by — Sir Rowland was very
near saying ' the wisdom of our ancestors ;'
but he checked himself on the edge, having
a vague fear that if he used that time-honoured
expression, some irreverent laughter might be
heard from below the gangway on the Opposition
side. The times were full of warning
and of danger ! Look at France ; look at
Socialism in Germany, in Chicago! No, Mr.
Speaker, the Government had no answer to
make to a motion of this kind (ironical cries

of ' hear, hear,' from Tressel), no answer but
the announcement of their stern and irrevocable
determination to resist all further changes
in the constitution of the country, and holdfast
by the throne, the altar, the integrity of
the Constitution and the House of Lords,
all as by law established. Sir Rowland panted
and looked round to his colleagues as one who
would say, ' I think I have done it now.'

Would Sir Victor Champion get up ?
Every eye was turned on him. Lady Saxon
peered down intently from her corner through
the grating as if she would have influenced
him magnetically by her eyes. Mary, too,
felt nervous and excited, and there was a
moment's pause in the movement of the
House. Sir Victor sat still. He slightly
shrugged his shoulders, and cast a look at
Bellarmin, which clearly meant, * There, I
told you so !' No one seemed to have made
up his mind to say anything, and the Speaker
was actually about to put the question from
the chair, when Bellarmin leaped to his feet.
Sir Victor's glance had fired him. Sir Victor
was right. Lord Twyford had been right in
the information he had given as to his chiefs

unbending obstinacy. The Government had
determined on a policy of sheer stolid, immovable
Toryism ; they had gone back inspirit
to the days of Eldon and Ethereal ;
and Bellarmin and his friends had been
quietly ignored, coolly left out of the reckoning.
These thoughts flushed the young man's
face as he sprang to his feet, and to the surprise
of all the steady and old-fashioned
Tories proceeded to denounce, to satirize, to
heap scorn upon the declaration of the policy
of the Government. The cheers of the
Liberals rent the air as Bellarmin poured out
his flood of angry eloquence. The cheers
penetrated the distant recesses of library and
dining-rooms, and tea-room and smoking-rooms.
Bellarmin boldly accused the Ministry
of having betrayed and deceived the best
men of their party, the men who alone had
made Conservative administration possible,
the men who had always held that the only true
Conservatism was that which averted violent
change by a policy of steady, well-ordered progress.
Did the right honourable gentleman
really believe that the young and active and
educated members of his party would follow

him in a policy of mere stolid negation ? Did
he suppose they would accept with servile
acquiescence his futile profession of faith in
political finality ? Where had the right
honourable gentleman been lately staying ?
Was it in Sleepy Hollow ? Everyone knew,
by the way, that Sir Rowland Chase had
been lately visiting the Marquis of Bosworth,
and therefore this hit told. Did he not observe
that changes had been taking place
during the last twenty years or so ? How
long did he think the firmest institution in the
country would last if every Government were
to announce that no proposal would be listened
to which aimed at any change in its system
and its organization ? The right honourable
gentleman was a representative in that House
of one of the great Universities. Was it
possible that he had really not known of, had
not observed, not heard of, the changes which
that University had made in its whole organization
to meet the demands of a growing
and a changing civilization ? Oh, yes ; after
what they had just heard, the House of
Commons was safe in assuming that the right
honourable gentleman knew nothing of all

that had been going on in his own University.
If the decision he announced was really the
decision, the mature and deliberate decision,
of the present Administration, then the country
could only assume that they had deliberately
abdicated all the true functions of Government,
and the sooner they abdicated the seat
of Government as well, the better it would befor
their own reputation, for the peace of the
kingdom, and even for the safety of that very
institution which they professed to guard, but
which they were blindly involving in their
own destruction.

Bellarmin's was a very pretty piece of invective,
enlivened and ornamented by many passing
touches of sarcasm, and by telling personal
allusions. The young man was fiercely in
earnest, and the House knew it. Lady
Saxon knew it also. She beamed with a
sort of patronizing triumph, and she whispered
to Mary, who sat next her, ' I have
been working him round to this for a longtime.
I knew that I should succeed in the
end.'

Mary's hands were clenched " tightly together
in her lap. She had been intensely

interested, even agitated, during Bellarmin's
speech. Her whole heart had gone out to
him. She had grown very pale in her excitement,
and she became conscious of it herself,
and told herself that she had always wanted
Bellarmin to be on Champion's side. Now
she felt a throb of revulsion, almost of indignation.
She did not answer Lady Saxon,
but a wave of colour overspread her face.
Why should Lady Saxon assume that it washer
influence which had done the work of
conversion ; that it was she who had brought
Bellarmin round — she, and not the righteousness
of the cause ?

Then quietly arose Sir Victor Champion.
His manner was studiously serene and bland;
his habitual impulsiveness seemed to have
been reduced under complete control. He
did not mean to make a speech, he said ; he
only rose to congratulate the Conservative
Party and the country on the fact that the
honourable gentleman who had just sat down
had proved that Conservatism was still a
living germ, and not the dry husk of a
withered kernel. He was always glad —
should always be glad — to co-operate with

Conservatives in any well-considered scheme
of needed reform ; but with the present
Government, of course, no co-operation was
possible after the announcement which had
just been made. Sir Victor complimented
Bellarmin on his sentiments and his speech,
dismissed the Government with a cool and
quiet contempt, and did not say a single word
which could commit himself one way or the
other to any scheme of policy concerning the
House of Lords. It was observed by many
shrewd listeners that Sir Victor dwelt with
emphasis on the importance of the part which
true Conservatism could always play in the
politics of a country like England, and the
high consideration which he, a Radical, professed
to have for Conservative co-operation.
Next time the Liberals come in,' men whispered,
* Champion will give a place in his
Cabinet to young Bellarmin.' Men in the
House of Commons soon get into the habit
of regarding politics in this concrete sort of
way. The first thing which occurs to themis
not how this or that measure or change of
Government will affect the public weal, but
who is likely to be brought in from the outer

circle, and made a member of this or that
Administration. Then the division was taken,
and Tressel, of course, was left with a small
minority, and members were pleased to find
that they were yet in good time to dress for
dinner.

You have done well,' Sir Victor said, laying
his hand with a kindly, fatherly sort of
touch on Bellarmin's shoulder as they were
passing out. ' I liked your speech very
much, and the country will like it. The
future of England is with you young men.
Vou have now taken your proper place.'

He did not say one single word to remind
Bellarmin that his warning about the new
policy of the Government had come true.
But Bellarmin was thinking of it all the same,
and his proud and wounded heart was touched
and soothed by the words of the great Liberal
statesman. As he passed through one of the
corridors he heard a woman's voice, with a
strong American accent, say, * I thought Mr.
Bellarmin's speech was just splendid ; but why
did people tell me he was a Conservative ?'
The talk of the lobbies was, in fact, that
young Bellarmin had gone right over to the

A7

Radicals. Some sturdy old Tories said they
always knew it would be so : ' Told you so,
sir, all along. He ought to be pitched out
of the Carlton in the direction of the Devonshire.'


'if I CAN LOVE YOU, I WILL.'

O dine within the precincts of the
House of Commons had become
of late Sessions the thing for ladies
to do. The House of Commons is not
gallant or hospitable in its dealings with
ladies. It sets apart a dingy, stifling cage
for them to huddle In while debates are going
on. A woman must sometimes feel that her
lot is for the time a little like that of Bajazet,
or the unfortunate Cardinal immured by-louis
the Eleventh. The House of Commons
provides women with a tiny antechamber,
wherein they can dine, as many of
them as can find places there, off a bit of
steak or chop fetched up from the restaurant

on the lower floor. It does not permit them
to enter the members' dining-room, or to
have a cup of tea in the members' tea-room.
For a long time the only common ground
whereon members of Parliament and their
wives and daughters and women - friends
might feed together was the Terrace ; and
the only refreshment obtainable there was of
the afternoon tea order. Of later years, however,
a step in the way of reform was made.
A small subterranean dining-room, which
used to be occupied mainly by persons interested
in Parliamentary proceedings, but
not themselves in Parliament, began to be
turned to account by members who wished to
entertain their womenfolk at a solid and substantial
dinner. It was used very infrequently
at first ; some knowing member found out
its existence and slyly took his wife there,
and told of It to some very particular friend
in order that he, too, should give his women
the benefit of an occasional feast. The news
began to spread ; the practice began to increase.
It was a great advantage to Indies
who liked to listen to a debate that they
could have a dinner, a real dinner, on the
VOL. III. 42

premises, and then go back to their seats in
the Gallery. By degrees the advantages of
the subterranean dining-room became widely
known ; and at last it grew to be the right
sort of thing for members to make up little
dinner-parties for their women friends. One
natural result of this was that the competition
for tables in the rooms — there were only two
rooms in all, one public, one private — became
very keen, and one had to order a table as
many days in advance as if it were a box at
the Lyceum. Bellarmin had engaged the
private room. His dinner-party was to be
made up of Lady Saxon, Mary Beaton, and
Lady Struthers, Sir Victor Champion, General
Falcon, Tressel, a young member of his own
party, and himself. Lord Saxon was away.
Not supposing that anything of real importance
could come of Tressel's stock motion,
he had, at his wife's instigation, taken the
opportunity to run down to the country to
look after some private business of his own.
He had originally been included in the invitation,
but his presence would not have been
altogether agreeable to Lady Saxon under
the conditions. She wondered within herself

what he would say on the morrow when he
read the leading articles.

When the debate on Tressel's motion was
over, Bellarmin went up to the Ladies' Gallery
to collect his guests. Nothing more of any
consequence was to come on that evening ;
but there were two or three other motions
which were certain to be discussed for
some hours, and before the inevitable count
of the ordinary Tuesday evening had been
reached.

They were waiting in the corridor, where
quite a little stream of women had emptied
itself out of the Gallery, and where they had
already been joined by Colonel Towers and
Miss Beaton's first pioneer in the House of
Commons, the Scotch member, Mr. Leven.
Lady Mavis Redhouse had been vehemently
denouncing Champion and Radical principles
in general, and Lady Saxon was standing
by with an indifferent smile, while Colonel
Towers was remarking, in his pompous
manner :

The fact is. Lady Mavis, Champion ought
to have lived five centuries sooner. That
was the age for dialecticians. St. Thomas

42 — 2

UBRARf -
Universal OF lUJWNS

and Duns Scotus, and the rest of them,
weren't in it with our Lucifer. It wouldn't
have been St. Thomas, you may be sure ; it
would be St. Victor.'

Lady Mavis made a rush at Bellarmin, and
so did Madame Spinola, and so did poor
hungry Jennie Rivers, all carmine and white,
and smiles and grimaces.

You wicked young man ; how could you ?'
cried Lady Mavis in indignant reproach.
'What is the meaning of this ? What would
De Carmel have said — he who always spoke
so nicely of you ! It's enough to make him
turn in his grave, Mr. Bellarmin. No ! Don't
come near me ! Don't speak to me ! You
are a traitor !'

Remember, you young hero, that you are
going to be the lion of my party tomorrow
night. I shall never forgive you now if you
don't turn up,' said Madame Spinola effusively.
* And *

Oh, Rolfe ! I felt ^o proud oi you,' Mrs.
Rivers exclaimed affectionately, stretching
out her slim hand in its soiled Swedish-kid
tan glove, and patting him on the arm. * It
is something to be a pal of yours.'

The young man cut the congratulations
and anathemas short, his eyes looking over
and beyond them all. He was flushed, elated.
He knew that he had spoken well and made
a sensation. But he did not want the praises
of a Madame Spinola or a Jennie Rivers.
He wanted a sympathetic smile or glance
from Mary Stuart Beaton.

He saw that Mary was looking at Mrs.
Rivers with a kind of gentle scorn in her
eyes. She was wondering, perhaps, why this
woman called him by his Christian name, and
what sort of claim she had upon him. How
should she — his White Queen — understand
the ways and manners of women of the Jennie
Rivers class ? He felt an impulse of unreasoning
indignation against the poor little
harmless flirt.

'Miss Beaton,' he began, and paused, waiting
for her to say something to congratulate
him — to tell him that she had liked his speech.
But she said nothing. All his impetuous
warmth was checked by something strange
and cold in her. She only smiled upon him
in distant friendliness, and looked very tall
and stately.

Miss Beaton,' he repeated, ' I hope you
were amused and interested.'

Yes,' she answered, * I think Mr. Tressel
is very amusing ; and I was very much interested
— and — Lady Saxon must be very
pleased, Mr. Bellarmin, that you are on her
side now.'

An expression of annoyance passed over
his face ; he made an impatient gesture.
But you,' he said ; ' it is your side ?'

I am on Sir Victor's side — if I have got
any side,' she answered calmly. ' I admire
Sir Victor ; and you know I told you that I
believe in him. There he is,' and she threw
a bright, welcoming glance towards Sir Victor
himself, who was coming towards them from
one of the committee-rooms which opened
into the corridor.

Lady Mavis fled at the sight of her archenemy,
and Madame Spinolaand Mrs. Rivers
the latter with a plaintive good-bye to Bellarmin
and an audible, * Now I suppose we
must see what they ca7z bring us to eat up in
this dreary place' — moved to the ladies' anteroom.


Lady Saxon detained Sir Victor. Her

face, which in its brightest beauty was always
of the earth, and just a Httle hard, seemed
now ethereah'zed by the intense sympathy it
expressed as she raised it to his.

The first blow is struck,' she murmured,
and the victory will be yours.'

She made him turn with her, and they
began to walk slowly down the corridor,
talking earnestly the while. Bellarmin
followed with Mary Beaton and Lady
Struthers.

General Falcon was to meet us in the
dining-room, and I suppose we ought to be
collecting our forces, and going down there,'
he said with forced lightness. ' Sir Victor,
will you lead the way with Lady Saxon ? you
know we have to go into dark subterranean
regions. I hope you are not afraid of dining
in a dungeon, Lady Struthers ?'

The little room with its oak dado and
green walls, and the portrait of the late
Speaker hanging over the oak sideboard,
its many crimson-shaded candles, and the
pair of politicians with Falcon discussing the
debate, did not look much like a dungeon,
however, when, after threading the long dim

Stone passages, Bellarmin and his party
reached it at last. Bellarmin had taken
great pains over his little banquet. He
had himself superintended the arrangement
of the table, and had given the order for the
decorations, which, in subtle compliment to
Mary Beaton, vere all pure white roses displayed
in form as exquisite as the art of
florist could devise. The only fault about
it — so Miss Beaton and Lady Saxon declared
was that it might have been a dinner anywhere
instead of an especially House of
Commons dinner, and that even the alarum
of the division bell tingling brasil did not
occasion the least flurry or excitement, because
all the pairing had been carefully settled
beforehand.

Lady Saxon sat on Bellarmin's right, and
Mary Beaton on his left. Sir Victor Champion
had been placed on the other side of Lady
Saxon, and Miss Beaton had Mr. Tressel on
her right. Lady Saxon was in good hope
that Bellarmin would pay attention to Miss
Beaton for the most part, and that she herself
should have a good deal of Champion. Much
as it pleased her to play at love-making with

Bellarmin — and her whispered congratulations
to him this evening and thrilling pressure of
his hand could have left him nothing to desire
in the matter of earnestness and sincerity —
still her feelings were so terribly concentrated
on Champion, and she suffered so many
agonies of jealousy and doubt when he and
Mary Beaton were in each other's company,
that on occasions such as this she found it
almost impossible to practise her ordinary
wiles, or to keep up her affectation of sovereign
indifference.

So, though the conversation, from the smallness
of the party, had to be more or less
general, she contrived to talk a good deal to
Champion, bending close to him, and speaking
in a low, earnest tone, that seemed to imply
some confidential communication. Bellarmin
was left a lite out in the cold, for Mary's
attention appeared engrossed by Tressel, who
made her laugh at the amusing stories he
drawled imperturbably forth of his experiences
as an attache in a Grand-Ducal Court.

On the whole the dinner was less satisfactory
to the principal persons concerned than
might have been expected, and no one was

very sorry when a move was made to the
Terrace, and coffee was ordered and cigarettes
were produced, and by-and-by the party
broke up Into twos, who passed and repassed
as they slowly promenaded up and
down.

The night was very dark, warm, and moist,
and a little muggy, not even star-lit.
There was only the yellow light from the
library windows overhead, and the faint
illumination of the feeble lamps at intervals
along the Terrace. The river looked black
and mysterious and very still close to the
parapet ; it scarcely rippled against the stone
embankment. Further away it was crossed
by long perpendicular lines of alternate light
and shadow — the reflections from the lamps
on the opposite side, across which every now
and then a ghostly black barge floated.

A certain spectral loneliness in the scene —
the broad river, the scattered and fantastic
jets of light, the feeling of separation from
city movement and from any traffic that
could be heard, the subdued sound from the
bridges on either side, the sense of taking
part in a phase of existence in the centre of.

and yet completely isolated from, that of the
teeming millions round — all this appealed to
Mary — as, indeed, did many a curious contrast
in the life of the House of Commons —
from the dramatic and artistic aspect. It
moved her ; she enjoyed it even while it
oppressed her with something of dreariness
nd bewilderment. She was sitting silent,
sipping her coffee, with Falcon erect and
watchful behind her chair, when Sir Victor
deliberately left Lady Saxon, with whom he
had been talking, and who had that moment
turned to Bellarmin, and approached her.

Miss Beaton,' he said, ' if you have finished
your coffee, won't you take a turn with me ?
I have an idea about our Southwark parish
that I want to talk over with you.'

She got up readily, and threw off a little
wrap which Falcon had begged her to put
on.

No, my dear General, not while I am
walking. I don't want it now.'

'Very well, Madame,' he said, bowing, ' I
will bring it to you if I see you sitting
again.'

They strolled along the three narrow tracks

which Lady Saxon had once pointed out to Sir
Victor, and to which he now called Mary's
attention. There were a great many people
on the Terrace, but they lounged mostly towards
the middle of the walk ; and the light
was so dim that it was impossible, except just
under a lamp, to make out who was who.
Sir Victor and Mary kept to the western end,
which was comparatively deserted.

His manner seemed a little agitated, she
thought, not so smoothly impressive and rhetorical
as it usually was, even in ordinary
conversation. Perhaps he was excited at the
turn events had taken that evening, at the first
note of the war-clarion which had sounded.
It struck her as strange that he should come
calmly to discuss the question of co-operative
supply for the Southwark poor, and should
ignore the political development which must
surely be engrossing his inmost thoughts.
Her own being was in a vague tumult of expectation
and anxiety. Was this caused by
the debate that afternoon ? What did she
know or care in the abstract about English
political questions } Her interest must be
purely personal, and was it the thought of Sir

Victor's triumph or defeat which set her nerves
tingling and her bosom fluttering ? After all,
probably, the incident of to-day was nothing
very important to Sir Victor. It was only to an
outsider like herself that it seemed of consequence.
To him it was but part of the game
he had been playing for so many years, and
to the turns of which he must have grown
accustomed. And yet, he did seem excited
and unlike himself.

She said nothing of what was in her mind ;
but listened to his suggestions, and talked out
the matter of co-operative purchase, and discussed
the creole; and then there fell a
silence upon them both.

Suddenly Mary exclaimed :

Sir Victor, did you expect that Mr. Bellarmin
would throw over his party like
that ?'

He seemed to pull himself as if from a
dream.

Yes,' he answered, ' I expected it. A conversation
I had with Mr. Bellarmin at Stonehenge
Park, the only talk I have had with
him on the subject, led me to believe that he
would come with us, some way at least, in a

measure of reform. I saw then that his convictions
pointed in a Radical direction.'

Ah !' Mary breathed an unconscious sigh
of relief. * I am glad of that,' she said simply ;
I am glad that his convictions led him — and
not ' she stopped.

You thought that perhaps some influence
had been brought to bear upon him ?' said
Champion quickly; ' some influence apart from
his own judgment ?'

I thought that Lady Saxon might have
persuaded him,' she answered, still simply.
Sir Victor did not reply for a moment.

The Tories have made a false move,' he
said then. ' Bellarmin would probably have
modified his own views to any measure of reform
they might have thought fit to bring in,
had they treated him fairly, and shown themselves
unprejudiced, and ready to sink party
rancour for the good of their country. Now
I hope that he will let his convictions have
the rein, and that he will come with us. But
I have not tried to influence him. Miss Beaton
; and I shall not try to influence him now,
or to turn his pique against his party, which
is very natural, to the advantage of my party.

I have too great a respect for independent
judgment. I only wished at Stonehenge
Park that he should judge me fairly, and
give me credit for having offered to co-operate
with the Tories. I should like to feel
that I had your sympathy, Madame — Miss
Beaton.'

Indeed,' she said warmly, ' I could not
help sympathizing with you, Sir Victor ; for I
am sure that in all you want to do you have
only the good of your country at heart.'

We will not talk politics any more
to-night,' he said, after another short pause,
and there was a note of melancholy in his
voice ; ' a man playing the game has his
moments of depression and reaction, in which
he feels that it is rather an ignoble game after
all.'

Oh no,' she interrupted eagerly, ' it could
never be ignoble to a man like you.'

Well,' he said, still sadly, ' there are
moments, at any rate, in which he would
rather keep a woman he cared for away from
the ignoble part of it — the ungenerous strife
the party passion, which is apt to carry away
even the most single-minded. I suppose not

one of us public men is quite ready to admit
that a particular woman influences him in his
political life ; but I think there is often such
a woman, and I think he feels her influence
strongest upon him when he wants her to
look aside from the manoeuvres of the game.'

Mary looked at him swiftly and doubtfully ;
but his face was in shadow.

But you she began impulsively ; * you
have such a great career before you. Life
must be so full of interest and reality for you.
There must be so many things which a woman
could never understand or really enter into ;
never, I think, in our times, at least.'

But a woman can share a man's career
and a man's cause, and his desire to make his
country happy, without coming down and
entering into the strife ; and she can share
his ambition, if you will ; she can be ambitious
for him and with him. I don't mean mere
ignoble, personal ambition, but the ambition
that makes men do great things. In all that
a woman can share.'

Yes ; that must be delightful,' Mary said,
in a dreamy way ; ' I have often thought of
that — and I can't think of anything more

Splendid for a woman than to form part of
the Hfe and the career of some man whom
she ' and then she stopped.

She was going to say ' whom she loves '
But a certain shyness came over her. Was
she thinking then of Victor Champion ? — or
of someone else ? Sir Victor looked into her
face ; her eyes were cast down. Just at that
moment they were turning in their walk.

Some man whom she loves, you were
going to say. Yes, I can quite understand
that. I am sure, Miss Beaton, that you would
make part of the life and the career of any
man you loved — if only he were a man worthy
of you. I wish that I could be that man.'

She looked up surprised and a little
troubled.

You, Sir Victor ? What made you think
of that ?' She really had not got at his
meaning.

What made me think of that ? I have
not for some time been thinking much of
anything else. Let me come to it at once.
I cannot lose this opportunity. Miss Beaton,
I admire you ; I sympathize with you ; I love
you. Come, will you be my wife ?'

VOL. III. 43

Sir Victor ! Oh, please don't speak in
that way ; don't speak of such a thing. You
know how I admire you — how could I help
admiring you ? — and you know how I sympathize
with you ; but I have never thought
of anything else. Such an idea never came
into my mind. I never for a moment supposed
that you thought of me — in — in — that
sort of way.'

No ; I think I did keep my secret well to
myself. But it had to be told ; and I tell it.
Come — I don't ask you to love me in any
romantic or passionate way. Mary, I am not
young enough to be loved by a girl in that
way '

She made an impatient but not an unkindly
gesture.

No, no ; it isn't that,' she said.

I have had my day,' he went on ; 'I do
not ask a girl for what I must feel that a girl
could not give me now ; I don't ask that kind
of love from you. But I love you ; I have
grown terribly young again In that feeling, I
find ; and I am sure I could do much to make
your life happy, and I know that you could
do everything to make mine. I am a lonely

man, Mary — very lonely, in all my crowds
and my movements. I don't know why it is
that you alone seem to make me feel that I
am not made for this loneliness, and that there
is one companionship for which I would give
up everything else that I prize most on earth.
Think of it. I will give you that career which
you said you would delight in ; for you will
come to love me in an affectionate and tender
way — I know what your nature is ; and I will
do all that man can do to win you ; and you
will make life sweet to me ; and some day,
long hence, when life begins to be only a retrospect
to you, you will be glad to remember
all the good you did for me. Let me ask you
again — Mary, will you ?'

He stopped in his walk, and made her
stop too. He had been speaking in subdued,
earnest tone ; no ordinary promenade on the
Terrace would have supposed that any romantic
episode of this kind was taking place.
But there were two persons on the Terrace
who watched every movement of Champion
and Mary — two persons who at that moment
would have given a world to hear the low-toned
conversation which a jealous instinct

43—2

told to both was something more than the
ordinary after-dinner babble of a man of the
world and a pretty girl.

These two were Lady Saxon and General
Falcon. When Sir Victor and Mary began
their walk, Lady Saxon also rose and moved
uneasily, glancing at Falcon as if to bid him
be on guard ; and just then the editor of a
great daily paper, to which Bellarmin was
suspected of contributing, came up to him,
and, with an apology, begged for a few words
on a matter of importance. It was the question
of a cue for the morrow's leader. Bellarmin
and the editor moved apart, and Lady
Saxon and General Falcon strolled on almost
in silence. They understood each other, or
at any rate Lady Saxon understood Falcon ;
and each was trying to catch what Sir Victor
and Mary were saying. They kept on the
House side nearly abreast of the two whom
they were watching, and who, engrossed their
talk, and not keen to observe in that
dim light, did not pay any attention to the
other couples on the Terrace. As Champion's
last words, spoken with low, passionate sincerity,
thrilled Lady Saxon's strained ears,

she touched Falcon, and with a swift silent
movement withdrew into the shadow of that
unlighted and seldom-used gateway which
opens on to the more westerly end of the
Terrace. As silently and swiftly Falcon did
likewise.

Sir Victor and Mary had halted by an
abutting projection which screened them
somewhat from the lively crowd down near
the strangers' smoking-room, and which, with
the buttress of the archway, formed a sort of
shadowy nook, more appropriate, perhaps,
than any other part of the Terrace for the
scene of tender confidences. Though they
could not readily see or be seen by the eaves-droppers
pressed close against the great iron
gates swung in the recess of the archway,
every word they uttered was distinctly audible.

Mary sighed. She was touched by Champion's
appeal ; and she could not but feel a
swelling of pride in her breast at the thought
of such a man's admiration. But the feeling
uppermost in her mind was one of mere surprise
and confusion. She had no doubt about
her own decision ; what she was thinking of
was how to get out of the embarrassment

with the least pain to him. She took her
usual course — that of frank outspokenness.

Dear Sir Victor — for you are very dear
to me, I do so admire you — this can't be.
Fancy how new and strange it all is to me !
I never thought of you as a man to make any
such offer to a girl like me ; and don't you
think I should have had thoughts of that kind
if — if it were possible that I could accept
your offer ? I should have had heart-beatings,
shouldn't I ? — whenever you came near me ;
I should have been trembling at every word
you said when we began to walk here together
to-night. Is not that enough — that very fact ?
No, Sir Victor — you are worthy of a woman
who loved you with her whole soul ; and
there must be many women who could
love you in that way if only they had the
happy chance of being near you — as I have
been.'

Still,' he said, in deep tones tremulous
with feeling, ' when I tell you I do not expect
that kind of love '

Ah, but I do expect it,' she said quickly.
I mean that I could not marry where I did
not feel like that. Don't you understand

me ? Oh, yes ; for you have loved and been
loved before this '

'Not by such a woman as you. I have
never loved any woman as I love you. Mary,
this is life or death to me.'

He was passionately in earnest. None of
the three who heard him could doubt that.
His voice trembled with excitement, although
it was so low — that exquisitely melodious
voice — which had once wooed — in how different
a fashion ! — the silent listening woman,
whose heart it pierced now as by the thrust
of a dagger.

Lady Saxon was brave. She made no
sign. But for a moment it seemed to her
that her death-agony had come. It was as
though all the blood had gone from her body,
as though a cord had been snapped, and she
were hurled on illimitable space. In such
moments of crisis the very bonds of being are
loosed. She could not breathe. All was dark.
Seconds or hours might have passed — she
did not know. At last she drew a long, shuddering
sigh — a strange, uncanny sound. It
might have been the wail of a tortured spirit,
so far off and inhuman it seemed. And then.

again, all her senses were strung to alertness,
as Mary answered him.

I cannot. Sir Victor,' she said simply.

Is that,' he asked, ' your final answer ?
Is that my sentence, my sentence of death ?'

Oh, how can you speak so ?' she asked, in
some alarm.

The sentence of death to my hopes ?'

If I must give an answer — yes. Sir Victor.'

Then don't give an answer now,' he said,
catching eagerly at a little straw of hope.
Take time ; think it over ; give me that much
chance ; do me that much justice. I think I
am worth that, at all events, Mary. Ask
counsel of your reason as well as your heart ;
don't decide without thought. Oh no, I
entreat of you !'

She was deeply moved.

I don't know,' she said ; ' I don't believe
it would make any difference ; but still, if you
wish, Sir Victor, I don't think I ought to
refuse you this. It makes me feel ashamed
to think that so great a man, so really great
a man, should care about a girl in that way,
and should have to bend to ask her even for
the favour of a longer consideration. But

as you wish it, I don't think I ought to
refuse.'

I thank you from my whole heart.'

But you understand what I mean ; you
quite understand it ?' she said, in dread
of some misunderstanding or complication.


'Yes ; I understand, a great deal too well.
If you are to give me an answer now, if I
press you for an instant answer, it must be a
refusal. But you are willing to put off the
final answer until tomorrow or the day after,
only promising me that in the meantime you
will really think it fairly out. You will not
merely take the time and let the time pass ;
you will come to my question with an open
mind — with a mind as open as you can,' he
added, and he smiled a melancholy smile.
There was a chivalric tenderness in his
manner which touched Mary to the heart.

Dear Sir Victor,' she said, in an outburst
of sudden emotion, ' how I wish I could give
you the answer you would like to have, since
you would really like to have it ! You deserve
to be loved, and I could love you if
some things were different '

What things ?' he interrupted. ' Do you
mean that you love some other man ?'

No, no,' she said hurriedly. * If I were
different — if — but — there's no use in talking
about it. I sometimes fancy that I am an
unnatural sort of girl, and that is little wonder,
since I was not brought up like other girls.'
As she spoke, Falcon's heart beat wildly.
For him, too, in his frenzy of pleasing
hope, the world seemed to stand still. ' You
must not be thrown away on a woman who
does not fondly love you,' Mary went on.
Oh, I wish I could be the woman who did
so love you ! I do, I do ! Sir Victor, I will
say what a moment ago, a bare moment ago,
I did not think I could have said. I will
look into my heart. I will come to the
question with an open mind ; yes, with a
wish to please you. Give me a few days,
and then come and see me, and you shall
have your answer. And if I can love you, I
will.'

A faint metallic whirr startled them —
startled Mary, and awoke Champion from his
lover's dream.

Division bell, I think,' said a member,

hurrying by ; 'I don't suppose it is anything
of importance.'

'Oh, you had better go,' said Mary, in
an agitated manner, when the member had
passed on. * Don't mind me. Indeed, I
would rather be alone for a minute or two ;
and there is General Falcon somewhere on
the Terrace.'

PASSION IN TATTERS.

HE moved away with a quick, decided
tread. Champion followed.
The lattice pattern of the pavement
lay all unbroken to the parapet of the
Terrace. The bell whirred again, and hurrying
feet sounded lower down on the walk,
and the ripple of women's laughter in the
little scurry and flutter that followed the summons.
There was to the outsiders, who had
gone to dine and to flirt, something quaint
and dramatic in being thus reminded that
making love must give place to the sterner
duty of making laws. The idea of being
concerned, however remotely, in the destiny

of her country, Is always exhilarating to the
mind of a woman.

Lady Saxon stood quite still — as still as if
she had been carved in stone. Not a sound
broke from her. Falcon turned to her in a
sort of instinctive way, not thinking of her,
but only of himself ; not realizing that what
she had just heard had changed the world to
her, but absorbed utterly in his own mad love,
his reasonless hopes and terrors. He was
trembling in a transport of feeling. There
was a throb of almost delirious exultation in
his hoarse whisper.

You hear !' he said. ' She would love
him if she could — if she were different — if
she did not love another ; that is what it
means. Whom would it seem most unnatural
that she should love ? Mary, my Queen !
Was Bothwell loved by his Queen ? Yes —
yes. But must there not have seemed to the
Queen something strange and unnatural in
that love ? Her heart spoke unconsciously
then. And she uttered my name. She said
that Falcon was on the Terrace. It was tome
— to Falcon — that she turned in her perplexity.
She is looking for me. Come.'

He touched Lady Saxon's arm. * Come
he repeated. ' I must be near her ; she is
looking for me now.'

With a sudden gesture Lady Saxon shook
her arm free from his touch, and drew herself
up from her leaning posture. The movement
— its suppressed fury, vehemence, excitement
— startled Falcon, and made him
look up at her in alarm. It was so dim
that he could not see her face distinctly. He
could only see how rigid it was, and white,
and that her eyes seemed burning. All the
concentrated passion in her found vent in the
one word which escaped her lips :

Fool !'

She left Falcon abruptly, and without
another syllable, and walked to the end of the
Terrace, and back to the other end, with rapid
unwavering tread. In that short walk she
fought out a battle with herself. When she
turned again the men were passing out of
the building through the main archway.

A false alarm,' someone said. ' Division
challenged, but not taken.' Bellarmin was
advancing in search of Mary Beaton, but
Lady Saxon swiftly intercepted him.

Will you take me to my carriage ?' she
said. * I am sorry to go away so early, especially
as I have enjoyed your dinner-party
so much ; but I have to dress for a party at
the Danish Legation.'

Well,' he said, ' there doesn't seem a likelihood
of anything very exciting, and it would
hardly be worth while to go up to the Ladies'
Gallery. Would you like a turn in the lobby,
just to see what is going on ?'

No she answered, ' not to-night ;' and
added, with seeming indifference, ' Did Sir
Victor come out again ?'

I saw him take his place on the front
Opposition bench.'

Lady Saxon asked indifferently who was
up, and, as they paced for a few minutes,
talked in her ordinary manner about the
situation, the Tory comments on his speech,
the excitement among the Radicals, and her
sympathetic interest in his own feelings and
convictions. Bellarmin felt himself to be
somewhat of a hero that evening, and was a
little exalted, and not in the mood to observe
anything strained or artificial in her voice.
Afterwards he wondered a little that she

had not talked more about Sir Victor
Champion.

Falcon was beside Mary. She stood alone
against the parapet, just under one of the
lamps, apart from Lady Struthers and Lady
Mavis Redhouse, who, in the slight confusion
after the cry of * Division,' had come together
again.

Mary,' said Falcon, in a manner tragic and
tender, * I have come to you.' His ecstasy
of hope, which had flamed up so wildly,
flickered, died, and gave place to black
despair as he saw the impatient, rather annoyed
look she turned upon him. His tone
jarred upon her overwrought nerves. There
was a note in it at which she felt instinctively
frightened and irritated.

Well — well, my dear General, I did not
send for you. Lady Struthers is not ten feet
off, and surely one sheep-dog at a time is
enough to guard any lamb.'

She was not prepared for the wrath which
blazed as he answered :

'You insult me for my care and my devotion.
My heart — my instinct — something, I don't
know what — told me that you needed me,

and I came. And this is my reward. Ah,
it was always so with those who were weak
enough to love a Stuart.'

Oh, pardon me, General said Mary
wearily. ' I did not mean to be cross. But
indeed your instinct told you wrongly just
then, for I wanted to be by myself for a minute
or two to think over something quietly. See,
I am a little tired of heroics, dear General ;
and of the Stuartss, and of everything — even
of you, my dear tyrant, just now. I think I
should like best to go home as if I were a
child, and be put to bed. One may sleep —
and one may dream, may not one, dear
Falcon ? — even though one has the misfortune
to be a Stuart.'

You shall go home at once, if you please,
Madame ; and you shall sleep, and dream —
dream — dream,' he repeated wildly. * You do
not know what it is to live in a dream — to have
one's heaven in a dream and one's hell in the
awakening.'

He was silent a moment, but Mary remained
gazing down into the darkness of the
river, and made him no reply.

I will take you home, Madame,' said Fal-vol.
III. 44

con harshly. ' But before you go to rest, I
have something important to say to you.'

Mary gave an indifferent assent. She was
in no humour to indulge poor Falcon. She
wondered why Bellarmin did not come to
her. She had done him an injustice, she
thought, and she wanted to atone somehow.
She wanted to be kind and sweet again. But
he did not come ; he was with Lady Saxon —
Always Lady Saxon !' the girl said to herself
bitterly. So when he came back longing
for that saunter with her on the Terrace
which he had promised himself, it was only
to hear her announce coldly that she, too,
must go away, and thank him conventionally
for his charming dinner, and for the pleasant
evening they had spent.

Lady Struthers babbled a good deal during
the drive, but no one paid her any heed. It
was not quite eleven when they reached the
house in Kensington; but Mary, looking pale
and quiet, bade Lady Struthers not wait for
her, and turning to Falcon, said :

Now, General, if this important something
won't keep till tomorrow, come and let us
get it said as soon as possible.'

It had better be said to-night, Madame.'

Very well. I see that you are bent at
any rate on preventing me from having
pleasant dreams. Come, let us go into my
room.'

She led the way into the boudoir, where
Falcon usually had his audience, and threw
herself languidly into an arm-chair. She
waited a minute or so, drawing off her
gloves, and then removing her bonnet,
which she laid upon her lap. Falcon remained
gazing at her with mingled love and
yearning in his eyes. All the time he kept
saying to himself, ' She does not understand
her own heart. I must be patient ; the time
is not yet. I must not betray myself. I
must be strong. I must act my part.' At
last Mary said :

Now, General. To the point. I am
tired.'

So — Sir Victor Champion has asked you
to marry him,' Falcon said abruptly. Mary
started. She had not in the least suspected
that Falcon knew what had taken place that
evening on the Terrace, and she was not quite
prepared to discuss the subject with him.

44—2

My good General, you need not have
kept me from my rest for this. It would
have held over till tomorrow ; and If I hed
dreamed of Sir Victor to-night, that couldn't
have done you any harm

But he has asked you to marry him ?'

Yes, if you Insist on an answer, he has

Well, I think I have a fair right to get
an answer, Madame. I am still In care of
you.'

Oh yes ; you have every right,' Mary
said rather wearily. ' And of course I would
have told you, even If you had not asked the
question. But one does not generally cry out
such stories ; they are told In low-toned confidence,
are they not ?'

I am surprised,' Falcon said, ' that a manlike
that should think of asking you to marry
him.'

A man like that ? How do you mean ?
He is a great man, is he not ? — the foremost
man in England ?'

But he Is bourgeois — of that odious class
of the bourgeois ! To think of his lifting his
eyes to a daughter of the Stuartss ! It is an
outrage.'

I have not thought it so. I have felt it
to be the highest component.'

Even if he came of kings,' Falcon exclaimed,
*he is not fit for you. He has had
bad associations ; he is in bad association
now. Did he first come to you perhaps
straight from Lady Saxon's company ?'

Indeed, I don't know. Why should he
not — if he had been with Lady Saxon ?' And
then the girl flushed suddenly, and became
as suddenly pale again, for she had remembered
in a darting flash who it was that had
come to her first straight from Lady Saxon —
always Lady Saxon.

Madame,' Falcon said with angry emphasis,
' you know nothing about men — men
of the world. I do ; and I know something
about Sir Victor Champion ; I know something
about Lady Saxon. She is not a good
woman ; at all events, she was not a good
woman. That was before she got married
to Lord Saxon. That was when Sir Victor
Champion knew her. He knew her when
she was not a good woman. They were
friends — very close friends — too close, I
want you to understand '

She felt shocked and pained in a strange
way ; but she would not show it. Mary-coloured
again, but less vividly than before.
I don't think I want to hear any more about
this, my good Falcon. It does not concern
me. I have nothing to do with Sir Victor
Champion's former friendships '

Former friendships ? How do we know
whether it is only a thing of the past ?'

Indeed, we do not know, and we do not
in the least want to know. / don't, most
certainly. Content yourself, my excellent
Falcon. I have not the slightest notion of
marrying Sir Victor Champion. I never
had. I admire him greatly ; but I don't care
about him at all in that way '

Still, it was right to put you on your
guard ; and I want you to understand that
what I have told you, or hinted to you, is
all true — positively and absolutely. I am
not talking to you of mere scandal and
gossip.'

I do not doubt you in the least,' Mary
said deprecatingly. ' And I am sure that
you are only trying to do good for me ; but
your object is gained already, General Falcon.

I am not going to marry Sir Victor Champion.
I would not marry him if he were another
King Arthur or Sir Galahad. So you will
see that his past life has no interest for me,
and I don't think I have any right to learn
any of its secrets.'

Oh, but you are not a schoolgirl any
longer.'

Am I not ? I don't always quite know
what I am in your eyes, my excellent Falcon.
You tell me almost every other day that I conduct
myself as if I were a schoolgirl, and now
you want to treat me as if I were an accomplished
woman of the world. Well, whatever
I may be, I am not ^/la^, and I don't believe
I ever shall be, or shall want to be. So
don't you think we may now allow the incident
to empty itself; is there not a phrase
of that kind ? I think I have met with it
somewhere.'

She rose from her chair, taking her bonnet
and gloves as though she meant to go
away.

I hope you are not displeased with me,'
Falcon asked, in an altered tone.

Oh no ; not in the least. I kno*v that all

you say and do is said and done out of pure
friendship for me ' — she did not observe the
strange light that gleamed in Falcon's eyes
as she spoke the words — ' and I thank you
ever so much

There was a certain decisiveness in her
tone which made it clear that the conversation
was to come to an end, and Falcon did not
venture to carry it any farther. He bowed
and was silent, merely remarking, when she
bade him good-night, ' You really mean that
you will not go out this evening ?' for she,
too, had been bidden to the Danish Legation.


Certainly,' she answered. ' I am in no
mood for parties to-night.'

Mary had put on an appearance of carelessness
; but in her heart she felt pained and
grieved. She was sorry to have her ideal of
Sir Victor Champion lowered and degraded.
She hated to think of that great man as the
slave of a woman like Lady Saxon.

Lady Saxon drove straight home from the
court-yard of the Ladies' Gallery ; but notwithstanding
what she had said to Bellarmin,
she went lo no party that night. She thought

it possible that Sir Victor Champion might
put in an appearance later on at the Legation.
It was just the sort of thing he would do, she
told herself. She knew his power of self-control
; it was greater than her own. She
dared not meet him ; she dared not trust herself
in his company till at least she had spent
her passion, and had made up her mind what
to do ; whether it was to be rupture or secret
treachery, or, what she dreaded most, the
dog-like fidelity of a sensuous woman, who
will endure anything rather than separate
herself from the man with whom she is infatuated.
Mtis^ this put an end to everything
between them ? If Mary refused him, might
she not, perhaps the more readily, win him
back again ?

But now the present pain was more than
she could bear. She sent away the carriage
and servants, and went up to her own apartments.
She spoke not one word while her
maid was arranging her hair. Miladi, the
maid afterwards said, had the air of a very
bad humour. The maid, however, was accustomed
to the humours of ladies, and they
made but slight impression on her. She was

glad when Lady Saxon dismissed her lor the
night. Lady Saxon was then with her hair
made up for sleeping, and was wrapped in a
dressing-gown. The moment the woman had
left the room for good, Lady Saxon quietly
locked the door, and then, in the most deliberate
manner, gave herself up to a very
paroxysm of passion. With the sheer physical
exertion of fury she relieved her tormented
mind. She tore off her dressing-gown and
flung it on the floor, and stamped on it, and
kicked it into a great heap as if it were some
living creature whom she was determined to
stamp and kick out of existence. Her maid
had laid a little heap of dainty petticoats on
a sofa. Lady Saxon flew at them as a wild
animal flies at some odious object, and seized
them and flung them hither and thither about
the room. She tore down her hair and
dragged it about her shoulders, and catching
sight of her passion-distorted features in a
mirror, she made wild-beast grimace and grin
at herself Her magnificent arms flourished
madly out of the laced shoulder-straps of the
garment which was her only covering ; and
her bare shoulders, which she clutched at.

showed veins distended with fury. All the
time she was careful to make no noise ; early
in her kicking about she had taken care to
kick off her slippers, because, soft and delicate
as they were, they might send some sound
echoing through the house.

It seemed, indeed, as though she were, in
this frenzy, proving what she herself had
said of the savage strain in her nature ; and
some of her lovers might have had cause,
perhaps, to be thankful for disenchantment
could they have seen her in this maniacal
mood.

By-and-by, however, the transport exhausted
itself; nothing so violent could last
long. The beautiful limbs ceased from their
contortions. The veins of the throat and
brow were no longer red and swollen, the
features relaxed, the great eyes darted no
more gleams of fury, but grew heavy and
pathetic with gathering tears. It was over.
She shivered a little, and sank in sheer prostration,
all limp and huddled, upon a couch,
her head buried in her arms, her mass of
yellow hair covering her bare shoulders and
bosom and falling to her waist, and her frame

THE REBEL ROSE.

slowly heaving like the ocean after a tempest
as she sobbed :

Oh, Victor, my love, my one, one love !
I'd have given up everything for you. I'd
give up everything — even now.'

WHAT OTHER REASON COULD THERE BE ?'

ARY BEATON remained in her
own apartments all the following
day. She saw no one but Lady
Struthers. On Thursday morning Sir Victor
Champion came before twelve o'clock to receive
his answer. This apparent lover's haste
was in reality less spontaneous than it seemed.
Sir Victor would and could have waited warily
weeks and months, had he felt that thus his
chance of winning Mary Beaton would be
greater. But something told him that his
time was now ; and that he must not delay.
He felt that his best hope lay in the reactionary
mood of tender admiration of which he
had seen signs on the previous evening, and

he was certain in his mind that an impulse of
sympathy would be more likely to incline her
heart towards him than all the reasoning, all
the reflection which she might bring to bear
on his suit. He knew that though her judgment
might be alive to certain advantages in
his proposal, which indeed he had suggested
to her, the more deeply rooted instincts of
her nature would make her scorn the idea of
worldly calculation in such a matter, and that
she would have at once too much pride and
too much humility to barter herself for the
sake even of her Stuart claims — far more for
the sake of being the wife of a Prime Minister
of England.

Sir Victor's own attitude in its pride and
its humility was not unlike that of the girl he
wooed. Notwithstanding his ambition and
his intense belief in his own powers, and the
ultimate greatness of his destiny, no lover
could have been inwardly more diffident or
more impressed with a sense of unworthiness.
But during Sir Victor's career as a statesman
he had gained no little insight into the minds
and hearts of men and women. He understood
Mary Beaton ; he knew that any lack

of dignity and assurance on the part of her
suitor would repel rather than enlist her sympathies,
and as he made his entrance into her
own particular sitting-room, where she waited
for him alone, no one would have suspected
the tremor of hope, and uncertainty, and
emotion which he hid under his grave, impressive
bearing.

When he came in, Mary rose from a low
seat by the window, from which she had been
abstractedly watching the swaying of the
great beech-tree, the flutter of the half-caged
London birds about the high ivied wall, and the
darting movements of bees and butterflies
among the roses and mignonette in her tiny
closed-in garden. She, too, was grave, and
she looked pale as though she had been ill. She
held a book in her hand, and perhaps that was
a reason why she did not hold her hand ou
to him ; and her greeting was almost silent

He did not obey her sign to be seated as
she herself moved from the window and sat
down in a straight-backed Chippendale armchair,
that was like a throne, he thought ;
and she had the air, he fancied, of a Queen
granting an audience. He laid his hat upon

a table and stood near her beside the mantelpiece.


I have come,' he said deferentially, * to ask
if you have made up your mind. But, indeed.
I fear I need not ask any such question. I
think I can read your decision in your face,
and it is my sentence. Tell me the worst at
once.'

I am sorry if you feel it so,' Mary said
somewhat coldly — she could not get quite into
sympathy with him ; * but I have made up my
mind, Sir Victor. I told you what the answer
must be if I were to give an answer at once.'

But you promised to think it over with a
wish to make the answer favourable,' he
said eagerly. ' Remember — you did promise

I did promise that ; and when I made the
promise I meant to keep it. But it cannot
be, Sir Victor. I cannot marry you.'

'Will you at least tell me why .^' His
flashing eyes made his appeal, deferential as
it was in form, seem like an attempt to overmaster
her.

She did not answer for a moment, and
shifted her position a little, resting her elbows

on the arms of her chair and clasping her
hands tightly together, while she looked up
at him with clear unflinching gaze.

I could not love you as a woman ought to
love her husband — and as a man like you
ought to be loved. Besides, we are not alike
in our ways ; in any of our ways. You are a
man of the world, and are in the world's
ways ; I know nothing about them — and

things that others would not mind ' She

paused and unclasped her hands a little
nervously, and let them fall upon her lap.
There's no use in my saying any more, Sir
Victor, for indeed it could not be.'

I cannot understand you,' he said warmly.
There is something you are thinking of, and
are keeping back from me. Someone has
told you something against me. Come, tell
me what it was. Give me a chance of defending
myself The meanest criminal whoever
quailed before a bar of justice is allowed
that chance.'

His words, tones, and gestures were so
rhetorical, that Mary could not help for a
moment believing him insincere — believing
that he was only playing a part. The familiar

VOL. III. 45

gesture made by striking the clenched right
hand with sudden heavy impact into the half-opened
palm of the left — the gesture so well
known to the occupants of the Treasury Bench
was called into action now. But Mary was
wrong ; Sir Victor was quite in earnest, and
was not acting a part. A man cannot pass
the greater part of his life declaiming to the
House of Commons without finding declamation
become his ordinary form of expressing
strong emotion. An actor has something of
the manner of the footlights always — in his
love-making ; in his grief; by the side of his
sweetheart ; by the coffin of his young wife.
Sir Victor Champion was a great political
actor.

Mary had recovered herself now, and had
no intention of allowing herself to be betrayed
into any acknowledgment of what Falcon had
told her. She spoke with quiet dignity.

Sir Victor, I have made up my mind for
myself altogether — nothing that anyone could
have said would have changed me in that. I
cannot marry you ; and the one reason is that
I could not love you in that way. I admire
you — oh, I could not tell you how much ! —

but I could not marry you. We should never
be suited to each other. You are too great
for me ; your course is quite different from
mine. Some time you will think this yourself,
and you will be glad. You will be glad that
I did not allow you to join yourself for life to
a girl whose whole existence is but the symbol
of a lost cause and a hopeless claim.'

She had looked away from him as she said
these words, and was gazing dreamily out at
the quivering beech-boughs and the blue sky
and the flowers ; and for nearly a minute there
was silence. She had a nervous dread of
turning and meeting his eyes, which she
knew were fixed upon her. She wondered
of what he was thinking — if, indeed, it was a
blow to him — if he would urge her to reconsider
her decision, and so make their future
relations more embarrassing and painful. At
last he spoke.

If you were another woman he said, in
deep melancholy tones, * I should still plead ;
but with you, I know it would be useless.'

It would indeed — quite useless.' She
turned her head now and looked at him
solemnly, but with something of relief. ' I

45—2

thank you ever so much — indeed I do, from
the bottom of my heart — because you are
generous enough to see this and not to press
me. You are very kind to me, Sir Victor ;
and I am sorry for this.'

• So it has come to an end, my day-dream !'
he said sadly ; ' I have lost all, I suppose —
even your friendship ?'

Oh no ; surely not ! Why should our
friendship not go on ? — why should the world
know of this ?'

The world knows of everything in our
days '

But let us try that it shall not know of
this,' she exclaimed earnestly ; ' and if it does,
what matter ? I shall not care, if you don't.
All this shall make no change in me to you —
let it not make any change in you to me.'

Then, for the first time that day, she held
out her hand to him in simple and touching
kindness. He took it and bent over it, and
pressed it lightly with his lips.

Only one little difference,' he said, and
there was a most melancholy cadence in his
voice, * it shall make in me as regards you.'

What is that i^' she asked, a little surprised.

I am now free to devote all my best
endeavours to obtaining the recognition of
those claims of yours to your ancestral estate,
which if you had accepted me as a husband —
oh, Utinam /' — and here the front bench of
Opposition came in again — ' I never could
have ventured to press upon the consideration
of Crown or of country.'

Mary drooped her eyes. She felt his
generosity, and nothing could be more
delicate than his way of putting his resolve.
But she almost wished the words had been
left unspoken.

Any claim that is just,' she only said, ' is
always sure to have an advocate in Sir Victor
Champion ; the less hopeful the claim the
more resolute the advocate. Well, I am glad
we have talked this out. Sir Victor, and that
1 am not to lose your friendship by it. You
are magnanimous ; but I knew you would be.
We cannot forget this — I could never forget
the honour you have done me — you, with your
great career and your noble ambition ! And
I can't expect you all at once to forget a disappointment,
if it is a disappointment '

'If\\. is ?' he pleaded.

Since it is a disappointment, even though
you may forgive the unreasoning woman who
disappoints you. But we will not think of it
any more than we can ; and the memory shall
not come between us and cut our friendship
in two. Good-bye ; I hope to see you soon.'

She held out her hand again, and he took
it, and left her without another word. She
felt deeply agitated ; and all the while there
was coming up in her heart the melancholy
wish that he had never been the slave of
Lady Saxon, or at least that she had never
heard of the slavery. * He is too great for
that,' she said to herself; and then the thought
rose — ^ Are all men bad ? Are they all the
same ?'

Mary Beaton was in one of her wayward,
unsatisfactory moods — moods which had been
rare of late — when she joined the others of
her household at the dejeuner. There was a
more subtle reason for her capricious levity
than mere girlish high spirits. Perhaps never
in her life had she felt more miserable. Falcon,
in a strange contradictory temper, and almost
maddened by doubt and love and anger, saw
at once by her reddened eyelids that she had

been crying bitterly, and he had an abrupt
transition from gloom and silent wrath to an
adoring tenderness.

It was partly in the effort to divert attention
from these signs of wretchedness, of which
she was only too conscious, and which seemed
to humiliate her in her own estimation, that
Mary had strung herself up to a fever of
artificial gaiety. Partly, too, because one of
the quick moods of revulsion characteristic
of her temperament had come over her, and
she was reckless and determined not to yield
to a feeling which she fancied was a shame
to her. She resolved that she would not be
unhappy. She would not think of Bellarmin,
or Sir Victor, or Lady Saxon". She would
distract herself somehow. She would ride —
dance — laugh — talk — do anything, any mad
freak, so that she escaped from herself. She
took Falcon aside. She seemed to have forgotten,
or to wish to atone for, her ill humour
of the evening before.

General,' she said, with coaxing imperiousness,
' we are going to carry out a plan
that I made a little while ago, and which you
agreed to, and which had almost gone out of

my mind — I don't know why. I suppose that
it was because of Stonehenge Park and Monsignor
Valmy ; and then fashionable parties
and poetics — and — other things. 1 was too
much taken up with all that to pine after low-class
amusements. Well, I am tired of being
fashionable and political and humdrum ; I've
had enough of polite society. I am weary
of the sort of life we lead. I am weary of
myself — that's the truth, dear old friend.'

Falcon could not restrain his impatience to
know what had taken place in the interview
with Champion. Mary's manner alarmed
him. He interrupted her.

Madame — Sir Victor Champion has been
here this morning ?'

Yes — yes. I don't want to talk of Sir
Victor. But it is best you should know. My
good Falcon, don't excite yourself. I told you
last night that I had no intention of marrying
Sir Victor ; and I have told him so to-day.
Are you satisfied ? Have I sufficiently vindicated
the dignity of the Stuartss ?'

Falcon bowed low. He himself would
vindicate his power of self-control.

Though my over-anxiety may have displeased

you sometimes, Madame, I have
always felt assured in my heart that the
dignity of the Stuartss was safe with you.'

Oh, indeed, General ! The dignity of the
Stuartss ! Are you sure that you will be of
the same opinion to-night ?' she said, coming
closer to him, and smiling in his face ; ' tonight,
when we are smoking cigarettes at our
East-end music-hall — and drinking — what
do they drink ? — I should like absinthe, I
think, to-night — I in my boy's clothes. Do
you hear, General ? That is the prank I had
forgotten. It is to be to-night. It is to
be an adventure — something to take one's
thoughts up from one's self, and make one
laugh and be merry for days. I am sure
that Mary Stuart felt like that when she
dressed in the archer's uniform. Perhaps
she was disgusted with people — perhaps she
was unhappy — she was often unhappy, you
know, though at times she seemed so gay.
Perhaps she really loved Bothwell all through,
and wanted to hide it even from herself. Do
you think. Falcon, that she could have really
loved Bothwell ?'

There was a wistful cadence in Mary's

voice, and though her eyes were turned on
Falcon as she asked the question, she did
not seem to notice the strange expression
which came over his face. In truth, her
mind was not on Falcon. His eyes devoured
her. He could hardly restrain the impulse to
throw himself at her feet.

I know it,' he said hoarsely. ' A brave
woman could not hate the man who dared to
risk his very love — his world, his Heaven —
think of it, Mary! — in the hope of winning
her. And if not hate, then surely it must belove,
and surrender, the sweetest, the most
passionate and complete. Yes, it was a bold
stroke ; but he won. And what if it were
paid for by disaster, ruin, death ? Through
all eternity that memory must be Bothwell's.'

Well, Falcon, never mind Bothwell.
That's a long time ago. We are to forget all
about everything for an hour or two, do you
understand .^ — lords and ladies, and the
House of Commons, and the Stuart claims.
We will be so merry to-night — you and I,
Falcon !' She leaned towards him and touched
his arm, and looked at him in perfectly unconscious
allurement. ' We are going to get

out of this fashionable, wearisome, revolting
world, where everybody is double-faced and
bad — yes, bad — all the worse because they
try to seem fine, and noble, and heroic — let
one have honest, vulgar badness if one must
have it at all. We will get out of it just for
an hour, into a new world of common people
who laugh heartily and are what they seem.
No, don't argue and protest ; we have had
all that before. I mt^s^ do something wild
and extraordinary to-night. Don't you see
that I am not myself quite ? I — I want to be
amused.'

She broke into hysterical laughter, which
was on the verge of tears. Her mood, her
words, wrought upon Falcon's excited nerves,
so that he had neither will nor force to oppose
any fantastic scheme she might have suggested.
He had an insane longing to seize
upon no matter what wild project which might
throw down existing barriers, and drive her
and him into strange unconventional conditions
that would justify the most melodramatic
extravagance. He saw her slim, girlish form
in its masquerade dress. He fancied her
leaning upon him — all sorts of tumultuous

thoughts surged in his brain. He echoed her
strained laugh. ' We will be merry to-night,
Mary,' he said. ' I will arrange everything.
Yes, we will be merry to-night.'

Mary seemed to be lost in thought.

Remember,' she said suddenly, ' you are
not to speak to me any more — or to anyone —
of the Sir Victor Champion affair.'

I fear,' said Falcon, on his guard again,
that it will have a bad effect as regards the
bringing forward of your claims in the House
of Commons.'

No !' she exclaimed warmly. 'He is
generous, magnanimous — more so than you
could have believed. He has told me in the
most delicate, the kindest way, that it will
make no difference between us. I could
almost have wished it might be otherwise,
Falcon, only that I am glad to know that he
is great enough not to bear resentment. He
has told me that he will advocate my cause,
all the more warmly because of that — that he
will do what he could not have done had he
had I accepted him.' Mary spoke in much
agitation. It was evident that though she had
no love for Champion she had been deeply

moved by his conduct towards her. She
looked pathetically at Falcon. * Oh, why did
you tell me that about him ? Did you do it to
hurt me ?' she asked appealingly. * No, I am
not blaming you. I know that you love me ;
and that if you sometimes seem unkind, you
have my good at heart. You needn't have
been afraid, though. Oh no !' as he made a
passionate gesture ; ' I know you mean always
kindly and tenderly to me, and you must be
kind to me. Falcon, for in truth I am lonely
enough.'

'Oh, Mary,' cried Falcon, transported by
her gentle words, ' if you but knew how I
love you !'

Then prove it, General, by humouring
me, and being nice to me to-night.' She was
all gaiety again. ' Now go away. I want
to think — to soliloquize on the situation, as
they do in plays, you know.'

Falcon had that morning received a telegram
from Lady Saxon — a somewhat enigmatic
telegram, which he understood to mean
that she wished to learn from him at once
the answer Mary had given to Sir Victor
Champion. He went to her house immediately

after his interview with Miss Beaton.
He was like a drunken man whom some
sudden shock brings partially back to his sober
sense. On his own account he was anxious
to see Lady Saxon, towards whom he involuntarily
turned as the one person in the
world in whom he could confide the workings
of his morbid mind.

Lady Saxon knew that she had made a hit
in her way of dealing with Falcon. She had
got at his secret, and she knew he was the
sort of man who, having once confessed, would
feel a morbid relief in going over the confession
again and again. Lady Saxon had not
been for nothing the wife and the confidential
agent of a quack doctor who lived on human
weaknesses. She loved to make pathological
study of natures that were in any way morally
diseased. Poor Falcon's mind had long been
oppressed by the weight of his secret, and it
was a strange, shame-faced, humbling, cruel,
sweet relief to him to be able to pour out his
confession. It would have amused her in
any case thus to make the shamed and suffering
man unfold himself, and lay bare at her
bidding the innermost workings of his heart.

To-day, suffering as she was still, even though
that paroxysm of passion had been a relief,
and hardened as she was already to her own
pain, she took a cruel and sympathetic delight
in the thought of another's tortures. Lady
Saxon, besides, had a practical object in her
sport. She hoped to be able, sooner or later,
to make some good use of his revelations. It
was highly satisfactory to her to get absolutely
into her power the man who alone out of all
those now surrounding her could tell something
definite of her past career, and, moreover,
the man who might be her best instrument
of revenge against Mary Beaton.

She had passed a terrible night ; a weary
day; another terrible night: but Lady Saxon's
was a robust physique, a superabundant
vitality, which perhaps required the outlet
of occasional mental disturbance. The flood
of emotion, which had drained itself away for
the time by its very violence, had gathered
again, and broken in renewed outbursts of
fury. She might have been dangerous but
for these debauches of passion. She had
them frequently in a minor degree, and she
came forth from them always saner and better

prepared to face the world. She had the
cleverness to conceal them as an intermittent
drunkard may have the craft to conceal his
attacks. Under other circumstances, she
would have gone down perhaps to Petrel's
Rest ; but it would have been impossible for
her now to leave London, and she found it
easier to school herself to impenetrability,
and to the idea of meeting Champion as
though nothing had happened. She had
decided that it would be folly and absolute
ruin to her hopes to throw her cards on the
table. She would play her own game, and
she calculated upon winning in the end, if not
by accomplishing her present aims, through
becoming indifferent, or, as she had once
tried to do, turning her love into hatred.

She looked ten years older than she had
looked two days before : but her dress was
as studied as usual, and her manner was cool,
hard, and defiant.

'Well,' she asked at once, turning as Koto
ushered Falcon into the boudoir, where she
was sitting at her writing-table dashing off
notes, ' is your Princess going ^n be Prime
Minister of England ?'

Well he repeated, 'she has refused him.'
Lady Saxon's eyes ' flashed hell-fire one
instant,' as Carlyle would put it. She had refused
him ! The man at whose feet Josephine
Saxon would have flung herself had offered
his love to a girl, a schoolgirl, and had been
refused ! Josephine was glad that he had
been refused. What else had she been
praying for ? Of course she was glad ; but
the very refusal itself was a new pang of
humiliation to her.

But she showed no more of this. She
made Falcon sit by her, and soon she had
drawn from him all that he could tell — all,
indeed, except the revelation he had made
to Mary concerning herself and Champion.
She learned the particulars of Sir Victor's
visit that morning, of Mary's hysterical mood,
of her feverish longing for distraction, and
the poor foolish escapade into which Falcon
was about to enter. Lady Saxon laughed
with contemptuous amusement. She led the
old man on to talk of his wild hopes and
insane heart-burnings. He told her of Mary's
gentler manner to him, and almost tender
words, and of the maddening suggestions she

VOL. ITT. 46

had SO unconsciously seemed to encourage.
He repeated Mary's own injunction. The
Victor Champion episode was to be buried,
never again alluded to.

Are you satisfied ?' Lady Saxon asked
coldly.

So far, yes. Don't )sou think it satisfactory
?'

No,' she answered sharply, ' I don't ;
and I don't see why you should, any more
than I.'

But you would not have wished her to
accept him ?'

Have you taken the trouble, General
Falcon, to ask yourself why she has refused
him ?'

Falcon became uneasy.

She told me herself,' he said.

Oh, she told you herself, did she ?'

Yes, Lady Saxon.'

Truly ? And what did she say ?'

She said she could not love him.'
^ And you believed that ?'

Believed that she could not love him ?'
No, no ; I don't mean that. How dull
you are to-day, General Falcon ! You believed

that that was her only reason for
refusing him ?'

It seems to me reason enough for a woman
of Miss Beaton's high tone of mind.'

HiQ-h tone of mind ! Miss Beaton and
the thought of her make you quite eloquent,
my poor friend. Do you really mean to tell
me that you never fancied she might have
had some other reason for refusing Sir Victor
Champion than the mere fact that she didn't
actually love him ; that she wasn't In love
with him ?'

What other reason could there be ?' he
asked, in a low voice growing hoarse with
anxiety.

Lady Saxon gave a disagreeable little
laugh.

Why, of course, because she does love
someone else.'

Falcon groaned audibly. This was what
his prophetic soul had been telling him ; this
was what he had been trying to keep out of
his thoughts ; and now it was only too plain
that Lady Saxon knew it as well as he did.
He had a morbid terror of hearing it from
her. She did not mean to spare him.

46 — 2

*And SO you really didn't know this, my
poor Falcon ?' she said, with contemptuous
pity, feeling a certain satisfaction that she
was rubbing salt into his wounds. ' You
never suspected this ? I didn't think even a
man could be so dull. Your fair Princess
refused Sir Victor Champion because she is
in love with young Rolfe Bellarmin. There
is the whole story.'

Why do you think that ?' he asked
fiercely.

I don't think anything about it ; I have
eyes and senses, and I know it. Why, it is
all as clear as light. She is in love with him ;
I knew she would be in love with him, and
she has a will of her own, as you know pretty
well, and she will marry him if you don't do
something to prevent her.'

She shan't marry him !' Falcon exclaimed
with an oath. ' She shall never marry him.'

She will marry him if you don't do something
to prevent it. But I don't suppose you
will do anything.' She shrugged her shoulders
contemptuously.

Oh ! what can I do ?'

Make her marry yozL Make her see that

you are her master — the master of her destiny.
If I were a man and in your place, I would
make her see that easily enough. A woman
likes a man all the better because he shows
her that he is her master. I never cared
long for any man ' — and Lady Saxon felt her
lips quivering as she spoke out this falsehood
' because I never found the man who could
be my master. Well, when is this East-end
escapade coming off?' she asked, suddenly
changing her tone and manner, and rising
from her chair.

She wants it to-night ; she wants something
to distract her thoughts, she says.'

And it is to be to-night ?'

I have yielded,' Falcon said ; * I yielded
reluctantly, but I can refuse for some reason,
and put it off.'

You fool, why should you put it off .^ It
gives you a splendid chance if you only have
the spirit.'

Lady Saxon, I am a soldier ; I have seen
some rough days ; I have not been accused
of want of spirit.'

Piff-paff ! I have known many a hero in
the battle who hadn't the courage of a mouse

when it came to be a question of getting any
mastery over a woman. Well, if you have
any spirit, take your chance to-night.'

But what is to be done ?' the perplexed
Falcon asked.

Make up some story between this and
then ; tell her of some danger or plot or
something ; invent any fable that will account
for taking her out of town. I'll invent you
half a dozen if you give me a few minutes'
time. Take her to Petrel's Rest, and then
tell her that she is not to stir from the place
until she consents to marry you. I declare to
you that if I were she, I would marry the
man who had the courage to capture me.'

She threw herself into a low chair, and
remained silent, as if she had said her say and
dismissed the subject. In reality, she was
thinking it out with a freakish, malign exultation.
She wanted to set some manner of
mischief afoot, something which would injure
and degrade her rival. Of course she had
no faith in the possibility of a Bothwell-like
carrying off of Mary Beaton. She wanted
a scene, a scandal — something which would
have to come out in a police-court, and get

into the newspapers, and be the talk of
London. Falcon's mad temper was a
Heaven-sent chance to her, and she laughed
exultingly over it and over him when he had
gone. If things would only turn out so that
the Stuart Princess must have to go into a
police-court, and explain how it came about
that she was found at a low-class East-end
music-hall, masquerading in the dress of a
boy ! Would not that be enough to finish
her London career ? Would it not disillu-
sionize Victor Champion ? Would it not of
a certainty open the eyes of the romantic and
chivalrous Bellarmin ? Come, a bright idea !
Bellarmin must be got to appear on the spot
somehow ; he must be compelled to see his
ideal Princess, his Gloriana, in her romping-jacket,
her tomboy masquerade. In spite of
her real misery. Lady Saxon's eyes sparkled
with a kind of impish delight at this idea.
She thought of all that would be said in the
society papers, and she gloated in advance
over the humiliation of Mary Beaton.

Falcon stood meanwhile erect and speechless
as a graven image. His rigid attitude
was strangely out of keeping with the wild

disturbance of his heart. All around seemed
for the time as if it were curtained in blackness.
At last he started like one starting
out of sleep, and he clenched his hands and
said, in a tone of passionate resolution :

Yes ; I'll try it ; it is the last chance.'

I am glad you see it in that light Lady
Saxon said composedly ; ' it is, indeed, the
last chance of rescuing her from the consequences
of a foolish love for a showy young
political adventurer. If you only keep true
to your purpose, and don't let your resolution
ooze out, you will save her ; and she will
thank you for it some day before long. Now,
my good Falcon, you had better go. This is
a thing to be done, not talked about, you
understand.'

I suppose I ought to thank you,' he said
hoarsely ; * but I can't. I don't know whether
I owe you gratitude or hatred ; I don't know
whether you are inspired by God or by the
devil.'

What does it matter, my good Falcon, sofar
as you are concerned, where the source of
my inspiration is found ? I don't really know
myself; I have heard casuists say that the

most trying of all temptations is the difficulty
of knowing sometimes whether a certain inward
prompting comes from God or from the
devil. I only know that I am trying to serve
my friend after my fashion.'

Friend ? friend ?' he repeated hesitatingly.
I do not know, Lady Saxon. Are we friends ;
can we be friends ?'

Do you think we ought to be enemies ?'
she blandly asked.

Oh no ; not enemies.'

Well, wee can't, under all the circumstances,
be quite indifferent to each other ; and so, my
best Falcon, I see nothing for it but that we
should be friends. Good-bye, and gliick ait,
as the miners used to say in my merry German
days.'

THE East-end EXPEDITION.

HERE was a great deal of jubilation
among all the old-fashioned Tories
that and the previous day. The
Government had put their foot down, stout
old warriors said in the Carlton Club and the
Conservative, and they had brought the whole
revolutionary scheme to an end. ' We shall
hear no more of it, sir ; hear no more of it.'
But among other members of the party there
was much doubt and misgiving. Numbers of
the younger men, who did not by any means
cro with Bellarmin and his little band of Progressive
Democrats, yet felt the strongest
doubt as to whether the position Lord Bosworth
had taken up could possibly be maintained.

' They areonly playing into Champion's
hands many shrewd and sound Conservatives
said ; and there were those who maintained
that in the Cabinet itself there were sinking
hearts and dissatisfied consciences. Reports
were everywhere that Champion had a great
democratic move fully schemed out and
ready. Such reports were naturally contradicted
in authoritative quarters, but ' everything
is contradicted now,' sceptical persons
said ; and many would persist in regarding
the reports themselves as, at the least, only
pilot-balloons thrown up into the air by Champion
and his closer circle of friends. In the
meantime, Lord Saxon, whose word no one
ever thought of questioning, and who had
only come to town that morning, was at the
club, telling everybody who chose to ask him
that he knew nothing of any definite scheme,
and did not believe any such scheme was inexistence.
The air of Courland and editorial
and political regions was thickened with
rumours and reports and denials and protests,
and conjectures of all kinds. Bellarmin
avoided his clubs, and kept out of the way as
much as possible — more particularly out of

the way of Tressel, who had let fly a sheaf of
telegrams, and who, always sleepy-looking,
imperturbable, and smoking endless cigarettes,
was rushing about in hansoms in various directions.
Yet when he went down to the
House, Bellarmin felt that something was
coming ; and very speedily coming.

It came, in this way : Sir Victor Champion
made his appearance early in the House of
Commons that evening ; earlier, that is to say,
than was usual for him when he was not in
office. When out of office, he seldom came
into the House until the greater number of
the questions to Ministers had been put and
answered.

It was characteristic of the man that he
should go straight from the failure of a
cherished enterprise to the starting of a
totally different one. It so happened that
he found Lord Saxon next to him when he
took his seat. They exchanged a few words
of commonplace talk ; and then those who
were near them heard Champion say : ' I am
going to do something which will probably
surprise you ; but I hope I shall be able to
make my position quite clear and satisfactory

to you.' Lord Saxon looked astonished ; he
flushed up and said nothing.

The weary questions were brought to an
end, and then Sir Victor rose and came forward
to the table, and there were loud cries of
Order, order,' intended to drown in advance
any possible interruption, and everyone knew
that something momentous was going to
happen. Then Champion, in a clear, commanding,
but not aggressive tone, announced
that in consequence of the positive declaration
made the other evening by her Majesty's
Ministers against any reform in the organization
and procedure of the House of Lords, he
had thought it his duty to prepare a resolution
on the subject, which he proposed at the
earliest possible moment to submit to the
judgment of the House of Commons. The
resolution which Champion read merely called
forth an humble address to her Majesty, praying
that her Majesty would be graciously
pleased not to make any further addition to
the peerage of the United Kingdom until
Parliament should have been afforded an opportunity
of expressing its opinion on the
constitution and working of the House of

Lords, and of declaring whether or not the
hereditary principle of legislation was suited
to the conditions of the present day. A positive
outburst of cheering from the Radical
benches below the gangway followed the
reading of the resolution, and the cheers were
followed by groans and by shouts of defiance
from the Tories, who were at first too stupefied
to give forth any expression of feeling.
Then Sir Victor quietly gave notice that on
the day following he should ask the leader of
the Government whether the Government
would afford him facilities for an early discussion
of that important subject. The leader
of the House, Sir Rowland Chase, only nodded
his head in mere acceptance of Sir Victor's
notice, and engaged in a hasty consultation
with one of his colleagues. Sir Victor sat fora
moment and looked at Lord Saxon, evidently
expecting that Saxon would say something
to him, whether in the way of approval
or of remonstrance. But Lord Saxon sat in
silence for a moment or two, and then got up
and walked slowly out of the House, without
having exchanged a word with Champion or
anyone else.

Whatever may have been his reason, there
was one point on which Champion was inexorable.
He would not take Lord Saxon into
his confidence yet. Josephine had been doing
her very best to bring Saxon round to a recognition
of what might be called the general
infallibility of Champion, and had begun to
be of good hope that if Champion would only
be open with him at once, he might secure
Saxon's alliance. But Champion would not
move. Perhaps he still was convinced that
the best way to secure Saxon's concurrence
was to approach him with a completed scheme,
a roll of allies and a plan of action. Perhaps
he was jealous of the influence which Saxon's
family and position gave him over the Liberal
Party. Perhaps he was determined this time
to be the unmistakable leader of the party ;
determined that if Saxon were to come in at
all, he must come distinctly as a follower and
subordinate. Perhaps he thought it would bea
good thing if, by securing the alliance of
the Progressive Tories, he could feel himself
once for all independent of Saxon ; could be
able to say, ' Let Saxon come in if he prefers
it.' No one who really knew Victor champion

could doubt that in the depths of his
heart there was a patriotic and an impassioned
desire for the good of his country. But no
one who knew him well could fail to know
that in the depths of his heart also there was
a settled conviction that his own intellect and
his own will were the heaven appointed instruments
for the accomplishment of that end.
Lord Saxon, devoted to Champion as he had
hitherto been, was always a drag on his
leader ; and the leader wanted to feel himself
free.

Thus the first trumpet was sounded for the
great struggle. The long-expected, vague
apparition had taken shape, and stood out
clear against the horizon. All London had
one topic for the next twelve hours or so ;
and the name of Victor Champion was on
every lip. It was accompanied with praise
and plaudits, with denunciation and with
curses ; the banning, as is the way of such
things, louder and deeper than the blessing.

Bellarmin had made up his mind to dine in
the House of Commons that evening. He
was passing out into the lobby, intending to
smoke a cio:ar on the Terrace before dinner,

when one of the door-keepers stopped him,
and taking a letter from the sheaf of tan-coloured,
white and blue envelopes which
lined the sides of the sedan-chair sentry-box
in which he sat, put it into Bellarmin's hand.
Before he even looked at it, some strange
sweet association was brought upon Bellarmin
with a light wave of scent. The letter was
in an ordinary square envelope, and the address
was written in a very commonplace,
unsuggestive sort of hand. When he opened
it he saw that the handwriting inside was
different, and he read, in much surprise, the
following singular epistle, which had at least
the merit of going straight to the subject :

If you are really a friend of Miss Mary
Beaton's, you ought to know that she is
putting herself in a position of danger. Go
down this night to the Rule Britannia
Theatre, Alexandria Street, Shoreditch, at
nine o'clock, use your eyes, and you will
know what I mean.'

The regular old-fashioned anonymous letter
of conventional romance! It was written, of

VOL. III. 47

course, in a woman's hand carefully disguised,
the letters all sloping elaborately from left
to right. It was perfumed, and it was the
breath of that perfume which attracted him
at once, for it was a perfume that Mary
Beaton always used. Was the letter sent by
any of those around Mary Beaton — by Lady
Struthers, for example ; by Mary Beaton's
maid ? No ; he could not think that likely.
Anyone might use the perfume. It was probably
a mere chance that it was used ; or its
use might have been deliberate, with the view
of making him believe that the letter came
from Miss Beaton's own household. If so,
that artifice was not much needed. Of course
he would go to the place. Perhaps when he
got there he should find nothing of any interest
to him. Perhaps he should find himself merely
the victim of some silly and meaningless practical
joke. No matter, he would go all the
same. If there was the softest, faintest
ghost of a chance that Mary might be in any
danger from which he could shelter her, that
was enough for him. Why any danger to
her should have an East-end theatre for its
scene, and how it was to reveal itself to him

when he got there, it passed the power of his
wits to conjecture. The only thing was for
him to go and see. ' After all-he said to himself,
' there is a great deal of nonsense talked
about anonymous letters, and the folly and
weakness of paying any attention to them.
Many an honest and friendly warning is given
in an anonymous letter by a writer who would
give no warning if he had to sign his name.
Not quite an heroic personage, such a letter-writer
; but one has to take a hint sometimes
from other than heroic personages.'

While he was thus reasoning to himself, a
member of the Liberal Party, a fashionable
young man about town, seized Bellarmin's arm
and insisted upon his there and then joining
a little dinner which the Liberal member was
giving to some ladies of his acquaintance in
the subterranean dining-room.

Bellarmin allowed himself to be led thither,
having no excuse ready, and having yet an
hour and a half to wait before the time named
by his mysterious correspondent. It was not
the scene of his last night's dinner, but the
public room, which was full of little tables and
groups, more or less animated and more or

47—2

;#.

less smart-looking, according to the social
sphere they represented. It is a solemn and
serious obligation upon the county member
to entertain at dinner in the House of
Commons the wives and daughters of his
bucolic or manufacturing constituents. A
party of constituents is to be recognised at
a glance. The constituent and the ' local
man ' can never be mistaken by one who has
ever tasted the sweets and sours of public
life ; the constituent's wife and the wife of
the local man are of a less definite type upon
these festive occasions ; the member's wife is
usually absent. Bellarmin felt sorry for a man
he knew — celebrated as a barrister and a wit,
and also a member of the Tory Government
who was sadly ministering to the appetite
of an excellent lady in an ulster, with blinking
eyes, which she never took off her plate except
when she extended a pudgy hand protestingly
over her champagne, and smiled and blinked
at her host in feeble remonstrance. There
was a good deal of laughter at Bellarmin's
table about the number of constituents' wives
who were in the dining-room that night ; a
probable dissolution was augured therefrom,

and a sort oi pubis cite was taken as to whether
they abounded most at Tory tables. The
Minister cast mock melancholy glances at
Bellarmin's more brilliant party, which
numbered two clever members' wives, well-dressed
and distinguished, and a very pretty
girl, in a tailor-made gown and a red hat,
whom Bellarmin knew slightly. The girl
was very lively and amusing, and quizzed
him about his dinner two nights before, of
which Mr. Tressel had told her, and about
his Princess, who, Bellarmin thought savagely,
seemed now common property. The conversation
was not political, but was all about
people and London gossip, and he would
have enjoyed both his dinner and his company
had he been in a less preoccupied mood.

A Tory whip came in when dinner was
nearly over, and stood looking as though
he were counting heads ; and presently the
division-bell rang, which gave Bellarmin an
excuse for rushing off and not returning. He
hurried from the dining-room and across the
lobby, shaking off, with an assumption of
careless ease, some dozen or so of colleagues
and acquaintances on the way, who were

eager to get to talk with him ; one in particular
was a renowned and remorseless bore,
who lived and bored on the one great theme
• — Imperial Federation. He flung himself
across the young Tory Democrat's way.

Hullo, Bellarmin ! what's going on }^ he
asked.

I am,' replied Bellarmin, with a laugh,
repeating Douglas Ferrol's old joke ; and he
left the bewildered bore, who never made or
understood a joke in his life.

So Apollo has saved me !' Bellarmin murmured
to himself, thinking of Horace and
his bore as he passed down the Members'
private entrance and so into Palace Yard, and
thence by the covered way into Bridge Street
and on to the Thames Embankment. A few
paces down the Embankment he hailed a
hansom. In Palace Yard every cabman knew
him, and he did not want to be known just
then. A little way down the Embankment
no one would be likely to know him. It had
often amused him to notice how a few yards
of street in London convert a somebody into
a nobody. In and around Palace Yard a
Member of Parliament is a great personage.

Policemen rush to protect him from the quick-darting
hansom ; Ones of omnibuses are compelled
to halt to let him pass. The whole
traffic of the outer world has to acknowledge
his presence, and make way for him. Yet a
few yards farther on and his person is unknown,
his perils are unheeded ; he is only
one of the crowd ; the cabs may drive at him
or over him, and welcome. So Bellarmin
walked on a few paces, got outside the
charmed Parliamentary circle of police protection,
hailed the first cab he met, and drove
on his unrecognised way.

It was a long drive from Blackfriars Bridge
and the Embankment, through monotonous
miles of the dreariest streets, hideous and
heart-sickening in their dreadful similarity.
The cabman drove rapidly, at Bellarmin's express
desire ; and yet nine o'clock had struck
before they reached the place they sought.
There was no trouble in finding it ; the cabman
knew it well, and had driven young
swells from the West-end there many a time
before. They stopped at last before a sort
of miniature Alhambra, built at the angle of
a small open square, which was made light

almost as day by the flaring gas-jets that ran
along the front of the building. It was a
gay and busy little square. There was a
stand of dingy cabs in the centre, and there
were several stalls with cheap fruit, confectionery,
and buckets of mussels and periwinkles,
and two or three public-houses, which
did not seem, however, to have anything todo
with the business of the bar that occupied
one side of the entrance to the music-hall.
Each public-house seemed to have its own
peculiar group of roughs and gamins who did
not join the little stream of people passing in
and out of the illuminated door. The people
were workmen and their wives, shop-girls
and factory hands with their sweethearts, and
as they pushed by each other there was a
sound of cockney jokes and laughter.

Bellarmin stepped from his cab and made
his way into the vestibule, where he talked
with the box-keeper and a policeman, who
apparently acted as check-taker. He told
them he wanted to see the performance, and
especially the look of the house, and that he
did not particularly want to be seen. So fora
few — a very few — shillings he got a small,

well-curtained box near the stage all to himself,
and found that from thence he could
survey the whole audience, with little risk of
being himself seen by anyone, except, indeed,
the performers on the stage. These, when
Bellarmin ensconced himself in his nook, were
three men dressed like bookmakers, in white
hats and checked trousers, and brilliant waistcoats.
They were singing a comic song,
which seemed a favourite, to judge by the
enthusiastic manner in which the audience
joined in the chorus, of which the burden
ran :

'Sister Johanna whacked the donkey.
But the old moke wouldn't go !'

or something to that effect, and then there
was dancing and kicking up of legs and
somersaults, and the usual comic song business.


It was a garish place, with gilt mirrors on
the walls, which reflected back the clusters of
gas-lamps. The air was thick with smoke,
and the hall was crammed with people sitting
in rows on benches, which, at the upper end,
were baize-covered, and had little stands
before them for the glasses and the cigars.

On a high chair, just below the orchestra, sat
the master of the ceremonies, who called out
the number of the pieces, and smoked and exchanged
jokes with the audience, and was
every now and then treated to a drink.
Sometimes champagne — or what looked like
champagne — in tin-foiled bottles, was handed
up to the front benches ; sometimes there was
a call for ' Two and two of Scotch, to keep
the spirits up ;' but beer in pewter mugs
seemed the general beverage. The young
men of the audience wore dirty pot-lots and
wonderful neckties ; and the young women
sported much cheap finery, gaudy feathers,
and smart jackets, and had tousled hair, after
the approved fashion in factory circles. The
young men leaned back, most of them with
one arm round a young woman's shoulders ;
and they gazed into their sweethearts' faces
and nudged them when anything exquisitely
funny or suggestive of some past personal
episode tickled their fancy. But the nudging
was not confined to the young people : it was
extensively indulged in by the husbands and
wives ; and the hard-working gaunt mothers
of families seemed to get as much enjoyment

out of the performance as their younger and
less burdened sisters.

Bellarmin cast his eyes round the house in
bewildered search for some indication of the
danger which threatened Mary Beaton — some
sign of the foretold conspiracy against her.
He had quick eyes, but as they swept the
place — pit, gallery, and boxes — he could see
no face that he knew. Was he, then, the
victim of some practical joke ? No, he could
not believe that ; or, at all events, if there
were any joke, the point of it was yet to come.
No creature in his or her senses would take
the trouble of writing a letter in a disguised
hand just for the sake of inducing a young
man to pay a visit to an East-end music-hall.
If he were a grave and responsible statesmanlike
Sir Victor Champion, then indeed one
might understand a practical joker's motive
in trying to get him to show himself in such
a place ; but there would be no fun whatever
in prevailing upon a careless young man about
town like Bellarmin to show himself there.
Nobody would be surprised if he were seen
there ; nobody would care. No ; he would
have to wait for the joke, if joke it were.

At last, when he was getting fairly tired of
waiting and watching, he saw a little movement
among some of the occupants of the
pit — a movement caused by the entrance of
two new-comers who were trying to make
their way to convenient seats. The newcomers
were a tall gray-haired man, and apparently
a slender boy. The man was dressed
in rusty black clothes, and so far as his garb
was concerned might have been taken for one
of the poorer class of shop-keepers ; the boy
might have been his son. But the walk, the
bold, straight stride of the man, did not seem
to Bellarmin's acute eye quite like that of a
poor shop-keeper of the East-end ; it was
unmistakably the stride of a soldier, of a
cavalry man. Now the pair had settled
down ; Bellarmin had not yet been able to
get a look at their faces. Some persons were
still passing between them and him. Now
the path of sight is clear — and, yes, of course
the tall man was General Falcon himself, apparently
under the impression that he was
admirably disguised. Who, then, was his
companion ? Bellarmin strained his sight to
get a good look at the features of the supposed

boy, and he could hardly keep his
emotions down — his surprise, alarm, horror —
when he saw that the face was the face of
Mary Beaton.

Here in this low, noisy, vulgar East-end
music-hall was Mary Stuart Beaton, dressed
as a boy ! For a moment he refused to
believe the evidence of his senses. It could
not be. Had Miss Beaton any boy-cousin,
or other such relative, who resembled her ?
That surely was more likely than that she
herself could be sitting there in such absurd
masquerade.

But no ; it was impossible that he could be
mistaken. There were the features ; there
were the eyes — the eyes that now were queenlike
and now saint-like ; that now, it must be
owned, were saucy ; the eyes that sometimes
seemed melting with pathetic emotion, with
compassion, with tender pity, and that sometimes,
too, flashed out an almost insolent
anger. It just struck Bellarmin at the
moment, and it sent a cruel pang through
him, that he had never seen in these wonderful
eyes any gleam that spoke of love. All
the emotions a woman could show through

eloquent eyes, these speaking eyes had told
him of again and again, save only love. He
studied her face, and he felt satisfied that he
was right. But he now surveyed her figure
as well, and he wondered within himself how,
even in that dull and commonplace crowd,
she could have escaped suspicion, so charmingly
feminine were her movements, so
feminine her outlines. He became afraid
for her ; he longed to go near her and warn
her that some wandering eye would surely
pierce through the screen of her disguise.
Yet he did not dare to approach her then
and there. All he could do was to remain
where he was, ready to come to her assistance
if assistance should be needed. No question
had he in his mind as to General Falcon's
courage, and he noted with satisfaction that,
for all General Falcon's sixty-five years, he
did not appear by any means the sort of man
with whom a personage of ordinary strength
would care to get into a quarrel. But Bellarmin
was by no means assured of Falcon's
discretion. He feared that Falcon's adoration
for his Princess might lead him to fancy
an affront in every curious look, the crime of

lese-majesty in every whisper. All Bellarmine
could do was to keep himself unseen
while watching carefully the surroundings
and the movements of the strange pair of
spectators who took all his interest and all
his eyes and ears away from the stage
and the performances. There they sat — the
soldier and the Princess — conforming themselves
evidently as much as possible to the
ways of the place. General Falcon had a
huge tankard of beer before him, to which
he occasionally applied his lips with an expression
of utterly overdone gratification.
His companion had a lemon squash. General
Falcon bought a cigar from one of the peripatetic
waiters ; but Bellarmin's keen eye
soon observed that he quietly dropped that
cigar under the seat, and substituted for it
one which he stole from his own coat-pocket.
His companion presently touched him on the
arm, and Bellarmin could distinctly hear the
imperious words, ' Cigarette, please.' General
Falcon tried a look of remonstrance, but his
companion was inexorable ; and presently
Bellarmin saw the daughter of the Stuartss
smoking a cigarette with the most perfect

complacency and apparent comfort. He felt
his forehead growing hot with anxiety and
alarm. Sometimes one of the company near
Mary Beaton and her companion got up and
passed the girl with some word of apology
for disturbing her ; and Bellarmin was in
perfect agony lest some of her movements
might betray her sex. ' If she would only
put her hands in her pockets,' he thought to
himself, * ^/la^ would look schoolboys, at all
events.' He trembled at the very graciousness,
the almost Oriental elaborateness of
courtesy with which Mary replied to each
passing apology from this or that 'Army or
'Harriet. She bent her graceful head to a
stout, elderly personage who squeezed by
her, and who made some jocular remark
upon his own fatness, and the mere movement
of Mary's head frightened Bellarmin, it
was so intensely feminine. Surely, he was
thinking in agony, that old personage, who is
likely to be the father of at least half a dozen
daughters, will see that it is a girl and not a
boy who is good-naturedly making way for
him, and politely acknowledging his apologies.
But the worthy citizen went his unsuspicious

way, and Bellarmin breathed freely again, for
the moment at least. What especially kept
Bellarmin in alarm was not the dread of anything
anybody might guess at, or the dread
of what somebody might say to Miss Beaton,
but a very reasonable fear concerning the
demeanour of General Falcon. If that
warrior could only be relied upon to restrain
himself so far as to behave with coolness and
discretion, and not to take offence where it
was anyhow possible to avoid it, then things
would go right enough ; for even if an elderly
gentleman did choose to bring his daughter
dressed in boy's clothes to such a place, or
were suspected of having done so, no great
harm could come of that. But suppose there
were a quarrel ; suppose there were a row ;
suppose Falcon were to knock someone down;
suppose the police were called in, and a
general removal u-ere made to the police-station,
would it be possible for Mary's secret
to be kept then ?

Will they never go away ?' he kept asking
himself. * Will they remain seated there until
the end? What can there be in this business
to interest her ? Surely she ought to have

VOL. III. 48

had enough of it by this time. When does
she mean to go ?'

At last, at last, they were going. Miss
Beaton apparently had had enough of it.
She touched Falcon and said something to
him, and Falcon got up and prepared to lead
the way. The stage was empty at the time,
which made Bellarmin anxious, because eyes
that would otherwise have been occupied
with the mummers were free to amuse themselves
by scanning the faces of departing
guests. He drew into the shelter of his box
until they had passed beneath him, and then
he hastened after them. They had to make
their way through long dingy passages,
lighted by flaring and naked jets of gas.
These passages were obstructed here and
there by little groups of loungers and smokers,
and progress was not to be made with anything
like quickness. Bellarmin kept well
behind, but did not lose sight of the pair fora
second. Suddenly he became aware somehow
that another man as well as he was
following and watching them. He had not
yet had time to see what this man was like ; but
he had come out of the theatre at the moment

that Bellarmin left it, and he was almost
keeping step with Bellarmin in following
Miss Beaton and Falcon. Perhaps this observer
had made a guess as to the real sex
of the supposed boy, and was only following
from motives of mere curiosity. Still it would
be well, Bellarmin thought, to keep a close
watch on him. So he fell back just a little
more ; and then the other observer, who
looked like a mechanic out of employment
and down on his luck, pushed suddenly forward,
and made an attempt to hustle past
Miss Beaton. He hustled past her so roughly
that she looked round in surprise ; and then
he hustled back again, jostling her a second
time. He was drunk, perhaps, and he probably
did not mean any rudeness ; and it
would not matter much if only General Falcon
did not lose his temper. Falcon was hurrying
Mary on as quickly as he could. Either
he had not seen the man jostle her, or he was
wisely determined to take no notice. Bellarmine
felt as if he could have embraced him for
his self-control and prudence. But the jostling
one was evidently resolved to make his presence
felt and inconvenient ; he was preparing

48—2

for a forward movement again. He had the
staggery walk of a man who had been drinking,
and yet Bellarmin was convinced somehow
that the drunkenness was a sham, and
that there was some deliberate purpose in all
these movements. This would never do, he
thought ; if there were any more jostling,
Falcon would be sure to lose his self-control.
Just at this moment there was a sharp turn
in the passage, and for an instant Miss
Beaton and Falcon were out of sight. The
man whom Bellarmin was watching was
about to make a rush after them. Bellarmin
had got his chance, and he made prompt use
of it. He caught the man by the collar and
drew him back firmly, steadily, not roughly,
but with a quiet and decidedly persuasive
force.

Tell me,' Bellarmin asked in the calmest
voice, but with the manner of one who
puts a question to which he has authority
to enforce an answer, ' who sent you
here ?'

The manner in which the question was put
had its effect ; the man, who was at first about
to return some rough reply, became embarrassed,

and merely stammered out, ' Who sent
me here ?'

Yes ; I want to know. Don't attempt to
make any noise, or I will hand you over to a
policeman at once. You were sent here to
make some disturbance. Who sent you ?'

This was all the purest conjecture on Bellarmin's
part, but he could see in a moment
that his shot had told. The appearance of
drunkenness had already vanished ; the man
he was talking to had become perfectly sober.
In any case, Bellarmin was carrying his point
by merely keeping him in talk.

Who the devil are you, and what right
have you to ask me any question ? Are you
the owner of this show ?'

All that it concerns you to know,' said
Bellarmin, ' is that I am able to have you in
the lock-up within the next five minutes
unless you give me your name and address,
so that I may have you looked after, if there
should be need. WTiat were you sent hereto
do ? Tell me at once.'

The man smiled a sort of apologetic
smile.

Well, not much harm, after all, governor.

I was sent here to have a look after an old
bloke and a boy.'

Bellarmin's mind was relieved. The man
was evidently speaking sincerely, and had
no notion that the supposed boy was not a
boy.

And you were sent to get up a row ?'
'Well, yes, I was.'

For what reason ?'

Don't know, governor. A German chap,
who looked like a footman out of livery, came
here two hours ago, and saw me at the door
of the drinking place here, and he got into
talk with me, and asked me if I'd seen a
elderly bloke and a boy, and I said, *' No ;
I hadn't." And he said, would I watch them
and follow them, and get up a row, if he gev'
me a quid. And I said, *' Yes ; I would,"
and I got the quid ; and I did my best to getup
the row — now, didn't I i^'

At this moment a policeman was passing
out whose face Bellarmin knew, and who
recognised him. He was an officer who atone
time used to attend in the House of
Commons, and he made a most deferential
semi-military salute as he passed Bellarmin.

Bellarmin's present companion was deeply
impressed, and began to think he was very
lucky in getting out of the whole business,
seeing that there were evidently important
personages on the other side.

Yes ; you did your best Bellarmin said ;
'and you were near doing too much. You
would have got yourself into terrible trouble,
I can tell you. Now I would recommend
you to go quietly home. I believe your
story ; I believe you don't know who it was
that wanted to get you into mischief.'

Don't know from Adam, governor, help
me.'

Well, here is another sovereign for you —
to get out of this at once. Give your name
and address to this officer — you will take
this man's name and address for me, officer,
please.'

'Certainly, sir;' another semi-military salute.

A large dirty hand opened and closed on
Bellarmin's shining coin. That incident was
happily over. Bellarmin, somewhat relieved,
hurried after Falcon and Mary. He stood in
the comparative darkness of the door, and he
looked out. He saw, to his surprise, that

Falcon was putting Miss Beaton into a heavy-carriage,
on the box of which he could see by
the flashing lamps that a man was sitting, who
seemed to him remarkably like a German
servant of Lady Saxon's whom he sometimes,
but rarely, saw at her London house. At
once there came into his mind the thought of
what he had just heard from the bribed disturber
of order — about the ' German chap who
looked like a footman.' Mary appeared to be
offering some remonstrance.

Why are we to go in this thing .^' he distinctly
heard her say in her clear voice, which
now had a note of petulance in it ; * I would
rather go in a hansom, as we came. Where
did we get this thing ?'

I tell you there is danger,' Falcon said ;
we can't go back the way we came.' He
was looking fearfully around hmi as if afraid
of listeners. * Do get in ; I will tell you all.'

Mary got in. There were very few loungers
about just now, for the entertainment inside
was in full blast, and the hall had reclaimed
all its audience. Bellarmin saw his bribed
friend near; he was evidently going back to
his seat. Bellarmin touched him.

Will you tell that gentleman — the elderly
gentleman there at the carriage-door, you
know — that someone here wishes to speak
to him for a moment before he goes

Then Bellarmin retreated far back into the
hall, quite out of sight of the carriage and its
occupant.

In a moment Falcon came striding in, with
an air of mingled impatience and alarm.

Mr. Bellarmin !' he exclaimed, in anything
but a tone of welcome. ' I didn't know yoii
were here !'

I happened to be here — at least, I came
here ; I was told to come here, I don't quite
know by whom or why ; but anyhow I am
here ; and I don't want Miss Beaton to know
it. I couldn't help just now hearing you say
there was danger to her.'

Falcon contracted his brows.

^ I didn't know there was anyone listening,'
he said.

Well, I didn't mean to listen ; but I had
pretty good reason to believe that some trap
or other was laid for you by somebody ; and
I thought I might be of some service.'

Oh ?' Falcon's grim look relaxed a little.

You, too ' — he laid stress on the * too ' —

you, too, thought there was some danger ?*

I don't know about danger, but there are
tricks of some kind going on. Well, this
is all I want to say ; we haven't time to say
much now. Go home with Miss Beaton ;
I'll take a hansom and drive after you. She
need never know '

Sir !' Falcon said sternly, his looks recovering
all their former harshness, ' Miss
Beaton needs no protection but that which
her friends — //^r friends can give. / shall
take care of her.'

Come, come,' Bellarmin said good-humouredly
; ' you can't offend me, General
Falcon ; and I hope I may count myself
among Miss Beaton's friends. You will allow
me to do this much ; I dare say nothing will
happen, but if anything should happen —
why, I shall be there ; and I am pretty well
known to the police, as we say here, and I
know I can be of some service to you. But,
of course, Miss Beaton is not to know.'

Before he had finished the words, Falcon
broke away with what sounded very like a
muttered imprecation. When Bellarmin went

to the door again the carriage was driving off.
Bellarmin jumped into the only hansom that
was near the door — very Hkely the hansom
which had brought Mary and Falcon, and
which was to have taken them back ; and he
bade the driver follow the carriage, and keep
it well in view.

Then he began to think over things. There
was the anonymous letter which had sped
him to the East-end. There was the attempt
to get up a row — an attempt promoted by * a
German chap ;' there was the carriage with
a German chap ' on the box, in whom Bellarmin
fully believed that he recognised one
of Lady Saxon's servants ; there was Falcon's
sudden change of purpose and his declaration
about danger. What did all this mean if
fairly put together ? Was there danger ? —
and what could it be ? Was there no danger
greater than that of some spiteful device to
get up a scandal and bring Mary into ridicule ?
Could Lady Saxon be malign enough to have
any part in such a scheme ? Was Falcon's
alarm about real danger merely a sort of
monomania with him ? All this Bellarmin
could not settle for himself with any amount

of cogitation. The one thing certain was that
somebody or other had got to know in advance
of the East-end Expedition, and had tried to
turn it to the advantage of some malignant
purpose. Was it not possible that Lady Saxon
might have come to know of some trick —
some malicious sort of practical joke, and
might have sent him the anonymous letter
with the sincere and kindly purpose of giving
him an opportunity of sheltering and serving
Mary Beaton ? Yes ; that was possible, to
be sure ; but was it likely ? What, then,
about the German servant, and the effort to
get up a quarrel ? Bellarmin felt much disturbed
and distressed. To him the only
satisfactory thought about the whole affair
was the thought that he was there ; that he
was following close behind her ; that if anything
unpleasant or alarming should happen,
he would be much better able to take counsel
f^)r her, and to take care of her, than her
devoted but rather eccentric adherent, General
Falcon.

Bellarmin followed the carriage through
miles and miles of street. At last he had the
satisfaction of seeing it stop at Mary's own

door in Kensington. His cab drove slowly
by. He saw Falcon get out and open the
door with a latch-key ; then he saw Mary get
out — at least, he was left to assume that it
was Mary, for she was wrapped from head to
foot in a great cloak, which completely concealed
her boy's dress. He saw her enter
the house ; he heard the door close behind
them ; he saw the carriage drive away ; and
then he bade his cabman take him to St.
James's Place.

^^^

*I THINK I SHALL SAY YES.'

'ARY BEATON had a troublous
time of it for several days after her
unlucky expedition to the East-general
Falcon was stranger than
He seemed rather to avoid her ; but
when they met, his eyes were wild and full of
fear and foreboding. He hinted at dark possibilities
— at scandal, even at personal danger
to herself, and bade her keep closely the
secret of their foolish escapade. He seemed
completely shaken and nervous, and to be
afraid of phantoms. He did all he could to
prevent her from going out, and made her
send excuses to several of the houses to which
they were engaged. In truth, he did not wish

her to run the chance of meeting Bellarmin.
He felt angry, baffled, defeated. His clumsy
plot had failed ; and failed through Bellarmin.
He saw no present opening for a fresh melodramatic
scheme. He was in terror lest Mary
should discover that such a scheme had existed.
And in spite of Lady Saxon's professions
of good faith, he was beginning to feel
a keen distrust of her. He did not understand
why Bellarmin had been at the music-hall
that evening — why his plot had so completely
miscarried. Mary made merry with
his tragic dejection. She still, by a determined
effort, kept up an appearance of light-heartiness.
She would not let even Falcon see that
she was ashamed and unhappy ; she would
try to seem exactly as she had always been to
everyone — to Bellarmin, if he should come to
see her ; it was some time since he had been
to see her. She laughed at Falcon, and then,
when they came near to a quarrel, she peremptorily
silenced him.

He had, during the last week or two, been
giving her warnings of various undefined and
terrible dangers menacing her ; conspiracies,
treasons, stratagems, and spoils. She made

up her mind at last that she would take the
opinion of some other counsellor whom she
could trust ; not, of course, making any confession
of the East-end escapade — Mary was
herself quite of opinion that the undignified
freak should be buried in oblivion — but on
the general subject of Falcon's continued
alarms. She was delighted, therefore, when
In the very midst of a scene with Falcon,
Lord Stonehenge was announced. She went
up to him with both hands outstretched, and
she made approach to her subject at once.

Lord Stonehenge,' she said abruptly, looking
at him, her face all softened by girlish
agitation, 'you never scold me. I really
believe that you are the only one of my close
friends who never has scolded me. 1 am
never afraid of you ; I know you will always
judge things at the best. No ; everyone else
scolds me ; but only you — you alone '

Stonehenge looked at her with an expression
of indefinable emotion — pain and pity
mingled ; pain and pity, not for her, but for
himself. True, he never scolded her ; he
never ventured to scold ; he never felt in the
mood for scolding. All that she did seemed

well done to him. At least, he would not
have allowed in his innermost heart an acknowledgment
that anything she did could be
aught but well done ; at all events well meant,
nobly meant. And what did he get by all
this ? Evidently it was only now for the first
time that she had taken any very serious
account of his unvarying tenderness for her,
his patience in bearing with her ; and she always
showed more interest in others than in
him. He could not help admiring Bellarmin
sometimes, for the courage with which he
told the beautiful woman that she ought to
have done this thing, or ought not to have
done that. He admired this courage, recognised
its truthfulness and its worth ; but he
could not imitate it ; and he felt in his secret
soul that Mary would have thought more of
him if he could ; and that the rebukes of
others had more interest for her than all his
submissive reverence and duty.

I ought to be more thankful and grateful
to you than I am,' she said ruefully ; ' but indeed,
dear Lord Stonehenge, I am very very
grateful to you — when I give myself time to
think about it.'

VOL. III. 49

Lord Stonehenge smiled a rather wan
smile. She had put it quite truly, as he well
knew ; she was grateful to him when she gave
herself time to think about it — to think about
him. She did not very often give herself
such time ; that was clear. He might as well
have been as old as General Falcon ; indeed,
General Falcon evidently occupied much more
of Mary's thoughts than he did.

There was a lack of polarity, as between
Mary and Lord Stonehenge ; he had not even
for her the polarity of refrigeration, the quality
of coldness which can be made under certain
conditions to do the work of the loadstone.
One might have thought that English society
and English public life could not furnish forth
a more picturesque figure than that of Lord
Stonehenge. He was young ; he was remarkably
handsome ; he was the living head of a
great and powerful family, which had never
changed its English homestead since the Conquest
; he was a devotee of Mary's own political
faith, and a full believer in all her claims and the
traditions of her household ; and the earnest
daily prayer of most of the relatives and friends
at home and abroad, who took a really rational

interest in her, was, that she might fall in
love with Lord Stonehenge and marry him.
Despite all this, despite what had passed between
them, she was never able to feel much
real interest in him. She liked him very
much ; she trusted to him implicitly in all
matters where friendship could serve her ;
she had almost unlimited confidence in his
judgment ; but his coming or his going never
set one of her pulses stirring, or flushed her
cheek.

And I am so glad you have come to-day.
Lord Stonehenge. General Falcon has been
trying to frighten me out of all my present
plans and projects by assuring me that 1 am
the victim — or at least that I am the object
of a fearful conspiracy.'

• Conspiracy of whom and about what ?'
asked Lord Stonehenge in alarm.

About 7Jze ; nothing less. Is it not sweetly
romantic ? I almost wish it were true.'

But who are the conspirators, and what
are they conspiring to do ?'

That you had better ask Falcon. He
can tell you all the story. If he is as ready
to tell it to you as he has lately been ready

49—2

to tell it to me, you will have no difficulty in
learning everything that is to be known.*

General Falcon looked much vexed, and
made no effort to conceal his vexation.

I told Madame,' he said in a harsh, low
voice, ' what I believed it good for her to
know, and right for her to know. I did not
intend to tell it to every stranger.'

Madame does not look on me as a
stranger,' Lord Stonehenge said firmly,
almost sternly.

Certainly not, Lord Stonehenge. I look
on you as one of my very best and nearest
friends.'

As Madame pleases,' Falcon said. ' Then
Madame had better tell for herself to Lord
Stonehenge what she wishes Lord Stonehenge
to know. May I take my leave,
Madame ?'

Mary nodded assent, and Falcon left the
room.

I don't know what is coming over my
trusty Falcon,' Mary said, and she looked
distressed as she said it. 'He has become
so changed and odd in manner. I am sure
he must be ill.'

He has very much changed to me,' Lord
Stonehenge said. ' We used to be great
friends once ; now he seems to disHke me or
distrust me. I haven't the least notion why.
But tell me, what are these conspiracies of
which he has been talking ?'

Oh, folly — absurdity — I am sure of it. I
am almost ashamed to talk about such things.
I wish I hadn't said anything, Lord Stonehenge.
I think my poor Falcon was right
enough to be displeased with me for saying
anything about what he told me.'

Still, as he did tell you something, apparently
to put you on your guard, I think
some of your friends ought to be allowed to
know. Some of us could judge perhaps
better than he — we know London better,
at all events.'

Mary laughed a joyous little laugh.

General Falcon has taken it into his head,'
she said, * that I have some powerful and
unscrupulous enemies who want to harm me,
and who are scheming and planning for such
work.'

To harm you } How ?'

Well, he insists that my life is in danger.'

Your life in danger ? — here in London ?
Oh, come '

That is his story. For a long time he
only tried to make me believe that the house
was in danger of being attacked by robbers,
burglars ; that it had got abroad somehow
that I used to keep a lot of jewellery and
gold and so forth here, and that he had
actually found out a plan for the robbing of
the house some evening or night when he
and I should both be absent.'

Well, there is nothing very unlikely in
that. I should say he was about right there.
What did you do ?'

I believe he gave some information to the
police, and I think he had most of the jewels
put into the care of the bank ; but I wouldn't
have them all stowed away, for I am very
fond of some of my jewels, and I like to wear
them, and to look at them. You know what
children we women always remain, Lord
Stonehenge ; and I could not live if I had
not some of my pretty things to play with,
and so I wouldn't quite give in to my faithful
Falcon. Now he has dropped the burglar
plots, and tells me of a dark conspiracy to

carry me off and bury me in a dungeon somewhere
— like the Man with the Iron Mask, I
suppose — or even to kill me. That certainly
was what he hinted at pretty broadly just
now, when I lost patience and made my
appeal to you.'

Lord Stonehenge was silent for a moment
or two. This was an amazing story ; but
after all it was not absolutely outside the
range of possibility. At all events. Miss
Beaton's friends must not dismiss it without
some examination.

Does he know who the enemies are ?'

" Great people," he says,' Mary answered
composedly ; ' people with all manner of influence.'


Why are they your enemies ?'

Some, because they consider my claim a
danger and an insult to this reigning family ;
and others. Falcon says, because they don't
like me personally — women, I suppose Mary
added with a smile, and a glance of pardonable
satisfaction at the looking-glass.

The first idea,' Lord Stonehenge said
gravely, ' is altogether absurd, and out of the
question. Dismiss it from your mind at once.

Madame. It does not belong to our English
life or to our English ways at all. There is
a social atmosphere, you know, as well as a
physical atmosphere, surrounding us all, out
of which we can't live ; and that social atmosphere
makes Falcon's conspiracies absolutely
impossible among people like us in
England. Falcon has lived too long out of
this country ; he has lost touch of its realities.
The second — the private and personal enmities
— well, I should at first be inclined to put
that, too, out of the question ; but after all, it
is possible, just possible, there might be some
foundation for such a fear ; anyhow, I should
like to ask Falcon something about it, if he
would tell me. Does he know who the
enemies are ?'

I didn't ask him ; I didn't care much
about the whole thing — I don't get frightened
easily.'

Just at this moment a card was handed to
Miss Beaton. She blushed slightly as she
saw the name ; and there was a certain expression
of timidity very unusual with her in
the look which she turned on Lord Stonehenge.


Mr. Bellarmin,' she said. ' Should we
talk to him about ail this } I don't know.
It is better not. He would not care.'

He was surprised at her nervousness, and
looked at her with melancholy eagerness.
The explanation came to him with a darting
pang. If she were merely indifferent to Bellarmin's
opinion, would she show this hesitation
about consulting him, this doubt of his
interest, of which surely, at Stonehenge Park,
he had given sufficient proof .'^ His manner
was constrained as he answered :

I think you do Mr. Bellarmin injustice.
I am sure that he would care very much
about anything concerning you. And then,
we look to him as one of our political allies.
It would be better that he should know.'

Very well,' she said. ' Tell him what I
have just told you.'

Her manner of greeting Bellarmin Vv^as
very different from the way in which she had
welcomed Lord Stonehenge. There was in
it none of that frank friendliness. It seemed
to Lord Stonehenge that her face, which had
been so soft and gentle a minute ago, became
suddenly troubled and a little defiant. The

young man, too, was not so frank and friendly
and outspoken as was usual with him. He
looked grave and somewhat embarrassed, and
unlike himself. Lord Stonehenge felt certain
that he would have been different had he
found Mary alone. In a kind of grim generosity
he tried to put Bellarmin at his ease,
and told him at once of Mary's perplexities
and Falcon's forebodings.

There was a curious eagerness in Bellarmine's
manner of receiving the story. He
took it in a very different way from Lord
Stonehenge's. Mary was quite surprised.
She had expected that he would merely laugh
at the whole thing as a vain imagining of
General Falcon's. But he did not.

There may be much more in this than
you think,' he said. ' There may be a great
deal in it. I should be very sorry, indeed, to
disregard it, or treat it as utterly unfounded.
Tell me — you have not seen any indication of
sudden lack of intelligence ; anything of an
alarmist kind about General Falcon of late ;
anything that would make you believe or
suppose that his intellect was less clear, less
firmly poised than before ?'

Mary gave him a quick, anxious, almost
angry look. The same thought, the same
fear, had been in her own mind — had entered
it some time ago ; but she would not confess
her fear. With an odd feminine contradictoriness
she resented Bellarmin's suggesting it.

Mr. Bellarmin ! How can you ask such
a question ? Why, you are ten times worse
of an alarmist than my poor old Falcon. I
had rather the whole air I breathe were
flavoured with conspiracies against me than
fancy for a moment that Falcon was losing
his senses. This is dreadful. I'll not call
any more counsellors to advise me. The
next question would probably be, whether I
can observe any growing signs of insanity in
myself

Still I would ask,' Bellarmin persisted,
whether you have seen any symptom, ever
so slight, of a change of this kind in General
Falcon ?' Bellarmin looked keenly at her ashe
asked.

'None whatever; not the slightest. He
is always distressing himself about me, one
way or another. He is very fond of me, of
course, and I dare say London hours don't

agree with him. He is an old man, you
know. We didn't keep such hours at Schwal-
benstadt. Sitting up late at night, and
rushing about — and — and all that, must upset
an old man's nerves and temper. It upsets
mine

He was satisfied with her answer.

That is just what I expected,' he said,
and what I am glad to hear. No ; this is
no monomaniac idea on Falcon's part. We
may be sure there is something which he
knows and which we do not know. One
other question, Madame. This recent disclosure
— or hint, or whatever we may call it
about the personal enemies was never
made before ?'

Before when, Mr. Bellarmin?'

Well, let me see ; was not made, for
example, before the latter part of last week }'

She paused for a moment and collected her
thoughts, remembering that it was just before
they started on their masquerading expedition
that Falcon had spoken most wildly and incoherently
of a plot against her, and of unscrupulous
and dangerous enemies. ' Yes ;
that is quite true,' she said, a little surprised.

Not made before last Thursday ?'

No. How did you know ?'

He did not answer her question. * I am
trying to fix a time,' he said. ' I am trying
to connect things.'

I don't see the connection,' Mary said,
rather scornfully.

Madame,' Bellarmin said, after a moment
of silence, ' so far as my advice is worth anything,
it is given entirely in support of General
Falcon's remonstrance.'

Remonstrance !' Mary exclaimed, in a
sudden outburst of temper. ' Remonstrance,
Mr. Bellarmin ? What do you mean ? Remonstrance
with whom — against what ?'

Remonstrance,' Bellarmin said gravely,
with one who is placed in a conspicuous and
perhaps a very dangerous position, and is too
fearless or careless always to take proper precautions.'


Ridiculous !' she exclaimed. ' You are
just as bad as he. Do you think I am going
to immure myself like a girl in a nunnery ?
Am I a bird to be kept in a cage ? Do you
suppose I can spend all my life in the exclusive
companionship of General Falcon and

Lady Struthers ? Lord Stonehenge, you
don't want me to make a prisoner of myself
because of Falcon's nonsense about plots and
conspirators — masks, I suppose, and daggers,
and bowls of poison ?'

Lord Stonehenge was much surprised at
Bellarmin's way of treating Falcon's supposed
revelations. He had never expected that a
careless young man of the world would see
anything substantial in such stories. He was
full sure that Bellarmin would join with Mary
in pronouncing them utterly ridiculous. What
surprised him, too, was that there seemed to
be something of a common understanding, ora
common misunderstanding, between Mary
Beaton and Bellarmin. There were allusions
glancing from one to the other which had
evidently some sort of meaning for each of
the two, but no meaning whatever for him.
Why was Miss Beaton suddenly angry with
Bellarmin ? Why did she blush and turn
away ?

Meantime Bellarmin, turning towards the
angry girl, saw her make an impatient movement
of her head in Lord Stonehenge's
direction. It said, as clearly as any words

could have put it, ' Get him out of the
way.'

I would suggest said Bellarmin, * that
Lord Stonehenge should see General Falcon
at once and talk to him. I would offer to go
myself, but I know Falcon wouldn't on any
conditions admit me to his fullest confidence.'


I'll go and find him,' Lord Stonehenge
said, in a rather depressed tone. He was ina
mood of doubt and dissatisfaction. He
could not understand how things were going ;
he was puzzled by Miss Beaton and by Bellarmin,
as well as by General Falcon.

The moment he had left the room Mary
broke out :

I don't understand you, Mr. Bellarmin.
Don't tell me that you believe in all this stuff
about conspiracies and gunpowder plots.
Don't tell me that you believe in the story
about some wicked woman of rank wanting
to kill me because she thinks me younger and
better-looking than she is. You don't believe
anything of the kind. Yet you back up
Falcon, and I know you have some meaning
in it. I am only thankful that you didn't

make your meaning known to Lord stonehenge


You are angry with me,' Bellarmin began,
in a voice very different from that which he
had used when Lord Stonehenge was in the
room.

Yes, I am indeed ; very angry. You
seemed as if you had a right to cross-question
me Hke a prisoner.'

Prisoners are not cross-questioned,' he
said, with a supplicating smile ; ' at least, in
this country.'

Well, I don't care — like somebody who is
suspected of having done wrong and having
an account to render.'

I think you have done wrong,' he said.

How ? Why ? When ? You were
speaking of something that happened last
week, the latter part of last week. What
happened the latter part of last week ?'

Can't you guess what I was thinking of ?'

I can't ; I don't want to guess ; and there
is nothing to guess at, and you couldn't possibly
have known '

I do know ; I saw '

Oh no, no ; you didn't ; you couldn't !

You were not there — you were not ; you were
not!'

I was there, and I did see.'

Oh !' She put her hand over her eyes,
and then, recovering" herself in a moment, she
calmly confronted him and asked, ' What did
you see ? What are we speaking of? Do
we understand each other ?'

Madame, we do — perfectly. What did I
see ? I saw the daughter of the Stuartss in
the public room of an East-end music-hall ;
I saw the woman on whom the eyes of all
London society are fixed, and on whom the
eyes of at least half of London society are
fixed in hard, unfavourable, unpitying criticism
— I saw this lady in an East End music-hall,
and in the dress of a boy !'

Bellarmin had intended this climax for an
utterly overpowering effect. He had meant
it for the friendly cruelty which wounds to
the very quick, in order that it may all the
more surely heal. The result was not exactly
what he had anticipated. Whether Mary's
volatile feelings underwent a change through
pure nervous reaction, or whether his manner
was rather too portentously solemn, or whether
VOL. III. 50

something, in her memory brought humorous
association with it, the effect was that Miss
Beaton flung herself into a long low chair,
and covering, indeed, her face with her kerchief,
burst into a silvery peal of the most
genuine and unaffected laughter.

Oh, then you were there ?' she asked,
when she was able to find words ; * you really
were there in that dreadful place, and you
did see me, and you recognised me, although
I thought I was wearing my boy's clothes so
well that the keenest eye could not make me
out ? Well, now tell me, how did 1 look ?
Come, no malice : did the dress become me ?
How did I look ?'

I am afraid I was not thinking of how
you looked just at that moment,' he began
solemnly.

Were you not ? How strange ! But
when your astonishment had cleared off a
little, surely you must have thought of it then.
Oh yes ; I am sure you did. I did make a
pretty boy, now didn't I ? 1 did look well ?'

I can admire in a burlesque actress what
I am unable to admire in a Stuart Prin-^
cess.'

Mr. Bellarmin, you are as solemn as
Lady Struthers ; and just now you look
to me quite as old. You tell me of the
awful dignity that should surround a Stuart
Princess. Don't you remember that Mary
Stuart more than once dressed herself up
in the costume of a soldier of the guard ?
She was not merely a princess, but a reigning
queen, and I am only a sort of embryo
claimant, at the best. Come, don't take it
all too solemnly.'

Bellarmin could not help feeling vexed at
Miss Beaton's way of taking the matter, and
no doubt his face told plainly what he felt.
He remained silent. She turned and looked
at him.

You are angry with my mirthful mood,'
Mary said to him quietly. ' But take comfort,
Mr. Bellarmin — the mood of mirth is not
likely to last a very long time.'

Indeed, it had passed away already. Mary

got up abruptly from her seat and went to

the window, and stood there, looking vacantly

out on the trees. She was silent. He feared

he had offended her, and his heart was pained

at the thought.

50—2

Are you angry with me ?' he asked imploringly.


She turned to him, and he saw that her
eyes were full of tears. He hated himself
for the moment.

No, I am not angry,' she said very gently
' at least, I am not angry with you. But I
am distressed. I should like you of all men
to think well of me, Mr. Bellarmin, and I
don't see how you can think well of me
now.'

There was almost childlike simplicity in
her words and her tone, which went to his
very heart.

Miss Beaton — oh, I beg of you!' he began ;
who could know anything of you and not
think well of you ? And I know so much
about you — about your goodness — more than
you think — why, there is not a woman on
earth I hold fit to be named in the same
breath with you ! Why, it is for just that
reason — only that — that I ventured '

He was becoming confused ; he was afraid
of saying too much — was afraid he had already
said too much. But she did not seem to notice
his words.

I am always doing wrong things,' she
said, in a plaintive voice. ' I turn my best
friends against me.'

No friend you have who is not devoted
to you in heart and soul !' he exclaimed ; ' you
never could lose a friend.'

Think,' she spoke passionately and not
heeding his words, ' how much alone I am in
all this, and how like a prisoner I feel sometimes
! I may not do this thing and that and
the other ; I must let no one come near me —
must have no particular liking for anyone ; I
have nothing to look out to. If one were a
Queen one might have some motive for enduring
it all ; but what motive have I ? — and
what hope have I ? To live on in this way
alone — or, much worse than being alone, to
marry someone for whom I care nothing, but
whom my advisers and the people in Schwal-
benstadt think I ought to marry !'

But why obey these people ?' Bellarmin
said, in hot impatience. ' Why sacrifice your
youth, your life, to their ideas ? There are
those who love you — love you — love you —
there must be someone whom you will love.'

She looked up at him quite startled ; he

saw that in her eyes which he had never yet
seen, and a sudden blush came over her, and
she drooped her eyes ; and then she turned
to the window again.

Oh, do not let us speak any more about
this,' she said.

But the wild hope that had flashed up in
Bellarmin's heart could not die down so soon
the fire that her tell-tale blush and look
had lighted there could not so easily be extinguished.
Never for a moment had he
ventured to dream of the hope which that
sudden glance had now made real.

No — no ; I can't stop now !' he exclaimed.
Madame — Mary — you know what I am
going to say ; it must be said — I love you.
Oh, forgive me — it is no fault of yours ! You
can't help it ; you didn't mean it ; you didn't
encourage it ; but all the same, I love you.'

He took her hand ; she did not attempt to
withdraw it, but she kept her eyes away from
his. Her passiveness disarmed him ; he made
no attempt to draw nearer to her ; he only
held her hand in his. There was a moment
of silence — a silence to him almost appalling.

Then she said quietly, and there was a

pathos in her tone which almost soothed
him :

Mr. Bellarmin, you know that this is impossible.'


I suppose it is,' he answered, in a subdued
voice ; ^ I could not expect you, of course — I
am only a struggling beginner in politics ; I
have no money '

It is not that,' she said decisively.

No ? Then is it simply that you don't
care for me ?'

There was another silence ; then she said,
in the lowest of tones, the one word :

*No.'

He was confused and puzzled.

Do you mean,' he asked imploringly, * that
you don't care for me, or that that is not the
reason ?'

She drew her hand away now, very gently,
though.

That is not the reason,' she said.

Then you do care for me ?' All his veins
seemed filled with running fire.

I think I do — yes, I know I do,' she
answered, simply and sweetly. ' You are
more to me than anyone else. I am not

sorry you have told me this — that you love
me. Are you sure that you really do love
me ?'

Oh ! am I sure !' he exclaimed ; and he
could not get any farther.

His voice had passionate sincerity enough
in it to convince the most sceptical woman.

I am glad,' she said, * although it is selfish
of me; for nothing can come of this, I suppose.
It is impossible — is it not ?'

I am not thinking of that now ; I am not
thinking of anything possible or impossible,
but just of this — that you know I love you,
and you are not angry with me, and you tell
me that you do in shine sort of way care forme.'


It's not in any sort of way,' she said ; ' I
do care for you ; I do admire you — I don't
like to say any more, since nothing can come
of it ; but ' — she was turning now to him and
looking straight into his eyes, and standing
like one who felt herself a Queen — ' I would
marry you, Mr. Bellarmin, if I could. There
think when I have said that whether I care
for you or not.'

Bellarmin felt for the moment positively

humbled by the very pride of his discovery.
To think that this glorious creature, all youth
and loveliness, with her illustrious past and
bewildering present, should turn to him with
love, should single him out — oh, what had he
done or what was he, to deserve one moment
of such happiness ? He looked up to her,
and there were tears glittering in his eyes.
She saw them, and she put her kerchief to
her own eyes.

Come she said, ' we must not say anymore
about this just now. Lord Stonehenge
will be coming in. Come to me tomorrow,
will you ? and we will talk over this like a
rational man and woman.'

He went away almost without a word. He
felt so strangely humbled in his wonderful
happiness. Was he treading on air when he
left the house ? Were angels walking with
him and buoying his steps ? And what was
all the commonplace noise of the street buta
mighty and beautiful chorus of joy and
thanksgiving ?

Mary stood quite still by the window when
he had left her, and she too felt that the
whole earth was changed, and that Heaven

was kind. Tears which were not of sadness
made her eyes larcre, and soft, and sweet.
Her heart was filled with sacred and tender
emotion. She thought of her mother. The
benignant face of the Holy Mother above
the altar seemed to smile upon her. All that
was pure, and womanly, and reverent within
her swelled and moved her to gentle ecstasy.
The singing of the birds, the bees' hum, the
rustling of the beech-branches, all seemed to
say, ' He loves you,' and to unite in a joyous
cry of * To-morrow.' She did not know
that Falcon had come back till he stood
beside her, and his harsh voice broke the
spell.

Lord Stonehenge has gone,' he said.

Mary started, and her full, sweet eyes met
his.

General,' she said, ' I have something to
tell you. Mr. Bellarmin has asked me to
marry him, and I — I have not told him yet ;
but I think I shall say yes.'

A STROKE OF HATE AND TREASON.'

Lady SAXON'S carriage stopped
at Mary Beaton's door on the following
morning. She sent in one
of her prettily-worded imperious little notes,
begging that Mary would see her on a matter
of some importance, and she was admitted to
the young Pretenders.

Lady Saxon's manner when she came in
was full of frank smiling audacity. This washer
way when she had a point to gain and a
blow to strike. She preferred, when she
could, to strike her blows in the open ; and
the defiant gleam in her eyes, the almost insolent
carriage of her superb head with its
gold coronal of hair showing beneath her

bonnet, the glittering hardness of her smile,
made the girl recoil instinctively as she rose
to greet her visitor, and gave her the feeling
that she v^^as facing an enemy.

Mary had been sitting wrapped in her
dream of love — tremulous, a little excited,
and restless and uneasy too. Falcon's strange,
grim manner of receiving the news she told
him perplexed her ; his silence, which vas
like the silence of desperation, troubled and
grieved her. This was not from any definite
fear that he might forbid and prevent her
marriage with Bellarmin. She knew that his
powers as her guardian were limited, and that
in a few months, when she was twenty-one,
they would come to an end. But she believed
in his real affection for her ; and to cause him
pain, to wound him in his dearest devotion,
was grievous to her. She would rather that
he had hurled violent reproaches upon her,
would rather almost that he had ill-treated
her in his anger. She had a feeling that she
had given the old man his death-blow. She
told herself remorsefully that it must be like
sentence of death to him to learn that the last
of the Stuartss had resolved to link her great

name with that of a mere modern London
politician of no solid reputation — a hanger-on
of the Hanoverian dynasty, a man of no historic
Hneage, no fortune, no real claim to distinction
— except, Mary said proudly to herself,
the claim of having made her love him. Oh,
there was more ! She could not have loved
him had he not been brave, loyal, and noble
in heart and conduct — like one of the old
knights she liked to think of. This was his
claim. And our poor proud Princess felt a
certain glory of renunciation and surrender, a
glow of sweet exultation at the thought of
what she was giving to him ; of what he had
had the courage to win, at the thought that
his knightship of nature would balance all her
own shadowy claims to royalty, all her historic
greatness, her ancestral inheritance ; that she
was giving all this to him, and that he was
giving to her what was of far greater worth —
so she told herself now — modern practical
energy and talent, the career of a nineteenth-century
Englishman, and all the old virtues
as well — truth, stainless loyalty, perfect devotion.


Lady Saxon seated herself at Mary's invitation.

She fixed her large eyes, which were
unnaturally bright, on the girl's face, and
began in an odd, abrupt manner, without any
prelude :

Miss Beaton, I am going to do a rather
unconventional thing ; but I am a woman,
people say, who is given to doing unconventional
things. I am going to make a confidence
to you. I am going to tell you something
about myself. Do you mind ?'

Mary hesitated. She had never liked
Lady Saxon. She did not wish to be taken
into her confidence. Something told her that
the confidence would not be of a kind with
which she could sympathize.

I don't see, Lady Saxon, how it could be
of any use. We are so different, you and I ;
and we should be sure to see things differently.
I think it would be far wiser to tell it to some
other woman who would understand you and
your world better than I do.'

No,' said Lady Saxon ; ' that is the very
reason why I have come to you. Yes, you
and I are women of two opposite types ; we
each represent a different order of things.
You are of the old type. I am of the new.

You represent the "noblesse oblige" idea;
and I ' — she gave her shoulders an expressive
shrug, ' I do not. Frank, is it not ? But !
never pretended that I was of noble birth.
I haven't any chivalric traditions. Of course
We see things differently. That is just the
reason why we should meet — as woman to

woman.'

Mary looked at Lady Saxon with a kind
of wondering dignity. She was at once
moved and repelled by the woman's curious
appeal, and by a certain ring of suppressed
feeling in Lady Saxon's voice. ' Still,' she
said, ' I don't understand why you should
come to me.'

I am going to make you a confidence — as
from woman to woman,' said Lady Saxon
slowly. ' We will talk about the why afterwards.
There is a man who, a few weeks
ago, was wildly, madly in love with me — is
still, I have every reason to believe. One
hears a great deal about the fickleness of
men ; but a man doesn't change his whole
nature in six weeks. Since he cannot be my
lover, he will not be my friend — it is women
of your type, not of mine, who inspire the

pale, mediaeval, thin-blooded kind of attachment.
In a fit of pique — or let us say of
stained-glass sentiment — he is on the point of
proposing to a girl of higher rank and fortune
than his own, whom he admires, but does not
love as he loves me. I am very fond of him
said Lady Saxon, looking straight at Mary
with her bright, fixed gaze, so that the girl's
eyes drooped, ' though I cannot love him in
the way that he wishes.'

A deep, painful blush came over Mary
Beaton's face. As she looked up her brows
were puckered with pain, and she still kept
her eyes away from Lady Saxon.

But you are married,' she said in a low
voice.

Yes, I am married,' repeated Lady Saxon.
She rose from her chair as she spoke and
moved a little back from Mary. ' Do you
think that because I am married I am above
all womanly weaknesses ?' she said. Again
there was that peculiar intensity in her voice.
Mary rose as well, and the two women stood
fronting each other. An icy hand seemed to
have been laid upon Mary's bosom, though
her mind had not yet grasped directly the

bearing of Lady Saxon's words. She had
only a vague, chill feeling that they boded ill
to her. Lady Saxon deliberately unfolded a
letter she had in her hand, and held it out to
Mary. ' If you read this,' she said, * you will
understand everything, and you will be able
to advise me what to do.'

Mary shrank involuntarily ; but she took
the letter in a bewildered way and looked at
the first page. She knew the stiff, rather
large notepaper which bore the stamp of the
House of Commons. She seemed to know
the writing, too, though she did not identify
it at all, or connect it with herself. She had
only received one or two notes of a very
formal kind from Bellarmin ; and this — the
fateful letter of which the young man had
repented sorely since — had been dashed off
at night under the influence of excitement
and impulsive feeling, and was in a freer,
bolder, more reckless hand than that he
usually wrote. The wording was plain — unmistakably
plain. The ardent expressions of
love stood out before Mary's eyes like letters
of fire. She read a sentence or two. There
was no mistaking their tenor. A sudden,

VOL. III. 51

horrible dread seized her. She flushed a still
deeper crimson, and thrust the letter hastily
back.

I don't want to read it !' she exclaimed.

It is not fit that I should. I have no advice
to give about such a thing as that.'

As you please,' Lady Saxon replied coolly.

It would be to your advantage all the same
to read that letter, Miss Beaton, for it was
written only six weeks ago by, as you see,
Rolfe Bellarmin.'

She had dexterously turned the paper, and
held It before Mary's eyes in such a manner
that, however much she might have wished to
avoid looking at it, the girl was forced to seethe
clear, bold signature, ' Rolfe Bellannin!
And above the signature more passionate
lover's words, which in the quick glance,
almost instantly averted, burnt themselves
upon Mary's brain. She turned white as
death, and stood very still and straight, with
eyes that seemed as though they had seen a
ghost. But it was only for a few seconds
that Lady Saxon had the triumph of feeling
that her own sufferings were in part avenged.
If Lady Saxon possessed the courage of temperament,

Mary Beaton had the courage of
race. She braced herself to the effort, and
met Lady Saxon's malign smile with a look
of unflinching steadiness.

The fact that the letter was written by
Mr. Bellarmin does not make it a concern of
mine, Lady Saxon,' she said very quietly,
with lips that did not tremble, ' except that,
since he is a friend of mine, I am sorry he
should be unhappy. We will not talk about
the letter any more. I am sorry that you
should have had the trouble of bringing it
here, and that I should be so unable to give
you the sympathy and advice you did me the
honour to ask for.'

And then she turned to a table near and
took from it a large and beautiful panel
photograph of herself which lay there.

This came from Arndt's to-day,' she said.
I hope that you will think it good, and that
you will accept it from me. I remember that
you asked me to give you a photograph of
myself not long ago, and I had none which
you liked. Shall I write my name on it ?'

She went to the writing-table, and with an
unfaltering hand wrote ' Mary Stuart Beaton'

51—2

in the space at the bottom of the picture.
Lady Saxon thanked her and admired the
photograph, and then bade her good-bye.
She paused a moment just as she was leaving
the room, and looked back with a curious expression
on her face at the stately girl in her
clinging draperies, standing very erect with
her head a little raised.

You are a brave woman, Madame,' she
said, ' and I admire you, and perhaps I understand
you better than you imagine. When
next Rolfe Bellarmin talks Radicalism and
Progressive Toryism to me, I shall tell him
that there is something in the 'noblesse
oblige" idea after all.'

As Lady Saxon drove away she saw a
hansom dash up and Rolfe Bellarmin descend
from it. There was a look of eager hope and
boyish happiness on his face which scarcely
faded as he raised his hat to her, though in
truth, at the sight of her, a curious little shudder
passed over him. It was not a good omen
to see Lady Saxon at his Princess's door.

Mary had given orders earlier in the day
that Bellarmin was to be admitted at once to
her presence, and she had not countermanded

them. So he was taken straight to the
boudoir.

He did not know the room well ; it was
not Mary's habit to receive ordinary callers
there. It was broken up with screens and
draperies, and the blinds were partially drawn,
giving the impression that the daylight had
been purposely excluded as from a chamber
of mourning. At first he did not think that
she could be in the room, for there was no
sign or sound of greeting when the footman
announced his name.

He stood in an uncertain way in the middle
of the floor, and laid his hat down ; and then
he became aware somehow that Mary was on
a couch near the fireplace, and that she had
her face turned away. It seemed almost as
though she were in grief and perplexity, and
did not want him to see that she had been
crying, or to speak to him till she was composed
again. He went towards her with
both hands outstretched in eager anxiety.
'Madame!' he exclaimed ; 'oh! is anything
wrong ?'

Mary stood up and came towards him, but
she did not put her hands in his as he had

fondly fancied that she would do. He had
lain awake all night picturing to himself the
glad emotion of that meeting. And now the
hour he had so longed for had come, and she
had no gladness or sweetness for him. She
was pale, strange, constrained ; struggling, he
could see, to keep down what she was feeling
—was it sorrow, or was it anger and scorn }
Oh, surely not that ! What had he done to
deserve that ? Yet the look she turned on
him had in it a kind of outraged majesty.
He grew very pale, and drew back a little.

Tell me, what have I done T he asked, ina
low, pained tone. ' Is everything changed
since yesterday ? Did it all mean nothing }
And I was so happy and so proud,' he added,
with deep, poignant reproach ; ' for you had
said that you cared for me. Was it all a
mistake ? I had no right, then, to dream of
such happiness.'

You had no right,' she said slowly, with
her eyes down ; and then she suddenly looked
up at him, and her eyes — indignant, large, and
smarting with gathered tears — burned into
Bellarmin's very heart, ' Why did you come
to me ?' she said, with a wave of passion.

Were there not others, that you should
come to me ?'

The bewildered young man could only
stare at her, a horrible suspicion breaking in
upon him. Mary made a rapid step or two,
and stood with her face to the darkened
window, evidently fighting against the storm
of feeling within her. Presently she turned
to him, and said, in an altered tone and with
a certain proud frankness :

Mr. Bellarmin, you told me yesterday that
you loved me, and you asked me to be your
wife. I was weak and foolish enough to
think for a little while that it might be, and
that I could love you and give myself to you.
I made a great mistake. You are not the
man whom I could love, or to whom I would
give myself. I told you to come to me for
my answer, and that is my answer.'

She made a gesture as if she would have
dismissed him there and then. She wanted
him to go. She could not be dignified and
gently determined with him, as she had been
with Sir Victor Champion. There seemed a
kind of mockery in the similarity between the
two cases. Both had been bidden to come

to her for an answer, and of both, before the
answer could be given, had the same story
been told. Was it to be her fate always to playa
humiliating second to Lady Saxon ? Must
every suitor of hers have been Lady Saxon's
victim ? But, in her fine scorn, Mary drew a
subtle distinction between that early episode
the amour at which Falcon had hinted —
commonplace, horrible, contemptible, yet not
so contemptible, she fancied, as this. Oh, if it
had been any other man, and not Bellarmin,
who had so loyal a face ! Why did he not
go ? Why did he stand there silent, dazed-looking
? If he stayed and questioned her,
and went on gazing at her with that manly
appeal in his eyes, she knew that she must
break down and betray herself past recall.
And of what use were explanations and recriminations
now ? Had she not lowered
herself enough ? Had he not humiliated her
enough in leading her on to confess her love ?
Oh no, no ! This man, who six weeks ago
would have been Lady Saxon's lover, was no
mate for her. This was not the man to whom
she, Mary Stuart Beaton, would have proudly
given herself. He did not surely understand

what it was that he dared to ask for. Did he
think that she was to be bought with a six
weeks' warm devotion, and a heart with
which Lady Saxon had played battledore and
shuttlecock ?

The fierce contempt which swelled up in
her bosom seemed to gather in an hysterical
lump in her throat and almost to strangle her.

It will be better for you to leave me now,'
she said, very low. ' I have nothing more to
say — no other answer.'

But Bellarmin would not submit so tamely.
He went close up to her, his face very white
and set, and his eyes brave and earnest.

I don't question your right to make that
decision, Madame,' he said ; ' I never dared
to hope, till yesterday, that there could be
any other. I knew very well that I wasn't
good enough for you. But I think I have
a right too, after yesterday, to know why you
tell it me like this. If things really were as
you let me think they were yesterday ' — and
his voice faltered and softened with infinite
tenderness — ' then, I think, you should do me
and yourself the justice to tell me why they
have changed so suddenly.'

I cannot tell you,' said Mary. ' If you do
not know — you must know why you should
not have come to me.'

Yes he said, after a moment's silence,
I do know.' For at that moment the face
of Lady Saxon seemed somehow to come up
before his eyes ; he saw her as he had just seen
her when he was at Mary's door, and there
was a smile of malign satisfaction on her lips,
and he knew all. A whole flood of light was
poured in upon him. Many things of which
he had only vaguely thought before were
clear to him now. He knew that he had an
enemy, and that Mary had the same enemy ;
and he knew that his soul had been prophetic
when it warned him of evil to come from the
wild letter he had written to Lady Saxon.

Oh ! you do know ?' Mary said, and a
new blush came over her face, and there was
a ring of pain and scorn in her voice.

Yes ; Lady Saxon has been with you ?'

Mary nodded assent without speaking.

And she has told 3'ou something about
me which has changed you to me ?'

In the faintest voice and with her head
partly turned away, Mary answered * Yes

She has shown you a letter from me ?'

She has. I didn't read it all ; I didn't
want to read any of it ; but she insisted on
showing me part of it. Oh, and It was
enough, enough, enough ! and I didn't know
who had written it at first or why she wanted
me to see it ; and she told me who it was,
and she made me see your name — and that
Is all, Mr. Bellarmin, and It is enough for you
and for me. There ; we need not speak of
it any more. She Is a wicked and cruel
woman ; she is a traitress to you and an unprovoked
enemy to me. I am sorry for you,
Mr. Bellarmin, from my very heart ; but there,
it is all over.'

And can you really cast me off in this
unpitying way because of one act of folly —
because I allowed myself to be made for one
moment the victim of a woman like that ?
Can you make no allowances ? oh ! have you
no pity ?'

Pity ? Oh yes, my friend ; I have indeed.
I feel for you, and do you think I
don't feel for myself ? But all the pity in the
world wouldn't make you — what I so fondly
believed you were '

What did you fondly believe I was that
I am not now ?' he asked, with something like
anger in his voice.

My lover,' she said sweetly and simply ;
my own true lover ; not the confessed lover
of a woman who has had — oh, so many, such
odious loves ! No, it is a cruel disappointment,
Mr. Bellarmin ; and a cruel calamity —
yes, to you, I admit it, as well as to me. But
there it is ; and we must meet it. The man
I would have loved — oh, let me speak it out
plainly now, for this once — the man I soiled,
doesn't exist now. He is gone, and you stand
in his place ; and you are not my Rolfe Bellarmin,
my hero, my lover.'

She let her arms fall as with the gesture of
one who would signify that all is over. He
felt stabbed to the heart.

I submit,' he said, after a moment of deep
silence ; ' I don't complain ; I don't make any
appeal to you, Mary. I accept my sentence :
1 have deserved it ; it is right I should bear
it. No, I am not the man who should be
your lover ; you are right. I am not worthy
of you ; I seem to myself only like something
impure as I stand near you. Well, 1 will go.'

Yet he did not move. He stood looking
at her, perhaps in some faint hope even still
that she would take pity and bid him stay.
She looked suddenly up, and saw his appealing
eyes fixed on her. She shook her head
sadly.

Yes ; you must go,' she said. She turned
away like one physically tired, and sat on a
sofa a little distance away. He moved towards
her some steps ; he took her hand ; he
seemed about to press it to his lips ; but she
suddenly withdrew it, and covered her eyes
with it. He gave a low cry of pain. ' Good
God !' he exclaimed. ' Do you believe me
unworthy even to touch your hand ?'

Oh no,' Mary said earnestly. ' Forgive
me. I hardly knew at the time.' She gave
him her hand again. ' Good-bye.'

For ever ?' he asked despairingly.

For ever ; yes. We may have to meet, of
course ; but '

Yes, I understand ; I am heavily punished ;
but I am not disputing the justice of the
punishment. Still, only think of it, Mary ;
think of what I might have had and what I
have lost ! And listen, I have not been so

bad as you think, perhaps. It was only that
one absurd letter ; it was nothing more than
that. Oh, you must understand me ; you
must understand what I mean ! It was only
a moment of folly, nothing more — nothing.'

I had thought of you as such a hero,' she
said, with a strange, pathetic smile ; ' and now
you are — only like other men. Oh ! why did
you ever make love to me ?' she broke down
at last ; she burst into a passion of tears.
Perhaps If he had seized her hand then and
kissed it, and poured out his penitence to her,
and told her of his unalterable love for her
and her alone, she might have relented even
then, and taken him to her heart But he
would not ; he had his own pride and his
own sensitiveness, and while he admitted his
wrong-doing, he had yet a sense of wrong
done to him — of a punishment meted out to
him far beyond the measure of his fault ; and
he would not ask for pardon ; he would not
plead any more for pity.

Oh, I am so much ashamed !' she said,
and she writhed in the mere pain of her
humiliation ; ' but I couldn't help it ; I did
love you so much, and 1 thought so much of

you ; and it was all only an illusion and a disappointment,
and I should like to be alone,
please. There, let us shake hands — this once
more.'

He took her hand and pressed it lightly, and
then she drew it away. It was very cold and
tremulous, as he held it for that one short half-moment.
He moved towards the door; he
paused a moment, thinking, perhaps, that she
might say something ; but she did not speak,
and he left her without a word. She heard him
go downstairs; then she ran to the window
like an uncontrollable girl, and looked out to
see him depart. ' Will he look back ?' she
was thinking. No, he did not look back ; he
went doggedly on his way. She returned to
her sofa, and she buried her head in its
pillows, and sobbed as if her heart would
break.

Bellarmin hurried away from the house.
He did not quite know where to turn to. He
had a vague longing to be alone somewhere,
to let his feelings have their full way.

Piercing through all the pangs of his rejection
by Mary there came every now and then
the thought of Lady Saxon's treachery. So,

then, she had betrayed him ; she had come between
his love and him. Mary would have
given herself to him but for Lady Saxon.
She had lured him and led him on to write
that fatal letter which she had used as a spell
to blight his life. Little he thought in that
moment of the House of Commons, and of
his Parliamentary career, and of the crisis that
had come, and the rising political flood which
might be expected to float him up to success.
He was thinking only that he had lost
Mary Beaton, and had lost her through Lady
Saxon. In the bitterness of his heart he was
inclined to curse Lady Saxon ; and yet the
manly truthfulness of his nature broke out,
and made him say to that embittered heart
that he ought rather to curse himself. He
looked back with contempt upon himself, and
upon the moments when he had yielded to his
unworthy passion for the woman who had now
betrayed him in such ignoble sort. He did
not want to see her again. He did not want
to write to her or to reproach her. There
came back upon his mind, in a curious, grimly-humorous
way, a recollection of the scene in
the once famed, now forgotten ' Beggar s

Opera,' where Macbeth, betrayed by his
false true-love, and suddenly confronting her
for one moment before his captors have power
to seize him — he, strong, well-armed and
desperate, standing face to face with the
traitress — he drops his hands, and only looks
into her eyes and asks, ' Was this well done,
Jenny ?' And Jenny shrinks away from his
mild remonstrance, more abashed than threat
or violence would have made her.

VOL. III. 52

CHAMPION S MOTION.

^^^^HE thundercloud at last had broken.

The long-expected flash had come.

At least, It had long been believed
that something was coming, and now it had
come, and the political world knew what it
was like. Sir Victor Champion had announced
his intention to go in for the reorganization of
the House of Lords, and the two great parties
In Parliament were already broken up.

So people said ; so everybody kept saying,
in London. The Liberal Party was broken
up, for Lord Saxon positively would not go
with Champion, and was telling his friends
loudly in his clubs and wherever he went that
he would not go with Champion. On the

Other hand, the Conservative Party was broken
up, for it had been publicly declared in the
House of Commons by Bellarmin that he
and his Progressive Democrats would go with
Champion. The great question was, which
secession would carry along with it the larger
number of seceders ? So far as mere influence
was concerned, the influence of Lord Saxon
was by far the greatest which the expected
break-up involved ; but then, after all, mere
family and territorial influence counts for less
and less in our days, when compared with the
direct and practical power of the vote. Men
who professed to be impartial shook their
heads over the prospects of the Government.
Yes ; they have got Saxon, it was admitted ;
but how many will Saxon carry with him ?
Will he take as many, half as many, quarter
as many, as Bellarmin's Progressive Tories ?
Champion is tremendous with the country,'
such men said ; ' he'll make half a dozen
speeches, and then you'll see.'

Lord Saxon left the House of Commons on
the evening when Champion gave his notice
in a mood of mind that bordered on the
phantom-haunted confines of mania. He had

52—2

been deeply wounded. He believed himself
the victim of the darkest and most wanton
treachery. That very day he had come upto
town and had gone early to his club, and
there again had insisted to several men he
knew that Victor Champion had no immediate
intention of making any important movement.
Then he went home and was met — rather
was rushed at — by Lady Saxon, who, with
flashing eyes and voice of passion, assured
him that she had found out the whole plot :
that Champion had been a traitor to him ;
that Champion had taken half the world into
his confidence and deliberately left Saxon
out ; that Champion had negotiated with
Bellarmin, with the Ministry, with Tressel
even — yes, yes ; Tressel had been in the
whole thing — and that he had purposely kept
him. Lord Saxon, deceived, and in the
dark.

Still Saxon refused to believe her story ;
he sometimes grew almost angry with her.
But she pressed her proofs on him.

Was I not always urging you to go with
Champion ?' she asked him, ' until I found
out that he was acting treacherously to you ?

Why should I try to turn you against him
now, if I had not good reason ?'

Saxon had to acknowledge that there was
reason in what she said. She had been
Champion's most ardent eulogist ; she had
done her very best to persuade Saxon to go
with him — up to a certain time ; now she was
suddenly turned against him, and she admonished
Saxon to beware of treason.

Saxon little suspected what the nature of
that treason was that fired his wife's heart
with the longing to thwart and destroy Sir
Victor Champion. He little guessed what
the offence was that had brought on Champion
all the hatred of a scorned and a
maddened woman. He only feared that she
had reason too good for her warnings and
her prophecies ; and yet he shrank from the
thought ; he could not believe that his old
friend had acted unfairly with him. It was
only when he sat by Champion and heard
him give his notice that he first learned what
seemed to him the full truth.

Let us do Saxon justice. He was not
actuated merely by the emotions of disappointed
friendship and wounded self-love.

Such emotions influenced him deeply ; but
they were not all. He was cruelly hurt
indeed, for be had a secret conviction that
one reason why Champion kept his counsels
from him was because Champion did not
think it necessary to trouble himself by taking
any such counsel. ' I have just to tell Saxon
what he has got to do and hell do it ;' that
no doubt was the spirit in which he had been
dealt with. Lady Saxon had said as much
to him again and again, and was she not
right ? But Saxon also was honestly of
opinion that Champion in his motion was
going much too far and too fast. It was a
mine sprung upon him, and upon the country,
and Saxon thought that, every man who
loved order and peace was bound to resist
and resent such a policy. The deeper his
former admiration and reverence for his old
leader, the keener was his disappointment
and the more glowing his anger. Whole
fountains of wrath, perturbed and smoky
geysers of passion, seemed to be bubbling and
boiling up in Lord Saxon's breast. Even
Josephine, much as she was gratified for the
moment by the sight of his anger against Sir

Victor, felt alarmed now and then as she saw
how his nature, usually so stolid and settled,
could be shaken and torn by passion. So
the whole outlook was full of alarm and of
menace.

Is the country to be convulsed for the
sake of one man's mad ambition ?' some
people asked. * Will the country fail to
recognise its leader and its saviour ?' was the
demand of others.

Madame,' said Lord Stonehenge to Mary
Beaton as they sat alone together one day,
I am distressed by the change in you. I
don't think this London life agrees with you,
for indeed you look very ill'

They had been talking about business
matters ; the probable restoration of the
Stuart property, and certain legal lights
which an eminent counsel, interested in
Mary's romantic position, had been throwing
upon the case ; the present political situation,
and Champion's implied promise — of which
Lord Stonehenge had been informed — to
advocate Mary's claims.

Mary was playing with her chatelaine, and
putting in a word or two in a listless preoccupied

manner. She had thrown herself
back wearily in a large arm-chair, and it was
when a side-gleam of light played upon her
face and seemed to throw up the sharpened
outline of her cheek, and to bring into greater
evidence the depression and violet circles
beneath her eyes, that Lord Stonehenge had
broken off and abruptly remarked upon her
altered appearance.

I am not ill,' she answered. ' I am only
tired — tired of the whole thing.' She lifted
her arms with a sigh, and clasped them
behind her head, while she looked at him
mournfully. ' I should like to give it all up,'
she said — ' the Stuart claims, the London
life — everything. Do you think it would be
possible for me to give it all up, Lord Stonehenge,
and go back to Schwalbenstadt again ?'

You don't really mean that, Madame.'

Indeed, I do. My life here is a failure.'

Come, now, do not say that,' he exclaimed.
If you knew what joy you had brought '

It is true. And I hate all this wire-pulling
— this personal interest — nothing for
the righteousness of the cause ; all because I
am young and not ill-looking ; and my Lord

here, and my Lord there, are good enough to
throw their handkerchiefs to me — I will not
have it. I cannot have it. I thought once
that I should like the part. Can it be, Lord
Stonehenge, that I am too honest for the
people I have to do with here, or is that
only my self-conceit ?'

She laughed a little dreary laugh. Lord
Stonehenge was silent a moment or two.

No, Madame ; it would not be possible
for you to go back to Schwalbenstadt ; and
even if it were, you would be doing a great
injustice to yourself, to your cause, and to
those who have devoted themselves to it.'

What good does it do me ?' she cried
impulsively. * And what is the forfeited
inheritance after all ? It is not the real
Stuart inheritance, or the real Stuart claim.
All that is in the shadowy past and the
shadowy future, though now they try to
bring it down to the vulgar practical present.
I loved it when it meant a dream-world of
my own, which could not be invaded by the
common crowd. But now — now — it seems
to me, Lord Stonehenge, that only one
remains in my world with the poetry of the

past in him ; and that is yourself. Falcon
is so strange, so grim, so unlike himself.
Everyone is changed ; and people I trusted
don't seem quite worth trusting, and 1 am
lonely — that is the truth — and sick at heart.'

Is there nothing I can do,' Lord Stonehenge
said earnestly, ' to make you feel less
lonely ? It is for you to speak — to speak, or
to forbid me silently ; but it is more than I
can bear to hear you say such things, to see
you looking ill and sad, when I would give
my life gladly to save you from trouble.
That is very little,' he added, with a melancholy
smile ; ' for life is not so valuable a
thing at best. I would give more than my
life to make you happy.'

The tears came to Mary's eyes. She bent
forward, and gently touched his hand with hers.

I believe you,' she said simply. ' Yes, I
do think you care for me — better than anyone
in the world.'

Ah, Madame,' he replied in a trembling
voice, ' since I ask for nothing in return, I
may, indeed, tell you that I love you with
my whole heart and soul. I wanted you to
understand that long ago.'

Mary gazed at him for a moment in a
solemn way.

Why did you want me to understand
that ?' she said. ' Did you think, Lord
Stonehenge, that perhaps some day I might
marry you ? Did you wish that ?'

A slight flush came over Lord Stonehenge's
sensitive face.

I have loved you, Madame, with no hope
of winning you for my own, for I have seen
too clearly that I am not the man whom you
could love. My love for you is of the old
time, and of the lost cause, I think ; I did
not put anything else in the balance with it.
But — oh, I do wish that you could love me !'

By some strange and sudden thrill of
association his words and tone awakened
in Mary's heart the echo of Bellarmin's
passionate cry, ' Am I sure that I love you ?'
Her breast was pierced by a vivid bolt of
remembrance that was like the stab of a
dagger ; she seemed to see Bellarmin again
before her, his eyes all alight, and his face
white with fervour. She did not speak, but
stooped forward and covered her face with
her hands. Lord Stonehenge watched her

in mingled dread and hope. Presently she
let her hands fall, and said in a curious
strained voice :

Lord Stonehenge, I was going to say to
you that I will marry you if you wish it — if
you think I can give you enough. There is
no one in the world I honour and admire as
I do you ; no one in the world with whom
1 should feel so safe ; no one who loves me
so well. It must make a girl happy to be so
loved by a man like you,' Mary added impetuously,
looking at him with pathetic questioning.
But she would not let him answer.
No ; I have something to tell you first —
something which you will think it strange forme
to tell — for a girl who is proud of herself.
I did think, only a lite while ago, that I
cared for someone ; I almost told him so —
yes, I did tell him so ! And then I learned
quite suddenly that just six weeks before he
had been in love with another woman — a
married woman. And that kind of love
wasn't o^ood enough for me, Lord Stonehenge.
I was too proud to be content with
that. So I sent him away.'

Mary spoke hurriedly, and with eyes that

were bent down as she nervously fingered
Queen Mary's pomander on her chatelaine.
Stonehenge did not reply to the confession,
which it had cost her much to make. He
was so long before making any sign or movement,
that Mary looked up at him, and was
smitten to the heart at seeing the deep dejection,
the despair on his face. It was
something more than mere personal regret.

Oh,' she exclaimed, in compunction, * I
always bring trouble on the people who care
for me ! I know what you feel. This is not
what ought to be for the last of the Stuartss ;
it should have been different from this. But
all that would not have mattered if he had
been worthy. I should have been proud and
glad. . . . That is enough, Lord Stonehenge.
We won't speak of it any more ; it is over.
Will you help me to forget ?'

I will do my best, Madame,' he answered,
In a mechanical manner.

But ' She stopped short, and the

crimson rose again in her cheek. ' I want
you to understand '

I do understand, only too well,' he said,
with melancholy gravity, though there was

the ring of strong" emotion in his voice. ' I
do understand the feeling that makes you
turn to me, and I am deeply touched and
honoured and grateful, Madame. But I
couldn't take advantage of the kindly, tender
impulse. I couldn't commit you on the
moment to something that you might be
sorry for by-and-by, when the mood is past.
I love you too well for that.'

Then I am to lose you too,' she said
mournfully. ' Soon I shall have no one left.'

Oh no !' He took her hand, which was
lying close to him on the arm of her chair,
suddenly in his own, and pressed it to his
lips. ' I am here beside you always,' he
said ; ' your devoted servant, your faithful
friend, your lover, your very lover, if it would
not pain you to think of me so ; but not your
accepted husband — not with any, the faintest
claim upon you — unless after six months had
gone, and you had the time to think and to
know yourself, you were to come to me and
say that you wished it still, and that I had
really helped you to forget. Then, oh then,
Mary '

There was a short pause. She let him

keep her hand in his. Her mind and heart
were full of conflicting thoughts and feelings.

'You are very loyal,' she said, at length.
There is nobody like you. It's best in this
way, and we won't speak of it now any more.
Forget what I said to you — for the present,
at least. By-and-by, when the time comes,
we will talk of it again . if everything
remains the same.'

She withdrew her hand and sighed that
dreary little sound which made his heartache
; but he said nothing. Presently Mary
went on in a composed tone :

Since I can't go back to Schwalbenstadt —
and I dare say I should be sorry if I went,
when this mood is past, as you say — since I
can't do that, I should like to go somewhere
out of London for a little while, to get away
from people and politics and everything, and
to be alone with myself, in some pretty
country where there were green glades and
forest trees. I should like to go just with
General Falcon and Struthers. Indeed, if I
could be without poor old grim, ill-tempered
Falcon, and kind, stupid Lady Struthers, I
should be better pleased still ; but I suppose

I couldn't, and I think It would do Falcon
good to be out of the turmoil and excitement
of this debate. I am uneasy about poor old
Falcon, Lord Stonehenge. I am sure he is
not well. He is too anxious about all this.'

That is natural enough,' said Stonehenge
quietly ; ' we are all anxious. This debate
on Sir Victor's motion will probably determine
the fate of the Ministry. His speech
had a tremendous effect on the House of
Commons, everyone says. If there is an
appeal to the country, it is almost a certainty
that Champion will come in ; and then,
Madame, it is almost equally certain that
your claims will be settled. But I agree
with you. It does Falcon no good to be
hanging about the House of Commons, and
racking his brain over possibilities and probabilities.
Now here is a suggestion. Why
shouldn't you go down and take possession
of Stonehenge Park ? It is lonely enough
to please you, for there is no one there, not
even Dr. Amblaine, and big enough to lose
Falcon and LadyStruthers in if you wanted to.
You would not have even me to trouble you,
for I must stop in London for the present.'

Thank you said Mary simply. ' Yes ;
I should like that. I should like to be at
Stonehenge again. It must be very lovely
now; but the roses are almost over . . . and
the lilies too.'

There are plenty of other flowers, and
there is your pine-wood which you were so
fond of. So it is decided, Madame, and you
have only to name your own day.'

I should like to go soon,' said Mary ;
very soon, if I can get General Falcon to
consent. I don't want to hear any of this
debate. I didn't go even to hear Sir Victor's
speech. They have got seats in the Ladies'
Gallery for me for the closing day, but I
could not — I don't want to be there.'

It will be an historical day,' said Stonehenge.
' Champion w411 reply.'

I think I want Sir Victor to carry his
motion,' said Mary. ' I am sure that he is
sincere and enthusiastic in his love for his
country, and I could not believe that he is
only seeking power. You remember the
talk that day at Stonehenge between him
and Monsignor Valmy : the true reformer,
who seems to be destroying, is, in reality,

VOL. III. 53

building up a better system of things. I
hope it is so with Sir Victor in this. But,
Lord Stonehenge,' she added impulsively,
I feel that there is something behind unworthy
of a great man and a great question.
I believe that there has been treachery, and
that Lord Saxon has not been dealt with
fairly. I believe that Lady Saxon is a false
woman, and that she has turned her husband
against his old colleague.'

That is Mr. Tressel's idea,' said Stonehenge,
* and he rejoices, for it was always his
game that Sir Victor should throw over the
Whigs.'

It was to draw Mary out of her mood of
dejection, and away from morbid thought,
that Lord Stonehenge encouraged her to talk
of the political situation. He had noticed
that she seemed to dislike mentioning Lady
Saxon's name, or talking of politics at all ;
and he hailed this voluntary allusion to them
as a healthier sign. He himself was not
deeply concerned in the great question,
though in a sense it touched upon his own
prerogative ; he lived too much in the past
for that.

They wandered back to the Stonehenge
scheme, which seemed to have raised
Mary's spirits, and to bring Hight to her
eyes.

There is nothing to keep us in London,'
she said ; ' nothing of importance, except these
interviews with Sir Hector Sloane.' She
named the eminent counsel who, in pure
friendliness, was interesting himself in the
legal aspects of her claim. ' I have to go to
the chambers one day with Falcon to show
him some papers I have of my mother's, and
to answer a few questions he wants to ask
me. That is all'

Contrary to Mary's expectation, Falcon
took kindly to the plan, and showed no unwillingness
to leave London at this critical
period. He appeared to fall in with his young
mistress's fancy for retirement and solitude,
and for the diminishing of her personal
retinue. He set himself at once to make the
necessary arrangements, of which, after a
certain preliminary show of deference to Miss
Beaton's wishes, he in all cases took the
entire management. Their departure was
fixed two days thence, and Falcon went 



mediately to Seamore Place and held a short
consultation with Lady Saxon.

The days went by, and the great debate
was going on — was drawing to its dose. This
was the Thursday evening, and the understanding
on all sides was that Friday should
bring it to an end, and that the division
should be taken some time on Saturday
morning. Friday, the closing day, was to
have a debate fitted to close so spirited a
controversy. Lord Saxon was expected to
make a tremendous attack on his late leader.
Bellarmin had not yet spoken — perhaps he,
too, was reserving himself for the closing
day, people said. Sir Victor Champion
would have the right of final reply on the
whole debate, and he would be sure to make
splendid use of it. On the whole, the Friday
discussion was likely to be brilliant and
memorable.

Bellarmin was in his place shortly before
the dinner-hour on Thursday. The House
was well filled even yet, for one of Lord
Saxon's followers was making a rattling attack
on Champion, and would finish his speech
before long.

Bellarmin,' a low, tuneful, insinuating
voice whispered in our young friend's ear,
Champion particularly wishes you to move
the adjournment.'

All right,' Bellarmin answered. ' You'll
arrange about it ?'

Of course, yes.' Bellarmin's interlocutor
was one of the Opposition Whips entrusted
with the arrangement of the debate on Sir
Victor Champion's side.

I'm told,' said somebody sitting near Bellarmin,
' that Lord Saxon wants to move the
adjournment.'

Oh. but he can't,' the Whip sharply replied.
' We couldn't have that. He is out
of the question. Why, one of your Government
fellows is to close the debate to-night,
and Saxon would only be following on the
same side.'

Well, he wants to do it, I hear, all the
same.'

He can't do it, then — all the same. He
may make up his mind to that.'

He is dreadfully angry with Champion,
you know.'

He'll have to control his anger, then.

Bellarmin, you'll be here at the right
time ?'

Yes, certainly.'

The man who moves the adjournment at
the close of a night's debate has the right to
open the debate next evening. It is always
arranged beforehand by the Whips that this
or that man shall move the adjournment — and
is arranged by common agreement between
the Whips of the parties, and the arrangement
is made known to Mr. Speaker. Every
night in a great debate the question begins
to be asked early, ' Who has got the adjournment
?' To have got the adjournment is to
show that one is a person of some mark in
his party. An obscure or insignificant man
never thinks of asking for it. If he did ask
for it, the Whip of his party would be about
as much surprised as Tommy Atkins' colonel
would be if Tommy were to express to him
a wish to be invited to dinner by the Duke
of Cambridge.

This particular night there was great excitement
about the adjournment. The curious
condition of things had broken the House fora
time into four parties — the Ministerialists,

the Liberal Opposition, the Liberal Secessionists,
and Bellarmin's Progressive Tories.
The number of the parties did not, however,
constitute the peculiarity of the situation.
The peculiarity was in the curious
cross-fire which the debate must bring about.
Lord Saxon and his followers sat on the
Liberal side, still claimed to be Liberals,
would not admit that they were anything but
Liberals, and yet on this subject they were
going to support the Conservative Government
and to oppose the men who sat with
Champion on their own benches beside them.
Then, on the other hand, Bellarmin and his
little party, who sat on the Government
side below the gangway, and were, of course,
habitual supporters of the Government, were
going on this occasion to give their support
to Champion, and to join in the attack on the
Ministerial policy. Things were, indeed, in
American phrase, a little mixed. Now, in
the ordinary course of affairs, it is understood
that in a great debate the Speaker shall calla
man from either side of the House in turn.
That seems real debate — attack by this side,
defence by that. In ordinary cases the two

sides of the House represent the two sides of
the debate, the two sides of the question.
But it was not so in this debate, where on
either side the men below the gangway were
to fire on the men above the gangway — above
their own gangway.

Bellarmin did not personally like the idea
of moving the adjournment. It meant the
opening of the debate next day in the crude
discouraging daylight, and with all the steam
of the evening's controversy still to be got
up. It meant the replying to arguments
which were already getting cold and out of
date — the arguments of the evening before.
There was nothing inspiriting to him in such
a performance ; it seemed to him too much
of a mere performance. His desire always
was to get up in the later and glowing hours
of a great debate — the Memnon fountain
hours that only glow when midnight is drawing
near — to get up at such a time and
answer some powerful speech in the best way
he could on the spur of the moment. But he
understood that Sir Victor Champion wished
to pay him a compliment and to recognise
his position, and he undertook to move the

adjournment. He was all the more determined
when it presently got whispered about
that Lord Saxon had really set his heart on
moving the adjournment. Saxon had got
into one of his obstinate moods, it was said.
He had taken it into his head that Champion's
motive in trying to prevent him from
moving the adjournment after a Conservative
had spoken was to proclaim to the world
that he, Saxon, was no longer a Liberal,
but a Tory. What right had Champion to
assume that ? And if he did not assume it,
why should not Liberal follow Conservative,
and zfzce versa, according to the regular order
of debate ? What was to be done if neither
would give way ? The Speaker was quite
impartial, would call either according as they
could agree amongst themselves. There was
incessant coming and going between the
Whips and the Leaders and the Speaker.
Curiosity in the House became greatly
aroused. The question was assuming portentous
dimensions. Up to midnight the
negotiations were still going forward. Lord
Saxon was known to be a man of great
strength of will and self-sufficiency, when he

had made up his mind to anything. Bellarmin
was known to be a man who, when once he
had made up his mind, could not easily be
induced to unmake it. The question was
not one of real importance in any sense, but
it was very exciting, all the same. A little
before midnight, Bellarmin came in and took
his place on the first seat of the third row of
benches below the gangway on the Government
side. * Oh, it's all settled !' people said ;
he has got the adjournment evidently.'

Five minutes after. Lord Saxon, in evening
dress, his heavy handsome face flushed and
sullen, entered, and took his place on the
bench exactly opposite. All men's calculations
were disturbed again. * What is going
to happen ?' people asked. ' Is there going
to be a public struggle for the right to move
the adjournment ?'

Could there be ? Yes, indeed, there could.
For if both men rose together, and the
Speaker called on one, the moment that one
put into words his motion ' that this debate
be now adjourned,' there was nothing to prevent
the other man or anyone else from
getting up and opposing the motion, and

Starting a debate on the proposal for adjournment
; and then, if the resistance to the
adjournment were pressed to a division and
were successful, the member who had moved
the adjournment would have thereby lost his
right to speak at that stage of the debate.
His formal motion for the adjournment would
have acquired technically the value of a
speech, and his turn would be over for the
present.

'We'll fight this,' Bellarmin said to his
merry men, and the merry men were delighted.


Send across to Champion ; find out what
he thinks,' some impartial and colourless
person suggested to Bellarmin.

No, no ; we had better make this stroke
off our own bat he replied.

In another moment there came across the
floor from Champion the unsolicited advice,
Don't give way on this.'

All this got known, and the excitement was
intense. The Ministerialist orator, who was
slapping the table in front of the Treasury
benches in accompaniment of his own eloquence,
was bewildered and dismayed to see

that on neither side of the House were
members even looking towards him. They
were looking away from him ; they were
looking eagerly below the gangway on either
side. He saw that something was going on ;
he saw that there were hurried consultations
taking place between the Speaker and the
Whips ; between the Whips and the Leaders
on both sides ; on the bench beside him, under
his own very eyes and ears. He because
confused ; he lost himself in his speech, and
could not find himself again ; he would have
to bring his harangue to a close. Then suddenly
he became a subject of interest to the
House, and members hung upon his words,
not for the sake of anything in the words
themselves, but that they were evidently the
closing words, and the moment he sat down
the struggle would begin, the rare, unwonted,
almost scandalous struggle. The hurry and
scurry of the Whips grew wilder ; the heads
of all the men on the front benches were
bent down in consultation ; several eager
friends of Lord Saxon's were behind him,
and below him, and at his side, urging,
arguing, entreating. Bellarmin sat quiet and

resolute. In another second or two the
orator must be down.

Just as the orator was glancing behind him
to see that he did not come plump down upon
his hat, the attention of the House wholly-deserted
him again. For now Lord Saxon
rose slowly and deliberately from his place,
and with a look of sullen self-control passed
down the floor and out of the House. Then
everyone knew that the struggle was over ;
and when Bellarmin, two seconds after, rose
and uttered the simple words, ' Mr. Speaker,
I move that this debate be now adjourned,'
he was cheered by his friends as enthusiastically
as if he had delivered a Demosthenes
oration.

YOU ARE MY PRISONER.'

crARY BEATON and General Falcon
were getting Into their carriage,

which was waiting for them near
the Temple Gardens. It was about five
o'clock in the afternoon, and they had been
for some time at the chambers of the great
counsel, Sir Hector Sloane.

There was a slight shade of impatience on
Mary's face. She had been kept waiting in
Sir Hector's ante-room, and our Princess,
though she was very sweetly forgiving about
trifles, did not like to be kept waiting even
by an eminent barrister when she made a
visit. True, the whole thing had been an
accident — a mistake about the hour ; some

wrong wording of a telegram, a misunderstanding
with Falcon ; but it had caused
them to miss the train by which they were
going that afternoon to Stonehenge Park ;
and they were to have met Lady Struthers
with the servants and luggage at Charing
Cross Station. Mary was annoyed by what
she supposed to be Falcon's bad management.


I must say, General she said almost
peevishly, as Falcon gave the order ' Home '
to the coachman, and followed her into the
brougham, ' that you, who are usually so
exact in your arrangements, for once have
not distinguished yourself. It really seems
to me that the interview with Sir Hector
might have been appointed for an earlier
time in the day. not just for the hour before
we were to start.'

'Sir Hector's time is not his own, Madame,
and the appointment, even though it was
with you, had to be made to suit his other
business,' said Falcon, with a certain grim
composure. ' But for the mistake in the
telegram, which I explained to you, there
would have been more than enough of time

for everything, and you would have been
spared a tiresome drive back to Kensington,
and again to Charing Cross. I am sorry,
Madame ; but accidents of this kind cannot
always be avoided, and you admit that my
plans, as a rule, fit in well.'

Like a Chinese puzzle, General,' said
Mary, recovering herself. ' Well, never mind.
I am sorry for poor Lady Struthers, who, I
suppose, is waiting resignedly on the platform.'


No, Madame. Lady Struthers and the
servants are well on their way to Stonehenge
by this time. I took the precaution, when I
saw that delay was unavoidable, to send a
messenger from Sir Hector's chambers to bid
her go on without us, and have a carriage
sent to meet the next train, which will get us
down there between ten and eleven.'

Mary looked at him surprised. ' You did
that. Falcon ? Why ? It would have been
better for Lady Struthers to wait for me.'

I have to beg your pardon, Madame, for
not consulting you. The special saloon had
been ordered, and the Stonehenge carriages
were to meet us ; that arrangement seemed tome

the least complicated. I thought that I
might consider myself a sufficient escort.'

Oh, certainly ; It is no matter. I am sure
you always understand that sort of thing
best ;' and Mary did not argue the question.

Eight o'clock was striking when the
brougham, returning, stopped In the Charing
Cross yard. Falcon piloted Mary through
the booking-office to the platform. Their
train left a little after eight. He put herat
once into a compartment which he had
secured, and which the guard immediately
locked. INIary sank Into the angle of the
cushions and leaned her head back, taking no
notice of the few passengers who walked to
and fro on the platform. She seemed heavy
and tired, and a little confused. By-and-by,
when the train had been a short while in
motion, she roused herself by an evident
effort, threw back her cloak, took off her
gloves, and, pulling down the window, gazed
in a bewildered way out upon the fields and
hedges through which they were passing.

It was still light, but the sky was muggy
and clouded, and a sort of drizzling rain had
set In, so that the dusk seemed to have fallen

VOL. III. 54

earlier than usual. Presently Mary drew
back her head and made an impatient
gesture, as if she were trying to collect
herself.

I feel like a person in a dream,' she said,
with a laugh ; * everything seems out of proportion
and hazy and odd. It's the thunder
in the air, I suppose. How silently you sit
there. General ! I wish you wouldn't keep
your eyes fixed on me like that ; it makes me
think '

I thought you seemed tired, Madame.'

I am not tired — at least, I oughtn't to be ;
but I can't understand what makes me so
dazed and drowsy. Is it Sir Hector's long
table of genealogy, do you suppose, Falcon ?
If I had been dining anywhere but in my
own house, and so modestly, too, I might
have imagined that some evil-disposed person
had drugged my one glass of claret with the
idea of robbing me on my journey.'

Falcon laughed in an odd, harsh manner.

^ That might well have been possible,
if you had trusted yourself to anyone but
your faithful Falcon, Madame. You are safe
with me. Close your eyes and sleep, Mary,'

he said, his tone taking a sudden tenderness.
My eyes will not grow weary of watching
you.'

The girl shook her head and drew herself
upright ; but gradually, and in spite of her
will, her form relaxed, and the drowsy,
fantasia-Hke feeling intensified. She was not
asleep, but her brain was in that curiously
excited condition which is sometimes produced
by opium, when everything seems
unreal, and the sense of continuity and of the
relations of things is lost ; but when the
imagination seems to be working at express
speed, and mental images stand out with
startling clearness, and succeed each other
with a marvellous rapidity. Every now and
then the rattle of the 'carriage or the shriek
of the engine would recall Mary for a moment
from some wild flight of thought to the consciousness
of Falcon sitting opposite her, his
eyes fixed upon her with a mesmeric intensity;
and then her fancies would wander again,
sometimes back into her remote past, and
she would see vividly scenes and companions
of her childhood that in her normal condition
she had completely forgotten.

54—2

'We must get out here,' she heard Falcon's
voice say at last, and she jumped up in
an uncertain manner, startled into the partial
recovery of her faculties by the sensation that
the train had stopped, and by the touch of
Falcon's cold fingers on her bare hand. Their
coldness gave her a shock, and she felt that
they were trembling, and vaguely wondered
what ailed the old man. He picked up her
wraps and small belongings and gave them
to a servant muffled up in a waterproof
standing at the carriage door. Then he
helped her to get out, and, he putting her
arm in his, they followed the servant past the
ticket-receiver, through a gate, and down a
cutting into the road. Except for the feeble
light of the railway lamps placed at long
intervals down the platform, it was gruesomely
dark, almost pitch-dark out in the
road, for there was no moon, and none of the
stars were visible. It was raining heavily now.
Falcon hurried Mary into a close barouche
that was waiting, and stepped forward to exchange
a few words with the coachman. He
came back and got in ; the footman shut the
carriage door, and they were driven rapidly

away through the plashing puddles and the
beating rain.

It was a long drive, as Mary knew, to
Stonehenge Park, and somehow it seemed
longer than ever this evening. The carriage
was shut up and dark, and they drove for
some distance without talking. The cloud
of bewilderment was gradually lifting itself
from Mary's mind. She began to wonder
vaguely what had caused it, and if it were
possible that she could by accident have
taken some narcotic, and, if that were so,
whether Falcon had done the same thing
and was affected by it. Perhaps that might
account for his being so silent. She was
scarcely able to reason or to think back
collectedly, and sat still, rather enjoying the
dreary sound of the rain and the rapid
motion of the carriage. Once or twice she
let the window down a little, and tried to
see ; but all the outlines of the landscape were
hidden, and it was impossible for her to make
out anything familiar.

Falcon made hardly any answer to her
fitful efforts at conversation, and at length so
long a silence came that she thought he must

be asleep. She wondered when they were
going to reach the lodge-gates ; and by-and-by
she told herself that they must have done
so, for the carnage stopped, and there was a
drawing of Iron bolts, and a clanking to again
after they passed through. Then there came
another and a prolonged stoppage, and Mary
uttered a cry of surprise as a sudden shaft of
light, piercing the darkness from an opening
door, showed her only high gray walls on
both sides of her.

Where are we ?' she said. ' This Is not
Stonehenge Park.'

The muffled man-servant threw back the
carriage door, and a breath of fresh salt air
blew with the raindrops on to Mary's face.
Falcon got out and gave her his hand, and
all in wonder she stepped from the carriage
on to the pavement of a courtyard. She
looked round full of astonishment, half excited
by what she supposed to be some mishap or
adventure, and far from suspecting any plot
to entrap her. She saw the castellated outline
of a fortress-like building, with an arch
of stonework and massive entrance - door
partially open In front of her, and a buttressed

wall to her right, over which the salt
wind came in gusts, while below it she
fancied that she could hear the sound of
waves roaring.

Have they lost their way and brought us
to the wrong place, General Falcon ?' she
asked imperiously. ' This is by the sea.
Explain, please, unless you are as much in
the dark as I am.'

I can explain, Madame, but not here in
the rain,' Falcon answered ; and he hurried
her to the entrance, where a respectable and
well-dressed elderly German woman stood,
holding a lamp in her hand. The woman
made a silent salutation, which Mary courteously
returned, and preceded them into a
dimly - lighted stone - paved hall that was
already familiar to Falcon.

It appears, Madame he said to Mary,
that in the darkness we got into the wrong
carriage, and have been brought to Lady
Saxon's house, Petrel's Rest.'

*To Petrel's Rest T echoed Mary. She
gave a start, and seemed to shrink involuntarily,
as though the idea of being Lady
Saxon's guest were disagreeable to her. * Is

Lady Saxon here ?' she asked, turning to the
housekeeper.

The woman replied in German that her
ladyship was not at Petrel's Rest.

How, then, came the carriage to be at the
station ?' asked Mary quickly.

The woman shook her head. Her ladyship
came or did not come, as It pleased her.
She was always uncertain. The carriage had
been very often ordered to meet her ladyship,
and she had changed her mind at the
last moment, and not arrived.

You see,' put In Falcon hastily, ' it is only
a blunder. I will go and make inquiries.
In the meantime, Madame he added in
German, ' the housekeeper will perhaps have
the goodness to show you to a room where
you can wait in comfort.'

I can wait here,' replied Mary. ' Truly,
misfortune seems to pursue us to - day.
General ; and this is a more serious blunder
than the loss of our train.'

Just then there appeared Lady Saxon's
German butler, the attendant of the late
Baron Langenwelt, with whom Falcon was
acquainted. This person bowed deferentially

to Mary, and politely drawing Falcon
a little distance aside, talked with him for a
few moments in so low a tone that the conversation
was lost on Mary.

Well ?' she asked, when Falcon returned.

It may be a short time before we can get
off; it might, indeed, be better for us to
remain here for the night. I will find out.
There are some rooms here always kept in
readiness, and a fire lighted. You must be
cold and tired and damp, Madame, and I
advise you to take this opportunity of rest and
refreshment. I will come to you presently.'

Mary nodded acquiescence, and followed
the housekeeper, who, her lamp in her handled
the way up a long and irregular fight
of stone stairs. The staircase might have
figured in a mediaeval romance, Mary thought;
it was so old and so strange and silent.
There was something ominous in the silence,
and something oppressive in the solitude and
ghostliness of the place. The staircase did
not go far, but stopped at a corridor, at the
end of which was one massive door. The
woman unlocked the door, and Mary found
herself in a curious-looking sitting-room,

almost semicircular in shape, lined with
tapestry, and with a curtained archway in the
straight side of the wall, evidently leading to
a similar — probably a sleeping — apartment.
It was as though these two rooms formed
one story of a tower projecting from the rest
of the building, and Mary conjectured that
its foundation must be lapped by the sea, for
she fancied that she could hear the beating
of the waves. The place had a chilly feeling,
notwithstanding that a wood-fire burned on
the open hearth. It was lighted by candles
in tall sconces, and there were some stiff
oak-chairs and tables and a straight-backed
couch ; but there were no books or knickknacks
or anything that betokened recent
occupation. Mary seated herself before the
fire and warmed her feet, and shook the raindrops
from her light travelling-cloak. The
housekeeper departed, and after a few minutes
another and younger German woman entered,
first with a tray on which were biscuits and
wine, and then with a can of hot water that
she carried into the bedroom, drawing aside
the curtains, so that Mary now saw it was a
room smaller and of the same shape as that

she was in, lined also with tapestry, and
having tall black furniture and a canopied
bed. It had apparently no outlet except
through the room in which she was sitting,
and by that one door into the corridor.

What an odd romantic place !' the girl
said, half aloud, and she began to wish almost
that she might have to pass the night in
these fairly comfortable quarters, and be
spared the dreary dark drive to Stonehenge
Park. She was still sitting by the fire, taking
a dreamy pleasure in its warmth and brightness
— for though it seemed muggy and close
when they left London, the rain or the sea
air had brought a feeling of chill — when the
heavy door creaked on its hinges, and, without
preliminary knock or announcement, Falcon
walked in.

To Mary's astonishment and alarm, he
bolted the door behind him, and came towards
her with a masterful determined air,
and a strange, excited look on his face.

What is the meaning of this, General
Falcon ?' she exclaimed, rising.

Falcon paused at the oak-table in the centre
of the room, and stood a few paces from her,

one hand resting upon the table, the other at
his hip, as if he were touching the hilt of an
imaginary sword. His warrior-like attitude,
the lean head with ruffled silvery hair thrown
back, and with the scar slanting across the
forehead, and the wild gleam of exultation in
his eyes, frightened Mary, and deepened the
fantastic impression that Falcon and she were
playing parts in some drama of the Middle
Ages.

Madame,' said Falcon, in a deep solemn
tone, * you are for the present — don't be
alarmed or shocked — you are my prisoner.'

Mary started, very naturally. One who in
ordinary life is told that he is somebody's
prisoner, has generally had some reason to
know in advance that such an announcement
was likely to be made. He knows that he
has done, or is doing, or is supposed to have
done or to be doing, something which puts it
in the power of someone else to take him
into custody. But Mary had as little reason
to expect such an announcement from Falcon,
as to expect that he would tell her he was
about to put her to death. Her sensation
could not be analyzed ; it was mere shock ;

the sudden suspension for the moment of the
power to feel anything".

General Falcons she exclaimed at last, * I
will leave this place at once.'

You cannot, Madame, without my consent.'


You are bound to obey me, when I command
you ; and I do command you '

Ah !' he answered, with a wild smile ;
there are times when the truest and most
devoted allegiance shows Itself best In brave
refusal to obey, refusal to let one's idol
sacrifice herself. Were there not brave and
faithful counsellors of INIary Stuart, who
strove to save her from the consequences
of her own caprices and of her own mistakes
?'

There was one pretended devotee of Mary
Stuart v;ho brought destruction on her because
he would not restrain his wild passion
for her ; is that the wise counsellor you speak
of. General Falcon ? Is it the example of
Bothwell that you have In your mind when
you try to compel me to bend to your wishes ?
But you, my dear old friend' — her manner
suddenly softened to him, because she saw

that a shade of pain passed over his face
when she spoke of Bothwell — * you are not a
Bothwell, any more than I am a Mary Stuart
of that kind.'

The pang that went to Falcon's heart was
only a pang of wounded conscience. He
knew that his purpose had been to play in
some sort the part of Bothwell.

Princess,' he said, * it is idle our talking in
this way ; you cannot change my purpose by
any words of yours, and if yon cannot, who
could ? I will not allow you to sacrifice
yourself You shall not marry any of these
men. Stonehenge is the best of them, but
he is not fit for sou. You shall not marry
him.'

Then must I die an old maid, food
Falcon ?'

Don't smile,' he exclaimed fiercely ; * this
is no matter to smile about '

No, truly,' Mary quietly interposed ;
though it is ridiculous enough, surely, to
excuse a little levity.'

You are not to die an old maid.'

Come, that is gracious.' She could not,
in all her danger, keep from indulging a little

her sense of the absurdity of the whole
situation. Falcon's eyes flashed ominously.

No, you are not to die an old maid — there
is one man who loves you for yourself; who
adores you — who will protect you against the
world. / am your lover, Mary — your true
and devoted lover ; I have brooded over all
this for years : it has sometimes well-nigh
driven me mad ; but now at last I see my
way and yours. I see <9//r way. It is
decreed by fate ; It Is ordained by heaven —
you are to be my wife ! This is God's will,
and that will shall be done.'

Mary now began to understand that she
had to do not with a wild eccentric lover, but
with an actual madman. She felt a chill pass
suddenly over her, and her hands trembled.
But she came of a brave race — a race in
which not even the women yielded much to
fear ; and she knew that now all depended
on her nerves, her judgment, and her courage.
Dear General Falcon,' she said gently —
and she put one hand on his arm with an
appealing touch, while she looked into his
wild eyes — ' why do you say such things ?
You must know that this cannot be. I am

very fond of you — indeed, I love you dearly
in one way ; but not in that way. You
could not really want a girl of tiny age to
marry you ; you are too kind and good and
self-sacrificing for that — It was not for that
my father left his daughter in your care, was
it ? Dear old friend, let us say no more of
this. I shall do my best to forget all you
have said, and It shall make no difference
between us ; we shall be In the future just
the same to each other as we were In the
past.'

No, no, Mary ; that can never be ; I
have broken the ice — I have crossed my
Rubicon ; things can never again be as they
were for you and me. I have thought of
your father ; I have dreamed of him again
and again — if I were credulous, I should say
I have seen him and spoken with him lately.'
Mary shuddered, and gave a slight groan,
No, I suppose It was a mere Imagining ; but
I have seemed to see him, and to hear his
words approving my purpose, and urging It.'

O God !' Mary exclaimed, stricken with
horror at this terrible suggestion.

'I have loved you so long, Mary; ever

since you ceased to be a child. But I hardly
quite knew it myself until lately ; and I
thought I should be glad and happy to see
you married to some man worthy of you —
some man who would love you, whom ' —
his voice fell to a low reluctant tone — * some
man whom you — loved. But no, no, no !'
he exclaimed loudly ; ' I couldn't, couldn't,
couldn't ! I love you too much ; and they
are not worthy of you, these men here.
Lord Stonehenge, what love has he in him ?
He couldn't love you as you ought to beloved
; and Champion, what does he care
for, but his ambition and his politics and his
career ? And Bellarmin — Mary, you couldn't
love an idle hare-brained young adventurer
like that ?'

There was something unspeakably pitiful
and ludicrous in the singleminded, naked self-conceit
of the unhappy Falcon. It touched
Mary to the very heart. She felt ashamed
to be thus made a spectator of his weakness
and his self-degradation.

General Falcon,' she said, with quiet
dignity, ' we must put a stop to all this. We
need not go into the merits of all my various

VOL. III. 55

friends. I shall not marry anyone I do not
love, you may depend upon that — love withall
my heart. I was near giving myself in
marriage to one man whom I did not love,
and never could love, in that way ; and the
prospect became so terrible to me as I came
nearer to it that it has taught me a lesson
long enough for all my life. And that is the
reason, General Falcon, why I cannot marry
you ; and as you are a soldier and a gentleman,
I ask you to be contented with it'

Contented with it — and without you ?
Never, Mary. I am a soldier, and I am a
gentleman ; and because of that I feel that I
am not unworthy of you. Come, Madame,
let us be reasonable. I have you here in my
power, and I will not let you go. You shall
be treated with all the respect due to a
princess, and to the woman whom I adore ;
but you are a captive princess, Mary ; and
captive you shall remain, until you consent
to come out free and be my wife.'

Do you know,' she asked in growing
impatience, * that this is the nineteenth
century, and that we are within a short
distance of London ; and that there is a

railway-station .close at hand, and that the
sea, covered with steamers, is breaking on
the shore just under the windows ? What is
the meaning of your attempt to play off some
mediaeval melodrama here ? For heaven's
sake, think of yourself, General Falcon !'

The nineteenth century has its passions
and its melodramas just as well as any of the
farthest centuries,' Falcon answered grimly ;
and it has no passion stronger and more
resolved than mine. The sea covered with
steamers ! I wonder when a steamer last
came within hail of this place ? Railways !
How are you to get to a railway ? How is
anyone to get from a railway to you ?, ^ The
few people who are in this house are devoted
to me and to my purpose ; they will not mind
what you say.'

Whose plot is this ?' Mary demanded. * It
has not all been conceived and executed by
you ? Who has helped you in it ?'

No, it is not entirely mine. I have a
friend who will sustain me in all I am doing ;
who has again and again urged me to do it —
to save you by doing it. You may as well
know it at once, Mary ; it will show you that

55—2

I am not acting without counsel and support.
This is Lady Saxon's house ; she has put it
at my disposal. I brought you here by her
advice.'

Lady Saxon !' Mary cried out. ' That
woman ! my enemy ! I knew she hated me ;
but I never could have believed this ! Falcon,
it is not possible that Lady Saxon can
be your accomplice in such a shameful and
such a senseless act.'

She is my accomplice, as you choose to
call it so. She is my friend ; she has given
me her house ; her yacht is lying at anchor,
ready, whenever you like, to carry you and
me to some brighter land than this hateful
England. We have thought of everything.
Do you know,' he whispered, with a gleam
of maniacal cunning in his eyes, and a sort of
chuckle in his voice — ' do you know what we
thought of doing, if it should prove necessary
? We thought of telling the servants
that you were mad ; were out of your senses ;
and had to be kept under restraint until
proper medical attention could be got for
you. Ha, Mary ! what do you think of that ?
Who would mind anything you said then }^

My God !' Mary said aloud. The ghastly
suggestion, and the look and the tone of utter
madness which illustrated it with fearful light,
almost for the moment broke down the poor
girl's courage and nerves altogether.

This, then, is your love, General Falcon !'
she said, forcing herself to be brave and
calm. ' This is your love ; this is your
loyalty ; this is your devotion ! You would
exhibit me to the servants of Lady Saxon —
exhibit me as a madwoman — in order that
you might be able to keep me in a prison ?'

It is terrible, Mary, terrible !' and the unfortunate
old man actually shuddered ; * there
was a time when, if anyone had told me that
this could ever be — but what use is there in
talking or thinking of all that now ?' and he
shrugged his shoulders impatiently. * Yes,
Mary, if it be necessary I will do all that.
My mind is made up ; I will face hell itself in
this.'

I am not afraid of counsels from hell,'
Mary said ; ' I put my trust in Heaven, and
Heaven will not fail me. Earth will not fail
me either. Do you really believe, General
Falcon, that I shall not be missed in London?

Do you think my friends will not try to find
me ? Do you think Lady Struthers will do
nothing ? She, I know, is not in this ridiculous
plot.'

No ; she is a fool. I could have nothing
to do with her.'

'Well, do you think she will not take the
trouble to find out where I am ? Do you
think Lord Stonehenge will do nothing ?
Why, we are within a few miles of Lord
Stonehenge's own house.'

Lord Stonehenge will never suspect that
you are here,' Falcon said, with a grim smile.

He would never believe that you could be
kept a prisoner in Lady Saxon's house. Be
content, Mary; we thought of all that.'

We thought of all that !' Mary said sadly.

We I you and Lady Saxon ! My father's
oldest friend plotting with that base and
wicked woman for the destruction of his
daughter !'

The rescue and salvation of his daughter,
Mary. But it is no use our arguing in this
way. My purpose couldn't be changed
though one rose from the dead. If your
father's spirit were to appear in this room —

here, between us ' — Mary started at the words
* were to beseech me to change my purpose
— I would not do it ; I couldn't ! But I
know — I told you — your father would be on
my side.'

I am sorry I spoke of my father,' Mary
said ; * it hurts me to hear his name desecrated
; I had some hope that an appeal to
his memory would still have some power over
you — and it has none ! Well, we have said
enough, I think. I am your prisoner, General
Falcon, until some happy chance sets me
free.'

You shall be free this moment If you will
consent to become my wife.'

Mary shook her head. ' Let us not speak
of that any more ; if I am your prisoner, I
am ! I suppose I may have the usual privilege
of a prisoner — I may be sometimes
alone ?'

Your will and your wishes shall be obeyed
in every way, Madame. You are mistress
and queen here.'

In everything but the one thing which I
want,' Mary said, with a quiet smile, her
composure returning to her.

I cannot give you your freedom except
on the condition I have told you of. Is it,
then, so very hard a condition, Mary ? Do
you not know how deeply and passionately I
adore you ? Do you not believe that I would

give up my whole life — all that is left of it

Ah, yes ! I know what you are thinking of
now ; I know that I am very old ; but my
love for you sends new youth through me.'

General Falcon, you know how fond I
was of you always ; how much I loved you —
as if you were my father — always, always,
until this. Yes ; and even now I would
forget and forgive all this if you will only be
your dear old self, your kind old self, again.
Oh, my dear old friend, be my dear old friend
once again, and let us forget this horrid
dream ! No one shall ever know of It, so far
as I am concerned. Come ! There Is time
enough yet. We are not missed so far. Let
us go back to London and to our old life.'

Too late, too late, Mary! Do you think
I am a madman, Mary, that after having
gone so far as this I should stop now and
turn back ?'

There was something startling in the

manner of his putting the hypothesis of his
madness ; in the entire sincerity with which
he treated it as an utterly untenable proposition.
It sent a new shudder through Mary.
To be in the power of a madman who is fully
convinced of his own perfect sanity would
try the nerves of the bravest.

Well,' she said, with a weary sigh, for she
was now feeling the mere physical weariness
of the hopeless altercation, ' I don't see any
good to come of our going over this anymore.
I am in your power ; I am your
prisoner; and you say your mind is made
up. Am I to wear chains ? am I to be subjected
to torture ?'

His face flushed.

You are cruel, Madame.'

Oh, cruelty I I am cruel !'

Yes ; you are cruel to talk of chains and
torture, to make such jests.'

Yes ; I am in a jesting mood, truly ! Who
wouldn't be merry in such conditions as mine ?'

You know that you will be treated like
a princess ; I have told you that. Tell me
what you wish for — anything but one thing
it shall be done.'

Only one wish now, General Falcon, is
really present to my mind '

And that is, Madame ?'

Just to be left alone.'
Falcon bowed gravely.

Madame will see,' he said, * that there is
a bell, and that the rooms '

Are replete with every comfort, as the
advertisements say,' Mary coldly added.
Thanks, General Falcon ; I shall not make
much complaint about the rooms or the
attendance.'

You are mocking me,' he said ; ' you
always loved to mock me — you know you
did.'

Did I ? Well, I suppose, like most girls,
I was sometimes in a merry humour. Never
mind, General Falcon ; I am not likely for
the future to distress anyone by the exuberance
of my mirth.'

She turned away from him. He gazed at
her for a moment silently, and then he left
the room, and she heard him close the door
softly as he went.

TO petrel's rest — QUICK !'

HE was alone at last. Mary Beaton
thanked God that she was alone.
For many moments back the whole
horizon of her hopes was bounded by the
longing to be alone. She wanted to be out
of sight of Falcon's wild face, out of hearing
of his terrible voice. In all her agony of
grief and pity for him, there was mingled a
feeling of passionate hatred. She could not
get this out of her mind ; mad as he was, she
could not bring herself to think of him merely
as a madman. She wanted to be alone ; to
think all this over ; to think what she could
do. She was not afraid ; no, not in the least
afraid. She knew that sooner or later someone

would find her out and save her. She did
not believe that Falcon, however mad, would
actually use force to compel her to marry
him. It was all a hideous, horrid farce ; but
still it was only a farce, and it would come to
an end.

The horror and the pity of it was that
Falcon, her devoted old follower and friend,
should be the leading actor in such a burlesque.
It shocked her, too. and astonished
her, to think that Lady Saxon could have
helped in such a scheme. Lady Saxon, bad
and base as Mary believed her to be, was
still a woman of the world — a very cool and
clear-headed woman of the world. She could
not possibly believe in a Bothwell scheme
in nineteenth-century London. What, then,
could be her motive In taking part In such
a scheme, and giving her own house to be
used as a prison for the unfortunate woman
who was the victim of the conspiracy ? In
one sense, it was something of a relief to
Mary to hear that Lady Saxon was In the
plot. It connected that plot, at all events,
with the world of sanity. Any designs Lady
Saxon had must be designs which, at least.

did not belong to the atmosphere of Bedlam.
Lady Saxon was not a madwoman, and was
not a fiend.

The first thing Mary did when she was
alone was to examine her prison. She found
that she had been perfectly right in her conjecture,
and that there was no communication
with the outer world except by means of the
door into the corridor. She saw upon closer
examination that the tower was nearly circular,
and had two windows, one in each
room, built out like turret projections, and so
high above her head that she could not touch
them with her hand. She felt all round the
walls, and looked under the tapestry to see if
there were any concealed door or opening ;
but she could find none. Then she tried the
door into the corridor ; it was locked on the
outside. So she was a prisoner — actually
locked in. The knowledge sent a slight
shudder through her. Here was a harsh
reality which, in spite of her courage, put to
flight all her reassuring arguments. The
door had neither bolt nor key inside. Must
she sit up all night for dread of being intruded
upon ? No ; she would not do that.

Falcon was mad, assuredly ; but he was a
gentleman, and she was not afraid that he
would murder her to-night, at any rate.

It was very late — past one o'clock by her
watch. Mary partially undressed, smiling
with a certain melancholy humour to see that
all she could need in the shape of toilette
apparatus had been placed ready for her use.
The fine laced linen and the embroidered
dressing-gown were, she supposed, Lady
Saxon's own. She spent some time at her
devotions, and then lay down on the bed and
slept soundly.

It was broad day when she awoke. She
must have slept long and soundly, for she
saw that a bath had been prepared for her ;
and there was comfort in the thought that
she was not to be neglected by the women of
the household.

By-and-by the young woman who had
waited on her the night before brought her
in some breakfast. Mary tried to talk to her
in English, or German, or French, but only
succeeded in getting from her a few sentences
in some tongue she did not understand, but
which she imagined to be Danish or Norwegian.

The young woman had evidently
received her orders, for she carefully locked
the door every time she passed In and out ;
and in any case where would have been the
use of trying to escape by that direction ?
No one else came near her all day ; and she
sat thinking of the various devices she had
read or heard of by means of which captives
in some dungeon had managed to convey a
knowledge of their existence and their whereabouts
to the outer air. Should she scratch
her name on some salver, as the Man in the
Iron Mask was supposed to have done, and
fling it out of the window on the off chance
of its getting to some friendly hand ? What
would be the use if Falcon's tale were true,
and there was no friendly hand to be reached
within the limits of Petrel's Rest ? Should
she flutter a handkerchief out of the window?
Could she get hold of a bird somehow and
fasten a letter beneath its wings and send it
abroad on air ? These ideas set her thinking
about the possibility of escape through one
of the two turret-windows — windows set in
solid frames of bronze, highly picturesque,
but decidedly formidable and menacing to

one who looked at them with the anxious eye
of a prisoner craving for release. Still, they
were quite large enough for anyone to get
through them, provided only they could be
opened. Mary determined to make the experiment
at once, before the light began to
fail altogether. She put one chair on another,
with their backs close to the wall ; and even
then she had to stand on the topmost rail of
the upper chair in order to get to the window.
She did get there, however, and was glad to
find that the window was so deep, the sill so
broad, as to allow of her sitting there comfortably
and safely. She felt oddly like a
schoolgirl as she scrambled up to her perch.
Now would the window open for her ? Oh
yes ; it opened quite easily, opened outward.
Why, how very mad poor Falcon must be I
He had not even taken the precaution to
fasten the windows of her prison ! To talk
of making her his prisoner and yet leave her
in a room with an open window ! Come —
there was not much trouble in getting out of
such captivity.

Ah !' she drew back with a shudder.
She had looked hastily out of the window,

and the sight nearly took her breath away.
No ; Falcon was not so wholly without method
in his madness as she at first had fancied. No
need to bar that window ! Steep and sheer
went down this side of the rocky hill on which
Petrel's Rest was perched. This was the
seaward side: below her the descent was
straight down to the shore ; the shingly shore
on which the still ebbing tide was beating.
She could hear the crash of the waves, and
could breathe in the salt savour of the brine.
Not a bush or a bramble interrupted the
descent. No romantic ladder of ropes was
ever made long enough to enable an escaping
prisoner to get down from Mary's window to
that rough shore. That hope was gone. Yet
she remained in her window, finding a sort of
delight in the cool, free air, and the sound of
the sea. She felt a certain satisfaction in the
thought that, come what would, so long as
she had her seat in that window she was
mistress of her own destiny. * No one can
force me to marry him — no one mad or sane,'
she thought, ' while I am here and have that
depth below me.' She began to think herself
rather like that Rebecca whose courage and
VOL. III. 56

resolve used to delight her childhood ; Rebecca
on her turret prepared, if need were, to
trust her soul to God.

Sometimes, too, she was impressed with a
sense of the whimsicality of the whole situation,
its farcical absurdity. She felt a wild
desire to laugh at her strange imprisonment.
Then again she covered her face with her
hands for shame at the thought that a man
should have trapped her into this place and
caged her up there in the hope of forcing her
to marry him. To marry, of all men on
earth. General Falcon, whom she had always
looked on as a sort of father! He was positively
older than her own father would be if
he were living ; she had sat on his knee
hundreds of times when she was a child — it
seemed only yesterday when she was in the
habit of climbing on to his knee — and now he
insists on making her his wife ! Poor, poor
Falcon ! He is mad ; has literally lost his
senses. And she has lost him ; lost him forever,
her dear old friend who had been by her
side all through her life ! She forgot all her
own troubles in sorrow for him. Oh, if only this
had not happened, happen else what would !

Then, as evening fell, she remembered that
a whole day had passed — it seemed as if ages
had gone since she had driven away from the
Temple yesterday. She began to think what
a day it was, and what would be happening
in London. This was the day on which it
had been predicted the great debate would
close, and Sir Victor's first battle be won or
lost. They would be all too much absorbed
in their Parliamentary warfare to think of her.
Even Lord Stonehenge was moved beyond
his wont by the political excitement which
reigned everywhere. Would Champion have
her in his mind ? Would Bellarmin have a
thought to give to her and their sweet, sad
friendship, which had come to so painful an
end ? Would he hear that she had left
London ? Would he wonder why she had
gone ? Was all to be at an end for ever ?
Was he too proud, or did he care too little,
to try and prove himself yet worthy to win
her ? Had she been too hard ; or had she
expected more than she had a right to expect
? Ah, well ! there was no use in thinking
of all that now ; and so, while the darkness
grew, she tried to turn her mind away from

56 — 2

Bellarmin, and she wondered If they were
going to bring lights, or if she was to be left
alone and unattended and in darkness, like a
common prisoner in a cell. She wondered
if Falcon would come to her that evening.
What would happen if his insanity took some
other turn ? What if he should try to kill
her ? How was she to occupy her time, supposing
that nothing particular were to happen?
She lay on her bed and sank Into a sort of
sleep, in which she fancied the sound of the
sea and the wind heard through the open
windows was the cheering of the House of
Commons for Bellarmine's speech.

Yes, Bellarmin had made his speech. He
sat down with the cheers of the House
ringing in his ears, but waking no echo in
his heart. He knew he had made a great
success. A man generally knows in the
House of Commons when he has made a
real hit ; and Bellarmin knew it this time.
He had won many cheers even from the
Tories, who did not go with his Progressive
Party, for they sympathized with his earnest
protests against the theory that Toryism

means immobility or reaction. He had made
some happy citations from the speeches of
the great Tory leader, De Carmel, to whose
memory all sections of Conservatism were
doing sincere honour and homage ; and he
had shown how, from the first of that great
career to the last, De Carmel had held to the
one faith that Toryism was a principle consistent
with every impulse of real national
progress. There was, therefore, a certain
eagerness among the Tories who were
against Champion's motion to let Bellarmin
understand that they sympathized with him
in his ideas as to the real principles and purposes
of Toryism. Their cheers seemed to
say ' Yes ; we admit all that ; these are our
principles as well as yours ; only we can't
support this particular motion.'

Well done, Bellarmin,' a stout old Tory
whispered in our friend's ear as he resumed
his seat ; ' you have advanced the lines of
Toryism ; and though I can't go into the
lobby with you this time, I feel obliged to
you, ail the same.'

Bellarmin ought to have felt satisfied
with himself. He had advanced his own

position as well as the lines of Toryism.
But there was a gnawing pain at his heart.
He felt it all the time he was making his
speech ; felt it with each new and successful
effort to hold the attention and carry the
sympathy of the House ; felt it as in each
strain of some severe physical exercise one
feels the grief of an old wound. Bellarmin's
wound was the ever-present sense of the loss
of the one hope dearest to him in life — the
hope of Mary Beaton. Strangely enough,
the very pain was a new stimulus to him.
He tried to drown the sense of pain in the
sense of effort. He tried to throw his whole
soul into the struggle of the moment — into
his speech, and nothing else ; tried to forget
his lost Lenore. He never succeeded, even
for a moment ; but the effort told upon the
speech, and gave it new fire and passion.
When he sat down he was for a minute or two
hardly conscious of anything ; he hardly saw
or heard ; he had only a dim, vague sense of
relief in the knowledge that the effort was
over, that the thing was done. He sat silent
in the very soundness of reaction and depression.
Friend after friend, and even

political opponent after opponent, came up,
according to the generous way of the House
of Commons, to congratulate him on his success,
and to shake him cordially by the hand.
Bellarmin, when he began to get control of
his senses again, felt as if he did not care
much about the success or the praise. Six
months a^o such a success on such an occasion
would have set the blood in all his veins
dancing with the very joy of triumph. Now
he did not seem to care. Nothing would do
him any good now. Success would not bring
him back Mary Beaton's love. He had
lost all that ; and what was more, he felt
that he deserved to lose it ; that his
sentence was rightful and just. He bowed
to it contritely, despairingly ; he had not a
word to say in his own defence, even in his
own heart. In a moment of absurd passion,
of sensuousness, of what he knew at the
very moment to be an unreal and factitious
emotion, he had forfeited all right to the love
of a pure girl like Mary Beaton, and he did
not complain that the forfeit had to be paid.
Only it made political success a matter of
indifference to him just now. He found a

ofrim satisfaction In the knowledge that the
cheers of the House of Commons did not
drown the Internal wail of his wounded love.
Somebody got up on the Treasury Bench to
reply, and began with a gracious compliment
to the eloquent speech of the honourable
member who had just sat down. Bellarmin
was not listening; he sat with his hat tilted over
his eyes. Presently Tressel, who had gone
out of the House for a few minutes Immediately
on Bellarmin's sitting down, returned,
and came across the floor and squatted on
the matting of the gangway just at Bellarmin's
feet.

Splendid speech, Bellarmin ; just the
thing. We'll carry the division, and you'll
be in the Cabinet. But I say, here's a letter
for you ; I was in the outer lobby just now,
and someone asked me to hand it to you,
which accordingly I hand.' Then he crossed
the floor again.

Bellarmin looked at the letter, and an
angry flush darkened his face. It was from
Lady Saxon.

His first inclination was to destroy the
letter unread. Some idle expression of penitence,

he thought — some Impulsive regret for
that which was deliberately done — ' What
use to read such words ? I couldn't forgive
her.'

Still his sense of what was due to a
woman — to any woman, especially to a
woman who had once held such a fascination
over him — recalled him to a kinder and
gentler mood. He went into one of the
division lobbies, and found out a lonely place,
and sat down and opened the letter. The
first glance he gave at it sent a shock through
him.

I am not altogether so bad but that I
should like to give your Princess a chance of
being saved, and you a chance of saving her.
She is at Petrel's Rest ; Falcon has beguiled
her into going there, and he means to keep
her there a prisoner until she consents to
marry him. Yes; it was I who put this
Bothwell scheme into his head ; and I put
Petrel's Rest at his disposal. But I only
meant to make your Princess ridiculous ; and
I didn't know then, as I know it now, that
Falcon is a madman — mad with his love for
her. Get to her as soon as you can, and as

quietly as you can ; I presume I may leave
all that to you. Hate me as much as you
choose, you owe me some thanks for this.'

Petrel's Rest ! Mary Beaton a prisoner In
Petrel's Rest, and with General Falcon, a
madman, for her gaoler ! We live In prosaic
days ; and the first thing Bellarmin did was
to look at his watch, and the next was to
clutch a railway guide.

A train to leave Charing Cross at seven-twenty
; to arrive at the station nearest to
Petrel's Rest at nine-five. It now wanted
but ten minutes to seven. Yes ; that would
do ; he would catch that train. What to do
when he o^ot there he did not know, did not
think about. But he found he had his senses
all about him, and his mind was becoming
very clear, his nerves quite firm. He felt his
pulse ; it beat strongly and steadily now.
He was good for any task. Was he to go
alone ? No, surely. Who ought to go with
him ? Lord Stonehenge at once came into
his mind. Yes ; Lord Stonehenge was the
great man of all the region round Petrel's
Rest ; he was Mary's most devoted friend.
Bellarmin did not know that a closer bond

than mere friendship now held Mary Beaton
and Lord Stonehenge together. He darted
across the lobby, and saw, to his joy, that the
lights of the House of Lords were still burning.
Thank Heaven that the peers had had
more than their usual half-hour's sitting ! He
hurried into the little pen below the bar of
the Lords which is reserved for members of
the Commons and for strangers, and he sent
in a message for Lord Stonehenge. In a
moment he saw Lord Stonehenge coming out
to him. A thrill of positive joy went through
him ; it was such a relief to find Lord
Stonehenge there. Man's horizon of feeling
expands and contracts in marvellous ways.
It made Bellarmin almost happy for the
moment, because he had got at Lord Stonehenge
with so little delay. He drew Lord
Stonehenge into the lobby. ' Read that !'
was all he said. Lord Stonehenore read ;
looked up at him wonderingly ; read again ;
coloured slightly.

Who writes this ?' he asked in amazement.
Do you know ?'

I do know — Lady Saxon.'

A CATASTROPHE.

H ROUGH all the hours of the last
clay's debate Lady Saxon suffered
tortures. Everyone said that
Champion would carry his motion by a large
majority ; that the Conservatives would
appeal to the country ; that they would be
defeated at the General Election, and that
Champion would become Prime Minister, and
bring Bellarmin into his Cabinet. All this
triumph was to be won not only without her,
but In spite of her. She had dreamed of
doing great things for Champion, for Bellarmine
too ; and now she had done her best
against them, and she had failed utterly, and
they were to triumph. A wild, last, despairing

idea took hold of her. The vulgar nature
of the mountebank reasserted itself in her.
If she could do nothing else, she would spoil
their division ; she would surprise and scandalize
the town. Neither Champion nor
Bellarmin should appear in the division
lobby. That at least would be something
done to feed her revenge ! Full of this freak
of half-insane spite, she sent her letter to
Bellarmin, and her messenger soon brought
her certain news that Bellarmin and Lord
Stonehenge had left Westminster Palace at
once together. Later on she sent to Champion
a letter, begging him to come and see
her at once, if only for five minutes ; she had
something to tell him on which all her hopes
depended. She would be lost utterly if he
did not come and give her counsel that night,
that very night. She worded her letter so
that Champion should be led to believe there
was a threatened scandal and quarrel with
Lord Saxon. That she knew would bring
him, even on the eve of his triumph.

At half-past eleven Sir Victor Champion
came. He had got out of the House
by the Ladies' Gallery entrance. He had

said nothing to the Liberal Whips on leaving
it would not be worth while ; he could he
back before twelve, in time to hear Lord
Saxon's speech, and to reply on the whole
subject. Lord Saxon was not expected to
get up much before twelve o'clock. Champion
was distressed and angry at having to
leave the House even for a few minutes just
then ; but he did not venture to neglect
Lady Saxon s appeal. He observed with a
little surprise that the door was opened for
him not by a man-servant, but by Lady
Saxon's Japanese maid.

He was shown into the outer room, and
then through heavy curtains into the dimly-lighted
inner room, and in a moment or two
Lady Saxon made her appearance. She
hurried towards him ; he stood coldly back,
and there was a complaining, even reproachful,
look on his face. Suddenly she broke
down ; the strain was too great for her ; she
burst into tears. All her pride and hate had
vanished at sight of him, and only the old
passion of love was filling her. Champion came
near and tried to soothe her, and besought
her in a gentle tone to tell him of her trouble.

Don't speak to me,' she sobbed, 'just yet;
just for a little ; I shall soon be better

What could he do but wait until her passion
of tears was over ? And then time was running
on, and Lord Saxon would soon begin
his speech. She jumped up from the sofa
on which she had been lying. ' There I I
am better now,' she said, taking her kerchief
from her eyes, ' Now ask me anything you
Hke.'

Why have you sent for me on such a
night as this ?'

Because I felt that I must see you ; that I
must speak to you ; that you must talk over
things with me ; that we must see each, other
this very night.'

Have you thought,' he asked her, ' what
this night is ? have you thought what its
consequences may be to me ?'

Oh yes, I know ; the night of your great
division, to be sure ; the night that you expect
is to bring you back to power ! I have
thought of it. That is the way with all of
you men : your own ambition is what you
love the most. It is not the way of women ;
I could love you if you failed. I feel more

like hating you now that you stand on the
verge of success. What do I care for your
division ? You want to rush away to the
House of Commons, I suppose, to record
your vote, as the newspapers put it in their
stilted jargon. Well, why don't you go ?'

I must go, Josephine, as you know ; it is
getting late already, and where would be the
use of my staying here any longer ? You
have nothing to tell me.'

Then go,' she said, rising to her feet and
pointing to the door with a melodramatic air.
Go and record your vote, and win your
victory, and gratify your ambition ; but take
this little scrap of news with you — the moment
you leave this room I shall kill myself!' She
struck her breast with her open palm as she
gave out these words. Champion stopped —
amazed, incredulous, horrified.

I shall kill myself,' she repeated, ' that
moment ; the moment you leave this room.
Look here,' she drew something from her
bosom ; ' I have been used to drugs and decoctions,
Victor, in my early days, as you
know ; and one never knows when one may
not get sick of life ; so I have always carried

this dainty little companion with me. You
see, it is only like the tiniest of sugar-plums.
But Locusts never had a poison so quick and
subtle as this. The moment you leave this
room I shall swallow it ; and before you have
reached the street I shall be dead.'

Josephine, what folly, what madness, what
wickedness it is to talk like that ! Give me
that vile thing ; I will have it ; I must have
it ! Give it to me — do, I beg of you !'

She laughed at his appeal.

Go to your division,' she said scornfully.
Why should you care about me ; why should
you want me to live ? What if after all you
should be late for the division — what a pretty
talk that would make !'

Oh, give me that thing !' he cried passionately,
and he made a movement as if he
would snatch it from her. She closed her
right hand on it. Champion caught both her
hands in his and held them tightly. But
although he could hold her hands he could
not get the poison from her. She was a
strong woman, and it took all his masculine
power merely to hold her hands.

Don't we look pretty and statuesque ?'

VOL. III. 57

she said, with another wild laugh. ' What a
situation for a dramatic author ! what a melodrama
in high life ! Let go my hands, Victor,
and go to your division. You need not turn
back if you should hear me fall ; indeed, I
don't think I shall allow myself to fall ; I shall
arrange myself in a becoming order and attitude
on that sofa, and when Saxon comes in
from the House he will find me dead ! He
will be rather shocked, don't you think ? I
wonder will he really be very sorry in the
end ? I have been a bad lot, and he would
be sure to find it out soon or late.'

Champion did not at that moment doubt
the sincerity of her declaration. Later on he
often had the conviction that after all she was
but acting a part, but just then he felt sure
that if he left her she would kill herself. He
tried to reason with her, but she only laughed
at his reasoning. He implored her, but she
made mockery of him.

How amusing !' she said ; ' the great orator
thinks he can talk over a desperate woman
as he talks over his people in the House
of Commons. It can't be done, Sir Victor
Champion. You see, you are helpless. All

the servants are in bed except Saxon's coachman
and groom, who will not come home
until Saxon comes. We are absolutely alone,
you and I — left to our own devices. Even if
you were to make a rush for the bell I should
have swallowed my little sugar plum before
you could reach it ; and what would be the
good of making a row then ?'

Do you want to set me mad ?' Champion
asked of her, in the tone of one truly perplexed
in the extreme.

Mad ? Set you mad ? Oh no ! I couldn't
do that ; not I nor any other woman ; not
even Miss Beaton herself — whom you adore.
You are far too cool-headed a man to be set
mad. Voice have set me mad ; but that's a
different thing. Still, you slave set me mad,
and you must put up with some of the unpleasant
consequences.'

'Let us sit down,' he said, 'and talk this
quietly over — as quietly as we can.' He
drew her towards the sofa and induced her to
sit there. He sat beside her, still holding her
hands in his. It was an odd picture, and
would have curiously puzzled anyone who
suddenly came within sight of it.

57—2

Victor,' she said, ' I am conquered, completely
conquered. I went into this in cold
blood ; I was determined to captivate you
once more, and to avenge myself in one way
or another for the manner in which you had
cast me off — dropped me down, at all events.
But I lost myself almost before I knew it.
Yes ; I lost myself in love for you. I hate
the stupid life I have to lead ; I am sick of
Saxon's companionship ; I only want to be
with you ; I am as much in love as if I were
not out of my teens '

Josephine, what use is it to tell me all
this ? I can do nothing ; I can't marry you.'

No ; not now ; not this moment, or this
week, or this month. But if I give up everything
for you, if we go away together, then
there must be a divorce; and then, then,
Victor, you could marry me. And you would,
would you not ? Anyhow, I would trust you,
and take my chance.'

All this is simply impossible. For
Heaven's sake, dear Josephine, do try to be
reasonable ! How could I allow Saxon's
wife to go away with me ? Saxon, who is my
friend '

You must have known long before this
that your dear friend's wife was again in love
with you, and you didn't discourage her, you
didn't rebuke her.'

No ; because I looked on you as a woman
of the world, who would not involve herself
or her husband, or anyone else, in a public
scandal and shame.'

Oh !' she cried, tossing her head impatiently,
' the horrible coldness and calculation
of all that ! That is not the way in
which a woman loves. Look, I have forgiven
you everything — forgiven you your old
neglect — forgiven you your love-making to
your Mary Stuart. I would forgive you even
your coldness and your calculation. Oh ! can
you not love me ? Can you not sacrifice something
for me ? See, I am ready to sacrifice
all for you — my position in the world, my
husband's rank, my future — ah ! even my soul,
I suppose, if what good people tell us is true
I sacrifice all this for you. Do you care
for nothing but your career and your ambition
and yourself?'

It is not a question of personal ambition,
Josephine ; it is a question of the duty one

owes to a great cause, to a party, to a people,
to England ! Think what dishonour I should
bring upon that party and that cause ! Think
what a pain it would be to that people if now,
at my time of life, in my position of acknowledged
leadership, I were to take you at
your word, to take you from your husband !
Josephine, you talk very lightly of loving me ;
I tell you this is not love. A woman who
really loved a man would do anything rather
than bring disgrace on him

Oh, cold ! cold and heartless — cold and
heartless as ever ! Well, then, let me die ;
you cannot want me to live. I do not want
to live without you ; life has all shrivelled up
into this one desire, this longing for your
love. See how I stoop and abase myself
before you ! Oh, but I have still '

In the eagerness of their talk he had let
one of her hands pass from his, and she now
made a sudden gesture as if she were about
to bear it to her lips. He caught it again
in alarm and horror, and held it fast. She
smiled a wild smile.

Some time or other,' she said, ' you will
have to let my hands go, Victor, and then

you will see. Do you know that you will
have lost your division, after all ? Do you
know that the moment the division is over
my husband will come home, and that he
will come at once to me, wondering why I
have not gone down to the House to learn
the great news ? What do you think he will
say when he sees you and me in this picturesque
attitude, you holding my hands
firmly clasped in yours ?'

Oh, for God's sake,' Champion remonstrated,
' don't talk in that way ! Don't put
such horrible thoughts into words.'

Words, words — yes ! you always think of
the words, Victor. No matter what the
thoughts or the deeds, provided only that
the words are well chosen and sound right.
Well, I wish he would come ! I wish he
would draw that curtain just at this moment,
and look in on us and see you and me, and
hear me tell of my love for you and my
willingness to go away with you !'

For a moment Champion felt an almost
uncontrollable impulse to throw her hands
from him. But the mere relaxation of his
grasp set her renewing once more her attempt

to get free, and, as he now fully believed, to
put her poison to its use. He held her more
firmly than before. Where and how was
this to end ? He felt a completeness of
despair.

Yes,' she repeated, ' I wish he would come
this moment and hear me tell how I love
you — draw aside that curtain and see us now !'

The curtains which divided the one room
from the other were suddenly drawn aside ;
but neither Champion nor Lady Saxon heard
any sound or looked towards the parted
screen. Lord Saxon stood there for a
moment and stared at them. He seemed
like one paralyzed. His face was purple and
distorted ; his eyes blazed. He made an
effort to speak, but only an inarticulate voice
came from his lips. The sound, however,
was enough to startle Lady Saxon and Champion.
Lady Saxon sprang to her feet with a
cry, and she tore her hands from Champion's
grasp, and her poison phial rattled on the
hearth. Champion leaped up and made a
movement towards Lord Saxon, as if to put
himself between Saxon and the unfortunate
woman.

Saxon, Saxon !' he exclaimed ; * don't
make any mistake. Let me tell you ; everything
can be explained '

He had no need to say any more. Explanation
was not needed — never could be
given ; never could be understood. Saxon
remained standing for a moment in that same
appalling attitude of speechless passion, his
dumbness more terrible than any words of
hate or menace. For the moment while
Saxon stood thus, Champion felt as if his
heart were sickening and ceasing to beat from
horror. Lady Saxon had shrunk back to the
wall at the farther end of the room, and stood
there with her back pressed against it, like
some creature who stands on her last defence,
and she covered her eyes with her
hands. One moment the three were thus
standing, and then Saxon made apparently a
new effort to speak, and again tried in vain ;
and then a kind of sob burst from his lips,
and he fell forward on the floor. Champion
knelt beside him and raised his head.

Quick, Josephine ! help me,' he said in a
low voice.

Oh, he has fainted !' she murmured, still

afraid to leave her place of refuge ; ' he has
fainted before ; leave him to me. You, Victor,
get away; save yourself; I will explain all.
Go ; go. I am not afraid — but I want you
to go — I don't want you to be here when he
comes to.'

'Josephine,' Champion said in a deep, sad
voice, ' he will not come to ; Heaven has
punished us ; he is dead.'

She gave a wild cry, and ran across the
room and flung herself on the carpet and took
in her hands the head of the dead man. For
he was dead. The long threatened had come.
The shock which Saxon had been so earnestly
admonished to avoid had forced itself upon
him, and its terrible consequence came. He
had seen his wife with her hands clasped in
the hands of his friend ; he had heard some
of her words, and had given them their too
natural interpretation ; and the discovery had
been more than he could bear. He fell dead
in the belief that his friend and his wife had
betrayed him ; he died of that belief. Extinction
threatens the direct line of the great
Whig family, and Josephine Saxon will
never be Duchess of Athelstanee.

THE LAST.

ARY was roused from her dreaming
by the sound of the opening
door. With the swiftness of
desperation she sprang upon her scaffolding
of chairs, and secured her place in the window
just as Falcon entered the room. He looked
up amazed.

Why are you seated there, Madame ?' he
asked. ' Come down ; I wish to speak to
you.'

I prefer to be here, General Falcon.'

Do you not see the height — the danger ?
Don't, don't dare to lean out, Mary.'

I feel a pleasant sense of safety here,
General Falcon ; I am not a bit afraid, for 1

know that while I am here with this open
window I can set myself free whenever I
please.'

'Oh,' he groaned, 'to think that it should
come to this between you and me !'

Yes ; to think that it should come to this
between you and me ! Will you let me go,
General Falcon ? Give me your word that
you will let me go — and I will believe you,
and come down and trust to your keeping
your word, for all that has come and gone.'

Come down first ; come down first and
trust me,' he begged.

Mary saw the advantage she had gained
by her resolute composure ; a new and
sudden thought came on her. She dropped
lightly down from her window.

You see,' she said, * I am not afraid of
you. Why should I be afraid ? I shall
leave this place to-night, General Falcon —
yes, I know that — I shall leave it ; with your
consent or in spite of you. If we are ever to
be friends again, I must leave it with your
consent ; but I shall leave it all the same.'

'You cannot, Mary; I tell you it is impossible.
I am master here ; absolute master.'

She turned on him with an intrepid look.
God is master; absolute master here,' she
said ; ' as He is everywhere, and He will
send help to me.'

Just at that moment steps were heard, and
Lady Saxon's German servant was seen to
open the door, and Bellarmin and Lord
Stonehenge rushed into the room. Mary
lost herself in a moment ; the answer to
her appeal was too sudden for her to bear
the sight of Bellarmin come to her rescue
then and there was overwhelming ; and she
flung herself into his arms, and clasped him
with all her might. What did she care if
Lord Stonehenge saw her ; if Falcon saw
her ; if all the world saw her } What did
she care for the devices of Lady Saxon ?
She was saved, and saved by him — and she
loved him, and she knew it.

Where did yozc come from ?' Falcon exclaimed
fiercely to the German servant.

My lady sent me down here,' was the
quiet answer, ' to let these gentlemen in.'
Falcon gave a cry of pain.

General Falcon,' Lord Stonehenge said
sternly, * you will have to come up to London

at once — with me ; not with Miss Beaton —
Miss Beaton goes to Stonehenge Park.'

Falcon remained silent for a moment.
Bellarmin and Mary were absorbed in each
other. Lord Stonehenge turned to the
German servant to give some directions.
Suddenly Falcon sprang to the top of Mary's
little scaffolding of chairs, and scrambled into
the window, and then gave utterance to a
wild yell of insane triumph. All the men
rushed at him at once ; but they were too
late. He had thrust himself feet first through
the window, and he shot himself into space.
One last shriek rang in their horrified ears,
and then all was silence outside, except for
the sigh of the wind and the moan of the
waves that might have served as the dirge of
the man whose corpse was already swallowed
by the sea.

•5'f i/t ■?:- •}'!• ■?'?

There was much news to go over London
next day. The great division had been
taken, and Sir Victor had won. The
Government would appeal to the country,
and would be defeated, and Sir Victor
would come into power and bring Bellarmin

with him. But even this was overshadowed
by the sad story of Lord Saxon's sudden
death. That was why Champion did not
take part in the division. Lord Saxon had
not spoken, as it was fully expected that he
was going to do ; he left the House and
went home, feeling ill, no doubt, and Lady
Saxon sent for Champion. And Champion
came too late to see Lord Saxon alive.

Bellarmin, people said, was not in the
division, because he had been sent for by
Miss Beaton, whose old friend. General
Falcon, had been taken with madness at
Stonehenge Park, and had committed suicide.
Such a sad thing for that charming young
woman ! And of course she telegraphed for
Mr. Bellarmin, because everyone knows now
that she is engaged to him. And with
Champion for Prime Minister, and Bellarmin
in the Cabinet, there was great likelihood
indeed that her family claims would be
allowed to her. And then, of course,
sensible people added, when she marries an
English statesman she will settle down to
be an English lady, and we shall hear no
more of the Stuart Princess. But those who

know her better than the sensible people
could possibly do, will know that the romance
which is the tradition and inheritance of her
race will not fade out of her life, or turn to
the prosaic in it, and that by whatsoever
name Mary Beaton is called, she will still bethe
Stuart Princess, and will still display
with love and pride ' the whiteness of the
rebel rose.' )

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.
