VOL. I.

a ^torj in Clio facts.

BY

HERMAN CHARLES Derivable.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

<Saonb edition.

LONDON :

CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 11, Henrietta ST.

CO^^:XT Garden.

1882.

[Afl Rights reserved']

CLAY AND TAYLOR, Printed.

TO

virginia anb Jisatcl Batsman

IX Kindly MEMORY OF THEIR MOTHER, MRS. S. F. Bateman.

TO WHOSE FIRST SUGGESTION AXD FAVOURITE IDEA

(a SHADOW OF AX OLD Legend IX Modern LIFE,

AFTER THE Fashion OF 3IISS Thackeray's Fair-TALES )

THE Origin OF THIS STORY IS Lethe

BOOK WHICH GREW GRADUALLY OUT OF IT Into ITS Present

Proportions IS DEDICATED BY THEIR ATTACHED Friend

THE AUTHOR.

Hazard Side,

Eastbourne,
vf SeiAemher, 1881.

.f-^

C^

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/faucitofballiols01meri

CHAPTER I.

PA GK

GUY AND DAISY . . . . . . 3

CHAPTER II.

THE BALLIOL ROOMS . . . . l^

CHAPTER .III.
THE CHRISTCHURCH BALL

CHAPTER IV.

HERCULES AND OMPHALE





CHAPTER V.

OXONIANA . . . . . 70

CHAPTER YI.

THE Idyll . . . . . 92

CHAPTER VII.
MOTHER AND SON . . . 110

CHAPTER VIII.

TERM-EATING .

CHAPTER IX.

KAIllFlELl) AND 00.

CHAPTER XIII,
:HR. .JOHN BRENT

PAGE



13^

CHAPTER X.

COMING EVENTS J . . . . 151

CHAPTER XI.

MY LORD AND MY LADY . . . . 169

CHAPTER XII.

LADY Pepper arrow's HOUSE-WARMING ' ' . . 187



CHAPTER XIV.

THE COUP DE GRACE . . . . 223

CHAPTER XV.
OVER . . . . . 242

CHAPTER XVI.

ALONE IN THE WORLD . . . . 258

Mephistopheles thrown upon real life, and obliged to manage his own
plots, would inevitably make blunders." — George Eliot.

VOL. I.

GUY AND DAISY.

Time was made for slaves, not chroniclers ; and I
will not undertake to give an exact date, but say
that it might have been some fifteen or twenty years
ago, when there met, for the first time, among all the
gaieties and forgetfulness of an Oxford commemoration,
a young fellow of Balliol and a prosperous city
merchant's pretty daughter, to make up their minds
respectively in about ten minutes, and to know they
had made them up in about as many days, that
there never could have been such a Balliol fellow,
or such a merchant's daughter, in existence before.
They saw each other first " on the banks," dear on
a summer evening to the heart of every Oxford
man, where Guy Faucit of Balliol, who in taking to
the lecture-room had not forgotten his victorious

B 2

captaincy of the Oxford eight, was engaged in the
mysteries and delight of coaching the present crew
of his college for a forthcoming struggle with Third
Trinity for the cup at Henley. Guy Faucit was a
household word among the mariners of Isis : for for
three consecutive years he had left Cambridge in the
lurch at the historic goal of Mortlake, first with the
matchless stroke which kept such a clean and even
swing for the whole length of the course, steady and
strong as a pendulum, and never quickening up through
loss of nerve or want of reserve of power, till just the
critical moment of the finish, when he launched out
in the sharp, strong spurt which set all the ranks of
Oxford cheering from the steamboats, and defied all
the pluck and skill of the Light Blue to redress the
balance or to score a victory The '' Faucit spurt " was
a proverb, like the ''botte Nevers' of the "Duke's
M<jtto." Then, as the bones grew stronger-fleshed
and the muscles harder, he subsided into the less
conspicuous place of number seven, and there, too, with
his eyes fixed between the shoulders of his stroke-oar,
kept him up to the tradition of the conquering stroke.
The stroke would row with an energy not his own when
he felt that he had Faucit behind him, and it was not

till Guy, as strong and original at his books as at his
oar, had come out as the best first-class man of his
year, — repute in this instance being too strong for the
alphabetical precedence which at Oxford shrouds the
senior classic in a becoming mystery (even before that
facile princeps for the last vacant fellowship of his
college), — and taken his place among the instructors
of youth while yet as young a man as many of them,
that the sister-university could get a chance of her share
in the birthright again. Guv Faucit's was the stalwart
six-foot figure which at a round swing-trot kept pace
on the shore with the swings of the Balliol eight, as she
shot through the narrows of "the gut" as straight as
an arrow, under the cunning hand of the Honourable
James Gosling, who was cut out by nature for a "cox,"
and regarded the post as the height of athletic distinction.
On Faucit he depended with a filial interest, and
implicitly trusted him both to marshal him to victory
at Henley, and to '"' pull him " through his divinity in
the schools. James was very much exercised about his
divinity ; " but a close examination, on his side, of
the ways and customs of examiners, having convinced
him that to their minds the word conveyed no theological
or doctrinal meaning whatever, but resolved

itself into a question of dates and hard names, he
was growing easier about the future. He had learned
both to spell and to pronounce Mahershalalhashbaz and
Cushanrethashaim, having satisfied himself that, as
names of eighteen and sixteen letters respectively, they
were the two longest winded monarchs in the Old Testament,
and good enough to floor any examiner withal.
He carried an abstract of the list of the kings of Israel
about on his shirt-cuffs in the form of a memoria
technical, while the kings of Judah occupied the crown
of his hat. And at the foot of his bed, so that it might
meet his eyes the first thing in the morning, and
preside over the extinction of his candle at night, was
a table inscribed with some mysterious hexameter,
beginning —

Crop Deletoff Abaneb Exafna Tembybe Cyrus.

Years afterwards, when his hairs were turning grey,
would the Honourable James remember that hexameter,
and wonder what on earth it could have meant.

Stowed away among cushions in a punt, in the
charge of two happy and . envied undergraduates who
had the fortune of the acquaintance of mr. Fairfield of
the City, merchant, a certain Miss Daisy Fairfield

watched the advance of the Balliol eight, and of the
figure on the opposite bank, from a lair among the
grasses on the Oxford side, somewhere below the point
where the lazy little Chigwell tumbles into the arms
of Isis, just in time to see many a good ship " bumped "
into a lower place.

The "'Varsity'^ barge, and the lesser barges
clustered about it,' were gay with innumerable bunting
and bands of uncompromising brass (for the
most part limited in their repertory to the '' Hardy
Norseman "), and butterfly toilettes of the most
fascinating kind and the most tempting variety, setting
off the pretty and wholesome faces of the sweet girl
wearers, deeply intent upon the results of this near
glimpse into the inner life and youth of the mysterious
and more favoured animal called man. He, on his
side, divided himself even at that early age into the
two classes of the susceptible and the hardened, the
duck and the brute, and either hung: entranced on
Beauty's notes, and tethered in her ribands, or walked
the banks apart, a thing of misogyny, in a suit of
flannel even more decided than usual, or with a face
jaundiced with an extra dose of the midnight oil,
and contracted into that expression of inward pain so

commonly consequent upon a debauch of Aristotle.
Gosling always maintained that, until the birth of
Aldrich, no one man had ever caused so much suffering
"off his own bat" as the classical monster whom he
always described as the " Staggers."

Close by where Daisy sate was the punt of the
champion punter of the world, hanging out for a
motto the rather lugubrious legend, innocent of a
personal pronoun, " Saved the lives of many gentlemen."
And, dressed in all the bright and daring
combinations of colour which Young Summer rejoices
in, to the encouragement of healthy-minded people
who believe in colours and combinations, the beautiful
Christchurch meadows, with dainty little Merton set
like a gem in the centre background, looked their
pleasantness upon the scene. Not without reason does
the Oxonian cherish in his heart a placid conviction
that he may set his Christchurch meadows against the
famous "backs of the colleges" in the Light-blue
land, and not be afraid of the comparison.

There then sate Daisy Fairfield, revelling in the
beauty and interest of the scene, and in the comfort
of her situation, as she nestled among her cushions,
trusting herself to the adroitness of her youthful

punters, whose control over their cumbrous instalment
occasionally suggested that under more hazardous conditions
they might be more likely to destroy the lives
of many gentlemen than to save them.

Except, perhaps, the paddle of a canoe, nothing is
more capricious than a punt-pole in the ambitious
hands of youth, possessed as it is of all the malignity
of inanimate objects to a degree not emulated till the
invention of the bicycle, that iron fiend, which, when
running away with a man down-hill, produces in his
mind a sense of helplessness surpassing show. Jem
Gosling's first appearance in a punt was never forgotten
by his friends, when he embarked upon a race without
having tried his hand before, impressed by the obvious
easiness of the thing. He got his bark, or had it
propelled for him, into the mid-current, swung it round
slowly twice on its own axis, something receding in the
process, then walked straight over the side after his
punt-pole into the water, and wallowed. Daisy's
guides, however, were a little more skilled than that,
and at this moment were resting on their poles, cradled
by the waving grasses under the shore.

"It's a splendid sight," said Daisy, with enthusiasm,
as she saw the Balliol crew coming up with a will, the

eight broad and red-striped backs working together
like a machine. " Splendid ! " she exclaimed, her eyes
lighting up as she watched the men.

Daisy Fairfield was one of those who move and
speak as goddesses among women, with a girlhood
promising a very majesty of maturity. Hers was the
veined-marble complexion, with the paleness of statue-land,
not of ill-health, touched with a tender rose by
exercise or excitement; the tall and free and supple
figure which matches such complexions best ; the violet
eyes with the black bull's eye, and the wealth of wavy
hair, of chestnut toned with gold, in all the pride and
glory of eighteen. No touch of hardness was in the
look or in the voice then, to mar the picture with a
thought of ill. It was a picture of happiness and
goodness undefiled.

Oh ye men and women, oh ye women and men,
who from selfishness, vindictiveness, perversity, love
of gain, any of the paltry and self-avenging motives
which grow so fast by what they feed on, and spring
up like brambles round the strait gate and the
narrow way, to choke the access further, — ye who,
in despite of love's simplest message, seem to delight
in working your neighbour harm, to the baffling of

the comprehension of more single-purposed hearts,
do you never think, I wonder, when you see the
outward and visible traces of your doings on the faces
and lives of those, at whose expense you did them ? do
the terrible warnings of the olden law carry with them
no fear, no starting of the conscience that will not die
in you, by whatever name you call it — evolution, or
indigestion, or what not ? Under those outward and
visible signs, too often, lies an inward and invisible scar
beyond your healing, though it was not beyond your
making ; a scar of the heart or of the mind, or maybe
of the soul. Go down on those straightened knees of
yours, even at the eleventh hour of the night, and pray,
though it be but in the name of the poor modern clay-god
called Humanity, that you may yet do unto others
as ye would that they should do unto you. If you have
wronged your neighbour, ask him to forgive you, and if
he humbly holds a better faith than yours, remember
this — his creed teaches him to ask for pardon, even ashe
is ready to give it freely when he is freely asked.
But I cannot so read the Divine and loving command
as to see that it enjoins the impossible, and asks of man
what he cannot do, to forgive unasked. As with the
Divine pardon, so with the human, the one condition.

precedent of forgiveness would seem to be this — let
the wrongdoer come, and ask to be forgiven. The Lord
"forgave that servant" because he asked Him.

But I am anticipating here, and would not mar my
own memory further, of Daisy Fairfield as she was in
those Oxford days.

Up the river then came the Balliol eight, cheered
by an indiscriminate band of admirers racing up the
Berkshire bank, and heralded by the " long stern
swell" of Faucit's steady and musical lungs.

A pleasant companion-picture was he to the eye,
the English athlete of some eight-and-twenty, with the
big forehead and the clear blue eyes, which shall
explain themselves later.

"Put your back into it, three." And three,
conscience-stricken, put in his back.

Put his back into what ? " asked Daisy, maliciously
or in good faith. " Where else is it to go ?
It's big enough, certainly."

Tompkins of Trinity explained how backs were
put in.

Oh ! And who is the director-general of backs on
the other bank, who runs so fast and shouts so loud ? "

You don't mean to say you don't know ? " cried

Bones of Balliol, scandalized. 'why that's Fauci t ;
not P. W.,— the other."

'not P. W.,— the other," repeated Daisy, reflectively.
" Indeed ! This becomes really interesting, and
will take time. Forgive me my ignorance, and tell me,
first, who is P. W. ? I want to reduce the situation to
its primitive elements."

"P. W.'s Faucit of Exeter, the mathematical fellow,
a long thin man in goggles, who was proctor last year,
and got it hot in the theatre. I wish you'd heard it.
The men all let out like mad, for he'd proctorized half
the place."

How did he do that, and what is it when it's
done ? I'm learning, you know."

"Well, proctorizing means having a man up for
something — going about in mufti, or having a spread
at the Mitre, or that sort of thing."

It sounds very bad, and should be punished.
What does he do for it ? "

"Generally gets a man gated, you know," said
Bones. "It's an awful nuisance in the summer term."

It would be. Proctorizing seems to be what the
police call taking up."

Something in the same line. But the proctor's

the peeler and the beak all in one — first runs you in
and then sits on you. That's not fair any way."

"As far as I understand it, it isn't. Why don't you
apply for a Habeas Corpus when you're gated, and
bring an action for false imprisonment ? "

"Oh," commented Tompkins, "that's law. We
haven't got any law here, except the Vice-chancellor's
Court. He's dead the other way."

No law ? " said Daisy. " What a delightful place !
How one lives and learns. I never knew that the
University was a sort of modern Alsatia."

What's that ? " enquired Bones.

Don't you know ? They ought to teach you."

"Don't teach us much later down than Rome.
It's not the form."

How odd the difference of form is," remarked
Daisy. " They don't teach us girls much higher up
than the piano. And my education has been so
neglected that I never heard of P. W., or of the other.
And now I want to know all about him too. You have
given me such a description of P. W.'s moral and
physical qualities in a few words, Mr. Bones, that I
believe I should know him if I met him. Now tell me
about the other."

Ah ! that's another sort altogether. That's Fauci t
of our place, commonly called 'The Copper,' and
familiarly loved as old Guy. He was the best stroke
the 'Varsity eight ever had, and he's a crack tennis-player
besides."

He might have been one of the best men in the
eleven too," chimed in Tompkins, "only he said he
couldn't do everything, and hadn't the time to get out
to Cowley Marsh often enough."

"But he can do everything for all that," added
Bones. " Just look at what he did in the brains line —
got the Balliol before he came up, and the Hertford in
his first year, and the Ireland in his second, and a
double-first in Mods, before you knew where you were."

"And only didn't do the same in Greats," said
Tompkins, " because he liked classics best, and said he
didn't believe in a man trying too much, just like
the cricket."

"Besides, he wanted to have time for his own
reading, which he's very fond of," choruses Bones.
"And he got a fellowship at the old place before he
went in for his degree, and the dons said they wouldn't
have it done again."

Because it wouldn't be fair on the others," quoth

Tompkins. " And now he's the best lecturer and the
j oldest don in the place, and as good a fellow with the
men of other colleges as he is with his own."

"And still coaches the eight as nobody else can
coach it, and puts on half-fifteen a year at tennis. Ran
old Barre himself hard the other day, at the fair odds
and side-walls and openings."

"Putting on half-fifteen and running old Barre
must be wonderfully exciting," smiled Daisy, inwardly
delighted with the honest and lovable enthusiasm of
her young squires. " You all seem quite fond of ' the
other.' "

I should think we were," said Bones.
"Grand old trump," added Tompkins. And so
The Works of Guy Faucit," as they would have been
called in Homer, were sung in the true ej^ic style by
his two chroniclers.

Daisy Fairfield felt really interested and attracted
by the history, as she had been at once by the striking
appearance of the man with the strong rather than
handsome features, the curly crisp brown hair, the
fair Saxon complexion, and the look of power upon the
face. Daisy was a student in heads, and a foe to the
commonplace. She might have asked and heard more

of Faucit, had not the inevitable chaperon — for let not
my readers believe that this scene had passed without
one — at this moment woke from a refreshing slumber.
She was a nice, pleasant-looking specimen of portly
middle-age, brooding over the youthful three Hke "a
mature duck.

*'I think, my dear, I should like to go one to tea,"
said Mrs. Pepperharrow. " There's the ball to-night,
and you mustn't overeat yourself."

Overeat herself, Mrs. Pepperharrow ! " said the
astonished Bones.

*' The eat of the sun, Mr. Bones, is great upon the
river."

Oh ! quite so. I beg your pardon."

VOL.

THE BALLIOL ROOMS.

Midnight ! yet not an eye in the academic city closed
in sleep. No eye, at least, belonging to any one with a
proper measure of self-respect; for all the world and his
sweetheart were at that year's Christchurch Ball. It
was what is called a grand commemoration in the year
I write of, and beautiful Alma Mater was in her
blandest mood of motherhood, favoured by weather
which showed her everywhere at her best. Foliage
and sward looked their softest and greenest in the fair
gardens of Worcester and St. John ; and the leaves of
Magdalen Walks, with their belt of trees girdling the
old enclosure, whispered their confidences to young
undergraduate lovers and their goddesses for the hour,
and discreetly kept the secret of those they listened to

in return. The fantastic figures perched on their
pedestals in Magdalen quadrangle grinned sympathetically
at the young people who came in and went
out in a more advanced stage of the world's most
chronic malady. It was a line time for pairing, and
the opportunity was not lost. Many a young and
ambitious fellow of his college, vowed only the week
before to celibacy and the comfortable selfishness of the
Common Room, began to count the cost of deserting
academic life for the bar or the press, winning name
and fame by persuasive orations at westminster, or
trenchant witticisms in the ' Saturday Review and
leaving the dead languages to bury their dead, for the
sake of some pair of bright eyes which had suddenly
flashed in upon his solitude, and burned decided holes
in his trencher-cap and gown.

On the evening before Show Sunday he had been
proudly looking forward into a distant future, to the
day when he might stand before the world of his
measuring-rod as the Provost or Principal of his college,
after service all the stages of tutor and bursar in due
course. Then, perhaps, he would take unto himself a
helpmeet upon proper prudential and academic principles,
suitable to him in years and views of life, to sit

c 2

at his feet and the bottom of his table, and shine with
the reflected radiance of his scholastic glory. To him,
perhaps, ^s the old stage-directions say, entered on that
Show Sunday some gracious young vision in flowers
and lace, entirely frivolous and illogically sweet, with
no special charm for many but the bloom of English
girlhood, suddenly to upset all his calculations through
the open sesame of an " introduction," under the broad
interlacing branches which span the Broad Walk of
Christchurch in the earliest order of architecture, to
the silver Sunday music of Oxford's innumerable bells.
Without rhyme or reason would young Suckling of
Oriel change his theories of existence at this touch of
harlequin Fortune's motley wand, and contemplate
"cas irdische Gliick" from an altogether different
point of view. After all, was he not born to get it
"genoese" in the time-honoured fashion of the
majority of healthy-hearted mankind ?

Is it possible that some such spirit as this, summoned
in his inscrutable purpose from the vasty deeps
of life by the great Enchanter's voice, overshadowed
Guy Faucit's strong will and sober nature with a
warning, on that afternoon by the river ? Even as he
was swinging steadily up the bank, intent as usual

just upon what he was doing and no more, keenly
marking the merits and defects of the young athletes
working their best under his experienced eye, and
inwardly resolving the possible results of effecting a
change in the boat between numbers six and seven,
he caught a rapid glimpse, in passing, of a girl's
figure propped up among the cushions of a punt,
in an attitude of genuine interest in the doings of
his crew. He just marked her in passing, and as he
was crossing to the Balliol barge with a boastful of
other men, after the cruise was finished, he saw her
again, closer and more at his leisure, springing ashore
from her little bark under the emulous guardianship
of Bones and Tompkins. They passed him close by,
and as Bones saluted him with the proper sign of
respect due to his tutor, mingled with an obvious
dash of pride in his own new duties, Faucit instinctively
raised his hat in answer, and bestowed a very
honest and respectful look of admiration upon Daisy
Fairfield. Whether she looked at him or not at the
same moment I cannot undertake to say ; but certainly
she saw him. And when a rapid little Parthian glance
shot back at him over her shoulder when she had
gone a little further with Bones (Tompkins, the sey

(log, was sedulously paying court to good Mrs. Pepper-harrow),
it fell upon a responsive place ; for the fact
is, that Faucit of Balliol was looking after her with all
his might and main.

'' Good Heavens ! " he thought to himself, " what
a lovely girl ! " But the vision passed ; and Guy
Faucit, his hands in his pockets in attitude profound,
whistling to himself a few rather thoughtful bars,
strolled homewards through the busy corn-market to
his rooms in Balliol.

The rooms in Balliol, which he had tenanted ever
since he took his first class five years before, and had
gradually furnished and improved with every evidence
of scholarship and taste, making a hobby of them,
seemed that evening, he couldn't imagine why, to
want something he couldn't conceive what. The
pictures were few and grave and good, carefully chosen
and paid for at a good round price, for the most part
the most careful reproductions that the engraver or his
kindred artists could furnish of the solid masterpieces
of an olden day. There Titian's daughter carried her
fruit and showers, with the fair head thrown back in
the attitude as perfect in its audacity of pose as in
its nature and its grace ; there the pretty chocolate

whom Dresden loves through the eyes of Leonard,
proffered her dish of sober drink with the slightly
contemptuous air of a young person something above
her work, and apt to dream of the marble halls which
a posse of Saxon admirers had no doubt placed at her
disposal; there Rembrandt's bonnie wife sat perched
upon the knee of her painter-husband, her head and his
twisted round, the one festively and the other coquettishly,
over the brimming glass of honest German beer ;
and there, in its deep unfathomable awe, the despair
of painters past, present, and to come, not all lost or
wanting even through the medium of the copyist,
above the watching reverence of the upturned baby-faces,
the strange, ineffable, thrilling mystery [of Godhead
upon earth looked down upon the gazer, out
of the eyes of the mother and child of Our Lady of
San Sisto.

The books which Heed the walls were kindred to
the pictures : so that nothing seemed wanting in the
two classes of home-companions, which, with a comfortable
dog curled up on the hearth-rug, make the
most loving and responsive company for the \kkpoy^ avrjp
of a worthy mould, who lives, from choice or destiny,
alone. They were chosen for reading, and looked all

read, gradually gathered with a gradual patience, so
that they were still small in bulk though great in
matter. Bindings and editions were not neglected,
though not essential : a clear, readable type being the
only definite condition grafted upon the contents of the
book. The Catholic taste of the reader was evident
from the various nature of the subject-matters, and
evidently had chosen for its province the masterpieces
of style and thought rather than any special line of
study. English literature was the staple of the collection,
though French and German had their proper
part in the arrangements, and Latin and Greek, as
became a classical tutor, were respectfully, but not
overpoweringly, represented.

The little inner sanctum — for in the larger room
the pupils were received — told a tale of another kind.
Stags' heads spoke of long-vacation stalking in the
North ; an amazing collection of miscellaneous and
polyglottic pipes recorded wanderings over half the
tobacco-smoking world ; and silver oars and silver
racquets, and tankards whose very sight suggested
the Elysian pleasures of a "long drink," sang of
many victories in the athletic field. In such a little
bachelor's paradise, what was it of which Faucit, who

had grown into his life and his rooms, can suddenly
have felt an unrealized want that evening? Did he
miss the serpent, or the serpent's inducement ?

He had ordered a quiet and solitary dinner in his
rooms, and in due course his servant appeared with it.
The college cook, a discriminating artist, who was quite
as capable of catering for the cultivated taste of a
travelled fellow, as for satisfying the zoological appetites
of undergraduates with uniform beeves and
mutton, provided Faucit with a dainty, but not the
less solid repast, of which Guy, whatever the nature
of his reflections, ate with an irreproachable zest and
a generous capacity, mixing his liquors in defiance of
the modern science of Scepticism, and correcting
bitter beer with his favourite Burgundy. The meal
over, he had installed himself in his leathern chair,
with a pet pipe and a cup of black coffee, slippered and
magazine, when a knock at the door interrupted his
occupations.

Come in," he said, not altogether sorry to be
interrupted, for, hard-worker as he was, he was
gregarious of soul; and the figure of the youthful
Bones presented itself.

Hallo, Bones ; what do you want ? "

Well, sir, I came, to ask if you'd excuse me from
reading essay tomorrow. The fact is, I've been about
all day with friends, and haven't got it done."

In which state you certainly can't read it," said
Faucit. *' But why don't you go to your rooms now,
and work away till you've done it ? "

*rit would take me a good long time, sir. I'm
always slow over my essay work. And I've got to
go, at least I want to go, to the Christchurch Ball
to-night."

Well, we mustn't be too particular at Commemoration
time. But remember, the schools ain't very far
off, my boy, and you want a good deal of brushing up."

I know I do, sir ; and you're so kind in working
with me, that I'd even give the ball up and get through
the grind if you wished it."

I don't wish it," answered the other. " You'll
have a day or two after the balls and flower-shows
before you go down, and you can finish off the essay
easily enough. I suppose it'll be a good ball ? "

First-rate, sir. The thing's to be really well done.
Ain't you thinking of going ? "

I ? " said Faucit. " No ; I've some work of my
own on hand, and there's nobody up this time I know

much about. You seem better off. Are you gong
with the ladies I saw you with by the river to-day ? "

"I'm going to meet them there, sir. Did you
see them ? "

"Just in passing. The girl looked very pretty."

"That's just what she is," said Bones, "and no
mistake about that. And she's as nice as she's
pretty, too. My governor knows hers in business in
London, so they asked me to call when they came
on Saturday, and I've been doing the right thing for
them all the week. I had some waltzes with her at
the Masonic Ball last night which I shan't force ina
hurry, and I'm going to repeat the dose to-night.
I wish you'd come, sir. I should like to introduce
you to Miss Fairfield."

That's her name, is it ? " said Guy. " I don't
do much in the ball way now, and haven't since I
took my degree : so I'm afraid I shouldn't be much addition
to the party. Dance away, and good luck to you."

"Thank you, sir. I'll be sure to have the essay
done before we go down. I wish you'd come ; but
if you won't, good night."

Good nicrht, Bones." And the youngster took his
departure.

Guy Faucit smoked on awhile, drank his coffee,
and meditated over his magazine. Then he sat down
at a well-covered writing-table, and plunged into
pen and ink. He had made himself a good name
already among the Saturday Reviewers, then a band
of keen and ardent spirits, who had given a new
impulse to journalism by their fresh and powerful
and witty work, and attracted many a young college
ambition to their ranks. Strong sense and scholarship
were Faucit' s best points in the contribution, and
even at that age he was not fond of the practice of
anonymous vivisection. He did his work carefully that
evening, and rather slowly, more than once travelling
away from it; but the power of concentration, which
was his in a marked degree, existed then as afterwards,
and he had a habit of mastering any stray access
of wilfulness in an uncompromising way. Age quod
ay is stood him in good stead as his motto in everything;
and he had once distinguished himself by
entering under the head of his " favourite occupation,"
in one of those senseless feminine albums which recorda
series of imaginary preferences improvised under
pressure of invention, " whatever I happen to be doing."

So he finished his article at the cost of some

increase in the tax on his time, smoked another pipe
and turned over the pages of a new novel, and then
began to meditate on bed. He looked at his bed
and he looked at his watch, plurima mente revolves ;
and he began to undress, and he walked up and down
his room, and again he sat and meditated. Then he
contemplated his night-gown comfortably folded on his
pillow, while only the sounds of night came up to
him from the quiet quadrangle. Then he took a
sudden excursion to his wardrobe, and surveyed his
evening clothes, submitting them evidently to a mental
test of comparison. Then he visited his snuggery
again, and from the glass behind the mantel-piece
took down a ticket. Then he made that indescribable
but definite sound to himself, which appears in the
play-books under the form of 'humph"; and finally,
as with a mind suddenly made up at the price of some
self-disapproval, he put himself into those evening
clothes of his rapidly enough, and after a placid exit
through the porter's lodge — that official regarding him
with some respectful astonishment — he swung down
the street at a steady pace, and as the clock was on
the stroke of twelve he found himself among the
guests at the Christchurch Ball.

THE CHRISTCHURCH BALL.

J3AISY Fairfield was in the full flush of a young
girl's triumph. Jf I could choose my experiences of
the raptures of life, I should like to be a great statesman
for a season, a victorious soldier for another, a
successful author for a third, and a reigning beauty
for a fourth. In the absolute intoxication of effect
I imagine that the last of the four may have the
best of us all. There must be something in that
spontaneous homage, not called out as the result of
labour or of years, but offered without reserve at the
shrine of youth in its most winning natural guise, by
statesman and soldier and author and everybody else,
which has no parallel in the grosser experiences of
man.

Daisy Fairfield tasted the cup to the full in this
her year of grace. Her father was prominent among
the sober race of London merchants, becoming fast
less well represented than it used to be, who built
solid fortunes by solid and honourable work, and without
attempting to vie with the magnificent palaces of
Belgravian and Kensington districts, which with all
their size look as if they were meant to be sold to
a company at an early date, contented themselves
with strong and comfortable houses on the slopes of
Bloomsbury, or, under the influence of the westward-ho
movement which seems to be the history of all big
towns, in the regions of Portland Place.

In those broad and airy latitudes our Daisy bloomed.
Her father's friends were of that large and varied class
which probably, amongst a good deal of dulness, supplies
about the pleasantness varieties of London society,
I do not say of social Hfe. I suppose that the socio-geographer
would map it out as part of the "upper
middle," whatever that dissection formula may imply.
Lawyers rising and risen make perhaps the chief staple
of it, and a pleasant staple too. Notwithstanding the
fabled preference of the sex for soldiers and curates,
the barristers hold their ground very well, by right,

I suppose, of the power of talk which is presumed
by privilege and practice to belong to them, though
in too many cases on slight ground enough. The
'' chambers " which are supposed to receive them daily
seem to have a very doubtful existence in some cases,
and to leave them free for dinners and balls and
junketings innumerable, even sometimes for those
two haunts of the acknowledged idlers, which stamp
imprudent youth as ''no good to anybody " in the
working world — the Park and the five o'clock tea. But
others, and, as a rule, it must be admitted pleasant
ones, fight their wig-armed battle of life to a purpose
under the god-like discipline of patience, and mean
business, as soon as they can get it, very emphatically.
In the same set are their successful seniors to encourage
them; and the ambitious junior who has just been
getting perhaps snubbed in court, much to an inward
moving of the spirit and a conviction that till you
become a Q.C., and can command success, justice is
but a name, is consoled by dining at the same table
with the kindly old judge who inserted that flea in his
ear, and makes up for it by bestowing on him words
of friendly counsel, and the results of his own full life
and experience.

And the while, and perhaps better still, young
Tyro is consoled by a flirtation with his lordship's
pretty daughter, whose bright eyes beam upon him
with unprofessional encouragement, while her lips
assure him that there was a time, and a very longtime,
when papa despaired of ever getting any business
whatever.

Of course he says he never had any connection
at all, Mr. Tyro, and got into a big practice at once
by his own merits, dear old thing. And his merits
were always splendid, you know. But mamma told
me that it was nothing of the kind, and that when I
was born she didn't know how they were ever going
to get on. And if it hadn't been for a first cousin
down in the north who was a big attorney, and wanted
to do him a good turn, I don't believe papa would ever
have done anything at the bar at all." So the young
counsellor lives on hope, and retails pleasant circuit -
stories in a very cheery and attractive way.

Rising and working journalists and writers, doing-mysterious
something in unconfessed anonyme, and
reputed to be dreadfully clever, with here and there
a lawless dramatist, the subject of much shaking of
the head and evil omen, as of one hurrying downwards

VOL. I. D

on the broad path of self-destruction, but nevertheless
of some secret admiration and envy, as the privileged
denizen of a mysterious world not open to everybody
these and other waifs and strays of the many-minded
ocean of labour, generally thrown high and dry to
begin with, by the inhospitable wave of the Bar — with
distinguished professional physicians to give the talk
another savour no less pleasant in its way, city-toilers
to bring their quota of experience, and rose-buttoned
government clerks to give an airy jauntiness to the
whole, make up the society which has a distinctive life
of its own, and provides busy-hearted London with a
second and a winter season, full of welcome associations
and attractions which belong to it, rather than to the
crush and hurry of the spring and summer. In this
society Daisy came to grown-up life, to become at
once the first prize in the garden. Her mother was
a chronic invalid who lived retired ; so she was the
pride and charge of various chaperons, but most of the
good-natured Mrs. Pepperharrow, who was a general
favourite for her known possession of that attribute, and
devoted to Daisy. Her husband, Mr. Pepperharrow,
was a great success in soap-boiling, and through city
matters first had been brought into intimate relations

with the Fairfield, who were near neighbours of his
in the house in Portland Place.

Like Scott's imaginary June-rose, Daisy had first
'budded fain" in winter's snow, during this preliminary
season, with a large and wide-spreading result
upon her segment of the circle I have described.
The most opposite effects were created in the most
opposite minds. The young barrister hitherto devoted
to his work grew suddenly neglectful, and appeared
at five o'clock teas, a rare and welcome animal, to
the delight of the world of womanhood, which at
these entertainments is so unfairly in the majority.
He shared the masculine honours, probably, with
the last and most depressing product of the new
civilization, the comic sinner of the drawings-room,
who "entertains" in the evening in those epicene
public resorts which mainly supply the theatric wants
of the large class of people who still look upon theatres
as something vaguely wrong, and express approval
or emotion in nothing: louder than a gentle sibillant
sound, as thus — s-s-s. When Lambkin of the Colonial
Office first took up this semi-public line, he was much
disconcerted by these sounds, which he thought meant
hissing. But after a time he found they were simply

D 2

what reached his ear of the confidential and admiring
criticism of one fair Philistine to her neighbour, and
meant — 'how s- silly ! " Then he was consoled, and
persevered in the path of glory. In the afternoon
Lambkin was the stay of five o'clock teas, and was
never so glad as when he met some wandering solitary
male, to whom to confide '' what an awful audience "
this was.

The idle barrister, meanwhile, took an opposite
cause, deserted his usual haunts except in the evening,
appeared in court regularly at ten o'clock and in
chambers afterwards, and dreamed of some unimagined
income to lay at Daisy Fairfield's feet.
Her singular charm exercised its power ujDon nearly
all who came across her, and made her a prime
favourite with young and old, for of the society of the
last she shewed herself provokingly fond. She liked
somebody who had done something, she would tell her
distracted adorers, and was always ready to throw over
the best waltzer among them, if he had nothing better
than his youth and his waltzing to boast of, for a chat
with some older and more travelled mariner on the
seas of time. Something grave and deep looked out
of the clear blue eyes, more akin, as by some forecast

of a troubled future, with the trials and struggles of
this life of ours, than with its sunnier and more
thoughtless day. A deep reader in her quiet hours
at home, loving to steep her mind in the thoughts
and the wisdom of the wise and thoughtful, she took
enjoyments as they came frankly and happily ; but
even while she seemed most thoroughly a part of
the world of mere pleasure, she was yet more deeply
a careful watcher of the "divine tragi-comedy " of
life. She was so happy and frank withal, however,
that she never frightened her young worshippers away —
many as may have - been the mortal quarrels which
rose on her account between Damon and Pythias, or
Orestes and Places — though she would often find an
opportunity, by some quiet word of timely but seemingly
careless council, to strengthen some waverer for
the world of work, some trifler for the life of earnest.
There was no fate for her amoncj them, though ; and
through the first half-year of her queenly life in her
world's eye, she moved like Queen Elizabeth through
her own spacious times, in worthy maiden meditation,
fancy-free. So her young life passed on through its
opening stage, and through the first months of the
London season proper, during which she made but

small incursion into the more fashionable regions of
society's latitudes and longitudes, until, through the
persuasion of some young Oxonian whom she had met
and fraternized with at her father's table, she added an
Oxford Commemoration to the scene of her growing
experience.

Her card was full from a very early date, at that
Christchurch ball ; but, truth to tell, some of the names
that filled it were rather hard to decipher, and occupied
some occasional blanks with mysterious pencil-marks
of her own. She did not quite know what Oxford
might bring forth worth talking to or sitting out with,
and wisely reserved herself for emergencies. The
scene was very bright and very gay, and Daisy Fairfield
was well pleased and happy. She liked her
unsophisticated cavaliers thoroughly, had picked up
an amazing amount of miscellaneous information on
university politics in general, and even mastered something
of the secrets of half-fifteen and old Barre, by
a careful cross-examination of Tompkins of Trinity
between the figures of a quadrille. Never was anybody,
some people said, who so much wanted to know
everything, or was so nice to tell everything to. The
music of Godfrey's "Guards," or "Mabel," whatever

was the tarantula-dance of the day, was just over ; and
the enraptured Bones had just led his partner to Mrs.
Pepperharrow's side. He had-been perplexing himself
over the old problem, what was the most delicate
form in which to ask a young lady whether she would
like anything to drink, when she solved it by saying
that she would like to sit down. And just as die was
handing her over to her chaperon, who was confiding to
Tompkins that she open the supper would soon begin,
he saw an unexpected figure standing quietly at his
side. Daisy Fairfield saw it too, and her heart gave
the most unwarrantable jump for no reason whatever.
She had been speculating on "not P. W. — the
other" half the evening, without the least knowing
why.

'' You here, sir, after all ? " said Bones. " Oh, I am
glad ! " And without further prelude, and with all the
confident ingenuousness of youth, he added : '' Oh, Miss
Fairfield, do let me introduce you to our fellow, Faucit,
whom we were talking of this afternoon. Miss Fairfield
— Mrs. Pepperharrow — Mr. Faucit. Mrs. Pepper-harrow
— Miss Fairfield."

'' May I have the pleasure of a dance, Miss Fairfield?"
said Guy.

How many of the world's lightest or most serious
chapters have opened in those familiar words ?

I am afraid that you're rather late in the field,
Mr. Fa,ucit," she answered, consulting her card.

The charm of her voice, which was very great,
caught Faucit's sensitive ear at once. There are
women to whom one can shut one's eyes and listen for
the sheer pleasure of sound, half inclined to laugh with
the pleasure, without even the need of heeding what
it is they say, as one listens to the conversation of a
piano under a sympathetic hand. Daisy Fairfield had
a voice of this kind, and Faucit felt at once that he
was in the presence of a masterpiece, one of those few
and far-between women, in whom nothing has been left
out, as it were.

Have I no chance of anything ? " he asked. " Not
even of an odd quadrille ? "

I am afraid the quadrilles are all — Do you care
for a waltz, Mr. Faucit ? "

Very much. But I hardly liked to ask for that."

'' I can give you this one, which is just beginning.
I think," she added demurely, " that my partner won't
come."

** He must be very blind to his own interests,"

said Guy, ''if I may judge from seeing you waltz
with Bones just now, I am lucky in his mistake."
And then, with the long, free, preliminary glide which
launches a well-matched pair into one of the greatest
of harmless enjoyments, Guy Faucit and Daisy Fairfield
made their first step together.

I who chronicle these things, remember well once,
when I had worked myself — I was younger than I
am now — into a very aesthetic and well-informed phase
of mind, having a profound talk with an eminent
American blue-stocking in a public room at Newport
or at Narragansett, no matter where. We had got
into very deep waters indeed, and I was boldly but
gravely propounding some astounding theories of
biology which had never occurred to me in my life
till that moment, much to my companion's edification
and approval.

Xow tell me, Mr. Balbus," she said, half-shutting
her eyes and throwing back her head, as evidently
expecting something from the answer to enlarge her
experience, " tell me what you consider the most even
sensation of momentary content to which the human
soul is capable of rising ? "

I reflected for a brief space, and replied —

I can tell you, Mrs. Pozzy, without hesitation.
It is a perfect waltz with a perfect partner, to perfect
music, on a perfect floor."

The shock told, for Mrs. Pozzy sat bolt upright
and looked at me.

"Do you mean to say, Mr. Balbus, that you
waltz?"

I do indeed ; I delight in it."

"Then," she said, with that instant appreciation
of a situation given to a quick woman, "let me
introduce you to my daughter."

The very next week I was a guest at Mrs. Pozzy's
country cottage, and had an elegant time. In the
intervals of those ambrosial nights of philosophic disquisition,
I found Miss Wilhelmina M. Pozzy a very
charming partner.

Guy and Daisy settled down in earnest to their
stride. He was a past master in the art, thanks to
a perfect development of the time-ear. Tune-ear,
oddly enough, he had none, and could never hum
God save the Queen" with a proximate approach
1 correctness, though he knew what music he liked
to hear, and understood it in that sense very well.
But the time-ear is a different thing, and made his

appreciation of a false step in a waltz as keen as
of a halting verse. The best singer of his day will
often be unable to take one turn in the waltz correctly.
Guy had perfected his waltzing during a long vacation
in the States, where they understand it better than
anywhere. He knew the difference between the
Portland glide and the Boston dip, and quick or slow,
forward or reverse, he steered his deft course through
the whirling and converging couples without a bump
or a halt, till he could land his partner safely in a
quiet comer. He could send her half to sleep ina
slow and dreamy measure, or send the young blood
coursing through her veins by a swing like a steady
racer's.

As for Daisy Fairfield, he found her one of those
partners in a thousand, who learn in a moment the
sort of dancer they have to deal with — whether
they have to nurse him tenderly through the performance,
get as little kicked as possible, and do
all the steering themselves, or can trust entirely to
their cavalier in charge, and give themselves up without
afterthought to the pleasure of the whirl. They
adapt themselves at once, after the first minute, to the
step of their partner, who, on his side, meets them

half-way, and fall into "two step or three" at short
notice. Two or three time is a misnomer, by the way ;
for whatever the step, all true waltzing is in three
time. Such a heaven-born waltzer as Daisy Fairfield
was no weight for Guy Faucit to carry ; his arm circled
her waist and scarcely felt it, as the lithe and gracious
figure sailed on its royal round. They enjoyed their
first turn with never a word on either side, and it
was a long one, and the breathing of both was but
slightly quickened when they stopped.

You waltz very well, Mr. Paucity". was all
she said.

I need not tell you the same, Miss Fairfield."

After a short pause she smiled.
Are you ready again ? '*

'' Quite. It's a pity to lose any of it."

To do them justice, they lost very little.

To how many couples of the modern day, I wonder,
has their first waltz been their opening adventure, their
first dallying with the fruits of fairyland ? It is on that
ground, I suppose, that some good people still object
to it, and that its original sin at first raised a decorous
outcry even from such a pattern of propriety as Lord
Byron. Why that should be I know not. The roads

to that fairyland are many, and it is a country none
the worse for the opening up of such a poetic way as
this. But a way it is, past denial. To awkward
dancers the waltz is a very ordeal, a gymnastic exercise
of a trying and often painful kind. But it is a magic
key for others, which opens out a vista of possible
sympathies. Between two kindred natures, it is apt
to establish at once an electric communication. Why
not ? Are all possible magnetisms wrong ? As I once
heard a hardworking clergyman say, in a capital speech
on the supposed wickedness of going to the theatre,
Is a young man or woman to be ticketed for the
journey of life like a package, and labelled, ' this side
up, with care ' ? " Faith, such a package is apt to
be compact of very brittle glass indeed.

The waltz was over and the music ceased. A few
quiet words of commonplace were all that then passed
between the two, as they wandered up and down the
rooms.

'' The supper-rooms will be open directly, Miss
Fairfield ; so I suppose you will not care for a cup
of tea now ? "

Not now, thank you. Is your crew likely to win
at Henley?"

'' I hope so ; but I don't feel sure. The Cambridge
boat is very strong. You saw us this afternoon,
then ? "

'' Oh yes; and you were pointed out to me on the
bank as a sure guide to victory. Both Mr. Bones and
Mr. Tompkins, who were with me, seemed to look
upon defeat under your banners as impossible."

Guy laughed.

There are no such believers as young believers,
Miss Fairfield ; and it is something to have established
a name. But I don't think the Trinity men will runaway
from mine, for all that. Is there any chance of
your being at Henley, and seeing the result ? "

'' I expect so. This is only my first season, Mr.
Faucit, and, as you see, I am being taken to everything.
A boat-race will be new to me, and from what I saw
to-day, it must be wonderfully exciting. I suppose
that to rowing men it is something glorious, very
different from — a waltz." A very slight hesitation
here.

Different certainly," he answered, "but not better
in its way; at least not always." Daisy inhaled a
long sweet breath from the flowers she carried. Guy
was one of those partners with whom it is not necessary

to set them down, '' The great charm of life, I think'
he went on, "lies in its infinite variety."

"So I think too," she answered, " woman as I am.
I wonder if we shall think so as we grow older."

"I expect so, if we go the right way to work.
Did you ever hear of a saying of Count Cavour's,
Miss Fairfield, that to a sensible man two things
should be impossible — rancour and boredom ? "

I never heard it. It sounds very good and very
true. Where did you pick it up ? "

"In a memoir I have past been reading of him.
A very great and interesting life, over, one would
think, just at the wrong time. I wonder what such
deaths mean. But I ought to beg your pardon for
bringing such matters into a ball-room, just after a
first waltz ! "

"Why? Are you one of the men who always
think it necessary to apologise to a partner for
supposing that she can care about anything but the
musical glasses ? "

If you say that," he answered, " I shall have to
beg pardon again. But perhaps I am the sinner, for
really I can think of very little except that waltz of
ours. I wonder if I have any chance of another."

Well, I'll see."

They were close to Mrs. Pepperharrow as Daisy
examined her card. That lady was just leaving her
seat on the arm of a dignitary who had taken possession
of her, and left the emancipated Tompkins free to
devote himself to a young person in a white frock with
red ribbons, of the primitive order of youthful English
millinery. But she looked hapj^y and amused enough
to wear anything.

"Daisy dear," said Mrs. Pepperharrow, "I'm going
to ave something to eat. The supper-rooms are open,
and Dr. Parley has been kind enough to ask me.
Won't you ave something too ? "

May I take you in to supper, Miss Fairfield ? "
said Guy.

A young and beaming undergraduate was making
his way towards Daisy as the first bars of the
"Lancers" struck up.

Well, I shouldn't be sorry. And — a little of these
very young men does go a long way." Daisy was a
full year younger than the object of her description.
Oh, Mr. Billington," she said, " I feel very much
ashamed of myself; but will you excuse me for this
dance ? I have been dancing every round dance on the



card, and want to go in to supper. I will find
something later for you if I can."

Billington of Brasenose submitted with the best
grace he could, and Guy and Daisy went in to supper.
Before they had well begun it they had fallen into talk
on men and books, which pleased and interested them
both, and long after they had finished they lingered on
over the little table at which they were seated together,
all unconscious of the sunward flight of time.

VOL.

HERCULES AND OMPHALE.

It was full and brilliant morning when the last guests
at the Christchurch ball left the lights and the garlands
behind them, after the last visit to the tables, which
makes so pleasant a parting for the couples who have
been partner in the closing galop.

With all her enjoyment of life, Daisy Fairfield was
a girl who took her pleasures soberly enough, and,
finding plenty for her hand to do wherever she went,
was little given to staying out any ball whatever. At
the Masonic festivity the night before, Bones and
Tompkins lead exerted all their fascinations in vain to
win her to their wishes in that respect, and had
appealed to Mrs. Pepperharrow to no purpose, Daisy
laughingly representing her as the flinty-hearted
chaperon who was not to be trifled with.

The soap-boiler's lady was indeed ideally qualified
for her post; for, like the Duke of Wellington and
others of the truly great, she could sleep how she
liked and when she liked, and yet be ready for
instant action if called ripon, at any moment. She
had attained to a perfection in the art almost equal
to that of a celebrated advocate of late days, who,
having only four hours of bed out of the twenty-four,
always went placidly to sleep while the opposing
was demolishing his arguments, no matter at
what length or with what natural aggravation of his
ferocity, and then, waking directly the voice ceased,
softly demolished Ixim. Mrs. Pepperharrow, too, was
ready to undertake unlimited journeys to the supper-room
to pass the time, was so good-naturedly responsive
in talk that she found plenty of elders willing to talk
with her, and took a genuine pleasure in watching
the enjoyments of the young people, particularly her
favourite Daisy. She would stand to her post till five
o'clock in the morning if Daisy wished ; but quite as
readily accepted the responsibility of taking her home
early on receipt of the word of command. So she
assured Bones and Tompkins that Daisy and she had

had enough of it, and that Bones and Tompkins, whose

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILUUOii

frank and cordial young ways had quite won her
accessible heart, must remember that she was not as
young as she had been. In vain Bones assured her that
he didn't believe a word of it, and Tompkins broke
down in unformed compliments about her beauty-sleep.
The young inseparable had to escort the two ladies to
their carriage, and then to console themselves with the
champagne and plover's eggs.

At the Christchurch ball, however, Daisy's rule was
broken through. I should be afraid to say how many
dances after that supper she and Guy danced together.
She was always superior to prejudice where she liked a
partner, and not afraid of being told that she had
exceeded the proper amount of dances with him.

- As for Mrs. PeiDperh arrow, her confidence in Daisy
was so entire, that she would as soon have questioned
her dear husband Ugh's knowledge of soaps.

Daisy Fairfield wrote down Faucit's name in so
many of those blanks, and for so many 'extras," that
something which was half a smile and half a blush
came over the fair face, when she conned over her card
with herself on waking in her lodgings in " the High "
after her sleep that morning.

Some few hours earlier than she, for he had braced

himself for his day's work while the Daisy's petals were
still fast closed, Guy Faucit was making a similar study
in the Balliol rooms.

"What a pretty woman," he thought to himself,
"and how full of life and of interest in everything
lovely she looked in the morning light, which
sees and yellows nine-tenths of humanity after a dose
of the gas-fumes. With that daring but perfect violet
broidery of leaves which wreathed her rich white dress
from the head to the foot, and made her look like a
sylvan goddess, she might have brought old Apelles
out of his grave. Gad ! if he could have painted that
superb throat of hers, set on her shoulders like a bit of
marble of Paros ! "

Something like these were the meditations of
Guy Faucit at his dressing-table ; and it must be
remembered in his excuse that Guy Faucit was a
classical scholar and a poet. He rolled about in his
bio bath that morning with an extra zest, and whistled
to himself during the drying process as if he were
grooming a horse, and had a vague and general sense
of lightness of heart which was pleasant to his soul.
He paused for a long time between two buttons,
recalling with considerable accuracy the tones of the

last cordial good night and the pressure of the want
hand, just marked enough to indicate the success of
the evening, which had passed as he put Daisy into
the carriage.

'' By Jove, what a voice ! " he said aloud, and with
convinced emphasis, finishing off the suspended button.

The even tenour of Faucit's collegiate way had been
suddenly and abruptly broken, though he was not of
the kind to admit or to know it yet. His breakfast
cleared away, he never did a better spell of work than
he did that morning.

There was a flower-show in the afternoon in the
gardens of Worcester College, once fabled to be so
remote from the centre of Oxford civilization as to
require a cab-journey to find it. Then the university
poet sang of the men who

TijXtTTopu) vaiovij'' tvi 'YcTTip*^, tijXoOi Trarpij? •

and another young academic bard, in one of the funniest
parodies ever written, 'augustus Small of Boniface,"
discoursed of the classic Balliol —

whose third floor men descry,
The distant heights of Worcester
Fringing the western sky.

But the broad and fine street which runs by the Taylor-buildings

has dissipated the clouds of distance, and
the access to the Worcester festival was easy enough
when Daisy and Guy met again among the pleasant
glades of the college-garden, and listened to the
spirited music of the military band, reproducing in
an echo, perhaps, some of the dances of the night,
and making them shut their eves and fancy themselves
waltzing again. It is a wonderfully pleasant chapter
in vouuCT lives, that first mornino^-meetino^ after the
first ball, where the interest has been mutually aroused
and the sympathy pleasantly kindled. It was with a
sort of freemasonry that our hero and heroine — pass me
the good old-fashioned words, my reader — welcomed
each other in the garden.

Shall you be at the Worcester flower-show tomorrow
? " Guy had said the very last thing; and
Daisy had notified that she should, though it was not
till they had reached home that Mrs. Pepperharrow
received any intimation of the plan.

But, my dear, I thought you said — "

Never mind what I said, there's a darling. I had
no idea how pleasant the flower-show was likely to be
till they told me."

They " remained comfortably in the vague ; but

good Mrs. Pepperharrow asked no questions and suggested
no difficulties, and was quite content to fall
in with Daisy's change of mind.

They had been sitting in the gardens for some little
time, attended by some of the faithful henchmen who
were enrolled in their service for the week, before
Guy's tall figure made its appearance among the trees.
Daisy's eyes had made more than one rapid little
reconnoitre all round her during the intervals of talk
and music, and contracted, perhaps, just a shade of
impatience and uncertainty, Ashen her quick glance
detected it coming. She saw Guy in a moment, and
saw too, in another moment, that he on his side had
seen her, and was making his way towards her group
with that studied air of indifference and accident which
is invariably worn on such occasions, and suggests so
strongly either the primitive deceit of man's heart, or
the debasing effects of a hypocritical civilization. He
shook hands with one friend, nodded to another,
accounted for his presence at the flower-show by the
state of the weather, the attractions of scientific horticulture
(he didn't know a rose from an oak, except by
right of his instinctive love of Nature), an '* off-day"
with the crew, in fact, upon various mutually destructive

pleas. He was the most truthful of mankind, and told
as many falsehoods before he reached Daisy's side as it
cost him minutes to get there. If love laughs at the
perjuries of lovers to each other, he must find in their
little fibs to third persons a perfect storehouse of fun.
As for Daisy, she felt most becomingly and unreasonably
pleased, and even then was half inclined to take
herself to task for feeling so. But the truth is that,
before Guy's appearance at the ball, — where she had,
on the strength of that one look upon the river-bank,
vaguely expected to see him until she gave it up as
too late, — she had extracted from the innocent and
willing Bones a few leading and interesting particulars
about ''Faucit the other." Faucit Telamon, Gosling
called him, in distinction from P. W., who figured
in his dictionary as Faucit Oileus, or the oily one.
Gosling's acquaintance with Daisy Fairfield, however,
was to be a thing of later date than Oxford days.
Though he was a Balliol man, and proud of his cox-ship,
most of his mates and pleasures were to be found
at Christchurch, which was the foster-mother of most of
the Gosling family, and numbered his elder brother, the
Viscount Gander, among her nurselings at the time.
Jemmy was indeed sent to Balliol to keep him out of

his elder's heir-apparently influence, and out of respect
to a family tradition, which credited him with comparative
brains. His successful matriculation at Balliol
was long remembered in the records of the race, and
justly set off against the various "ploughs" which
rather roughed his subsequent career, till the heroic
efforts of Faucit, who took a fancy to the boy, '' pulled
him through" the last struggle, and entitled him to all
the honours of B. Adorn.

But the Honourable Jem has landed us in a
digression. We are indebted for it to Bones, who
bore to Gosling the astonishing generic likeness which
characterizes a certain class of ingenuous youth, and
sets an apparent limit even on the creative powers of
Nature. It is as if she had to turn out a certain
number of industrial products every year, and, having
to break her best dies when once used for moulding,
keeps her common ones constantly at hand. Bones
described Faucit to Daisy just as Gosling would have
done it, with the same enthusiasm and in the same
vernacular, which is more descriptive than eloquence.
How completely Faucit had taken his beloved college
to wife, with her laurels for a dowry, and was certain
to be master of Balliol some day or another; how

he had once proposed to read for the bar, but had
been persuaded by the other dons to stick to his
Oxford work, where he was the means of colonizing
half the university with fellows from Balliol, and keeping
her glories fresh in the schools and on the river ;
how he managed the college as he liked with that
strong will of his, and had done so in his undergraduate
days, when he was an autocrat at the college-meetings ;
how vainly, when the sceptre left his hand, that ass
Spooner and others had fought for it, with results
approaching to intestine anarchy ; how devoted he was
to his old mother, who had a small income of her own,
but was indebted to Guy's work for her home and most
of her comforts ; how impervious he was to feminine
attractions, though all women liked him for his nice
and pleasant manners with them ; and how the universal
tongue of rumour wagged at him for a bachelor
foredoomed; — all these particulars and more, with a
sort of '' He's a jolly good fellow " refrain pervading
his ditty, did Bones of Balliol confide in choice recitative
to Daisy Fairfield's ear. As became his age, he was
quite unsuspecting, and attributed entirely to his own
eloquence the welcome apparition of Guy Faucit at the
ball. Well-pleased was he that Daisy should, as he

expressed it to his familiars, "cotton right off" to his
favourite hero ; and when, after they had gone in to
supper together, he came to claim his dance and saw
them deeply engaged in each other's talk, he retired
with a discretion beyond his years, and apologized to
Daisy for his desertion afterwards on the transparent
ground that he could not find her, lest she should be
disturbed in mind at his neglect. With the prologue
supplied thus liberally by Bones, Daisy, at the end of
the Christchurch ball, knew a great deal of Faucit's
story and character, and was free to weave herself
some pleasant fancies in guessing at more. ■

There was no disenchantment on either side in
the Worcester Gardens, as there sometimes is in these
episodes of ball-room romance. For in truth here was
a pair ideally fitted, in all the circumstance of glorious
youth, of kindred tastes and sympathies, and of outward
semblance, to repeat the time-honoured process
of falling in love.

"You at a flower-show, Mr. Faucit, as well as at
a ball ! '.' said Daisy, when he had installed himself at
her side after the first smiling welcome. " 1 shall
besoin to disbelieve altogether the stories I have heard
of your severe life."

'' I don't think there is much severity about it, Miss
Fairfield," he answered. " Perhaps it's because I'm
so fond of pleasure that I don't look for it at places
where I don't enjoy myself. That sounds more like
being selfish than severe, doesn't it ? "

'how lucky you are in being able to take your
pleasures as you like them. A woman's are all mapped
out for her, and some of the maps are very badly done.
But I think we have an advantage over you. We
don't always want to be ' doing,' as the stronger among
you do. We can shut our eyes and enjoy such a
summer day as this, with the flowers and the music,
without very much asking why."

"And do you think I can't?" said Faucit. ''I
think if I might light a pipe under the trees here,
put on my oldest shooting-coat, and look at all the
pretty women without being asked to talk, 1 could
like a flower-show as well as anybody. It is because
we always are expected to do something in places
where there's absolutely nothing to be done, that I
don't profess much love for this sort of thing."

"Well, you needn't talk to me if you don't wish."
"That's another thing."

"Is it ? " she said, innocently. '' Why ? As far as

I am concerned, if you won't be alarmed at the confession,
I would even permit the pipe."

Miss Fairfield ! you don't know what you're
saying. The idea of a don smoking in a college
garden! [why, we should have half the undergraduates
taking fire, and doing the same."

And why shouldn't they ? "

I can't imagine."

They laughed pleasantly together. They felt
amazingly content with the world and with themselves,
and were in the mood to laugh at very little.

'' Nothing is so terrible to humanity, Mr. Facias
a vague fear of consequence. If all the undergraduates
smoked, what would happen ? "

Judging from the effect upon myself, there would
be much less noise. But the result of such a crime
would be something like that of being named in
the House of Commons — known only to Providence.
Mrs. Pepperharrow, what is your opinion of tobacco-smoking
? "

History must not fail to record the material fact,
that Faucit had been duly presented at the ball
to Daisy's guardian, and had impressed her very
favourably. She was no doubt apt to be favourably

impressed, but on this ' occasion the impression was
more marked than usual. Perhaps there may have
been some expenditure of pains on Faucit's part in
producing the resuh. He was not a man who often
failed to please, when he wished it and tried.

He is a most remarkable young man, my dear"'
she had said to Daisy when they were going to bed :
quite what one has the right to expect in these alls
of learning. It's rather awful to think of what evil
know if he lives to be seventy. But then I suppose
he won't. I've heard these scholars always wear themselves
out vouno-."

I hope he won't do that, dear Mrs. Pepper-harrows'
Daisy had answered. " I don't think he
looks much like it at present."

''Xo; but it's deceptive. Heart disease always
makes a man look big, like my poor dear husband.
Then, to be sure, Ugh does eat a good deal; so it
may keep is strength up."

Mrs. Pepperhan'ow was well content to let Guv
and Daisy talk and improve acquaintance at her side
without interfering in the dialogue. Happy and many-coloured
groups passed and repassed them, with the
lazy interchange of looks and comments of those welcome

to see and be seen. Personally appealed toon
the merits of tobacco, Mrs. Pepperliarrow had her
opinions ready for active service.

"I think it's a nasty habit myself, Mr. Faucit,"
she said, " and I wonder at the young men liking it
as they do. The way it makes curtains smell is sometimes
very bad. I ave never felt so sorry as I ought
for their cutting off poor Sir Walter Raleigh's head ;
though indeed as he invented potatoes as well as
tobacco there's a good deal to be said for him."

Oh, Mrs. Pepperliarrow, what an idea ! Will you
take us through the tents, Mr. Faucit ? I haven't
visited the show proper as yet."

Certainly," answered the Oxonian. " It's always
the thing to be done at these places. Walk in at one
end of an intolerably stuffy tent, with a last lingering
look at the fresh air outside ; pretend to admire Prize
1 and Prize 2 in flowers and fruit, which look like
unhealthy specimens of their race, with livers artificially
enlarged like Strasbourg geese; speculate why
Prize 2 didn't get Prize 1, to argue knowledge; 'melt
at a peach, and rapture at a rose ; ' and so out again
at the other end, followed by the next batch, like the
visitors in the Tower of London. I warn you that

I know absolutely nothing of flowers, Miss Fairfield,
and that I shall be delighted to escort you."

If you discourse in that way, Mr. Faucit," answered
Daisy, " it will be better than several lectures
on botany. The proper study of mankind is man, and
we can consider him in relation to flowers."

So clever of you to talk like that," sighed Mrs.
Pepperharrow, as the three entered bravely on the
ordeal of the tent together.

The appearance of her friend Dr. Parley, who was
a man compact of science, and his ready offer to guide
her through the maze, came opportunely enough to
leave the young couple to their own devices, to wander
on their way upon the path of flowers. The doctor was
a floral enthusiast, and expatiated to Mrs. Pepperharrow
upon the forms of development before them, in good
Latin words as honor as Jem Gosling's historic stumbling
listened to with admiring reverence, which culminated
at the end in '' So clever of you to talk like
that. I am sure I shall understand the Latin language
better than I ever did before. I ad no idea that the
Latins had so many flowers in their time."

Guy and Daisy, meanwhile, looked at the flowers
or passed them over in a very hap-hazard way, neither

VOL. I. F

of them affecting an interest they did not feel, but
finding more and more how many subjects of talk
they had in common. To their fresh-air natures, the
poor imprisoned plants had something of the effect
that the hapless eagles in the Zoological Gardens have
upon the observers mind in certain moods, producing
a lonscino^ to unbar the cell and let them out, under
the influence of the look of '' heimweh " in their
dulled eyes, turned upon the free sky spread so temptingly
over them. The show flowers in tents are always
dreadful, flower-shows having long been what everything
is now-a-days, mere social pretexts — pretexts for
things good enough in their way, but apt to divert
and to spoil a good many healthy interests.

To the genuine cricket-mind, for instance, the Eton
and Harrow match of the day is but a sorry substitute
for the old fights of the public-school week, which
meant cricket and business, instead of fashion and
champagne. In the middle of carriages six feet deep,
and the small fire of remarks about anything but
cricket, innocent of the difference between point and
long-stop, and showing no personal interest in either
side, the mind reverts regretfully to the days of the
chaffing-gallery,' and enthusiastic sisters who knew

as much about cricket as the boys. It is a pretty
show, now : but one of many.

Flower-shows, however, were always privileged follies,
and the exhibitions at Oxford were a decree more
depressing, from the floral point of view, than their
neighbours. Except by the hideous tradition of the
Temple chrysanthemums, which coincides with such
satiric mockery with the opening of the legal year,
and the condemnation of unlucky suitors to a course
of Westminster air, they have not been often matched
in that way. Little enough of their influence, however,
seemed to fall dispiriting upon Daisy and Gay.

"Would you really like to see my rooms ? " he was
asking her when they came out of the tent, where,
notwithstanding his description of it, they had been
going the rounds for an unconscionable time.

"I should indeed, and very much. The undergraduates
have been very pleasant and hospitable tous
; but, except Mrs. *Pepperharrow's friend, Dr. Parley,
we have seen nothing of the inner life of a don.
You have no idea what dangerous theories I might
have formed of the class if I had not met you. I
shall never allow now that a don can't dance."

I wish that I had had the chance of meeting

F 2

you at the Masonic ball. But, at all events, I must
try to disperse your dangerous theories as much as I
can, for the credit of my race. Do you go back to
town the day after tomorrow ? "

Yes, in the morning."

"Are you engaged all tomorrow ? "

Only to the concert in the evening, and at the
theatre in the morning, you know."

Oh, yes, the-event of the Commemoration, where
you will see the degrees given, and hear the undergraduates
in their glory. I wonder what sort of
theories you will form of that part of our community
upon the occasion. Can't you come to luncheon with
me afterwards ? I think I can promise a don or
two whom you will really like to meet."

"I'm sure I shall. But I must ask Mrs. Pepper-harrow.
— Mrs. Pepperharrow, Mr. Faucit has kindly
asked us to have luncheon at his rooms tomorrow, after
the theatre."

Where, if you will allow me, Mrs. Pepperharrow,"
said Guy, " I shall be able to point you out all the
celebrities, and translate some of the Latin."

So kind of you, Mr. Faucit," answered the worthy
lady, resuming her charge. " I've been earing a

great deal of Latin in the tents, and perhaps I shall
know some of it again. But we shall be giving you
a treat deal of trouble in coming to luncheon."

None at all. Our bachelor rooms have such a
treat so seldom, that it does them real good. Will
you come ? "

The chaperon agreed without further pressing, and
the arrangement was made. They came out of the
gates of Worcester together, and Guy Faucit took his
leave, bent upon his duties to the Balliol crew. Daisy
Fairfield had seldom looked prettier than she did at
the rather formal dinner which Dr. Parley gave that
night; but, from what cause deponent sayeth not, she
had been seldom more silent or more abstracted.

OXONIANA.

The proceedings in the Oxford theatre, supposed to bethe
central fact of the Commemoration week, impressed
Daisy Fairfield with an unfeigned and ill-pleased wonder,
and supplied her with the materials for a searching
cross-examination of Faucit, who had stationed himself
at her elbow, which he found very difficult of answer.
Why, on this of all days in the year, the dignified university
should turn itself into a common bear-garden,
allow its own elected officers to be officially pilloried
by the universal hiss of public scorn, for nothing
particular except doing what they were appointed todo
; * specially invite famous authors, famous soldiers,
famous statesmen and diplomatists, to receive their

I am delighted to hopetliat this is a thing of the past ; and
to see that the Vice-chancellor of the day feels as if the undergraduates
were ' his own children."

honours in an inexplicable dumb-show and noise,
and to hear there the names of favourite heroes and
leaders, perhaps, proposed for general execration;
expose ladies and young girls to a fire of very impertinent
and unseemly banter, and in more than one
instance to considerable fright; — and all this for the
behoof of a gang of juvenile rowdies, resembling a
boxing-night sixpenny gallery in everything but the
wit and the musical ear — will perhaps puzzle the
future historian of English manners as much as it
puzzled Daisy Fairfield. That young lady detected
the beaming countenance of Bones in the front row of
the rioters, evidently in a state of profound satisfaction
with himself and the whole scene, and gravely ignored
the condescending efforts which he was making to
attract her notice. She 'had it out with him'
afterwards, as he expressed himself, in a manner which
'' made a man feel himself quite small, you know''

Three cheers for the ladies in dark-blue " was
the cry most in favour in that day's gallery, led by
choragus Bones, and suggested to his original mind by
the rich deed-hued dress which Daisy wore in honour
of her hostess-city, with a soft lace ruff for boundary-line
to unite it with the graceful throat. She felt

anything but comfortable under the salutation, which
she quite understood to be intended mainly for her, as
representative of the class apostrophized, and shrank
into her shell as much as she could.

Oh, Mr. Faucit, how very rude and noisy ! I shall
be glad to get away."

"It's abominable," answered Faucit, thoroughly
vexed. " I can't think why on earth this sort of thing
isn't put a stop to. It goes from bad to worse every
year, and will end in putting a stop to Commemoration
altogether."

*'If they said any single thing worth hearing,
or that one could laugh at," she said, "one wouldn't
so much mind. But they're dull enough to be
respectable 1 " And a discordant, many-throated howl
went up, as a figure in cap and gown came into
the hall.

"Yah! yah! yah!" like the shouts of some
fictitious semi-human breed in a fancy of Dean Swift's.

"Who's that unhappy man, and what has he
done ? "

"That's the proctor; and he is a very good fellow,
who has done no harm to anybody."

"Oh, P. W.?"

No, that was last year. Who on earth told you
about P. W. ?"

Mr. Bones, who is actively engaged in denouncing
P. W/s successor, and trying to catch my eye,
which is not to be caught."

The young scamp," said Guy; "he's there, is he ?
I'll give him a talking to afterwards."

Oh, don't say I told you. And I suppose one
oughtn't to mind ; youth will have its fling," added
this experienced worldling.

It needn't have its fling at other people."

Suddenly the howls swelled and gathered into one
stupendous yell.

Yah ! yah ! yah ! Take it off ! take it off ! "

Good gracious, what is it now ? "

** Vir doctissime et reverendissime."

"Who's that?"

That's the public orator reading something in
Latin."

Yah ! yah ! yah 1 The man in the straw hat ! "

Yah ! yah ! yah ! Take it off ! take it off ! "

Three cheers for the ladies in dark blue ! Hip ! "
But the diversion was vain, and succeeded no further
than the first hip.

'yah! the straw hat ! Take it off! turn him out!"
The storm gathered and arose ; proctors and unpopular
statesmen were forgotten ; the ladies in blue
and in green were set aside ; the face of the public
orator grew impatient and disgusted ; a distinguished
foreign ambassador who had come to be honoured
looked about him in blank and undisguised amazement
; the men of the Faucit type felt and showed
themselves thoroughly ashamed, and even the Bones
in the gallery began to wish themselves away, while the
majority of its tenants felt themselves more and more
the heroes of the hour, and the guardians of public
decency and refinement. Many of the ladies looked
towards the door and meditated on the chances of retreat,
while Daisy's face flushed with disgust and anger.

Dear me, Mr. Faucit ! " said Mrs. Pepperharrow.
What are they a-going' to do ? "

The poor lady fairly relapsed into a more primitive
stage than usual of her early English.

'' Nothing, Mrs. Pepperharrow,'* said Guy, reassuringly.
"It will be over directly."

But the yams arose. The solitary offender in the
straw hat, a well-bred and distinguished man of letters
who lived in retirement, and innocent of Oxford's

jealousy for good manners was there by invitation, was
for a long time placidly unconscious of the cause of the
uproar. As it began to dawn on him, he frowned and
took root, and looked thoroughly determined and resentful.
But modesty and indignation mastered him as he
became the mark of all eyes, friendly and unfriendly,
and at last he beat a sudden retreat into the street,
whence he went straight to the station, and back to his
home, to be a foe to university education ever after,
and briefly to describe the youth of Oxford as "Brutes."
There he did them wrong ; but they were queer cattle
once a year, in my time.

A shout of triumph from the gallery followed the
fugitive ; and proudly conscious of having vindicated
the laws of breeding, the undergraduates, with trencher
caps in different degrees of dilapidation and unsightliness,
graciously permitted the proceedings to advance
to something like an intelligible close. The public
orator's well-turned attempts to frame the most modern
English sentiments in classic Latin were favourably, if
rather satirically, received; and the sonorous couplets
of the bard of Newgate were hailed with an amount
of encouraging applause, due perhaps as much to the
re-appearance of the English tongue on the scene, as to

the sentiments expressed. The general sense of relief
experienced at this crisis, even by the most accomplished
classic present, is apt to invest poetry of the Newgate
type with a halo not its own. An imposing figure was
Pope-Scott of Christchurch in the rostrum that day, ashe
declaimed the peroration of his work in decasyllabics
of a faultless caesura : —

Majestic centre of enfranchised art,
Do in the wondering world thy glorious part 1
For ever and for ever, though to-day
Man's short-lived fabrics melt for aye away; —
Though not to us be given the power to mould
The godlike forms and harmonies of old ;
Not ours the skill to bid the marbles don
The grace which erst the Parthenon put on,
And shape Athena's arches as they rise,
Broad-based on careless Genius, to the skies ;
Not ours with master-hand and eye to trace
The bold proportions of the stone-girt space
Which mighty Caesar's * giant walls embrace ;
Though the deft voice of fair Pentelicus
Be in her sweeter secrets mute for us ;
Though lost the painter's and the sculptor's lore,
Yet still for ever (as I said before),
Thy name, fair city of the violet crown,
Shall travel on the wings of Memory down,
And live embalmed, until the death of Time,
Linked with all virtues, and a single crime."

dc in M^.

"Hear! hear!" and "Go it, Homer!" from the
gallery ; and " Where did you get that last line
from ? " from some freshman more audacious than the
rest, who was promptly snubbed and bonneted by his
neighbours. There was a well-pleased smile on the
faces of the groundlings, and as Pope-Scott bowed and
withdrew, to be escorted home with the honours by
admiring Christchurch friends, the select audience of
the somewhat mixed entertainment dispersed and
melted away.

"I certainly have heard something very like the
last line before," said Daisy.

Pardon me," answered Guy, as he strolled with
her along Broad Street towards his rooms. "Byron
expressed an exactly opposite sentiment; and boldly
to improve by adaptation is one of the greatest arts
of poetry. Like his predecessor Goldsmith, Pope-Scott
touches nothing which he feels he does not adorn."

"Yes; but what does he mean by the single
crime ? "

"I can't imagine, and you shouldn't ask. Mystery
is the soul of peroration."

"Well, it was a good young poem, well delivered.
What city did he say it was about ?"

Athens. I .believe that the closing lines are
modified from one which he wrote last year on Rome,
when he ran second. You may infer it from the
reference to Caesar's walls, obviously left by an oversight
on the part of the poet and the examiners. What
part of the poem did you like best ? "

"The touch of nature implied in the simple
expression, ' As I said before.' It went straight to the
heart."

Daisy's face was rippling with little smiles as the
two indulged in these grave comments.

You are quite a critic," said the other as gravely,
"and have every qualification to call yourself 'we.'
Yes ; you are right. Artistic Bathos is an essential
in a Newgate poem, and is in this instance handled
with a master-touch. Pope-Scott has written many
lines which should live by his use of it. In a prize
poem of his at Cheltenham, upon a distinguished Irish
soldier (Pope-Scott is, I believe, a native of that
imaginative country), occurs this celebrated couplet,
the climax of a fervid description of the hero's
honours —

He on the Currant, so report prevails,
Has stood parudc-groimd with the Prince of Wales.' "

Daisy broke into a happy and delighted laugh,
and fairly clapped her hands. " Oh, what a delicious
poet ! Why haven't I met him ? "

'' It might have been too much for you. To go
back into the prosaic world of London, after such a
glimpse of the Muses as a poet's society would have
given you, would have been too much of a disenchantment.
I hope his centimeters will leave a pleasant
recollection than the howls in the gallery."

I didn't like that. Why do you dons permit it ? "
We shan't for long, I hope. But nothing in
England is so dangerous an enemy as a vested interest,
however odious to everybody. This has been a sort
of Guy Fawkes day with undergraduates from time
immemorial, to let the steam off."

*' I should make them consume their own steam, by
act of convocation."

"I don't know. Boys will be boys."
Then why do they call themselves men ? "
"Yourlos^ic, Miss Fairfield," said Guv, "is becoming
hard to argue with. Luckily for me, here we are
at the foot of my staircase. Will you come up ? "

Daisy Fairfield and Mrs. Pepperharrow were soon
installed in the comfortable rooms on the first floor.

overlooking the green inner quadrangle of the college
of the first Balliol and Devorguilla his wife, and the
enclosure of their next neighbour Trinity beyond,
divided by the party-wall over which adventurous but
gated spirits in the two colleges had once established
a mutual right of way. The imprisoned Balliol man
would make his escape, by means of climbing this wall,
through the gate of Trinity ; while his Trinity brother
could as conveniently reverse the process, raising no
suspicion in the minds of the deceived college-porters.
Tompkins and Bones had pursued the unhallowed sport
for some time ; and it was while they were taking their
walks abroad together, both under sentence of gates,
under this convenient ad eundem arrangement, that
they had fallen into the hands of P. W., who had
been the author of the conviction. This discovery
leading to inquiry, the illegal traffic was exposed and
suppressed. Hence much of the Homeric wrath which
burned in the bosoms of Tompkins and Bones, who had
both suffered from a brief rustication in consequence.
Quietly enough the old quadrangle slept in the sunlight
that day, as the little party went through. A
few undergraduates were scattered about it, a knot
of them engaged in a game of bowls upon the smooth

stretch of turf — for in those days lawn-tennis had not
descended, like the Colorado beetle, upon all the green
spots of English earth. The college-scouts, a worthy
race of men apart, Who seem to have brought into
their line of life a distinct academic flavour, and look
as if they had a second-hand acquaintance with Plato
and Aristotle, where carrying their masters' luncheons
to their respective rooms, under those flat-topped covers
which are as peculiar to the soil as the mortar-board
caps; and the whole scene, even though the unusual
presence of more than one bonny lass enlivened it to-day,
had that strange out-of-the-world flavour which belongs

o o

to the enclosures of colleges, and perhaps to no other
place, not monastic, since the Thames embankment
edged itself in between the Temple and the river.

In old days, when the hum of work was hushed,
and the resident Templar were wandering back to
chambers from their clubs and coffee-houses, the same
feeling was yet more strongly in the air over the
green gardens, water-lapped, which stretched at the foot
of Paper Buildings and of Garden Court.

A small party of men were soon assembled in
honour of Faucit's two visitors. They were men well
chosen, whose talk gave Daisy genuine pleasure, and a

VOL. I. G

glimpse into the more ancient spirit of earnest university
life. They were old pupils of Faucit, or men of his
standing ; and it was clear that among them Faucit was
an acknowledged leader, which gave the young lady secret
satisfaction. For they were all well worth listening
to, had conquered their fellowships in various colleges
of Oxford, and talked and thought in a style very different
from good old Dr. Parley's friends anal guests.
All were impregnated with the young reforming spirit
which was springing up everywhere — treated Oxford
politics as part of the scheme of the world outside
rather than narrowed them in any academic sense,
and on some matters, perhaps, were apt to speculate
more freely and openly than University traditions
might be supposed to sanction. But there was nothing
said to shock Daisy, though a little to open her eyes ;
and indeed Faucit himself, though as broad in his
churchmanship as in other matters, never cared to
encourage some lines of thought in his company. He
was known to have commended Gosling's primitive
views on theology, rather than those of more enquiring
minds.

I am told," that youth had said, 'that Science and
the Pentateuch don't hit it off. But I don't interfere

with that myself, and leave them to settle it between
themselves."

Daisy's own love of reading delighted her with
Faucit's library ; and Elia the gentle, and Landor the
poetic, gave a pleasant conversational sauce to the
dainties on the table. Then an inspection of the pictures
led to a welcome interchange of art-talk, in which
attractive field of discussion most of the men were more
or less at home. Daisy herself was deeply imbued with
the genuine love of picture-lore, which is a part of the
furniture of all imaginative minds, though her travels
in picture-land abroad were so far bounded by the
Louvre and Dresden, where she had spent some weeks
the summer before, while still in her chrysalis condition.

No bad beginning. Miss Fairfield," said Guy ;
and no bad beginning and end either, if one wants a
deep draught of one spring. I have seen my galleries
pretty thoroughly, and that San Sisto picture has no
rival for me anywhere."

I cannot fancy it surpassed, Mr. Faucit," she said.

I used to go to the gallery morning after morning ;

and tempting as my Buttons and Correggio were, I

couldn't help spending half my time upon one of the

settees before it, all alone in its grandeur, and worship

2

ping like a votary. It was more worship than anything
else'

You were not far wrong there. I never can
forgive the Dressers for giving those Holbein a
similar post of honour. They are no more to be
compared to it than a batch of sign-boards, clever as
they are."

Those eternal'copyists are still harder to forgive, I
think ; preventing you from getting a proper view of
the pictures, and, in spite of yourself, attracting your
eyes from the originals to those dreadful daubs of theirs,
though I dare say they are very good in their way.
This engraving of yours is a wonderfully .fine one. Is
there any picture in the world, but that, with that
wonder in the eyes ? "

Only one that I know — the.Foligno Madonna at
the Vatican. And there one misses the child, whose
look is more startling than the mother's. The mother
looks as if she . were afraid of the child, with all her
tenderness towards it ; but the child looks as if he were
fearful of himself, and the strange child-knowledge he
must have had of what he was."

Yes ; it is a glorious picture. I should like to seethe
Foligno.'*

Rome is a treasure-house to come ; but to me that
is its best treasure. I never can care, in comparison,
for the more famous ' Annunciation ' in the same room
with it. It is noble and beautiful enough ; but that
incredible divinity lives, to me, in those two other
Raphael alone. By right of those two pictures,
Raphael has it all his own way, to my mind, as much
as Shakespeare among the playwrights."

"Yes ; but still I love my Titian."

'"Ah, so do I. And when you meet him at Venice
you'll love him more."

The art-talk ran pleasantly on, transporting the
talkers to many lands in turn, as better than any talk
it can. The beggars of Murillo and the cavaliers of
Velasquez introduced them to the pathos of Seville, and
the rich art-beauties of the empress of cathedrals, with
the cabinet studies of nature, which may be seen in the
bright-coloured streets through any of her half-opened
doors. Then, by a natural transition, the stately
fane of Toledo, with the surroundings of that half-dead
and depopulated city of the past, and the grim
solitude of the chill Escurial church, fit nurse for
Philip's bigotry of blood-hastiness, were discussed by
travellers who had had eyes to see, and kindled a

longing for wider-wanderings in Daisy Fairfield's receptive
mind.

Guy Faucit, perhaps, thought how pleasant it
would be to be her guide among all these wonders,
afloat in a Venetian gondola, or afield in a Valencia
tartan, through scenes where tourists vulgarize in vain.
He fought his traveller's battles over again, inspired by
his listener's interest ; shivered over a Madrid charcoal-stove
in an inclement September, warmed in his greatcoat,
and racked with a headache afterwards ; he
escaped from being boiled alive in Lucerne, to be
frozen in a sudden hailstorm on the top of Pilatus,
and so brought upon the scene two of his companions
who were enthusiastic mountaineers, and could initiate
Daisy into some of the deep mysteries of higher climbing,
at which Faucit confessed himself no adept. Like
all true philosophers, he had for his principle live and
let live, and saw no objection to men doing these things
"if it amused them ;'" but how or why it did, baffled
him except from the philosophic standpoint. He
expressed the view mildly enough to Longshanks of
New, of peaks and passes celebrity ; but Longshanks
was ready for him.

Faucit sees nothing in Alp-climbing, Miss Fairfield,

because lie hasn't given it a fair trial, and wasn't
bitten at starting. And here am I ^\'ho can see nothing
in boating, or conceive what pleasure a man can find in
turning his back to do his work, fixing another man's
flannel shirt for his entire object of vision, and converting
himself into a mechanical pendulum. So our odd
world goes round. We like our likes with all our
might, and see nothing in what other men like. Then,
unless we discipline our minds, we get angry with
them for liking what we don't, proceed to argue them
out of it by fair means, and foul afterwards, and so
cause persecutions, religious and political, all because
everybody ought to agree with us. Here's your health,
Faucit, and thanks for a very pleasant luncheon."

"With mine in return," laughed the host, "for
such a complete edition in little of Longshanks's philosophy
of history. I have known greater men say
less in more words. And I am sure that Mrs.
Pepperharrow agrees with me."

That indeed I do," said the worthy My ; " and I
ave enjoyed listening to you all very much. As for
the old masters you've been talking of, I think they're
quite perfect, and I'm always wanting my husband to
buy them. But e says the new masters are what e

understands better, and they ought to be encouraged
because they're alive."

"That's philosophy quite as good as Longshanks's,
and of great value to many worthy men," said Faucit.

The luncheon was over and the party broke lazily
up, not the least successful of the parties of that Commemoration.
To two of them, at all events, it was a
very great success. Faucit, a capital host at all times,
had never been a better one than that day. Though
essentially a "man's man," he never, like many of his
kind, showed to better advantage than with ladies, for
he had for them much of that instinctive deference and
old-world courtesy whose decay Charles Lamb so feelingly
deplores. He never gave up his own style of
thought and talk in order to fall in with their supposed
love of other subjects than men's ; but, on the other
hand, he never "talked down" to them by translating
himself into another language, as if he were dealing
with a different race, after the fashion of some popular
orators when addressing an audience of working men.
I doubt if any affectation on earth, though the result
of mere want of tact, is more intensely provoking to
those addressed, or those in sympathy with them.

With Mrs. Pepperharrow Guy established himself

that day as a favourite ; and as for Daisy, he never had
a more sympathetic listener or a more well-pleased
guest.

Fast, fast, fast, the meshes of the net closed round
those two; and when Guy parted with his guests at
the gate, to go back and meditate over a sociable pipe
with Longshanks, an old pupil who wanted some advice
upon some question of New College municipal politics,
it was with an understanding that he meant to beat
the concert in the evening. He was there ; and
there again the pair took up their parable, over
whose earlier stage of development there is no further
need to dwell.

For some reason not to be defined, Daisy carried
away quite a lofty impression of the knowledge of
musical art possessed by the undergraduates of Oxford ;
and Guy himself was astonished at the effect produced
upon him by Ponder' s performance of " Oh, ruddier
than the cherry," and Piper's declamation of "twas
in Trafalgar's Bay." He even wrote an eulogistic
article on Oxford music for the ' Saturday Review ' ; but
it had the rare fate of being returned, with all apologies,
by the editor, who thought that Mr. Faucit must
have allowed himself to be carried away, and said that

his musical critic Alas unable to approve of the sentiments
expressed.

The next morning — miracle dicte ! — Faucit might
be seen at the station, seeing the ladies off, and
accepting a warm invitation to call in town, that Miss
Fairfield's parents might thank him for all his kindness
and attention, to which she knew that really she had
no claim at all, she said.

It was so very good of you," Daisy added, demurely,
*sto waste so much of your time upon us."

So very good," echoed the chaperon.

I didn't waste a minute of it," Guy said. " My
work and my boat will both profit by the change.
Good-bye."

*' Good-bye."

It had been arranged that Guy was to start for the
English lakes with a reading party of yoimg pupils
immediately after the Oxford and Cambridge match
and the Henley Regatta, which followed the break-up
of the term. The pupils were astonished to find their
plan disarranged, and to be asked to postpone the
expedition for another month, to the close of the
London season. When season, reading-party, and long
vacation were all over, still more astonished and much

distressed was the Oxford world, and not his college
alone, to learn that Faucit of Balliol, after six years of
tutorhood, and with an established Oxford position, had
made up his mind to leave the place and the life, and
to study in London for the common-law bar.

THE IDYLL.

The chronicler of Guy Faucit and Daisy Fairfield uses
his privilege here, and skims rapidly over the next
scenes of their history.

It was the end of July before Daisy flitted to
Switzerland with her parents for her first visit to that
fairy playground ; and it was the end of July before
Faucit found himself installed in a cottage at the head
of Grasmere Lake, with some candidates for 'great"
assembled for a reading-party. A reading-bee, perhaps*
it is called now-a-days, as the dictionaries of Mark
Twain and Bret Harte tend more and more, alas ! to
the supersession of Johnson and Webster in the old
country. They were pleasant things, those reading-parties,
in the days when I, Balbus, friend and contemporary
of Faucit, was of them. They differed much

among themselves, for sometimes there was much
reading and sometimes there was none, which turned
more upon the character of the coach-in-office than
anything else.

There was no lack of work when Faucit was to
the fore. If after a short experience, and the few
days grace allowed for settling down, he made up
his mind that any one of the pupils, the while on
pleasure bent, was not of reading mind, he gave him
a gentle warning first, and then sent him about his
business. He liked his pupils to do him credit as well
as themselves, and would have no shirking ; so, believing
that a little leaven leavens the whole lump, he
disposed of black sheep summarily.

Dear old boy ! how he comes before me as I think
of him. We were the firmest of allies, and had many
a literary taste in common. But my inveterate mistrust
of literature, when veiled in the classic guise,
made a subject of chronic disagreement between us,
and any success I may since have had in life has been
in the teeth of his sombre prognostic. I shied at the
fascinations even of poetry when presented to me by
Greeks —

"Tiraui Danaos et dona fermented,"

and the last French play, novel, or political treatise —
the last I fear not the most — had greater charms forme
than I could-find in Plato. I wasted my time
systematically in what my father called heroic idleness
C'l do believe, Tom," he said to me once, "that if
your foot slipped out of the stirrup on horseback you
would prefer riding on like that to taking the trouble
to put it in again ") ; and yet, alive and merry at it
matters not what year, I cannot find that I am a whit
the worse of it, in " purse or person ; " but discover
that I work at congenial occupations, albeit in no
licensed profession, as hard as need be.

Well, well ; it is no easier to arrive at the expediencies
of life than it was in Solomon's time, in which
respects that worthy old gentleman acted as a kind of
moral "taster" to the universe. Years afterwards,
thriving on unlicensed occupations in spite of experience,
morality, and everything else, I ventured to say
to the elder Mr. Balbus, himself a renowned and
capable classic, that the great advantage of a classical
education was this — you never regret having been idle.
He laughed at the joke, but resented tlje inference.

I am not writing of myself, however, and must not
forget that if my lovers — need I say, after the beginning,

Avhat lovers they were before their month of frequent
London meetings was over ? — are to interest others in
their fortunes, that obtrusive Kttle vowel number three
should be kept as much as possible out of sight.

Guy Faucit's ideas on the classics, and, indeed, on
most matters, were more my father's than mine ; and
the magnificent energy with which he did everything
he put his hand to was part of the strong, sweet nature
of the man. Pupils of his could never fail to catch the
infection more or less, and the Grasmere days were not
soon forgotten by those who were with him there.
They were all honour-men except Jem Gosling, whom,
out of affectionate personal regard, Faucit admitted
into the company, as a sort of little dog in attendance,
giving him a special portion of his time in the evenings
while the others were grappling with the higher
Aristotelian problems, or learning from Thucydides — the
discovery, perhaps, to blossom later — how excessively
ill a man can write his own lano[uao;e, however beautiful,
and yet be famous. That eminent historian is a
perpetual encouragement to writers who can't write,
and Ives again, for the placid cynic, in many a modern
misleader of youth, in the ranks of the ' Nineteenth
Century ' or the ' Fortnightly Review

Into the Grasmere Lake the party plunged in the
morning soon after seven, for the introductory swim
which was to brace them for the day. At eight, after
the short household prayers which Faucit would never
neglect — odd, men said, in that as in most things — they
tackled one of those Oxonian breakfasts which are the
memory and the despair of older digestions, and haunt
like Tantalic phantoms the egg and bacon of later
years, where the new Sangradism allows so much.

"Nothing I know," said Bones simply, on one
occasion, " so sharpens the appetite for breakfast as a
fried sole and a good bit of steak."

When the soles and the steaks and the porridge and
the marmalade had vanished, and the tea and coffee
had been corrected by the early beer, there were four
hours of steady work to be done.

Faucit was a passed master as a guide to the
classics, and would have made me like them if any one
could. But I never took kindly to any of the set
except Aristophanes, whose honest chuckle over everything
and everybody was amazingly to my taste. Why
doesn't our good friend W. S. Gilbert, quaintest in his
line of modern English humorist, take a hint from the
old fellow, and take up ' Demos ' again in his last new

dress ? I am fond of those old Greeks now, T don't
know why ; and perhaps I only wasn't then because I
was expected to be. We are a contrary lot we mortals,
and that's a fact.

But like them or lump them, it was a great sight
to see Faucit, with his hands deep in his trousers
pockets, and the short pipe clearing the mental atmosphere,
walking up and down the little lake-room
expounding, while the pupils listened or took notes,
or asked and answered questions. He had the whole
thing at his fingers' ends, and could dress up Plato's
Republic improvised, in sympathetic and attractive
English of his own. At another time he could tell
anecdotes from Herodotus in a familiar style, quite
after the old gossip's manner; and even on the perplexing
mysteries of Aristotle's Ethics he could throw
an original light, and moralize — as to me he often
did — on the dangers of the career of the apologetic
man. If sometimes he attributed to the philosopher
deep meanings and purposes of which he must have
been entirely innocent, who shall blame him ? Do
not even the commentators of Shakespeare the same ?

Half-an-hour's " yard-cricket " in the front of the
house, with the centre-piece of the door for a wicket,

VOL. I. H

and a tennis-ball to bowl with, and then the honest
early dinner, made the young students fit for their
afternoon of hill-work. Long stretches over the slopes
of Fairfield, or excursions into the smiling little district
of Eydal, pilgrimages to the valley of St. John, whose
grim serrated rocks seemed to the more imaginative
among them to wear the very shape and form which
once shone castle wise, " in morning splendour full and
fair," before the eyes of the Knight of Triermain on
his love-quest — scenes where Faucit's loving knowledge
of his Scots and Wordsworth made him as much at
home and as pleasant a companion as on earlier but
not more classic ground — filled out the long summer
afternoons till supper-time, and the two hours more of
work which followed before turning in. Varied sometimes
by boating on the lakes, sometimes perhaps by
plunges into the pleasant circle of the local society,
where bright eyes were glad to welcome these cheery
young squires, and to beam their best on them
(Gosling had a special aptitude for making himself
acceptable to the owners of those eyes, whom he
generically classed as "Maries" from that hour) —
those Grasmere days ran-into weeks which left a
sunny memory behind them. Every now and again a

period of grace was allowed, when the more enquiring
spirits shouldered knapsacks, and started for a tramp
over passes and valleys, by rattling 'forces" and
smiling meres, to shelter for the night in some cozy
Angler's rest " of the old pre-company pattern, white
and clean as its mistress's apron, and nestled under the
shelter of the everlasting hills.

Pleasant days I pleasant times, full of enjoyment
for the moment and retrospect for the future. I know
not how it may be with others ; but for me, as I grow
older, these memories seem to grow more vivid every
lay ; even as oddly enough the very classical gentlemen
whom I neglected so heartily at the time, as I fancied,
seem to exercise an increasing influence over my
thoughts and work even when I don't take them up
again. They come and wax unbidden, those associations
of the past ; and scenes and events which seemed
at the time to make but slight impressions upon a mind
then more set, out of work-hours, upon odd comers of
itself than anything else, come all of a sudden, as I sit
down to write or to remember, out of the little nooks
of the brain-house into which they must have crept all
unawares. And out they come full-grown, like so many
awkward Minerva.

H 2

It was the summer of the comet-year, perhaps ; and
many a night-drive home from Keswick, or from handier
Amalekite, would our party have after a longer field-day
than usual, when the whole firmament seemed lit,
and the stars put out, by the lustre of that old phenomenon,
which has lost none of its strangeness in
losing all its terror. It has been explained away,
thoroughly; but there it was, all the same. Somebody
did it. And Faucit would quote to the reverential
Gosling the haunting lines of the northern
poet : —

Oh, on thy sparkling prow to ride ! •

To cleave the depths of Heaven with thee I
To plough the twinkling stars aside,
Like foam-bells on a tranquil sea 1 "

And Gosling would intimate, with much conviction,
that he didn't understand it much, but it was "doosid
fine." Fair fall thy criticisms, honest Jem ! They
were better than wiser that I wot of.

Guy Faucit, meanwhile ? What was he thinking
of all this time ? He never lost himself in his work,
for his pupils said that he never went at it harder, and
he carried more than one of them into a triumphant
first. But in the walks and on the boats he was not
quite so companionable as usual, except with one rather

silent member of his regiment, with whom he consorted
for choice to the surprise of the others, and smoked
many pipes.

When one of those parties among Gosling's friends
*' the Maries " took place, Guy was apt to excuse
himself, take the opportunity of strolling off alone with
some book in his pocket, which usually stayed there,
throw himself at full length upon the turf which slopes
suddenly down into the waters of Grasmere on the
E-ydal-ward side, or sit there dreamily and '' corrig "
loose boulders into the lake below.

Unwitting of other presence than his own, he one
day nearly ''corriged " into another world Jem Gosling
and a Mary, whom that seductive youth had persuaded
to go a-flirting with him.

They were lying on the slope below Faucit, and the
boulder shaved the Honourable James's nose. He
said afterwards that the Clipper was jealous, and must
have a love-fever on him. Guy laughed, and looked
very kindly at the lad. His heart had stood still for
the moment when he found what an escape he lead had.

Ah ! that love-fever ! It must run its course like,
other tertian, though many doctors try their hands at
stopping it, or at '' throwing it out."

What were Guy's meditations on the lake-side those
lonely afternoons ? He had nothing but his fellowship,
and the little that would come to him from his mother.
The dear old mother ! how irregularly he seemed to
write to her now. He must run down to Devonshire
directly the reading-party broke up, for he longed fora
kiss to the silvery-hair, a welcome from the silvery
voice. It would be a long time, he trusted and prayed,
before that little came ; and then it could not change
his life.

He had resolved upon an Oxford career ; for with
his fellowship and his pupils, and what he made by his
pen — not much, perhaps, that last, for journalism is
not an El Dorado, even when exclusively followed — he
had now a very good income to boast of in those
rent-free rooms of his.

But — ah ! those buts ! How they come breaking
in upon our best soliloquies, worrying our strongest
purposes, breach-making in our favourite castles of
the air !

Suppose he changed his plans now, and left
Oxford, what should he do ? He could keep his
fellowship, of course, as long as — Exactly. "But"
again. Why wasn't his what they call a married

fellowship \ but it wasn't. Besides, he was twenty-eight,
and an old don. Could he make enough by his
pen to make a profession of it ? impossible to say.
And it was, he knew, very hard and up-hill work.
The bar ? that resource of all the ardent spirits with
no special professional bent of their own, that mystic
profession which " leads to everything," but begins in
nothing, except expense, and, alas ! too often ends
there. Besides, he could not bear the idea of law.
That wouldn't matter to him, though ; and that thought
was soon put aside.

Sir Benjamin Brodie, speaking of his own original
distaste for medicine, had said that any man worth his
salt could teach himself to like any serious work he
had to live by. And the saying was quite after Guy's
own heart. Why hadn't he done like his friend
Wilmot, who took his first at the same time, and an
Oriel fellowship directly afterwards, and then went
straight to London to read for the bar ?

London — there must be great advantages in living
in London, of various kinds. There was a very pleasant
smile on Faucit's face at this point of the secret
discourse. What a pity somebody wasn't there to see
it ! Wilmot had been called now three years, and was

already well spoken of on the Western Circuit, where
he had made quite a hit by holding some briefs for
more advanced juniors, and had distinguished himself
on his own account at Exeter sessions, on some knotty
point of settlement law.

He, Faucit, had some friends among the Exeter
attorneys, and he could be called in three years from
November, if he began at once, and ate the first steps
of his way to the woolsack, as by custom recognised
and provided.

Three years ! he would be thirty-one. Well — he
wouldn't be less if he began later. And really he
nuit do something. This Oxford business was growing
impossible — wouldn't do. He believed that half the
difficulties of the bar were fables, if you had brains
and stuck to work. And wouldn't he ? Why at thirty-five
— Then the shadows of Guy's magic-lantern began
to shift and move, and to be lit by soft prismatic hues
radiating: from the basket of Alnaschar. He saw a
prosperous and successful life before him, not prisoned
in the quadrangles of sleepy Oxford, but in the busy
turmoil of London the magnificent. He saw himself
workings and rising: — first remarked, then distinguished,
then great, and passing away in the fulness of years, to

leave, as his best legacy, his name behind him. He
saw many things; but in and through them all he
saw just this. Pledged first, then waiting, then
united ; always kindling, helping, comforting, consoling ;
he pictured to himself one fair and perfect woman,
ever and always at his side.

It was on one evening towards the close of that lake-sojourn
that Faucit made to his pupils the announcement
which our readers were privileged to learn at
the end of the last chapter.

What was she doing the while, that lady of the
dream ? Far away, perhaps, on the terrace which
looks down on the curling little river which runs by the
town of Berne, where the opposite heights rise suddenly
and picturesquely up, and the mighty giants of the
Oberland, shaded and softened by the distance, keep
watch and ward on the horizon, Daisy Fairfield was
sitting alone, with half-an-hour to herself before the
table dlwte. Her hands were folded on her lap, and
her eyes were set steadily upon the beautiful mountain
vision, as the shapes of Schreckhom and Finster-aar-
hom were imaging themselves firmly in that keen and
open mind. And in the double process of thought
which runs so oddly through our lives, even while

she drank the charm of that masterpiece of landscape
in, she too was dreaming out her sweet and maidenly
dream. Oh, so pure, so true, so maidenly ! so full of
that fearless innocence of life and thought which, when
a man is brought for the first time fairly face to face
with its inner secrets, teaches him first to be ashamed,
and then to rejoice — to rejoice with fear and reverence
over what God has done and does, even over what God
can pardon and undo.

As the young girl sat there, framed like an Mary
Schaeffer with the distance in her eyes, one after
another the passers-by turned back to look at her;
involuntarily, courteously, for she was not one of those
who may be looked on too rudely. But she was
conscious of no look, no gaze ; she seldom was. If
Guy Faucit had known how rare indeed was the glance
which had followed him that first day on the banks of
the Isis, he would have been many inches a prouder
man. Sa the passers-by looked at her unrebuked, and
whispered about the "belle Anglaise," or the "schooner
Engendering," in their various tongues; and Daisy
sat dreaming on.

Sometimes — and in spite of myself — the tears come
to my eyes when I write and think of her. My own

dear wife, Dorothy Balbus, owns her for her best and
dearest friend : for this is no tragedy I am writing,
thank God, though the drama leads thrush many
paths of stone and thorns. And there is no name more
often on my wife's lips and mine than the name she
now so beautifully bears. She was thinking of Guy
Faucit even as he was thinking of her, in a sweet
fancy of love and dependence, yet of mutual help.
What it meant, her dream of marriage, she neither
knew nor asked herself, in any exactness of shape.
She knew that she loved Guy Faucit, and was very
proud and ambitious for him ; and though no word
had been spoken on either part, I think she knew
that he loved her. She had talked much with
him, as she came to know him during their frequent
London meetings, — he had been at her father's
house, and often, and had neglected no place where
she might be, — of his future and his plans of life,
and had urged him much to come to London, and
boldly to try the bar. He was too good to waste
on Oxford reclusion. At first : — for afterwards, as
the better knowledge became better still, there came
a certain shyness over those urgings of hers, and she
said less. He noticed it, or thought he did ; and

passed to much self-questioning as to what it might
mean.

When they parted in London he had, we know,
formed no definite idea of leaving Oxford ; and something
of her doubts was in her fancies now. Would
he really go back to college, and not find something
to do in London ? If he did — well. She didn't know.
Of the fears and reasons that held Faucit back she
knew nothing. She was rich, or would be, in the
world's goods, and how could she use them better than
in helping a great man to a great career ? For he could
be great, she was sure. And I think I can do no
better justice to Faucit' s sense or to Faucit' s honour,
than by saying that the thought of Daisy's money was
not only the last that occurred to him in the matter,
but struck him as a serious obstacle in his way.
How could he come forward for the rich merchant's
daughter, with neither position nor means, and even
with brains unproven for the achieving of either ? And
therein, perhaps, Guy Faucit measured the canons of
society only too well. Meanwhile, however, whatever
the future might have in store for them, among the
fairest scenes of nature in her most various moods,
and among all the surroundings of men and women

who knew nothing of what was passing in their hearts,
though they rubbed elbows every day, Guy Faucit
and Daisy Fairfield thought from morning to evening,
in very plain English, of nothing in the world but
each other.

MOTHER AND SON.

In a quiet corner of Devonshire, by some one of the tmy
Combes which lie between Teignmouth and Torquay,
and make the coast-walk from one of those places to
the other one of the prettiest which the pedestrian can
find on a summer's day, Guy Faucit had found a home
for the long widowed mother, who had till then been
his love. He always came back to the old lady with
fresh and renewed affection; kept her when he was
away constantly informed of all his doings and all
his plans, and found in her a wise as well as an
admiring adviser. With all her pride in Guy's Oxford
successes, and all her sympathy with his enthusiasm
for his pursuits there, she had a knack of shaking
her head over his monastic theories of life. Charmed

with her only child's exclusive devotion, and repaying it
with womanly interest — how much did she not think
of him, after all, in comparison to all his thoughts
of her ? — she nevertheless was very firmly convinced
that the boy ought to marry and would marry, and
returned to the charge upon that point with unfailing
pertinacity. Many and many a friendly battle-royal
did the two have together in the bright parlour — I
like the old-fashioned word where yet not out of place
where the roses clustered round the porch, and on
the other side of the little trim garden the limes shut
out the road. During his visits to Devonshire, which
he made a point of paying for some substantial part of
every vacation, Guy carried the old mother about under
protest to many of the parties and gatherings which
went on in the hospitable western county, at which
mother and son were always more than welcome. They
provided her with a circle of friends who were sure to
look after her and find company for her when he was
away, for he didn't like to think of her as dull or too
much alone.

Now it happens, that to the well-balanced taste the
young ladies of Devon are possessed of many and great
attractions ; and Mrs. Faucit was firmly persuaded that

quite the majority of them were secretly in love with
Guy already, and asked nothing better than to meet
him half-way, if he were disposed to the mysterious
step called '' coming forward." When the parties and
gatherings were over, thus much would she expound to
him in the profoundest confidence, while he gravely
smoked his pipe by the roses. There had been a little
difficulty over the tobacco at first, Mrs. Faucit having
been brought up in ante-nicotian days when smoking
was an illicit trade, and relegated to the kitchen or
the harness-room. Guy had given in with the best
of graces till his mother began to find that she grudged
so much of his society to his pipe, and thought it best
to make advances to her rival, who now lived with heron
the pleasantness of terms. She had been heard to
confess that she even liked it, and the final victory was
achieved by Guy's machiavellian craft. Mrs. Faucit
always said that she could detect the slightest trace of
tobacco in a room for days afterwards. For four or five
nights consecutively Guy smoked in the dining-room,
with the due precautions, after she had gone to bed,
and confessed one morning when the old lady's blissful
ignorance was apparent. The next night he didn't
smoke ; and at breakfast Mes. Faucit, demonstratively

sniffing, declared that the smell was intolerable. But
she was of a candid mind ; and on the weakness of the
proposition being demonstrated, she gave in. So the
pipe among the roses became a recognized institution ;
and their beauteous majesties of the garden bloomed
none the worse for it.

Here, in the parlour then, many and many a time
after they had come home, did these two who were
all in all to each other discuss how they might
become less. Guy would explain that it was impossible
; that the Fates had shaped him a course at
the university, where, though a wife was a forbidden
luxury, a mother was not. When his position was
definite enough ; when a certain professorship, which was
generally regarded as his reversion, had fallen in his
way, and he had fairly settled down to his stride, hi
mother was to leave the Devonshire cottage and keep
house for him at Oxford, as he should leave the rooms
in Balliol, and set up a homestead of his own. He had
mapped out his future upon these definite lines, and
he did not mean to disturb it.

I've married my mother," he said ; " and
the day shall come when she shall be a hostess
well-known in Oxford circles, and all the pleasantness

VOL. I. I

society in the place shall meet in her drawing-rooms."


This was his filial castle in the air ; and men have
built worse before now, I think. But Mrs. Faucit
could not be brought to agree.

Marriage, my dear old boy, is the law for all nice
people ; and you were never intended to be one of the
exceptions. You ought to be independent, of course,
and to be able to make up to any one you choose, and
go into Parliament, where you would get a great name,
and be asked into the ministry directly. It is simply
too bad of James Foster, my only brother in the world,
and he with neither kith nor kin of his own, not to give
you a handsome allowance out of all that money of his,
and acknowledge you as his heir. Whom else has he
got ; and whom does he want better, I should like
to know ? "

Don't talk about him, mother," said Faucit,
whose face always grew dark at the mention of James
Foster's name.

But I must talk about him. How can I help
talking about an only brother with his tens of thousands
a-year, and my poor sister Mary dead and gone ?
I wish you'd write to him."

Mother ! how can you even think of it ? when you
have so often told me yourself of his conduct to you
and my father when you married, and always afterwards."


"Who knows but he may have been right, my
dear ? Your poor father with his half-pay — quarter-pay
I called it — and I with my little bit of money ; no
wonder that he thought the marriage so rash and
wrong."

Rash and wrong ! when he could have helped you
had he cared, without even feeling it ! Don't talk anymore
about him ; I hate to hear his name. All his
endless meanness afterwards, about trustee ships, and
Heaven knows what besides, didn't make things much
better, did they ? Daring to dictate to my grand old
soldier-father, and pretend to look down on him from
the heights of the stocking-trade ! He had better find
his needle's eye to creep through and make haste about
it, the old miser ! "

Oh, Guy, what a very shocking quotation ! "

Awful. I am the profanes of men, as you know.

Uncle James indeed ! " and Guy laughed. '' Shall I

ever forget the last and about the only time I ever saw

him, when I suppose I was about thirteen years old ?

I 2

Don't you remember, mother, when he drove past us in
his gig, and said, ' Is that your boy, Katie ? Why,
he's not brown — he's black ! ' Pleasant creature ! how
I should like to kick him ! "

Well, dear, it wasn't nice," said the mother with
a sigh, who would have done anything for that boy of
hers, and was moreover of a placable disposition. " But
quarrels in families are such weary things ; and I do
believe that if you wrote to him — "

'' I shan't, you know, mother. We're not rich, but
we're comfortable ; and if I go on as I am we shall
be more than comfortable some day. I don't like
family-quarrels either, and have no objection to making
up, even with old grey-shillings. But — que messieurs
les assassins commitment. When Mr. Foster comes
with his hat in his hand and begs our pardon, perhaps
we'll ask him to tea. And now let's change the subject.
Who was the last young lady you said was
breaking her heart for me, at the Powderham archery
meeting yesterday ? "

"I didn't say breaking her heart, dear. I wish
you'd be more accurate."

But you implied-it, you bad old woman ; you
know you did."

Well, dear, Alice Maitland is a very nice girl
indeed, and it's no use saying she isn't. And Maitland'
s bank is one of the oldest and best in London."

"Alice Maitland is nice, and the bank is even
nicer. But I think, mother, that I like Rose Plummer
better."

•'•' Do you, really ? Well, Rose Plummer is a very
nice girl too, and will have a nice fortune, though she's
not as rich as the other. But Sir John Plummer has a
great influence in the county, and might sit for it if
he liked. Still I do think you oughtn't to flirt so
dreadfully with both of them. It isn't fair upon the
poor girls."

"How odd you women are about each other,"
laughed Guy. '' The moment we like a girl, and talk
to her a little more, or waltz with her a little oftener
than usual, it isn't ' fair ' ; and we are always expected
to 'mean' something. I can't make out how on earth
anybody ever marries anybody, as you're always pulled
up before you've time to find out anything about a girl
except that you rather like her. I don't believe the
girls agree with you a bit, or expect anything, or wish
for anything except to be left alone for a while, just
as the men do I "

The old lady shook her head. " You don't know
girls as I do, Guy. How are they to know what men
mean ? "

'easy enough, I should think. But I tell you
what it is, little mother : if they're what you make
them out they're a poor lot, and I don't want to have
anything to do with them."

But, Guy—"

But, mother. Now let's have some backgammon."
And the champion of the river and the tennis-court
proceeded to devote himself with a single heart, unscathed
by the influences of Alice Maitland and Rose
Plummer, to the mysteries of cinq-quater and decease.
Mrs. Faucit shook the box and returned to the
charge.

"Nevertheless, Guy, I should like to see you with
a good wife."

Very well, then ; find me one. Flirt with her
yourself, propose to her yourself, and come and live
with us."

No, dear, I shan't."

'' Well, then, I shan't either."

The discussion stands for many which went on
between the mother and son, before the summer when

Guy Faucit met Daisy Fairfield at the Christchurch
ball, and came down to the Devonshire cottage from
the lakes, with a new life and a new feelings stirring
his heart.

^-x--x- * -^ ^

Then you are in earnest this time, my dear child ? "

I am afraid I am, my mother, very much."

God bless you, my son. I am sure that Miss
Fairfield is all that I could ever ^\4sh ; and I shall be
so glad and proud to welcome her."

"There's a good deal to happen before that,
mother," answered Guy, laughing. "I've got to win
her, you know, to begin with."

I don't think there can be very much doubt about
that," the mother answered, in a tone of very placid
conviction.

Guy laughed again.

You dear old prophet of good, may your confidence
be well grounded. Let me look at you,
mother mine."

He rested his two hands upon her shoulders, and
looked down from his height of vantage upon the soft
smooth bands of silver hair,

Can you give up the dream of the Oxford home,

and think of me as the hard-working barrister in
smoky old London, toiling for the dear life and the
dearer love ? "

"I never believed in the Oxford home, my boy;
and I always told you so. And I shall love to think
of the work in London, which is the only place fora
man like you. I must do my best to help you."

What, mother ? It shall make no difference to
you whatever."

Oh, but it must."

Oh, but it mustn't. Why, I have calculated
means, and 1 shall do splendidly. I shall take small
living-chambers in the Temple, not to be at double
expense. I shall write a good deal more than I have
done, for I think I have the connection for that already ;
and with my fellowship, which is a good one, I shall
be more than able to manage. Not a penny off the
help that I have been able to give the mother."

Oh, Guy ! it is not right. It is I that should be
helping you."

You dear old lady ! you look like it, don't you ?
Why I wouldn't lose a bit of the pride I have in
helping to keep up the Devonshire cottage, not even
for all the Miss Fairfield to be found ! "

"That doesn't sound like being properly in love,"
said Mrs. Faucit.

'' I think it does ; and I don't think Miss Fairfield
would agree with you."

"But the Bar is so expensive. Ain't there all
sorts of fees at starting ? "

"I've saved enough to pay them. You know what
an old screw I am ; quite a touch of uncle James.
Yes, mother, I am going to try my fortune in London,
like so many waifs from Dick Whittington downwards.
It's a face to do it for, isn't it ? "

There was a p LctcgiajL Guy's hands.

"Yes, dear, it's a lovely face, and a good face.
My Guy would never have chosen any other. God
bless you and guard you and help you, my boy, and
as you will be as good a husband as you are a good
son, may He grant you your heart's desire."

Very fondly the two kissed and embraced and
parted; and it was with a heart purified and a will
strengthened by the mother's blessing, that Guy Faucit
started bravely on the London career which has seen
so many win, and so many, to all outward seeming no
less gallant and no less deserving, founder and fail.

TERM-EATING.

The young Balliol fellow settled to his new work withall
the will in him, and soon began to find the truth
of the maxim of Sir Benjamin Brodie, with which
he had comforted himself. After the historians and
philosophers and poets who had grown such familiar
friends with him, he found it difficult at first to realize
the attractions of style and thought to be found in
Bales on Bills,' or Feare's ' Contingent Remainders ' ;
and 'Smith's Leading Cases' led at times to wandering
thoughts, and to a sense of almost impossible boredom.
In spite of himself he reverted to some dearly-loved
point of classic controversy, and detected himself
in the act of fighting old battles over again on the old
ground, somewhere in the fields of thought. But I

have elsewhere spoken of Guy's great power over himself,
for he had realized early in life the truth of the
maxim which Dickens laid down, which sooner or later
every man must realize who is really to succeed in
anything. He had mastered while still at school the
secret of "patient ungrudging attention," to which
Dickens attributed all his own success, thrush in the
case of that high authority perhaps there was something
more to start with than falls to the share of most
men.

So at it Guy went again all the harder for
these deviations of the compass ; and it was a sight
to see him, both his hands holding tight to his hair,
and the elbow-seams of his coat suffering considerably
from their violent contact with the table, grappling
with the " construction," as the grammarians call it, of
some sentence of inordinate length, without apparent
verb, and with neither beginning nor end, in which the
potent, grave, and reverend authors of our law-books
can give many points to my old enemy Thucydides
himself I hold the authors of law-books as a race
altogether apart in the wonders of their style, and
their mastery of that art of meaning-unmeaning which
is so heavy a tax on their readers. Except some of the

propounders of the new scientific gospels, I know of
none to match them in that way. I hate a page which
has to be read live times before any meaning can
be distilled from it, and then turns out to be either
gibberish, or else some faultless platitude which might
have been expressed in a line if it was to be expressed
at all.

Thus not long ago, in the 'Fortnightly Review,'
I think, did I find myself studying a profound treatise
on the Laws of Rhyme, from which I thought to gather
instruction and advantage. One half-page held me
riveted for a long time, for it was beautifully fine, and
I felt that when I once understood it I should realize
some great truth. I was on the eve of discovery, and
meditated on my author profoundly. I forget the
exact words he used, but they were something like
this —

"In rhyme, everything depends upon a certain
assonance and a certain assured sequence in the
collocation of what we call the vowels and the consonants;
and if the strict conditions therein implied
fail to be watchfully and systematically observed, the
result is a lapse of the delicate concord of musical
sound which seizes and arrests the cultivated ear, once

attuned to the eternal laws of harmony and proportion,"
etcetera, etcetera.

That, or something Hke it, went on for a page ; and
at last I found that it meant exactly this, nor less nor
more: that a "hat" rhymes to a "cat," but not to
a "bag."

It was a great consolation to Faucit, after much
wrestling of the spirit and internal perplexity over the
abstruseness of English law, to find that nine-tenths
of the abstruseness lay in the way in which it was put
or rather wasn't, the "putting" being often conspicuous
by its absence — and to discover to his great satisfaction
that half the pages he read might have been
boiled down into as many words. Writers who undertake
to write, especially upon knotty subjects, ought
to go through a competitive examination first, based
upon primitive syntax and words in not more than
three syllables ; for with rare exceptions, never yet has
writer won the big prizes save by simplicity of style.
Be as eloquent as Ruskin or Newman, if you can ; as
witty as Thackeray ; as scholarly as Cockbum ; as
fanciful as Charles Lamb ; but mark that the whole
setting of the wit and the eloquence, the scholarship
and the fancy, are this and only this — simplicity. And

for the sake of long-suffering mankind, observe one
maxim more. When you have nothing to write about,
let it alone. The " laws of rhyme," for instance, are
briefly contained in the summary I ventured to give
of the valuable thoughts of my " resonant " friend.
Rhyme has just that law, and no other. " C est si facile
de ne fas ecrire," was de Morn's answer to the unsuccessful
dramatist who complained to him that " ce
n'est pas si facile d'ecrire une comedie."

Having solved this original problem to his satisfaction,
Faucit worked with a will. As he looked at the
uninviting calf which began to invade his beloved
book-cases, and felt it his duty to furnish the little
chambers in Garden Court in orthodox legal fashion,
he sighed sometimes over the artistic Balliol rooms.
But the purpose that was in him was far too strong
for vain regrets, and apart and away from that, the
ambition of London life soon began to hold him.
If he was not the Caesar that he had been at Oxford,
the dominant nature of the man asserted itself in his
new life as it did everywhere.

In the debating societies which met in and about
the cozy taverns just east of Temple Bar, to be
remembered in future generations, probably, only by

the hideous landmark of the city griffin, where law
questions were debated with zest and interest by the
self - educating among the sucking advocates, Faucit
made his mark at once, as he had done before at
the Union, on the grave question whether Mr. Disraeli
was or was not fit to lead the Conservative Party, or
whether the Oxford youth would or would not lend
its support to the foreign policy of the day.

I fear that the majority of us, for I too tried my
'prentice hand at the bar, were content with the
education provided for us by the benchers, in the shape
of dinners in hall.

Beginning his work in November, when the fees
and the fogs begin circulating together, Faucit
deferred till after Christmas the necessary course of
reading with a pleader, as he preferred to know something
of the elements of his business before he began.

The hundred guineas were rather a wrench ; but, ashe
told his mother, he had saved money, and all
luxuries he retrenched at once from his manner of
living. No more delicate little scout-laid dinners, or
choice bottles of wine with a friend ; only the homely
mutton and the frothing beer, which my healthy-minded
young athlete liked just as well. It disturbed

him a little to think that he might run to fat, but
he forestalled the danger by a vigorous course of
fencing at Waite's rooms in Soho Square, and an
occasional migration to Lord's for a turn at the tennis.

A very pleasant set of rooms were those of Faucit's
in Garden Court, looking down from their third floor
upon the green little gardens of the Middle Temple on
the one side, — no embankment stood between that and
the water then, — and on the other on the plashing
fountain at the head of the steps, which was such a
pleasant object both to look and to listen to, like an
oasis of rest in the deserts of law-strife. For what
reason it was improved off the face of the earth I know
not; but when its innocent babble was extinguished
there was mourning among the dwellers in Garden
Court.

I had myself been called to the bar some three
years when Faucit took up his quarters in the Temple ;
and Very welcome was his arrival to me and others of
his Oxford contemporaries. I was taking the law
easily, as I had taken the classics ; and failing entirely
to achieve Faucit' s patience over his law-books, I felt
that if I was ever to arrive at greatness in the law,
it would have to be thrust upon me by imperious

circumstance. Imperious circumstance did indeed
try it for a time, and threw many briefs and a good
round practice in my way ; but Nature was too strong
in me even for circumstance, and my incorrigible idleness
was the cause of much mourning in the Balbus
family, who predicted untimely ends for me which have
not yet come to pass.

Fred ^\"ilmot was the third of the Balliol , chums
who now re-united in the chambers in Garden Court,
and consorted in frequent companionship together.

Fast friends we were in those cheery days, though
Wilmot was the very reverse of me, being all that
the Wilmot family could desire, and penetrated with
leal ambition and lesral lore. His was a lio^ht which,
in consequence, now burns and shines as it ought, for
is not Wilmot the acknowledged leader of his circuit,
and sure of speedy promotion to the bench ? Only a
morning or two ago I was reading with admiration an
argument of his in a case in which a clergyman had
been imprisoned for breaking the law, wherein he
proved, past my contradiction, that an eminent judge
who was responsible for the proceeding had broken
it in half-a-dozen different places himself.

Wilmot and Faucit had many a deep discussion

VOL. I. K

upon law together, as in old days upon Aristotle or
Plato, at which, as in old days also, I assisted as an
admiring listener — my remarks, when I made any,
being with much consent treated as trivial. I was not
in any way regarded as a serious person ; and it was
a puzzle to many, myself included, why I chose my
special friends, or was chosen by them, from among
the more studious spirits of my time, when I should
obviously have herded with the drones.

I am no nearer to any philosophic system of life
now than I was when I read Mill, and didn't believe
a word of him ; but I fancy that through all that
idleness of mine there must have been a large amount
of observation and meditation at work, which was to
bear fruit for me later, when my emancipated spirit
had got out of the legal shell, and had become free
to circulate in a literary atmosphere of its own.

As for Faucit, none of us ever had any doubt that he
would come out clear first in anything and everything
he chose to put his hand to. Young as he was at the
work, he soon found his connection in journalism
extending and growing solid, and felt with relief that
if the bar failed him he would after all have a profession
to fall back upon. But he would not let the

pen tempt him too far, or use it for anything buta
help at starting.

A few years before, and even journalism had been
under police supervision in a barrister who meant
business.

"There are callings," said Lord ElJenborough, 'ein
which to be suspected of literature is dangerous."

But more liberal ideas were beginning to prevail,
and even solicitors to allow" that a man cannot live
upon hope while he is waiting for their briefs, but must
help himself as best he may as long as he does it
with a due amount of reticence. So Guy Faucit stuck
resolutely to anonymous work, and suppressed his
personality in literature.

As for me, in a weak moment I wrote a farce which
was acted in public, and audaciously claimed the
authorship. Then all was over, and my prospects were
blasted. They have never recovered. Never mind.

"John, my son," said an anxious parent to a co-barrister
and co-author of mine, who had like proclivities,
" how can you be such a fool as to white a
play ? If you stick to the bar you may become a
Brougham."

"I may," he said "and if I stick to the plays

K 2

I may become a Sheridan. One's just as likely as the
other; and of the two I prefer Sheridan."

John held to his evil courses, and is now making
a very handsome income of his own. It is very wrong ;
but he is. They have balances at their bankers, some
of those dramatists, improper though it be.

Very strange and very wonderful are the ways of
fate; and no stranger lot than Faucit's did she hold
in that mysterious urn of hers. There was to be no
calling to the bar, no legal name or legal success, for
him from whom his friends all hoped so much. Rather
they did not hope ; they felt sure. Yet, in one year
from the day when we dined with him by way of
chamber-warming in Garden Court, upon a feast of
oysters, — cheap then and plentiful, and consumed by the
young votaries of Themis, not grudgingly or sparingly,
or in the uncomforting shifts of Blue-Points or French
immigrants, but in rich native luxuriance over the
counters of Prosser, — and of beefsteaks and beer, the
dream was to be over and the future gone, and our
model and hero, all his moorings severed and lost, was
to drift away out of sight, as lost to us as Merlin in
the hollow oak, and even in' the minds which held him
dearest to linger but as a memory. We should have

made more of him that winter, Wilmot and I, and of
all the rich stores we drew from his strong sense and
scholarship and shrewd imagination, had we known
what and how soon was to be the end of that pleasant
chapter in our lives. He was one who needed confidence
and sympathy, and was expansive with his close
allies, though with the many he was reticent about
himself.

So it was not long before Wilmot and I knew the
reason of his change of plans and life, which had
puzzled us at first, well aware as we were of his
attachment to Oxford, and of his tenacity of purpose.
He was one of those men who seem bound to live heart-whole,
and supplied a crucial test of the absurdity of
predicating such a thing of anybody. When they do
go, these ironclads, they do. Faucit concealed nothing
from Wilmot or from me, who kept his counsel. He
felt pretty sure that he had made an impression upon
Daisy Fairfield's thoughts and heart, and had a confidence
in her very fine to see. He was in no hurry to
speak ; but if she cared about him — and he would spare
no effort to make that certain — she would wait as
wistfully as he. She knew well enough what his
thoughts and wishes were, he said, even when they

parted in the summer. Or if she doubted them, what
did she think when, towards the close of November,
when he had settled well down in harness, they met
face to face in one of the winter exhibitions ?

Very warm on both sides was the shake of the hand ;
and Guy's quick eye had "already detected the faint
sweet flush which brought the rose-tinge to the clear
face, whose every line he knew so well. Many of its
myriad expressions he had still to learn. So, alas ! had
she, poor child !

"You in London, Mr. Faucit ? " she said. "Can
Oxford spare you just now ? "

I have left Oxford," he quietly answered.

She looked quickly up, and spoke slowly, with a
certain pleased surprise.

You— have left— Oxford ? "

"Yes; I am living in chambers in the Temple, and
am reading hard for the Bar."

"I am very glad," she answered, frankly and
straightforwardly. " I am sure that you will make
yourself a great name in that profession before long."

I shall try," he said gravely. " At all events, you
see I have taken your advice."

Did I advise you to do it ? "

•' More than once. Have you forgotten ? "

"No; I remember now that I did. But I should
not like to think that I am responsible for so grave a
change of purpose."

"Very many have advised me to it as well as you'*
Guy answered. '' Indeed, most of my friends, I think.
So if I turn out a failure I won't sue you for damages.
But somehow I don't feel as if I should."

*' No, indeed. For earnest men, Mr. Faucit, there is
no such word as fail. I suppose you will live like a
hermit in your Temple chambers."

'' Not quite, I hope. I never believed in shutting
oneself up as the best way of working. Change of
mental air is the best receipt for everybody. I shall
hope to come and call in Portland Place very soon
indeed. Have you been back long ? "

Casuistry, Master Guy. He knew perfectly well
she hadn't : for had not he and I walked past the
house in Portland Place only three days before, and
seen the blinds down ? Guy walked very often up
Portland Place. He found the air of the Regent's
Park bracing, he said.

"No," said Daisy; "we stayed a little time in
Paris on our way home, and only came back yesterday.

I have so much to tell you of our Swiss tour, and all
the delight I had in it. When will you come ? "

'' Shall you be at home tomorrow ? "

Yes ; by five o'clock."

** Will you give me a cup of tea then ? "

Yes."

And the next day, at that pleasantness hour of social
interchange, the bright silver tea-urn in Portland Place
once more took up the accompaniment to the old,
old song.

FAIRFIELD AND CO.

There were signs that winter that all was not well
with the house of Fairfield. How is it that people
know or suspect mischief in the business air ? There
are no outward and visible signs. The house goes on
as usual ; the payments are as sure and regular. In
the City the same routine goes on with the steadiness
of clockwork; and at the West-end Madam has her
dinner-parties and receptions, and Miss her horses and
her enjoyments. But there are unaccustomed clouds
on the face of the master of the house ; certain
asperities and inequalities in his ways and speech
which betray themselves to the home-observers who
know him so well. And in the City chambers there
are conferences between the partners, frequent and

unusually protracted; and the confidential clerk, who
is the marrow of the concern perhaps, is summoned to
assist at them, and comes out looking rather grave,
though nothing escapes him which his curious juniors
can build a theory upon. But Dick confides to Harry
over the mid-day chop and pint, and Harry wonders
if the governor can possibly be shaky, though that
anything can really be wrong with Fairfield and Co.
seems an idea too absurd to be entertained seriously,
etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, — Tool calumnies e itn monticello,
— and Harry and Dick, unconsciously enough,
perhaps, set the stone of talk rolling, which, unlike the
fabled rock of Sisyphus, has a knack of working its way
up-hill all by itself when it is once started.

People in the City spoke doubtfully of the old ship
Fairfield and Co. A younger partner had come in,
bitten with the new theories of City-progress, and was
bent upon enlarging the operations of the firm.

Old Threadneedle, the confidential clerk, very much
disapproved of the new partner, and was for keeping
the house in the old and quiet grooves in which she had
run without a creak for so many years. He disliked
the new order of things very much, and maintained
that if the City was to become a colony of Jews and

Germans, and to exist for nothing but for the forcing
of hothouse fortunes, the old English traders should
hold the more to the old ways, and keep a quiet comer
to themselves in the middle of the scamper.

But in that, as in many things. Conservatism and
Obstruction grow something mixed, and the tyrant
Progress insists on having his wav. It was surely bv
some odd freak worth the meditations of the political
enquirer, that it was just when the City was growing
more and more revolutionary in her own business-ways,
that she suddenly ratted in her political creed, and
turned Tory.

Mr. Fairfield, the head of the house, was to those
who knew him casually not a nice man. His externals
were against him, for his architecture was of the florid-combative
order, and he was big and overbearing of
manner. His voice was harsh, and creaked and grated
in the sound — peculiarities aggravated by the fact that
he had a sensitive throat, and was always losing the
voice he had. His eyebrows were bushy, and his hair
rebellious, more like a white T\dre-fence than anything
else. He was rather a bully at home too, or poor
delicate Mrs. Fairfield's frightened face belied him.
She was always ailing, poor little lady, and nobody

ever quite knew what with till she went quietly out of
the world without any particular reason, a few years
after the time I am writing of.

Some people there are who are ill in that indefinite
way all their lives, and thereby cause pitying affection
in some, and irritation in others.

Mrs. Fairfield irritated her husband, who was
attentively strong and rude of health, and furious with
the local weakness in his bronchial arrangements, which
was tiresome without being in the slightest degree
interesting. Moreover, he could have got rid of it ina
fortnight by drinking less wine. Moreover, he knew
it, and was exceedingly angry if anybody told him so.

He lectured Mrs. Fairfield on her partiality for
doctors, who, indeed, did the poor lady very little good,
making general remarks about want of tone which
were both obvious and feeble. They were particular
about the wine she drank, which varied according to
the medical fashion of the season. This year it was
hook. Indeed, each season has its special vintage from
the physician's point of view as much as from the
vine-grower's. However, I don't think the faculty did
Mrs. Fairfield any harm, or that there was any harm or
good to be done to her, simple, neutral-tinted soul.

She clung to Daisy with a fond and close affection,
which the young girl returned with interest, watching
her mother with a protecting tenderness very good to
see. She was a bulwark often between her and the
lord-and-master's tempers ; for Mr. Fairfield was in
his way very fond and proud of Daisy too, and rarely
showed any disposition to bully her. Indeed, with all
her sweetness of nature, Daisy Fairfield was not easy to
bully. Any attempt of the kind missed its mark somehow,
and made itself look foolish, and perished of
inanition. There was a sort of uncompromising and
fearless straightness about her, clear-set in the great
blue eyes, which baffled dictation as much as it subdued
impertinence. The latter, somehow, was out of
the question with her altogether.

Daisy Fairfield was fond of her father for his love
fur her; and I cannot help) thinking that it takes a
great deal to prevent a child from being fond of
a parent. I doubt if anything but absolute and
proved un-love will do it, for the fifth commandment
is by nature very easy of keeping. He had great
schemes for her in his head, and meant to make
her an heiress worth a great man's wooing — great
of course socially and by right of purse, as such folk

measure greatness. He had but one other child, a son
whom he regarded with much contempt and some
aversion, as a very weak vessel indeed.

Dick Fairfield had shewed no propensity for making
money, but a considerable one for spending it on himself.
He had declined to have anything to do with the
business, in which he was to have succeeded his father,
as Fairfield after Fairfield always did, and as there
was no second to fall back upon, " Fairfield " must in
another generation be but a nominis umbra in the
house, where the new partner would reign supreme,
under such fetters of Threadneedle's forging: as he
would submit to, Dick had gone into the army as such
men do, not to fight, but to loaf; and his father, finding
the business hopeless, had allowed him to do it because
of the social consideration he supposed would belong toit.
But in starting him he had given him clearly to
understand, that as he declined to care for the House
of Fairfield, the House of Fairfield would not make an
eldest son of him, but that Daisy would have her full
share of the goods her father might leave behind him.
Dick accepted the condition vacuously, as he did
everything, being indeed slow both of heart and of
intelligence, and a wonder to everybody in that he

called Daisy sister. Such wonders of kinship are constant,
family un-likeness being often more curious to
speculate upon than family likeness.

Daisy thoroughly disapproved of Dick ; and fully
shared her father's feeling that he should have felt
it a bounden duty, being the only son, to conquer his
tastes, or rather want of them, and stand by the house
and the business.

Poor Mrs. Fairfield, of course, could never be
brought to see this, which nettled her husband considerably.
She thought the army delightful, and the
uniform most becoming ; and she sympathized deeply
with Dick's grievances when, as now, he was relegated
to unattractive 'quarters in an out-of-the-way part of
Ireland. He ought to have made a stipulation with
the Horse-Guards, when he joined, that he never was
to leave London.

Daisy Fairfield, perhaps, did not keenly regret her
brother's absence, and for her that Christmas season,
which followed on Guy Faucit's plunge into the troubled
waters of legal life, was a happy and memorable time.
It is a happy, if a restless time, for those of us to whom
it is given, that during which the heart's first real fancy
takes steady shape and form, and the feeling that " it

may be " deepens into the conviction that " it must,"
the belief that "it will."

Guy Faucit, with his friends and his introductions,
at once found himself welcome in the society I described
as Daisy's in a former chapter. He was a man to
become an acquisition and a favourite at once ; for his
Oxford fame had of necessity preceded him to many
places in town, where many a man now in advance of
him at the bar owned him for tutor and adviser, and
looked up to him with unabated reverence.

Good Mrs. Pepperharrow, who was one of the first
people on whom he called, killed a fatted calf for him
at once, and sent him down to dinner with Daisy
Mrs, Pepperharrow was preternaturally gorgeous, and
full of an important move in life which she was going
to make. She was about to " take up her hassocks,"
as a friend of mine describes the progress of migration,
and inaugurate a mighty palace in the south-west of
London, which she hoped to make a fashionable centre.

So good of you if you'll come and help me, Mr.
Faucit," she said, " with some acting or a little music,
or some tableaux vivant " (I cannot attempt to reproduce
the appearance these two words would assume in
the spelling). " I'm sure you're very clever in that way."

'* Indeed, Mrs. Pepperliarrow, I know nothing at all
about them."

Oh, Mr. Fauci t, you can't expect me to believe
that. A man of your intellect, who can do anything e
likes to do without an effort. Daisy dear, wouldn't Mr.
Faucit look well as the Earl of Leicester, with you
as Amy what's-her-name, and me as Queen Elizabeth ?
Then there would be appropriate music being the
scenes, and a good supper downstairs. Mr. Faucit,
you really must promise me to do the Earl of
Leicester."

"The Earl of Leicester, Mrs. Pepperharrow," said
Daisy, " was slight and delicate and romantic ; and you
^vill have to starve Mr. Faucit down, which I am sure
isn't at all in your way. And I'm sure I don't look
a bit like that spiritless Amy Robert."

No, indeed," said her neighbour, in a low voice.
Flora Macleod, or Minna in the ' Pirate,' would be
more the line of part to fall to you."

Are you to be the desperate Cleveland, then ? "

Absit omen ! " muttered Guy in a low voice.

Which means ? " asked Daisy, half hearing.

"Which means that I was quoting Latin at dinner,
which is atrocious ; I should have been sconced for it

VOL. I. L

at Oxford. I wonder, Miss Fairfield, if such an inveterate
old don as I must be by this time will ever be
civilized up to London level ? "

"We shall all try what is to be done with you.
Mrs. Pepperharrow, do you think we can ever make
a London man of Mr. Faucit ? "

"My dear, I'm surprised to hear you. I'm sure Mr.
Faucit would be what he liked anywhere ; though
whether we ave to be different in Belgrave Square from
wdiat we are in Portland Place, I'm afraid I don't know.
I've heard that you ave, and I wonder how it's done."

"What makes you change from such comfortable
quarters as these ? " asked Paucity

husband Ugh as made a great it," said the
lady, rushing at the sentence gallantly and losing every
fence. (She generally saved some.) " I'm sure we were
rich enough before, and very thankful we ought to be,
when there's so many poor people about, and so hard
to know what to do for them."

"Nobody knows better what to do in that way
than Mrs. Pepperharrow," said Daisy, looking very
kindly on her friend.

"Well, I know that I try, my dear. And, Mr.
Faucit, the poor are very hard to manage sometimes.

and do take one in so. I wonder if they're any better
in Belgrave Square."

Are you going there on a voyage of discovery ? "

We're going there because Ugh as more than
doubled all his money this year, and is likely to go on
making more and more of it now e's once begun. And
I think we ought to do our duty in the states to which
we are called, and to see more of the aristocracy.
Not," added Mrs. Pepperharrow, hurriedly, '' that we're
going to neglect old friends. Neither Ugh nor me
would do that. Oh dear me ! Ugh's going to sleep ;
look at him nodding at the other end of the table, and
Mrs. MacGunter not attending to him because of the
canvass-backed ducks. Ugh, dear — ahem" (with knife
and fork accompaniments on the table). " Ugh ! "

The soap-boiler recovered with a start, and poured
some wine into Mrs. MacGunter' s plate.

"You'll come and see us very often in the new
ouse, Mr. Faucit," continued the speaker, having
recovered the interruption ; " and as for Daisy here, I'm
going to take her to all the best places and all the best
things of next year's season."

And make a fine lady of her ? " said Faucit.

Painting the lily and gilding the gold."

L 2

He spoke rather low.

Mr. Faucit ! " said Daisy as low. " You don't
generally pay banal compliments."

I don't think I ever do," he answered. " I was
quite in earnest. I cannot see Miss Fairfield in the
character of a fine lady."

"Thank you," she said, laughingly. "Perhaps I
can. Why should you think that I am free from the
ambitions and the weaknesses of my sex ? "

From what I have heard of it, the society craze
is neither an ambition nor a weakness. It is a fever,
apt to leave the whole system in an unstrung and
exhausted condition."

So the talk glided on into the usual philosophies
about the emptiness of fashionable life and the hollowness
of society, which came of course with tremendous
force from these two experienced young moralists. It
is astonishing how, in London, that same hollow cavity
is proclaimed and proscribed by the flutterers on the
edge, who hasten to tumble into it one after another on
the first appearance of an opening.

Guy and Daisy were not near enough to the mouth
yet, so they were free to talk with a grave superiority
which impressed Mrs. Pepperharrow but little, as far as

she heard their conversation, carried on, it must be
confessed, in something of an undertone.

Have I spoken of Daisy Fairfield's voice ? Guy's
eyes were sometimes half-shut as he listened, to dwell
on the music of the notes. His hostess was on a more
fashionable life intent, and undismayed by the auguries
of crowd-natured friends as to the snubbing she misbehave
to bear. She relied upon her Hugh's purse, and
her own placid persistency of nature, which, combined
with the fact that you might as well be rude to a
cushion, had served her in good stead in the battle
of life. They had begun at the bottom of the scale,
she and her husband, and had loved and comforted
each other in their honest way throughout. If such
people do set their hearts upon social conquests, they
do it so innocently and thoroughly that there is no
blaming them, and perhaps they win because they
deserve it.

The Pepperharrows' wealth made very many people
happy ; and in the hands of such trustees as they, it is
apt to increase fast. Fortune, indeed, seemed bent at
this time upon showering the favours they most desired
upon them.

Early in the year, just as the big house in Belgrave

Square was being prepared for the opening of the
season, it fell to the lot of Alderman Hugh Pepper-harrow
to preside over some ceremony in the city which
was graced by the presence of royalty, and carried with
it some special significance deserving of special commemoration.
Within a 'few days, to his wife's undisguised
and pronounced delight, and with the effect
of some shame-sacredness on his part, veiling much
inward satisfaction, the soap-boiler arose Sir Hugh
Pepperharrow from under the gracious hand of his
sovereign. And it was under such a smiling fortune as
this that the ' Peep-Hole ' and the ' Flunkey,' and other
organs of the fashionable world, previously primed in
the matter, announced beforehand some of the wonders
which were to await the 4Vde of the hem monde in the
salons of the popular lady of an excellent knight. On
such matters we always write in reverential, if sometimes
doubtful, French. Even at the same time that
fickle and dangerous goddess of the wheel was, alas !
steering for a lea-shore, and bringing gathering rumour
in her wake, the older vessel of Fairfield and Co.

COMING EVENTS.

No rumours about the house of Fairfield or its fortunes
reached the ears of the student in the Temple ; nor did
Daisy in Portland Place suspect any reason whatever
for her father's increased irritabilities. He growled
and glared more than before, and he visibly increased
his allowances both of port wine and brandy-and-water ,
much to the girl's annoyance and distress. She had
seen the effect of too much indulgence in these luxuries
upon him too often not to hold them in profound
horror, and she had very often been able to prevail
on him to mend his ways by judicious remonstrance.

Mrs. Fairfield had an unfortunate knack of interfering
at exactly the wrong time, and in exactly the
wrong way, and returning weakly to the charge when

wisdom lay in silence. People like this poor lady
are always doing it — unlucky social martyrs, who are
quite undeserving of the cruel process of snubbing,
very incapable of bearing it, and yet always to a great
extent bringing it on themselves.

The effect of Mrs. Fairfield's mild but pertinacious
words was usually to increase the evil ; but with his
daughter Mr. Fairfield had the grace to be ashamed
of himself and of his bad tempers, when they outgrew
the reasonable crossness which is permitted to every
right-minded head of a household, in order to signify
that he is Sir Oracle, and wants the barking to himself
Under the crooked influence of the bottle the crossness
sometimes broke bounds considerably, and took ferocious
forms which Mr. Fairfield had forgotten all about
the next morning, till his wife began to narrate them
in a suffering tone when he woke, making him swear.

Daisy would say nothing till long afterwards, when
some quiet and perfectly good-tempered allusion,
lighted up sometimes by some of the humour which
had been rather freely bestowed upon this young lady,
made papa feel very uncomfortable and very conscious,
and grow quite good for a time. If some of the
guardian angels would only learn her method, and

refrain from triumphing over prostrate guilt at times
when forbearance is not only mercy but wisdom, conversions
would be more numerous, and there would be
less creaking in the domestic wheel.

But of what am I discoursing ? Is it possible that
well-bred young ladies can even be conscious of
aberrations of this class, much more take notice of their
existence ? Faith, yes ; coffee-taverns and Sir Wilfred
were in their infancy then ; and, indeed, I doubt if
good Father Noah's weakness is yet dead amongst us,
and perhaps there are a good many houses, if we
unroofed them, where the properest young maidens
would be found very well used to the sins of fathers
or brothers in this matter, and speaking of them and
rebuking them very candidly indeed.

Daisy Fairfield, certainly, had a way of going right
to her mark about everything, and her mind and taste,
at this period, were making rapid growth under the
influence of Guy's companionship. Sadly indeed, and
very gravely, did she note how this failing of her
father's was growing upon him now. He was nota
drunkard, nor did he often exceed the extreme limits
imposed by decorum. But he drank too regularly and
too much, and it was a vice that did not suit him.

He was not one of those genial fellows who break up
homes and hearts with the most exhilarating signs of
good-temper; for when he had well drunk, Septimus
Fairfield was not genial. If he had been less prone to
the weakness for many years past, Daisy and his wife
might have been more ready to suspect that he had
something on his mind. As it was, they thought with
perturbed spirits of the facile descent of Avernus,
and hoped that the old gentleman would yet mend
his ways.

If it had not been for this little rift within the
lute, my favourite's enjoyment of this winter would
have been perfect. Day after day, and time after time,
the intimacy between her and Guy Faucit grew and
prospered, and I think they understood each other very
well, with that best of understandings which comes
about between two loyal hearts like theirs, as the
inevitable stream proceeds upon its course. He learned
how to assure her of his meaning without definite
words ; to convey to her, by many a pleasant intimation
which she would live upon for days, the depth of the
purpose and the reality of the love that were in him ;
and at the same time to make her see why and how
he did not care to come forward to her father emptyhanded,

but waited for the not far-off time, when, ashe
hoped, he might have something Hke a secure home
and a definite future to offer.

When first she realized this, it may be that her
hero rose higher than before in her esteem, and that
she, too, on her side, vowed in that simple maiden
heart of hers that she, if so God would, was ready to
wait in a quiet confidence for the moment when he
might think himself justified in saying all that was in
his heart. She made no concealment from herself of
the answer which hers was prepared to give him.

There was no hurry. She was young, and the
battered old world was young too for her; young
enough to give her the full enjoyment of itself, its
friendships and its pleasures, its allurements and its
innocent uses, which the sceptics only sneer at when
they have employed them badly.

When they met at the winter dances, the delight
of the evening was in her waltzes and her talks with
him; but that did not prevent her from dancing through
her card with partners many and various, getting out
of them all the good they had to give her, and grudging
to him no little of the same kind of enjoyment.
xV pleasant look of understanding would pass between

them at such times now and again, and the whole
of their love-story was coloured by the radiance of
a perfect trust.

I myself, who made her acquaintance through Guy
at this time, was favoured with a good many dances
and conversations with her, and thought that I could
have wished no better fortune in the world for the
friend for whom nothing seemed to me too good, than
the companionship, through all change and chance, of
such a rare creature as this.

She was so wonderfully frank and fearless, spoke of
Guy with such unconcealed but modest interest, and
interested herself so honestly in his friends, just
because he had made them his.

She learned to laugh at me and with me for my
avowed incapacity for legal learning sympathized
thoroughly with my hopeless predilections for the side
of the world which men have agreed to call Bohemia —
though what the word precisely means, and what are
its latitudes and longitudes, the social geography book
sayeth not in any plain terms — and comforted me
when, as sometimes happened, I felt inclined to cry
out on my own un-seriousness, by auguring for me a fair
measure of success in the irregular pursuits which it

was my bent to follow, wherein one may stray without
a licence, and work in the morning, or in the middle of
the night, or all day, or not at all, as seemeth the
unchartered libertine best in his own eyes.

Never had woman a happier knack of talking just
upon the subjects which most interest the person she
is talking to, not from any sense of duty, or with any
sign of that detestable process known as " jumping,"
but because she knew that men are best on their own
ground, and she loved to pluck from all the highways
and hedges of human nature the very flowers which
grew there the most naturally.

So it was that Wilmot came to the conclusion that
there could never be a barrister's wife like that ; while
I, though quite agreeing with him in the name and
interests of Faucit, secretly felt that Daisy Fairfield was
born to share and to console the lot of a literary man,
and that after all it was to be hoped that the tyrant
Circumstance would end by dispensing that lot to Guy,
who had already shown his capacity to accept it.

Indeed, my chief despair about my own prospects
rose out of that capacity of his. Every article he
wrote for the ' Saturday,' or for the magazine with
which he was for the time connected, teemed with

an amount of knowledge and information which seemed
helplessly beyond my grasp. I wanted to be well-informed
; but it was all in vain. I was baffled by
politics, bemused by science, drugged by history, while
law drove me frenzied to the nearest oyster-shop.

I was incurably and conscientiously frivolous, and
read my fate in the pitying glances of my friends, and
the light subjects on which alone they would discourse
with me.

I used to think of my future gloomily — to see
myself a pauper, a tide-waiter, a wanderer living on
my poor private means, and might never have found
my destiny at all had I not one day chanced upon a
French farce which amused me. I then and there
wrote an original play (upon the same subject), and my
groove was found.

We have all our grooves, my brethren, I verily
believe, if we will but with patience wait for them.
I have cited Sir Benjamin Brodie's dictum because
Faucit believed in it. I didn't, and I don't. No
power on earth — none — would, as I am convinced, have
made me like or tolerate the law, through no fault of
mine, who did not make myself. Neither could the
good Fairy Bountiful herself make me hum " God save

the Queen" so as to be recognized even by Her
Gracious Majesty, often as she must have heard it, and
on innumerable keys — even though, like Bully Bottom,
I have a "reasonable good ear for music. Let's have
the tongs and the bones."

I liked Daisy Fairfield heartily, just as I liked
Faucit, and for the same personal reasons, which are at
the bottom of all our real likings and disliking. I
abominate Jones because he doesn't appear to want my
company at the club ; when one day, lo, we meet in the
coffee-room, he greets me warmly and we have a
pleasant talk about nothing in particular, and thenceforward
Jones is in my best books. Good fellow, Jones.
Probably a precisely similar process has taken place
in Jones's mind about me, and he has been cursing
me for a stuck-up beggar, when I have been avoiding
him because I thought he didn't care to speak to me.
Faucit, no doubt, used to abuse me, in the round
unvarnished terms of college youth, for not sticking
to anything; but when the Dean of Chapel of our
joint undergraduate day augured worst of me, and the
master couldn't account for my proceedings except on
the assumption of some mysterious deficiency in my
brain — it was Dr. Phlebotomy, I think, who once upon

a time, trying to "reduce" me, said the cerebrum was
possessed of too much white matter, and too little grey,
or blue, or something — Faucit fought my battles in
confidence, and vowed to them that Balbus would do
very well for himself some day. The Dean hoped that
I should ; but my last essay upon the Theocritus philosophy
had been something altogether too superficial for
Balliol. I had insisted on treating that writer purely
as a poet, " the poet of the Bucolics, a Syracuse by
race, and the son of Suicides, as he said himself," and
had more than inferred that he had no philosophy at
all, and would have had as little to say for himself in
that way as the needy knife-grinder.

Poor old Dean Parley 1 worthier and kinder soul
never breathed ; but he measured us all in the selfsame
teaspoon, and his classical curriculum was as the
bed of one Procrustes, ordered to suit all lengths.

Of the brilliant minds and leaders of my college day,
who were going to ignite the Thames, and witch the
world with noble workmanship, only one or two have
struggled to the front at all in the many-marshalled
battle of Life, and those who now live and move in the
eyes of men were for the most part but a poor sort of
creature, ranked with the drones and pricked with the

unworthy. Nimmo, the billiard-player, has made one
of the finest fortunes of the day by coup after coup in
Romania railways and Mexican contracts, wrought
through energy of purpose and subtlety of brain ;
Scourged, the thrice-rusticated, who would do nothing
but hunt, is known through the wide-world as a fighting
special correspondent, whose rides and escapes
astonish the generals as much as his letters delight
the penmen ; Motus the solitary, who seemed to have
neither foe nor friend nor occupation, and neither
in books nor sports would ever do anything, is the
famous poet of many editions ; while Sternhold of the
four first classes makes indexes in Lincoln's Inn to the
statutes other men draw up ; and the wondrous Imply,
the distinguished Ireland, Hertford, and what not ? who
even in those days was too well-informed to believe in
anything but himself, is incapable of making a speech,
or saying Bo to a British jury ; but devils unbeknown
for the Solicitor-general, and saves him, as that officer
confesses, a considerable amount of trouble. The wheel
goes round, and the little pitchers crop up. There
was not enough allowance made for mental varieties
in those college days, and too much of pains taken in
picking out the plums. It happens sometimes that

VOL. I. M

the batter is good, and the plums are naught. Ever
and again, though, the great stamp of true and original
power asserts itself at the outset to all eyes; and
neither tutors nor rowing men — neither friends nor
examiners — were even then mistaken in their gauge of
Faucit's capacity. Hard and sad enough was the discipline
the Dispenser had in store for him ; but as
I write and remember, may discipline and Dispenser
be thanked, it is bearing its late fruit now.

I was much with Faucit at that time, and made
number four with his sweetheart and himself in more
private boxes than one, contenting myself with the
task of absorbing Mrs. Pepperharrow, whose conversation
and character rewarded me thoroughly for my
devotion, being to me a source of never-ending delight.
Whether she attached any meaning or seriousness to
the romance unfolding itself before her eyes, I am
not sure. But such was her confidence in Daisy, that
whatever that young lady did was sure to be right for
her good-natured guardian, who made Daisy a prominent
figure in all the mind-pictures she drew of the
ouse in Belgrave Square.

'' Quite a mansion, I assure you ; and so elegant. I
am sure if we might ope for anything from your pen

fur our first performance in the theatre, it would be
sure to be a feature, mr. Balbus. A man of your
intellect, you know. But I'm afraid you wouldn't have
the time."

I had just followed up the fatal farce with a melodrama,
also of French origin, on the strength of which,
not without some inward spasms, I called myself an
author. It is the only line of life I wot of in which a
translator takes to himself that privilege. Yet do the
sins of the adapter recoil upon his oa^ti head, for there
is a general impression abroad, both in the public mind
and the managerial, that an English playwright cannot
invent his own plots. Why I don't know, as it is the
easiest part of the business, which may be fairly inferred
from the number of novels which every year provides.
The impression has crystallized into a maxim, however;
and it is proved by the simple process of
attributing a French origin to all the plots one does
invent. So it falleth out that in consequence of the
sins of his fathers, and mayhap of his own youth, the
British dramatist has a hard time of it. He is always
told that he cannot invent his own plots ; and when
he does, he is told that they are not his own.

jSTot loner ago I assured a friend of the absolute

II 2

originality of a story of mine which had just had some
success upon the stage ; and he asserted it on my
authority at a dinner of some gentlemen " in society " a
night or two afterwards. The assertion, he told me,
was met with roars of laughter, and the assurance from
one of the guests that he knew the dialogue by heart
and could repeat it in the original French !

Pleasant, truthful creature ! " In less than a week
there were some people who could name the father, and
the farm-house where the babies were put to nurse."
What can be the secret pleasure, I wonder, of railing
by precept and detracting by rule ?

But what am I, that I should keep Mrs. Pepper-harrow
waiting upon my wrongs? Her honest mind
was troubled with no misgivings about degrees of
authorship; and she recognized in me one of those
mystic beings at whose shrine she bowed under the
generic name of genius. Large and catholic was her
interpretation of that word. Muggins, the eminent
amateur actor, whose powers of facial expression
(grimacing expression Jem Gosling once christened it)
distanced J. S. Clarke in his most india-rubber mood ;
Josephine Parrots, the eminent tragedies, who learnt
all her parts after the fashion of Pendennis's friend,

Miss Bothering, and concealed a world of emotion in
those beautiful eves so effectually that it never trot
out of them ; Binks, the successful manager, who did
such wonderful things for art that the great upholstering
firm of Shoddy and Co. made quite an income out
of him (his plays he bought in Paris, but encouraged
native art by insisting that all the characters should be
called by English names, and that new English repartees
should be written for them, thereby proving his respect
for the French author's work, and how little that author
knew what was good for him) — the drawing-room comic
singer of the hour, whose name is immaterial, for he
is always the same ; Balbus the dramatist ; Faucit
the scholar and Saturday Reviewer; Mr. Millais, the
Bishop of Winchester, and !Mr. Gladstone, were all
welcome to the routs of Lady Pepperharrow that was
to be as representatives of Genius.

She was an honest, kindly, and admiring soul ;
and small idea enough had she of the consequences
which were to follow, when she took Daisy Fairfield
under her affectionate minor. She had no daughters
of her own ; only two or three sons, who had taken to
country-pursuits, and were but little at home, eschewing
the society which their mother so loved. So Daisy

filled a void in her life, and willingly gave the time she
could spare from the duties of her own home to the
service of her friend. Faucit's polite attention during
the winter charmed the old lady, who made him exceedingly
welcome, and gave opportunities many and
various for meetings whose significance would scarcely
have escaped the keen eye of Fairfield papa, and would
very little have pleased him. But^for the preoccupations
which were growing upon him at this time, he
might have scented danger even as things were. But
he was revolving schemes of his own for Daisy in his
own mind, with as small thought of her as the
slave-dealer has of the feelings of his plumpest
Circassian.

Kind Mrs. Fairfield had inklings of her own on the
matter, for Faucit rallied to the five o'clock urn not
unfrequently, and one day she hinted something of her
thoughts to her daughter, who met them with a very
becoming blush, a little laugh, and a kiss. Daisy was
very happy in her simple paradise. Fearless of the
man she loved, and undoubting of herself, as she would
be fearless and undoubting if ever the day should come
when she might seal at the altar the compact already
firm and fast in her inmost heart, she went on her way

rejoicing, and adding day by day more splendours and
more adornments to her castle in the air.

*' 0, but she would love him truly ;
He should have a cheerful home ;
She would order all things duly,
When beneath his rous they come."

Daisy Fairfield was modestly conscious of a heart
and mind beyond the average of every-day women;
and she knew the rich gifts of love and help that she
could bring in her hand to the man she could accept as
worthy of them. Young as she was, she had attracted
admiration enough to turn a light head lightly; but
she had formed her ideal from the first, and her ideal
protected her till it came in living form, and a very
attractive living form too. She recognized in Faucit's
nature the complement and magnet of her own. She
had the artist's eye to admire his physical manliness
and the woman's perception to read his steady truthfulness
of character, and the perfect simplicity with
which, conscious on his side of his own superiority to
most of the men surroundings him, he referred it without
doubt or question to the source whence he believed
it came, and read the lesson of humility so — as it was
meant to be read — as so few will deign to read it.

That it was his business to do his best with the
talents intrusted him, be their number five or ten, or ashe
expressed it himself, to 'stick his nails into the
work that came to him to do," was a conviction with
which all Daisy's nature sympathized. And it was the
opinion of the chronicler of these events, as he watched
and protected his two favourites as best he might,
flirted with Mrs. Pepperharrow in a manner to endanger
the soap-boiler's rest, and regarded Fairfield
papa with a suspicious and unaccommodating eye, that
Nature never formed a pair more nobly fitted to fill a
royal space in a rather commonplace world together.

MY LORD AND MY LADY.

It was the Baroness Luscombe of Lusmere who
kindly undertook to issue the invitations for the opening
festivity at the new house in Belgrave Square,
about which the ' Peep-Hole ' and the ' Flunkey ' had
been busied with starry paragraphs for weeks before.

The blushing honours of the soap-boiler's knighthood
were brand-new upon him ; for it was in the
February of the winter of which I have been writing
that his sovereign singled him out of the mastered herd,
and gave him antlers in the shape of the manche a son
now, which was so impressive to Sir Barnes Newcome,
the banker.

In the ensuing month of March, when the sun
even in London was pitilessly clear, just out of perversity,
and because the east wind was so pitilessly

cold, Lady Pepperharrow welcomed all the world and
his wife to Glycerine House, Belgrave Square, to the
first of the festivities with which the name of that
hospitable mansion was to become eternally connected.
It was unfortunate that it was Lent, certainly; for
the hostess would gladly have respected every prejudice
and every feeling under the sun ; but it could not be
helped ; and this comparatively quiet season had its
advantages, for a beginner in the field of fashion, over
the later months, when dates are all filled up, and the
fixed stars of the social firmament reign supreme.

Lady Pepperharrow was at present but a comet
with a good deal of tail, so she took the advice of Lady
Luscombe, and of that distinguished authority Lord
Pentonville, to whom Lady Luscombe introduced her,
and compromised with worldliness with a sigh. Nor
did the good lady surrender her ancient prejudices
without the knowledge and sanction of the Rev. Mr.
Birmingham Pope, the favourite minister of her new
district. She had frankly consulted him, on her coming,
upon the poor of his neighbourhood, and what help
she best could give him in his work, and fairly astonished
him by the roundness of the cheque with which
she presented him. He quite stammered his acknowledgements,

and owned that from the wealthiest neighbourhood
in London he did not get quite so much help
in that way as he could msh ; for indeed, whatever his
social proclivities and concessions to mammon, Mr.
Pope was a man who did a great deal of good from
the incoming of his church, and would gladly have
done more.

The subscriptions I must own, Lady Pepperharrow,
are not what I could wish. But above all things we
should be charitable ; and I know that the members of •
my congregation have calls and duties in the country
which conflict with their opportunities here. An open
hand like your ladyship's will be a blessing not to be
over-estimated."

Mr. Pope delighted Lady Pepperharrow, and was
installed as her confessor in ordinary without loss of
time. He was consulted about the seat house-warrior
if a word so ordinary may be applied to an event of
such magnitude, — and while respecting the lady's hesitations
he fully endorsed the opinions of her secular
advisers in the matter. Lady Luscombe herself, he
assured her, was a very particular person, and would
only advise a great entertainment like this in Lent
under exceptional circumstances. Lady Luscombe was

no doubt quite justified in considering the circumstances
exceptional, and there was now-a-days a decided advance
in the liberality of public opinion upon these matters,
which he himself could not but regard as a healthy
tendency, if not carried too far. Those who still
cherished scruples on the point would consult their
own feeling in staying away; but he was far from
thinking that, with proper safeguards, pleasant and
general social intercourse was not in itself both lawful
and commendable at all periods of the year.

If Lady Pepperharrow had further doubts, they
were banished by Daisy Fairfield's straightforward
intimation, that she could see no conceivable harm in
her friend giving a party in Lent if her friend liked,
and it was more convenient than any other time. As
Daisy's ways and opinions of thinking were always very
simply in earnest, her verdict in the matter, as on most
matters about which Lady Pepperharrow consulted her,
was accepted as final.

Lady Luscombe was the first high step in her
humbler sister's social ladder. The Lord Viscount
Luscombe, gouty and aristocratic almost beyond the
permitted limits of aristocracy and gout, passed his
days in the fond delusion that he was a Liberal of

the modem ad^"^nced school. He was a country
gentleman of olden family and good though moderate
fortune, who, determining to devote his abilities to
the service of his country, was as a series of matters
of course elected member for the county division,
early introduced to the lesser loaves and fishes of
official life, and by steady gradations developed into a
Secretary of State.

When the Liberal ministry of 18 — was formed, it
was in all quarters felt that Mr. Fulke Vavasor was
entitled to a post in the cabinet, from the eternal order
of the proprieties. No better reason could be advanced
or was suggested. In that position he was found by
some of his colleagues, upon trial, to be so eminently
and entirely respectable, that upon a reconstruction of
the ministry he was translated to the House of Lords,
without office, it being thought and indeed stated that
his independent support in that position would be
of the highest value to the government.

Wilkins, the advanced member for Radborouo-h,
accepted the vacant portfolio. It was early in the
session which followed upon these events that a measure
was inadvertently suffered to pass the House of
Commons, which was rightly regarded in well-informed

quarters as a serious menace to the existing social
system ; and the House of Lords, with the pronounced
interest in political matters, and the unselfish patriotism
which distinguishes them as a body, rose to the occasion.
They were assembled in London in numbers
quite unusual for the season of the year.

Lord Luscombe, whose independent support was the
implied condition of his peerage, could not be expected
to give it against his conscience, and both spoke and
voted the other way. He afterwards wrote to the
Times ' in vindication of his principles and action,
and the letter was very much admired. A yet more
extraordinary result of the political crisis, and a more
convincing proof of the keen political insight and
anxiety for the public weal which is the true basis of
the sturdy English character, was the fact that a whole
army of Peers, many of them unknown by name to the
more ignorant sections of the public, left their hunting-boxes
and their country-houses, and their winter 
in the Capua South, to rally round the
throne and the constitution. They did not listen to
the arguments on the other side, for they knew the
value of time ; but voted with the unanimity of the
players in the * Critic,' and saved the country. Some

of them, it was even whispered, were so much in
earnest that they had never been inside the House
before, and couldn't find their way.

The ' Peep-Hole ' recorded the arrival of the Earl of
Deadhead at Coleridge's, from his villa on the Mediterranean;
while the 'Flunkey,' in this respect beforehand
with all rivals, announced that Lord Pentonville,
who had been staying with some distinguished friends
in the neighbourhood of Newmarket, had taken up his
quarters at his bachelor residence in Mount Street,
Grosvenor Square. Even those inseparable friends, the
Duke of Surbiton and the Marquis of Norbiton, were
visible in London, The great heart of the country, no
doubt about it, was thoroughly stirred.

So much the better for our friend Lady Pepperharrow
These throbs of the country's heart sensibly quickened
the circulation in her drawing-rooms, in the exceptional
pre-Paschal season which resulted from the political
crisis. Lord Luscombe, who was very much respected
in the city, and had many mysterious things to do with
odd and sundry Boards, had, in the course of his
financial operations, made acquaintance with Mr.
Pepperharrow, and thereout, it must be admitted,
sucked no small advantage. He had been put up to

a good thing in connection with the coi/j;,' which established
the soap-boiler's fortune on such a solid basis ;
and it was whispered that he was the first cause of the
claims of that gentleman to social recognition being
brought to the notice of H. M.'s advisers in such
matters. And learning from Sir Hugh Pepperharrow
the nature of the "buffets and rewards" — for I am told
that in such things the two go hand in hand — on which
his better half had set her heart, his lordship shewed
himself not ungrateful. He called upon the lady and
dined with her, in his wife's absence from town, at
Luscombe Abbey ; and gave her matter of conversation
with her friends and intimates for a long time after,
until lords and ladies grew as plentiful with her as peas
in June.

During many of those parties of four of which I
have spoken, I heard of nothing but Lord Luscombe' s
merits, while the other two, pleasantly and entirely
unmindful of such subjects of talk, were straying
together in fields and byways of their own. And Lady
Pepperharrow having confided to his lordship her wishes
and ambitions about the opening of the house in Bel-grave
Square, Lord Luscombe in a gallant moment
undertook that his wife should be her sponsor.

Lady Luscombe was not especially pleased ^Yben she
heard of the task assigned her. Certainly a greater
difference of style and externals between two women
could not well be imagined than between her and the
lady given her as a 'proUgee. Marian Fulke Vavasor
was barely twenty when she made her appearance in
London life under that name, as the young wife of the
rising statesman, thirty years older than herself. For
at fifty Mr. Fulke Vavasor was still rising; and he
might never perhaps have attained to his highest
altitudes but for the rare gift which pertained to his
wife. As the French say so neatly of a characteristic
which once, at all events, belonged signally to Frenchwomen,
elle savait tenir son selon. The cold and
somewhat fishy, but observant eye of the county-member
had detected this c^ift in her, when he met
her at her father's table in his vovacje round his constituency.
He found in her exactly what he wanted :
good family and undeniable connexion ; no fortune,
which would make her dependent ; much ambition,
which would make her helpful ; and an appearance
and manner which must make his house and table
infinitely attractive to the class of people he wished
to attract. For his, too, was a genuine parliamentary

VOL. I. N

ambition, of the kind which has furnished so many
officials of a uniform an I serviceable type. He had
a steady plodding brain, with no heart to distract it ;
no domestic affections, and no taste for pleasure whatever,
though he shot his covers solemnly every year ina
pair of characteristic gaiters, and never enjoyed the
sport so much as when the game was shy, and he could
talk blue-book over his gun to some congenial spirit,
invited to Luscombe Abbey for that especial purpose.
He worked as hard as any clerk in his office ; some
sceptics indeed, conversant with the ways of those
gentlemen, said a good deal harder. Therefore Mr.
Fulke Vavasor was a man who deserved to rise.

In the civil contract entered into between him,
bachelor, of the one part, and Marian Teesdale, spinster,
of the other part, and attested with certain mutual but
unbinding: affirmations in the accredited clerical formulas,
there was no disguise or pretence upon either side.
The lady was weary of the refined and pretentious
poverty in which she had been brought up from her
cradle, and the never-ending bickering which made
her home a picture of small discomfort ; and was quite
ready to marry Mr. Fulke Vavasor for his lands and
his position, provided he fully understood that it was

fur them she did it. For she was straightforward
enough in her way. She knew, and she let him know,
that in her opinion she fetched her price, sith her
good looks and youth and breeding, and the wits and
accomplishments which she had quietly and sedulously
cultivated, to fit herself for the place she had always
intended to fill. Mr. Vavasor was just what she
wanted. He might have been ten years younger;
anything younger than that she did not msh for, for
she liked what was ^osL But as it was it was well
enough. So too his fortune might have been larger,
in comparison with the growing extent of fortunes nowadays.
But it was good and solid, and would serve ;
and with a name and position such as his, there were
ways and opportunities of increasing it by wariness
and venture properly combined.

To Marian Teesdale, to do her justice, money was a
means as much as an end, for .she wanted to lead, and
she could not do that through money alone. Before she
attracted Mr. Vavasor she had steadily, and two or
three times, refused a prosperous manufacturer of half
his years and treble his fortune, who was a very presentable
man, and very honestly in love with her. She saw

at once that she could do nothing with him except

N 2

possibly conquer for him the position of a nouveau ride,
which to her meant no position at all. She had drunk
in the bluest traditions of race with her mother's milk
(or rather with her foster-mother's, who was a farmer's
daughter, — It is odd, but so . . ), and was honestly and
scornfully surprised to see how "her mother did fret
and her father did fume," at her determined rejection
of Mr. Thomas Hodges' proposals.

Poor people ! their narrow means, and, of course,
large family, had half harried them to death, though all
that interest could do had been done for all the little
male Teesdales. Unluckily that is not much now-a-days,
in cases where idleness chooses to o^raft confirmed vino



capacity upon original want of brain. Competitive
examinations were almost as great a bugbear to poor
Mrs. Teesdale, and as much the object of her denunciations,
as " them dratted schoolboys " are at this present
time to the casual farmer's wife we meet in the railway-carriage.
And indeed there had been more plucking of
little Teesdales in these merciless ordeals than the Mother
Goose could comfortably bear. The parents may perhaps
be pardoned even by the sternest moralist, then, if it was
with pronounced regret, and after considerable argument,
that they let the manufacturer's fortune go. Marian

bad a bad time of it when be returned again and again
to the charge ; but sbe belt ber own very calmly. Tbe
parents implored in the name of ber brethren, bower
as many as Joseph's ; and sbe frankly answered
that, tbouo-b sbe would do what sbe could for them if
sbe could do it some day in ber own way, sbe belt
their interests altogether secondary to ber own, and as
they didn't seem to be able to do anything for themselves,
sbe couldn't honestly feel that sbe cared two
straws what became of them. Sbe retorted very justly,
and therefore all the more provokingly, upon ber father
all the continual variations of noblesse oblige, vrith which
be bad played upon ber from childhood ; and the hapless
man felt that it was difficult to make Theory square
with Practise, when the latter took such very substantial
form. I think, on the whole, that it was bard upon
him. However, so it was ; and matters took their
own way, which, after all, thanks to the young lady's
tenacity of purpose, turned out eventually much to ibis
satisfaction. Mr. and Mrs. Teesdale, to do them justice
also according to their lights, much preferred Mrs
Fulke Vavasor that was, to Mrs. Thomas Hodges that
should have been, and magnanimously forgave her at
the altar to which she conducted them.

The common moralizing about the bargain and sale
of children in this country of ours has always struck
the present chronicler, at all events, as a good deal
exaggerated. The sweet young victims, in nine of
these convenient marriages out of ten, sacrifice themselves
with a good grace and much of their own accord.
Negatively, no doubt, parents may have brought them
up to the theory of the thing, and may so far be gravely
responsible for the evils which follow in its train.
But often and often, I believe, if the reverse of the
medal could be read, which carries the pithy motto
instead of the stamp, we might learn that some of these
wicked parents, with their lives half lived and all laid
down, with many a stray example and moral in their
minds, — sometimes, perhaps, their own among the
number, — are not even willing participators in some of
the ceremonies of St. George's ; have even warned and
besought a headstrong child in vain. She knows better ;
life is before her, and with the watchfulness that she
will exercise, and the experience by which she will
profit, will yield for her fruits they were not able to
gather. It is all very well for papa and mamma to
deny that happiness can reside in carriages and horses,
and dresses and jewels unlimited. She and her friend

Clara have talked it all over and thought it all out, and
for them they know that it does. So the fair Iphigenia
cuts her own throat at the altar smilingly, and Father
Agamemnon, so far from lending a hand to the sacrifice,
turns his head away and covers his eyes, even if he
does sanction the affair with his presence. Are not
these things sometimes so ?

Marian Gresham Teesdale on her side, and John
Audley Fulke Vavasor on his, knew very well what
they were about. She assured him very honestly
that in this case there was no penniless but cherished
suitor in the background ; but that she liked her chosen
husband as well as anybody, and sympathized in his
pursuits and his ambition. In a very short time the
marriage bore its purposed fruit. A self-possessed and
admirable hostess, whose conversation was sensible and
brilliant both, and tact and courtesy unfailing, Mrs.
Fulke Vavasor soon made her rooms and receptions a
fact in London life ; nut in its social phase only, but in
its political. All the leaders and supporters of their
own party found Lusmere House a centre ; though, by
a careful exercise of that same admirable quality of
tact, the hostess succeeded in the most difficult of all
tasks, preventing it from becoming too exclusively a

party-centre. A pleasant leaven of opposition gave
lustre and interest to the whole ; while to art and
literature, in the persons of their more famous and
favoured sons, Mrs, Fulke Vavasor held out open arms.
Nor, while contriving that all this should be, did she
neglect the other task she had set herself — that of
improving and enlarging her husband's fortune. She
made quiet and keen inquiries into the mysteries of
city life ; to her it was in the first place owing that her
husband became, as we have described here, interested
in City matters; the state of trade and of railways,
under careful and secret guidance, became to her a
thing of familiar knowledge ; she was careful that
nothing unbecoming to, or inconsistent with, Mr. Fulke
Vavasor's political position should at any time or in
any way be connected with his name ; and the Lus-combe
estates grew and waxed and prospered quietly —
so quietly that men hardly marked how the parties at
Lusmere House, and the circle at Luscombe Abbey,
increased gradually in brilliancy, and in the outward
and visible signs of wealth and solidity.

Alas ! to what good ? Once or twice during the
first few years of their union the Fulke Vavasor
hoped for a child. But the hopes were disappointed.

and after a time they were not renewed. Barren as it
had been loveless, the marriage was denied that blessing
which sometimes sows an after-seed of love ; and as
they grew nearer in interests, Mr. and Mrs. Vavasor
grew further apart in heart. They were little together
except at the hours and times of ceremony, and a
separate circle of private friends grew up round each of
them. Long and close were Mr. Vavasor's private
interviews with his wife ; but if a reporter had been
present he would have found them very like a man's
visits to his solicitor. Marian was her husband's first
man of business, and a good one, and he knew it. In
some cases, that is no bad bond of a better union, where
wider Sympathies agree. But here the lady was bright
and intellectual, the gentleman dull and plodding ;
while to him she was as cold as he. Then out of the
dulness and the ploddingness came a great blow to
them both, which has been already told. There are
times in politics which want strong men, and are apt
to put averages to the right-about. Mr. Vavasor's
greatest social honour was really his final failure, and
they both knew it. They both knew very well why at
the age of sixty-two, when many politicians have the
world still in their hands, the House of Commons

minister blossomed into the pensioned-off lord. His
wife wanted him to refuse ; but the intimation that he
must not, while very courteous and considerate, was
too clear to be mistaken. Mr. Fulke Vavasor was a
failure on the post after all, in spite of all his wife had
done and all the diplomatic she had used, and the
shadows gathered darker round the loveless home.

LADY Pepper arrow's House WARMING.

When Lady Luscombe came to London, at her
husband's wish, to preside over Lady Pepperharrow's
house-warming, and to play the social godmother to
that excellent but inappropriate lady, it was in pursuance
of the compact between herself and her husband
which both thoroughly understood. Fastidious in taste
and choice, the centre and the favourite of her society,
and famous as the first of hostesses from one end of
polite London to another. Lady Luscombe was not fond
of throwing her fpgis over unqualified aspirants, or
sending out invitations for other people. I am not
sure, indeed, that she had ever done such a thing
before. But she was sore, and smarting from the
recent blow. The Lady Luscombe would never, she
felt, be what Mrs. Fulke Vavasor had been ; and she

saw the prizes she had toiled and contrived for slipping
from her grasp, and the objects for which she lived
failing her. She was a woman of ready resource, and
was ready for a change of part at once. She knew
that her political reign was over. As hostess even in
the political world she might yet hold her own in a
sense, no doubt ; probably the chief regret felt by the
heads of the ministry was, that in losing Fulke
Vavasor they lost his wife. But it was her husband's
position which had given her its weight, and it was gone.
When she surveyed her Fulke' s sleeping face, to all
outward seeming unperturbed by any sense of failure
or rebuff, and the open mouth, which had just
swallowed a coronet, snoring contentedly on, it is
certain that her ladyship felt a weariness, an indignation,
and a resentment coming over her which were
much at odds with her wifely duties.

Had she nursed him all those years for this ? that
his abominable stupidity — yes, stupidity — should, after
all, have brought their joint career to wreck ? It is
absolutely on record, that after the catastrophe, on the
night when she so gazed upon him, the high-bred
Marian then and there, in the silence of the night
and the recesses of the bed-curtains, sate bolt upright.

and shook her sleeping lord violently. He never knew
till his dying day what was the shock that woke him.
It is a fact that these lofty beings have their vulgar
passions like other people.

But the first purpose of the lady's life being frustrated,
the second remained. Love could scarcely do
more for many husbands than ambition did for Fulke
Vavasor. I can never bring myself to write of the
Right Honourable gentleman as Vavasor without the
Fulke. For her husband the keen-witted Marian continued
to scheme, almost from habit of thought, perhaps
; for, with no son of his or hers succeeding, what
had she really to scheme for ? But she had resolved
on this course at starting, and it was too late to change.
Lord Luscombe could no longer hope to be an influential
minister, but he might be made a very rich
man, through those City boards and City mysteries I
have told of; and the City, instead of Downing Street,
now became the metropolis of Lady Luscombe' s land
of action.

It is not necessary to tell in detail how it was
that, as I have already mentioned, the fortunes of Lord
Luscombe became connected with those of Sir Hush
Pepperharrow, who had just munificently presented

the City with a strange and fearsome monument (which
was carefully set up in the middle of a crowded
thoroughfare where there was no room for two cabs to
pass before), and was knighted accordingly.

Lord Luscombe and his wife quite understood each
other on all matters of business ; but when he learned
from Pepperharrow, after much hemming and ha-king
on the part of the soap-boiler, what it was that his
Martha had set her heart on, and how she desired to
accomplish it, his lordship, who had dined with our
old friend, was secretly doubtful how his Marian would
take it. But the Pepperharrow connection was vital
to him at the moment, and he propounded the suggestion,
which, to his surprise, was received without
cavil.

A few months before, and Marian would have certainly
declined to open her house to the Pepper-harrows,
much more to adopt the lady as a social
fvole(jee. Lord Luscombe hinted thus much to her,
and was puzzled by the tone of covert scorn with
which it was answered, that their position in life was
changed, and their views and objects must change too.
Wealth at any cost. Lady Luscombe explained without
definite words, was thenceforward the Luscombe programme.

So Lady Pepperharrow's guests were bidden
to the opening festivity of Glycerine House by the
Baroness Luscombe of Lusmere.

Very splendid the west-end mansion looked that
night. The mysterious coup) — I write about a thing
which I do not in the least understand, and never
shall — had put the Pepperharrows among the financial
giants, and everything was worthy of the occasion,
when Lady Pepj)erharrow first put her foot down to
trouble the Belgravian waters, and to occupy her large
space in the eye of the social journals.

The staircases were bright and sweet with rich
exotics which lined all the walls and filled all the
recesses like silent and many-coloured chaperons, thereto
look after the young people with a friendly interest.
The lights were softened by judicious shades, and set
off the whole scene a giorgio, as gionio should be, clear
but not obtrusive. The rooms were furnished with
genuine taste, with no pretence of show, but a full
sense of richness ; there were people who did say that
one Daisy Fairfield, the hostess's particular favourite,
had been carefully consulted and actively concerned at
every stage of the furnishing, and had relentlessly
wetted several appalling combinations of greens and

yellows, and a Pactolic superfluity of gilding, which
had at the outset much commended themselves to
Lady Pepperharrow's Oriental fancy — and the sofas
and settees were an invitation to confidences and
treasons.

It was strongly asserted that young Cooington, of
the Home Office, never left Milly Swansdown's side
the whole evening, in that tiny room which " gives " on
the first staircase. There really was no more than
space for one couple in it, and it was much in demand.
But Cooinofton and that bold S;irl held their own ina
way which — well, which was very disappointing to
other young people with whom they were beforehand.
And Milly' s eyes always looked so round and
simple and surprised, when anybody looked at her as
if she had been holding the fort long enough.

The large long room, which was the principal
attraction of the house, was filled and busy with the
buzz of guests. At one end of it, a perfect bijou stage
had been erected as a permanent fixture, under the
careful superintendence of Muggins, who had superintended
more amateur stages than any man alive ;
who talked theatre all day, and dreamed it all night,
and was wont to salute his friends, at all times and

places, with appropriate quotations from John Addison
Morton — a humorist, by the bye, whose whims and
oddities, being confined to the little yellow books which
have no connection with literature, have never been
half recognized for their spirit of exuberant fun.

The Theatre Royal, Glycerine House, was constructed
to serve for every sort of entertainment, from
opera to recitation, from tableau vivant to scientific
lecture, and was opened that night with a miscellaneous
concert, in which the stars of the hour, as many of
them as had risen in London at that early season,
figured and quavered to the equally miscellaneous
audience.

Lady Luscombe had done her work well, for

everybody was there. Men busy with the affairs of

state, whom the poor lady looked upon with a sad eye

askance, as they offered their congratulations on her

husband's honours with as little of an air of condolence

as possible, talked aside in comers of the crisis of the

hour ; and Society shook its head in the wrong place,

and instinctively took the wrong side, as the spirit of

the club and the drawing-room in such cases prompted

it. Noble lords mutually congratulated each other on

the public spirit which had brought them to town at
VOL. I.

such a time, and wondered where Lady Luscombe had
picked up her new client, and who she was, as indeed
did everybody in the room except the small knot of
personal friends whom Lady Pepperharrow would not
forget in her invitation, even though they had all to
be submitted to the approval of the higher authority.

The world of pure frivolity, the world of dancing
and of flirting, were to the fore in force, looking very
young and very happy, or else very aging and very
bored. Every sort and all sorts, whom Society gathers
under her motley wing, came out of curiosity, oat of
idleness, out of habit, out of love, out of the main
chance, out of business, out of any of the thousand-undone
motives which carry people about, night after
night, to meet each other over and over again without
giving themselves the time to get anything new to say,
in the inexplicable whirl which solved perpetual motion
long ago, when Mrs. Noah sent out her first invitations
for the ark. So good Lady Pepperharrow' s rooms,
large as they were, were crowded to their full capacity,
and she stood gallantly perspiring at her post at the
head of the great staircase all the night, till a pitying
Duke — it was his Grace of Surbiton — asked her to
come and have some of her own supper.

The Marquis of Norbiton had bet him that he
would not do it, for the Duke was very young indeed,
and had been with difficulty persuaded to leave his
hunting-box and come out in the character of a
legislator, even by the gravity of the situation, which
he confessed he did not fully grasp. But his ancestor
had come over with William the Conqueror, and
planted the first tree on Messenger's Eyot : so he
rose to his duty, and gave his vote in the House
of Peers, shoulder to shoulder with Norbiton.

The two young men, who said but little even
between themselves upon the subject, agreed thereafter
that politics were doosid slow, and abandoned a public
career. Indeed, they were scandalously attacked by
some low fellows in their local papers, for voting at all,
which after their trouble in leaving Leicestershire was
doosid ungrateful, and they felt it.

Surbiton and Norbiton were delighted with the
Pepperharrow festival, and especially with the magnificent
appearance of the hostess, which even Daisy's
influence had not been able to keep entirely in check.
Some of the patterns, denied to the curtains and
chintz, had surely blossomed out in her attire.

The two young noblemen watched her with a sort



of fascination all the evening. " She'll bob herself into
two, Sur, I know she will ! " — until the Duke felt
impelled to make the recorded bet, and conduct his
hostess to supper, an attention for which the poor
wearied soul, at the summit of its honest ambition, was
unfeignedly grateful.

I couldn't have done it," Norbiton said to himself
gravely, shaking his head as Lady Pepperharrow's
feathers fluttered through the door of the supper-room
below ; " but Sur always has the loose's own way with
him."

Thus did these budding rulers of ours beguile the
time which they were sacrificing to the labours of
the Senate.

It was as one of the hostess's small knot of personal
friends that I was included in the gathering I am
enabled to describe ; and I watched much that' was
going on with the supercilious envy and contempt of
youth, embittered by a deep sense of social wrong and
the inequalities of rank.

Why should we, my dear Fauci t," — I began. But I
am bound to say that Faucit, by this time hard at work
in a pleader's chambers, and getting more law into his
head in a day than most men can digest in a week,

gave no encouragement whatever to my radical sentiments,
passed the rights of man lightly over, told me
that I should be very glad to be a lord if I could, and
sought metal more attractive by a certain young
lady's side.

Deserted and snubbed, I turned upon little Binks
the manager, who had gotten himself an invitation
through his dear friend Muggins, whom he had assisted
in contriving the Glycerine stage. He was in a very
bad temper, Binks, at the failure of all his plays that
season, and profoundly disgusted with the British public.

Never know where to have 'em, Balbus, never !
They won't go to anything but trash, blessed if they
will, unless it's Shakespeare, or something else that
they go to because their fathers went. And I can't do
Shakespeare, confound it ! I hate blank verse, because
I can't speak it, and you mustn't cut it. If you do it
don't scan. As if that mattered ! Don't know what
to make of the public, blessed if I do I "

Binks, my boy," I answered, " you are wandering.
The abused public are Tom, Dick, and Harry ; and as a
rule, with but few exceptions, they go to the good things
in whatever line, and they won't go to the bad ones.
Being human nature in the lump, they cannot well go

wronor. Therefore, Binks, when I find an actor, or an
author, or a manager, abusing the British public, I say
unto myself, say I, ' Here is a man that knoweth not
his own business.' Be modest, Binks, and instead of
abusing the British public, try and give them something
worth seeing."

Ha, ha ! upon my soul ! mean something of your
own, Balbus, I suppose. Got something by you you
think would suit me ? "

Indeed no," I said. " I don't keep things by me,
or make suits of clothes on spec, on the chance of their
being made to suit the wearer afterwards. You see
authors have to live as well as you, without the advantage
of drawing a weekly salary. No, Binks, I have
nothing by me ; but there are plenty of plays in your
drawers which would do very well, I'll be bound ! "

Bosh, sir, bosh ! all bosh from beginning to end.
Englishmen can't write plays, and those who can won't
unless we order 'em. Vanity of authors quite awful —
quite disgusting — 'pon my soul."

"Vanity, my dear Binks," I answered, "has been
described as meaning a conviction that you can do
things which you can't do, and are not your business.
Now, when I bring a play of mine to rehearsal, the first

thing you actors do is to come round me in a body, or
one by one, tell me that this ought to be cut out and
that altered, and at last so daze me, that if I don't stand
out the play is soon no longer my o^ti. In other words,
you insist on teaching me my business instead of doing
yours, which is either acting my play or letting it alone.
I only ask to be allowed to know my business. I don't
teach you to act, though the Lord knows some of you
want it. On which side is the vanity, Binks ? "

All nonsense ! " said the manager. " Of course we
must know all about plays, and you can't. I've tried
everything this season — all the pieces which have been
the greatest goes abroad. Had one from the German,
one from the French, one from the Italian, and one from
the Dutch, and none of them brought a penny — not a
penny, by Jove. Now I don't know what to try."

Bum your dictionaries and try EngKsh, something
which hasn't been a go abroad. Good night, Binks."

Having launched my darts and avenged myself, and
being in a better humour with the nobility and gentry inconsequence,
I strolled about among the bright rooms,
after listening for a while to the gymnastics of a popular
soprano, who ran up to the chandeliers and down again
in a way to defy catching. But when I caught sight

of Guy Faucit and Daisy Fairfield in close talk together
under the shelter of a favouring plant, which might
have been transported from the tropics as it stood, after
one quick glance I quietly drew away, unnoticed by
them. In that one look at the man's face and at the
girl's, I knew that my dear old friend had made his
confession, and I knew too how it had been answered.

I never saw Daisy Fairfield look so well as she looked
that night, the happiest she had ever known, as it was
to be her happiest, poor girl, for many a long year. I
do not even remember what dress she wore, but I know
that the basis and the ground of it were white, seemingly
and gracefully adorned. I remember the one
purple flower which was set behind the ear, so small
and so close to the head ; and the wonderful gloss of
which nature that evening had been more liberal even
than usual to the sunny hair. In that one glimpse I
caught of her face, the shy smile which played about
the lips matched so perfectly with the deep seriousness
in the eyes, that the two expressions made up one.
And as she listened to what Faucit was telling her half
under his breath, but in that firm full voice of his, or as
she let a few words fall from her in answer, she opened
and shut her fan mechanically with her right hand, as

the elbow rested upon the arm of the couch on which
they were seated side by side. I can recall the quaint
watteau patterns upon that fan, a present of Lady
Pepperharrow's, and the laces which fringed it, now.
Asmodeus the chronicler claims his privilege. WTiat
was it that the two said ?

Yes, Miss Fairfield, I love you very earnestly. I
have done so since the first day I saw you by the river,
I think. Haven't you guessed it ? "

I hardly know, Mr. Faucit, indeed."

But you knew that I didn't intend to speak. I
wanted to have something to offer you better than a
law-student's belief in himself before I told you what I
have told you now. It isn't much, is it ? "

With you I think that it is," she said, very simply
and frankly ; and Guy's overfull heart gave a great
bound as she said it. " It isn't as if you had not shown
what you can do, at Oxford."

There was a pretty pride both in the girl's look and
tone.

Supposing that to be so, the race is not always to
the strong."

To the strong and patient," she answered, " I for
one believe that it is."

But I haven't been patient after all. If you knew
how resolved I was not to speak, till I had at least been
called to the bar ! "

And what was I to do all that time ? " asked Daisy,
with a smile which made poor Guy's heart beat faster
and faster. Her frankness was so perfect and so winning,
so free from any taint of forwardness, so full of utter
trust. It never seemed to enter Daisy's head, from the
moment when Faucit opened all his heart to her, "that
she was to play at hiding any of hers from him.

"I suppose you were to wait," he said, with a
happy and half-embarrassed little laugh ; " and understand
all about it all the time. That was to be your
part in the comedy."

Perhaps I should have grown a little tired of it,"
she said. " But I would have waited ! " she added
suddenly, then blushed fairly at herself.

And will wait now ? " he asked.

Yes," she said simply ; " if you wish it."

I must wish it. For I have nothing in the world
till I can make it."

But I have."

I know ; and that's just what I'm afraid of. People
would say I asked you for that."

Do you care much for what people say ? " she
answered him. " I shouldn't."

No ; but your father might say so. You wouldn't."

I ! " And there was a touch almost of reproach
in her tone.

I was stupid even to say it."

"Well, you were — rather." This with a smile.
"But papa is not nearly so hard as you think him.
He'll do anything for me ; and he will know that you
mean to work and to get on. What better use can a
girl find for money, than to help a man who means todo
that, at starting ? "

"You are not a girl," said Guy; 'you are a very
noble woman."

Am I ? " she answered. " I feel very like a girl
to-night. You have made me forget my trouble at
home."

That was what made me speak, you know. I
thought you seemed annoyed and anxious about this
stranger — this Mr. Brent, you spoke of; and I couldn't
help telling you that there was some one who — someone
that — "

The athlete broke do^^^l in the sentence ; but it
served.

And, Mr. Faucit, you were right ; and you will be a
real help to me. When papa brought this Mr. Brent to
dinner and introduced him to me last night, I thought
there was something odd in his manner which I couldn't
understand. And the man himself was familiar — rudely
so even. I haven't been able to shake off an uncomfortable
feeling all day, and came here as if something
was going to happen."

Something has — hasn't it ? " asked Guy.

Yes. But not quite like that."

What is this Mr. Brent ? "

"I don't know. 'Something in the city,' which
sounds like anything in the world, from a diamond-merchant
to a crossing-sweeper. I don't want to think
of Mr. Brent again."

"And I don't want you to think of him. You
have told me that I may go and speak to your
father tomorrow, and tell him everything ? "

"Yes, Mr. Faucit."

One thing more."

"What's that?"

You haven't answered my question yet."

"What was it?"

Whether you love me or not ? "

Haven't I ? "

Not in words. Won't you ? Do you ? "

Yes ; indeed I do."

Ah ! And when will you begin to call me Guy ? *'

A big pause. Then she said, " Now, Guy."
■X- * ^ ^ -x-

What a lovely looking girl \ " said to Lady
Luscombe, a little later, as Daisv was walking through
the rooms, a dark and singular-looking man-^dth a pale
oval face, and jet black hair parted in the middle, who
seemed some six-and-thirtv years old, if anv clear o-uess
at his age could be made. He had nothing distinctive
in his dress, which was very simple ; but everybody who
looked at him looked at him again, and it was to be
noted that all who spoke to him spoke to him ^^'ith
marked deference. Lady Luscombe was leaning on his
arm, and he was twisting a hoop-ring round the fourth
finger of his ricrht hand.

Lady Luscombe looked carelessly up, as she had
been absorbed in some close conversation with this
man which the remark interrupted. Her eye was
caught too, at once, not more by the beauty of the
girl, than by the air of refinement which was especially
Daisy's own.

She is indeed," she said. " I wonder who she is.
As I don't know her myself, and never saw her before,
I must ask Lady Pepperharrow."

The young lady doesn't look much like a friend of
our gentle hostess," said the other, with a sneer in the
words which his tone hardly marked. " But whoever
she is we must know more of her. She must be an
ornament in your rooms this season; it is always an
advantage to introduce a sensation. A fine-looking
fellow with her, too; a Briton of the true broad-shouldered
Viking type. She is too good for him, and
he can be dispensed with."

"He is very much absorbed by his pretty companion,"
Lady Luscombe said.

"Clearly. Calf-love to be killed young. There's
Pentonville. He'll find out all about the girl's parentage,
prospects, and general health in five minutes.
Pentonville 1"

A tightly-booted and short-sighted little gentleman
hopped across the room. " W — w — w — "

"Well?"

No — what ! W — what is it, Lestrange ? "

MR. JOHN BRENT.

Mr. Fairfield was in his study, closeted with a
friend. The friend was not a person who excited feelings
of sympathy at the outset. He was little and
dried-up, like a medlar ; and looked as if the drying
process had taken place as much inside as out. His
face wore the livery of the burnished sun in the
especial form it assumes in complexions which have
been tanned and dried in India, from an improper
understanding of the conditions of Indian life. Mr.
John Brent looked as if he should sit for a picture of
liver. He had a little iron-grey head of hair, which he
brushed back as far as he could, so that with the help
of the baldness at the parting the revealed expanse
might pass for a high forehead. The real forehead,
which is bounded in anatomy by the frontal bone, was

so low that there was nothing of it, the bone of

o

boundary being nearly in his eyes, which were pink and
ferrety, and winked like sickly stars. Little iron-grey
whiskers, ending half way down his face, and looking as
if they were gummed on, they stuck so close, completed
the physiognomy of the man very consistently. His
voice was shrill and weak, and worked on one note orin
an exasperating manner. Neither his tones nor Mr.
Fairfield's grating voice were agreeable to listen to;
more especially as on the occasion which had now
brought them together, there was considerable excitement
on both sides.

Mr. Brent had been the Calcutta correspondent of
the firm of Fairfield and Co. ; and it was with Calcutta
that the younger partner in the house had been
coquetting, with the disastrous results which our story
has already foreshadowed.

When Mr. Brent, himself a man of realized fortune,
came home from Calcutta to settle down in nabobhood,
he brought with him the sentence of death of the firm
of Fairfield and Co. if he chose to pass it. The whispers
on 'Change which heralded his coming were as
correct as they were ominous, and Mr. Brent was not a
man to let any foolish feeling of sympathy stand in

his way, or prevent his claiming his pound of flesh to
the full.

It is not necessary to tell, nor could I exactly do it,
the process of events by which Mr. Brent had become
the arbiter of the fate of the house of Faii'field ; but
financial operations on a large scale are apt to lead
into no-thoroughfares of the kind, and I am grateful
to the Providence which has ordered my lot in other
pastures, and saves me from great fears, if from lofty
hopes, for the fate of the salt-cellar on my modest table.

Mr. Brent had had his wings somewhat singed by"
the operations of his correspondents in London, though
those financial pinions of his, on which he sailed home,
were very broad indeed. He resented the injury, and
armed with divers acceptances and other documents of
a pernicious nature, he came to London breathing-flames
and fury against Fairfield and Co.

The early history of John Brent had absolutely
nothing in it to interest anybody. He was one of those
gentlemen who make themselves; and in his case
nobody could grudge him the exclusive credit of the
manufacture. It may safely be predicated of him that
he landed in India with the traditional half-crown in
Lis pocket, as Benjamin Franklin came to Philadelphia

VOL. I, p

"After all, when you come to think of it there's
nothing in it. Anybody could have done it," says Mark
Twain, in the funniest essay he ever wrote. These sort
of people, not that I would compare Benjamin Franklin
with John Brent, always do begin life with half-a-crown.
Where do they get it from ? and why is it always half-a-crown
? The unvarying character of the sum makes
one suspicious of these self-making gentlemen.

Alexander Dumas, — the Dumas, — the dear old
Dumas of 'Monte Crista,' and ' D'Artagnan,' and the
Tour de Nestle,' — not he of the morbid Aspasia school,
whom the soul of Binks loveth and worshipped as a
great creator, which indeed he is so far, in that, while
another made the world, he made the half world, —
Dumas the first confessed to an original capital of two
louis. " My son," he said, nearly at the end of his days,
when he was being reproached with his still incurable
prodigality, the big-natured, generous old giant, " My
son, there is no charge I deserve less. Sixty years ago
I came to Paris with two louis in my pocket, and
look," he added, turning it out, "I've got one left
still!"

John Brent was not a prodigal, being indeed one of
the meanest persons to be found on a summer's day,

and his half-crown had made a very large number more
when he came to England to enjoy the fruits of his
toils and scrapings. " This was a way to thrive, and he
was blessed," after the measure of his desires. What
sort of enjoyment he would manage to extract from his
riches might have been a problem to any one who
examined him in Mr. Fairfield's study.

Now it came to pass that Mr. Brent had no wife ;
and that one of the first things he proposed to do in
England was to buy one. He was sixty, no doubt, well
rung ; but he had been what the world agrees to call a
man of no vices, and he flattered himself that his health
and constitution must therefore be those of a young
man, of necessity. He was as angry with his liver as
Mr. Fairfield was with his throat, and would not admit
that it could be out of order, or that excessive desk-work
and inordinate cheese-paring, coupled with a
masterly neglect of all the humanities and liberalities
of life, could produce anything of the ill effects which
properly follow upon vicious careers. Virtue and self-denial,
he felt or asserted, had been his rules of conduct.
He had neither chick nor child, and if he had any
relations in England, he did not intend to find them

out or to acknowledge them. His memories of them

p 2

were of the vaguest, dating back to the half-crown days,
when, as likely as not, some tipsy or improvident father
had turned him out of the house to shift for himself.
It may well be that it was not so ; that the res angiista
domi had been no fault of any one's, and that the
parting had been one of bitter tears, and much heartbreaking
on some poor struggling mother's part.
Perhaps on the boy's too, for if there be some people
who seem to be born bad, and some who have badness
thrust upon them, assuredly there are very many men
who achieve badness for themselves, by a course of
deliberate egotism, beginning perhaps in no source that
can fairly be called evil. Such men are, indeed, self-made.
If there was any such love and tenderness in
the far background, there was no trace or shadow of it
upon John Brent's spirit now, and he started on his
proposed St. Martin's summer with a clear tablet.
Whether he had married before, in his youth, I do not
know. If he had, history has no record of the first
Mrs. Brent, who certainly left no child, and probably
died of a broken heart, or of the want of sufficiently
generous living. It didn't matter to Mr. Brent, and it
doesn't matter to our story.

When Mr. Brent had been but a few days in

London, and had brought the head of the house of
Fairfield to the verge of distraction, he called one day
in Portland Place, and he caught sight of Daisy. The
little Indian was overcome by the gracious vision, and
saw his opportunity at once. It was in his power, by
no great pecuniary sacrifice on his part, to tide over the
difficulties which beset the London house, to save the
credit of Fairfield's, and to start the firm fairly on its
way again. For this Mr. Fairfield had recourse to
entreat, and brought all the influence he could to bear,
without being driven to expose the true condition of
affairs to the world, in order to work upon the feelings
of the arbiter of his destiny. But the arbiter had no
feelings to work upon, and frankly said that it was a
mere matter of business. He bore no ill-will to Fairfield's
whatever, but there was no reason in this case
for suspending the ordinary course of events, and he did
not see that any consideration was or could be offered
which would or could make it worth his while to be
merciful. On what compulsion must he ? tell him that.
Everything to this sun-dried anatomy was mere bargain
and sale, for he was so effectually tanned as to keep out
feeling or sympathy as long as the tanner of Hamlet's
grave-digger could keep out the water.

Mr. Fairfield saw nothing before him but ruin. He
had not even provided the refuge from the storm
secured by a large settlement on his wife, which in such
cases has often enabled the bankrupt merchant, while
hundreds of people who unfortunately trusted him are
left penniless and destitute, to retire into obscure
misery on five or ten thousand a year. Perhaps Mr.
Fairfield's reliance on his house's credit had been too
high ; perhaps he had a conscience of his own in spite
of all his failings. In any case so it was. Keeping his
counsel as best he could at home, but causing real and
increasing uneasiness to his wife and daughter, he saw
something very like want stare him and his family in
the face, when Mr. John Brent cast eyes of favour upon
Daisy. Yea incest ii patult Dea, to him as to mortals
of higher and finer grain, this stately and attractive
young lady. Mr. Brent did not deceive himself in
relation to the purchase which he desired to make, and
quite understood that even with his money he might
find a deficiency in the market of the precise article he
wanted. Therefore he regarded the appearance of
Daisy upon the scene as absolutely providential. I
have not alluded to a fashion of Mr. Brent's, which gave
especial offence to many of those who had dealings with

him, of constantly referring to Providence the issue of
his keenest bargains. In fact, I don't like to talk or
think about it, for to me I know of nothing more
terrible than this particular form of hypocrisy. It gives
me a feeling of nervous dread for those who indulge in
it. Mr. Brent's moral lectures to Mr. Fairfield, on the
ordained and divine consequences of commercial remissness,
had exasperated that combative old man more
than anything else. But indeed it was curious to see
how subdued his arrogance was in Brent's presence, and
how supplicatory his tone became.

The returned Indian saw at once that in Daisy
Fairfield, if only she should prove a dutiful and amenable
daughter, he had found exactly what would suit
him best, and fulfil his domestic ambition. Here was
a woman to make his table attractive, to amuse his
declining years when they should begin to decHne,
which, in his opinion, must be a long way off yet, and
till then to shed fresh blossoms ujDon what he secretly
believed to be still the fervour of his youth. He saw
at a glance, in which he was not peculiar, though his
own penetration pleased him very much, that in externals
his victim's daughter was all that heart could wish.
Mr. Vavasor did not know better what he was about

or decide more methodically, when he paid Marian
Teesdale the compliment of selection. Internals did
not matter ; for Daisy was evidently young enough to
be moulded by a husband of his tact and experience.
John Brent had, he thought, a very successful way with
women.

And so, on the morning of the day of Lady
Pepperharrow's gathering, the day immediately preceding
that which finds him in the study in Portland
place, the Indian millionnaire without much prelude
propounded his scheme to the English defaulter, as he
took very good care to let Fairfield know, in plain
terms, that he was. He had not been informed of the
domestic history of his correspondent, and till he accidentally
saw her, he knew nothing of the "one fair
daughter, and no more," whom, like Jephthah, judge of
Israel, and the excellent Polonius, the poor father from
his heart, and in his way, really loved passing well.

Matters were at a crisis, and Fairfield was resigning
himself to his fate. The junior partner, who was young
and go-ahead, and had feathered his private nest on the
chance of cold weather, about which he said nothing,
shrugged his shoulders and preached some philosophy
to his elder in a curiously provoking way. He was

My dear sir ! As if it is possible for any intelligent
man not to move with the times ! WTiat you call
rashness and experiments are courage and prudence at
once, in the altered conditions of city-life. Why, my
dear sir, America would annihilate us, literally annihilate
us, if we did not keep pace with her as far as
we can in the race of commercial enterprise. ' She has
great advantages against which we must in' anv case
find it hard to hold our own ; but you would handicap
us so completely that all English trade would go to the
wall. Your theories, my dear sir, are impossible, exploded,
out of date. It is true that we have been
unfortunate ; but though I would not say anything to
add to your distress of mind at such a time, — my own
is deep, my dear Mr. Fairfield, very deep, — I must

in justice to myself, say, that our misfortunes are chiefly
to be attributed to your most ill-timed conservatism,
and the manner in which you have thwarted — yes, my
dear sir, I must say thwarted — all my schemes for the
welfare of the house."

Mr. Brent, who had never in his life risked a rash
experiment of any kind, entirely endorsed the junior
partner s views, and between them they almost persuaded
the unhappy man to regard himself as the prime
mover of his own disestablishment. To do him justice,
he thought more of his wife and daughter than he did
of himself in the ruin which was coming upon them all.
The junior partner put on his shining hat, and gloves
of faultless kid, and with a clear conscience betook himself
to his club for a basin of soup, and some particular
Amontillado, whereon to meditate on the fresh start that
he should be able to make when unencumbered with
the old-fashioned concern which, after all, he was well
quit of, as soon as the nine days' wonder should be over.

Honest Threadneedle, the clerk, went to his chophouse
hopeless and crest-fallen, with something very like
tears in his eyes, and denied himself his usual beer.
Mr. Brent was left alone with Fairfield, and came
straight to the point.

"You have been constantly asking me, Fairfield, if
there was no consideration on which I would consent
not to press my claims against your house."

Yes, I have. There is nothing in the world I
wouldn't do, if you will but give me the time to tide
over the difficulty," answered the other.

Tiding over difficulties like yours is all nonsense
and sheer self-delusion," said Brent, sharply. " You've
got into a bad way, and you'll only flounder into worse."

Still you might show me some consideration, after
all our dealings together."

In the name of common sense, why ? "

We have done a great deal to build up your
business and your fortune. Brent, and that you know,"
growled Fairfield, though the growl was in a key
sufficiently subdued.

And what of that ? " snapped Brent. " It was all
in the way of business, wasn't it ? You didn't build up
my fortune, as you call it, out of charity and consideration
for me, did you ? "

No," acquiesced the other, shortly.

No ; of course not. You did it for business, pure
business; and if you had taken the advice of your
highly intelligent and most honourable junior partner.

you wouldn't have been in your present position, nor
have placed me in mine. However, I shan't waste anymore
words on recrimination or on sentiment. Sentiment
in trade is silly. Let us come to the point. I
have found the consideration you have been looking
for."

What do you mean ? " asked Fairfield, eagerly.

"I mean that I have found the consideration on
which I will not only defer, but forego, all my claims
against you ; and not only that, but do all I can to put
your house safely on its legs again."

Brent ! " gasped Fairfield, getting up from his chair.

A good many men would have hesitated and stammered
considerably before making the suggestion the
other had to make. Not so Mr. Brent, whose comfortable
confidence in himself was equal to all emergencies.
He neither stammered nor hesitated at all.

I think I have told you, Fairfield, or perhaps I
haven't, that now that I want to settle in England I
want to find a wife."

A wife ! " said the other, in a tone which would
have conveyed to anybody else the conviction, that to
Mr. Fairfield the idea was entirely new.

Yes, a wife, and a young wife. I can make her a

fine settlement, and she will be very happy. I want to
marry your daughter."

Never till that moment had Mr. Fairfield been in
such immediate danger of apoplexy. He grew blue
through his natural red, stammered and wondered
enough for both, and like Aulis the dictator, scarce
gathered voice to speak, or indeed to think.

My daughter — Daisy — marry — you ? You haven't
even seen her."

Yes, I have. I saw her yesterday. I can put half
my fortune into your business, and set it on a sounder
basis than ever."

The conversation which followed would not, perhaps,
be very nice to record. But one or two things
which Fairfield said made the other span's eyes glisten
in an unpleasant, snake-like fashion, and he showed his
teeth in a way to prove to Fairfield that not till that
moment had he fully realized how much he was in
John Brent's power. John Brent dined that night in
Portland Place, with the result on Daisy's mind in the
last chapter recorded.

It was on the next day, on the morning after Lady
Pepper arrow's dchui in the world of fashion, that the
two men were again together in Mr. Fairfield's room.

They had a long talk together, and Mr. Brent took up
his hat and went away with a comfortable sense of
satisfaction. Mr. Fairfield sate in his arm-chair by
himself, and had some brandy-and-water. Then a
servant knocked and disturbed his meditations, and
told him that a gentleman was upstairs in the drawing-room
with Mrs. Fairfield, and had asked to see him
The name on his card was Mr. Guy Paucity

friend of my wife and daughter, the young
fellow who has dined here three or four times,"
muttered Fairfield to himself. " What does he want to
see me for ? "

He was not sorry to change the current of his
thoughts, and when he had finished his brandy-and-water
he went upstairs.

THE COUP DE GRACE.

Mrs. Fairfield was sitting on a low clair before
the fire, looking very small and frightened. Guy Faucit
was standing on the healthier near her, frank and
much in earnest ; and it was clear that the conversation
which had been passing between them must have
interested them both in a high degree. Mrs. Fairfield
fidgeted in her chair when her husband came in, and
looked at him appealingly, rather like a dog who is
doubtful whether he has or has not been guilty of some
breach of the law, and tries to discover from his master's
eyes whether he is going to be beaten or not. Faucit
met him in a comfortable, straightforward way, with no
consciousness in his manner that there was anything
unusual to be said, and the two men shook hands.

I asked to see you, Mr. Fairfield," said Guy,
because I have something especial to say which I
wish to say to you myself."

"What is it, Mr. Faucit?" asked the other, who
knew his visitor as a man who had dined at his house
and made himself pleasant, but had paid him no special
attention. There was not much in common between
them to make it otherwise. It is possible that Mr.
Fairfield was not fully aware of all the five o'clock teas
and other meetings which had taken place, though
there had been no conscious concealment in the matter.
Can I be of any service to you ? " The merchant's
manner was nervous and pre-occupied, and he did not
sit down, but walked about the room.

His wife watched him uneasily, and then made an
appeal to Guy.

I think, Mr. Faucit, you had better go now. We
can talk about this afterwards."

No, Mrs. Fairfield," he answered, " I have nothing
to hide. I came to ask you, sir, if I may marry your
daughter?"

The declaration was point-blank enough, certainly ;
and I third that, under the circumstances, Mr. Fairfield
was a good deal to be pitied. He had been thinking

about his daughter, of course, since Brent had propounded
his scheme, and about nothing else. Even
in that short time he had begun to reconcile himself
to the notion of the marriage as far as he was concerned.
John Brent had given him a full account of
himself, and he was richer even than Fairfield had
imagined. A more distinguished son-in-law would have
been more agreeable to his taste, no doubt ; but the
fortune and the security were the chief thing, after all.
And the anxiety of the last months had so shaken and
worn the merchant under that hard outside of his,
that there was hardly any price he was not ready to
pay to feel secure again. Fairfield and Co. safe and
sound once more, and starting afresh under better
auspices than ever; the reign of reason resumed, for
Fairfield knew his man, and the odious junior partner
suppressed and outvoted : — all this made up a prospect
which effectually dazzled Daisy's father, and blinded
him, in the attractions of its horizon, to the unsightly
character of the foreground. It must be remembered,
besides, that Fairfield was not recognized as an agreeable
person himself, and did not resent the odious characteristics
of Mr. Brent as a man of a higher nature would
have done. He hated the man certainly, because he

VOL. I, Q

was in his power. But if he got out of it he didn't
see wliy they shouldn't pull well enough together.

Yes ; but Daisy ? Mr. Fairfield was an autocrat
at home, and his daughter had never failed for a
moment in duty and obedience. But all the softness
in his nature had been for her, and he would have
spoiled her, probably, if she had been to be spoiled.
He was an affectionate father to her, and in spite of
domestic rubs, and his constant impatience with his
wife, there had been always something between them
which was even like sympathy, different as their ways
and natures were. With her keen sense of fun, Daisy
could not help feeling how intensely irritating her poor
mother's placid submission, or tactless little provocations,
must be to the old gentleman at times ; and her
care in smoothing difficulties and averting collisions
was exercised as much for the sake of one as of the
other. At the bottom of Daisy's character, however,
lay a firmness which the father strongly suspected,
though so far it had shown itself only in everyday
directions. He had more than once been on the
verse of confiding: his whole trouble to her, and deserved
genuine credit for denying himself the confession, from
real unwillingness to cloud her opening life. What

shade might that firmness take in the face of such a
proposal as John Brent's ? Daisy would not disobey
her father by taking any step he disapproved, that he
knew ; but whether she would obey him to the extent
of doing what she rebelled against herself, was another
question. Therefore he was meditating the time and
way in which he was to make the full state of the
case known, of which Brent consented to let him bethe
judge, and he had nearly concluded that the
sooner it was done the better. Brent suggested frequent
visits to the house, and many opportunities of
wooing ; but Fairfield shrewdly suspected that the
opportunities might not turn as much to the wooer's
advantage as that gentleman flattered himself. It
would be a plunge when it came, and it might be
better to take it before the waters had been sounded
too closely for reefs.

Meanwhile, it had been with much satisfaction to
both that Fairfield had been able to assure Brent of
the important fact that there was nobody else in
the way. To that effect had been almost the last
words which had passed downstairs ; and then, suddenly,
and with the inconvenient promptness of a stage-apparition,
started up before the merchant's eyes in.

this own drawing-room, one of the finest-looking young
men he ever saw in his life, who, with no prospects
or position that he had heard of, yet as coolly as if he
were a prince of the blood royal asking for a glass
of wine, demanded his daughter without prelude or
warning, and obviously, as the father felt in a moment,
with the daughter's own leave. The daughter was
suddenly assuming an importance in the world quite
out of proportion to the due order of things. Wasn't
he to be considered in the matter at all ? he began to
think. In the general confusion of faculties which was
taking possession of him. And the effect of Guy
Faucit's bomb-shell, suddenly discharged into this disorganized
camp, was to throw Septimus Fairfield of
Portland Place and Mincing Lane, merchant, after his
first struggle with perplexity, into a most tremendous
rage.

Guy Faucit has been kept, by this disquisition, a
donative waiting: for his answer, which, when it came,
was strangled at its birth in a neckcloth, and was
simply this — " Good heavens ! " Mr. Fairfield's veris
-swelled before Faucit's eyes, and his complexion became
Homeric in its purple.

"You have taken me by surprise, sir! 3'ou have

taken me by surprise ! I really don't know how to
answer such an extraordinary thing. I really — God
bless my life and soul ! "

]Mrs. Fairfield detected the signs of gathering wrath,
and interposed in a nervous tremor, " Septimus dear,
mr. Faucit doesn't mean any harm."

Good gracious, Jane, don't talk in that way. Mean
any harm I God bless me ! God bless me ! Do you
know what you are asking, sir ? " in a tone of positive
bewilderment.

Yes, Mr. Fairfield. I am asking for your daughter
to become my wife some day. I am asking with her
own permission."

You are ? And you have absolutely, sir, absolutely
accepted my hospitality to abuse it in this manner,
and taken advantage of a girl's passing fancy to attempt
to secure her affections without her parents' knowledge ?
I never heard of such a thing."

Faucit's face was flushing slowly, and his manner
very grave. He was on the point of appealing to Mrs.
Fairfield whether she had not been well aware of what
had been passing under her eyes, when he read in her
face such an unspoken appeal on her side, that with
instinctive generosity he let that defence go. He hail

been enough in the house to guess that Mrs. Fairfield's
lines were not cast in the smoothest of places, besides
gathering much from Daisy. But he answered Fairfield
steadily.

I have never done anything underhand in my life,"
he said, " and should not have begun with your daughter.
I have never disguised my wishes from the moment I
formed them, and I have not lost an hour in speaking
to you since having Miss Fairfield's answer."

You should have spoken to me first, sir ! " said the
other, growing more and more angry with Faucit's calm
superiority of tone. He felt already that he was not
coming out of it well.

I cannot agree with you, Mr. Fairfield. A man
has no right to presume so far on a woman's consent
as to speak, before he gets it. He can hardly pay hera
worse compliment than that."

I shall not be lectured about the claims of a parent,
sir ! " stormed Mr. Fairfield, who, in the perplexity of his
position, was forgetting himself very fast indeed.

Septimus, dear Septimus ! " murmured his weaker
half.

"Upon my soul, ma'am, I believe that you must
have known of this business and never told me ! this

most discreditable business ! To trade on the passing-fancy
of a young girl "

'' Mr. Fairfield, I cannot let you speak like that,
even though you are her father. I don't believe Miss
Fairfield's feeling for me to be a passing fancy ; but
that you can find out from herself. I have the right to
know the strength of my own feeling, and to ask you if
you will one day allow your daughter to be my wife."

Guy's manner was so studiously respectful that it
was difficult to quarrel with it ; but the weakness of Mr.
Fairfield's cause made him quarrelsome. He disliked
the vision of Brent in the background very much
indeed, and felt that the Indian's chances would be
materially lessened by the appearance of so singularly
personable a rival. He still kept up his favourite tone
of bluster, though he perceived even in his wrath that
bullying was thrown away on his troublesome visitor,

"What prospects have you, sir, may I ask?" he
said. " I have heard that you are only reading for the
bar."

That is the case, Mr. Fairfield," answered Guy.
I can pretend to no position and no immediate
prospects; but — "

I knew it, sir, I knew it, and could have sworn as

much ! " The merchant was inwardly delighted with
his chance, for if Faucit had had definite prospects to
offer, his position would have been more awkward.
Yet you presume to come forward and ask me to give
you my daughter, who has been accustomed all her life
to a position which I do not intend her to lose ; on the
strength, I suppose, of all that you mean to do when
you are called to the bar ! No, sir ; I assure you that I
do not intend her to lose it, or to share a crust with
anybody ! I shall wish you good afternoon, and beg
that I may never hear of this again."

"Mr. Fairfield," said Guy quietly, but in a way
which enforced a hearing even from the man he was
speaking to, " I hope that you will regret this some
day. Nothing will tempt me to show any disrespect to
Daisy's father, or to use hard words with him. You
give me very hard ones, and, as I think, without reason.
I have a very honest love to offer, and I gave up a good
and secure position at Oxford that I might be able to
offer it. I don't think you should have spoken to meas
you have. My Oxford work gives me the right to
look for a fair measure of success at the bar, and I
have already a good connection in the writing way."

Mr. Fairfield grunted at the display of this last card

of poor Guy's, which he might as well not have played.
The writing way," in the eyes of Mr. Fairfield, was
a rather disreputable road to starvation.

I never supposed," Faucit went on to say, " that
you would sanction any immediate marriage with your
daughter."

Immediate indeed 1 " said the other. " What on ?
On my money, do you suppose ? "

I suppose there would be nothing unreasonable in
thinking you would help your daughter," answered Guy.
She thought so. But I should myself prefer to wait
till I had made a good start for myself."

x^nd keep a young girl dancing attendance upon
hopes for the best years of her life, I suppose. Fairness
to her, if you meant that, should have prevented you
speaking."

I don't think so myself," said the other. " It is far
fairer than leaving any one in doubt of a serious feeling.
But I see that I have made a mistake in speaking to
you, and for the present I shall not say any more.
Good-bye."

Stop one moment," said Fairfield. " Am I to
understand that you give up this foolish nonsense
altogether ? "

I shall never give it up," answered Faucit,

And you tell me that to my face ? " shouted the
other, whose temper, in spite of himself, had been quieted
by Faucit's tone, but now boiled over again. " I tell
you, sir, that I forbid you now or at any time to think
of my daughter. And mind, let me hear nothing of anymore
meetings of any kind ! Before you go, give me
your word that you will not attempt to see the young
lady again."

I don't think that you have the right to ask me
for any promise of the kind," said Guy. " Neither Miss
Fairfield nor I, you .may be sure, are likely to do
anything to be ashamed of"

Oh, Mr. Faucit, I'm sure you won't, either of you,"
interrupted the unlucky third at this disagreeable scene.
Please go now, and don't come again at present. I am
sure Mr. Fairfield doesn't mean anything unkind, do
you ? " But her lord and master was only fuming.

Good-bye, Mrs. Fairfield, and thank you for all
your kindness," said Guy, pressing the good-natured
hand. " I can't say good-bye to Daisy before I go, can
I ? " he added to her hurriedly.

She is out for the day, indeed she is," answered the
mother. " But you are sure to hear from her or me."

Of course," said Guv. And with another rave
salutation to the excited man of business, he was ozone.
Even while he was still on the stairs, he heard the
storm bursting upon the head of the devoted Jane.

Guy Faucit went quietly home to his chambers,
revolving. This was a check at starting which he had
not been prepared for, though he told himself rather
angrily that he ought to have been. He had taken
Mr. Fairfield too much on twist from Daisy, instead of
believing in his own conclusions about her father s
purse-pride and want of refinement of mind. There
was a little injustice in this, as we know ; and if the
merchant had not been fairly driven to the wall by the
situation, of which Guy and Daisy were equal'
ignorant, it is probable that his daughter would have
had no very great difficulty in bringing him round.
She had made Guy feel so convinced that this was the
case, that he was fairly astounded at the ferocity of his
reception, though he had not of course supposed that
Mr. Fairfield would jump at his offer. He felt rather
annoyed with Daisy, therefore, as well as with himself,
for he could not disguise from himself that the merchant's
objections were of a nature altogether too
strong to be conciliated as they had hoped. Well, it

could not be helped : the course of true love was going
to run roughly, as usual, and the flinty hearts of fathers
to inflict the usual bruises on the supplicating hands
knocking at the door of them.

Another man than Faucit would have been more
down-hearted than he. He could not, in spite of his
annoyance, as yet regard the situation very seriously.
He felt as sure of Daisy as of himself, and smiled as he
thought of the father scheming for ambitious marriages,
or trying to argvie her out of her love. Probably he
should not see her for a few days, and their meetings
might even be suspended for a longer time than that.
But the separation was one which they could both
accept, and was too unreasonable to last.

Guy knew that he should hear from Daisy the next
day, and her letter would tell him the line he must
take, which it rested with her to decide. He thought
that he knew what the letter would be" and could
indulge his fancy in watching her think it out and
write it, with its calm assurance of the future and
counsel of short patience, and regret that for the
moment she had misled him.

With these thoughts in his mind he smoked his
pipe placidly enough in his fireside corner, rather

amusing himself mentally at the remembrance of Mr.
Fairfield's angry airs of Bashawship, but withal a little
puzzled by their vehemence, suggestive of something
in the air which he couldn't quite understand. Then
he migrated to his writing-table, and added a postscript
to the letter which he had written to the old mother
down in Devonshire, in the first flush of his happiness
and pride, making her, as he had done throughout, the
confidant of all his proceedings, all his hot and cold fits,
wherein the cold had played but a brief and bracing
part, and anticipating the day when " the two sweetest
women in the world '^ should come to know each other.
Daisy had sent through him, in that first part of the
letter, a sweet and tremulous message of her* own.

Dearest Mother," added the postscript, " I shall let
this letter go, as it will tell all the story. But we have
counted without our host, if I may describe by that
name a gentleman who has incontinently kicked me
out of his house, abused me for presumption and
fortune-hunting and other pleasant things, and generally
behaved like the Emperor of China with a fit of
the gout. Indeed, I think Fairfield Papa rather resents
the indignity of not being Emperor of China. My

Daisy made rather a mistake in sending me to him;
but it will all come right, and I am not much disturbed.
When I can write of her as ' my Daisy ' — doesn't it
look nice on paper ? but if you could only hear how it
sounds ! — nothing matters very particularly. We shall
bring Timour round between ns, Daisy doing the best
part of it. I am sure to hear from her tomorrow, and
I think I know what the letter will be. God bless you,
little mother. This bonnie conquest of my bow and
spear will draw you and me together closer than ever.

Your own son,

G. F."

Guy worked well on to his usual hour that night,
and slept the sleep of the just without dreaming of
Daisy, though he wanted and expected to dream of her.
He told me long afterwards that he kept on dreaming
of me all the night in a perverse sort of way, and
resented it in his sleep as a personal injury, wanting
some one else, and not knowing why.

When the laundress had done the fire and cooked
the chop, and Faucit came out of his bedroom to his
bachelor-breakfast, the post brought the expected
letter, and his heart jumped at the sight of the well-known

Land. It was a good Land, free and firm, but
womanly, and he treasured many scraps of it in small
notes of invitation or thanks. It must be admitted that,
in the presence of his unseen Asmodeus, Guy kissed
the new-comer two or three times before he opened it.
But when he did open it, what he read was this :

I am too deeply sad and sore to know well how to
write to you. But you must forget last night, Mr.
Faucit, or that I was ever able to call you anything
else. I will not say that Ave shall never meet again,
because I hope that one day we shall ; but it cannot befor
a long time, and never in the way you wish. I
cannot help hoping that this will not prevent your
persevering at the bar, for you were born for a great
success. But whether you do this, or whether you
return to Oxford, my best wishes, and my prayers too,
will always be with you. My father owes you an
apology for the manner in which he received you
yesterday, and so do I for having exposed you to it.
Will you let me make them both, for him and me ? I
am afraid you will be very grieved and very angry, but if
you knew everything you would not blame us so much.
I could not let the post go without writing, as I knew

you must expect it ; but perhaps if I had had more
time, I might have written in some other and better
way. But when good-bye must be said, perhaps it
doesn't much matter how we say it. Good-bye.
Always your friend,

"Daisy Fairfield."

Guy Faucit read the letter through and through,
and again through, without being able to grasp and
comprehend it. A dismissal ! — like that — and from her !
whom he had believed in as in Truth. When he could
bring himself to grapple with it fairly, he read in the
letter a clear and final decision. If he had laughed at
Mr. Fairfield's pronouncement of his sentence, he knew
now that the Court of Appeal had positively confirmed
it, and without reason given.

Daisy Fairfield was right when she wrote, that
Guy would be grieved and angry. But she did not
quite know how sternly so. He was simply stunned.
With his strong instinctive sense of right and honour,
Guy felt, as soon as he could feel, that if there were
reasons in the case, as the letter hinted, apart from
that of his position and hers, which the father had so
rudely given, those reasons should have been told. I

do not think that he made enough allowance therein
his fulness of manhood, for the gentler and more
shrinking: fibre of which the noblest womanhood is
made. But the result of his view was, that he disbelieved
in any such reason at once, and, in the first flush of
indignation, at all events, accepted the whole thing as
over. It was enough for Guy to make up his mind that
if Daisy Fairfield had been what he had believed her,
she would not have written that letter. She was only
a flirt then, after all ! How cruelly letters often miss
their mark, and what harm they do.

Daisy Fairfield, I think, confidently expected some
answer. Either. Guy would write or come, and there
would be an explanation between them. The reader
will divine, of course, that she had learned the state
of his affairs from her father on her return home that
day. But Guy neither came nor wrote, but met the
blow with characteristic silence. For two or three
days he worked on as hard as ever, but said nothing
to any one of what had passed. Then he grew sleepless
and nervous, and felt that he did not work well. Then
he announced that he should take leave of absence
from his pleader's chambers for a time, and went straight
down to his mother's in Devonshire.

VOL. I. R

OVER.

Yes; they are deceptive things, those letters, and
have caused in this world an infinity of misunderstandings,
some of which are destined never to be cleared up.
My conscience is good and my digestion sound ; yet I
shrink from the post instinctively, and rejoice when
fate casts my lines in a place where there is no afternoon
delivery. I am unable to understand the frame of
mind so common to women, which makes the post hour
a delight and a curiosity; and always feel a sense of
grateful relief if a day comes which brings no letters
with it. It seems to me like so many possible disagreeable
the less. Quarrels without end, misconceptions
without number, rudeness, intended or no, which
would be impossible at a personal interview, are sown
broadcast all over the country every night and morning

by those agents of mischief, bearing the Queen's head
on them. Very sad are the offences which rise through
them, never to be explained till explanation comes too
late ; and all, very often, because the receiver cannot
read between the lines, or tell anything of the workings
and strivings which possessed the writer's heart, but
could find no voice upon his pen.

Very different would Guy Faucit's frame of mind
have been, and very different his course of conduct, if
he had seen the expression upon Daisy's face when
she wrote him that farewell letter. Had he been
there to see, he would have seen the tranquil and
trustful face moved to a very tumult of passion which
he had never suspected in her. One of the fears
which he sometimes expressed to his mother was, that
there was even too much about her of the cppovijfjia
vqvejxov yaXdvas — the spirit of an unruffled calm. Its
charm was great, but it sometimes perplexed him ;
and it was that perhaps partly which led to his rapid
acquiescence in the outward seeming of her letter now
and his belief that in that stately way of hers she had
only been playing with him all the time, and was really
like the rest of womankind, worldly in her heart. He
had thought her something so very different, \\sA held

R 2

her so priceless in his esteem, apart even from his love,
that for her sake he was beginning to believe that even
the rest of womankind were better than the romancers —
those of their own sex especially — are so fond of painting
them ; and he could not bear to have his idol broken.
If he had only seen ! If she had only had no second
thoughts, but had sent him straight off, without afterthought
or reflection, the passionate adieu which first
she trusted tho the paper, dashed off through a very mist
of tears. It was an adieu, no doubt, as was the other ;
but it would have brought him within the next hour to
her father's house, had he been ten times as roughly
expelled from it the day before. An instinct led her
to shrink from reading that letter when it was finished,
for she knew that it was right and true, and the
envelope was in her hand to close when that evil
spirit called Expediency whispered to her to pause
and to think, and she took the letter out and read it
through. Then the hot tears fell faster yet, and the
brave heart beat still more loudly, and the blushes
gathered round the tears, and she leant her head upon
her hands and thought. Could she, Daisy Fairfield,
have written to one to whom she had given herself but
the evening before, in the language' of a passion so

undisguised as that ? What if he, that manly and
perfect lover, should think such lack of reserve un-maidenly
? Oh, no, no ; and she wrote with a sore
heart and toiling head the other letter, whose meanings
thought he would surely read behind the words.
Could she have such a love in her heart, and he not
see it ? Could she disguise from him, however carefully
she wrote, the passion of pride in him, and happiness
for both which had lived in her all that day, from the
moment she knew from his own lips that what she
hoped was true, and that she had conquered her hero
for her very own ? No ; he would answer her, he would
demand to see her ; and neither she nor her father, nor
any one in the wide world, would have the right to refuse
him. So she sent the second letter, and she put the
first away — away in a desk among her girl's treasures,
where she read and re-read it many a weary time in
the year to come. Long, long after, with a blush she
showed it him.

She had come home from Lady Pepperharrow's
very bright and full of hope. When she gave her
mother the good news, the mother rejoiced in it for her
daughter's sake, and promised her to love Guy, and
think him the most perfect and fascinating of human

beings. Indeed, she liked him very thoroughly already,
for he had always shown her all the deference and
consideration, which so wins old ladies' hearts from
the young and strong.

Mrs. Fairfield, however, shook her head over her
Septimus, and very much doubted if he would look at
the matter in the rosy light with which the imaginations
of mother and daughter invested it. To them, it was
clear that Guy Faucit would be Attorney-general and
Lord Chief Justice in no time, if he did not feel
tempted to take to politics and become Prime Minister ;
but it was on the cards that Septimus Fairfield might
regard this brilliant future as not proven, and require
solid guarantees from any candidate for his daughter's
hand. Mrs. Fairfield knew that her husband regarded
himself as a very considerable personage indeed ; and
moreover, she augured ill of the present condition of
his temper, with which he had visited her of late
so much.

'rit's that dreadful brandy and water!" she
murmured.

"Not so much the water, I'm afraid, mamma'*
said Daisy.

*rand I'm sure I tell him about it often enough.'

Every morning, regularly nearly now, I have to have a
long talk with him."

Daisy smiled a little.

"Perhaps there's something wrong in the City,
mamma. The City seems to be always going wrong
and always coming right. I can't feel out "of spirits
now, dear, and I'm sure everything is going to turn out
for the best. You will see Guy — Mr. Faucit — before he
speaks to papa ? "

Yes, my dear," said Mrs. Fairfield. '"' I shall be
very fond of him for his own sake, as well as yours ;
and he'll be a great comfort to us all — as great as
poor Dick."

I hope so," answered Daisy, something almost like
a sneer curling the pretty Up becomingly enough for
the first time since we made her acquaintance. " From
something papa said, I believe some of Master Dick's
bills have to do with those tempers of his just now, and
if so, I'm sure I can't blame him. If there's nothing todo
in Ireland, without the pretty language Dick bestows
on the place, why is there anything to spend ? Money
spent on nothing travels a bad road."

The young moralist was very angry; and though
the poor mother believed firmly though resignedly in

her Dick, she was but a weak cudgel-wielder in a weak
cause, and soon reduced to her final argument, a sigh ;
which always led to Daisy's, a kiss.

Daisy was not in a mood to dwell on unpleasant
subjects, whereas nothing so much as a piece of good
news, or a glimpse of happiness, moved Mrs. Fairfield
to the verge of tears. She always cried over her congratulations
to a friend upon anything, and drew little
morals which had nothing at all to do with the question,
like an undeveloped Cassandra. She shook her head
now over the prospect of how Septimus would take
it ; but could not discourage her daughter, who at the
moment was armed with a full confidence in her own
powers of pleasing, and with general auguries of a successful
issue for everything.

"He's a very good old father, that of mine, and
never likes saying *No' to me. He won't begin to
like it now, when it would be ' no ' to the whole happiness
and ambition of my life. Besides, what would bethe
use ? I shan't change my mind now, and I'm sure
Guy won't*'

And the young lady sang herself off on her way to
her room, rejoicing. She went out at the time when
Guy's momentous visit was expected, from some instinct

of modesty and shyness, and betook herself to her friend
Lady Pepperharrow, jubilant over the success of her
festivity the night before.

"Oh, Daisy dear, wasn't it delightful? All the
supper was eaten before the people went away, and
everybody said such kind things. There was a friend
of Lady Luscombe's who told L^gh he was like Luke
Somebody, which L^gh didn't quite understand. E was
a Roman nobleman who gave suppers, and was in the
best society of his day. Do you know what is other
name was ? " enquired her ladyship of Daisy, to whom
she was in the habit of referring all her doubtful points
in the field of knowledge ; and she had many.

Lucullus ? " asked Daisy, laughing.

That was the name," said the other, quite satisfied.
But this friend of Lady Luscombe's is quite the most
remarkable man I have ever met, and so very interesting.
Directly you see him you know that he must
have been a corsair, or a refugee, or a Fenian, or Don
Juan, or something like that. Then he as such a
beautiful name — the Count Lestrange. E wants to
be introduced to you."

Does he ? " answered Daisy, happy with an infinite
content which made Lady Pepperharrow wonder.

Lie had never seen her favourite look so well, and
wished that she could introduce her last admiration, the
Count, at once. As it was, she made Daisy promise to
dine with her on some early day, to meet Lestrange and
the Luscombes, and Daisy was well pleased to* promise
anything just then. Her heart was full to the brim;
and she had all a girl's longing to confide in her friend,
and listen to all the delightful sympathy which was
sure to be hers. But she had made up her mind that
her delicious secret was to be kept until all had been
happily arranged at home. So she wandered with Lady
Pepperharrow from room to room — watered the drooping
flowers, and arranged the demoralised furniture,
and was so handy and happy, so laughing and helpful, .
teasing her friend and caressing her, and so entirely
childlike and radiant, that Lady Pepperharrow would
fain have adopted her then and there, and have installed
her in the new mansion as sole lieutenant and director.
It was a pity that she could not ; but there be many
such pities in the world. Daisy wouldn't even stay all
day, neither to dinner nor to tea ; but growing a little
impatient as the afternoon wore on, and she threw
frequent looks at the clock, insisted on departing prematurely,
on the plea that she was wanted at home, and

left her hostess with a kiss and a hug which were not
to be forgotten for hours. I Hke to linger over poor
Daisy's short-heed happiness, which was to be dissipated
at once and cruelly when she reached home.

Her mother met her in the hall with a frightened
face, and in a few sentences told her what had happened.
Your father was very angry, dear, and I'm afraid he
was very rude. He forbade Mr. Faucit the house, and
said that he had not behaved like a gentleman."

Daisy's face flushed to the hair.

Papa told Mr. Faucit that ! On what excuse ?
.low could he dare — ? " She checked herself, but she
looked very tall and very straight as she stood there.

I don't know what it means," said the mother.
I'm sure that there's something wrong that we
know nothing about, or he never could have spoken
like that."

Where is he ? "

"In the study; and he asked to see you directly
you came in."

"He shall see me directly," answered the girl,
crossing the hall.

Oh be careful, be careful, there's a dear child !
Don't make him worse."

You need not be afraid, mamma ; I feel very quiet
indeed. But I must know why he has done this at
once." And with a short firm knock at her father's
door, she went in, with a sense of strong indignation
and of rebellion in her heart. If there was to be anger
in this matter, let it be with her, and let her know the
reason. She resented a slight to Guy Faucit in a way
that would not be denied.

Her thoughts changed when she saw her father.
He was huddled in his chair before the fire, and looked
ten years older. The high colour seemed to have left
his face, and there was a dull pain in his eyes.

Is it you, Daisy ? " he said, in a voice very unlike
his own, when she came in. And that was all.

Yes, papa. What is this that has passed ? " She
took a chair by his, and rested her hand upon his
arm.

"It is a very painful thing; and of course you
know."

I know that Mr. Faucit has been here, and why.
But I do not know why it should be painful, unless it
is that you spoke to him in a way which nobody can
deserve less."

"I can't agree with you there," said Fairfield

quickly. " He was bound to let me know before proposing
to my daughter."

"I do not quite see why, papa," she answered,
getting up and resting one arm on the mantel-piece,
while the other hand played with her glove. " It is I
whom he wants to marry. He was bound to let you
know directly he had proposed, and he did."

"He led me to believe that you care for him,
Daisy," said the other ; " but I can scarcely believe it."
Why not ? " she said. " It isn't very difficult to
believe" She smiled a little, hoping that the worst
was over. " If you knew him, papa, as you will, you
would not very much wonder."

"Good God, Daisy! You don't really care for the
man much ! "

There was real anguish, real regret, in the old man's
tone ; and Daisy knew then that the worst had to be
heard. She turned very pale, and was very still for a
moment.

Papa ! what is the matter ? "
You can never be his wife, Daisy."
Never is a long word," she said, " especially for
two people who know the' hearts as we do. If we are
to wait, we can. But why are we to wait ? "

You do not know him, child."

Yes, I do. I have been learning since last summer
to know him. I have known myself still longer, and
know this : that if I ever should meet with anybody
who could win me like that, I should not change to
him. You are very fond of me, father dear," she added,
and knelt at his feet looking up into his face, " and
cannot wish me to change."

He has neither a penny nor a prospect," argued
the father, fighting against the confession which he saw
must come ; for he knew what her answer must be.

He has all the prospects which brains and energy
can give to a man who means to make his way, and to
make it for my sake," she said very proudly. "And
you have the money to help us at the start easily, if you
like, as you always said you should if I married to
please you. There is nothing in this that should
displease you, papa."

He struggled with himself for a time with an unfeigned
misery in his heart, looking round and round
for rescue in his thoughts in vain. Then he got up
from his chair and walked to the window, turning his
face away from her, and without prelude spoke.

Daisy, I am ruined."

"Papa!"

She did not take it in at once ; but he came to her
and told her. Very gently and very lovingly, for him ;
for she was, after all, the pride of his heart and eyes, and
she had told him enough to make him feel the heartbreak
he was preparing for her. He said nothing of
the man Brent as yet ; he could not, and it was not now
the time if he ever could. But clearly and briefly
enough he put before her the situation as he had too
well realized it. Ruin and poverty, real and hard ; and
something like — too like — dishonour even in that.
Nothing need absolutely be known for a time, and the
difficulty might be tided over, perhaps. But for the
penniless lover there was neither place nor hope, and
Daisy must forget her dream.

It has been very short, dear," he said appealingly.

"Yes, very short, papa. Not longer than my life."

She went quietly to her room, when she had learned
all that she was then to learn. She looked at the elinor
as such a woman would look. Money or poverty with
her would make no difference to Guy ; but money or
poverty, for him, must to her make all the difference.
He was going to be a great man ; and proud as she
would be to help his career, she would never mar it.

Was she right ? I do not know, though I think not.
A love like that of those two is too great and rare a
blessing to be lost or to be denied upon any terms
at all. But the young, when like them, have always
the spirit of sacrifice, and do not learn the absolute
supremacy of the great claim, till perchance they are
too old to profit by the learning. Besides, there was
more in the background, and Daisy felt it. When she
left her father's room,' it was with the knowledge that
all was really over, and that Guy and she had better
meet no more. Nor was she privileged to tell him all
the truth. So she wrote the letter which she knew
must be sent, in a spirit of impossible pain. Then —
womanlike — desiring the parting and dreading to meet,
she hoped and waited for days for an answer — for him.
Neither came ; and the world went on its usual round
again. Daisy dined at Lady Pepperharrow's, and made
new acquaintances in a world new to her, with the band
of an iron sorrow round her heart. But her charm was
as ever, and as she saw and heard no more of Guy, it
gathered fresh armour from her pride. Beyond the
four who knew it, none knew what had passed.

It seemed the very perversity of fate, that I who
knew and loved these two so well, should, on the very

morning after Lady Pepperharrow's party, have left
England with a friend for a tour in America, long out
of the way of letters and of news. I left with a
happy heart for them ; and after a shake of the hazel
with both, that last evening, which was meant to convey
my unspoken congratulations on the unconfessed truth.
Of the sadness which followed I knew nothing till
months afterwards, when it was all too late. Guy never
wrote a line to me for years, and for years I never saw
him again. ^\Tien next I met Daisv, she was a Daisv
whom I had not kno^Ti. To his other chief friend,
Wilmot, Faucit spoke no word either ; but left him to
guess. He guessed, as men do guess where their dearest
friends are concerned, all on one side. When next he
met Daisy a short time afterwards, he bowed to her and
wanted to pass by. In arms as was her pride, she
mustered courage to speak to him, and she spoke with
a cold constraint she would willingly have avoided.

"I have not seen Mr, Faucit lately," she said.
Isn't he well ? "

He has left London, Miss Fairfield."

Altogether ? "

Altogether, I believe."

And the golden dream was over.

VOL. I. s

ALONE IN THE WORLD.

Guy Faucit went down to his mothers to find her
very ill. Unselfish in her loving devotion as she
always had been, she would not interfere with her
boy's work in London by complaints about herself, and
her letters to him neither admitted nor showed any
change in her. He was shocked when he saw it, almost
into forgetfulness of what had brought him down.
For her, she had rejoiced greatly in her son's coming ;
for a fear was upon her that her life was drawing near
its quiet end. She had-never been strong, and the
cold of the winter had tried her severely. And she
longed to have her boy with her for a time, if that
was to be, as in the old days. If before she left him
she could only know that she left him in safe hands,
that he would not want a woman's love to care for

and to tend him, without which, in one endearing form
or another, she held a man's life to be very much alone,
she would be well content to fold her hands, and so
to the place of those who had gone before. She wanted
to know, she longed to hear, that all was arranged
between her boy and Daisy; and then she hoped to
make the new daughter's acquaintance thoroughly
before the end, and to have some sweet confidences with
her over Guy's manifold excellences, to tell her how
impervious he had been to all the reigning beauties of
Devonshire, and how she had been beginning to despair
of his ever finding any one to suit him, in spite of all
his mother's entreaties and advice ; when suddenly she
heard from him how Daisy had descended from the
blue, and at the first description made up her mind
to welcome the new Mrs. Faucit to the place and
heart of the old. She would be able to tell her many
things of Guy's tastes and ways, besides all that she
would learn for herself, and smooth the path of perfect
confidence which those two should tread together after
she was gone. Would she have the opportunity of fulfilling
this desire of her heart ? The warning was upon
her, and she knew that her time was short. Therefore

she rejoiced with a great gladness over the first parts

2

of that letter of Guy's to her that we have seen, and
was painfully affected by the last. She hoped with
her boy that all would come right ; but felt that Mr.
Fairfield's opposition, against which her brave maternal
pride rose all in arms, — indeed, she had strongly urged
Guy to speak out; for whom could man desire for a
son-in-law better than he ? — might too surely put an
end to her dream of knowing Daisy.

And on her side, the girl of her son's heart was
cherishing a kindred hope ; for much, very much, of
Guy's talk with her was of his mother, in those times
when they were coming to understand each other well ;
and for that, as for other things, she loved him more
and more. She was full of a wish to love Guy's mother
too, for her own sake ; and . on the night when she
promised to be his they found room for their schemes
for the mother in Devonshire, even in the happy
after-talk of self which followed upon their common
confession.

Oh, Guy, do you think your mother will care
about me ? Won't she hate me for taking you away
from her?"

Ask her that yourself, dear," he had answered.

And the sweet tremulous message I have told of,

sent in Guys letter, made the disappointment which
followed all the harder to the old lady. That message
was all she was ever to know of Daisy, who never
forgot her regrets for the loss, in the after time.
Thank God for the faith of some of us, which tells
us inwardly, with a full assurance, that elsewhere, if
not here, those lost knowledges shall be. I would not
hold a blanker creed than that, for the price of the
world's ransom.

Mrs. Faucit scented danger in the air when she
had Guy's news, and though pained and shocked to the
heart, was not surprised, when she heard very briefly
from him a few days afterwards, that Mr. Fairfield's
dismissal had been ratified by Daisy in a way which
he could only regard as final, and that he must have
been mistaken all along. All the mother's heart went
out to her boy in his disappointment, and she wrote
at once and begged him to come to her. She was not
well, she told him, by way of further inducement, and
would be very glad of his society for her own sake,
as he would value hers now for his.

I do not understand quite what has happened,
my boy," she wrote ; " for you speak of it very shortly.
I hope all is not so ill as you think ; but if you will

come here, I can advise you and talk to you as I used
in all your boy's troubles. Do you remember ? We
stupid old women are wiser in some things than wise
and clever men like you."

He kissed the faltering handwriting, and reproached
himself for not seeing sooner how much it did falter ;
and he came back to the true mother's heart for
comfort and for love.

He found it there in full ; but he found too surely,
at the same time, that he was come only to lose the
sacred consolation when he pined for it the most, and
would miss it sorely indeed. His mother was fading
very fast and unmistakably; and seeing her as he did,
without warning and without preparation, he realized it
at once. She was unwilling even to speak of herself,
could care for nothing but her longing to pour balm into
the wound which had gone so deep. At first she tried
to persuade Guy that there had been some mistake in
the matter, some misunderstanding which would certainly
and easily come right. She wanted to write to
Daisy herself — had not the girl written first to her ? —
and ask her, as she had the right to do, for some
fuller explanation of what had passed. But Guy Faucit
had the pride of Lucifer, as such men have, and he

would not hear of any compromise here. If she had
anything to explain, let her. Though at the time
his trust in Daisy had let him jDass it by, he felt
deeply afterwards the sting of Fairfield's insolence,
which his daughter's action seemed to sanction. She
had been persuaded that he wanted her mctney perhaps,
after all.

Would you let such a suspicion rest on your son,
mother ? " he asked.

And the poor mother was not strong, as she had
been, and could not make head against a determination
which was too great for her, as it had often been in
lesser things. She admired that powerful will of her
son s, which was with him so strong a characteristic ;
but she always feared it for him, and many a time
had prayed earnestly that it might not some day take
the invidious shape of self-will, and wreck him. She
learned to asfree with him as to the meaning: of his
disappointment, too, A fuller account of the interview
with ]\lr, Fairfield showed her that he must be
one of those men of whom she had seen so much in
her own life, with whom the world and the purse were
the be-all and the end-all. Such a man as that was
the fit father for a worldly child, and the Daisy of her

son's fancy must have been a dream of delusion. So
grieving from her soul for her son's disappointment,
she saw that it was idle to talk with him
about it, and she accepted it as an accomplished fact,
as he did.

He put the subject aside after the first few days;
and with his strong power over himself, he hid from his
mother resolutely and successfully his fierce struggles
with his own pain, His duty here, at all events, was
clear and straight before him, and he took the duty up
in the strength of his great love for the mother who
had been everything to him, till this enchantress
deluded him for a time for her own amusement.

The doctor of the place confirmed him in his first
fears, and told him that his mother was surely dying.
It might be a question of a few weeks or of a few
months, but the sentence had been passed and written
down. In those weeks or months Guy would not leave
her, but devote his heart and soul to making the
passage easy to that world of rest and un-striving,
whence he himself felt pitilessly far. So he crushed
down all his own selfish regrets, and comforted his
mother by the assurance that there was no harm done,
that the episode in his life had been too short, and he

had never allowed himself to build upon its issue, and
that no doubt some day the proper yAi^ would be found
for him, for whom the mother's soul loosed. After alla
London flirt would never have done. So before she
died she came to think it was for the best, and that her
worshipped son had but passed through the waters so
many pass, with nothing worse than a wetting. He
had never, perhaps, been to her what he was during
those closing days.

When the bright spring came, he could wheel her
out in her chair into the garden, and sit by her side
chatting and reading.

There was no pain, happily, attending her peaceful
end, and he brought all the resources of his mind to
bear upon his dear love. That love was dearer to him
than ever, now that he had realized its full truth by
contrast, just on the verge of losing it. She tried ever
and again to persuade him to go back to London, and
resume the work he had so zealously begun. But he
put that aside altogether. There was plenty of time
for that, he said.

The end lasted three months, and came noiselessly
and without warning, as gently as the visit of a friend
to the quiet sick-room. They had been talking

seriously and soberly-all the long summer-afternoon,
with the insects droning their peaceful monotone
outside, and the long June shadows creeping lazily over
the lawn, on one of those days of still heat when Nature
seems crouching for another spring, chiefly of the
things above and the things beyond, and the mysteries
of that life which had been the mother's chief reality
through all her varied days of trouble and of calm.
Chief of all her happiness and prides in her son washer
knowledge that he shared that faith as she would
have him share it, in the unquestioning obedience and
unmurmuring love of a child — the faith that is in one
sense higher than charity, in that if it be real it cannot
fail to include it. He took up at his mother's request
the book they both loved so well, and had read together
so often, during those last months especially. And in
the deep voice filled with reverence he read to her the
opening words of the wonderful chapter in Hebrews —
Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence
of things not seen." Her head fell back in her chair,
and she gave a faint cry. He was at her feet in a
moment.

Where are you, my boy ? " she whispered. And
he took the weak arms and clasped them round

his neck and dressed his lips to hers ; and in that
mother's kiss she died, — died as she had always wished
to die, — in the full confidence of love, alone-s^dth him
whom most she had lived for, with the loftiest words of
Divine prophecy leaving, in his voice, the last earthly
echo on her ear. She knew the euthanasia she desired,
and it was given her.

He did not call for a moment, for he knew that she
was dead. Then he kissed her again, and there broke
from hint one low cry. For her the evidence of things
not seen was now turned to the things themselves ; the
things hoped for belonged to hope no longer, and the
glass she had seen through darkly was broken down,
to let the fulness of light in for evermore. But for
him the fall of that irrevocable fate was as a sentence
of civil death in the grey and purposeless world,
which had for him now no meaning left ; and he rose
uj) in that dear dead presence, feeling himself hopelessly
alone.

*****

He went quietly through the days before the funeral,
and through the business which had to be done, like a
man in a dream ; to all outward seeming unalterably
calm. Then he saw his mother laid in the quiet

country grave, and noted with conscious pleasure the
signs of affectionate interest and respect which were
shown on every side. She had the gift, that lady, of
being truly loved and sincerely mourned, after the '
fashion of the things that pass away, and leave their
trace of sorrow, though it be not a deep one, upon the
general hurry of surrounding life.

Guy had every sign of sympathy and kindness
shown him, but his nature took refuge in itself, and fora
day or two still he lived quietly on at home, with no
companions but books and thoughts. His mother's
death left him the master, with his fellowship, of some
few hundreds a year ; and he had all his plans of life to
make again.

He must do something, he thought ; and his mind
began to revert to the old rooms at Oxford, for the bar
seemed to have no attraction now. But the rooms at
Oxford now recalled Daisy Fairfield, from whose image
the strong will could not shake itself free, though he
did not know yet how deeply it was graven, distracted
as he had been from his first pain by his care for his
mother. In spite of himself Hope began to lift its
head again, and he began to wonder if there could have
been, after all, some strange misunderstanding, and if

he had not been over-hasty in yielding at once to pride.
Was it possible — that last night — that Daisy did not
love him ?

A letter from Wilmot, with whom he had exchanged
one or two, came to him at this time. It discoursed of
many things, and it told him, casually and quietly, that
his friend Miss Fairfield had been a great success that
season in London, and that she was going to be married.
The stroke went home to the desolate heart ; but this
time Guy was resolved to know something more, and
by an impulse he did not care to master, he wrote one
brief line to Daisy.

I hear that you are to be married. Is it
true ? If it is not, I think that you owe it to me
to tell me so. If it is, silence will be enough. I shall
wait a week for your answer, though I hope not to
wait so long."

He waited for a week, and no answer came. No
line, no sign, no message. Within one week more, Guy
Faucit was on the high seas, alone upon his road to
South America, with no definite purpose in his mind
but to find out places he had never seen, and to be as
if he had never been to all who had known him. He
left behind him directions that the cottage should be

sold, and from time to time communicated with his
lawyer. And he picked up strange friends and strange
acquaintances, and gathered much wide knowledge of
life and lands, serious, self-contained and silent always.
And he was a wanderer on the face of earth for seven
years.

END OF VOL. I.

VOL I.

i eton; in Im parts.

Herman CHARLES MERIYALE.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 11, Henrietta ST.

COVENT Garden.

1882.
[All Rights reserved']




TO

virginia anb Isabel bateman

IN Kindly MEMOET OF There Mother, MBS. S. F. Bateman.

TO WHOSE First SrGGESXIOX A>-D Favorite IDEA

(a shadow of an old LEGEND IX MODERN LIFE.

AFTER THE FASHION OF MISS TH-iCKEEAT's Faint-TAXES)

THE OBIGTN OF THIS Stout IS DFE,

THE Book WHICH Grew Gradually OUT OF IT INTO ITS Present

Proportions IS DEDICATED BY There ATTACHED FRIEND

THE AUTHOR.

Hazard SiDl-,
^"^ Eastbournb,

-^ September 1881.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/faucitofballiols01meriv

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

GUY AND DAISY . . . . 3

CHAPTER II.

THE BALLIOL ROOMS . . . . 1<S

CHAPTER III.

THE CHRISTCHURCH BALL . . . :M)

CHAPTER IV.

HERCULES AND OMPHALE . . . . .50

CHAPTER V.

OXONIANA . . . . 70

CHAPTER VI.

THE IDYLL . . . . . 92

CHAPTER VII

MOTHER AND SON . . . .110

CHAPTER VIII.

PAGE

TERM-EATING . . . . . 122

CHAPTER IX.

FAIRFIELD AND CO. . . . . 137

CHAPTER X.

COMING EVENTS . . . . 151

CHAPTER XL

MY LORD AND MY LADY . . . . 169

CHAPTER XII.

LADY PEPPERHARROW's HOUSE-WARMING . . 187

CHAPTER XIII.

MR. JOHN BRENT . . . . 207

CHAPTER XIV.

THE COUP DE GRACE . . . . 223

CHAPTER XV.
OVER . . . . . 242

CHAPTER XVI.

ALONE IN THE WORLD . . . . 258

Mephistopheles thrown upon real life, and obliged to manage his own
plots, would inevitably make blunders." — George Eliot.

VOL. ]

n

GUY AND DAISY.

Time was made for slaves, not chroniclers ; and I
vdW not undertake to give an exact date, but say
that it might have been some fifteen or twenty years
ago, when there met, for the first time, among all the
gaieties and forgetfulness of an Oxford commemoration,
a young fellow of Balliol and a prosperous city
merchant's pretty daughter, to make up their minds
respectively in about ten minutes, and to know they
had made them up in about as many days, that
there never could have been such a Balliol fellow,
or such a merchant's daughter, in existence before.
They saw each other first " on the banks," dear on
a summer evening to the heart of every Oxford
man, where Guy Faucit of Balliol, who in taking" to
the lecture-room had not forgotten his victorious

B 2

captaincy of the Oxford eight, was engaged in the
mysteries and delight of coaching the present crew
of his college for a forthcoming struggle with Third
Trinity for the cup at Henley. Guy Faucit was a
household word among the mariners of Isis : for for
three consecutive years he had left Cambridge in the
lurch at the historic goal of Mortlake, first with the
matchless stroke which kept such a clean and even
swing for the whole length of the course, steady and
strong as a pendulum, and never quickening up through
loss of nerve or want of reserve of power, till just the
critical moment of the finish, when he launched out
in the sharp, strong spurt which set all the ranks of
Oxford cheering from the steamboats, and defied all
the pluck and skill of the Light Blue to redress the
balance or to score a victory. The '' Faucit spurt " was
a proverb, like the ''botte Nevers' of the "Duke's
Motto." Then, as the bones grew stronger-fleshed
and the muscles harder, he subsided into the less
conspicuous place of number seven, and there, too, with
his eyes fixed between the shoulders of his stroke-oar,
kept him up to the tradition of the conquering stroke.
The stroke would row with an energy not his own when
he felt that he had Faucit behind him, and it was not

till Guy, as strong and original at his books as at his
oar, had come out as the best first-class man of his
year, — repute in this instance being too strong for the
alphabetical precedence which at Oxford shrouds the
senior classic in a becoming mystery (even before that
facile princess for the last vacant fellowship of his
college), — and taken his place among the instructors
of youth while yet as young a man as many of them,
that the sister-university could get a chance of her share
in the birthright again. Guy Faucit's was the stalwart
six-foot figure which at a round swing trot kept pace
on the shore with the swing of the Balliol eio-ht, as she
shot through the narrows of "the gut" as straight as
an arrow, under the cunning hand of the Honourable
James Gosling, who was cut out by nature for a " cox,"
and regarded the post as the height of athletic distinction.
On Faucit he depended with a filial interest, and
implicitly trusted him both to marshal him to victory
at Henley, and to " pull him " through his divinity in
the schools. James was very much exercised about his
divinity ; " but a close examination, on his side, of
the ways and customs of examiners, having convinced
him that to their minds the word conveyed no theological
or doctrinal meanings whatever, but resolved

itself into a question of dates and hard names, he
was growing easier about the future. He had learned
both to spell and to pronounce Mahershalalhashbaz and
Cushanrethashaim, having satisfied himself that, as
names of eighteen and sixteen letters respectively, they
were the two longest winded monarchs in the Old Testament,
and good enough to floor any examiner withal.
He carried an abstract of the list of the kings of Israel
about on his shirt-cufFs in the form of a memoria
technical, while the kings of Judah occupied the crown
of his hat. And at the foot of his bed, so that it might
meet his eyes the first thing in the morning, and
preside over the extinction of his candle at night, was
a table inscribed with some mysterious hexameter,
beginning —

Crop Deletoff Abaneb Exafna Tembybe Cyrus.

Years afterwards, when his hairs were turning grey,
would the Honourable James remember that hexameter,
and wonder what on earth it could have meant.

Stowed away among cushions in a punt, in the
charge of two haj^py and envied undergraduates who
had the fortune of the acquaintance of Mr. Fairfield of
the City, merchant, a certain Miss Daisy Fairfield

watched the advance of the Balliol eight, and of the
figure on the opposite bank, from a lair among the
grasses on the Oxford side, somewhere below the point
where the lazy little Chigwell tumbles into the arms
of Isis, just in time to see man' a good ship "bumped"
into a lower place.

The " 'Varsity '^ barge, and the lesser barges
clustered about it, were gay with innumerable bunting
and bands of uncompromising brass (for the
most part limited in their repertory to the " Hardy
Norseman "), and butterfly toilettes of the most
fascinating kind and the most tempting variety, setting
off the pretty and wholesome faces of the sweet girl
wearers, deeply intent uj^on the results of this near
glimpse into the inner Hfe and youth of the mysterious
and more favoured animal called man. He, on his
side, divided himself even at that early age into the
two classes of the susceptible and the hardened, the
duck and the brute, and either hung entranced on
Beauty's notes, and tethered in her ribands, or walked
the banks apart, a thing of misogyny, in a suit of
flannel even more decided than usual, or with a face
jaundiced with an extra dose of the midnight oil,
and contracted into that expression of inward pain so

commonly consequent upon a debauch of Aristotle.
Gosling always maintained that, until the birth of
Aldrich, no one man had ever caused so much suffering
off his own bat " as the classical monster whom he
always described as the " Staggers."

Close by where Daisy sate was the punt of the
champion punter of the world, hanging out for a
motto the rather lugubrious legend, innocent of a
personal pronoun, " Saved the lives of many gentlemen."
And, dressed in all the bright and daring
combinations of colour which Young Summer rejoices
in, to the encouragement of healthy-minded people
who believe in colours and combinations, the beautiful
Christchurch meadows, with dainty little Merton set
like a seem in the centre background, looked their
pleasantness upon the scene. Not without reason does
the Oxonian cherish in his heart a placid conviction
that he may set his Christchurch meadows against the
famous '' backs of the colleges " in the Light-blue
land, and not be afraid of the comparison.

There then sate Daisy Fairfield, revelling in the
beauty and interest of the scene, and in the comfort
of her situation, as she nestled among her cushions,
trusting herself to the adroitness of her youthful

punters, whose control over their cumbrous instrument
occasionally suggested that under more hazardous conditions
they might be more likely to destroy the lives
of many gentlemen than to save them.

Except, perhaps, the paddle of a canoe, nothing is
more capricious than a punt-pole in the ambitious
hands of youth, possessed as it is of all the malignity
of inanimate objects to a degree not emulated till the
invention of the bicycle, that iron fiend, which, when
running away with a man down-hill, produces in his
mind a sense of helplessness surpassing show. Jem
Gosling's first appearance in a punt was never forgotten
by his friends, when he embarked ujoon a race without
having tried his hand before, impressed by the obvious
easiness of the thing. He got his bark, or had it
propelled for him, into the mid-current, swung it round
slowly twice on its own axis, something receding in the
process, then walked straight over the side after his
punt-pole into the water, and wallowed. Daisy's
guides, however, were a little more skilled than that,
and at this moment were resting on their poles, cradled
by the waving grasses under the shore.

"It's a splendid sight," said Daisy, nth enthusiasm,
as she saw the Balliol crew coming up with a will, the

eight broad and red-striped backs working together
Hke a machine. '' Splendid 1 " she exclaimed, her eyes
lighting up as she watched the men.

Daisy Fairfield was one of those who move and
speak as goddesses among women, with a girlhood
promising a very majesty of maturity. Hers was the
veined-marble complexion, with the paleness of statue-land,
not of ill-health, touched with a tender rose by
exercise or excitement; the tall and free and supple
figure which matches such complexions best ; the violet
eyes with the black bull's eye, and the wealth of wavy
hair, of chestnut toned with gold, in all the pride and
glory of eighteen. No touch of hardness was in the
look or in the voice then, to mar the picture with a
thought of ill. It was a picture of happiness and
goodness undefiled.

Oh ye men and women, oh ye women and men,
who from selfishness, vindictiveness, perversity, love
of gain, any of the paltry and self-avenging motives
which grow so fast by what they feed on, and spring
up like brambles round the strait gate and the
narrow way, to choke the access further, — ye who,
in despite of love's simplest message, seem to delight
in working your neighbour harm, to the baffling of

the comprehension of more single-purposed hearts,
do you never think, I wonder, when you see the
outward and visible traces of your doings on the faces
and lives of those, at whose expense you did them ? do
the terrible warnings of the olden law carry with them
no fear, no starting of the conscience that will not die
in you, by whatever name you call it — evolution, or
indigestion, or what not ? Under those outward and
visible signs, too often, lies an inward and invisible scar
beyond your healing, though it was not beyond your
making ; a scar of the heart or of the mind, or maybe
of the soul. Go down on those straightened knees of
yours, even at the eleventh hour of the night, and pray,
though it be but in the name of the poor modern clay-god
called Humanity, that you may yet do unto others
as ye would that they should do unto you. If you have
wronged your neighbour, ask him to forgive you, and if
he humbly holds a better faith than yours, remember
this — his creed teaches him to ask for pardon, even ashe
is ready to give it freely when he is freely asked.
But I cannot so read the Divine and loving command
as to see that it enjoins the impossible, and asks of man
what he cannot do, to forgive unasked. As with the
Divine pardon, so with the human, the one condition

precedent of forgiveness would seem to be this — let
the wrongdoer come, and ask to be forgiven. The Lord
'forgave that servant" because he asked Him.

But I am anticipating here, and would not mar my
own memory further, of Daisy Fairfield as she was in
those Oxford days.

Up the river then came the Balliol eight, cheered
by an indiscriminate band of admirers racing up the
Berkshire bank, and heralded by the "long stern
swell" of Faucit's steady and musical lungs.

A pleasant companion-picture was he to the eye,
the English athlete of some eight-and-twenty, with the
big forehead and the clear blue eyes, which shall
explain themselves later.

"Put your back into it, three." And three,
conscience-stricken, put in his back.

Put his back into what ? '^ asked Daisy, maliciously
or in good faith. " Where else is it to go ?
It's big enough, certainly."

Tompkins of Trinity explained how backs were
put in.

Oh ! And who is the director-general of backs on
the other bank, who runs so fast and shouts so loud ? "

You don't mean to say you don't know ? " cried

Bones of Balliol, scandalized. " Why that's Faucit ;
not P. W., — the other."

'not P. W., — the other," repeated Daisy, reflectively.
" Indeed ! This becomes really interesting, and
will take time. Forgive me my ignorance, and tell me,
first, who is P. W. ? I want to reduce the situation to
its primitive elements."

P. W.'s Faucit of Exeter, the mathematical fellow,
a long thin man in goggles, who was proctor last year,
and got it hot in the theatre. I wish you'd heard it.
The men all let out like mad, for he'd proctorized half
the place."

How did he do that, and what is it when it's
done ? I'm learning, you know."

"Well, proctorizing means having a man up for
something — going about in mufti, or having a spread
at the Mitre, or that sort of think."

It sounds very bad, and should be punished.
What does he do for it ? "

"Generally gets a man gated, you know," said
Bones. "It's an awful nuisance in the summer term."

It would be. Proctorizing seems to be what the
police call taking up."

Something in the same line. But the proctor's

the peeler and the beak all in one — first runs you in
and then sits on you. That's not fair any way."

As far as I understand it, it isn't. Why don't you
apply for a Habeas Corpus when you're gated, and
bring an action for false imprisonment ? "

"Oh," commented Tompkins, "that's law. We
haven't got any law here, except the Vice-chancellor's
Court. He's dead the other way."

"No law ? " said Daisy. " What a delightful place !
How one lives and learns. I never knew that the
University was a sort of modern Alsatia."

What's that ? " enquired Bones.

Don't you know ? They ought to teach you."

"Don't teach us much later down than Rome.
It's not the form."

"How odd the difference of form is," remarked
Daisy. " They don't teach us girls much higher up
than the piano. And my education has been so
neglected that I never heard of P. W., or of the other.
And now I want to know all about him too. You have
given me such a description of P. W.'s moral and
physical qualities in a few words, Mr. Bones, that I
believe I should know him if I met him. Now tell me
about the other."

All ! that's another sort altogether. That's Faucit
of our place, commonly called 'The Clipper and
familiarly loved as old Guy. He was the best stroke
the 'Varsity eight ever had, and he's a crack tennis-player
besides."

He might have been one of the best men in the
eleven too," chimed in Tompkins, "only he said he
couldn't do everything, and hadn't the time to get out
to Cowley Marsh often enough."

"But he can do everything for all that," added
Bones. " Just look at what he did in the brains line —
got the Balliol before he came up, and the Hertford in
his first year, and the Ireland in his second, and a
double-first in Mods, before you knew where you were."

"And only didn't do the same in Greats," said
Tompkins, " because he liked classics best, and said he
didn't believe in a man trying too much, just like
the cricket."

"Besides, he wanted to have time for his own
reading, which he's very fond of," choruses Bones.
"And he got a fellowship at the old palace before he
went in for his degree, and the dons said they wouldn't
have it done again."

Because it wouldn't be fair on the others," quoth

Tompkins. " And now he's the best lecturer and the
jolliest don in the place, and as good a fellow with the
men of other colleges as he is with his own."

"And still coaches the eight as nobody else can
coach it, and puts on half-fifteen a year at tennis. Ran
old Barre himself hard the other day, at the fair odds
and side walls and openings."

"Putting on half-fifteen and running old Barre
must be wonderfully exciting," smiled Daisy, inwardly
delighted with the honest and lovable enthusiasm of
her young squires. " You all seem quite fond of ' the
other.' "

I should think we were," said Bones.

"Grand old trump," added Tompkins. And so
The Works of Guy Faucit," as they would have been
called in Homer, were sung in the true epic style by
his two chroniclers.

Daisy Fairfield felt really interested and attracted
by the history, as she had been at once by the striking
appearance of the man with the strong rather than
handsome features, the curly crisp brown hair, the
fair Saxon complexion, and the look of power upon the
face. Daisy was a student in heads, and a foe to the
commonplace. She might have asked and heard more

of Faucit, had not the inevitable chaperon — for let not
my readers believe that this scene had passed without
one — at this moment woke from a refreshing slumber.
She was a nice, pleasant-looking specimen of portly
middle-age, brooding over the youthful three like a
mature duck.

*' I think, my dear, I should like to go one to tea,"
said IVIrs. Pepperharrow. " There's the ball to-night,
and you mustn't overeat yourself."

Overeat herself, Mrs. Pepperharrow ! " said the
astonished Bones.

The eat of the sun, !Mr. Bones, is great upon the
river."

Oh ! quite so. I beg your pardon."

VOL. I.

THE BALLIOL ROOMS.

Midnight ! yet not an eye in the academic city closed
in sleep. No eye, at least, belonging to any one with a
proper measure of self-respect; for all the world and his
sweetheart were at that year's Christchurch Ball. It
was what is called a grand commemoration in the year
I write of, and beautiful Alma Mater was in her
blandest mood of motherhood, favoured by weather
which showed her everywhere at her best. Foliage
and sward looked their softest and greenest in the fair
gardens of Worcester and St. John ; and the leaves of
Magdalen Walks, with their belt of trees girdling the
old enclosure, whispered their confidences to young
undergraduate lovers and their goddesses for the hour,
and discreetly kept the secret of those they listened to

in return. The fantastic figures perched on their
pedestals in Magdalen quadrangle grinned sympathetically
at the young people who came in and went
out in a more advanced stage of the world's most
chronic malady. It was a fine time for pairing, and
the opportunity was not lost. Many a young and
ambitious fellow of his college, vowed only the week
before to celibacy and the comfortable selfishness of the
Common Room, besjan to count the cost of desertion
academic life for the bar or the press, winning name
and fame by persuasive orations at Westminster, or
trenchant witticisms in the ' Saturday Review,' and
leaving the dead languages to bury their dead, for the
sake of some pair of bright eyes which had suddenly
flashed in upon his solitude, and burned decided holes
in his trencher-cap and gown.

On the evening before Show Sunday he had been
proudly looking forward into a distant future, to the
day when he might stand before the world of his
measuring-rod as the Provost or Principal of his college,
after serving all the stages of tutor and bursar in due
course. Then, perhaps, he would take unto himself a
helpmeet upon proper prudential and academic principles,
suitable to him in years and views of life, to sit

c 2

at his feet and the bottom of his table, and shine with
the reflected radiance of his scholastic glory. To him,
perhaps, as the old stage-directions say, entered on that
Show Sunday some gracious 3^oung vision in flowers
and lace, entirely frivolous and illogically sweet, with
no special charm for many but the bloom of English
girlhood, suddenly to upset all his calculations through
the open sesame of an " introduction," under the broad
interlacing branches which span the Broad Walk of
Christchurch in the earliest order of architecture, to
the silver Sunday music of Oxford's innumerable bells.
Without rhyme or reason would young Suckling of
Oriel change his theories of existence at this touch of
harlequin Fortune's motley wand, and contemplate
cas irdische Gliick " from an altogether different
point of view. After all, was he not born to get it
*'genossen" in the time-honoured fashion of the
majority of healthy-hearted mankind ?

Is it possible that some such spirit as this, summoned
in his inscrutable purpose from the vasty deeps
of life by the great Enchanter's voice, overshadowed
Guy Faucit's strong will and sober nature with a
warning, on that afternoon by the river ? Even as he
was swinging steadily up the bank, intent as usual

just upon what he was doing and no more, keenly
marking the merits and defects of the young athletes
working their best under his experienced eye, and
inwardly resolving the possible results of effecting a
change in the boat between numbers six and seven,
he caught a rapid glimpse, in passing, of a girl's
figure propped up among the cushions of a punt,
in an attitude of genuine interest in the doings of
his crew. He just marked her in passing, and as he
was crossing to the Balliol barge with a boastful of
other men, after the cruise was finished, he saw her
again, closer and more at his leisure, springing ashore
from her little bark under the emulous guardianship
of Bones and Tompkins. They passed him close by,
and as Bones saluted him with the proper sign of
respect due to his tutor, mingled with an obvious
dash of pride in his o^vn new duties, Faucit instinctively
raised his hat in answer, and bestowed a very
honest and respectful look of admiration upon Daisy
Fairfield. Whether she looked at him or not at the
same moment I cannot undertake to say ; but certainly
she saw him. And when a rapid little Parthian glance
shot back at him over her shoulder when she had
gone a little further with Bones (Tompkins, the sly

dog, was sedulously paying court to good Mrs. Pepper-harrow),
it fell upon a responsive place ; for the fact
is, that Faucit of Balliol was looking after her with all
his might and main.

'' Good Heavens ! " he thought to himself, '' what
a lovely girl ! " But the vision passed ; and Guy
Faucit, his hands in his pockets in attitude profound,
whistling: to himself a few rather thoughtful bars,
strolled homewards through the busy corn-market to
his rooms in Balliol.

The rooms in Balliol, which he had tenanted ever
since he took his first class five years before, and had
gradually furnished and improved with every evidence
of scholarship and taste, making a hobby of them,
seemed that evening, he couldn't imagine why, to
want something he couldn't conceive what. The
pictures were few and grave and good, carefully chosen
and paid for at a good round price, for the most part
the most careful reproductions that the engraver or his
kindred artists could furnish of the solid masterpieces
of an olden day. There Titian's daughter carried her
fruit and flowers, with the fair head thrown back in
the attitude as perfect in its audacity of pose as in
its nature and its grace; there the pretty chocolate-girl,

whom Dresden loves through the eyes of Leonard,
proffered her dish of sober drink with the slightly
contemptuous air of a young person something above
her work, and apt to dream of the marble halls which
a posse of Saxon admirers had no doubt placed at her
disposal; there Rembrandt's bonnie wife sat perched
upon the knee of her painter-husband, her head and his
twisted round, the one festively and the other coquettishly,
over the brimming glass of honest German beer ;
and there, in its deep unfathomable awe, the despair
of painters past, present, and to come, not all lost or
wanting even through the medium of the copyist,
above the watching reverence of the upturned baby-faces,
the strange, ineffable, thrilling mystery of Godhead
upon earth looked down upon the gazer, out
of the eyes of the mother and child of Our Lady of
San Sisto.

The books which lined the walls were kindred to
the pictures : so that nothing seemed wanting in the
two classes of home-companions, which, with a comfortable
dog curled up on the hearth-rug, make the
most loving and responsive company for the fiipoyjr avi]p
of a worthy mould, who lives, from choice or destiny,
alone. They were chosen for reading, and looked all

read, gradually gathered with a gradual patience, so
that they were still small in bulk though great in
matter. Bindings and editions were not neglected,
though not essential : a clear, readable type being the
only definite condition grafted upon the contents of the
book. The Catholic taste of the reader was evident
from the various nature of the subject-matters, and
evidently had chosen for its province the masterpieces
of style and thought rather than any special line of
study. English literature was the staple of the collection,
though French and German had their proper
part in the arrangements, and Latin and Greek, as
became a classical tutor, were respectfully, but not
overpoweringly, represented.

The little inner sanctum — for in the larger room
the pupils were received — told a tale of another kind.
Stags' heads spoke of long-vacation stalking in the
North ; an amazing collection of miscellaneous and
polyglottic pipes recorded wanderings over half the
tobacco-smoking world ; and silver oars and silver
racquets, and tankards whose very sight suggested
the Elysian pleasures of a 'along drink," sang of
many victories in the athletic field. In such a little
bachelor's paradise, what was it of which Faucit, who

had gro\\Ti into his life and his rooms, can suddenly
have felt an unrealized want that evening ? Did he
miss the serpent, or the serpent's inducement ?

He had ordered a quiet and solitary dinner in his
rooms, and in due course his servant appeared with it.
The college cook, a discriminating artist, who was quite
as capable of catering for the cultivated taste of a
travelled fellow, as for satisfying the zoological appetites
of undergraduates with uniform beeves and
mutton, provided Faucit with a dainty, but not the
less solid repast, of which Guy, whatever the nature
of his reflections, ate with an irreproachable zest and
a generous capacity, mixing his liquors in defiance of
the modern science of Scepticism, and correcting
bitter beer with his favourite Burgundy. The meal
over, he had installed himself in his leathern chair,
with a pet pipe and a cup of black coffee, slippered and
magazine, when a knock at the door interrupted his
occupations.

"Come in," he said, not altogether sorry to be
interrupted, for, hard-worker as he was, he was
gregarious of soul; and the figure of the youthful
Bones presented itself.

"Hallo, Bones; what do you want ?"

"Well, sir, I came. to ask if you'd excuse me from
reading essay tomorrow. The fact is, I've been about
all day with friends, and haven't got it done."

In which state you certainly can't read it," said
Faucit. '' But why don't you go to your rooms now,
and work away till you've done it ? "

"It would take me a good long time, sir. I'm
always slow over my essay work. And I've got to
ofo, at least I want to ffo, to the Christchurch Ball
to-night."

Well, we mustn't be too particular at Commemoration
time. But remember, the schools ain't very far
off, my boy, and you want a good deal of brushing up."

"I know I do, sir; and you're so kind in working
with me, that I'd even give the ball up and get through
the grind if you wished it."

"I don't wish it," answered the other. "You'll
have a day or two after the balls and flower-shows
before you go down, and you can finish off the essay
easily enough. I suppose it'll be a good ball ? "

"First-rate, sir. The thing's to be really well done.
Ain't you thinking of going ? "

"I?" said Faucit. "No; I've some work of my
own on hand, and there's nobody up this time I know

much about. You seem better off. Are you going
with the ladies I saw you with by the river to-day ? "

I'm oroino' to meet them there, sir. Did you
see them ? "

"Just in passing. The girl looked very pretty'*

That's just what she is," said Bones, " and no
mistake about that. And she's as nice as she's
pretty, too. My governor knows hers in business in
London, so they asked me to call when they came
on Saturday, and I've been doing the right thing for
them all the week. I had some waltzes with her at
the Masonic Ball last night which I shan't forget ina
hurry, and I'm going to repeat the dose to-night.
I wish you'd come, sir. I should like to introduce
you to Miss Fairfield."

"That's her name, is it?" said Guy. "I don't
do much in the ball way now, and haven't since I
took my degree : so I'm afraid I shouldn't be much addition
to the party. Dance away, and good luck to you."

"Thank you, sir. I'U be sure to have the essay
done before we go down. I wish you'd come ; but
if you won't, good night."

Good night. Bones." And the youngster took his
departure.

Guy Faucit smoked on awhile, drank his coffee,
and meditated over his magazine. Then he sat down
at a well-covered writing-table, and plunged into
pen and ink. He had made himself a good name
already among the Saturday Reviewers, then a band
of keen and ardent spirits, who had given a new
impulse to journalism by their fresh and powerful
and witty work, and attracted many a young college
ambition to their ranks. Strong sense and scholarship
were Faucit' s best points in the contribution, and
even at that age he was not fond of the practice of
anonymous vivisection. He did his work carefully that
evening, and rather slowly, more than once travelling
away from it; but the power of concentration, which
was his in a marked degree, existed then as afterwards,
and he had a habit of mastering any stray access
of wilfulness in an uncompromising way. A(^e qxiod
agis stood him in good stead as his motto in everything;
and he had once distinguished himself by
entering under the head of his " favourite occupation,"
in one of those senseless feminine albums which recorda
series of imaginary preferences improvised under
pressure of invention, " whatever I happen to be doing."

So he finished his article at the cost of some

increase in the tax on his time, smoked another pipe
and turned over the pages of a new novel, and then
began to meditate on bed. He looked at his bed
and he looked at his watch, phirtma Dante revolves ;
and he began to undress, and he walked up and down
his room, and again he sat and meditated. Then he
contemplated his night-gown comfortably folded on his
pillow, while only the sounds of night came up to
him from the quiet quadrangle. Then he took a
sudden excursion to his wardrobe, and surveyed his
evening clothes, submitting them evidently to a mental
test of comparison. Then he visited his snuggery
again, and from the glass behind the mantel-piece
took down a ticket. Then he made that indescribable
but definite sound to himself, which appears in the
play-books under the form of 'humph"; and finally,
as with a mind suddenly made up at the price of some
self-disapproval, he put himself into those evening
clothes of his rapidly enough, and after a placid exit
through the porter's lodge — that official regarding him
with some respectful astonishment — he swung down
the street at a steady pace, and as the clock was on
the stroke of twelve he found himself among the
guests at the Christchurch Ball.

THE CHRISTCHURCH BALL.

Daisy Fairfield was in the full flush of a young
girl's triumph. If I could choose my experiences of
the raptures of life, I should like to be a great statesman
for a season, a victorious soldier for another, a
successful author for a third, and a reigning beauty
for a fourth. In the absolute intoxication of effect
I imagine that the last of the four may have the
best of us all. There must be something in that
spontaneous homage, not called out as the result of
labour or of years, but offered without reserve at the
shrine of youth in its most winning natural guise, by
statesman and soldier and author and everybody else,
which has no parallel in the grosser experiences of
man.

Daisy Fairfield tasted the cup to the full in this
her year of grace. Her father was prominent aniong
the sober race of London merchants, becoming fast
less well represented than it used to be, who built
solid fortunes by solid and honourable work, and without
attempting to vie with the magnificent palaces of
Belgravian and Kensington districts, which with all
their size look as if they were meant to be sold to
a company at an early date, contented themselves
with strong and comfortable houses on the slopes of
Bloomsbury, or, under the influence of the westward-ho
movement which seems to be the history of all big-towns,
in the regions of Portland Place.

In those broad and airy latitudes our Daisy bloomed.
Her father's friends were of that large and varied class
which probably, amongst a good deal of dulness, supplies
about the pleasantness varieties of London society,
I do not say of social life. I suppose that the socio-geographer
would maj it out as part of the "upper
middle," whatever that dissection formula may imply.
Lawyers rising and risen make perhaps the chief staple
of it, and a pleasant staple too. Notwithstanding the
fabled preference of the sex for soldiers and curates,
the barristers hold their ground very well, by right,

I suppose, of the power of talk which is presumed
by privilege and practice to belong to them, though
in too many cases on slight ground enough. The
chambers " which are supposed to receive them daily
seem to have a very doubtful existence in some cases,
and to leave them free for dinners and balls and
junketings innumerable, even sometimes for those
two haunts of the acknowledged idlers, which stamp
imprudent youth as ''no good to anybody" in the
working world — the Park and the five o'clock tea. But
others, and, as a rule, it must be admitted pleasant
ones, fight their wig-armed battle of life to a purpose
under the god-like discipline of patience, and mean
business, as soon as they can get it, very emphatically.
In the same set are their successful seniors to encourage
them; and the ambitious junior who has just been
getting perhaps snubbed in court, much to an inward
moving of the spirit and a conviction that till you
become a Q.C., and can command success, justice is
but a name, is consoled by dining at the same table
with the kindly old judge who inserted that flea in his
ear, and makes up for it by bestowing on him words
of friendly counsel, and the results of his own full life
and experience.

And the while, and perhaps better still, young
Tyro is consoled by a flirtation with his lordship's
pretty daughter, whose bright eyes beam upon him
with unprofessional encouragement, while her lips
assure him that there was a time, and a very honos
time, when papa despaired of ever getting any business
whatever.

Of course he says he never had any connection
at all, Mr. Tyro, and got into a big practice at once
by his own merits, dear old thing. And his merits
were always splendid, you know. But mamma told
me that it was nothing of, the kind, and that when I
was born she didn't know how they were ever going
to get on. And if it hadn't been for a first cousin
down in the north who was a big attorney, and wanted
to do him a good turn, I don't believe papa would ever
have done anything at the bar at all." So the youno-
counsellor lives on hope, and retails pleasant circuit-stories
in a very cheery and attractive way.

Rising and working journalists and writers, doing
mysterious something in unconfessed anonyme, and
reputed to be dreadfully clever, ^dth here and there
a lawless dramatist, the subject of much shaking of
the head and evil omen, as of one hurrying downwards

VOL. I. D

on the broad path of self-destruction, but nevertheless
of some secret admiration and envy, as the privileged
denizen of a mysterious world not open to everybody
these and other waifs and strays of the many-minded
ocean of labour, generally thrown high and dry to
begin with, by the inhospitable wave of the Bar — with
distinguished professional physicians to give the talk
another savour no less pleasant in its way, city-toilers
to bring their quota of experience, and rose-buttoned
government clerks to give an airy jauntiness to the
whole, make up the society which has a distinctive life
of its own, and provides busy-hearted London with a
second and a winter season, full of welcome associations
and attractions which belong to it, rather than to the
crush and hurry of the spring and summer. In this
society Daisy came to grown-up life, to become at
once the first prize in the garden. Her mother was
a chronic invalid who lived retired ; so she was the
pride and charge of various chaperons, but most of the
good-natured Mrs. Pepperharrow, who was a general
favourite for her known possession of that attribute, and
devoted to Daisy. Her husband, Mr. Pepperharrow,
was a great success in soap-boiling, and through city
matters first had been brought into intimate relations

with the Fairfield, who were near neighbours of his
in the house in Portland Place.

Like Scott's imaginary June-rose, Daisy had first
"budded fain" in winter's snow, during this preliminary
season, with a large and wide-spreading result
upon her segment of the circle I have described.
The most opposite effects were created in the most
opposite minds. The young barrister hitherto devoted
to his work grew suddenly neglectful, and appeared
at five o'clock teas, a rare and welcome animal, to
the delight of the world of womanhood, which at
these entertainments is so unfairly in the majority.
He shared the masculine honours, probably, with
the last and most depressing product of the new
civilization, the comic sincerer of the drawing room,
who " entertains " in the evening in those epicene
public resorts which mainly supply the theatric wants
of the large class of people who still look upon theatres
as something vaguely wrong, and express approval
or emotion in nothing louder than a gentle sibillant
sound, as thus — s-s-s. When Lambkin of the Colonial
Office first took up this semi-public line, he was much
disconcerted by these sounds, which he thought meant
hissing. But after a time he found they were simply

D 2

what reached his ear of the confidential and admiring
criticism of one fair Philistine to her neighbour, and
meant — " How s-silly ! " Then he was consoled, and
persevered in the path of glory. In the afternoon
Lambkin was the stay of five o'clock teas, and was
never so glad as when he met some wandering solitary
male, to whom to confide " what an awful audience "
this was.

The idle barrister, meanwhile, took an opposite
cause, deserted his usual haunts except in the evening,
appeared in court regularly at ten o'clock and in
chambers afterwards, and dreamed of some unimagined
income to lay at Daisy Fairfield's feet.
Her singular charm exercised its power upon nearly
all who came across her, and made her a prime
favourite with young and old, for of the society of the
last she shewed herself provokingly fond. She liked
somebody who had done something, she would tell her
distracted adorers, and was. always ready to throw over
the best waltzer among them, if he had nothing better
than his youth and his waltzing to boast of, for a chat
with some older and more travelled mariner on the
seas of time. Something grave and deep looked out
of the clear blue eyes, more akin, as by some forecast

of a troubled future, with the trials and struggles of
this Hfe of ours, than with its sunnier and more
thoughtless day. A deep reader in her quiet hours
at home, loving to steep her mind in the thoughts
and the wisdom of the wise and thoughtful, she took
enjoyments as they came frankly and happily; but
even while she seemed most thoroughly a part of
the world of mere pleasure, she was yet more deeply
a careful watcher of the " divine tragi-cornet " of
life. She was so happy and frank withal, however,
that she never frightened her young worshippers away —
many as may have-been the mortal quarrels which
rose on her account between Damon and Pythias, or
Orestes and Places — though she would often find an
opportunity, by some quiet word of timely but seemingly
careless council, to strengthen some waverer for
the world of work, some trifler for the life of earnest.
There was no fate for her among them, though ; and
through the first half-year of her queenly life in her
world's eye, she moved like Queen Elizabeth through
her own spacious times, in worthy maiden meditation,
fancy-free. So her young life passed on through its
opening 'stage, and through the first months of the
London season proper, during which she made but

small incursion into the more fashionable regions of
society's latitudes and longitudes, until, through the
persuasion of some young Oxonian whom she had met
and fraternized with at her father's table, she added an
Oxford Commemoration to the scene of her growing
experience.

Her card was full from a very early date, at that
Christchurch ball ; but, truth to tell, some of the names
that filled it were rather hard to decipher, and occupied
some occasional blanks with mysterious pencil-marks
of her own. She did not quite know what Oxford
miojht brinor forth worth talking to or sitting out with,
and wisely reserved herself for emergencies. The
scene was very bright and very gay, and Daisy Fairfield
was well pleased and happy. She liked her
unsophisticated cavaliers thoroughly, had picked up
an amazing amount of miscellaneous information on
university politics in general, and even mastered something
of the secrets of half-fifteen and old Barre, by
a careful cross-examination of Tompkins of Trinity
between the figures of a quadrille. Never was anybody,
some people said, who so much wanted to know
everything, or was so nice to tell everything to. The
music of Godfrey's " Guards," or " Mabel," whatever

was the tarantula-dance of the day, was just over ; and
the enraptured Bones had just led his partner to Mrs.
Pepperharrow's side. He had-been perplexing himself
over the old problem, what was the most delicate
form in which to ask a young lady whether she would
like anything to drink, when she solved it by saying
that she would like to sit down. And just as he was
handing her over to her chaperon, who was confiding to
Tompkins that she open the supper would soon begin,
he saw an unexpected figure standing quietly at his
side. Daisy Fairfield saw it too, and her heart gave
the most unwarrantable jump for no reason whatever.
She had been speculating on "not P. W. — the
other ^' half the evenings without the least knowing
why.

You here, sir, after all ? " said Bones. " Oh, I am
glad ! " And without further prelude, and with all the
confident ingenuousness of youth, he added : '' Oh, Miss
Fairfield, do let me introduce you to our fellow, Faucit,
whom we were talking of this afternoon. Miss Fairfield
— sirs. Pepperharrow — Mr. Faucit. Mrs. Pepper-harrow
— Miss Fairfield."

May I have the pleasure of a dance. Miss Fairfield
?" said Guy.

How many of the world's lightest or most serious
chapters have opened in those familiar words ?

I am afraid that you're rather late in the field,
Mr. Faucit," she answered, consulting her card.

The charm of her voice, which was very great,
caught Faucit's sensitive ear at once. There are
women to whom one can shut one's e^^es and listen for
the sheer pleasure of sound, half inclined to laugh with
the pleasure, without even the need of heeding what
it is they say, as one listens to the conversation of a
piano under a sympathetic hand. Daisy Fairfield had
a voice of this kind, and Faucit felt at once that he
was in the presence of a masterpiece, one of those few
and far-between women, in whom nothing has been left
out, as it were.

Have I no chance of anything ? " he asked, " Not
even of an odd quadrille ? "

'' I am afraid the quadrilles are all — Do you care
for a waltz, Mr. Faucit ? "

*' Very much. But I hardly liked to ask for that."

I can give you this one, which is just beginning.
I think," she added demurely, " that my partner won't
come."

He must be very blind to his own interests,"

said Guy, ''if I may judge from seeing you waltz
with Bones just now. I am lucky in his mistake."
And then, with the long, free, preliminary glide which
launches a well-matched pair into one of the greatest
of harmless enjoyments, Guy Faucit and Daisy Fairfield
made their first step together.

I who chronicle these things, remember well once,
when I had worked myself — I was younger than I
am now — into a very aesthetic and well-informed phase
of mind, having a profound talk with an eminent
American blue-stocking in a public room at Newport
or at Narragansett, no matter where. We had got
into very deep waters indeed, and I was boldly but
gravely propounding some astounding theories of
biology which had never occurred to me in my life
till that moment, much to my companion's edification
and approval.

Now tell me, Mr. Balbus," she said, half-shutting
her eyes and throwing back her head, as evidently
expecting something from the answer to enlarge her
experience, '' tell me what you consider the most even
sensation of momentary content to which the human
soul is capable of rising ? "

I reflected for a brief space, and replied —

I can tell you, Mrs. Pozzy, without hesitation.
It is a perfect waltz with a perfect partner, to perfect
music, on a perfect floor."

The shock told, for Mrs. Pozzy sat bolt upright
and looked at me.

"Do you mean to say, Mr. Balbus, that you
waltz?"

I do indeed ; I delight in it'*

"Then," she said, with that instant appreciation
of a situation given to a quick woman, "let me
introduce you to my daughter."

The very next week I was a guest at Mrs. Pozzy's
country cottage, and had an elegant time. In the
intervals of those ambrosial nights of philosophic disquisition,
I found Miss Wilhelmina M. Pozzy a very
charming partner.

Guy and Daisy settled down in earnest to their
stride. He was a past master in the art, thanks to
a perfect development of the time-ear. Tune-ear,
oddly enough, he had none, and could never hum
"God save the Queen" with a proximate approach
to correctness, though he knew what music he liked
to hear, and understood it in that sense very well.
But the time-ear is a different thing, and made his

appreciation of a false step in a waltz as keen as
of a halting verse. The best singer of his day will
often be unable to take one turn in the waltz correctly.
Guy had perfected his waltzing during a long vacation
in the States, where they understand it better than
anywhere. He knew the difference between the
Portland glide and the Boston dip, and quick or slow,
forward or reverse, he steered his deft course through
the whirling and converging couples without a bump
or a halt, till he could land his partner safely in a
quiet comer. He could send her half to sleep ina
slow and dreamy measure, or send the young blood
coursing through her veins by a swing like a steady
racer's.

As for Daisy Fairfield, he found her one of those
partners in a thousand, who learn in a moment the
sort of dancer they have to deal with — whether
they have to nurse him tenderly through the performance,
get as little kicked as possible, and do
all the steering themselves, or can trust entirely to
their cavalier in charge, and give themselves up without
afterthought to the pleasure of the whirl. They
adapt themselves at once, after the first minute, to the
step of their partner, who, on his side, meets them

half-way, and fall into "two step or three" at short
notice. Two or three time is a misnomer, by the way ;
for whatever the step, all true waltzing is in three
time. Such a heaven-born waltzer as Daisy Fairfield
was no weight for Guy Faucit to carry ; his arm circled
her waist and scarcely felt it, as the lithe and gracious
figure sailed on its royal round. They enjoyed their
first turn ^\dth never a word on either side, and it
was a long one, and the breathing of both was but
slightly quickened when they stopped.

'' You waltz very well, Mr. Faucit," was all
she said.

*' I need not tell you the same, Miss Fairfield."

After a short pause she smiled.

Are you ready again ? "

'' Quite. It's a pity to lose any of it."

To do them justice, they lost very little.

To how many couples of the modern day, I wonder,
has their first waltz been their opening adventure, their
first dallying with the fruits of fairyland ? It is on that
ground, I suppose, that some good people still object
to it, and that its original sin at first raised a decorous
outcry even from such a pattern of propriety as Lord
Byron. Why that should be I know not. The roads

to that fairyland are many, and it is a country none
the worse for the opening up of such a poetic way as
this. But a way it is, past denial. To awkward
dancers the waltz is a very ordeal, a gymnastic exercise
of a trying and often painful kind. But it is a magic
key for others, which opens out a vista of possible
sympathies. Between two kindred natures, it is apt
to establish at once an electric communication. Why
not ? Are all possible magnetisms wrong ? As I once
heard a hardworking clergyman say, in a capital speech
on the supposed wickedness of going to the theatre,
"■ Is a young man or woman to be ticketed for the
journey of life like a package, and labelled, ' this side
up, with care ' ? " Faith, such a package is apt to
be compact of very brittle glass indeed.

The waltz was over and the music ceased. A few
quiet words of commonplace were all that then passed
between the two, as they wandered up and down the
rooms.

'' The supper-rooms will be open directly. Miss
Fairfield ; so I suppose you will not care for a cup
of tea now ? "

Not now, thank you. Is your crew likely to win
at Henley?"

I hope so ; but I don't feel sure. The Cambridge
boat is very strong. You saw us this afternoon,
then ? ''

Oh yes ; and you were pointed out to me on the
bank as a sure guide to victory. Both Mr. Bones and
Mr. Tompkins, who were with me, seemed to look
upon defeat under your banners as impossible."

Guy laughed.

There are no such believers as young believers,
Miss Fairfield ; and it is something to have established
a name. But I don't think the Trinity men will runaway
from mine, for all that. Is there any chance of
your being at Henley, and seeing the result ? "

I expect so. This is only my first season, Mr.
Faucit, and, as you see, I am being taken to everything.
A boat-race will be new to me, and from what I saw
to-day, it must be wonderfully exciting. I suppose
that to rowing men it is something glorious, very
different from — a waltz." A very slight hesitation
here.

Different certainly," he answered, " but not better
in its way; at least not always." Daisy inhaled a
long sweet breath from the flowers she carried. Guy
was one of those partners with whom it is not necessary

to set them down. '' The great charm of life, I think,"
he went on, "Les in its infinite variety."

So I think too," she answered, '' woman as I am.
I wonder if we shall think so as we stow older."

'' I expect so, if we go the right way to work.
Did you ever hear of a saying of Count Cavour's,
Miss Fairfield, that to a sensible man two things
should be impossible — rancour and boredom ? "

I never heard it. It sounds very good and very
true. Where did you pick it up ? "

"In a memoir I have just been reading of him.
A very great and interesting life, over, one would
think, just at the wrong time. I wonder what such
deaths mean. But I ought to beg your pardon for
bringing such matters into a ball-room, just after a
first waltz ! "

Why ? Are you one of the men who always
think it necessary to apologise to a partner for
supposing that she can care about anjiihing but the
musical glasses ? "

"If you say that," he answered, "I shall have to
beg pardon again. But perhaps I am the sinner, for
really I can think of very little except that waltz of
ours. I wonder if I have any chance of another."

'' Well, I'll see."

They were close to Mrs. Pepperharrow as Daisy
examined her card. That lady was just leaving her
seat on the arm of a dignitary who had taken possession
of her, and left the emancipated Tompkins free to
devote himself to a young person in a white frock with
red ribbons, of the primitive order of youthful English
millinery. But she looked happy and amused enough
to wear anything.

*' Daisy dear," said Mrs. Pepperharrow, "I'm going
to ave something to eat. The supper-rooms are open,
and Dr. Parley has been kind enough to ask me.
Won't you ave something too ? "

*' May I take you in to supper. Miss Fairfield ? "
said Guy.

A young and beaming undergraduate was making
his way towards Daisy as the first bars of the
Lancers " struck up.

Well, I shouldn't be sorry. And — a little of these
very young men does go a long way." Daisy was a
full year younger than the object of her description.
Oh, Mr. Billington," she said, " 1 feel very much
ashamed of myself; but will you excuse me for this
dance ? I have been dancing every round dance on the

card, and want to go in to supper. I will find
something later for you if I can,"

Billington of Brasenose submitted with the best
grace he could, and Guy and Daisy went in to supper.
Before they had well begun it they had fallen into talk
on men and books, which pleased and interested them
both, and long after they had finished they lingered on
over the little table at which they were seated together,
all unconscious of the sunward flight of time.

VOL. I.

HERCULES AND OMPHALE.

It was full and brilliant morning when the last guests
at the Christchurch ball left the lights and the garlands
behind them, after the last visit to the tables, which
makes so pleasant a parting for the couples who have
been partner in the closing galop.

With all her enjoyment of life, Daisy Fairfield was
a girl who took her pleasures soberly enough, and,
finding plenty for her hand to do wherever she went,
was little given to staying out any ball whatever. At
the Masonic festivity the night before, Bones and
Tompkins had exerted all their fascinations in vain to
win her to their wishes in that respect, and had
appealed to Mrs. Pepperharrow to no purpose, Daisy
laughingly representing her as the flinty-hearted
chaperon who was not to be trifled with.

The soap-boiler's lady was indeed ideally qualified
for her post; for, like the Duke of Wellington and
others of the truly great, she could sleep how she
liked and when she liked, and yet be ready for
instant action if called upon, at any moment. She
had attained to a perfection in the art almost equal
to that of a celebrated advocate of late days, who,
having only four hours of bed out of the twenty-four,
always went placidly to sleep while the opposing
counsel was demolishing his arguments, no matter at
what length or with what natural aggravation of his
ferocity, and then, waking directly the voice ceased,
softly demolished }dm. Mrs. Pepperharrow, too, was
ready to undertake unlimited journeys to the supper-room
to pass the time, was so good-naturedly responsive
in talk that she found plenty of elders wilKng to talk
with her, and took a genuine pleasure in watching
the enjoyments of the young people, particularly her,
favourite Daisy. She would stand to her post till five
o'clock in the morning if Daisy wished ; but quite as
readily accepted the responsibility of taking her home
early on receipt of the word of command. So she
assured Bones and Tompkins that Daisy and she had

had enough of it, and that Bones and Tompkins, whose

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF fUJNO»

frank and cordial young ways had quite won her
accessible heart, must remember that she was not as
young as she had been. In vain Bones assured her that
he didn't believe a word of it, and Tompkins broke
down in unformed compliments about her beauty-sleep.
The young inseparable had to escort the two ladies to
their carriage, and then to console themselves with the
champagne and plover's eggs.

At the Christchurch ball, however, Daisy's rule was
broken through. I should be afraid to say how many
dances after that supper she and Guy danced together.
She was always superior to prejudice where she liked a
partner, and not afraid of being told that she had
exceeded the proper amount of dances with him.

As for Mrs. Pepperharrow, her confidence in Daisy
was so entire, that she would as soon have questioned
her dear 'husband Ugh's knowledge of soaps.

Daisy Fairfield wrote down Faucit's name in so
many of those blanks, and for so many " extras," that
something which was half a smile and half a blush
came over the fair face, when she conned over her card
with herself on waking in her lodgings in " the High "
after her sleep that morning.

Some few hours earlier than she, for he had braced

himself for his day's work while the Daisy's metals were
still fast closed, Guy Faucit was making a similar study
in the Balliol rooms.

'what a pretty woman," he thought to himself,
"and how full of life and of interest in everything.
How lovely she looked in the morning light, which
sees and yellows nine-tenths of humanity after a dose
of the gas-fumes. With that daring but perfect violet
broidery of leaves which wreathed her rich white dress
from the head to the foot, and made her look like a
sylvan goddess, she might have brought old Apelles
out of his grave. Gad ! if he could have painted that
superb throat of hers, set on her shoulders like a bit of
marble of Paros ! "

Something like these were the meditations of
Guy Faucit at his dressing-table ; and it must be
remembered in his excuse that Guy Faucit was a
classical scholar and a poet. He rolled about in his
big bath that morning with an extra zest, and whistled
to himself during the drying process as if he were
grooming a horse, and had a vague and general sense
of lightness of heart which was pleasant to his soul.
He paused for a long time between two buttons,
recalling with considerable accuracy the tones of the

last cordial good night and the pressure of the warm
hand, just marked enough to indicate the success of
the evening, which had passed as he put Daisy into
the carriage.

'' By Jove, what a voice ! " he said aloud, and with
convinced emphasis, finishing off the suspended button.

The even tenour of Faucit's collegiate way had been
suddenly and abruptly broken, though he was not of
the kind to admit or to know it yet. His breakfast
cleared away, he never did a better spell of work than
he did that morning.

There was a flower-show in the afternoon in the
gardens of Worcester College, once fabled to be so
remote from the centre of Oxford civilization as to
require a cab-journey to find it. Then the university
poet sang of the men who

and another young academic bard, in one of the funniest
parodies ever written, 'augustus Small of Boniface,"
discoursed of the classic Balliol —

whose third floor men descry,
The distant heights of Worcester
Fringing the western sky.

But the broad and fine street which runs by the Taylor

Buildings has dissipated the clouds of distance, and
the access to the Worcester festival was easy enough
when Daisy and Guy met again among the pleasant
glades of the college-garden, and listened to the
spirited music of the military band, reproducing in
an echo, perhaps, some of the dances of the night,
and making them shut their eyes and fancy themselves
waltzing again. It is a wonderfully pleasant chapter
in young lives, that first morning-meeting after the
first ball, where the interest has been mutually aroused
and the sympathy pleasantly kindled. It was nth a
sort of freemasonry that our hero and heroine — pass me
the good old-fashioned words, my reader — welcomed
each other in the garden.

'' Shall you be at the Worcester flower-show tomorrow
? '' Guy had said the very last thing ; and
Daisy had notified that she should, though it was not
till they had reached home that Mrs. Pepperharrow
received any intimation of the plan.

'' But, my dear, I thought you said — "

Never mind what I said, there's a darling. I had
no idea how pleasant the flower-show was likely to be
till they told me."

"They" remained comfortably in the vague; but

good Mrs. Pepperharrow asked no questions and suggested
no difficulties, and was quite content to fall
in with Daisy's change of mind.

They had been sitting in the gardens for some little
time, attended by some of the faithful henchmen who
were enrolled in their service for the week, before
Guy's tall figure made its appearance among the trees.
Daisy's eyes had made more than one rapid little
reconnoitre all round her during the intervals of talk
and music, and contracted, perhaps, just a shade of
impatience and uncertainty, when her quick glance
detected it coming. She saw Guy in a moment, and
saw too, in another moment, that he on his side had
seen her, and was making his way towards her group
with that studied air of indifference and accident which
is invariably worn on such occasions, and suggests so
strongly either the primitive deceit of man's heart, or
the debasing effects of a hypocritical civilization. He
shook hands with one friend, nodded to another,
accounted for his presence at the flower-show by the
state of the weather, the attractions of scientific horticulture
(he didn't know a rose from an oak, except by
right of his instinctive love of Nature), an " off-day "
with the crew, in fact, upon various mutually destructive

pleas. He was the most tnitliful of mankind, and told
as many falsehoods before he reached Daisy's side as it
cost him minutes to get there. If love laughs at the
perjuries of lovers to each other, he must find in their
little fibs to third persons a perfect storehouse of fun.
As for Daisy, she felt most becomingly and unreasonably
pleased, and even then was half inclined to take
herself to task for feeling so. But the truth is that,
before Guy's appearance at the ball, — where she had,
on the strength of that one look upon the river-bank,
vaguely expected to see him until she gave it up as
too late, — she had extracted from the innocent and
willing Bones a few leading and interesting particulars
about "Faucit the other." Faucit Telamon, Gosling
called him, in distinction from P. W., who figured
in his dictionary as Faucit Oileus, or the oily one.
Gosling's acquaintance with Daisy Fairfield, however,
was to be a thing of later date than Oxford days.
Though he was a Balliol man, and proud of his cox-ship,
most of his mates and pleasures were to be found
at Christchurch, which was the foster-mother of most of
the Gosling family, and numbered his elder brother, the
Viscount Gander, among her nursehngs at the time.
Jemmy was indeed sent to Balliol to keep him out of

his elder's heir-apparently influence, and out of respect
to a family tradition, which credited him with comparative
brains. His successful matriculation at Balliol
was long remembered in the records of the race, and
justly set off against the various "ploughs" which
rather roughed his subsequent career, till the heroic
efforts of Faucit, who took a fancy to the boy, *' pulled
him through" the last struggle, and entitled him to all
the honours of B.Adom.

But the Honourable Jem has landed us in a
digression. We are indebted for it to Bones, who
bore to Gosling the astonishing generic likeness which
characterizes a certain class of ingenuous youth, and
sets an apparent limit even on the creative powers of
Nature. It is as if she had to turn out a certain
number of industrial products every year, and, having
to break her best dies when once used for moulding,
keeps her common ones constantly at hand. Bones
described Faucit to Daisy just as Gosling would have
done it, with the same enthusiasm and in the same
vernacular, which is more descriptive than eloquence.
How completely Faucit had taken his beloved college
to wife, with her laurels for a dowry, and was certain
to be master of Balliol some day or another; how

he had once proposed to read for the bar, but had
been persuaded by the other dons to stick to his
Oxford work, where he was the means of colonizing
half the university with fellows from Balliol, and keeping
her oratories fresh in the schools and on the river :

o o ^

how he managed the college as he liked with that
strong will of his, and had done so in his undergraduate
days, when he was an autocrat at the college-meetings ;
how vainly, when the sceptre left his hand, that ass
Spooner and others had fought for it, with results
approaching to intestine anarchy ; how devoted he was
to his old mother, who had a small income of her o^^ti,
but was indebted to Guy's work for her home and most
of her comforts; how impervious he was to feminine
attractions, though all women liked him for his nice
and pleasant manners with them ; and how the universal
tongue of rumour wagged at him for a bachelor
foredoomed; — all these particulars and more, with a
sort of '' He's a jolly good fellow " refrain pervading
his ditty, did Bones of Balliol confide in choice recitative
to Daisy Fairfield's ear. As became his age, he was
quite unsuspecting, and attributed entirely to his own
eloquence the welcome apparition of Guy Faucit at the
ball. Well-pleased was he that Daisy should, as he

expressed it to his familiars, " cotton right off" to his
favourite hero ; and when, after they had gone in to
supper together, he came to claim his dance and saw
them deeply engaged in each other's talk, he retired
with a discretion beyond his years, and apologized to
Daisy for his desertion afterwards on the transparent
ground that he could not find her, lest she should be
disturbed in mind at his neglect. With the prologue
supplied thus liberally by Bones, Daisy, at the end of
the Christchurch ball, knew a great deal of Faucit's
story and character, and was free to weave herself
some pleasant fancies in guessing at more.

There was no disenchantment on either side in
the Worcester Gardens, as there sometimes is in these
episodes of ball-room romance. For in truth here was
a pair ideally fitted, in all the circumstance of glorious
youth, of kindred tastes and sympathies, and of outward
semblance, to repeat the time-honoured process
of falling in love.

'you at a flower-show, Mr. Faucit, as well as at
a ball ! " said Daisy, when he had installed himself at
her side after the first smiling welcome. "1 shall
begin to disbelieve altogether the stories I have heard
of your severe life."

I don't think there is much severity about it, bliss
Fairfield," he answered. "Perhaps it's because I'm
so fond of pleasure that I don't look for it at places
where I don't enjoy myself. That sounds more Eke
being selfish than severe, doesn't it ? "

"How lucky you are in being able to take your
pleasures as you like them. A woman's are all mapped
out for her, and some of the maps are very badly done.
But I think we have an advantage over you. We
don't always want to be ' doing,' as the stronger among
you do. We can shut our eyes and enjoy such a
summer day as this, with the flowers and the music,
without very much asking why."

"And do you think I can't?" said Faucit. "I
think if I might light a pipe under the trees here,
put on my oldest shooting-coat, and look at all the
pretty women without being asked to talk, I could
like a flower-show as well as anybody. It is because
we always are expected to do something in places
where there's absolutely nothing to be done, that I
don't profess much love for this sort of thing."

"Well, you needn't talk to me if you don't wish."

That's another thing."

Is it ? " she said, innocently. " Why ? As far as

I am concerned, if you won't be alarmed at the confession,
I would even permit the pipe."

Miss Fairfield ! you don't know what you're
saying. The idea of a don smoking in a college
garden! Why, we should have half the undergraduates
taking fire, and doing the same."

And why shouldn't they ? "

I can't imagine."

They laughed pleasantly together. They felt
amazingly content with the world and with themselves,
and were in the mood to laugh at very little.

"Nothing is so terrible to humanity, Mr. Facias
a vague fear of consequence. If all the undergraduates
smoked, what would happen ? "

Judging from the effect upon myself, there would
be much less noise. But the result of such a crime
would be something like that of being named in
the House of Commons — known only to Providence
Pepperharrow, what is your opinion of tobacco-smoking
? "

History must not fail to record the material fact,
that Faucit had been duly presented at the ball
to Daisy's guardian, and had impressed her very
favourably. She was no doubt apt to be favourably

impressed, but on this occasion the impression was
more marked than usual. Perhaps there may have
been some expenditure of pains on Faucit's part in
producing the result. He was not a man who often
failed to please, when he wished it and tried.

He is a most remarkable young man, my dear,"
she had said to Daisy when they were going to bed :
quite what one has the right to expect in these alls
of learning. It's rather awful to think of what ell
know if he lives to be seventy. But then I suppose
he won't. I've heard these scholars always wear themselves
out young."

"I hope he won't do that, dear Mrs. Pepper-harrows"
Daisy had answered. ''I don't think he
looks much like it at present."

"No; but it's deceptive. Heart disease always
makes a man look big, like my poor dear husband.
-Then, to be sure, Us-h does eat a o^ood deal ; so it
may keep is strength up."

Mrs. Pepperharrow was well content to let Guy
and Daisy talk and improve acquaintance at her side
without interfering in the dialogue. Happy and many-coloured
groups passed and repassed them, with the
lazy interchange of looks and comments of those who

come to see and be seen. Personally appealed toon
the merits of tobacco, Mrs. Pepperharrow had her
opinions ready for active service.

"I think it's a nasty habit myself, Mr. Faucit,"
she said, '' and I wonder at the young men liking it
as they do. The way it makes curtains smell is sometimes
very bad. I ave never felt so sorry as I ought
for their cutting off poor Sir Walter Raleigh's head;
though indeed as he invented potatoes as well as
tobacco there's a good deal to be said for him."

Oh, Mrs. Pepperharrow, what an idea ! Will you
take us through the tents, Mr. Faucit ? I haven't
visited the show proper as yet."

Certainly," answered the Oxonian. "It's always
the thing to be done at these places. Walk in at one
end of "an intolerably stuffy tent, with a last lingering
look at the fresh air outside ; pretend to admire Prize
1 and Prize 2 in flowers and fruit, which look like
unhealthy specimens of their race, with livers artificially
enlarged like Strasbourg geese; speculate why
Prize 2 didn't get Prize 1, to argue knowledge ; ' melt
at a peach, and rapture at a rose ; ' and so out again
at the other end, followed by the next batch, like the
visitors in the Tower of London. I warn you that

I know absolutely nothing of flowers, Miss Fairfield,
and that I shall be delighted to escort you."

'' If you discourse in that way, Mr. Faucit," answered
Daisy, '' it will be better than several lectures
on botany. The proper study of mankind is man, and
'we can consider him in relation to flowers."

"So clever of you to talk like that," sighed Mrs.
Pepperharrow, as the three entered bravely on the
ordeal of the tent together.

The appearance of her friend Dr. Parley, who was
a man compact of science, and his ready offer to guide
her through the maze, came opportunely enough to
leave the young couple to their own devices, to wander
on their way upon the path of flowers. The doctor was
a floral enthusiast, and expatiated to sirs. Pepperharrow
upon the forms of development before them, in good
Latin words as long as Jem Gosling's historic stumbling
listened to with admiring reverence, which culminated
at the end in ''So clever of you to talk like
that. I am sure I shall understand the Latin lano-uao-e
better than I ever did before. I ad no idea that the
Latins had so many flowers in their time."

Guy and Daisy, meanwhile, looked at the flowers
or passed them over in a very hap-hazard way, neither

VOL. I. f

of them affecting an interest they did not feel, but
finding more and more how many subjects of talk
they had in common. To their fresh-air natures, the
poor imprisoned plants had something of the effect
that the hapless eagles in the Zoological Gardens have
upon the observer's mind in certain moods, producing
a lono'insj to unbar the cell and let them out, under
the influence of the look of '' heimweh " in their
dulled eyes, turned upon the free sky spread so temptingly
over them. The show flowers in tents are always
dreadful, flower-shows having long been what everything
is now-a-days, mere social pretexts — pretexts for
things good enough in their way, but apt to divert
and to spoil a good many healthy interests.

To the genuine cricket-mind, for instance, the Eton
and Harrow match of the day is but a sorry substitute
for the old fights of the public-school week, which
meant cricket and business, instead of fashion and
champagne. In the middle of carriages six feet deep,
and the small fire of remarks about anything but
cricket, innocent of the difference between point and
long-stop, and showing no personal interest in either
side, the mind reverts regretfully to the days of the
chaffing-gallery,' and enthusiastic sisters who knew

as much about cricket as the boys. It is a pretty
show, now : but one of many.

Flower-shows, however, were always privileged follies,
and the exhibitions at Oxford were a degree more
depressing, from the floral point of view, than their
neighbours. Except by the hideous tradition of the
Temple chrysanthemums, which coincides with such
satiric mockery with the opening of the legal year,
and the condemnation of unlucky suitors to a course
of Westminster air, they have not been often matched
in that way. Little enough of their influence, however,
seemed to fall dispiriting upon Daisy and Guy.

"Would you really like to see my rooms ? " he was
asking her when they came out of the tent, where,
notwithstanding his description of it, they had been
going the rounds for an unconscionable time.

"I should indeed, and very much. The undergraduates
have been very pleasant and hospitable tous;
but, except sirs. Pepperharrows friend. Dr. Parley,
we have seen nothing of the inner life of a don.
You have no idea what dangerous theories I might
have formed of the class if I had not met you. I
shall never allow now that a don can't dance."

"I wish that I had had the chance of meeting


F 2

you at the Masonic ball. But, at all events, I must
try to disperse your dangerous theories as much as I
can, for the credit of my race. Do you go back to
town the day after tomorrow ? "

Yes, in the morning."

"Are you engaged all tomorrow ? "

"Only to the concert in the evening, and at the
theatre in the morning, you know."

Oh, yes, the event of the Commemoration, where
you will see the degrees given, and hear the undergraduates
in their glory. I wonder what sort of
theories you will form of that part of our community
upon the occasion. Can't you come to luncheon with
me afterwards ? I think I can promise a don or
two whom you will really like to meet."

"I'm sure I shall. But I must ask Mrs. Pepper-harrow.
— Mrs. Pepperharrow, Mr. Faucit has kindly
asked us to have luncheon at his rooms tomorrow, after
the theatre."

Where, if you will alloa me, Mrs. Pepperharrow,"
said Guy, " I shall be able to point you out all the
celebrities, and translate some of the Latin."

So kind of you, Mr. Faucit," answered the worthy
lady, resuming her charge. "I've been earing a

great deal of Latin in the tents, and perhaps I shall
know some of it again. But we shall be giving you
a great deal of trouble in coming to luncheon."

"None at all. Our bachelor rooms have such a
treat so seldom, that it does them real good. Will
you come ? "

The chaperon agreed without further pressing, and
the arrangement was made. They came out of the
gates of Worcester together, and Guy Faucit took his
leave, bent upon his duties to the Balliol crew. Daisy
Fairfield had seldom looked prettier than she did at
the rather formal dinner which Dr. Parley gave that
night; but, from what cause deponent sayeth not, she
had been seldom more silent or more abstracted.

OXONIANA.

The proceedings in the Oxford theatre, supposed to bethe
central fact of the Commemoration week, impressed
Daisy Fairfield with an unfeigned and ill-pleased wonder,
and supplied her with the materials for a searching
cross-examination of Faucit, who had stationed himself
at her elbow, which he found very difficult of answer.
Why, on this of all days in the year, the dignified university
should turn itself into a common bear-garden,
allow its own elected officers to be officially pilloried
by the universal hiss of public scorn, for nothing
particular except doing what they were appointed todo
; * specially invite famous authors, famous soldiers,
famous statesmen and diplomatists, to receive their

■^ I am delighted to hope that this is a thing of the past ; and
to see that the Vice-chancellor of the day feels as if the undergraduates
were " his own children."

honours in an inexplicable dumb-show and noise,
and to hear there the names of favourite heroes and
leaders, perhaps, proposed for general execration ;
expose ladies and young girls to a fire of very impertinent
and unseemly banter, and in more than one
instance to considerable fright ; — and all this for the
behoof of a gang of juvenile rowdies, resembling a
boxing-night sixpenny gallery in every-thing but the
wit and the musical ear — will perhaps puzzle the
future historian of English manners as much as it
puzzled Daisy Fairfield. That young lady detected
the beaming countenance of Bones in the front row of
the rioters, evidently in a state of profound satisfaction
with himself and the whole scene, and o-ravelv ignored
the condescending efforts which he was making to
attract her notice. She " had it out with him "
afterwards, as he expressed himself, in a manner which
made a man feel himself quite small, you know."

"Three cheers for the ladies in dark-blue" was
the cry most in favour in that day's gallery, led by
choragus Bones, and suggested to his original mind by
the rich deep-hued dress which Daisy wore in honour
of her hostess-city, with a soft lace ruff for boundary-line
to unite it with the graceful throat. She felt

anything but comfortable under the salutation, which
she quite understood to be intended mainly for her, as
representative of the class apostrophized, and shrank
into her shell as much as she could.

Oh, Mr. Faucit, how very rude and noisy ! I shall
be glad to get away."

"It's abominable," answered Faucit, thoroughly
vexed. " I can't think why on earth this sort of thing
isn't put a stop to. It goes from bad to worse every
year, and will end in putting a stop to Commemoration
altogether."

*' If they said any single thing worth hearing,
or that one could laugh at," she said, "one wouldn't
so much mind. But they're dull enough to be
respectable ! " And a discordant, many throated howl
went up, as a figure in cap and gown came into
the hall.

Yah ! yah ! yah ! " like the shouts of some
fictitious semi-human breed in a fancy of Dean Swift's.

"Who's that unhappy man, and what has he
done ? "

"That's the proctor; and he is a very good fellow,
who has done no harm to anybody."

Oh, P. W. ? "

No, that was last year. Who on earth told you
about P. W.?"

"Mr. Bones, who is actively engaged in denouncing
P. W.'s successor, and trying to catch my eye,
which is not to be caught."

The young scamp," said Guy ; "he's there, is he ?
I'll give him a talking to afterwards."

"Oh, don't say I told you. And I suppose one
oughtn't to mind; youth will have its fling," added
this experienced worldling.

It needn't have its fling at other people."

Suddenly the howls swelled and gathered into one
stupendous yell.

Yah ! yah ! yah ! Take it off ! take it ofi" ! "

Good gracious, what is it now ? "

Vir doctissime et reverendissime."

Who's that ? "

That's the public orator reading something in
Latin."

Yah ! yah ! yah ! The man in the straw hat ! "

Yah ! yah ! yah ! Take it off! take it off 1 "

Three cheers for the ladies in dark blue ! Hip ! "
But the diversion was vain, and succeeded no further
than the first hip.

"Yah! the straw hat ! Take it off! turn him out!"

The storm gathered and arose; proctors and unpopular
statesmen were forgotten ; the ladies in blue
and in green were set aside ; the face of the public
orator grew impatient and disgusted; a distinguished
foreign ambassador who had come to be honoured
looked about him in blank and undisguised amazement
; the men of the Faucit type felt and showed
themselves thoroughly ashamed, and even the Bones
in the gallery began to wish themselves away, while the
majority of its tenants felt themselves more and more
the heroes of the hour, and the guardians of public
decency and refinement. Many of the ladies looked
towards the door and meditated on the chances of retreat,
while Daisy's face flushed with disgust and anger.

'' Dear me, Mr. Faucit ! " said Mrs. Pepperharrow.
What are they a-going' to do ? "

The poor lady fairly relapsed into a more primitive
stage than usual of her early English.

Nothing, Mrs. Pepperharrow," said Guy, reassuringly.
" It will be over directly."

But the yams arose. The solitary offender in the
straw hat, a well-bred and distinguished man of letters
who lived in retirement, and innocent of Oxford's

jealousy for good manners "was there by invitation, was
for a long time placidly unconscious of the cause of the
uproar. As it began to da^^^l on him, he frowned and
took root, and looked thoroughly determined and resentful.
But modesty and indignation mastered him as he
became the mark of all eyes, friendly and unfriendly,
and at last he beat a sudden retreat into the street,
whence he went straight to the station, and back to his
home, to be a foe to university education ever after,
and briefly to describe the youth of Oxford as '' Brutes."
There he did them wrong ; but they were queer cattle
once a year, in my time.

A shout of triumph from the gallery followed the
fugitive ; and proudly conscious of having vindicated
the laws of breeding, the undergraduates, with trencher
caps in different degrees of dilapidation and unsightliness,
graciously permitted the proceedings to advance
to something like an intelligible close. The public
orator's well-turned attempts to frame the most modem
English sentiments in classic Latin were favourably, if
rather satirically, received; and the sonorous couplets
of the bard of Newgate were hailed "udth an amount
of encouraging applause, due perhaps as much to the
re-appearance of the English tongue on the scene, as to

the sentiments expressed. The general sense of relief
experienced at this crisis, even by the most accomplished
classic present, is apt to invest poetry of the Newgate
type with a halo not its own. An imposing figure was
Pope-Scott of Christchurch in the rostrum that day, ashe
declaimed the peroration of his work in decasyllabics
of a faultless caesura : —

Majestic centre of enfranchised art,
Do in the wondering world th}^ glorious part !
For ever and for ever, though to-day
Man's short-lived fabrics melt for aye away; —
Though not to us be given the power to mould
The godlike forms and harmonies of old ;
Not ours the skill to bid the marbles don
The grace which erst the Parthenon put on,
And shape Athens's arches as they rise,
Broad-based on careless Genius, to the skies ;
Not ours with master-hand and eye to trace
The bold proportions of the stone-girt space
"Which mighty Caesar's giant * walls embrace ;
Though the deft voice of fair Pentelicus
Be in her sweeter secrets mute for us ;
Though lost the painter's and the sculptor's lore,
Yet still for ever (as I said before).
Thy name, fair city of the violet crown,
Shall travel on the wings of Memory down,
And live embalmed, until the death of Time,
Linked with all virtues, and a single crime."

sic in MS.

"Hear! hear!" and "Go it, Homer!" from the
gallery ; and " Where did you get that last line
from ? " from some freshman more audacious than the
rest, who was promptly snubbed and bonneted by his
neighbours. There was a well-pleased smile on the
faces of the groundlings, and as Pope-Scott bowed and
withdrew, to be escorted home with the honours by
admiring Christchurch friends, the select audience of
the somewhat mixed entertainment dispersed and
melted away.

"I certainly have heard something very like the
last line before," said Daisy.

Pardon me," answered Guy, as he strolled with
her along Broad Street towards his rooms. "Baton
expressed an exactly opposite sentiment; and boldly
to improve by adaptation is one of the greatest arts
of poetry. Like his predecessor Goldsmith, Pope-Scott
touches nothing which he feels he does not adorn."

Yes ; but what does he mean by the single
crime ? "

I can't imagine, and you shouldn't ask. Mystery
is the soul of peroration."

"Well, it was a good young poem, well delivered.
What city did he say it was about ? "

"Athens. I believe that the closing lines are
modified from one which he wrote last year on Rome,
when he ran second. You may infer it from the
reference to Caesar's walls, obviously left by an oversight
on the part of the poet and the examiners. What
part of the poem did you like best ? "

"The touch of nature implied in the simple
expression, ' As I said before.' It went straight to the
heart."

Daisy's face was rippling with little smiles as the
two indulged in these grave comments.

You are quite a critic," said the other as gravely,
"and have every qualification to call yourself 'we.'
Yes; you are right. Artistic Bathos is an essential
in a Newgate poem, and is in this instance handled
with a master-touch. Pope-Scott has written many
lines which should live by his use of it. In a prize
poem of his at Cheltenham, upon a distinguished Irish
soldier (Pope-Scott is, I believe, a native of that
imaginative country), occurs this celebrated couplet,
the climax of a fervid description of the hero's
honours —

He on the Currant, so report prevails,
Has stood parade-ground with the Prince of Wales.' "

Daisy broke into a happy and delighted laugh,
and fairly clapped her hands. " Oh, what a delicious
poet ! Why haven't I met him ? "

It might have been too much for you. To go
back into the prosaic world of London, after such a
glimpse of the Muses as a poet's society would have
given you, would have been too much of a disenchantment.
I hope his centimeters will leave a pleasant
recollection than the howls in the gallery."

I didn't like that. Why do you dons permit it ? "
We shan't for long, I hope. But nothing in
England is so dangerous an enemy as a vested interest,
however odious to everybody. This has been a sort
of Guy Fawkes day with undergraduates from time
immemorial, to let the steam off."

I should make them consume their own steam, by
act of convocation."

I don't know. Boys will be boj^s."
Then why do they call themselves men ? "
'' Your logic, Miss Fairfield," said Guy, '' is becoming
hard to argue with. Luckily for me, here we are
at the foot of my staircase. Will you come up ? "

Daisy Fairfield and Mrs. Pepperharrow were soon
installed in the comfortable rooms on the first floor,

overlooking the green inner quadrangle of the college
of the first Balliol and Devorguilla his wife, and the
enclosure of their next neighbour Trinity beyond,
divided by the party-wall over which adventurous but
gated spirits in the two colleges had once established
a mutual right of way. The imprisoned Balliol man
would make his escape, by means of climbing this wall,
through the gate of Trinity ; while his Trinity brother
could as conveniently reverse the process, raising no
suspicion in the minds of the deceived college-porters.
Tompkins and Bones had pursued the unhallowed sport
for some time ; and it was while they were taking their
walks abroad together, both under sentence of gates,
under this convenient ad eundem arrangement, that
they had fallen into the hands of P. W., who had
been the author of the conviction. This discovery
leading to inquiry, the illegal traffic was exposed and
suppressed. Hence much of the Homeric wrath which
burned in the bosoms of Tompkins and Bones, who had
both suffered from a brief rustication in consequence.
Quietly enough the old quadrangle slept in the sunlight
that day, as the little party went through. A
few undergraduates were scattered about it, a knot
of them engaged in a game of bowls upon the smooth

stretch of turf — for in those days lawn-tennis had not
descended, like the Colorado beetle, upon all the green
spots of English earth. The college-scouts, a worthy
race of men apart, who seem to have brought into
their line of life a distinct academic flavour, and look
as if they had a second-hand acquaintance with Plato
and Aristotle, were carrying their masters' luncheons
to their respective rooms, under those flat-topped covers
which are as peculiar to the soil as the mortar-board
caps; and the whole scene, even though the unusual
presence of more than one bonny lass enlivened it to-day,
had that strange out-of-the-world flavour which belongs

o o

to the enclosures of colleges, and perhaps to no other
place, not monastic, since the Thames embankment
edged itself in between the Temple and the river.

In old days, when the hum of work was hushed,
and the resident Templar were wandering back to
chambers from their clubs and coffee-houses, the same
feeling was yet more strongly in the air over the
green gardens, water-lapped, which stretched at the foot
of Paper Buildings and of Garden Court.

A small party of men were soon assembled in
honour of Faucit's two visitors. They were men well
chosen, whose talk gave Daisy genuine pleasure, and a

VOL. I. G

glimpse into the more ardent spirit of earnest university
life. They were old pupils of Faucit, or men of his
standing ; and it was clear that among them Faucit was
an acknowledged leader, which gave the young lady secret
satisfaction. For they were all well Avorth listening
to, had conquered their fellowships in various colleges
of Oxford, and talked and thought in a style very different
from good old Dr. Parley's friends and guests.
All were impregnated with the young reforming spirit
which was springing up everywhere — treated Oxford
politics as part of the scheme of the world outside
rather than narrowed them in any academic sense,
and on some matters, perhaps, were apt to speculate
more freely and openly than University traditions
might be supposed to sanction. But there was nothing
said to shock Daisy, though a little to open her eyes ;
and indeed Faucit himself, though as broad in his
churchmanship as in other matters, never cared to
encourage some lines of thought in his company. He
was knoAvn to have commended Gosling's primitive
views on theology, rather than those of more enquiring
minds.

"I am told," that youth had said, "that Science and
the Pentateuch don't hit it off. But I don't interfere

vrith that myself, and leave them to settle it between
themselves."

Daisy's own love of reading delighted her with
Faiicit's library ; and Elia the gentle, and Landor the
poetic, gave a pleasant conversational sauce to the
dainties on the table. Then an inspection of the pictures
led to a welcome interchange of art-talk, in which
attractive field of discussion most of the men were more
or less at home. Daisy herself was deeply imbued with
the genuine love of picture-lore, which is a part of the
furniture of all imaginative minds, though her travels
in picture-land abroad were so far bounded by the
Louvre and Dresden, where she had spent some weeks
the summer before, while still in her chrysalis condition.

''No bad beginning, Bliss Fairfield," said Guy;
"■ and no bad beginning and end either, if one wants a
deep draught of one spring. I have seen my galleries
pretty thoroughly, and that San Sisto picture has no
rival for me anywhere."

I cannot fancy it surpassed, Mr. Faucit," she said.

I used to go to the gallery morning after morning;

and tempting as my Buttons and Correggio were, I

couldn't help spending half my time upon one of the

settees before it, all alone in its grandeur, and worship

2

ping like a votary. It was more worship than anything
else."

You were not far wrong there. I never can
forgive the Dressers for giving those Holbein a
similar post of honour. They are no more to be
compared to it than a batch of sign-boards, clever as
they are."

Those eternal copyists are still harder to forgive, I
think; preventing you from getting a proper view of
the pictures, and, in spite of yourself, attracting your
eyes from the originals to those dreadful daubs of theirs,
though I dare say they are very good in their way.
This engraving of yours is a wonderfully fine one. Is
there any picture in the world, but that, with that
wonder in the eyes ? "

Only one that I know — the Folio Madonna at
the Vatican. And there one misses the child, whose
look is more startling than the mother's. The mother
looks as if she were afraid of the child, with all her
tenderness towards it ; but the child looks as if he were
fearful of himself, and the strange child-knowledge he
must have had of what he was."

Yes ; it is a glorious picture. I should like to seethe
Folio."

Rome is a treasure-house to come ; but to me that
is its best treasure. I never can care, in comparison,
for the more famous ' Annunciation ' in the same room
with it. It is noble and beautiful enough; but that
incredible divinity lives, to me, in those two other
Raphael alone. By right of those two pictures,
Raphael has it all his own way, to my mind, as much
as Shakespeare among the playwrights."

"Yes ; but still I love my Titian."

"Ah, so do I. And when you meet him at Venice
you'll love him more."

The art-talk ran pleasantly on, transporting the
talkers to many lands in turn, as better than any talk
it can. The bes^o'ars of Murillo and the cavaliers of
Velasquez introduced them to the-patois of Seville, and
the rich art-beauties of the empress of cathedrals, with
the cabinet studies of nature, which may be seen in the
bright-coloured streets through any of her half-opened
doors. Then, by a natural transition, the stately
fane of Toledo, with the surroundings of that half-dead
and depopulated city of the past, and the grim
solitude of the chill Escurial church, fit nurse for
Philip's bigotry of blood-hastiness, were discussed by
travellers who had had eyes to see, and kindled a

longing for wider-wanderings in Daisy Fairfield's receptive
mind.

Guy Faucit, perhaps, thought how pleasant it
would be to be her guide among all these wonders,
afloat in a Venetian gondola, or afield in a Valencia
tartan, through scenes where tourists vulgarize in vain.
He fought his traveller's battles over again, inspired by
his listener's interest ; shivered over a Madrid charcoal-stove
in an inclement September, warmed in his greatcoat,
and racked with a headache afterwards; he
escaped from being boiled alive in Lucerne, to be
frozen in a sudden hailstorm on the top of Pilatus,
and so brought upon the scene two of his companions
who were enthusiastic mountaineers, and could initiate
Daisy into some of the deep mysteries of higher climbing,
at which Faucit confessed himself no adept. Like
all true philosophers, he had for his principle live and
let live, and saw no objection to men doing these things
"if it amused them ;*" but how or why it did, baffled
him except from the philosophic standpoint. He
expressed the view mildly enough to Longshanks of
New, of peaks and passes celebrity ; but Longshanks
was ready for him.

Faucit sees nothing in Alp-climbing, Miss Fairfield,

because lie hasn't given it a fair trial, and wasn't
bitten at starting. And here am I who can see nothing
in boating, or conceive what pleasure a man can find in
tuminof his back to do his work, fijKingj another man's
flannel shirt for his entire object of vision, and converting
himself into a mechanical pendulum. So our odd
world goes round. We like our likes with all our
might, and see nothing' in what other men like. Then,
unless we discipline our minds, we get angry with
them for liking what we don't, proceed to argue them
out of it by fair means, and foul afterwards, and so
cause persecutions, religious and political, all because
everybody ought to agree with us. Here's your health,
Faucit, and thanks for a very pleasant luncheon."

'with mine in return," laughed the host, 'for
such a complete edition in little of Longshanks's philosophy
of history. I have known greater men say
less in more words. And I am sure that Mrs.
Pepperharrow agrees with me."

That indeed I do," said the worthy lady ; " and I
ave enjoyed listening to you all very much. As for
the old masters you've been talking of, I think they're
quite perfect, and I'm always wanting my husband to
buy them. But e says the new masters are what e

understands better, and they ought to be encouraged
because they're alive."

That's philosophy quite as good as Longshanks's,
and of great value to many worthy men," said Faucit.

The luncheon was over and the party broke lazily
up, not the least successful of the parties of that Commemoration.
To two of them, at all events, it was a
very great success. Faucit, a capital host at all times,
had never been a better one than that day. Though
essentially a " man's man," he never, like many of his
kind, showed to better advantage than with ladies, for
he had for them much of that instinctive deference and
old-world courtesy whose decay Charles Lamb so feelingly
deplores. He never gave up his own style of
thought and talk in order to fall in nth their supposed
love of other subjects than men's ; but, on the other
hand, he never "talked down" to them by translating
himself into another language, as if he were dealing
with a different race, after the fashion of some popular
orators when addressing an audience of working men.
I doubt if any affectation on earth, though the result
of mere want of tact, is more intensely provoking to
those addressed, or those in sympathy with them.

With Mrs. Pepperharrow Guy established himself

that day as a favourite ; and as for Daisy, he never had
a more sympathetic listener or a more well-pleased
guest.

Fast, fast, fast, the meshes of the net closed round
those two; and when Guy parted with his guests at
the gate, to go back and meditate over a sociable pipe
with Longshanks, an old pupil who wanted some advice
upon some question of New College municipal politics,
it was with an understanding that he meant to beat
the concert in the evening. He was there ; and
there again the pair took up their parable, over
whose earlier stage of development there is no further
need to dwell.

For some reason not to be defined, Daisy carried
away quite a lofty impression of the knowledge of
musical art possessed by the undergraduates of Oxford ;
and Guy himself was astonished at the effect produced
upon him by Ponders performance of " Oh, ruddier
than the cherry," and Piper's declamation of "Twas
in Trafalgar's Bay." He even wrote an eulogistic
article on Oxford music for the 'Saturday Review ' ; but
it had the rare fate of being returned, with all apologies,
by the editor, who thought that Mr. Faucit must
have allowed himself to be carried away, and said that

his musical critic was unable to approve of the sentiments
expressed.

The next morning — miracle dicte ! — Faucit might
be seen at the station, seeing the ladies off, and
accepting a warm invitation to call in town, that Miss
Fairfield's parents might thank him for all his kindness
and attention, to which she knew that really she had
no claim at all, she said.

'' It was so very good of you," Daisy added, demurely,
"to waste so much of your time upon us."

''So very good," echoed the chaperon.

''I didn't waste a minute of it," Guy said. "My
work and my boat will both profit by the change.
Good-bye."

'' Good-bye."

It had been arranged that Guy was to start for the
English lakes with a reading party of young pupils
immediately after the Oxford and Cambridge match
and the Henley Regatta, which followed the break-up
of the term. The pupils were astonished to find their
plan disarranged, and io be asked to postpone the
expedition for another month, to the close of the
London season. When season, reading-party, and long
vacation were all over, still more astonished and much

distressed was the Oxford world, and not his college
alone, to learn that Fancit of Balliol, after six years of
tutorhood, and with an established Oxford position, had
made up this mind to leave the place and the life, and
to study in London for the common-law bar.

THE IDYLL.

The chronicler of Guy Faucit and Daisy Fairfield uses
his privilege here, and skims rapidly over the next
scenes of their history.

It was the end of July before Daisy flitted to
Switzerland with her parents for her first visit to that
fairy playground; and it was the end of July before
Faucit found himself installed in a cottage at the head
of Grasmere Lake, with some candidates for 'great"
assembled for a reading-party. A reading-bee, perhaps,
it is called now-a-days, as the dictionaries of Mark
Twain and Bret Harte tend more and more, alas ! to
the supersession of Johnson and Webster in the old
country. They were pleasant things, those reading-parties,
in the days when I, Balbus, friend and contemporary
of Faucit, was of them. They differed much

among themselves, for sometimes there was much
reading and sometimes there was none, which turned
more upon the character of the coach-in-office than
anything else.

There was no lack of work when Faucit was to
the fore. If after a short experience, and the few
days grace allowed for settling down, he made up
his mind that any one of the pupils, the while on
pleasure bent, was not of reading mind, he gave him
a gentle warning first, and then sent him about his
business. He Hked his pupils to do him credit as well
as themselves, and would have no shirking; so, believing
that a little leaven leavens the whole lump he
disposed of black sheep summarily.

Dear old boy ! how he comes before me as I think
of him. We were the firmest of allies, and had many
a literary taste in common. But my inveterate mistrust
of literature, when veiled in the classic guise,
made a subject of chronic disagreement between us,
and any success I may since have had in life has been
in the teeth of his sombre prognostic. I shied at the
fascinations even of poetry when presented to me by
Greeks —

Timui Danaos et dona forests,"

and the last French play, novel, or political treatise —
the last I fear not the most — had greater charms forme
than I could find in Plato. I wasted my time
systematically in what my father called heroic idleness
(*'I do believe, Tom," he said to me once, "that if
your foot slipped out of the stirrup on horseback you
would prefer riding on like that to taking the trouble
to put it in again") ; and yet, alive and merry at it
matters not what year, I cannot find that I am a whit
the worse of it, in " purse or person ; " but discover
that I work at congenial occupations, albeit in no
licensed profession, as hard as need be.

Well, well ; it is no easier to arrive at the expediencies
of life than it was in Solomon's time, in which
respects that worthy old gentleman acted as a kind of
moral "taster" to the universe. Years afterwards,
thriving on unlicensed occupations in spite of experience,
morality, and everything else, I ventured to say
to the elder Mr. Balbus, himself a renowned and
capable classic, that the great advantage of a classical
education was this — you never regret having been idle.
He laughed at the joke, but resented the inference.

I am not writing of myself, however, and must not
forget that if my lovers — need I say, after the beginning.

what lovers they vere before their month of frequent
London meetings was over? — are to interest others in
their fortunes, that obtrusive Httle vowel number three
should be kept as much as possible out of sight.

Guy Faucit's ideas on the classics, and, indeed, on
most matters, were more my father's than mine; and
the magnificent energy with which he did everything
he put his hand to was part of the strong, sweet nature
of the man. Pupils of his could never fail to catch the
infection more or less, and the Grasmere days were not
soon forgotten by those who were with him there.
They were all honour-men except Jem Gosling, whom,
out of affectionate personal regard, Faucit admitted
into the company, as a sort of little dog in attendance,
giving him a special portion of his time in the evenings
while the others where grappling with the higher
Aristotelian problems, or learning from Thucydides — the
discovery, perhaps, to blossom later — how excessively
ill a man can write his own language, however beautiful,
and yet be famous. That eminent historian is a
perpetual encouragement to writers who can't write,
and Ives again, for the placid cynic, in many a modem
misleader of youth, in the ranks of the 'Nineteenth
Century ' or the ' Fortnightly Review.'

Into the Grasmere Lake the party plunged in the
morning soon after seven, for the introductory swim
which was to brace them for the day. At eight, after
the short household prayers which Faucit would never
neglect — odd, men said, in that as in most things — they
tackled one of those Oxonian breakfasts which are the
memory and the despair of older digestions, and haunt
like Tantalic phantoms the Egg and bacon of later
years, where the new Sangradism allows so much.

"Nothing I know," said Bones simply, on one
occasion, "so sharpens the appetite for breakfast as a
fried sole and a good bit of steak."

When the soles and the steaks and the porridge and
the marmalade had vanished, and the tea and coffee
had been corrected by the early beer, there were four
hours of steady work to be done.

Faucit was a passed master as a guide to the
classics, and would have made me like them if any one
could. But I never took kindly to any of the set
except Aristophanes, whose honest chuckle over everything
and everybody was amazingly to my taste. Why
doesn't our good friend W. S. Gilbert, quaintest in his
line of modem English humorist, take a hint from the
old fellow, and take up ' Demos ' again in his last new

dress? I am fond of those old Greeks now, I don't
know why ; and perhaps I only wasn't then because I
was expected to be. We are a contrary lot we mortals,
and that's a fact.

But Hke them or lump them, it was a great sight
to see Faucit, with his hands deep in his trousers
pockets, and the short pipe clearing the mental atmosphere,
walking up and down the little lake-room
expounding, while the pupils listened or took notes,
or asked and answered questions. He had the whole
thing at his fingers' ends, and could dress up Plato's
Eepubhc improvised, in sympathetic and attractive
English of his own. At another time he could tell
anecdotes from Herodotus in a familiar style, quite
after the old gossip's manner; and even on the perplexing
mysteries of Aristotle's Ethics he could throw
an original Hight, and moralize — as to me he often
did — on the dangers of the career of the apologetic
man. If sometimes he attributed to the philosopher
deep meanings and purposes of which he must have
been entirely innocent, who shall blame him ? Do
not even the commentators of Shakespeare the same ?

Half-an-hour's "yard-cricket" in the front of the
house, with the centre-piece of the door for a wicket,

VOL. I. H

and a tennis-ball to bowl with, and then the honest
early dinner, made the young students fit for their
afternoon of hill work. Long stretches over the slopes
of Fairfield, or excursions into the smiling little district
of E-ydal, pilgrimages to the valley of St. John, whose
grim serrated rocks seemed to the more . imaginative
among them to wear the very shape and form which
once shone castle-wise, " in morning splendour full and
fair," before the eyes of the Knight of Triermain on
his love-quest — scenes where Faucit's loving knowledge
of his Scots and Wordsworth made him as much at
home and as pleasant a companion as on earlier but
not more classic ground — filled out the long summer
afternoons till supper-time, and the two hours more of
work which followed before turning in. Varied sometimes
by boating on the lakes, sometimes perhaps by
plunges into the pleasant circle of the local society,
where bright eyes were glad to welcome these cheery
young squires, and to beam their best on them
(Gosling had a special aptitude for making himself
acceptable to the owners of those eyes, whom he
generically classed as "Maries" from that hour) —
those Grasmere days ran into weeks which left a
sunny memory behind them. Every now and again a

period of grace was allowed, when the more enquiring
spits shouldered knapsacks, and started for a tramp
over passes and valleys, by rattling 'forces" and
smiling meres, to shelter for the night in some cozy
'wrangler's rest" of the old pre-company pattern, white
and clean as its mistress's apron, and nestled under the
shelter of the everlasting hills.

Pleasant days ! pleasant times, fall of enjoyment
for the moment and retrospect for the future. I know
not how it may be with others ; but for me, as I grow
older, these memories seem to grow more vivid everyday
; even as oddly enough the very classical gentlemen
whom I neglected so heartily at the time, as I fancied,
seem to exercise an increasing influence over my
thoughts and work even when I don't take them up
again. They come and wax unbidden, those associations
of the past ; and scenes and events which seemed
at the time to make but slight impressions upon a mind
then more set, out of work-hours, upon odd comers of
itself than anything else, come all of a sudden, as I sit
down to write or to remember, out of the little nooks
of the brain-house into which they must have crept all
unawares. And out they come full-grown, like so many
awkward Minerva.

H 2

It was the summer of the comet-year, perhaps ; and
many a night-drive home from Keswick, or from handier
Amalekite, would our party have after a longer field-day
than usual, when the whole firmament seemed lit,
and the stars put out, by the lustre of that old phenomenon,
which has lost none of its strangeness in
losing all its terror. It has been explained away,
thoroughly; but there it was, all the same. Somebody
did it. And Faucit would quote to the reverential
Gosling the haunting lines of the northern
poet : —

Obj on thy sparkling prow to ride !

To cleave the depths of Heaven with thee !
To plough the twinkling stars aside,
Like foam-bells on a tranquil sea ! "

And Gosling would intimate, with much conviction,
that he didn't understand it much, but it was " doosid
fine." Fair fall thy criticisms, honest Jem ! They
were better than wiser that I wot of.

Guy Faucit, meanwhile ? What was he thinking
of all this time ? He never lost himself in his work,
for his pupils said that he never went at it harder, and
he carried more than one of them into a triumphant
first. But in the walks and on the boats he was not
quite so companionable as usual, except with one rather

silent member of his regiment, with ^Yhom he consorted
for choice to the surprise of the others, and smoked
many pipes.

When one of those parties among Gosling's friends
*' the Maries " took place, Guy was apt to excuse
himself, take the opportunity of strolling off alone with
some book in his pocket, which usually stayed there,
throw himself at full length upon the turf which slopes
suddenly down into the waters of Grasmere on the
Rydal-ward side, or sit there dreamily and " corrig "
loose boulders into the lake below.

Unwitting of other presence than his own, he one
day nearly ''corriged " into another world Jem Gosling
and a Mary, whom that seductive youth had persuaded
to go a-flirtin2r with him.

They were lying on the slope below Faucit, and the
boulder shaved the Honourable James's nose. He
said afterwards that the Clipper was jealous, and must
have a love-fever on him. Guy laughed, and looked
very kindly at the lad. His heart had stood still for
the moment when he found what an escape he had had.

Ah ! that love-fever ! It must run its course like
other tertian, though many doctors try their hands at
stopping it, or at '' throwing it out."

What were Guy's meditations on the lake-side those
lonely afternoons ? He had nothing but his fellowship,
and the little that would come to him from his mother.
The dear old mother ! how irregularly he seemed to
write to her now. He must run down to Devonshire
directly the reading-party broke up, for he longed fora
kiss to the silvery-hair, a welcome from the silvery
voice. It would be a long time, he trusted and prayed,
before that little came ; and then it could not change
his life.

He had resolved upon an Oxford career ; for with
bis fellowship and his pupils, and what he made by his
pen — not much, perhaps, that last, for journalism is
not an El Dorado, even when exclusively followed — he
had now a very good income to boast of in those
rent-free rooms of his.

But — ah ! those buts ! How they come breaking
in upon our best soliloquies, worrying our strongest
purposes, breach-making in our favourite castles of
the air !

Suppose he changed his plans now, and left
Oxford, what should he do ? He could keep his
fellowship, of course, as long as — Exactly. 'but"
again. Why wasn't his what they call a married

fellowship ? but it wasn't. Besides, he was twenty-eight,
and an old don. Could he make enough by his
pen to make a profession of it ? impossible to say.
And it was, he knew, very hard and up-hill work.
The bar ? that resource of all the ardent spirits with
no special professional bent of their own, that mystic
profession which " leads to everything," but begins in
nothing, except expense, and, alas ! too often ends
there. Besides, he could not bear the idea of law.
That wouldn't matter to him, though ; and that thought
was soon put aside.

Sir Benjamin Brodie, speaking of his own original
distaste for medicine, had said that any man worth his
salt could teach himself to like any serious work he
had to hive by. And the saying was quite after Guy's
own heart. Why hadn't he done like his friend
Wilmot, who took his first at the same time, and an
Oriel fellowship directly afterwards, and then went
straight to London to read for the bar ?

London — there must be great advantages in living
in London, of various kinds. There was a very pleasant
smile on Faucit's face at this point of the secret
discourse. What a pity somebody wasn't there to see
it ! Wilmot had been called now three years, and was

already well spoken of on the Western Circuit, where
he had made quite a hit by holding some briefs for
more advanced juniors, and had distinguished himself
on his own account at Exeter sessions, on some knotty
point of settlement law.

He, Faucit, had some friends among the Exeter
attorneys, and he could be called in three years from
November, if he began at once, and ate the first steps
of his way to the woolsack, as by custom recognised
and provided.

Three years ! he would be thirty-one. Well — he
wouldn't be less if he began later. And really he
must do something'. This Oxford business was showing
impossible — wouldn't do. He believed that half the
difficulties of the bar were fables, if you had brains
and stuck to work. And wouldn't he ? Why at thirty-five
— Then the shadows of Guy's magic-lantern began
to shift and move, and to be lit by soft prismatic hues
radiating from the basket of Alnaschar. He saw a
prosperous and successful life before him, not prisoned
in the quadrangles of sleepy Oxford, but in the busy
turmoil of London the magnificent. He saw himself
working and rising — first remarked, then distinguished,
then great, and passing away in the fulness of years, to

leave, as his best legacy, his name behind him. He
saw many things; but in and through them all he
saw just this. Pledged first, then waiting, then
united ; always kindling, helping, comforting, consoling ;
he pictured to himself one fak and perfect woman
ever and always at his side.

It was on one evening towards the close of that lake-sojourn
that Faucit made to his pupils the announcement
which our readers were privileged to learn at
the end of the last chapter.

What was she doing the while, that lady of the
dream? Far away, perhaps, on the terrace which
looks down on the curing little river which runs by the
town of Berne, where the opposite heights rise suddenly
and picturesquely up, and the mighty giants of the
Oberland, shaded and softened by the distance, keep
watch and ward on the horizon, Daisy Fairfield was
sitting alone, with half an-h our to herself before the
table dliote. Her hands were folded on her lap, and
her eyes were set steadily upon the beautiful mountain
vision, as the shapes of Schreckhom and Finster-aar-
hom were imaging themselves firmly in that keen and
open mind. And in the double process of thought
which i-uns so oddly through our lives, even while

she drank the charm of that masterpiece of landscape
in, she too was dreaming out her sweet and maidenly
dream. Oh, so pure, so true, so maidenly ! so full of
that fearless innocence of life and thought which, when
a man is brought for the first time fairly face to face
with its inner secrets, teaches him first to be ashamed,
and then to rejoice — to rejoice with fear and reverence
over what God has done and does, even over what God
can pardon and undo.

As the young girl sat there, framed like an Mary
Schaeffer with the distance in her eyes, one after
another the passers-by turned back to look at her;
involuntarily, courteously, for she was not one of those
who may be looked on too rudely. But she was
conscious of no look, no gaze; she seldom was. If
Guy Faucit had known how rare indeed was the glance
which had followed him that first day on the banks of
the Isis, he would have been many inches a prouder
man. So the passers-by looked at her unrebuked, and
whispered about the "belle Anglaise," or the "schooner
Engendering," in their various tongues; and Daisy
sat dreaming on.

Sometimes — and in spite of myself — the tears come
to my eyes when I write and think of her. My own

dear wife, Dorothy Balbus, owns her for her best and
dearest friend : for this is no tragedy I am writing,
thank God, though the drama leads through many
paths of stone and thorns. And there is no name more
often on my wife's lips and mine than the name she
now so beautifully bears. She was thinking of Guy
Faucit even as he was thinking of her, in a sweet
fancy of love and dependence, yet of mutual help.
"What it meant, her dream of marriage, she neither
knew nor asked herself, in any exactness of shape.
She knew that she loved Guy Faucit, and was very
proud and ambitious for him; and though no word
had been spoken on either part, I think she knew
that she loved her. She had talked much with
him, as she came to know him during the' frequent
London meetings, — he had been at her father's
house, and often, and had neglected no place where
she might be, — of his future and his plans of life,
and had urged him much to come to London, and
boldly to try the bar. He was too good to waste
on Oxford reclusion. At first : — for afterwards, as
the better knowledge became better still, there came
a certain shyness over those urgings of hers, and she
said less. He noticed it, or thought he did ; and

passed to much self-questioning as to what it might
mean.

When they parted in London he had, we know,
formed no definite idea of leaving Oxford ; and something:
of her doubts was in her fancies now. Would
he really go back to college, and not find something
to do in London ? If he did — well. She didn't know.
Of the fears and reasons that held Faucit back she
knew nothing. She was rich, or would be, in the
world's goods, and how could she use them better than
in helping a great man to a great career ? For he could
be great, she was sure. And I think I can do no
better justice to Faucit' s sense or to Faucit' s honour,
than by saying that the thought of Daisy's money was
not only the last that occurred to him in the matter,
but struck him as a serious obstacle in his way.
How could he come forward for the rich merchant's
daughter, with neither position nor means, and even
with brains unproven for the achieving of either ? And
therein, perhaps, Guy Faucit measured the canons of
society only too well. Meanwhile, however, whatever
the future might Have in store for them, among the
fairest scenes of nature in her most various moods,
and among all the surroundings of men and women

who knew nothing of what was passing in their hearts,
though they rubbed elbows every day, Guy Faucit
and Daisy Fairfield thought from morning to evening,
in very plain English, of nothing in the world but
each other.

Mother AND SOX.

In a quiet corner of Devonshire, by some one of the tiny
Combes which lie between Teignmouth and Torquay,
and make the coast-walk from one of those places to
the other one of the prettiest which the pedestrian can
find on a summer's day, Guy Faucit had found a home
for the long widowed mother, who had till then been
his love. He always came back to the old lady with
fresh and renewed affection; kept her when he was
away constantly informed of all his doings and all
his plans, and found in her a wise as well as an
admiring adviser. With all her pride in Guy's Oxford
successes, and all her sympathy with his enthusiasm
for his pursuits there, she had a knack of shaking
lier head over his monastic theories of life. Charmed

with her only child's exclusive devotion, and repaying it
with womanly interest — how much did she not think
of him, after all, in comparison to all his thoughts
of her? — she nevertheless was very firmly convinced
that the boy ought to marry and would marry, and
returned to the charge upon that point with unfailing
pertinacity. Many and many a friendly battle-royal
did the two have together in the bright parlour — I
like the old-fashioned word where yet not out of place
where the roses clustered round the porch, and on
the other side of the little trim garden the limes shut
out the road. During his visits to Devonshire, which
he made a point of paying for some substantial part of
every vacation, Guy carried the old mother about under
protest to many of the parties and gatherings which
went on in the hospitable western county, at which
mother and son were always more than welcome. They
provided her with a circle of Mends who were sure to
look after her and find company for her when he was
away, for he didn't like to think of her as dull or too
much alone.

Xow it happens, that to the well-balanced taste the
young ladies of Devon are possessed of many and great
attractions ; and !Mrs. Faucit was firmly persuaded that

quite the majority of them were secretly in love with
Guy already, and asked nothing better than to meet
him half-way, if he were disposed to the mysterious
step called '' coming forward." When the parties and
gatherings were over, thus much would she expound to
him in the profoundest confidence, while he gravely
smoked his pipe by the roses. There had been a little
difficulty over the tobacco at first, Mrs. Faucit having
been brought up in ante-nicotian days when smoking
was an illicit trade, and relegated to the kitchen or
the harness-room. Guy had given in with the best
of graces till his mother began to find that she grudged
so much of his society to his pipe, and thought it best
to make advances to her rival, who now lived with heron
the pleasantness of terms. She had been heard to
confess that she even liked it, and the final victory was
achieved by Guy's machiavellian craft. Mrs. Faucit
always said that she could detect the slightest trace of
tobacco in a room for days afterwards. For four or five
nights consecutively Guy smoked in the dining-room,
with the due precautions, after she had gone to bed,
and confessed one morning when the old lady's blissful
ignorance was apparent. The next night he didn't
smoke ; and at breakfast Mrs. Faucit, demonstratively

sniffing, declared that the smell was intolerable. But
she was of a candid mind ; and on the weakness of the
proposition being demonstrated, she gave in. So the
pipe among the roses became a recognized institution ;
and their beauteous majesties of the garden bloomed
none the worse for it.

Here, in the parlour then, many and many a time
after they had come home, did these two who were
all in all to each other discuss how they might
become less. Guy would explain that it was impossible
; that the Fates had shaped him a course at
the university, where, though a wife was a forbidden
luxury, a mother was not. When his position was
definite enough ; when a certain professorship, which was
generally regarded as his reversion, had fallen in his
way, and he had fairly settled down to his stride, his
mother was to leave the Devonshire cottage and keep
house for him at Oxford, as he should leave the rooms
in Balliol, and set ujd a homestead of his own. He had
mapped out his future upon these definite lines, and
he did not mean to disturb it.

I've married my mother," he said ; " and
the day shall come when she shall be a hostess
well-kno-^Ti in Oxford circles, and all the pleasantness

VOL. I. I

society in the place shall meet in her drawing-rooms."


This was his filial castle in the air ; and men have
built worse before now, I think. But sirs. Faucit
could not be brought to agree.

Marriage, my dear old boy, is the law for all nice
people ; and you were never intended to be one of the
exceptions. You ought to be independent, of course,
and to be able to make up to any one you choose, and
go into Parliament, where you would get a great name,
and be asked into the ministry directly. It is simply
too bad of James Foster, my only brother in the world,
and he with neither kith nor kin of his own, not to give
you a handsome allowance out of all that money of his,
and acknowledge you as his heir. Whom else has he
got ; and whom does he want better, I should like
to know ? "

Don't talk about him, mother," said Faucit,
whose face always grew dark at the mention of James
Foster's name.

'' But I must talk about him. How can I help
talking about an only brother with his tens of thousands
a-year, and my poor sister Mary dead and gone ?
I wish you'd write to him."

Mother ! how can you even think of it ? when you
have so often told me yourself of his conduct to you
and my father when you married, and always afterwards."


"Who knows but he may have been right, my
dear ? Your poor father with his half-pay — quarter-pay
I called it — and I with my little bit of money ; no
wonder that he thought the marriage so rash and
wrong."

Rash and wrong ! when he could have helped you
had he cared, without even feeling it I Don't talk anymore
about him ; I hate to hear his name. All his
endless meanness afterwards, about trustee ships, and
Heaven knows what besides, didn't make things much
better, did they ? Daring to dictate to my grand old
soldier-father, and pretend to look down on him from
the heights of the stocking-trade ! He had better find
his needle's eye to creep through and make haste about
it, the old miser ! "

Oh, Guy, what a very shocking quotation ! "

'awful. I am the profanes of men, as you know.
Uncle James indeed ! " and Guy laughed. " Shall I
ever forget the last and about the only time I ever saw
him, when I suppose I was about thirteen years old ?

I 2

Don't you remember, mother, when he drove past us in
his gig, and said, ' Is that your boy, Katie ? Why,
he's not brown — he's black ! ' Pleasant creature ! how
I should like to kick him ! "

'' Well, dear, it wasn't nice," said the mother with
a sigh, who would have done anything for that boy of
hers, and was moreover of a placable disposition. " But
quarrels in families are such weary things ; and I do
believe that if you wrote to him — "

I shan't, you know, mother. We're not rich, but
we're comfortable; and if I go on as I am we shall
be more than comfortable some day. I don't like
family-quarrels either, and have no objection to making
up, even with old grey-shillings. But — que messieurs
les assassins commandant. When Mr. Foster comes
with his hat in his hand and begs our pardon, perhaps
we'll ask him to tea. And now let's change the subject.
Who was the last young lady you said was
breaking her heart for me, at the Powderham archery
meeting yesterday ? "

"I didn't say breaking her heart, dear. I wish
you'd be more accurate."

"But you implicit, you bad old woman; you
know you did."

"Well, dear, Alice Maitland is a very nice girl
indeed, and it's no use saying she isn't. And Maitland's
bank is one of the oldest and best in London.

"Alice Maitland is nice, and the bank is even
nicer. But I think, mother, that I like Hose Plummer
better."

Do you, really ? Well, Rose Plummer is a very
nice crirl too, and will have a nice fortune, though she's
not as rich as the other. But Sir John Plummer has a
great influence in the county, and might sit for it if
lie liked. Still I do think you oughtn't to xliii: so
dreadfully with both of them. It isn't fair upon the
poor girls."

"How odd you women are about each other,"
laughed Guy. " The moment we like a girl, and talk
to her a Httle more, or waltz with her a Httle oftener
than usual, it isn't ' fair ' ; and we are always expected
to ' mean ' something. I can't make out how on earth
anybody ever marries anybody, as you're always pulled
up before you've time to find out anvthincr about a curl
except that you rather like her. I don't believe the
girls agree with you a bit, or expect anything, or wish
for anything except to be left alone for a while, just
as the men do ! "

The old lady shook her head. " You don't know
girls as I do, Guy. How are they to know what men
mean ? "

"Easy enough, I should think. But I tell you
what it is, little mother : if they're what you make
them out they're a poor lot, and I don't want to have
anything to do with them."

*but, Guy—"

But, mother. Now let's have some backgammon."
And the champion of the river and the tennis-court
proceeded to devote himself with a single heart, unscathed
by the influences of Alice Maitland and Rose
Plummer, to the mysteries of cinq-quater and decease.
Mrs. Faucit shook the box and returned to the
charge.

Nevertheless, Guy, I should like to see you with
a good wife."

*every well, then; find me one. Fort with her
yourself, propose to her yourself, and come and live
with us."

No, dear, I shan't."

Well, then, I shan't either."

The discussion stands for many which went on
between the mother and son, before the summer when

Guy Faucit met Daisy Fairfield at the Christchurch
ball, and came down to the Devonshire cottage from
the lakes, with a new life and a new feeling stirring
in his heart.

■Jf--X--X--X- 4(- ^

Then you are in earnest this time, my dear child ? "

I am afraid I am, my mother, very much."

"God bless you, my son. I am sure that ^ss
Fairfield is all that I could ■ e ver ^dsh; and I shall be
so glad and proud to welcome her."

'there's a good deal to happen before that,
mother," answered Guy, laughing. "I've got to win
her, you know, to begin with."

I don't think there can be very much doubt about
that," the mother answered, in a tone of very placid
conviction.

Guy laughed again.

You dear old prophet of good, may your confidence
be well grounded. Let me look at you,
mother mine."

He rested his two hands upon her shoulders, and
looked down from his height of vantage upon the soft
smooth bands of silver hair.

"Can you give up the dream of the Oxford home.

and think of me as the hard-working barrister in
smoky old London, toiling for the dear life and the
dearer love ? "

*'I never believed in the Oxford home, my boy;
and I always told you so. And 1 shall love to think
of the work in London, which is the only place fora
man like you. I must do my best to help you."

What, mother ? It shall make no difference to
you whatever."

Oh, but it must."

Oh, but it mustn't. Why, I have calculated
means, and I shall do splendidly. I shall take small
living-chambers in the Temple, not to be at double
expense. I shall write a good deal more than I have
done, for I think I have the connection for that already ;
and with my fellowship, which is a good one, I shall
be more than able to manage. Not a penny off the
help that I have been able to give the mother."

Oh, Guy ! it is not right. It is I that should be
helping you."

You dear old lady ! you look like it, don't you '?
Why I wouldn't lose a bit of the pride I have in
helping to keep up the Devonshire cottage, not even
for all the Miss Fairfield to be found ! "

"That doesn't sound like being properly in love,"
said Mrs. Paucity

think it does ; and I don't think Miss Fairfield
would agree with you."

"But the Bar is so expensive. Ain't there all
sorts of fees at starting ? "

I've saved enough to pay them. You know what
an old screw I am; quite a touch of uncle James.
Yes, mother, I am going to try my fortune in London,
like so many waifs from Dick Whittington downwards.
It's a face to do it for, isn't it ? "

There was a photograph in Guy's hands.
"Yes, dear, it's a lovely face, and a good face.
My Guy would never have chosen any other. God
bless you and guard you and help you, my boy, and
as you will be as good a husband as you are a good
son, may He grant you your heart's desire."

Very fondly the two kissed and embraced and
parted; and it was with a heart purified and a wil
strengthened by the mother's blessing, that Guy Faucit
started bravely on the London career which has seen
so many "vain, and so many, to all outward seeming no
less gallant and no less deserving, founder and fail.

Term-EATING.

The young Balliol fellow settled to his new work withall
the will in him, and soon began to find the truth
of the maxim of Sir Benjamin Brodie, with which
he had comforted himself. After the historians and
philosophers and poets who had grown such familiar
friends with him, he found it difficult at first to realize-the
attractions of style and thought to be found in
Bales on Bills,' or Fame's ' Contingent Remainders ' ;
and * Smith's Leading Cases ' led at times to wandering
thoughts, and to a sense of almost impossible boredom.
In spite of himself he reverted to some dearly-loved
point of classic controversy, and detected himself
in the act of fighting old battles over again on the old
ground, somewhere in the fields of thought. But I

have elsewhere spoken of Guy's great power over himself,
for he had realized early in life the truth of the
maxim which Dickens laid do^Ti, which sooner or later
every man must realize who is really to succeed in
anything. He had mastered while still at school the
secret of 'patient ungrudging attention," to which
Dickens attributed all his own success, though in the
case of that high authority perhaps there was something
more to start with than falls to the share of most
men.

So at it Guy went again all the harder for
these deviations of the compass; and it was a sight
to see him, both his hands holding tight to his hair,
and the elbow-seams of his coat suffering considerably
from their violent contact with the table, grappling
with the " construction," as the grammarians call it, of
some sentence of inordinate length, without apparent
verb, and with neither beginning nor end, in which the
potent, grave, and reverend authors of our law-books
can give many points to my old enemy Thucydides
himself. I hold the authors of law-books as a race
altogether apart in the wonders of their style, and
their mastery of that art of meaning-unmeaning which
is so heavy a tax on their readers. Except some of the

propounders of the new scientific gospels, I know of
none to match them in that way. I hate a page which
has to be read five times before any meaning can
be distilled from it, and then turns out to be either
gibberish, or else some faultless platitude which might
have been expressed in a line if it was to be expressed
at all.

Thus not long ago, in the 'Fortnightly Review
I think, did I find myself studying a profound treatise
on the Laws of Rhyme, from which I thought to gather
instruction and advantage. One half-page held me
riveted for a long time, for it was beautifully fine, and
I felt that when I once understood it I should realize
some great truth. I was on the eve of discovery, and
meditated on my author profoundly. I forget the
exact words he used, but they were something like
this —

"In rhyme, everything depends upon a certain
assonance and a certain assured sequence in the
collocation of what we call the vowels and the consonants;
and if the strict conditions therein implied
fail to be watchfully and systematically observed, the
result is a lapse of the delicate concord of musical
sound which seizes and arrests the cultivated ear, once

attuned to the eternal laws of harmony and proportion,"
etcetera, etcetera.

That, or something like it, Y\-ent on for a page ; and
at last I found that it meant exactly this, nor less nor
more: that a 'that" rhjTnes to a "cat," but not to
a "bag."

It was a great consolation to Faucit, after much
wrestling of the spirit and internal perplexity over the
abstruseness of English law, to find that nine-tenths,
of the abstruseness lay in the way in which it was put
or rather wasn't, the "putting" being often conspicuous
by its absence — and to discover to his great satisfaction
that half the pages he read might have been
boiled down into as many words. Writers who undertake
to write, especially upon knotty subjects, ought
to go through a competitive examination first, based
upon primitive syntax and words in not more than
three syllables ; for with rare exceptions, never yet has
writer won the big prizes save by simplicity of style.
Be as eloquent as Ruskin or Newman, if you can ; as
witty as Thackeray; as scholarly as Cockbum: as
fanciful as Charles Lamb; but mark that the whole
setting of the wit and the eloquence, the scholarship
and the fancy, are this and only this — simplicity. And

for the sake of long-suffering mankind, observe one
maxim more. When you have nothing to write about,
let it alone. The " laws of rhyme," for instance, are
briefly contained in the summary I ventured to give
of the valuable thoughts of my " resonant " friend.
Rhyme has just that law, and no other. "C'est si facile
de ne pas ecrire," was de Morn's answer to the unsuccessful
dramatist who complained to him that " ce
n' est pas si facile d'ecrire une comedie''

Having solved this original problem to his satisfaction,
Faucit worked with a will. As he looked at the
uninviting calf which began to invade his beloved
book-cases, and felt it his duty to furnish the little
chambers in Garden Court in orthodox legal fashion,
he sighed sometimes over the artistic Balliol rooms.
But the purpose that was in him was far too strong
for vain regrets, and apart and away from that, the
ambition of London life soon began to hold him.
If he was not the Caesar that he had been at Oxford,
the dominant nature of the man asserted itself in his
new life as it did everywhere.

In the debating societies which met in and about
the cozy taverns just east of Temple Bar, to be
remembered in future generations, probably, only by

the hideous landmark of the city griffin, where law
questions were debated with zest and interest by the
self - educating among the sucking advocates, Faucit
made his mark at once, as he had done before at
the Union, on the grave question whether Mr. Disraeli
was or was not fit to lead the Conservative Party, or
whether the Oxford youth would or would not lend
its support to the foreign policy of the day.

I fear that the majority of us, for I too tried my
'prentice hand at the bar, were content with the
education provided for us by the benchers, in the shape
of dinners in hall.

Beginning his work in November, when the fees
and the fogs begin circulating together, Faucit
deferred till after Christmas the necessary course of
reading with a pleader, as he preferred to know something
of the elements of his business before he began.

The hundred guineas were rather a wrench ; but, ashe
told his mother, he had saved money, and all
luxuries he retrenched at once from his manner of
living. No more delicate little scout-laid dinners, or
choice bottles of wine with a friend ; only the homely
mutton and the frothing beer, which my healthy-minded
young athlete liked just as sell. It disturbed

him a little to think that he might run to fat, but
he forestalled the danger by a vigorous course of
fencing at Waite's rooms in Soho Square, and an
occasional migration to Lord's for a turn at the tennis.

A very pleasant set of rooms were those of Faucit's
in Garden Court, looking down from their third floor
upon the green little gardens of the Middle Temple on
the one side, — no embankment stood between that and
the water then, — and on the other on the plashing
fountain at the head of the steps, which was such a
pleasant object both to look and to listen to, like an
oasis of rest in the deserts of law-strife. For what
reason it was improved off the face of the earth I know
not; but when its innocent babble was extinguished,
there was mourning among the dwellers in Garden
Court.

I had myself been called to the bar some three
years when Faucit took up his quarters in the Temple ;
and very welcome was his arrival to me and others of
his Oxford contemporaries. I was taking the law
easily, as I had taken the classics ; and failing entirely
to achieve Faucit' s patience over his law-books, I felt
that if I was ever to arrive at greatness in the law,
it would have to be thrust upon me by imperious

circumstance. Imperious circumstance did indeed
try it for a time, and threw many briefs and a good
round practice in my way ; but Nature was too strong
in me even for circumstance, and my incorrigible idleness
was the cause of much mourning in the Balbus
family, who predicted untimely ends for me which have
not yet come to pass.

Fred Wilmot was the third of the Balliol chums
who now re-united in the chambers in Garden Court,
and consorted in frequent companionship together.

Fast friends we were in those cheery days, though
Wilmot was the very reverse of me, being all that
the Wilmot family could desire, and penetrated with
legal ambition and legal lore. His was a Kght which,
in consequence, now burns and shines as it ought, for
is not Wilmot the acknowledged leader of his circuit,
and sure of speedy promotion to the bench ? Only a
morning or two ago I was reading with admiration an
argument of his in a case in which a clergyman had
been imprisoned for breaking the law, wherein he
proved, past my contradiction, that an eminent judge
who was responsible for the proceeding had broken
it in half-a-dozen different places himself.

Wilmot and Faucit had many a deep discussion

VOL. I. K

upon law together, as in old days upon Aristotle or
Plato, at which, as in old days also, I assisted as an
admiring listener — my remarks, when I made any,
being with much consent treated as trivial. I was not
in any way regarded as a serious person ; and it was
a puzzle to many, myself included, why I chose my
special friends, or was chosen by them, from among
the more studious spirits of my time, when I should
obviously have herded with the drones.

I am no nearer to any philosophic system of life
now than I was when I read Mill, and didn't believe
a word of him; but I fancy that through all that
idleness of mine there must have been a large amount
of observation and meditation at work, which was to
bear fruit for me later, when my emancipated spirit
had got out of the legal shell, and had become free
to circulate in a literary atmosphere of its own.

As for Faucit, none of us ever had any doubt that he
would come out clear first in anything and everything
he chose to put his hand to. Young as he was at the
work, he soon found his connection in journalism
extending and growing solid, and felt with relief that
if the bar failed him he would after all have a profession
to fall back upon. But he would not let the

pen tempt him too far, or use it for anything buta
help at starting.

A few years before, and even journalism had been
under police supervision in a barrister who meant
business.

'' There are callings," said Lord Peterborough, '' in
which to be suspected of literature is dangerous."

But more liberal ideas were beginning to prevail,
and even solicitors to allow that a man cannot live
upon hope while he is waiting for their briefs, but must
help himself as best he may as long as he does it
with a due amount of reticence. So Guy Faucit stuck
resolutely to anonymous work, and suppressed his
personality in literature.

As for me, in a weak moment I wrote a farce which
was acted in public, and audaciously claimed the
authorship. Then all was over, and my prospects were
blasted. They have never recovered. Never mind.

"John, my son," said an anxious parent to a co-barrister
and co-author of mine, who had like pro-cavities,
" how can you be such a fool as to write a
play? If you stick to the bar you may become a
Brougham."

"I may," he said; "and if I stick to the plays

K 2

I may become a Sheridan. One's just as likely as the
other ; and of the two I prefer Sheridan."

John held to his evil courses, and is now making
a very handsome income of his own. It is very wrong ;
but he is. They have balances at their bankers, some
of those dramatists, improper though it be.

Very strange and very wonderful are the ways of
fate; and no stranger lot than Faucit's did she hold
in that mysterious urn of hers. There was to be no
calling to the bar, no legal name or legal success, for
him from whom his friends all hoped so much. Rather
they did not hope ; they felt sure. Yet, in one year
from the day when we dined with him by way of
chamber-warming in Garden Court, upon a feast of
oysters, — cheap then and plentiful, and consumed by the
young votaries of Themis, not grudgingly or sparingly,
or in the comforting' shifts of Blue-Points or French
immigrants, but in rich native luxuriance over the
counters of Prosser, — and of beefsteaks and beer, the
dream was to be over and the future gone, and our
model and hero, all his moorings severed and lost, was
to drift away out of sight, as lost to us as Merlin in
the hollow oak, and even in the minds which held him
dearest to linger but as a memory. We should have

made more of him that winter, Wilmot and I, and of
all the rich stores we drew from his strong sense and
scholarship and shrewd imagination, had we known
vrhat and how soon was to be the end of that pleasant
chapter in our lives. He was one who needed confidence
and sympathy, and was expansive with his close
allies, though vrith the many he was reticent about
himself.

So it was not long before Wilmot and I knew the
reason of his change of plans and life, which had
puzzled us at first, well aware as we were of his
attachment to Oxford, and of his tenacity of purpose.
He was one of those men who seem bound to hive heart-whole,
and supplied a crucial test of the absurdity of
predicating such a thing of anybody. When they do
go, these ironclads, they do. Faucit concealed nothing
from Wilmot or from me, who kept his counsel. He
felt pretty sure that he had made an impression upon
Daisy Fairfield's thoughts and heart, and had a confidence
in her very fine to see. He was in no hurry to
speak; but if she cared about him — and he would spare
no effort to make that certain — she would wait as
wistfully as he. She knew well enough what his
thoughts and wishes were, he said, even when they

parted in the summer. Or if she doubted them, what
did she think when, towards the close of November,
when he had settled well down in harness, they met
face to face in one of the winter exhibitions ?

Very warm on both sides was the shake of the hand;
and Guy's quick eye had already detected the faint
sweet flush which brought the rose-tinge to the clear
face, whose every line he knew so well. Many of its
myriad expressions he had still to learn. So, alas ! had
she, poor child !

*you in London, Mr. Faucit?" she said. "Can
Oxford spare you just now ? "

*' I have left Oxford," he quietly answered.

She looked quickly up, and spoke slowly, with a
certain pleased surprise.

You— have left— Oxford ? "

*' Yes ; I am living in chambers in the Temple, and
am reading hard for the Bar."

"I am very glad," she answered, frankly and
straightforwardly. ''I am sure that you will make
yourself a great name in that profession before long."

"I shall try," he said gravely. "At all events, you
see I have taken your advice."

Did I advise you to do it ? "

•'' More than once. Have you forgotten ? "

'' Xo ; I remember now that I did. But I should
not like to think that I am responsible for so grave a
change of purpose."

"Very many have advised me to it as well as you,"
Guy answered. " Indeed, most of my friends, I think.
So if I turn out a failure I won't sue you for damages.
But somehow I don't feel as if I should."

No, indeed. For earnest men, Mr. Faucit, there is
no such word as fail. I suppose you will live like a
hermit in your Temple chambers."

'' Xot quite, I hope. I never believed in shutting
oneself up as the best way of working. Change of
mental air is the best receipt for everybody. I shall
hope to come and call in Portland Place very soon
indeed. Have you been back long ? "

Casuistry, Master Guy. He knew perfectly well
she hadn't : for had not he and I walked past the
house in Portland Place only three days before, and
seen the binds down ? Guy walked very often up
Portland Place. He found the air of the Regent's
Park bracing, he said.

"No," said Daisy; "we stayed a Httle time in
Paris on our way home, and only came back yesterday.

I have so much to tell you of our Swiss tour, and all
the delight I had in it. When will you come ? "

'' Shall you be at home tomorrow ? "

'' Yes ; by five o'clock."
" Will you give me a cup of tea then ? "

'' Yes."

And the next day, at that pleasantness hour of social
interchange, the bright silver tea-urn in Portland Place
once more took up the accompaniment to the old,
old song.

FAIRFIELD AXD CO.

There were signs that Tsdnter that all was not well
with the house of Fairfield. How is it that people
know or suspect mischief in the business air ? There
are no outward and visible signs. The house goes on
as usual; the payments are as sure and regular. In
the City the same routine goes on with the steadiness
of clockwork; and at the West-end Madam has her
dinner-parties and receptions, and Miss her horses and
her enjoyments. But there are unaccustomed clouds
on the face of the master of the house ; certain
asperities and inequalities in his ways and speech
which betray themselves to the home-observers who
know him so well. And in the City chambers there
are conferences between the partners, frequent and

unusually protracted; and the confidential clerk, who
is the marrow of the concern perhaps, is summoned to
assist at them, and comes out looking rather grave,
though nothing escapes him which his curious juniors
can build a theory upon. But Dick confides to Harry
over the mid-day chop and pint, and Harry wonders
if the governor can possibly be shaky, though that
anything can really be wrong with Fairfield and Co.
seems an idea too absurd to be entertained seriously,
etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, — Jja calumiiia e un monticello,
— and Harry and Dick, unconsciously enough,
perhaps, set the stone of talk rolling, which, unlike the
fabled rock of Sisyphus, has a knack of working its way
up-hill all by itself when it is once started.

People in the City spoke doubtfully of the old ship
Fairfield and Co. A younger partner had come in,
bitten with the new theories of City-progress, and was
bent upon enlarging the operations of the firm.

Old Threadneedle, the confidential clerk, very much
disapproved of the new partner, and was for keeping
the house in the old and quiet grooves in which she had
run without a creak for so many years. He disliked
the new order of things very much, and maintained
that if the City was to become a colony of Jews and

Germans, and to exist for nothing but for the forcing
of hothouse fortunes, the old English traders should
hold the more to the old ways, and keep a quiet corner
to themselves in the middle of the scamper.

But in that, as in many things, Conservatism and
Obstruction grow something mixed, and the tant
Progress insists on having his way. It was surely by
some odd freak worth the meditations of the political
enquirer, that it was just when the City was growing
more and more revolutionary in her own business-ways,
that she suddenly ratted in her political creed, and
turned Tory.

Mr. Fairfield, the head of the house, was to those
who knew him casually not a nice man. His externals
were against him, for his architecture was of the florid-combative
order, and he was bios and overbearing of
manner. His voice was harsh, and creaked and grated
in the sound — peculiarities aggravated by the fact that
he had a sensitive throat, and was always losing the
voice he had. His eyebrows were bushy, and his hair
rebellious, more like a white wire-fence than anything
else. He was rather a bully at home too, or poor
delicate Mrs. Fairfield's frightened face belied him.
She was always ailing, poor little lady, and nobody

ever quite knew what with till she went quietly out of
the world without any particular reason, a few years
after the time I am writing of.

Some people there are who are ill in that indefinite
way all their lives, and thereby cause pitying affection
in some, and irritation in others.

Mrs. Fairfield irritated her husband, who was
attentively strong and rude of health, and furious with
the local weakness in his bronchial arrangements, which
was tiresome Without being in the slightest degree
interesting. Moreover, he could have got rid of it ina
fortnight by drinking less wine. Moreover, he knew
it, and was exceedingly angry if anybody told him so.

He lectured Mrs. Fairfield on her partiality for
doctors, who, indeed, did the poor lady very little good,
making: general remarks about want of tone which
were both obvious and feeble. They were particular
about the wine she drank, which varied according to
the medical fashion of the season. This year it was
hock. Indeed, each season has its special vintage from
the physician's point of view as much as from the
vine-grower's. However, I don't think the faculty did
Mrs. Fairfield any harm, or that there was any harm or
good to be done to her, simple, neutral-tinted soul.

She clung to Daisy with a fond and close affection,
which the young girl returned with interest, watching
her mother ^\dth a protecting tenderness very good to
see. She was a bulwark often between her and the
lord-and-master's tempers; for Mr. Fairfield was in
his way very fond and proud of Daisy too, and rarely
showed any disposition to bully her. Indeed, with all
her sweetness of nature, Daisy Fairfield was not easy to
bully. Any attempt of the kind missed its mark somehow,
and made itself look foolish, and perished of
inanition. There was a sort of uncompromising and
fearless straightness about her, clear-set in the o-reat
blue eyes, which baffled dictation as much as it subdued
impertinence. The latter, somehow, was out of
the question with her altogether.

Daisy Fairfield was fond of her father for his love
for her; and I cannot help thinking that it takes a
great deal to prevent a child from being fond of
a parent. I doubt if anything but absolute and
proved un-love will do it, for the fifth commandment
is by nature very easy of keeping. He had great
schemes for her in his head, and meant to make
her an heiress worth a great man's wooing — great
of course socially and by right of purse, as such folk

measure greatness. He had but one other child, a son
whom he regarded with much contempt and some
aversion, as a very weak vessel indeed.

Dick Fairfield had shewed no propensity for making
money, but a considerable one for spending it on himself.
He had declined to have anything to do with the
business, in which he was to have succeeded his father,
as Fairfield after Fairfield always did, and as there
Alas no second to fall back upon, "Fairfield" must in
another generation be but a nominis umbra in the
house, where the new partner would reign supreme,
under such fetters of Threadneedle's forging as he
would submit to. Dick had gone into the army as such
men do, not to fight, but to loaf; and his father, finding
the business hopeless, had allowed him to do it because
of the social consideration he supposed would belong toit.
But in starting him he had given him clearly to
understand, that as he declined to care for the House
of Fairfield, the House of Fairfield would not make an
eldest son of him, but that Daisy would have her full
share of the goods her father might leave behind him.
Dick accepted the condition vacuously, as he did
everything, being indeed slow both of heart and of
intelligence, and a wonder to everybody in that he

called Daisy sister. Such wonders of kinship are constant,
family im-likeness being often more curious to
speculate upon than family likeness.

Daisy thoroughly disapproved of Dick; and fully
shared her father's feeling that he should have felt
it a bounden duty, being the only son, to conquer his
tastes, or rather want of them, and stand by the house
and the business.

Poor Mrs. Fairfield, of course, could never be
brought to see this, which nettled her husband considerably.
She thought the army delightful, and the
uniform most becoming ; and she sympathized deeply
with Dick's grievances when, as now, he was relegated
to unattractive quarters in an out-of-the-way part of
Ireland. He ought to have made a stipulation with
the Horse-Guards, when he joined, that he never was
to leave London.

Daisy Fairfield, perhaps, did not keenly regret her
brother's absence, and for her that Christmas season,
which followed on Guy Faucit's plunge into the troubled
waters of legal life, was a happy and memorable time.
It is a happy, if a restless time, for those of us to whom
it is given, that during which the heart's first real fancy
takes steady shape and form, and the feeling that " it

may be " deepens into the conviction that " it mustn't

the belief that "it will."

Guy Faucit, with his friends and his introductions,
at once found himself welcome in the society I described
as Daisy's in a former chapter. He was a man to
become an acquisition and a favourite at once ; for his
Oxford fame had of necessity preceded him to many
places in town, where many a man now in advance of
him at the bar owned him for tutor and adviser, and
looked up to him with unabated reverence.

Good Mrs. Pepperharrow, who was one of the first
people on whom he called, killed a fatted calf for him
at once, and sent him down to dinner with Daisy.
Mrs. Pepperharrow was preternaturally gorgeous, and
full of an important move in life which she was going
to make. She was about to " take up her hassocks,"
as a friend of mine describes the progress of migration,
and inaugurate a mighty palace in the south-west of
London, which she hoped to make a fashionable centre.
So good of you if you'll come and help me, Mr.
Faucit," she said, " with some acting or a little music,
or some tableaux vivant " (I cannot attempt to reproduce
the appearance these two words would assume in
the spelling). " I'm sure you're very clever in that way."

Indeed, Mrs. Pepperharrow, I know noting at all
about them."

Oh, !Mr. Fancit, you can't expect me to believe
that. A man of your intellect, who can do anything e
likes to do without an effort. Daisy dear, wouldn't Mr.
Faucit look well as the Earl of Leicester, with you
as Amy what's-her-name, and me as Queen Elizabeth ?
Then there would be appropriate music being the
scenes, and a good supper downstairs. Mr. Faucit,
you really must promise me to do the Earl of
Leicester."

"The Earl of Leicester, Mrs. Pepperharrow," said
Daisy, " was slight and delicate and romantic ; and you
will have to starve Mr. Faucit down, which I am sure
isn't at all in your way. And Pm sure I don't look
a bit like that spiritless Amy Robert."

"Xo, indeed," said her neighbour, in a low voice.
"Flora Macleod, or Minna in the 'Pirate,' would be
more the line of part to fall to you."

"Are you to be the desperate Cleveland, then ?"

Ah sit omen ! " muttered Guy in a low voice.

Which means ? " asked Daisy, half hearing.

Which means that I was quoting Latin at dinner,
which is atrocious ; I should have been sconced for it

VOL. I. L

at Oxford. I wonder, Miss Fairfield, if such an inveterate
old don as I must be by this time will ever be
civilized up to London level ? "

"We shall all try what is to be done with you.
Mrs. Pepperharrow, do you think we can ever make
a London man of Mr. Faucit ? "

My dear, I'm surprised to hear you. Tm sure Mr.
Faucit would be what he liked anywhere; though
whether we ave to be different in Belgrave Square from
what we are in Portland Place, I'm afraid I don't know.
I've heard that you ave, and I wonder how it's done."

"What .makes you change from such comfortable
quarters as these ? " asked Paucity

husband Ugh as made a great it," said the
lady, rushing at the sentence gallantly and losing every
fence. (She generally saved some.) " I'm sure we were
rich enough before, and very thankful we ought to be,
when there's so many poor people about, and so hard
to know what to do for them."

"Nobody knows better what to do in that way
than Mrs. Pepperharrow," said Daisy, looking very
kindly on her friend.

"Well, I know that I try, my dear. And, Mr.
Faucit, the poor are very hard to manage sometimes,

and do take one in so. I yonder if they're any better
in Belgrave Square."

"Are you going there on a voyage of discovery ? "

We're going there because Ugh as more than
doubled all his money this year, and is likely to go on
making more and more of it now e's once begun. And
I think we ought to do our duty in the states to which
"we are called, and to see more of the aristocracy.
Not," added Mrs. Pepperharrow, hurriedly, " that we're
going to neglect old friends. Neither Ugh nor me
would do that. Oh dear me ! Ugh's going to sleep ;
look at him nodding at the other end of the table, and
!Mrs. MacGunter not attending to him because of the
canvass-backed ducks. Ugh, dear — ahem" (with knife
and fork accompaniments on the table). " Ugh ! "

The soap-boiler recovered with a start, and poured
some wine into Mrs. MacGunter's plate.

"You'll come and see us very often in the new
ouse, !Mr. Faucit," continued the speaker, having
recovered the interruption ; " and as for Daisy here, I'm
going to take her to all the best places and all the best
things of next year's season."

"And make a fine lady of her?" said Faucit.

*' Painting the lily and gilding the gold."

L 2

He spoke rather low.

Mr. Faucit ! " said Daisy as low. " You don't
generally pay ^a/ia^-compliments."

I don't think I ever do," he answered. " I was
quite in earnest. I cannot see Miss Fairfield in the
character of a fine lady."

"Thank you," she said, laughingly. "Perhaps I
can. Why should you think that I am free from the
ambitions and the weaknesses of my sex ? "

From what I have heard of it, the society craze
is neither an ambition nor a weakness. It is a fever,
apt to leave the whole system in an unstrung and
exhausted condition."

So the talk glided on into the usual philosophies
about the emptiness of fashionable life and the hollowness
of society, which came of course with tremendous
force from these two experienced young moralists. It
is astonishing how, in London, that same hollow cavity
is proclaimed and proscribed by the flutterers on the
edge, who hasten to tumble into it one after another on
the first appearance of an opening.

Guy and Daisy were not near enough to the mouth
yet, so they were free to talk with a grave superiority
which impressed Mrs. Pepperharrow but little, as far as

she heard their conversation, carried on, it must be
confessed, in something of an undertone.

Have I spoken of Daisy Fairfield's voice ? Guy's
eyes were sometimes hae-shut as he listened, to dwell
on the music of the notes. His hostess was on a more
fashionable life intent, and undismayed by the auguries
of good-natured friends as to the snubbing she might
have to bear. She reed upon her Hugh's purse, and
her own placid persistency of nature, which, combined
with the fact that you might as well be rude to a
cushion, had served her in good stead in the battle
of life. They had begun at the bottom of the scale,
she and her husband, and had loved and comforted
each other in theu^ honest way throughout. If such
people do set their hearts upon social conquests, they
do it so innocently and thoroughly that there is no
blaming them, and perhaps they win because they
deserve it.

The Pepperharrows' wealth made very many people
happy ; and in the hands of such trustees as they, it is
apt to increase fast. Fortune, indeed, seemed bent at
this time upon showering the favours they most desired
upon them.

Early in the year, just as the big house in Belgrave

Square was being prepared for the opening of the
season, it fell to the lot of Alderman Hugh Pepper-harrow
to preside over some ceremony in the city which
was graced by the presence of royalty, and carried with
it some special significance deserving of special commemoration.
Within a few days, to his wife's undisguised
and pronounced delight, and with the effect
of some shame-sacredness on his part, veiling much
inward satisfaction, the soap-boiler arose Sir Hugh
Pepperharrow from under the gracious hand of his
sovereign. And it was under such a smiling fortune as
this that the ' Peep-Hole ' and the ' Flunkey,' and other
organs of the fashionable world, previously primed in
the matter, announced beforehand some of the wonders
which were to await the 4liie of the head monde in the
salons of the popular lady of an excellent knight. On
such matters we always write in reverential, if sometimes
doubtful, French. Even at the same time that
fickle and dangerous goddess of the wheel was, alas !
steering for a lea-shore, and bringing gathering rumours
in her wake, the older vessel of Fairfield and Co.

COMING EVENTS.

No rumours about the house of Fairfield or its fortunes
reached the ears of the student in the Temple ; nor did
Daisy in Portland Place suspect any reason whatever
for her father's increased irritabilities. He growled
and glared more than before, and he visibly increased
his allowances both of port wine and brandy-and-water,
much to the girl's annoyance and distress. She had
seen the effect of too much indulgence in these luxuries
upon him too often not to hold them in profound
horror, and she had very often been able to prevail
on him to mend his ways by judicious remonstrance.

Mrs. Fairfield had an unfortunate knack of interfering
at exactly the wrong time, and in exactly the
wrong way, and returning weakly to the charge when

wisdom lay in silence. People like this poor lady
are always doing it — unlucky social martyrs, who are
quite undeserving of the cruel process of snubbing,
very incapable of bearing it, and yet always to a great
extent bringing it on themselves.

The effect of Mrs. Fairfield's mild but pertinacious
words was usually to increase the evil ; but with his
daughter Mr. Fairfield had the grace to be ashamed
of himself and of his bad tempers, when they outgrew
the reasonable crossness which is permitted to every
right-minded head of a household, in order to signify
that he is Sir Oracle, and wants the barking to himself.
Under the crooked influence of the bottle the crossness
sometimes broke bounds considerably, and took ferocious
forms which Mr, Fairfield had forgotten all about
the next morning, till his wife began to narrate them
in a suffering tone when he woke, making him swear.

Daisy would say nothing till long afterwards, when
some quiet and perfectly good-tempered allusion,
lighted up sometimes by some of the humour which
had been rather freely bestowed upon this young lady,
made papa feel very uncomfortable and very conscious,
and grow quite good for a time. If some of the
guardian angels would only learn her method, and

refrain from triumphing over prostrate guilt at times
when forbearance is not only mercy but wisdom, conversions
would be more numerous, and there would be
less creaking in the domestic wheel.

But of what am I discoursing ? Is it possible that
well-bred young ladies can even be conscious of
aberrations of this class, much more take notice of their
existence ? Faith, yes ; coffee-taverns and Sr Wilfred
were in their infancy then; and, indeed, I doubt if
good Father Noah's weakness is yet dead amongst us,
and perhaps there are a good many houses, if we
unroofed them, where the properest young maidens
would be found very well used to the sins of fathers
or brothers in this matter, and speaking of them and
rebuking them very candidly indeed.

Daisy Fairfield, certainly, had a way of going right
to her mark about everything, and her mind and taste,
at this period, were making rapid growth under the
influence of Guy's companionship. Sadly indeed, and
very gravely, did she note how this failing of her
father's was growing upon him now. He was nota
drunkard, nor did he often exceed the extreme limits
imposed by decorum. But he drank too regularly and
too much, and it was a vice that did not suit him.

He was not one of those genial fellows who break up
homes and hearts with the most exhilarating signs of
good-temper; for when he had well drunk, Septimus
Fairfield was not genial. If he had been less prone to
the weakness for many years past, Daisy and his wife
might have been more ready to suspect that he had
something on his mind. As it was, they thought with
perturbed spirits of the facile descent of Avernus,
and hoped that the old gentleman would yet mend
his ways.

If it had not been for this little rift within the
lute, my favourite's enjoyment of this winter would
have been perfect. Day after day, and time after time,
the intimacy between her and Guy Faucit grew and
prospered, and I think they understood each other very
well, with that best of understandings which comes
about between two loyal hearts like theirs, as the
inevitable stream proceeds upon its course. He learned
how to assure her of his meaning without definite
words ; to convey to her, by many a pleasant intimation
which she would live upon for days, the depth of the
purpose and the reality of the love that were in him ;
and at the same time to make her see why and how
he did not care to come forward to her father emptyhanded,

but waited for the not far-off time, when, ashe
hoped, he might have something Hke a secure home
and a definite future to offer.

When first she realized this, it may be that her
hero rose higher than before in her esteem, and that
she, too, on her side, vowed in that simple maiden
heart of hers that she, if so God would, was ready to
wait in a quiet confidence for the moment when he
might think himself justified in saying all that was in
his heart. She made no concealment from herself of
the answer which hers was prepared to give him.

There was no hurry. She was young, and the
battered old world was young too for her; young
enough to give her the full enjoyment of itself, its
friendships and its pleasures, its allurements and its
innocent uses, which the sceptics only sneer at when
they have employed them badly.

When they met at the winter dances, the delight
of the evening was in her waltzes and her talks with
him; but that did not prevent her from dancing through
her card with partners many and various, getting out
of them all the good they had to give her, and lodging
to him no little of the same kind of enjoyment.
A pleasant look of understanding would pass between

them at such times now and again, and the whole
of their love-story was coloured by the radiance of
a perfect trust.

I myself, who made her acquaintance through Guy
at this time, was favoured with a good many dances
and conversations with her, and thought that I could
have wished no better fortune in the world for the
friend for whom nothing seemed to me too good, than
the companionship, through all change and chance, of
such a rare creature as this.

She Alas so wonderfully frank and fearless, spoke of
Guy with such unconcealed but modest interest, and
interested herself so honestly in his friends, just
because he had made them his.

She learned to laugh at me and with me for my
avowed incapacity for legal learning, sympathized
thoroughly with my hopeless predilections for the side
of the world which men have agreed to call Bohemia —
though what the word precisely means, and what are
its latitudes and longitudes, the social geography book
sayeth not in any plain terms — and comforted me
when, as sometimes happened, I felt inclined to cry
out on my own un-seriousness, by auguring for me a fair
measure of success in the irregular pursuits which it

was my bent to follow, wherein one may stray without
a licence, and work in the morning, or in the middle of
the night, or all day, or not at all, as seemeth the
unchartered libertine best in his own eyes.

Never had woman a happier knack of talking just
upon the subjects which most interest the person she
is talking to, not from any sense of duty, or with any
sign of that detestable process known as " pumping,"
but because she knew that men are best on their own
ground, and she loved to pluck from all the highways
and hedges of human nature the very flowers which
grew there the most naturally.

^/ ; So it was that Wilmot came to the conclusion that
there could never be a barrister s wife like that ; while
I, though quite agreeing with him in the name and
interests of Faucit, secretly felt that Daisy Fairfield was
born to share and to console the lot of a literary man,
and that after all it was to be hoped that the tyrant
Circumstance would end by dispensing that lot to Guy,
who had already shown his capacity to accept it.

Indeed, my chief despair about my own prospects
rose out of that capacity of his. Every article he
wrote for the * Saturday,' or for the magazine with
which he was for the time connected, teemed with

an amount of knowledge and information which seemed
helplessly beyond my grasp. I wanted to be well-informed;
but it was all in vain. I was baffled by
politics, bemused by science, drugged by history, while
law drove me frenzied to the nearest oyster shop.

I was incurably and conscientiously frivolous, and
read my fate in the pitying glances of my friends, and
the light subjects on which alone they would discourse
with me.

I used to think of my future gloomily — to see
myself a pauper, a tide-waiter, a wanderer living on
my poor private means, and might never have found
my destiny at all had I not one day chanced upon a
French farce which amused me. I then and there
wrote an original play (upon the same subject), and my
groove was found.

We have all our grooves, my brethren, I verily
believe, if we will but with patience wait for them.
I have cited Sir Benjamin Brodie's dictum because
Faucit believed in it. I didn't, and I don't. No
power on earth — none — would, as I am convinced, have
made me like or tolerate the law, through no fault of
mine, who did not make myself. Neither could the
good Fairy Bountiful herself make me hum " God save

the Queen" so as to be recognized even by Her
Gracious Majesty, often as she must have heard it, and
on innumerable keys — even though, like Bully Bottom,
I have a "reasonable good ear for music. Let's have
the tongs and the bones."

I liked Daisy Fairfield heartily, just as I Hked
Faucit, and for the same personal reasons, which are at
the bottom of all our real likings and disliking. I
abominate Jones because he doesn't appear to want my
company at the club ; when one day, lo, we meet in the
coffee-room, he greets me warmly and we have a
pleasant talk about nothing in particular, and thenceforward
Jones is in my best books. Good fellow, Jones.
Probably a precisely similar process has taken place
in Jones's mind about me, and he has been cursing
for a stuck-up beggar, when I have been avoiding
him because I thought he didn't care to speak to me.
Faucit, no doubt, used to abuse me, in the round
unvarnished terms of college youth, for not sticking
to anything; but when the Dean of Chapel of our
joint undergraduate day augured worst of me, and the
master couldn't account for my proceedings except on
the assumption of some mysterious deficiency in my
brain — it was Dr. Phlebotomy, I think, who once upon

a time, trying to "reduce" me, said the cerebrum was
possessed of too much white matter, and too little grey,
or blue, or something — Faucit fought my battles in
confidence, and vowed to them that Balbus would do
very well for himself some day. The Dean hoped that
I should ; but my last essay upon the Theocritus philosophy
had been something altogether too superficial for
Balliol. I had insisted on treating that writer purely
as a poet, " the poet of the Bucolics, a Syracuse by
race, and the son of Suicides, as he said himself," and
had more than inferred that he had no philosophy at
all, and would have had as little to say for himself in
that way as the needy knife-grinder.

Poor old Dean Parley ! worthier and kinder soul
never breathed; but he measured us all in the selfsame
teaspoon, and his classical curriculum was as the
bed of one Procrustes, ordered to suit all lengths.

Of the brilliant minds and leaders of my college day,
who were going to ignite the Thames, and witch the
world with noble workmanship, only one or two have
struggled to the front at all in the many-marshalled
battle of Life, and those who now live and move in the
eyes of men were for the most part but a poor sort of
creature, ranked with the drones and pricked with the

unworthy. Nimmo, the billiard-player, has made one
of the finest fortunes of the day by coup after coup in
Romania railways and Mexican contracts, wrought
through energy of purpose and subtlety of brain;
Scourged, the thrice-rusticated, who would do nothing
but hunt, is kno^vn through the wide-world as a fighting
special correspondent, whose rides and escapes
astonish the generals as much as his letters delight
the penmen ; Motus the solitary, who seemed to have
neither foe nor friend nor occupation, and neither
in books nor sports would ever do anything, is the
famous poet of many editions ; while Sternhold of the
four first classes makes indexes in Lincoln's Inn to the
statutes other men draw up ; and the wondrous Imply,
the distinguished Ireland, Hertford, and what not ? who
even in those days was too well-informed to believe in
anything but himself, is incapable of making a speech,
or saying Bo to a British jury ; but devils unbeknown
for the Solicitor-General, and saves him, as that officer
confesses, a considerable amount of trouble. The wheel
goes round, and the Kttle pitchers crop up. There
was not enough allowance made for mental varieties
in those college days, and too much of pains taken in
picking out the plums. It happens sometimes that

VOL. I. M

the batter is good, and the plums are naught. Ever
and again, though, the great stamp of true and original
power asserts itself at the outset to all eyes; and
neither tutors nor rowing men — neither friends nor
examiners — were even then mistaken in their gauge of
Faucit's capacity. Hard and sad enough was the discipline
the Dispenser had in store for him; but as
I write and remember, may discipline and Dispenser
be thanked, it is bearing its late fruit now.

I was much with Faucit at that time, and made
number four with his sweetheart and himself in more
private boxes than one, contenting myself with the
task of absorbing Mrs. Pepperharrow, whose conversation
and character rewarded me thoroughly for my
devotion, being to me a source of never-ending delight.
Whether she attached any meaning or seriousness to
the romance unfolding itself before her eyes, I am
not sure. But such was her confidence in Daisy, that
whatever that young lady did was sure to be right for
her good-natured guardian, who made Daisy a prominent
figure in all the mind-pictures she drew of the
ouse in Belgrave Square.

Quite a mansion, I assure you ; and so elegant. I
am sure if we might ope for anything from your pen

for our first performance in the theatre, it-^onld be
sure to be a feature, mr. Balbus. A man of your
intellect, you know. But I'm afraid you wouldn't have
the time."

I had just followed up the fatal farce with a melodrama,
also of French origin, on the strength of which,
not without some inward spasms, I called myself an
author. It is the only line of life I wot of in which a
translator takes to himself that privilege. Yet do the
sins of the adapter recoil upon his own head, for there
is a general impression abroad, both in the public mind
and the managerial, that an English playwright cannot
invent his own plots. Why I don't know, as it is the
easiest part of the business, which may be gaudy inferred
from the number of novels which every year provides.
The impression has crystallized into a maxim, however;
and it is proved by the simple process of
attributing a French origin to all the plots one does
invent. So it falleth out that in consequence of the
sins of his fathers, and mayhap of his own youth, the
British dramatist has a hard time of it. He is always
told that he cannot invent his OAvn plots; and when,
he does, he is told that they are not his own.

Not long acjo I assured a friend of the absolute

M 2

originality of a story of mine which had just had some
success upon the stage ; and he asserted it on my
authority at a dinner of some gentlemen "in society" a
night or two afterwards. The assertion, he told me,
was met with roars of laughter, and the assurance from
one of the guests that he knew the dialogue by heart
and could repeat it in the original French !

Pleasant, truthful creature ! " In less than a week
there were some people who could name the father, and
the farm-house where the babies were put to nurse."
What can be the secret pleasure, I wonder, of railing
by precept and detracting by rule ?

But what am I, that I should keep Mrs. Pepper-harrow
waiting upon my wrongs ? Her honest mind
was troubled with no misgivings about degrees of
authorship; and she recognized in me one of those
mystic beings at whose shrine she bowed under the
generic name of genius. Large and catholic was her
interpretation of that word. Muggins, the eminent
amateur actor, whose powers of facial expression
(grimacing expression Jem Gosling once christened it)
distanced J. S. Clarke in his most india-rubber mood ;
Josephine Parrots, the eminent tragedies, who learnt
all her parts after the fashion of Pendennis's friend,

Miss Bothering, and concealed a world of emotion in
those beautiful eyes so effectually that it never got
out of them ; Binks, the successful manager, who did
such wonderful things for art that the great upholstering
firm of Shady and Co. made quite an income out
of him (his plays he bought in Paris, but encouraged
native art by insisting that all the characters should be
called by English names, and that new English repartees
should be written for them, thereby proving his respect
for the French author's work, and how little that author
knew what was good for him) — the drawing-room comic
singer of the hour, whose name is immaterial, for he
is always the same ; Balbus the dramatist ; Faucit
the scholar and Saturday Reviewer; Mr. Millais, the
Bishop of Winchester, and Mr. Gladstone, were all
welcome to the routs of Lady Pepperharrow that was
to be as representatives of Genius.

She was an honest, kindly, and admiring soul;
and small idea enough had she of the consequences
which were to follow, when she took Daisy Fairfield
under her affectionate wing. She had no daughters
of her own ; only two or three sons, who had taken to
country-pursuits, and were but little at home, eschewing
the society which their mother so loved. So Daisy

filled a void in her life, and willingly gave the time she
could spare from the duties of her own home to the
service of her friend. Faucit^s polite attention during
the winter charmed the old lady, who made him exceedingly
welcome, and gave opportunities many and
various for meetings whose significance would scarcely
have escaped the keen eye of Fairfield papa, and would
very little have pleased him. But for the preoccupations
which were growing upon him at this time, he
might have scented danger even as things were. But
he was revolving schemes of his own for Daisy in his
own mind, with as small thought of her as the
slave-dealer has of the feelings of his plumpest
Circassian.

Blind Mrs. Fairfield had inklings of her o^vn on the
matter, for Faucit rallied to the five o'clock urn not
unfrequently, and one day she hinted something of her
thoughts to her daughter, who met them nth a very
becoming blush, a little laugh, and a kiss. Daisy was
very happy in her simple paradise. Fearless of the
man she loved, and undoubting of herself, as she would
be fearless and undoubting if ever the day should come
when she might seal at the altar the compact already
firm and fast in her inmost heart, she went on her way

rejoicing, and adding day by day more splendours and
more adornments to her castle in the air.

0, but she would love him truly ;
He should have a cheerful home ;
She would order all things duly,
When beneath his roof they come."

Daisy Fairfield was modestly conscious of a heart
and mind beyond the average of every-day women;
and she knew the rich gifts of love and help that she
could bring in her hand to the man she could accept as
worthy of them. Young as she was, she had attracted
admiration enough to turn a light head lightly; but
she had formed her ideal from the first, and her ideal
protected her till it came in Having form, and a very
attractive hvins^ form too. She recognized in Faucit's
nature the complement and magnet of her own. She
had the artist's eye to admire his physical manliness,
and the woman's perception to read his steady truthfulness
of character, and the perfect simplicity with
which, conscious on his side of his own superiority to
most of the men surrounding him, he referred it without
doubt or question to the source whence he believed
it came, and read the lesson of humility so — as it was
meant to be read — as so few will deign to read it.

That it was his business to do his best with the
talents intrusted him, be their number five or ten, or ashe
expressed it himself, to "stick his nails into the
work that came to him to do," was a conviction with
which all Daisy's nature sympathized. And it was the
opinion of the chronicler of these events, as he watched
and protected his two favourites as best he might,
flirted with Mrs. Pepperharrow in a manner to endanger
the soap-boiler's rest, and regarded Fairfield's
papa with a suspicious and unaccommodating eye, that
Nature never found a pair more nobly fitted to fill a
royal space in a rather commonplace world together.

^lY LORD AXD MY LADY.

It was the Baroness Luscombe of Lusmere who
kindly undertook to issue the invitations for the opening
festivity at the new house in Belgrave Square,
about which the ' Peep-Hole ' and the ' Flunkey ' had
been busied with starry paragraphs for weeks before.

The blushing honours of the soap-boiler's knighthood
were brand-new upon him ; for it was in the
February of the Winter of which I have been writing
that Ms sovereign singled him out of the mastered herd,
and gave him antlers in the shape of the mancJie a son
nom, which was so impressive to Sir Barnes Newcome,
the banker.

In the ensuing month of March, when the sun
even in London was pitilessly clear, just out of perversity,
and because the east wind was so pitilessly

cold, Lady Pepperharrow welcomed all the world and
his wife to Glycerine House, Belgrave Square, to the
first of the festivities with which the name of that
hospitable mansion was to become eternally connected.
It was unfortunate that it was Lent, certainly; for
the hostess would gladly have respected every prejudice
and every feeling under the sun ; but it could not be
helped; and this comparatively quiet season had its
advantages, for a beginner in the field of fashion, over
the later months, when dates are all filled up, and the
fixed stars of the social firmament reign supreme.

Lady Pepperharrow Alas at present but a comet
With a good deal of tail, so she took the advice of Lady
Luscombe, and of that distinguished authority Lord
Pentonville, to whom Lady Luscombe introduced her,
and compromised with worldliness with a sigh. Nor
did the good lady surrender her ancient prejudices
without the knowledge and sanction of the Rev. Mr.
Birmingham Pope, the favourite minister of her new
district. She had frankly consulted him, on her coming,
upon the poor of his neighbourhood, and what help
she best could give him in his work, and fairly astonished
him by the roundness of the cheque with which
she presented him. He quite stammered his acknowledgments,

and owned that from the wealthiest neighbourhood
in London he did not get quite so much help
in that way as he could ^\'ish ; for indeed, whatever his
social procli\dties and concessions to mammon, Mr.
Pope was a man who did a great deal of good from
the incoming of his church, and would gladly have
done more.

The subscriptions I must own. Lady Pepperharrow,
are not what I could wish. But above all things we
should be charitable ; and I know that the members of
my congregation have calls and duties in the country
which conflict sith their opportunities here. An open
hand like your ladyship's will be a blessing not to be
over-estimated."

Mr. Pope delighted Lady Pepperharrow, and was
installed as her confessor in ordinary Without loss of
time. He was consulted about the great house-warming
if a word so ordinary may be applied to an event of
such magnitude, — and while respecting the lady's hesitations
he fully endorsed the opinions of her secular
advisers in the matter. Lady Luscombe herself, he
assured her, was a very particular person, and would
only advise a great entertainment like this in Lent
under exceptional circumstances. Lady Luscombe eras

no doubt quite justified in considering the circumstances
exceptional, and there was now-a-days a decided advance
in the liberality of public opinion upon these matters,
which he himself could not but regard as a healthy
tendency, if not carried too far. Those who still
cherished scruples on the point would consult their
own feeling in staying away; but he was far from
thinking that, with proper safeguards, pleasant and
general social intercourse was not in itself both lawful
and commendable at all periods of the year.

If Lady Pepperharrow had further doubts, they
vere banished by Daisy Fairfield's straightforward
intimation, that she could see no conceivable harm in
her friend giving a party in Lent if her friend liked,
and it was more convenient than any other time. As
Daisy's ways and opinions of thinking were always very
simply in earnest, her verdict in the matter, as on most
matters about which Lady Pepperharrow consulted her,
was accepted as final.

Lady Luscombe was the first high step in her
humbler sister's social ladder. The Lord Viscount
Luscombe, gouty and aristocratic almost beyond the
permitted limits of aristocracy and gout, passed his
days in the fond delusion that he was a Liberal of

the modern advanced school. He was a country
gentleman of olden family and good though moderate
fortune, who, determining to devote his abilities to
the service of his country, was as a series of matters
of course elected member for the county division,
early introduced to the lesser loaves and fishes of
official life, and by steady gradations developed into a
Secretary of State.

When the Liberal ministry of 18 — was formed, it
was in all quarters felt that ]Mr. Fulke Vavasor was
entitled to a post in the cabinet, from the eternal order
of the proprieties. No better reason could be advanced
or was suggested. In that position he was found by
some of his colleagues, upon trial, to be so eminently
and entirely respectable, that upon a reconstruction of
the ministry he was translated to the House of Lords,
without office, it being thought and indeed stated that
his independent support in that position would be
of the highest value to the government.

Wilkins, the advanced member for Marlborough,
accepted the vacant portfolio. It was early in the
session which followed upon these events that a measure
was inadvertently suffered to pass the House of
Commons, which was rightly regarded in vrell-informed

quarters as a serious menace to the existing social
system ; and the House of Lords, with the pronounced
interest in political matters, and the unselfish patriotism
which distinguishes them as a body, rose to the occasion.
They were assembled in London in numbers
quite unusual for the season of the year.

Lord Luscombe, whose independent support was the
implied condition of his peerage, could not be expected
to give it against his conscience, and both spoke and
voted the other way. He afterwards wrote to the
'Times' in vindication of his principles and action,
and the letter was very much admired. A yet more
extraordinary result of the political crisis, and a more
convincing proof of the keen political insight and
anxiety for the public weal which is the true basis of
the sturdy English character, was the fact that a whole
army of Peers, many of them unknown by name to the
more ignorant sections of the public, left their hunting-boxes
and their country-houses, and their winter 
in the Capua South, to rally round the
throne and the constitution. They did not listen to
the arguments on the other side, for they knew the
value of time ; but voted with the unanimity of the
players in the ' Critic,' and saved the country. Some

of them, it was even whispered, were so much in
earnest that they had never been inside the House
before, and couldn't find their way.

The ' Peep-Hole ' recorded the arrival of the Earl of
Deadhead at Coleridge's, from his villa on the Mediterranean;
while the 'Flunkey,' in this respect beforehand
with all rivals, announced that Lord Pentonville,
who had been staying with some distinguished friends
in the neighbourhood of NeT\TQarket, had taken up his
quarters at his bachelor residence in Mount Street,
Grosvenor Square. Even those inseparable friends, the
Duke of Surbiton and the Marquis of Norbiton, were
visible in London, The great heart of the country, no
doubt about it, was thoroughly stirred.

So much the better for our friend Lady Pepperharrow.
These throbs of the country's heart sensibly quickened
the circulation in her drawing-rooms, in the exceptional
pre-Paschal season which resulted from the political
crisis. Lord Luscombe, who was very much respected
in the city, and had many mysterious things to do with
odd and sundry Boards, had, in the course of his
financial operations, made acquaintance with Mr.
Pepperharrow, and thereout, it must be admitted,
sucked no small advantage. He had been put up to

a good thing in connection with the coup, which established
the soap-boiler's fortune on such a solid basis ;
and it was whispered that he was the first cause of the
claims of that gentleman to social recognition being
brought to the notice of H. M.'s advisers in such
matters. And learning from Sir Hugh Pepperharrow
the nature of the " buffets and rewards " — for I am told
that in such things the two go hand in hand — on which
his better half had set her heart, his lordship shewed
himself not ungrateful. He called upon the lady and
dined with her, in his wife's absence from town, at
Luscombe Abbey ; and gave her matter of conversation
with her friends and intimates for a long time after,
until lords and ladies grew as plentiful with her as peas
in June.

During many of those parties of four of which I
have spoken, I heard of nothing but Lord Luscombe' s
merits, while the other two, pleasantly and entirely
unmindful of such subjects of talk, were straying
together in fields and byways of their own. And Lady
Pepperharrow having confided to his lordship her wishes
and ambitions about the opening of the house in 
Square, Lord Luscombe in a gallant moment
undertook that his wife should be her sponsor.

Lady Luscombe was not especially pleased when she
heard of the task assigned her. Certainly a greater
difference of style and externals between two women
could not well be imagined than between her and the
lady given her as a protegee. Marian Fulke Vavasor
was barely twenty when she made her appearance in
London life under that name, as the young wife of the
rising statesman, thirty years older than herself. For
at fifty Mr. Fulke Vavasor was still rising; and he
might never perhaps have attained to his highest
altitudes but for the rare gift which pertained to his
wife. As the French say so neatly of a characteristic
which once, at all events, belonged signally to Frenchwomen,
elle savait tenir son selon. The cold and
somewhat fishy, but observant eye of the county-member
had detected this gift in her, when he met
her at her father's table in his voyage round his constituency.
He found in her exactly what he wanted :
good family and undeniable connexion; no fortune,
which would make her dependent ; much ambition,
which would make her helpful; and an appearance
and manner which must make his house and table
infinitely attractive to the class of people he wished
to attract. For his, too, was a genuine parliamentary

VOL. I. N

ambition, of the kind which has furnished so many-officials
of a uniform and serviceable type. He had
a steady plodding brain, with no heart to distract it ;
no domestic affections, and no taste for pleasure whatever,
though he shot his covers solemnly every year ina
pair of characteristic gaiters, and never enjoyed the
sport so much as when the game was shy, and he could
talk blue-book over his gun to some congenial spirit,
invited to Luscombe Abbey for that especial purpose.
He worked as hard as any clerk in his office; some
sceptics indeed, conversant with the ways of those
gentlemen, said a good deal harder. Therefore Mr.
Fulke Vavasor was a man who deserved to rise.

In the civil contract entered into between him,
bachelor, of the one part, and Marian Teesdale, spinster,
of the other part, and attested with certain mutual but
unbinding affirmations in the accredited clerical formulas,
there was no disguise or pretence upon either side.
The lady was weary of the refined and pretentious
poverty in which she had been brought up from her
cradle, and the never-ending bickering which made
her home a picture of small discomfort ; and was quite
ready to marry Mr. Fulke Vavasor for his lands and
his position, provided he fully understood that it was

for them she did it. For she was straightforward
enough in her way. She knew, and she let him know,
that in her opinion she fetched her price, with her
good looks and youth and breeding, and the wits and
accomplishments which she had quietly and sedulously
cultivated, to ■ fit herself for the place she had always
intended to fill. Mr. Vavasor was just what she
wanted. He might have been ten years younger;
anything younger than that she did not wish for, for
she liked what was i^ose. But as it was it was well
enough. So too his fortune might have been larger,
in comparison with the grooving extent of fortunes nowadays.
But it was good and solid, and would serve ;
and with a name and position such as his, there were
ways and opportunities of increasing it by wariness
and venture properly combined.

To Marian Teesdale, to do her justice, money was a
means as much as an end, for she wanted to lead, and
she could not do that through money alone. Before she
attracted ]mr. Vavasor she had steadily, and two or
three times, refused a prosperous manufacturer of half
his years and treble his fortune, who was a very presentable
man, and very honestly in love with her. She saw

at once that she could do nothing with him except

N 2

possibly conquer for him the position of a nouveau riche,
which to her meant no position at all. She had drunk
in the bluest traditions of race with her mother's milk
(or rather with her foster-mother's, who was a farmer's
daughter, — It is odd, but so . . ), and was honestly and
scornfully surprised to see how "her mother did fret
and her father did fume," at her determined rejection
of Mr. Thomas Hodges' proposals.

Poor people ! their narrow means, and, of course,
large family, had half harried them to death, though all
that interest could do had been done for all the little
male Teesdales. Unluckily that is not much now-a-days,
in cases where idleness chooses to graft confirmed incapacity
upon original want of brain. Competitive
examinations were almost as great a bugbear to poor
Mrs. Teesdale, and as much the object of her denunciations,
as " them dratted schoolboys " are at this present
time to the casual farmer's wife we meet in the railway-carriage.
And indeed there had been more plucking of
little Teesdales in these merciless ordeals than the Mother
Goose could comfortably bear. The parents may perhaps
be pardoned even by the sternest moralist, then, if it was
with pronounced regret, and after considerable argument,
that they let the manufacturer's fortune go. Marian

had a bad time of it when he returned again and again
to the charge ; but she held her own very calmly. The
parents implored in the name of her brethren, who
were as many as Joseph's ; and she frankly answered
that, though she would do what she could for them if
she could do it some day in her own way, she held
their interests altogether secondary to her own, and as
they didn't seem to be able to do anything for themselves,
she couldn't honestly feel that she cared two
straws what became of them. She retorted very justly,
and therefore all the more provokingly, upon her father
all the continual variations of noblesse oblige, T;\'ith which
he had played upon her from childhood ; and the hapless
man felt that it was difficult to make Theory square
with Practise, when the latter took such very substantial
form. I think, on the Vv^hole, that it was hard upon
him. However, so it was; and matters took their
own way, which, after all, thanks to the young lady's
tenacity of purpose, turned out eventually much to his
satisfaction. Mr. and Mrs. Teesdale, to do them justice
also according to their lights, much preferred Mrs.
Fulke Vavasor that was, to Mrs. Thomas Hodges that
should have been, and magnanimously forgave her at
the altar to which she conducted them.

The common moralizing about the bargain and sale
of children in this country of ours has always struck
the present chronicler, at all events, as a good deal
exaggerated. The sweet young victims, in nine of
these convenient marriages out of ten, sacrifice themselves
with a good grace and much of their own accord.
Negatively, no doubt, parents may have brought them
up to the theory of the thing, and may so far be gravely
responsible for the evils which follow in its train.
But often and often, I believe, if the reverse of the
medal could be read, which carries the pithy motto
instead of the stamp, we might learn that some of these
wicked parents, nth their lives half lived and all laid
down, with many a stray example and moral in their
minds, — sometimes, perhaps, their own among the
number, — are not even milling participators in some of
the ceremonies of St. George's ; have even warned and
besought a headstrong child in vain. She knows better ;
life is before her, and with the watchfulness that she
will exercise, and the experience by which she mil
profit, will yield for her fruits they were not able to
gather. It is all very well for papa and mamma to
deny that happiness can reside in carriages and horses,
and dresses and jewels unlimited. She and her friend

Clara have talked it all over and thought it all out, and
for them they know that it does. So the fair Iphigenia
cuts her o's\-n throat at the altar smilingly, and Father
Agamemnon, so far from lending a hand to the sacrifice,
turns his head away and covers his eyes, even if he
does sanction the affair' with his presence. Are not
these things sometimes so ?

Marian Gresham Teesdale on her side, and John
Audley Fulke Vavasor on his, knew very well what
they were about. She assured him ver' honestly
that in this case there was no penniless but cherished
suitor in the background ; but that she Hked her chosen
husband as well as anybody, and sympathized in his
pursuits and his ambition. In a very short time the
marriage bore its purposed fruit. A self-possessed and
admirable hostess, whose conversation was sensible and
brilliant both, and tact and courtesy unfailing, Mrs.
Fulke Vavasor soon made her rooms and receptions a
fact in London life ; not in its social phase only, but in
its political. All the leaders and supporters of their
own party found Lusmere House a centre ; though, by
a careful exercise of that same admirable quality of
tact, the hostess succeeded in the most difficult of all
tasks, preventing it from becoming too exclusively a

party-centre. A pleasant leaven of opposition gave
lustre and interest to the whole ; while to art and
literature, in the persons of their more famous and
favoured sons, Mrs. Fulke Vavasor held out open arms.
Nor, while contriving that all this should be, did she
neglect the other task she had set herself — that of
improving and enlarging her husband's fortune. She
made quiet and keen inquiries into the mysteries of
city life ; to her it was in the first place owing that her
husband became, as we have described here, interested
in City matters; the state of trade and of railways,
under careful and secret guidance, became to her a
thing of familiar knowledge ; she was careful that
nothing unbecoming to, or inconsistent with, Mr. Fulke
Vavasor's political position should at any time or in
any way be connected with his name; and the Lus-combe
estates grew and waxed and prospered quietly —
so quietly that men hardly marked how the parties at
Lusmere House, and the circle at Luscombe Abbey,
increased gradually in brilliancy, and in the outward
and visible signs of wealth and solidity.

Alas ! to what good ? Once or twice during the
first few years of their union the Fulke Vavasor
hoped for a child. But the hopes were disappointed,

and after a time they were not renewed. Barren as it
had been loveless, the marriage was denied that blessing
which sometimes sows an after-seed of love ; and as
they grew nearer in interests, Mr. and Mrs. Vavasor
grew further apart in heart. They were little together
except at the hours and times of ceremony, and a
separate circle of private friends grew up round each of
them. Long and close were Mr. Vavasor's private
interviews with his wife; but if a reporter had been
present he would have found them very like a man's
visit to his solicitor. Marian was her husband's first
man of business, and a good one, and he knew it. In
some cases, that is no bad bond of a better union, where
wider sympathies agree. But here the lady was bright
and intellectual, the gentleman dull and plodding;
while to him she was as cold as he. Then out of the
dulness and the ploddingness came a great blow to
them both, which has been already told. There are
times in politics which want strong men, and are apt
to put averages to the right-about. Mr. Vavasor's
greatest social honour was really his final failure, and
they both knew it. They both knew very well why at
the age of sixty-two, when many politicians have the
world still in their hands, the House of Commons

minister blossomed into the pension ed-off lord. His
wife wanted him to refuse ; but the intimation that he
must not, while very courteous and considerate, was
too clear to be mistaken. Mr. Fulke Vavasor was a
failure on the post after all, in spite of all his wife had
done and all the diplomatic she had used, and the
shadows feathered darker round the loveless home.

LADY PEPPERHARROW's House Waring.

When Lady Luscombe came to London, at her
husband's wish, to preside over Lady Pepperharrow's
house-warming, and to play the social godmother to
that excellent but inappropriate lady, it was in pursuance
of the compact between herself and her husband
which both thoroughly understood. Fastidious in taste
and choice, the centre and the favourite of her society,
and famous as the first of hostesses from one end of
polite London to another, Lady Luscombe was not fond
of throwing her aegis over unqualified aspirants, or
sending out invitations for other people. I am not
sure, indeed, that she had ever done such a thing
before. But she was sore, and smarting from the
recent blow. The Lady Luscombe would never, she
felt, be what Mrs. FuLke Vavasor had been; and she

saw the prizes she had toiled and contrived for shipping
from her grasp, and the objects for which she lived
failing her. She was a woman of ready resource, and
was ready for a change of part at once. She knew
that her political reign was over. As hostess even in
the political world she might yet hold her own in a
sense, no doubt ; probably the chief regret felt by the
heads of the ministry was, that in losing Fulke
Yavasour they lost his v/ife. But it was her husband's
position which had given her its weight, and it was gone.
When she surveyed her Fulke' s sleeping face, to all
outward seeming unperturbed by any sense of failure
or rebuff, and the open mouth, which had just
swallowed a coronet, snoring contentedly on, it is
certain that her ladyship felt a weariness, an indignation,
and a resentment coming over her which were
much at odds with her wifely duties.

Had she nursed him all those years for this ? that
his abominable stupidity — yes, stupidity — should, after
all, have brought their joint career to wreck? It is
absolutely on record, that after the catastrophe, on the
night when she so gazed upon him, the high-bred
Marian then and there, in the silence of the night
and the recesses of the bed-curtains, sate bolt upright,

and shook her sleeping lord violently. He never knew
till his dying day what was the shock that woke him.
It is a fact that these lofty beings have their vulgar
passions Hke other people.

But the first purpose of the lady's life being frustrated,
the second remained. Love could scarcely do
more for many husbands than ambition did for Fulke
Vavasor. I can never bring myself to Vv'rite of the
Bight Honourable gentleman as Vavasor without the
Fulke. For her husband the keen-vv-itted Marian continued
to scheme, almost from habit of thought, perhaps
; for, nth no son of his or hers succeeding, what
had she really to scheme for ? But she had resolved
on this course at starting, and it was too late to change.

Lord Luscombe could no longer hope to be an influential
minister, but he might be made a very rich
man, through those City boards and City mysteries I
have told of; and the City, instead of Do^\Tiing Street,
now became the metropolis of Lady Luscombe' s land
of action.

It is not necessary to tell in detail how it was
that, as I have already mentioned, the fortunes of Lord
Luscombe became connected nth those of Sir Hugh
Pepperharrow, who had just munificently presented

the City nth a strange and fearsome monument (which
was carefully set up in the middle of a crowded
thoroughfare where there was no room for two cabs to
pass before), and was knighted accordingly.

Lord Luscombe and his wife quite understood each
other on all matters of business ; but when he learned
from Pepperharrow, after much hemming and ha-king
on the part of the soap-boiler, what it was that his
Martha had set her heart on, and how she desired to
accomplish it, his lordship, who had dined with our
old friend, was secretly doubtful how his Marian would
take it. But the Pepperharrow connection was vital
to him at the moment, and he propounded the suggestion,
which, to his surprise, was received without
cavil.

A few months before, and Marian would have certainly
declined to open her house to the Pepper-harrows,
much more to adopt the lady as a social
protege. Lord Luscombe hinted thus much to her,
and was puzzled by the tone of covert scorn with
which it was answered, that their position in Hfe was
changed, and then views and objects must change too.
Wealth at any cost, Lady Luscombe explained without
definite words, was thenceforward the Luscombe programme.

So Lady Pepperharrow's guests were bidden
to the opening festivity of Glycerine House by the
Baroness Luscombe of Lusmere.

Very splendid the west-end mansion looked that
night. The mysterious coup) — I sprite about a thing
which I do not in the least understand, and never
shall — had put the Pepperharrows among the financial
giants, and everything was worthy of the occasion,
when Lady Pepperharrow first put her foot dov-n to
trouble the Belgravian waters, and to occupy her large
space in the eye of the social journals.

The staircases were brio-ht and sweet with rich
exotics which lined all the walls and filled all the
recesses like silent and many-coloured chaperons, thereto
look after the young people with a friendly interest.
The lights were softened by judicious shades, and set
off the whole scene a giorno, as giorno should be, clear
but not obtrusive. The rooms were furnished with
genuine taste, ^vith no pretence of show, but a full
sense of richness ; there were people who did say that
one Daisy Fairfield, the hostess's particular favourite,
had been carefully consulted and actively concerned at
every stage of the furnishing, and had relentlessly
vetoed several appalling combinations of greens and

yellows, and a Pactolic superfluity of gilding, which
had at the outset much commended themselves to
Lady Pepperharrow's Oriental fancy — and the sofas
and settees were an invitation to confidences and
treasons.

It was strongly asserted that young Cooington, of
the Home Office, never left Milly Swansdown's side
the whole evening, in that tiny room which " gives " on
the first staircase. There really was no more than
space for one couple in it, and it was much in demand.
But Cooington and that bold girl held their own ina
way which — well, which was very disappointing to
other young people "with whom they were beforehand.
And Milly' s eyes always looked so round and
simple and surprised, when anybody looked at her
as if she had been holding the fort lons^ enough.

The large long room, which was the principal
attraction of the house, was filled and busy with the
buzz of guests. At one end of it, a perfect bijou stage
had been erected as a permanent fixture, under the
careful superintendence of Muggins, who had superintended
more amateur stages than any man alive ;
who talked theatre all day, and dreamed it all night,
and was wont to salute his friends, at all times and

places, with appropriate quotations from John Addison
Morton — a humorist, by the bye, whose whims and
oddities, being confined to the Httle yellow books which
have no connection with literature, have never been
half recognized for their spirit of exuberant fun.

The Theatre Royal, Glycerine House, was constructed
to serve for every sort of entertainment, from
opera to recitation, from tableau vivant to scientific
lecture, and was opened that night with a miscellaneous
concert, in which the stars of the hour, as many of
them as had risen in London at that early season,
figured and quavered to the equally miscellaneous
audience.

Lady Luscombe had done her work well, for
everybody was there. Men busy with the affairs of
state, whom the poor lady looked upon vrith a sad eye
askance, as they offered their congratulations on her
husband's honours with as little of an air of condolence
as possible, talked aside in comers of the crisis of the
hour ; and Society shook its head in the wrong place,
and instinctively took the wrong side, as the spirit of
the club and the drawing-room in such cases prompted
it. Noble lords mutually congratulated each other on
the public spirit which had brought them to town at

VOL. I. o

such a time, and wondered where Lady Luscombe had
picked up her new client, and who she was, as indeed
did everybody in the room except the small knot of
personal friends whom Lady Pepperharrow would not
forget in her invitation, even though they had all to
be submitted to the approval of the higher authority.

The world of pure frivolity, the world of dancing
and of flirting, were to the fore in force, looking very
young and very happy, or else very aging and very
bored. Every sort and all sorts, whom Society gathers
under her motley wing, came out of curiosity, out of
idleness, out of habit, out of love, out of the main
chance, out of business, out of any of the thousand-undone
motives which carry people about, night after
night, to meet each other over and over again without
giving themselves the time to get anything new to say,
in the inexplicable whirl which solved perpetual motion
long ago, when Mrs. Noah sent out her first invitations
for the ark. So good Lady Pepperharrow' s rooms,
large as they were, were crowded to their full capacity,
and she stood gallantly perspiring at her post at the
head of the great staircase all the night, till a pitying
Duke — it was his Grace of Surbiton — asked her to
come and have some of her own supper.

The Marquis of Norbiton had bet him that he
would not do it, for the Duke was very young indeed,
and had been nth difficulty persuaded to leave his
hunting-box and come out in the character of a
legislator, even by the gravity of the situation, which
he confessed he did not fully grasp. But his ancestor
had come over with William the Conqueror, and
planted the first tree on Messenger's Eyot : so he
rose to his duty, and gave his vote in the House
of Peers, shoulder to shoulder with Norbiton.

The two young men, who said but little even
between themselves upon the subject, agreed thereafter
that politics were doosid slow, and abandoned a public
career. Indeed, they were scandalously attacked by
some low fellows in their local papers, for voting at all,
which after their trouble in leaving Leicestershire was
doosid ungrateful, and they felt it.

Surbiton and Norbiton were delighted with the
Pepperharrow festival, and especially with the magnificent
appearance of the hostess, which even Daisy's
influence had not been able to keep entirely in check.
Some of the patterns, denied to the curtains and
chintz, had surely blossomed out in her attire.

The two young noblemen watched her with a sort

o 2

of fascination all the evening. " She'll bob herself into
two, Sur, I know she will ! " — until the Duke felt
impelled to make the recorded bet, and conduct his
hostess to supper, an attention for which the poor
wearied soul, at the summit of its honest ambition, was
unfeignedly grateful.

I couldn't have done it," Norbiton said to himself
gravely, shaking his head as Lady Pepperharrow's
feathers fluttered through the door of the supper-room
below ; " but Sur always has the loose's own way with
him."

Thus did these budding rulers of ours beguile the
time which they were sacrificing to the labours of
the Senate.

It was as one of the hostess's small knot of personal
friends that I was included in the gathering I am
enabled to describe; and I watched much that was
going on with the supercilious envy and contempt of
youth, embittered by a deep sense of social wrong and
the inequalities of rank.

Why should w6, my dear Faucit," — I began. But I
am bound to say that Faucit, by this time hard at work
in a pleader's chambers, and getting more law into his
head in a day than most men can digest in a week,

gave no encouragement-whatever to my radical sentiments,
passed the rights of man lightly over, told me
■* that I should be very glad to be a lord if I could, and
sought metal more attractive by a certain young
lady's side.

Deserted and snubbed, I turned upon little Binks
the manasseh, who had soften himself an invitation
through his dear friend Muggins, whom he had assisted
in contriving the Glycerine stage. He was in a very
bad temper, Binks, at the failure of all his plays that
season, and profoundly disgusted with the British public.

Never know where to have 'em, Balbus, never !
They won't go to anything but trash, blessed if they
will, unless it's Shakespeare, or something else that
they go to because their fathers went. And I can't do
Shakespeare, confound it ! I hate blank verse, because
I can't speak it, and you mustn't cut it. If you do it
don't scan. As if that mattered ! Don't know what
to make of the public, blessed if I do I "

Binks, my boy," I answered, " you are wandering.
The abused public are Tom, Dick, and Harry ; and as a
rule, with but few exceptions, they go to the good things
in whatever line, and they won't go to the bad ones.
Being human nature in the lump, they cannot well go

wrong. Therefore, Binks, when I find an actor, or an
author, or a manager, abusing the British public, I say
unto myself, say I, ' Here is a man that knoweth not
his own business Be modest, Binks, and instead of
abusing the British public, try and give them something
worth seeing."

Ha, ha ! upon my soul ! mean something of your
own, Balbus, I suppose. Got something by you you
think would suit me ? "

Indeed no," I said. " I don't keep things by me,
or make suits of clothes on spec, on the chance of their
being made to suit the wearer afterwards. You see
authors have to live as well as you, without the advantage
of drawing a weekly salary. No, Binks, I have
nothing by me ; but there are plenty of plays in your
drawers which would do very well, I'll be bound ! "

Bosh, sir, bosh ! all bosh from beginning to end.
Englishmen can't write plays, and those who can won't
unless we order 'em. Vanity of authors quite awful —
quite disgusting — 'pon my soul."

"Vanity, my dear Binks," I answered, "has been
described as meaning a conviction that you can do
things which you can't do, and are not your business.
Now, when I bring a play of mine to rehearsal, the first

thing you actors do is to come round me in a body, or
one by one, tell me that this ought to be cut out and
that altered, and at last so daze me, that if I don't stand
out the play is soon no longer my OTvn. In other words,
you insist on teaching me my business instead of doing
yours, which is either acting my play or letting it alone.
I only ask to be allowed to know my business. I don't
teach you to act, though the Lord knows some of you
want it. On which side is the vanity, Binks ? "

All nonsense ! " said the manager. " Of course we
must know all about plays, and you can't. I've tried
everything this season — all the pieces which have been
the greatest ores abroad. Had one from the German,
one from the French, one from the Italian, and one from
the Dutch, and none of them brought a penny — not a
penny, by Jove. Now I don't know what to try."

Bum your dictionaries and try English, something
which hasn't been a go abroad. Good night, Binks."

Having launched my darts and avenged myself, and
being in a better humour with the nobility and gentry inconsequence,
I strolled about among the bright rooms,
after listening for a while to the gymnastics of a popular
soprano, who ran up to the chandeliers and down again
in a way to defy catching. But when I caught sight

of Guy Faucit and Daisy Fairfield in close talk together
under the shelter of a favouring plant, which might
have been transported from the tropics as it stood, after
one quick glance I quietly drew away, unnoticed by
them. In that one look at the man's face and at the
girl's, I knew that my dear old friend had made his
confession, and I knew too how it had been answered.

I never saw Daisy Fairfield look so well as she looked
that night, the happiest she had ever known, as it was
to be her happiest, poor girl, for many a long year. I
do not even remember what dress she wore, but I know
that the basis and the ground of it were white, seemingly
and gracefully adorned. I remember the one
purple flower which was set behind the ear, so small
and so close to the head ; and the wonderful gloss of
which nature that evening had been more liberal even
than usual to the sunny hair. In that one glimpse I
caught of her face, the shy smile which played about
the lips matched so perfectly with the deep seriousness
in the eyes, that the two expressions made up one.
And as she listened to what Faucit was telling her half
under his breath, but in that firm full voice of his, or as
she let a few words fall from her in answer, she opened
and shut her fan mechanically with her right hand, as

the elbow rested upon the arm of the couch on which
they were seated side by side. I can recall the quaint
watteau patterns upon that fan, a present of Lady
Pepperharrow's, and the laces which fringed it, now.
Asmodeus the chronicler claims his privilege. What
was it that the two said ?

Yes, Miss Fairfield, I love you very earnestly. I
have done so since the first day I saw you by the river,
I think. Haven't you guessed it ? "
I hardly know, Mr. Faucit, indeed."
But you knew that I didn't intend to speak. I
wanted to have something to offer you better than a
law-student's belief in himself before I told you what I
have told you now. It isn't much, is it ? "

With you I think that it is," she said, very simply
and frankly; and Guy's overfull heart gave a great
bound as she said it. " It isn't as if you had not shown
what you can do, at Oxford."

There was a pretty pride both in the girl's look and
tone.

Supposing that to be so, the race is not always to
the strong."

To the strong and patient," she answered, " I for
one believe that it is."

But I haven't been patient after all. If you knew
how resolved I was not to speak, till I had at least been
called to the bar ! "

And what was I to do all that time ? " asked Daisy,
with a smile which made poor Guy's heart beat faster
and faster. Her frankness was so perfect and so winning,
so free from any taint of forwardness, so full of utter
trust. It never seemed to enter Daisy's head, from the
moment when Faucit opened all his heart to her, that
she was to play at hiding any of hers from him.

"I suppose you were to wait," he said, with a
happy and half-embarrassed little laugh ; " and understand
all about it all the time. That was to be your
part in the comedy."

Perhaps I should have grown a little tired of it,"
she said. " But I would have waited ! " she added
suddenly, then blushed fairly at herself.

And will wait now ? " he asked.

Yes," she said simply ; " if you wish it."

I must wish it. For I have nothing in the world
till I can make it."

But I have."

I know ; and that's just what I'm afraid of. People
would say I asked you for that."

Do you care much for what people say ? " she
answered him. " I shouldn't."

"No; but your father might say so. You wouldn't'

I ! " And there was a touch almost of reproach
in her tone.

I was stupid even to say it."

"Well, you were — rather." This with a smile.
"But papa is not nearly so hard as you think him.
He'll do anything for me ; and he will know that you
mean to work and to get on. What better use can a
girl find for money, than to help a man who means todo
that, at starting ? "

"You are not a girl," said Guy; 'you are a very
noble woman."

Am I ? " she answered. " I feel very like a girl
to-night. You have made me forget my trouble at
home."

That was what made me speak, you know. I
thought you seemed annoyed and anxious about this
stranger — this Mr. Brent, you spoke of; and I couldn't
help telling you that there was some one who — someone
that — "

The athlete broke down in the sentence ; but it
served.

And, Mr. Faiicit, you were right ; and you will be a
real help to me. When papa brought this Mr. Brent to
dinner and introduced him to me last nis^ht, I thought
there was something odd in his manner which I couldn't
understand. And the man himself was familiar — rudely
so even. I haven't been able to shake off an uncomfortable
feeling all day, and came here as if something
was going to happen."

Something has — hasn't it ? " asked Guy.

Yes. But not quite like that."

What is this Mr. Brent ? "

"I don't know. 'Something in the city which
sounds like anything in the world, from a diamond-merchant
to a crossing-sweeper. I don't want to think
of Mr. Brent again."

"And I don't want you to think of him. You
have told me that I may go and speak to your
father tomorrow, and tell him everything ? "

"Yes, Mr. Faucit."

One thing more."

What's that ? "

"You haven't answered my question yet."

^'What wait?"

Whether you love me or not ? "

Haven't I ? ''

Not in words. Won't you ? Do you ? "

"Yes; indeed I do."

Ah ! And when will you begin to call me Guy ? "

A big pause. Then she said, "Xow, Guy."

4f ^-Jf-Jf -^

"What a lovely looking girl!" said to Lady
Luscombe, a little later, as Daisy was walking through
the rooms, a dark and singular-looking man with a pale
oval face, and jet black hair parted in the middle, who
seemed some six-and-thirty years old, if any clear guess
at his age could be made. He had nothing distinctive
in his dress, which was very simple ; but everybody who
looked at him looked at him again, and it was to be
noted that all who spoke to him spoke to him with
marked deference. Lady Luscombe was leaning on his
arm, and he was twisting a hoop-ring round the fourth
sincerer of his ricrht hand.

Lady Luscombe looked carelessly up, as she had
been absorbed in some close conversation with this
man which the remark interrupted. Her eye was
caught too, at once, not more by the beauty of the
girl, than by the air of refinement which was especially
Daisy's own.

She is indeed," she said. " I wonder who she is.
As I don't know her myself, and never saw her before,
I must ask Lady Pepperharrow."

The young lady doesn't look much like a friend of
our gentle hostess," said the other, with a sneer in the
words which his tone hardly marked. " But whoever
she is we must know more of her. She must be an
ornament in your rooms this season; it is always an
advantage to introduce a sensation. A fine-looking
fellow with her, too; a Briton of the true broad-shouldered
Viking type. She is too good for him, and
he can be dispensed with."

"He is very much absorbed by his pretty companion,"
Lady Luscombe said.

"Clearly. Calf-love to be killed young. There's
Pentonville. He'll find out all about the girl's parentage,
prospects, and general health in five minutes.
Pentonville ! "

A tightly-booted and short-sighted little gentleman
hopped across the room. " W — w — w — "

"Well?"

No — what ! W — what is it, Lestrange ? '*

M R. JOHN BEE X T.

Mr. Fairfield was in his study, closeted with a
friend. The friend was not a person who excited feelings
of sympathy at the outset. He was little and
dried-up, like a medlar ; and looked as if the drying
process had taken place as much inside as out. His
face wore the livery of the burnished sun in the
especial form it assumes in complexions which have
been tanned and dried in India, from an improper
understanding of the conditions of Indian life. mr.
John Brent looked as if he should sit for a picture of
liver. He had a little iron-grey head of hair, which he
brushed back as far as he could, so that with the help
of the baldness at the parting the revealed expanse
might pass for a high forehead. The real forehead,
which is bounded in anatomy by the frontal bone, was

so low that there was nothing of it, the bone of
boundary being nearly in his eyes, which were pink and
ferrety, and winked like sickly stars. Little iron-grey
whiskers, ending half way down his face, and looking as
if they were gummed on, they stuck so close, completed
the physiognomy of the man very consistently. His
voice was shrill and weak, and worked on one note orin
an exasperating manner. Neither his tones nor Mr.
Fairfield's grating voice were agreeable to listen to;
more especially as on the occasion which had now
brought them together, there was considerable excitement
on both sides.

Mr. Brent had been the Calcutta correspondent of
the firm of Fairfield and Co. ; and it was with Calcutta
that the younger partner in the house had been
coquetting, with the disastrous results which our story
has already foreshadowed.

When Mr. Brent, himself a man of realized fortune,
came home from Calcutta to settle down in nabobhood,
he brought with him the sentence of death of the firm
of Fairfield and Co. if he chose to pass it. The whispers
on 'Change which heralded his coming were as
correct as they were ominous, and Mr. Brent was not a
man to let any foolish feeling of sympathy stand in

his way, or prevent his claiming hLs pound of flesh to
the full.

It is not necessary to tell, nor could I exactly do it,
the process of events by which Mr. Brent had become
the arbiter of the fate of the house of Fairfield ; but
financial operations on a large scale are apt to lead
into no-thoroughfares of the kind, and I am grateful
to the Providence which has ordered my lot in opener
pastures, and saves me from great fears, if from lofty
hopes, for the fate of the salt-cellar on my modest table.

Mr. Brent had had his wine's somewhat since bv
the operations of his correspondents in London, though
those financial pinions of his, on which he sailed home,
were very broad indeed. He resented the injury, and
armed with divers acceptances and other documents of
a pernicious nature, he came to London breathing
flames and fury against Fairfield and Co.

The early history of John Brent had absolutely
nothing in it to interest anybody. He was one of those
gentlemen who make themselves; and in his case
nobody could grudge him the exclusive credit of the
manufacture. It may safely be predicated of him that
he landed in India with the traditional half-crown in
his pocket, as Benjamin Franklin came to Philadelphia.

VOL. I. p

"After all, when you come to think of it there's
nothing in it. Anybody could have done it," says Mark
Twain, in the funniest essay he ever wrote. These sort
of people, not that I would compare Benjamin Franklin
with John Brent, always do begin life with half-a-crown.
Where do they get it from ? and why is it always half-a-crown
? The unvarying character of the sum makes
one suspicious of these self-making gentlemen.

Alexander Dumas, — ike Dumas, — the dear old
Dumas of 'Monte Crista,' and ' D'Artagnan,' and the
Tour de Nestle,' — not he of the morbid Aspasia school,
whom the soul of Binks loveth and worshipped as a
great creator, which indeed he is so far, in that, while
another made the world, he made the half world, —
Dumas the first confessed to an original capital of two
louis. " My son," he said, nearly at the end of his days,
when he was being reproached with his still incurable
prodigality, the big-natured, generous old giant, " My
son, there is no charge I deserve less. Sixty years ago
I came to Paris With two louis in my pocket, and
look," he added, turning it out, "I've got one left
still!"

John Brent was not a prodigal, being indeed one of
the meanest persons to be found on a summer's day,

and Ms half-crown had made a very large number more
when he came to England to enjoy the fruits of his
toils and scrapings. " This was a way to thrive, and he
was blessed," after the measure of his desires. What
sort of enjoyment he would manage to extract from his
riches might have been a problem to any one who
examined him in Mr. Fan-field's study.

Now it came to pass that Mr. Brent had no wife ;
and that one of the first things he proposed to do in
England was to buy one. He was sixty, no doubt, well
runo^; but he had been what the world acres to call a
man of no vices, and he flattered himself that his health
and constitution must therefore be those of a young
man, of necessity. He was as angry' "\^ith his liver as
Mr. Fairfield was with his throat, and would not admit
that it could be out of order, or that excessive desk-work
and inordinate cheese-paring, coupled with a
masterly neglect of all the humanities and Beauties
of life, could produce anything of the iU effects which
properly follow upon vicious careers. Virtue and self-denial,
he felt or asserted, had been his rules of conduct.
He had neither chick nor child, and if he had any
relations in England, he did not intend to find them
out or to acknowledge them. His memories of them.

were of the vaguest, dating back to the half-crown days,
when, as likely as not, some tipsy or improvident father
had turned him out of the house to shift for himself.
It may well be that it was not so ; that the res augusta
domi had been no fault of any one's, and that the
parting had been one of bitter tears, and much heartbreaking
on some poor struggling mother's part.
Perhaps on the boy's too, for if there be some people
who seem to be born bad, and some who have badness
thrust upon them, assuredly there are very many men
who achieve badness for themselves, by a course of
deliberate egotism, beginning perhaps in no source that
can fairly be called evil. Such men are, indeed, self-made.
If there was any such love and tenderness in
the far background, there was no trace or shadow of it
upon John Brent's spirit now, and he started on his
proposed St. Martin's summer with a clear tablet.
Whether he had married before, in his youth, I do not
know. If he had, history has no record of the first
]airs. Brent, who certainly left no child, and probably
died of a broken heart, or of the want of sufficiently
generous living. It didn't matter to Mr. Brent, and it
doesn't matter to our story.

When Mr. Brent had been but a few days in

London, and had brought the head of the house of
Fairfield to the verge of distraction, he called one day
in Portland Place, and he caught sight of Daisy. The
little Indian was overcome bv the gracious vision, and

Iso '

saw his opportunity at once. It was in his power, by
no great pecuniary sacrifice on his part, to tide over the
difficulties which beset the London house, to save the
credit of Fairfield's, and to start the firm fairly on its
way again. For this Mr. Fairfield had recourse to
entreaty, and brought all the influence he could to bear,
without being driven to expose the true condition of
affairs to the world, in order to work upon the feelings
of the arbiter of his destiny. But the arbiter had no
feelings to work upon, and frankly said that it was a
mere matter of business. He bore no ill-will to Fairfield's
whatever, but there was no reason in this case
for suspending the ordinary course of events, and he did
not see that any consideration was or could be offered
which would or could make it worth his while to be
merciful. On what compulsion must he ? tell him that.
Everything to this sun-dried anatomy was mere bargain
and sale, for he was so effectually tanned as to keep out
feeling or sympathy as long as the tanner of Hamlet's
grave digger could keep out the water.

Mr. Fairfield saw nothing before him but ruin. He
had not even provided the refuge from the storm
secured by a large settlement on his wife, which in such
cases has often enabled the bankrupt merchant, while
hundreds of people who unfortunately trusted him are
left penniless and destitute, to retire into obscure
misery on five or ten thousand a year. Perhaps Mr.
Fairfield's reliance on his house's credit had been too
high ; perhaps he had a conscience of his own in spite
of all his failings. In any case so it was. Keeping his
counsel as best he could at home, but causing real and
increasing uneasiness to his wife and daughter, he saw
something very like want stare him and his family in
the face, when Mr. John Brent cast eyes of favour upon
Daisy. Vera incense ijatiiit Dea, to him as to mortals
of higher and finer grain, this stately and attractive
young lady. Mr. Brent did not deceive himself in
relation to the purchase which he desired to make, and
quite understood that even nth his money he might
find a deficiency in the market of the precise article he
wanted. Therefore he regarded the appearance of
Daisy upon the scene as absolutely providential. I
have not alluded to a fashion of Mr. Brent's, which gave
especial offence to many of those who had dealings with

him, of constantly referring to Providence the issue of
his keenest bargains. In fact, I don't like to talk or
think about it, for to me I know of nothing more
terrible than this particular form of hypocrisy. It gives
me a feeling of nervous dread for those who indulge in
it. Mr. Brent's moral lectures to Mr. Fairfield, on the
ordained and divine consequences of commercial remissness,
had exasperated that combative old man more
than anything else. But indeed it was curious to see
how subdued^his arrogance was in Brent's presence, and
how supplicatory his tone became.

The returned Indian saw at once that in Daisy
Fairfield, if only she should prove a dutiful and amenable
daughter, he had found exactly what would suit
him best, and fulfil his domestic ambition. Here was
a woman to make his table attractive, to amuse his
declining years 'when they should begin to decline,
which, in his opinion, must be a long way off yet, and
tiU then to shed fresh blossoms upon what he secretly
believed to be still the fervour of his youth. He saw
at a glance, in which he was not peculiar, though his
own penetration pleased him very much, that in externals
his victim's daughter was all that heart could wish.
Mr. Yavasour did not know better what he was about,

or decide more methodically, when he paid Marian
Teesdale the compliment of selection. Internals did
not matter ; for Daisy was evidently young enough to
be moulded by a husband of his tact and experience.
John Brent had, he thought, a very successful way with
women.

And so, on the morning of the day of Lady
Pepperharrow's gathering, the day immediately preceding
that which finds him in the study in Portland
place, the Indian millionnaire without much prelude
propounded his scheme to the English defaulter, as he
took very good care to let Fairfield know, in plain
terms, that he was. He had not been informed of the
domestic history of his correspondent, and till he accidentally
saw her, he knew nothing of the "one fair
daughter, and no more," whom, like Jephthah, judge of
Israel, and the excellent Polonius, the poor father from
his heart, and in his way, really loved passing well.

Matters were at a crisis, and Fairfield was resio^ninsj
himself to his fate. The junior partner, who was young
and go-ahead, and had feathered his private nest on the
chance of cold weather, about which he said nothing,
shrugged his shoulders and preached some philosophy
to his elder in a curiously provoking way. He was

really shocked to find 'show culpably careless Fairfield
had been in not providing for his wife and family, as
every good citizen was bound to do in such uncertain
times, in the precarious state of business. Poor Fairfield,
driven to bay, indignantly declared that there
never had been anything precarious in his business at
all, never need have been, and never would have been,
but for the rashness and experiments of the junior
partner, who expressed pity.

My dear sir 1 As if it is possible for any intelligent
man not to move with the times ! What you call
rashness and experiments are courage and prudence at
once, in the altered conditions of city-life. "^Tiy, my
dear sir, America would annihilate us, literally annihilate
us, if we did not keep pace with her as far as
we can in the race of commercial enterprise. She has
great advantages against which we must in any case
find it hard to hold our own ; but you would handicap
us so completely that all English trade would go to the
wall. Your theories, my dear sir, are impossible, exploded,
out of date. It is true that we have been
unfortunate ; but though I would not say anything to
add to your distress of mind at such a time, — my o^\ti
is deep, my dear IMr. Fairfield, very deep, — I must,

in justice to myself, say, that our misfortunes are chiefly
to be attributed to your most ill-timed conservatism,
and the manner in which you have thwarted — yes, my
dear sir, I must say thwarted — all my schemes for the
welfare of the house."

Mr. Brent, who had never in his life risked a rash
experiment of any kind, entirely endorsed the junior
partner's views, and between them they almost persuaded
the unhappy man to regard himself as the prime
mover of his own disestablishment. To do him justice,
he thought more of his wife and daughter than he did
of himself in the ruin which was coming upon them all.
The junior partner put on his shining hat, and gloves
of faultless kid, and with a clear conscience betook himself
to his club for a basin of soup, and some particular
Amontillado, whereon to meditate on the fresh start that
he should be able to make when unencumbered with
the old-fashioned concern which, after all, he was well
quit of, as soon as the nine days' wonder should be over.

Honest-Threadneedle, the clerk, went to his chophouse
hopeless and crest-fallen, with something very like
tears in his eyes, and denied himself his usual beer.
Mr. Brent was left alone with Fancied, and came
straight to the point.

You have been constantly asking me, Faii'field, if
there was no consideration on which I would consent
not to press my claims against your house."

"Yes, I have. There is nothing in the world I
wouldn't do, if you will but give me the time to tide
over the difficulty," answered the other.

Tiding over Difficulties like yours is all nonsense
and sheer self-delusion," said Brent, sharply. " You've
got into a bad way, and you'll only flounder into worse."

Still you might show me some consideration, after
all our dealings too-ether."

In the name of common sense, why ? "

"We have done a great deal to build up your
business and your fortune, Brent, and that you know,"
growled Fairfield, though the growl was in a key
sufficiently subdued.

And what of that ? " snapped Brent. " It was all .
in the way of business, wasn't it ? You didn't build up
my fortune, as you cal it, out of charity and consideration
for me, did you ? "

No," acquiesced the other, shortly.

No ; of course not. You did it for business, jure
business; and if you had taken the advice of sour
highly intelligent and most honourable junior partner.

you wouldn't have been in your present position, nor
have placed me in mine. However, I shan't waste anymore
words on recrimination or on sentiment. Sentiment
in trade is silly. Let us come to the point. I
have found the consideration you have been looking
for."

What do you mean ? " asked Fairfield, eagerly.

"I mean that I have found the consideration on
which I will not only defer, but forego, all my claims
against you ; and not only that, but do all I can to put
your house safely on its legs again."

Brent ! " gasped Fairfield, getting up from his chair.

A good many men would have hesitated and stammered
considerably before making the suggestion the
other had to make. Not so Mr. Brent, whose comfortable
confidence in himself was equal to all emergencies.
He neither stammered nor hesitated at all.

I think I have told you, Fairfield, or perhaps I
haven't, that now that I want to settle in England I
want to find a wife."

A wife ! " said the other, in a tone which would
have conveyed to anybody else the conviction, that to
Mr. Fairfield the idea was entirely new.

Yes, a wife, and a young wife. I can make her a

fine settlement, and she will be very happy. I want to
marry your daughter."

Soever till that moment had Mr. Fairfield been in
such immediate danger of apoplexy. He grew blue
through his natural red, stammered and wondered
enough for both, and like Aulis the dictator, scarce
gathered voice to speak, or indeed to think.

My daughter — Daisy — marry — you ? You haven't
even seen her."

Yes, I have. I saw her yesterday. I can put half
my fortune into your business, and set it on a sounder
basis than ever.'"'

The conversation which followed would not, perhaps,
be very nice to record. But one or two things
which Fairfield said made the other man's eyes glisten
in an unpleasant, snake-like fashion, and he showed his
teeth in a way to prove to Fairfield that not till that
moment had he fully realized how much he was in
John Brent's power. John Brent dined that nicrht in
Portland Place, with the result on Daisy's mind in the
last chapter recorded.

It was on the next day, on the morning after Lady
Pepperharrow's dehid in the world of fashion, that the
two men were again too-ether in Mr. Fairfield's room.

They had a long talk together, and Mr. Brent took up
his hat and went away with a comfortable sense of
satisfaction. Mr. Fairfield sate in his arm-chair by
himself, and had some brandy-and-water. Then a
servant knocked and disturbed his meditations, and
told him that a gentleman was upstairs in the drawing-room
with Mrs. Fairfield, and had asked to see him.
The name on his card was Mr. Guy Faucit.

"A friend of my wife and daughter, the young
fellow who has dined here three or four times,"
muttered Fairfield to himself. " What does he want to
see me for ?"

He was not sorry to change the current of his
thoughts, and when he had finished his brandy-and-water
he went upstairs.

THE COUP DE GRACE.

Mes. Fairfield was sitting on a low chair before
the fire, looking very small and frightened. Guy Faucit
was standing on the hearth rug near her, frank and
much in earnest ; and it was clear that the conversation
which had been passing between them must have
interested them both in a high degree, ^s. Fairfield
fidgeted in her chair when her husband came in, and
looked at him appealingly, rather like a dog who is
doubtful whether he has or has not been guilty of some
breach of the law, and tries to discover from his master s
eyes whether he is going to be beaten or not. Faucit
met him in a comfortable, straightforward way, with no
consciousness in his manner that there was anything
to be said, and the two men shook hands.

I asked to see 5^011, Mr. Fairfield," said Guy,
because I have something especial to say which I
wish to say to you myself."

"What is it, Mr. Faucit?" asked the other, who
knew his visitor as a man who had dined at his house
and made himself pleasant, but had paid him no special
attention. There was not much in common between
them to make it otherwise. It is possible that Mr.
Fairfield was not fully aware of all the five o'clock teas
and other meetings which had taken place, though
there had been no conscious concealment in the matter.
"Can I be of any service to you?" The merchant's
manner was nervous and pre-occupied, and he did not
sit down, but walked about the room.

His wife watched him uneasily, and then made an
appeal to Guy.

I think, Mr. Faucit, you had better go now. We
can talk about this afterwards."

No, Mrs. Fairfield," he answered, " I have nothing
to hide. I came to ask you, sir, if I may marry your
daughter?"

The declaration was point-blank enough, certainly ;
and I think that, under the circumstances, Mr. Fairfield
was a good deal to be pitied. He had been thinking

about his daughter, of course, since Brent had propounded
his scheme, and about nothing else. Even
in that short time he had begun to reconcile himself
to the notion of the marriage as far as he was concerned.
John Brent had given him a ful account of
himself, and he was richer even than Fairfield had
imagined. A more distinguished son-in-law would have
been more agreeable to his taste, no doubt ; but the
fortune and the security were the chief thing, after all.
And the anxiety of the last months had so shaken and
worn the merchant under that hard outside of his,
that there was hardly any price he was not ready to
pay to feel secure again. Fairfield and Co. safe and
sound once more, and starting afresh under better
auspices than ever; the reign of reason resumed, for
Fairfield knew his man, and the odious junior partner
suppressed and outvoted : — all this made up a prospect
which effectually dazzled Daisy's father, and blinded
him, in the attractions of its horizon, to the unsightly
character of the foreground. It must be remembered,
besides, that Fairfield was not recognized as an agreeable
person himself, and did not resent the odious characteristics
of Mr. Brent as a man of a higher nature would

o

have done. He hated the man certainly, because he

VOL. I. Q

was in his power. But if he got out of it he didn't
see why they shouldn't pull well enough together.

Yes ; but Daisy ? Mr. Fairfield was an autocrat
at home, and his daughter had never failed for a
moment in duty and obedience. But all the softness
in his nature had been for her, and he would have
spoiled her, probably, if she had been to be spoiled.
He was an affectionate father to her, and in spite of
domestic rubs, and his constant impatience with his
wife, there had been always something between them
which was even like sympathy, different as their ways
and natures were. With her keen sense of fun, Daisy
could not help feeling how intensely irritating her poor
mother's placid submission, or tactless little provocations,
must be to the old gentleman at times ; and her
care in smoothing difficulties and averting collisions
was exercised as much for the sake of one as of the
other. At the bottom of Daisy's character, however,
lay a firmness which the father strongly suspected,
though so far it had . sho^vn itself only in everyday
directions. He had more than once been on the
verge of confiding his whole trouble to her, and deserved
genuine credit for denying himself the confession, from
real unwillingness to cloud her opening life. What

shape might that firmness take in the face of such a
proposal as John Brent's ? Daisy would not disobey
her father by taking any step he disapproved, that he
knew ; but whether she would obey him to the extent
of doincr what she rebelled against herself, was another
question. Therefore he was meditating the time and
way in which he was to make the full state of the
case known, of which Brent consented to let him bethe
judge, and he had nearly concluded that the
sooner it was done the better. Brent suggested frequent
visits to the house, and many opportunities of
wooing ; but Fairfield shrewdly suspected that the
opportunities might not turn as much to the wooer's
advantage as that gentleman flattered himself. It
would be a plunge when it came, and it might be
better to take it before the waters had been sounded
too closely for reefs.

Meanwhile, it had been with much satisfaction to
both that Fairfield had been able to assure Brent of
the important fact that there was nobody else in
the way. To that effect had been almost the last
words which had passed downstairs ; and then, suddenly,
and with the inconvenient promptness of a stage-apparition,
started up before the merchant's eyes in

Q2

his own drawing-room, one of the finest-looking young
men he ever saw in his life, who, with no prospects
or position that he had heard of, yet as coolly as if he
were a prince of the blood royal asking for a glass
of wine, demanded his daughter without prelude or
warning, and obviously, as the father felt in a moment,
with the daughter's own leave. The daughter was
suddenly assuming an importance in the world quite
out of proportion to the due order of things. Wasn't
he to be considered in the matter at all ? he began to
think, in the general confusion of faculties which was
taking possession of him. And the effect of Guy
Faucit's bomb-shell, suddenly discharged into this disorganized
camp, was to throw Septimus Fairfield of
Portland Place and Mincing Lane, merchant, after his
first struggle with perplexity, into a most tremendous
rage.

Guy Faucit has been kept, by this disquisition, a
long time waiting for his answer, which, when it came,
was strangled at its birth in a neckcloth, and was
simply this — " Good heavens ! " Mr. Fairfield's veins
swelled before Faucit's eyes, and his complexion became
Homeric in its purple.

You have taken me by surprise, sir ! you have

taken me by surprise ! I-really don't know low to
answer such an extraordinary tiling. I really — God
bless my life and soul ! "

Mrs. Fairfield detected the signs of gathering wrath,
and interposed in a nervous tremor, " Septimus dear,
Mr. Faucit doesn't mean any harm."

Good gracious, Jane, don't talk in that way. Mean
any harm ! God bless me ! God bless me ! Do you
know what you are asking, sir ? " in a tone of positive
bewilderment.

Yes, Mr. Fau-field. I am asking for your daughter
to become my wife some day. I am asking with her
own permission."

You are ? And you have absolutely, sir, absolutely
accepted my hospitality to abuse it in this manner,
and taken advantage of a girl's passing fancy to attempt
to secure her affections without her parents' knowledge ?
I never heard of such a thing."

Faucit's face was flushing slowly, and his manner
very grave. He was on the point of appealing to Mrs.
Fairfield whether she had not been well aware of what
had been passing under her eyes, when he read in her
face such an unspoken appeal on her side, that with
instinctive generosity he let that defence go. He had

been enough in the house to guess that Mrs. Fairfield's
lines were not cast in the smoothest of places, besides
gathering much from Daisy. But he answered Fairfield
steadily.

I have never done anything underhand in my life,"
he said, " and should not have begun with your daughter.
I have never disguised my wishes from the moment I
formed them, and I have not lost an hour in speaking
to you since having Miss Fairfield's answer."

You should have spoken to me first, sir ! " said the
other, growing more and more angry with Faucit's calm
superiority of tone. He felt akeady that he was not
coming out of it well.

I cannot agree with you, Mr. Fairfield. A man
has no right to presume so far on a woman's consent
as to speak before he gets it. He can hardly pay hera
worse compliment than that."

I shall not be lectured about the claims of a parent,
sir ! " stormed Mr. Fairfield, who, in the perplexity of his
position, was forgetting himself very fast indeed.

Septimus, dear Septimus ! " murmured his weaker
half.

"Upon my soul, ma'am, I believe that you must
have known of this business and never told me ! this

most discreditable business ! To trade on the passing
fancy of a young girl "

"Mr. Fairfield, I cannot let you speak like that,
even tbougb you are her father. I don't believe Miss
Fairfield's feeling for me to be a passing fancy ; but
that you can find out from herself. I have the right to
know the strength of my own feeling, and to ask you if
you will one day allow your daughter to be my wife."

Guy's manner was so studiously respectful that it
was difficult to quarrel with it ; but the weakness of Mr.
Fairfield's cause made him quarrelsome. He disliked
the vision of Brent in the background very much
indeed, and felt that the Indian's chances would be
materially lessened by the appearance of so singularly
personable a rival. He still kept up his favourite tone
of bluster, though he perceived even in his wrath that
bullying was thrown away on his troublesome visitor.

What prospects have you, sir, may I ask ? " he
said. " I have heard that you are only reading for the
bar."

"That is the case, Mr. Fairfield," answered Guy.
"I can pretend to no position and no immediate
prospects; but — "

I knew it, sir, I knew it, and could have sworn as

much ! " The merchant was inwardly delighted with
his chance, for if Faucit had had definite prospects to
offer, his position would have been more awkward.
Yet you presume to come forward and ask me to give
you my daughter, who has been accustomed all her life
to a position which I do not intend her to lose ; on the
strength, I suppose, of all that you mean to do when
you are called to the bar ! No, sir ; I assure you that I
do not intend her to lose it, or to share a crust with
anybody ! I shall wish you good afternoon, and beg
that I may never hear of this again."

"Mr. Fairfield," said Guy quietly, but in a way
which enforced a hearing even from the man he was
speaking to, "I hope that you will regret this some
day. Nothing will tempt me to show any disrespect to
Daisy's father, or to use hard words with him. You
give me very hard ones, and, as I think, without reason.
I have a very honest love to offer, and I gave up a good
and secure position at Oxford that I might be able to
offer it. I don't think you should have spoken to meas
you have. My Oxford work gives me the right to
look for a fair measure of success at the bar, and I
have already a good connection in the writing way."

Mr. Fairfield grunted at the display of this last card

of poor Guy's, which he might as well not have played.
The writing-way," in the eyes of ILr. Fairfield, was
a rather disreputable road to starvation.

I never supposed," Faucit went on to say, " that
you would sanction any immediate marriage with your
daughter."

Immediate indeed 1 " said the other. " What on ?
On my money, do you suppose ? "

I suppose there would be nothing unreasonable in
thinking you would help your daughter," answered Guy.
She thought so. But I should myself prefer to wait
till I had made a good start for myself."

"And keep a young iii dancing attendance upon
hopes for the best years of her life, I suppose. Fatness
to her, if you meant that, should have prevented you
speaking."

I don't think so myself," said the other. " It is far
fairer than leaving any one in doubt of a serious feeling.
But I see that I have made a mistake in speaking to
you, and for the present I shall not say any more.
Good-bye."

Stop one moment," said Fairfield. " Am I to
understand that you give up this foolish nonsense
altogether ? "

I shall never give it up," answered Faucit.

And you tell me that to my face ? " shouted the
other, whose temper, in spite of himself, had been quieted
by Faucit's tone, but now boiled over again. " I tell
you, sir, that I forbid you now or at any time to think
of my daughter. And mind, let me hear nothing of anymore
meetings of any kind ! Before you go, give me
your word that you will not attempt to see the young
lady again."

I don't think that you have the right to ask me
for any promise of the kind," said Guy. " Neither Miss
Fairfield nor I, you may be sure, are likely to do
anything to be ashamed of."

Oh, Mr. Faucit, I'm sure you won't, either of you,"
interrupted the unlucky third at this disagreeable scene.
Please go now, and don't come again at present. I am
sure Mr. Fairfield doesn't mean anything unkind, do
you ? " But her lord and master was only fuming.

Good-bye, Mrs. Fairfield, and thank you for all
your kindness," said Guy, pressing the good-natured
hand. " I can't say good-bye to Daisy before I go, can
I ? " he added to her hurriedly.

She is out for the day, indeed she is," answered the
mother. " But you are sure to hear from her or me."

"Of course' said Guy. And with another grave
salutation to the excited man of business, he was gone.
Even while he was still on the stairs, he heard the
storm bursting upon the head of the devoted Jane.

Guy Faucit went quietly home to his chambers,
revolving. This was a check at starting which he had
not been prepared for, though he told himself rather
angrily that he ought to have been. He had taken
Mr. Fairfield too much on trust from Daisy, instead of
believing in his own conclusions about her father's
purse-pride and want of refinement of mind. There
was a little injustice in this, as we know ; and if the
merchant had not been fairly driven to the wall by the
situation, of which Guy and Daisy were equally
ignorant, it is probable that his daughter would have
had no very great difficulty in bringing him round.
She had made Guy feel so convinced that this was the
case, that he was fairly astounded at the ferocity of his
reception, though he had not of course supposed that
Mr. Fairfield would jump at his offer. He felt rather
annoyed with Daisy, therefore, as well as with himself,
for he could not disguise from himself that the merchant's
objections were of a nature altogether too
strong to be conciliated as they had hoped. Well, it

could not be helped : the course of true love was going
to run roughly, as usual, and the flinty hearts of fathers
to inflict the usual bruises on the supplicating hands
knocking at the door of them.

Another man than Faucit would have been more
down-hearted than he. He could not, in spite of his
annoyance, as yet regard the situation very seriously.
He felt as sure of Daisy as of himself, and smiled as he
thought of the father scheming for ambitious marriages,
or trying to argue her out of her love. Probably he
should not see her for a few days, and their meetings
might even be suspended for a longer time than that.
But the separation was one which they could both
accept, and was too unreasonable to last.

Guy knew that he should hear from Daisy the next
day, and her letter would tell him the line he must
take, which it rested with her to decide. He thought
that he knew what the letter would be, and could
indulge his fancy in watching her think it out 'and
write it, with its calm assurance of the future and
counsel of short patience, and regret that for the
moment she had misled him.

With these thoughts in his mind he smoked his
pipe placidly enough in his fireside corner, rather

amusing himself mentally at the remembrance of Mr.
Fairfield's angry airs of Bashawship, but ^^-ithal a little
puzzled by their vehemence, suggestive of something
in the air which he couldn't quite understand. Then
he migrated to his writing-table, and added a postscript
to the letter which he had written to the old mother
down in Devonshire, in the first flush of his happiness
and pride, making her, as he had done throughout, the
confidant of all his proceedings, all his hot and cold fits,
wherein the cold had played but a brief and bracing
part, and anticipating the day when " the two sweetest
women in the world '^ should come to know each other.
Daisy had sent through him, in that first part of the
letter, a sweet and tremulous message of her own.

Dearest Mother," added the postscript, " I shall let
this letter go, as it will tell all the story. But we have
counted without our host, if I may describe by that
name a gentleman who has incontinently kicked me
out of his house, abused me for presumption and
fortune-hunting and other pleasant things, and generally
behaved like the Emperor of China with a fit of
the gout. Indeed, I think Fan-field Papa rather resents
the indignity of not being Emperor of China. My

Daisy made rather a mistake in sending me to him;
but it will all come right, and I am not much disturbed.
When I can write of her as ' my Daisy ' — doesn't it
look nice on paper ? but if you could only hear how it
sounds ! — nothing matters very particularly. We shall
bring Timour round between us, Daisy doing the best
part of it. I am sure to hear from her tomorrow, and
I think I know what the letter will be. God bless you,
little mother. This bonnie conquest of my bow and
spear will draw you and me together closer than ever.

Your own son,

"G.F."

Guy worked well on to his usual hour that night,
and slept the sleep of the just without dreaming of
Daisy, though he wanted and expected to dream of her.
He told me long afterwards that he kept on dreaming
of me all the night in a perverse sort of way, and
resented it in his sleep as a personal injury, wanting
some one else, and not knowing why.

When the laundress had done the fire and cooked
the chop, and Faucit came out of his bedroom to his
bachelor-breakfast, the post brought the expected
letter, and his heart jumped at the sight of the well-known

hand. It was a good hand, free and firm, but
womanly, and he treasured many scraps of it in small
notes of invitation or thanks. It must be admitted that,
in the presence of his unseen Asmodeus, Guy kissed
the new-comer two or three times before he opened it.
But when he did open it, what he read was this :

I am too deeply sad and sore to know well how to
write to you. But you must forget last night, Mr.
Faucit, or that I was ever able to call you anything
else. I wil not say that we shall never meet again,
because I hope that one day we shall ; but it cannot befor
a long time, and never in the way you wish. I
cannot help hoping that this will not prevent your
persevering at the bar, for you were born for a great
success. But whether you do this, or whether you
return to Oxford, my best wishes, and my prayers too,
will always be with you. My father owes you an
apology for the manner in which he received you
yesterday, and so do I for having exposed you to it.
Will you let me make them both, for him and me ? I
am afraid you will be very grieved and very angry, but if
you knew everything you would not blame us so much.
I could not let the post go without writing, as I knew

you must expect it; but perhaps if I had had more
time, I might have written in some other and better
way. But when good-bye must be said, perhaps it
doesn't much matter how we say it. Good-bye.
Always your friend,

"Daisy Fairfield."

Guy Faucit read the letter through and through,
and again through, without being able to grasp and
comprehend it. A dismissal ! — like that — and from her !
whom he had believed in as in Truth. When he could
bring himself to grapple with it fairly, he read in the
letter a clear and final decision. If he had laughed at
Mr. Fairfield's pronouncement of his sentence, he knew
now that the Court of Appeal had positively confirmed
it, and without reason given.

Daisy Fairfield was right when she wrote, that
Guy would be grieved and angry. But she did not
quite know how sternly so. He was simply stunned.
With his strong instinctive sense of right and honour,
Guy felt, as soon as he could feel, that if there were
reasons in the case, as the letter hinted, apai-t from
that of his position and hers, which the father had so
rudely given, those reasons should have been told. I

do not think that he made enough allowance therein
his fulness of manhood, for the gentler and more
shrinking fibre of which the noblest womanhood is
made. But the result of his view was, that he disbelieved
in any such reason at once, and, in the first flush of
indignation, at all events, accepted the whole thing as
over. It was enough for Guy to make up his mind that
if Daisy Fairfield had been what he had believed her,
she would not have written that letter. She was only
a flirt then, after all ! How cruelly letters often miss
their mark, and what harm they do.

Daisy Fairfield, I think, confidently expected some
answer. Either Guy would write or come, and there
would be an explanation between them. The reader
will divine, of course, that she had learned the state
of his affairs from her father on her return home that
day. But Guy neither came nor wrote, but met the
blow with characteristic silence. For two or three
days he worked on as hard as ever, but said nothing
to any one of what had passed. Then he grew sleepless
and nervous, and felt that he did not work well. Then
he announced that he should take leave of absence
from his pleader's chambers for a time, and went straight
down to his mother's in Devonshire.

VOL. I. B

OVER.

Yes ; they are deceptive things, those letters, and
have caused in this world an infinity of misunderstandings,
some of which are destined never to be cleared up.
My conscience is good and my digestion sound ; yet I
shrink from the post instinctively, and rejoice when
fate casts my lines in a place where there is no afternoon
delivery. I am unable to understand the frame of
mind so common to women, which makes the post hour
a delight and a curiosity; and always feel a sense of
grateful relief if a day comes which brings no letters
with it. It seems to me like so many possible disagreeable
the less. Quarrels without end, misconceptions
without number, rudeness, intended or no, which
would be impossible at a personal interview, are sown
broadcast all over the country every night and morning

by those agents of mischief, bearing the Queen's head
on them. Yery sad are the offences which rise through
them, never to be explained till explanation comes too
late ; and all, very often, because the receiver cannot
read between the lines, or tell anything of the workings
and strivings which possessed the reader's heart, but
could find no voice upon his pen.

Very different would Guy Faucit's frame of mind
have been, and very different his course of conduct, if
he had seen the expression upon Daisy's face when
she wrote him that farewell letter. Had he been
there to see, he would have seen the tranquil and
trustful face moved to a very tumult of passion which
he had never suspected in her. One of the fears
which he sometimes expressed to his mother was, that
there was even too much about her of the (ppoinjfj.a
vrjvifiov yakdvas — the spirit of an unruffled calm. Its
charm was great, but it sometimes perplexed him ;
and it was that perhaps partly which led to his rapid
acquiescence in the outward seeming of her letter now,
and his belief that in that stately way of hers she had
only been playing with him all the time, and was really
like the rest of womankind, worldly in her heart. He
had thought her something so very different, had held

K 2

her so priceless in his esteem, apart even from his love,
that for her sake he was beginning to believe that even
the rest of womankind were better than the romancers —
those of their own sex especially — are so fond of painting
them ; and he could not bear to have his idol broken.
If he had only seen ! If she had only had no second
thoughts, but had sent him straight off, without afterthought
or reflexion, the passionate adieu which first
she trusted to the paper, dashed off through a very mist
of tears. It was an adieu, no doubt, as was the other ;
but it would have brought him within the next hour to
her father's house, had he been ten times as roughly
expelled from it the day before. An instinct led her
to shrink from reading that letter when it was finished,
for she knew that it was right and true, and the
envelope was in her hand to close when that evil
spirit called Expediency whispered to her to pause
and to think, and she took the letter out and read it
through. Then the hot tears fell faster yet, and the
brave heart beat still more loudly, and the blushes
gathered round the tears, and she leant her head upon
her hands and thought. Could she, Daisy Fairfield,
have written to one to whom she had given herself but
the evening before, in the language of a passion so

undisguised as that? What if he, that manly and
perfect lover, should think such lack of reserve un-maidenly?
Oh, no, no; and she wrote with a sore
heart and toiling head the other letter, whose meaning
she thought he would surely read behind the words.
Could she have such a love in her heart, and he not
see it ? Could she disguise from him, however carefully
she wrote, the passion of pride in him, and happiness
for both which had lived in her all that day, from the
moment she knew from his own lips that what she
hoped was true, and that she had conquered her hero
for her very own ? No ; he would answer her, he would
demand to see her ; and neither she nor her father, nor
any one in the wide world, would have the right to refuse
him. So she sent the second letter, and she put the
first away — away in a desk among her girl's treasures,
where she read and re-read it many a weary time in
the year to come. Long, long after, with a blush she
showed it him.

She had come home from Lady Pepperharrow's
very bright and full of hope. When she gave her
mother the good news, the mother rejoiced in it for her
daughter's sake, and promised her to love Guy, and
think him the most perfect and fascinating of human

beings. Indeed, she liked him very thoroughly already,
for he had always shown her all the deference and
consideration, which so wins old ladies' hearts from
the young and strong.

Mrs. Fairfield, however, shook her head over her
Septimus, and very much doubted if he would look at
the matter in the rosy light with which the imaginations
of mother and daughter invested it. xo them, it was
clear that Guy Faucit would be Attorney-general and
Lord Chief Justice in no time, if he did not feel
tempted to take to politics and become Prime Minister ;
but it was on the card that Septimus Fairfield might
regard this brilliant future as not proven, and require
solid guarantees from any candidate for his daughter's
hand. Mrs. Fairfield knew that her husband regarded
himself as a very considerable personage indeed ; and
moreover, she augured ill of the present condition of
his temper, with which he had visited her of late
so much.

It's that dreadful brandy and water ! " she
murmured.

"Not so much the water, I'm afraid, mamma,"
said Daisy.

"And I'm sure I tell him about it often enough.

Every morning, regularly nearly no, I have to have a
long talk with him."

Daisy smiled a little.

"Perhaps there's something wrong in the City,
mamma. The City seems to be always going wrong
and always coming right. I can't feel out of spirits
now, dear, and I'm sure everything is going to turn out
for the best. You will see Guy — Mr. Faucit — before he
speaks to papa ? "

"Yes, my dear", said Mrs. Faii'field. "I shall be
very fond of him for his own sake, as well as yours ;
and he'll be a great comfort to us all — as great as
poor Dick."

I hope so," answered Daisy, something almost like
a sneer curling the pretty Up becomingly enough for
the first time since we made her acquaintance. " From
something papa said, I believe some of Master Dick's
bills have to do with those tempers of his just now, and
if so, I'm sure I can't blame him. If there's nothing todo
in Ireland, without the pretty language Dick bestows
on the place, why is there anything to spend ? Money
spent on nothing travels a bad road."

The young moralist was very angry; and though
the poor mother believed firmly though resignedly in

her Dick, she was but a weak cudgel-wheeler in a weak
cause, and soon reduced to her final argument, a sigh ;
which always led to Daisy's, a kiss.

Daisy was not in a mood to dwell on unpleasant
subjects, whereas nothing so much as a piece of good
news, or a glimpse of happiness, moved Mrs. Fairfield
to the verge of tears. She always cried over her congratulations
to a friend upon anything, and drew little
morals which had nothing at all to do with the question,
like an undeveloped Cassandra. She shook her head
now over the prospect of how Septimus would take
it ; but could not discourage her daughter, who at the
moment was armed with a full confidence in her own
powers of pleasing, and with general auguries of a successful
issue for everything.

"He's a very good old father, that of mine, and
never likes saying 'No' to me. He won't begin to
like it now, when it would be ' no ' to the whole happiness
and ambition of my life. Besides, what would bethe
use ? I shan't change my mind now, and I'm sure
Guy won't."

And the young lady sang herself off on her way to
her room, rejoicing. She went out at the time when
Guy's momentous visit was expected, from some instinct

of modesty and shyness, and betook herself to her friend
Lady Pej^perharrow, jubilant over the success of her
festivity the night before.

"Oh, Daisy dear, wasn't it delightful? All the
supper was eaten before the people went away, and
everybody said such kind things. There was a friend
of Lady Luscombe's who told Ugh he was like Luke
Somebody, which Ugh didn't quite understand. E was
a Roman nobleman who gave suppers, and was in the
best society of his day. Do you know what is other
name was?" enquired her ladyship of Daisy, to whom
she was in the habit of referring all her doubtful joints
in the field of knowledge ; and she had many.

Lucullus ? " asked Daisy, laughing.

That was the name," said the other, quite satisfied.
But this friend of Lady Luscombe's is cj^uite the most
remarkable man I have ever met, and so xqyj interesting.
Directly you see him you know that he must
have been a corsair, or a refugee, or a Fenian, or Don
Juan, or something like that. Then he as such a
beautiful name — the Count Lestrange. E wants to
be introduced to you."

Does he ? " answered Daisy, happy with an infinite
content which made Lady Pepperharrow wonder.

She had never seen her favourite look so well, and
wished that she could introduce her last admiration, the
Count, at once. As it was, she made Daisy promise to
dine with her on some early day, to meet Lestrange and
the Luscombes, and Daisy was well pleased to promise
anything just then. Her heart was full to the brim ;
and she had all a girl's longing to confide in her friend,
and listen to all the delightful sympathy which was
sure to be hers. But she had made up her mind that
her delicious secret was to be kept until all had been
happily arranged at home. So she wandered with Lady
Pepperharrow from room to room — watered the drooping
flowers, and arranged the demoralised furniture,
and was so handy and happy, so laughing and helpful,
teasing her friend and caressing her, and so entirely
childlike and radiant, that Lady Pepperharrow would
fain have adopted her then and there, and have installed
her in the new mansion as sole Lieutenant and director.
It was a pity that she could not ; but there be many
such pities in the world. Daisy wouldn't even stay all
day, neither to dinner nor to tea ; but growing a Httle
impatient as the afternoon wore on, and she threw
frequent looks at the clock, insisted on departing prematurely,
on the plea that she was wanted at home, and

left her hostess eth a kiss and a hug which were not
to be forgotten for hours. I Hke to Anger over poor
Daisy's short-lived happiness, which was to be dissipated
at once and cruelly when she reached home.

Her mother met her in the hall with a frightened
face, and in a few sentences told her what had happened.
Your father was very angry, dear, and I'm afraid he
was very rude. He forbade Mr. Faucit the house, and
said that he had not behaved like a gentleman."

Daisy's face flushed to the hair.

Papa told mr. Faucit that 1 On what excuse ?
how could he dare — ? " She checked herself, but she
looked very tall and very straight as she stood there.

I don't know what it means," said the mother.
I'm sure that there's something wrong that we
know nothing about, or he never could have spoken
like that."

Where is he ? "

In the study ; and he asked to see you directly
you came in."

"He shall see me directly," answered the girl,
crossing the hall.

Oh be careful, be careful, there's a dear child !
Don't make him worse."

You need not be afraid, mamma ; I feel very quiet
indeed. But I must know why he has done this at
once." And with a short firm knock at her father's
door, she went in, with a sense of strong indignation
and of rebellion in her heart. If there was to be anger
in this matter, let it be with her, and let her know the
reason. She resented a slight to Guy Faucit in a way
that would not be denied.

Her thoughts changed when she saw her father.
He was huddled in his chair before the fire, and looked
ten years older. The high colour seemed to have left
his face, and there was a dull pain in his eyes.

Is it you, Daisy ? " he said, in a voice very unlike
his own, when she came in. And that was all.

Yes, papa. What is this that has passed ? " She
took a chair by his, and rested her hand upon his
arm.

"It is a very painful thing; and of course you
know."

I knoAv that Mr. Faucit has been here, and why.
But I do not know why it should be painful, unless it
is that you spoke to him in a way which nobody can
deserve less."

I can't agree-with you there," said Fairfield

quickly. "He was bound to let me know before proposing
to my daughter."

"I do not quite see why, papa," she answered,
getting up and resting one arm on the mantel-piece,
while the other hand played with her glove. " It is I
whom he wants to marry. He was bound to let you
know directly he had proposed, and he did."

"He led me to believe that you care for him,
Daisy," said the other; "but I can scarcely believe it."

Wliy not ? " she said. " It isn't very difficult to
believe' She smiled a little, hoping that the worst
was over. " If you knew him, papa, as you will, you
would not very much wonder."

Good God, Daisy ! You don't really care for the
man much ! "

There was real anguish, real regret, in the old man's
tone ; and Daisy knew then that the worst had to be
heard. She turned very pale, and was very still for a
moment.

Papa ! what is the matter ? "

"You can never be his wife, Daisy."
Never is a long word," she said, " especially for
two people who know their hearts as we do. If we are
to wait, we can. But whv are we to wait ? "

You do not know him, child."

Yes, I do. I have been learning since last summer
to know him. I have known myself still longer, and
know this : that if I ever should meet with anybody
who could win me like that, I should not change to
him. You are very fond of me, father dear," she added,
and knelt at his feet looking up into his face, "and
cannot wish me to change."

"He has neither a penny nor a prospect," argued
the father, fighting against the confession which he saw
must come ; for he knew what her answer must be.

He has all the prospects which brains and energy
can give to a man who means to make his way, and to
make it for my sake," she said very proudly. "And
you have the money to help us at the start easily, if you
like, as you always said you should if I married to
please you. There is nothing in this that should
displease you, papa."

He struggled with himself for a time with an unfeigned
misery in his heart, looking round and round
for rescue in his thoughts in vain. Then he got up
from his chair and walked to the window, turning his
face away from her, and without prelude spoke.

Daisy, I am ruined."

"Papa!"

She did not take it in at once ; but lie came to her
and told her. Very gently and very lovingly, for him ;
for she was, after all, the pride of his heart and eyes, and
she had told him enough to make him feel the heartbreak
he was preparing for her. He said nothing of
the man Brent as yet ; he could not, and it was not now
the time if he ever could. But clearly and briefly
enough he put before her the situation as he had too
well realized it. Ruin and poverty, real and hard ; and
something like — too like — dishonour even in that.
Nothing need absolutely be known for a time, and the
difficulty might be tided over, perhaps. But for the
penniless lover there was neither place nor hope, and
Daisy must forget her dream.

It has been very short, dear," he said appealingly.
"Yes, very short, papa. Not longer than my Hfe."
She went quietly to her room, when she had learned
all that she was then to learn. She looked at the thing
as such a woman would look. Money or poverty with
her would make no difference to Guy ; but money or
poverty, for him, must to her make all the difference.
He was going to be a great man ; and proud as she
would be to help his career, she would never mar it.

Was she right ? I do not know, though I think not.
A love like that of those two is too great and rare a
blessing to be lost or to be denied upon any terms
at all. But the young, when like them, have always
the spirit of sacrifice, and do not learn the absolute
supremacy of the great claim, till perchance they are
too old to profit by the learning. Besides, there was
more in the background, and Daisy felt it. When she
left her father's room, it was with the knowledge that
all was really over, and that Guy and she had better
meet no more. Nor was she privileged to tell him all
the truth. So she wrote the letter which she knew
must be sent, in a spirit of impossible pain. Then —
womanlike — desiring the parting and dreading to meet,
she hoped and waited for days for an answer — for him.
Neither came ; and the world went on its usual round
again. Daisy dined at Lady Pepperharrow's, and made
new acquaintances in a world new to her, with the band
of an iron sorrow round her heart. But her charm was
as ever, and as she saw and heard no more of Guy, it
gathered fresh armour from her pride. Beyond the
four who knew it, none knew what had passed.

It seemed the very perversity of fate, that I who
knew and loved these two so well, should, on the very

morning after Lady Pepperharrow's party, have left
England with a friend for a tour in America, long out
of the way of letters and of news. I left with a
happy heart for them ; and after a shake of the hand
with both, that last evening, which was meant to convey
my unspoken congratulations on the unconfessed truth.
Of the sadness which followed I knew nothing till
months afterwards, when it was all too late. Guy never
wrote a line to me for years, and for years I never saw
him again. chien next I met Daisv, she was a Daisv
whom I had not known. To his other chief friend,
Wilmot, Faucit spoke no word either ; but left him to
guess. He guessed, as men do guess where their dearest
friends are concerned, all on one side. When next he
met Daisy a short time afterwards, he bowed to her and
wanted to pass by. In arms as was her pride, she
mustered courage to speak to him, and she spoke with
a cold constraint she would willingly have avoided.

"I have not seen Mr. Faucit lately," she said.
Isn't he well ? "

He has left London, Miss Faii'field."

"Altogether?"

Altogether, I believe."

And the golden dream was over.
VOL. I. a

ALONE IN THE WORLD.

Guy Faucit went down to his mother's to find her
very ilL Unselfish in her loving devotion as she
always had been, she would not interfere with her
boy's work in London by complaints about herself, and
her letters to him neither admitted nor showed any
change in her. He was shocked when he saw it, almost
into forgetfulness of what had brought him down.
For her, she had rejoiced greatly in her son's coming ;
for a fear was upon her that her life was craving near
its quiet end. She had never been strong, and the
cold of the winter had tried her severely. And she
longed to have her boy with her for a time, if that
was to be, as in the old days. If before she left him
she could only know that she left him in safe hands,
that he would not want a woman's love to care for

and to tend 'him, without which, in one endearing form
or another, she held a man's life to be very much alone,
she would be well content to fold her hands, and goto
the place of those who had gone before. She wanted
to know, she longed to hear, that all was arranged
between her boy and Daisy; and then she hoped to
make the new daughter's acquaintance thoroughly
before the end, and to have some sweet confidences with
her over Guy's manifold excellences, to tell her how
impervious he had been to all the reigning beauties of
Devonshire, and how she had been beginning to despair
of his ever finding any one to suit him, in spite of all
his mother's entreaties and advice ; when suddenly she
heard from him how Daisy had descended from the
blue, and at the first description made up her mind
to welcome the new Mrs. Faucit to the place and
heart of the old. She would be able to tell her many
things of Guy's tastes and ways, besides all that she
would learn for herself, and smooth the path of perfect
confidence which those two should tread together after
she was gone. "Would she have the opportunity of fulfilling
this desire of her heart ? The warning was upon
her, and she knew that her time was short. Therefore

she rejoiced with a great gladness over the first parts

2

of that letter of Guy's to her that we have seen, and
was painfully affected by the last. She hoped with
her boy that all would come right ; but felt that Mr.
Fairfield's opposition, against which her brave maternal
pride rose all in arms, — indeed, she had strongly urged
Guy to speak out ; for whom could man desire for a
son-in-law better than he ? — might too surely put an
end to her dream of knowing Daisy.

And on her side, the girl of her son's heart was
cherishing a kindred hope ; for much, very much, of
Guy's talk with her was of his mother, in those times
when they were coming to understand each other well ;
and for that, as for other things, she loved him more
and more. She was full of a wish to love Guy's mother
too, for her own sake ; and on the night when she
promised to be his they found room for their schemes
for the mother in Devonshire, even in the happy
after-talk of self which followed upon their common
confession.

Oh, Guy, do you think your mother will care
about me ? Won't she hate me for taking you away
from her?"

Ask her that yourself, dear," he had answered.

And the sweet tremulous message I have told of,

sent in Guys letter, made the disappointment which
followed all the harder to the old lady. That message
was all she was ever to know of Daisy, who never
forgot her regrets for the loss, in the after time.
Thank God for the faith of some of us, which tells
us inwardly, with a full assurance, that elsewhere, if
not here, those lost knowledges shall be. I would not
hold a blanker creed than that, for the price of the
world's ransom.

Mrs. Faucit scented danger in the air when she
had Guy's news, and though pained and shocked to the
heart, was not surprised, when she heard very briefly
from him a few days afterwards, that Mr. Fairfield's
dismissal had been ratified by Daisy in a way which
he could only regard as final, and that he must have
been mistaken all along. All the mother's heart went
out to her boy in his disappointment, and she wrote
at once and begged him to come to her. She was not
well, she told him, by way of further inducement, and
would be very glad of his society for her own sake,
as he would value hers now for his.

"I do not understand quite what has happened,
my boy," she wrote ; " for you speak of it very shortly.
I hope all is not so ill as you think ; but if you will

come here, I can advise you and talk to you as I used
in all your boy's troubles. Do you remember? We
stupid old women are wiser in some things than mise
and clever men like you."

He kissed the faltering handwriting, and reproached
himself for not seeing sooner how much it did falter ;
and he came back to the true mother's heart for
comfort and for love.

He found it there in full ; but he found too surely,
at the same time, that he was come only to lose the
sacred consolation when he pined for it the most, and
would miss it sorely indeed. His mother was fading
very fast and unmistakably ; and seeing her as he did,
without warning and without preparation, he realized it
at once. She was unwilling even to speak of herself,
could care for nothing but her longing to pour balm into
the wound which had gone so deep. At first she tried
to persuade Guy that there had been some mistake in
the matter, some misunderstanding which would certainly
and easily come right. She wanted to write to
Daisy herself — had not the girl written first to her ? —
and ask her, as she had the right to do, for some
fuller explanation of what had passed. But Guy Faucit
had the pride of Lucifer, as such men have, and he

would not hear of any compromise here. If she had
anything to explain, let her. Though at the time
his trust in Daisy had let him pass it by, he felt
deeply after-wards the sting of Fairfield's insolence,
which his daughter's action seemed to sanction. She
had been persuaded that he wanted her money perhaps,
after all.

Would you let such a suspicion rest on your son,
mother ? " he asked.

And the poor mother was not strong, as she had
been, and could not make head against a determination
which was too great for her, as it had often been in
lesser things. She admired that powerful will of her
son's, which was with him so strong a characteristic ;
but she always feared it for him, and many a time
had prayed earnestly that it might not some day take
the invidious shape of self-will, and wreck him. She
learned to ao-ree with him as to the meanings of his
disappointment, too. A fuller account of the interview
with Mr. Fairfield showed her that he must be
one of those men of whom she had seen so much in
her own life, with whom the world and the purse were
the be-all and the end-all. Such a man as that was
the fit father for a worldly child, and the Daisy of her

son's fancy must have been a dream of delusion. So
grieving from her soul for her son's disappointment,
she saw that it was idle to talk with him
about it, and she accepted it as an accomplished fact,
as he did.

He put the subject aside after the first few days;
and with his strong power over himself, he hid from his
mother resolutely and successfully his fierce struggles
with his own pain. His duty here, at all events, was
clear and straight before him, and he took the duty up
in the strength of his great love for the mother who
had been everything to him, till this enchantress
deluded him for a time for her own amusement.

The doctor of the place confirmed him in his first
fears, and told him that his mother was surely dying.
It might be a question of a few weeks or of a few
months, but the sentence had been passed and written
down. In those weeks or months Guy would not leave
her, but devote his heart and soul to making the
passage easy to that world of rest and un-striving,
whence he himself felt pitilessly far. So he crushed
down all his own selfish regrets, and comforted his
mother by the assurance that there was no harm done,
that the episode in his life had been too short, and he

had never allowed himself' to build upon its issue, and
that no doubt some day the proper wife would be found
for him, for whom the mother's soul longed. After alla
London flirt would never have done. So before she
died she came to think it was for the best, and that her
worshipped son had but passed through the waters so
many pass, with nothing worse than a wetting. He
had never, perhaps, been to her what he was during
those closing days.

When the bright spring came, he could wheel her
out in her chair into the garden, and sit by her side
chatting and reading.

There was no pain, happily, attending her peaceful
end, and he brought all the resources of his mind to
bear upon his dear love. That love was dearer to him
than ever, now that he had realized its full truth by
contrast, just on the verge of losing it. She tried ever
and again to persuade him to go back to London, and
resume the work he had so zealously begun. But he
put that aside altogether. There was plenty of time
for that, he said.

The end lasted three months, and came noiselessly
and without warning, as gently as the visit of a friend
to the quiet sick-room. They had been talking

seriously and soberly all the long summer-afternoon,
with the insects droning their peaceful monotone
outside, and the long June shadows creeping lazily over
the lawn, on one of those days of still heat when Nature
seems crouching for another spring, chiefly of the
things above and the things beyond, and the mysteries
of that life which had been the mother's chief reality
through all her varied days of trouble and of calm.
Chief of all her happiness and prides in her son washer
knowledge that he shared that faith as she would
have him share it, in the unquestioning obedience and
unmurmuring love of a child — the faith that is in one
sense higher than charity, in that if it be real it cannot
fail to include it. He took up at his mother's request
the book they both loved so well, and had read together
so often, during those last months especially. And in
the deep voice filled with reverence he read to her the
opening words of the wonderful chapter in Hebrews —
Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence
of things not seen." Her head fell back in her chair,
and she gave a faint cry. He was at her feet in a
moment.

Where are you, my boy ? " she whispered. And
he took the weak arms and clasped them round

his neck and pressed his lips to hers ; and in that
mother's kiss she died, — died as she had always wished
to die, — in the full confidence of love, alone vdxh. him
whom most she had lived for, with the loftiest words of
Divine prophecy leaving, in his voice, the last earthly
echo on her ear. She knew the euthanasia she desired,
and it was given her.

He did not call for a moment, for he knew that she
was dead. Then he kissed her again, and there broke
from him one low crv. For her the evidence of things
not seen was now turned to the things themselves ; the
things hoped for belonged to hope no longer, and the
glass she had seen through darkly was broken down,
to let the fulness of light in f;)r evermore. But for
him the fall of that irrevocable fate was as a sentence
of civil death in the grey and purposeless world,
which had for him now no meaning left ; and he rose
up in that dear dead presence, feeling himself hopelessly
alone.

*****

He went quietly through the days before the funeral,
and through the business which had to be done, like a
man in a dream ; to all outward seeming unalterably
calm. Then he saw his mother laid in the quiet

country grave, and noted with conscious pleasure the
signs of affectionate interest and respect which were
shown on every side. She had the gift, that lady, of
being truly loved and sincerely mourned, after the
fashion of the things that pass away, and leave their
trace of sorrow, though it be not a deep one, upon the
general hurry of surrounding life.

Guy had every sign of sympathy and kindness
shown him, but his nature took refuge in itself, and fora
day or two still he lived quietly on at home, with no
companions but books and thoughts. His mother's
death left him the master, with his fellowship, of some
few hundreds a year ; and he had all his plans of life to
make again.

He must do something, he thought ; and his mind
began to revert to the old rooms at Oxford, for the bar
seemed to have no attraction now. But the rooms at
Oxford now recalled Daisy Fairfield, from whose image
the strong will could not shake itself free, though he
did not know yet how deeply it was graven, distracted
as he had been from his first pain by his care for his
mother. In spite of himself Hope began to lift its
head again, and he began to wonder if there could have
been, after all, some strange misunderstanding, and if

he had not been over-hasty in yielding at once to pride.
Was it possible — that last night — that Daisy did not
love him ?

A letter from Wilmot, with whom he had exchanged
one or two, came to him at this time. It discoursed of
many things, and it told him, casually and quietly, that
his friend Miss Fairfield had been a great success that
season in London, and that she was going to be married.
The stroke went home to the desolate heart ; but this
time Guy was resolved to know something more, and
by an impulse he did not care to master, he wrote one
brief line to Daisy.

I hear that you are to be married. Is it
true ? If it is not, I think that you owe it to me
to tell me so. If it is, silence will be enough. I shall
wait a week for your answer, though I hope not to
wait so long."

He waited for a week, and no answer came. No
line, no sign, no message. Within one week more, Guy
Faucit was on the high seas, alone upon his road to
South America, with no definite purpose in his mind
but to find out places he had never seen, and to be as
if he had never been to all who had known him. He
left behind him directions that the cottage should be

sold, and from time to time communicated with his
lawyer. And he picked up strange friends and strange
acquaintances, and gathered much wide knowledge of
life and lands, serious, self-contained, and silent always.
And he was a wanderer on the face of earth for seven
years.

End OF VOL. I.

Feet

One GiiineaPer Annum and

inwards

//

/

OF THE

U N I Veracity

or Ill Noise

8Z3
V.2

Vil. II.

in 2009 within funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/faucitofballiols02meri

i Morn in Ciuo parts.

BY

HERMAN CHARLES MERIYALE.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

^hiri (tVxixow.

LONDON :

CHAPMAN" & HALL, Limited, 11, HENRIETTA ST.

COVENT Garden".

1882.

\^All Rights reserved']

r

n^^^^-

CONTENTS OF VOL. 11.

CHAPTER XVII.

PACK

THE COUNT LESTRANGE . . . . 3

CHAPTER XVII I.

THE PITY OF IT . . . . 25

CHAPTER XIX.

DAISY BRENT WASHES HER HANDS . . .37

CHAPTER XX.

JOHN BRENT Departs . . . . 52

CHAPTER XXI.

CHECK TO THE COUNT . . . . 62

CHAPTER XXII.

Page

THE PARTHIAN DART . . . . 78

CHAPTER XXIII.

DESCENSUS AVERNI . . . . 91

CHAPTER XXIV
THE COUNT LESTRANGE's WAGER . . . 104

CHAPTER XXV.

THE spider's WEB . . . . 123

PART 11.
n grana.

CHAPTER I.

THE HERMIT OF THE OWL's NEST . . . 145

CHAPTER II.

BEAUTY Gosling . . . . 155

CHAPTER III.

A STRANGE VISITOR . . . . 169

CHAPTER IV.

PAGE

IN GOOD SOCIETY . . . . 185

CHAPTER V.
THE COMPACT AND THE VISION . . . 201

CHAPTER YI.

DAISY BRENT . . . . . 219

CHAPTER VII.
THE PICNIC ' . . . . . 235

CHAPTER Viii.

FACE TO FACE . . . . . 253

CHAPTER IX.

TRAVELLERS' TALES . . . . 267

^ht f prologue.

(CONTINUED.)

Mephistopheles thrown upon real life, and obliged to manage his own
plots, would inevitably make blunders." — George Eliot.

VOL. II.

THE COUNT Estrange.

I WAS moralising, some chapters ago, probably little
to the satisfaction of my readers, upon the trials of the
post. There is another side to those trials on which
I often reflect, when I see a brief paragraph in the
papers stating that John Noakes, letter-carrier, has been
arrested, and that so many hundred letters have been
found in his possession. So many losses perhaps, so
many sorrows, so many misunderstandings, not to be
repaired. The form of theft is an amusement which
certainly seems on the increase.

It was my lot not long ago to be living in a country-town
about half-an-hour from London, for a space of
some eighteen months. In that time I had seven
correspondences with the General Post-Office — which

B 2

has so little to do in its own line of work that it has
just taken the telephones under its fostering care, on
the ground that the Crown bought them before they
were invented — upon the subject of letters of mine which
never reached their destinations. I had many more
such losses, about which I was too fairly disheartened to
write. Once I received a peremptory summons from
Her Majesty's Collector of Taxes, about a form which
he said I had neglected to fill up and return. I had
done it weeks before, and was able to tell him the day.
His answer was that he was very sorry he had troubled
me, for six or seven others in the district had given him
the same explanation. I appealed to everybody at the
General Post-Office, from the temporary Chief to the
permanent clerk; I represented that the staff at the
local office should be overhauled or changed; I consulted
the tradesmen in my town, who told me that the
state of their post-office was notorious, but as for the
General Office, " Lord, sir ; you might as well complain
to the king of the Zulus." Still I tried, and to
all my appeals I got but one answer — that " it should be
looked into." The answers were nearly always signed
by the same gentleman, whose name I grew to hate ;
afterwards, to my cynical delight, knighted for his

eminent service to the State." How I chuckled when
I read of the appointment ! Once I wrote to him with
gentle satire, hoping that next time he would vary his
formula, and tell me that it had been looked into. He
answered me quite placidly by return of post, as before,
that it should be. It never was. No change whatever
was made at the local office ; and the imperturbable
official in charge always asked me at what exact minute
of the day and in what exact box I had posted the lost
letter, necessarily long before. At last I kept record
and was able to answer him. He said, * Ah ' ; but proved
to me that I had not ascertained my facts with sufficient
exactness. I could not swear whether my last letter
went by the 4' 10 post or the 4 '20, three weeks before.
It was idle to expect redress if I was so careless as this.
I was quite beaten ; gave up complaining ; and if I had
letters especially important, at last used to take them
to town with me, to post at my club. And I reflected,
seeing a correspondence in the paper about a monument
to Sir Rowland Hill, that the monument he would best
have liked would be that his successors should do some
of the work the country pays them for. I wonder if he
used to write and say it should be looked into.

John Noakes happened to be employed at the office

in Devonshire when Guy Faucit sent his last appeal to
Daisy Fairfield ; and whether it was that he was then
trying his prentice hand, and experimenting on the touch
of stamps, or was a hardened offender, who stole letters
out of pure " cussedness," as others upset railway-trains,
he was the link in the chain of events which form this
history, which prevented Daisy's hearing from Guy.
Such a part in life do commonplaces play. I cannot
tell what would have happened if she had received the
letter, or that it would have made any difference in the
catastrophe. But I do not want Daisy Fairfield to lie
under the suspicion of having kept silence upon such
an appeal. Wilmot's news, however, was unhappily too
true; and when Mrs. Faucit was dying in the Devonshire
cottage, she became the affianced wife of Mr. John
Brent. Upon this part of Daisy's story I cannot bear to
dwell. " Fais ce que dots, advienne que pourra," was so
entirely her motto, that I think at no cost should she
have been led into so perverted an idea of duty, as to
sacrifice herself to become the wife of a man she did
not love, with her heart full of the image of another. I
can never believe that anything ever really justifies
that, though the largest of allowances is often to be
made, and never larger than in Daisy's case. The nets

which circumstance wove for her were very closely
meshed indeed.

Guy Faucit had gone down to Devonshire ; Daisy
Fairfield had dined at Lady Pepperharrow's, and made
the acquaintance of Lady Luscombe, and was by her
being initiated into the social mysteries of a more
fashionable world than the old circle in which she at
first began her going-out life, crushing down the deep
pain in her heart, and wearing the customary mask
which the world demands of its votaries ; aimless and
objectless and sad, but winning general admiration
wherever she went. She would have stayed at home
and looked after her mother only too willingly, and
thrown all this aside. But she did not want her story
known ; still less did she wish that any talk should get
abroad of the condition of affairs at Fairfield's, which
her social success would help to dissipate as much as
anything.

The sword of Damocles still hung suspended over
her father's head ; and Mr. John Brent, patient and
catlike, bided his time.

Now, it happens that Mr. John Brent had a singular
auxiliary at hand when he began to lay his formal
siege and advance his parallels. Some years before he

had made the acquaintance, out in India, of a man who
had been introduced to him in connection with some
intricate city business at home, who seemed to come
from nowhere, and have no very definite occupation,
yet to occupy positions of influence and trust at all
sorts of times in all sorts of places, and to possess,
for the purpose of confidential missions, a special and
striking gift for swaying the wills and winning the
ears of men. When he made his first appearance in
Calcutta circles, young, though not in his first youth,
he impressed men at once with the idea of almost
universal knowledge, of a satirical power of observation,
which strengthened his position indefinitely by making
everybody half afraid of him, and a charm of conversation
which very few could resist.

The sinister but handsome face, the low musical
voice, of which no word was often lost, and the acute
intelligence which grasped all the sides of a situation
at once, made an exceptional and impressive personage
of the Count Lestrange. Why he was a Count, and
where the Courtship came from ; whether he had inherited
it from some ancient race, or gotten it for
himself from some grateful sovereign of a court large
or petty, in recognition of secret services to a starving

exchequer; whether Lisbon, or the-Holy Roman Empire,
or the capital of the Cannibal Islands, all which places
seemed equally familiar to him, was originally responsible
for the decoration, was never exactly kno"^Ti.

Men muttered and questioned at first, and talked
about " adventurer " and " impostor," and used harder
words than that. But from the beginning they did not
care to use these expressions very loudly, or provoke a
certain cold and dangerous glitter which had a knack
of coming stealthily into the Count's eyes, and taking
by surprise the offenders who had not marked its
beginning. Moreover, there were things whispered
of his having "killed his man" more than once in
countries where it was not yet impolite to do so, and it
was said that, even where it was not polite, he had
been known to make it so.

So gossip and ill-report died away in the wake of a
man so desirous of pleasing where he was allowed, and
of making himself generally useful ; and the quarterings
of the Prince of Ark and Ararat were not more unquestioned
by society in the course of time than those of
the Count Lestrange. He stood well with the Rothschild,
had been trusted by the Torlonias, and had
recovered bad debts for Covered and Gummy's among

the most morally dilapidated of South American republics;
and when first he made acquaintance with
John Brent, in the interests of a firm which was working
the Great Magnibonium Railway at an increasing
dividend to the subscribers of thirteen-and-a-half percent.,
but had not for the moment as much ready cash
in hand as could be wished, he had just been engaged
in examining some Parsee schools in the south of India
on a commission from the British Government. This
was the man who became, upon his homeward visit to
Calcutta, the adviser and intimate, and " fidus Achates,"
of Mr. John Brent.

I am no master of the involutions of finance, especially
in the hands of such a keen diplomatist as the
Count Lestrange ; nor do I know how it was that he
first discovered in Brent the man to serve him in the
matter of the Magnibonium Railway.

So he did, however; and from his fortunate connection
with that concern, which announced a dividend
of fifteen per cent, shortly afterwards, and then collapsed
with a stupendous crash which half-ruined hundreds of
confiding shareholders, — who had not reflected that such
a rate of interest for themselves probably represented
proportionate injury to at least as many others unknown

dated Mr. Brent's first great rise in the world. He
was quite as careful about it as he was about everything;
and when the crash came, it hurt him no
halfpenny in purse or credit.

The confiding shareholders filled the newspapers
with lament and woe ; pitiful stories of half-pay officers
and maiden ladies, who had justly expected not less thana
safe fifteen per cent, for their little all, resulted in
tears and sympathy from many of the benevolent, and
subscriptions from some ; leading articles, pitched upon
the highest key of morality, held up the directors to the
reprobation of honest men, as indeed they deserved, the
only question being where the honest men were ; and
some of the directors were finally brought to trial and
acquitted, as having been on the whole confiding,
whereupon the leading articles recanted, and expressed
their sympathy.

Mr. Brent, meanwhile, had nothing to do with the
thing except to realize (if I make any mistake upon this
difficult ground, I must ask the reader to believe that
the incorrectness lies in the narrator, but not in the
events narrated) ; and Count Lestrange, who, without a
profession or a penny of capital, used to set down his
brains as worth so much a year, and made it about as

regularly as a government official receives his salary,
was paid too in his own modest way, and pocketed his
fee for his services. But he made out of the transaction,
in the pulling of the secret strings, something
else which the dangerous adventurer valued more than
money. When John Brent came back to England, he,
on his part, who had netted the house of Fairfield, was
somehow in Lestrange's power.

It was this same Magnibonium Railway business into
which Fairfield and Co. had been drawn through the
activities of the junior partner ; and Mr. Fairfield had,
by a course of events of which he was really the victim
and the dupe, and not the promoter, fallen into the
danger of being one of the scapegoats of the concern,
and having one day to stand in the dock to answer for
the Magnibonium Railway. The junior partner, much
to his annoyance and surprise, for he had fancied himself
warm and safe on the windy side, and had certainly
taken every possible precaution to make himself so, was
one of those who did eventually stand there, and escaped
as related, to begin business under new colours afterwards,
and to do very well for himself in the world
indeed.

It was in the autumn of the year of which I

have been writing that the Magnibonium catastrophe
came, and during the weary months which preceded it,
Mr. John Brent was pursuing his object calmly and
relentlessly. Daisy was being slowly and hopelessly
drawn into the toils, and her hapless father was breaking
in health and constitution fast and surely, under the
pressure of his lingering suspense. He clutched at
straws, and clutched in vain, and made appeals to
Brent which might as well have been addressed to the
monument.

Come sul capo al naufrago
L'onda s' involve e tea,
L'onda su cui del misery
Alta pur dianzi e tea,
Score la vista a scenery
Pride remote ivan —

So his troubles crushed Septimus Fairfield as he
looked for a plank, and looked in vain. He might have
found help elsewhere if it would have availed him.
Lady Pepperharrow, if she had known of the situation,
would have made her Hugh sell Glycerine House to
help Daisy ; but the Magnibonium toils were too close
for that, and could be loosed by Brent only. And
Brent himself, in all the complications of this labyrinthine
business, which utterly baffled the general

reader who tried to understand them from the newspaper
reports of the trial of the directors, was in someway
in the hands of Lestrange, who used him. So
consistently tortuous had been the proceedings of the
Magnibonians, that everybody was in somebody else's
power, like the personages in the famous dead-lock in
the * Critic Everybody, — except Lestrange, who pulled
all the strings and worked all the machinery, and was
paid his fee for his services in some indefinite but truly
respectable way ; who was able to do many a friend a
good turn during the winding-up of the gigantic skein ;
materially advanced the fortunes of the house of
Luscombe, among others, by means of it, and gave some
evidence in court which much damaged some and
much distinguished others, — shedding quite a lustre, for
instance, on the character of John Brent, — being finally
complimented by the judge upon his disinterested labours
and his brilliant services to the shareholders in the
hour of their need. The few of those who could afterwards
afford it felt themselves bound to subscribe for a
handsome piece of plate, which was presented to the
Count after an elegant oration from Cicero Wrigley,Esq.,
in the names of those of the misguided shareholders
who owed him their preservation from entire shipwreck.

It has been already told how, at Lady Pepper-harrow's
festival, the Count Lestrange first saw Daisy
Fairfield in the very flush and radiance of her new-bon
happiness. The Count was a connoisseur in beauty, and
had seen so much of it in all parts of the world, that he
was slow to move to anything like admiration, though
every pretty woman gave him pleasure. Of late, his
devotion had been quietly exclusive in one quarter.
Familiar with all phases of the world, he had some
seasons before first come to London from abroad, in
which vague region, though he was supposed to be
of an English family, he had been born and bred, or
said so. He came on a diplomatic mission from some
German court, well accredited and with good introductions,
and made his way in society at once. He was
accepted on his own merits, as such men sometimes are,
without much inquiry into antecedents. The German
court had got him from another German court, on some
nfiission or another, which other German court had got
him from somewhere else. He was a kind of reputable
^Autolycus, picking up the unconsidered trifles which
gradually make a career, and knew capitals and men
so well, that life seemed to have given him the best
education in her power. She taught him by the process

of passing him on, till he anchored, as much as he could
anchor, in the great port of London. He found his
sphere there at once ; for he suited London, and London
suited him. The fascination of the sunless city for
foreigners who come there with good introductions, and
do not fly from the first appalling aroma of soot into
the bluest wilderness they can find, has always been
very great. I believe it to be a fact, that if the attaches
of the world were polled, they would vote for London in
an overwhelming majority. They find the Circe
arms of society open for them all, a sort of republic
under a monarchy which is the harmonious result of
England's incongruous growth, the idlers at their idlest
and the workers at their best ; brilliant talkers still
surviving, and surviving with less of egotism than was
wont to be a talker's bane ; women with less of restriction
than ties their hands in some countries, and not
too much of freedom to wound the taste as in some
others ; and, stoutly as an Englishman I will maintain,
on the whole the prettiest in the world. Lestrange,
out of his wide experience, maintained it always, and
vindicated his position by pointing to the theatres.

There is the test," he said. " I see so many
actresses, that in society proper I am no fair judge.

Sweet are the society beauties who grace the albums
and shop-windows ; and why on earth shouldn't they ?

' Small is the worth

Of beauty from the light retired ;
Bid her come forth,
Suffer herself to be admired,
And not blush so to be desired.'

The beauties are quite right, and should not ' to
parties give up what was meant for mankind.' For one
young acolyte who bums his incense to the original ina
London drawing-room, a thousand chawbacons may
smoke their pipes in Yorkshire under the sweet nose of
the copy, and never offend its delicacy. But for one of
society's sweethearts, I can show you a dozen pretty
actresses in a day whose trains she ought to carry.
Where is the theatre abroad where one can feel sure
of such a feast to the eye ? I don't care about brain-sauce,
which spoils it. I like to feel like a Turk in his
harem, when I disport myself in my stall at the Fantasy,
and pay my half-guinea for my whole seraglio. The
theatres of England prove the prettiness of her women,
and I care not who says me nay. ' Vive la Believe ! ' "
It was when he had expressed these lawless sentiments
one day that Lestrange sate down at Lady Luscombe's

VOL. IL c

piano, and confirmed them in a ballad in wliicli he hat
embodied them :

Joyeux pays des gens joyeux,
Les beaux esprits de ce bus nonce,
Pour te dormer a nos mieux,
Venus sortit jadis de Fronde.
La belle reine de bone
Protege tout coeur qui aime,
Et vit toujours, days sa beauty,
Pour les enfant de la Moliere.

Le musician va predominant
Les doux airs de son rt^pertoire ;
Le peintre vient en exploits
Les belles couleurs pour sa victoire ;
Le poete rev le beau,
Chantant en cepit de soi-meme :
Le luth, la plume, le piii9eau,
Current pour nous noire Buhenie.

La route parsein^e de fleurs,
Voila bien autres qui s'avan^ent ;
En foule viennent ces chiefs pecheurs,
Les gens qui jouent, les gens qui consent !
II est heureux, le Boheniien,
Car pour bien gayer sa serre,
U sait trouver, sur son chemin,
Les belles lilies de la terre.

Versons le bon vin p^tillant I
A I'avenir ne songeons guerre:
Si le sort pour nous est merchant,
A I'avenir buvons la bier !

Nous donnons garment d'une main,
Quand nous avons la bourse pleine,
Et de Autre prisons demain,
Des bons amis qui ont la veine.

Que I'avocat ne frappe pas !
II trouvera la porta close ;
Et n' autre pas que dans la cas,
Ou 11 serait cause, sans cause :
La medicine e'en est pas vraiment,
Qu'il tue a part sa clientele !
II faut, pour y aller garment,
Assez de coeur, et de cervelle !

La devote maiidit son voisin,
Tous les Finances a la messe,
Mais preacher pour nous en vain
Son evangile de tristes :
Qu'il se fasse sa propre loi,
Faisons y guerre, et a outrance !
Notre devise, c'est la Foi,
La Charity, et Temperance.

Tout las de travail, — ou de vin,

Bien doucement quand on corneille,

La-haut, un petit cherubim

Sur nous express sans cesse veille ;

Ainsi, quand au dernier moment

La Mort a notre porte sonne,

Saloons-la en courant :

Viens ! je n'ai fait mal a personne ! "

Nous crayons a la verite.
La droite ligne de la vie,
De Clamour et de I'amitie
La vraie franc-magonnerie ;

C 2

Le sage re croit a rien,
Excepte toujours a soi-meme ;
Mais le bon Dieu, qui fait tout bien,
Cli^rit ses eiifans de Bolienie.

The Count trolled the verses out, or some of them,
for eight stanzas of a song are more than propriety
admits of, in days when the poet is naught and the
composer everybody, and words are but as pegs to hang
tra-la-la's upon. Having been a writer of song-words,
among other things, I speak feelingly. It is not long
since I beheld, if I may for a moment borrow one of
the oddities of type affected by that manliest and most
human of living story-tellers, Charles Reade, a song
advertised in a music-seller's window thus, or thusly : —
in which last phrase I am borrowing again, with the
true effrontery of a scribbler, from Artemis Ward —

MARY JANE,

THE WORDS BY ALFRED TENNYSON,

The Music by Bunkum Barre,

DEDICATED TO AND SUNG BY

BOANERGES BULL.

Once Bunkum Barre did me the honour to set some
words of mine, in which he failed, with the most faultless
completeness, to catch a single idea out of those

with which my geniuskin of song had inspired me.
Most extraordinary thing," he said to me, conscious
of his success. "I find that our popular composer,
Herr Tut Te (a mere impostor, my dear boy, I assure
you), has set these same words of yours, as I think, in
an inferior manner. But you will admit, my dear Tom.
that the rhythm is the same!'

I looked at him feebly and humbly, and admitted
that it was. As the "rhythm" depended on the
words, I failed to see how it could be otherwise.
Seeing that the wretched word - writer finds three
things out of four, the ideas, words, and rhythm,
and leaves the fourth, the tooting, to the composer,
I never could see why he should be printed small and
the composer big, and the two paid on a like scale
of proportion. But such is the author's life, from
time immemorial. He is the one man presumed to
have no weekly bills. I have written songs, and the
composer has composed everybody to sleep with them,
and taken the cash and the big letters. I have written
a play, and the actors have " made " me ; and written
another to be made again by some more of them ;
whereas where they have failed, which has not been
unfrequent, to catch a single idea, or indeed, with

exceptions, to speak a single word of mine, they have
been much commiserated for having to do with an
author who handicapped their talents with such ideas
and words. I have served for six months at hack-work,
as hard as Jacob, for Skimpington the religious bookseller
— might I not rather say, the seller of religious
books ? — and at the end been refused one penny in
payment, on the ground that I had no " contract," not
indeed being apt to make them in such relations. I
have been driven to law for my money, and after a
sear and a half s delay got it from a judge and a jury, to
oe robbed of more than three-fourths of it immediately
afterwards by that exquisite and rational product of
British law, the taxing-master, who sits in a room of his
own and placidly reverses, to all intent and purpose, the
"judgment" and the "order" of Her Majesty's High
Court of Justice, in the absence of the hapless, though
successful litigant, who has spared every penny of
avoidable expense, and is fined for succeeding. The
taxing-master hath a villa in the wholesome suburb of
Scurviton-on-Thames, and draws his unmolested income
quarterly. And the religious book-seller lives in
splendid opulence, and cares no straw whether he pays
me what he owes me or not, provided I am duly

mulcted for venturing to annoy him, and wanting to
be paid like other men. Oh, that he would sell fewer
prayer - books, and read more ! I like irreligious
publishers much better, and find them indifferent
honest.

This is digressive, and remote from Lestrange's song.
The Count's wonderful voice, a rich tenor baritone, and
refined musical skill were among his chief passports, as
such gifts and acquirements are, and deserve to be, to
social success. That success of his was great and
immediate. He could talk with the best talkers, do
innumerable services unobtrusively, and have the name
of a " thorough gentleman " for the asking. So great
was his musical gift, that at a concert where the best
signors and mesdames of the day discoursed their most
highly-paid songs, he would win from a frigid audience
the one loud encore of the evening, by some simple,
thrilling, perfect ballad, which set half who heard it
dreaming, sung with an art beyond the reach of skill.

At last the professionals came to him with a sort of
deputation, asking him to ask payment for singing
among them, because it wasn't fair.

He thought of it for a time, but would not, having
plans and notions of his own. And in the first blush of

his London success, he became an unfailing feature at
the Vavasor receptions we have heard of; the right
hand of Mr. Vavasor in the City, and, still more, of
Mrs. Vavasor at home. She was his devotion.

When the cruel title came, he understood better
than any one else how to soothe and soften Marian's
bitter and bravely-hidden mortification. And when she
and he came to Lady Pepperharrow's house-warming, it
was from Luscombe Abbey that they came.

THE PITY OF IT.

The Count Lestrange's keen eye for beauty was
held and fascinated by the first apparition of Daisy
Fairfield. She was looking her loveliest on that
evening at Lady Pepperharrow's, and we know the
reason why. So did the Count at once, with an
intuition which would hardly have failed a less
keen observer than he was, when he saw her at Guy
Faucit's side. She was very sweet and very fair,
and he knew that he was in the presence of the
most perfect specimen of her kind whom to his taste
he had seen.

He set Pentonville to work at once, and through
that well-qualified agent of social enquiries, he soon
learned all he wanted to know.

The name came upon him with a surprise. " Miss
Fairfield, the daughter of the merchant ! " he said.
'' Really ! "

This, then, was the girl about whom John Brent
had spoken to him only that morning, as the young
lady upon whom he had cast a favourable eye.
Lestrange fairly laughed to himself, with an old silent
lauo^h, as he thought the combination over.

Lady Luscombe's quick eye followed him with
suspicion, and she asked him what was amusing him.

I will tell you some day," he said ; " or rather, it
will tell itself before long. I see a plot in my mind's
eye ; and you know that I am fond of them."

He was introduced to Miss Fairfield that night, and
he met her at dinner a few evenings afterwards, when
that sad change had come over the spirit of her dream.
He was courteous, sympathetic, watchful, and laid himself
out to please. He did not altogether succeed at
first, as well as usual ; for there was something in the
girl's royal instincts which took alarm. But he met
her at a good time for his purposes, whatever those
might be.

She was deeply wounded at Guy Faucit's departure
without further sign, and inwardly resolved that he

could not have cared very much for her, after all, or
he would never have taken her so instantly at her unwilling
word. She missed his companionship though,
painfully, not only as the lover's, but as the friend's ;
for all her talks with him had been an education to her,
and had widened and enlarged her mind.

This gap Lestrange was more able to supply than
any one else, for he was a man of wide culture, as well' as
of deep observation. He, too, was able to talk of art
and books out of the overflowing of a fuller knowledge
than Guy's; though the cynical flavour of his comments
and criticisms, delicately veiled as it was, was
very different from that of the discourse which came of
Faucit's frank and open-air nature.

During the months of that London season, — during
which poor Daisy, taken up by Lady Luscombe and
others at once by right of her rare beauty, blossomed
out into the great world with a canker-worm at the
stem, — Lestrange had constant opportunities of " forming
" the girl whom he adopted as his pupil.

Everything fought for him. The entire change of
life and associates, in which she found the best
distraction possible for her sad thoughts, made her glad
of the attention of one who knew her new world so well.

Terribly sad those thoughts became within a few
days of her father's scene with Guy. First, he told
her that things in the City might recover ; then, that
it was only a question of time when the crisis should
come ; then, that she could save his fortune, his credit,
and his character, and she alone ; then, that she could
save them but in one way ; and, at last, that that way
was John Brent.

Every step was taken with Machiavellian precision ;
for John Brent directed Mr. Fairfield, and Count
Lestrange directed John Brent. Scarcely had he
made Daisy's acquaintance, and understood Brent's
purpose, than he determined to forward it with all
his power.

I do not wish to examine too closely into the
motives by which he was actuated, for they were mixed
and many. Moreover, Lestrange was one of those
terrible characters with whom one meets, thank God,
very rarely, though one does meet with them sometimes,
who love evil for evil's sake, and have made it
their good. It is in itself motive enough for them.
Such people are an awful scourge, perhaps a wholesome
warning. Let no man speak of "dispositions." To
them, as to all, the choice between good and evil is

open at the first ; and when they have entered upon
the downward course, constant and constant are the
opportunities offered of return. Then constant less and
less ; and at last, none at all. Their perception of right
and wrong has grown fairly confused ; and their ears
are no longer open that they should hear the passing of
the sad, remorseful, sighing sentence, " Ephraim is
joined to the idols. Let him alone : " or know of the
irrevocable moment when it is passed, if indeed such a
sentence can ever be irrevocable, which mercifully we
cannot know, though it is well for us to fear it.

So the nets closed round Daisy Fairfield, for whom
Count Lestrange had conceived a deep and dangerous
admiration from the time when first he began to talk
to her. The frank and fearless spirit, the entire absence
of self-seeking, and comparative indifference even to
admiration, — though she would have been less than
woman if she had not enjoyed, even in her trouble of
heart, the conquests of her beauty, — delighted Le-strange,
who had grown weary of the monotony of worldliness
which he found upon the surface wherever he
went. Here was a task worthy of his power and skill,
and in accordance with all the principles of the nature
which he (and none else) had made his, to subject this

high-minded woman to a process of mental degradation.
In the future he may have had other views.

The months which Guy spent by his mother's
side in Devonshire, Lestrange devoted to this unworthy
game. The world, at that time, affixed him much
to Lady Luscombe, and for good reasons of his own
he had to conciliate her. The adventurer's main
purpose in life was very definite to himself, though
unknown to all beside. From the first, he had made
himself indispensable to Marian Vavasor, whom he
magnetized at last into an entire and dangerous confidence.
In her social empire he had been an admirable
vizier ; in her schemes for wealth he had brought all
his craft and mastery of city politics to bear in helping
her. Marian Vavasor had told him a fact which was
concealed from every one else in the world but the
family physician. Her husband had serious heart-disease,
and his life was of short purchase. The Count
Lestrange knew well what she and he might do
together with the gathering rent-roll of the Luscombe
lands, and he meant to marry the widow of Lord
Luscombe.

It may give a better idea than anything can of the
admiration he conceived for the beauty and the nature

of Daisy, to say, that for the moment she shook him in
that intention. Daisy Fairfield would have a good
fortune, which he could save, with her father's credit,
through John Brent, as well as the Anorlo-Indian himself.
And as his wife she would do the Count credit
indeed. But a little reflection cured him of that idea.
The position which Marian Luscombe would give him,
and the peculiar fitness which he recognized in her and
in himself, to make them an important place in the
English world, was a matter which he was not going to
throw lightly away. So for his further objects he
decided to second John Brent's purposes, and not to
thwart him. In this he congratulated himself upon a
soot disinterested action. For what else could it be, to
save such a girl as Daisy from ruin and obscurity,
and the shame which would result from her father's
exposure, and probably his public trial, by the only
means left by which to save her? So he went upon
his way. Drop by drop he instilled into her ear at the
many parties, dinners, gatherings at which they met,
the theories of life which for the moment it suited him
to entertain. He said no word to her of his knowledge
of her father's position, and the designs of Mr. Brent.
"Yes, Miss Fairfield," he said to her once, "like

others I have formed my conception of duty. As far as
in this world we can understand it, I think that it is
to family and to name. Self-sacrifice for that is the
highest point to which we can rise."

Do you really think that ? " she said.

I do," he answered. " I am myself my own architect,
such as the building is ; and I think myself bound
to honour the building."

And if self-sacrifice, in such a cause, meant misery
and wrong ? "

I should hold it to be all the higher self-sacrifice."

And Daisy thought, and thought again.

Lestrange was far too clever a player to intimate to
the girl anything of personal admiration, which could
be construed into anything more than personal deference.
Too clever far to use the ordinary commonplaces
about the value of wealth and station to such a
pupil as this, he played upon the chords of the higher
common-places of sacrifice and unselfishness. He used
the general ways of worldlings in his subtle and suggestive
fashion, not for example, but for mockery. And
so by degrees, studied and sure, he undermined the
foundation of a higher and a nobler faith.

Daisy Fairfield, meanwhile, became the favourite of

the hour, and the recognized Cynthia of the fashionable
minute. She ckmg to good Lady Pepperharrow with a
despairing fondness, as she felt the ground slipping more
and more from under her feet. She used her own new
born fashion to help her friend to the desire of hei
heart; figured as Diana Vernon at her tableaux; as
Mrs. Mildly, or Madame de Fontanges, at her private
theatricals — nobody ever acted anything but 'Still
Waters Run Deep,' or 'Plot and Passion' just then —
-willingly and carelessly enough. It was her first step
into the public life from which she had rather shrunk
before, and surprised her hostess as much as it gratified
her. The rouge and the applause had been little
enough to her taste ; but she did not reject it now.

"You acted like an angel, dear," said Lady Pepper-harrow,
after one of these performances.

Yery likely," she answered. " I never saw an
angel act. But not nearly as well as any half-trained
professional actress from the theatres would do it, on a
salary of fifteen shillings a week."

Oh, but, my dear, ladies have such an advantage."

"As professional ladies, of course. But not as
professional actresses."

And Lady Pepperharrow, without at all under-vol.

II. D

standing it, recognized in her favourite's talk and
her favourite's "ways a tone entirely new to her. She
asked once or twice what had become of that nice and
distinguished Mr. Fauci t, who had seemed such a friend
of Daisy's. But she had but off-hand answers, aud
knew nothing. So Daisy laughed and talked and dined,
and the wheel went round and round.

One day, — it was late in the season, and some two
days before Guy Faucit's mother died at his side ia
Devonshire, — Faucit's name was accidentally brought ^
up in conversation at some small and fainihar dinner-party,
by some one who knew of him. Daisy bit her
lip a little, and turned a little white; and Lestrange,
who was sitting next her, filled her glass with wine,
or beckoned to the servants to do so.

Faucit ! " he said. " Oh yes, I remember him. a
fine, manly fellow, who was to carry everything before
him. Did you ever meet him. Miss Fairfield ? "

Once or twice," she said.

"A fine career spoiled," he added, "like so many
others. I met him at supper once or twice three or
four months ago, at the house of the pretty singer, Dora
Lane. He was lie favourite and slave for the time,
and I fancy the Temple Chambers didn't see very

much of him. Most men would have be . n proud of it ;
but whatever his reasons were, he didn't like it talked
about. The thing was kept rather dark, though it
was well enough known in some circles."

He looked away from Daisy, and talked to his other
neighbour.

Daisy was brilliant, almost noisy that night; and
she went home late. Her father was still in his room,
and the inevitable crisis was near. There had been
scenes at home of late ; the idler, Dick Fairfield, had
come back, and with father and mother, was pressing
Daisy hard ; for even the poor mother knew the truth,
and was fading under it, as Fail-field himself was
breaking.

Papa," said Daisy, " tell mr. Brent I will many
him'* And so she went to bed.

The next day she had her interview with the
unlovely lover, and made, on her side, no disguise.
His face was lovelier than ever when the interview
was over, and the terms of the bargain on both sides
arranged. Daisy's was a frank and unconventional
spirit, and she held her own. Whatever her terms
were. Brent yielded, and the cruel thing was done. I
have told my thoughts before, and do not love to linger.

D 2

There was a wedding at St. George's in the following
autumn, when Guy Faucit was upon the high seas. I
had myself just come home, and heard the startling
news; and I watched the ceremony, uninvited, from
the gallery of the church. The face of the bride was
like a statue of Diana, as pale as the marble — as
classical — as cold. Throughout the mockery, no quiver
of a nerve might be seen. Only, when she was asked
if she would love, and honour, and obey, there was a
pause before she answered. Then she said in a low
voice, "I will," and suddenly lifted her eyes, with a
strange appeal in them, for a moment straight above
her. And I, who was watching her and naught beside,
saw her, with one rapid gesture, make the sign of the
cross.

It was rumoured that the fashionable priest, one
of the two or three who was close to her, heard her
whisper under her breath — " Thy will be done."

For myself, I went home dreaming, and sate out
that evening at some theatre in a dream. I have
never been able to remember either theatre or play.

DAISY BRENT WASHES HER HANDS.

The marriage was over, and the deed was done ;
and when the Magnibonium catastrophe came, the good
fame of Mr. Fairfield escaped all connection with it : so
Daisy reaped her reward. But in less than one year from
that day, she was without father or mother, the first of
whom followed the second to the grave within a few
weeks. The long anxiety had killed them both ; and
the cold duty which in Daisy's manner to them now
took the place of the old signs of love, perhaps hastened
the inevitable end. She could not help that change.
Mrs. Fairfield grew smaller and smaller, and faded out :
and her husband, much changed on his side, less dictatorial
and gentler far, was found after dinner one
evening dead in his arm-chair. He had died quietly
and painlessly in his sleep.

Daisy had been dining with him that night, and
was the first to find him so, when the usual time had
passed for his coming up-stairs for his cup of tea.

"Papa!" she said. "Papa!"

Then as the silence awed her she drew nearer, and
looked at him, and knew that ho was dead. She stood
by the chair quietly for some time, neither moving nor
speaking, but looking into his face, with the sadness of
an unfathomable feeling in her eyes. Then she bent
over him and kissed the dead lids, which wore, thank
God, a smile ; and then she knelt and prayed. She
felt for any sign of life, but there was none ; and quietly
called the servants. The doctor came and certified that
he must have been some half-an-hour dead when his
daughter found him, and discoursed to his wife constantly
for months of the impression made ujoon his
mind by the stately sweetness and self-possession which
the daughter showed. She looked at her father, he
said, with an expression in her eyes which haunted him,
and was always tempting him to try to define it.

So Septimus Fairfield's life was over ; and he had
escaped the dishonour and ruin which had seemed to
him so terrible, at the heavy cost of this young and
vigorous life, full of the bud and sap of its richest

spring. He had lived out his days in their narrow-minded
span, as such men do live them ; and nobody
had much to say of him for good or for evil. His
interpretation of the fifth commandment had been
like that of most elder people — all on one side.

It is a deeps conception of duty which gratifies the
vanity of the old, and saves them trouble, and casts all
the burdens on the young. Vrhen they moralize on
the point, it is impossible but to believe that they
think of themselves as having married not to please
themselves at all, but in order to place a possible
progeny under heavy obligations in no wise mutual.
The progeny are apt to think otherwise during their
early years. Tien they grow old in their turn, and go
and do likewise. And so the undying tradition of self
is handed on again — to yet a generation more.

With reference to this same commandment, it may
perhaps be suggested that most of us do not live under
the dispensation of Closes ; and that it is not that commandment
upon which, according to Him under whose
dispensation we are, hang all the law and' the prophets.

Septimus Fairfield, like most people, had interpreted
the commandment in the sense most gratifying
to himself, and did not seem to think, so far as his

children were concerned, that it even included his poor

timid wife much. "Honour thy father" was enough

for him without the context ; and he certainly took no

trouble to teach respect for Mrs. Fairfield by any

example of his own. What his lessons lacked, Daisy's

heart supplied. And to save himself in the eyes of the

world, which had done little for him and paid scant

attention to him or his doings, Papa Juggernaut drove

his parental car right over his gallant child's happiness

and life ; and before he had time to profit by his drive,

went to his rest apparently with a Nelson's confidence

that he had done his duty. Who knows? Puzzled

and perplexed by all these myriad problems of the

entangled scheme of Self, we are tempted to write

over half these monumental graves Ophelia's single

epitaph —

He is gone, he is gone,
And we cast away moan ;
God ha' mercy on his soul."

"And of all Christian souls, I pray God." Many of
these leaden Caskets may carry yet, locked within them,
some rough gem of Christian soulhood, all unguessed,
still proper for the refiner's hand, as Bassanio's casket
hid Portia's image. What good had poor old Polonius,

in the comedy of his philosophic selfishness which
wrought to such an end, ever in his life done to
anybody ?

Daisy Brent went home to her husband's house,
to take up her cross alone. She went to him a portionless
bride in reality, though it was supposed that she
had brought him a handsome contribution from the
Fairfield salvage, when the house was comfortably
wound up to be a record of the mercantile past, though
something, as has been already told, to the temporary
discomfort of the junior partner. As a matter of fact,
nothing Alas really saved, except a modest bachelors
income, which, by arrangement between the contracting
parties, went to keep the wolf from the door of
subaltern Dick's quarters, and to enable him to live —
when after a time the military profession proved too
severe a trial for his capacities — the blameless life of
self-sufficing clubroom.

Such men be the lotos-eaters of our day, in whose
land it is always afternoon because they never get up in
the morning, though to eat with them is to nip, and
their lotos is called sherry-and-bitters.

John Brent had really got all the Fairfield money
into his own hands, and in his short-sighted selfishness,

he wrung from Daisy's father every doit of his bond.
It was concealed from Daisy, who believed that she
really brought money in her hand to her husband ; for
it was not difficult to hide the truth from so innocent
a financier as she was. John Brent imagined that by
taking her portionless he would have her more completely
in his power, and he looked forward with satisfaction,
the brute, even at the very hour of his marriage,
to telling his wife some day that he had taken her
as a pauper. Most short-sighted was this selfishness
of his, which left out of sight altogether the whims of
the goddess Fortune, never so whimsical as with wealth
of such precarious making. The Fairfield business
might have pointed that moral for him ; but he had
no eyes to read. It had been his purpose to retire
altogether from business; but business had been his
life, and he soon began to realize that it was as impossible
for him to do without it, as it is for nearly
all men, lawyers, doctors, anybody, to give up a
profession and to die out of harness. The few who
can do it are exceptionally fortunate men, who have
managed, however absorbing the nature of their especial
work, to keep in view the infinite varieties, and interests,
and fascinations of life, and to retain a hold, for their

declining years, upon the rich resources of leisure, which
is likely, through the law of revulsion, to become before
long the highest good of these worrisome days. I
who write these things avow my simple belief, tlmt
there is nothings in life so delightful as intelligent idleness,
even as there is nothing so terrible as " loafing "
where idleness is, but intelligence is not.

Now John Brent, it must be confessed, knew nothing
of these possibilities, and was in sooth the veriest
and narrowest little huckster who ever scratched himself
up a fortune. His married home was wretched,
for wherever he went he made his own wretchedness,
and that of all he had to do with. It was in spite
of all that the brave Daisy could do ; — doing all her duty
fearlessly, and striving her best to keep, subject to the
conditions of her sale, to the terms of the memorable
and specially attested vow. I, for one, hold not that
she ever broke it. For, without any Jesuitic reservation,
we may supply before the words of any such an
oath as that, even as before those of that same fifth
commandment, the introductory clause " to try our best."
And when the other side makes more impossible, so
much the worse — for the other side. Try — and when
you have failed through no fault of yours, know it ; and

try again at the first opportunity possible, till the case
has become " no thoroughfare," and you can wash your
hands. It was in this wise that, after four years of
loyal battle, Daisy Brent washed her hands at last.

Sad and cruel and violent had been many of the
domestic scenes which characterized those four years
of domestic history. Mr. Brent became engaged again
in the labyrinth of business, and his wife, patronized
by Lady Luscombe and tutored by the Count Lestrange,
blossomed into the dangerous honour of a fashionable
married beauty. It is the old story which wants
small re-telling, though I hate to think of Daisy as its
heroine. Society adopted her as a queen, — petted, and
feted, and pictured her, — and scandal busied herself
with her name, though as little, perhaps, as scandal
ever did with any of its victims. She knew it, and
she shrugged her shoulders, and she went her way.
What other way was open to her ? I do not' know.
Her warm friendship for Lady Pepperharrow continued
unabated, and Lady Pepperharrow's house became a
recognized centre of the whole frivolous world of
London, dashed with much of the attractive and un-frivolous,
for the hostess still retained her admiration
for " genius " in its fullest power, and genius at Glycerine

House, or at the country house in Hertfordshire which
was afterwards added to it, was as plentiful as caller
herein' after a good haul, some with soft roe, and some
with hard. Gradually, slowly, surely, Daisy's character
deteriorated and hardened in its outward and visible
signs, though after events were to prove the tenacity of
the inward and spiritual grace.

Mr. Brent occupied the position which husbands in
such cases are content to hold ; and, like such husbands,
liked it, while he snarled at it. The liking was qf
course reserved for others; the snarling for his v»'ife.
Nobody, be it said, ever ventured to say much to
Daisy in disparagement of Daisy's husband ; for, with a
touch of the old masterhood, she put such venture down.
She had many struggles with herself. She might have
turned devote; but it was not in her, and she could
not feign, especially in matters such as that. So she
kept her own counsel in her utter solitude of heart;
and tried once or twice to kindle in her brother some
spark of loving sympathy, but failed. There are few
people so apt, unhappily, to fail utterly under real stress
of heart as those of one's own kindred. There are
few, I am afraid, so prompt to desertion, so quick at
commonplace, so (unwittingly, perhaps) irresponsive to

the chords and cries of feeing. M^atcr is thicker than
blood, in nine cases out of ten. Daisy's brother was
the last thing left to her, and he was a reed that broke
at the first handling. Thanks to his keen intelligence
and subtle power of purpose, she found her best resource
in the talk and the companionship of Count Lestrange ;
and gradually, softly, surely, he undermined the faiths
and loyalties of her life.

At home, Mr. John Brent proved himself a past
master of the infamous art of " nagging," which has
wrecked so many homes. Like the dropping water
which wears out the stone, it is the most merciless of
processes, as it is the most difficult to detect. It is an
art, sedulously cultivated. Its special delight is to find
out the weak points in the sufferer's armour, to insult
his or her special prejudices, to calumniate his or her
special friends, to exaggerate and to dwell upon, to
others as well as to the victim, his or her especial
weaknesses, or to invent them when they exist not.
When some explosion has taken place under its influence,
the victim is powerless to point out the particular
wound ; and on " the facts " is condemned by the
Vehmgericht of kinsmanship as having been guilty of
temper, or quarrel, or anything easy to say, and

economic of trouble to themselves. And he or she — for
masculine or feminine may be the victim — is driven to
ask self the question if self is v,Tong, and its o^vn senses
and eyes are to be believed. After reiterated proof it
knows and acquits itself, and goes on its way in isolated
scorn. So by degrees it came to be with Daisy.

John Brent was under a restraint with his wife under
which he fretted, fumed, and stormed, to as much
purpose as a small pool jumping at a hundred feet of
rock. Thanks to her, he was in a position which he
had not anticipated for hist f. Mr. Brent's dinners
became famous, and he officiated as the figure-head, a
position which he had meant her to occupy.

Instead of Mr. Brent's wife, the world only spoke of
Mrs. Brent's husband. Still, the world came ; and the
house in Curzon Street was renowned for the aristocratic
contents of the hansoms which waited at its door.

Once, a distant cousin of Daisy's, who had an
affection for her, came up from the country at some
pains to see her ; but only reached the house to find an
empty hansom at the door, and to hear that etiquette
forbade her to be received, because some great personage
was paying a visit. The country-girl went home
disappointed, and puzzled about etiquette ; and Daisy

lost the chance of a friend who might have forgotten
the ties of kindred, and been a friend indeed, when a
friend was most wanted. She might have risen higher
than the kindred conception of Christianity — "Don't
bother me." But the opportunity was lost.

Four years after that ill-opened marriage, the crisis
came. As he had done by others, others had done by
him. Mr. Brent was outwitted and out-genei'alied in
the tactics of speculation, into winch he had been
completely drawn ; and he found one moromg that he
had to begin the world again.

While his alarms about this had lasted, he had been
to his wife unremittingly and basely cruel ; and, bravely
as she fought on, had almost fretted her into a nervous
illness. She started at night, dreamed miserably, grew
thin, anxious, worn, heart-broken almost, under his
constant persecution. And alas, and a^.as ! lier chief
comforter and sole confidant was Lestrange, whose
serpentine consolations were a very mint of evil.

Husband and wife, were alone together one day,
when he told her, brutally, that he vas ruined. Lie
remembered how her father, too, had once had the
same story to tell; and she looked al him in wonder.

How long have you known that this was coming ? "

she asked. " Ruin doesn't come in a moment, as I have
learned before."

I have expected it for some weeks' he snarled.

Why didn't you tell me before ? "

"Why should I?"

It was your simple duty," she said. " I have not
failed in mine to you."

"Not failed!" he answered, with a brutal laugh.
What sort of wife have you been to me ? You have
deceived me fioni the first to the last."

I never deceived any one," she said calmly.

Then he burst into a bitter storm of taunt and
anger, — insulted her with the gossip of society, vowed
she had dragged his name into the dirt, — while she
bore it with an unflinching and unmeasured scorn.
Then, when he thought, in his perception of character,
that by this manly course he had worked upon her to
his purposes, he told her that she could save him.

*' I again ! " she said. " Am I to be always saving
men who ruin themselves by gambling, and those who
belong to them too ? You cannot be ruined either, for
you have my money."

Yours, you pauper ! " he said.

Then he told her of the truth she had not known

VOL. II. B

till then, and threw it as another insult in her face.
The man was half beside himself with evil rage,
and furious with his wife's sovereign calm, unshaken
still, though every jot of colour had left her face, save
for the light which sparkled in her eyes.

Then he confessed his scheme, some trick he had
contrived for a post-nuptial settlement, which only.
Av anted her consent to place them in comfortable
security. Of course she would give it, he said; but
she very simply declined.

"I can give you no help to defraud your creditors,"
she said. "If you had not been so anxious
to rob me when I married you, you would not have
been in this difficulty now. But even had you not, I
woidd rather give up every penny I had, than help
you in such a scheme as this. I can go out and
work novsT."

Work — you ? Where ? " And he laughed more
savagely than before.

"I don't know. On the stage perhaps; they say
that I can act : — or anywhere."

Can't you get some of your lovers to help you ? "
he sneered. "You must have made a pretty private
purse by this time."

At last the true blood rose, and the true face flushed
crimson.

I cannot dwell on what followed ; but within five
minutes after that infamous word was said, John Brent
had done something which I cannot name; and
Daisy, a red mark burning on her shoulder under her
gown, had dressed herself to go down to Lady Pepper-harrow's,
and passed out of that shameful husband's life
for evermore.

LIBRARY " ^

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

JOHN BRENT Departs.

Daisy Brent threw herself into Lady Pepperhar-
rows arms in a tempest of shame, passion, and tears,
the stronger for its long repression, and told her
everything. She was past silence with such a sterling
friend and kindly woman now.

What was she to do ? " she said. Did Lady
Pepperharrow think that she was qualified to teach,
that her skill in music or drawing was sufficient lor
such a purpose ?

All Lady Pepperharrow's kindness and sympathy, all
her personal affection for Daisy, and her resentment at
such evil as this, came to the front at once. She tailed
to see that it mattered the least what became of Mr.
John Brent, to his wife or to anybody. " Oh, my dear !

if you had only married that nice Mr. Faucit, as I once
thought you would ! But people never do marry the
right people now-a-days."

Poor Daisy's heart felt as if a hand had gripped it,
and choked her with a sob. Daisy's schemes of teacher-ship
her friend scattered to the winds. She was to come
and make her home with her at once, and be to her the
daughter she had so longed for all her life. What better
use could she find for some of all the money which she
so honestly devoted to the engagements and amusements
of others, than to make her darling Daisy its steward ?
She had guessed a great deal of her unhappiness with
her husband, though it had been loyally concealed to the
best of Daisy's power. Daisy, after some discussion of
the point, could not find it in her heart to refuse such
a welcome refuge after all these storms, so frankly and
lovingly offered. Everything kind that her heart
could prompt her to say, of the old days, of the old
chaperoning, of the old home in Portland Place, and
of the girl's father and mother, Lady Pepperharrow
poured out in a torrent, kissing and comforting Daisy
all the time, and crying over and soothing her. If
there was anybody nearly as fond of Daisy as herself,
it was her Sir Hugh; and he was as unfeignedly

delighted as his wife when the new daughter took her
permanent place at the table, at which she had always
been so welcome. She would see him suddenly nodding
and smiling at her, from the peaceful recesses of his
chair coaxing her to a glass of champagne, which he
thought was a panacea in trouble. And as time went
on, Daisy Fairfield, after some months of quiet and
seclusion, became again the star of the world in which
she moved, under the shelter of the Pepperharrows'
home.

Two or three days after their separation, John
Brent wrote to his wife a miserable, whining, appealing
letter, in the hope of inducing her to reconsider her
determination not to accede to his wishes about the
settlement, for which there was still time. He apologized
for his conduct to her in an abject way, which
made things worse, as such people have a habit of
apologizing. He had been so driven, so harried, so
wretched, etc., etc. Then he went on to find the scapegoat
for his offences, as in such cases usual also ; and to
Daisy's astonishment and indignation, he laid everything
on the Count LLestrange. LLestrange, he said, had been
his confidant and agent throughout in the matter of his
marriage; Lestrange it was who had prevented him

from rescuing her father ; and Lestrange who had since
drawn him into fresh and dangerous speculations, and
constantly insinuated into his ear, in a manner which
he could scarcely trace, ill-reports about Daisy.

Lestrange was at Lady Pepperharrow's, as it
happened, on the afternoon of the day when this letter
was received. Daisy, in her straightforward fashion,
called him aside and read him the passages out of it
which concerned him. Lestrange asked if he might
look at the letter, merely raising his eyebrows. Daisy
showed him the last pages. Lestrange read them to
himself, smiling a little, and raising his eyebrows rather
higher. Then he o^ave the letter back, looked thoughtfully
down, then said very courteously, and in a tone of
interest and hesitation,

"sirs. Brent — excuse me; but — is your husband
quite right in his mind ? "

Count Lestrange ! " she said.

Surely it is rather charitable to think he is not.
Why in the world should I have prevented him from
saving your father? why in the world should I have
wanted him to marry a woman like yourself? why in
the world should I have insinuated to him ill-reports
about you ? . There is always a grain of truth in this

sort of thing ; and no doubt I have had, in the City and
before that in India, some business relations with Mr.
Brent, as I have with most people. But really I have
too much to do to occupy myself with drawing him
into fresh and dangerous speculations. Why in the
name of the monument should I do that, when obviously
it profited me nothing ? ' Whys ' are the strongest of
arguments. Excuse me, Mrs. Brent, but I am rather
surprised, knowing me as you do, that you even spoke
to me of such a letter."

She looked at him thoughtfully, and took it back
from him, and was moving it to and fro in her right
hand as she answered him, in a low voice —

"Because, Count, knowing j^ou as I do, I have
never been able to trust you."

Why not ? " he asked, as quietly.

I don't know," she answered.

Do you consider that quite fair ? "

I don't know. Perhaps not."

I suppose I might be offended with other people
if they said so," he said in a thoughtful tone; "but
somehow, not with you. It strikes me that if I had
acted in any interest of my own, I should have been
more likely to cross Mr. Brent's desires than to forward

them, if I had known anything in the world about
them."

' Wliys ' are the strongest of arguments. "Why ? "
Surely you must know how very deeply I admire
you," he said. He said it after a moment's hesitation,
with a respect in his manner so absolute that no woman
coukl possibly have quarrelled with it, when he offered
it as a defence which she herself had invited. "Your
marriage with Mr. Brent was a hard trial to me," he
added at once in the same tone, and then instantly
changed the subject to some everyday topic with a
tact which was above praise, and in spite of herself,
made Daisy like him better than she ever had
before.

No man, she felt, could have behaved better, or freed
himself more completely from a charge at which he
might justly have taken offence. She dismissed John
Brent's letter from her mind with an infinite contempt,
her knowledge of him, unhappily, allowing her to
attribute it not to any alienation of mind, but to what
she had detected him in a hundred times, the contemptible
vice of habitual lying, especially where harm
is to be done by it to anybody else. When one has
fairly'' found them out, sinners in this kind must be let

alone. It is idle to contradict them, for if you do they
sprout up again in a new place like the Hydra's heads.
Let them alone; and the heads knock each other's
brains out, like the cats of Kilkenny.

Lestrange knew this weakness of Brent's well enough;
and like the boy who cried wolf, the wi etched Anglo-indian
was justly served by being utterly disbelieved
when by accident he said what was true. Justly served,
too, thought Daisy, and with that wondrous equality of
justice of which even in the world's punishments we
have so many examples, in losing his fortune as he had
robbed her father's, punished where he had sinned.

Lestrange only made one more allusion to the letter.
If I had committed a villainy as complicated as ago's,
with even less reason, ]airs. Brent," he said, "there
would be something somewhere to convict me of it."
Of course there was not.

What did happen, however, was an interview between
the Count and Brent, which had the witness of a clerk,
and half palsied the little wretch with fear. He had
never guessed before what anger meant, in that
impassive man, or how dangerous could seem such
impassive anger.

I do not easily forgive people who insult me,

Mr. Brent," Lestrange said. " How dared you tell that
tissue of falsehoods about me to your wife ? "

What ? " screamed the wretched Brent.

That tissue of falsehoods, sir," answered the other.
*' Is it not enough that you should have made yourself
notorious for your cowardly and brutal treatment of
that lady, just when you were on the verge of ruin
from these City tricks of yours, that you should venture
to slander a man of m}^ character and position ? "

Slander ! slander ! " writhed Brent. " But it was
all true."

"What?" said Lestrange. And he called the clerk
in, who was listening already, and nearly tumbled into
the room as the glass door was opened in the oiB&ce
which Brent had set up in the City. "I shall require
an apology from you for that, written under your own
hand, unless you produce instant proof of your calumnious
statements about me."

The wretched Brent was like the bird under the
snake's charm, and was mastered very soon. Lestrange
mixed comfort with his menace, and showed Brent that
he had an admirable opening in his old house at
Calcutta to begin life over again, even at his age, if he
would take his, Lestrange's, advice, and the assistance

which, with his influence, he could give him over thereto
begin the rebuilding of his fortunes. He could, as it
happened, find a place for him at Calcutta worth six
hundred a-year, for which his practice and experience
would especially qualify him. It would give him, too,
plenty of opportunities to scrape a competence together
again, if no more.

Brent, who had contemplated ruin, began to whine
on the new key of gratitude to his benefactor, and
acceded to the two conditions demanded.

The first was, that he should sign his positive denial
of the statements he had made to Daisy. So contemptuous
was Lestrange upon this matter, that Brent
himself began to mistrust his own senses and memory,
and signed in the presence of the clerk, who signed too.
The second was, that he should by deed transfer to
Daisy half of his annual six hundred to place her above
dependence.

Here was cause for new rebellion ; but Lestrange
pointed out how soon the Indian income would increase
in his hands, and again spoke faith lofty scorn of
Brent's treatment of his wife ; to him, he said, the
noblest woman he had seen. And Brent acceded to
everything, and sailed for India regretted by a dog ;

and the clerk described the scene, and Lestrange's
magnificent conduct, to his mates and pecuhars; and
in course of time Daisy knew that, in return for her
unjustifiable suspicion of him, Lestrange had spoken for
her in a way not usual with him, had found a competence
for her husband, and for herself enough to
prevent her from feeling a mere dependent even in her
dear friend's house, against which the high spirit would
have soon rebelled ; and had read with her o^vn eyes her
wretched husband's witnessed retractation of all that he
had said of Lestrange. And so it was that the strange
Count became more and more the guardian, guide,
philosopher, and friend of this hard-tried woman.

CHECK TO THE COUNT.

Not very long after the events told of in the last

chapter, happened one which caused much talk and

excitement in the world in which these characters of

my story moved. I have spoken of the peculiar ties

which connected Marian Vavasor, in the days of her

social supremacy, with Count Lestrange. Before the

time of her luckless ennoblement nobody ever dreamed

of speaking of the intimacy more than as a strong case of

mutual friendship and liking, and Lestrange was merely

regarded as a familiar intimate at the statesman's house,

versed in its ways, and useful to both host and hostess.

The growth of the intimacy was so gradual, so unmarked

the steps by which the attitude of Lestrange towards

Mrs. Vavasor grew into one of almost exclusive social

devotion, that the world was very long before it could

hint anything ill-natured of an alliance which had been
so slow and open of formation.

As long as Mr. Fulke Vavasor's political position
remained to him, and his wife's drawing-rooms continued
to be the acknowledged centre for the political
world, scandal was a powerless factor in the matter.
If Lestrange wove in his head the scheme about the
Vavasor of which I have spoken in another chapter ;
if in making himself more and more essential to them
both, he. never left his purpose out of sight, — he was
above all things determined not in any way to compromise
the lady, or allow his name to be prematurely
coupled with hers, in any shape or form. Nothing
could have been less favourable to the fulfilment of
that ambition of his than any untimely catastrophe, or
even rumour, which could in any way prejudice the
social position which was the lady's, — vrhich he meant
to be his own.

That crafty purpose of his once slowly formed,
he could make no false move in playing his game
as indeed he had begun it for a smaller stake, before
he knew how much might depend upon the issue.
From the moment when he first made the acquaintance,
of the Vavasor, he saw that in their house were the

chances to be found of making for himself the influential
position which it was his ambition to hold in England,
apart and away from the smaller diplomatic and
intrigues which had made up his interesting but less distinguished
career. He was in no hurry, for he believed
in the preservation of his own youth; and if, like a
distinguished man of our time, he had said that he
"wanted to be prime minister' he might have betrayed
something of his inner thought. But he never said
what he wanted, and nobody ever knew. Gradually, in
Mr. Vavasor's house, he succeeded, through a careful
use of his own social gifts and subtleties, in paving the
way to his destined goal. He became intimate with
the springs of official life, to which the circumstances
of his first introduction to London had given him his
first access ; he became favoured of ministers and
trusted of officials, less in the City and more in Downing
Street, and worked upon his way.

He might have found a seat in Parliament more
than once, but with it he would have lost many of the
secret opportunities for influence, which were the object
on which his heart was set for the purpose of the hour.
When he did enter Parliament, as it was his intention
to do, he wanted to be safe, and to enter it as a man

with his way smoothed and made ; he wanted to enter
it on the winning side, after one of those crises of
popular feeling when the people, having enough of one
lot, give the other a turn, and the 'national palaver"
starts on a new tack in different hands, and reverses
the policy of its predecessors, or says it does, before
the eyes of an admiring crowd.

The Horatianss, say, have had a seven or fourteen
years' lease of office ; and the Curiatians are justly tired
of it. The lawyers on the Curiatian benches, especially,
are growing clamorous for the loaves and fishes
on which the Horatian advocates are waxing fat and
kicking, while themselves are fed on the bread and
water of opposition. It is at last discovered, therefore,
that the honour of the country is in danger in Horatian
hands. Her fair fame is being tarnished by oppression
abroad, where struggling and subject nationalities lookin
vain to the land which was once their pole-star
for guidance, for sympathy, and for aid. The old landmarks
of right and wrong, which should be the one
guidance of peoples for evermore, are becoming obliterated
; and, unless the Curiatians come at once to the
helm, England is practically lost. The Horatianss, in and
out of season assured that they are wicked men, to

VOL. II. F

whose darkened minds truth is a fable, and honour an
unknown quality, become at last badgered and irritated
into standing it no longer, and appeal to the country
to tell them whether they are wicked men or not.
The Curiatian leaders rush from hustings to hustings,
appeal to Scripture and to Hampden and the rights
of men, and to the glorious records of the Curiatian
past ; for every Horatian measure, which has done any
good to the people, has been, as all the world knows,
passed under Curiatian pressure.

Their burning words inflame the people, and wake
them to a spirit of crusade against wickedness in
general. Even quiet and thoughtful men of letters or
of science catch the infection in their studies, forget
the eternal law of the cobbler and his last, and rush
on to platforms and into committees, much to the
detriment of their wives' and children's pockets, to
contribute their driblets to the ocean of talk, fairly
taken in by the Curiatian moralities, and anticipating
an instant dawning of the golden age. The mighty
resurrection of all the goodness prevails. The people
of England come to the hustings in flocks, and emphatically
declare virtue is lord, and that the Horatianss are
wicked men.

All is over. There is much grinning like a dog,
and sunning to and fro in the cities. The Horatianss
depart from the up-platform of Windsor by one train
while the Curiatians enter the down by another. The
Horatianss, who had arrived each nth a portfolio under
his arm (which to the popular notion suggests something
in the nature of a photographic albumin), depart with
the evening newspaper in its place ; and in the
mysterious recesses of Windsor the albums are handed
over to the Curiatians, who on their return to the
station display them to the populace with pride.

It is done, and virtue reigns. Then the triumphal
Curiatians change their note as fast as they possibly
can. They withdraw their accusations of immorality
nth anxious zeal, disclaiming for their most ferocious
utterances anything but a Pickwickian meaning. If
there is one thing, they feel with pride, for which all
English statesmen are distinguished, it is the high-minded
and disinterested earnestness with which each
and all of them labour for the good of the people of
England, according to their honest views of right. Nomen
have ever been more remarkable for this than
the late Horatian government, however mistaken their

policy may have been. If in the heat of conflict hard

F 2

words may have been used, it is now time to forget
them. The country has discovered, to their credit be
it spoken, that the abilities of honourable gentlemen
opposite were not commensurate with their lofty principles,
and if the Curiatian brains be of a superior
cast, after all that is not the fault of the Horatianss.

The Horatianss, meanwhile, are not much conciliated,
being a good deal angry at having been called so many
bad names, and sent to the wall thereby. So they
fail at first to see that it is time to forget everything
on the spot in a friendly way; and as soon as the
Curiatians set to work, or rather before they have had
time to do anything, they begin to call names too.
The Curiatians find themselves iu-quoqiied, and taxed
with vicious and unpatriotic conduct, before they have
been guilty of any conduct at all. They beg the
country to wait, and the country, serenely confident of
its millennium, does. The "national palaver" braces
itself for legislation ; and in the very first speeches of
the Curiatian chiefs the country detects a new and very
different ring. We must conciliate, we must diplomatize,
we must be Pickwickian, we must nurse the
prejudices of majorities and minorities. Then out of
the blue cometh a bolt; and the country, who had

really begun to believe in a new era for the oppressed,
anl in a bolder vindication of the higher milites
as the stronghold of political battle, find that the reign
of the strong has begun again indeed ; that if the
Horatianss scourged the weak nationalities with whips
the Curiatians will do it with scorpions ; that, by whatever
rule Russia and Austria are to be judged towards
Poland and Hungary, England, Lord bless us, is quite
another thing; that to throw away English money
abroad is in Curiatian eyes the be-all and end-all of
Horatian crime; and that for these same much-professing
Curiatians, despotism, like charity, begins at
home.

In the palaver, however, the world is in a tale, and
poor deluded old Demos, so much flattered and appealed
to a few months before, is told to mind his own business,
for discipline is good for him. The misguided
man of letters or of science deserted, angry, powerless,
gets him back to his study and exchanges indignant
letters with his friends, and wonders what and how
soon the end of this world-doomed imperialism is to
be, at present all the worse, seemingly, in the stronger
hands. For verily the imperialism of the Horatianss
to that of their conquering rivals, is as a procession at

Ashley's to a charge of cavalry. The people of England,
patient and quiet always, hold their tongues in mortified
silence, and leave meetings and agitations, for the
most part, to the mere froth of the thing. But they
think as much and talk as little, as the noisier section
think little and talk much. And they wait for the
next battle at the polls, when they are deaf to Curiatian
thunder, and stay at home. And amid a blare of
town-bands and triumphal articles, history proclaims to
the world a new "Horatian reaction." Even so, until
the time be ripe —

Fu vera historia ? ai poster!
L'ardua sentence."

Count Lestrange was waiting for some such crisis as
this, as best calculated to bring out his powers, and
acquiring meanwhile a full and cautious mastery of the
geography of the political chess-board. But no man
knows everything ; and he was astray in his calculations
when he placed his chief dependence upon his
position with the Vavasor.

Mr. Vavasor's bald head, irreproachable dignity, and
exceeding reticence, did not impose upon Lestrange
himself, but they imposed upon him indirectly. He
believed in their effect upon Mr. Vavasor's colleagues

as well as upon the world, which regarded him as a
type of the hard-working and self-effacing statesman,
who acts while others talk. His close attention to
details, and interminable though lofty fussiness, carried
out the illusion in the official world ; and it was
regarded as certain that on the next right-about of
parties Mr. Vavasor, then in opposition, would hold an
especial post for which the public voice designated him.

There was a hustle and a crisis ; a vote of confidence
in Ministers carried by a narrow majority, and an appeal
to the country, which responded by saying that it had
even less confidence than the Commons, and incontinently
turned them out.

Lestrange did not feel sure, at the time of this
election, which way the popular wind really blew, and
he waited to be sure.

But when the new ministry was formed, the
catastrophe occurred which has before been told of, and
Mr. Vavasor was told off, album-less, to the Lords.

The blow to Lestrange was as great as it was to
Marian. He was to have been Mr. Vavasor's right-hand
man in his new political office ; indeed, it is no
secret from the all-knowing chronicler, that the expressions
about struggling nationalities, and oppression

abroad, and other similar manifestoes, embodied in the
election addresses of John Audley" Vavasor to his constituents,
were the well-balanced periods of Lestrange's
pen, which was accustomed to sift everything to its
smallest, and in its briefest and most pointed form to
set it forth.

He had kept well with both sides in the official
world ; but his great stake had been set upon Vavasor,
with whose party he saw shrewdly enough that the
coming mastery in the game lay. That party in office,
it was quite understood that the new minister would do
his best to further the parliamentary ambitions of his
shrewd ally, and to find the money which, even in these
degenerate days, can still, though less openly than of
old, purchase in some instances senatorial honours. He
certainly owed the Count, in consideration of City
services rendered to his income, the fullest j^i'ice of a
very safe seat indeed.

Lestrange had seen through the innate dulness of
his patron as well as Marian Vavasor herself; and
sedulously had the two laboured together, in alliance
unconfessed even to themselves, to conceal it from the
world. If Marian was provoked beyond all patience to
find that the dulness had been too much for both of

them, Lestrange shared her feeling to the full, and
proved at once Lady Luscombe's best comforter, as he
had been Mrs. Vavasor's greatest stay.

Poor Marian's disappointment and excitement — for
had she not made this husband's rise the purpose of her
life ? — made her more womanly, more gentle, more open
with her counsellor, than she had ever been ; and he,
his next move yet unplanned in the collapse of his
game, ventured on an openness of sympathy, and an
expression of personal regard and admiration, which he
had never approached before. For Marian was essentially
the great lady; and Lestrange's instincts were
wonderfully true, however he perverted them in use.
They were to him now as a second nature, born of
assiduous cultivation, not of the heart, but of its best
social substitute, tact.

In the long, long talk they had together, the new
Lady Luscombe fairly opened her heart to her friend,
and gave him a full understanding, much as he had
already guessed, of that chilled and isolated heart. She
had never before been so open with any one ; and
perhaps for the first time in her life did she allow anyone
to see her in tears.

It was in the course of that talk that she let him

know the secret so carefully concealed, that her
husband's heart was seriously affected. Steady official
work, the doctor had said, would be its best palliation
though it could not be a cure. Frets and excitements
would be its worst irritants.

Then and there, at Once, the Count Estrange
decided on his new game.

From that day he became more and more with Lady
Luscombe ; more and more to her. " La calumnies e un
monticello," and that wicked little wind began to blow
about in the new circles which gradually formed round
Lady Luscombe. She was born to be a leader in
society, and she remained so ; but the society gradually
changed. Her political influence was gone, and indeed
she was too indignant and too mortified to care to keep
it. The life she led became of the more strictly
fashionable, the more socially exclusive, the more
entirely frivolous.

Soon she lived for society alone, in its mere confined
sense, and society rejoiced in her leadership. Fashionable
beauties and indolent youth formed the crew of
the new craft, where a looser tone of manners and of
morality prevailed than on board the older vessel.

If Lady Luscombe heard of the rumours which

gathered round her and Lestrange, she paid them no
attention, and went on her own way. One thing she
did at last; when he was abroad upon some mission
or another, she wrote to him, and she wrote more than
once. She would have been startled enough if she had
seen the expression upon his face when he read the
letters.

You will be the Countess Lestrange now," he said
to himself, " I think, my handsome Marian ; whether
you still call yourself Lady Luscombe or no."

And all this time Lestrange was able in his otway
to devote himself to the education of Daisy Brent,
who had become the reigning beauty of the Luscombe
set. He amused himself, sometimes, by playing her
off against the wakeful jealousies of Lady Luscombe,
who brooked no rival near the throne. But he was
always able to soothe and smooth such jealousies away;
and the rumours grew. Lord Luscombe kjiew nothing
about them, and pottered on contentedly enough to his
wife's annoyance, devoting himself to county politics
and Luscombe Abbey, and becoming great at quarter-sessions,
and an authority on scientific farming.

But it happened that about the time when John
Brent left England, Lord Luscombe received a letter

when he was alone at the Abbey, which made him start,
anl mutter, and bite his lips. And the next evening,
unexpectedly, he made his appearance at Lusmere House
during a great reception which his wife was holding,
and showed himself cantankerous, ill-tempered, peculiar.
Especially unpleasing and repellent was his manner to
Lestrange, who smoked a cigar or two more than usual
that evening in his chambers before he went to bed. But
the next morning Lord Luscombe was quiet and civil to
his wife and to everybody, as he remained. But he took
to asking various people questions, and to mysterious
colloquies which he kept to himself. With Lestrange
he was as confidential as ever, and involved himself
again in some City matters, to which he had been paying
no attention of late. The Luscombe rent-roll was very
large indeed now. He got excited over these and other
things, and the doctor was grave with him, very grave ;
and one day he sent for his lawyer, who was with him
for a few minutes only. Lady Luscombe knew that he
had been ; and Lestrange soon knew it ; and a vague
uneasiness took possession of both of them, The uneasiness
did not continue long, for Lord Luscombe was
seized with a bad attack, and after a few days' illness,
during which he could not speak, he died. And the

talk and excitement, which the opening of this chapter
recorded, followed when it became generally known
that the dead peer had a few days before appended
to his will, which left everything unentailed to his
wife, a codicil which revoked it unconditionally if she
should marry again.

THE PARTHIAN DART.

It was a matter of some days after the contents
of Lord Luscombe's will had become known before
Lestrange and the new-made widow could bring themselves
to meet. To both it was a crushing blow ; for if
she did not acknowledge it to herself, Marian had
allowed the hope of a genuine love, and of the reality
of married happiness at some future day, to spring up
in her solitary heart. Without allowing any difference
in his manner to be perceptible, after he had learned
how frail was Lord Luscombe's tenure of his leasehold.
Count Lestrange had none the less allowed that manner
to grow very different ; and in the four years which had
passed between the formation of his grand plan and its
sudden and final frustration, he had displayed to Marian
Luscombe a constant and watchful tenderness, an unfailing

respect and devotion, which had won her heart
and will completely for his own. He at all events set
as much store by his conquest of the second, as by
gaining the first. He was able to guard himself from
any suspicion of ulterior motive by letting her trace his
increased interest in her to her burst of confidence in
him, not in the especial nature of the confidence. He
dwelt upon the manner in which her frank confession
of isolation and disappointment had touched him, and
found a thousand ways of showing her how deep was
his sympathy, and how thoroughly he, at least, understood
the misunderstood life of whose pages she had
given him a glimpse.

At first, that . indomitable pride of hers had taken
the alarm when she thought over all she had said to
him — she who so prided herself upon her self-sufficing
nature. She was sensitively on her guard for any si on
of disrespect from Lestrange to her husband, who was
still her husband. Why had she allowed herself, even
in her first passion of disappointed ambition, to speak
of him to any one as she had to Lestrange ? For in
that interview she had dropped her wearisome mask
altogether, and poured out all her difficulties with
her husband's dulness and obstinacy, all the efforts she

had made to nurse his position and credit, and her
ceaseless trials under his cold and irresponsive nature
at h(jme, in language of unconcealed scorn. Lestrange
was far too good a judge of character to mistake her;
far too keen a player to make any false move in his
game. While he threw into his manner to the wife at
once that increase of sympathy and watchfulness, to
the husband he showed himself, in the same way, more
attentive than before. He was more courteous and
deferential to him than he had been, not less; and
advised him, taking care that the advice and the quarter
it came from should at once reach Marian's ears, to
withdraw as much as possible from the excitement of
London and of City politics, and to devote himself to the
quieter pursuits of a county magnate. Very soon had
Lestrange assured himself of the gravity of the doctor's
verdict, and become convinced that the end was at best
a question of a very short time. He would retard it if
he could, not accelerate it ; and again he could be conscious
of a good action. As a matter of fact, it was
advisable that he should be thoroughly secure of his
reversion before the end came. Marian was touched
by the interest he showed, and grateful for this thoughtfulness
for her husband, which was so palpably free from

any unworthy or interested motive. More than once,
never off his guard, Lestrange allowed her eyes to
detect him in the act of watching Lord Luscombe with
an expression of anxious sympathy and interest, drawing
him away from some conversation in which he
seemed likely to show unusual excitement, and with
his quiet, restful tones and sleepless tact, soothing the
peer into the placid blessedness of his natural self-satisfaction.
From the moment when he made up his
mind to do it, Lestrange knew well how to win the
world-trained and world-worn heart which had never
spoken for living man before, and by slow and sure
degrees he conquered her for his very bond-slave
through her pride.

Infinitely dexterous was the use he made, in the
pursuit of his all-absorbing purpose, of his intimacy
with Daisy Brent. He played his game with the
great advantage, which under such circumstances it
is, of perfect coolness on his side. If he had been
capable of loving Marian, he would have transgressed
etiquette, and would have alarmed her pride. So
he was able to observe the advice of the old saw —
Pique her and soothe her turn by turn " — with
the experimental curiosity of the practised duellist,

VOL. II. G

playing with the foil of a raw adversary. He experimented,
and amused himself with sundry passes for
show and for self-gratification, in his duel to the death
in which he meant to win.

While Daisy remained unsuspicious of any ulterior
aim, and flirted and danced upon the frivolous way on
which she had now resolutely set her foot, to find in
the flowers which strewed it, if she could, a Lethe for
the wasted intellect and wearied heart, he worked
upon Marian Luscombe more and more through her ;
and more and more Marian Luscombe and he became
coupled and united, while Lord Luscombe grew
yet more lost to London sight, till the catastrophe
recorded at the end of the last chapter came upon
the two.

Lestrange's baffled wit and broken scheme betrayed
him into a first anger terrible to see, had any one but
his valet and factotum, Chaffers, been in his chambers to
see it. Even there, his very rage was dangerous in its
suppression ; in the dead-white face, which every jot of
colour had left to the lips, closed tight over the teeth ;
in the clenched hands and caged walk up and down,
and the fierce curses muttered deep under his breath.
Where had he made his mistake ? " he thought ; " he

who had watched every point in his game like a lynx,
and stopped the earth as he went everywhere. Buta
few weeks before he had been as indispensable to
Lord Luscombe as to his wife, and trusted and consulted
by him upon every petty point, at every turn. Where
had been his mistake, where ? "

He sat down and growled ; and out of a casket
which he unlocked he took out a small bundle of letters
and counted them.

No, they are all there ; none of them can by the
merest chance have come under Luscombe's eyes."

Then he read the letters over and over again to
himself, and lao-hed bitterly enough.

Frank and open enough, certainly, and not meant
for publication. What a fool Marian was to write them.
With such a weapon in my hands, I was armed against
any refusal on her part if she had been inclined to
make it ; not that she would have been. I never saw
a woman more in love in my life. And all for nothing
nothing — nothings. Good Heavens ! I shouldn't be
surprised if she expected me to come forward and
marry her for love. When clever women once become
fools, they are capable of any folly, and of suspecting
men of the same capacity too. I had better bum the

G2

letters. She might get hold of them, and appeal to
them as a weapon against me."

He took up the poker in his left hand and held the
letters over the fire. Then he reflected, and put the
poker down.

No, I won't," he said ; " I never throw away a
weapon. I've got to find a new line of battle, and no
one knows what may serve. Great Heaven ! it is too
maddening, just when I thought my life's battle won
at last. More than half my life over, and I have to
begin again ! Am I to go on living on nothing, never
secure of the next six months, to the end of my days ?
Curse that dull-witted old lord — curse him — curse him !
To have a career in a million blighted, and by such ashe
! I'll keep these idiotic letters, if only to spite his
widow. Now let me go into the park and think."

He locked the letters carefully away in the casket
with the little key which never left his chain, and he
went out.

Shall you dine at home. Count Lestrange ? " asked
Chaffers submissively as he went.

I don't know. Don't bother me."

He went out into the wilderness of Hyde Park,
where within a few yards of the world's busiest corner

the world leaves a solitude, and he wandered about
among the paths and on the grass, switching with his
cane at the long grasses and wild-flowers which grew
about, smoking a cigar with less deliberation than usual
with him, and in spite of himself and all his trained
self-mastery, uttering an occasional audible interjection
which made a casual actor hft his head from the bench
on which he was studying his part, set him do^vn as
one of the profession," and go on again.

Once he turned round in his walk, and found himself
face-to-face with a rosy nurse-maid, wheeling about
a little Box and Cox in a comfortless perambulator, with
their two little heads hanging out over the two sides
of the vehicle on the verge of unconscious dislocation.
The rosy nurse-maid, whom he had passed the moment
before, had opened both her eyes to a wider width, and
her mouth to match them, and obvious of her duties,
was staring at Lestrange.

The lesson brought him to his senses at once ; he said
something good-natured to the girl with an easy laugh,
and went away, leaving her to resume her ordinary
walk of Hfe, and shake the heads of her two charles
violently into their proper angle on their necks again.

He wandered away the afternoon ; he hailed a

hansom and drove the round of Regent's Park once or
twice ; he dined in the quietest corner of the club he
had most recently joined, where he was least known ;
and he went home to his chambers later at night than
usual, after more than the usual allowance of cigars,
planless still to any special purpose. What in the
world was he to do ? Well — he must bide his time.
Something would happen to give him a new lead.
Wait sometimes on events, he thought, and events will
wait on you.

Events, however, failed the Count this time, and
gave him no special lead which might point to a secure
future. If he had been able to see in this crisis of his
life one of those calls to better things which come to all
of us, his brains and his connection would have found
him, soon enough, plenty of solid and worthy work todo.
But he had no ears for any such call as that.

When he met Marian Luscombe next, it was a
hard trial for both of them ; but it became harder still
for her, when she read in the face so studiously impassive
none of the sympathy the poor lady had been
yearning for, but a something new and undefinable,
which flashed to her startled nerves the electric message
of a formless fear. He looked as hard and as cruel as

death ; for as the natural consequence of the feelings in
which he had been indulging since the shock of Lord
Luscombe's will came upon him, he who had never
loved her had passed into a deep phase of hate. If she
did not quite know that — out of her woman's nature,
hardened as it had been, could not know it — she knew
that there was some bitter change. She had nothing
to reproach herself with ; what was it ?

The feeling which had grown up in her heart for
Lestrange, unlicensed and half-confessed though it may
have been, had in its way softened her, though but fora
sad end; and the reflections which that feeling had
caused, working in a direction exactly opposite to that
in which they had acted on Lestrange, had really
brought her to think that out of such apparent evil
might come good.

She was free to accept Lestrange's hand after a
proper lapse of time ; and she said to herself that she
was ready to do so, and to give up her fortune for
his sake, who had all the brains and means to work for
her, if he had the will, as surely he must have. Was
he not bound to offer so to do ? Would not the world
talk cruelly of both of them, and whisper its bitter
sarcasms behind their backs about the true meaning of

her husband's will ? That was the hardest part of all
her trial ; as to him, who hated the very thought of
ridicule, it was the hardest too. She saw the way to
meet and brave it ; he did not. So that their first
meeting was very terrible to her.

Whatever his first feeling and her suspicion of it,
however, he was able after the first to suppress all signs
of it, and to speak to her with all due sympathy, while
careful to commit himself in no wise. By various
questions he tried to arrive at the reasons of Lord
Luscombe's conduct, and he saw she knew, though she
fenced with the subject naturally enough, and shrank
from every allusion.

One day, however, when in his own subtle way, at
which she could not take offence, he had pressed her
hard, she put without a word a letter in his hands.

I found this letter among my husband's papers,"
she said. " It is anonymous ; and from the date he has

marked upon it, — ' Received the — day of , 18 — ,' —

he had it on the day when he last came up to town.
Nobody has seen it but he and I, to my knowledge.
Perhaps you should see it too. Read it, and see if you
know the writer."

She gave him the letter, and got up from her seat

and left the room. He took it, and he looked at it,
and started as if he had been stung. It was a puling,
unmanly, miserable thing, as such things are ; much
affecting manliness and sincerity, and putting Lord
Luscombe on his o-uard against a dang-er of which,
according to the writer, all the world was talking. Did
not Lord Luscombe know why he was persuaded to
be always in the country ? did not Lord Luscombe
know what was going on in town ? was it not fitting
that the eyes of one of his lofty position and high
character should be opened to the reflections that were
being cast on both, and on his name, by his wife and a
man he knew too well — whose name he would not
mention, though from the hints he crave, Lord Luscombe
would easily discover it. He, the writer, would not
sign his name, for reasons which Lord Luscombe would
guess and appreciate ; but the facts Lord Luscombe, if
he mistrusted him, could easily verify for himself. All
he asked in return for the warning, — Which, as a warm
admirer of Lord Luscombe's career, he could not in his
conscience help giving, now that he was on the point
of leaving England for several years, — was that Lord
Luscombe would never say a word of his letter to
any one.

And Lestrange read the poisonous letter through
and through, artfully contrived as it was to sting Lord
Luscombe in every detail; and through the clumsy
disguise which confused the handwriting, he knew in a
moment that the writer was John Brent.

DESCENSUS Aversion

Brent had taken a characteristic revenge, and
a deadly one. Sitting in a chair with the letter before
him, the schemer recognized his own impotence to sway
events precisely to his liking, with a sense of failure
new to him. He had never failed before in anvthinor
he meant to do, and now he had broken down over the
most important stake for which he had ever played,
through the thick-wickedness of one of his puppets and
the small spite of another. That this blow should come
from such a quarter as Brent especially irritated him.
He had held the man in such unutterable scorn, had
amused himself so much over his infinite littleness, and
had* so completely controlled him, that he could not
have believed in his venturing to revolt.

All downhill.

'' So clumsily, too ! " he thought to himself, as he
examined Brent's awkward essays in falsifying his handwriting.
'' But it is always so. The roughest hands
spoil the finest webs. D — the man ! what a reptile it is ;
I wouldn't have given him credit for brains enough even
for such a dirty move as this. Just after I had got him
that place, too I Ungrateful little brute." The Count
Lestrange honestly conceived himself a deeply-injured
man ; and his reflections took the turn of high moral
indignation. King Lear himself could not have resented
ingratitude more. But then and there a new purpose
came into his mind, which, as he thought matters over,
gave his face an expression which would have warned
any one who saw it off him like a signal of danger.
You shall repent this to a purpose, Mr. John Brent,"
he said to himself, when his reflections were at an end.
'' I give you some six years to mend your fortunes in ;
and when you come home you shall find a bed of nettles
to lie on. The shallow idiot ! suppose I robbed him of
the place I found for him, by a stroke of the pen ?
Most men in my case would ; but I shan't do that yet,
though I may some day. A bad day's work all round,
that letter of yours." Count Lestrange merely shrugged
his shoulders when he spoke of the letter to Marian,

and told her that he had no idea who the writer could
be. He asked to keep it, on the chance of being able
to find out ; and she left it in his hands.

Four years more went by upon their course, and
brought no striking change in the position or the lives
of the characters of this our story. But it was a time
for three of them, of slow and sure deterioration indifferent
degrees of kind. "^^Tien it became clear to
her that Lestrange had no intention whatever of claiming
her hand without its hereditaments, the heart of
Marian Luscombe hardened into stone. smile her
husband lived, she would not o^vn to herself any feeling
which could amount to disloyalty to his name, though
under the name and guise of friendship, upon which
Lestrange had carefully traded and played, she had
admitted the Count to such a dangerous place in her
familiar thoughts and life. She remembered the letters
she had written to him but vaguely, and could not
answer to herself how nearly friendship, in the expression
of them, might have trodden upon the heels
of another partnership. One day — it was many months
afterwards — he reminded her of them.

My letters to you, Count ? " she said. " Why, you
burned them."

No, I didn't," he answered.

Count Lestrange ! you said you had."

Did I ? It was a mistake, and I must have been
thinking of something else. I seldom burn letters, for
one never knows what may happen."

But — but," cried Lady Luscombe, " you promised
me, on your word as a gentleman."

Surely not," he said. " Do you think a gentleman
has no feelings, Marian ? " He spoke in a tender and
respectful voice, with a mocking devil in the eye.

Feelings — you — feelings ! "

A great sob rose in Lady Luscombe's throat, and
she walked away from him to the window. After her
husband's death, and after the reading of that cruel
will, she had realized what her feeling for this adventurer
had become. Till the will robbed her of the future,
she never definitely thought of what that future might
have become. But then she did — deeply and hopefully,
till the first sight of Lestrange dispelled her dream.
Then, things went on as before. The man was in her
heart, and she could not root him out ; could not help
hoping that some day, before it was quite too late, he
would be touched by the love which he had so sedulously
won, and make for himself some position by the right of

which he might claim her. Nor did he relax his hold
over her a jot. If he could not have her hand, he had
still some use of her fortune, and Luscombe Abbey and
Lusmere House were head-quarters not to be abandoned.
So still he kept up, with cynical skill, the tradition of
tenderness and devotion ; still he stayed with her,
played with her, consorted with her. And the world,
which, as they both feared, had commented with much
of sympathetic malice on the nine days' wonder of Lord
Luscombe's will, began to shrug its respectable shoulders
more and more. Marian had faced the first looks and
the first whispers with impassive face and indomitable
pride ; and Lestrange had let no sign escape him, either
of disappointment or form of personal interest in the
matter. He openly spoke of the will, when he did
speak of it, as a cruel thing to the widow, and as an
unpleasing finale to Lord Luscombe's life and character.
And as time went on, the world, though it did shrug
its shoulders, accepted the alliance between the wealthy
Lady Luscombe and the fashionable Count as one of its
licensed eccentricities, and dined and danced at her
house as of old.

It was after Lady Luscombe had shown some sign,
as she sometimes did, of a wish to break with Lestrange

altogether, and to shake off an influence which was too
• much of a mastery, that the episode of the letters
occurred. Lestrange used them as a power, and recurred
to them again and again, with every circumstance of
art and malice, to strengthen his hold over Marian. He
succeeded in misleading her memory and mind altogether
as to the terms in which they had been written, which
he exaggerated, bit by bit, till he made them an un-sleeping
cause of fear to her ; for he more than hinted
that he might one day find means to make them public,
if she showed any hesitation about lending herself and
her fortune to any of his schemes of self-interest.
Fearing him, shrinking from him, angry with herself
or his influence, but jealous when he showed signs of
devotion to any one else, Marian Luscombe became
Lestrange's bond-slave, deaf to other voices when it but
pleased him to charm her. His motive in all this
seemed insufficient enough, but for the light which
in an earlier chapter I attempted to throw on such a
character as his. The shock of Lord Luscombe's will,
and the discovery of Brent's letter, had aggravated all
the evil of the man into a finished fine art, and rooted
out every scruple of which yearning and appealing good
had left so much as a grain behind. '' Toils, teres,

atij^ue rotundus/' the adventurer came out of that
ordeal just as this —

The most replenished villain in the world."

He hated Marian as he hated Brent, and as before
long he hated Daisy.

Daisy Brent went downwards on the Aversion
path in her own way, meanwhile. That way had never
much harm in it really, I think ; for the loyal nature
was siege-proof in the citadel, against the whole army
of temptation. But some out-works were carried,
perhaps. The misery of her life with her husband,
with its strain of petty and unremitting mental torture,
had gone far to spoil the sweetest woman on the earth.

That she was so, and no other, I, Tom Balbus, do,
with my wife's adhesion, loyally maintain. But with
the better nature strong in her, and scornful of herself
far more than of others, she let the current of her new
life bear her on.

She heard nothing of her husband, would not hear ;
and the thoughts of Guy Faucit, never-ending, never-dying,
she finished like serpents out of her heart, and
crushed out half her sweetness with them. She cultivated
her beauty ; she prided herself in her beauty ;

VOL. II. H

and as she matured and ripened in her womanhood, it
put forth new shoots of honour every day. She laughed
and she joked ; she sang and she acted ; she was the
pride of the papers and the photographers ; she teased
good old Lady Pepperharrow, who worshipped the very
ground she trod on ; and when good placid Sir Hugh,
full of his years and his wife's honours, was gathered
to his honest fathers, she devoted her time and her
energies to the task of unselfish consolation. She had
not been so much her old self since she left her
husband's house with that mark under her dress.
She reigned supreme in the court of folly and frivolity
which buzzed and trifled round her; she flirted with
reckless impartiality with every courtier there, and let
no one of them flatter himself that he had gained a
foothold in her heart. Woe to him who passed the
boundary ; for he never came near to it again.

Now it fell out that, one day, the Count Lestrange
transgressed. I am not careful to record the why or
the how, or to tell how gradually, while keeping Lady
Luscombe in his power, he allowed his admiration for
Daisy to draw him on. It was in an outburst of jealousy
of her that Marian brought upon herself the first scene
about the letters. Careful and watchful always, bent

upon Lis revenge on John Brent, and confident as ever
in his own magnetic power, the Count Lestrange fancied
at last that he had won Daisy's heart, and one day he
let her know it.

The adventurer had blundered again, and shrank
into himself under her flash of indignant honour. For
she stood at her full height ; she spoke of Lady Lus-combe
with personal regard ; her bright colour and her
angry eyes framed and lit up a lofty picture of unmeasured
scorn ; and he met his match, did the Count
Lestrange. But he knew the falseness of his move ina
moment, and he repaired it as far as it could be
repaired before more harm was done. He persuaded
Daisy that he had been led away; he did all in his
power to soothe and to disarm her, and finally persuaded
her to say no word of what had passed. After all, alas !
these things were too much the way of the half-conscience
world in which they lived. She had
encouraged him, perhaps, as with an air of honourable
and repentant mortification he intimated that she had.
So she spared him and held her tongue, and let things
be as they were again, as far as she could, though
studiously on her guard from that moment with Count

Lestrange. As for him, he was more upon his guard

H 2

than she ; and, accepting the position he had made for
himself, never again let look or word escape him which
could suggest offence.

And so, gradually, the influence of the man's mind
and will re-established its old sway over Daisy's intellect.
But a new purpose began to shape itself in
his active brain.

Wrong again, was I ? " he thought to himself at
home. " That is a very inaccessible character. ' Tu
me lo pagherai,' John Brent, though, for all that. I
wonder what on earth has become of the man called
Faucit ? "

The man called Faucit travelled all those years
away, bearing the mark upon his heart invisible and
effaced, like the preacher's counterpart of Hester
Prynne's scarlet letter. His love for Daisy had gathered
round all the roots of his life, and no new growth was
possible for them, till the tree should decay and die for
lack of sap. He lived the wildest of wanderer's lives :
in the bush and in the desert, on sea or on prairie,
anywhere but in towns. Most of all he loved the
strange haunts and strange ways of the men of the
sierras, whom Bret Harte has sung. He had enough to
live on, with his simple healthy ways of life ; and he

made himself something of a name too, though he
carefully concealed his personal identity, by some
stirring sketches of that stirring life, in prose and
verse, which he published in America. Some echoes
of them came to England, and Daisy Brent, casting
her eyes over a set of magazine-verses one day, started
and dreamed. So ran the lines —

IN TWO WORLDS.

Under the forest, of its snows unladen,

And kissing back the nervous kiss of spring,

I sit and dream of courtly knight and maiden.
And old-world pomp encompassing a king.

Out of her wintry sleep the earth is waking,
x\nd birds and flowers carol her reveille ;

O'er West and East the common promise breaking,
Breathes the first whisper of their holiday.

Without, the mighty forms of things primeval
Stand all untenanted of Custom's robes ;

Within, my mind shapes pictures mediaeval
With pencil fashioned forth in other globes.

The rugged miners share my board and pillow,
And by the camp-fire sing their lawless song ;

But at a bound my thought o'er rides the billow,
And breaks the strong surf by a flight as strong.

What do I here, among the waving grasses,
Which never learned to trim their graces wild ?

While by my side Nature's rude army passes,
Another world still claims me for her child.

In vain I ply the axe in pass or clearing ;

In vain I fill me with the unfettered air :
Still to my eyes are other scenes appearing,

Still my heart hearkens the low voice of care.

Among our ranks no woman comes to harm us,
And sow us discord for our hands to reap ;

No wiles and jars allure us or alarm us.
Or wanton with the mighty arm of sleep.

Yet here, for me, though heart and will are master,

As strong as iron and as calm as death,
The will will waver and the heart beat faster.

Touched by the memory of a woman's breath.
Why are ye here, rude fellows of my labour,

Thus outlawed from the bounds of woman's reign ?
Head I, beneath the swart hues of my neighbour.

Another story of another pain ?

She said she loved me— and one day she left me
Without a warning and without a word;

Of past and future at a blow bereft me,
The cause unspoken, and the plea unheard.

Behind me honour, and high hopes before me,
A life of earnest and a name of worth :

Her glamour shed the bright delusion o'er me.
Her presence kept the promise of my birth.

Then fell the blow, and past and future shivered
Just at a fairy linger's heartless touch ;

And from the bondage of a lie delivered,
I laughed that I had trusted overmuch.

Laughed 1 and the echo of that hollow laughter
Kings in my heart with one eternal knell ;

And the slow years which rolled their burden after,
With all the burden cannot crush the spell.

Pines of the Sierras, spread your mantles round me,
And hide me from the past, untrodden West !

Oh that the free lands and free souls that bound me,
Could break the fetters of my prisoned breast !

In vain, in vain ! not the dividing ocean,
With all its storms, one memory can drown ;

While the vexed phantom of a lost devotion
Still iu the tortured bosom dies not down.

Up and to work ! the western spring invites me,
And Freedom calls me forth among the free ;

But no — nor work nor freedom here delights me ;
The eastern bondage falls again on me.

Eight years after the day when first he met Dais ,
the wearied spirit brought Guy Faucit home to England

THE COUNT LESTRANGE's WAGER.

It was the fag-end of the London season, when the
world is melting away to its pleasures and its holidays
abroad and at home, when the active rush to mountain-climbing
or to moor-drawing, and the indolent or overeaten
go off to German spas, and swell the coffers of
Dr. Largeness, who is saved the trouble of prescribing
anything for anybody except water, and would justly be
suspected if he did. Others who are less troubled about
their digestion, or less able to pander to it, follow the
call of Custom, and desert their homes and their comforts
for the unequalled wretchedness of sea-side lodgings,
happily to the unfeigned delight of the infantry,
who are made the excuse for the proceeding in most
cases. Much as the Londoner vaunts his London, he
spends most of his time there in considering where he

is " going to " next ; while the country-cousin, whose
tastes or profession let him keep out of the maelstrom,
may sit under the shadow of his vines in peace, and
wander afield only when the fancy prompts him.

' f fortunate nimium, sua si bona norint,
Agricola."

In nine cases out of ten, the agricola sees it not, and
thinks that he is wasting his days and bustling his
light out of London.

The fag-end of the season always found the Count
Lestrange in town, unless he happened to be absent on
one of his mysterious errands of private diplomacy
abroad. For the fag-end of the season meant that he
was more in request with the fag-enters than any man,
with his exhaustless store of information and anecdote,
and his pleasant capacity of being all things to all men.

It was only when the last roses of summer had
ceased to bloom on the London dinner-tables, that
Lestrange was off to carry on the social war in a round
of country-houses, beginning with a campaign of deer-stalking
or grouse-shooting in the North, and subsiding
into the milder excitements of partridges and pheasants
in due course of calendar.

Very soon in his English life had Lestrange realized

that for an outsider who wants to become a social
lower, the royal road to the heart of the male British
Philistine lies through the gun-barrel. So, being one
of those happily constituted persons who do everything
well to which either taste or circumstance leads them
to turn their hands, he made himself a crack shot,
without caring for sport the least in the world. Indeed,
his utter absence of all excitement in the matter was
probably one of his chief secrets of success.

I am myself a man of peace, who only carried a gun
four times, and grew rather " mixed " over it. The first
time, I discharged it at an untimely landrail when it
was exactly a yard from my feet, and blew the. creature
into so many pieces that nothing but an odd feather or
two was ever found. The second, I fired at my first
and only snipe, a parlous bird to list at the best of
times, and nigh out of gun-shot ; and with an inward
wonder carefully concealed, I found that I had slain
him. The third, now confident of my powers, I took
long and deliberate aim at a sitting rabbit within easy
distance, who did not seem to mind me the least ; and
was perfectly justified, for I missed him. The fourth,
made to carry a friend's gun under protest over a field
or two (there are friends who will do it still), I became

lost in my own literary meditations, and forgot entirely
where I was till an indignant keeper told me that I had
just neglected a whole covey of partridges which had
offered me a choice of shot, and where disappearing. I
blankly gazed at their retreating forms ; and, ungratefully,
but with entire unconsciousness of a guilty motive,
discharged my friend's gun straight at him. I missed
him, too ; but he made such a Votes-like bound into
the air, that for the moment I thought I hadn't. He
never asked me to carry his gun again. And I think
that he must have whispered the tale abroad; for
nobody else has, either. Whereof I rejoice.

No such sins as these had Lestrange to atone for ;
and many a hardened cover-haunter was jealous of the
cool prowess of his steady gun. In the evenings, his
talk and his song where as welcome to the women as
his sportsmanship had been to the men; and he
brought with him to the table of Crabtree Hall all
the latest intelligence gathered in the rooms of Lady
Backbite, where he had been staving last.

The Count Lestrange could live at free quarters
pretty well all the year, if it pleased him. And for a
substantial part of the year it did. But his chief
resource was, and remained, Luscombe Abbey.

Tt was on a July afternoon, then, as the last London
month was drawing to a damp close, — the Derby had
been run that year in a snow-storm, and some casual
thunderstorms were all the heat that had vouchsafed
itself, — that a bright fire was burning in Lestrange's
chambers, somewhere off Piccadilly, among the curious
little passes of the Mayfair maze.

They were good and comfortable rooms, oddly
furnished out of all parts and corners of the world, till
they might have passed for a museum in little. Strange
skins of strange beasts ; gaunt curiosities of China or
Japan; stuffed birds of tropical parti-colour; assegais
and cross-bows, and muskets of antique formation ; rare
gems of painting and of bric-a-brac ; carved chairs and
couches of rich mellow wood ; fantastic curtains artistically
looped and draped ; these things, and things like
them, made up the Count Lestrange's interior. And
he had so planned and so arranged its general tone
and background, with a view to harmony of colour,
that the whole effect was as of ''a study in reds and
blacks."

''A hot fire for July, even a cold one," thought the
man Chaffers to himself, as he occupied himself in the
arrangement of the rooms where he was the ministering

acolyte. " But tLe Count likes it. He's an odd man,
my master."

The stealthy man who acted as the Count's servant
was gliding about the sitting-room of Lestrange's suite,
which contented itself with being a suite of two, after
the fashion of the older lodging-houses. His bedroom
and dressing-room combined was separated from the
other by the central folding-doors which make the
despair of English dramatists, accustomed to the side-doors
of their French brethren, and finding them not —
when they want to hide Lady Barbara, or to withdraw
the lover unobserved by a private way, with the assistance
of the chambermaid on the left, just as the indignant
parent enters by the right, anti discovers the
ingenuous daughter seated at her work, centre. What
is the wretched playwright to do with a sitting-room
opening blank into another, with no relief but another
door opening out just at the side of it, upon the same
staircase ? Doors at back in flat are as part of his
stock in trade, and the British architect rarely provides
them.

Was it in deference to some dramatic instinct that
Lestrange's two rooms did possess a sort of appendix, in
the shape of a narrow strip of a chamber opening into

the drawing-room only, and like it facing the street
through a slip-window ?

People were facetious about that little room, and
called it the Blue Beard chamber, the laboratory, the
confessional, any name which occurred to them. By
rights it should have been devoted to the uses of
Chaffers, who was indeed allowed to make a sitting-room
of it at times. But his master did not love too much
proximity, even in his useful case, and relegated him to
a bedroom in the upper regions.

The ear of Chaffers caught a sound at the door, and
the parlour-maid of the establishment came in. He
had heard a ring at the door-bell first, and had looked
out and smiled.

Is the Count at home, Mr. Chaffers ? " said the
girl, a spruce and trim handmaiden, with no suspicion
of the '' slavey." The Count's landlady understood his
ways too well for that; and her reverence for her
lodger was the first article of her social faith.

Yes, Miss Hannah."

Hannah's pretty cap withdrew itself, and silks and
satins rustled in its place. The lady who wore them
threw up her veil from her face, and she looked
quickly and impatiently round the room.

"Where is the Count, Chaffers?" she asked, Ts-ith
the way of one familiar with the rooms. " I want to
see him at once."

"Yes, my lady," answered the man, as with a
scarcely perceptible knock at the folding-doors he disappeared
into the bedroom.

Lady Luscombe, for it was she who was the visitor,
looked round and round with a strained and eager
look, and threw herself into an oaken arm-chair, which
stood like a senator's seat of office by the round table
in the middle of the room. Impatiently she tapped
her foot, and impatiently she moved her head, as with
her hands she pushed back from her face the bands
of the whitened hair.

I must make one more effort before I leave town,
hopeless as it seems," she thought ; and again the
Asmodeus of romance caught the unspoken soliloquy.
My letters ! If he would give me back my letters !
Fool that I was, to be so led on. But that man would
lead on anybody to do what he wishes, with his strange
eyes, his strange talk, his fatal fascination. With
any one else I shouldn't feel afraid, I think, for what
could he do ? "VMiat would he have the heart to do,
if he could ? Heart ! " and a sad and bitter smile

crossed her face. '' He has none — none. He has never
forgiven me my husband's cruel will, and the terrible
clause which went so deeply home. I am afraid of
him ! afraid ! afraid ! and I don't know even now
whether I love him or hate him. Sometimes it is one,
I think, sometimes the other. But I am always afraid
of him. What were those letters ? what did they say ? "
the next thought said, and Lady Luscombe was on her
feet again looking about the room. "I never can
remember how far I trusted him. My conscience longs
to feel clear ; but I am always trying to recall the
words I wrote to him, and I can't. Would they spell
ruin, as he says ? And why should I care for ruin or
for anything else, in the blank life which mine has
turned to ? But I do care, and the thought of those
letters keep me in a fever. Where does he keep them
where ? " And she began angrily to turn over the
cards and letters which lay on the table in a queer
old plate of Dresden red, after the impetuous fashion
of the young wife in the 'Pattes de Mouche.' "And
why does he keep me waiting ? " she muttered at last
If he doesn't come soon, Daisy will be here to fetch
me."

She began her idle search again, even throwing

open some drawer in the writing-table between the
windows, and thrusting her hand among the scattered
papers. At her back the folding-door was quiet)
opened, and the Count Lestrange was in the doorway,
watching her with an amused smile. He wore the
short velvet coat which was his home alternative to
the frock-coat and swallow-tail of decorum, and there
was no trace of white in his hair, and no perceptible
chancre in the lines of his face, to match the ravages
of Time upon her. If he had emotions, the Count
Lestrange kept them in order.

Can I help you ? " at last he asked, placidly.

Lady Luscombe started and turned round ; and,
resting her hand upon the papers in the drawer, looked
straight at Lestrange.

'' You can, indeed," she said ; and her eyes were
full of a steady and reproachful appeal. " Oh, Count !
Count ! give me back those letters."

Lestrange's eyes wandered, as they so generally did,
and met hers no more fairly than his answer met her
invocation. His smile imperceptibly deepened a
shade, and his eyes seemed looking after his smile.
Like the Quaker of tradition he only answered by a
question.

VOL. II. I

"Why did you write them, if you want them
again ? " he asked. " The property in a letter, you
know, belongs to the receiver."

Not if he has promised to destroy them."
"You misunderstood me," he said, "as I have
told you before. And I say again, if you want them
back, why did you write them ? "

The speaker had moved to the well-lined bookcase
which filled the wall between the room arid the slip-room,
except the space where the door was. It was
a curious bookcase, decorated with gilt sphinx's heads
between the upper shelves, with corresponding feet
which peeped out of the partitions of black wood at
the lower ones, and rested on the black marble slab
which covered cupboards below. He was leaning an
elbow upon the slab, and examining his books, a
favourite process with him. Lady Luscombe looked
at him, went up to the table, and spoke shortly and
hardly.

"Because I cared for you, and you know I did."

And I keep them," he said, — as quietly as ever,

but with that mocking devil lurking in the tone,

which she never seemed to miss now, whenever, since

her husband's will was read, he spoke to her of things

like these, — '' I keep them because I care for you, and
you know I do."

"It is not true ! " she said, passionately, though
very low. "You must have forgotten, I think," she
added bitterly, and with all her pride under arms,
that, under my own eyes, you ventured to make
love to Daisy Brent."

■' Did she ever tell you so ? "

No. But I know it. You could not blind me
if you tried."

Why should I try then, if it is of no use ? " he
answered. "But if I did do so, depend upon it, I
have not forgotten; I never forget."

"She was wiser than I," Lady Luscombe said, "for
she saw through you."

"Not entirely. I don't think it's easy. But she
judges me more fairly than you do."

How ? "

She knows," said Lestrange, in his gentlest voice,
into which he suddenly threw a tone of pleading,
that my passing attentions to her were the result of
a little pardonable jealousy — of some one else."

Jealousy ! " exclaimed the other, " and why 1

Daisy Brent was fortunate," she added, with an infinite

I 2

sadness, and again sitting in the oak-chair by the
table, " to escape those ' passing attentions ' better
than I did."

Perhaps," he said, taking his seat opposite to
Lady Luscombe.

Neither moved till the brief talk was done, which
was to prove pregnant with result for this story.

But such women live on passing attentions," he
went on, with a contemptuous expression of slight
regard for the object, which had a wound in it ; " though
they like them better when they don't pass."

Lady Luscombe knew these aphorisms of his, and
shrank from them.

Daisy Brent is a good woman," she said abruptly.

"I don't think so."

Do you think any woman good ? "

"Not many. But surely you should forgive me,"
he said, with the sudden pleading again in his voice
from which this time he had banished the tone of
mockery, " if I am not easy to please."

The change of tone went home ; and Lady Luscombe
answered it as pleadingly.

Lestrange ! give me back my letters ! "

Marian ! let me keep them 1 "

What for ? why ? " she asked.

'' For sentiment, which rules me," he answered. The
mockery came back ; and a half-repressed exclamation
of disappointment,, weariness, anger, pain, came from
Lady Luscombe. 'rit is all I have left," Lestrange
went on, " now that I may not marry you."

Now that you may not marry my fortune, you

mean," she said bitterly, throwing all disguise aside.
. 00

You could have had me had you wished."

*' Without money on either side ? " said he. '' Weare
not young or selfish, like Mrs. Brent."

How you hate her ! " was Lady Luscombe's answer
after a brief pause, in which she looked at him
strangely. " You say these things so often. Oh, don't
deny it ! I believe you want revenge upon her."

If I do, I shall soon have it."

"How?" .

She will throw over her husband."

Lady Luscombe started, as he spoke with that
deliberate slowness which he sometimes adopted. Then
she laughed and shook her head.

It would serve Mr. Brent right, bad man that he
is ! " she said. " But she won't, however long he stays
in India. She is a good woman."

"You doubt it," Lestrange said, pointedly. "You
say these things so often." Then his manner grew
careless and ofF-hand. " Excuse me if I write a note
for a moment, an answer which I forgot to send," he
said.

Lady Luscombe excused him with a sign, and he
took up pen and paper. Then as he was writing he
laughed, as if some humorous notion had crossed his
mind.

"What will you bet me," he said, "by way of a
joke, of course," and he held his pen between his fingers
with a smile, while looking at his note before him, —
"you have grown fond of betting, you know, — that
Daisy Brent doesn't run away before the end of the
year ? "

Lady Luscombe laughed shortly. " With you ? "
she said.

Oh dear, no," and he laughed a good deal while he
went on with his note. " I wouldn't have her."

With whom, then ? " Lady Luscombe rather scornfully
asked.

What does that matter ? You see you aren't
back your opinion."

Lady Luscombe looked at him sadly enough, and

answered with another scorn in her voice, which hall a
rinoj of reo-ret in it.

What have you to bet, Count Lestrange ? "

Your letters," he said very coolly, still writing.

'' Ah ! " She started as if at a blow.

What price do you put on them ? "

She hesitated for a few seconds.

Any price," she said.

It's a mere fancy wager," said Lestrange, and
taking up his note to read over to himself. " Shall we
say — ten thousand pounds ? "

"Nonsense," she answered. "That is a fancy
wager."

Like Shylock's, isn't it ? " lao-hed Lestrano-e.
And as much in earnest, Mrs. Brent," was the aside
which his thought supplied.

Shall we book it ? " he added, folding up his note.

Seriously ? " asked Lady Luscombe, puzzled
thoroughly, and not understanding the drift of the
scene, or seeing that it had any.

What a question ! " answered the other.

"You are a strange man," she said suddenly.
What are you ? "

I don't know. I never did. Shall we book it ? "

"Ten — thousand — pounds," emphasized she.

Nothing to you," said he. " Your letters are
everything, in the view which you persist in taking of
them and me."

The view you made me take, you mean."

Well, if you prefer it. Never mind the view ; it
is the value which matters''

"Is it your way of giving them to me ? " she asked,
very seriously. " It looks like it, you know."

Doesn't it ? " was the careless answer, which she
might read as she pleased. "Why not? Shall we
book it ? "

Shall I ? " she said.

"I have a few trifling conditions to make," proceeded
the Count. "You are just leaving London.
You must collect a party at Luscombe Abbey at once,
of the people whom I shall choose — all in your own set,
don't be afraid. And you must give Daisy Brent no
warning."

He spoke with all the careless indifference of
Shylock of his single bond and merry sport; but it
came over Lady Luscombe with a sense of fear.

But this is wickedness," she said.

"Oh, no," he laughed, "amusement;" and his

manner was more off-hand than ever. 'rand if I
should require it, you must even help me a little.
Bah ! the joke won't go too far."

It {.<? like Shylock," she said, with the hesitation
of Bassanio. '' No ; I don't think I'll do it."

Think of your letters," he went on, not looking at
her, "and of the use I might make of them."

You would never " she began.

"I don't know. It's such an odd world."

''I cannot understand you," said Lady Luscombe,
completely baffled by his changes of manner, and more
than ever doubtful whether this strange scene were jest
or earnest, or a mixture of the two.

Nobody ever could. Come, think how great the
odds are in your favour. As you sav, it's making you
a present ; and without letting you feel the obligation
too much."

There was another pause, and Lady Luscombe was
ill at ease.

'' Is this — bad joke — the only way ? " then she
asked.

Lady Luscombe looked at Lestrange again, and
thought that she could read in his face, which she had
tried to read so often, that he really meant to make

her a present of her letters, after putting her to some
test by this impossible wager. So thoroughly had he
worked upon her fears about those letters, so vaguely
but deeply alarmed her with allusions, insinuations, and
covert threats about them, that they had at last
assumed diseased proportions in her eyes, and wore
the shape of a perpetual fear. She felt that 'the
only way" was final, and she persuaded herself that
the wager was a jest ; and then and last, the thought
of Daisy Brent's singular character, firm as a rock
under all her frivolity, which Lady Luscombe's womanly
perception had keenly read, came across her like a
charm.

I know Daisy Brent," she said suddenly, lifting
her head with a kind of defiance in it. " And I agree."

"Done," said Lestrange, no muscle moving. He
took a small note-book from his pocket, and formally
he noted the strange wager down.

THE spider's web.

You really have the letters ? " said Lady Luscombe
suspiciously, after another pause as her hand fell upon
a pile of papers.

'' Yes. You needn't look for them ; the" are in
that casket there." He pointed to a coffer of mediaeval
bronze, which stood by itself upon a small table in a
recess, carved and wrought in the rich German designs
of the time. " A most curious collection of manuscripts
and letters that box contains," he said. " It will be
quite a legacy to the memoir-hunters some day. Nobody
ever has the key but myself not even Chaffers."

He touched a small key' which was attached to his
watch-chain, whose pattern matched the casket. Then
he began to sketch his scheme for the party to meet at
Luscombe Abbey, and talked the names over with the
Abbey's mistress.

"You will have Daisy's brother of the party, you
know," she said.

The soldier ? No, I shan't."

Do you mean you won't let me ask him ? "

You may ask him. He won't come."

"Why?"

'' Ask him, and see. There are ways of doing these
things."

He rose from the table and went to the window.

'' There is the very man," he said, '' calling with his
sister ; I wonder what brings them."

"■ Ah ! " answered Lady Luscombe. " They are
come to fetch me."

In the nick of time," said the other. '' This is the
first visit Mrs. Brent has done my rooms the honour of
paying them, though she has often talked of coming.
Come into my sanctuary for a moment ; I have something
that I wish to show you."

You don't want me to meet them. Why ? "

'' I want to arrange matters with you first,
that's all. I shan't keep you five minutes, and Mrs.
Brent can make acquaintance with my room before
I do the honours. They are coming up-stairs.
Come." .

He spoke with a quiet tone of command to which
Lady Luscombe seemed accustomed, and with him she
withdrew into the inner room, as Daisy Brent and her
brother entered by the other door.

Dick Fairfield was a well-looking soldier of a
traditional type, with nothing much to distinguish him
from other soldiers of his kind. They have the comfortable
conviction fostered in their minds by admiring
maidens, and still more by each other, that they are
the salt of the earth ; and one grain of salt is not called
upon to be more unlike another than is the case with
the proverbial two peas. Civilians, I think, cherish a
certain resentment against the class, for which its
textual flabbiness gives them much excuse. If no
companion is pleasant than a will-graced and active-minded
soldier, the members of the thousand-and-first
haw-haws are on the other side of the scale. It is so
impossible to know what to talk to them about. Dick
Fairfield always bored me to extinction more than any
man I knew, and I could only tolerate him for his
sister's sake.

We met often during those eight years, Daisy
Brent and I ; for Lady Pepperharrow patronized and
made much of me, and I was much with Daisy Brent

at her ladyship's country-house meetings. For her I
never bated one jot of my regard ; and I read the truth
behind the frivolous externals of her life with much sad
thought of my own. During all that time, we never
spoke of Guy Faucit but once ; but there was a difference
in her manner to me from that which she wore to all
the world beside, which I could never fail to remark
and to honour. It was for Guy's sake, I knew ; and I
loved her for it. The exception to her rule of silence
was when — once and at once — she cleared herself in my
eyes (though, faith, I had never really been able to
doubt her) by telling me the whole truth about her
luckless marriage.

"I wanted you to know it, Mr. Balbus," she said,
because I want you to tell it one day to Win.
Further than that it need never go. Now let us never
talk about it again."

He would have learned it soon enough, I think, if it
had depended upon me. But blows like that which
struck Guy Faucit tell differently upon different men ;
and during the whole of his long and solitary exile he
gave his friends no sign, and no one but his lawyer
(under the seal of absolute confidence) ever knew whereto
write to him. When he came back to England and

settled as lie did in Yorkshire, none of his friends learned
it. Only one man did ; and he was not a friend.

I saw little enough of the brother, and wished that
little less. His remarks, when he thought it was time
to make one, always managed to be particularly irritating,
though without the smallest intention on his
part. Some men are wonderful in that way.

Once at dinner, for instance, just after I had brought
out a new drama of an ambitious kind with some
success, he was sitting opposite me, and it dawned upon
him, during a lull in the conversation round us, that he
had bestowed none of his upon me. He did not wish
to be neglectful, so suddenly addressed me with the
deep deliberation which marked his manner whenever
he did speak, causing the co-buds of his feather to say
that " there must be a good deal in that fellow Dick
Fairfield, you know, if you could only get at it."

If it was in him, however, there it stopped. It was
thus he addressed me —

I say, Balbus. Isn't it about time for you to give
us another fa-are ? "

I could have hit him. Even as he bored me of old,
he bores me now, and it bores me to describe him ; and
I shall let his talk with his sister, when they came into

Lestrange's rooms, tell itself. He really liked this sister,
and was at his best with her. Poor girl, I have no
need to describe her, for I must have done so but too
much for the patience of my readers already. If they
do not know by this time what my heroine looked like,
they never will ; and I must have made a mess of it.
I am sorry, for the women's sake, that I can find no
technical description of the entrancing brown dress she
wore, with the sideways sweep of gilt buttons, medal-wise,
the size of a shilling for the body, and a florin for
the skirt, which gave her the sort of Diana look which
sate upon her best of all, though she was all the goddesses
and all the graces in turn. She had that reckless
and alas ! that it must be said — fast manner which
had grown upon her of late, though in her, somehow, it
never repelled. It never seemed real, I think, to anybody,
and the fastest of her companions liked Queen
Daisy best without it.

Daisy taking the room in a moment, with approval).
So the mysterious Count really lives somewhere, after
all ! This is the Castle of Udolfo. Do you smell any
sulphur about, Dick ?

Dick (taking in nothing at all). No ; but it's
deuced hot.

Daisy looking at everything). A blazing fire in
July ! And what an uncanny taste in colours. The
place looks comfortable, though.

Dick {looMng at nothing). Don't provoke that
man, Daisy. He's dangerous.

Daisy. Why ? What harm can he do me ? and
why should he want to do me any ? We are the best
of friends. He fell in love with me, you know, like all
the rest, and I snubbed him for it.

Dick. Did he though ? Damn his impudence.

Daisy. Don't swear. I oughtn't to have told you,
for I said I wouldn't tell anybody. But a brother's
nobody, and it didn't matter. It did the Count good to
be snubbed.

Dick. He isn't likely to forgive it. You talk
lightly enough.

Daisy (ivith sudden seriousness). Perhaps I don't
feel so lightly, though, changing again.) It's a way
the men have, which means nothing. And the wicked
Count took his whipping very well.

Dick. I wish you'd drop him. No good ever
came to anybody from being a friend of Satan
Lestrange.

VOL. II. K

Daisy. That's a very shocking name, Dick. He's
creepy, but he's very amusing.

Dick (surlily). I don't see it.

Daisy. Sense of humour deficient, dear. Everybody
thinks him so.

Dick. Who's everybody ?

Daisy. Why, everybody. Everybody who's anybody,
you know ; all the right sort.

Dick. Slang again !

Daisy. Dick among the prophets ! You stupid
old soldier, when did you first take to preaching ? with
a da^li of affection).

Dick (with the same, uncomfortably). I don't like
leaving you tomorrow and joining my regiment. Your
head's in the wrong place, altogether.

Daisy {ecstatically). But the heart, my Richard!
the heart is in the right ! Its every pulse beats fondly
for an absent lord, who is wringing from the Indian
native the uttermost rupee, to lay it at the feet of his
pining wife, in a lump ! Brute ! I hope he'll never
come back again.

Dick. John Brent is not a good lot, no doubt

Daisy. Not strictly speaking. But that's not
my fault, is it ?

Dick. Still, you are his wife, and you ought to
be more careful.

Daisy. What of ?

Dick. The family name.

Daisy drawing herself up) . Dick !

Dick. Oh, I mean it, you know. I know that
you've had hard lines in life, and I like you to enjoy
yourself. Bit you may go too far.

Daisy. Take care, or you may. Who ruled
those hard lines for me ? — and Heaven only knows how
hard they are !

Dick growing uncomfortable). Heaven, I suppose.

Daisy. Not a bit of it; it was man's work allover.
I should have served Heaven better in spite of
all of you, and steadily refused that man.

Dick {sulldly). For that penniless lover of yours,
Guy Faucit !

Daisy firing up in a moment). Don't mention
his name! I won't have it! I'll cherish one good
memory through this unworthy life of mine, to keep
my head straight. It will do it better than you can !

Dick. I shouldn't like you to meet him again.

Daisy full of scorn). Don't be afraid. He
wouldn't speak to me if I did; and quite right too.

K 2

(Breaking into a wail) Oh, why — why — why did
you all marry me to John Brent ?

Dick. Our people were on the brink of ruin, you
know. It was to save the family credit.

Daisy. A bad way. Good never came of such
money as Mr. Brent's.

Dick (with just disgust). No. He lost it all soon
enough.

Daisy. Thank Heaven ! or he wouldn't have
gone back to India. I am free from everything but
his name.

Dick sententious again). You are much too free,
Daisy.

Daisy sin arms again). I will not have you say
that again. I was persuaded to marry money, and to
play my heart false, for my father's sake. But some
men, Dick, would have found some better way of saving
the family credit than by selling a sister's life and
happiness. When you join your regiment, brother
mine, take care of the family name. It's safe enough
with me.

"I hope so," muttered to himself, at the end of
this dialogue, a listener at the door. Then turning
to Lady Luscombe, he added, unheard through their

conversation by the others, "You are quite right; I
am making you a present."

Join his regiment, did she say ? " thought Lady
Luscombe, who with Lestrange had heard the last
sentence from the open door of the inner room.
Lestrange, it may be, who had cultivated a very keen
sense of hearing, and could listen and talk at the same
time, might have heard more. Daisy and the Captain
did not see them till Lestrange stepped forward.

Mrs. Brent ! " he said. " You have foimd me out
at last. I am delighted to receive you."

Ah, good morning ! " she answered, carelessly
giving him her hand. " The reception is a warm one,"
she added, with a laughing look at the fire, "Count
Mephistopheles ! "

Madame Marguerite 1 " he said in a low voice, and
with an inclination of the head. And he smiled to
himself as he said so.

Is that a sneer ? " asked Daisy.

Oh, no ; a compliment. How sweet she is," he
thought as he looked at her ; " it is almost a pity — Yoii
are a dangerously pretty woman," he said to her in a
low voice, turning over some books on the table, while
the other two were talking together.

Still ? " she said, with low and firm emphasis.

Still, if you would only let me say so."

I shan't, you know. Count Lestrange, remember
and take care ! "

We should make such allies, Daisy."

"Sir!"

I beg your pardon," said the Count Lestrange.

"Only my friends call me by my Christian
name."

You are lucky," he quietly and pointedly answered,
to have so many friends. She will have war, then ? "
he thought. " Very well."

Lady Luscombe looked at them uneasily as they
talked together in a voice she could not catch.

"Nonsense!" she thought to herself, 'the girl's as
good as gold." But she was uneasy and conscience-smitten,
and wished the wager undone.

"Captain Fairfield," she said, rousing herself, "the
charm of London being over for the year, you will bring
Daisy down to the Abbey at the end of the week ? We
shall be a pleasant party."

Very sorry. Lady Luscombe," answered the soldier
with a genuine regret, for he thought the Abbey much
pleasant work than his duties ; " but I must leave her

in your friendly care. I join my regiment at Gibraltar
tomorrow."

Lady Luscombe gave a slight exclamation.

I told you so," whispered Lestrange.

Couldn't you put it off for a month ? " she asked.

Uneasy already ! " whispered the Count again.

I would put it off, willingly," said Fairfield ; " but
my [Colonel won't, I've overstayed time already, and
he is peremptory."

"The regiment, dear Lady Luscombe," laughed
Daisy, " is lost without Dick. The men are reported
on the verge of mutiny."

Always • chaffing," muttered her brother, with his
normal sulkiness.

i-" Chaff is the salt of life. Isn't it. Count?" she
appealed.

You sprinkle it very freely at times," he said.

All's fair in war ! " she answered, laughing again ;
and — shall we say in ' love,' Count ? "

He bit his lip a little. " Do you know the meaning
of that word ? "

Perhaps," she said ; and there was no laughter in
the voice then.

The Count watched her under his eyebrows, and he

said to himself, " I think you do, Madame. We shall
soon see."

"What will Lady Pepperharrow do without you,
Captain Fairfield ? " said Lady Luscombe, finding her
invitation in vain. " She says you are the best secretary
and collector in the world. What is to become of her
great subscription for the conversion of the Jews ? "

Oh bother ! " inter acted Daisy, irreverently. " When
she asked me to subscribe I said I couldn't afford it
but if she liked to send me a Jew, the dear old lady, I
would do my best to convert him for her."

And surely," added Lestrange, " the Jews are rich
enough to pay for their own conversion."

Their laugh over Lady Pepperharrow's proselytizing
schemes put the party in good humour with each other ;
and Lady Luscombe announced that it was time for her
to carry Daisy off for the end of the last flower-show of
the season at the Horticultural, where some friends
were waiting for them.

The last roses of summer ! " said Daisy.

Which wouldn't bloom without you," was Lestrange's
comment.

Pretty," was what she said ; and what she thought
while she said it was, " He makes me creep all over."

Then you will not give me those letters back, as
you ought ? " pleaded Lady Luscombe once more in a
low voice with Lestrange.

The Count smiled the plea aside, and made some
laughing comment on the wager which was so soon to
put them in her hands again.

So she sighed and accepted her fate, and offered
him a seat in the carriage, if he was minded to
come.

Thank you, no," he said. " I shan't help the roses,
and I have a good deal to do. We shall meet to-night
at Glycerine House. An revoir ! "

He saw his visitors to the door with his accustomed
courtesy, and went thoughtfully back to his rooms. He
sate down in his chair, wheeled it before the fire, and
lit up the eternal accompaniment to thought which so
many as well as he have found to be its best sedative
and stimulant in one. He took out the little book in
which he had entered his strange wager, and he referred
to other of its pages. Then he referred with care to a
book of accounts, carefully kept; and his face grew
rather dark as he went into it.

"Only just in time," he muttered to himself; "I'm
glad I kept those letters. Yes, I have a good deal todo,"

ran his musings before the fire, when he had put
up the books again. " I must put money in my purse,
as counsels honest ago. What says my friend ?
Pleasure and action make the hours seem short ! ' A
fine fellow ago, and so little understood. I must write
a treatise to whitewash him some day, after the fashion
of modern history, and leave that thick-headed Moor
blacker than he was first painted. Ten thousand
pounds to be won before the year's end ; and only justin
time, for I'm in unpleasantly low water ; and this is
the chance which, as ago says, makes me or foregoes
me quite. How much did mine Ancient die worth,
now ? He must have been a warm man at times, and
without a dollar to curse himself with at others. It's a
grand thing to live by one's Avis, given the wits to doit.
Now then — to work out my plot. Dramatis personae
: — Heroine, Daisy Brent : safe from love, she
thinks. Why ? Because she is one of the few who
can love, and can remember. I wouldn't have risked
my wager upon any-chance but one. Hero, Guy
Faucit : old lover, recluse and misanthrope, living near
Luscombe Abbey in retreat, without an idea how near
the moth has crept to the flame. And the flame knows
it as little. Burn up till you blaze, my child. Ha, ha !

of all the coincidences in the world, if there were such
things, the oddest would be my meeting the man Faucit
coming out of his lawyer's room, just when I had managed
to learn of his return to England. I knew him at
once, though he didn't look at me. I never forget a
face. And the lawyer, with no idea that he was breaking
confidence, talked to me about the strange client
who wanted to find a desert for himself to live in. And
I was able to suggest the very place, close to the scene
of operations. Could ago have done better, now ?
The worst of it is that Faucit has no money, and all
women like diamonds. Xow if only his old hunks and
miser of an uncle, my good friend Foster (promoted to
the place for the purpose), would die in time, and not
leave his money away from him, it would help me
wonderfully, though I might do without it. Foster was
breaking up, by my last intelligence ; but he's Scotch,
and very tough. He has not made a will yet, I know.
How shall I introduce myself to this Faucit ? I want
a good effect to begin with. The man's a student and
poet, and dabbles in German metaphysics. Why not
play upon that string ? Mephistopheles they call me,
confound them. I am not one of them, though I live
with and by them ; and they know it, and so do I, and

I hate them for it, brainless puppets that they all are !
And that unlucky widow and her money and estates
were in my hands, but for that unprincipled will. The
selfishness of these aristocrats, even in dying, is perfectly
shocking. As for you, Mr. John Brent, and you. Mistress
Daisy — How strange that so many motives should all
work together. Ten thousand pounds ! A great comfort,
a small annuity. What a fool that woman is
about those letters ! What on earth does she suppose
I could really do with them ? Still, with a little skilful
manipulation — Mephistopheles, eh 1 It would be a
striking introduction."

He was smiling over his thoughts to himself,
as Chaffers came into the room after his furtive
knock.

A telegram, Count Lestrange," he said.

Ah ! from Scotland ! " said Lestrange to himself ashe
took the paper. " From my trusty agent, Foster's
lawyer." And he read the telegram. " F. is worse —
has had a stroke — can only live a week or two. No
will ." "Good Heavens ! how timely !" he thought.
"pleasure and action make the hours seem short.' Can
I afford to wait for a week or two, on the chance of
bringing to Faucit, by way of credentials, the first news

of his heirship ? At all events, I will risk it for a while.
Yes ; I can afford it. Chaffers — "

Yes, Count Lestrange."

"We go to Luscombe Abbey at the end of the
week."

Yes, Count Lestrange."

END OF PART I.

^l^t grana.

Mephistopheles thrown upon real life, and obliged to manage his cwn
plots, would inevitably make blunders." — George Eliot,

THE HERMIT OF THE OWL's NEST.

Somewhere in the great smoke districts of Yorkshire,
and near to one of its main capitals of industry,
there is a strange old ruin on the moorland slope. It is
a wonder how it got there ; for smoke and soot have laid
the strong hand of annexation on the whole countryside,
and antiquity seems like an obstructive to be
effaced. It dies hard, however, the storied past ; for
men built hard and strong when they built slow and
true, and by the side of the old abbeys which have
crumbled down to us, the modern factory or railway-shrine
has an odd appearance of insecurity as well as
tawdriness.

I am not prepared to give the exact birth and
parentage of the old Yorkshire castle where my story
now reopens, which had lost both use and name in the

VOL. II. L

lapse of years, and is known in the neighbourhood only
as the Owl's Nest. Though scarcely six miles distant
from the big trade-city, the hum of whose wheels seem
almost to reach the ear, as at times the wind brings
palpable news of it in a thick pall of fog fighting to be
free, it might be in the heart of a desert but for such
evidence as that. Green slopes spread upwards to the
hilltop behind ; and the wild moor netherland faces it
in front from the other side of a sudden valley, with a
stream running downwards at the bottom, clear and
sparkling, and innocent of the pollution waiting for it
so little further down.

The ruin itself forms a complete though broken
quadrangle, uneven and overgrown. A big old tower
occupies the north-east angle, and another the southwest,
while a straggling parapet unites the two in
either direction. In the north-west corner stands the
antiquarian gem of the whole — an archway nearly
perfect in preservation, as it is quite perfect in forma
pure specimen of the lancet arch which will not,
somehow, be imitated with any exactness by anything
we moderns can contrive. Those secrets are as lost,
seemingly, as the lost books of Livy, and must be
as much the despair of architects as the galop in

Gustave " of dance-composers, or as that " vilaiiie bete
vivante" the stone-horse which Romans know, was to
the French professor of drawing, who exposed the sins
of its anatomy by example. '' Foil rt ant, messieurs, la
mienne est morte," he said. It was through this archway
that the quadrangle might be entered, when I was
there. Perhaps it is gone now, though I am writing
but of a very few years ago. Mine is a story of
our own time ; but it is a time which goes fast upon
its way, though weighted perhaps now and again, in
spite of trains and telegraphs, with the drag called
Boredom. There was the arch, however, and there was
the old tower opposite to it, which also gave access to
the enclosure through a passage choked, till you knew
where to find it, by a thick growth of laurels. The
walls of the old tower, of which two sides were standing,
formed the angle then, and stood boldly out as a shelter
against sun or wind for any one who cared so to use
them. Stray picnic-parties from the city came there
now and then, bringing their sheaves with them ; for
there was no inn near to help them to their picnic-needs.
There was no house at all but one small cottage,
just on the other side of the road, which ran under the

northern parapet from tower to arch. Beyond the road

L 2

the ground ivjse boldly and suddenly into the picturesque
slope leading up to the top of the hill, turfed and green,
and good riding-ground for some miles.

In the cottage, when this part of my story opens,
was living a solitary man. The few waifs and strays
who belonged to the neighbourhood were of the kind
who have no visible habitation or known means of
subsistence, but are as offences in the eyes of the Law,
which expects everybody to be moderately well-off.
They seem to have lairs in the grasses, like the warriors
of Frederick Diu. These few, however, had a kindness
for Mr. Fraser, the stranger who had suddenly taken up
his quarters among them a few months before, and had
an eccentric way of his own of doing them good. He
talked very little, and smoked very much ; did unobtrusive
kindnesses, and hated to be thanked. Nobody
knew anything about him, or cared to ask. He had
not written a letter, nor had he had any, since he came.
He was a man who seemed well on in middle age ;
dressed very roughly, but always like a gentleman ; big
and muscular, with a growing suspicion of portliness.
The face was fair and clear, with the pink English
complexion which turns so soon to bronze, and the eyes
of the true Saxon blue, too prominent, but good. The

features were strong rather than handsome ; the forehead,
both broad and high, giving its chief character
to the face. The mouth did not present itself for
criticism, having retired into the recesses of a thick
beard and moustache, which curled all round and over
it, and were so grey as to give the man an appearance
of age which the features, closely looked at, and the
hair many shades browner, were inclined to contradict.
The brown was of a silky softness, and irrepressible in
its tendency to curl, which it owed partly, perhaps, to
the o^vner's disbelief in oil-colours for the head, and
faith in cold water. The nose was like most noses
without form and void, but did the face no harm as
it attracted no attention, and did not invite it, being:
in fact, as the same owner said of it, " brood enough to
blow." Six good feet of height, and a storage coming
nearer to fourteen than to thirteen on the average,
served to carry this very healthy specimen of English
humanity, and formed a whole curiously at odds with
the utter solitude of his life. There was nothing about
him of the broken man, but everything of the elastic
one, showTi in everything he did — in the firm step breasting
the heather, in the steady hand throwing the line,
and the keen eye to back it ; or in the strong forehead

which bent over his beloved books, and seemed to shut
out without an effort every thought and every image
disconnected from the page before him. He looked
the man of action, every stout inch of him, and not the
dreamer. But it was the dreamers life, apparently,
that he had elected to live. And the face bore
one clear and lasting mark — the mark of a great
sorrow.

He fished the trout-streams, and he shot the moors,
and he shot and fished well. At other times he left
both rod and gun at home, and shouldered a thick stick
for company and not support, and strode for miles
and miles in the bright northern air, he, and the stick,
and the dog Frisco. Frisco was a noble brute of mastiff
breed, who had come from the golden gates with his
master, six thousand miles away. The mutual affection
of the two was a pleasant thing to see, as they strolled,
or sate, or talked together, as men and dogs do talk
sometimes, when they understand each other thoroughly.
Frisco slept at the foot of his master's bed, and took
especial interest in watching the morning tub which
braced the giant for the day ; and he seemed to know,
before the master knew it himself, what was to be the
occupation of the morning. The large, true, intelligent

eyes, with a strange and surely a beautiful world of love
and thought behind them — shall we penetrate the
secrets of that world, perhaps, some day ? — seemed to
be always on the alert to discover his friend's plans
and wishes.

One curious habit of Mr. Eraser's there was, worth
recording. He was fond on Sundays of walking to a
little bam-like church some miles away upon the hills,
which gathered under its wing the few and far-between
worshippers to be found thereabouts, and watching
them go in, and listening to the cracked old bell. The
people of the village of Mould-on-the-Moss, for so was
the little hamlet called which owned this parish church,
watched him with much curiosity. For he did not go
in himself. He looked, and smoked, and thought, and
went away. Once or twice, upon week-days, he found
his way to the village and asked the sexton for the key.
A character, in those parts, was Delves the sexton.
Then he stayed alone in the church for five minutes,
and came out more grave than ever, after a spell of
what he called thought, which was really prayer. The
man was no unbeliever, but was one perplexed, as yet,
by the eternal — no, not eternal — problems of suffering
and wrong. The buzzing of the Agnostics had

something puddled his clear spirit, and the smoke of
the pit troubled him.

A large portion of his time, rain or fine, the stranger
passed in the old Owl's Nest. He had chosen for
himself the corner I have spoken of, where the two
walls made an angle. Here he had rigged up a waterproof
tent where he could smoke and read in all
weathers. Here he was smoking and reading on the
day when my story re-opens, without the tent this time,
for it was a glorious September afternoon. It had been
a long wet summer, and had given up, as early as May,
all idea of being anything else, So September came
with one of those Indian bursts with which it often
does come after seasons of that kind, to apologize for
shortcomings in the handsomest manner. And the
man called Fraser sate with a rich meerschaum between
his lips, with a colour on it like the top of the clouted
cream, fresh made in its own country, cloud-compelling,
and deep in his book. He was sitting in a rough
wooden arm-chair, and had as rough a table before him,
with a brandy-and-soda on it in a long glass, from
which he sipped occasionally and with no especial
zest, being one on whose face temperance and self-control
were written in every line. The book he was

reading was German, and it was the second part of
Faust."

Not a bad translation, I think," he thought, taking
up a note-book in which he had a habit of scribbling odd
scraps of verse or casual quotations in pencil. '' Listen,
Frisco, old boy, and give me your ideas."

Frisco lifted his head, and warred his tail once, as
one who was all attention, while his master read.
.what do you think of it?"

Frisco wagged his tail twice, with approval, and lay
down again.

What is the use of it all ? " muttered his master to
himself, impatiently. " Why, in the name of commonsense,
do I live this useless life, as if I were a debtor
hiding from his creditors, or a man who had done something
to be ashamed of. We have nothing to be
ashamed of, Frisco, you and I, and we don't look it.
Your tail is as the tail of an honest dog, and you would
have nothing to say to me if I wasn't worthy of you
and it. But I can't help it. I — I — Oh my darling,
my daring, with your voice as sweet as Heaven, and
your face as true as Truth, is it possible that you could
have told that long lie to me ? Yes, you did. Well,
be it so."

He took up the book, and the strong will mastered
the wandering fancy at once. The masterful look came
full upon the brow and face. Frisco, who had been
watching the sudden outburst with infinite solicitude,
looked satisfied and shut his eyes. And neither mannor
dog, absorbed in their own reflections, noticed the
entrance of another figure on the scene.

BEAUTY GOSLING.

It was a very pleasant figure in its way — that of a
fresh and pink-faced youngster of the class who look
eighteen all their lives, till the balls, and the clubs, and
the late hours, and all the dissipations, take a sudden
revenge and age them all in a moment.

The Honourable James Gosling had as little beard
as Orlando, but cherished the soft down upon his
delicate upper-lip with infinite solicitude. His face
was singularly handsome, and recalled the pictures of
Byron ; but the eyes wore a perpetual look of innocence
and surprise, being withal very round and very open,
which marred the resemblance. Like the angered fly,
he seemed incessantly wondering why he was anywhere,
and why on earth he should be expected to do anything.
Nobody, perhaps in consequence of this, expected him

to do much ; but the clinging affectionate nature made
him welcome everywhere ; and he was allowed to pun-away
for hours in the snuggeries of fine ladies, hard to
be found at home by more pretentious visitors; just as
at every gathering of men, in all lines of life, he was
sure of a welcome. Painters and actors loved him well ;
and he believed himself closely connected, in some important
way, with artistic life. The bright summer-picnic
on the river, organized by some pretty actress
whose head wore the manager's crown without seeming
to lie uneasy for it, were never complete without the
butterfly patronage of Beauty Gosling. He entered
the quadrangle quietly through the lancet-arch, and it
became evident at once that Frisco would permit the
intrusion. For the dog was the first to look curiously
up ; and he made no remark at all beyond a wag of
recognition. Gosling nodded to the dog familiarly, and
drew nearer to the man he had come to see, whose
thoughts and faculties were path finding in the poet's
land.

There he is," muttered the visitor to himself, " at
it as usual. Pipes and Poetry ! Why a fellow who is
such good company for any fellow should keep out of
every fellow's way, I can't make out."

Then lie came fond-ard.

"Faucit!"

The strange solitary started, and came back to earth
slowly and half-composedly, as a man wakes from sleep
to his troubles or to his happiness. He looked his
visitor a little in the face before he answered him, not
without something of the friendly smile on his, which
this youth of the ruddy countenance was well accustomed
to see.

Fraser, young 'un," he then said, quietly. " I've
often told you to forget the other name, as I have.
How are you ? "

Thanks — I'm fit. Old Luscombe was a judge of
champagne-ne, and his worthy widow don't spare it.
Consequently, with the morning's dawn, I'm fit."

That's very satisfactory," said the other, paternally.

"Doosid. I can't say as much for you, though.
You look awfully bad about the eyes, old man. Damme,
a fellow might take you for a hundred."

The man called Fraser, no other than our old friend
Guy Faucit, winced a little. But he only answered,
slowly, and with something like a sigh —

"The fellow wouldn't be far out."

"Humbug! "was the cheery comment. "Got any

B. and S. handy ? Thanks ! " as the other pointed to
the rough table ; " that's lucky. I tooled the little mare
over from Luscombe Abbey — the six miles in the half-hour,
and I'm doosid dry."

Help yourself," said the other, nodding, and passing
a corkscrew.

Then the eyes began perceptibly to travel dream-wards
again, and he took up the book he had laid
down.

What's up with him ? " thought Gosling ; and met
the situation by patting Frisco's handsome head, and
bestowing on him a few well-appreciated words of caress.
What are you reading ? " then he said, abruptly.

The second part of ' Faust.' Do you know it ? "

No. I didn't know there was a second part. I
know the first, — Gounod's, you know, — but I never read
that. Let's have a look."

He leant his arm familiarly on the older man's
shoulder, and looked over it.

All right," said Faucit. " I'll begin your poetical
education, Jemmy. Read this."

He pointed to the book with a smile.

Ah ! German ; I know that from the printing.
Haven't got any English about you, have you ? I'm

better at that, though not too good. My godfathers
and godmothers in my baptism neglected my languages
dreadfully."

There's some English for you, then."
Whose is it ? the German fellow's ? "
His German, and my English. I've just been
making the translation."

The loose you have. At the old game still. I
should have thought you'd dried up down here. Tell
it us ? "

The other recited his lines slowly, as he had recited
them to the dog, as if to test them again to his own
ear. Again he began to seem unconscious of company,
and to be passing into a world of his own.

The solution of the question, " What are your
thoughts like ? " would have interested any observer
who watched the strong set face.

GosHng was not much of an observer, perhaps.
He listened to the hues with eye growing rounder and
rounder, Hke a pool into which a stone is sinking ; and
the pathetic, half-animal expression, of dumb speculation
as to what he was meant for, came into his graceful
face.

Ah ! " he said, as if deliberating more than was

usual with him ; " doosid fine that. I don't know what
the blazes it's about, but it's doosid fine. I'm stooped
about poetry, except burlesques. The little Whyte
Chappel puts me through them sometimes. Old man,
you're dreaming," he suddenly added, with a genuine
ring almost of yearning in his tone. " Wake up ! "

The quick ear of the other caught the intonation,
just as his sensitive nerve felt on his shoulder the shy,
sympathetic touch of the boy's hand. (Gosling was nota
boy ; but he was always called so.)

You're right, Jem, I was dreaming." He shut up
the book, turned round with his chair towards Gosling,
and looked at him with a real and evident interest.
The other had a pull at his brandy-and-soda, with as
evident relief.

"Tell us about yourself, come," said Guy. "I'm
fond of your cherub face, my boy; it does me good.
And you're a good fellow to leave your fun and your
smart friends as constantly as you do, and come over
for a chat with the hermit, as they call me. It must
bore you tremendously."

Bore me ? humbug ! Do you think I'm likely to
be bored by my old coach, who was so awfully kind tome
up at Oxford ? "

"I didn't do much for you."

"You pulled me through my divinity, which I
swear no one else could, and looked after me Uke a
trump. And that was eight years ago : and then you
bolted from Oxford, and shied up your fellowship, and
the fellows said you went abroad, though nobody knew
why or where ; and everybody forgot you, and I never
heard of you again till I spotted you do^iii here the
other day, beard and all, calling yourself Fraser, and
cutting everybody. Then — didn't you keep my brother
Gander square with the dons all through ? Dear old
Gander ! he's gone no end of a howler on the turf
since ; but he never forgets you — nor do I, nor the
governor, nor any of us. Damme ! there ! "

The speaker delivered himself of his tirade without
reflection of any kind, walking up and down, to Frisco's
obvious astonishment, finishing the brandy-and-soda in
distracted gulps, and filling up the glass now and again
with an absolute unconsciousness as to which of the
two liquids he was pouring out.

Drop that, my child," was the quiet answer.
Hanged if I do ! What man of my time at
Oxford would forget Clipper Faucit ? Look here —
you've no call to run to seed in this way. It's not

VOL. II. M

right. Brains are rare ; and you mustn't do what you
like when you've got 'em. I wish I'd got 'em ; for I'd
try. I've kept my word since I spotted you here, by
accident, though I don't know that I ought, and said
nothing about you ; but now they're all coming hereto
spot you," and I've come to let you know. Don't bolt."

The other had jumped to his feet, followed by
Frisco's eyes.

How do you mean, coming here ? "

I mean what I say, though I know that ain't
worth much. I tooled over this morning because I
promised to keep dark about you, and Lady Luscombe's
lot mean to picnic here to-day, and I thought I ought
to let you know, though I've said nothing. I say
I wish you'd join us. Beastly tidings, picnics, but
awfully nice people. Do come."

"Thanks for the warning," answered the other
quietly. " I'll keep out of the way. Don't talk
nonsense."

Gosling's face fell visibly, but he incontinently
proceeded to talk again ; while the recluse subsided
into his chair, and gradually, into absence of mind.

Like the rest of the fellows. Whatever I say is
always nonsense. They call it ' bosh,' but it's the same

idea. Hang it, I say, do come ! The Liiscombe isn't a
bad lot, though she gives herself airs and all that ; and
her niece Carrie Beaufort is awfully jolly — spoons me
rather, but her aunt don't see that. The aunt wanted
Gander; but lie didn't see that. Then there's Lady
Pepperharrow — wonderful old woman — always wanting
to convert everybody — though nobody knows what to.
Everybody laughs at Lady Pepperharrow, but everybody
likes her. Then there are some good men.
There's Lord Pentonville, otherwise old Pen., otherwise
Hard Labour ' — supposed to have turned nine hundred
rum 'un he is, but a doosid ^ocA fellow ! Then
there's Norbiton and Surbiton, you know — one's a Took,
and the other's a Marquis. Always together, and no
good without one another, like the men in Leech who
took two to show the pattern. And Count Lestrange
Gad, you must know him ! Talk about rum uns !
Comes from Greece, or Poland, or Japan, or somewhere
that way, with a sort of title which he picked up somehow.
Queer beggar; been everywhere, and knows
everything ; belongs nowhere, and lives on nothing.
Licks us all round at shooting, billiards, and the lot.
Sings like a bird, and spoons like a turtle. Nobody
likes him, and everybody asks him ; everybody's afraid

M 2

of him t(^(), except the Brent, who's afraid of nobody.
She's at the Abbey too, under the capacious wing of the
Pepperharrow. By Jove ! the Brent ! — there's form ! —
the best out ; and all the men mad about her. Don't
she carry on a few ? Got a husband out in India ; liver,
and all that. I should stop there if I was him. She's
splendid — Daisy Brent."

The Christian name struck suddenly on his friend's
ear, though it was some time before it seemed to reach
his sense. During Gosling's chatter he had rambled
far away; and it wanted time for him to catch the
threads again.

Who's that ? " he said. " What were you talking
about ? "

Why, the people at the Abbey."

Oh, I beg your pardon. I was dreaming again,
and I didn't quite hear."

Oh, damme ! " said Gosling, pathetically. " Doosid
hard lines, that I can never get the fellows to listen to
anything I say; and I talk a lot, too."

You do, Jemmy," the other answered, with reflective
gravity.

"Don't chaff. If you don't listen, of course you
won't come."

Come to what ? oh, the picnic. No, not to-day."

No, nor tomorrow, nor any other time. I must
go and look after the picnic lot, I suppose. You must
own that it was very good of me to let you know about
them, when I might have let you in in spite of yourself.
Bother the picnic. I'd rather be out in the turnip-fields,
bar the Brent."

I wonder. Jemmy, if you will ever grow any older,
and take to talking English ? "

Why, what do I talk now ? "

Goodness knows 1 a tongue without a name. Your
Greek was bad at college ; but your present style is
incredible. How soon will your friends be here ? "

Precious soon now. Very soon I mean ; and I
must be off. But I shall come again, mind. I'll
never let you off till I unearth you for the public
benefit."

Don't take the trouble. I'm past praying for."

Ah, I shouldn't be much good to you in that line.
Well, it's a sell ; but by-bye."

He clapped his friend on the shoulder, patted Frisco
on the head, and was off through the arch. The dog's
eyes followed him with what might have been an
expression of disappointment at his master's obstinacy.

The master's eyes were on the book again, before his
visitor was gone.

If you'd have a turn at prose," said Gosling, for a
last word, shrugging his shoulders, " it would do you a
lot of good. Adeo ! "

How that boy used to make me laugh at Oxford,"
thought Guy Faucit, letting his book fall upon his knee.
And he's not a bit changed. Why can't I laugh now ? "
ran the thoughts translated into words, "Eight years
ago was it ? Yes, just eight. Eight years ago I was
still in the old rooms at Balliol, coaching, with my old
friends about me, and my dear dead mother to spend
vacation with. An authority in the schools and on the
river ; popular, happy, very happy ; with a past I
could be proud of, a present I could enjoy, a future
I could trust in. I was twenty-eight, and felt eighteen.
Now I'm thirty-six, and feel — what was it he said ?
A hundred ? Yes, about that. I wish I felt it in body,
but I don't."

He rose from his seat and stretched his arms,
instinctively feeling with his left the muscle of the
right. "I believe I could pull the dark blue through
yet, between Putney and Mortlake. How long must I
go on living " (and restlessness and impatience began to

take possession of his manner), '' at a moderate calculation
? But this isn't living. ]\Iind, heart, and will
that's life ; and they died eight years ago. She did
it well, that girl. What's become of her ? What's the
name of the man she married ? I don't even know."

He bit his lip and bent his forehead, and threw
himself into the chair again. Once more he took up
the book, but this time the will played him false, and
he could attend no more.

I wasn't born vindictive, I think," he said to
himself aloud ; " but sometimes I feel that if I were to
meet the woman who changed me like this, it might be
bad for her."

The laurels in the angle behind him, which have
been before described, were gently parted as he began
to speak, and a man's pale face looked through. It was
a very pale and sinister, but attractive face, and full of
breeding. He heard the words, and smiled, and stepped
forward quietly behind the speaker's chair. Frisco saw
him, and growled low but angrily. But the new-comer
took no notice of him, and for the moment the dog did
no more.

I shall go mad with these fancies ! " cried Faucit,
who did not hear the growl, his head resting on his arm

on the table before him. " Faust, eh ? " he said, with a
bitter laugh. " Faust, who conjured up the devil 1 I
should think so. Who wouldn't conjure him up, if he
came with the old gifts in his hand ? Faust got his
money's worth, anyhow, and was a cur to turn round on
his best friend. Come to me, devil, come to me, and
take me at your own price, if you will give me back one
hour of the old spring : the youth to begin the world,
the money to command it, the friends to make it easy,
and the love — to make it real 1 Yes, and more than
that — the revenge that makes it even ! Money — youth
friends — love — revenge ! "

The strange soliloquy ended, and was suddenly
answered as thoughts sometimes are, though scarcely
perhaps as these were. The man who had entered
through the laurels came forward, and touched Faucit
on the shoulder. He was in a riding-dress, booted and
spurred, and leant familiarly over him.

"Excellent things, all of them," said the intruder.
What are you reading ? "

A STRANGE VISITOR.

The devil ! " cried Faucit, jumping to his feet at
the sudden address.

"Are you?" was the dry answer. 'not an easy
subject to read."

The student looked at his new visitor with an
almost startled curiosity. He was a singular contrast
to the one who had just ,left him. The pale face was
oval in shape, and the well-set head was covered with
jet-black hair, parted in the middle, and lying close toit,
without curl or wave. The nose was straight and
cleanly cut, as all the features were, with a constant
expression playing about the nostril. The thin, rather
colourless lips were shaded by a narrow black moustache ;
and a short pointed beard met the mouth below. The
eyes were small, black too, and very piercing, with a

habit, however, of looking away from the person spoken
to, if he on his side was given to looking others straight
ill the face. The forehead was low, but had a character
of its own ; and the whole face, which had in it a kind
of strange magnetism, impressed men at once with a
subtle sense of intellect and influence. In are the man
might be about forty-five or fifty. He was of about the
middle height, as the average of height goes in men of
his class, and singularly thin of build and constitution —
a characteristic made the more marked by the black
dress he wore, high black hat, frock-coat closely
buttoned, black trowsers strapped over his well-shaped
riding-boots, and broad black necktie tied in a loose
bow under his turn-down collar. In the centre of the
white shirt was one small stud of bright diamond ; and
on the fourth finger of the right hand he wore one ring —
el curious production, apparently, of German or Italian
medisevalism. It was a hoop, of three rows of gems,
the centre being made of a dozen small pearls, while
the two outer bore nine stones in the same order — an
amethyst, sapphire, aquamarine, ruby, opal, emerald,
aquamarine, sapphire, amethyst. He was fond of
showing this ring in the different lights that fell upon
it, and of looking into it himself, and into the spare

and small, but strong expressive hand which carried it,
whose two forefingers, laid together, started and curved
apart from each other at the middle joint — an odd sign,
some say, of a power of impressing the individuality
upon others. The feet were small and shapely enough
for a pretty woman to be proud of; and even in his
riding-boots he was shod coquettishly. Gloves he did
not wear, being too fond of his rino-. The whole
man, with the strange surroundings of the scene and
the wild thoughts that were tossing in Faucit's mind,
created on the latter an immediate and very powerful
effect.

Seemed as from some enchanter's cave,
Or some deep vault beneath the wave,

To an unholy prayer,
Some spirit not of middle earth,
Yet human-seeming, form and birth,
In mocking tone of covert mirth,

Made answer then and there.*

Most effective of all was the voice in which the
stranger spoke — a voice curiously soft, sweet, and
deliberate. He spoke very low, yet with such quiet
distinct emphasis that no word was ever lost to the
listener's ear.

*" Old Play."

Who are you ? " asked Faucit, abruptly, after a
brief pause.

"Never mind who I am. You are Guy Faucit."
The speaker was not looking at the other for the
moment, but turning over the leaves of the book which
had been dropped on the table, behind which he stood,
tapping his boot carelessly with his riding-whip.

My name is Fraser," said the other roughly.

I think not." And the visitor laid the book down,
and seated himself easily in the chair just vacated, with
no appearance of familiarity, but as little of diffidence.
The face of the man with the two names grew rather
dark and angry, and Frisco, who had been couchant regardant,
contributed another low growl to the dialogue.
Good dpg," said the stranger, in an offhand way.

"What brings you here, whoever you are?" asked
Faucit, who had taken his place towards the centre of
the old quadrangle, and with his two hands in his
pockets was taking the measure of the intruder, with
an expression both of mistrust and uneasiness.

You do," answered the other carelessly, and with
perfect good-humour. " You called me, didn't you ? "
Called you ? " said the student, puzzled.
'ram I different to what you expected? I was

always a gentleman, you know; and can only dress
as one."

''Oh, I'm in no humour for mummery, sir," the
other answered, shrugging his shoulders impatiently,
and turning away. "This old place is as open, of
course, to you as to me ; but as far as I am concerned,
you are not privileged."

"Pardon me; I'm a privileged person. And weare
wasting time, which is precious to me, though
perhaps not to you. What price do you offer," and
the speaker rested his right arm upon the rough table,
leaned forward with a new seriousness in his tone, and
looked at the younger man, "for the commodities you
were asking for ? "

What commodities ? "

Money and youth, friends and love, and —
revenge."

Did you hear my thoughts ? "

Well, I ought to apologize ; but you think so very
loud. A pretty place this, but in baddish repair, and
draughty in the winter, I should think. But to return :
what price do you offer for those four things ? "

To you ? "

"Tome."

Guy Faucit burst into a laugh, which moved the
other in no wise from his seriousness.

Ha, ha ! this becomes amusing. Like my prototype
in the book there, to any one who will give them
to me, my soul, if you like it I " Recklessly and bitterly
enough were the words said.

'what? in the nineteenth century? You don't
keep pace with modern thought, I see."

Ah, you don't believe in a soul ? "

If 1 didn't, my occupation would be gone. I'll
be liberal, and on the chance that, in spite of modem
theories, you have a soul, I'll take it."

Done ! " said the other, laughing more naturally
and with more good temper, as if he were grasping
the humour of the notion. " But you must tell me
your name, you know."

"How material you are. I have had so many.
But, in the present century, I am called the Count
Lestrange."

Well," said Faucit ; " and you live ? "

Don't ask too much," answered he, with a rippling
kind of laugh, which was a kind of smile in sound,
placidly expelling and savouring the while a clouded
of well-oTaced tobacco-smoke from a scented cigar.

"Don't ask too much. I am staying, not living, at
the Abbey near here, Lady Luscombe's place, on business.
Her party are excellent people, from my point
of view."

He sent a puff of smoke through his nostrils, blew
an upward breath after it, and trimmed his nails reflectively
with a small ivory pocket-knife. By this
time he had seated himself, with his legs comfortably
crossed, on the small chair which faced the other's
from the side of the table where the laurels were.
Faucit was not sitting, but standing, and watched him
restlessly.

Ah ! " he said, " at Luscombe Abbey. You know
Jem Gosling then ? " he added after a pause.

Your pupil ? " answered the man who called himself
Lestrange. " Yes. I expect to be very intimate
with him some day. He is a finished specimen of that
fashionable remove of the new school, whose language
is slang, whose topics scandal, whose diet .
You indulge, I see ? " he said carelessly, looking
at the remains of Gosling's visit.

Very seldom," said Faucit,

I'm sorry for that. It's such a useful agent of
mine, and so active now-a-days. This age will be

known in future history as the brandy-and-sodaic
period, or as the age of B. and S. — brandy and
slang."

Faucit laughed shortly, and it was a cheery laugh
to hear, with the ring of a very sound pair of lungs
in it.

You're a strange fellow," he said, already under
the influence of the indefinable charm of this new
acquaintance.

He took the chair opposite the Count's, and produced
a short meerschaum which had safely passed all
the danglers of colouring:. He looked at it with fondness
as he took it from its case, knocked out a small
remnant of ashes, tested the passage with a preliminary
draught or two, then filled it from a battered old pouch
with mechanical precision, and was proceeding to light
up when the other interrupted him.

You smoke too, I see," he said familiarly, but
without any suggestion of impertinence, " a short pipe,
and Cavendish tobacco. Quite right. Another of my
agents. Let me offer you a mild cigar, against my
own interests," he added,, bringing out on his side a
dainty cigar-case mounted with a cipher, and stocked
with cigars on one side and cigarettes on the other.

*' I always lay in a stock when I call in at the
Savannah."

"Thanks," answered Faucit, declining the offered
case. " I prefer a pipe. It's such a companion," he
said, with half a sigh:

The Count Lestrange looked at him as he lighted
up, and did the same himself for a fresh cigar.

Like a wife," he said, abruptly. " Have you got
one ? "

A wife ! No. Why do you ask ? "

Because I prefer cigars," answered the Count,
carelessly.

I don't follow you," said the other.

Don't you ? A pipe is the type of a wife. Let
me look at yours. Yes," he went on, taking the pipe
which Faucit handed him with evident curiosity, and
interest in his strange visitor. " Yes, very nice for those
that like it ; sweet, well-coloured, and ripe. But how
much time and pains did it cost you to bring it to that
perfection ? How much watching, coaxing, humouring,
and occasional nausea ? Neglect it for a while, and
the colour will die out. The game may be worth the
candle, perhaps, when you have succeeded in producing
a pipe like this. But how many pipes are there that

VOL. II. N

won't colour, and will burn? That's why a man so
often marries a widow, a worldly-wise woman, or a
practised flirt. He buys his pipe ready coloured, forgetting,
poor devil, that it was coloured to suit other
tastes."

There was a slight smile at one corner of the mouth

o

and an indefinable something in the voice as he said
the last words, which could not be seized, but left an
uneasy impression on the ear.

"What a singular parallel," said Faucit, uneasily,
the pipe suspended in his hand, his legs crossed, and
watching.

Frisco growled.

"Shall I carry it further?" asked Lestrange. "I
prefer cigars. Look ! " and he let a thin stream of smoke
curl round his moustache. " You can buy them coarse
and cheap, if you please. At the worst, you can throw
them away half-smoked, and for a minute they leave
a rank taste behind them. But choose them well, as
I do. Savour the first whiff, the sweetest of all ! let
it burn slowly, evenly, tenderly ; you know at the beginning
that it can't outlast an hour. It turns to ashes
as you smoke it — yes. Black if it's a bad one, and
gone in a moment. But see how my ash clings still,

white, firm, and round, till the last taste is gone and

the last kiss savoured, and then melts at a breath

as this will, to the four winds of memory ! " And he

flipped the white ash away.

Go on," said Faucit ; " I like it."

"It would carry me too far. I find a doubtful

specimen even among my best sometimes, which comes

to a knot in the middle, and goes out. I can knock off

the ash and delight it, if I will ; but it will never smoke

the same again, and I prefer to throw it away. There

are plenty more where it came from." And the soft

voice took the same tone again.

True enough," observed Faucit, half-attracted and

half-repelled. "But I smoke a pipe because it's

cheaper," he said with a laugh.

Ah ! and a wife is not. All parallels break down

somewhere," said the Count, laughing too, pleasantly,

at himself, " and that's where mine does. But why

consult economy ? " he Event on. " You're rich enough

to please yourself."

"Rich! I!" answered the recluse. "After all,

you don't know much about me."

He spoke rather abruptly now.

Don't T ? " said the other, careless of the change

X 2

of tone, and speaking even more quietly than before,
and with deliberate emphasis. "After your mother's
death, when you had left Oxford, for reasons of your own
you took another name, and travelled abroad for some
years ; then you settled here a few months ago, buying
the little cottage close by, and spending your time here.
It's an odd idea," he added, looking round the timeworn
old place ; " but I never quarrel with anybody's
taste in the matter of residence. Mine has been thought
peculiar, you know," said the Count, with an odd smile,
and half-shutting his eyes, which were on Faucit's face.

The hermit was growing visibly restive under this
curious visitation, and his annoyance showed itself in
his voice and manner, as he got up from his seat, shut
his pipe up in its case with a snap, plunged his two
hands again, British fashion, into his trousers pockets,
and began to walk restlessly about the enclosure, Frisco
prowling after him protective. The Count watched
them, but didn't move.

There are many ways," said Faucit impatiently,
in which you might get as much information as this,
sir, if you care to take the trouble to pry into other
men's affairs. As you know so much, you may be
aware exactly what my fortune is."

I am."

"You are welcome to the knowledge," said the
other with a short and irritated laugh, " and to the
fortune, if you like. Of all miseries, a competence is
the worst."

"Avoid vulgar errors," said Lestrange, shaking his
head with an air of admonition. " It's an excellent
thing, only men don't use it properly. Yours is nota
bad competence, though."

Splendid. A few hundreds a year."

Forty thousand," was the cool reply. .

What ? " The sharp question rang through the
ruins, as the man turned full round on his visitor.

That was about the figure of your Uncle Foster's
fortune, I think ? " said the Count, with a new but
undemonstrative seriousness in his tone, while those
magnetic eyes of his' shifted a little, now that the other
was looking straight at him.

My Uncle Foster ! Where did you learn so much
about us ? He behaved infamously to my mother, and
we have never met for years. His fortune is no concern
of mine, for he will never leave me a penny of it."

"I know that." And Lestrange made a study of
his ring. " But, like men of his character, who dislike

leaving pennies, he wouldn't leave it to anybody else
either. He died in a fit of apoplexy, without a will.
You are his heir."

The quiet phrases, dropped softly and impressively
one after the other, fell upon Faucit's ear without
reaching his sense, and he felt like a man talking in a
dream.

Died ! " he said, putting his left hand to
his forehead, and trying to think. " Where and
when ? "

'' In Scotland — last night. I had the first intelligence,
naturally." And the speaker smiled the same
odd smile again.

'who are you?" suddenly asked Faucit, very
shortly and sharply; as if half in the mood for a
quarrel.

'' I have told you," answered the other, with the
simplest frankness — '' the Count Lestrange. You
needn't have sent for me if you didn't want me."

'' Sent for you ! nonsense. Why did you come
here ? What do you mean ? Did you say that my
uncle was dead ? did you say that I am his heir ? "
'' I said so, certainly."
Faucit came straight up to him, sate again on the

chair he had left, rested his left elbow on the table, and
looked over it.

You don't look as if you were joking ; and I warn
you it might be a bad joke."

'' I never joke," answered the Count, quite unruffled.
'' ^Vhy should I ? it's such an inferior amusement.
You are the happy owner of forty thousand a
year."

'will you swear that this is true?" asked Faucit,
his teeth setting as he spoke, and his face looking very
strong.

'' I will. I swear that it's true."

There was a pause of some moments — one of those
pauses which seem all silence, all round and everywhere.
The strange Count might have cast a clamour
over the whole place. A sudden cloud-rack had for a
time darkened the September brightness, and the old
ruin seemed napping in the shade. A few sheep-bells
outside set the silence off. Frisco had grown quite
quiet, and might have been fascinated. And the
throbbing of Faucit's heart seemed to him as loud as
the sheep-bells.

I can't realize it," he said, when the silence
became pain.

You will," said Lestrange, looking at him. " Think
it over."

He got up, laid his right hand lightly and with a
sort of patronage on Faucit's shoulder, passed him by
as he buried his head in both his hands, then crossed
to the old lancet-arch, and leaned against the buttress,
watching the other with a smile.

IN GOOD SOCIETY.

Well 1 " There had been another and a longer
pause before the Count spoke again. '' I have given
you the first thing you wanted, and the most important."


"Yes," said Faucit bitterly; and a whole history
seemed to have passed over his face. 'money buys
everything."

'' Vulgar error again ; it doesn't. But it buys that
which does buy everything — opportunity. Opportunity
makes friends, love, everything, and the best that can
be made, for those that care for them ; and all opportunities
are open to the rich man, who has the brains
and the wish to use them."

The strange philosopher was speaking very freely
and pleasantly now, with a careless kind of cheerfulness

which had its effect upon his listener, who
smiled.

'' I suppose that's true," he said.

'' Of course it is. The talk about bargain and sale
in hearts is overdone, like every other talk now-a-days ;
and I say nothing of sham love, which of course can be
bought, but it isn't worth it. But a woman has a
thousand opportunities of loving a rich man where she
has one of loving a poor one ; and the lovable rich man
wins love — real love, such as it is — where the lovable
poor man fails. Opportunity. Am I boring you ? "

''No, indeed. I'm glad to listen."

'the same with friends. A fool, rich or poor,
doesn't make real friends. But if a good fellow be
rich, he can give dinners, lend horses, and display his
qualities. That makes friends : — real friends. Opportunity."


But opportunity cannot buy youth," said the other,
shaking his head.

Pardon me," said the Count, in the same cheery
tone. " Given a good constitution, it secures the means
of managing: it. And that is health; and health is
youth. Q. E. D."

The speaker was still leaning against the arch, and

beheading with his riding whip some of the taller of the
wild grasses which o-rew in rank luxuriance about it.
Faucit, as he turned round in his chair, and nursing his
knee with his two hands, looked at his visitor, remembered
his Roman history, and thought of Tarquin. The
oddest associations, the most incongruous memories and
ideas, were jostling each other in his puzzled brain.
The whole scene and its surroundings were so strange :
he had been living of late so unreal and unhuman a life,
he to whom in the old days the company of good
friends and good cheer had been half himself, —
and, above all, the feeling that in spite of himself he did
not resent the intrusion of this singular stranger with
the Satanic credentials, was strong upon him. As for
the news of the fortune, he could make nothing of it
yet, beyond the feeling that from this moment his life
was in some way changed. He could not go on playing
at hermit on forty thousand a-year.

Whoever you are," he said to Lestrange inquiringly,
in comment upon his last theorem, " you seem to have
thought of these things."

Of course I have," was the answer, as the riding-whip
brought down an unusually tall specimen, which
looked like a chief of his tribe. " Money's no use tome

; but I have as much youth as I want, as many-friends
as I want, and more love than I want. It's
troublesome sometimes," he added in a lower voice,
more to himself than his companion, whistling thoughtfully
between his teeth.

A woman's voice came from outside at the momenta
rather hard and worn voice, but a gentlewoman's.

This way," were the words addressed to some one
with the speaker ; " through the arch here."

How odd ! " said Lestrange, with a soft laugh, and
stroking his moustache. He turned round to Faucit
and came back to him. " That's Lady Luscombe,"
he said to him with quiet emphasis; "an excellent
woman and a good friend. Here is your opportunity ;
use it — and buy her ! "

Lady Luscombe's face, as she came in through the
arch, was like the voice which had heralded it — rather
hard and worn. Yet it was a sad and handsome and
not unkindly face — the face of a woman of forty, with
the well-preserved figure of ten or twelve years less,
and with features good and regular. The nose was
aquiline in shape, and the complexion, especially round
the cheek-bones, rather high. The eyes were of a light
gray, wandering and distressful, but honest enough, and

expressing the general sadness of the face like an omen.
Her smile was pretty when it came, which was rarely ;
and she was softly dressed, in grays and laces. The
hair was smooth and abundant ; but white — quite white.
She looked like a woman who had fought the battle of
life, and lost it.

The two companions who. were with her made a
strange contrast. One was a rotund and rubicund
matron some ten or fifteen years older than she, with
an expression of the most absolute good-nature, exhaustive
and exhausting. She had no features, so
they need not be described. Audrey's question — " Lord
warrant us ! what features ? " might sum up a good
many people besides Lady Pepperharrow.

The chief impression left by her on the mind was
a gorgeous daring of costume, in which the most pronounced
combinations of red, green, and yellow resulted
in a vague whole suororestive of a Bird of Paradise.
As " The Bird," indeed, she was consequently known
to Beauty Gosling and his set. Beauty had a knack
for nicknames, and bestowed them freely. He had
also been known to christen Lady Pepperharrow as
the h-less one," with reference to a weakness of hers
which she rather impressed upon her friends.

The late Sir Ugh Pepperarrow, who had been very
properly knighted for boiling soap in unusual quantities,
was a great trial to his relict at the start of his name,
and again half way through. Nobody quite knew why
Lady Pepperharrow was fashionable, but she was. That
she was a guest of Lady Luscombe in itself showed
that : so did it that she and her hostess were now
escorted by Lord Viscount Pentonville, who could make
any social coin current which he chose to favour,
whatever its metal.

Pentonville had ruined the domestic happiness,
Gosling used to say, of more husbands than any man
else since the days of Don Juan, through a new Don
Judaism of his own, of a kind unimpeachably moral.
He took up young married women and posed them
as beauties, supplying a new one where his unfailing
instinct detected satiety beforehand. It was whispered
indeed that he was secretly connected with two or three
of the leading photographers' houses, by a financial
arrangement convenient to both sides. And it was
more than whispered that he was the author, subject
to editorial correction as regarded the English, of the
social paragraphs, dealing with these ladies' dresses and
private lives, which were the principal attraction of

those two flourishing weekly newspapers avowedly
established for ^ the purification of society, — 'peep
Hole," and " The Flunkey."

Lord Pentonville, however, was not a recognized
author, and in the excess of his modesty never signed
his name to anything he wrote ; the privileges of the
English press, of which Englishmen are so tenacious
and so justly proud, entitling him therefore to deny his
own works when advisable. Indeed, as his editor,
technically speaking, wrote his articles for him, he
considered that he kept on the windy side of the
divine law in exercising his privilege.

The fabulous number of years attributed to his
Lordship by Gosling was justified by the appearance of
his face, which was wrinkled and puckered and needle-scored
to an extent which made him look as if he
had been engaged in a long prize-fight with Time. He
wore a pronounced and defiant little wig, which he
flattered himself baffled observation. From a subtle
study of the processes of Nature, he had it made white,
added an incipient baldness at the temples, then dyed
it to a rich brown, then greased it well with the
fashionable unguent of the day, and felt himself a power.
The effect was to the last degree weird and dislike.

Lord Pentonville was very short-sighted, but despised
eye-glasses ; and peered into people's faces, after
a method quite his own, with a little pair of mysterious
eyes of no particular colour. He had to stand on tiptoe
to do it, in most cases, for he was most diminutive, and
his walk resembled a sort of little trot, the oddness of
which was increased by the tight trousers which he
always wore strapped over his shiny and corn-producing
boots.

Gosling maintained that old Pen was obliged to trot
and to strap, because he must fall to pieces if he didn't,
like the cab-horse in Leech's picture, which tumbled
down directly it was taken out of harness. Such as he
was, however, a very great man and arbiter of society
was little Lord Pentonville, the glass of fashion with his
own mould of form.

This will be the very place for the picnic, I think.
Lord Pentonville," said Lady Luscombe, as the three
entered the quadrangle, in a rather tired and uninterested
tone.

The two men who had watched them enter had
drawn back a little into the angle of the ruin, and were
not at first seen by the new-comers.

Ca — ca — capital," answered his Lordship, who was

baltic of speech, and kept an old sort of tune to his
trot in his talk. He had a way of stumbling over his
first word, and bringing out the rest with a rush, like a
man who has broken a fence down. " I'll tell them to
bring the hampers at once. P — plenty of animals, and
no p — possible place to sit down."

How ot it is," sighed Lady Pepperharrow, fatly.
It's a odd place too. But, Lady Luscombe, do look at
the colouring. It quite reminds me of the old masters.
Such wonderful people as those old masters were, you
know. Not but that I think dear mr. Long Locke's
beautiful paintings quite as happy in their way. His
renderings of the light and shade are so bold. You
quite wonder where he gets them from."

"From science, dear Lady Pepperharrow," said
Estrange, coming forward. "Science is the modern
alkali, by which we learn to correct the too pronounced
acids of Nature and Religion."

Dear me, yes. Count Lestrange," answered the
lady. " You always say such clever things. But then
everybody hasn't your gifts. And I wish you wouldn't
say anything uncomfortable about religion. I'm sure
I don't know what I should do without it, and without
the comfort of dear Mr. Birmingham Pope's prayers.

VOL. II. o

He always dresses so beautifully, that I am sure they
are always answered."

Always ? " said Lestrange. " Surely he prays
every day, and as fervently as for everything else, that
all the nobility may be endued with grace, wisdom, and
understanding. That prayer has not been answered
yet — at least to the full extent," he added, glancing at
Pentonville, who was contentedly absorbed in various
little trots of discovery about the quadrangle.

There's somebody here," said he, peering. None
of his senses were exceptionally quick.

It's Count Lestrange," said Lady Luscombe in a
low voice. Her expression had suddenly flashed into
life when she saw the Count. There was a strange
interest in it, and a stranger fear. 'shave the riders
arrived then ? " she said to Lestrange.

Not yet," he answered, with a shade of familiarity
in this tone. It was but a shade ; for by shades only
did his voice or his face vary. " I came on before the
rest to have some talk with a friend of mine. This,"
he said, pointing to Faucit without further prelude,
"is the Hermit of the Owl's Nest, of whom you have
all heard. We were speaking of him at dinner last
nidit." Faucit came a little forward and bowed

gravely. But he turned his face away as much as he
could from Lady Pepperharrow. He had given a slight
start when first he saw her, and had watched her
unobserved with an expression upon his face which
gave evidence of strange associations. It was Something
which had in it an echo of tenderness. As
for the lady, she had paid him no attention. She
and Lady Luscombe now acknowledged the bow with
some surprise, and Pentonville peered.

That old f — f — f — " he began to ask, turning to
the Count.

Faucit winced.

Fellow ? " suggested Lestrange quietly.
No, person ! " snapped Pentonville, like the shot
of a saloon-pistol.

He resented assistance.

"Let me introduce him more formally," said the
Count.

No — not now," said Faucit to him in a low voice
and hurriedly.

Nonsense ! " the other answered, in the same tone.
What did I tell you about opportunity ? Lady Lus-combe
— Lady Pepperharrow — Lord Pentonville, let me
introduce — "

O 2

Any friend of yours, of course," said Lady Luscombe,
constrainedly.

He is sure to be so distinguished," murmured the
other lady, with a patronizing sigh, which brought a
strange smile into Faucit's face.

Let me introduce my friend — "

Fraser," said Faucit in the same manner again.

Lestrange smiled.

Mr. Fraser," he said, with the gesture devoted by
Fashion to an introduction. " Better so at present," he
added to himself, looking at his ring. " It suits my
own views precisely."

D — d — d — delighted, I'm sure, quite delighted ! "
said the peer, rushing at the colossal Fraser, standing
very much on tiptoe indeed, and inspecting his
new acquaintance's middle shirt-button. After which
examination he shook hands inquisitively, buttonholed
the Hermit at the same level, and became
confidential.

"Ask him to join the picnic," said Lestrange to
Lady Luscombe, still engaged with his ring.

Your whims are endless," she answered.
"Humour them. Ask him." And the request was
like Queen Elizabeth's to Sussex.

That Mr. Fraser ! " she said, hesitatingly, and
puzzled, as she looked at the rough picnic-like
figure before her.

"That Mr-fraser," he repeated emphatically.
Wasn't it with that object we came here ? You
remember your promise ? " he added, and the brows
knit a little.

To ask him — first to the picnic, and afterwards to
stay at the Abbey. Yes; but — I hadn't understood.
He is so strange-looking a man."

At present. We will remedy that."

She looked at Lestrange.
"Tell me your object," she said abruptly, and after a
pause.

'when it is gained. I beg of you — "

Really, Lestrange, — "

"I beg of you." And he emphasized the second
word very courteously, but more markedly than he often
did. And as he did so he took her hand and kissed it
Nobody else heard the dialogue.

When you ask like that — " she said, slowly.

You can't refuse me. I know your kindness. Thank
you." He kissed the thin, well-shaped hand again, and
turned away.

Lady Luscombe stood still for an instant, then went
up to Faucit, an imperceptible shudder coming over
her.

You are the gentleman who has come to live in
those ruins, Mr. Fraser?" she said.

"I don't exactly live in them, Lady Luscombe,"
was the answer, given in a very honest and straightforward
fashion. Nobody could mistake the thorough
gentleman, and Lady Luscombe did not.

'' Don't you ? " she said. '' I thought you did."

'' Such a sweet place for a romantic mind," interjected
the soap-boiler's memorial, whose eye Faucit
avoided throughout.

'reg — g — g — gad t I should think he'd be more
likely to die in 'em ! Most extrorny taste at your age ;
I shouldn't like it even at mine ! Don't you find it
devilish dra-^ra — dra — "

"Draughty?" said Faucit, shortly.

"No, windy 1" And his Lordship trotted off to
Lestrange. " D — devilish odd taste, isn't it ? " he
confided.

"Devilish tastes are for hot temperatures, you
know," said Lestrange.

Ah — y — yes — of course*

Hard Labour retired uncomfortable, and tumbled
over Frisco, taking his bat off and apologizing immediately
: " I b — b — beg your pardon," he said, and peered
afjain. '' D — damn it, it's a doo 1 "

Frisco, who had retired into a corner and given up
the whole thing as beyond his comprehension, accepted
the apology with much self-restraint, and a wag of his
tail.

"We have made up a picnic here to-day," said Lady
Luscombe, continuing the conversation she had been
holding with the supposed Fraser, "and it will give
us much pleasure if you will join it. My party will be
here dii-ectly."

Picnics are not much in my way," he answered.
"' I don't look like it."

"Still, if you would. But if you don't feel disposed
— "

I will dispose him," Lestrange interrupted.

Lady Luscombe drew back.

Then I leave him to you," she said, disguising an
uneasy look. " Lord Pentonville, will you explain to
the servants what place we have chosen."

"C — c — certainly!" answered Pentonville, with an
air of extreme agility, as he trotted out through the

arch. " You are too exacting, Lestrange," she whispered

under her breath.

They say — that love is always exacting."

Love ! " She threw volumes into the word. " Lady

Pepperharrow, will you come and look for the others ? "
The two men were alone again together.

THE COMPACT AXD THE VISION.

Well, you will join the picnic ? " said Lestrange.

No, not I."

I think you will, for all that."

"I dislike that style of people more than I ever
did,'.' said Faucit impatiently. " There's a sort of
ridiculous assumption about them, as if one were a clay
of an inferior kind, made by a different manufacturer.
It irritates me, and I don't Like it."

"Perhaps the manufacturer is different," observed
Lestrancre. " It is difficult to thinly that a man like

o

yourself, and a Pentonville, are turned out by the same
hand. I should be inclined to attribute him to the
classic Demiurgus; unless," he added, reflectively, "I
had something to do with him myself."

"It's just the inferiority of the creature that

makes assumption so enraging. I wanted to kick
him."

"That is a very improper frame of a mind for a
hermit," said Lestrange. "It's a poor little snob, no
doubt. But snub downwards is snub upwards, and he
gets as much moral kicking from one side as he gives
on the other. It's all very even. An odd country this
England of yours, where everybody seems to be saying,
'Please find me somebody's boots to lick, and bring
somebody else to lick mine.' I happened to be the
other day in a picture-gallery, near a princess of the
blood-royal, some degrees removed. She had with her
her little girl, aged five, necessarily another degree
removed. To them enter, as the stage-directions say,
two fashionably-dressed young ladies. A mixture of
awe and gratification filled their lovely eyes, and each
bobbed twice — I cannot call it bowing, for it was an
odd jerky motion effected by the crooking of one knee
to the great lady. Then they left-about-faced, and
bobbed again, positively, to the little girl — the crook
being a shade less hooky. It was a very touching sight ;
and I was as much amused by the quiet look of fun in
the princess's face, a very bonny, good-natured looking
woman by the way, as by anything else in the little scene."

""VSTio were the robbers?" said Faucit. "Ladies'-maids
? "

Oh, dear, no. They were the beautiful ladies
Diana and Castalia Coldharbour, daughters of the Duke
of Friesland, whose ancestors came over with the
Conqueror. It's the old story of the bigger and lesser
fleas. If you spoke to those girls, they would chill you
with a look. The blueness of their blood suggests an
underdone joint. It was never even warmed through."

Faucit laughed a stood deal. "Yes, it's all very
finny," he said ; '' and I confess I'm out of it. nation
earth did your friend Lady Luscombe ask me to join
her picnic ? "

Because you are not justified in being ' out of it '
any longer. Because you've got forty thousand a year."

'•' Does she know that too ? " asked Faucit, astonished.

Yes," said the Count. '' I told her."

What on earth, and why on earth — "

** What business is it of mine, and why should I
interfere ? You needn't be angry with me ; I haven't
used an unpleasant means of introduction, have I ? and
I don't even charge a commission."

The man's good breeding was so perfect, and his
easy familiarity so free from any suspicion of discourtesy,

that a less well-tempered man than Faucit was couldn't
have taken offence if he had tried. Faucit was not
inclined to try. Apart altogether from this proffered
fortune, which was like a vision of fable-land, he was
thoroughly interested and held by the conversation and
manners of his new acquaintance.

Then your Lady Luscombe wouldn't have asked
me, if it hadn't been for this fortune-in-the-air ? "

In the air, eh ? you'll find most of it in a very solid
form. No, she wouldn't ; why should she ? She has a
niece to marry," said the Count, looking down and
trimming his nails.

Oh, is that all ? Only another edition of the
eternal old story. A girl to sell — wanted a purchaser.
I'm sick of all that, and have heard far too much of it ;
and I don't buy damaged goods, or any other goods
either. Her ladyship is early in the slave-market, no
doubt, but she's too late for all that. I don't want
to have anything to do with her niece, her picnic,
or her."

Faucit hadn't said so many words in a speech for a
loncf time ; and Frisco, whom he was accustomed to
talk with in the fondest but fewest monosyllables, looked
up from his ruminative attitude in the corner with

undisguised wonder at the new ring of the familiar
voice. Then his eves fixed themselves again on
Lestrange's unmoved face, with every evidence of much
inward exercise. If one may attempt to explore into
the course of a dog's thoughts, he had begun to conquer
his first violent prepossession against the Count, on
discovering how his master gradually thawed in his
company ; but was now, in spite of himself, coming back
to his original feeling. It is much the same with us.
We take an instinctive dislike, feel that we must be
wrong, marg-ue ourselves out of it, and are quite on good
terms for a time ; then suddenly and helplessly relapse,
to dislike for evermore, and to give up struggling against
it. Very often, too, it is some sudden exhibition of
moral shadiness on the other side which explains and
justifies the relapse. The other side, perhaps, says the
same of us. Therein instinct proves itself a truer thing
than reason, and begins new matter of speculation as to
the real positions of the different animals, man included,
in the scale of intelligence. Faucit himself, among
the various literary torsos which at one time he had
accumulated in his drawers, had written a good part of
an empiric essay — * On the Causes of Johnson's Dislike
for Dr. Fell.'

For the present, however, a quiet rebuke from the
Count was the only result of the other's outbreak.

In the new career which is opening for you, my
dear fellow," he said, ''I strongly recommend you to
avoid misanthropy. It's a common assumption, and
neither real nor wise. Amuse yourselves with your
fellow-creatures, make friends with them, make use of
them, make all you can of them, but don't always
impute bad motives to them. Our motives are like
ourselves, a mixture."

It strikes me that you imputed the bad motive,"
said Faucit, laughing. 'the lecture comes badly."

''I beg your pardon," answered Lestrange. "I
stated a fact, and you instantly drew a misanthropic
inference. Nor did I suggest that the motive, if it be
one, was bad. It strikes me as exemplary. Miss Caroline
Beaufort is a very nice little girl, and you look as
if you ought to make a model husband. What can an
aunt do better ? Come to the picnic."

Indeed, I'll do nothing of the kind."

"Well, stay here with me a little longer, and it
will come to you. Don't move ; you mean to join it."

Eh ? " said the other.

I read acceptance in your face, and I can tell you

the reason. Your little tirade just now was a disguised
farewell to the styptic life, and to roots and water.
You are tired of misanthropy as a professions"'

Do you really want to persuade me." said the
recluse, " that you are so fond of your fellow-creatures
? "

I said nothing of the kind," answered the other.
The operations of your mind are electric. Between
affection and aversion there are many shades of feeling.
Now you are ^oincj back into the world, cultivate indifference.
Will you take me for your mentor ? "

''I suspect," said Faucit, 'that you would soon
have enough of me. We are men of a verv^ different
sort."

All the more likely to agree. If I propose to take
the censorship, it is to seize us both. My knowledge
of the physical, and still more of what I may call the
moral geography of what is known as the world, is,
though I say it, oddly varied and complete. I keep a
sort of chart of all the reefs and shoals, and I know a
lighthouse when I see it, also if it is given to revolving.
I know when the appearance of solidity is deceitful ;
how thin and how many the strata underneath. I can
distinguish the soil which only wants surface-draining

from that which is barren at heart for evermore. I
have also — having set myself early to acquire it — a
singular power and influence over the wills of men. I
can be of great use to you, Faucit, in launching you
in the world (and there is thus much gained already,
that I hear no more objections) ; and I am interested
in you for reasons which I can explain later."

Tell me one," said the other, on whom the fascination
was growing.

Lestrange hesitated a little, and looked a little
away.

"For one thing — I knew your father," he said.

Who died when I was a child ? "

"Yes. And was very kind to me when I was one."

"The introduction is quite enough," said Faucit,
rising from the grass, on which he had thrown himself
down to listen. And he said it with relief in his voice,
as if it were a pleasure to feel that he had an excuse for
encouraging this self-presented acquaintance. "Why
didn't you say it at first ? Let us be friends."

He held out his hand to Lestrange, and the two men
shook hands. The small nervous fingers disappeared in
the other's large grasp, and Frisco, with a slight wag of
the tail, and an inaudible growl, witnessed the compact

then and there made between the Count Lestrange of
the one part, and Guy Faucit, sometime called Fraser,
of the other, signed, sealed, and delivered in the dog's
presence that blank day of September, in the ruins of
the Owl's Nest.

>Jc jH * >|i * * *

'' I don't see yet, however," said Guy Faucit, '' of
what service I can be to you."

You will be to me," answered Lestrange smilingly,
what the Lord Viscount Pentonville's beauties are to
the Lord Viscount Pentonville. He produces them, and
he shines by the reflection of their graces, and in the
coruscation of their photographs. Why shouldn't I
speculate in a man, as he does in a woman ? Men
are a much better investment, and more interesting
altogether. Besides, are your powers of imputation
disappearing already ? You are a rich man and I am a
poor one ; and you can serve me in thousands of ways."

That's true, of course," answered Faucit ; '' and I'm
sure I shall be very glad. You're worth it. But the
sweetbread comes just in time to mumble, for I've few
enough teeth left. I'm old to invest in."

Nonsense," said the Count, cheerily. '' Youth was
one of the commodities you were asking for just now ;

VOL. II. p

and with money and friends I have brought it you.
What can you want, to begin with, younger than a
picnic, and Lord Pentonville ? "

Who is good enough to take me to be older than
himself," said Guy, rather angrily.

Yes," said Lestrange, observant and amused ; '' I
don't think you look so," he added drily, measuring the
man's broad proportions with his eye, which had a
touch of envy in it. " What an athlete you must have
been," The eye twinkled, and the smoke curled up,
for Lestrange had lighted another cigar, being seldom
without one.

Must have been ! I am."

Guy Faucit followed the instinct. of strong health
and a strong frame, took a long draught of the bright
moorland air into his lungs, expanded them, hit outwith
both his arms, and then played "double attack"
with them on his big chest, which answered to the
summons like a mellow cathedral bell, some such
celebrity as Tom of Lincoln. Lestrange fairly laughed
out, on a note distinctly louder than he had yet
allowed his voice to take, bating no jot of its music.

Vanity, eh ? " he said, still laughing. " You're
young enough."

Not for picnics and fashionables, hanged if I
am," answered Guy, suddenly forgetting his personality.
"After all. Count Lestrange, I don't know who you
are, or why you take so great an interest in me. But
though our introduction has been a strange one by
ordinary rules, I shall be glad to have any amount of
talk with you, if you care about it. Who wouldn't ?
There isn't much in my talk ; but I can't stand
your Pentonvilles, and that sort of people, 1^11 see
you whenever you like, but d — n your friends."

Of course — that's my object," said Lestrange.

Faucit couldn't help laughing, and laughed in spite
of himself.

You won't join us, then ? " the Count went on.
"Money and youth don't tempt you. What about
revenge, and love ? "

I don't really want revenge," the other said,
gravely ; '' that was a momentary thought. ' I will chide
no dweller in the world but myself, against whom I
know most faults.' No, I don't want revenge ; I'm not
so bad as that."

As to want revenge ? it's a very natural need, and

a very healthy passion ; much healthier than love."

Love ! " Guy said, with utter bitterness in his

p 2

voice. '' The sort of love that fine ladies, with nieces
to marry, come dinners-inland to offer you ! I put my
own meaning on that insulted word. Count Lestrange ;
and I've done with it once for all."

So much the better for you," was the answer.
*you must be a very exceptionally lucky man to be
able to put a limit on the illimitable. But I don't
believe it, I'm sorry to say ; for I can't imagine that
I have met the impossible for the first time, after all
my experience. Why were you asking for love just
now, Faucit, if you don't want it ? "

"All men wish to be loved — sometimes," said the
other, very slowly and dreamily, with his eyes turned
into some unforgotten past.

Do they ? It's not bad, — if they can't make themselves
feared ; " slowly on his side, and very low and
clear.

Feared ! " echoed Faucit. "I've no desire for that."

It's much more useful," said Lestrange, communing
with his cigar. " People will do some things
for those they love, everything for those they fear."

Once more the same uncanny note might have
been heard in the voice ; and once more Guy Faucit' s
straightforward nature took the alarm.

You might be a dangerous mentor for a younger
man than myself, Count Estrange' he said ; " but
such as I am my creeds are formed. One might almost
think you had studied philosophy with the master you
assumed just now. Yes, my creed is formed ; and as
one of its first articles, I believe in love, — God help me,
though I have done with it long ago."

There was a pause on both sides, and on both sides
the " interval of sound " was filled by tobacco-smoke.

Yes ? " then Lestrange said, quietly. " Tell me the
story."

He spoke with an evidence of interest ; for he saw
in the face of the other the longing to speak which
possesses us all at times, most of all after long-enforced
repression. And Guy Faucit had kept his counsel for
many solitary years ; nor had any one till now had the
power to make him break it. He had been tempted
often, on ship-board and in bush-land, in strange cities
and stranger settlements, amongst the various companions,
rough and gentle, with whom he had from
time to time consorted, to break the spell of silence
which became now and again almost intolerable. But
the hour and the man had never come till now. Nor
now had he much to say.

Shall I ? " he said, drawing at his pipe and looking
straight before him. He spoke more to himself than to
the other, and dropped his sentences one by one, as if
they were wrung from him with a sort of pain. " The
story's a very old one. I cared once for a girl, who — as
I thought — cared for me. It began ten years ago, and
it ended eight. My mother warned me that she might
be frivolous and heartless, and of course I didn't believe
her. Of course my mother was right. It was just at
the time of my mother's death, — when I had gone down
from London and seen her die, — when I most wanted
love and help — "

The pause lengthened, and Lestrange remarked
quietly —

Just the time when they fail. Yes ? "

It was then that I heard that the girl had thrown
me over for some rich man or another. Nothing very
new, is it ? That's all."

He got up from his seat with a sigh half of relief,
knocked the ashes from his pipe, and walked slowly to
the opposite corner of the quadrangle ; there he stood
looking on the ground, and tapping the grass absently
with his foot. More and more and more, the afternoon
shadows crept slowly over the scene.

"And 3'ou have never seen her or heard of her
since ? " Lestrange said, watching the set face closely.

Never."

Guy spoke the word between his teeth, and the
shadow that fell on him for the moment was not quite
good to see.

Should you like to do so ?" asked the Count, after
another pause.

Faiicit started, as if a new train of thought had
followed on the last. He took counsel in his heart
before he answered, and seemed to be aro-uino- out
something with himself behind his knitted brows. Then
he said curtly — " Yes."

Lestrange took a small photograph from his
pocket, and held it out to Guy. " Is that anything
like her?"

Guy Faucit looked at the other for a space as if he
did not understand, then took the portrait from him.
All the blood rushed straight from the face to the
heart, leaving the giant for a moment as colourless asa
dying man ; then rushed back again with a strong
reinforcement, and overflowed cheek, and throat, and
forehead. His eyes seemed literally to fasten upon the
picture before him, and the tempest that shook the

man all through seemed for a moment as if it would
throw him from his feet.

How did you get this ? " he said, and in a whisper.

The Count paid no apparent attention to the emotion
of his companion, but treated the whole matter with
the same pleasant air of commonplace. " I like," he
said, placidly, "to keep the portraits of people who
interest me."

But what is it ? " insisted the other, still in a voice
not his own. " It is herself. Where is she ? "

It was not from Lestrange that the immediate
answer came. Suddenly, from the road behind, a
woman's laugh rang out upon the ear, like a silver
peal of bells of infinite beauty, in which one of the
bells, perhaps, has gone a little bit wrong, and caught
a note not quite the others' in the strain. It came
without warning, and went crisply through the air. A
quick smile flitted over Lestrange' s face as he slightly
raised his eyebrows and twisted his ring, and half
muttered to himself, 'curious. I'm always in the
right time."

Upon Guy Faucit the effect of the sound was startling.
He literally staggered on his feet, turned again
as ashy pale as a snow-drift looks in a dull twilight.

and fell back against a projecting part of the wall,
behind Lestrange, breathing hard and quick, and like a
hunted man. His eyes were fixed upon the road, over
Lestrange's shoulder, with half a hope and half a terror
in them. Full upon the little knoll behind the road,
bathed in a capricious sunbeam which flashed out to
frame the picture, sprang and stood the figure of a very
beautiful young woman, one of the daughters of the
gods, divinely tall and divinely fair as Helen of Troy
herself. And a Helen of Troy she might be, worthy a
ten years' siege. The fall but lithe figure was fitted to
a marvel by the shapely blue riding-habit she wore,
and the little man's hat, coquettishly worn aside, took
the station of Mercury on the mass of soft fair hair,
seasoned with countless threads of sunny gold. The
complexion was of the pure marble white which is
surely the most perfect of all complexions — the veined
white of the statue-world, which suggests delicacy of
constitution till the flash of interest or of exercise belies
the charge. The firm and well-cut hands, not too large
for beauty, but not too small for use, were carefully
gloved in becoming gauntlets, and one of them had
gathered up the habit's folds, while the other tapped
her boot with the whip it held.

All who love me, follow me ! " she said out in a
laughing voice, apparently to some one behind her.
And she stood as upright as a dart, and looked down
like Galatea from her pedestal upon the two men in
the foreground. Or rather upon one of them. For
Lestrange, as the vision appeared, answered the other's
last question quietly.

There she is," he said ; and with an imperceptible
movement placed himself more completely between
them. If his object was to keep Guy out of sight he
might have saved himself the pains. For after one
long deep look, which seemed to take the picture into
the very framework of his heart, to stay there for ever,
Guy Faucit fell back, like a man utterly dazed and
overcome, into the angle of the ruin which screened
him from every part of the road, with one set, yearning,
stifled cry— " Good God!"

DAISY BRENT.

The visitor shaded her eyes with her raised hand,
and looked into the quiet quadrangle, from the centre
of which the Count Lestrange was directly facing her.
Of the other figure she saw nothing, and nothing of the
strange drama which was passing there. Before anything
was said, Frisco struck a sort of preliminary note
by shaking his head, and crossing quietly to the angle
where his master was, to take his place beside him.

Ah, Mrs. Brent ! " said Estrange, raising his voice
without any perceptible modification of the tone, and
speaking with familiar acknowledgment.

The wandering Jew ! " lau(]fhed she, nodding to
the speaker with a manner not indicating any special
respect.

' Und aber each suns liiindert Jahren
Will ici desselbigen Wages fallen.'

Shall I translate it for you ? " she added.

And when five hundred years are o'er,
I'll travel the self-same road once more.' "

I never want to be translated to."

I know you don't, and apologize. I believe you
are the inventor of language ; but you always look in
your element in out-of-the-way places, most romantic
and Byronic of men. What plot are you constructing
down there, Manfred ? "

You know as well as I do, as, like the rest of the
world, I only act under your ladyship's orders. I'm
constructing a picnic."

"Have you found a good place ?" she asked; "one
where my satellites will show to advantage ? "

Capital, I think," he answered. " Look about you
from your point of vantage, and admit that I have done
my spiriting well."

Count Lestrange went towards the parapet, and
with a rapid motion of the hand signed to Faucit to
keep his post. There was no fear of his leaving it, for
his eyes having done their part over Lestrange's
shoulder, his ears were now drinking in the sound of
the rider's voice. Did he remember it as he heard it
now ? or did his quick sense detect in it, even in the few

syllables of courteous badinage which were passing
between her and the Count, something curiously different
from a voice which had once been the music to
which his life was set, and had left its melody behind
with him wherever he had gone ? There must have
been something of this last discovers, and something
it which even in its sadness was not all pain. Were
there others in the world who could have suffered ashe,
and why ?

Meanwhile the Count was leaning carelessly over
the parapet upon his elbow, looking up at her whom
he had called Mrs. Brent, and she was taking in the
scene with evident enjoyment of its rich and quiet
beauty.

Did I not see some one with you ? " she asked.

"With me? why''

'' Another of your bad habits. Count. Like the
Quakers, you are always answering one question by
another. I fancied I caught sight of a figure in the
background, which vanished at my coming like a ghost
with a bad conscience. Perhaps it was a phantom
herdsman who haunts the ruins, as he is no more to
be seen. I oughtn't to drive even a ghost away,
ought I ? "

'you ought to bring him back to flesh and blood,"
said Lestrange. '' If I were a ghost I should revive at
the sight of you, I'm sure," he added, with a shade of
admiration in his tone which failed to reach Faucit, but
did not escape the quick ear of the woman, better versed
in the fashions of Lestrange.

I'm not sure that you are not a ghost," she said
hastily, " of some uncomfortable vampire order. Only
if you rose you would never do it like other ghosts, but
come up sideways like the creature in the 'Corsican
Brothers.* However, I'm not going to stop here all
day, stuck up on a mound like a Chinese idol. If you
have found the right place for the picnic, well and
good ; and it looks most interesting and mysterious,
made to set you off to advantage, and in every respect
the correct thing. O dear ! I wonder if there is anything
there that will interest me ? '*

I think so," said Lestrange, very quietly.

Then I shall be with you like a flash of lightning,"
answered she, laughing, " followed by my thunder, at a
long distance."

Who's your thunder ? " asked the Count, laughing
too.

My swells ! slow, but sure to be after me." And

she burst into a brighter and merrier laugh than before,
which had in it an infinite grace of girlishness and
innocence too, and seemed weighted with less of years
than might have been guessed in her before. It was
the laugh of a woman " with no harm in her," if ever
there was one ; and on Faucit's listening face there was
an expression which was a sort of silent echo of the
laugh he heard. There was relief in it, and somehow
he looked younger, too. Just before, as the lady was
rattling on, he had muttered to himself, 'how
changed ! '' Now his face had even something of a
smile to answer to her laughter. And so quick, so
singular was the observation of Lestrange that he did
not fail to catch the look, as he turned his head in a
moment from the knoll where the one stood, to glance
at the corner where the other was hidden. Meantime
the skirts were more daintily gathered up in the left
hand, and the right waved a laughing farewell.

'' In five minutes ! " she said ; and with the spring
of elastic youth the pleasant figure had vanished from
the knoll, and was gone, before the echo of that silver
laugh had quite died under the moss-grown eaves.
Even Frisco had raised his head to acknowledge it, with
an indication of a wag of the tail. An odd silence

between the two men, with whom such intervals were
growing common, followed for a time before either
moved or spoke. Lestrange was still leaning over the
parapet, and looking after the figure that had just left
them, watching her, perhaps, at some little distance,
swung lightly to the saddle at the mere touch of a
helping hand, and with strange thoughts in his mind,
which gave no outward sign other than an expression of
greater impenetrableness on the secretive face. Slowly
he lighted another cigar, while the other man, full of
his strange thoughts too, was coming as slowly to himself.
Frisco, coming close to him and whining for
notice, and at last taking the unusual step of tattooing
Faucit's chest with his fore-paws, first produced a
change of attitude. Guy patted him kindly on the
head, then stooping, bestowed a welcome caress on his
neck, and coming back to the table where he had been
sitting when Lestrange appeared, he too immediately
consulted the Delphic oracle of modern days, and
held fiery communion with his pipe.

"What is she?" presently he said, shortly, and
without further prelude, not looking away from the
table.

Mrs. Brent ; a social celebrity, and the flower of

Lady Luscombe's party," answered Lestrange, not turning
his head either, but keeping it fixed upon the road
beyond.

"Married? — or a widow?" And the reply, which
was a Httle time coming, was waited for between two
whiffs, the pipe showing no sign of life.

"Married."

"Ah." The head sank a Kttle forward as the
suspended whiff came. " Where's her husband ? " —
abruptly.

"Where husbands should be — in India."

'' Who is he ? "

'' Mr. Brent," said Lestrange ; and he turned away
from the road and left the parapet, the impenetrable
look seeming to deepen as he did so, and seated himself
once more at the table opposite to the recluse. Then
he went on sentence by sentence, dropping them with
the same crystal clearness and deliberation, but apparent
absence of any marked intention, as before. " A bad
husband — he treats her abominably. He was rich, and
lost his fortune in speculation. She lives hath Lady
Pepperharrow as a kind of ward — and stays a good deal
at Luscombe Abbey. She is not well off."

The last sentence was more deliberate than the

VOL. II. Q

rest, and marked by a quiet disentangling of the ashes
of the cigar.

Has she no relations to take care of her ? "

One — a brother."

In the army, I think ? "

In the army." Lestrange took no notice of the
knowledge of facts implied.

Isn't he with her ? "

No ; he is with his regiment. I don't think he's
a very attentive brother." And the two smoked on.

Presently Guy rose and walked down the quadrangle.


"Count Lestrange, I'll join the picnic," he said.

That's right," answered the other pleasantly. " I
am glad to see that you fall in with my views, as I
thought you would. Hermit must be such a bore if
persevered in, the essence of life being variety. It is
only useful to digest experiences ; for when they are
assimilated we want to swallow fresh ones. But, by the
way, don't call me Count Lestrange. Nobody does
except my man Chaffers, and I don't like it."

What am I to call you ? "

Lestrange, of course. The sooner we get upon the
familiar terms agreed upon, the better for the prospects

of our meditated fellowship. I can accept my mentor-slip
upon no condition but that of absolute equality."

"Very well," said Guy, who was scarcely listening,
as the Count was well aware as he talked on.

He left Guy to his reverie for a short time, watching
him in silence, or making some trivial remark, not
wanting an answer, till, looking out from the quadrangle
again, he saw the figure of a man on the road,
to whom he beckoned quietly. Then he went up to
Guy Faucit and brought him back to reality.

"Faucit," he said.

"Yes?"

Are you going to picnic like that ? "

"How else ?" answered Guy. But as he spoke his
eye turned to his rough and courtier-like dress and
appearance, and he shrugged his shoulders. " I am
not very fit for fashion, I suppose."

"Well, the fashions have no doubt changed to a
certain extent since those clothes were made. Have
you no others ?"

Yes, at my cottage."

Suppose you go and put them on."

"Eh?"

It's as well to do yourself justice, isn't it ?

Q 2

As mentor, may I venture on a further piece of
advice ?"

Certainly. What ? After all this dress suits my
shaggy personality better than any other."

Exactly. Don't adapt the dress to the personality
but the personality to the dress."

What do you mean ? "

There is nothing like a first impression. Of course
you know none of this picnic-party ; but after the news
I have given you this morning, and one thing or the
other, wouldn't you like to be more like the rest of
the men of the party, for the benefit of the women ?
Some one of the women might even attract you,
you know."

"And I shouldn't attract them, you mean," said
Guy, laughing rather uncomfortably. " I am afraid
they must take me for what I am worth. Perhaps
there are some of them who ought to know."

Many people, women especially, are slow to look
behind appearances. As I said," added Lestrange
cheerily, " there's nothing like a first impression. Now
forget the old man, for you're no more of that than I
am. Cut off that beard, which doesn't really become
you, and come out as the Faucit you were."

The Faucit I was ? " said Guy, very sadly, even
through the nervous excitement and restlessness which
had taken possession of his whole being and manner
since the episode of the rider. " The past is the past,
and I don't know how."

I do," was the reassuring answer ; " or if I don't,
my man Chaffers will. He's a treasure. I give him no
wages to speak of, and he lives on the fat of the land,
and is quite content. I ask no questions, and so am I.
He never takes my clothes, that I know of, and is
always dressed exactly like me. There he is," he
concluded, beckoning again with a sign of the head to
the man he had noticed in the road, who had passed
on, with some picnic properties of which he was in
charge, to the entrance by the old arch.

Chaffers ! " called Lestrange in that direction ; and
the man so summoned came in.

Even in the pre-occupation of his mind Guy
Faucit was struck, and rather uncomfortably, by his
curious appearance. Not only was he dressed like his
master, but " made up at him," as the players say, in
every available particular, presenting just the outward
and inward difference between an original masterpiece
and a careful copy, in which the form is so deftly

imitated, that it is difficult to say why the expression
is so entirely gone. The height and figure of the man
appeared to have been trained upon his master's tailor's
measure ; the gestures were almost the same, yet gave
exactly the opposite effect — servility instead of masterfulness
; the dress, as Lestrange said, was identical ; and
the colouring of the face looked as if stage-pigments
had reproduced the other's in a waxier shape. The
voice had attained by practice to the same pitch without
the same music : and the whole effect was appreciably
theatrical, and suggested one of those "doubles "
of an actor who are introduced upon the stage, worked
up through the fortnight medium to what becomes for
the first moment quite a startling illusion. Lestrange
contemplated him with an amused gravity. He walked
furtively into the middle of the quadrangle, keeping a
wary eye on Frisco, whose appearance seemed rather to
disconcert him.

"Yes, Count Lestrange," he said, in a voice which
sounded, after the Count's, like an echo in a decline.

Leave the hampers for a moment," said the Count.
Chaffers has a soul above hampers," he added to Guy ;
but he condescends. This is my friend, Mr. Faucit,
Chaffers. You have my little dressing-case with you ? "

'' Yes, Count Lestrange."

"Quite right. I never, my dear Faucit, travel
without Chaffers, or he without mv little case. One
never knows. It is outside. Chaffers ? Bring it."

"Yes, Count Lestrange." And the singular shadow
effaced itself with an apologetic bow.

What an odd-looking servant ! " said Guy,
as he went out. "Is he pleasant to have about
you ? "

He knows my ways, which is essential to me in
the wandering life I lead. I never know to-day where
I may be tomorrow, and at Trouville or San Francisco
Chaffers is equally at home. He is my courier, valet,
confidential servant, secretary, every-thing ; and his
personal attachment to me is above suspicion. I
secured that from the first in a way of my own — quite
an amusing story."

But Faucit was paying no especial attention again,
and, keenly watching the play of his face, Lestrange
left him to his thoughts for a minute or two till the
man Chaffers returned with the little case of which
Lestrange had spoken. The Count beckoned him, and
spoke to him in a low voice before the absorbed Faucit
was aware of his presence.

I want you to wait on Mr. Faiicit, Chaffers, as if
it were on myself."

Chaffers bowed.

He will show you to his house, and tell you what
he wants. A sweep or two of the razor will get rid of
that beard, and — I want him to look his youngest,
which should be young. The moustache is a little
grey — and — you understand?" he added, with a
gesture of the hand towards the jet-black facing of
his own lip.

Yes, Count Lestrange," was again the reply.

"Faucit," said the Count, looking down the road,
I see sign of carriages and horsemen in the distance.
My lady's coachmen are too well fed, and feed their
cattle too well, to vie with Jehu. But they will be
here before long — the Pepperharrows, Pentonvilles,
Brents, and all. Some of the party have been
doincr ' something in the neighbourhood, and want
righteous refreshment after their labours. Had not
you better make your escape with Chaffers at once ?
You will soon be ready to face Society in its own
uniform."

Faucit seemed to have gathered himself together
again when Lestrange, with a slight emphasis, threw in

the name of Brent, and he too walked rapidly up to
the road and threw a glance along it. Then he turned
to Estrange with a manner entirely chant-ed from
the sad self-possession which had marked him before,
for his face and voice had in them something of a
boy's eagerness, mixed with a singular kind of man's
determination.

Send your man with me, Estrange," he said.
I don't know what fancy it can have been that
made me provide myself with decent clothes, even
in this out-of-the-way place. But you see," he added,
with a nervous laugh, " one never knows what may
happen."

Never," said Lestrange, laughing. " Even the
hermits of old probably put their Sunday best away in
clover somewhere, in the driest part of the cell. Xo
man bums the bridges which connect him with commonsense
till he can't help himself. Make haste."

Come with me, Chaffers," said Guy Faucit, quickly;
and he led the way through the disused path among
the laurels by which Lestrange had entered, followed by
the shadowy man-servant, between whom and his master
another glance of intelligence passed. Frisco bounded
after them.

Leaning against the ruin, with one foot crossed over
the ankle of the other, Lestrange watched the pair, as
with one hand he put the laurels aside, still with the
look on his face, and still smoking.

"Just so," he said. "So far, so good."

THE PICNIC.

It would have needed something more of a knowledge
of character, more of the power of reading the
thoughts in the book of the features than was possessed
even by the magician of Edgar Poe's curious fancy, to
gather, either from the face or manner of the Count,
when he was left alone, anything whatever of the
thoughts that were passing in his mind. Perhaps there
was something of visible relief when he found himself
in his own companionship, as if it were more to his
taste than that of any other man. But there was
nothing to suggest to Asmodeus himself, whose part
the chronicler may be taken to play, the smallest key
to the schemes and purposes that were working in that
subtle brain.

There are men among the mask-wearers who have
been caught without their mask when alone ; but this
might have been the historic prisoner in the vizard
of iron. The same singular smile — the same restless,
piercing look — the same inscrutable expression, — the
same rapid observation of all about him, given now to
things instead of men, were the characteristics of Le-strange
by himself, as of Lestrange with others. When
the two who had just left him had gone out of his
sight, he began by taking a rapid survey of the place
about him, m<3re close than he had done when with
Guy. He noted all the bearings of the ruin, paced the
length and breadth from side to side, and made himself
generally acquainted with all the details of the scene.
Then he seated himself where Guy had sate, and took
up the book which Guy had left behind. He glanced
at the title, and turned the pages over, making some
close study, as if with a purpose, of some of the things
he read. Then he let the book fall open on his knee,
and thoughtfully caressed with his hand the short,
pointed beard. More and more he became self-involved,
as one puzzled with some mysterious problem. After a
time his eye glanced quickly towards the laurels, then
quickly towards the road, and something of impatience

mio-ht have been suspected from his manner, even in
spite of the impassive face.

But the suspicion could not last long, for after once
more walking up to the parapet and leaning over it, he
took out a telegram, and read it over to himself with a
slight smile. Asmodeus is privileged with telegrams,
and this one came from Scotland. "Foster has had
another stroke, and died last night." Lestrange laughed
quietly to himself as he read it, and tearing it into
minute pieces, let them float away, to adhere together
no more. He began whistling softly between his teeth,
and slowly paced the quadrangle, with his hands crossed
under his coat behind, and his eyes thoughtfully reading
the oTound, in the attitude so much associated with
Napoleon the Third, to those who have seen him taking
his walks in the garden of the Tuileries.

No thoughts of the Count Lestrange ever took form
upon his lips when he was alone. But Asmodeus may
in this instance steal from his heart the peroration of
his long soliloquy. " Oh, there must be a Providence
somewhere — a Providence which I command — I. VThj
do they call me ' Satan Lestrange,' I wonder ? "

He lifted his head and left his own company at this
crisis in his thoughts, as the same clear voice which

had heralded the vision on the knoll broke in upon the
silence again, this time in a burst of music, carolling
like a bird or a bell the opening bars of the waltz from
"Faust." In another second the owner of the voice
came in through the lancet arch, followed by a goodly
company of gilded youth and age, in their fashions more
or less elastic or more or less leisurely.

It was obvious at once, however, that the queen of
all the revels was Daisy Brent, and obvious that no other
woman in the company could hold her own in looks orin
grace with this winsome Diana. If distance lent an
enchantment of its own to the picture on the knoll, the
enchantment of proximity was only greater. The sweet
face bore traces of hidden care and of hidden sorrow,
and something that had the impress of a passionate
regret. Recklessness, too, and a touch of defiance, had
striven to set upon it an indelible seal. But the seal,
though set, was not indelible. The eyes and mouth
and whole expression carried too strongly for that
the tokens of a very lovable womanhood, from which
neither sorrow nor trouble nor evil had been able to
efface the " springtime of her childish years."

To see Daisy Brent was to like her ; to know her
was to love her; and the many who did know her

availed themselves of the last privilege very largely.
Nobody ever thought of disputing her royalty anywhere,
and the most careless of the careless set in which she
lived and moved and had her frivolous being felt a sort
of uneasy wish that she were less careless and less
frivolous than they. But if any such feeling ever
troubled herself, she resolutely and immediately set
it down.

The extent of the influence of Daisy Brent over the
society assembled at Luscombe Abbey may be measured
by the fact that she had insisted on a picnic in the
height of the shooting-season, and that the most
obstinate male creature had not attempted to dispute
her will. For it was trying, certainly, to men of the
mental constitution of the Duke of Surbiton and the
Marquis of Norbiton, or of the unimpeachable social
consistency of Sir Brummel Coates, to be called upon
to agree to anything so irregular. All very well in the
season, when it is well known that there is nothing for
anybody to do, to make holiday of that kind on some
popular cricket-ground or race-course, or somewhere in
the vague country known as " up the river." But the
serious business of life begins with autumn, and it
is possible that the men's objections to sacrificing a

working day to the caprice of a pretty woman had something
of conscience about them. The Honourable Jem
Gosling, perhaps, was the solitary exception ; for to him
the world in all its aspects bore the pleasant face of
butterflydom, and though he had placed it on record
that, "bar the Brent, he would rather be out in the
turnip-fields," he troubled himself about the weighty
matter very little indeed.

A picnic by the river's brim
Another picnic was to him."

Be these things as they may, the will of Daisy Brent
was law ; and so it came to pass that the rank and
fashion of Luscombe Abbey, a social institution of great
importance in a certain world, were assembled together
for an anachronistic picnic in the grey and old-world
ruins of the Owl's Nest, on that sunny and memorable
September afternoon.

Daisy's cheek was flushed to its most becoming shade
with the spirit and excitement of the ride, and her eyes
sparkling with genuine enjoyment. In a moment her
quick sight took in the picturesqueness of the whole
scene, and the sward of living green which carpeted it.

"How delicious!" she exclaimed. "What a day
for a ride, and what a carpet for a waltz ! Why can't

one waltz in a rifling-habit, and combine the two j oldest
things in the world ? Jemmy, take me round the waist
and see if it's possible. Tra, la, lala, lala, la, lala ! "

"Awfully possible to take you round the waist,"
answered Jem Gosling, who had pushed into the place
nearest to the divinity, and was ready to justify against
all comers his position as one of Daisy's prime favourites.
" Always feel as if 1 ought to take it between my
thumb and finger, as if it were a pen."

"Tight-lacing," observed apart Miss Caroline Beaufort
to her bosom friend, ^[iss Emily Challoner. " I do
think she might let Jemmy alone."

"Why don't you take him away from her, dear?"
was the sleepy answer.

Emily Challoner was tall and pale and slight,
and affected a West Indian kind of manner, as of
one who had suffered from the tropics. Carrie Beaufort
was plump and small and merry, with twinkling
eyes, and one of the most audacious little noses
in the world. It always looked, with the rest of
her face, as if it had been intended to be classical, —
which indeed was a characteristic of all other Beaufort
noses, — but had suddenly broken down at the bridge.
It was reported in the family that a brother Beaufort

VOL. II. B

had sat upon it once for a continuous time in the
nursery, and that all the little Beaufort had afterwards
combined to sit on or otherwise put it back again
whenever it showed signs of growing, like a Chinese
woman's foot.

Then another voice, thick and doubtful, but exceedingly
deliberate, took up the tale of Jemmy Gosling's
complimentary speech.

I don't like haw waltzing," said Sir Brummel
Coates, baronet of old date, and the best dressed man
in London; "in fact, I can't hum waltz. But hum
pleasure of your waist haw — in fact, I wish I could."

There was this peculiarity in Sir Brummel's use of
the two great monosyllables which serve so large a
purpose with the blameless type which he adorned,, that
they never served with him for interjections, but were
embodied, spotless, in the main current of his speech.

How beautiful ! " sighed Daisy, with a tender look
at her second cavalier, who had secured the place on the
other side of her. " What I like about Brum's compliments
is their suggestiveness. They leave so much to
the imagination."

Haw," said Brum, looking red and awkward, and
inwardly cogitating what the last remark might imply.

Poor Brum," said Gosling ; " you're going to catch
it, old man."

No, now," remonstrated Coates, " no. 'Pon my
soul you're not fail."

Daisy turned to Lady Luscombe with an appealing
look, where her hostess was standing close by, superintending
arrangements, and in close converse \Nith
Lestrange, who had drawn quietly near her.

Oh, Lady Luscombe, protect me ! Here's Sir
Brummel says I'm dark, and pledges his salvation that
I dye my complexion ! "

Haw come ! " said Sir Brummel, with an animal-like
protest against a conclusion he entirely failed to
follow, amidst the laughter of the party round.

How much do you get on your salvation when you
pledge it, Sir Brummel ? " said Count Lestrange, drily.
An unpleasant current ran down several spines as he
spoke.

"Haw," muttered Coates between the hairs of his
moustache, looking at the Count uncomfortably ; '' when
the foreign fellow's down on one — where's the hum
sherry and bitters ? "

He turned aside to a congenial basket, and became
engaged in a discussion of the relative merits of Orange

B 2

and Angostura with the Duke of Surbiton and the
Marquis of Norbiton. Both the Duke and the Marquis
preferred orange, which seemed to them in someway
intertwined with the constitution, hereditary legislation,
and the rights of property. There was a
democratic sound of innovation attached to the younger
form of bitters, which struck them as not quite safe.

Never liked those things from America, Nor," said
his Grace of Surbiton. " Never quite know where you
are with them."

Never," agreed the Marquis, emphatically. " All
those sort of things are bad form."

If Nor had decided in favour of Angostura, Sur
would have been equally convinced in his reasoning
powers of the justice of the conclusion. The three
men shook their heads . sedately, for Coates had a
preference for Angostura in site of any political
suspicion that might attach to it, and gravely had a
drink together.

"Have a cigarette, Daisy," said Jemmy Gosling, ashe
fluttered fancy free among the hampers, lending a
hand here, bestowing a good-natured word there, and
generally in the best of tempers with himself and with
mankind.

"Thanks awfully," answered bis companion, carelessly,
as she too helped in the spiriting. " I won't
smoke before lunch."

They began to laugh and chat familiarly together
much to the inward vexation of a tidy little figure in
another part of the scene, with a pair of bright eyes
and an enquiring nose between them.

"Jemmy," suddenly said Carrie Beaufort, with a
little tap of a very dainty little foot, " come and help
me to unpack this hamper."

She looked temptingly helpless over the task she
had undertaken, and Jemmy Gosling would have found
it difficult to decline the invitation, even if Daisy Brent
had not released her votary by a nod and a smile.
Beauty made his way to Carrie Beaufort's side, and
they became very pleasantly engaged without loss
of time.

The white cloths were laid in picturesque disorder
about the strange old quadrangle, more accustomed to
rougher and readier festivities from the big trade-town,
than to the refined feast of Lucullus which did
duty for a picnic to-day. I must leave it to pens more
accustomed to the apotheosis of " menus " than mine to
enter into detailed descriptions of what there was jbo

eat and drink. And indeed the powers of cookery on
these occasions, whatever their possibilities upon paper,
always seem in practice rather limited.

The placid and solitary observer who strolls round
Lord's Ground during the Eton and Harrow match, and,
if he knows nobody to beg a luncheon from, contents
himself with a plate of sandwiches and a glass of beer
at the tavern, remaining none the worse for either, finds
much to speculate on in the absolute sameness of all
the fare provided on the different carriages. The same
pies seem to do duty all round ; the galantine seems
to have been turned out by machinery to go round
the ground ; the cold joints and ducks and fruits to be
supplied by one universal purveyor, and even the cups
to be compounded of the same receipt. The vintage of
Champagne is, of course, the basis of the whole thing
from Dan in the gate to Beersheba at the scoring-tent,
and suggests sometimes a sort of helpless wonder where
it all comes from, or how it is that the supply of the
popular drink keeps such effective pace with the demand.
No wonder Frenchmen drink so little champagne
: there can be so little for them. What would
be done to anybody in England who ventured to give a
luncheon at Lord's or on the river without it? Would

he be brought up before Sj^iers and Pond, or Bertram
and Roberts ? The historian of these events is at times
haunted by the thought that the time will come when
we all shall be contracted for in the gross by someone
of these enterprising culinary firms, and nationally
found " at so much a mouth, according to our stations
in life, from the duke to the man between the .


There was no lack of champagne in the feast
provided by Lady Luscombe, and no lack of enjoyment
of a certain kind amonor the priests who sate down toit.
It was no very full-flavoured enjoyment, perhaps,
and gave a certain impression of not having been
earned, which sometimes tinges such meetings with
satiety; and it decidedly rose with the champagne.
But one exception, at all events, to any possible rule
of non-enjoyment was to be found in worthy Lady
Pepperharrow. The soap-boiler's widow was in her
glory on the occasion, and beamed, uj^on everybody
round her, reflections of her own harvest-moon-Hke
content.

"The Bird," said Gosling, "was in first-class
feather."

This is really perfectly delightful," she murmured,

between two large forkfuls of lobster, to the Duke of
Surbiton, upon her right. " Such heavenly scenery to
eat in quite sheds an alo about the appetite. Doesn't
your Grace think so ? " she added.

The Duke looked rather puzzled, but thought it did.

"And lobsters I always find such wholesome eating.
There are people who find they disagree, but I never
ad cause to complain in that way. And T have eaten,"
she continued, " a large number of them."

Surbiton watched the speaker with quiet admiration ;
and, without waiting to be asked, transferred a fresh
supply of the luxury to her plate.

Don't," whispered Norbiton, who was on the other
side of his friend as usual. " She can't do it."

She can," answered the other in the same tone.
I'll bet you five to one that she can, and another on
that."

"Done'' said Norbiton, in a business-like tone.
And with a new and personal interest in the result,
silently now that the matter was one of earnest, they
watched the lobster disappear. The Duke won.

Meanwhile the good understanding between Gosling
and his pretty neighbour was destined to be rudely
disturbed. The Lord Viscount Pentonville was on the

alert. He had taken the deepest interest from the first
in the arrangement of the proceedings. He trotted
from place to place in all the pride of office, interfered
unexpectedly with everybody at the wrong moment,
marshalled the servants invariably wrong, and was
followed by smothered execrations from their well-drilled
ranks as he suddenly descended in his little
tight boots upon the toes of one or another of them,
and followed it up by knocking up against a second,
and profusely apologizing to a third. Assiduously he
uncorked mistaken bottles, and nearly made even Lady
Pepperharrow ill by pouring her out a ,
under an impression of hock.

"It didn't taste like rock at all, your Grace," her
ladyship said, when recovered in time to save the
wager.

And when he had done all the mischief he could
in that direction, the Lord Pentonville proceeded to
inspect the various groups of two which might be
found in different places, sheltered behind favouring
joints, or pursuing the universal pastime under cover of
popping champagne corks.

D — do you see," he confided to Lady Luscombe,
who was watching with uneasy interest the face of

Count Lestrange, "how close G — Gosling and your
niece are ? "

Recalled to the duties of an aunt and a careful
chaperon, Lady Luscombe looked round and spoke to
the Beauty. '' Mr. Gosling," she said quietly, " I want
you here, please."

"What a shame!" muttered poor Carrie, as her
hard-won prize escaped her.

To do him justice, he had no wish at all to escape ;
and made his way to his hostess with what for him
was but a bad grace, throwing regretful looks at his
pretty companion.

Daisy Brent's eyes twinkled with amusement where
she sate enthroned, and engaged in demolishing the
intellect of the hapless Coates.

"show jolly to be in such request. Jemmy!" she
said to Gosling as he passed her.
"Awfully," answered he.

'never mind, dear!" purred Emily to her friend,
whose bright little face showed obvious signs of her
discontent, while Sir Brummel Coates, finding the play
of Daisy's small sword too keen for the rather loose
joints of his mental armour, by some means or another
transferred himself to Emily Challoner's side.

"You won't sit on a fellow, Miss Challoner, will
you ?" he said.

No ; but I don't mind sitting next him."

'shaw."

The new move in the cards soon attracted the
watchful Pentonville.

C — C — Coates," he whispered in delight to Lady
Luscombe, "is spooning Emily Ch — Challoner. Here,
I say, the fellows have forgotten the pep — pep — pep — "

Pepper, Pen ? " asked Gosling, offering the article.

"No, salt!"

The serious business of refection and flirtation proceeded
on its immemorial way. Some there were
playing the game in unconscious earnest, and others in
conscious sport, careless enough what the other player
might be hoping or feeling. The Count Lestrange
alone, self-involved and unusually silent, seemed to
have little to add either to the festivity or the purposes
of the scene. He had held some talk with Lady Lus-combe
in the old ironic vein, but not much, and his
manner infected her with more and more of a strange
uneasiness.

Where is your promised guest ? " she said.

Wait," he answered.

The furtive and restless eyes were making a close
study of the face of Daisy Brent, who, holding her own,
first with one admirer and then with another, distributing
glances here and fimcy there, bright and
laughing and careless, yet still with, a tone of effort
underlying and in an odd way harmonizing it all,
mounted no feather of her royalty as queen of the feast.

FACE TO FACE.

"And this is the Owl's Nest," said Daisy, looking
round her again, "where the Hermit dwells."

Hangs out," suggested Gosling.

Hangs out. What an awfully jolly old place !
Just the sort of thing for a scene in a novel."

"Yes," answered Lestrange; "for an unexpected
meeting between two old lovers."

He spoke the words carelessly, and a look of pain
came over Daisy's face. She turned her head away
from the table with a sort of sigh, and began absently
to pluck and throw aside some of the wandering wildflowers
which clustered about in rich luxuriance,
evolved out of some new and unconscious phase of
the protoplasm.

"Quite too deliciously romantic!" sighed Carrie

Beaufort contentedly, as Jemmy Gosling had made his
way back to her side.

"Carrie !" said her aunt, whose attention was called
by the rash exclamation, beckoning her niece to her.
How often," she whispered to her in a severe tone,
'have I told you not to be so much with Mr.
Gosling!" •

Poor Carrie's face fell an inch or two, and the
sprightly nose lost some of its curl. " Bother ! " was all
she had to say to herself.

Oh, romance ! " Daisy exclaimed with impatience,
as she left the place where she had been sitting.
Nobody goes in for that now ; the days of romance
are over."

Are you sure ? " said Lestrange, in a low voice.

He was close at her elbow as he spoke in that soft,
mocking tone of his, into which he threw a touch of
personal interest.

Lady Luscombe's eyes, which followed the Count
very often, followed him now with an ill-pleased
expression, which seemed to bode no good. Lady
Pepperharrow, at her side, was eating still, under the
guardianship of her two peers, who were now seriously
engaged in testing her singular capacities in that way

to the uttermost. She had distanced the original

o

wager a long Away by this time.

"Are you sure ?" then said Lestrange.

Daisy shrank from him a little as he addressed her ;
and then broke into a short, hard laugh.

Come, you don't mean to say you believe in it ? "
she said.

It depends. It's wonderful how long some women
will indulge in it, in spite of all disillusion."

"I don't," said Daisy, with an impatient flourish
of the little whip she had taken up again. " I care for
nobody, no, not I, and everybody cares for me ! " She
designated the army of courtiers round with a rather
contemptuous sweep of her whip.

"You care for — nobody? and are quite sure of it?"
asked Lestrange, quietly as before. She looked at him
sharp and straight, and the furtive eyes beat a crafty
retreat from hers. Daisy always said that she never
felt sure of their colour.

"Except my husband, of course!" she answered,
with a larder laugh than before.

"No doubt. He's bad enough for any woman to
be fond of."

"Let's drop the subject, then," Daisy said, with a

hasty shrug of her shoulders, a sort of shudder which
passed over at the malice with which the last words
were said. She turned away from Lestrange and surveyed
the company, like a general looking out for the
place to make his most telling attack. " Now, Brum ! "
she called out cheerily, — "when you and Emily have
quite done with the sherry and bitters ! "

Brum blushed between the hairs of his beard,
detected in a clandestine flirtation in the wrong
quarter.

I say haw," he began, coming up to Daisy
apologetically

You always do say so, dear Brum," she answered,
and dallied with the victim in the toils again.

I wish she wouldn't," languidly confided Emily to
Carrie, with a decided spice of venom in the languor.
We were getting on so nicely." And the two Ariadne
applied themselves to mutual consolation.

Half-an-hour," said Lestrange to himself, looking
at his watch, as he turned away from the place where
he had been standing with Daisy, and looked steadily
down she road 'He must be here directly."

Lady Luscombe saw the direction of his look, and
took the cue it gave her.



Talking of romance," she said, " yon shall see this
hermit, the mysterious Mr. Fraser we heard about."

By Jove ! " said Gosling to the knot of men he
was discoursing with ; " is he coming, after all ? How
awfully jolly ! Who can have drawn the old beggar ? "

A most romantic-looking man," contributed Lady
Pepperharrow. " Quite the idea of an permit about
him, and looks as if he ate nothing but eros and wild
one, like poor dear John the Baptist. I don't think I
could be an permit on only that. Now if I could ave — "

Lobsters ? " suQ-o-ested Surbiton.

Lobsters," she said, accepting the suggestion, " it
might be done. Yet not, I think, quite to live on."
Norbiton poured her out a glass of champagne.
Thank you ; so kind of you to take care of me. All
emits are old, and I ave heard mostly dirty. This one
is not dirty ; but he is old — about sixty, I should think."

How awfully stupid ! " said Carrie. " Who wants
romantic people of sixty ? "

The Clipper sixty 1 " laughed Gosling to himself.
"You wait till you see him," he said to Carrie, who
tried to take advantage of the opportunity to get him
back to her side. But Master Jemmy had gravitated
back to the yet more attractive metal; and even

VOL. II. s

Norbiton and Surbiton showed signs of weariness of the
Pepperharrow's appetite, and a wish to join the circle
now gathering round the queen.

Sir Brummel Coates was now in the foremost place,
and his mind travelled for some time round the situation
last suggested before it arrived at a terminus.
Having come to his conclusion he published its
results.

Must be an awful hum bore to be sixty," he said
reflectively.

The Lord Viscount Pentonville then put in his oar.

Nothing when you are u — u — u — "

Used to it, Pen ? "

No — sound ! Is the h — hermit really coming
here ? "

He said he would," said Lestrange, still leaning
over the parapet, and looking down the road, every now
and then taking in the attitude of Daisy, who had
formed her court under the shadow of the south-west
tower, right opposite the laurels. The eating and the
drinking still went on at intervals, the pies and the
joints stranded as wrecks of what they were, and the
laughter and the talk seasoning the fruits and wine.

"A hermit!" lisped Emily Challoner; "what a

peculiar idea 1 How is it that we have not seen him
before, Lady Luscombe ? "

My dear, there are no hermits in our set."

By Jove, no ! " said GosHng, emphatically.

Jemmy, don't be light," commented Daisy. " Now,
everybody, what's to be done next ? "

It was a picturesque sight, the grouping of the
brightly-dressed party with that sombre background of
other days. The old world and the new seemed brought
into a violent but harmonious collision, like a drawing-room
bravely furnished, in defiance of South Kensington
law, — which prescribes a period for every different
room or house, — by some unconscious and instinctive
taste which picks up everything pretty of its kind by
turns, and combines them all together in a restful whole.
But Daisy was more and more the centre of the company,
attracted by her bright sallies and her ready talk
to take part in the skirmishing. Lestrange alone did
not seem inclined to add his quota to the general talk,
where usually he was foremost in the battle; but
restless, impatient, watchful, seemed for once a little
unlike himself, and not the master of his usual serenity.
Only a close observer would have noted it ; and where
he was concerned Lady Luscombe seemed a closes

2

observer. She looked at him, and she looked at Daisy
Brent, and was evidently trying in her mind to find the
solution of some problem which was puzzling her.

"Jemmy, come and sit here !" suddenly said Carrie
Beaufort, shaken out of the proprieties by impatience,
and evidently rather tired of the undivided society of
her intimate friend.

Carrie ! " said Lady Luscombe, in a low voice of
rebuke.

Thanks, I'm awfully comfortable ! " answered Jem
Gosling, reclined at his full length at Daisy's feet, like
a cherubic Hamlet before his Ophelia, shutting his eyes
for the full enjoyment of the cigarette which, with his
cup of black coffee, he considered that his exertions
at luncheon had fully earned him.

I'm afraid you're a bad boy. Jemmy ! " said Daisy,
shaking her head at him, and half reclining on her side
in an attitude of perfect and unstudied grace, which
threw out in bold outline every curve of the lithe and
perfect figure. Seen there and so, it was no wonder
that all the men raved about her, and only some of
the women.

"Come here. Lord Pentonville, there's plenty of
room ! " murmured poor little Carrie, who had a strong

sense that her o^ti advantages were well worth notice,
and felt inwardly resentful of the attractions of Daisy,
whom she nevertheless liked and admired with all her
honest heart.

The small viscount was playing his game of puss in
the comer too, and vainly trying to edge his little
person into the circle round Daisy.

I hate these married women, Emily," suddenly
added Carrie to her companion, in a burst of involuntary
wrath.

"So do I, dear," assented the other with more
warmth than usual. " But I wish I was one."

The aftermath of repose was upon everybody, and
a general drowsiness seemed to be coming on in the
warm and slanting rays of the September sun, travelling
slowly on in his never-ending migration, to the far-off
lands and waters which were waiting, dark and cold, for
his return. The beautiful autumnal shades, nowhere
more beautiful than amono- all this moorland growth,
added their subtle influence to the spirit of the scene,
and brought into the circle gathered in the crrev old
quadrangle some magnetic breath from the Island of
Proserpine. There* was a general and sleepy lull
throughout the whole company, and the innumerable

small-talk of the insect world made a modest assertion
of itself in the interval of sound, like, as George Eliot
has finely said of it, '' tiniest bells ujDon the garment of
silence." Nobody noted the cat-like figure of the man
Chaffers, as he glided in noiselessly through the archway
; nobody except Lestrange. A look passed between
them as he came up to speak in his master's ear, and
Lestrange nodded, while Chaffers as quietly joined the
other servants, who were now making up their own
picnic in some comfortable housekeeper's room outside,
furnished and provided by the care of good Dame
Nature, time out of mind the merry-maker's architect.
How restless you seem, Lestrange," said the
watchful Lady Luscombe, as again the Count paced
up and down the quadrangle in a fashion which rather
added to the silence than took from it.
Wait," he answered.

"You must find that coat pretty warm to take
exercise in. Unbutton it," suggested Gosling, lazily
looking up from his cigarette. He seemed very much
of Fox's way of thinking — Why the book ?

Thank you, no," answered the other. " I have a
horror of cold."

"Why don't you warm yourself in an honest way

then, like the rest of us ? " said Daisy. " How I hate a
man who doesn't eat koch, and won't even take a glass
of wine in the middle of the day'

To oblige you, I will, on this occasion only,"
Lestrange said. And as he said so he stood in the
centre of the quadrangle, where a bottle of champagne
was near Lady Pepperharrow's hand, as she sate by
Lady Luscombe, and poured himself out a glass, looking
towards Daisy. "And I think, ladies and gentlemen,
that we ought to drink the health of the ' Hermit of
the Owl's Nest,' who will be with us directly, I hope,
and in his proper place."

Hear, hear ! " was the answering chorus. Daisy
Brent held out her glass for Jem Gosling to fill, and the
others followed suit all round.

"Hang the foreign fellow," muttered Coates.
He's going to make a damned haw speech."

Shut up. Brum," said Daisy. " He won't ask you
to return thanks."

Haw." And the Baronet collapsed.

Can't you imagine him," said Count Lestrange, ina
strange tone of seriousness, " with the help of Lady
Pepperharrow's eyes ? I know nothing of his story,
mind, so only guess. An old man, grey, weary, broken,

brought for the first time, under the bright September
daylight, face to face with a world which he has
forgotten, which has forgotten him — waking, it maybe,
from a long dream of sorrow and regret, to find that
the waking only gives reality to the phantoms that
haunted that troubled rest — the phantoms of broken
faith, false love, cruel desertion — "

Count Lestrange 1 " Daisy said, leaning forward.

One by one, with that strange emphasis of which he
was the master, the strong and quiet words fell from
him, and with some rapid certainty she felt that, spoken
to all there, they were addressed straight to her. A
dread and a wonder were upon her spirit, and a sudden
forecast of a something that was to come. Was it
quite sudden, or had the dread and the wonder sent
out some ominous forerunners before them, when first
she set foot in that enchanted circle, or stood upon the
knoll behind ?

"Will he find the world changed, do you think?"
motionless in the middle of the circle, like the enchanter
who might have drawn it, Lestrange went on.

There was the movement of a step behind the
laurels in the tower-angle, and the next moment a
man's hand was pushing them aside. " Here he comes.

to see — " and with a free and sudden gesture the left
arm of Lestrange was directed to the spot.

Upon that spot every eye was riveted, as to every
person present the force of that strange preamble had
gone home. Above all the eyes of Daisy, which under
the sense of sudden expectation, half of hope and all of
fear, had dilated to a size unnaturally wide.

Straight through the laurels, and into the middle of
the ground, Guy Faucit came. He came like a new
presence ; handsome, well-dressed, trim, and young.
There was no beard upon the manly face, strong in its
most perfect prime. The hair was cut and combed and
short, fitting compactly to the fine head so firmly set
upon the broad athletic shoulders, and the steady eyes
looked straight and honestly before him.

Straight to her feet rose Daisy Brent, pale as the
cloth behind her, at which she clutched nth a cried
and nervous hand, looking full, full at the upright
figure before her, and into the eyes which met hers
without a quiver in either, like the crossing of two
blades before the duel may begin.

Aunt ! " cried Carrie Beaufort.

Good Heavens ! " said Lady Luscombe, startled
and wondering. " This is not Mr. Fraser I "

"There is a slight mistake," observed Lestrange,
who had fallen a step back, to watch his effect. And
he took the new-comer by the arm and led him a little
more forward. " Let me introduce my friend — "

Daisy Brent's interruption was like a wailing cry.
"GuyFaucit!"

The Count Lestrange only heard her.

Just so," he said.

travellers' tales.

In this strange world of meetings and of partings,
on the vexed borderland of rapture and of pain, no two
ever came together with a greater stirring of the heart
than these. Nothing more utterly unexpected — more
utterly undreamed of — by both of them but a short
space before, who had buried each the other's image
deep in the inner comer, where the most cherished
memories lie unacknowledged, with their petals folded
from the light. Then the light breaks in, and draws
out all the added richness of hue and texture which
have been catherine unawares in the honor and wintry
sleep.

Lestrange had prepared his surprise with the art of
a skilful hand when he brought Guy and Daisy together
in that whirl of memories. The weird speech, addressed
directly to her, with which he had suddenly heralded

Guy's entrance on the scene for the girl — girl still, to
the core of her, with all the added lustre of womanhood
and grace of custom — had raised in her mind a strange
anticipation, which the romance of the surroundings,
and the mysterious prescience which touches a spirit of
fine issues, — who knows whence or how ? — on the verge
of supreme moments such as these, had namelessly
begun.

For Guy, whose stronger fibre would bear stronger
tests, the situation was more trying even than for her.
The years which Daisy had devoted to the purchase of
worldly wisdom — which so often turns out to be shoddy
after the largest of prices has been j^aid for the genuine
manufacture — he had spent in pursuit of a wider but
less conventional experience, which was not so likely to
stand him here in stead. A poor recluse and self-proscribed
outcast from his fellows but an hour or two
before, he came out into the full glare of social day, by
right of wealth and of nurture a leader amongst men, to
take his command up in her presence, for whom once
he had so thirsted to command. Yet round the head
he knew so well, which he longed to press to his heart
with a sort of fiery longing, in the moment when it met
his eyes, was written the most terrible sentence which

can be passed upon hearts as upon souls — " Lascicde
agni speranza." Yet to all hearts, as to all souls, we
pray, rises even in extremity the undying hojje of
appeal, of judgment reversed, and of sentence set aside.
Who shall set a limit to the eternal possibilities, on this
side death or upon the other ?

So then they met. With all a good woman's
instinct, and all a good woman's power, Daisy stood the
awful test of that first moment with only the first
moment's sign. Only Lestrange heard the cry she
strangled in her throat ; only Lestrange saw the rush
of blood full to the forehead, and the deathly paleness
which instantly followed, to give place almost as
instantly to a perfect self-possession. If the Count had
hoped for a more general effect, he was wrong. Not in
that place and in that company, let the self-conquest
cost her what it might when she should be alone, would
Daisy Brent give way. All the passionate love of her
life, all the innocent trust and promise of her girlhood,
all the delicious story of the few months of pride and
happiness which had preluded the long and weary
blank of years, were lived and told again in that first
instant of time. The eyes of all the others, except
Lestrange, were for that instant and more, of course,

fixed upon Faucit, and averted from her; and before

they had time to turn back her course was taken, the

instantaneous and mortal struggle was past and the

hysterics passion " mastered, and the Daisy Fairfield of

a moment was Daisy Brent again. More — before anyone

had spoken, she spoke ; for she came frankly forward

with her hand held out, and said,

Mr. Faucit, is it you ? I am really glad to meet
you again."

Lestrange could admire a strong player, if he could
admire nothing else.

By G — '^ he muttered to himself, " that's a great
woman, after all."

Mrs. Brent, I think ? " was Guy Faucit's commonplace
answer, spoken in mere uncertainty what he
should say, and guiltless of all intention to wound.
But the name struck her like a wound, from him.

"Yes," she said.

Now where in the world can you two have known
each other ? " asked Jem Gosling, delighted with his
favourite hero's changed appearance, and delighted to
find him an old acquaintance of his favourite heroine.
It's awfully like old times, Clipper, you know ; but
where did you meet Mrs. Brent ? "

"Mrs. Brent and I knew each other at Oxford' he
answered.

At Oxford ! nonsense ! when I was up there too ? "

Yes, Mr. Gosling," said Daisy. " I was really at
Oxford once when you were, and did not know it at the
time. Think what neglect on my part, and how much
Host!"

She spoke to him in the old bright tone. But why
didn't she call him " Jemmy," as usual ?

The position might have been perilously near to
tragedy but for Jem Gosling's intervention ; and might
have fallen into it yet if the muse of comedy, always on
the watch when her sister is readiest with the dao^orer
and bowl, had not introduced .another personage into the
conversation with timely effect.

Who ever would have thought of it, Mr. Faucit ? "
said Lady Pepperharrow, warmly renewing acquaintance
with her friend of past years. "And yet I don't know
why not. It is in romantic scenes of this kind that one
would naturally expect to meet a man of your power ;
though indeed I hardly know why. Only to think of
it, Daisy ! Do you remember how kind and careful
Mr. Faucit was when the Oxford boys ad a rebellion,
and wanted to pull the ouse down ? "

This sweeping description of a Commemoration set
everybody laughing, and relaxed the strain on the nerves
both of Guy and Daisy, even though the associations
which the words revived swept over both of them with
a wave of pain. Jemmy Gosling, infinitely amused,
brought it down to a question of dates, and established
the fact that he must have himself been one of the
insurgents on the occasion, with Bones of Balliol and
Tompkins of Trinity, and many of like thew and
sinew.

Did you know Mr. Bones ? " her ladyship asked,
mindful of that youth's juvenile attentions.

I should think I did," said Gosling. " Marrowbones
we used to call him:"

Marrowbones ! " interposed Carrie Beaufort, whose
pert little nose had taken great interest in the new
arrival. " Why ? "

Haven't a notion'* answered Jemmy. " Cos it
runs well, I suppose. Never knew any particular
reason for nicknames; we made 'em anyhow. There
was a fellow at Eton called Bernard, and we christened
him Washpot, and got one name out of the other. How
do you think we did it ? "

Norbiton and Surbiton showed signs of interest, and

wondered if there was a bet in it. And Sir Brummel
Coates opined to his languid neighbour, whose long
eyelashes were drooping in a very becoming manner,
that "there was some queer haw catch in it, Miss
Challoner."

First we called him St. Bernard," expounded
Gosling, "then Dog, then Does, then the Edomite,
then Edom, then Moab, and then Washpot. Took
about five years to get at it, and then he left."

What a very silly joke," murmured Emily, in the
notes of an Eolian harp. She affected to trivialities the
attitude of Hippolyta.

Stooped hum bosh," remarked Sir Brummel.

Carrie Beaufort's simpler soul was much delighted
with Gosling's playful wit, and she inferred that Eton
must have been very great fun, which introduced fresh
matter, and started her and Jemmie off on one of their
conversational rambles. Grateful enough for the diversion
were Guy and Daisy, narrowly watched by the keen
eyes of Lestrange. Lady Luscombe the while was intent
upon him.

"When did those two know each other, and
where ? " she asked him. " And who and what is
your striking-looking friend, whom you played off in

VOL. II. T

that masquerade ? I am sure that I have seen him
somewhere'

I have told you all that there is to know about
him ; and the romance of his large fortune," answered
the Count. " He will be a great addition to our party
at the Abbey. You can ask him there before we go
home."

Poor old Bones ! " said Faucit, meanwhile, as the
old memories began to assert their sway. " Good little
fellow he was. I wonder what has become of him."

Took orders, don't you know ? " said Gosling.
He always meant to."

"I never thought he would," was the other's answer.

Did, though ; and came out strong in the extreme

low line. Quite down at the bottom, you know, Lady

Pepperharrow — on a seesaw with your friend Mr.

Birmingham Pope."

I'm afraid e must be a very dangerous man,"
sighed her ladyship.

"Well, he thinks Pope is, you know, and pitches
into him every week on a text about charity. Pope
uses the same text to pitch into Bones with, so it cuts
both ways, and comes to the same in the end. He is
very sound in the low line. Bones is, and they call him

Grilled Bones now-a-days, Doosid thirsty work this ;
let's have a split soda, Clipper."

Guy Faucit fitted into his new place soon enough,
as we are all of us apt to do when the time comes. There
is a sense of unreality mixed up with our lives even at
their gravest moments, which stands us in good stead
at a crisis, and carries us, calm in all outward seeming,
and sometimes even inwardly so, through trials and
difficulties which look impossible on paper. That second
self, which is a shadowy presence to all men, most
realized where the fibre is finest, is ready at such times
to step forward and relegate self the first to the background,
and make us feel that all that is happening is
happening to somebody else. Subtle men have explained
this strange double existence by the geography
of the brain, and its division into separate thinking
parts. But then what explains that ? "VMiat if that
second self, with the half-formed suggestions which at
times it makes, escaped before we can grasp them — of
having been something else, of being something else
of having done all this before — be the immortal part of
us, the thing called the soul ? It projects us into
another world very often, even here, and makes a
world of visions out of this.

T 2

Daisy Brent could have told no one afterwards how
she lived through that first meeting as she did, with the
hero of her solitary love-story in flesh and blood again
before her eyes. She looked at him furtively now and
again, and saw ujDon the face that mark of the lasting
sorrow which was not to be mistaken. He was alone
then, was he ? Had he remained unmarried all those
years, with everything about him that might charm any
woman that might have cared to win him ? Or was the
wife in the background somewhere, waiting to claim
him when he joined her again ? A thrill of something
which might have been jealousy crossed Daisy's mind.
Nonsense ! what was this to her ? what could it be ?
No ; the second self came to the rescue, and the picnic
ended in a dream for Daisy, who felt herself a kind of
spirit for the nonce, her gross and earthly counterpart
being somewhere else. Like the rest, she soon found
herself listening with deep interest to Faucit. With
instinctive courtesy, after the first minute or two he
began to talk especially to Lady Luscombe, his hostess
at the feast to which he had been so unexpectedly
bidden, and to Lestrange, who was at her side. The
Count, suppressing himself with quiet tact and art, led
Faucit on to shine. He brought him, backward and

resented at first, to talk of himself and his travels
and adventures, his camp-fire experiences, his moving
accidents by flood and field, his

Portance in Lis travel's history,
Wherein of antres vast, and deserts idle,
Bough quarries, rocks, and hills whose heads touch heaven,
It was his hint to speak."

Upon which hint he spoke well, warming to his work
as he went on. The things he had to talk about have
an interest for everybody, and even Coates and Pennons
felt the better for listening.

Lady Luscombe was fairly fascinated by her new
acquaintance, whose whole style of tone and thought
apart even from the experiences he had to tell of, came
upon her like a spell of mountain-air, and reminded her
of the days when conversation for Marian Yavasour had
meant something more than gossip and frivolity. And
if she felt this, \vhat did Daisy Brent feel ? Every
word Guy spoke, every expression he used, brought
back the days when she had lived upon the fruit of his
ripe and scholarly mind. He was not really changed,
she thought. The same vivid observation, the same
power of combination and reflection upon what he
either saw or read, the same original use of all his

materials, marked his talk as of old ; while it was the
richer for the materials' newer stores of wealth, and for
the growth of the mind to its maturest power. And
the great education of sorrow had chastened and rounded
off the whole. Not Desdemona, listening to Othello,
more seriously and more delightedly inclined to hear.
Mocking, cynical, devilish, — but himself thoroughly interested
in Faucit's adventures, — ago was on the watch.
Guy Faucit, meanwhile, was surprised at himself,
and surprised to find, in spite of the hopelessness of the
hope he had once lived for, the pleasure it was to him
to be once more talking and talked with, listened to
and appreciated. Lestrange was right. He was tired
of playing the hermit, after all; and he felt a keen
pleasure as he went on in a sense of his owen graphic
power. Probably there is no keener pleasure that a
man can feel than the conscious exercise — the ei^epyeta
as old Aristotle hath it — of a power like that. He had
not lost the old trick of fence, then, in all his years of
silent self-suppression, in which he had probably not
used as many words as came from him now in an hour.
The Man in the Mask " he had been called out in the
West; but the mask was off now, and he breathed
freely in his native air of culture .

Daisy's presence, perhaps, had more than a little todo
with the eloquence which possessed his tongue, as it
is just possible that while those horrid house-affairs
of hers had dra^^Tl Desdemona thence, Senator Brabant
may have found the Moor of Venice a dull dog enough.
Well did Guy know how closely Daisy Brent was
listening, and though in the circle which had gathered
round in the old quadrangle she was the farthest from
him of all, he knew that he was talking to and for her.
He knew, or he thought, that she alone of all there was
aware of the reason of those years of travel and exile
whose varied experiences he was depicting. He noted
every turn of the graceful head, every change of the
mobile face, and he saw with an especial pleasure how,
with a playful gentleness, she caressed and made much
of Frisco the door.

o

The noble fellow had followed on his master's heels
when he joined the party, and at once made a house-those
visitation, sniff-wise, of all the members of it.
He was pleasant to Carrie Beaufort, mistrustful to
Coates, contemptuous of Pentonville as of Xor and Sur,
and generally perceptive and reflective in his views.
But he took Daisy into his highest favour, moved
by some odd impulse, at once, and she relished her

conquest of him more than many of her human victories.
He deposited himself at her side, put his cold nose on
her lap, and examined her features with close and
fearless scrutiny, wagging his tail the while to and fro
with a movement as slow and as regular as that of the
pendulum of a kitchen clock. And she on her side
welcomed this new friend with a curious warmth which
had more than matter in it, patted the velvet head, and
played with the silken ears, as she listened to his
master's story of his purchase of the dog, in all the
overpowering destructiveness of puppyhood, in the City
of the golden gates.

"Where did you get this fine old fellow, Mr.
Faucit ? " she had asked.

"At San Francisco, his birthplace and his godmother
in one," Faucit said. "It was three years ago, and
Frisco has been my one confidant ever since. He
knows everything about me."

Yes ? " she said.

It was the only time they addressed each other
directly that afternoon.

The afternoon grew steadily to evening, rapt
through many a rosy change. The tea went its homely
round, by way of stirrup-cup, for those — something of

a minority — who preferred it to the attractions of B.
and S.

Guy Faucit took a cup from Daisy's hand, which
trembled just a little, for the spoon gave a tiny tell-tale
click. The teas in Portland Place rushed back to the
thoughts of both of them, through the opened floodgates
of memory. Guy thought it all over — all — in a
moment, as he had thought it out to weariness, over
and over again, in half the latitudes of the world. Yet,
strange to say, for the first time he brought it to a new
conclusion.

It is impossible, impossible 1 " he thought ; " there
was some miserable mistake at the bottom of the whole
thing."

Was it the magic of her presence which led him to
that conclusion ? Impassive and quiet under his strong
English manner, the man had felt that presence all
the time, in the quiver and the tingle of every subject
nerve.

Evening ; and the horses and carriages were ready.
A pretty sight enough, as the animals stood champing
the bits and pawing the ground, watched by the 
grooms, on the picturesque old road, as the
lengthening shadows fell.

Lady Luscombe, fairly pleased herself into a temporary
forgetfulness of Lestrange's leadership, asked Guy
Faucit very frankly if he would not come over to the
Abbey the next day, and stay there for a time. Count
Lestrange had told her about his change of fortunes, she
said ; and in words which were an echo of Lestrange's,
she told him that he must play at hermit no more.

"You are too valuable an addition to society for
that," she said.

He fenced with the invitation for some time, till it
was repeated with even greater warmth, just as the
party was breaking up.

"Do come, Mr. Faucit," Lady Luscombe insisted.
"Won't you?"

He hesitated once more ; and something made him
look straight at Daisy, whose head was turned gracefully
and carelessly away, while with her riding-whip
she traced idle forms upon the ground. There was
something in her attitude which spoke to him of an
attention others could not see, unless it was the Count
Lestrange, watching sideways. One moment's pause :
then Guy spoke slowly.

Thank you, Lady Luscombe. You are very kind.
Yes, I will."

Daisy drew a long breath, and went towards the
gate.

Will you come tomorrow ? " said Lady Luscombe.

"The day after, if you will receive me," he answered.
I have a few things to arrange here, and then I am
free."

In a few minutes more the good nights had been
said to the newly-elected member, and the cavalcade of
carriages and horse passed fitfully away.

Long after the old ruin had fallen back again under
the great dominion of solitude — long — long — till the
stars had shone out one by one into their soothing
harmony of splendour, and the invisible army of
groundlings was chirping its loudest and merriest to
welcome the march of night, Guy Faucit stood, deep
in thought and deep in dreaming, leaning upon the
parapet above the road, motionless almost as the dog
that watched beside him, awe-stricken, groping his way
in the mazes of a new and startling future. What was
it to be ?

END OF VOL. II.

VOL. II.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/faucitofballiols02meriv

1 torn in gttao parts.

BY

HERMAN CHARLES Derivable.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. II.

LONDON :

CHAPMAN & HALL. Limited, 11, HENRIETTA ST.

Covent GARDEN.

1882.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER XVII.

PACE

THE COUNT Estrange . . . . 3

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE PITY OF IT . . . .25

CHAPTER XIX.

DAISY BRENT WASHES HER HANDS . . 37

CHAPTER XX.

JOHN BRENT DEPARTS . . . . 52

CHAPTER XXI.

CHECK TO THE COUNT . . . . (32

CHAPTER XXII.

PAGE

THE PARTHIAN DART . . . .78

CHAPTER XXIII.

DESCENSUS Avert . . . . 91

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE COUNT LESTRANGE's WAGER . . . 104

CHAPTER XXV.

THE SPIDER'S WEJ3 . . . . 123

PART II.
abc grana.

CHAPTER I.

THE HERMIT OF THE Owls NEST . . . 145

CHAPTER II.

BEAUTY GOSLING . . . . 155

CHAPTER III.

A STRANGE VISITOR . . . . 169

CHAPTER IV.

PAGE

IN GOOD SOCIETY . . . .185

CHAPTER V.

THE COMPACT AXD THE vision . . . 201

I

CHAPTER VI.
DAISY BRENT . . . . .219

CHAPTER VII.

THE PICNIC . . . . . 235

CHAPTER VIII.

FACE TO FACE . . . . . 253

CHAPTER IX.
travellers' TALES . . . . 267

(CONTINUED.)

; Mephistopheles thrown upon real life, and obliged to manage his own
plots, would inevitably make blunders." — George Eliot.

VOL. II.

THE COUNT Estrange.

I was moralising, some chapters ago, probably little
to the satisfaction of my readers, upon the trials of the
post. There is another side to those trials on which
I often reflect, when I see a brief paragraph in the
papers stating that John Xoakes, letter-carrier, has been
arrested, and that so many hundred letters have been
found in his possession. So many losses perhaps, so
many sorrows, so many misunderstandings, not to be
repaired. The form of theft is an amusement which
certainly seems on the increase.

It was my lot not long ago to be living in a country-town
about half-an-hour from London, for a space of
some eighteen months. In that time I had seven

correspondences with the General Post-Office — which

B 2

has so little to do in its own line of work that it has
just taken the telephones under its fostering care, on
the ground that the Crown bought them before they
were invented — upon the subject of letters of mine which
never reached their destinations. I had many more
such losses, about which I was too fairly disheartened to
write. Once I received a peremptory summons from
Her Majesty's Collector of Taxes, about a form which
he said I had neglected to fill up and return. I had
done it weeks before, and was able to tell him the day.
His answer was that he was very sorry he had troubled
me, for six or seven others in the district had given him
the same explanation. I appealed to everybody at the
General Post-Office, from the temporary Chief to the
permanent clerk ; I represented that the staff at the
local office should be overhauled or changed; I consulted
the tradesmen in my town, who told me that the
state of their post-office was notorious, but as for the
General Office, " Lord, sir ; you might as well complain
to the king of the Zulus." Still I tried, and to
all my appeals I got but one answer — that " it should be
looked into." The answers were nearly always signed
by the same gentleman, whose name I grew to hate ;
afterwards, to my cynical delight, knighted for his

"eminent service to the State." How I chuckled when
I read of the appointment ! Once I wrote to him with
gentle satire, hoping that next time he would vary his
formula, and tell me that it had been looked into. He
answered me quite placidly by return of post, as before,
that it should be. It never was. Xo change whatever
was made at the local office ; and the imperturbable
official in charge always asked me at what exact minute
of the day and in what exact box I had posted the lost
letter, necessarily long before. At last I kept record
and was able to answer him. He said, ' Ah ' ; but proved
to me that I had not ascertained my facts with sufficient
exactness. I could not swear whether my last letter
went by the 4*10 post or the 4 - 20, three weeks before.
It was idle to expect redress if I was so careless as this.
I was quite beaten ; gave up complaining ; and if I had
letters especially important, at last used to take them
to town with me, to post at my club. And I reflected.
seeing a correspondence in the paper about a monument
to Sir Rowland Hill, that the monument he would best
have liked would be that his successors should do some
of the work the country pays them for. I wonder if he
used to write and say it should be looked into.

John Xoakes happened to be employed at the office

in Devonshire when Guy Faucit sent his last appeal to
Daisy Fairfield ; and whether it was that he was then
trying his prentice hand, and experimenting on the touch
of stamps, or was a hardened offender, who stole letters
out of pure " cussedness," as others upset railway-trains,
he was the link in the chain of events which form this
history, which prevented Daisy's hearing from Guy.
Such a part in life do commonplaces play. I cannot
tell what would have happened if she had received the
letter, or that it would have made any difference in the
catastrophe. But I do not want Daisy Fairfield to lie
under the suspicion of having kept silence upon such
an appeal. Wilmot's news, however, was unhappily too
true; and when Mrs. Faucit was dying in the Devonshire
cottage, she became the affianced wife of Mr. John
Brent. Upon this part of Daisy's story I cannot bear to
dwell. " Fais ce que dois, advienne que pourra" was so
entirely her motto, that I think at no cost should she
have been led into so perverted an idea of duty, as to
sacrifice herself to become the wife of a man she did
not love, with her heart full of the image of another. I
can never believe that anything ever really justifies
that, though the largest of allowances is often to be
made, and never larger than in Daisy's case. The nets

which circumstance wove for her were very closely
meshed indeed.

Guy Faucit had gone down to Devonshire ; Daisy
Fairfield had dined at Lady Pepperharrow's, and made
the acquaintance of Lady Luscombe, and was by her
being initiated into the social mysteries of a more
fashionable world than the old circle in which she at
first began her going-out life, crushing down the deep
pain in her heart, and wearing the customary mask
which the world demands of its votaries ; aimless and
objectless and sad, but winning general admiration
wherever she went. She would have stayed at home
and looked after her mother only too willingly, and
thrown all this aside. But she did not want her story
known ; still less did she wish that any talk should get
abroad of the condition of affairs at Fairfield's, which
her social success would help to dissipate as much as
anything.

The sword of Damocles still hung suspended over
her father's head; and Mr. John Brent, patient and
catlike, bided his time.

Now, it happens that Mr. John Brent had a singular
auxiliary at hand when he began to lay his formal
siege and advance his parallels. Some years before he

had made the acquaintance, out in India, of a man who
had been introduced to him in connection with some
intricate city business at home, who seemed to come
from nowhere, and have no very definite occupation,
yet to occupy positions of influence and trust at all
sorts of times in all sorts of places, and to possess,
for the purpose of confidential missions, a special and
striking gift for swaying the wills and winning the
ears of men. When he made his first appearance in
Calcutta circles, young, though not in his first youth,
he impressed men at once with the idea of almost
universal knowledge, of a satirical power of observation,
which strengthened his position indefinitely by making
everybody half afraid of him, and a charm of conversation
which very few could resist.

The sinister but handsome face, the low musical
voice, of which no word was often lost, and the acute
intelligence which grasped all the sides of a situation
at once, made an exceptional and impressive personage
of the Count Lestrange. Why he was a Count, and
where the Courtship came from ; whether he had inherited
it from some ancient race, or gotten it for
himself from some grateful sovereign of a court large
or petty, in recognition of secret services to a starving

exchequer; whether Lisbon, or the Holy Roman Empire,
or the capital of the Cannibal Islands, all which places
seemed equally familiar to him, was originally responsible
for the decoration, was never exactly known.

Men muttered and questioned at first, and talked
about " adventurer " and " impostor," and used harder
words than that. But from the beginning they did not
care to use these expressions very loudly, or provoke a
certain cold and dangerous glitter which had a knack
of coming stealthily into the Count's eyes, and taking
by surprise the offenders who had not marked its
beginning. Moreover, there were things whispered
of his having "killed his man" more than once in
countries where it was not yet impolite to do so, and it
was said that, even where it was not polite, he had
been known to make it so.

So gossip and ill-report died away in the wake of a
man so desirous of pleasing where he was allowed, and
of making himself generally useful ; and the quarterings
of the Prince of Ark and Ararat were not more unquestioned
by society in the course of time than those of
the Count Lestrange. He stood well with the Rothschild,
had been trusted by the Torlonias, and had
recovered bad debts for Covered and Gurney's among

the most morally dilapidated of South American republics;
and when first he made acquaintance with
John Brent, in the interests of a firm which was working
the Great Magnibonium Railway at an increasing
dividend to the subscribers of thirteen-and-a-half percent,
but had not for the moment as much ready cash
in hand as could be wished, he had just been engaged
in examining some Parsee schools in the south of India
on a commission from the British Government. This
was the man who became, upon his homeward visit to
Calcutta, the adviser and intimate, and " fidus Achates,"
of Mr. John Brent.

I am no master of the involutions of finance, especially
in the hands of such a keen diplomatist as the
Count Lestrange ; nor do I know how it was that he
first discovered in Brent the man to serve him in the
matter of the Magnibonium Railway.

So he did, however; and from his fortunate connection
with that concern, which announced a dividend
of fifteen per cent, shortly afterwards, and then collapsed
with a stupendous crash which half-ruined hundreds of
confiding shareholders, — who had not reflected that such
a rate of interest for themselves probably represented
proportionate injury to at least as many others unknown

dated Mr. Brent's first great rise in the world. He
was quite as careful about it as lie was about everything;
and when the crash came, it hurt him no
halfpenny in purse or credit.

The confiding shareholders filled the newspapers
with lament and woe ; pitiful stories of half-pay officers
and maiden ladies, who had justly expected not less thana
safe fifteen per cent, for their little all, resulted in
tears and sympathy from many of the benevolent, and
subscriptions from some ; leading articles, pitched upon
the highest key of morality, held up the directors to the
reprobation of honest men, as indeed they deserved, the
only question being where the honest men were ; and
some of the directors were finally brought to trial and
acquitted, as having been on the whole confiding,
whereupon the leading articles recanted, and expressed
their sympathy.

Mr. Brent, meanwhile, had nothing to do with the
thing except to realize (if I make any mistake upon this
difficult ground, I must ask the reader to believe that
the incorrectness lies in the narrator, but not in the
events narrated) ; and Count Lestrange, who, without a
profession or a penny of capital, used to set down his
brains as worth so much a year, and made it about as

regularly as a government official receives his salary,
was paid too in his own modest way, and pocketed his
fee for his services. But he made out of the transaction,
in the pulling of the secret strings, something
else which the dangerous adventurer valued more than
money. When John Brent came back to England, he,
on his part, who had netted the house of Fairfield, was
somehow in Lestrange's power.

It was this same Magnibonium Railway business into
which Fairfield and Co. had been drawn through the
activities of the junior partner ; and Mr. Fairfield had,
by a course of events of which he was really the victim
and the dupe, and not the promoter, fallen into the
danger of being one of the scapegoats of the concern,
and having one day to stand in the dock to answer for
the Magnibonium Railway. The junior partner, much
to his annoyance and surprise, for he had fancied himself
warm and safe on the windy side, and had certainly
taken every possible precaution to make himself so, was
one of those who did eventually stand there, and escaped
as related, to begin business under new colours afterwards,
and to do very well for himself in the world
indeed.

It was in the autumn of the year of which 1

have been writing that the Magnibonium catastrophe
came, and during the weary months which preceded it,
Mr. John Brent was pursuing his object calmly and
relentlessly. Daisy was being slowly and hopelessly
drawn into the toils, and her hapless father was breaking
in health and constitution fast and surely, under the
pressure of his lingering suspense. He clutched at
straws, and clutched in vain, and made appeals to
Brent which might as well have been addressed to the
monument.

Come sul capo al naufrago
L'onda s' involve e tea,
L'onda su cui del misery
Alta pur dianzi e tea,
Score la vista a scenery
Pride remote ivan —

So his troubles crushed Septimus Fairfield as he
looked for a plank, and looked in vain. He might have
found help elsewhere if it would have availed him.
Lady Pepperharrow, if she had known of the situation,
would have made her Hugh sell Glycerine House to
help Daisy ; but the Magnibonium toils were too close
for that, and could be loosed by Brent only. And
Brent himself, in all the complications of this labyrinthine
business, which utterly baffled the general

reader who tried to understand them from the newspaper
reports of the trial of the directors, was in someway
in the hands of Lestrange, who used him. So
consistently tortuous had been the proceedings of the
Magnibonians, that everybody was in somebody else's
power, like the personages in the famous dead-lock in
the * Critic' Everybody, — except Lestrange, who pulled
all the strings and worked all the machinery, and was
paid his fee for his services in some indefinite but truly
respectable way ; who was able to do many a friend a
good turn during the winding-up of the gigantic skein ;
materially advanced the fortunes of the house of
Luscombe, among others, by means of it, and gave some
evidence in court which much damaged some and
much distinguished others, — shedding quite a lustre, for
instance, on the character of John Brent, — being finally
complimented by the judge upon his disinterested labours
and his brilliant services to the shareholders in the
hour of their need. The few of those who could afterwards
afford it felt themselves bound to subscribe for a
handsome piece of plate, which was presented to the
Count after an elegant oration from Cicero Wriggle, Esq.,
in the names of those of the misguided shareholders
who owed him their preservation from entire shipwreck.

It has been already told how, at Lady Pepper-harrow's
festival, the Count Lestrange first saw Daisy
Fairfield in the very flush and radiance of her new-born
happiness. The Count was a connoisseur in beauty, and
had seen so much of it in all parts of the world, that he
was slow to move to anything like admiration, though
every pretty woman gave him pleasure. Of late, his
devotion had been quietly exclusive in one quarter.
Familiar with all phases of the world, he had some
seasons before first come to London from abroad, in
which vague region, though he was supposed to be
of an English family, he had been born and bred, or
said so. He came on a diplomatic mission from some
German court, well accredited and with good introductions,
and made his way in society at once. He was
accepted on his own merits, as such men sometimes are,
without much inquiry into antecedents. The German
court had got him from another German court, on some
mission or another, which other German court had got
him from somewhere else. He was a kind of reputable
Autolycus, picking up the unconsidered trifles which
gradually make a career, and knew capitals and men
so well, that life seemed to have given him the best
education in her power. She taught him by the process

of passing him on, till he anchored, as much as he could
anchor, in the great port of London. He found his
sphere there at once ; for he suited London, and London
suited him. The fascination of the sunless city for
foreigners who come there with good introductions, and
do not fly from the first appalling aroma of soot into
the bluest wilderness they can find, has always been
very great. I believe it to be a fact, that if the attaches
of the world were polled, they would vote for London in
an overwhelming majority. They find the Circe
arms of society open for them all, a sort of republic
under a monarchy which is the harmonious result of
England's incongruous growth, the idlers at their idlest
and the workers at their best ; brilliant talkers still
surviving, and surviving with less of egotism than was
wont to be a talker's bane ; women with less of restriction
than ties their hands in some countries, and not
too much of freedom to wound the taste as in some
others ; and, stoutly as an Englishman I will maintain,
on the whole the prettiest in the world. Lestrange,
out of his wide experience, maintained it always, and
vindicated his position by pointing to the theatres.

There is the test," he said. " I see so many
actresses, that in society proper I am no fair judge.

Sweet are the society beauties who grace the albums
and shop-windows ; and why on earth shouldn't they ?

11 ' Small is the worth

Of beauty from the light retired ;
Bid her come forth,
Suffer herself to be admired,
And not blush so to be desired.'

■' The beauties are quite right, and should not ' to
parties give up what was meant for mankind.' For one
young acolyte who burns his incense to the original ina
London drawing-room, a thousand chawbacons may
smoke their pipes in Yorkshire under the sweet nose of
the copy, and never offend its delicacy. But for one of
society's sweethearts, I can show you a dozen pretty
actresses in a day whose trains she ought to carry.
Where is the theatre abroad where one can feel sure
of such a feast to the eye ? I don't care about brain-sauce,
which spoils it. I like to feel like a Turk in his
harem, when I disport myself in my stall at the Fantasy,
and pay my half-guinea for my whole seraglio. The
theatres of England prove the prettiness of her women,
and I care not who says me nay. ' Vive la Borne ! ' "
It was when he had expressed these lawless sentiments

one day that Lestrange sate down at Lady Luscombe's
vol. 11. c

piano, and confirmed them in a ballad in which he had
embodied them :

Joyeux pays des gens joyeux,
Les beaux esprits de ce bas monde,
Pour te dormer a nos ai'eux,
Venus sortit jadis de leone.
La belle reine de bone
Protege tout coeur qui aime,
Et vit toujours, dans sa beauty,
Pour les enfant de la Boheme.

Le musicien va predominant
Les doux airs de son repertoire ;
Le peintre vient en exploits
Les belles couleurs pour sa victoire ;
Le poete rev le beau,
Chantant en d^pit de soi-meme :
Le luth, la plume, le pin9eau,
Current pour nous notre Boheme.

La route parsem^e de fleurs,
Voila bien autres qui s'avangent ;
En foule viennent ces chers pecheurs,
Les gens qui jouent, les gens qui consent I
II est heureux, le Bohemian,
Car pour bien £gayer sa serre,
U sait trouver, sur son chemin,
Les belles filles de la terre.

Versons le bon vin p^tillant I
A l'avenir ne songeons guerre :
Si le sort pour nous est merchant,
A l'avenir buvons la bier !

Nous commons garment d'une main,
Quand nous avons la bourse pleine,
Et de l'autre prisons demain,
Des bons amis qui ont la veine.

Que l'avocat ne frappe pas !
II trouvera la porte close ;
Et centre pas que dans le cas,
Ou il serait cause, sans cause :
Le medicine e'en est pas vraiment,
Qu'il tue a part sa clientele !
II f aut, pour y aller garment,
Assez de coeur, et de cervelle !

Le devote maudit son voisin,
Tous les Finances a la messe,
Mais preacher pour nous en vain
Son evangile de tristesse :
Qu'il se fasse sa propre loi,
Faisons y guerre, et a outrance !
Notre devise, c'est la Foi 3
La Charity, et temperance.

Tout las de travail, — ou de vin,

Bien doucement quand on corneille,

La-haut, un petit cherubim

Sur nous express sans cesse veille ;

Ainsi, quand au dernier moment

La Mort a notre porte sonne,

Saloons-la en courant :

Viens ! je n' ai fait mal a personne 1 "

Nous crayons a la verite,
La droite ligne de la vie,
De 1' amour et de l'amitie
La vraie franc-ma^onnerie :

G 2

Le sage ne croit a rien,
Excepte toujours a soi-meme ;
Mais le bon Dieu, qui fait tout bien,
Chert ses enfant de Boheme.

The Count trolled the verses out, or some of them,
for eight stanzas of a song are more than propriety
admits of, in days when the poet is naught and the
composer everybody, and words are but as pegs to hang
tra-la-la's upon. Having been a writer of song-words,
among other things, I speak feelingly. It is not long
since I beheld, if I may for a moment borrow one of
the oddities of type affected by that manliest and most
human of living story-tellers, Charles Reade, a song
advertised in a music-seller's window thus, or thusly : —
in which last phrase I am borrowing again, with the
true effrontery of a scribbler, from Artemis Ward —

MARY JANE,

THE WORDS BY ALFRED TENNYSON,

The Music by Bunkum Barre,

DEDICATED TO AND SUNG BY

BOANERGES BULL.

Once Bunkum Barre did me the honour to set some
words of mine, in which he failed, with the most faultless
completeness, to catch a single idea out of those

with which my geniuskin of song had inspired me.
Most extraordinary thing' he said to me, conscious
of his success. " I find that our popular composer,
Herr Tut Te (a mere impostor, my dear boy, I assure
you), has set these same words of yours, as I think, in
an inferior manner. But you will admit, my dear Tom,
that the rhythm is the same"

I looked at him feebly and humbly, and admitted
that it was. As the "rhythm" depended on the
words, I failed to see how it could be otherwise.
Seeing that the wretched word-writer finds three
things out of four, the ideas, words, and rhythm,
and leaves the fourth, the tooting, to the composer,
I never could see why he should be printed small and
the composer big, and the two paid on a like scale
of proportion. But such is the author's life, from
time immemorial. He is the one man presumed to
have no weekly bills. I have written songs, and the
composer has composed everybody to sleep with them,
and taken the cash and the big letters. I have written
a play, and the actors have " made " me ; and written
another to be made again by some more of them;
whereas where they have failed, which has not been
unfrequent, to catch a single idea, or indeed, with

exceptions, to speak a single word of mine, they have
been much commiserated for having to do with an
author who handicapped their talents with such ideas
and words. I have served for six months at hack-work,
as hard as Jacob, for Skimpington the religious bookseller
— might I not rather say, the seller of religious
books ? — and at the end been refused one penny in
payment, on the ground that I had no " contract," not
indeed being apt to make them in such relations. I
have been driven to law for my money, and after a
year and a half s delay got it from a judge and a jury, to
be robbed of more than three-fourths of it immediately
afterwards by that exquisite and rational product of
British law, the taxing-master, who sits in a room of his
own and placidly reverses, to all intent and purpose, the
"judgment" and the "order" of Her Majesty's High
Court of Justice, in the absence of the hapless, though
successful litigant, who has spared every penny of
avoidable expense, and is fined for succeeding. The
taxing-master hath a villa in the wholesome suburb of
Scurviton-on-Thames, and draws his unmolested income
quarterly. And the religious book-seller lives in
splendid opulence, and cares no straw whether he pays
me what he owes me or not, provided I am duly

mulcted for venturing to annoy him, and wanting to
be paid like other men. Oh, that he would sell fewer
prayer - books, and read more ! I like irreligious
publishers much better, and find them indifferent
honest.

This is digressive, and remote from Lestrange's song.
The Count's wonderful voice, a rich tenor baritone, and
refined musical skill were among his chief passports, as
such gifts and acquirements are, and deserve to be, to
social success. That success of his was great and
immediate. He could talk with the best talkers, do
innumerable services unobtrusively, and have the name
of a " thorough gentleman " for the asking. So great
was his musical gift, that at a concert where the best
signors and mesdames of the day discoursed their most
highly-paid songs, he would win from a frigid audience
the one loud encore of the evening, by some simple,
thrilling, perfect ballad, which set half who heard it
dreaming, sung with an art beyond the reach of skill.

At last the professionals came to him with a sort of
deputation, asking him to ask payment for singing
among them, because it wasn't fair.

He thought of it for a time, but would not, having
plans and notions of his own. And in the first blush of

his London success, he became an unfailing feature at
the Vavasor receptions we have heard of; the right
hand of Mr. Vavasor in the City, and, still more, of
Mrs. Vavasor at home. She was his devotion.

When the cruel title came, he understood better
than any one else how to soothe and soften Marian's
bitter and bravely-hidden mortification. And when she
and he came to Lady Pepperharrow's house-warming, it
was from Luscombe Abbey that they came.

THE PITY OF IT.

The Count Lestrange's keen eye for beauty was
held and fascinated by the first apparition of Daisy
Fairfield. She was looking her loveliest on that
evening at Lady Pepperharrow's, and we know the
reason why. So did the Count at once, with an
intuition which would hardly have failed a less
keen observer than he was, when he saw her at Guy
Faucit's side. She was very sweet and very fair,
and he knew that he was in the presence of the
most perfect specimen of her kind whom to his taste
he had seen.

He set Pentonville to work at once, and through
that well-qualified agent of social enquiries, he soon
learned all he wanted to know.

The name came upon him with a surprise. " Miss
Fairfield, the daughter of the merchant ! " he said.
-Really!"

This, then, was the girl about whom John Brent
had spoken to him only that morning, as the young
lady upon whom he had cast a favourable eye.
Lestrange fairly laughed to himself, with an old silent
laugh, as he thought the combination over.

Lady Luscombe's quick eye followed him with
suspicion, and she asked him what was amusing him.

I will tell you some day," he said ; " or rather, it
will tell itself before long. I see a plot in my mind's
eye ; and you know that I am fond of them."

He was introduced to Miss Fairfield that night, and
he met her at dinner a few evenings afterwards, when
that sad change had come over the spirit of her dream.
He was courteous, sympathetic, watchful, and laid himself
out to please. He did not altogether succeed at
first, as well as usual ; for there was something in the
girl's royal instincts which took alarm. But he met
her at a good time for his purposes, whatever those
might be.

She was deeply wounded at Guy Faucit's departure
without further sign, and inwardly resolved that he

could not have cared very much for her, after all, or
he would never have taken her so instantly at her unwilling
word. She missed his companionship though,
painfully, not only as the lover's, but as the friend's ;
for all her talks with him had been an education to her,
and had widened and enlarged her mind.

This gap Lestrange was more able to supply than
any one else, for he was a man of wide culture, as well as
of deep observation. He, too, was able to talk of art
and books out of the overflowing of a fuller knowledge
than Guy's ; though the cynical flavour of his comments
and criticisms, delicately veiled as it was, was
very different from that of the discourse which came of
Faucit's frank and open-air nature.

During the months of that London season, — during
which poor Daisy, taken up by Lady Luscombe and
others at once by right of her rare beauty, blossomed
out into the great world with a canker-worm at the
stem, — Lestrange had constant opportunities of " forming
" the girl whom he adopted as his pupil.

Everything fought for him. The entire change of
life and associates, in which she found the best
distraction possible for her sad thoughts, made her glad
of the attention of one who knew her new world so well.

Terribly sad those thoughts became within a few
days of her father's scene with Guy. First, he told
her that things in the City might recover; then, that
it was only a question of time when the crisis should
come ; then, that she could save his fortune, his credit,
and his character, and she alone ; then, that she could
save them but in one way ; and, at last, that that way
was John Brent.

Every step was taken with Machiavellian precision ;
for John Brent directed Mr. Fairfield, and Count
Lestrange directed John Brent. Scarcely had he
made Daisy's acquaintance, and understood Brent's
purpose, than he determined to forward it with all
his power.

I do not wish to examine too closely into the
motives by which he was actuated, for they were mixed
and many. Moreover, Lestrange was one of those
terrible characters with whom one meets, thank God,
very rarely, though one does meet with them sometimes,
who love evil for evil's sake, and have made it
their good. It is in itself motive enough for them.
Such people are an awful scourge, perhaps a wholesome
warning. Let no man speak of "dispositions." To
them, as to all, the choice between good and evil is

open at the first ; and when they have entered upon
the downward course, constant and constant are the
opportunities offered of return. Then constant less and
less ; and at last, none at all. Their perception of right
and wrong has grown fairly confused ; and their ears
are no longer open that they should hear the passing of
the sad, remorseful, sighing sentence, " Ephraim is
joined to the idols. Let him alone : " or know of the
irrevocable moment when it is passed, if indeed such a
sentence can ever be irrevocable, which mercifully we
cannot know, though it is well for us to fear it.

So the nets closed round Daisy Fairfield, for whom
Count Lestrange had conceived a deep and dangerous
admiration from the time when first he began to talk
to her. The frank and fearless spirit, the entire absence
of self-seeking, and comparative indifference even to
admiration, — though she would have been less than
woman if she had not enjoyed, even in her trouble of
heart, the conquests of her beauty, — delighted Lestrange,
who had grown weary of the monotony of worldliness
which he found upon the surface wherever he
went. Here was a task worthy of his power and skill,
and in accordance with all the principles of the nature
which he (and none else) had made his, to subject this,

high-minded woman to a process of mental degradation.
In the future he may have had other views.

The months which Guy spent by his mother's
side in Devonshire, Lestrange devoted to this unworthy
game. The world, at that time, affixed him much
to Lady Luscombe, and for good reasons of his own
he had to conciliate her. The adventurer's main
purpose in life was very definite to himself, though
unknown to all beside. From the first, he had made
himself indispensable to Marian Vavasor, whom he
magnetized at last into an entire and dangerous confidence.
In her social empire he had been an admirable
vizier; in her schemes for wealth he had brought all
his craft and mastery of city politics to bear in helping
her. Marian Vavasor had told him a fact which was
concealed from every one else in the world but the
family physician. Her husband had serious heart-disease,
and his life was of short purchase. The Count
Lestrange knew well what she and he might do
together with the gathering rent-roll of the Luscombe
lands, and he meant to marry the widow of Lord
Luscombe.

It may give a better idea than anything can of the
admiration he conceived for the beauty and the nature

of Daisy, to say, that for the moment she shook him in
that intention. Daisy Fairfield would have a good
fortune, which he could save, with her father's credit,
through John Brent, as well as the Anglo-Indian himself.
And as his wife she would do the Count credit
indeed. But a little reflection cured him of that idea.
The position which Marian Luscombe would give him,
and the peculiar fitness which he recognized in her and
in himself, to make them an important place in the
English world, was a matter which he was not going to
throw lightly away. So for his further objects he
decided to second John Brent's purposes, and not to
thwart him. In this he congratulated himself upon a
good disinterested action. For what else could it be, to
save such a girl as Daisy from ruin and obscurity,
and the shame which would result from her father's
exposure, and probably his public trial, by the only
means left by which to save her ? So he went-upon
his way. Drop by drop he instilled into her ear at the
many parties, dinners, gatherings at which they met,
the theories of life which for the moment it suited him
to entertain. He said no word to her of his knowledge
of her father's position, and the designs of Mr. Brent.
"Yes, Miss Fairfield," he said to her once, "like

others I have formed my conception of duty. As far as
in this world we can understand it, I think that it is
to family and to name. Self-sacrifice for that is the
highest point to which we can rise."

Do you really think that ? " she said.

I do," he answered. " I am myself my own architect,
such as the building is ; and I think myself bound
to honour the building."

And if self-sacrifice, in such a cause, meant misery
and wrong ? "

I should hold it to be all the higher self-sacrifice."

And Daisy thought, and thought again.

Lestrange was far too clever a player to intimate to
the girl anything of personal admiration, which could
be construed into anything more than personal deference.
Too clever far to use the ordinary commonplaces
about the value of wealth and station to such a
pupil as this, he played upon the chords of the higher
common-places of sacrifice and unselfishness. He used
the general ways of worldlings in his subtle and suggestive
fashion, not for example, but for mockery. And
so by degrees, studied and sure, he undermined the
foundation of a higher and a nobler faith.

Daisy Fairfield, meanwhile, became the favourite of

the hour, and the recognized Cynthia of the fashionable
minute. She clung to good Lady Pepperharrow with a
despairing fondness, as she felt the ground slipping more
and more from under her feet. She used her own newborn
fashion to help her friend to the desire of her
heart; figured as Diana Vernon at her tableaux; as
Mrs. Mildly, or Madame de Fontanges, at her private
theatricals — nobody ever acted anything but ' Still
Waters Run Deep or ' Plot and Passion ' just then —
willingly and carelessly enough. It was her first step
into the public life from which she had rather shrunk
before, and surprised her hostess as much as it gratified
her. The rouge and the applause had been little
enough to her taste ; but she did not reject it now.

You acted like an angel, dear," said Lady Pepper-harrow,
after one of these performances.

Very likely," she answered. " I never saw an
angel act. But not nearly as well as any half-trained
professional actress from the theatres would do it, on a
salary of fifteen shillings a week."

Oh, but, my dear, ladies have such an advantage."

"As professional ladies, of course. But not as

professional actresses."

And Lady Pepperharrow, without at all under-vol.
11. d

standing it, recognized in her favourite's talk and
her favourite's ways a tone entirely new to her. She
asked once or twice what had become of that nice and
distinguished Mr. Faucit, who had seemed such a friend
of Daisy's. But she had but off-hand answers, and
knew nothing. So Daisy laughed and talked and dined,
and the wheel went round and round.

One day, — it was late in the season, and some two
days before Guy Faucit's mother died at his side in
Devonshire, — Faucit's name was accidentally brought
up in conversation at some small and familiar dinner-party,
by some one who knew of him. Daisy bit her
lip a little, and turned a little white ; and Lestrange,
who was sitting next her, filled her glass with wine,
or beckoned to the servants to do so.

Faucit ! " he said. " Oh yes, I remember him. A
fine, manly fellow, who was to carry everything before
him. Did you ever meet him, Miss Fairfield ? "

Once or twice," she said.

A fine career spoiled," he added, " like so many
others. I met him at supper once or twice three or
four months ago, at the house of the pretty singer, Dora
Lane. He was her favourite and slave for the time,
and I fancy the Temple Chambers didn't see very

much of him. Most men would have been proud of it ;
but whatever his reasons were, he didn't like it talked
about. The thing was kept rather dark, though it
was well enough known in some circles."

He looked away from Daisy, and talked to his other
neighbour.

Daisy was brilliant, almost noisy that night ; and
she went home late. Her father was still in his room,
and the inevitable crisis was near. There had been
scenes at home of late ; the idler, Dick Fairfield, had
come back, and with father and mother, was pressing
Daisy hard ; for even the poor mother knew the truth,
and was fading under it, as Fairfield himself was
breaking.

Papa," said Daisy, " tell ILr. Brent I will marry
him." And so she went to bed.

The next day she had her interview with the

unlovely lover, and made, on her side, no disguise.

His face was lovelier than ever when the interview

was over, and the terms of the bargain on both sides

arranged. Daisy's was a frank and unconventional

spirit, and she held her own. Whatever her terms

were, Brent yielded, and the cruel thing was done. I

have told my thoughts before, and do not love to linger.

d 2

There was a wedding at St. George's in the following
autumn, when Guy Faucit was upon the high seas. I
had myself just come home, and heard the startling
news; and I watched the ceremony, uninvited, from
the gallery of the church. The face of the bride was
like a statue of Diana, as pale as the marble — as
classical — as cold. Throughout the mockery, no quiver
of a nerve might be seen. Only, when she was asked
if she would love, and honour, and obey, there was a
pause before she answered. Then she said in a low
voice, "I will," and suddenly lifted her eyes, with a
strange appeal in them, for a moment straight above
her. And I, who was watching her and naught beside,
saw her, with one rapid gesture, make the sign of the
cross.

It was rumoured that the fashionable priest, one
of the two or three who was close to her, heard her
whisper under her breath — " Thy will be done."

For myself, I went home dreaming, and sate out
that evening at some theatre in a dream. I have
never been able to remember either theatre or play.

DAISY BRENT WASHES HER HANDS.

The marriage was over, and the deed was done ;
and when the Magnibonium catastrophe came, the good
fame of Itr. Fairfield escaped all connection with it : so
Daisy reaped her reward. But in less than one year from
that day, she was without father or mother, the first of
whom followed the second to the grave within a few
weeks. The long anxiety had killed them both ; and
the cold duty which in Daisy's manner to them now
took the place of the old signs of love, perhaps hastened
the inevitable end. She could not help that change.
Mrs. Fairfield grew smaller and smaller, and faded out :
and her husband, much changed on his side, less dictatorial
and gentler far, was found after dinner one
evening dead in his arm-chair. He had died quietly
and painlessly in his sleep.

Daisy had been dining with him that night, and
was the first to find him so, when the usual time had
passed for his coming up-stairs for his cup of tea.

"Papa! "she said. "Papa!"

Then as the silence awed her she drew nearer, and
looked at him, and knew that he was dead. She stood
by the chair quietly for some time, neither moving nor
speaking, but looking into his face, with the sadness of
an unfathomable feeling in her eyes. Then she bent
over him and kissed the dead lips, which wore, thank
God, a smile ; and then she knelt and prayed. She
felt for any sign of life, but there was none ; and quietly
called the servants. The doctor came and certified that
he must have been some half-an-hour dead when his
daughter found him, and discoursed to his wife constantly
for months of the impression made upon his
mind by the stately sweetness and self-possession which
the daughter showed. She looked at her father, he
said, with an expression in her eyes which haunted him,
and was always tempting him to try to define it.

So Septimus Fairfield's life was over ; and he had
escaped the dishonour and ruin which had seemed to
him so terrible, at the heavy cost of this young and
vigorous life, full of the bud and sap of its richest

spring. He had lived out his days in their narrow-minded
span, as such men do live them ; and nobody
had much to say of him for good or for evil. His
interpretation of the fifth commandment had been
like that of most elder people — all on one side.

It is a deep conception of duty which gratifies the
vanity of the old, aud saves them trouble, and casts all
the burdens on the young. When they moralize on
the point, it is impossible but to believe that they
think of themselves as having married not to please
themselves at all, but in order to place a possible
progeny under heavy obligations in no wise mutual.
The progeny are apt to think otherwise during their
early years. Then they grow old in their turn, and go
and do likewise. And so the undying tradition of self
is handed on again — to yet a generation more.

With reference to this same commandment, it may
perhaps be suggested that most of us do not live under
the dispensation of Closes ; and that it is not that commandment
upon which, according to Him under whose
dispensation we are, hang all the law and the prophets.

Septimus Fairfield, like most people, had interpreted
the commandment in the sense most gratifying
to himself, and did not seem to think, so far as his

children were concerned, that it even included his poor

timid wife much. " Honour thy father " was enough

for him without the context ; and he certainly took no

trouble to teach respect for Mrs. Fairfield by any

example of his own. What his lessons lacked, Daisy's

heart supplied. And to save himself in the eyes of the

world, which had done little for him and paid scant

attention to him or his doings, Papa Juggernaut drove

his parental car right over his gallant child's happiness

and life ; and before he had time to profit by his drive,

went to his rest apparently with a Nelson's confidence

that he had done his duty. Who knows? Puzzled

and perplexed by all these myriad problems of the

entangled scheme of Self, we are tempted to write

over half these monumental graves Ophelia's single

epitaph —

He is gone, he is gone,
And we cast away moan ;
God ha' mercy on his soul."

"And of all Christian souls, I pray God." Many of
these leaden caskets may carry yet, locked within them,
some rough gem of Christian soulhood, all unguessed,
still proper for the refiner's hand, as Bassanio's casket
hid Portia's image. What good had poor old Polonius,

in the comedy of his philosophic selfishness which
wrought to such an end, ever in his life done to
anybody ?

Daisy Brent went home to her husband's house,
to take up her cross alone. She went to him a portionless
bride in reality, though it was supposed that she
had brought him a handsome contribution from the
Fairfield salvage, when the house was comfortably
wound up to be a record of the mercantile past, though
something, as has been already told, to the temporary
discomfort of the junior partner. As a matter of fact,
nothing was really saved, except a modest bachelor's
income, which, by arrangement between the contracting
parties, went to keep the wolf from the door of
subaltern Dick's quarters, and to enable him to live —
when after a time the military profession proved too
severe a trial for his capacities — the blameless life of
self-sufficing clubroom.

Such men be the lotos-eaters of our day, in whose
land it is always afternoon because they never get up in
the morning, though to eat with them is to nip, and
their lotos is called sherry-and-bitters.

John Brent had really got all the Fairfield money
into his own hands, and in his short-sighted selfishness,

he wrung from Daisy's father every doit of his bond.
It was concealed from Daisy, who believed that she
really brought money in her hand to her husband ; for
it was not difficult to hide the truth from so innocent
a financier as she was. John Brent imagined that by
taking her portionless he would have her more completely
in his power, and he looked forward with satisfaction,
the brute, even at the very hour of his marriage,
to telling his wife some day that he had taken her
as a pauper. Most short-sighted was this selfishness
of his, which left out of sight altogether the whims of
the goddess Fortune, never so whimsical as with wealth
of such precarious making. The Fairfield business
might have pointed that moral for him; but he had
no eyes to read. It had been his purpose to retire
altogether from business; but business had been his
life, and he soon began to realize that it was as impossible
for him to do without it, as it is for nearly
all men, lawyers, doctors, anybody, to give up a
profession and to die out of harness. The few who
can do it are exceptionally fortunate men, who have
managed, however absorbing the nature of their especial
work, to keep in view the infinite varieties, and interests,
and fascinations of life, and to retain a hold, for their

declining years, upon the rich resources of leisure, which
is likely, through the law of revulsion, to become before
long the highest good of these worrisome days. I
who write these things avow my simple belief, that
there is nothing in life so delightful as intelligent idleness,
even as there is nothing so terrible as " loafing "
where idleness is, but intelligence is not.

Now John Brent, it must be confessed, knew nothing
of these possibilities, and was in sooth the veriest
and narrowest little huckster who ever scratched himself
up a fortune. His married home was wretched,
for wherever he went he made his own wretchedness,
and that of all he had to do with. It was in spite
of all that the brave Daisy could do ; — doing all her duty
fearlessly, and striving her best to keep, subject to the
conditions of her sale, to the terms of the memorable
and specially attested vow. I, for one, hold not that
she ever broke it. For, without any Jesuitic reservation,
we may supply before the words of any such an
oath as that, even as before those of that same fifth
commandment, the introductory clause " to try our best."
And when the other side makes more impossible, so
much the worse — for the other side. Try — and when
you have failed through no fault of yours, know it ; and

try again at the first opportunity possible, till the case
has become " no thoroughfare," and you can wash your
hands. It was in this wise that, after four years of
loyal battle, Daisy Brent washed her hands at last.

Sad and cruel and violent had been many of the
domestic scenes which characterized those four years
of domestic history. Mr. Brent became engaged again
in the labyrinth of business, and his wife, patronized
by Lady Luscombe and tutored by the Count Lestrange,
blossomed into the dangerous honour of a fashionable
married beauty. It is the old story which wants
small re-telling, though I hate to think of Daisy as its
heroine. Society adopted her as a queen, — petted, and
feted, and pictured her, — and scandal busied herself
with her name, though as little, perhaps, as scandal
ever did with any of its victims. She knew it, and
she shrugged her shoulders, and she went her way.
What other way was open to her ? I do not know.
Her warm friendship for Lady Pepperharrow continued
unabated, and Lady Pepperharrow's house became a
recognized centre of the whole frivolous world of
London, dashed with much of the attractive and un-frivolous,
for the hostess still retained her admiration
for " genius " in its fullest power, and genius at Glycerine

House, or at the country house in Hertfordshire which
was afterwards added to it, was as plentiful as caller
herein' after a good haul, some with soft roe, and some
with hard. Gradually, slowly, surely, Daisy's character
deteriorated and hardened in its outward and visible
signs, though after events were to prove the tenacity of
the inward and spiritual grace.

Mr. Brent occupied the position which husbands in
such cases are content to hold ; and, like such husbands,
liked it, while he snarled at it. The liking was of
course reserved for others ; the snarling for his wife.
Nobody, be it said, ever ventured to say much to
Daisy in disparagement of Daisy's husband ; for, with a
touch of the old masterhood, she put such venture down.
She had many struggles with herself. She might have
turned devote ; but it was not in her, and she could
not feign, especially in matters such as that. So she
kept her own counsel in her utter solitude of heart ;
and tried once or twice to kindle in her brother some
spark of loving sympathy, but failed. There are few
people so apt, unhappily, to fail utterly under real stress
of heart as those of one's own kindred. There are
few, I am afraid, so prompt to desertion, so quick at
commonplace, so (unwittingly, perhaps) irresponsive to

the chords and cries of feeling. Water is thicker than
blood, in nine cases out of ten. Daisy's brother was
the last thing left to her, and he was a reed that broke
at the first handling. Thanks to his keen intelligence
and subtle power of purpose, she found her best resource
in the talk and the companionship of Count Lestrange ;
and gradually, softly, surely, he undermined the faiths
and loyalties of her life.

At home, Mr. John Brent proved himself a past
master of the infamous art of " nagging," which has
wrecked so many homes. Like the dropping water
which wears out the stone, it is the most merciless of
processes, as it is the most difficult to detect. It is an
art, sedulously cultivated. Its special delight is to find
out the weak points in the sufferer's armour, to insult
his or her special prejudices, to calumniate his or her
special friends, to exaggerate and to dwell upon, to
others as well as to the victim, his or her especial
weaknesses, or to invent them when they exist not.
When some explosion has taken place under its influence,
the victim is powerless to point out the particular
wound ; and on " the facts " is condemned by the
Wehmgericht of kinsmanship as having been guilty of
temper, or quarrel, or anything easy to say, and

economic of trouble to themselves. And he or she — for
masculine or feminine may be the victim — is driven to
ask self the question if self is wrong, and its own senses
and eyes are to be believed. After reiterated proof it
knows and acquits itself, and goes on its way in isolated
scorn. So by degrees it came to be with Daisy.

John Brent was under a restraint with his wife under
which he fretted, fumed, and stormed, to as much
purpose as a small pool jumping at a hundred feet of
rock. Thanks to her, he was in a position which he
had not anticipated for himself. Mr. Brent's dinners
became famous, and he officiated as the figure-head, a
position which he had meant her to occupy.

Instead of Mr. Brent's wife, the world only spoke of
Mrs. Brent's husband. Still, the world came ; and the
house in Curzon Street was renowned for the aristocratic
contents of the hansoms which waited at its door.

Once, a distant cousin of Daisy's, who had an
affection for her, came up from the country at some
pains to see her ; but only reached the house to find an
empty hansom at the door, and to hear that etiquette
forbade her to be received, because some great personage
was paying a visit. The country-girl went home
disappointed, and puzzled about etiquette ; and Daisy

lost the chance of a friend who might have forgotten
the ties of kindred, and been a friend indeed, when a
friend was most wanted. She might have risen higher
than the kindred conception of Christianity — "Don't
bother me." But the opportunity was lost.

Four years after that ill-omened marriage, the crisis
came. As he had done by others, others had done by
him. Mr. Brent was outwitted and out-generally in
the tactics of speculation, into which he had been
completely drawn ; and he found one morning that he
had to begin the world again.

While his alarms about this had lasted, he had been
to his wife unremittingly and basely cruel ; and, bravely
as she fought on, had almost fretted her into a nervous
illness. She started at night, dreamed miserably, grew
thin, anxious, worn, heart-broken almost, under his
constant persecution. And alas, and alas ! her chief
comforter and sole confidant was Lestrange, whose
serpentine consolations were a very mint of evil.

Husband and wife were alone together one day,
when he told her, brutally, that he was ruined. She
remembered how her father, too, had once had the
same story to tell ; and she looked at him in wonder.

How long have you known that this was coming ? "

she asked. " Ruin doesn't come in a moment, as I have
learned before."

I have expected it for some weeks," he snarled.

Why didn't you tell me before ? "

Why should I ? "

It was your simple duty," she said. " I have not
failed in mine to you."

Not failed ! " he answered, with a brutal laugh.
What sort of wife have you been to me ? You have
deceived me from the first to the last."

I never deceived any one," she said calmly.

Then he burst into a bitter storm of taunt ami
anger, — insulted her with the gossip of society, vowed
she had dragged his name into the dirt, — while she
bore it with an unflinching and unmeasured scorn.
Then, when he thought, in his perception of character,
that by this manly course he had worked upon her to
his purposes, he told her that she could save him.

I again ! " she said. " Am I to be always savings
who ruin themselves by gambling, and those who
belong to them too ? You cannot be ruined either, for
you have my money."

Yours, you pauper ! " he said.

Then he told her of the truth she had not known
vol. 11. e

till then, and threw it as another insult in her face.
The man was half beside himself with evil rage,
and furious with his wife's sovereign calm, unshaken
still, though every jot of colour had left her face, save
for the light which sparkled in her eyes.

Then he confessed his scheme, some trick he had
contrived for a post-nuptial settlement, which only
wanted her consent to place them in comfortable
security. Of course she would give it, he said; but
she very simply declined.

I can give you no help to defraud your creditors,"
she said. "If you had not been so anxious
to rob me when I married you, you would not have
been in this difficulty now. But even had you not, I
would rather give up every penny I had, than help
you in such a scheme as this. I can go out and
work now."

Work — you ? Where ? " And he laughed more
savagely than before.

I don't Jtnow. On the stage perhaps ; they say
that I can act : — or anywhere."

Can't you get some of your lovers to help you ? "
he sneered. "You must have made a pretty private
purse by this time."

At last the true blood rose, and the true face flushed
crimson.

I cannot dwell on what followed ; but within five
minutes after that infamous word was said, John Brent
had done something which I cannot name ; and
Daisy, a red mark burning on her shoulder under her
gown, had dressed herself to go down to Lady Pepper-harrow's,
and passed out of that shameful husband's life
for evermore.

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

JOHN BRENT DEPARTS.

Daisy Brent threw herself into Lady Pepperhar-
row's arms in a tempest of shame, passion, and tears,
the stronger for its long repression, and told her
everything. She was past silence with such a sterling
friend and kindly woman now.

What was she to do ? " she said. Did Lady
Pepperharrow think that she was qualified to 'teach,
that her skill in music or drawing was sufficient tor
such a purpose ?

All Lady Pepperharrow's kindness and sympathy, all
her personal affection for Daisy, and her resentment at
such evil as this, came to the front at once. She tailed
to see that it mattered the least what became of Mr.
John Brent, to his wife or to anybody. " Oh, my dear !

if you had only married that nice Mr. Faucit, as I once
thought you would ! But people never do marry the
right people now-a-days."

Poor Daisy's heart felt as if a hand had gripped it,
and choked her with a sob. Daisy's schemes of teacher-ship
her friend scattered to the winds. She was to come
and make her home with her at once, and be to her the
daughter she had so longed for all her life. What better
use could she find for some of all the money which she
so honestly devoted to the engagements and amusements
of others, than to make her darling Daisy its steward \
She had guessed a great deal of her unhappiness with
her husband, though it had been loyally concealed to the
best of Daisy's power. Daisy, after some discussion of
the point, could not find it in her heart to refuse such
a welcome refuge after all these storms, so frankly and
lovingly offered. Everything kind that her heart
could prompt her to say, of the old days, of the old
chaperoning, of the old home in Portland Place, and
of the girl's father and mother, Lady Pepperharrow
poured out in a torrent, kissing and comforting Daisy
all the time, and crying over and soothing her. If
there was anybody nearly as fond of Daisy as herself,
it was her Sir Hugh ; and he was as unfeignedly

delighted as his wife when the new daughter took her
permanent place at the table, at which she had always
been so welcome. She would see him suddenly nodding
and smiling at her, from the peaceful recesses of his
chair coaxing her to a glass of champagne, which he
thought was a panacea in trouble. And as time went
on, Daisy Fairfield, after some months of quiet and
seclusion, became again the star of the world in which
she moved, under the shelter of the Pepperharrows'
home.

Two or three days after their separation, John
Brent wrote to his wife a miserable, whining, appealing
letter, in the hope of inducing her to reconsider her
determination not to accede to his wishes about the
settlement, for which there was still time. He apologized
for his conduct to her in an abject way, which
made things worse, as such people have a habit of
apologizing. He had been so driven, so harried, so
wretched, etc., etc. Then he went on to find the scapegoat
for his offences, as in such cases usual also ; and to
Daisy's astonishment and indignation, he laid everything
on the Count LLestrange. LLestrange, he said, had been
his confidant and agent throughout in the matter of his
marriage; Lestrange it was who had prevented him

from rescuing her father ; and Lestrange who had since
drawn him into fresh and dangerous speculations, and
constantly insinuated into his ear, in a manner which
he could scarcely trace, ill-reports about Daisy.

Lestrange was at Lady Pepperharrow's, as it
happened, on the afternoon of the day when this letter
was received. Daisy, in her straightforward fashion,
called him aside and read him the passages out of it
which concerned him. Lestrange asked if he might
look at the letter, merely raising his eyebrows. Daisy
showed him the last pages. Lestrange read them to
himself, smiling a little, and raising his eyebrows rather
higher. Then he gave the letter back, looked thoughtfully
down, then said very courteously, and in a tone of
interest and hesitation,

Mrs. Brent — excuse me ; but — is your husband
quite right in his mind ? "

Count Lestrange ! " she said.

Surely it is rather charitable to think he is not.
Why in the world should I have prevented him from
saving your father ? why in the world should I have
wanted him to marry a woman like yourself ? why in
the world should I have insinuated to him ill-reports
about you ? There is always a grain of truth in this

sort of thing ; and no doubt I have had, in the City and
before that in India, some business relations with Mr.
Brent, as I have with most people. But really I have
too much to do to occupy myself with drawing him
into fresh and dangerous speculations. Why in the
name of the monument should I do that, when obviously
it profited me nothing ? ' Whys ' are the strongest of
arguments. Excuse me, Mrs. Brent, but I am rather
surprised, knowing me as you do, that you even spoke
to me of such a letter."

She looked at him thoughtfully, and took it back
from him, and was moving it to and fro in her right
hand as she answered him, in a low voice —

"Because, Count, knowing you as I do, I have
never been able to trust you."

Why not ? " he asked, as quietly.

I don't know," she answered.

Do you consider that quite fair ? "

I don't know. Perhaps not."

I suppose I might be offended with other people
if they said so," he said in a thoughtful tone ; " but
somehow, not with you. It strikes me that if I had
acted in any interest of my own, I should have been
more likely to cross Mr. Brent's desires than to forward

them, if I had known anything in the world about
them."

' Whys ' are the strongest of arguments. Why ? "
Surely you must know how very deeply I admire
you," he said. He said it after a moment's hesitation,
with a respect in his manner so absolute that no woman
could possibly have quarrelled with it, when he offered
it as a defence which she herself had invited. " Your
marriage with Mr. Brent was a hard trial to me," he
added at once in the same tone, and then instantly
changed the subject to some everyday topic with a
tact which was above praise, and in spite of herself,
made Daisy like him better than she ever had
before.

Xo man, she felt, could have behaved better, or freed
himself more completely from a charge at which he
might justly have taken offence. She dismissed John
Brent's letter from her mind with an infinite contempt,
her knowledge of him, unhappily, allowing her to
attribute it not to any alienation of mind, but to what
she had detected him in a hundred times, the contemptible
vice of habitual lying, especially where harm
is to be done by it to anybody else. When one has
fairly found them out, sinners in this kind must be let

alone. It is idle to contradict them, for if you do they
sprout up again in a new place like the Hydra's heads.
Let them alone; and the heads knock each other's
brains out, like the cats of Kilkenny.

Lestrange knew this weakness of Brent's well enough ;
and like the boy who cried wolf, the wretched Anglo-indian
was justly served by being utterly disbelieved
when by accident he said what was true. Justly served,
too, thought Daisy, and with that wondrous equality of
justice of which even in the world's punishments we
have so many examples, in losing his fortune as he had
robbed her father's, punished where he had sinned.

Lestrange only made one more allusion to the letter.
If I had committed a villainy as complicated as Ago's,
with even less reason, Mrs. Brent," he said, "there
would be something somewhere to convict me of it."
Of course there was not.

What did happen, however, was an interview between
the Count and Brent, which had the witness of a clerk,
and half palsied the little wretch with fear. He had
never guessed before what anger meant, in that
impassive man, or how dangerous could seem such
impassive anger.

I do not easily forgive people who insult me,

Mr. Brent," Lestrange said. " How dared you tell that
tissue of falsehoods about me to your wife ? "
What ? " screamed the wretched Brent.
That tissue of falsehoods, sir," answered the other.
Is it not enough that you should have made yourself
notorious for your cowardly and brutal treatment of
that lady, just when you were on the verge of ruin
from these City tricks of yours, that you should venture
to slander a man of my character and position ? "

Slander ! slander ! " writhed Brent. " But it was
all true."

What ? " said Lestrange. And he called the clerk
in, who was listening already, and nearly tumbled into
the room as the glass door was opened in the office
which Brent had set up in the City. " I shall require
an apology from you for that, written under your own
hand, unless you produce instant proof of your calumnious
statements about me."

The wretched Brent was like the bird under the
snake's charm, and was mastered very soon. Lestrange
mixed comfort with his menace, and showed Brent that
he had an admirable opening in his old house at
Calcutta to begin life over again, even at his age, if he
would take his, Lestrange's, advice, and the assistance

which, with his influence, he could give him over thereto
begin the rebuilding of his fortunes. He could, as it
happened, find a place for him at Calcutta worth six
hundred a-year, for which his practice and experience
would especially qualify him. It would give him, too,
plenty of opportunities to scrape a competence together
again, if no more.

Brent, who had contemplated ruin, began to whine
on the new key of gratitude to his benefactor, and
acceded to the two conditions demanded.

The first was, that he should sign his positive denial
of the statements he had made to Daisy. So contemptuous
was Lestrange upon this matter, that Brent
himself began to mistrust his own senses and memory,
and signed in the presence of the clerk, who signed too.
The second was, that he should by deed transfer to
Daisy half of his annual six hundred to place her above
dependence.

Here was cause for new rebellion ; but Lestrange
pointed out how soon the Indian income would increase
in his hands, and again spoke with lofty scorn of
Brent's treatment of his wife; to him, he said, the
noblest woman he had seen. And Brent acceded to
everything, and sailed for India regretted by a dog ;

and the clerk described the scene, and Lestrange's
magnificent conduct, to his mates and peculiars; and
in course of time Daisy knew that, in return for her
unjustifiable suspicion of him, Lestrange had spoken for
her in a way not usual with him, had found a competence
for her husband, and for herself enough to
prevent her from feeling a mere dependent even in her
dear friend's house, against which the high spirit would
have soon rebelled ; and had read with her own eyes her
wretched husband's witnessed retractation of all that he
had said of Lestrange. And so it was that the strange
Count became more and more the guardian, guide,
philosopher, and friend of this hard-tried woman.

CHECK TO THE COUNT.

Not very long after the events told of in the last
chapter, happened one which caused much talk and
excitement in the world in which these characters of
my story moved. I have spoken of the peculiar ties
which connected Marian Vavasor, in the days of her
social supremacy, with Count Lestrange. Before the
time of her luckless ennoblement nobody ever dreamed
of speaking of the intimacy more than as a strong case of
mutual friendship and liking, and Lestrange was merely
regarded as a familiar intimate at the statesman's house,
versed in its ways, and useful to both host and hostess.
The growth of the intimacy was so gradual, so unmarked
the steps by which the attitude of Lestrange towards
Mrs. Vavasor grew into one of almost exclusive social
devotion, that the world was very long before it could

hint anything ill-natured of an alliance which had been
so slow and open of formation.

As long as mr. Fulke Vavasor's political position
remained to him, and his wife's drawing-rooms continued
to be the acknowledged centre for the political
world, scandal was a powerless factor in the matter.
If Lestrange wove in his head the scheme about the
Vavasor of which I have spoken in another chapter ;
if in making himself more and more essential to them
both, he never left his purpose out of sight, — he was
above all things determined not in any way to compromise
the lady, or allow his name to be prematurely
coupled with hers, in any shape or form. Nothing
could have been less favourable to the fulfilment of
that ambition of his than any untimely catastrophe, or
even rumour, which could in any way prejudice the
social position which was the lady's, — which he meant
to be his own.

That crafty purpose of his once slowly formed,
he could make no false move in playing his game,
as indeed he had begun it for a smaller stake, before
he knew how much might depend upon the issue.
From the moment when he first made the acquaintance
of the Vavasor, he saw that in their house were the

chances to be found of making for himself the influential
position which it was his ambition to hold in England,
apart and away from the smaller diplomatic and
intrigues which had made up his interesting but less distinguished
career. He was in no hurry, for he believed
in the preservation of his own youth; and if, like a
distinguished man of our time, he had said that he
wanted to be prime minister," he might have betrayed
something of his inner thought. But he never said
what he wanted, and nobody ever knew. Gradually, in
Mr. Vavasor's house, he succeeded, through a careful
use of his own social gifts and subtleties, in paving the
way to his destined goal. He became intimate with
the springs of official life, to which the circumstances
of his first introduction to London had given him his
first access ; he became favoured of ministers and
trusted of officials, less in the City and more in Downing
Street, and worked upon his way.

He might have found a seat in Parliament more
than once, but with it he would have lost many of the
secret opportunities for influence, which were the object
on which his heart was set for the purpose of the hour.
When he did enter Parliament, as it was his intention
to do, he wanted to be safe, and to enter it as a man

with his way smoothed and made ; he wanted to enter
it on the winning side, after one of those crises of
popular feeling when the people, having enough of one
lot, give the other a turn, and the " national palaver "
starts on a new tack in different hands, and reverses
the policy of its predecessors, or says it does, before
the eyes of an admiring crowd.

The Horatianss, say, have had a seven or fourteen
years' lease of office ; and the Curiatians are justly tired
of it. The lawyers on the Curiatian benches, especially,
are growing clamorous for the loaves and fishes
on which the Horatian advocates are waxing fat and
kicking, while themselves are fed on the bread and
water of opposition. It is at last discovered, therefore
that the honour of the country is in danger in Horatian
hands. Her fair fame is being tarnished by oppression
abroad, where struggling and subject nationalities lookin
vain to the land which was once their pole-star,
for guidance, for sympathy, and for aid. The old landmarks
of right and wrong, which should be the one
guidance of peoples for evermore, are becoming obliterated;
and, unless the Curiatians come at once to the
helm, England is practically lost. The Horatianss, in and
out of season assured that they are wicked men, to

VOL. 11.

whose darkened minds truth is a fable, and honour an
unknown quality, become at last badgered and irritated
into standing it no longer, and appeal to the country
to tell them whether they are wicked men or not.
The Curiatian leaders rush from hustings to hustings,
appeal to Scripture and to Hampden and the rights
of men, and to the glorious records of the Curiatian
past ; for every Horatian measure, which has done any
good to the people, has been, as all the world knows,
passed under Curiatian pressure.

Their burning words inflame the people, and wake
them to a spirit of crusade against wickedness in
general. Even quiet and thoughtful men of letters or
of science catch the infection in their studies, forget
the eternal law of the cobbler and his last, and rush
on to platforms and into committees, much to the
detriment of their wives' and children's pockets, to
contribute their driblets to the ocean of talk, fairly
taken in by the Curiatian moralities, and anticipating
an instant dawning of the golden age. The mighty
resurrection of all the goodness prevails. The people
of England come to the hustings in flocks, and emphatically
declare virtue is lord, and that the Horatianss are
wicked men.

All is over. There is much grinning like a dog,
and running to and fro in the cities. The Horatianss
depart from the up-platform of Windsor by one train
while the Curiatians enter the down by another. The
Horatianss, who had arrived each with a portfolio under
his arm (which to the popular notion suggests something
in the nature of a photographic album), depart with
the evening newspaper in its place ; and in the
mysterious recesses of Windsor the albums are handed
over to the Curiatians, who on their return to the
station display them to the populace with pride.

It is done, and virtue reigns. Then the triumphal
Curiatians change their note as fast as they possibly
can. They withdraw their accusations of immorality
with anxious zeal, disclaiming for their most ferocious
utterances anything but a Pickwickian meaning. If
there is one thing, they feel with pride, for which all
English statesmen are distinguished, it is the high-minded
and disinterested earnestness with which each
and all of them labour for the good of the people of
England, according to their honest views of right. Nomen
have ever been more remarkable for this than
the late Horatian government, however mistaken their
policy may have been. If in the heat of conflict hard

F 2

words may have been used, it is now time to forget
them. The country has discovered, to their credit be
it spoken, that the abilities of honourable gentlemen
opposite were not commensurate with their lofty principles,
and if the Curiatian brains be of a superior
cast, after all that is not the fault of the Horatianss.

The Horatianss, meanwhile, are not much conciliated,
being a good deal angry at having been called so many
bad names, and sent to the wall thereby. So they
fail at first to see that it is time to forget everything
on the spot in a friendly way; and as soon as the
Curiatians set to work, or rather before they have had
time to do anything, they begin to call names too.
The Curiatians find themselves tu-quoque, and taxed
with vicious and unpatriotic conduct, before they have
been guilty of any conduct at all. They beg the
country to wait, and the country, serenely confident of
its millennium, does. The "national palaver" braces
itself for legislation ; and in the very first speeches of
the Curiatian chiefs the country detects a new and very
different ring. We must conciliate, we must diplomatize,
we must be Pickwickian, we must nurse the
prejudices of majorities and minorities. Then out of
the blue cometh a bolt; and the country, who had

really begun to believe in a new era for the oppressed,
and in a bolder vindication of the higher moralities
as the stronghold of political battle, find that the reign
of the strong has begun again indeed ; that if the
Horatianss scourged the weak nationalities with whips,
the Curiatians will do it with scorpions ; that, by whatever
rule Russia and Austria are to be judged towards
Poland and Hungary, England, Lord bless us, is quite
another thing; that to throw away English money
abroad is in Curiatian eyes the be-all and end-all of
Horatian crime; and that for these same much-professing
Curiatians, despotism, like charity, begins at
home.

In the palaver, however, the world is in a tale, and
poor deluded old Demos, so much flattered and appealed
to a few months before, is told to mind his own business,
for discipline is good for him. The misguided
man of letters or of science, deserted, angry, powerless,
gets him back to his study and exchanges indignant
letters with his friends, and wonders what and how
soon the end of this world-doomed imperialism is to
be, at present all the worse, seemingly, in the stronger
hands. For verily the imperialism of the Horatianss
to that of their conquering rivals, is as a procession at

Ashley's to a charge of cavalry. The people of England,
patient and quiet always, hold their tongues in mortified
silence, and leave meetings and agitations, for the
most part, to the mere froth of the thing. But they
think as much and talk as little, as the noisier section
think little and talk much. And they wait for the
next battle at the polls, when they are deaf to Curiatian
thunder, and stay at home. And amid a blare of
town-bands and triumphal articles, history proclaims to
the world a new " Horatian reaction. " Even so, until
the time be ripe —

Fu vera historia ? ai posted
L'ardua sentence."

Count Lestrange was waiting for some such crisis as
this, as best calculated to bring out his powers, and
acquiring meanwhile a full and cautious mastery of the
geography of the political chess-board. But no man
knows everything ; and he was astray in his calculations
when he placed his chief dependence upon his
position with the Vavasor.

Mr. Vavasor's bald head, irreproachable dignity, and
exceeding reticence, did not impose upon Lestrange
himself, but they imposed upon him indirectly. He
believed in their effect upon Mr. Vavasor's colleagues

as well as upon the world, which regarded him as a
type of the hard-working and self-effacing statesman,
who acts while others talk. His close attention to
details, and interminable though lofty fussiness, carried
out the illusion in the official world; and it was
regarded as certain that on the next right-about of
parties Mr. Vavasor, then in opposition, would hold an
especial post for which the public voice designated him.

There was a hustle and a crisis ; a vote of confidence
in Ministers carried by a narrow majority, and an appeal
to the country, which responded by saying that it had
even less confidence than the Commons, and incontinently
turned them out.

Estrange did not feel sure, at the time of this
election, which way the popular wind really blew, and
he waited to be sure.

But when the new ministry was formed, the
catastrophe occurred which has before been told of, and
Mr. Vavasor was told off, album-less, to the Lords.

The blow to Lestrange was as great as it was to
Marian. He was to have been Mr. Vavasor's right-hand
man in his new political office ; indeed, it is no
secret from the all-knowing chronicler, that the expressions
about struggling nationalities, and oppression

abroad, and other similar manifestoes, embodied in the
election addresses of John Audley Vavasor to his constituents,
were the well-balanced periods of Lestrange's
pen, which was accustomed to sift everything to its
smallest, and in its briefest and most pointed form to
set it forth.

He had kept well with both sides in the official
world ; but his great stake had been set upon Vavasor,
with whose party he saw shrewdly enough that the
coming mastery in the game lay. That party in office,
it was quite understood that the new minister would do
his best to further the parliamentary ambitions of his
shrewd ally, and to find the money which, even in these
degenerate days, can still, though less openly than of
old, purchase in some instances senatorial honours. He
certainly owed the Count, in consideration of City
services rendered to his income, the fullest price of a
very safe seat indeed.

Lestrange had seen through the innate dulness of
his patron as well as Marian Vavasor herself; and
sedulously had the two laboured together, in alliance
unconfessed even to themselves, to conceal it from the
world. If Marian was provoked beyond all patience to
find that the dulness had been too much for both of

them, Lestrange shared her feeling to the full, and
proved at once Lady Luscombe's best comforter, as he
had been Mrs. Vavasor's greatest stay.

Poor Marian's disappointment and excitement — for
had she not made this husband's rise the purpose of her
life ? — made her more womanly, more gentle, more open
with her counsellor, than she had ever been ; and he,
his next move yet unplanned in the collapse of his
game, ventured on an openness of sympathy, and an
expression of personal regard and admiration, which he
had never approached before. For Marian was essentially
the great lady; and Lestrange's instincts were
wonderfully true, however he perverted them in use.
They were to him now as a second nature, born of
assiduous cultivation, not of the heart, but of its best
social substitute, tact.

In the long, long talk they had together, the new
Lady Luscombe fairly opened her heart to her friend,
and gave him a full understanding, much as he had
already guessed, of that chilled and isolated heart. She
had never before been so open with any one ; and
perhaps for the first time in her life did she allow anyone
to see her in tears.

It was in the course of that talk that she let him

know the secret so carefully concealed, that her
husband's heart was seriously affected. Steady official
work, the doctor had said, would be its best palliation
though it could not be a cure. Frets and excitements
would be its worst irritants.

Then and there, at once, the Count Lestrange
decided on his new game.

From that day he became more and more with Lady
Luscombe ; more and more to her. " La calumnies e un
monticello," and that wicked little wind began to blow
about in the new circles which gradually formed round
Lady Luscombe. She was born to be a leader in
society, and she remained so ; but the society gradually
changed. Her political influence was gone, and indeed
she was too indignant and too mortified to care to keep
it. The life she led became of the more strictly
fashionable, the more socially exclusive, the more
entirely frivolous.

Soon she lived for society alone, in its mere confined
sense, and society rejoiced in her leadership. Fashionable
beauties and indolent youth formed the crew of
the new craft, where a looser tone of manners and of
morality prevailed than on board the older vessel.

If Lady Luscombe heard of the rumours which

gathered round her and Lestrange, she paid them no
attention, and went on her own way. One thing she
did at last; when he was abroad upon some mission
or another, she wrote to him, and she wrote more than
once. She would have been startled enough if she had
seen the expression upon his face when he read the
letters.

You will be the Countess Lestrange now," he said
to himself, " I think, my handsome Marian ; whether
you still call yourself Lady Luscombe or no."

And all this time Lestrange was able in his own
way to devote himself to the education of Daisy Brent,
who had become the reigning beauty of the Luscombe
set. He amused himself, sometimes, by playing her
off against the wakeful jealousies of Lady Luscombe,
who brooked no rival near the throne. But he was
always able to soothe and smooth such jealousies away;
and the rumours grew. Lord Luscombe knew nothing
about them, and pottered on contentedly enough to his
wife's annoyance, devoting himself to county politics
and Luscombe Abbey, and becoming great at quarter-sessions,
and an authority on scientific farming.

But it happened that about the time when John
Brent left England, Lord Luscombe received a letter

when he was alone at the Abbey, which made him start,
and mutter, and bite his lips. And the next evening,
unexpectedly, he made his appearance at Lusmere House
during a great reception which his wife was holding,
and showed himself cantankerous, ill-tempered, peculiar.
Especially unpleasing and repellent was his manner to
Lestrange, who smoked a cigar or two more than usual
that evening in his chambers before he went to bed. But
the next morning Lord Luscombe was quiet and civil to
his wife and to everybody, as he remained. But he took
to asking various people questions, and to mysterious
colloquies which he kept to himself. With Lestrange
he was as confidential as ever, and involved himself
again in some City matters, to which he had been paying
no attention of late. The Luscombe rent-roll was very
large indeed now. He got excited over these and other
things, and the doctor was grave with him, very grave ;
and one day he sent for his lawyer, who was with him
for a few minutes only. Lady Luscombe knew that he
had been ; and Lestrange soon knew it ; and a vague
uneasiness took possession of both of them. The uneasiness
did not continue long, for Lord Luscombe was
seized with a bad attack, and after a few days' illness,
during which he could not speak, he died. And the

talk and excitement, which the opening of this chapter
recorded, followed when it became generally known
that the dead peer had a few days before appended
to his will, which left everything unentailed to his
wife, a codicil which revoked it unconditionally if she
should marry again.

THE Parthian DART.

It was a matter of some days after the contents
of Lord Luscombe's will had became known before
Lestrange and the new-made widow could bring themselves
to meet. To both it was a crushing blow ; for if
she did not acknowledge it to herself, Marian had
allowed the hope of a genuine love, and of the reality
of married happiness at some future day, to spring up
in her solitary heart. Without allowing any difference
in his manner to be perceptible, after he had learned
how frail was Lord Luscombe's tenure of his leasehold,
Count Lestrange had none the less allowed that manner
to grow very different ; and in the four years which had
passed between the formation of his grand plan and its
sudden and final frustration, he had displayed to Marian
Luscombe a constant and watchful tenderness, an unfailing

respect and devotion, which had won her heart
and will completely for his own. He at all events set
as much store by his conquest of the second, as by
gaining the first. He was able to guard himself from
any suspicion of ulterior motive by letting her trace his
increased interest in her to her burst of confidence in
him, not in the especial nature of the confidence. He
dwelt upon the manner in which her frank confession
of isolation and disappointment had touched him, and
found a thousand ways of showing her how deep was
his sympathy, and how thoroughly he, at least, understood
the misunderstood life of whose pages she had
given him a glimpse.

At first, that indomitable pride of hers had taken
the alarm when she thought over all she had said to
him — she who so prided herself upon her self-sufficing
nature. She was sensitively on her guard for any sign
of disrespect from Lestrange to her husband, who was
still her husband. Why had she allowed herself, even
in her first passion of disappointed ambition, to speak
of him to any one as she had to Lestrange ? For in
that interview she had dropped her wearisome mask
altogether, and poured out all her difficulties with
her husband's dulness and obstinacy, all the efforts she

had made to nurse his position and credit, and her
ceaseless trials under his cold and irresponsive nature
at home, in language of unconcealed scorn. Lestrange
was far too good a judge of character to mistake her ;
far too keen a player to make any false move in his
game. While he threw into his manner to the wife at
once that increase of sympathy and watchfulness, to
the husband he showed himself, in the same way, more
attentive than before. He was more courteous and
deferential to him than he had been, not less; and
advised him, taking care that the advice and the quarter
it came from should at once reach Marian's ears, to
withdraw as much as possible from the excitement of
London and of City politics, and to devote himself to the
quieter pursuits of a county magnate. Very soon had
Lestrange assured himself of the gravity of the doctor's
verdict, and become convinced that the end was at best
a question of a very short time. He would retard it if
he could, not accelerate it ; and again he could be conscious
of a good action. As a matter of fact, it was
advisable that he should be thoroughly secure of his
reversion before the end came. Marian was touched
by the interest he showed, and grateful for this thoughtfulness
for her husband, which was so palpably free from

any unworthy or interested motive. More than once,
never off his guard, Lestrange allowed her eyes to
detect him in the act of watching Lord Luscombe with
an expression of anxious sympathy and interest, drawing
him away from some conversation in which he
seemed likely to show unusual excitement, and with
his quiet, restful tones and sleepless tact, soothing the
peer into the placid blessedness of his natural self-satisfaction.
From the moment when he made up his
mind to do it, Lestrange knew well how to win the
world-trained and world-worn heart which had never
spoken for living man before, and by slow and sure
degrees he conquered her for his vers' bond-slave
through her pride.

Infinitely dexterous was the use he made, in the
pursuit of his all-absorbing purpose, of his intimacy
with Daisy Brent. He played his game with the
great advantage, which under such circumstances it
is, of perfect coolness on his side. If he had been
capable of loving Marian, he would have transgressed
etiquette, and would have alarmed her pride. So
he was able to observe the advice of the old saw —
Pique her and soothe her turn by turn " — with
the experimental curiosity of the practised duellist,

VOL. II. • g

playing with the foil of a raw adversary. He experimented,
and amused himself with sundry passes for
show and for self-gratification, in his duel to the death
in which he meant to win.

While Daisy remained unsuspicious of any ulterior
aim, and flirted and danced upon the frivolous way on
which she had now resolutely set her foot, to find in
the flowers which strewed it, if she could, a Lethe for
the wasted intellect and wearied heart, he worked
upon Marian Luscombe more and more through her ;
and more and more Marian Luscombe and he became
coupled and united, while Lord Luscombe grew
yet more lost to London sight, till the catastrophe
recorded at the end of the last chapter came upon
the two.

Lestrange's baffled wit and broken scheme betrayed
him into a first anger terrible to see, had any one but
his valet and factotum, Chaffers, been in his chambers to
see it. Even there, his very rage was dangerous in its
suppression ; in the dead-white face, which every jot of
colour had left to the lips, closed tight over the teeth ;
in the clenched hands and caged walk up and down,
and the fierce curses muttered deep under his breath.
Where had he made his mistake ? " he thought ; " he

who had watched every point in his game like a lynx,
and stopped the earth as he went everywhere. Buta
few weeks before he had been as indispensable to
Lord Luscombe as to his wife, and trusted and consulted
by him upon every petty point, at every turn. Where
had been his mistake, where ? "

He sat down and growled ; and out of a casket
which he unlocked he took out a small bundle of letters
and counted them.

Xo, they are all there ; none of them can by the
merest chance have come under Luscombe's eyes."

Then he read the letters over and over again to
himself, and laughed bitterly enough.

Frank and open enough, certainly, and not meant

for publication. What a fool Marian was to write them.

With such a weapon in my hands, I was armed against

any refusal on her part if she had been inclined to

make it ; not that she would have been. I never saw

a woman more in love in my life. And all for nothing

nothing — nothing. Good Heavens ! I shouldn't be

surprised if she expected me to come forward and

marry her for love. When clever women once become

fools, they are capable of any folly, and of suspecting

men of the same capacity too. I had better burn the

g 2

letters. She might get hold of them, and appeal to
them as a weapon against me."

He took up the poker in his left hand and held the
letters over the fire. Then he reflected, and put the
poker down.

"No, I won't," he said; "I never throw away a
weapon. I've got to find a new line of battle, and no
one knows what may serve. Great Heaven ! it is too
maddening, just when I thought my life's battle won
at last. More than half my life over, and I have to
begin again ! Am I to go on living on nothing, never
secure of the next six months, to the end of my days ?
Curse that dull-witted old lord — curse him — curse him !
To have a career in a million blighted, and by such ashe
! I'll keep these idiotic letters, if only to spite his
widow. Now let me go into the park and think."

He locked the letters carefully away in the casket,
with the little key which never left his chain, and he
went out.

Shall you dine at home, Count Lestrange ? " asked
Chaffers submissively as he went.

I don't know. Don't bother me."

He went out into the wilderness of Hyde Park,
where within a few yards of the world's busiest corner

the world leaves a solitude, and he wandered about
among the paths and on the grass, switching with his
cane at the long grasses and wild-flowers which grew
about, smoking a cigar with less deliberation than usual
with him, and in spite of himself and all his trained
self-master, uttering an occasional audible interjection,
which made a casual actor lift his head from the bench
on which he was studying his part, set him down as
one of the profession," and go on again.

Once he turned round in his walk, and found himself
face-to-face with a rosy nurse-maid, wheeling about
a little Box and Cox in a comfortless perambulator, with
their two little heads hanging out over the two sides
of the vehicle on the verge of unconscious dislocation.
The rosy nurse-maid, whom he had passed the moment
before, had opened both her eyes to a wider width, and
her mouth to match them, and oblivious of her duties,
was staring at Lestrange.

The lesson brought him to his senses at once ; he said
something good-natured to the girl with an easy laugh,
and went away, leaving her to resume her ordinary
walk of life, and shake the heads of her two charges
violently into their proper angle on their necks again.
He wandered away the afternoon; he hailed a

hansom and drove the round of Regent's Park once or
twice ; he dined in the quietest corner of the club he
had most recently joined, where he was least known ;
and he went home to his chambers later at night than
usual, after more than the usual allowance of cigars,
planless still to any special purpose. What in the
world was he to do ? Well — he must bide his time.
Something would happen to give him a new lead.
Wait sometimes on events, he thought, and events will
wait on you.

Events, however, failed the Count this time, and
gave him no special lead which might point to a secure
future If he had been able to see in this crisis of his
life one of those calls to better things which come to all
of us, his brains and his connection would have found
him, soon enough, plenty of solid and worthy work todo.
But he had no ears for any such call as that.

When he met Marian Luscombe next, it was a
hard trial for both of them ; but it became harder still
for her, when she read in the face so studiously impassive
none of the sympathy the poor lady had been
yearning for, but a something new and undefinable,
which flashed to her startled nerves the electric message
of a formless fear. He looked as hard and as cruel as

death ; for as the natural consequence of the feelings in
which he had been indulging since the shock of Lord
Luscombe's will came upon him, he who had never
loved her had passed into a deep phase of hate. If she
did not quite know that — out of her woman's nature,
hardened as it had been, could not know it — she knew
that there was some bitter change. She had nothing
to reproach herself with ; what was it ?

The feeling which had grown up in her heart for
Lestrange, unlicensed and half-confessed though it may
have been, had in its way softened her, though but fora
sad end; and the reflections which that feeling had
caused, working in a direction exactly opposite to that
in which they had acted on Lestrange, had really
brought her to think that out of such apparent evil
might come good.

She was free to accept Lestrange's hand after a
proper lapse of time ; and she said to herself that she
was ready to do so, and to give up her fortune for
his sake, who had all the brains and means to work for
her, if he had the will, as surely he must have. Was
he not bound to offer so to do ? Would not the world
talk cruelly of both of them, and whisper its bitter
sarcasms behind their backs about the true meaning of

her husband's will ? That was the hardest part of all
her trial ; as to him, who hated the very thought of
ridicule, it was the hardest too. She saw the way to
meet and brave it; he did not, So that their first
meeting was very terrible to her.

Whatever his first feeling and her suspicion of it,
however, he was able after the first to suppress all signs
of it, and to speak to her with all due sympathy, while
careful to commit himself in no wise. By various
questions he tried to arrive at the reasons of Lord
Luscombe's conduct, and he saw she knew, though she
fenced with the subject naturally enough, and shrank
from every allusion.

One day, however, when in his own subtle way, at
which she could not take offence, he had pressed her
hard, she put without a word a letter in his hands.

I found this letter among my husband's papers,"
she said. " It is anonymous ; and from the date he has

marked upon it, — ' Received the — day of , 18 — ,' —

he had it on the day when he last came up to town.
Nobody has seen it but he and I, to my knowledge.
Perhaps you should see it too. Read it, and see if you
know the writer."

She gave him the letter, and got up from her seat

and left the room. He took it, and he looked at it,
and started as if he had been stung. It was a puling,
unmanly, miserable thing, as such things are ; much
affecting manliness and sincerity, and putting Lord
Luscombe on his guard against a danger of which,
according to the writer, all the world was talking. Did
not Lord Luscombe know why he was persuaded to
be always in the country ? did not Lord Luscombe
know what was going on in town ? was it not fitting
that the eyes of one of his lofty position and high
character should be opened to the reflections that were
being cast on both, and on his name, by his wife and a
man he knew too well — whose name he would not
mention, though from the hints he gave, Lord Luscombe
would easily discover it. He, the writer, would not
sign his name, for reasons which Lord Luscombe would
guess and appreciate ; but the facts Lord Luscombe, if
he mistrusted him, could easily verify for himself. All
he asked in return for the warning, — which, as a warm
admirer of Lord Luscombe's career, he could not in his
conscience help giving, now that he was on the point
of leaving England for several years, — was that Lord
Luscombe would never say a word of his letter to
any one.

And Lestrange read the poisonous letter through
and through, artfully contrived as it was to sting Lord
Luscombe in every detail; and through the clumsy
disguise which confused the handwriting, he knew in a
moment that the writer was John Brent.

DESCENSUS AVERNL*

John Brent had taken a characteristic revenge, and
a deadly one. Sitting in a chair with the letter before
him, the schemer recognized his own impotence to sway
events precisely to his liking, with a sense of failure
new to him. He had never failed before in anything
he meant to do, and now he had broken down over the
most important stake for which he had ever played,
through the thick-wickedness of one of his puppets and
the small spite of another. That this blow should come
from such a quarter as Brent especially irritated him.
He had held the man in such unutterable scorn, had
amused himself so much over his infinite littleness, and
had so completely controlled him, that he could not
have believed in his venturing to revolt.

All downhill.

"So clumsily, too ! " he thought to himself, as he
examined Brent's awkward essays in falsifying his handwriting.
"But it is always so. The roughest hands
spoil the finest webs. D — the man ! what a reptile it is ;
I wouldn't have given him credit for brains enough even
for such a dirty move as this. Just after I had got him
that place, too ! Ungrateful little brute." The Count
Lestrange honestly conceived himself a deeply-injured
man ; and his reflections took the turn of high moral
indignation. King Lear himself could not have resented
ingratitude more. But then and there a new purpose
came into his mind, which, as he thought matters over,
gave his face an expression which would have warned
any one who saw it off him like a signal of danger.
•'You shall repent this to a purpose, Mr. John Brent,"
he said to himself, when his reflections were at an end.
I give you some six years to mend your fortunes in;
and when you come home you shall find a bed of nettles
to lie on. The shallow idiot ! suppose I robbed him of
the place I found for him, by a stroke of the pen ?
Most men in my case would ; but I shan't do that yet,
though I may some day. A bad day's work all round,
that letter of yours." Count Lestrange merely shrugged
his shoulders when he spoke of the letter to Marian,

and told her that he had no idea who the writer could
be. He asked to keep it, on the chance of being able
to find out ; and she left it in his hands.

Four years more went by upon their course, and
brought no striking change in the position or the lives
of the characters of this our story. But it was a time,
for three of them, of slow and sure deterioration indifferent
degrees of kind. When it became clear to
her that Lestrange had no intention whatever of claiming
her hand without its hereditaments, the heart of
Marian Luscombe hardened into stone. While her
husband lived, she would not own to herself anv feeling
which could amount to disloyalty to his name, though
under the name and guise of friendship, upon which
Lestrange had carefully traded and played, she had
admitted the Count to such a dangerous place in her
familiar thoughts and life. She remembered the letters
she had written to him but vaguely, and could not
answer to herself how nearly friendship, in the expression
of them, might have trodden upon the heels
of another partnership. One day — it was many months
afterwards — he reminded her of them.

My letters to you, Count ? " she said. " Why, you
burned them."

No, I didn't," he answered.

Count Lestrange ! you said you had."

"Did I ? It was a mistake, and I must have been
thinking of something else. I seldom burn letters, for
one never knows what may happen."

"But — but," cried Lady Luscombe, "you promised
me, on your word as a gentleman."

Surely not," he said. " Do you think a gentleman
has no feelings, Marian ? " He spoke in a tender and
respectful voice, with a mocking devil in the eye.

Feelings — you — feelings ! "

A great sob rose in Lady Luscombe's throat, and
she walked away from him to the window. After her
husband's death, and after the reading of that cruel
will, she had realized what her feeling for this adventurer
had become. Till the will robbed her of the future,
she never definitely thought of what that future might
have become. But then she did — deeply and hopefully,
till the first sight of Lestrange dispelled her dream.
Then, things went on as before. The man was in her
heart, and she could not root him out ; could not help
hoping that some day, before it was quite too late, he
would be touched by the love which he had so sedulously
won, and make for himself some position by the right of

which he might claim her. Nor did he relax his hold
over her a jot. If he could not have her hand, he had
still some use of her fortune, and Luscombe Abbey and
Lusmere House were head-quarters not to be abandoned.
So still he kept up, with cynical skill, the tradition of
tenderness and devotion; still he stayed with her,
played with her, consorted with her. And the world,
which, as they both feared, had commented with much
of sympathetic malice on the nine days' wonder of Lord
Luscombe's will, began to shrug its respectable shoulders
more and more. Marian had faced the first looks and
the first whispers with impassive face and indomitable
pride ; and Lestrange had let no sign escape him, either
of disappointment or form of personal interest in the
matter. He openly spoke of the will, when he did
speak of it, as a cruel thing to the widow, and as an
unpleasing finale to Lord Luscombe's life and character.
And as time went on, the world, though it did shrug
its shoulders, accepted the alliance between the wealthy
Lady Luscombe and the fashionable Count as one of its
licensed eccentricities, and dined and danced at her
house as of old.

It was after Lady Luscombe had shown some sign.
as she sometimes did, of a wish to break with Lestrange

altogether, and to shake off an influence which was too
much of a mastery, that the episode of the letters
occurred. Lestrange used them as a power, and recurred
to them again and again, with every circumstance of
art and malice, to strengthen his hold over Marian. He
succeeded in misleading her memory and mind altogether
as to the terms in which they had been written, which
he exaggerated, bit by bit, till he made them an un-sleeping
cause of fear to her ; for he more than hinted
that he might one day find means to make them public,
if she showed any hesitation about lending herself and
her fortune to any-of his schemes of self-interest.
Fearing him, shrinking from him, angry with herself
for his influence, but jealous when he showed signs of
devotion to any one else, Marian Luscombe became
Lestrange's bond-slave, deaf to other voices when it but
pleased him to charm her. His motive in all this
seemed insufficient enough, but for the light which
in an earlier chapter I attempted to throw on such a
character as his. The shock of Lord Luscombe's will,
and the discovery of Brent's letter, had aggravated all
the evil of the man into a finished fine art, and rooted
out every scruple of which yearning and appealing good
had left so much as a grain behind. " Totus, teres,

atque rotunda" the adventurer came out of that
ordeal just as this —

The most replenished villain in the world."

He hated marian as he hated Brent, and as before
long he hated Daisy.

Daisy Brent went downwards on the Aversion
path in her own way, meanwhile. That way had never
much harm in it really, I think ; for the loyal nature
was siege-proof in the citadel, against the whole army
of temptation. But some out-works were carried,
perhaps. The misery of her life with her husband,
with its strain of petty and unremitting mental torture,
had gone far to spoil the sweetest woman on the earth.

That she was so, and no other, I, Tom Balbus, do,
with my wife's adhesion, loyally maintain. But with
the better nature strong in her, and scornful of herself
far more than of others, she let the current of her new
life bear her on.

She heard nothing of her husband, would not hear ;
and the thoughts of Guy Faucit, never-ending, never-dying,
she crushed like serpents out of her heart, and
crushed out half her sweetness with them. She cultivated
her beauty; she prided herself in her beauty;

VOL. II. H

and as she matured and ripened in her womanhood, it
put forth new shoots of honour every day. She laughed
and she joked; she sang and she acted; she was the
pride of the papers and the photographers ; she teased
good old Lady Pepperharrow, who worshipped the very
ground she trod on; and when good placid Sir Hugh,
full of his years and his wife's honours, was gathered
to his honest fathers, she devoted her time and her
energies to the task of unselfish consolation. She had
not been so much her old self since she left her
husband's house with that mark under her dress.
She reigned supreme in the court of folly and frivolity
which buzzed and trifled round her; she flirted with
reckless impartiality with every courtier there, and let
no one of them flatter himself that he had gained a
foothold in her heart. Woe to him who passed the
boundary ; for he never came near to it again.

Now it fell out that, one day, the Count Lestrange
transgressed. I am not careful to record the why or
the how, or to tell how gradually, while keeping Lady
Luscombe in his power, he allowed his admiration for
Daisy to draw him on. It was in an outburst of jealousy
of her that Marian brought upon herself the first scene
about the letters. Careful and watchful always, bent

upon his revenge on John Brent, and confident as ever
in his own magnetic power, the Count Lestrange fancied
at last that he had won Daisy's heart, and one day he
let her know it.

The adventurer had blundered again, and shrank
into himself under her flash of indignant honour. For
she stood at her full height ; she spoke of Lady Lus-combe
with personal regard ; her bright colour and her
angry eyes framed and lit up a lofty picture of unmeasured
scorn ; and he met his match, did the Count
Lestrange. But he knew the falseness of his move ina
moment, and he repaired it as far as it could be
repaired before more harm was done. He persuaded
Daisy that he had been led away; he did all in his
power to soothe and to disarm her, and finally persuaded
her to say no word of what had passed. After all, alas !
these things were too much the way of the half-conscience
world in which they lived. She had
encouraged him, perhaps, as with an air of honourable
and repentant mortification he intimated that she had.
So she spared him and held her tongue, and let things
be as they were again, as far as she could, though
studiously on her guard from that moment with Count
Lestrange. As for him, he was more upon his guard

H 2

than she ; and, accepting the position he had made for
himself, never again let look or word escape him which
could suggest offence.

And so, gradually, the influence of the man's mind
and will re-established its old sway over Daisy's intellect.
But a new purpose began to shape itself in
his active brain.

Wrong again, was I ? " he thought to himself at
home. " That is a very inaccessible character. ' Tu
me lo pagherai,' John Brent, though, for all that. I
wonder what on earth has become of the man called
Faucit ? "

The man called Faucit travelled all those years
away, bearing the mark upon his heart invisible and
effaced, like the preacher's counterpart of Hester
Prynne's scarlet letter. His love for Daisy had gathered
round all the roots of his life, and no new growth was
possible for them, till the tree should decay and die for
lack of sap. He lived the wildest of wanderer's lives :
in the bush and in the desert, on sea or on prairie,
anywhere but in towns. Most of all he loved the
strange haunts and strange ways of the men of the
sierras, whom Bret Harte has sung. He had enough to
live on, with his simple healthy ways of life ; and he

made himself something of a name too, though he
carefully concealed his personal identity, by some
stirring sketches of that stirring life, in prose and
verse, which he published in America. Some echoes
of them came to England, and Daisy Brent, casting
her eyes over a set of magazine-verses one day, started
and dreamed. So ran the lines —

IN TWO WORLDS.

Under the forest, of its snows unladen,

And kissing back the nervous kiss of spring,

I sit and dream of courtly knight and maiden.
And old-world pomp encompassing a king.

Out of her wintry sleep the earth is waking,
And birds and flowers carol her reveille ;

O'er West and East the common promise breaking,
Breathes the first whisper of their holiday.

Without, the mighty forms of things primeval
Stand all untenanted of Custom's robes ;

Within, my mind shapes pictures mediaeval
With pencil fashioned forth in other globes.

The rugged miners share my board and pillow,
And by the camp-fire sing their lawless song;

But at a bound my thought o'er rides the billow,
And breaks the strong surf by a flight as strong.

What do I here, among the waving grasses,
Which never learned to trim their graces wild ?

While by my side Nature's rude army passes,
Another world still claims me for her child.

In vain I ply the axe in pass or clearing ;

In vain I fill me with the unfettered air :
Still to my eyes are other scenes appearing,

Still my heart hearkens the low voice of care.

Among our ranks no woman comes to harm us,
And sow us discord for our hands to reap ;

No wiles and jars allure us or alarm us,
Or wanton with the mighty arm of sleep.

Yet here, for me, though heart and will are master,
As strong as iron and as calm as death,

The will will waver and the heart beat faster,
Touched by the memory of a woman's breath.

Why are ye here, rude fellows of my labour,

Thus outlawed from the bounds of woman's reign ?

Read I, beneath the swart hues of my neighbour,
Another story of another pain ?

She said she loved me — and one day she left me
Without a warning and without a word;

Of past and future at a blow bereft me,
The cause unspoken, and the plea unheard.

Behind me honour, and high hopes before me,
A life of earnest and a name of worth :

Her glamour shed the bright delusion o'er me,
Her presence kept the promise of my birth.

Then fell the blow, and past and future shivered
Just at a fairy finger's heartless touch ;

And from the bondage of a lie delivered,
I laughed that I had trusted overmuch.

Laughed ! and the echo of that hollow laughter
Rings in my heart with one eternal knell ;

And the slow years which rolled their burden after,
With all the burden cannot crush the spell.

Pines of the Sierras, spread your mantles round me,
And hide me from the past, untrodden West !

Oh that the free lands and free souls that bound me,
Could break the fetters of my prisoned breast !

In vain, in vain ! not the dividing ocean,
With all its storms, one memory can drown ;

While the vexed phantom of a lost devotion
Still in the tortured bosom dies not down.

Up and to work ! the western spring invites me,
And Freedom calls me forth among the free ;

But no — nor work nor freedom here delights me ;
The eastern bondage falls again on me.

Eight years after the day when first he met Daisy,
the wearied spirit brought Guy Faucit home to England

THE COUNT Estrange's Wager.

It was the fag-end of the London season, when the
world is melting away to its pleasures and its holidays
abroad and at home, when the active rush to mountain-climbing
or to moor-drawing, and the indolent or overeaten
go of! to German spas, and swell the coffers of
Dr. Largeness, who is saved the trouble of prescribing
anything for anybody except water, and would justly be
suspected if he did. Others who are less troubled about
their digestion, or less able to pander to it, follow the
call of Custom, and desert their homes and their comforts
for the unequalled wretchedness of sea-side lodgings,
happily to the unfeigned delight of the infantry,
who are made the excuse for the proceeding in most
cases. Much as the Londoner vaunts his London, he
spends most of his time there in considering where he

is " going to " next ; while the country-cousin, whose
tastes or profession let him keep out of the maelstrom,
may sit under the shadow of his vines in peace, and
wander afield only when the fancy prompts him.

M fortunate nimium, sua si bona norint,
Agricola."

In nine cases out of ten, the agricola sees it not, and
thinks that he is wasting his days and bustling his
light out of London.

The fag-end of the season always found the Count
Lestrange in town, unless he happened to be absent on
one of his mysterious errands of private diplomacy
abroad. For the fag-end of the season meant that he
was more in request with the fag-enters than any man,
with his exhaustless store of information and anecdote,
and his pleasant capacity of being all things to all men.

It was only when the last roses of summer had
ceased to bloom on the London dinner-tables, that
Lestrange was off to carry on the social war in a round
of country-houses, beginning with a campaign of deer-stalking
or grouse-shooting in the North, and subsiding
into the milder excitements of partridges and pheasants
in due course of calendar.

Very soon in his English life had Lestrange realized

that for an outsider who wants to become a social
power, the royal road to the heart of the male British
Philistine lies through the gun-barrel. So, being one
of those happily constituted persons who do everything
well to which either taste or circumstance leads them
to turn their hands, he made himself a crack shot,
without caring for sport the least in the world. Indeed,
his utter absence of all excitement in the matter was
probably one of his chief secrets of success.

I am myself a man of peace, who only carried a gun
four times, and grew rather " mixed " over it. The first
time, I discharged it at an untimely landrail when it
was exactly a yard from my feet, and blew the creature
into so many pieces that nothing but an odd feather or
two was ever found. The second, I fired at my first
and only snipe, a parlous bird to hit at the best of
times, and nigh out of gun-shot ; and with an inward
wonder carefully concealed, I found that I had slain
him. The third, now confident of my powers, I took
long and deliberate aim at a sitting rabbit within easy
distance, who did not seem to mind me the least ; and
was perfectly justified, for I missed him. The fourth,
made to carry a friend's gun under protest over a field
or two (there are friends who will do it still), I became

lost in my own literary meditations, and forgot entirely
where I was till an indignant keeper told me that I had
just neglected a whole covey of partridges which had
offered me a choice of shot, and were disappearing. I
blankly gazed at their retreating forms ; and, ungratefully,
but with entire unconsciousness of a guilty motive,
discharged my friend's gun straight at him. I missed
him, too ; but he made such a Yokes-like bound into
the air, that for the moment I thought I hadn't. He
never asked me to carry his gun again. And I think
that he must have whispered the tale abroad ; for
nobody else has, either. Whereof I rejoice.

No such sins as these had Lestrange to atone for ;
and many a hardened cover-haunter was jealous of the
cool prowess of his steady gun. In the evenings, his
talk and his song were as welcome to the women as
his sportsmanship had been to the men; and he
brought with him to the table of Crabtree Hall all
the latest intelligence gathered in the rooms of Lady
Backbite, where he had been staying last.

The Count Lestrange could live at free quarters
pretty well all the year, if it pleased him. And for a
substantial part of the year it did. But his chief
resource was, and remained, Luscombe Abbey.

It was on a July afternoon, then, as the last London
month was drawing to a damp close, — the Derby had
been run that year in a snow-storm, and some casual
thunderstorms were all the heat that had vouchsafed
itself, — that a bright fire was burning in Lestrange's
chambers, somewhere off Piccadilly, among the curious
little passes of the Mayfair maze.

They were good and comfortable rooms, oddly
furnished out of all parts and corners of the world, till
they might have passed for a museum in little. Strange
skins of strange beasts ; gaunt curiosities of China or
Japan; stuffed birds of tropical parti-colour; assegais
and cross-bows, and muskets of antique formation ; rare
gems of painting and of bric-a-brac ; carved chairs and
couches of rich mellow wood ; fantastic curtains artistically
looped and draped ; these things, and things like
them, made up the Count Lestrange's interior. And
he had so planned and so arranged its general tone
and background, with a view to harmony of colour,
that the whole effect was as of "a study in reds and
blacks."

A hot fire for July, even a cold one," thought the
man Chaffers to himself, as he occupied himself in the
arrangement of the rooms where he was the ministering

acolyte. " But the Count likes it. He's an odd man,
my master."

The stealthy man who acted as the Count's servant
was gliding about the sitting-room of Lestrange's suite,
which contented itself with being a suite of two, after
the fashion of the older lodging-houses. His bedroom
and dressing-room combined was separated from the
other by the central folding-doors which make the
despair of English dramatists, accustomed to the side-doors
of their French brethren, and finding them not —
when they want to hide Lady Barbara, or to withdraw
the lover unobserved by a private way, with the assistance
of the chambermaid on the left, just as the indignant
parent enters r by the right, and discovers the
ingenuous daughter seated at her work, centre. What
is the wretched playwright to do with a sitting-room
opening blank into another, with no relief but another
door opening out just at the side of it, upon the same
staircase ? Doors at back in flat are as part of his
stock in trade, and the British architect rarely provides
them.

Was it in deference to some dramatic instinct that
Lestrange's two rooms did possess a sort of appendix, in
the shape of a narrow strip of a chamber opening into

the drawing-room only, and like it facing the street
through a slip-window ?

People were facetious about that little room, and
called it the Blue Beard chamber, the laboratory, the
confessional, any name which occurred to them. By
rights it should have been devoted to the uses of
Chaffers, who was indeed allowed to make a sitting-room
of it at times. But his master did not love too much
proximity, even in his useful case, and relegated him to
a bedroom in the upper regions.

The ear of Chaffers caught a sound at the door, and
the parlour-maid of the establishment came in. He
had heard a ring at the door-bell first, and had looked
out and smiled.

Is the Count at home, Mr. Chaffers ? " said the
girl, a spruce and trim handmaiden, with no suspicion
of the " slavey." The Count's landlady understood his
ways too well for that; and her reverence for her
lodger was the first article of her social faith.

Yes, Miss Hannah."

Hannah's pretty cap withdrew itself, and silks and
satins rustled in its place. The lady who wore them
threw up her veil from her face, and she looked
quickly and impatiently round the room.

"Where is the Count, Chaffers?" she asked, with
the way of one familiar with the rooms. " I want to
see him at once."

"Yes, my lady," answered the man, as with a
scarcely perceptible knock at the folding-doors he disappeared
into the bedroom.

Lady Luscombe, for it was she who was the visitor,
looked round and round with a strained and eager
look, and threw herself into an oaken arm-chair, which
stood like a senator's seat of office by the round table
in the middle of the room. Impatiently she tapped
her foot, and impatiently she moved her head, as with
her hands she pushed back from her face the bands
of the whitened hair.

I must make one more effort before I leave town,
hopeless as it seems," she thought ; and again the
Asmodeus of romance caught the unspoken soliloquy.
My letters ! If he would give me back my letters !
Fool that I was, to be so led on. But that man would
lead on anybody to do what he wishes, with his strange
eyes, his strange talk, his fatal fascination. With
any one else I shouldn't feel afraid, I think, for what
could he do ? What would he have the heart to do,
if he could ? Heart ! " and a sad and bitter smile

crossed her face. " He has none — none. He has never
forgiven me my husband's cruel will, and the terrible
clause which went so deeply home. I am afraid of
him ! afraid ! afraid ! and I don't know even now
whether I love him or hate him. Sometimes it is one,
I think, sometimes the other. But I am always afraid
of him. What were those letters ? what did they say ? "
the next thought said, and Lady Luscombe was on her
feet again looking about the room. "I never can
remember how far I trusted him. My conscience longs
to feel clear ; but I am always trying to recall the
words I wrote to him, and I can't. Would they spell
ruin, as he says ? And why should I care for ruin or
for anything else, in the blank life which mine has
turned to ? But I do care, and the thought of those
letters keep me in a fever. Where does he keej} them
where ? " And she began angrily to turn over the
cards and letters which lay on the table in a queer
old plate of Dresden red, after the impetuous fashion
of the young wife in the ' Pattes de Mouche.' " And
why does he keep me waiting ? " she muttered at last.
If he doesn't come soon, Daisy will be here to fetch
me."

She began her idle search again, even throwing

open some drawer in the writing-table between the
windows, and thrusting her hand among the scattered
papers. At her back the folding-door was quietly
opened, and the Count Lestrange was in the doorway,
watching her with an amused smile. He wore the
short velvet coat which was his home alternative to
the frock-coat and swallow-tail of decorum, and there
was no trace of white in his hair, and no perceptible
change in the lines of his face, to match the ravages
of Time upon her. If he had emotions, the Count
Lestrange kept them in order.

Can I help you ? " at last he asked, placidly.

Lady Luscombe started and turned round ; and,
resting her hand upon the papers in the drawer, looked
straight at Lestrange.

You can, indeed," she said ; and her eyes were
full of a steady and reproachful appeal. " Oh, Count !
Count ! give me back those letters."

Lestrange's eyes wandered, as they so generally did,
and met hers no more fairly than his answer met her
invocation. His smile imperceptibly deepened a
shade, and his eyes seemed looking after his smile.
Like the Quaker of tradition, he only answered by a
question.

VOL. II. T

"Why did you write them, if you want them
again?" he asked. "The property in a letter, you
know, belongs to the receiver."

Not if he has promised to destroy them."
"You misunderstood me," he said, "as I have
told you before. And I say again, if you want them
back, why did you write them ? "

The speaker had moved to the well-lined bookcase
which filled the wall between the room and the slip-room,
except the space where the door was. It was
a curious bookcase, decorated with gilt sphinx's heads
between the upper shelves, with corresponding feet
which peeped out of the partitions of black wood at
the lower ones, and rested on the black marble slab
which covered cupboards below. He was leaning an
elbow upon the slab, and examining his books, a
favourite process with him. Lady Luscombe looked
at him, went up to the table, and spoke shortly and
hardly.

Because I cared for you, and you know I did."

And I keep them," he said, — as quietly as ever,

but with that mocking devil lurking in the tone,

which she never seemed to miss now, whenever, since

her husband's will was read, he spoke to her of things

like these, — " I keep them because I care for you, and
you know I do." %,

"It is not true ! " she said, passionately, though
very low. "You must have forgotten, I think," she
added bitterly, and with all her pride under arms,
that, under my own eyes, you ventured to make
love to Daisy Brent."

Did she ever tell you so ? "

No. But I know it. You could not blind me
if you tried."

u Why should I try then, if it is of no use ? " he
answered. "But if I did do so, depend upon it, I
have not forgotten ; I never forget."

"She was wiser than I," Lady Luscombe said, "for
she saw through you."

"Not entirely. I don't think it's easy. But she
judges me more fairly than you do."

u How ? "

She knows," said Lestrange, in his gentlest voice,
into which he suddenly threw a tone of pleading
that my passing attentions to her were the result of
a little pardonable jealousy — of some one else."

"Jealousy!" exclaimed the other, "and why?

Daisy Brent was fortunate," she added, with an infinite

1 2

sadness, and again sitting in the oak-chair by the
table, " to escape those ' passing attentions ' better
than I did."

Perhaps," he said, taking his seat opposite to
Lady Luscombe.

Neither moved till the brief talk was done, which
was to prove pregnant with result for this story.

But such women live on passing attentions," he
went on, with a contemptuous expression of slight
regard for the object, which had a wound in it ; " though
they like them better when they don't pass."

Lady Luscombe knew these aphorisms of his, and
shrank from them.

Daisy Brent is a good woman," she said abruptly.

I don't think so."

Do you think any woman good ? "

"Not many. But surely you should forgive me,"
he said, with the sudden pleading again in his voice,
from which this time he had banished the tone of
mockery, " if I am not easy to please."

The change of tone went home ; and Lady Luscombe
answered it as pleadingly.

Lestrange ! give me back my letters ! "
Marian ! let me keep them ! "

What for ? why ? " she asked.

For sentiment, which rules me," he answered. The
mockery came back ; and a half-repressed exclamation
of disappointment, weariness, anger, pain, came from
Lady Luscombe. " It is all I have left," Lestrange
went on, "now that I may not marry you."

Now that you may not marry my fortune, you
mean," she said bitterly, throwing all disguise aside.
You could have had me had you wished."

"Without money on either side? "said he. "Weare
not young or selfish, like Mrs. Brent."

How you hate her ! " was Lady Luscombe's answer
after a brief pause, in which she looked at him
strangely. " You say these things so often. Oh, don't
deny it ! I believe you want revenge upon her."

If I do, I shall soon have it,"

"How?"

She will throw over her husband."

Lady Luscombe started, as he spoke with that
deliberate slowness which he sometimes adopted. Then
she laughed and shook her head.

It would serve Mr. Brent right, bad man that he
is ! " she said. " But she won't, however long he stays
in India. She is a good woman."

You doubt it," Lestrange said, pointedly. " You
say these things so often." Then his manner grew
careless and off-hand. " Excuse me if I write a note
for a moment, an answer which I forgot to send," he
said.

Lady Luscombe excused him with a sign, and he
took up pen and paper. Then as he was writing he
laughed, as if some humorous notion had crossed his
mind.

"What will you bet me," he said, "by way of a
joke, of course," and he held his pen between his fingers
with a smile, while looking at his note before him, —
"you have grown fond of betting, you know, — that
Daisy Brent doesn't run away before the end of the
year?

Lady Luscombe laughed shortly. "With you?"
she said.

Oh dear, no," and he laughed a good deal while he
went on with his note. " I wouldn't have her."

With whom, then ? " Lady Luscombe rather scornfully
asked.

"What does that matter? You see you aren't
back your opinion."

Lady Luscombe looked at him sadly enough, and

answered with another scorn in her voice, which had a
ring of regret in it.

What have you to bet, Count Lestrange ? "

Your letters," he said very coolly, still writing.

Ah ! " She started as if at a blow.

What price do you put on them ? "

She hesitated for a few seconds.

Any price," she said.

"It's a mere fancy wager," said Lestrange, and
taking up his note to read over to himself. " Shall we
say — ten thousand pounds ? '*

"Nonsense," she answered. "That is a fancy
wager."

Like Shylock's, isn't it ? " laughed Lestrange.
And as much in earnest, [Mrs. Brent," was the aside
which his thought supplied.

Shall we book it ? " he added, folding up his note.

Seriously ? " asked Lady Luscombe, puzzled
thoroughly, and not understanding the drift of the
scene, or seeing that it had any.

What a question ! " answered the other.

"You are a strange man," she said suddenly.
"What are you?"

I don't know. I never did. Shall we book it ? "

Ten — thousand — pounds," emphasized she.

"Nothing to you," said he. "Your letters are
everything, in the view which you persist in taking of
them and me."

The view you made me take, you mean."

Well, if you prefer it. Never mind the view ; it
is the value which matters."

"Is it your way of giving them tome?" she asked,
very seriously. " It looks like it, you know."

Doesn't it ? " was the careless answer, which she
might read as she pleased. "Why not? Shall we
book it ? "

"Shall I?" she said.

"I have a few trifling conditions to make," proceeded
the Count. "You are just leaving London.
You must collect a party at Luscombe Abbey at once,
of the people whom I shall choose — all in your own set,
don't be afraid. And you must give Daisy Brent no
warning."

He spoke with all the careless indifference of
Shylock of his single bond and merry sport; but it
came over Lady Luscombe with a sense of fear.

But this is wickedness," she said.

"Oh, no," he laughed, "amusement;" and his

manner was more off-hand than ever. "And if I
should require it, you must even help me a little.
Bah ! the joke won't go too far."

It is like Shylock," she said, with the hesitation
of Bassanio. " No ; I don't think I'll do it."

Think of your letters," he went on, not looking at
her, "and of the use I might make of them."

You would never " she began.

I don't know. It's such an odd world."

I cannot understand you," said Lady Luscombe,
completely baffled by his changes of manner, and more
than ever doubtful whether this strange scene were jest
or earnest, or a mixture of the two.

Nobody ever could. Come, think how great the
odds are in your favour. As you say, it's making you
a present ; and without letting you feel the obligation
too much."

There was another pause, and Lady Luscombe was
ill at ease.

Is this — bad joke — the only way ? " then she
asked.

Lady Luscombe looked at Lestrange again, and
thought that she could read in his face, which she had
tried to read so often, that he really meant to make

her a present of her letters, after putting her to some
test by this impossible wager. So thoroughly had he
worked upon her fears about those letters, so vaguely
but deeply alarmed her with allusions, insinuations, and
covert threats about them, that they had at last
assumed diseased proportions in her eyes, and wore
the shape of a perpetual fear. She felt that "the
only way" was final, and she persuaded herself that
the wager was a jest ; and then and last, the thought
of Daisy Brent's singular character, firm as a rock
under all her frivolity, which Lady Luscombe's womanly
perception had keenly read, came across her like a
charm.

I know Daisy Brent," she said suddenly, lifting
her head with a kind of defiance in it. " And I agree."

Done' said Lestrange, no muscle moving. He
took a small note-book from his pocket, and formally
he noted the strange wager down.

THE SPIDER'S WEB.

You really have the letters ? " said Lady Luscombe
suspiciously, after another pause, as her hand fell upon
a pile of papers.

Yes. You needn't look for them ; they are in
that casket there." He pointed to a coffer of mediaeval
bronze, which stood by itself upon a small table in a
recess, carved and wrought in the rich German designs
of the time. " A most curious collection of manuscripts
and letters that box contains," he said. " It will be
quite a legacy to the memoir-hunters some day. Nobody
ever has the key but myself, not even Chaffers."

He touched a small key which was attached to his
watch-chain, whose pattern matched the casket. Then
he began to sketch his scheme for the party to meet at
Luscombe Abbey, and talked the names over with the
Abbey's mistress.

"You will have Daisy's brother of the party, you
know," she said.

The soldier ? No, I shan't."

Do you mean you won't let me ask him ? "

You may ask him. He won't come."

"Why?"

Ask him, and see. There are ways of doing these
things."

He rose from the table and went to the window.

There is the very man," he said, " calling with his
sister ; I wonder what brings them."

"Ah!" answered Lady Luscombe. "They are
come to fetch me."

In the nick of time 5 said the other. " This is the
first visit Mrs. Brent has done my rooms the honour of
paying them, though she has often talked of coming.
Come into my sanctuary for a moment ; I have something
that I wish to show you."

You don't want me to meet them. Why ? "

"I want to arrange matters with you first,
that's all. I shan't keep you five minutes, and Mrs.
Brent can make acquaintance with my room before
I do the honours. They are coming up-stairs.
Come."

He spoke with a quiet tone of command to which
Lady Luscombe seemed accustomed, and with him she
withdrew into the inner room, as Daisy Brent and her
brother entered by the other door.

Dick Fairfield was a well-looking soldier of a
traditional type, with nothing much to distinguish him
from other soldiers of his kind. They have the comfortable
conviction fostered in their minds by admiring
maidens, and still more by each other, that they are
the salt of the earth ; and one grain of salt is not called
upon to be more unlike another than is the case with
the proverbial two peas. Civilians, I think, cherish a
certain resentment against the class, for which its
textual flabbiness gives them much excuse. If no
companion is pleasant than a well-graced and active-minded
soldier, the members of the thousand-and-first
haw-haws are on the other side of the scale. It is so
impossible to know what to talk to them about. Dick
Fairfield always bored me to extinction more than any
man I knew, and I could only tolerate him for his
sister's sake.

We met often during those eight years, Daisv
Brent and I ; for Lady Pepperharrow patronized and
made much of me, and I was much with Daisy Brent

at her ladyship's country-house meetings. For her I
never bated one jot of my regard ; and I read the truth
behind the frivolous externals of her life with much sad
thought of my own. During all that time, we never
spoke of Guy Faucit but once ; but there was a difference
in her manner to me from that which she wore to all
the world beside, which I could never fail to remark
and to honour. It was for Guy's sake, I knew ; and I
loved her for it. The exception to her rule of silence
was when — once and at once — she cleared herself in my
eyes (though, faith, I had never really been able to
doubt her) by telling me the whole truth about her
luckless marriage.

"I wanted you to know it, Mr. Balbus," she said,
because I want you to tell it one day to him.
Further than that it need never go. Now let us never
talk about it again."

He would have learned it soon enough, I think, if it
had depended upon me. But blows like that which
struck Guy Faucit tell differently upon different men ;
and during the whole of his long and solitary exile he
gave his friends no sign, and no one but his lawyer
(under the seal of absolute confidence) ever knew whereto
write to him. When he came back to England and

settled as he did in Yorkshire, none of his friends learned
it. Only one man did ; and he was not a friend.

I saw little enough of the brother, and wished that
little less. His remarks, when he thought it was time
to make one, always managed to be particularly irritating,
though without the smallest intention on his
part. Some men are wonderful in that way.

Once at dinner, for instance, just after I had brought
out a new drama of an ambitious kind with some
success, he was sitting opposite me, and it dawned upon
him, during a lull in the conversation round us, that he
had bestowed none of his upon me. He did not wish
to be neglectful, so suddenly addressed me with the
deep deliberation which marked his manner whenever
he did speak, causing the co-birds of his feather to say
that " there must be a good deal in that fellow Dick
Fairfield, you know, if you could only get at it."

If it was in him, however, there it stopped. It was
thus he addressed me—

I say, Balbus. Isn't it about time for you to give
us another fa-are ? "

I could have hit him. Even as he bored me of old,
he bores me now, and it bores me to describe him ; and
I shall let his talk with his sister, when they came into

Lestrange's rooms, tell itself. He really liked his sister,
and was at his best with her. Poor girl, I have no
need to describe her, for I must have done so but too
much for the patience of my readers already. If they
do not know by this time what my heroine looked like,
they never will ; and I must have made a mess of it.
I am sorry, for the women's sake, that I can find no
technical description of the entrancing brown dress she
wore, with the sideways sweep of gilt buttons, medal-wise,
the size of a shilling for the body, and a florin for
the skirt, which gave her the sort of Diana look which
sate upon her best of all, though she was all the goddesses
and all the graces in turn. She had that reckless
and alas ! that it must be said — fast manner which
had grown upon her of late, though in her, somehow, it
never repelled. It never seemed real, I think, to anybody,
and the fastest of her companions liked Queen
Daisy best without it.

Daisy taking the room in in a moment, with
approval). So the mysterious Count really lives somewhere,
after all ! This is the Castle of Udolfo. Do
you smell any sulphur about, Dick ?

Dick (taking in nothing at all). No; but it's
deuced hot.

DAISY (looking at everything). A blazing fire in
July ! And what an uncanny taste in colours. The
place looks comfortable, though.

Dick (looking at nothing). Don't provoke that
man, Daisy. He's dangerous.

Daisy. Why ? What harm can he do me ? and
why should he want to do me any ? We are the best
of friends. He fell in love with me, you know, like all
the rest, and I snubbed him for it.

Dick. Did he though ? Damn his impudence.

Daisy. Don't swear. I oughtn't to have told you,
for I said I wouldn't tell anybody. But a brother's
nobody, and it didn't matter. It did the Count good to
be snubbed.

Dick. He isn't likely to forgive it. You talk
lightly enough.

Daisy (with sudden seriousness). Perhaps I don't
feel so lightly, though. (Changing again.) It's a way
the men have, which means nothing. And the wicked
Count took his whipping very well.

DlCK. I wish you'd drop him. Xo good ever

came to anybody from being a friend of Satan

Lestrange.

VOL. 11. k

Daisy. That's a very shocking name, Dick. He's
creepy, but he's very amusing.

Dick (surlily). I don't see it.

Daisy. Sense of humour deficient, dear. Everybody
thinks him so.

Dick. Who's everybody ?

Daisy. Why, everybody. Everybody who's anybody,
you know ; all the right sort.

Dick. Slang again !

Daisy. Dick among the prophets ! You stupid
old soldier, when did you first take to preaching ? (with
a dash of affection).

Dick (with the same, uncomfortably). I don't like
leaving you tomorrow and joining my regiment. Your
head's in the wrong place, altogether.

Daisy (ecstatically). But the heart, my Richard!
the heart is in the right ! Its every pulse beats fondly
for an absent lord, who is wringing from the Indian
native the uttermost rupee, to lay it at the feet of his
pining wife, in a lump ! Brute ! I hope he'll never
come back again.

Dick. John Brent is not a good lot, no doubt

Daisy. Not strictly speaking. But that's not
my fault, is it ?

Dick. Still, you are his wife, and you ought to
be more careful.

Daisy. What of?

Dick. The family name.

Daisy (drawing herself up). Dick !

Dick. Oh, I mean it, you know. I know that
you've had hard lines in life, and I like you to enjoy
yourself. But you may go too far.

Daisy. Take care, or you may. Who ruled
those hard lines for me ? — and Heaven only knows how
hard they are !

DlCK (growing uncomfortable). Heaven, I suppose.

Daisy. Not a bit of it; it was man's work allover.
I should have served Heaven better in spite of
all of you, and steadily refused that man.

Dick (sulkily). For that penniless lover of yours,
Guy Faucit !

DAISY (firing up in a moment). Don't mention

his name ! I won't have it ! I'll cherish one good

memory through this unworthy life of mine, to keep

my head straight. It will do it better than you can !

Dick. " I shouldn't like you to meet him again.

Daisy (full of scorn). Don't be afraid. He

wouldn't speak to me if I did; and quite right took

2

breaking into a wail.) Oh, why — why — why did
you all marry me to John Brent ?

Dick. Our people were on the brink of ruin, you
know. It was to save the family credit.

Daisy. A bad way. Good never came of such
money as Mr. Brent's.

Dick (with just disgust). No. He lost it all soon
enough.

Daisy. Thank Heaven ! or he wouldn't have
gone back to India. I am free from everything but
his name.

Dick (sententious again). You are much too free,
Daisy.

Daisy (in arms again). I will not have you say
that again. I was persuaded to marry money, and to
play my heart false, for my father's sake. But some
men, Dick, would have found some better way of saving
the family credit than by selling a sister's life and
happiness. When you join [your regiment, brother
mine, take care of the family name. It's safe enough
with me.

"I hope so," muttered to himself, at the end of
this dialogue, a listener at the door. Then turning
to Lady Luscombe, he added, unheard through their

conversation by the others, "You are quite right; I
am making you a present."

Join his regiment, did she say ? " thought Lady
Luscombe, who with Lestrange had heard the last
sentence from the open door of the inner room.
Lestrange, it may be, who had cultivated a very keen
sense of hearing, and could listen and talk at the same
time, might have heard more. Daisy and the Captain
did not see them till Lestrange stepped forward.

Mrs. Brent ! " he said. " You have found me out
at last. I am delighted to receive you."

Ah, good morning ! " she answered, carelessly
giving him her hand. " The reception is a warm one,"
she added, with a laughing look at the fire, "Count
Mephistopheles ! "

Madame Marguerite ! " he said in a low voice, and
with an inclination of the head. And he smiled to
himself as he said so.

Is that a sneer ? " asked Daisy.

Oh, no ; a compliment. How sweet she is," he
thought as he looked at her ; " it is almost a pity — You
are a dangerously pretty woman," he said to her in a
low voice, turning over some books on the table, while
the other two were talking together.

Still ? " she said, with low and firm emphasis.

Still, if you would only let me say so."

I shan't, you know. Count Lestrange, remember,
and take care ! "

We should make such allies, Daisy."

"Sir!"

I beg your pardon," said the Count Lestrange.

"Only my friends call me by my Christian
name."

You are lucky," he quietly and pointedly answered,
to have so many friends. She will have war, then ? "
he thought. " Very well."

Lady Luscombe looked at them uneasily as they
talked together in a voice she could not catch.

Nonsense ! " she thought to herself, " the girl's as
good as gold." But she was uneasy and conscience-smitten,
and wished the wager undone.

Captain Fairfield," she said, rousing herself, " the
charm of London being over for the year, you will bring
Daisy down to the Abbey at the end of the week ? We
shall be a pleasant party."

Very sorry, Lady Luscombe," answered the soldier
with a genuine regret, for he thought the Abbey much
pleasant work than his duties ; " but I must leave her

in your friendly care. I join my regiment at Gibraltar
tomorrow."

Lady Luscombe gave a slight exclamation.

I told you so," whispered Lestrange.

Couldn't you put it off for a month ? " she asked.

Uneasy already ! " whispered the Count again.

I would put it off, willingly," said Fairfield ; " but
my Colonel won't. I've overstayed time already, and
he is peremptory."

"The regiment, dear Lady Luscombe," laughed
Daisy, " is lost without Dick. The men are reported
on the verge of mutiny."

Always chaffing," muttered her brother, with his
normal sulkiness.

"Chaff is the salt of life. Isn't it, Count?" she
appealed.

You sprinkle it very freely at times," he said.

All's fair in war ! " she answered, laughing again ;
and — shall we say in ' love,' Count ? "

He bit his lip a little. " Do you know the meaning
of that word?"

Perhaps," she said ; and there was no laughter in
the voice then.

The Count watched her under his eyebrows, and he

said to himself, " I think you do, Madame. We shall
soon see."

"What will Lady Pepperharrow do without you,
Captain Fairfield ? " said Lady Luscombe, finding her
invitation in vain. " She says you are the best secretary
and collector in the world. What is to become of her
great subscription for the conversion of the Jews ? "

Oh bother ! " inter acted Daisy, irreverently. " When
she asked me to subscribe I said I couldn't afford it ;
but if she liked to send me a Jew, the dear old lady, I
would do my best to convert him for her."

And surely," added Lestrange, " the Jews are rich
enough to pay for their own conversion."

Their laugh over Lady Pepperharrow's proselytizing
schemes put the party in good humour with each other ;
and Lady Luscombe announced that it was time for her
to carry Daisy off for the end of the last flower-show of
the season at the Horticultural, where some friends
were waiting for them.

The last roses of summer ! " said Daisy.

Which wouldn't bloom without you," was Lestrange's
comment.

Pretty," was what she said ; and what she thought
while she said it was, " He makes me creep all over."

Then you will not give me those letters back, as
you ought ? " pleaded Lady Luscombe once more in a
low voice with Lestrange.

The Count smiled the plea aside, and made some
laughing comment on the wager which was so soon to
put them in her hands again.

So she sighed and accepted her fate, and offered
him a seat in the carriage, if he was minded to
come.

Thank you, no," he said. " I shan't help the roses,
and I have a good deal to do. We shall meet to-night
at Glycerine House. Au revoir!"

He saw his visitors to the door with his accustomed
courtesy, and went thoughtfully back to his rooms. He
sate down in his chair, wheeled it before the fire, and
lit up the eternal accompaniment to thought which so
many as well as he have found to be its best sedative
and stimulant in one. He took out the little book in
which he had entered his strange wager, and he referred
to other of its pages. Then he referred with care to a
book of accounts, carefully kept; and his face grew
rather dark as he went into it.

"Only just in time," he muttered to himself; "I'm
glad I kept those letters. Yes, I have a good deal todo,"

ran his musings before the fire, when he had put
up the books again. " I must put money in my purse,
as counsels honest Iago. What says my friend?
Pleasure and action make the hours seem short ! ' A
fine fellow Iago, and so little understood. I must write
a treatise to whitewash him some day, after the fashion
of modern history, and leave that thick-headed Moor
blacker than he was first painted. Ten thousand
pounds to be won before the year's end ; and only justin
time, for I'm in unpleasantly low water ; and this is
the chance which, as Iago says, makes me or foregoes
me quite. How much did mine Ancient die worth,
now ? He must have been a warm man at times, and
without a dollar to curse himself with at others. It's a
grand thing to live by one's wits, given the wits to doit.
Now then — to work out my plot. Dramatis Personal
: — Heroine, Daisy Brent : safe from love, she
thinks. Why? Because she is one of the few who
can love, and can remember. I wouldn't have risked
my wager upon any chance but one. Hero, Guy
Faucit : old lover, recluse and misanthrope, living near
Luscombe Abbey in retreat, without an idea how near
the moth has crept to the flame. And the flame knows
it as little. Burn up till you blaze, my child. Ha, ha !

of all the coincidences in the world, if there were such
things, the oddest would be my meeting the man Faucit
coming out of his lawyer's room, just when I had managed
to learn of his return to England. I knew him at
once, though he didn't look at me. I never forget a
face. And the lawyer, with no idea that he was breaking
confidence, talked to me about the strange client
who wanted to find a desert for himself to live in. And
I was able to suggest the very place, close to the scene
of operations. Could Iago have done better, now?
The worst of it is that Faucit has no money, and all
women like diamonds. Now if only his old hung and
miser of an uncle, my good friend Foster Promoted to
the place for the purpose), would die in time, and not
leave his money away from him, it would help me
wonderfully, though I might do without it. Foster was
breaking up, by my last intelligence ; but he's Scotch,
and very tough. He has not made a will yet, I know.
How shall I introduce myself to this Faucit ? I want
a good effect to begin with. The man's a student and
poet, and dabbles in German metaphysics. Why not
play upon that string ? Mephistopheles they call me,
confound them. I am not one of them, though I live
with and by them ; and they know it, and so do I, and

I hate them for it, brainless puppets that they all are !
And that unlucky widow and her money and estates
were in my hands, but for that unprincipled will. The
selfishness of these aristocrats, even in dying, is perfectly
shocking. As for you, Mr. John Brent, and you, Mistress
Daisy — How strange that so many motives should all
work together. Ten thousand pounds ! A great comfort,
a small annuity. What a fool that woman is
about those letters ! What on earth does she suppose
I could really do with them ? Still, with a little skilful
manipulation — Mephistopheles, eh ! It would be a
striking introduction."

He was smiling over his thoughts to himself,
as Chaffers came into the room after his furtive
knock.

A telegram, Count Lestrange," he said.

Ah ! from Scotland ! " said Lestrange to himself ashe
took the paper. " From my trusty agent, Foster's
lawyer." And he read the telegram. " F. is worse —
has had a stroke — can only live a week or two. No
will ." " Good Heavens ! how timely ! " he thought,
"pleasure and action make the hours seem short.' Can
I afford to wait for a week or two, on the chance of
bringing to Faucit, by way of credentials, the first news

of his heirship ? At all events, I will risk it for a while .
Yes ; I can afford it. Chaffers — "

"Yes, Count Lestrange."

"We go to Luscombe Abbey at the end of the
week."

Yes, Count Lestrange."

END OF PART I.

t grana,

Mephistopheles thrown upon real life, and obliged to manage his own
plots, would inevitably make blunders." — George Eliot.

THE HERMIT OF THE OWL'S NEST.

Somewhere in the great smoke districts of Yorkshire,
and near to one of its main capitals of industry,
there is a strange old ruin on the moorland slope. It is
a wonder how it got there ; for smoke and soot have laid
the strong hand of annexation on the whole countryside,
and antiquity seems like an obstructive to be
effaced. It dies hard, however, the storied past; for
men built hard and strong when they built slow and
true, and by the side of the old abbeys which have
crumbled down to us, the modern factory or railway-shrine
has an odd appearance of insecurity as well as
tawdriness.

I am not prepared to give the exact birth and
parentage of the old Yorkshire castle where my story
now reopens, which had lost both use and name in the

VOL. II. L

lapse of years, and is known in the neighbourhood only
as the Owl's Nest. Though scarcely six miles distant
from the big trade-city, the hum of whose wheels seem
almost to reach the ear, as at times the wind brings
palpable news of it in a thick pall of fog fighting to be
free, it might be in the heart of a desert but for such
evidence as that. Green slopes spread upwards to the
hilltop behind ; and the wild moor netherland faces it
in front from the other side of a sudden valley, with a
stream running downwards at the bottom, clear and
sparkling, and innocent of the pollution waiting for it
so little further down.

The ruin itself forms a complete though broken
quadrangle, uneven and overgrown. A big old tower
occupies the north-east angle, and another the southwest,
while a straggling parapet unites the two in
either direction. In the north-west corner stands the
antiquarian gem of the whole — an archway nearly
perfect in preservation, as it is quite perfect in forma
pure specimen of the lancet arch which will not,
somehow, be imitated with any exactness by anything
we moderns can contrive. Those secrets are as lost,
seemingly, as the lost books of Livy, and must be
as much the despair of architects as the galop in

"Gustave" of dance-composers, or as that " vilaine bete
vivante" the stone-horse which Romans know, was to
the French professor of drawing, who exposed the sins
of its anatomy by example. " Pourtant, messieurs, la
mienne est morte" he said. It was through this archway
that the quadrangle might be entered, when I was
there. Perhaps it is gone now, though I am writing
but of a very few years ago. Mine is a story of
our own time ; but it is a time which goes fast upon
its way, though weighted perhaps now and again, in
spite of trains and telegraphs, with the drag called
Boredom. There was the arch, however, and there was
the old tower opposite to it, which also gave access to
the enclosure through a passage choked, till you knew
where to find it, by a thick growth of laurels. The
walls of the old tower, of which two sides were standing,
formed the angle then, and stood boldly out as a shelter
against sun or wind for any one who cared so to use
them. Stray picnic-parties from the city came there
now and then, bringing their sheaves with them ; for
there was no inn near to help them to their picnic-needs.
There was no house at all but one small-cottage,
just on the other side of the road, which ran under the

northern parapet from tower to arch. Beyond the road

l 2

the ground rose boldly and suddenly into the picturesque
slope leading up to the top of the hill, turfed and green,
and good riding-ground for some miles.

In the cottage, when this part of my story opens,
was living a solitary man. The few waifs and strays
who belonged to the neighbourhood were of the kind
who have no visible habitation or known means of
subsistence, but are as offences in the eyes of the Law,
which expects everybody to be moderately well-off.
They seem to have lairs in the grasses, like the warriors
of Frederick Diu. These few, however, had a kindness
for Mr. Fraser, the stranger who had suddenly taken up
his quarters among them a few months before, and had
an eccentric way of his own of doing them good. He
talked very little, and smoked very much ; did unobtrusive
kindnesses, and hated to be thanked. Nobody
knew anything about him, or cared to ask. He had
not written a letter, nor had he had any, since he came.
He was a man who seemed well on in middle age ;
dressed very roughly, but always like a gentleman ; big
and muscular, with a growing suspicion of portliness.
The face was fair and clear, with the pink English
complexion which turns so soon to bronze, and the eyes
of the true Saxon blue, too prominent, but good. The

features were strong rather than handsome ; the forehead,
both broad and high, giving its chief character
to the face. The mouth did not present itself for
criticism, having retired into the recesses of a thick
beard and moustache, which curled all round and over
it, and were so grey as to give the man an appearance
of age which the features, closely looked at, and the
hair many shades browner, were inclined to contradict.
The brown was of a silky softness, and irrepressible in
its tendency to curl, which it owed partly, perhaps, to
the owner's disbelief in oil-colours for the head, and
faith in cold water. The nose was like most noses,
without form and void, but did the face no harm as
it attracted no attention, and did not invite it, being
in fact, as the same owner said of it, " good enough to
blow." Six good feet of height, and a storage coming
nearer to fourteen than to thirteen on the average,
served to carry this very healthy specimen of English
humanity, and formed a whole curiously at odds with
the utter solitude of his life. There was nothing about
him of the broken man, but everything of the elastic
one, shown in everything he did — in the firm step breasting
the heather, in the steady hand throwing the line,
and the keen eye to back it ; or in the strong forehead

which bent over his beloved books, and seemed to shut
out without an effort every thought and every image
disconnected from the page before him. He looked
the man of action, every stout inch of him, and not the
dreamer. But it was the dreamer's life, apparently,
that he had elected to live. And the face bore
one clear and lasting mark — the mark of a great
sorrow.

He fished the trout-streams, and he shot the moors,
and he shot and fished well. At other times he left
both rod and gun at home, and shouldered a thick stick
for company and not support, and strode for miles
and miles in the bright northern air, he, and the stick,
and the dog Frisco. Frisco was a noble brute of mastiff
breed, who had come from the golden gates with his
master, six thousand miles away. The mutual affection
of the two was a pleasant thing to see, as they strolled,
or sate, or talked together, as men and dogs do talk
sometimes, when they understand each other thoroughly.
Frisco slept at the foot of his master s bed, and took
especial interest in watching the morning tub which
braced the giant for the day ; and he seemed to know,
before the master knew it himself, what was to be the
occupation of the morning. The large, true, intelligent

eyes, with a strange and surely a beautiful world of love
and thought behind them — shall we penetrate the
secrets of that world, perhaps, some day ? — seemed to
be always on the alert to discover his friend's plans
and wishes.

One curious habit of Mr. Fraser's there was, worth
recording. He was fond on Sundays of walking to a
little barn-like church some miles away upon the hills,
which gathered under its wing the few and far-between
worshippers to be found thereabouts, and watching
them go in, and listening to the cracked old bell. The
people of the village of Mould-on-the-Moss, for so was
the little hamlet called which owned this parish church,
watched him with much curiosity. For he did not go
in himself. He looked, and smoked, and thought, and
went away. Once or twice, upon week-days, he found
his way to the village and asked the sexton for the key.
A character, in those parts, was Delves the sexton.
Then he stayed alone in the church for five minutes,
and came out more grave than ever, after a spell of
what he called thought, which was really prayer. The
man was no unbeliever, but was one perplexed, as yet,
by the eternal — no, not eternal — problems of suffering
and wrong. The buzzing of the Agnostics had

something puddled his clear spirit, and the smoke of
the pit troubled him.

A large portion of his time, rain or fine, the stranger
passed in the old Owl's Nest. He had chosen for
himself the corner I have spoken of, where the two
walls made an angle. Here he had rigged up a waterproof
tent where he could smoke and read in all
weathers. Here he was smoking and reading on the
day when my story re-opens, without the tent this time,
for it was a glorious September afternoon. It had been
a long wet summer, and had given up, as early as May,
all idea of being anything else. So September came
with one of those Indian bursts with which it often
does come after seasons of that kind, to apologize for
shortcomings in the handsomest manner. And the
man called Fraser sate with a rich meerschaum between
his lips, with a colour on it like the top of the clouted
cream, fresh made in its own country, cloud-compelling,
and deep in his book. He was sitting in a rough
wooden arm-chair, and had as rough a table before him,
with a brandy-and-soda on it in a long glass, from
which he sipped occasionally and with no especial
zest, being one on whose face temperance and self-control
were written in every line. The book he was

reading was German, and it was the second part of
"Faust."

Xot a bad translation, I think," he thought, taking
up a note-book in which he had a habit of scribbling odd
scraps of verse or casual quotations in pencil. " Listen,
Frisco, old boy, and give me your ideas."

Frisco lifted his head, and wagged \^ 1<& tail once as
one who was all attention, while his master read.

What do you think of it 1 *'

Frisco wagged his tail twice, with approval, and lay
down again.

What is the use of it all ? " muttered his master to
himself, impatiently. " Why, in the name of commonsense,
do I live this useless life, as if I were a debtor
hiding from his creditors, or a man who had done something
to be ashamed of. We have nothing to be
ashamed of, Frisco, you and I, and we don't look it.
Your tail is as the tail of an honest dog, and you would
have nothing to say to me if I wasn't worthy of you
and it. But I can't help it. I — I — Oh my darling,
my darling, with your voice as sweet as Heaven, and
your face as true as Truth, is it possible that you could
have told that long lie to me ? Yes, you did. Well,
be it so."

He took up the book, and the strong will mastered
the wandering fancy at once. The masterful look came
full upon the brow and face. Frisco, who had been
watching the sudden outburst with infinite solicitude,
looked satisfied and shut his eyes. And neither mannor
dog, absorbed in their own reflections, noticed the
entrance of another figure on the scene.

BEAUTY GOSLING.

It was a very pleasant figure in its way — that of a
fresh and pink-faced youngster of the class who look
eighteen all their lives, till the balls, and the clubs, and
the late hours, and all the dissipations, take a sudden
revenge and age them all in a moment.

The Honourable James Gosling had as little beard
as Orlando, but cherished the soft down upon his
delicate upper-lip with infinite solicitude. His face
was singularly handsome, and recalled the pictures of
Byron ; but the eyes wore a perpetual look of innocence
and surprise, being withal very round and very open,
which marred the resemblance. Like the angered fly,
he seemed incessantly wondering why he was anywhere,
and why on earth he should be expected to do anything.
Nobody, perhaps in consequence of this, expected him

to do much ; but the clinging affectionate nature made
him welcome everywhere ; and he was allowed to purr
away for hours in the snuggeries of fine ladies, hard to
be found at home by more pretentious visitors ; just as
at every gathering of men, in all lines of life, he was
sure of a welcome. Painters and actors loved him well ;
and he believed himself closely connected, in some important
way, with artistic life. The bright summer-picnic
on the river, organized by some pretty actress
whose head wore the manager's crown without seeming
to lie uneasy for it, were never complete without the
butterfly patronage of Beauty Gosling. He entered
the quadrangle quietly through the lancet-arch, and it
became evident at once that Frisco would permit the
intrusion. For the dog was the first to look curiously
up ; and he made no remark at all beyond a wag of
recognition. Gosling nodded to the dog familiarly, and
drew nearer to the man he had come to see, whose
thoughts and faculties were path finding in the poet's
land.

There he is," muttered the visitor to himself, " at
it as usual. Pipes and Poetry ! • Why a fellow who is
such good company for any fellow should keep out of
every fellow's way, I can't make out."

Then he came forward.

Faucit ! "

The strange solitary started, and came back to earth
slowly and half-composedly, as a man wakes from sleep
to his troubles or to his happiness. He looked his
visitor a little in the face before he answered him, not
without something of the friendly smile on his, which
this youth of the ruddy countenance was well accustomed
to see.

Fraser, young 'un," he then said, quietly. " I've
often told you to forget the other name, as I have.
How are you ? "

"Thanks — I'm fit. Old Luscombe was a judge of
champagne, and his worthy widow don't spare it.
Consequently, with the morning's dawn, I'm fit."

That's very satisfactory," said the other, paternal.

"Doosid. I can't sav as much for you, though.
You look awfully bad about the eyes, old man. Damme,
a fellow might take you for a hundred."

The man called Fraser, no other than our old friend
Guy Faucit, winced a little. But he only answered,
slowly, and with something like a sigh —

"The fellow wouldn't be far out."

"Humbug!" was the cheery comment. "Got any

B. and S. handy ? Thanks ! " as the other pointed to
the rough table ; " that's lucky. I tooled the little mare
over from Luscombe Abbey — the six miles in the half-hour,
and I'm doosid dry."

Help yourself," said the other, nodding, and passing
a corkscrew.

Then the eyes began perceptibly to travel dream-wards
again, and he took up the book he had laid
down.

What's up with him ? " thought Gosling ; and met
the situation by patting Frisco's handsome head, and
bestowing on him a few well-appreciated words of caress.
What are you reading ? " then he said, abruptly.

The second part of ' Faust.' Do you know it ? "

No. I didn't know there was a second part. I
know the first, — Gounod's, you know, — but I never read
that. Let's have a look."

He leant his arm familiarly on the older man's
shoulder, and looked over it.

All right," said Faucit. " I'll begin your poetical
education, Jemmy. Read this."

He pointed to the book with a smile.

Ah ! German ; I know that from the printing.
Haven't got any English about you, have you ? I'm

better at that, though not too good. My godfathers
and godmothers in my baptism neglected my languages
dreadfully."

There's some English for you, then."

Whose is it ? the German fellow's ? "

u His German, and my English. I've just been
making the translation."

The loose you have. At the old game still. I
should have thought you'd dried up down here. Tell
it us?"

The other recited his lines slowly, as he had recited
them to the dog, as if to test them again to his own
ear. Again he began to seem unconscious of company.
and to be passing into a world of his own.

The solution of the question, " What are your
thoughts like ? " would have interested any observer
who watched the strong set face.

Gosling was not much of an observer, perhaps.
He listened to the lines with eye growing rounder and
rounder, like a pool into which a stone is sinking ; and
the pathetic, half-animal expression, of dumb speculation
as to what he was meant for, came into his graceful
face.

Ah ! " he said, as if deliberating more than was

usual with him ; " doosid fine that. I don't know what
the blazes it's about, but it's doosid fine. I'm stooped
about poetry, except burlesques. The little Whyte
Chappel puts me through them sometimes. Old man,
you're dreaming," he suddenly added, with a genuine
ring almost of yearning in his tone. " Wake up ! "

The quick ear of the other caught the intonation,
just as his sensitive nerve felt on his shoulder the shy,
sympathetic touch of the boy's hand. (Gosling was nota
boy ; but he was always called so.)

You're right, Jem, I was dreaming." He shut up
the book, turned round with his chair towards Gosling,
and looked at him with a real and evident interest.
The other had a pull at his brandy-and-soda, with as
evident relief.

"Tell us about yourself, come," said Guy. "I'm
fond of your cherub face, my boy; it does me good.
And you're a good fellow to leave your fun and your
smart friends as constantly as you do, and come over
for a chat with the hermit, as they call me. It must
bore you tremendously."

Bore me ? humbug ! Do you think I'm likely to
be bored by my old coach, who was so awfully kind tome
up at Oxford ? "

I didn't do much for you."

"You pulled me through my divinity, which I
swear no one else could, and looked after me like a
trump. And that was eight years ago : and then you
bolted from Oxford, and shied up your fellowship, and
the fellows said you went abroad, though nobody knew
why or where ; and everybody forgot you, and I never
heard of you again till I spotted you down here the
other day, beard and all, calling yourself Fraser, and
cutting everybody. Then — didn't you keep my brother
Gander square with the dons all through ? Dear old
Gander ! he's gone no end of a howler on the turf
since; but he never forgets you — nor do I, nor the
governor, nor any of us. Damme ! there ! "

The speaker delivered himself of his tirade without
reflection of any kind, walking up and down, to Frisco's
obvious astonishment, finishing the brandy-and-soda in
distracted gulps, and filling up the glass now and again
with an absolute unconsciousness as to which of the
two liquids he was pouring out.

Drop that, my child," was the quiet answer.

Hanged if I do ! What man of my time at
Oxford would forget Clipper Faucit ? Look here —
you've no call to run to seed in this way. It's not

VOL. II. M

right. Brains are rare ; and you mustn't do what you
like when you've got 'em. I wish I'd got 'em; for I'd
try. I've kept my word since I spotted you here, by
accident, though I don't know that I ought, and said
nothing about you; but now they're all coming hereto
spot you, and I've come to let you know. Don't bolt."

The other had jumped to his feet, followed by
Frisco's eyes.

How do you mean, coming here ? "

"I mean what I say, though I know that ain't
worth much. I tooled over this morning because I
promised to keep dark about you, and Lady Luscombe's
lot mean to picnic here to-day, and I thought I ought
to let you know, though I've said nothing. I say,
I wish you'd join us. Beastly things, picnics, but
awfully nice people. Do come."

"Thanks for the warning," answered the other
quietly. "I'll keep out of the way. Don't talk
nonsense."

Gosling's face fell visibly, but he incontinently
proceeded to talk again ; while the recluse subsided
into his chair, and gradually, into absence of mind.

Like the rest of the fellows. Whatever I say is
always nonsense. They call it ' bosh,' but it's the same

idea. Hang it, I say, do come ! The Luscombe isn't a
bad lot, though she gives herself airs and all that ; and
her niece Carrie Beaufort is awfully jolly — spoons me
rather, but her aunt don't see that. The aunt wanted
Gander; but he didn't see that. Then there's Lady
Pepperharrow — wonderful old woman — always wanting
to convert everybody — though nobody knows what to.
Everybody laughs at Lady Pepperharrow, but everybody
likes her. Then there are some good men.
There's Lord Pentonville, otherwise old Pen., otherwise
Hard Labour ' — supposed to have turned nine hundred
rum 'un he is, but a doosid good fellow ! Then
there's Xorbiton and Surbiton, you know — one's a Took,
and the other's a Marquis. Always together, and no
good without one another, like the men in Leech who
t jok two to show the pattern. And Count Lestrange
Gad, you must know h im .' Talk about rum uns !
Comes from Greece, or Poland, or Japan, or somewhere
that way, with a sort of title which he picked up somehow.
Queer beggar ; been everywhere, and knows
everything ; belongs nowhere, and lives on nothing.
Licks us all round at shooting, billiards, and the lot.
Sings like a bird, and spoons like a turtle. Nobody
likes him, and everybody asks him ; everybody's afraid

M 2

of him too, except the Brent, who's afraid of nobody.
She's at the Abbey too, under the capacious wing of the
Pepperharrow. By Jove ! the Brent ! — there's form ! —
the best out ; and all the men mad about her. Don't
she carry on a few ? Got a husband out in India ; liver,
and all that. I should stop there if I was him. She's
splendid — Daisy Brent."

The Christian name struck suddenly on his friend's
ear, though it was some time before it seemed to reach
his sense. During Gosling's chatter he had rambled
far away; and it wanted time for him to catch the
threads again.

Who's that ? " he said. " What were you talking
about ? "

Why, the people at the Abbey."

Oh, I beg your pardon. I was dreaming again,
and I didn't quite hear."

Oh, damme ! " said Gosling, pathetically. " Doosid
hard lines, that I can never get the fellows to listen to
anything I say ; and I talk a lot, too."

You do, Jemmy," the other answered, with reflective
gravity.

"Don't chaff. If you don't listen, of course you
won't come."

"Come to what? oh, the picnic. Xo, not to-day."

Xo, nor tomorrow, nor any other time. I must
go and look after the picnic lot, I suppose. You must
own that it was very good of me to let you know about
them, when I might have let you in in spite of yourself.
Bother the picnic. I'd rather be out in the turnip-fields,
bar the Brent."

I wonder, Jemmy, if you will ever grow any older,
and take to talking English ? "

Why, what do I talk now \ "

Goodness knows ! a tongue without a name. Your
Greek was bad at college ; but your present style is
incredible. How soon will your friends be here ? "

Precious soon now. Very soon I mean ; and I
must be off. But I shall come again, mind. I'll
never let you off till I unearth you for the public
benefit."

Don't take the trouble. I'm past praying for."

Ah, I shouldn't be much good to you in that line.
Well, it's a sell ; but by-bye."

He clapped his friend on the shoulder, patted Frisco
on the head, and was off through the arch. The dog's
eyes followed him with what might have been an
expression of disappointment at his master's obstinacy.

The master's eyes were on the book again, before his
visitor was gone.

If you'd have a turn at prose," said Gosling, for a
last word, shrugging his shoulders, " it would do you a
lot of good. Adeo ! "

How that boy used to make me laugh at Oxford,"
thought Guy Faucit, letting his book fall upon his knee.
And he's not a bit changed. Why can't I laugh now ? "
ran the thoughts translated into words. " Eight years
ago was it ? Yes, just eight. Eight years ago I was
still in the old rooms at Balliol, coaching, with my old
friends about me, and my dear dead mother to spend
vacation with. An authority in the schools and on the
river ; popular, happy, very happy ; with a past I
could be proud of, a present I could enjoy, a future
I could trust in. I was twenty-eight, and felt eighteen.
Now I'm thirty-six, and feel — what was it he said ?
A hundred ? Yes, about that. I wish I felt it in body,
but I don't."

He rose from his seat and stretched his arms,
instinctively feeling with hies left the muscle of the
right. "I believe I could pull the dark blue through
yet, between Putney and Mortlake. How long must I
go on living " (and restlessness and impatience began to

take possession of his manner), " at a moderate calculation
? But this isn't living. Mind, heart, and will
that's life ; and they died eight years ago. She did
it well, that girl. What's become of her ? What's the
name of the man she married ? I don't even know"'

He bit his lip and bent his forehead, and threw
himself into the chair again. Once more he took up
the book, but this time the will played him false, and
he could attend no more.

I wasn't born vindictive, I think," he said to
himself aloud ; " but sometimes I feel that if I were to
meet the woman who changed me like this, it might be
bad for her."

The laurels in the angle behind him, which have
been before described, were gently parted as he began
to speak, and a man's pale face looked through. It was
a very pale and sinister, but attractive face, and full of
breeding. He heard the words, and smiled, and stepped
forward quietly behind the speaker's chair. Frisco saw
him, and growled low but angrily. But the new-comer
took no notice of him, and for the moment the dog did
no more.

I shall go mad with these fancies ! " cried Faucit,
who did not hear the growl, his head resting on his arm

on the table before him. " Faust, eh ? " he said, with a
bitter laugh. " Faust, who conjured up the devil ! I
should think so. Who wouldn't conjure him up, if he
came with the old gifts in his hand ? Faust got his
money's worth, anyhow, and was a cur to turn round on
his best friend. Come to me, devil, come to me, and
take me at your own price, if you will give me back one
hour of the old spring : the youth to begin the world,
the money to command it, the friends to make it easy,
and the love — to make it real ! Yes, and more than
that — the revenge that makes it even ! Money — youth
friends — love — revenge I "

The strange soliloquy ended, and was suddenly
answered as thoughts sometimes are, though scarcely
perhaps as these were. The man who had entered
through the laurels came forward, and touched Faucit
on the shoulder. He was in a riding-dress, booted and
spurred, and leant familiarly over him.

"Excellent things, all of them," said the intruder.
What are you reading ? "

A STRANGE VISITOR.

"The devil!" cried Faucit, jumping to his feet at
the sudden address.

"Are you?" was the dry answer. "Not an easy
subject to read."

The student looked at his new visitor with an
almost startled curiosity. He was a singular contrast
to the one who had just left him. The pale face was
oval in shape, and the well-set head was covered with
jet-black hair, parted in the middle, and lying close toit,
without curl or wave. The nose was straight and
cleanly cut, as all the features were, with a constant
expression playing about the nostril. The thin, rather
colourless lips were shaded by a narrow black moustache ;
and a short pointed beard met the mouth below. The
eyes were small, black too, and very piercing, with a

habit, however, of looking away from the person spoken
to, if he on his side was given to looking others straight
in the face. The forehead was low, but had a character
of its own ; and the whole face, which had in it a kind
of strange magnetism, impressed men at once with a
subtle sense of intellect and influence. In age the man
might be about forty-five or fifty. He was of about the
middle height, as the average of height goes in men of
his class, and singularly thin of build and constitution —
a characteristic made the more marked by the black
dress he wore, high black hat, frock-coat closely
buttoned, black trowsers strapped over his well-shaped
riding-boots, and broad black necktie tied in a loose
bow under his turn-down collar. In the centre of the
white shirt was one small stud of bright diamond ; and
on the fourth finger of the right hand he wore one ring —
a curious production, apparently, of German or Italian
medievalism. It was a hoop, of three rows of gems,
the centre being made of a dozen small pearls, while
the two outer bore nine stones in the same order — an
amethyst, sapphire, aquamarine, ruby, opal, emerald,
aquamarine, sapphire, amethyst. He was fond of
showing this ring in the different lights that fell upon
it, and of looking into it himself, and into the spare

and small, but strong expressive hand which carried it,
whose two forefingers, laid together, started and curved
apart from each other at the middle joint — an odd sign,
some say, of a power of impressing the individuality
upon others. The feet were small and shapely enough
for a pretty woman to be proud of; and even in his
riding-boots he was shod coquettishly. Gloves he did
not wear, being too fond of his ring. The whole
man, with the strange surroundings of the scene and
the wild thoughts that were tossing in Faucit's mind,
created on the latter an immediate and very powerful
effect.

Seemed as from some enchanter's cave,
Or some deep vault beneath the wave,

To an unholy prayer,
Some spirit not of middle earth,
Yet human-seeming, form and birth,
In mocking tone of covert mirth,

Made answer then and there.*

Most effective of all was the voice in which the
stranger spoke — a voice curiously soft, sweet, and
deliberate. He spoke very low, yet with such quiet
distinct emphasis that no word was ever lost to the
listener's ear.

*" Old Kay."

Who are you ? " asked Faucit, abruptly, after a
brief pause.

"Never mind who I am. You are Guy Faucit."
The speaker was not looking at the other for the
moment, but turning over the leaves of the book which
had been dropped on the table, behind which he stood,
tapping his boot carelessly with his riding-whip.

My name is Fraser," said the other roughly.

I think not." And the visitor laid the book down,
and seated himself easily in the chair just vacated, with
no appearance of familiarity, but as little of diffidence.
The face of the man with the two names grew rather
dark and angry, and Frisco, who had been couchant regardant,
contributed another low growl to the dialogue.
Good dog," said the stranger, in an offhand way.

What brings you here, whoever you are ? " asked
Faucit, who had taken his place towards the centre of
the old quadrangle, and with his two hands in his
pockets was taking the measure of the intruder, with
an expression both of mistrust and uneasiness.

"You do," answered the other carelessly, and with
perfect good-humour. "You called me, didn't you ?"

Called you ? " said the student, puzzled.

Am I different to what you expected ? I was

always a gentleman, you know; and can only dress
as one."

Oh, I'm in no humour for mummery, sir," the
other answered, shrugging his shoulders impatiently,
and turning away. "This old place is as open, of
course, to you as to me ; but as far as I am concerned,
you are not privileged."

"Pardon me; I'm a privileged person. And weare
wasting time, which is precious to me, though
perhaps not to you. What price do you offer," and
the speaker rested his right arm upon the rough table,
leaned forward with a new seriousness in his tone, and
looked at the younger man, " for the commodities you
were asking for ? "

"What commodities?"

Money and youth, friends and love, and —
revenge."

Did you hear my thoughts ? "

Well, I ought to apologize ; but you think so very
loud. A pretty place this, but in baddish repair, and
draughty in the winter, I should think. But to return :
what price do you offer for those four things ? "

To you ? "

"Tome."

Guy Faucit burst into a laugh, which, moved the
other in no wise from his seriousness.

Ha, ha ! this becomes amusing. Like my prototype
in the book there, to any one who will give them
to me, my soul, if you like it ! " Recklessly and bitterly
enough were the words said.

What ? in the nineteenth century ? You don't
keep pace with modern thought, I see."

Ah, you don't believe in a soul ? "

If I didn't, my occupation would be gone. I'll

be liberal, and on the chance that, in spite of modern

theories, you have a soul, I'll take itt



Done ! " said the other, laughing more naturally
and with more good temper, as if he were grasping
the humour of the notion. " But you must tell me
your name, you know."

How material you are. I have had so many.
But, in the present century, I am called the Count
Le strange."

Well," said Faucit ; " and you live ? "

Don't ask too much," answered he, with a rippling
kind of laugh, which was a kind of smile in sound,
placidly expelling and savouring the while a clouded
of well-graced tobacco-smoke from a scented cigar

"Don't ask too much. I am staying, not living, at
the Abbey near here, Lady Luscombe's place, on business.
Her party are excellent people, from my point
of view."

He sent a puff of smoke through his nostrils, blew
an upward breath after it, and trimmed his nails reflectively
with a small ivory pocket-knife. By this
time he had seated himself, with his legs comfortably
crossed, on the small chair which faced the other's
from the side of the table where the laurels were.
Faucit was not sitting, but standing, and watched him
restlessly.

Ah I " he said, " at Luscombe Abbey. You know
Jem Gosling then ? " he added after a pause.

Your pupil ?" answered the man who called himself
Lestrange. " Yes. I expect to be very intimate
with him some day. He is a finished specimen of that
fashionable remove of the new school, whose lanoriag-e
is slang, whose topics scandal, whose diet .
You indulge, I see ? " he said carelessly, looking
at the remains of Gosling's visit.
Very seldom," said Faucit.

"I'm sorry fur that. It's such a useful agent of
mine, and so active now-a-days. This age wil]

known in future history as the brandy-and-sodaic
period, or as the age of B. and S. — brandy and
slang."

Faucit laughed shortly, and it was a cheery laugh
to hear, with the ring of a very sound pair of lungs
in it.

You're a strange fellow," he said, already under
the influence of the indefinable charm of this new
acquaintance.

He took the chair opposite the Count's, and produced
a short meerschaum which had safely passed all
the dangers of colouring. He looked at it with fondness
as he took it from its case, knocked out a small
remnant of ashes, tested the passage with a preliminary
draught or two, then filled it from a battered old pouch
with mechanical precision, and was proceeding to light
up when the other interrupted him.

You smoke too, I see," he said familiarly, but
without any suggestion of impertinence, " a short pipe,
and Cavendish tobacco. Quite right. Another of my
agents. Let me offer you a mild cigar, against my
own interests," he added,, bringing out on his side a
dainty cigar-case mounted with a cipher, and stocked
with cigars on one side and cigarettes on the other.

I always lay in a stock when I call in at the
Savannah."

Thanks," answered Faucit, declining the offered
case. " I prefer a pipe. It's such a companion," he
said, with half a sigh.

The Count Lestrange looked at him as he lighted
up, and did the same himself for a fresh cigar.

Like a wife," he said, abruptly. " Have you got
one ? "

A wife ! No. Why do you ask ? "
Because I prefer cigars," answered the Count,
carelessly.

I don't follow you," said the other.
Don't you ? A pipe is the type of a wife. Let
me look at yours. Yes," he went on, taking the pipe
which Faucit handed him with evident curiosity, and
interest in his strange visitor. " Yes, very nice for those
that like it ; sweet, well-coloured, and ripe. But how
much time and pains did it cost you to bring it to that
perfection ? How much watching, coaxing, humouring,
and occasional nausea ? Neglect it for a while, and
the colour will die out. The game may be worth the
candle, perhaps, when you have succeeded in producing
a pipe like this. But how many pipes are there that

VOL. II. *N

won't colour, and will burn? That's why a man so
often marries a widow, a worldly-wise woman, or a
practised flirt. He buys his pipe ready coloured, forgetting,
poor devil, that it was coloured to suit other
tastes."

There was a slight smile at one corner of the mouth,
and an indefinable something in the voice as he said
the last words, which could not be seized, but left an
uneasy impression on the ear.

"What a singular parallel," said Faucit, uneasily,
the pipe suspended in his hand, his legs crossed, and
watching.

Frisco growled.

"Shall I carry it further?" asked Lestrange. "I
prefer cigars. Look ! " and he let a thin stream of smoke
curl round his moustache. " You can buy them coarse
and cheap, if you please. At the worst, you can throw
them away half-smoked, and for a minute they leave
a rank taste behind them. But choose them well, as
I do. Savour the first whiff, the sweetest of all ! let
it bum slowly, evenly, tenderly ; you know at the beginning
that it can't outlast an hour. It turns to ashes
as you smoke it — yes. Black if it's a bad one, and
gone in a moment. But see how my ash clings still,

white, firm, and round, till the last taste is gone and
the last kiss savoured, and then melts at a breath
as this will, to the four winds of memory ! " And he
flipped the white ash away.

Go on," said Faucit ; " I like it."

"It would carry me too far. I find a doubtful
specimen even among my best sometimes, which comes
to a knot in the middle, and goes out. I can knock off
the ash and delight it, if I will ; but it will never smoke
the same again, and I prefer to throw it away. There
are plenty more where it came from." And the soft
voice took the same tone again.

True enough," observed Faucit, half-attracted and
half-repelled. "But I smoke a pipe because it's
cheaper," he said with a laugh.

Ah ! and a wife is not. All parallels break down
somewhere," said the Count, laughing too, pleasantly,
at himself, "and that's where mine does. But why
consult economy ? " he went on. " You're rich enough
to please yourself."

'rich! I!" answered the recluse. "After all,
you don't know much about me."

He spoke rather abruptly now.

Don't I ? " said the other, careless of the change

N 2

of tone, and speaking even more quietly than before,
and with deliberate emphasis. "After your mother's
death, when you had left Oxford, for reasons of your own
you took another name, and travelled abroad for some
years ; then you settled here a few months ago, buying
the little cottage close by, and spending your time here.
It's an odd idea," he added, looking round the timeworn
old place ; " but I never quarrel with anybody's
taste in the matter of residence. Mine has been thought
peculiar, you know," said the Count, with an odd smile,
and half-shutting his eyes, which were on Faucit's face.

The hermit was growing visibly restive under this
curious visitation, and his annoyance showed itself in
his voice and manner, as he got up from his seat, shut
his pipe up in its case with a snap, plunged his two
hands again, British fashion, into his trousers pockets,
and began to walk restlessly about the enclosure, Frisco
prowling after him protective. The Count watched
them, but didn't move.

There are many ways," said Faucit impatiently,
in which you might get as much information as this,
sir, if you care to take the trouble to pry into other
men's affairs. As you know so much, you may be
aware exactly what my fortune is."

I am."

"You are welcome to the knowledge," said the
other with a short and irritated laugh, " and to the
fortune, if you like. Of all miseries, a competence is
the worst."

"Avoid vulgar errors," said Lestrange, shaking his
head with an air of admonition. " It's an excellent
thing, only men don't use it properly. Yours is nota
bad competence, though."

Splendid. A few hundreds a year."

Forty thousand," was the cool reply.

What ? " The sharp question rang through the
ruins, as the man turned full round on his visitor.

That was about the figure of your Uncle Foster's
fortune, I think ? " said the Count, with a new but
undemonstrative seriousness in his tone, while those
magnetic eyes of his shifted a little, now that the other
was looking straight at him.

My Uncle Foster ! Where did you learn so much
about us ? He behaved infamously to my mother, and
we have never met for years. His fortune is no concern
of mine, for he will never leave me a penny of it."

"I know that." And Lestrange made a study of
his ring. " But, like men of his character, who dislike

leaving pennies, he wouldn't leave it to anybody else
either. He died in a fit of apoplexy, without a will.
You are his heir."

The quiet phrases, dropped softly and impressively
one after the other, fell upon Faucit's ear without
reaching his sense, and he felt like a man talking in a
dream.

Died ! " he said, putting his left hand to
his forehead, and trying to think. " Where and
when ? "

In Scotland — last night. I had the first intelligence,
naturally." And the speaker smiled the same
odd smile again.

Who are you ? " suddenly asked Faucit, very
shortly and sharply; as if half in the mood for a
quarrel.

I have told you' answered the other, with the
simplest frankness — "the Count Lestrange. You
needn't have sent for me if you didn't want me."

Sent for you ! nonsense. Why did you come
h ere ? What do you mean ? Did you say that my
uncle was dead ? did you say that I am his heir ? "

I said so, certainly."

Faucit came straight up to him, sate again on the

chair he had left, rested his left elbow on the table, and
looked over it.

You don't look as if you were joking ; and I warn
you it might be a bad joke.

I never joke," answered the Count, quite unruffled.
" Why should I ? it's such an inferior amusement.
You are the happy owner of forty thousand a
year."

Will you swear that this is true ? " asked Faucit,
his teeth setting as he spoke, and his face looking very
strong.

I will. I swear that it's true."

There was a pause of some moments — one of those
pauses which seem all silence, all round and everywhere.
The strange Count might have cast a glamour
over the whole place. A sudden cloud-rack had for a
time darkened the September brightness, and the old
ruin seemed napping in the shade. A few sheep-bells
outside set the silence off. Frisco had grown quite
quiet, and might have been fascinated. And the
throbbing of Faucit's heart seemed to him as loud as
the sheep-bells.

"I can't realize it," he said, when the silence
became pain.

You will," said Lestrange, looking at him. " Think
it over."

He got up, laid his right hand lightly and with a
sort of patronage on Faucit's shoulder, passed him by
as he buried his head in both his hands, then crossed
to the old lancet-arch, and leaned against the buttress,
watching the other with a smile.

IN GOOD SOCIETY.

Well ! " There had been another and a longer
pause before the Count spoke again. " I have given
you the first thing you wanted, and the most important."


Yes," said Faucit bitterly ; and a whole history
seemed to have passed over his face. "Money buys
everything."

Vulgar error again ; it doesn't. But it buys that
which does buy everything — opportunity. Opportunity
makes friends, love, everything, and the best that can
be made, for those that care for them ; and all opportunities
are open to the rich man, who has the brains
and the wish to use them."

The strange philosopher was speaking very freely
and pleasantly now, with a careless kind of cheerfulness

which had its effect upon his listener, who
smiled.

I suppose that's true," he said.

<( Of course it is. The talk about bargain and sale
in hearts is overdone, like every other talk now-a-days ;
and I say nothing of sham love, which of course can be
bought, but it isn't worth it. But a woman has a
thousand opportunities of loving a rich man where she
has one of loving a poor one ; and the lovable rich man
wins love — real love, such as it is — where the lovable
poor man fails. Opportunity. Am I boring you ? "

No, indeed. I'm glad to listen."

"The same with friends. A fool, rich or poor,
doesn't make real friends. But if a good fellow be
rich, he can give dinners, lend horses, and display his
qualities. That makes friends : — real friends. Opportunity."


But opportunity cannot buy youth," said the other,
shaking his head.

Pardon me," said the Count, in the same cheery
tone. " Given a good constitution, it secures the means
of managing it. And that is health; and health is
youth. Q. E. D."

The speaker was still leaning against the arch, and

beheading with his riding-whip some of the taller of the
wild grasses which grew in rank luxuriance about it.
Faucit, as he turned round in his chair, and nursing his
knee with his two hands, looked at his visitor, remembered
his Roman history, and thought of Tarquin. The
oddest associations, the most incongruous memories and
ideas, were jostling each other in his puzzled brain.
The whole scene and its surroundings were so strange :
he had been living of late so unreal and unhuman a life,
he to whom in the old days the company of good
friends and good cheer had been half himself, —
and, above all, the feeling that in spite of himself he did
not resent the intrusion of this singular stranger with

© ©

the Satanic credentials, was strong upon him. As for

the news of the fortune, he could make nothing of it

yet, beyond the feeling that from this moment his life

was in some way changed. He could not go on playing

at hermit on forty thousand a-year.

Whoever you are," he said to Lestrange inquiringly,

in comment upon his last theorem, " you seem to have

thought of these things."
© ©

Of course I have," was the answer, as the riding-whip
brought down an unusually tall specimen, which
looked like a chief of his tribe. "Money's no use tome

; but I have as much youth as I want, as many
friends as I want, and more love than I want. It's
troublesome sometimes," he added in a lower voice,
more to himself than his companion, whistling thoughtfully
between his teeth.

A woman's voice came from outside at the momenta
rather hard and worn voice, but a gentlewoman's.

This way," were the words addressed to some one
with the speaker ; " through the arch here."

How odd ! " said Lestrange, with a soft laugh, and
stroking his moustache. He turned round to Faucit
and came back to him. "That's Lady Luscombe,"
he said to him with quiet emphasis; "an excellent
woman and a good friend. Here is your opportunity ;
use it — and buy her ! "

Lady Luscombe's face, as she came in through the
arch, was like the voice which had heralded it — rather
hard and worn. Yet it was a sad and handsome and
not unkindly face — the face of a woman of forty, with
the well-preserved figure of ten or twelve years less,
and with features good and regular. The nose was
aquiline in shape, and the complexion, especially round
the cheek-bones, rather high. The eyes were of a light
gray, wandering and distressful, but honest enough, and

expressing the general sadness of the face like an omen.
Her smile was pretty when it came, which was rarely ;
and she was softly dressed, in grays and laces. The
hair was smooth and abundant ; but white — quite white.
She looked like a woman who had fought the battle of
life, and lost it.

The two companions who were with her made a
strange contrast. One was a rotund and rubicund
matron some ten or fifteen years older than she, with
an expression of the most absolute good-nature, exhaustive
and exhausting. She had no features, so
they need not be described. Audrey's question — " Lord
warrant us ! what features ? " might sum up a good
many people besides Lady Pepperharrow.

The chief impression left by her on the mind was
a gorgeous daring of costume, in which the most pronounced
combinations of red, green, and yellow resulted
in a vague whole suggestive of a Bird of Paradise.
As " The Bird," indeed, she was consequently known
to Beauty Gosling and his set. Beauty had a knack
for nicknames, and bestowed them freely. He had
also been known to christen Lady Pepperharrow as
"the h-less one," with reference to a weakness of hers
which she rather impressed upon her friends.

The late Sir Ugh Pepperarrow, who had been very
properly knighted for boiling soap in unusual quantities,
was a great trial to his relict at the start of his name,
and again half way through. Nobody quite knew why
Lady Pepperharrow was fashionable, but she was. That
she was a guest of Lady Luscombe in itself showed
that : so did it that she and her hostess were now
escorted by Lord Viscount Pentonville, who could make
any social coin current which he choose to favour,
whatever its metal.

Pentonville had ruined the domestic happiness,
Gosling used to say, of more husbands than any man
else since the days of Don Juan, through a new Don
Judaism of his own, of a kind unimpeachably moral.
He took up young married women and posed them
as beauties, supplying a new one where his unfailing
instinct detected satiety beforehand. It was whispered
indeed that he was secretly connected with two or three
of the leading photographers' houses, by a financial
arrangement convenient to both sides. And it was
more than whispered that he was the author, subject
to editorial correction as regarded the English, of the
social paragraphs, dealing with these ladies' dresses and
private lives, which were the principal attraction of

those two flourishing weekly newspapers avowedly
established for the purification of society, — " Peep
Hole," and " The Flunkey."

Lord Pentonville, however, was not a recognized
author, and in the excess of his modesty never signed
his name to anything he wrote ; the privileges of the
English press, of which Englishmen are so tenacious
and so justly proud, entitling him therefore to deny his
own works when advisable. Indeed, as his editor,
technically speaking, wrote his articles for him, he
considered that he kept on the windy side of the
divine law in exercising his privilege.

The fabulous number of years attributed to his
Lordship by Gosling was justified by the appearance of
his face, which was wrinkled and puckered and needle-scored
to an extent which made him look as if he
had been engaged in a long prize-fight with Time. He
wore a pronounced and defiant little wig, which he
flattered himself baffled observation. From a subtle
study of the processes of Nature, he had it made white,
added an incipient baldness at the temples, then dyed
it to a rich brown, then greased it well with the
fashionable unguent of the day, and felt himself a power.
The effect was to the last degree weird and dislike.

Lord Pentonville was very short-sighted, but despised
eye-glasses ; and peered into people's faces, after
a method quite his own, with a little pair of mysterious
eyes of no particular colour. He had to stand on tiptoe
to do it, in most cases, for he was most diminutive, and
his walk resembled a sort of little trot, the oddness of
which was increased by the tight trousers which he
always wore strapped over his shiny and corn-producing
boots.

Gosling maintained that old Pen was obliged to trot
and to strap, because he must fall to pieces if he didn't,
like the cab-horse in Leech's picture, which tumbled
down directly it was taken out of harness. Such as he
was, however, a very great man and arbiter of society
was little Lord Pentonville, the glass of fashion with his
own mould of form.

This will be the very place for the picnic, I think,
Lord Pentonville," said Lady Luscombe, as the three
entered the quadrangle, in a rather tired and uninterested
tone.

The two men who had watched them enter had
drawn back a little into the angle of the ruin, and were
not at first seen by the new-comers.

Ca — ca — capital," answered his Lordship, who was

baltic of speech, and kept an old sort of tune to his
trot in his talk. He had a way of stumbling over his
first word, and bringing out the rest with a rush, like a
man who has broken a fence down. " I'll tell them to
bring the hampers at once. P — plenty of animals, and
no p — possible place to sit down."

How ot it is," sighed Lady Pepperharrow, fatly.
It's a odd place too. But, Lady Luscombe, do look at
the colouring. It quite reminds me of the old masters.
Such wonderful people as those old masters were, you
know. Not but that I think dear Mr. Long Locke's
beautiful paintings quite as happy in their way. His
renderings of the light and shade are so bold. You
quite wonder where he gets them from."

"From science, dear Lady Pepperharrow," said
Lestrange, coming forward. " Science is the modern
alkali, by which we learn to correct the too pronounced
acids of Nature and Religion."

"Dear me, yes, Count Lestrange," answered the

lady. " You always say such clever things. But then

everybody hasn't your gifts. And I wish you wouldn't

say anything uncomfortable about religion. I'm sure

I don't know what I should do without it, and without

the comfort of dear Mr. Birmingham Pope's prayers.
vol. 11. o

He always dresses so beautifully, that I am sure they
are always answered."

Always ? " said Lestrange. " Surely he prays
every day, and as fervently as for everything else, that
all the nobility may be endued with grace, wisdom, and
understanding. That prayer has not been answered
yet — at least to the full extent," he added, glancing at
Pentonville, who was contentedly absorbed in various
little trots of discovery about the quadrangle.

There's somebody here," said he, peering. None
of his senses were exceptionally quick.

It's Count Lestrange," said Lady Luscombe in a
low voice. Her expression had suddenly flashed into
life when she saw the Count. There was a strange
interest in it, and a stranger fear. 'shave the riders
arrived then ? " she said to Lestrange.

Not yet," he answered, with a shade of familiarity
in his tone. It was but a shade ; for by shades only
did his voice or his face vary. " I came on before the
rest to have some talk with a friend of mine. This,"
he said, pointing to Faucit without further prelude,
is the Hermit of the Owl's Nest, of whom you have
all heard. We were speaking of him at dinner last
nicrht." Faucit came a little forward and bowed

gravely. But he turned his face away as much as he
could from Lady Pepperharrow. He had given a slight
start when first he saw her, and had watched her
unobserved with an expression upon his face which
gave evidence of strange associations. It was something
which had in it an echo of tenderness. As
for the lady, she had paid him no attention. She
and Lady Luscombe now acknowledged the bow with
some surprise, and Pentonville peered.

"That old f — f — f — "he began to ask, turning to
the Count.

Faucit winced.

"Fellow?" suggested Lestrange quietly.

No, person ! " snapped Pentonville, like the shot
of a saloon-pistol.

He resented assistance.

Let me introduce him more formally," said the
Count.

"No — not now," said Faucit to him in a low voice
and hurriedly.

Nonsense ! " the other answered, in the same tone.
What did I tell you about opportunity ? Lady Lus-combe
— Lady Pepperharrow — Lord Pentonville, let me

introduce — "

o 2

Any friend of yours, of course," said Lady Luscombe,
constrainedly.

He is sure to be so distinguished," murmured the
other lady, with a patronizing sigh, which brought a
strange smile into Faucit's face.

Let me introduce my friend — "

Fraser," said Faucit in the same manner again.

Lestrange smiled.

Mr. Fraser," he said, with the gesture devoted' by
Fashion to an introduction. " Better so at present," he
added to himself, looking at his ring. " It suits my
own views precisely."

D — d — d — delighted, I'm sure, quite delighted ! "
said the peer, rushing at the colossal Fraser, standing
very much on tiptoe indeed, and inspecting his
new acquaintance's middle shirt-button. After which
examination he shook hands inquisitively, buttonholed
the Hermit at the same level, and became
confidential.

"Ask him to join the picnic," said Lestrange to
Lady Luscombe, still engaged with his ring.

Your whims are endless," she answered.

Humour them. Ask him." And the request was
like Queen Elizabeth's to Sussex.

That Mr. Fraser ! " she said, hesitatingly, and
puzzled, as she looked at the rough picnic-like
figure before her.

"That Mr. Fraser," he repeated emphatically.
"Wasn't it with that object we came here? You
remember your promise ? " he added, and the brows
knit a little.

To ask him — first to the picnic, and afterwards to
stay at the Abbey. Yes; but — I hadn't understood.
He is so strange-looking a man."

"At present. We will remedy that."

She looked at Lestrange.
Tell me your object," she said abruptly, and after a
pause.

When it is gained. I beg of you — "

Really, Lestrange, — "

"I beg of you." And he emphasized the second
word very courteously, but more markedly than he often
did. And as he did so he took her hand and kissed it.
Nobody else heard the dialogue.

When you ask like that — " she said, slowly.

You can't refuse me. I know your kindness. Thank
you." He kissed the thin, well-shaped hand again, and
turned away.

Lady Luscombe stood still for an instant, then went
up to Faucit, an imperceptible shudder coming over
her.

You are the gentleman who has come to live in
those ruins, Mr. Fraser ? " she said.

"I don't exactly live in them, Lady Luscombe,"
was the answer, given in a very honest and straightforward
fashion. Nobody could mistake the thorough
gentleman, and Lady Luscombe did not.

Don't you ? " she said. " I thought you did."

Such a sweet place for a romantic mind," interjected
the soap-boiler's memorial, whose eye Faucit
avoided throughout.

Eg — g — g — gad ! I should think he'd be more
likely to die in 'em ! Most extrorny taste at your age ;
I shouldn't like it even at mine ! Don't you find it
devilish dra — dra — dra — "

Draughty ? " said Faucit, shortly.

No, windy ! " And his Lordship trotted off to
Lestrange. " D — devilish odd taste, isn't it ? " he
confided.

"Devilish tastes are for hot temperatures, you
know," said Lestrange.

Ah — y — yes — of course."

Hard Labour retired uncomfortable, and tumbled
over Frisco, taking his hat off and apologizing immediately
: " I b — b — beg your pardon," he said, and peered
again. " D — damn it, it's a dog ! "

Frisco, who had retired into a corner and given up
the whole thing as beyond his comprehension, accepted
the apology with much self-restraint, and a wag of his
tail.

We have made up a picnic here to-day," said Lady
Luscombe, continuing the conversation she had been
holding with the supposed Fraser, " and it will give
us much pleasure if you will join it. My party will be
here directly."

Picnics are not much in my way," he answered.
I don't look like it."

ct Still, if you would. But if you don't" feel disposed
— "

I will dispose-him," Lestrange interrupted.
Lady Luscombe drew back.

Then I leave him to you," she said, disguising an
uneasy look. " Lord Pentonville, will you explain to
the servants what place we have chosen."

"C — c — certainly!" answered Pentonville, with an
air of extreme agility, as he trotted out through the

arch. " You are too exacting, Lestrange," she whispered

under her breath.

They say — that love is always exacting."

Love ! " She threw volumes into the word. " Lady

Pepperharrow, will you come and look for the others ? "
The two men were alone again together.

THE COMPACT AND THE VISION.

Well, you will join the picnic ? " said Lestrange.

No, not I."

I think you will, for all that."

"I dislike that style of people more than I ever
did," said Faucit impatiently. " There's a sort of
ridiculous assumption about them, as if one were a clay
of an inferior kind, made by a different manufacturer.
It irritates me, and I don't like it."

"Perhaps the manufacturer is different," observed
Lestrange. " It is difficult to think that a man like
yourself, and a Pentonville, are turned out by the same
hand. I should be inclined to attribute him to the
classic Demiurgus; unless," he added, reflectively, "I
had something to do with him myself."

It's just the inferiority of the creature that

makes assumption so enraging. I wanted to kick
him."

"That is a very improper frame of a mind for a
hermit," said Lestrange. "It's a poor little snob, no
doubt. But snub downwards is snub upwards, and he
gets as much moral kicking from one side as he gives
on the other. It's all very even. An odd country this
England of yours, where everybody seems to be saying,
'Please find me somebody's boots to lick, and bring
somebody else to lick mine.' I happened to be the
other day in a picture-gallery, near a princess of the
blood-royal, some degrees removed. She had with her
her little girl, aged five, necessarily another degree
removed. To them enter, as the stage-directions say,
two fashionably-dressed young ladies. A mixture of
awe and gratification filled their lovely eyes, and each
bobbed twice — I cannot call it bowing, for it was an
odd jerky motion effected by the crooking of one knee
to the great lady. Then they left-about-faced, and
bobbed again, positively, to the little girl— the crook
being a shade less hooky. It was a very touching sight ;
and I was as much amused by the quiet look of fun in
the princess's face, a very bonny, good-natured looking
woman by the way, as by anything else in the little scene."

Who were the robbers?" said Faucit. " Ladies' -
maids ? "

Oh, dear, no. They were the beautiful ladies
Diana and Castalia Coldharbour, daughters of the Duke
of Friesland, whose ancestors came over with the
Conqueror. It's the old story of the bigger and lesser
fleas. If you spoke to those girls, they would chill you
with a look. The blueness of their blood suggests an
underdone joint. It was never even warmed through."

Faucit laughed a good deal. "Yes, it's all very
funny," he said; " and I confess I'm out of it. Why
on earth did your friend Lady Luscombe ask me to join
her picnic ? "

Because you are not justified in being ' out of it '
any longer. Because you've got forty thousand a year."

'•' Does she know that too ? " asked Faucit, astonished.

Yes," said the Count. " I told her."

What on earth, and why on earth — "

What business is it of mine, and why should I
interfere ? You needn't be angry with me ; I haven't
used an unpleasant means of introduction, have I ? and
I don't even charge a commission."

The man's good breeding was so perfect, and his
easy familiarity so free from any suspicion of discourtesy,

that a less well-tempered man than Faucit was couldn't
have taken offence if he had tried. Faucit was not
inclined to try. Apart altogether from this proffered
fortune, which was like a vision of fable-land, he was
thoroughly interested and held by the conversation and
manners of his new acquaintance.

"Then your Lady Luscombe wouldn't have asked
me, if it hadn't been for this fortune-ins the-air ? "

In the air, eh ? you'll find most of it in a very solid
form. No, she wouldn't ; why should she ? She has a
niece to marry," said the Count, looking down and
trimming his nails.

"Oh, is that all? Only another edition of the
eternal old story. A girl to sell — wanted a purchaser.
I'm sick of all that, and have heard far too much of it ;
and I don't buy damaged goods, or any other goods
either. Her ladyship is early in the slave-market, no
doubt, but she's too late for all that. I don't want
to have anything to do with her niece, her picnic,
or her."

Faucit hadn't said so many words in a speech for a
long time; and Frisco, whom he was accustomed to
talk with in the fondest but fewest monosyllables, looked
up from his ruminative attitude in the corner with

undisguised wonder at the new ring of the familiar
voice. Then his eyes fixed themselves again on
Lestrange's unmoved face, with every evidence of much
inward exercise. If one may attempt to explore into
the course of a dog's thoughts, he had begun to conquer
his first violent prepossession against the Count, on
discovering how his master gradually thawed in his
company ; but was now, in spite of himself, coming back
to his original feeling. It is much the same with us.
We take an instinctive dislike, feel that we must be
wrong, argue ourselves out of it, and are quite on good
terms for a time ; then suddenly and helplessly relapse,
to dislike for evermore, and to give up struggling against
it. Very often, too, it is some sudden exhibition of
moral shadiness on the other side which explains and
justifies the relapse. The other side, perhaps, says the
same of us. Therein instinct proves itself a truer thing
than reason, and begins new matter of speculation as to
the real positions of the different animals, man included,
in the scale of intelligence. Faucit himself, amono-
the various literary torsos which at one time he had
accumulated in his drawers, had written a good part of
an empiric essay — ' On the Causes of Johnson's Dislike
for Dr. Fell.'

For the present, however, a quiet rebuke from the
Count was the only result of the other's outbreak.

In the new career which is opening for you, my
dear fellow," he said, " I strongly recommend you to
avoid misanthropy. It's a common assumption, and
neither real nor wise. Amuse yourselves with your
fellow-creatures, make friends with them, make use of
them, make all you can of them, but don't always
impute bad motives to them. Our motives are like
ourselves, a mixture."

It strikes me that you imputed the bad motive,"
said Faucit, laughing. " The lecture comes badly."

I beg your pardon," answered Lestrange. " I
stated a fact, and you instantly drew a misanthropic
inference. Nor did I suggest that the motive, if it be
one, was bad. It strikes me as exemplary. Miss Caroline
Beaufort is a very nice little girl, and you look as
if you ought to make a model husband. What can an
aunt do better ? Come to the picnic. "

Indeed, I'll do nothing of the kind."

"Well, stay here with me a little longer, and it
will come to you. Don't move ; you mean to join it."

"Eh?" said the other.
'I read acceptance in your face, and I can tell you

the reason. Your little tirade just now was a disguised
farewell to the styptic life, and to roots and water.
You are tired of misanthropy as a profession."

"Do you really want to persuade me." said the
recluse, " that you are so fond of your fellow-creatures
? "

I said nothing of the kind," answered the other.
The operations of your mind are electric. Between
affection and aversion there are many shades of feeling.
Now you are going back into the world, cultivate indifference.
Will you take me for your mentor ? "

"I suspect," said Faucit, "that you would soon
have enough of me. We are men of a very different
sort."

All the more likely to agree. If I propose to take
the censorship, it is to serve us both. My knowledge
of the physical, and still more of what I may call the
moral geography of what is known as the world, is,
though I say it, oddly varied and complete. I keep a
sort of chart of all the reefs and shoals, and I know a
lighthouse when I see it, also if it is given to revolving.
I know when the appearance of solidity is deceitful ,
how thin and how many the strata underneath. I can
distinguish the soil which only wants surface-draining

from that which is barren at heart for evermore. I
have also — having set myself early to acquire it — a
singular power and influence over the wills of men. I
can be of great use to you, Faucit, in launching you
in the world (and there is thus much gained already,
that I hear no more objections) ; and I am interested
in you for reasons which I can explain later."

"Tell me one," said the other, on whom the fascination
was growing.

Lestrange hesitated a little, and looked a little
away.

"For one thing — I knew your father," he said.

Who died when I was a child ? "

"Yes. And was very kind to me when I was one."

"The introduction is quite enough," said Faucit,
rising from the grass, on which he had thrown himself
down to listen. And he said it with relief in his voice,
as if it were a pleasure to feel that he had an excuse for
encouraging this self-presented acquaintance. "Why
didn't you say it at first ? Let us be friends."

He held out his hand to Lestrange, and the two men
shook hands. The small nervous fingers disappeared in
the other's large grasp, and Frisco, with a slight wag of
the tail, and an inaudible growl, witnessed the compact

then and there made between the Count Lestrange of
the one part, and Guy Faucit, sometime called Fraser,
of the other, signed, sealed, and delivered in the dog's
presence that blank day of September, in the ruins of
the Owl's Nest.

jfc 5fc # ifc ^J

I don't see yet, however," said Guy Faucit, " of
what service I can be to you."

"You will be to me," answered Lestrange smilingly,
what the Lord Viscount Pentonville's beauties are to
the Lord Viscount Pentonville. He produces them, and
he shines by the reflection of their graces, and in the
coruscation of their photographs. Why shouldn't I
speculate in a man, as he does in a woman ? Men
are a much better investment, and more interesting
altogether. Besides, are your powers of imputation
disappearing already ? You are a rich man and I am a
poor one ; and you can serve me in thousands of ways."

That's true, of course," answered Faucit ; " and I'm
sure I shall be very glad. You're worth it. But the
sweetbread comes just in time to mumble, for I've few
enough teeth left. I'm old to invest in."

Nonsense," said the Count, cheerily. " Youth was

one of the commodities you were asking for just now ;
vol. 11. p

and with money and friends I have brought it you.
What can you want, to begin with, younger than a
picnic, and Lord Pentonville ? "

Who is good enough to take me to be older than
himself," said Guy, rather angrily.

Yes," said Lestrange, observant and amused ; " I
don't think you look so," he added drily, measuring the
man's broad proportions with his eye, which had a
touch of envy in it. " What an athlete you must have
been." The eye twinkled, and the smoke curled up,
for Lestrange had lighted another cigar, being seldom
without one.

Must have been ! I am."

Guy Faucit followed the instinct of strong health
and a strong frame, took a long draught of the bright
moorland air into his lungs, expanded them, hit outwith
both his arms, and then played "double attack"
with them on his big chest, which answered to the
summons like a mellow cathedral bell, some such
celebrity as Tom of Lincoln. Lestrange fairly laughed
out, on a note distinctly louder than he had yet
allowed his voice to take, bating no jot of its music.

Vanity, eh ? " he said, still laughing. " You're
young enough."

"Not for picnics and fashionables, hanged if I
am," answered Guy, suddenly forgetting his personality.
"After all, Count Lestrange, I don't know who you
are, or why you take so great an interest in me. But
though our introduction has been a strange one by
ordinary rules, I shall be glad to have any amount of
talk with you, if you care about it. Who wouldn't?
There isn't much in my talk ; but I can't stand
your Pentonvilles, and that sort of people. I'll see
you whenever you like, but d — n your friends."

Of course — that's my object," said Lestrange.

Faucit couldn't help laughing, and laughed in spite
of himself.

You won't join us, then ? " the Count went on.
"Money and youth don't tempt you. What about
revenge, and love ? "

I don't really want revenge," the other said,
gravely ; " that was a momentary thought. ' I will chide
no dweller in the world but myself, against whom I
know most faults.' No, I don't want revenge ; I'm not
so bad as that."

As to want revenge ? it's a very natural need, and

a very healthy passion ; much healthier than love."

Love ! " Guy said, with utter bitterness in his

p 2

voice. " The sort of love that fine ladies, with nieces
to marry, come dinners-inland to offer you ! I put my
own meaning on that insulted word, Count Lestrange ;
and I've done with it once for all."

So much the better for you," was the answer.
'you must be a very exceptionally lucky man to be
able to put a limit on the illimitable. But I don't
believe it, I'm sorry to say ; for I can't imagine that
I have met the impossible for the first time, after all
my experience. Why were you asking for love just
now, Faucit, if you don't want it ? "

"All men wish to be loved — sometimes," said the
other, very slowly and dreamily, with his eyes turned
into some unforgotten past.

Do they ? It's not bad, — if they can't make themselves
feared ; " slowly on his side, and very low and
clear.

Feared ! " echoed Faucit. "I've no desire for that."

It's much more useful," said Lestrange, communing
with his cigar. " People will do some things
for those they love, everything for those they fear."

Once more the same uncanny note might have
been heard in the voice ; and once more Guy Faucit' s
straightforward nature took the alarm.

There was a pause on both sides, and on both sides
+ he " interval of sound " was filled by tobacco-smoke.

Yes ? ; ' then Lestrange said, quietly. " Tell me the
story."

He spoke with an evidence of interest ; for he saw
in the face of the other the longing to speak which
possesses us all at times, most of all after long-enforced
repression. And Guy Faucit had kept his counsel for
many solitary years ; nor had any one till now had the
power to make him break it. He had been tempted
often, on ship-board and in bush-land, in strange cities
and stranger settlements, amongst the various companions,
rough and gentle, with whom he had from
time to time consorted, to break the spell of silence
which became now and again almost intolerable. But
the hour and the man had never come till now. ]Nor
now had he much to say.

Shall I ? " he said, drawing at his pipe and looking
straight before him. He spoke more to himself than to
the other, and dropped his sentences one by one, as if
they were wrung from him with a sort of pain. " The
story's a very old one. I cared once for a girl, who — as
I thought — cared for me. It began ten years ago, and
it ended eight. My mother warned me that she might
be frivolous and heartless, and of course I didn't believe
her. Of course my mother was right. It was just at
the time of my mother's death, — when I had gone down
from London and seen her die, — when I most wanted
love and help — "

The pause lengthened, and Lestrange remarked
quietly —

Just the time when they fail. Yes ? "
It was then that I heard that the girl had thrown
me over for some rich man or another. Nothing very
new, is it ? That's all."

He got up from his seat with a sigh half of relief,
knocked the ashes from his pipe, and walked slowly to
the opposite corner of the quadrangle ; there he stood
looking on the ground, and tapping the grass absently
with his foot. More and more and more, the afternoon
shadows crept slowly over the scene.

"And you have never seen her or heard of her
since ? " Lestrange said, watching the set face closely.

Never."

Guy spoke the word between his teeth, and the
shadow that fell on him for the moment was not quite
good to see.

Should you like to do so ? " asked the Count, after
another pause.

Faucit started, as if a new train of thought had
followed on the last. He took counsel in his heart
before he answered, and seemed to be arguing out
something with himself behind his knitted brows. Then
he said curtly — "Yes."

Lestrange took a small photograph from his
pocket, and held it out to Guy. " Is that anything
like her?"

Guy Faucit looked at the other for a space as if he
did not understand, then took the portrait from him
All the blood rushed straight from the face to the
heart, leaving the giant for a moment as colourless asa
dying man ; then rushed back again with a strong
reinforcement, and overflowed cheek, and throat, and
forehead. His eyes seemed literally to fasten upon the
picture before him, and the tempest that shook the

man all through seemed for a moment as if it would
throw him from his feet.

How did you get this ? " he said, and in a whisper.

The Count paid no apparent attention to the emotion
of his companion, but treated the whole matter with
the same pleasant air of commonplace. " I like," he
said, placidly, "to keep the portraits of people who
interest me."

But what is it ? " insisted the other, still in a voice
not his own. " It is herself. Where is she ? "

It was not from Lestrange that the immediate
answer came. Suddenly, from the road behind, a
woman's laugh rang out upon the ear, like a silver
peal of bells of infinite beauty, in which one of the
bells, perhaps, has gone a little bit wrong, and caught
a note not quite the others' in the strain. It came
without warning, and went crisply through the air. A
quick smile flitted over Lestrange' s face as he slightly
raised his eyebrows and twisted his ring, and half
muttered to himself, "Curious. I'm always in the
right time."

Upon Guy Faucit the effect of the sound was startling.
He literally staggered on his feet, turned again
as ashy pale as a snow-drift looks in a dull twilight,

and fell back against a projecting part of the wall,
behind Lestrange, breathing hard and quick, and like a
hunted man. His eyes were fixed upon the road, over
Lestrange's shoulder, with half a hope and half a terror
in them. Full upon the little knoll behind the road,
bathed in a capricious sunbeam which flashed out to
frame the picture, sprang and stood the figure of a very
beautiful young woman, one of the daughters of the
gods, divinely tall and divinely fair as Helen of Troy
herself. And a Helen of Troy she might be, worthy a
ten years' siege. The full but lithe figure was fitted to
a marvel by the shapely blue riding-habit she wore,
and the little man's hat, coquettishly worn aside, took
the station of Mercury on the mass of soft fair hair,
seasoned with countless threads of sunny gold. The
complexion was of the pure marble white which is
surely the most perfect of all complexions — the veined
white of the statue-world, which suggests delicacy of
constitution till the flash of interest or of exercise belies
the charge. The firm and well-cut hands, not too large
for beauty, but not too small for use, were carefully
gloved in becoming gauntlets, and one of them had
gathered up the habit's folds, while the other tapped
her boot with the whip it held.

All who love me, follow me ! " she said out in a
laughing voice, apparently to some one behind her.
And she stood as upright as a dart, and looked down
like Galatea from her pedestal upon the two men in
the foreground. Or rather upon one of them. For
Lestrange, as the vision appeared, answered the other's
last question quietly.

There she is," he said ; and with an imperceptible
movement placed himself more completely between
them. If his object was to keep Guy out of sight he
might have saved himself the pains. For after one
long deep look, which seemed to take the picture into
the very framework of his heart, to stay there for ever,
Guy Faucit fell back, like a man utterly dazed and
overcome, into the angle of the ruin which screened
him from every part of the road, with one set, yearning,
stifled cry—" Good God ! "

DAISY BRENT.

The visitor shaded her eyes with her raised hand,
and looked into the quiet quadrangle, from the centre
of which the Count Lestrange was directly facing her.
Of the other figure she saw nothing, and nothing of the
strange drama which was passing there. Before anything
was said, Frisco struck a sort of preliminary note
by shaking his head, and crossing quietly to the angle
where his master was, to take his place beside him.

Ah, Mrs. Brent !" said Lestrange, raising his voice
without any perceptible modification of the tone, and
speaking with familiar acknowledgment.

The wandering Jew ! " laughed she, nodding to
the speaker with a manner not indicating any special
respect.

' Und aber each suns hinder Jahren
Will ici desselbigen Wages fallen.'

Shall I translate it for you ? " she added.

And when five hundred years are o'er,
I'll travel the self-same road once more.' "

I never want to be translated to."

I know you don't, and apologize. I believe you
are the inventor of language ; but you always look in
your element in out-of-the-way places, most romantic
and Byronic of men. What plot are you constructing
down there, Manfred ? "

You know as well as I do, as, like the rest of the
world, I only act under your ladyship's orders. I'm
constructing a picnic."

Have you found a good place ? " she asked ; " one
where my satellites will show to advantage ? "

Capital, I think," he answered. " Look about you
from your point of vantage, and admit that I have done
my spiriting well."

Count Lestrange went towards the parapet, and
with a rapid motion of the hand signed to Faucit to
keep his post. There was no fear of his leaving it, for
his eyes having done their part over Lestrange's
shoulder, his ears were now drinking in the sound of
the rider's voice. Did he remember it as he heard it
now ? or did his quick sense detect in it, even in the few

syllables of courteous badinage which were passing
between her and the Count, something curiously different
from a voice which had once been the music to
which his life was set, and had left its melody behind
with him wherever he had gone ? There must have
been something of this last discovery, and something in
it which even in its sadness was not all pain. Were
there others in the world who could have suffered ashe,
and why ?

Meanwhile the Count was leaning carelessly over
the parapet upon his elbow, looking up at her whom
he had called Mrs. Brent, and she was taking in the
scene with evident enjoyment of its rich and quiet
beauty.

Did I not see some one with you ? " she asked.

With me ? why ? "

"Another of your bad habits, Count, Like the
Quakers, you are always answering one question by
another. I fancied I caught sight of a figure in the
background, which vanished at my coming like a ghost
with a bad conscience. Perhaps it was a phantom
herdsman who haunts the ruins, as he is no more to
be seen. I oughtn't to drive even a ghost away,
ought I ? "

You ought to bring him back to flesh and blood,"
said Lestrange. " If I were a ghost I should revive at
the sight of you, I'm sure' he added, with a shade of
admiration in his tone which failed to reach Faucit, but
did not escape the quick ear of the woman, better versed
in the fashions of Lestrange.

M I'm not sure that you are not a ghost," she said
hastily, " of some uncomfortable vampire order. Only
if you rose you would never do it like other ghosts, but
come up sideways like the creature in the 'Corsican
Brothers However, I'm not going to stop here all
day, stuck up on a mound like a Chinese idol. If you
have found the right place for the picnic, well and
good ; and it looks most interesting and mysterious,
made to set you off to advantage, and in every respect
the correct thing. O dear ! I wonder if there is anything
there that will interest me ? "

I think so," said Lestrange, very quietly.

Then I shall be with you like a flash of lightning '
answered she, laughing, " followed by my thunder, at a
long distance."

Who's your thunder ? " asked the Count, laughing
too.

My swells ! slow, but sure to be after me." And

she burst into a brighter and merrier laugh than before,
which had in it an infinite grace of girlishness and
innocence too, and seemed weighted with less of years
than might have been guessed in her before. It was
the laugh of a woman " with no harm in her," if ever
there was one ; and on Faucit's listening face there was
an expression which was a sort of silent echo of the
laugh he heard. There was relief in it, and somehow
he looked younger, too. Just before, as the lady was
rattling on, he had muttered to himself, "How
changed ! " Now his face had even something of a
smile to answer to her laughter. And so quick, so
singular was the observation of Lestrange that he did
not fail to catch the look, as he turned his head in a
moment from the knoll where the one stood, to glance
at the corner where the other was hidden. Meantime
the skirts were more daintily gathered up in the left
hand, and the right waved a laughing farewell.

In five minutes ! " she said ; and with the spring
of elastic youth the pleasant figure had vanished from
the knoll, and was gone, before the echo of that silver
laugh had quite died under the moss-grown eaves.
Even Frisco had raised his head to acknowledge it, with
an indication of a wag of the tail. An odd silence

between the two men, with whom such intervals were
growing common, followed for a time before either
moved or spoke. Lestrange was still leaning over the
parapet, and looking after the figure that had just left
them, watching her, perhaps, at some little distance,
swung lightly to the saddle at the mere touch of a
helping hand, and with strange thoughts in his mind,
which gave no outward sign other than an expression of
greater impenetrableness on the secretive face. Slowly
he lighted another cigar, while the other man, full of
his strange thoughts too, was coming as slowly to himself.
Frisco, coming close to him and whining for
notice, and at last taking the unusual step of tattooing
Faucit's chest with his fore-paws, first produced a
change of attitude. Guy patted him kindly on the
head, then stooping, bestowed a welcome caress on his
neck, and coming back to the table where he had been
sitting when Lestrange appeared, he too immediately
consulted the Delphic oracle of modern days, and
held fiery communion with his pipe.

"What is she?" presently he said, shortly, and
without further prelude, not looking away from the
table.

"Mrs. Brent; a social celebrity, and the flower of

Lady Luscombe's party," answered Lestrange, not turning
his head either, but keeping it fixed upon the road
beyond.

"Married? — or a widow?" And the reply, which
was a little time coming, was waited for between two
whiffs, the pipe showing no sign of life.

Married"

"Ah." The head sank a little forward as the
suspended whiff came. "Where's her husband?" —
abruptly.

Where husbands should be — in India."

"Who is he?"

Mr. Brent," said Lestrange ; and he turned away
from the road and left the parapet, the impenetrable
look seeming to deepen as he did so, and seated himself
once more at the table opposite to the recluse. Then
he went on sentence by sentence, dropping them with
the same crystal clearness and deliberation, but apparent
absence of any marked intention, as before. "A bad
husband — he treats her abominably. He was rich, and
lost his fortune in speculation. She lives with Lady
Pepperharrow as a kind of ward — and stays a good deal
at Luscombe Abbey. She is not well off."

The last sentence was more deliberate than the

VOL. II.

rest, and marked by a quiet disentangling of the ashes
of the cigar.

Has she no relations to take care of her ? "

One — a brother."

In the army, I think ? "

In the army." Lestrange took no notice of the
knowledge of facts implied.

Isn't he with her ? "

No ; he is with his regiment. I don't think he's
a very attentive brother." And the two smoked on.

Presently Guy rose and walked down the quadrangle.


Count Lestrange, I'll join the picnic," he said.

That's right," answered the other pleasantly. " I
am glad to see that you fall in with my views, as I
thought you would. Hermit must be such a bore if
persevered in, the essence of life being variety. It is
only useful to digest experiences ; for when they are
assimilated we want to swallow fresh ones. But, by the
way, don't call me Count Lestrange. Nobody does
except my man Chaffers, and I don't like it."

"What am I to call you?"

Lestrange, of course. The sooner we get upon the
familiar terms agreed upon, the better for the prospects

of our meditated fellowship. I can accept my mentor-ship
upon no condition but that of absolute equality."

Very well," said Guy, who was scarcely listening,
as the Count was well aware as he talked on.

He left Guy to his reverie for a short time, watching
him in silence, or making some trivial remark, not
wanting an answer, till, looking out from the quadrangle
again, he saw the figure of a man on the road,
to whom he beckoned quietly. Then he went up to
Guy Faucit and brought him back to reality.
"Faucit," he said.
"Yes?"

Are you going to picnic like that ? "
How else ? " answered Guy. But as he spoke his
eye turned to his rough and courtier-like dress and
appearance, and he shrugged his shoulders. " I am
not very fit for fashion, I suppose."

Well, the fashions have no doubt changed to a
certain extent since those clothes were made. Have
you no others?"

"Yes, at my cottage."

Suppose you go and put them on."

"Eh?"

It's as well to do yourself justice, isn't it ?

Q 2

As mentor, may I venture on a further piece of
advice ? "

Certainly. What ? After all this dress suits my
shaggy personality better than any other."

Exactly. Don't adapt the dress to the personality
but the personality to the dress."

What do you mean ? "

There is nothing like a first impression. Of course
you know none of this picnic-party ; but after the news
I have given you this morning, and one thing or the
other, wouldn't you like to be more like the rest of
the men of the party, for the benefit of the women ?
Some one of the women might even attract you,
you know."

"And I shouldn't attract them, you mean," said
Guy, laughing rather uncomfortably. "I am afraid
they must take me for what I am worth. Perhaps
there are some of them who ought to know."

Many people, women especially, are slow to look
behind appearances. As I said," added Lestrange
cheerily, " there's nothing like a first impression. Now
forget the old man, for you're no more of that than I
am. Cut off that beard, which doesn't really become
you, and come out as the Faucit you were."

The Faucit I was ? " said Guy, very sadly, even
through the nervous excitement and restlessness which
had taken possession of his whole being and manner
since the episode of the rider. " The past is the past,
and I don't know how."

I do," was the reassuring answer ; " or if I don't,
my man Chaffers will. He's a treasure. I give him no
wages to speak of, and he lives on the fat of the land,
and is quite content. I ask no questions, and so am I.
He never takes my clothes, that I know of, and is
always dressed exactly like me. There he is," he
concluded, beckoning again with a sign of the head to
the man he had noticed in the road, who had passed
on, with some picnic properties of which he was in
charge, to the entrance by the old arch.

Chaffers ! " called Lestrange in that direction ; and
the man so summoned came in.

Even in the pre-occupation of his mind Guy
Faucit was struck, and rather uncomfortably, by his
curious appearance. Not only was he dressed like his
master, but "made up at him," as the players say, in
every available particular, presenting just the outward
and inward difference between an original masterpiece
and a careful copy, in which the form is so deftly

imitated, that it is difficult to say why the expression
is so entirely gone. The height and figure of the man
appeared to have been trained upon his master's tailor's
measure ; the gestures were almost the same, yet gave
exactly the opposite effect — servility instead of masterfulness
; the dress, as Lestrange said, was identical ; and
the colouring of the face looked as if stage-pigments
had reproduced the other's in a waxier shape. The
voice had attained by practice to the same pitch without
the same music : and the whole effect was appreciably
theatrical, and suggested one of those " doubles "
of an actor who are introduced upon the stage, worked
up through the fortnight medium to what becomes for
the first moment quite a startling illusion. Lestrange
contemplated him with an amused gravity. He walked
furtively into the middle of the quadrangle, keeping a
wary eye on Frisco, whose appearance seemed rather to
disconcert him.

"Yes, Count Lestrange," he said, in a voice which
sounded, after the Count's, like an echo in a decline.

"Leave the hampers for a moment," said the Count.
Chaffers has a soul above hampers," he added to Guy ;
but he condescends. This is my friend, Mr. Faucit,
Chaffers. You have my little dressing-case with you ? "

Yes, Count Lestrange."

"Quite right. I never, my dear Faucit, travel
without Chaffers, or he without my little case. One
never knows. It is outside, Chaffers ? Bring it."

Yes, Count Lestrange." And the singular shadow
effaced itself with an apologetic bow.

What an odd-looking servant ! " said Guy,
as he went out. " Is he pleasant to have about
you?"

He knows my ways, which is essential to me in
the wandering life I lead. I never know to-day where
I may be tomorrow, and at Trouville or San Francisco
Chaffers is equally at home. He is my courier, valet,
confidential servant, secretary, everything ; and his
personal attachment to me is above suspicion. I
secured that from the first in a way of my own — quite
an amusing story."

But Faucit was paying no especial attention again,
and, keenly watching the play of his face, Lestrange
left him to his thoughts for a minute or two till the
man Chaffers returned with the little case of which
Lestrange had spoken. The Count beckoned him, and
spoke to him in a low voice before the absorbed Faucit
was aware of his presence.

I want you to wait on Mr. Faucit, Chaffers, as if
it were on myself'

Chaffers bowed.

He will show you to his house, and tell you what
he wants. A sweep or two of the razor will get rid of
that beard, and — I want him to look his youngest,
which should be young. The moustache is a little
grey — and — you understand?" he added, with a
gesture of the hand towards the jet-black facing of
his own lip.

Yes, Count Lestrange," was again the reply.

"Faucit," said the Count, looking down the road,
I see sign of carriages and horsemen in the distance.
My lady's coachmen are too well fed, and feed their
cattle too well, to vie with Jehu. But they will be
here before long — the Pepperharrows, Pentonvilles,
Brents, and all. Some of the party have been
1 doing ' something in the neighbourhood, and want
righteous refreshment after their labours. Had not
you better make your escape with Chaffers at once ?
You will soon be ready to face Society in its own
uniform."

Faucit seemed to have gathered himself together
again when Lestrange, with a slight emphasis, threw in

the name of Brent, and he too walked rapidly up to
the road and threw a glance along it. Then he turned
to Lestrange with a manner entirely changed from
the sad self-possession which had marked him before,
for his face and voice had in them something of a
boy's eagerness, mixed with a singular kind of man's
determination.

"Send your man with me, Lestrange," he said.
I don't know what fancy it can have been that
made me provide myself with decent clothes, even
in this out-of-the-way place. But you see," he added,
with a nervous laugh, "one never knows what may
happen."

"Never," said Lestrange, laughing. "Even the
hermits of old probably put their Sunday best away in
clover somewhere, in the driest part of the cell. No
man burns the bridges which connect him with commonsense
till he can't help himself. Make haste."

Come with me, Chaffers," said Guy Faucit, quickly;
and he led the way through the disused path among
the laurels by which Lestrange had entered, followed by
the shadowy man-servant, between whom and his master
another glance of intelligence passed. Frisco bounded
after them.

Leaning against the ruin, with one foot crossed over
the ankle of the other, Lestrange watched the pair, as
with one hand he put the laurels aside, still with the
look on his face, and still smoking.

Just so," he said. " So far, so good."

THE PICNIC.

It would have needed something more of a knowledge
of character, more of the power of reading the
thoughts in the book of the features than was possessed
even by the magician of Edgar Poe's curious fancy, to
gather, either from the face or manner of the Count,
when he was left alone, anything whatever of the
thoughts that were passing in his mind. Perhaps there
was something of visible relief when he found himself
in his own companionship, as if it were more to his
taste than that of any other man. But there was
nothing to suggest to Asmodeus himself, whose part
the chronicler may be taken to play, the smallest key
to the schemes and purposes that were working in that
subtle brain.

There are men among the mask-wearers who have
been caught without their mask when alone ; but this
might have been the historic prisoner in the vizard
of iron. The same singular smile — the same restless,
piercing look — the same inscrutable expression — the
same rapid observation of all about him, given now to
things instead of men, were the characteristics of Le-strange
by himself, as of Lestrange with others. When
the two who had just left him had gone out of his
sight, he began by taking a rapid survey of the place
about him, more close than he had done when with
Guy. He noted all the bearings of the ruin, paced the
length and breadth from side to side, and made himself
generally acquainted with all the details of the scene.
Then he seated himself where Guy had sate, and took
up the book which Guy had left behind. He glanced
at the title, and turned the pages over, making some
close study, as if with a purpose, of some of the things
he read. Then he let the book fall open on his knee,
and thoughtfully caressed with his hand the short,
pointed beard. More and more he became self-involved,
as one puzzled with some mysterious problem. After a
time his eye glanced quickly towards the laurels, then
quickly towards the road, and something of impatience

might have been suspected from his manner, even in
spite of the impassive face.

But the suspicion could not last long, for after once
more walking up to the parapet and leaning over it, he
took out a telegram, and read it over to himself with a
slight smile. Asmodeus is privileged with telegrams,
and this one came from Scotland. "Foster has had
another stroke, and died last night." Lestrange laughed
quietly to himself as he read it, and tearing it into
minute pieces, let them float away, to adhere together
no more. He began whistling softly between his teeth,
and slowly paced the quadrangle, with his hands crossed
under his coat behind, and his eyes thoughtfully reading
the ground, in the attitude so much associated with
Napoleon the Third, to those who have seen him taking
his walks in the garden of the Tuileries.

No thoughts of the Count Lestrange ever took form
upon his lips when he was alone. But Asmodeus may
in this instance steal from his heart the peroration of
his long soliloquy. " Oh, there must be a Providence
somewhere — a Providence which I command — I. Why
do they call me ' Satan Lestrange,' I wonder ? "

He lifted his head and left his own company at this
crisis in his thoughts, as the same clear voice which

had heralded the vision on the knoll broke in upon the
silence again, this time in a burst of music, carolling
like a bird or a bell the opening bars of the waltz from
Faust.' ' In another second the owner of the voice
came in through the lancet arch, followed by a goodly-company
of gilded youth and age, in their fashions more
or less elastic or more or less leisurely.

It was obvious at once, however, that the queen of
all the revels was Daisy Brent, and obvious that no other
woman in the company could hold her own in looks orin
grace with this winsome Diana. If distance lent an
enchantment of its own to the picture on the knoll, the
enchantment of proximity was only greater. The sweet
face bore traces of hidden care and of hidden sorrow,
and something that had the impress of a passionate
regret. Recklessness, too, and a touch of defiance, had
striven to set upon it an indelible seal. But the seal,
though set, was not indelible. The eyes and mouth
and whole expression carried too strongly for that
the tokens of a very lovable womanhood, from which
neither sorrow nor trouble nor evil had been able to
efface the " springtime of her childish years."

To see Daisy Brent was to like her ; to know her
was to love her; and the many who did know her

availed themselves of the last privilege very largely.
Nobody ever thought of disputing her royalty anywhere,
and the most careless of the careless set in which she
lived and moved and had her frivolous being felt a sort
of uneasy wish that she were less careless and less
frivolous than they. But if any such feeling ever
troubled herself, she resolutely and immediately set
it down.

The extent of the influence of Daisy Brent over the
society assembled at Luscombe Abbey may be measured
by the fact that she had insisted on a picnic in the
height of the shooting-season, and that the most
obstinate male creature had not attempted to dispute
her will. For it was trying, certainly, to men of the
mental constitution of the Duke of Surbiton and the
Marquis of Xorbiton, or of the unimpeachable social
consistency of Sir Brummel Coates, to be called upon
to agree to anything so irregular. All very well in the
season, when it is well known that there is nothing for
anybody to do, to make holiday of that kind on b
popular cricket-ground or race-course, or somewhere in
the vague country known as " up the river." But the
serious business of life begins with autumn, and it
is possible that the men's objections to sacrificing a

working day to the caprice of a pretty woman had something
of conscience about them. The Honourable Jem
Gosling, perhaps, was the solitary exception ; for to him
the world in all its aspects bore the pleasant face of
butterflydom, and though he had placed it on record
that, " bar the Brent, he would rather be out in the
turnip-fields," he troubled himself about the weighty
matter very little indeed.

A picnic by the river's brim
Another picnic was to him."

Be these things as they may, the will of Daisy Brent
was law; and so it came to pass that the rank and
fashion of Luscombe Abbey, a social institution of great
importance in a certain world, were assembled together
for an anachronistic picnic in the grey and old-world
ruins of the Owl's Nest, on that sunny and memorable
September afternoon.

Daisy's cheek was flushed to its most becoming shade
with the spirit and excitement of the ride, and her eyes
sparkling with genuine enjoyment. In a moment her
quick sight took in the picturesqueness of the whole
scene, and the sward of living green which carpeted it.

How delicious ! " she exclaimed. " What a day
for a ride, and what a carpet for a waltz ! Why can't

one waltz in a riding-habit, and combine the two jolliest
things in the world ? Jemmy, take me round the waist
and see if it's possible. Tra, la, lala, lala, la, lala ! "

"Awfully possible to take you round the waist,"
answered Jem Gosling, who had pushed into the place
nearest to the divinity, and was ready to justify against
all comers his position as one of Daisy's prime favourites.
" Always feel as if I ought to take it between my
thumb and finger, as if it were a pen."

Tight-lacing," observed apart Miss Caroline Beaufort
to her bosom friend, Miss Emily Challoner. " I do
think she might let Jemmy alone."

"Why don't you take him away from her, dear?"
was the sleepy answer.

Emily Challoner was tall and pale and slight,
and affected a West Indian kind of manner, as of
one who had suffered from the tropics. Carrie Beaufort
was plump and small and merry, with twinkling
eyes, and one of the most audacious little noses
in the world. It always looked, with the rest of
her face, as if it had been intended to be classical, —
which indeed was a characteristic of all other Beaufort
noses, — but had suddenly broken down at the bridge.
It was reported in the family that a brother Beaufort

VOL. II. R

had sat upon it once for a continuous time in the
nursery, and that all the little Beaufort had afterwards
combined to sit on or otherwise put it back again
whenever it showed signs of growing, like a Chinese
woman's foot.

Then another voice, thick and doubtful, but exceedingly
deliberate, took up the tale of Jemmy Gosling's
complimentary speech.

"I don't like haw waltzing," said Sir Brummel
Coates, baronet of old date, and the best dressed man
in London; "in fact, I can't hum waltz. But hum
pleasure of your waist haw — in fact, I wish I could."

There was this peculiarity in Sir Brummel's use of
the two great monosyllables which serve so large a
purpose with the blameless type which he adorned, that
they never served with him for interjections, but were
embodied, spotless, in the main current of his speech.

How beautiful ! " sighed Daisy, with a tender look
at her second cavalier, who had secured the place on the
other side of her. " What I like about Brum's compliments
is their suggestiveness. They leave so much to
the imagination."

Haw," said Brum, looking red and awkward, and
inwardly cogitating what the last remark might imply.

Poor Brum," said Gosling ; " you're going to catch
it, old man."

"No, now," remonstrated Coates, "no. Ton my
soul you're not fair."

Daisy turned to Lady Luscombe with an appealing
look, where her hostess was standing close by, superintending
arrangements, and in close converse with
Lestrange, who had drawn quietly near her.

"Oh, Lady Luscombe, protect me! Here's Sir
Brummel says I'm dark, and pledges his salvation that
I dye my complexion !"

Haw come ! " said Sir Brummel, with an animal-like
protest against a conclusion he entirely failed to
follow, amidst the laughter of the party round.

How much do you get on your salvation when you
pledge it, Sir Brummel ? " said Count Lestrange, drily.
An unpleasant current ran down several spines as he
spoke.

Haw," muttered Coates between the hairs of his
moustache, looking at the Count uncomfortably ; " when
the foreign fellow's down on one — where's the hum
sherry and bitters ? "

He turned aside to a congenial basket, and became
engaged in a discussion of the relative merits of Orange

R 2

and Angostura with the Duke of Surbiton and the
Marquis of Norbiton. Both the Duke and the Marquis
preferred orange, which seemed to them in someway
intertwined with the constitution, hereditary legislation,
and the rights of property. There was a
democratic sound of innovation attached to the younger
form of bitters, which struck them as not quite safe.

Never liked those things from America, Nor," said
his Grace of Surbiton. " Never quite know where you
are with them."

"Never," agreed the Marquis, emphatically. "All
those sort of things are bad form."

If Nor had decided in favour of Angostura, Sur
would have been equally convinced in his reasoning
powers of the justice of the conclusion. The three
men shook their heads sedately, for Coates had a
preference for Angostura in spite of any political
suspicion that might attach to it, and gravely had a
drink together.

Have a cigarette, Daisy," said Jemmy Gosling, ashe
fluttered fancy free among the hampers, lending a
hand here, bestowing a good-natured word there, and
generally in the best of tempers with himself and with
mankind.

"Thanks awfully' answered his companion, carelessly,
as she too helped in the spiriting. "I won't
smoke before lunch."

They began to laugh and chat familiarly together,
much to the inward vexation of a tidy little figure in
another part of the scene, with a pair of bright eyes
and an enquiring nose between them.

"Jemmy," suddenly said Carrie Beaufort, with a
little tap of a very dainty little foot, " come and help
me to unpack this hamper'

She looked temptingly helpless over the task she
had undertaken, and Jemmy Gosling would have found
it difficult to decline the invitation, even if Daisy Brent
had not released her votary by a nod and a smile.
Beauty made his way to Carrie Beaufort's side, and
they became very pleasantly engaged without loss
of time.

The white cloths were laid in picturesque disorder
about the strange old quadrangle, more accustomed to
rougher and readier festivities from the big trade-town,
than to the refined feast of Lucullus which did
duty for a picnic to-day. I mast leave it to pens more
accustomed to the apotheosis of " menus " than mine to
enter into detailed descriptions of what there was to

eat and drink. And indeed the powers of cookery on
these occasions, whatever their possibilities upon paper,
always seem in practice rather limited.

The placid and solitary observer who strolls round
Lord's Ground during the Eton and Harrow match, and,
if he knows nobody to beg a luncheon from, contents
himself with a plate of sandwiches and a glass of beer
at the tavern, remaining none the worse for either, finds
much to speculate on in the absolute sameness of all
the fare provided on the different carriages. The same
pies seem to do duty all round ; the galantine seems
to have been turned out by machinery to go round
the ground ; the cold joints and ducks and fruits to be
supplied by one universal purveyor, and even the cups
to be compounded of the same receipt. The vintage of
Champagne is, of course, the basis of the whole thing
from Dan in the gate to Beersheba at the scoring-tent,
and suggests sometimes a sort of helpless wonder where
it all comes from, or how it is that the supply of the
popular drink keeps such effective pace with the demand.
No wonder Frenchmen drink so little champagne
: there can be so little for them. What would
be done to anybody in England who ventured to give a
luncheon at Lord's or on the river without it ? Would

he be brought up before Spies and Pond, or Bertram
and Roberts ? The historian of these events is at times
haunted by the thought that the time will come when
we all shall be contracted for in the gross by someone
of these enterprising culinary firms, and nationally
found " at so much a mouth, according to our stations
in life, from the duke to the man between the .


There was no lack of champagne in the feast
provided by Lady Luscombe, and no lack of enjoyment
of a certain kind among the guests who sate down toit.
It was no very full-flavoured enjoyment, perhaps,
and gave a certain impression of not having been
earned, which sometimes tinges such meetings with
satiety; and it decidedly rose with the champagne.
But one exception, at all events, to any possible rule
of non-enjoyment was to be found in worthy Lady
Pepperharrow. The soap-boiler's widow was in her
glory on the occasion, and beamed, upon everybody
round her, reflections of her own harvest-moonshine
content.

"The Bird," said Gosling, "was in first-class
feather."

This is really perfectly delightful," she murmured,

between two large forkfuls of lobster, to the Duke of
Surbiton, upon her right. " Such heavenly scenery to
eat in quite sheds an alo about the appetite. Doesn't
your Grace think so ? " she added.

The Duke looked rather puzzled, but thought it did.

And lobsters I always find such wholesome eating.
There are people who find they disagree, but I never
ad cause to complain in that way. And T have eaten,"
she continued, " a large number of them."

Surbiton watched the speaker with quiet admiration ;
and, without waiting to be asked, transferred a fresh
supply of the luxury to her plate.

Don't," whispered Norbiton, who was on the other
side of his friend as usual. " She can't do it."

She can," answered the other in the same tone.
I'll bet you five to one that she can, and another on
that."

"Done," said Norbiton, in a business-like tone.
And with a new and personal interest in the result,
silently now that the matter was one of earnest, they
watched the lobster disappear. The Duke won.

Meanwhile the good understanding between Gosling
and his pretty neighbour was destined to be rudely
disturbed. The Lord Viscount Pentonville was on the

alert. He had taken the deepest interest from the first
in the arrangement of the proceedings. He trotted
from place to place in all the pride of office, interfered
unexpectedly with everybody at the wrong moment,
marshalled the servants invariably wrong, and was
followed by smothered execrations from then well-drilled
ranks as he suddenly descended in his little
tight boots upon the toes of one or another of them,
and followed it up by knocking up against a second,
and profusely apologizing to a third. Assiduously he
uncorked mistaken bottles, and nearly made even Lady
Pepperharrow ill by pouring her out a ,
under an impression of hock.

"It didn't taste like rock at all, your Grace," her
ladyship said, when recovered in time to save the
wager.

And when he had done all the mischief he could
in that direction, the Lord Pentonville proceeded to
inspect the various groups of two which might be
found in different places, sheltered behind favouring
joints, or pursuing the universal pastime under cover of
popping champagne corks.

"D — do you see," he confided to Lady Luscombe,
who was watching with uneasy interest the face of

Count Lestrange, "how close G — Gosling and your
niece are ? "

Recalled to the duties of an aunt and a careful
chaperon, Lady Luscombe looked round and spoke to
the Beauty. "Mr. Gosling," she said quietly, "I want
you here, please."

"What a shame!" muttered poor Carrie, as her
hard-won prize escaped her.

To do him justice, he had no wish at all to escape ;
and made his way to his hostess with what for him
was but a bad grace, throwing regretful looks at his
pretty companion.

Daisy Brent's eyes twinkled with amusement where
she sate enthroned, and engaged in demolishing the
intellect of the hapless Coates.

How jolly to be in such request, Jemmy ! " she
said to Gosling as he passed her.

Awfully," answered he.

"Never mind, dear!" purred Emily to her friend,
whose bright little face showed obvious signs of her
discontent, while Sir Brummel Coates, finding the play
of Daisy's small sword too keen for the rather loose
joints of his mental armour, by some means or another
transferred himself to Emily Challoner's side.

"You won't sit 011 a fellow, Miss Challoner, will
you?" he said.

No ; but I don't mind sitting next him."

"Haw."

The new move in the cards soon attracted the
watchful Pentonville.

C — C — Coates," he whispered in delight to Lady
Luscombe, " is spooning Emily Ch — Challoner. Here,
I say, the fellows have forgotten the pep — pep — pep — "

Pepper, Pen ? " asked Gosling, offering the article.

"No, salt!"

The serious business of refection and flirtation proceeded
on its immemorial way. Some there were
playing the game in unconscious earnest, and others in
conscious sport, careless enough what the other player
might be hoping or feeling. The Count Lestrange
alone, self-involved and unusually silent, seemed to
have little to add either to the festivity or the purposes
of the scene. He had held some talk with Lady Lus-combe
in the old ironic vein, but not much, and his
manner infected her with more and more of a strange
uneasiness.

Where is your promised guest ? " she said.

"Wait," he answered.

The furtive and restless eyes were making a close
study of the face of Daisy Brent, who, holding her own,
first with one admirer and then with another, distributing
glances here and fancy there, bright and
laughing and careless, yet still with a tone of effort
underlying and in an odd way harmonizing it all,
mounted no feather of her royalty as queen of the feast.

FACE TO FACE.

"And this is the Owl's Nest," said Daisy, looking
round her again, "where the Hermit dwells."

Hangs out," suggested Gosling.

Hangs out. What an awfully jolly old place !
Just the sort of thing for a scene in a novel."

"Yes," answered Lestrange ; "for an unexpected
meeting between two old lovers."

He spoke the words carelessly, and a look of pain
came over Daisy's face. She turned her head away
from the table with a sort of sigh, and began absently
to pluck and throw aside some of the wandering wildflowers
which clustered about in rich luxuriance,
evolved out of some new and unconscious phase of
the protoplasm.

Quite too deliriously romantic ! " sighed Carrie

Beaufort contentedly, as Jemmie Gosling had made his
way back to her side.

"Carrie I" said her aunt, whose attention was called
by the rash exclamation, beckoning her niece to her.
How often," she whispered to her in a severe tone,
"have I told you not to be so much with Mr.
Gosling!"

Poor Carrie's face fell an inch or two, and the
sprightly nose lost some of its curl. " Bother ! " was all
she had to say to herself.

Oh, romance ! " Daisy exclaimed with impatience,
as she left the place where she had been sitting.
Nobody goes in for that now ; the days of romance
are over."

Are you sure ? " said Lestrange, in a low voice.

He was close at her elbow as he spoke in that soft,
mocking tone of his, into which he threw a touch of
personal interest.

Lady Luscombe's eyes, which followed the Count
very often, followed him now with an ill-pleased
expression, which seemed to bode no good. Lady
Pepperharrow, at her side, was eating still, under the
guardianship of her two peers, who were now seriously
engaged in testing her singular capacities in that way

to the uttermost. She had distanced the original
wager a long way by this time.

"Are you sure ?" then said Lestrange.

Daisy shrank from him a little as he addressed her ;
and then broke into a short, hard laugh.

Come, you don't mean to say you believe in it ? "
she said.

It depends. It's wonderful how long some women
will indulge in it, in spite of all disillusion."

"I don't," said Daisy, with an impatient flourish
of the little whip she had taken up again. " I care for
Nobody, no, not I, and everybody cares for me ! " She
designated the army of courtiers round with a rather
contemptuous sweep of her whip.

"You care for — nobody? and are quite sure of it ?"
asked Lestrange, quietly as before. She looked at him
sharp and straight, and the furtive eyes beat a crafty
retreat from hers. Daisy always said that she never
felt sure of their colour.

"Except my husband, of course!" she answered,
with a harder laugh than before.

"No doubt. He's bad enough for any woman to
be fond of."

Let's drop the subject, then," Daisy said, with a

hasty shrug of her shoulders, a sort of shudder which
passed over at the malice with which the last words
were said. She turned away from Lestrange and surveyed
the company, like a general looking out for the
place to make his most telling attack. " Now, Brum ! "
she called out cheerily, — "when you and Emily have
quite done with the sherry and bitters ! "

Brum blushed between the hairs of his beard,
detected in a clandestine flirtation in the wrong
quarter.

"I say haw," he began, coming up to Daisy
apologetically.

You always do say so, dear Brum/' she answered
dallied with the victim in the toils again.

I wish she wouldn't," languidly confided Emily to
Carrie, with a decided spice of venom in the languor.
We were getting on so nicely." And the two Ariadne
applied themselves to mutual consolation.

Half-an-hour," said Lestrange to himself, looking
at his watch, as he turned away from the place where
he had been standing with Daisy, and looked steadily
down the road. " He must be here directly."

Lady Luscombe saw the direction of his look, and
took the cue it crave her.

u Talking of romance," she said, " you shall see this
hermit, the mysterious Mr. Fraser we heard about."

By Jove ! " said Gosling to the knot of men he
was discoursing with ; " is he coming, after all ? How
awfully jolly I Who can have drawn the old beggar ? "

A most romantic-looking man," contributed Lady
Pepperharrow. " Quite the idea of an permit about
him, and looks as if he ate nothing but eros and wild
one, like poor dear John the Baptist I don't think I
could be an permit on only that Now if I could ave — "

Lobsters ? " suggested Surbiton.

Lobsters," she said, accepting the suggestion, " it
might be done. Yet not, I think, quite to live on."
ISorbiton poured her out a glass of champagne.
Thank you ; so kind of you to take care of me. All
emits are old, and I ave heard mostly dirty. This one
is not dirty ; but he is old — about sixty, I should think."

How awfully stupid ! " said Carrie. " Who wants
romantic people of sixty ? "

The Clipper sixty ! " laughed Gosling to himself.

"You wait till you see him," he said to Carrie, who

tried to take advantage of the opportunity to get him

back to her side. But Master Jemmy had gravitated

back to the yet more attractive metal; and even
vol, 11. s

Norbiton and Surbiton showed signs of weariness of the
Pepperharrow's appetite, and a wish to join the circle
now gathering round the queen.

Sir Brummel Coates was now in the foremost place,
and his mind travelled for some time round the situation
last suggested before it arrived at a terminus.
Having come to his conclusion he published its
results.

Must be an awful hum bore to be sixty," he said
reflectively.

The Lord Viscount Pentonville then put in his oar.

Nothing when you are u — u — u — "

Used to it, Pen ? "

No — sound ! Is the h — hermit really coming
here ? "

He said he would," said Lestrange, still leaning
over the parapet, and looking down the road, every now
and then taking in the attitude of Daisy, who had
formed her court under the shadow of the south-west
tower, right opposite the laurels. The eating and the
drinking still went on at intervals, the pies and the
joints stranded as wrecks of what they were, and the
laughter and the talk seasoning the fruits and wine.

A hermit ! " lisped Emily Challoner ; " what a

peculiar idea ! How is it that we have not seen him
before, Lady Luscombe ? "

My dear, there are no hermits in our set."

By Jove, no ! " said Gosling, emphatically.

Jemmy, don't be light," commented Daisy. " Xow,
everybody, what's to be done next ? "

It was a picturesque sight, the grouping of the
brightly-dressed party with that sombre background of
other days. The old world and the new seemed brought
into a violent but harmonious collision, like a drawing-room
bravely furnished, in defiance of South Kensington
law, — which prescribes a period for ever 7 different
room or house, — by some unconscious and instinctive
taste which picks up everything pretty of its kind by
turns, and combines them all together in a restful whole.
But Daisy was more and more the centre of the company,
attracted by her bright sallies and her ready talk
to take part in the skirmishing. Lestrange alone did
not seem inclined to add his quota to the general talk,
where usually he was foremost in the battle ; but
restless, impatient, watchful, seemed for once a little
unlike himself, and not the master of his usual serenity.
Only a close observer would have noted it ; and where

he was concerned Lady Luscombe seemed a closes

2

observer. She looked at him, and she looked at Daisy
Brent, and was evidently trying in her mind to find the
solution of some problem which was puzzling her.

"Jemmy, come and sit here ! " suddenly said Carrie
Beaufort, shaken out of the proprieties by impatience,
and evidently rather tired of the undivided society of
her intimate friend.

Carrie ! " said Lady Luscombe, in a low voice of
rebuke.

Thanks, I'm awfully comfortable 1 " answered Jem
Gosling, reclined at his full length at Daisy's feet, like
a cherubic Hamlet before his Ophelia, shutting his eyes
for the full enjoyment of the cigarette which, with his
cup of black coffee, he considered that his exertions
at luncheon had fully earned him.

I'm afraid you're a bad boy, Jemmy ! " said Daisy,
shaking her head at him, and half reclining on her side
in an attitude of perfect and unstudied grace, which
threw out in bold outline every curve of the lithe and
perfect figure. Seen there and so, it was no wonder
that all the men raved about her, and only some of
the women.

"Come here, Lord Pentonville, there's plenty of
room ! " murmured poor little Carrie, who had a strong

sense that her own advantages were well worth notice,
and felt inwardly resentful of the attractions of Daisy,
whom she nevertheless liked and admired with all her
honest heart.

The small viscount was playing his game of puss in
the corner too, and vainly trying to edge his little
person into the circle round Daisy.

I hate these married women, Emily," suddenly
added Carrie to her companion, in a burst of involuntary
wrath.

"So do I, dear," assented the other with more
warmth than usual. " But I wish I was one."

The aftermath of repose was upon everybody, and
a general drowsiness seemed to be coming on in the
warm and slanting rays of the September sun, travelling
slowly on in his never-ending migration, to the far-off
lands and waters which were waiting, dark and cold, for
his return. The beautiful autumnal shades, nowhere
more beautiful than among all this moorland growth,
added their subtle influence to the spirit of the scene,
and brought into the circle gathered in the grey old
quadrangle some magnetic breath from the Island of
Proserpine. There was a general and sleepy lull
throughout the whole company, and the innumerable

small-talk of the insect world made a modest assertion
of itself in the interval of sound, like, as George Eliot
has finely said of it, " tiniest bells upon the garment of
silence." Nobody noted the cat-like figure of the man
Chaffers, as he glided in noiselessly through the archway
; nobody except Lestrange. A look passed between
them as he came up to speak in his master's ear, and
Lestrange nodded, while Chaffers as quietly joined the
other servants, who were now making up their own
picnic in some comfortable housekeeper's room outside,
furnished and provided by the care of good Dame
Nature, time out of mind the merry-maker's architect.
"How restless you seem, Lestrange," said the
watchful Lady Luscombe, as again the Count paced
up and down the quadrangle in a fashion which rather
added to the silence than took from it.
"Wait," he answered.

"You must find that coat pretty warm to take
exercise in. Unbutton it," suggested Gosling, lazily
looking up from his cigarette. He seemed very much
of Fox's way of thinking — Why the book ?

"Thank you, no," answered the other. "I have a
horror of cold."

"Why don't you warm yourself in an honest way

then, like the rest of us ? " said Daisy. " How I hate a
man who doesn't eat lunch, and won't even take a glass
of wine in the middle of the day."

"To oblige you, I will, on this occasion only,"
Lestrange said. And as he said so he stood in the
centre of the quadrangle, where a bottle of champagne
was near Lady Pepperharrow's hand, as she sate by
Lady Luscombe, and poured himself out a glass, looking
towards Daisy. " And I think, ladies and gentlemen,
that we ought to drink the health of the 'Hermit of
the Owes Nest,' who will be with us directly, I hope,
and in his proper place."

Hear, hear ! " was the answering chorus. Daisy
Brent held out her glass for Jem Gosling to fill, and the
others followed suit all round.

"Hang the foreign fellow," muttered Coates.
He's going to make a damned haw speech."

Shut up, Brum," said Daisy. " He won't ask you
to return thanks."

Haw." And the Baronet collapsed.

Can't you imagine him," said Count Lestrange, ina
strange tone of seriousness, " with the help of Lady
Pepperharrow's eyes ? I know nothing of his story,
mind, so only guess. An old man, grey, weary, broken,

brought for the first time, under the bright September
daylight, face to face with a world which he has
forgotten, which has forgotten him — waking, it may
bs, from a long dream of sorrow and regret, to find that
the waking only gives reality to the phantoms that
haunted that troubled rest — the phantoms of broken
faith, false love, cruel desertion — "

Count Lestrange ! " Daisy said, leaning forward.

One by one, with that strange emphasis of which he
was the master, the strong and quiet words fell from
him, and with some rapid certainty she felt that, spoken
to all there, they were addressed straight to her. A
dread and a wonder were upon her spirit, and a sudden
forecast of a something that was to come. Was it
quite sudden, or had the dread and the wonder sent
out some ominous forerunners before them, when first
she set foot in that enchanted circle, or stood upon the
knoll behind X

Will he find the world changed, do you think ? "
motionless in the middle of the circle, like the enchanter
who might have drawn it, Lestrange went on.

There was the movement of a step behind the
laurels in the tower-angle, and the next moment a
man's hand was pushing them aside. " Here he comes,,

to see — " and with a free and sudden gesture the left
arm of Lestrange was directed to the spot.

Upon that spot every eye was riveted, as to every
person present the force of that strange preamble had
gone home. Above all the eyes of Daisy, which under
the sense of sudden expectation, half of hope and all of
fear, had dilated to a size unnaturally wide.

Straight through the laurels, and into the middle of
the ground, Guy Faucit came. He came like a new
presence ; handsome, well-dressed, trim, and young.
There was no beard upon the manly face, strong in its
most perfect prime. The hair was cut and combed and
short, fitting compactly to the fine head so firmly set
upon the broad athletic shoulders, and the steady eyes
looked straight and honestly before him.

Straight to her feet rose Daisy Brent, pale as the
cloth behind her, at which she clutched with a cried
and nervous hand, looking full, full at the upright
figure before her, and into the eyes which met hers-without
a quiver in either, like the crossing of two
blades before the duel may begin.

Aunt ! " cried Carrie Beaufort.

Good Heavens ! " said Lady Luscombe, startled
and wondering. " This is not Mr. Fraser ! "

There is a slight mistake," observed Lestrange,
who had fallen a step back, to watch his effect. And
he took the new-comer by the arm and led him a little
more forward. "Let me introduce my friend — "

Daisy Brent's interruption was like a wailing cry.
"Guy Faucit!"

The Count Lestrange only heard her.

Just so," he said.

travellers' tales.

In this strange world of meetings and of partings,
on the vexed borderland of rapture and of pain, no two
ever came together with a greater stirring of the heart
than these. Nothing more utterly unexpected — more
utterly undreamed of — by both of them but a short
space before, who had buried each the other's image
deep in the inner corner, where the most cherished
memories lie unacknowledged, with their petals folded
from the light. Then the light breaks in, and draws
out all the added richness of hue and texture which
have been gathering unawares in the long and wintry
sleep.

Lestrange had prepared his surprise with the art of
a skilful hand when he brought Guy and Daisy together
in that whirl of memories. The weird speech, addressed
directly to her, with which he had suddenly heralded

Guy's entrance on the scene for the girl — girl still, to
the core of her, with all the added lustre of womanhood
and grace of custom — had raised in her mind a strange
anticipation, which the romance of the surroundings,
and the mysterious prescience which touches a spirit of
fine issues, — who knows whence or how ? — on the verge
of supreme moments such as these, had namelessly
begun.

For Guy, whose stronger fibre would bear stronger
tests, the situation was more trying even than for her.
The years which Daisy had devoted to the purchase of
worldly wisdom — which so often turns out to be shoddy
after the largest of prices has been paid for the genuine
manufacture — he had spent in pursuit of a wider but
less conventional experience, which was not so likely to
stand him here in stead. A poor recluse and self-proscribed
outcast from his fellows but an hour or two
before, he came out into the full glare of social day, by
right of wealth and of nurture a leader amongst men, to
take his command up in her presence, for whom once
he had so thirsted to command. Yet round the head
he knew so well, which he longed to press to his heart
with a sort of fiery longing, in the moment when it met
his eyes, was written the most terrible sentence which

can be passed upon hearts as upon souls — u 1
ognl 1 . Yet to all hearts, as to all souls, we

pray, rises even in extremity the undying I
appeal, of judgment 1 nee set ash

Who shall set a limit to the eternal possibilities, on this
side death or upon the other \

So then they met. With all a good woman's
instinct, and all a good woman's power, Daisy stood the
awful test of that first moment with only the first
moment's sign. Only Lestrange heard the cry
strangled in her throat ; only Lestrange saw the rush
of blood full to the forehead, and the deathly paleness
which instantly followed, to give place almost as
instantly to a perfect self n. If the Count had

hoped for a more general effect, he was wrong. Not in
that place and in that company, let --conquest

cost her what it might when she should be alone, would
Daisy Brent give way. All the passionate love of her
life, all the innocent trust and promise of her girlhood,
all the delicious story of the few months of pride and
happiness which had preluded the long and weary
blank of years, were lived and told again in that first
instant of time. The eyes of all the others, except
Lestrange, were for that instant and more, of course,

fixed upon Faucit, and averted from her; and before
they had time to turn back her course was taken, the
instantaneous and mortal struggle was past and the
hysterics passion" mastered, and the Daisy Fairfield of
a moment was Daisy Brent again. More — before anyone
had spoken, she spoke ; for she came frankly forward
with her hand held out, and said,

Mr. Faucit, is it you ? I am really glad to meet
you again."

Lestrange could admire a strong player, if he could
admire nothing else.

"By G — " he muttered to himself, "that's a great
woman, after all."

Mrs. Brent, I think ? " was Guy Faucit 's commonplace
answer, spoken in mere uncertainty what he
should say, and guiltless of all intention to wound.
But the name struck her like a wound, from him.

"Yes," she said.

Now where in the world can you two have known
each other?" asked Jem Gosling, delighted with his
favourite hero's changed appearance, and delighted to
find him an old acquaintance of his favourite heroine.
"It's awfully like old times, Clipper, you know; but
where did you meet Mrs. Brent ? "

Mrs. Brent and I knew each other at Oxford' he
answered.

At Oxford ! nonsense ! when I was up there too ? "

Yes, Mr. Gosling," said Daisy. " I was really at
Oxford once when you were, and did not know it at the
time. Think what neglect on my part, and how much
Host!"

She spoke to him in the old bright tone. But why
didn't she call him "Jemmy," as usual ?

The position might have been perilously near to
tragedy but for Jem Gosling's intervention ; and might
have fallen into it yet if the muse of comedy, always on
the watch when her sister is readiest with the dagger

CO

and bowl, had not introduced another personage into the
conversation with timely effect.

Who ever would have thought of it, Mr. Faucit ? "
said Lady Pepperharrow, warmly renewing acquaintance
with her friend of past years. "And yet I don't know
why not. It is in romantic scenes of this kind that one
would naturally expect to meet a man of your power ;
though indeed I hardly know why. Only to think of
it, Daisv ! Do you remember how kind and careful
Mr. Faucit was when the Oxford boys ad a rebellion,
and wanted to pull the erase down ? "

This sweeping description of a Commemoration set
everybody laughing, and relaxed the strain on the nerves
both of Guy and Daisy, even though the associations
which the words revived swept over both of them with
a wave of pain. Jemmy Gosling, infinitely amused,
brought it down to a question of dates, and established
the fact that he must have himself been one of the
insurgents on the occasion, with Bones of Balliol and
Tompkins of Trinity, and many of like thew and
sinew.

Did you know Mr. Bones ? " her ladyship asked,
mindful of that youth's juvenile attentions.

I should think I did," said Gosling. " Marrowbones
we used to call him."

Marrowbones ! " interposed Carrie Beaufort, whose
pert little nose had taken great interest in the new
arrival. "Why?"

"Haven't a notion,' ' answered Jemmy. "Cos it
runs well, I suppose. Never knew any particular
reason for nicknames; we made 'em anyhow. There
was a fellow at Eton called Bernard, and we christened
him Washpot, and got one name out of the other. How
do you think we did it ? "

Norbiton and Surbiton showed signs of interest, and

wondered if there was a bet in it. And Sir Brummel
Coates opined to his languid neighbour, whose long-eyelashes
were drooping in a very becoming manner,
that " there was some queer haw catch in it, Miss
Challoner."

First we called him St. Bernard," expounded
Gosling, "then Dog, then Does, then the Edomite,
then Edom, then Moab, and then Washpot. Took
about five years to get at it, and then he left."

What a very silly joke," murmured Emily, in the
notes of an Eolian harp. She affected to trivialities the
attitude of Hippolyta.

Stooped hum bosh," remarked Sir Brummel.
Carrie Beaufort's simpler soul was much delighted
with Gosling's playful wit, and she inferred that Eton
must have been very great fun, which introduced fresh
matter, and started her and Jemmie off on one of their
conversational rambles. Grateful enough for the diversion
were Guy and Daisy, narrowly watched by the keen
eyes of Lestrange. Lady Luscombe the while was intent
upon him.

When did those two know each other, and
where ? " she asked him. " And who and what is
your striking-looking friend, whom you played off in

VOL. II. T

that masquerade ? I am sure that I have seen him
somewhere."

I have told you all that there is to know about
him ; and the romance of his large fortune," answered
the Count. " He will be a great addition to our party
at the Abbey. You can ask him there before we go
home."

Poor old Bones ! " said Faucit, meanwhile, as the
old memories began to assert their sway. " Good little
fellow he was. I wonder what has become of him."

Took orders, don't you know ? " said Gosling.
He always meant to."

"I never thought he would' was the other's answer.

Did, though ; and came out strong in the extreme

low line. Quite down at the bottom, you know, Lady

Pepperharrow — on a seesaw with your friend Mr.

Birmingham Pope."

'i'm afraid e must be a very dangerous man,"
sighed her ladyship.

"Well, he thinks Pope is, you know, and pitches
into him every week on a text about charity. Pope
uses the same text to pitch? into Bones with, so it cuts
both ways, and comes to the same in the end. He is
very sound in the low line, Bones is, and they call him

Grilled Bones now-a-days. Doosid thirsty work this ;
let's have a split soda, Clipper."

Guy Faucit fitted into his new place soon enough,
as we are all of us apt to do when the time conies. There
is a sense of unreality mixed up with our lives even at
their gravest moments, which stands us in good stead
at a crisis, and carries us, calm in all outward seeming,
and sometimes even inwardly so, through trials and
difficulties which look impossible on paper. That second
self, which is a shadowy presence to all men, most
realized where the fibre is finest, is ready at such times
to step forward and relegate self the first to the background,
and make us feel that all that is happening is
happening to somebody else. Subtle men have explained
this strange double existence by the geography
of the brain, and its division into separate thinking
parts. But then what explains that ? What if that
second self, with the half-formed suggestions which at
times it makes, escaped before we can grasp them — of
having been something else, of being something else,
of having done all this before — be the immortal part of
us, the thing called the soul ? It projects us into
another world very often, even here, and makes a
world of visions out of this.

Daisy Brent could have told no one afterwards how
she lived through that first meeting as she did, with the
hero of her solitary love-story in flesh and blood again
before her eyes. She looked at him furtively now and
again, and saw upon the face that mark of the lasting
sorrow which was not to be mistaken. He was alone
then, was he ? Had he remained unmarried all those
years, with everything about him that might charm any
woman that might have cared to win him ? Or was the
wife in the background somewhere, waiting to claim
him when he joined her again ? A thrill of something
which might have been jealousy crossed Daisy's mind.
Nonsense ! what was this to her ? what could it be ?
No ; the second self came to the rescue, and the picnic
ended in a dream for Daisy, who felt herself a kind of
spirit for the nonce, her gross and earthly counterpart
being somewhere else. Like the rest, she soon found
herself listening with deep interest to Faucit. With
instinctive courtesy, after the first minute or two he
began to talk especially to Lady Luscombe, his hostess
at the feast to which he had been so unexpectedly
bidden, and to Lestrange, who was at her side. The
Count, suppressing himself with quiet tact and art, led
Faucit on to shine. He brought him, backward and

reserved at first, to talk of himself and his travels
and adventures, his camp-fire experiences, his moving
accidents by flood and field, his

Portance in his travel's history,
Wherein of antres vast, and deserts idle,
Rough quarries, rocks, and hills whose heads touch heaven.
It was his hint to speak."

Upon which hint he spoke well, warming to his work
as he went on. The things he had to talk about have
an interest for everybody, and even Coates and Pennons
felt the better for listening.

Lady Luscombe was fairly fascinated by her new
acquaintance, whose whole style of tone and thought,
apart even from the experiences he had to tell of, came
upon her like a spell of mountain-air, and reminded her
of the days when conversation for Marian Yavasour had
meant something more than gossip and frivolity. And
if she felt this, what did Daisy Brent feel ? Every
word Guy spoke, every expression he used, brought
back the days w r hen she had lived upon the fruit of his
ripe and scholarly mind. He was not really changed,
she thought. The same vivid observation, the same
power of combination and reflection upon what he
either saw or read, the same original use of all his

v. 2 T 2

materials, marked his talk as of old ; while it was the
richer for the materials' newer stores of wealth, and for
the growth of the mind to its maturest power. And
the great education of sorrow had chastened and rounded
off the whole. Not Desdemona, listening to Othello,
more seriously and more delightedly inclined to hear.
Mocking, cynical, devilish, — but himself thoroughly interested
in Faucit's adventures, — Iago was on the watch.
Guy Faucit, meanwhile, was surprised at himself,
and surprised to find, in spite of the hopelessness of the
hope he had once lived for, the pleasure it was to him
to be once more talking and talked with, listened to
and appreciated. Lestrange was right. He was tired
of playing the hermit, after all; and he felt a keen
pleasure as he went on in a sense of his own graphic
power. Probably there is no keener pleasure that a
man can feel than the conscious exercise — the ivepyeta
as old Aristotle hath it — of a power like that. He had
not lost the old trick of fence, then, in all his years of
silent self-suppression, in which he had probably not
used as many words as came from him now in an hour.
The Man in the Mask " he had been called out in the
West; but the mask was off now, and he breathed
freely in his native air of culture.

Daisy's presence, perhaps, had more than a little todo
with the eloquence which possessed his tongue, as it
is just possible that while those horrid house-affairs
of hers had drawn Desdemona thence, Senator Brabant
may have found the Moor of Venice a dull dog enough.
Well did Guy know how closely Daisy Brent was
listening, and though in the circle which had gathered
round in the old quadrangle she was the farthest from
him of all, he knew that he was talking to and for her.
He knew, or he thought, that she alone of all there was
aware of the reason of those years of travel and exile
whose varied experiences he was depicting. He noted
every turn of the graceful head, every change of the
mobile face, and he saw with an especial pleasure how,
with a playful gentleness, she caressed and made much
of Frisco the dog.

The noble fellow had followed on his master's heels
when he joined the party, and at once made a house-those
visitation, sniff wise, of all the members of it.
He was pleasant to Carrie Beaufort, mistrustful to
Coates, contemptuous of Pentonville as of Nor and Sur,
and generally perceptive and reflective in his views.
But he took Daisy into his highest favour, moved
by some odd impulse, at once, and she relished her

conquest of him more than many of her human victories.
He deposited himself at her side, put his cold nose on
her lap, and examined her features with close and
fearless scrutiny, wagging his tail the while to and fro
with a movement as slow and as regular as that of the
pendulum of a kitchen clock. And she on her side
welcomed this new friend with a curious warmth which
had more than matter in it, patted the velvet head, and
played with the silken ears, as she listened to his
master's story of his purchase of the dog, in all the
overpowering destructiveness of puppyhood, in the City
of the golden gates.

"Where did you get this fine old fellow, Mr.
Faucit ? " she had asked.

"At San Francisco, his birthplace and his godmother
in one," Faucit said. "It was three years ago, and
Frisco has been my one confidant ever since. He
knows everything about me."

Yes ? " she said.

It was the only time they addressed each other
directly that afternoon.

The afternoon grew steadily to evening, rapt
through many a rosy change. The tea went its homely
round, by way of stirrup-cup, for those — something of

a minority — who preferred it to the attractions of E.
and

Guy Faucit took a cup from Daisy's hand, which
trembled just a little, for the spoon gave a tiny tell-tale
click. The teas in Portland Place rushed back to the
thoughts of both of them, through the opened floodgates
of memory. Guy thought it all over — all — in a
moment, as he had thought it out to weariness, over
and over again, in half the latitudes of the world. Yet,
strange to say, for the first time he brought it to a new
conclusion.

It is impossible, impossible ! " he thought ; " there
was some miserable mistake at the bottom of the whole
thing."

Was it the magic of her presence which led him to
that conclusion ? Impassive and quiet under his strong
English manner, the man had felt that presence all
the time, in the quiver and the tingle of every subject
nerve.

Evening ; and the horses and carriages were ready.
A pretty sight enough, as the animals stood champing
the bits and pawing the ground, watched by the 
grooms, on the picturesque old road, as the
lengthening shadows fell.

Lady Luscombe, fairly pleased herself into a temporary
forgetfulness of Lestrange's leadership, asked Guy
Faucit very frankly if he would not come over to the
Abbey the next day, and stay there for a time. Count
Lestrange had told her about his change of fortunes, she
said ; and in words which were an echo of Lestrange's,
she told him that he must play at hermit no more.

"You are too valuable an addition to society for
that," she said.

He fenced with the invitation for some time, till it
was repeated with even greater warmth, just as the
party was breaking up.

"Do come, Mr. Faucit," Lady Luscombe insisted.
Won't you ? "

He hesitated once more ; and something made him
look straight at Daisy, whose head was turned gracefully
and carelessly away, while with her riding-whip
she traced idle forms upon the ground. There was
something in her attitude which spoke to him of an
attention others could not see, unless it was the Count
Lestrange, watching sideways. One moment's pause :
then Guy spoke slowly.

Thank you, Lady Luscombe. You are very kind.
Yes, I will."

Daisy drew a long breath, and went towards the
gate.

Will you come tomorrow ? " said Lady Luscombe.

The day after, if you will receive me," he answered.
I have a few things to arrange here, and then I am
free."

In a few minutes more the good nights had been
said to the newly-elected member, and the cavalcade of
carriages and horse passed fitfully away.

Long after the old ruin had fallen back again under
the great dominion pf solitude — long — long — till the
stars had shone out one by one into their soothing
harmony of splendour, and the invisible army of
groundlings was chirping its loudest and merriest to
welcome the march of night, Guy Faucit stood, deep
in thought and deep in dreaming, leaning upon the
parapet above the road, motionless almost as the dog
that watched beside him, awe-stricken, groping his way
in the mazes of a new and startling future. What was
it to be ?

END OF VOL. II.

L I B R.ARY

O F THE

U N Diversity

Of Ill Noise



V.5

r?

M^

^^>ir-

I / ' ■ ,

VOL. III.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/det^ils/faucitofballiols03meri

% ^targ in ta fate.

BY

HERMAN CHARLES Derivable.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:

CHAPMAN" & HALL, Limited, 11, HENRIETTA ST.

COVENT Garden.

1882.
\ All Rights reserved']

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER X.

PACE

GUY AND FRISCO . . . . 3

CHAPTER XL

Buncombe ABBEY . . . . 19

CHAPTER XII.
Carrie's love-tale . . . . 33

CHAPTER XIII.
the conservatory . . . . 51

CHAPTER XIV.

DUOLOGUES . . . . 68

CHAPTER XV.

Park

FROM GRAVE TO GAY . . . . 88

CHAPTER XVI.

THE WISDOM OF THE SERPENT . . . 107

CHAPTER XVII.

THE CRISIS . . . . . 124

CHAPTER XVIII.
daisy's flight . . . . 133

CHAPTER XIX.

MOULD-ON-THE-MOSS . . . . 153

CHAPTER XX.

A NEW TEST . . . . . 174

CHAPTER XXI.

THE MEET ON THE MOOR . . . 191

CHAPTER XXII. '

THE Whip-hand . . . . 205

CHAPTER XXIII.

PAGE

daisy's brother . . . . 225

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE COUNT LESTRANGE MEETS HIS MATCH . . 24G

CHAPTER XXV.

LAST WORDS . . . . . 262

continued.)

Mephistopheles thrown upon real life, and obliged to manage his own
lots, would inevitably make blunders." — George Eliot.

VOL. III.

GUY AND FRISCO.

The formal communication from Faucit's lawyer, of

the news which Count Lestrange had anticipated by a

day, reached him the next morning, when he was half

convincing himself that the singular events which had

happened to him were a dream of delusion. Now

there was no mistake about it. He had it in black and

white under his eyes, written in the well-known hand

of the copying clerk of Dryman, Rolls, and Dryman, of

Gray's Inn Square, that he, Guy Faucit, was the free

and uncontrolled owner of one of those vast properties

which now-a-days accumulate, one hardly knows how,

from small beginnings. James Foster had probably

found the truth of the answer made by some one like

him, when asked if he had not had great difficulty in

making his large fortune.

B 2

"In making my large one, none' he said. "In
making the small one it began with, a great deal."

And so the chronicler of this history, who finds
himself dealing with colossal fortunes made and lost,
with a sense somewhat like his who turns over the
sovereigns at the Mint, and dreams of what he would
do with them, solaces himself with his humble pint of
the ninepence-a-gallon brew, and wonders why Foster
shouldn't die worth ten millions instead of one while his
about it. Yet another nought, and the trick is done.
Ninepence a gallon, by-the-bye, as has been proved in
the course of our housekeeping by Mrs. Balbus and
myself, — and she is, I am thankful for it, cunning at the
work, — is the right sum to pay, in a well-conducted
neighbourhood, for the beer of ordinary life. As it is
the cheapest, so is it the purest and the best. Even so
doth the philosophic sage, agog among foreign tabU-denotes
and the gorgeous ceremonials of the modern
pilgrim's progress, divert his eye from high-priced
champagne, from generous reds and luscious whites,
and quietly order to himself the ordinaire of the locality,
at three-fourths of a franc, regardless of the name that
it may bear. Mark and perpend. A close and silent
observation, extending over some years, has convinced

the narrator that, in most cases, whatever wine you
order is that ordinaire. Reader, it is the same, touched
up. Otherwise, why should the Chateau St. Hehogabale
(1801) of one district have a flavour so entirely different
from his fellow of the same name of the next ?

There is as much humbug about among the wine-fancies
as amongst other men, which is saying a good
deal now-a-days. When a man rolls his wine round
and round in his glass, passes it under his nose, and
then just to his lips, smacks them, holds the wine to
the light and looks through it with one eye, then rolls
it back again and puts it down and says ''Ah!"
(having, be it observed, hardly tasted it at all during
the ceremony), I mistrust that man.

I remember a jovial friend of mine who was of a
hospitable turn, but was wont to buy his wine just
as he wanted it, at the nearest vendor's, and startle his
family by bringing home bottles of fearful and wonderful
vintages — from Australia, California, Honolulu, anywhere
— about half-an-hour before dinner-time, in his
pocket. In fairness it must be admitted,, that he did
poison his friends sometimes. Once he had a fancier
at dinner, who was great on wine, and discussed very
learnedly. His host's eye twinkled oddly as he went on.

Wilkins, my boy," he said, " my cellar, as you know,
is small. But I'll give you a glass of port after dinner
which — ha, well, I shall be glad of your opinion."

Wilkins acquiesced, and the port came. I remember
that it struck my uneducated palate as rather
heavy, but I said nothing. Wilkins submitted it,
strenuously, to the process I have described.

Good," he said, " very good, Ned. Now how long
have you had that in your cellar ? "

How long should you think now, Wilkins ? I
thought you'd like it."

Well, let me see. Seven years ? "

No, my boy. Exactly three quarters of an hour."

I shall never forget the roar which greeted Wilkins's
discomfiture.

One story leads to another ; and I have a second in
my quiver which I must let off here, while Guy Faucit
is deep in speculation upon Dryman's letter. One of
these tyrant wine-fanciers — one of the few, I think,
who may really have known what he was about, though
when I once dined with the man himself his sherry was
as bad as any I ever tasted — was entertained, upon
being honoured with some municipal dignity, by the
mayor of the locality, who was nervously anxious for

his opinions upon some particularly old wine of which
he was very proud. It was old, no doubt, and seemed
to me as if every vestige of flavour had long died out
of it. The magnate was civil and apologetic, and fought
off offering any opinion. But the luckless host was
urgent and importunate, and would not be put off. At
last the oracle spoke — enforcedly — slowly — cruelly.

There are some wines," he said, " which you can
tell at a taste have once been good. / loll not undertake
to say if this is one of them"

Faucit had read his letter. The copying-clerk had
as usual written at the younger Dryman's dictation,
as he did upon all matters, being evidently a man who
must be deeply versed in the private histories and
differences of clients, and probably regarded them allas
a monotonous and wearisome race, who would careless
for law and correspondences if they knew as much
about them as he did. Dryman the elder was an old
friend of Faucit's parents, and had a warm regard for
Guy, for whose recent eccentricities he had been unfeignedly
sorry. Dryman the younger was a go-ahead
and bright young fellow, fond of sport and a good
dinner, and the comforts which moneyed clients may
bring, and he saw elysium in the future as Guy's man

of business, besides the professional delight which might
be taken in manipulating the Foster million, with much
intricacy of conveyance, and of act and deed. The
money was all safely and solidly invested, in house-property
here and in sound mortgage there, all first
charges ; but much of it still remained in the business
which had made it, which Guy would not of course
carry on. There would be plenty of scope for consideration
what should be done with it ; and Dryman, Rolls,
and Dryman, in a letter which seasoned the old tone of
easy friendliness with a flavour of deferential admiration,
hoped that Mr. Guy Faucit would at his earliest
convenience favour them with a personal interview. •

Faucit sate and thought over the letter. One
million of money ! How in the world had his uncle
been able to put such a sum together ? It is difficult
for a layman, certainly, to understand how these things
are done, and done every day. Not long ago, the world
was speculating on the different sums left behind them,
as recorded in a single number of the "Times," by
three hard-working and able judges. One left forty
thousand, I think, another sixty, and another eighty.
And people said, some of them, as the nice people will
say, that these men of brains, which they had given to

hard public work, had feathered their nests well. Underneath
these personalities I saw the humble and remarked
notice of another, that of an auctioneer unknown even
to electioneering fame, who, dying younger than any of
these pampered justices, left just twenty thousand
more than the three put together. Peace be to his
ashes ! he must have sanctioned well, in his modest
manner. Nobody seemed to think but that his nest
was worthily lined. If money be the end of life, why
brains ? especially if it is wrong even to use them to
line a nest withal.

Of what he was to do with this mass of money
which had so suddenly, fallen into his hands, Faucit
could as yet form to himself no idea. Even with
Daisy's image deep in his heart, and the strange
encounter of yesterday still thrilling through him, he
would have been more or less than man if he had not
felt that, after all, life must have some possibilities for
him now. Daisy's loss had robbed him of all the
energy and all the desire to work for money, but with
the money made for him and there in his hands while
he was in the fullest and best of his prime, and for some
years would be, the matter was different. His old
ambitions of the Union at Oxford, and interest in public

matters, came back to his mind, and he began to dream

of Parliament, even while still dreaming of Daisy.

Failing that, if he bought some estate and settled down,

there was much to be done by an English squire, a

position Guy had often envied for its possible activities.

His heart — as the reader knows — had never been in

what is called professional work, which only allows of

other work as a second string, when the profession itself

has grown into a second nature. That is why he had

been willing to accept the literary and academic position

which Oxford offered, which seemed to him the highest

to which a man under his circumstances should wish to

attain. Daisy Fairfield came and spoiled the plan.

And now when his destinies called upon him to form

another, — his fourth scheme of life already, he thought,

with some disgusted reflections upon rolling stones, —

Daisy Brent crossed his path again, like some beautiful

and inexorable Fate. Was she his Parce, then, winding

her fairy skein round his life at every turn, and was she

to shape and to mould his destiny yet again, in some

undivided way ?

My thread is small, my thread is fine ;
But he must be a stronger than thee,
Who shall break this thread of mine."

In some unacknowledged, uncertain, un-understanding
way Daisy Brent was in the background of his vision.
Brent was her name, was it ? — it was not a pretty
name.

He would bestow upon Dryman, Rolls, and Dryman
the favour of an interview at his earliest convenience,
and that convenience should be very soon. But he
would go to Luscombe Abbey first, and he would have
some talk with the singular man called Lestrange,
whose methods of speech and action had considerably
impressed him. This Count was a man of the world,
and his advice at so curious a crisis would be of great
value to him. Meanwhile, there was no hurry to do
anything in particular ; he could float with the stream
of Pactolus, which had suddenly sprung up in his life.
Its first earnest was in a cheque for a thousand pounds,
which Dryman, Rolls, and Dryman apologetically enclosed
in the event of immediate needs, informing him,
at the same time, that one of the leading firms of
bankers, in the great city near, had been advised of the
transaction, and would be ready to cash it for him in
the most convenient form. Faucit smiled to *himself ashe
studied the bit of paper with the four figures, one of
those documents which drop like the gentle rain from

Heaven upon the place beneath, sometimes just when
we are nearest to parching.

Father' a youngster of my acquaintance said
when his future profession was being discussed at an
early age, " I think when I grow up I should like to
become an annuitant. I've heard it's a very comfortable
profession."

Mrs. Balbus and I, living by the hand-monmouth
delights of literature, which knows not certainties,
regard those missives, when they make their appearance,
as telegrams from a better land.

After thinking the letter over, and smoking many
and meditative pipes, Guy Faucit made his mind up,
for the first and only time since he had occupied his
cottage, to make his way over to the big city and back,
deposit his cheque in the bank, and provide himself
with money for his immediate needs, as well as fit
himself out appropriately for his new voyage, for which
he was booked as a saloon-passenger of the most
comfortable order. So early in the morning he
shouldered his stick, and strode downwards over the
springy moorland with Frisco at his heels. The air was
fresh and keen and autumnal ; and the bright lining of
the "fall" wore its newest gloss upon everything, as

Faiicit's trained observation noted with delight. There
was a sense of youth and battle in his pulse which he
had nearly taught them to forget, as far as his healthy
frame and elastic spirit would allow. He would not
own to himself — he could not — how much the meeting
with Daisy had fired and kindled him. He, who had
never since they parted been "on with a new love,"
could never, in despite of him, be " off with the old ; "
and the radiant beauty, which in Oxford days had spoken
straight to his heart, spoke to it as with a trumpet-call
at once again. He did not think he was " in love "
any more ; flattered himself that he was cured of that,
and need have no fear of himself with Daisy Brent,
from his memories of Daisy Fairfield. But he was
glad to see her, very glad; and he hoped that she
might be able to prove to him, perhaps, that her conduct
towards him had not been so light as it seemed.

I fancy that, with his fortune and its uses, and the
revolution in his plans of life, and everything else
together in his mind, the fact » that he was going to. stay
in the same house with Daisy Brent was the foreground
of its picture. He would not have allowed it at all;
and persuaded himself that his anxiety to get to
Luscombe Abbey as soon as possible rose from his

desire to hold council with the worldly wisdom of the
Count Lestrange.

He whistled as he went upon his way, while Frisco
made endless sallies on his own account about the heather,
rolled himself over and over on his back when he found
tempting rolling grounds, and treated himself judiciously
for indigestion with periodical doses of grass ; then trotted
back to his master's side and sniffed him inquiringly.
He was rather puzzled by the best clothes, to which he
was unaccustomed; which Faucit, by some instinct of
coquetry, — an instinct which is not strictly feminine, asa
matter of fact, but partakes at times of the nature of
the epicene, or common gender, — had dressed himself
withal for his .visit to the town. He did not wish to
impress the bankers or any one else with any notion of
eccentricity. Frisco missed the beard too ; which it was
his habit to bite occasionally, aiming at particular hairs
as the object of a jump. But he accepted the new
condition of things philosophically, if not, as is probable,
with a canine pride and pleasure. He had often told
his master by eloquent barks, as his manner was, that
he might be a very seemly-looking man if he tried. So
man and dog went on their way rejoicing.

Guy Faucit wandered curiously about the busy

town, like one awaking from a magic sleep of years
upon the Catskill mountains. Abroad, he had avoided
cities; and he had rushed through London without a
pause, to take possession of his northern solitude. A
quiet observation of shops and slippers, and of the
throbbing life of trade, was new to him.

The sun which had shone out in all its glory on the
moor was dimly visible through the listless pall of
smoke, like a diseased ball of gloomy red. It seemed
to have neither warmth nor spirit in it, but to be
blinking dubiously at the perversities of city-loving
men, who like living in their own smoke better than
consuming it ; build for themselves a world of uniform
blacks and greys, with never a contrast of colour
unconsciously to enliven their sense and intelligence,
and quicken their nerve and spirit ; and then find fault
with the English climate, and rush abroad, abusing
Providence for having cast their lives in a land where
the sun never rises. Poor old much-abused and patient
orb, the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever. On their
own coasts and downs, within an hour or two of them,
upon which citydom has not yet encroached,' they may
find effects which Turner might yet paint, and Ruskin
write about, where the sun is as golden and the sky as

blue, kissing the sea to its own sweet colouring, and the
air as soft and pure and perfumed, as on the slopes and
bays of the much-rhymed E-iviera.

Everybody looked in a great hurry to make money,
and very sick of making it. A glimpse of curiosity was
the most they had to bestow upon the man of leisure,
who looked so strong and capable, but evidently had no
office to go to, wherein to be stowed for the better part
of his life. He took a leisurely luncheon at a pretentious
coffee-house, where, at his little table, he outside
some three or four relays of dyspeptic neighbours, who
hurled scalding soup down their throats, bolted a glass
of burning sherry to mix up with it, and hurried off
again.

Frisco, in a state of amazed curiosity, kept quietly
at his master's heels, and showed his teeth with a
suppressed snarl to one or two suspicious persons, who
seemed interested in him, in a manner which prevented
their advancing any tangible signs of the interest.
Contentedly he partook of his master's luncheon, Guy
being one who abhorred dog-biscuits and latter-day
horrors of the kind, holding that his dog's feelings were
best consulted by letting him share on the old principle.
He had tried the dog-biscuit regimen once, for two or

three days; but the mute reproach of the animal's
eyes, with the obvious internal suffering inflicted, cured
him of the plan. Frisco scraped a sniffing acquaintance
with one or two of the first town-dogs he met, but
didn't think much of them, and gave it up. Guy had
an odd feeling that the test was a good one, and felt
minded to try it himself, upon some of the uncongenial-looking
city mice he elbowed, suspecting a like result.

Luncheon over, he presented himself at the bank,
where he gave his name, and was received with looks
and words of much deference. He presented his
cheque as well as himself, opened a temporary account
for present purposes, and with a store of crisp banknotes
of sufficient value, departed. Then he made
some purchases in the town, ordered some things to be
addressed to him at Luscombe Abbey, resulting in more
bows and testimonies of respect ; and as evening threw
its shadows over the moorland, walked back to the
cottage again. He breathed the air like a liberated
prisoner as he left the smoke behind.

"I shall never make much of town now," he
thought.

One or two of his nomad pensioners called at the
cottage in the evening, and departed wondering, gazing

VOL. III. c

at some coins in their hands as a curiosity-hunter
makes discovery of an unknown mintage.

The next evening Guy was dining at Luscombe
Abbey, and Frisco was making acquaintance with a
select circle of highly-bred fellows, and narrating to
them, in very choice canine, his experiences of Western
life.

Buncombe ABBEY.

LuscoMBE Abbey was a noble example of its class,
so ricci in decorative and architectural beauty. Original
and old, and time out of mind the capital of the
Vavasor, the late Lord had enlarged and improved it
in every direction, as his rent roll grew and prospered, a
careful taste presiding over its fortunes, and preventing
the symmetry and the order from being in any way
marred.

Estrange used to look at it with bitter and concealed
pangs, thinking how much he had had to do
with the amassing of the fortune, and with the development
of the building and the beautiful pleasure-grounds
which girt it round. The gross ingratitude of the
owner, whom he had helped to all this with his brains,
gave him a just disgust at the vice and littleness of

G 2

mankind, and a longing to spoil and to punish the
Philistines with the confident conscience of one eno-agfed
in a Holy War. All this would have been his — all — but
for John Brent. Well, he might have his revenge yet,
and his modest rent-charge on the property. He was
not sorry that he had preserved his title-deeds.

It was a beautiful sight which met Guy Faucit's
eyes, as, in a carriage chartered from the town, he drove
up through a long winding avenue of elms to Luscombe
Abbey, where

*' In morning splendour, full and fair,
The massive fortress shone."

It stood clear and strong upon a broad plateau, spreading
out at mid-ascent of a sloping westward hill, rich in
the luxuriant wealth of English verdure. The hills'
further slope, clothed with pine woods and hanging
gardens, which further from the house broke and
blended into a great park dappled with deer, protected
the Abbey from the keen easterly winds, while the
north-westward sweep of the hill-range, further on,
sheltered it from the other rough point of the compass
also. The beautiful valley, rippling ^^^th little dots of
silver stream and pool, grey village spires pointing
lazily heavenward, for the behoof of the small villages

clustered round them, and a few stray old-fashioned
factories, for some industry of paper or of curious glass,
looking just alive enough to support their modest tale
of hands, made up the landscape, on which, in all its
infinite variety, unsealed of custom, a lover of Nature
could never grow tired of gazing from the broad and
noble terrace which lay at the Abbey door. Upwards,
again, on the western side of the valley, surged the
wave of land, crested there with sunny cornfields, lacing
with their dead-gold patterns the carpet of emerald
turf, giving glimpses of some neighbour's rival turrets
and pleasance, bosomed in a nest of trees, or land-marked
by some quaint obelisk, erected by an admiring
neighbourhood to the memory of some local worthy
who had made for himself a national name in arms or
gown, and was thus fitly monument in the smiling
scenes from which he sprang.

Luscombe Abbey was a cameo worthy of this
lustrous setting. The old monastic chapel, which first
gave to the place its monastic name, still remained
as the north-eastern spur of the building, where the
ground rose so suddenly as to make its upper windows
level with the path above, from which a quaint bridge
gave entrance to a gallery of oak, where a fine old

mellow organ still discoursed music under a cunning
hand. The chapel had been carefully restored and
preserved, inside and out, and for many years in old
days had been open for services to the neighbourhood,
the Vavasor' chaplain having been an institution of
the place. Audley Vavasor had himself kept the
tradition up to the last ; and, after his death it continued
for a short time. But the old-fashioned chaplain
did not like Lady Luscombe's new ways and Lady
Luscombe's new guests ; and, it was said, spoke once or
twice to her ladyship in a way of which she did not:
approve. One day it was announced that he had
accepted a piece of college preferment in another part
of the country ; and his place was not filled up. The
services ceased, and silence fell u23on the chapel, which,
only as a curiosity of architecture, was still carefully
tended. Sometimes some guest, skilled in music, would
hold quiet converse with the old organ ; but that was
all. The place was Lady Luscombe's for her life, as it
was to have been hers altogether, no Vavasor surviving
the limits of heirship and entail. Now, at her
death it was to pass to some distant connexion, whom
this story knoweth not, a poor working clergyman
somewhere in the west, whom Lord Luscombe had

equally declined to know, who was to take up the
Vavasor threads with the Vavasor name. The
chancre had been made when the codicil was made, and
was very bitter to Lady Luscombe. Was it not she
who, for her husband's sake, had done so much for
Luscombe Abbey ?

The character of the architecture had been carefully
preserved throughout the house, now of noble proportions.
The entrance-hall, with its richly-tiled floor,
was the full height of the house, spanned by oaken
girders which recalled in miniature Rufus's famous
timber in Westminster Hall. Over the door a Norman
window let in, through glass chastened in colour,
the flood of southern light, to play upon the gallery
which occupied three sides of the hall, led up to by a
solid staircase facing the door. Each wing of the gallery
was in itself spacious enough to be furnished as a room,
and one of them was devoted to the sacred mysteries of
the billiard-table. Rooms of infinite comfort opened in
all directions upon the hall and gallery — small snuggeries
and large state-rooms pleasantly interdicted
below, and dressing-rooms and bed-rooms' above, furnished
with all the most luxurious accessories of the
great court of sleep. Noble statuary and pictures of

durable pigment; great bookcases filling the regular
spaces of the long library, built section-wise after the
old attractive fashion, and filled in their turn with
generations of volumes which made a chronology in
themselves, from the earliest illustrations of the Lus-combe
friars to the latest and most unilluminated of
feminine high-pressure stories ; sober wall-papers which
seemed graven on the wall ; and conservatories glowing
with Nature's richest qualities of form and colour,
made up a palace of Armada which, after his long
seclusion and oblivion of the very existence of such
things, fell upon Guy Faucit's spirit like a sudden
charm.

He was welcomed by a chorus of lazy dogs blinking
in the sunlight on the lawn, ranging in years over the
various ages of dog-kind, from sedate decline to playful
babyhood. The old sundial over the porch whispered
its pleasant legend — '' I number not the hours, except
they be sunny," and an array of '' gallant gay domestics,"
as Tennyson sings, bowed before the visitor at the door,
from the gallant old butler in the front to the gayest
and most youthful of the powdered tribe, at the back of
the line of receding heads. Guy's portmanteau and bag
still a very modest kit — were transported to earth by

hands as agile as the bodiless ministers of the White
Cat's castle; and Faucit was inducted to his room
before joining Lady Luscombe's tea-table. All this
was accomplished with that luxurious smoothness and
absence of friction which is characteristic of these lofty
households, and is to the heavy-handed attentions of a
lower sphere like the Venetian gondola to the London
cab. So polished indeed was the manner of the satellite
who showed him to his room, that Faucit might have
imagined himself already in intimate relations with the
fashionable world, if James, anxious to be polite, had
not volunteered the dangerous statement, in excuse
of his mistress, that "her Ladyship was taking of a
airing."

The airing gave Faucit time to think again over
the strange anticipations which had been filling his
thoughts during the drive, to please himself with the
lazy luxury of the room made ready for him, and comfortably
to assure himself that a small collection of
choice books occupied a post of vantage near the head
of his bed. His mind had to travel back to his Oxford
days, when he had been one of the most 'popular of
guests at a pleasant round of English country-houses, to
fit itself to the associations of the scene. The sound

of carriage-wheels woke him from a long reverie, and
he went over to his window, which commanded the
drive. There slu was at Lady Luscombe's side ; and
standing back by the curtain he scanned and considered
her again, the joy, the sorrow, and the story of his life.
Why? What was the magnetism, he thought, and
what the law, which had wrought so great a ruin out of
so frail a thing ? A beautiful and a gracious woman,
assuredly ; but no, no, Orlando ! " Men have died from
time to time, and worms have eaten them, but not for
love." Was he, Guy Faucit of the strong will and
brain, really a weaker man than Troilus, who had his
dashed out by the Grecian club, or Leander, that washed
him in the Hellespont ? He had wasted all these years
on this fickle fashionable woman, who had cared no
straw for him, — or if she had, had whistled her straw
down the wind for very weariness, — and had allowed
her to make him rust unfurnished, instead of shining in
use, for a mere memory ! Now here she was again,
popular and married, as far removed from him under
the same roof as she was when three thousand miles of
ocean rolled between the continents which held them.
And all the world were her admirers, Lestrange had
told him. He was not going to be one of all the world,

not lie ; or if he was, lie would show her that he could
talk the easy language of mock-gallantry as well as he
had once flattered himself that he could plead in another
tone. What a prosy admirer she must have thought
him ! He laughed at himself for it, and wondered
why, just when the weight which had hung about his
heart for eight good years ought to have been made tenfold
heavier by her presence as she lived, he should feel
as if it had all been lifted away by magic. He supposed
it was his new fortune and position, and the sense of
consequence which it must give him in the world's eye
and his own ; though he owned to himself that he did
not, as yet, feel at all a different man for that. Or perhaps
it was that he had seen her again, and that there
was nothing so very much about her after all. That
must be it, he concluded to his own satisfaction. He
had been hug-owing a delusion and a mirage all that
time, and was lucky to be brought face to face with the
disappointing reality just at the right moment, when he
most wanted to be cured of idle fretting. Guy Faucit
went down-stairs in high spirits, contented with himself,
and feeling ridiculously young. After all, h^ was glad
that her husband was not there, though at some future
day he should be pleased to shake hands with him.

The meeting this time was pleasant and easy, for
Daisy too had had her time for reflection, and had used
it. She knew her own ground and her own strength,
she thought, and was not going to deny herself the
pleasure of a free and frank companionship with the
companion whom her heart had once held in such high
honour. She too persuaded herself that it was " over " ;
that nothing survived of the past but a warm and half-regretful
interest, which might be cherished without
harm. He had never cared for her much, or he would
not have taken her so lightly at her word. So she
let her spirits rise also as she thought of being in the
same house with him, without afterthought. She was
so bright and natural all that morning with her old
friend Lady Pepperharrow, so brisk and laughing, so
full of little impulses and outbursts, and tricks of
playfulness, that it warmed the friend's heart to see and
to be with her. The old lady herself was quite innocent
of all knowledge of any reason for this, and edified
Daisy and herself by much speculation upon Faucit's
conduct and proceedings.

Why he should have done all those dreadful
things out among the savages, my dear; and then
come one and turned permit without letting anybody

know, and they so dirty, is what I'm sure I shall
never be able to understand. But then, to be sure,
genius is always so eccentric." And then she gave a
deep sigh, as of one whose own innate sympathies with
genius gave to her also the right of eccentricity. She
welcomed Guy Faucit with a motherly interest, and was
for engaging him, upon her return to London, to give a
lecture upon savage life in the tents, at Glycerine House.
Upon reflection, she thought it would be better to
substitute a recital in costume, with a moving panorama
and living figures, painted and posed by the first artists
of the day. The notion was heartily welcomed by the
company assembled, and Jem Gosling and Carrie Beaufort
got into a corner to discuss it, whence they were
promptly expelled by Lady Luscombe.

Guy expanded again in the new sunshine, and had
hardly been in the house a day before he found himself
installed in the old post of leadership among the
younger men, which seemed by old tradition to fall to
him of right. It was the man's nature, and there was
an end of it ; and with Jem Gosling as an admiring
first lieutenant, to inculcate Clipper-worship ae the first
law of conduct, he ruled as he had ruled on the de-^r
old river, or at the college-meetings of Balliol. With

the Count Lestrange he contracted a more serious
intimacy, fitted to the older side of his Kfe of experience.
Lestrange laid himself out to please him, and did not
fail. He suppressed for Guy's benefit the cynicism
and hard sayings which rose so naturally to his lips, and
assumed a certain geniality which sate on him very
well, as every manner did which he chose to affect.
Like Faucit, he had travelled far and wide, and they
had in common all the traveller's talk of strange
countries which men find such a bond. The many-created
East, with all its experiences and peculiarities
which stay-at-home readers fail to understand or to
realize from all the books in the world, was known
ground to both of them ; and the peculations and persecutions
of Turkish rule they could discuss from their
own points of view. They could tell of the Druses,
whose religion mainly consists in abstinence from
tobacco ; and could assure their own fair countrywomen
that woman's world-wide rule may be as despotic in a
Turkish harem as in an English home. Guy could tell
indeed of a personal experience of his own, which would
suggest that the Turks are more advanced in their
views of matrimonial justice than a class of Englishmen
are. For he had known of a Turk who beat his wife.

who thereupon took counsel with all the wives of the
street. They considered the matter in all its bearings,
and sent a lusty deputation of their number to beat
Mm, which they did mercilessly, the other husbands
on their part refusing to interfere in a matter of family
justice. And with stories of desert-travel and sand-buried
cities, Lestrange and Faucit could entertain their
listeners by the hour. So the days went by.

After a week or so Faucit paid his flying visit to
London, and Dryman and Rolls, and by sundry readings
and signing of documents and deeds, he entered in due
form upon his kingdom. He could not tell his anxious
lawyers, as yet, what his plans might be, though he
thought of buying an estate and settling down, unless
Time should show that he was not yet cured of the
wander-fever which leaves such intermittent fits behind.
As for Daisy and him, they rather avoided each other
at first, as by some tacit mutual compact. Guy, as we
know, had never been a man particular in his attentions
to women ; but if anything he seemed at first
something attracted to Miss Challoner's placid and
reposeful ways. That young lady seemed in no wise
ill-disposed to encourage an admirer of so desirable a
kind, and inflicted pangs upon the ruminating spirit of

Sir Brummel Coates, from which his well-made waistcoat
only partially defended him. The attraction did
not seem to last, though ; and gradually but surely the
two, who in old times had been such united lovers,
drew more and more together upon a new footing. The
courtiers who fluttered round Daisy Brent could not
but feel and see that her royal favour seemed more
directed to a special object than had been her wont of
old. They had so much in common : for in spite of all
the external frivolities and dissipations of Daisy's life,
she had succeeded in keeping green her interest in
larger things. Unconsciously to both of them, they
began to talk together again, with the old interchange
of thoughts and of ideas. Unconsciously to both of
them, the spirit of confidence and intimacy grew into
the talk. Unconsciously to both of them, Guy Faucit's
mind began to assert its old mastery over Daisy's.
And unconsciously to both of them^the Count Lestrange,
throwing them together 'with undetected art, and by a
careless remark dropped here and there even leading
others to do so too, watched and waited for his own
purposes ; while with the growth of an uneasy feeling
unacknowledged to herself, the mistress of the Abbey
watched and considered him.

CARRIE'S Love-tale.

The Count Lestrange was in his room at the
Abbey, brooding and anxious, as Chaffers moved about
it on his ministrations.

This telegram only arrived this morning ? "
he said.

'' That is all. Count Lestrange."

'' You are quite sure there was nothing else from
the same quarter ?"

Chaffers assented.

'' Now you are to be very careful," his master went
on. " Keep a stricter watch on the letter-bag than
ever, and if you see anything whatever from India, you
are to bring it straight to me. If there were a letter,
it would probably be addressed to Mrs. Brent. And
you are to be especially careful about telegrams. You
can contrive to keep an eye on them ? '^

VOL. III. D

Yes, Count Lestrange."

That's right. Chaffers, you are invaluable ; and
most for showing no surprise when you are asked to do
unusual things. But there's good precedent. The
Government opens private letters. Why should I ?
Now, what other letters have you for me ? Let me
look at them."

Chaffers handed a packet of letters to his master,
who ran his eye quickly through them.

'' Invitations, invitations, invitations. Take them
and answer them as usual. Chaffers, except those I
shall want to accept. You know my arrangements in
that way as well as I do. What next ? From Dick
Melton, the jockey. Rides Golden Rein at Doncaster,
and has reason to know — hem — hem — hem. Chaffers,
anything going on down-stairs, in your part of the
house, on the Leger ? "

'' Yes, Count Lestrange."

Golden Rein in much favour ? "

Yes, Count Lestrange."

Lay against him as much as you can."

Thank you, Count Lestrange."

From my broker," the Count went on. " I don't
like this. Money wanted at once. Of course it is.

When isn't it ? Where am I to find a thousand pounds
for the moment? Through Faucit, no doubt. Why
all that money should fall from the clouds into the
hands of a drone who has done nothing for it, but
nurse an idiotic sentiment out in the diggings, while
I toil for my daily bread like a ploughboy, I can't
imagine. But so it is. Chaffers," he added aloud,
what's that letter ? "

"Will you see it, Count Lestrange ? "

How can I tell till you give me a chance ? Is it
one of those I told you never to give me ? Of course ;
I see. From little Rose Palmer ; the old story. Chaffers,
how often have I told you not to annoy me with
these things ? Tear it up."

If you could see her, Count Lestrange — "

I shan't, you know," said Lestrange, coolly. " Have
you an interest in the matter ? "

The poor young woman was so anxious — "

Chaffers ! Did I detect something like an expression
of sympathy ? You are going beyond me
altogether. Human weaknesses forbidden. Perhaps
you are tenderly inclined in that direction yOurself ? "

Oh, Count Lestrange ! "

Why not ? " said the Count. " I shan't interfere.

D 2

Have you seen Mr. Faucit about ? " lie added, putting
the letters aside and walking to the window. " With
this news from India," he thought to himself, " I must
push matters on."

Mr. Faucit is in the garden, Count Lestrange, with
Mrs. Brent."

"Ah!"

The man Chaffers was arranging his master's clothes
in the wardrobe with an air of furtiveness which
managed to belong to everything he did, even of the
simplest kind. As stealthily almost as he, Lestrange
went out of the room in his customary suit of solemn
black, and left him there, and putting on his hat,
wandered into the garden, which in the northern and
western direction lay about the house. Two or three
croquet-lawns, neatly shaven for the game of the day,
were scattered among the trees, and on one of them
Lestrange saw the man he had asked for, leaning on
his mallet by a hoop, and talking earnestly with a
companion whose immediate interest in the game
seemed as small as his. The looped-up petticoat and
the shapely foot which peeped out of it, doing much
honour to the boot it was cased in, might be accepted
in proof that she was there for croquet purposes, but

her manner seemed to belie it. Whatever it was of
which the two were talking that morning had a deep
interest for them both, and neither of them saw
Lestrange coming towards them. He did not go far
upon the way, for he looked at them and smiled to
himself, then turned up towards the glass door which
opened into one of the rooms of the house, and for a
moment looked in.

Pairing-time this is," he said to himself, as he
caught sight of another pair of fresh and curly young
heads very close together, and strolled away just as the
two heads started apart, like guilty things upon a
sudden summons, at the intrusion of Lord Pentonville
through a side-door.

The little lord was in all the freshness of adornment,
swathed like a mummy in his little tight clothes,
which seemed to keep him together ; and he trotted
towards the young couple he had interrupted, with
evident satisfaction in the keenness of his vision in
discovering their presence.

I — I saw you ! " he said, delighted.

There wasn't much to see," said Carrie Beaufort,
poutingly, for that young lady it was. " Only Jem
Gosling arranging a bouquet."

Of course," chuckled the other. " For yo — yo — "

"For her, Pen?" suggested Jem GosHng.

No ! " snapped his lordship ; " for Daisy Brent ; "
and he said it with a malicious chuckle, which made
Carrie set her teeth and shake her head at his back.

"I'm afraid it was," she said, looking at Gosling
rather ruefully.

But it's n — no good, you know," proceeded
Pentonville, triumphantly. "You're quite cut out
since that he — hermit came."

If the remark was intended to provoke the honourable
Jem, it failed in its object entirely. His worship
for his college idol was quite above proof.

He ain't much of a hermit now, the Clipper ain't,"
he declared, enthusiastically. "Isn't he an awfully
splendid fellow ? "

He's very big," assented Carrie, with equanimity
not yet recovered, "which I suppose means awful
splendour."

I — I — see them there," called out Pentonville
in ecstasy, having jammed his nose and his eye-glass
against the glass-door. " Out in the ga — ga — ga — "

In the garden ? "

"No, the shrubbery. He n — never leaves her.

They're 1 — leaving the ground. I w — wonder which
way they're going."

What odds can it make to you ? " asked Gosling,
rather disgustedly, as Pentonville trotted up to him.

"J — just seven to four," he confided to Gosling's
ear. " I took those odds from L — Lestrange ; he gave
me seven to four in hundreds against their running
away in three months. I th — think they're all right."

You mean they won't run away ? " said Gosling,
with an expression of anything but admiration on his
honest face, and looking round lest Carrie should hear.

N — no," chuckled the other again, like an inferior
satyr; "I mean they will. There's C — Coates in the
garden too," he added, breaking out in a new direction,
w — with the Ch — Challoner ; they're always together
now. I'll g — go and dis — dis — dis — "

Disturb them. Lord Pentonville ? " asked Carrie,
shrugging her pretty shoulders.

No ; amuse them."

And on his benevolent schemes intent, the Lord
Viscount Pentonville trotted out into the garden, and
attached himself to the second couple whom he had
had the opportunity of discomposing that morning.

Poor Carrie had felt that she might be on the verge

of a moment of real interest when lie broke in upon her
romance, which had been taking quite a delightful
shape of late days, since Daisy had seemed desirous to
abdicate her throne, and to play Queen of the Revels
no longer. It was not that Daisy was exactly changed,
certainly not to any of her friends ; but her manner
had grown more serious and reticent, and she seemed
to be putting on something of "the weeds of Dominic."
So Carrie Beaufort profited — the more so as her aunt,
who seemed prepossessed and absent, had kept less
watch over her doings of late, for some reason or another.

Horrid old mischief-maker ! " she said, therefore,
with a will, as Pentonville disappeared, knowing how
difficult it is to resume tender relations exactly as they
were before an awkward interruption.

"Poor old Pen," laughed Gosling, his universal
good-will towards everybody getting the upper hand as
usual, " rum 'un he is ; but not a bad sort when you
know him, you know. Did you ever hear how he
became a swell by winning a battle in India ? "

Never," answered Carrie, apparently with no great
interest in Pentonville's deeds of daring.

Well, a lot of niggers came down on him when he
wasn't looking out for them, and he wanted to give the

word to run away, you know ; but he stammered so
awfully lie couldn't. ' Ret — ret — ret — ' says he.
Retreat ? ' says the aide-de-camp. ' Ko says he ;
charge ! ' and they did charge, and cut the niggers to
bits ; and old Hard Labour was made a K.C.B. for it.
I say, Carrie," said the honest fellow suddenly, resuming
more j^ei'sonal questions without prelude, " how nice
you look this morning."

Very nice indeed Carrie looked when he said so,
with a very becoming promise of a blush in her plump
cheeks, and the pert nose assuming for the nonce quite
a sedate air. Less interested observers than Jem
Gosling might have thought her an attractive picture
of a maiden enough.

As nice as Daisy Brent ? " she asked, slyly and
shyly.

"Well, I have hardly seen her to speak to for the
last day or two," said Jem, very frankly. " She does
carry on with the Clipper, doesn't she ?" he added, with
a moralizing air. " She's always pretty good at carrying
on," — this with a tone of conviction ; — " but this licks
the lot." '

I suppose that makes you feel awfully bad ? "
suggested his companion, demure as before.

"Ton my soul, no, I don't think it does,"
said he of the ingenuous countenance and the
ingenuous modesty. "Any fellow might be proud to
be cut out by the Clipper, you know. And they
were old spoons too when they were young, so Lestrange
says."

Jemmy, your language is confused," said Carrie,
decidedly.

"Can't help it," he answered. "You're quite enough
to confuse anybody."

More discreet or less malign than Pentonville, the
chronicler refrains from emphasizing what may have
happened at this interesting point. Enough that it
Alas what a stage-manager would call, in contradistinction
to dialogue, " business."

What would my aunt say ? " was Carrie's next
articulate remark, the interval of sound having been
filled with something more expressive.

"That she wished I was Gander," said the youth.
"I don't. I shouldn't," he continued reflectively, "make
half such a good Gander as Gander makes. I say,
Carrie," he said, suddenly changing the subject on the
suggestion of the train of thought, "your aunt and
Lestrange are as thick as ever."

Don't talk about him' said Carrie, liking neither
the change nor its character. " I hate him."

I don't love him either," admitted Gosling, unwillingly.
" Extrorny beggar ; I wonder how he lives ! "

"He seems to live very well," Carrie answered.
They do say. Jemmy " (confidingly), " that he writes
for the ' Saturday Review.' "

"Oh, ah!" said the other, disrespectfully; "I know
lots of fellows they say that of. I wrote for it once, but
they wouldn't put it in. If they put in all the fellows
who say they write for it, the world wouldn't contain
the Saturday Reviews that should be written."

And what a very dreadful thing that would be."

"Awful."

The idea was so serious that it wanted a brief period
of serious contemplation before Jemmy went on with
the subject.

Still," he said, " Lestrange is just the man for that
sort of thing ; quite the fellow to cut up everybody for
the fun of hurting them, you know, and not say who he
is. Never could see the odds between an anonymous
cut-up and an anonymous letter, though mile's caddish
and the other's the dignity of the press. When a
fellow's got anything ill-natured to say of another

fellow, he does like old Weller, and puts it down with
a 'we However, I don't know much about it.
Shouldn't wonder if Lestrange put us in an article next
week. He's always prowling about somewhere."

Even as he spoke the figure of a man in black was
by the glass-door again.

Just when you least expect him," shuddered Carrie
Beaufort, nervously.

Can't make out why the Clipper's so fond of him,"
resumed Gosling, who was constantly wanting to make
things out, and failing.

Wiser in his generation than persons of greater
mark, when he found that he couldn't make them out,
he let them alone.

"Carrie," he added, suddenly, shifting his ground
with the inconsequence of his nature.

Yes ? "

What makes people fond of other people ? "

Is that a conundrum ? " she asked, looking down
with a funny little dimpling smile.

No ; a question."

I don't know," she said, after a pause, in a voice low
and pleasant. " Pique ? " then she asked, looking up, the
dimples about the mouth growing very provoking indeed.

I do not know, nor did she, exactly what might
have come next; but a shock of cold water down an
expectant spine does not come with a more sudden
chill than the quiet — " Your aunt is asking for you.
Miss Beaufort," which followed.

The speaker was Lestrange, who had come in
through the glass door as if nothing had happened.
Poor Carrie ! twice within a short half-hour !

Talk of the — " muttered Gosling, fairly disgusted
this time. Carrie Beaufort had looked so irresistibly
pretty just then.

The devil, eh ? " supplied the quick-eared Count.
Were you talking of love, then ? "

The cold water was icing now.

Talking of love ! no 1" said Carrie. " It was
something very different."

"Really !" he said, scanning the pair with a smile.
Marriage, I suppose ? "

Ice — all over.

Unpleasant beggar ! " muttered Jem to his pretty
companion, as their two spines gave responsive shivers.
Always sneering at something." *

Yes," she answered, " and at the best things —
marriage and all."

All," considered Gosling, " I don't quite know
about best."

The Count had brought into his Arcadia a whiff of
worldly wisdom.

What will you give me," said the Count, in a low
voice to him, with the well-known mockery in his tones
which men were so afraid of, " for coming in when I
did ? I am very sorry to have interrupted you, Miss
Beaufort."

Oh, don't mention it ! " said she, who would have
liked to cry.

But you know your aunt," he added, in a paternal
tone, as if to a naughty child ; '' you will get. yourself
into trouble."

Thank you," she said, bridling. " I can take care
of myself."

She turned away indignantly.

Then why," said Lestrange again to Gosling, " does
she want you to do it for her? Have you forgotten
Daisy Brent already ? "

The Count had the art of changing the whole
current of a man's thoughts with a syllable or two, and
nothing amused him more than the exercise of this
power.

Oil ! she has thrown me over ! " said Jem Gosling.

Aire you sure ? " said Lestrange, reflectively.
From what she said to me yesterday — yet I don't
know. Women are so clever in disguising their
feelings ; at least," he added, with a look of slight but
perceptible depreciation towards poor Carrie, "some
of them."

Gad ! " ejaculated the Honourable Jem, the ever-ready
vanity of mankind being prompt to rise to the
bait ; " if I thought that the lovely Brent — "

Are you coming, Mr. Gosling ? " tapped out an
impatient little foot at the door; "you promised to
arrange these flowers in the drawing-room."

All right," said Gosling. " Hang it," thought he
to himself, as he followed, in his especial vernacular,
'' she's an awfully good little girl, and I like her. But,
by Jove ! I quite too awfully near put my foot in it 1 "

The Count Lestrange laughed silently to himself
dien the two had left him alone, the pleasure of so
spoiling sport being in itself a delight to him. As
usual with him, he reflected complacently on the high
character of his motives, even in so small a flatter. It
was his clear duty to keep such a pair of moths out of
the flame as long as possible, and to fulfil a promise to

Lady Liiscombe to do his best to avert premature combustion.
It might do all very well a little later ; but
much depended on the constitution of the reigning
Gander, which was ruined, but tenacious.

The entire absence of cerebral action, reflected
Lestrange, always retards decay in that family. It was
known that Gander was very ill, but worse even than
he had been kno^^Tl to disappoint everybody, and to
marry and beget heirs. Miss Beaufort must not be
allowed to throw herself away on the Honourable
James yet ; but as she was clearly prepared to do so
at any moment, the Honourable James must be kept
judiciously in hand. But this was trifling, and the
Count had his reasons now for not trifling too much.

"How goes the other flame," he thought within
himself, " which I must kindle and not quench ? Where
are my Hercules and my grass-widow, I wonder ? They
looked in very close confidence just now."
He looked through the glass-door again.
"Yes, there they are. What a pretty innocent
picture. Adam and Eve in the garden of Paradise. A
subject worthy of a painter — of a poet — a subject worthy
of me. So entirely conscious of the rectitude of their
motives, too, that they are not afraid of the windows of

the house. There's Pentonville at one of them. Ha, ha !
The thing of all others to help one in a complicated
matter is conscious rectitude on all sides. We all mean
well. I do. So does Pentonville. He means to have
four hundred pounds of mine. And so he shall. It isn't
a bad hedge to help me to the ten thousand ; for a more
useful agent of mischief I don't know. What a pity he
stammers ; he might do so much more harm. I don't
like the news from India at all. John Brent is dangerously
ill, confound him, and I must keep it from his
wife. She would be going out to nurse him, or something
silly. When people once get certain conceptions
of what they call duty into their heads, there is no
telling when or where they may start up. And if
Brent were to die — oh no : that would spoil my
book, so it won't happen. But I must quicken my
athlete's stroke, now that I have him well in training.
Nearly a month here, and not up to the mark yet.
How slow he is," his thoughts ran on as he looked
ao^ain from the window. " Go on, Hercules, so on !
Muscles and scruples ought never to go together.
Nothing but indigestion makes a conscience excusable.
I must have another talk with Faucit, and — yes ; my
Lady Luscombe shall talk to Daisy. There will really

VOL. III. E

be a scandal in the house, I am afraid, if things continue
as they are. I'll go and find Lady Luscombe —
particularly," he thought, "as I don't think I am
wanted here."

The two whom he had been watching were approaching
the glass-door. Close to that door, the room in
which this scene had passed, — a sort of outer sitting-room,
— opened upon a long conservatory, in the centre
of which a thick and flowering row of tropical plants
and ferns divided two passages which ran down either
side of it, communicating at the other end with the
main part of the house beyond. Up one of these
passages, the further from the door, the Count Les
strange withdrew a little, and busied himself unnoted
with a close examination of some of the thickest of the
plants, as the two entered the room.

THE Conservatory.

Why are you so anxious to come in ? " said Guy.

Was I anxious ? " lie asked.

Her face was very thoughtful, and his too; and
there was a strange constraint on both of them.

"You seemed so," he answered.

It's so awfully wet."

Wet doesn't hurt Daisies," he said with a smile.

A slight smile crossed her face too as she answered,

You mustn't call me by my Christian name."

He did not disclaim the intention, but he asked,
Why not ? "

Because it's awfully wrong."

It's not so wrong as your surname," he said in a
low voice.

Oh don't say that ; you mustn't," she said very
quickly, flushing and wincing as from a pain.

B 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF JLLlNGib

Why not, if I feel it ? "

There was no mistaking the deep earnestness
which spoke in Faucit's voice. Lestrange, watchful,
smiled to himself, and for a moment looked at the two
from the cover of a flowering palm. Then noiselessly
and rapidly he moved down the conservatory, and was
gone by the other side.

"Who was that?" Daisy asked, her ear catching
the sound.

"No one," said Guy. 'you haven't answered my
last question."

Why not, if you feel it — wasn't it ? " she said.

She had taken her place in an American rocking-chair
by a handsome flower-stand in the room, which
itself preserved some of the attributes of the conservatory.
And her hand was playing with a lily, and her
eyes were full as of a deep spring of thought.

"We mustn't say all that we feel," she added,
looking straight before her, the lily at her lips.

No," he said. And he leaned his arm upon the
flower-stand at her side, and there was a pause between
them. Something, that day, seemed to make it difficult
to speak. " Are you glad I came here ? " he abruptly
asked, without apparent reason.

"No. Yes. Awfully."

I wish you wouldn't use that word about everything,"
he said, in a provoked and impatient tone.
Womanlike, she at once looked mischievous, and
laughed a little, a mere touch on a silver bell.

"What, awfully?" she asked. "It has been the
most expressive word in the language ever since it got
into it. It's an awfully good word."

There it is again ! " said Guy. " How can a word
be awful?"

I didn't say it was an awful word," was her answer,
given with a spice of good-humoured mimicry of his
tone. " I said it was an awfully good word. Ha, ha,
ha ! Isn't that logic ? "

"Complete and unanswerable," he said, shrugging
his shoulders, not too willing sto fall in, perhaps, with
the light and careless manner which Daisy had now
assumed. But she would not let it go.

"You see how fast young women are getting
educated in these days," she said, laughing.

I am afraid you are rather a fast young woman,"
was his comment.

Why that's a pun 1 " she exclaimed, " absolutely
and positively a pun. Not a good one, but still a pun.

Mr. Faucit, I didn't think you had it in you. You will
write a burlesque yet, and win the heart of Jem Gosling
entirely. How fond he seems of you."

Good little fellow," answered Guy. " Yes, I think
he is. I wish he would make haste and marry that nice
little girl, IVIiss Beaufort. It would be the making of him."

"Marriage is not always our making," answered
Daisy. " It is a miserable imposture in some worlds, at
all events."

"Not always, anywhere, I hope," he said. "Why
do you talk in that way ? It doesn't suit you, any more
than fastness does."

There again 1 " she said. " How can you call me
by wrong names ? "

Well, you won't let me call you by the right one,"
answered Guy, recurring to the old point. "But it
frets me sometimes to see you play as you do at a
character which is not your own."

"How do you know that?" she said. "Our
characters change sometimes. Men change them for
us, or circumstance, or anything."

Was it a man who changed you, then ? " asked he.
Somehow I don't believe it. Your heart doesn't seem
to me in this butterfly life, the least."

My heart ! " she said, with a laugh. " What can
make you suppose that I have one ? "

Or ever had ? "

She looked at him for a moment. " Or ever had, if
you wish it. It is a thing, from all I have heard of it,
one is much better without. Of course I have no personal
experience ; and you see how well we all get on
here without such a thing. I don't think we boast one
between us at Luscombe Abbey, except dear old Lady
Pepperharrow ; so we all laugh at her, of course."

It's a worldly set enough, certainly, this of yours,"
answered Guy, shunning any direct issue. '' And I
hate the familiarity," he suddenly said, with some
vehemence, '' with which you let everybody in the
house treat you." "

Do you ? " she said in a low voice. There had
been no mistaking the feeling with which Guy Faucit
spoke, and in spite of herself it thrilled through Daisy's
nerve. " Why do you want the same privilege, then ? "
she asked with a smile, not swerving from her careless
tone, or letting him read anything of what she might
think or feel.

That's different," he shortly answered.

Of course ! " she said. '' How grave we are ! "

continued she in a bantering manner, which had in it,
notwithstanding, an odd mixture of expression if it
might have been read ; something of respect something
of pleading, something of yearning. "You are just
what you were eight years ago," — with a frank and brave
allusion to past times which brought an answering
look into his eyes, — 'the same awful old don as
ever! 'Awful' is all correct there, you know," she
hastened to stipulate, in answer to the initiate protect
of his lips. " Do you think that everybody is to be as
particular as yourself ? "

"I think," he said, gravely, "that married women
should be more careful."

"Should they?" she thoughtfully answered.
Then " — with a smile playing about her mouth —
you had better go."

Not for the world would Daisy Brent have forfeited
the new friendship which was springing up upon the
ruins of the old building. For it was friendship, oh ye
cynics ; and it is possible under such conditions, and
true. Daisy knew her heart, and knew herself, hers
strength, and her weaknesses, and trusted herself out of
that knowledge with a deep and fearless trust. She
did not disguise from herself that she loved GuyFaucit,

and had always loved him, with a love never to be
given by her to any one beside in this world. Had she
known and cherished it for a safeguard, all those
desolate years, to shrink from it now ? Might she not
rather — did she not rather — thank God upon her knees
night and morning for bringing back the old lover, to
give him to her for a steadfast friend, just when her
life, and heart, and value were going to rack and ruin
upon the reefs of circumstance ? He could and would
save her from herself, she felt, and in his time and way
show her what yet to do with her life for good, whose
beacon-light had never quite been sunk in all her
storms. She felt it all the more because to her heart's
core she knew, as she had known in those happy days
of the might-have-been, that he whom her heart
honoured was thoroughly akin to her. What she felt
he felt, what she meant he meant, and his heart and
purpose were as steady and as loyal as her own. He
showed it to her in a hundred self-controlled ways ; and
as she had trusted him as a lover, as she would have
trusted him as a husband, she could trust him as a
friend. Dangerous, would you call it? oh small-thinking
and small-speaking world, dangerous — to such
souls of choice as these ? This was one of the tragedies

of life, it may be ; and none so well as Daisy felt what
she had lost. But it was a tragedy of high and noble
mould, which neither she nor he would turn to common
melodrama. She bowed her head as within herself she
owned the justice of the punishment which separated
their lives in the higher sense of union, in that she
could not pass safely through the vulgar trial which she
had succumbed to, and read her simple duty before her
in the bright letters of her love. It seemed so easy and
so paltry now ! Had she not owned to herself over
and over again, that she had expected Guy to remonstrate,
to make some sign ? If she had expected
that, why had she allowed anything to tempt her to
give him cause ? And as she looked at him now, strong
and straightforward, and single of purpose, she wondered
how she could ever have dreamed of any other result ?
Hers had been a ■ hard trial, true ; but are not the hard
trials sent for the strong and favoured souls ? and how
had she dared, with such a love in her, to play it false
for all the best conventions of the world ?

So Daisy Brent judged herself, and recognized the
justice of her sentence, while reading there the mercy
which tempers justice, and had given her back at last
the friendship which was better than all loves beside.

What had it given her more ? The instinctive knowledge
that, as she had loved Guy, so Guy had loved her,
and that to the mirage she had made of that love he
had been, and would be, true for evermore. Could
woman's wound have better balm than that ? No.
There was no danger. Here was no story of common
duplicities, to end in any commonplace of 111. And so
she said to him, with that smile playing about her mouth,

Then you had better go."

I am your friend," said Guy. " I can be nothing
more now."

He did not mean to shrink, nor she, front such
allusions to the past. They were not to be avoided,
and were better met.

"Yes; they always begin by that," answered Daisy,
whose new fashions still hung about her, though in
truth as garments they were but a poor fit. " But your
prejudices are so awfully old-fashioned. Look at our
hostess. Lady Luscombe."

"What is it about her?" asked Faucit, rather
roughly.

Alio is it about her, you mean," 'said Daisy.
Count Lestrange always, except when he's making
fun of Lady Pepperharrow. Can't you see that ? "

I haven't looked' said the other, with indifference.
"You don't mean that they are beginning by being
friends ? "

No ; they're ending by it. Don't you know the
story ? Have you never heard why Lord Luscombe
left it in his will, that if his widow should marry
again, she was to lose every penny ? "

No," Guy answered. " What were his reasons ? "

"Only one. Count Lestrange. Everybody knows
it, and nobody minds it. You have lived in the deserts,
Mr. Faucit ; you do not know our world as at present
constructed."

There was scorn in her voice, of herself as of others.

Was anything kno^vn ? " asked Guy, whose tone
caught hers.

Oh, no. Then it would have become wrong."

She was playing with the flower with her fingers,
absently ; and its leaves were falling to the ground. A
whole unwritten history of regrets and possibilities
seemed locked in the two hearts.

He is a strange man, this Count Lestrange," said
Guy.

Yes ; a strange man, and they say a dangerous
one. But I never quite understand what people mean

by talking so much of danger. Our dangers come from
ourselves, and the Count has always things to say out
of the ordinary run of gossip and commonplace. I like
his company for that reason."

So do I, Mrs. Brent. One can always discount
a man's conversation from one's ideas of his character,
and make the best one can out of it without being
afraid of being contaminated. We are not sent hereto
go through life Uke a package, labelled ' This side up
with care.' The eternal suspicion of ' something wrong '
is a perfect pest of the day, and of every day, I suppose.
I often feel disposed to parody the old text, for the
benefit of the Bowdlerized edition of mankind so much
circulated now-a-days — 'To the proper all things are
proper.' "

She laughed and answered, "Your text would not
be a very welcome one, and would rob many people of
their bread. What would become of society, and of
morality, and of all sorts of things ? "

Inconsistency is an attribute of life ; and it is

impossible to say why Guy Faucit's next remark was

«
this, with something of a frown :

Do you live very much with this Lady Lus-combe

? "

"Yes," said Daisy, "a good deal; though, as you
know, my home is with Lady Pepperharrow. Lady
Luscombe is not unkind, though hard."

Hard enough," said Guy.

I don't mind that," Daisy said, sadly, with a sigh
which, for the moment, she could not help. Aimless,
loveless, disappointed life that hers was, so full of
purpose and of affection and of promise that it had
been, it was a weird at times. " God knows," she added,
rising from her chair, and throwing from her with an
impatient gesture the stalk of the dispelled flower,
I am hard enough myself ! "

She walked to the conservatory, and toyed with
some of the rich leaves which clustered there. He
followed her with a look, and a very sad one, which she
did not see. He did not wish that she should.

You are not just what you were eight years ago ! "
he said. " You are bitterly changed ! "

The whole frame quivered, the whole scene grew
misty, the whole brave heart seemed for a moment to
be dissolved in tears. But there was no outward
sign but of a graceful woman, bending over a graceful
plant.

Yes, bitterly," she answered, and put the question

by as not of much moment. '' Come and look at this.
What a lovely fern ! "

He joined her, and they strolled up the conservatory
together, on the opposite side to that where Lestrange

had gone.

*****

There they are, you see," said the Count Lestrange

As the other two drew away, he entered the room
from the other side of the conservatory, with Lady
Luscombe. They had come in at the further end of it
some minutes before, and had been loitering in the
way close to the room. To anybody who had seen them
together as they stood, with their unspoken thoughts
between them, under the canopy of climbing tendrils,
the picture might have recalled the Count of Monte
Christ and Mercedes, when she offered him the grapes
in the chateau of Mercers her husband.

"Yes, I see," said Lady Luscombe, looking after
Guy and Daisy, as in close converse they passed out of
sight together. "I wish that I had never brought
him here."

Why ? " the Count asked.

'' To win you this infamous wager," answered she.

Her worn face looked more worn than ever, and the

hair seemed even to have been whitened under a fresh
fall of the snow of age. Her eyes looked harassed,
eager, miserable ; and the pity of her life, there among
all the rich surroundings which were hers, and not hers,
was written in her whole expression and bearing in a
way which might have appealed to any man. Count
Lestrange, who looked placid and unperturbed as ever,
did not appear to be moved by it, or to notice it in
any way.

Are you really beginning to be afraid of your
paragon, then ? " he said. " And why do you talk about
infamous ? What nonsense ! Exaggerated expressions
are such a mistake."

"If I had known the story of those two at the
time," said Lady Luscombe, " I would never have lent
myself to your schemes."

Oh, yes, you would ; but not so readily. That's
why I didn't tell you till afterwards."

And it is really true ! " exclaimed Lady Luscombe,
seating herself impatiently in the chair which Daisy
had left, and tapping the ground with her foot in a
restless fashion. " For a bet — for a mere bet — you, who
by means of your own can always get money when you
want it, will deliberately ruin two people who have

never harmed you. There is something more than a
bet in this — some revenge. What is it ? "

I assure you there is not' answered Lestrange.
"I respect revenge very much in others, but never
practise it myself. It is so very human. I've made
a bet, and I mean to win it ; that's all'*

By this abominable action ? "

I think it is a benevolent action — so benevolent
that I feel quite pleased with myself. Faucit will make
his new start in life with a real reputation. As for the
young lady, she has two passions, money and notoriety,
and I shall secure her both. She will be the talk, and
consequently the envy, of her sex. She will change
one husband — bad, old, and poor — for another, good,
young, and rich."

How can they marry," Lady Luscombe answered,
when you have ruined her ? "

It won't be ruin, only bankruptcy. She can
start fresh, after going through the Court."

There was a more open sneer in the last words than
was usual with the speaker, who even with Lady
Luscombe generally veiled his cynicism 'decorously,
and seemed unconscious of their point. His manner
seemed to sting her, and she turned round upon him

VOL. III. F

with an unrepressed shudder, and looked him straight
in the face. His eyes wandered away at once, and he
played with the ring upon his right hand.

Count Lestrange," she said suddenly, " had you
ever a mother ? "

No, I fancy not," he answered with indifference.

The two figures that they had watched down the
conservatory were approaching the room again together
as before. Lady Luscombe heard then voices speaking
in subdued tones, and she rose to her feet.

"They are coming back. I shall warn them'' she
said.

The Count had heard them too, and quietly gone
over to the other side of the conservatory, where he
stood in the archway of it.

"On the contrary," he said, "you will come
this way."

I will not."

You will come this way."

There was the old tone of quiet and magnetic
command, and with it a certain cold glitter in the eye,
which enforced obedience as usual.

What do you mean to do ? " Lady Luscombe asked,
going up to the Count.

I will tell you, and what you must do," he
answered. " Perhaps I am not so bent upon this bet
of mine as you think, and wish, after all, to save things
from going too far. You have seen in the last few
days how far they are going. Come this way, and I'll
explain myself."

They went down the conservatory again together.

P2

DUOLOGUES.

So you are a very rich man now ? " Daisy was
saying.

"Yes, I suppose so," was the answer.

And you mean to be a very great one ? " .

No."

He spoke wearily and with indifference, and, without
meaning it perhaps, he threw into his tone a despondency
which struck painfully on his companion's ear, and
gripped her about the heart with a sadness like his own.
It could not but come to them both at times, steady
of purpose as they were. That same heartwholedness
on which Guy had congratulated himself on the day of
his coming to Luscombe Abbey had been exposed to
some dangerous siege-work in the days which had
passed lazily by since then.

"Are you so changed then, after all," said Daisy,
after a pause, in a voice which had in it a real and
gentle sympathy, " since the old days when you were
so ambitious of a name in the world ? "

The old days ! What a phrase of pregnant meaning
is there, and what a burden, only too often, of an unutterable
pain ! The very words seemed to strike a
new note of music on Daisy's peerless voice, and to be
echoed in the man's deeper modulations.

'' I am not selfish," he said. " I was only ambitious
of a name which I might share."

With others ? " she asked. And both, unconsciously
to themselves, spoke very low.
With one other. With a wife."
She turned her head away from him as he spoke
the words, that he might not see what she too surely
felt, how the soft colour which had tinged her cheek
deserted it in a moment, and left the blue veins traced
more clearly than was their wont upon the pure
marbled complexion which was one of Daisy's prides.
It was not marble now, but white. Marble has hue.
She fought with herself, and felt hot tears pressing
behind her eyes.

Why have you never found one ? " she said,

bending over a flower, but with a voice which she made
natural by a strong effort. Though there was interest
in it, too, the naturalness wounded Guy.

'' Don't you know ? " he said, shortly, and with a
feeling which on his side he was not at such pains
to conceal. " I was poor."

But you are rich," she answered, bravely preserving
the same tone, though the sad heart faltered as
lie did it. 'now you will be able to choose for
yourself."

'' I suppose so."

Shall you do it ? "

Do you wish it ? "

I — suppose so."

There was hesitation there, or Daisy Brent had never
been Daisy Fairfield, or a true-hearted woman. His
wakeful ear caught the slight change of intonation,
and he welcomed it with another pause. Then he came
closer to her side than he had been standing before, and
she shrank, involuntarily, just a very little. And he
spoke quickly and thickly, with a feeling almost hoarse
in its suppression.

Do you advise it ? " were his words ; '' from your
experience of women ? Yes, I am rich ; and I might

ask some girl to marry me tomorrow, not knowing that
she was engaged, perhaps, to some poor devil who cared
for her, and for whom she was supposed to care, more
or less. She might say ' yes,' and forget to mention the
other. That would be a chance for happiness, would
it not ? "

The laugh in which the words ended was not very
genuine, or very pleasant to hear. Daisy shrank from
it, but o-ave no sion he saw.

She might learn to love you," she said, biting
her lip.

Yes ; unless I lost my money."

Guy Faucit was losing his steady tone, and his head
was leaving him a little. He said the hard words with
intention, and they pierced. But she pressed her hand
to her heart, and again she staunched the wound. She
did not justify herself in her own eyes, and if she could
help it she would not rebel. How could he know that
he was wronging her ?

Rich or poor," she said, deliberately, and in a calm
voice, " you would be a good husband to her."

If Daisy Brent could avoid it, she woiild not stand
between Guy Faucit and a happiness which might be
his. Yet for the first time, the very first since they

had met again, she felt at this moment in the soul
of her, that what he had been to her that had she
been to him. Yet between him and happiness she
would not stand, with the help of God. And herein I
think Daisy was doing a brave thing indeed.

He did not see beneath the surface, though, for men
do not, any more than they can with equal resolution,
in time of need, cover the surface over. He saw in
her words only their outward seeming, and he grew
more and more indignant as in that light he read
them. A flirt ! a deceiver 1 and a heartless one, after
all. Was her last scheme to affect a friendly interest in
his prospects of marriage, then ? He could have borne
anything but that.

A good husband ! " he said, very bitterly indeed
this time, and with an unconcealed scorn. " What if I
found out that she had been so utterly base as to marry
me for my money, liking somebody else better, as far as
she had it in her to like anybody, and throwing him
over without a scruple ? I am not quite sure."

There was absolute evil in the sneer which Guy
threw into the last words, and threw at her as with
an insult. She could not bear it, and it could not befor
the wound of those savage words this time went

too deep, though it carried with it a strange bain, for
she felt the love in them as she felt the misunderstanding.
But the misunderstanding was too terrible to be
borne, and her shield fell from her unnerved hand at
last. She turned round upon Guy with a look he
started from, for the hot tears had welled into her eyes,
the red flush had covered neck and brow with a very
glow of modesty and honour, and lip and nerve and
fibre quivered like an appealing child's.

But if the terms of the bargain were plain ! " she
cried, for it was as with a cry that she spoke, and in the
force of the feeling which she suddenly unloosed she
clasped her hands together as she faced him, and the
words rushed hotly from her lips without break or
stay; "if the girl told you of that other love, and
prayed you to be generous, and you would not ! if the
fortune, the subsistence, yes, and the honour of her
father and mother depended upon her saying ' yes ' to
the offer to which her very heart and soul said ' no '
with loathing ! if she told you all this, and you claimed
her in spite of it ! if she sacrificed herself to you, body
and soul, — and in all the world there is no sacrifice so
horrible as that, — and then you broke your bargain ! if
your fortune proved as hollow as your love 1 if you

taunted her, day by day and hour by hour, with the
true friend and true man whose life she had laid waste
for you ! if you were bitter, cruel, violent ! if — if —
you lent her, Guy, what then ? "

Did your husband do that ? " said Guy.

"Yes."

"Damn him."

The silence fell between them like a death ; and the
beating of their two hearts filled the void of words.
There was no shadow of need for further explanation ;
for her sudden and passionate outburst had told him
everything, and he did not disbelieve or doubt her
for a moment more. The statue was restored to its
pedestal in all its gracious perfectness, and he might
lay all the garnered memories at its feet again. What
had she borne before she yielded to this ? and what had
her life been since ? God help them ! What had his ?
And a whole concentrated force of anger and of scorn
Guy Faucit threw into that savage curse, not loud but
deep, which haply cast its shadow over John Brent's
unlovely sick-bed, thousands of miles away.

As for Daisy, she shrank from its passion for a
moment, and then it recalled her to herself, though she
would not attempt disguise again just then.

Oh hush ! " she said, " we mustn't talk like this.
What does it matter now ? " and the smile upon her
face was sad unutterably. " Only, if I'm fast, Guy,"
she added, earnestly, and with a depreciation of herself
which had more of frank self-pity than self-scorn, " if I
talk slang and scandal, and chaff, and flirt, and play,
and smoke a cigarette, don't be surprised, and don't
be savage, there's a good fellow. It's terribly hardwork.
I'm so lonely — so wretched ! Be my friend,
won't you ? and don't make love to me — at least," she
added, with another smile which struggled to be bright,
yet had little brightness beyond the tear which glistened
in her ej^e — " at least, not too much."

"You don't care about other men doing it," he
said, very sadly, though in a voice from which all the
hardness was gone.

I don't care — about other men."

^ ■)«•-K- 4f ^

"It is shameful — cruel — wicked ! " Lady Luscombe
declared, as her whole frame shook with excitement, and
her eyes flashed as they had not done that many a day.
The Count Lestrange was watching the ' effect with
quite a pronounced interest. "You wish me," she
added, as if she couldn't believe her own words, "to

compromise Daisy Brent, to turn her out of my house,
to drive her to extremities by insulting her, — and all
to secure you £10,0001"

I wish it was more, with all my heart," Lestrange
answered. " You may make it double or quits if you
like. But you really must remember, Marian, the large
fortune which your imprudence lost me — for you must
have been most imprudent. If you had been more
careful, your husband would never have made that most
improper will."

"He might have punished me worse," Lady Lus-combe
said, a sort of fascinated calmness taking the
place of the excitement, as it always did under the
hand of the imperturbable adventurer.
"How? "he asked.
He might have let me marry you."
The silence which Guy and Daisy had left* behind
them in the room seemed to cling about it still, when
the two who had taken their places there had watched
the victims of this strange experiment wander away
again among the flowers together.

Things had advanced, Lestrange had thought as he
saw them. He had heard enough and observed enough
now to risk his grand cows. He only watched Lady

Luscombe with a certain curiosity, which had something
of satiety in it. He had come to the end of her long
ago, to his notion ; and she was but a pipe to his finger,
to sound what stops he pleased. He was trying the
pipe this time, he knew; but it would bear it, and
respond. Very likely the effort would crack it; but
what was that to him ? He had worn out many pipes
in his time in the same way, and thrown them away
when they, were past work without wasting more time
over them.

I should have made you a very good husband," he
said with perfect good humour and an imperceptible
shrug of the shoulders, unmoved by her shrinking and
repellent tone. "I've an excellent temper, and you
never would have thwarted me. You will not thwart
me now," he added, with an additional infusion of
softness into his voice. He spoke meditatively, and
was much interested in his ring.

I will cut my right hand off before I will help you
in this," Lady Luscombe muttered, rather than said,
through her closed teeth, tapping the floor with the old
impatient action. Lestrange only lifted her eyebrows
a little.

"You would scarcely miss it if you did," he said.

f

"Am not I your right hand ?" She shrank away from
him as he approached her and looked at her hand, then
taking it in his added, 'rit would be a pity though.
Such a pretty little hand ! "

A compliment from you ! " she said, bitterly.
That is late in the day. You must be forgetting how
long it is since you cared to pay one to me."

"Is it ? " he said, carelessly. '' You must know the
value I have set upon the little hand. To think that I
could not claim it ! "

You could have done so if you had chosen," Lady
Luscombe said.

'you mean," said Lestrange, "that you would have
given up your husband's fortune to marry me ? "

You know that I would — then."

How handsome you are ! " exclaimed the Count
suddenly, looking at her with an air of new attention.
"Marian," he added, almost under his breath, and
throwing into his tone an expression which she had not
heard in it since her husband died, " would you marry
me now ? "

She started and looked up at him, and the fragrance
of the flowers in the conservatory seemed heavy in the
room.

What ! " she said, *' give you the Kttle hand
empty ? What greeting would it have from the penniless
adventurer, the Count Lestrange ?"

She emphasized the epithet scornfully enough, but
it did not affect him in any way.

Now that is unhandsome," he merely said. " If
I am penniless, you should cultivate charity and be
anxious to help me to ten thousand pounds. But —
perhaps I am not — altogether. What would you say,
Marian," he went on in quite a pleading voice, stooping
over her, and a hand resting on the back of her chair,
'' if I were to tell you that I am making a fortune, not
for myself — for you know that I don't care about it, —
but for you ? "

She started at first — but only for a moment.
I should say," she answered, hardly and scornfully,
that I did not believe you."

She remembered scenes and days which his manner
brought back to her, only too well, and the bitterness of
her tone, which was something like contempt, should
have moved her companion if he remembered them too.
But it did not, apparently. He only thrcAV into his
manner a more marked meaning, which looked like
devotion, associated with those times when, whoever

was in the room and to whomever he was speaking, he
conversed to her that he was conscious of her only.

But if it were so ? " he pleaded. '' If I had never
forgotten the past ? if I can never forget it ? If it had
been my dream to be able to say to you one day, ' I
have always loved you ! I could not bring you, rich
and high-placed as you are, to poverty and obscurity.
Even now I must ask you to sacrifice much — ' "

"Estranged" she said, in a hesitating, wondering,
wistful tone, which sounded to her like an echo of a
voice which had once been hers. Were the words
suddenly coming, now at this eleventh hour, which
after her husband's death her ears had once ached to
hear? "Lestrange!"

Let me go on. ' But, at least, I can give you
comfort and a home — comfort that you will owe tome,
a home that you will share with me ! ' If *it were
true, and I said ' Come,' would you follow me ? "

Lady Luscombe had risen from the chap, her heart
beating stormily against its silken bars.

To the end of the world ! '' she whispered. " Is
it true ? "

'^ No."

Intolerably cruel ; even in him who made a study

of moral vivisection, and perhaps persuaded himself, or
tried to do so, that the results of his investigations were
as good for anthropology as the advocates of the
growing and peculiar practice in the animal-world
maintain their moralities to be for " science " — a word
which, unless its worthier professors take some early occasion
to repudiate them with authority and with disgust,
such monstrosities as these will turn for honest men
to something worse than foolishness. Intolerably cruel ;
but Lestrange could no more help himself than, after
sufficient indulgence in vivisection, Doctor Domitian
could help, if the fancy seized him, vivisecting his
favourite dog, if he has such a thing, which is doubtful.
And Doctor Domitian would do it with episcopal
sanction from the Midland Counties — a fact never to be
forgotten in that connexion.

Lestrange at that moment wanted Lady Luscombe's
help in that delicate matter of his very much, as the
Doctor might at the moment of his supreme pleasure be
afraid of burglars. But that sort of relish heightens the
enjoyment, as with voluptuaries of old. When Lady Lus-combe
professed her horror of the idea of being his wife,
Lestrange felt the necessity of a moral experiment, and
he dissected. Not more would Doctor Domitian gloat

VOL. III. G

over the writings of his dog, with a sense of pleasure
quickened by personal interest, than did Lestrange over
the pale flush which mantled to the worn face of Lady
Luscombe at that supreme insult. Even then it was
but a slight flush ; for the blood in her seemed to have
unlearned its office by long starving of the poor heart ;
but she shook in every limb.

Ah ! " she said, with something of a long low cry,
which had in it the ring of many feelings — indignation,
astonishment, self-scorn, shame.

Count Lestrange laughed quietly, and spoke with
the old placid good humour, as if there had been
nothing in his little experiment to offend or to injure
anybody.

"Why," he said, "five minutes ago you said that
the worst thing your husband could have done would
be to let you marry me. What, foolish people women
are ! "

There is one who shall not be added to the list of
folly if I can help it," answered Lady Luscombe, when
she had recovered her self-command, and had space to
breathe. "I will protect Daisy Brent, and save her
from you. Was it wise to insult me, do you think,
when you wanted my help ? You should have fooled

me a little longer, and laughed at me only when you
had won your wager."

Perhaps it might have been wiser," he said ; " but
I did not wish to cause you real disappointment."

You shall never win that wager now. I will
unmask you."

There's nothing to unmask," answered the Count.
'[ I told you at the time, you will remember, that the
wager looked like a mere way of doing you a service.
You said so yourself. You can't hurt me. Now I can
hurt you."

How ? " she asked.
'' Your letters, you know."

Ah ! " Lady Luscombe said ; " those miserable
letters again. What were they? what are they?
Whatever they are, I cannot believe that you would
stoop to using them publicly against me."

Did you ever really suppose that I kept them for
sentiment ? " he said, looking away from her, and consulting
the oracle of the ring. " Haven't I told you —
I think I have — that I am a man without scruples ? I
am in earnest ; you must act as I tell you ; and I must
win this wager — to-day."
To-day ! "

G 2

She shrank away from him.

To-day ! " he repeated, with an emphasis more
marked than before, as he looked down the conservatory,
from which once more those two other figures were
approaching. '' Really, it is becoming quite scandalous.
Look ! "

'' I see no harm," said Lady Luscombe. " What if
Daisy goes at my wish ? She goes with Lady Pepper-harrow."


I think not. But if so, that absolves you. You
must come away."

You are in earnest in this wicked thing, then ?
God forgive me ! Even I didn't know you ! "

Not quite. Come and talk it over."

*****

'ris it true that you only threw me over for your
parents' sake ? " said Guy. " And that you still
believed that I should come to you ? and that you never
received the letter which I wrote to you ? "

Quite true."

Is it true that you were fond of me ? "

Quite true."

I want to know one thing more," he said.

And with short rapid steps, and rough and broken

utterance, Guy Faucit was restlessly wandering about
the room, in the middle of which Daisy stood, quite
still. The barrier of ice had been broken down, and
there was no reserve between them.

What ? " she asked, as if bound to answer without
a fear, to whatever it pleased him to ask her.

Are you very poor ? "

Yes ; and you're very rich. It's curious. Punished
for my sins, ain't I ? I, who of course never cared
for anything but money."

"It's not that," he said, roughly, putting the
words aside with a wave of the hand. " Your
people "

"My father and mother are both dead, as I told
you. There's only Dick and myself, and Dick doesn't
go for much, you know. He's just got wit and money
enough to live on, with his pay."

And you ? "

Oh, whist and horses, and one thing and another,"
she answered, with a brief return of the off-hand
manner which pained him in her more than anything
else, knowing as he did its sad affectation. " I live
with Lady Pepperharrow, and a great deal with Lady
Luscombe. And Mr. Brent is good enough to make

me a small allowance. My clothes always excite the
admiration of the men and the envy of the women.
What more can a woman want ? "

They tell hard stories of you," said Guy, coming
up to her side, and looking in her face.

But she raised her head in the old queenly way,
and gave him back the look into his eyes.

I know that," she answered ; " but you are to
believe me once for all. The worst stories are not
true, and they never will be."

"I do believe you," he said, with a choke in his
voice. "But," he spoke with infinite hesitation, and
with his eyes on the ground, " as, after all, your oldest
and best friend, wouldn't you let me help you if you
were in a difficulty, rather than whist and horses, and
one thing and another ? "

Daisy was almost crying, and didn't quite speak
at first.

How good and loyal you are ! " she said, with a
sort of pride in him, and in herself too, for having
known it of him long ago. " But in your position
and mine — no."

He turned away and he came back again, and he
went to the window of the garden, and then came

again to lier, and he said in a low and hurried voice,
as if it came in spite of him —

"I could give you everything; put you above all
this."

Then she flushed again, and then she grew very
pale, and into her eyes and face there came a look
of sadness beyond words. But she spoke very, very
gently.

Alcove. it, Guy ? " she said, steadily. " Was I right ?
Aire you loyal ? "

And the sigh was deep with which he answered
after a while —

Yes, Daisy ; I think so."

FROM GRAVE TO GAY.

The situation was becoming painfully strained;
and perhaps neither saw the way out of it. But the
beneficent Fate which so often waits on such situations
was at hand, and interrupted the talk in the intrusive
little person of the Lord Viscount Pentonville. He
had been hopping about all the morning in search
of news or of events, like an early sparrow in advance
of its species, and regarding everything as within the
province of crumbs. In everything he did he was a
glutton for information, out of a spirit of downright
curiosity worthy of Paul Pry ; a character, indeed, in
which his friends had been anxious to induce him to
appear at one of Lady Pepperharrow's dramatic galas.
His refusal, though the proposal had much gratified
his innate sense of the proprieties, had been based

upon the absolute unsuitableness of the character to
his nature and abilities.

"An old f — f — fellow, who's always b — bothering
everybody, and c — coming in where he's not wanted.
I s — saw Tools do it, and thought it a horrid caricature.
N — never was a f — fellow of that kind in real
life."

So, in spite of the insistance of his friends, and the
persuasions of Lady Pepperharrow, — who was convinced
that " Really, my lord, if you only would, you don't
know what a talent you might develop, and how much
you would surprise all your friends. We never can be
sure of having nothing in us till we have tried everything,"
— the Lord Viscount Pentonville remained a
stranger to stage-triumphs, and confined his performances
of Paul Pry to the theatre of real life. This
morning he had been unusually on the alert. He had
observed Guy and Daisy at intervals ; had satisfactorily
convinced himself that the partnership between Jem
Gosling and Carrie Beaufort was interrupted for the
time ; had with much gratification given in a formal
report upon that head to Lady Luscombe ; 'had hovered
like a shadow about the languid Emily and the
ruminating Coates; and had nevertheless found the

time to poke his nose into gardens, and stables, and
farm-buildings, and to drive the retainers of the Abbey
half wild by idiotic remarks about creepers or manure.

There never was a little man," Gosling said of
him, " so inappropriate as that little man."

His morning's labours on this occasion were crowned
with a signal triumph which he had not anticipated.
Fluttering about a laurel-walk near the house, he was
in a moment of propitious destiny the absolute earwitness
of a declaration, or rather of the confirmation,
ocular and ocular, of a compact which had been
entered into a day or two before between two of the
personae minores of this veracious history. Old Pen,
to do him justice, did not intend to overhear; but,
whether from purblindness or natural impetuosity, or
both combined, he was one of those who are always
rushing in upon the paths shunned of angels, and
unable to extricate himself in time. He was as a bull
perpetually making his appearance in china shops, and
wearing a countenance of chronic dismay at the breakages
ensuing. One imagines the awkward eagerness
with which a bull of that sort, after a few lesser concussions,
beats a retreat from an untenable position,
and rushes with his head down into the rival shop

next door. I feel this simile to be Homeric, and
cannot but fall into the liexametric tone.

E'en as a bull in a shop — ^Ybere Worcester, Sevres, and
Dresden,
Shelf over shelf up-piled, in patterns many and wondrous,
Yellow or rose or blue, the cross-swords glistening under.
Shine for aesthetic eyes in a blaze of cancerous glory.
Cups and chimaera dire, or fearful and wonderful fetish, —
All unawares is seen, with nostrils quivering strangely.
Head to the earth bowed down, and pawing with hoof

bisected ; —
Then, with a wondrous roar, and feet earth-shaking the floor-cloth,

Butts at the nearest group which first encounters his bull's

eye;
Upsets Phyllis the fair, whose lips of daintiest china
Meet with a pout some swain who pouts as daintily her way ;
Rushes away once more, with naught but ruin behind him,
Leaving, alas, too late ! his lame apology marine.
Then, like the wind let loose, whom sufferers execrate vainly.
Scatters the self-same way, the neighbour's wares at the

corner ; —
So did the blameless Lord whose misadventures I sing of.
Blind and luckless and rash, from couple to couple proceeding,
Scatter them here and there like leaves tree-severed in autumn,
Nip in a golden prime the promising buds of proposal.
Cut flirtation adrift, and crush the flower of Affection.' '

Such was and such did the Lord Viscount Pennons
; for having ascertained the facts that 'excited him
with reference to the couple whom he surprised, he
trotted off, trouser-bound, to carry the news to the next

telegraph-post, and trotting in through the door of the
room next the conservatory without note of preparation,
chuckling to himself and incipient perspiring, he
came like a relief upon Daisy Brent at the moment
when the last chapter closed. He came like Monsieur
le Beau, with his mouth full of news, and seeing two
figures, which at a distance were but as shadows to
him, he made for them instinctively, like a pointer.

''Ah !" he said, in advance, not caring to ascertain
in whom he was going to confide, "wh — what do you
think has happened ? "

Then he trotted up, peered, and discovered; and
was quick enough to see, too, that the discourse which
he had interrupted was an interesting one.

I b — beg your pardon," said he, inwardly revolving
that bet of his with the Count Lestrange, and angry
with himself for his forwardness, for a wonder. '''How
stupid to have interrupted them," he thought.

"Don't mention it," said Daisy with a laugh, which
had relief in it.

The strain on her nerves and heart had been very
great, and the tension relaxed suddenly. The sudden
contrast of life, which at a moment so trying brought
this ridiculous little peeling upon the scene, struck her

sense of humour at once ; and she came back to middle
earth more quickly than perhaps under any other circumstances
she could have done.

"What's the latest intelligence?" she continued,
with an immediate affectation of deep interest.

"Something delightful, evidently," suggested Guy,
with more of contempt and less of welcome.

The ingredients of the human mixture differ widely,
and he was perhaps not so pleased by the sight of Lord
Pentonville as his companion was, in spite of everything.

"Is it a fire — or a sudden death ? " Daisy enquired.

You're full of news. Out with it," added Guy.

He can't ! it's choking him," said Daisy. " Don't
keep us in suspense longer than you can help," she
added, in a tone of mock entreaty. With all a true
woman's quickness and adaptability, she had her usual
manner with her courtiers ready for use at once.

It's d — delicious ! " chuckled his lordship. " Ague —
gue-"

Guess ? " suggested Guy.

"No! Find out."

"I give it up," Faucit said, turning aWay with a
shrug of his shoulders, as one whom the coming revelation
did not deeply interest.

So do I ! " laughed Daisy. " Go on."

C — G — C — Coates' stammered Lord Pentonville,
with such a number of preliminary consonants tumbling
over each other in his excitement, that his veins began
to swell, and Daisy had vague thoughts of patting him
on the back, '' Coates is engaged to Emily Challoner !"

'poor devil ! " was all Guy's pregnant comment, ashe
sate down in a corner of the room with an odd
number of a magazine, and played with its pages,
upside-down very likely.

It must be some little time before he could bring
himself under command again after the sad and strange
confidences of the morning.

Daisy's more flexible spirit, more allured to the
gossips and the interests of the world in which she had
lived so long, enabled her to welcome the intelligence
at once with genuine amusement and delight. She had
watched, with a constant and harmless mischief, the fair
Emily's patient and undiscoverable angling, and the
floundering of the solemn fish for whom the hook had
been baited. The baronet's ox-like devotion to herself
had been Miss Challoner' s chief difficulty, which it had
been impossible to her not to stimulate at odd moments,
knowing as she did that the young lady hated her with

a stolid and hearty ill-will, and lost no opportunity of
insinuating the dangers and wickedness of her lightness
of character. When she had time to realize how
cleverly Emily Challoner must have taken advantage
of the lull in Sir Brummel's assiduities towards herself,
she laughed with a real enjoyment which Guy rather
gratefully envied her.

Oh ! is that true ? " she said, fairly clapping her
hands in an access of the girlishness which never seemed
to desert her, as it rarely does desert well-constituted
woman-souls. '' I haven't heard anything so perfectly
lovely for a long time ! "

There was a rush of many feet, and the room gradually
filled in anticipation of the luncheon-hour, which
was a rather late and an important fixture at Luscombe
Abbey. Lady Luscombe was none of those painfully
punctual hostesses, who make of 'the breakfast-bell a
burden to the unfettered soul, and rally everybody to
the morning board at a time when half the world is on
its OAvn cares and thoughts intent; when some of it
likes to be in bed and resting, chewing perhaps the cud
of work by the process of placid meditation in the
place most of all favourable to it ; and another part of
it, country-trained, loves to be afloat in the morning air,

upon its own researches and pursuits. The breakfast-tyrant,
who ignores the perfect law of liberty, is far too
common, and does not always meet with so ready a
j ouster as the town-bred bachelor, who, when a hostess
of this class said to him quietly on the first night of his
visit to her in the country, "Mr. Urban — we always
breakfast at eight o'clock," answered at once, with
politeness as imperturbable, '' Do you, madam ? I
never do."

No; it is not in one direction only that the
agitation for a "free breakfast-table" is a valuable
thing. Let the early tea or coffee be imbibed in the
separate chamber ; and in this country, where the true
luxury of life and safeguard of digestion, the French
midday fork-breakfast, is unknown and practically
impossible, let the best substitute be found in a running
meal, with cold meats upon the sideboard,* and due
relays of tea and dishes, with copies and covers warranted
to preserve the heat as long as possible, which shall not
be enforcedly closed before eleven, while compulsory
attendance before ten should at all times be out of the
question. Thus, madam, will you win your guest's confidence
and admiration, and grapple him to your soul
with hooks of steel. Thus, too, perhaps, will you be

able to think of him as of a person of equable and
genial disposition, and one not apt to let the small
crosses of life prey upon his mind, and drive him to
unpleasant moroseness and unamiable remarks.

Perchance, when you are speculating why he is
so acidly disposed some morning, he is but meditating
upon that other half-hour which he wanted in bed, to
bring his wits and his good-temper about him. General
laws about digestion are as futile as general laws generally.
But I for one hold, that after the first flush of
omnivorous youth mankind is not properly receptive of
a solid repast, when English customs are followed, until
the divine hour of luncheon — most wholesome, most
appetising, most sociable of British meals. Luncheon
at Luscombe Abbey was an institution, and one so
tempting that it was apt to tempt even the most gun-living
of guests to find himself in the covers nearest
liijine a little before two o'clock.

It would seem, on the day of which I am writing,
that Sir Brummel and his Emily had been tempted to
divulge their delicious secret in more than one quarter.
It is doubtful whether the baronet would have felt any
pressing anxiety so to do, and indeed he had resisted in
the matter for a day or two ; but his Emily was mildly

VOL. III. H

pertinacious, being indeed possessed of a conviction that
publicity was a certain guarantee in such matters, with
which it was not always advisable to dispense. There
was also a sense of triumph in her heart over her
intimate friend, Carrie Beaufort, who never had any
secrets from anybody, in that she had been the first of
the two to bring her wooer to the point. She was
inwardly conscious that, in respect of this running, the
betting had been decidedly on Carrie, therefore the
triumph was of the more moment. So, over and
above the results of Pentonville's enquiring mind,
Emily had confided in Carrie ; and Sir Brummel, in
his laconic fashion, in the Honourable Jem; and the
event of the day became the common property of the
Abbey.

Come into court, Brum," Gosling was saying, ashe
brought up his companion, looking decidedly sheepish,
for introduction to Daisy in his new character;
and don't look so jolly down in the mouth, old man 1
There's nothing to be ashamed of."

Almost at the same moment Carrie Beaufort made
her appearance with Emily. Whatever the latter young
lady might amiably have expected, there was no feeling
of annoyance about Carrie, who was genuinely delighted

with the catastrophe, and felt that she shone with a
reflected glory.

Oh Daisy, what do you think ? " she said, before
Gosling could proceed. " Let me introduce you to Lady
Coates ! "

''Oh, Brum! Brum!" said Daisy, in a low voice,
with an air of sad reproach, and her eyes dancing with
fun, after a complimentary salutation to the promised
bride.

Ton my soul, Daisy, you know," confided Sir
Brummel, in a tone of unusual and quite pathetic
earnestness, " I haw couldn't help it."

Poor fellow ! " Daisy said, '' did she make you
do it ? I congratulate you with all my heart, dear,"
she added to Emily.

'' Thanks, awfully, dear," said the heroine of the
moment, very languidly ; '' it's so-good of you to say
so. Isn't she just savage ? " whispered the amiable
maiden to Carrie Beaufort.

If she is, dear, she conceals it, don't she ? "
answered the young lady addressed. '' Do you know,
dear," she went on, the chapter of confidence having
been embarked upon, '' Jemmy has very nearly asked
me."

H 2

"Really, dear?" this with a superior smile, as of
one in safe haven. " What does your aunt say ? "

'' I don't know what has happened to her, dear ;
she left us together just now without saying a word."

"Ah ! Lord Gand-er must be bad, dear."

This was the conclusion of that worldly-wise Emily.

Faithless Brum ! " Daisy was saying to her baronet
meanwhile, holding him in amused play. " Have I
lived to be deserted in this way ? "

'' Ton my soul, no ! " Coates earnestly assured her.
If you don't hum like it, I'll haw break it off."

Not on my account, I beg," said Daisy ; ''I shall
get over it in time, but it took me by surprise."

Haw yes. So it did me."

I should like to know how you proposed. Would
you mind doing it over again ? "

"Haw yes, I would. I don't hum think I ever
can."

I'm sure I hope you never may," said Emily, with
a pout, a proper jealousy of her swain-attentions having
brought her within hearing of the last word or two.

Fact is, you know," Coates was still able to assure
Daisy, "you know you quite haw cut me for the big
fellow, and the other day it was too hum wet to shoot."

But Emily removed him before he could enter
into further explanations, only to encounter the anxious
gaze of the delighted Pentonville.

H — have you told Lady Luscombe ? " he chuckled
out, poised on the point of his varnished little toes,
about the breadth of a corn in their boots.

Haw no," said the Baronet.

Then 1 — let me, p — please let me ! " entreated
his lordship. " I wouldn't let anybody else t — tell her
for the world ! "

Oh, yes ! oh, yes ! this is to give notice ! " laughed
Carrie Beaufort, as Pentonville trotted off. The little
lady had again attracted the volatile Jemmy to her
side upon a tempting sofa, and was purring with much
content. " Exit the town-crier ! "

Somebody take care of him ! " called out Gosling,
in the same tone ; " if he gets so excited his pads will
work down. He's padded all over, you know, Clipper ;
I'll take my oath of it. They brought me his coat
one night by mistake ; and, by Jove, he's all padding,
Hard-Labour is."

Don't speak disrespectfully of patching," said a
quiet and cynical voice, which now joined itself to the
conversation, though nobody had seen the owner make

his way into the room. " It's the motive power of the
age ; it's the staple of what we read and the bulk
of what we eat; it's another name for adulteration.
The creed of the statesman and the oratory of the
divine — padding. The backbone of Liberal progress
and of Conservative reaction — padding. The mushroom
millions that grow on the Stock Exchange, and
sprout out in West-end palaces — padding. The calves
of our servants and the hair of our wives — padding.
The liberal display of the female form divine, which
delights the Jemmy Goslings of the age, and constitutes
the modern British drama — padding ! "

Hear, hear ! " said Guy, who looked up from the
magazine he had been communing with when Lestrange
entered, having recovered his self-command during the
preceding scene.

As he gave his approval of the Count's* sentiments,
he got up from his seat and insensibly found
himself again with Daisy. Nor was it long before
the two, deep again in talk, though of a less disturbing
kind than that which Pentonville had interrupted,
strolled out of the room together down the path of
flowers.

Lestrange followed them with his furtive eye, and

tumec to the rest of the assembled party again. His
(Inquisition on padding had been listened to with the
reverential silence to which he was accustomed when
in the didactic vein. The sentiments of the company
on the subject first found a voice in Coates.

Haw," said the Baronet.

How the Count talks ! " said Carrie to her companion,
with much admiration.

He don't talk more than me," answered Jem, with
little grammar, but some jealousy.

No, Jemmie ; but he says so much more."

How jolly rude ! just like the fellows in a
comedy."

Let me add my congratulations. Sir Brummel," said
Lestrange.

How have you heard ? " Coates asked.

I've always heard," answered the Count, quietly.

He's like a haw damned conjuror," muttered the
uncomfortable Coates.

Don't you hate that man ? " asked Carrie of Jem,
with a sudden impulse, as Lestrange was saying something
to Miss Emily Challoner.

Awfully," he answered, with conviction.

Shall I tell your fortune ? " said Lestrange,

laughing, and turning again to Sir Brummel, " Mr.
Benedick, the married man ? "

'' I don't know why you call me Benedick," said the
Baronet, rather gruffly ; " but hum no."

"■ By all means let us hear it," interposed Emily,
anticipating something pleasant in honour of the
occasion.

You will marry in a month," said Lestrange, in
the same tone of good-humoured laughter, which he
could put on like anything else when he chose ; "be
tired of each other in two, separate in three, and get
divorced at the convenience of the Law."

He had taken Sir Brummel's hand in his palm,
and affected to study its lines in the true soothsaying
fashion.

Haw I say hang it ! " said Coates.

'' How absurd ! " added the disgusted Emily* laughing
not very pleasantly.

''I don't know," muttered the Baronet, under a
thick moustache, which allowed the charitable to suppose
that his mouth might be expressive. '' It seems
so awfully possible."

What did you say ? " demanded Emily, in a rather
imperious tone which boded storms on the other side,

when the point of matrimony should have been safely
weathered.

"Nothing to matter," answered the victim of her
spear.

And from her experience Emily believed him.

You're like the gipsies at Epsom," said Gosling.
"By Jove, I'll have a turn. Have you anything to
tell me".

Let me see," said Lestrange, appropriating the
plump and rosy little hand which the other held out
to him. " The lines of wit and wisdom strongly
marked. You should be one of our hereditary legislators.
I think you soon will be."

You don't mean that Gander's bad ? " said Gosling,
with a real anxiety in his voice, which had the effect
of raising Lestrange's eyebrows a little. He had always
been a little contemptuous of the Arcadian side of the
Honourable Jem.

Didn't I say so, dear ? " whispered Emily to
Carrie, in a voice of confidence.

"Don't chaff a fellow about that," Gosling went
on, verb-mixing. " I'd rather anything happen than
lose dear old Gander. But it's all humbug this sort
of business. Why don't you tell us something

about yourself?" he asked, with an audacity he
wondered at. "All anybody knows about you is that
the fellows say you come from Greece."

Greece ? " said the Count, the eyebrows lifting
again; "I give you my word that it's one of the few
countries I never was in in my life."

Hang it ! where were you then ? " asked Gosling,
vaguely.

"Where was I when? This time last year I was
in Pondicherry."

Oh, I say, Carrie," said Jem to his friend, confidentially,
" where the deuce is Pondicherry ? "

I don't know," she said, recklessly ; " somewhere
in the map. Thank goodness, there's luncheon," she
added, as a mellow gong rang its summons from the
hall. " Jemmy, take me in ; I don't half like it."

Haw yes, lunch," murmured Coates, to Himself,
his eyes visibly brightening for the first time since he
had been promoted to the post of hero of the hour.
Proposing makes one awfully hum hungry. Come in,
Emily, I'm doosidly afraid of that man."

THE WISDOM OF THE SERPENT.

You are thoughtful, Faucit. What are your
thoughts ? " said the Count Lestrange.

A day or two had passed since the events recorded
in the last chapter, and a shadow as of something to
come seemed to settle down upon Luscombe Abbey.
Changes had taken place in the personages of the
scene. Jem Gosling had been called away by the serious
illness of his elder brother, and Carrie Beaufort was
left for the time disconsolate. Lady Pepperharrow,
too, had taken her departure for abroad, somewhere
for the winter-quarters of the south, which her ladyship
had of late affected. Daisy had at one time arranged
to go with her, but they had parted. Daisy was growing
restless, strange, not herself, and for the first
time in her life had something like a scene with her

kind old friend, who, to her astonishment and anger,
had one day taken her to task about her friendship
with Guy Paucity

always thought, my dear, that the young man
was very fond of you," Lady Pepperharrow said ; " and
indeed I never knew how anybody could help it. And
it disappointed me very much when he didn't come
forward, and you married that odious Mr. Brent. I'm
sure I'd have done anything I could to prevent it,
and to bring you and Mr. Faucit together ; and now
everybody says that, after all, you were engaged, though
you never said anything to me about it, and that you
didn't heave at all well to im, and — "

"Lady Pepperharrow, I wish everybody would let
me alone. Nobody does such mischief as everybody;
and I can't understand how you speak to me like that."

Well, my dear, I'm sure — "

But we need not follow too closely the story of
the difference between two firm friends. Lady Pepper-harrow
herself could give no account of the manner
in which she had been brought to take notice of the
growing intimacy between Daisy Brent and Guy
Faucit as something singular and to be discouraged.
She could not have told — for it had been carefully

Concealed from herself — how it was that the Count
Lestrange had insinuated the first suspicions of something
wrong, and had sown the seeds of distrust of
her favourite in Lady Pepperharrow's mind. Always
laughing with Lady Pepperharrow, and covertly laughing
at her, he paid her mock-gallant attentions which
from "a man of such powerful intellect, you know,"
delighted the worthy lady's soul and quite won her
confidence.

Count Lestrange had established the absolute
influence over her mind, which was desirable in the
high priest of the mysteries of Glycerine House, to
which post the "accomplished Count had been exalted.
He was certainly the man for the place. A trained
painter and musician, he better than any one could
select the subjects and organize the groups for a series
of tahlecaix vivmis, or superintend the details of a
concert or amateur opera. London rang with the fame
of a certain performance of the 'Barrier,' in which
the Count's Figaro was a masterpiece of subtlety and
usefulness, and Daisy Brent warbled the bird-notes
of Rosin like one of the feathered tribe hired and
tutored for the occasion. Young Kensington South
of the Colonial Office brought his cultivated aesthetic

taste to bear on the character of Alraaviva, and was
seen to much advantage in the Spanish grandee's
costume, while his mouth was observed, by the initiated,
to open and shut in good time to the accompaniments.
To the TToWol among his audience he gave much of
the gratification which the page-boy derived from the
efforts of a great preacher whom his master sent him
to hear in the neighbouring cathedral. " Well, James,
did you hear him ? " he asked, when the boy returned
with a broad grin. '' Oh no, sir, I didn't hear him.
But I seed him a hollering." And so young South
of the aesthetic (" isn't that one of the gentlemen they
call the Aztecs ? " asked an enquiring railway-porter
who saw him get out of the train) warbled " Echo
trident il ciel " so articulately that the whole of the
front row very nearly heard him. Patti and Nilsson
themselves were among the listeners to the* opera,
and Lady Pepperharrow was in the seventh heaven.
She had been with difficulty dissuaded from herself
appearing in the duenna's part, but was gratified by
the appearance of Norbiton and Surbiton as two guards
(perspire mute) in the scene of the arrest, where they
occupied the opposite corners of the stage like two
loving strawberries moulded on one stem. The performance

was a talk ; and not less so the amateur
comedies, which put the Prince of Wales's and the
Haymarket to shame, under the skilful guidance of
Lestrange. I attended some of them with Binks, who
growled a good deal, and deplored the absence of professional
training. Binks had himself begun stage life
as an amateur, and the ill-natured professed to detect
a flavour of the origin in his most pronounced feats.
But Binks's wigs stood the test of the severest criticism.

I feel that I never could have been strong-minded,
Count Lestrange," Lady Pepperharrow said to her
Prostrate, when recruiting herself after her exertions
on one of these occasions, and regretting her inability
to take a leading part in a thinking movement which
was then agitating society. "But I adore art and
science, and their charming professors. You see how
many of them come to my ouse, and are good enough
to say that I am naturally artful — I mean artistic.
My life is such a busy one ! "

'you take too much out of yourself, dear Lady
Pepperharrow, indeed you do," said the Count.

Do you think so ? I am afraid I do. You can t
think what a correspondence I ave, Count Lestrange.
It was only this morning that I was begged for another

subscription for the conversion of the poor dear Jews.
I ave so many friends among them that I naturally
long to see them converted, though indeed they seem
to do very well as they are. You really must help
me, Count, indeed you must, to see about the conversion
of the dear Jews."

So in small things and great Lady Pepperharrow
learned to lean upon the Count Lestrange, who had
a way of keeping all the threads in his hands when
he had some especial object in view. Neither Lady
Pepperharrow nor Daisy, nor any one else, could have
laid a finger on the moment in which he succeeded
in working the old lady up to a sense of the impropriety
of her favourite's alliance with Guy Faucit at
Luscombe Abbey, and inducing her to remonstrate
at the most inadvisable time and in the most inappropriate
way. She was a safeguard for Daisy of
the most invaluable kind ; and no sooner had she left
the Abbey, as she did, on bad terms with the sore-tried
woman for the first time in their lives, than Daisy
felt an utter sense of friendlessness descend upon her
which had had no parallel before. She had nobody,
then, to care for her, nobody but Guy. All communication
from her husband, direct and indirect, had

suddenly ceased, and even in that lie felt a fresh blank
of isolation. More — the last payment of her allowance
had fallen due, and for the first time had not been
made-to the day. If it were to cease, what was to
become of her ?

Meantime, during the few days which passed after
the engagement of Coates and Emily had been
announced at the Abbey, the Count Lestrange had
seized every opportunity of being much with Guy,
especially at night in the quiet smoking-room, when
Daisy had left the place vacant. From the first he had
not forgotten the promised censorship, and his dubious
moralities and masterful cynicism had made their
way through the outworks of Guy's mental citadel,
carelessly insinuated, ceaselessly suggested, web woven
with a skill in dialectics which the Count might have
learned from a close study of old state-crafts, and old
mediaeval habits of thought.

There are two guiding-stars in life, of which one
must needs follow one — truth and expediency. The
first is cloud-hidden and storm-racked now and again,
and not absolutely patent to the clearest vision. But
it is as steady as a pole-star behind cloud and storm,
and he whose course is steered by it knows always in

VOL. III. I

what quarter of the heaven it lies, if he carry a conscience
in good repair by way of compass about him.
Once leave it, as an ignis fatuus, and fall into Pilate's
questioning habit of what truth is, and expediency alone
remains to steer by. Woe to those who try the course !
for it sets in one quarter and rises in another by no
general laws that man's wit has discovered, and he is
apt to fix its latitude and longitude after the last caprice
of his own changeful desire. Hence many moral wrecks
and goodly lives cast away. There are always a dozen
expediences to choose between in a difficulty, each
equally defensible by argument. With a little trouble
at times in fixing it, there is always but one truth.
Guy's perceptions of truth were getting shaken.

He was watching the new-betrothed pair as, with
rather a semi-attached air of devotion, at all events on
Sir Brummel Coates' part, they were strolling down one
of the garden-paths together, when Lestrange touched
him on the shoulder, as told at the opening of this
chapter.

"You are thoughtful, Faucit. What are your
thoughts ? "

They were in the same room as that described in
the last chapter — the room off the conservatory.

"If you are Satan, you should be able to read
them," Faucit answered, rather doubtfully, and with
sadness in his voice. The wound in his heart might
not be as wide as a church-door, but it served.

The nickname which men had sometimes given
to Lestrange was in his mind as he looked at him,
and some one of those timely storm-signals which are
set up in our tossing hearts seemed suddenly to speak
of danger. Guy was struck with a nameless feeling of
the evil in his companion's face. The companion, however,
did not wince under the epithet, which indeed he
rather took as a compliment, with an amused sense of
appropriateness. He was inwardly revelling in a certain
jubilant feeling of his own power as he thought of the
desert he had made round Daisy Brent. And he was
full of a sense of anticipation ; for — Lady Pepperharrow
gone, and not fixable anywhere for the moment, as
she was on travel bent — he had just come 'from Lady
Luscombe, whom he had left crushed and beaten, after
a wrestle and a victory.

I will try," he said, in answer to Faucit's remark,

seating himself comfortably in a chair, ^ a cigarette

between his Hps. Tobacco was free of entrance in all

the outer rooms of the Abbey. " You were moralizing



on that promising couple, and thinking that marriage
is a serious thing."

You are right — as usual' said Guy, shortly. " I
expect it will prove so — to them."

That depends upon how they take it' Lestrange
said lightly ; " and by such people marriage is not taken
seriously."

But it must be — by all" of us."

"Why?"

Well — a woman might answer, because it must." ~

"And I answer as I should answer the woman —
why ? again. If you wish to simplify the world's problems,
Faucit, it is easily done. Most arguments are
assertions. Every one of them should be met not
by counter-assertion or counter-argument (which are
troublesome to oneself — always leave the other side to
argue, its standard sign of inferiority), but by one of two
questions — ' Why ? ' or ' Why not ? ' You have no idea
how that will bring men to their bearings. Why should
marriage be serious, except on scriptural grounds, which,
when fairly examined, admit of much debate ? "

"Do they know anything of each other?" asked
Guy abruptly, ignoring the issue.

Lestrange laughed as he did so.

Precisely. That is the way in which ' why ' and
why not ' are always evaded ; the only way of meeting
them — the ignoratio elcuclii. I can answer your question,
however. No, they don't know anything of each
other. If they did, neither would marry the other."

I don't understand it," said Guy, impatient of the
sneer. " My creed is Mrs. Browning's —

Learn to win a lady's faith

Nobly, as the thing is high ;
Bravely, as for life and death,
With a loyal gravity.' "

Sir Brummel has not read Mrs. Browning," said
Lestrange, drily. " The motto of his school is an
old proverb — modified. Marry in haste, and — divorce
at leisure."

It's a new school," said Guy, with the same expression
of disturbed feeling, " and I hope a small one."

"At present," Lestrange proceeded, quite undisturbed.
" But we live in an age of progress. This is
the cream of society, and the cream always turns first.
You have heard how a little leaven leavens the whole
lump."

I have heard," said Guy, with an uneasy laugh,
that you can quote Scripture to your purpose. But I

hope that these doctrines won't spread, and that you'll
prove wrong."

"So do I," Lestrange answered, with a shrug of the
shoulders and a cheery laugh on his own side ; '' and I
don't pretend to know. Prophecy was always an uncertain
profession, from Isaiah downwards. But drifting
is a dangerous process ; and we drift, Faucit, we drift."

Yes, all of us," Guy said, with a deep sigh, his head
resting on his hand and his eyes looking out into the
vague. " What am I drifting to ? '^

He spoke more to himself than to the other, who
watched him for a moment without taking any notice.
Then he said pleasantly,

You ? To a comfortable harbour," he added in a
quiet tone, " not often reached. The success of a first
love. I promised you, you remember."

He spoke quite naturally, as of the most natural
thing in the world.

A first love : " said Guy, bitterly, and with an
unspeakable regret. " I have lost mine."

Have you ? Ask her."

He sent the arrow straight home, and Guy Faucit
started as it struck him. He turned upon the Count
Lestrange almost fiercely.

"Do you think," he said, "that I would ruin Daisy
Brent ? "

I think that you might save her," said the other,
unmoved.

By robbing her of her good name ? "

This was not the first time, perhaps, that the subject
had been approached between them; but it had not
been before broached so openly.

"Her name is a bad one," Lestrange said, in a tone
rather quietly argumentative than anything else, as if
a point of business were under discussion, — "getting
worse. If you don't run away with her somebody else
will. How should you like that ? "

The very tone in which the Count spoke seemed to
carry the subject out of the region of anger, even of
reality. Insensibly Guy Faucit fell into something of
the same manner, though his head and heart were in a
whirl. Good God ! how in the last few days Daisy had
taken possession of every fibre and component of his
being, with the added strength and tenacity which had
sprung of the iron self-repression of the eight long
years.

It is impossible," he said.

Its a mathematical certainty. Given the premises,

a husband like hers, a nature like hers, a society like
hers, — the conclusion follows — elopement. You have
the first chance. Take it ; if you don't, I think I shall."
Quietly and more quietly still, with the venom distilling
in every subtle word.

You ! " exclaimed Guy Faucit with a laugh, as if
the last suggestion had been intended to remove the
whole matter into the region of the absurd — "what
have you in your favour ? "

"Modestly speaking," said Lestrange, deprecating
all personal merit in himself, " the same advantage as
other men, of course leaving you out of the question. I
am not her husband."

And the Count contrived to throw into the last
words such an immeasurable expression of contempt
for good, and disbelief in all its possibilities in the
conventional world about them, that Faucit fairly
shuddered as the iron went deeper into him. He
shrank from Lestrange with an uneasy and a formless
fear for the man, something of the feeling of
vague dread which a great German writer has said
always possessed him when he met with a man who
professed himself an atheist.

Lestrange ! " he said, after a moment's pause, almost

as if lie were driven to make a personal appeal to the
man for his own sake, " are you afraid of nothing in
another world, that you venture so to play with evil
in this?"

Nothing," answered the other, with a look of quite
an innocent surprise. " Why should I be ? "

You may learn some day," Guy said, after another
moment's interval. "I begin to think that you are
right," he added, looking steadily and thoughtfully at
the Count, whose eyes beat their usual retreat at once,
it was a habit which annoyed their owner, but he
had never been able to cure them of it, — "it would
be to save Daisy Brent, to take her out of the reach of
such men as you ! ''

The Count Lestrange smiled as the other said it,
with a smile that was almost an inward one — a cruel,
imperceptible, victorious smile.

I told you so," he said.

A very fever of feeling was burning in Guy Faucit's
brain. All that he could do for Daisy — all that ought
to be done for her — all the bitter sorrow of her broken
Hfe, and the blank isolation of his own, from which all
the ambitions and schemes he had begun to form when
first his change of fortune came to him had vanished

into space and nothingness again in the spell of her
constant presence, were a torture and a tempest in his
mind. How lightly men spoke to her 1 how lightly
they spoke of her ! and what right or room had he to
resent? The Count's light words, which he caught
with the deep purpose which he missed, stirred all this
gathered feeling to a cry.

Oh Daisy 1 Daisy ! " he called out, forgetting where
he was and with whom, " that any man living should
dare to talk of you so ! "

More than once Lestrange's eyes had wandered to
the door before this burst of passion came. Even as it
came the door had opened, and Daisy herself had
flashed into the room, erect, red to the brow, and
quivering with anger, reckless of whom she met, reckless
of who was there. Without concert or warning her
passion answered Guy's.

It's cruel, and I'll not bear it 1 " she said, as if to
any one who cared to hear. " What right has any one
to speak so to me ? "

Daisy ! what is it ? " Guy appealed, as the two
vexed spirits came together with a clang \ for he was at
her side in a moment.

Thank you, my lady ! " muttered to himself Lestrange,

effacing himself at once without note of warning.
The flint is hot— and the steel. Strike ! "

Unnoticed and missed he had opened the
glass door leading into the garden, and was gone —
not far.

THE CRISIS.

Is that yon, Guy ? " Daisy Brent said. " Do you
know what Lady Luscombe has said to me ? " The
words came thick and fast and warm, and the indignation
in her struggled for expression.

"What?"

That I shall have to leave this house — because
of you."

By what right has she dared — " Guy began'.

By the right of every woman, I suppose," interrupted
Daisy in an infinite scorn, " to think and to say
the worst of another. She has insulted me, Guy, that
wicked woman, whose name has been Scandal's plaything,
to be broken and patched up at will. Oh ! why
did I ever come here ? But I will go now — and at
once."

Child ! where can you go ? " Guy said, with pity,
and tenderness, and self-reproach, and a world of feeling
blended in his tone.

I don't know ! " she almost sobbed, for the tried
heart was failing. " My brother is abroad, and so is
my kind husband, and Lady Pepperharrow even. Oh,
what shall I do?"

The woman was very desolate and very weak ; and
Guy Faucit had been less than man had not Lestrange's
words come back upon him with a strong temptation,
and shaken him from head to foot. He loved that
priceless woman so deeply ; she had been so sorely, so
mysteriously, so consistently tried ; and he had been
faithful to a dream so long. What should she do ? The
answer seemed to be knocking at his lips for utterance,
but he would not yield. He walked away from Daisy
and he put himself under a strong constraint; then
with a set purpose he turned back again.

You must not go," he said, hurriedly. " You need
not. I will."

She started and looked up at him, and her face
grew very pale. Then the-tears which she had still
held back came welling up into her eyes.

You will go ? " she said, in a voice so dreamily

sweet that it lingered in inusic on his ear — "forme?"


Suddenly he sate down by her, and he took her
hand in his, and she left it there, and in its soft,
involuntary, clinging caress all the story of her helplessness
seemed told.

I will go for you," Guy said, in a voice into which
in its deep repression passion seemed to have concentrated
all its notes in one, " as I would stay for you.
I will do that hard thing for you, as I would do the
easy things ; as I would work for you, live for you, die
for you ! If I can leave you, Daisy, judge how I love
you ! But you can't guess that."

For the moment — and who should grudge it her ? —
she yielded herself up to the influence of the charm,
and as her hand lay in his she listened with closed eyes.

I think I can," she answered.

Not quite."

Yes," she said. " I know what I shall feel — when
you have left me."

He started up and was standing at her side.

Do you mean that you love me again ? " he asked.

She held her breath for a space before she answered
him, and then spoke, fearless of disguise, as to one

towards whom now concealment could be but as
another wrong.

I mean that I have loved you always," said she —
very simply and trustfully.

Thank God I " Guy said, very fervently. " I have
felt it all the time. I did not know the feeling was
there; but it must have been that that I lived on.
You — love — me?" he added, thinking out the words,
and dwelling on their meaning.

She had confessed it then.

Hush ! let me think," Daisy said. " I have told
you this, I think, because you are good and brave. If
you were not I would have died first. Yes, Guy, you
must go."

Once more there was a pause between them, and
each communed with grave and overpowering thought,
as two such spirits would commune. The tragedy of
the situation told itself — told itself in that frank avowal
more than it could have done in concealment. Mark
that in her it was very frank ; for she had told her
love to Faucit without questioning him of his, or
feigning womanly uncertainties where she felt none.
The position, one towards the other, in which Providence
or Fate had thrown them — and it was difficult

enough for either to read any ways of Providence for
the moment there — taxed human weakness nearly to
its uttermost, so far as man might judge of what
temptations are, or of the strength they are allowed to
carry. Go — then? go — so? go, with the music of that
confession fresh upon his ear ! Guy Faucit had a new
struggle with himself, and spoke as much to himself as
to Daisy.

Oh, but it is hard ! " he said, " when I can give
you all the things for whose want I lost you. What
mil you do ? " he asked.

Nothing," Daisy calmly answered, as one who had
chosen her part, " that can make me less worthy of you
when you are gone."

Silence ! silence ! silence ! Silence in the room and
about it — silence in the air and in the flowers — silence
and a void almost, in the two hearts so full of thoughts
and so incapable of words. The silence which seems to
speak, sometimes, from all the objects in the room,
which choose such moments to fix themselves upon the
unconscious memory as part and parcel of some memorable
scene. The mind, unobservant of them before,
takes note of insignificant details which had before
escaped it, and recalls them afterwards, always — the

arrangement of some books or furniture, the aspect
of some ornaments, the expression of some pictured
face. Such a silence wraps us round in the supreme
trials of life, when the sense of their true bearings and
deepest realities seems to desert us for the time, and
leave us at the mercy of any commonplace distraction
or wandering thought, to save us from ourselves and
from the overstrain.

There was no one near either, but the stealthy
figure of one man which might have been occasionally
seen to linger near the garden-door.

But," said Guy at last — *' but " — and his voice
began to take a new tone of pleading which seemed
half ashamed — "if we laughed at the world that has
been so hard on us ? Your husband is no husband to
you, your home no home. Have we not the right to
say to each other, ' Let your life be mine ? ' "

Yes; he spoke as one pleading, and pleading as
much with his own better reason as with hers. She
pretended no offence, and she thought a moment before
she answered, in a tone as of reasoning, like his own.

I think that we should have. I know — that we
have not."

"But," and his eyes were on the ground and his

VOL. III. K

words scarcely made head-way — "if I were to plead
how well I have deserved you ? If I were to ask you,"
at last he added, in one yearning, faltering plea, " to
give up everything for me ? "

The blood flowed back and ebbed away in her face,
and the parched tears burned behind her eyes, and the
brave heart stood still in love and longing. But she
raised those eyes to his with never a quiver or a fear
in them, and she spoke gently, tenderly, pleadingly,
without reproach ; but firmly — as she stood.
Guy ! " she said, " dare you ask me ? "
You were wrong in your calculations, Count Lestrange
! And it was with a singular sense of pride and
pleasure, mixed with a miserable feeling that they must
part for evermore, — for theirs must be one union or
disunion only, — that Guy Faucit knew it.

I will never ask you, Daisy dear," he said — the
last monosyllable unconsciously and lingeringly prolonged
-ftipon a note of immeasurable sorrow. He
suddenly took her head in both his hands, and she
bowed that graceful head to meet the embrace, as he
left upon her forehead one protecting kiss, which had a
blessing in it. " God bless you, and good-bye ! "

He turned straight away, not to look at her again.

and walked with a steady step to the glass-door leading
to the garden. His plan was formed at once, for it
brooked no faltering or delay. He would find Lady Lus-combe
and make some instant excuse, without allusion
of any kind to anything that had passed ; and without
good-byes or wasted words to any one else in the house,
he would pack his things at once, and make his way
straight to London. What lay beyond was formless in
his mind; but his thoughts were already travelling
beyond the seas again.

As we propose we act not, if it be not so written.
At the glass-door, even as he opened it, Guy Faucit
met the Count Lestrange. In a moment the Count's
quick glance took in the state of matters, and there was
a slight curl upon his lip, and a fitful glitter in his eyes,
which went in and out again like a glowworm's lantern.

Are you going away, Faucit ? " he said.

I am," said the other, quickly.

The Count Lestrange laid his hand lightly on Guy's
shoulder.

"You fool," he said, rather impatiently. "Look
there."

Guy turned his head round, forgetting Lot's wife.

Daisy Brent had turned deadly pale, and was swaying

K 2

to and fro upon her feet. He saw her falling, looked
at her for a moment, and with one cry, " My darling ! "
he was at her side. Even as he reached her she fell
forward in a dead faint, and he caught her in his arms.
At something which might or might not have been a
sign from the Count Lestrange, — nobody could say it
was, — two curious faces besides his, who seemed to
make room for them, peered in at the garden-door.
They were those of Miss Emily Challoner and the Lord
Viscount Pentonville.

Just so," muttered the Count Lestrange.

Daisy Brent left Luscombe Abbey before the night
had fallen. Before the night had fallen there were
whisperings in the fine ladies' rooms and the men's
smoking-corners, and battling of much vehemence in
the servants' hall, where Miss So-and-so's maid had
never thought much of Mrs. Brent's conduct, chiefly
because the Abigail attached to Lady What's-her-name
considered her a very charming lady. Calumny ran
its course unrebuked everywhere, when the little episode
witnessed by Lord Pentonville and the fair Miss Challenger
had leaked out in the utmost confidence to everybody,
in the course of a well-employed half-hour.

The hostess pleaded a bad headache and shut herself
up in her own room ; the Count Lestrange had about
him an air of deprecatory wonder, whereto was attached

a mysterious afflatus of private information in reserve,
which was exceedingly impressive ; and when it became
known that Guy Faucit had disappeared too, though by
a different train and at another time, the general excitement
grew and prospered exceedingly. When had they
met ? how had they met ? how had the arrangements
been concluded ? — all the surmises of a far-reaching
charity had room wherein to disport themselves at
will.

Miss Emily Challoner was in the rosiest flush of an
uncompromising virtue, and pointed stem morals to Sir
Brummel, which at first elicited from the baronet the
improper reply that Daisy Brent was a good little
haw soul, with no harm in her, and her husband was a
hum brute, who deserved all he got — except his wife,
Jem Gosling added.

Carrie Beaufort stood up for her friend, on the other
hand, right loyally. Daisy had been very kind and
considerate to her in the last few weeks, and had been
giving much unobtrusive help to her romance with the
Honourable Jem. She didn't believe a word about
Daisy, who had left because she had been insulted, and
quite right too, and she held her aunt's conduct —
for the whole story got about in all sorts of forms — to

have been very cruel and disgraceful; and she didn't
know how Mr. Gosling could even venture to suppose
that Daisy had gone away with that great big clumsy
Mr. Faucit, who ought to have known bette-r than to
get her into a scrape. Indeed, she lighted up so angrily,
and looked so wonderfully pretty and tempting in the
lighting-up of her anger, that the Honourable Jem felt
his piece of mind quite seriously threatened, and confided
to Norbiton and Surbiton that the girl was a
downright little trump, and no mistake at all about it,
quite too good for her aunt's set, and she ought to begot
out of it.

If Norbiton and Surbiton acquiesced, it was without
emotion. They confined themselves more exclusively
than ever to each other's company, but seemed but
negatively interested in the crisis. A new book of
cloth specimens from Poole's was for the moment
absorbing them, and they were men who had learned
the practical value of the maxim about attending to
one thing at a time. Though he had been at first
convinced that Guy Faucit and Daisy Brent had
concerted their departure together, Carrie's indignant
expostulations induced Gosling to send a message at
once to an address which Guy had given him in London,

telling him of what was being said, and to come back
if he wished to disprove it.

Guy did come back, and immediately, and he came
back in a tempest of trouble and of feeling. He had
left Luscombe Abbey in loyal agreement with his promise
to Daisy, and he had no knowledge of her having
gone : so he assured Jem Gosling, with whom he was
open in the matter, as with some one he must be.
Daisy had had a fainting-fit when he was by, but after
she had come to herself he had not spoken with her
again. Where was she ? where had she gone ? he knew
of no one to whom she could go, for they had been
speaking of it in the morning. At the Abbey no one
seemed to know; but Count Lestrange insinuated
London, and that Mrs. Brent meant to find herself
some employment there. She had spoken of the stage,
but she was anxious to avoid publicity ; and, at least in
going, she had left no sign behind.

The world at Luscombe Abbey received the reappearance
of Guy Faucit sceptically. Brave little
Carrie was triumphant, but found no response in Emily
Challoner, who knew that people always arrange these
things with some care, and Mrs. Brent was such an
adept in intrigue. The evil tongues were comfortably

loosed, and there was no chaining them again in a
hurry. A few uneasy days went by, and a constraint
and discomfort which infected the whole place increased
and grew ; and no news came of Daisy ; and in the cruel
position which was his in the matter, Guy Faucit could
make no open sign of all he felt, and of the dread
and anxiety which were mastering him; and Lady
Luscombe pleaded illness, and hardly showed herself
to her guests; and the circle broke itself up in an
admired disorder.

Jem Gosling was called away by a serious crisis in
his brother's health, and Carrie and he had a parting
which was something like a pledge ; Sir Brummel
Coates departed to make preparations at the ancestral
home of all the Contests for the reception of a blooming
bride, — he did not seem quite easy in his mind as the
time drew near, and hawed more copiously than ever ;
but his fate was in the hands of one of no vacillating
nature, and she thought delay in the nuptials unadvisable
; — the Lord Viscount Pentonville was all anxiety
to know whether or not he had won that bet of his
with the Count LLestrange, which the Coiint LLestrange
himself, with all his omniscience, seemed unable or
unwilling to decide ; the Count was mysterious

and self-involved, but was a great deal with Guy
Faucit.

September had been with them in its many-coloured
harvest robes when the recluse of the ruins turned his
face to the Abbey ; and when he left it — sad, hopeless,
weary, as he had been in days of old, though with a
name at his feet and a fortune at his back — chill October
was just coming in with the hectic on her cheek, and,
to the sad autumn music of the falling leaves, Nature
was drawing back the curtains of Summer from many a
far-off view which they had folded from the sight. The
fields were bare of grass and crops, and not three full
months remained to the time when Lestrange must
win or lose his wager : for he knew well enough that
Faucit spoke the truth, and that he had not won it yet.
But he had not lost it, either. And Guy Faucit and
the Count Lestrange, in the early days of October, went
to London on a quest together.

Yet the Count Lestrange knew, and he knew all
the while, what had become of Daisy Brent. When
she fainted away in the arms of Guy, the Count was
comfortably persuaded that his wager was safe and sure.
She could never let the lover go now, he thought ; poor
human nature must be too strong for that ; and when he

had brought Guy back from the door to his lady's side,
and summoned those two convenient witnesses of his
to see what looked like an impassioned embrace, he
was gone.

When Daisy came to herself again, she saw no one
but Guy. She reproached him in the first rush of feeling,
the poor, tortured heart, and asked him why he had
not kept his word, and gone at once. Then in an outburst
of tears, which she could hold back no further, she
tore herself from him and rushed to her own room.
Even as she did so she met Emily Challoner, and from
a few pointed remarks from that virtuous maiden, who
already considered the proprieties and dignities of
married life under her special protection, she learned
that the cruel though hesitating words with which
Lady Luscombe had addressed her — she saw the cruelty
but not the hesitation — had been but the beginning of
a storm that was to assail her. A bitter disdain and
auger took possession of her whole soul and spirit, and
she was on the point of going straight to Guy Faucit,
and trusting her life to him ; but in the quiet of her
room, even in the whirl of all the passion which possessed
her, she soon saw clear before her the purpose of
a steady soul. Not for her own sake — not for his —

would she allow fancy pictures to tempt her of a happiness
which could not be. She had seen an instance
before her own eyes not very long before, of a young
and frivolous friend of hers, who had taken the desperate
step to which she was so sorely tempted now, under
circumstances which, as in her own case, seemed to
make the transgression venial ; and she, who in a large-hearted
charity had befriended the poor desolate girl
when the world — which had encouraged her to the mistake
and given her every opportunity for and incitement
to it — turned its back upon her and cast her out, had
seen with her eyes the misery which followed, and the
rapid deterioration of character and loss of self-respect,
which she recognized as the inevitable consequences.
Was she not rewarded for her courage, for which the
world had, as she knew, after its fashion, blamed her
and held her cheaply, by the warning it had given her
of her own danger ? She would and could blind herself
with no sophisms, nor believe that Guy and herself
could be the solitary exception to the law which says,
that the happiness of two souls which " love on through
all ills, and love on till they die," is not to be won in
that way. But she knew that Emily Challoner's words
and Lady Luscombe's made the Abbey an impossible

place for her, whether Guy kept his promise of going or
not. How she honoured and loved him for the promise !
She would not sleep under that roof one other night ;
but without a word of farewell to anybody, she would
make her way to London with what money and jewels
she had, and find herself some employment. In the life
which she had been leading for the last few years she
had often thought of turning some of her many talents
and accomplishments to account in the way of work,
which seemed to her the one road to forgetfulness and
healthy occupation of the mind, for one in her false and
unhappy position. She felt within herself high capacities
of mind and soul untilled, and though her trial
seemed to her cruelly hard, yet she believed in her way
that the harder trials are for the stronger souls, and
began to brace herself to the thought of an entirely new
life, which should be severed completely from every link
with the old. And as her thoughts began to assume
form and purpose, she knelt down and prayed for help
to resist all recurrence of the terrible temptation which
beset her, out of the depth of her love for the man who
was ready to give his fate into her hands 'for good or
evil, with a career before him which she could but mar.
No — not that. She would not, ever. So she prayed as

she had not often prayed of late, poor girl ; and rose
from her knees with the strange but very real sense of
strength and comfort, which follows so often and so close
upon real and earnest prayer.

There was a knock at the door of the little anteroom
which was set apart in the luxurious Abbey for a
private boudoir of her own. By the time that knock
was heard, Daisy had entirely conquered her self-possession,
and was quietly resolved. She wondered for a
moment who was come to disturb or to notice her;
then solved the doubt by admitting the visitor. It was
the Count Lestrange. She looked at him with unfeigned
surprise and mistrust, to which he gave neither attention
nor encouragement.

You here ! " she said.

Yes, Mrs. Brent," he answered. '' What are you
going to do ? "

For his glance had travelled quickly round the room,
and taken in all the signs of departure.

I am going away," she said.

'' Alone ? "

Alone."

Her brow contracted, and she spoke with a serious
emphasis.

'' Hem ! " was his answer, or rather the inarticulate
sound of which that inadequate monosyllable is the
recognized expression in print. His mind canvassed
the situation, and he felt that he had failed again.
Confound the woman ! " he thought to himself, " is
she ice then, after all ? "

He could only have made a mistake in temperament,
he thought. Principle did not enter into his
views of the matter at all as a possible factor. But
to one of his mind, the latter would have seemed far
the less awkward obstacle to encounter.

If Daisy were, as he now began to believe, strong
enough and bold enough to hold her own till the Indian
climate, or the course of Nature, or the spirit of perversity,
or anything, were to deprive her of Mr. Brent's
valuable husbandship, the result would be to the last
degree enraging ; and not only for the loss of the bet,
which, in the face of certain awkward complications
which had been taking place in the Count's finances,
was becoming with him a very pressing consideration
indeed. What was he going to do ? Provoking ! Here
were these two in the house, avowed loVers, who had
gone so far as to fall into each other's arms before
witnesses, with everything in the world to tempt and

encourage them to defy conventionality with a clear
conscience, and nothing to prevent it but either the
most ridiculous scruples or the most Machiavellian
calculation on the lady's part. She must have heard
of John Brent's illness in spite of his precautions, he
concluded.

*'I am very sorry for you, Mrs. Brent," he said,
with a grave air of protecting friendship, having
sketched the next move in his campaign at once.

Yes ? " she answered, in no very responsive tone.

Of course I have heard the things which are being
said, and have been said to you."

She might have been stone for any sign of being
moved by this.

I suppose so," she answered.

And of that unlucky fainting-fit — " he went on.

Why unlucky, Count Lestrange ? " she interrupted
him. " It is a thing women are always liable to. If
what you call the ill-luck of it refers to Mr. Faucit, I
suppose he did what you or anybody would have done.
The things which are being said, as you put it,
are very foolish and very unworthy. But as I
don't choose to give them any countenance, I am
going."

Where ? " asked the Count, who watched the
proud face with an irritated admiration.

She baffled him, and he hated to be baffled.

I really hardly know," she answered, with an
admirable indifference. " Like most people, I suppose,
to London."

Not to India ? "

Count Lestrange ! "

I beg your pardon. I thought you might perhaps
have had some news from Mr. Brent." He spoke
hesitatingly.

She looked at him.

"We don't speak of him, you know," she said.
No, I have had none whatever."

The Count indulged in what, if he had given it
outward expression, would have been a sigh of relief.

Excuse me," he said, " but you know that I have
been, in a certain sense, his banker here for you for
the payment of the allowance he made you."

Which I have not forgotten that you secured forme,"
she answered. '' I have not found so many friends
in life that I should wish to forget that". She looked
frankly at him, and held out her hand. He did not
seem to notice the action, and the furtive eyes wandered

VOL. III. L

away from her. There was a hesitation in his manner
which might have been even more, or more meaning,
than was warranted by what he had to say. She anticipated
him before he said it. " The last quarter was
due a few days ago, and I have not had it," she said.
You told me there was a delay, but only a momentary
one. Can you let me have it now ? I really want it."

He walked away from her to the window, and seemed
to consider with himself. Perhaps it was another
wrestle of the good angel yet. But it did not last
very long. The throws had been too many and too
rude.

I am very much afraid," he said, in a low voice of
sympathy, " that the delay may be a more serious one
than I had hoped. I half feared it, but did not like
to say so : your husband has got into difficulties again,
Mrs. Brent, and his remittances have for some time
past been very irregular."

'' For some time past ! " she said, very pale, folding
her hands upon her lap. What new difficulty had she
to meet now ? Was the world to be begun indeed,
from the lowest rung of the ladder, by one so little
used or trained to climb ? " Yet I have been paid to
the day till this last time."

Yes," lie said.

How, then ? By whom ? " Then in a flash of
thought'* By you ? "

Yes," he said again, in a tone of considerate
unwillingness.

She looked at him wonderingly, doubtfully for she
could not help it. Almost to her lips rose the question,
With what object ? " But she kept the question
down. If he had really done this thing in kindness,
it would be too ungrateful. Surely, surely he could
hope nothing from her again.

"You have paid the allowance yourself?" she
asked.

I hope you will forgive it," said he, in a tone of

deprecation. " It was so much simpler than alarming

you unnecessarily ; and I really thought the obligation

but don't think there is any — would be of the most

temporary kind." Why didn't he repeat it just once

more, she thought, in spite of herself again, rather

than confess the truth at such a moment as this ? He

seemed to read the thought perhaps, for he went on —

I would have concealed the real state of things from

you still, if I had not been convinced at last that it

is for the present desperate, and that I should be wrong

L 2

indeed in allowing you to take such a resolution as
that you spoke of just now, when home and friends
are most of all necessary to you."

He is right, she thought, and again mentally begged
his pardon. In a moment she had resolved to beg
it openly, and she did.

You have been, and you are, very kind and considerate.
Count Lestrange," she said, "and you must
allow me to express all my thanks for what you have
done. I am sure that I have misunderstood you in
mistrusting you, as we both know I have done, and I
beg your pardon. But if what you tell me means
ruin, it can make no difference now, for here I have
neither home nor friends, and never shall have."

Mr. Faucit ? " he suggested, with no sign of disrespect,
but as if with genuine interest in Daisy.

She flushed, but only a little, and her sad, grave
tone varied not a sound.

Count Lestrange, I know that you have heard
the story of my old engagement to Mr. Faucit, I
know that you all have here ; and I was foolish to
think that it might not be known. Friends I hope
that he and I shall always be, but I must fight my
fight for myself without help from-him, for both our

sakes. I do not despise help, though, for indeed I want
it very much. You know London well. Will you give
me yours, and say nothing to anybody of what you
may be able to do for me, or of what I am doing ? "

Daisy Brent never showed her fearlessness more ;
for this was to place herself in Lestrange's power, and
she knew it. But it mattered nothing in her new
scheme of life, and she did not wish, from her ignorance
of the world's ways, to founder and to sink at the
outset. She was in her own power in the first instance,
and she knew its value. Lestrange felt the significance
of her confidence as well as she, and felt a thrill of
satisfied surprise, though he had played for it. Once
more the idea of abandoning other pursuits, and using
the confidence for himself, came across his mind ; and
once more he put it aside for the colder and more
practical purpose of his matured scheme. "And for
three months — well ? " he thought within himself in
Shylock's words. His face showed a sort of pleased
emotion when he answered Daisy.

I am much touched by your confidence in me,
and will try to deserve it," he said. " What is it you
wish to try ? "

"The stage, if I can find an opening in no other

way," answered she. "I have some jewels, Which will
serve me at first, though not much."

You might have had a fortune in them by this
time."

In presents, you mean ? Yes ; I never cared
about that. Better than the stage I should like
teaching, in which I think I might, after a short
practice, succeed. I would rather have quiet than
publicity."

It's dreary work."

That I don't mind. But it is difficult to find, I
know."

For an English-woman, yes. If you could pass
yourself off for a German it would be easy ; and I
know a Duchess or two who would take you up at
once. You speak German perfectly ; why not try ? "

'' Under false colours ? " she said with a * smile.
No, I must stand or fall on my own merits."

Lestrange was deep in thought, and he was pacing
the room. Events seemed to play into his hands, yet
neither events nor he could bend the spirit of Daisy.
He risked the next card.

If you want quiet," he asked, " why do you mean
to try London ? "

Because everything that is to be found, is to be
found there," she said.

"Not always. I feel for you very deeply, Mrs,
Brent," said the Count, " though in that mistrust you
spoke of, which I know I brought upon myself, you
cannot yet quite bring yourself to believe me. I take
your confidence as a proof that you are beginning. If
you wish it, I can find you a place as a teacher at
once, for which you will be accepted on my recommendation.
It is quiet enough certainly, and modest ; but
it will be a beginning, and you will be safe from the
most passing annoyance."

'' Tell me about it," she said.

It is a school-teaching place, in the care of a
clergyman near here, who is a friend of mine ; and
there would be lessons to give in his family too."

Near here ! that would be impossible."

"If it is Luscombe Abbey whose observation
you want to shun for the present, you could find
no safer place. Mould-on-the-Moss is right away
in the heart of the moors, and no breath of its
politics would ever reach the fashionable Abbey.
Half-an-hour's train and an hour's drive and you are
there."

Rapid and clear was the course of Daisy's thought,
and she answered almost at once —

When can I go ? "

To-day, if you like. I can telegraph to the clergyman,
and no one here but myself need have trace or
knowledge of you."

■X--X- 4f-Jf -x-

There was some little more talk between them, and
within an hour or two, as has been told, Daisy Brent
was gone — gone out of the life and circle which had"
been so entirely hers, of which she had been the centre,
without a sign.

In his own room Lestrange examined his hand of
cards, and felt that his ace of trumps was there yet.

Three months of that, Mrs. Brent, and I can
hardly fail again. Mr. Brent's remittance must be kept
back for the present. Not a bad stroke that ; 'and I
can still play the generous cashier. I shan't be out
of pocket by it either. Let me see — ' The Rev. Miles
Bickers, The Parsonage, Mould-on-the-Moss.' Chaffers,
this telegram to the office at once."

Yes, Count Lestrange."

MOULD-ON-THE-MOSS.

MouLD-ON-THE-Moss was the highest inhabited
village in the county, some said in England. In winter
it was generally inaccessible, and in the best seasons
of the year the springs of the carriages which made
their way to it groaned under the infliction : for the
roads were as unmade as the famous ones which General
Wade took in hand, and were little more than rough
tracks struo-oflinor over moorland between walls of stone.
The main road of the world of civilization was severed
from Mould-on-the-Moss by two miles of desolation,
over which distance these entrusted tracks made their
uneasy way. Between main road and village there
were no signs of habitation, and the two miles to it
were a long climb. When it was reached, the wonder
was why or how it had ever got there, or what in the

world could have induced the rude forefathers of such
a hamlet to sleep or to eat there, or to cast anchor fora
day. The village was one straggling street of white
homesteads, which the original designer had carefully
picked out with pounds and pig-styes, strewn about
in the orderliness of disorder. On a small scale,
the arrangements of next-door-neighbourdom were of
so casual a kind, that they recalled the city of magnificent
distances, called Washington, where an imposing
row of public offices rubs elbows with a pawnbrokers
shop, or a brand-new hotel and a stately private mansion
are separated by an unsightly piece of waste-land,
devoted apparently to a spontaneous growth of vegetable.
As you turned your back on the church, which
was the apex of the village, and wandered down this
street, the houses grew gradually fewer and more far
between, and the melancholy waste-lands mote and
more patent to the eye, the acrid odours of pighood
being the more diffused withal. Purely agricultural
were the poverty-stricken population of this child of the
sleepy hollow. Eyes with as much of rumination and
as little of thought behind them as those of the animals
which made so large a part of the community ; the
fixed gaze of vacant curiosity, which is of all human

problems the most perplexing to the /LiepoTre? av6pu>iT0L
who have their senses for use, and can only speculate
darkly upon the way in which men can live through
twenty-four hours as long as our own, absolutely thinking
about nothing. If we are bored sometimes, what
must they be ? Yet no aspiration beyond seems to
stir them ; no Mould-one the-ossian was ever heard of
who tempted fame and fortune in a wider sphere, or
was other than content to marry and beget children
after his own ancestral type, and then to sleep with his
fathers after the orthodox but rather irritating form of
monotonous succession so insisted upon — surely in a
vein of quiet irony upon the recurring decimalities
which make our scene of life — in the chronicles of
their majesties of Judah and Israel. The only living
inhabitant who had ever been in London at the time
we are writing of had been so oppressed by the movement
and the unrest which were there about him,
that on his return he took to his bed to make up for
it, and left it no more. The inquiries of neighbours, sofar
as sine-mental organization permitted them to be
made, as to the things which he had seen and heard,
resulted in little that could be held more articulate
than a shake of the head or a moan. In this strange

colony of agricola life was as an English edition of that
led by the wandering shepherds of Central Asia, commemorated
in the finest strain of pure human tedium
ever set to lyric shape, by the cripple-poet, Giacomo
Leopardi. His ' Canto Notturno ' has to me always
seemed like the reverse of the shield to Wordsworth's
Ode to Immortality even as between the two poets
there is a certain strange community of expression.

Thou silent orb of Night,

What dost thou in the Heaven ?

Thou rises up at even,
And o' er the deserts throws thy light,
To sink at day :
Answer — and say,
Hast thou not yet too weary found
The grey hills' everlasting round ?

Irks it thee not for aye
On the broad plains' monotony to gaze ?
How like to thine pass the poor shepherd's days I

He rises with the sun,

Drives to the field his flocks, and sees

Fountains, and flocks, and trees ;

Then, his task done.
Lies wearily down at eventide,
And asks for naught beside.

Oh, tell me, of what use may be

His life to him, or thine to thee ?

Oh, tell me, whither tend,

And to what end,

These our brief pilgrimages,

Or thine eternal course throughout the changeless ages ?
* * *

Happy, my flocks, are ye,

That know not your own misery 1

How do I envy you your lot I
Nor only so,
Because ye sorrow not,

And that all terror, pain, distress,

Are in a moment's time forgot, —

But that ye never chanced to know
Life's utter weariness :
Lapped in the soft shade, on the growing grasses,
Ye cheat the time in indolent repose ;
But, though for me as peacefully it passes.

No peace my spirit knows ;

Verdure and shade invite in vain.
Some strange spur goads me with an aching pain ;
The more I rest, the more upon me grows

This dull unrest of brain.
Yet have I naught to ask, naught to lament ;
As idle as your joy my discontent ! —
But, though I cannot measure
Whence or how great your pleasure,

Happy, my flocks, are ye 1

Would ye could find a voice

To tell why ye rejoice.
And that which gladdens you so wearies me ! " *

The translation (by the present author) of the ' Canto
Notturno,' from which these passages are taken, appeared in
Blackwood's Magazine ' for September, 1878.

It may be doubted if the speculations of 
ever rose consciously to this poetic vein of
enquiry, or exceeded a general wonder what it was
all about. That question strikes so home to many
of us in altogether different forms of life. Where did
I read of the actress who, in the middle of a passionate
scene upon the stage, stopped by a sudden impulse,
and whispered to her companion, " What nonsense all
this is ; suppose we don't go on with it ? " The story
has been quoted in depreciation of the actor's art ; but
surely it has a much wider moral, and is pointed equally
against all the pursuits of life.

For myself, Balbus, who write this chronicle, I
should be sorry to say how often during its progress
the same reflection has silently obtiiided itself. Does a
politician never feel it in the middle of some passionate
burst of patriotism about the honour of England, which,
especially of late years, is always suffering the rudest
shock it ever received since the Conquest, in the hands
of the other side ? Does the barrister never feel it
during an appeal to the jury ? Perhaps not so often,
because of the fees. Above all, — I ask the question
with fear and trembling, — does the man of science never
feel it, he that for some occult reason is presumed nowadays

to monopolize what is called " information," and
propounds amazing and uncomfortable riddles, to be
answered perhaps " in our next world " in cases where
the continuous circulation is admitted ? Does he never
say, suppose he didn't go on with it ? I am sure his
readers do. Yet it is just because the mysterious Sat/xcoi;
insists upon answering us all in the same way, — " But
you must go on," — that the actors and the politicians
and the scientific (or knowing) ones, all set their heads
at each other, such as in their different ways they
are, to keep this jaded old world wagging. Even
therefore the herds of Central Asia, and the auricles
of Mould-on-the-Moss, give in all round to the remorseless
law, and I, Balbus, swayed as by a resistless
Nemesis, resume the diagnosis of the sleepy Yorkshire
village, after indulging in a digression towards which
five minutes ago I had not the vaguest disposition.
Perhaps it arose from a strong and sudden desire to " do
nothing;" to which immediately quoth the hal\x(iiv — " But
you must. You needn't do this ; but you must do
something, whether you like it or not." Even so said
the judge to the jury, in the old days, at twelve o'clock
at night, when they were rather tired of it, — '' After all,
gentlemen, we must be somewhere."

So we are at Mould-on-the-Moss, watching with
the expectation of the rustic by the brawling little brook
which gives the place its name, and gliding and to glide
in its eternal roll, goes plunging down the meadows and
fields which lie behind and parallel to the village-street,
to mingle somewhere with a larger stream before its
baby-waters are salted in the sea. No wonder that the
rustic does watch. There is something so infinitely
tempting, when once the practice has been indulged in,
in the aimless contemplation of running or falling water.
The chirrup of the brook, and the call of the waterfall,
and the roar of the cataract, have all such wonderful
languages and burdens of their own, to which one seems
bound to listen, as in the hope of gathering from them
some definite meaning. They seem to make very sentences
in their flow, in a tongue which is strange but
should not be, and holds out a promise of being understood
some day, when the mighty waters shall be
rolling evermore " on the shores of the immortal sea.
It seems to me as if we " in a moment travelled thither,"
now and again, in the murmur of that gracious message.
Lie for an hour on the Canadian verge alone ;
give yourself up to the spirit of the place, and consult
the oracle of Niagara.

Very, very often did Daisy Brent commune in
this way with the whisper of the Moss, when she had
fixed her quarters, lost but not yet forgotten, in this
Ultima Thule ' of the moor. Clear and bright and
sparkling, always a well-fed little bantling of a brook,
nurtured by a generous mother-spring which flowed from
a tarn upon the hills, the Moss became quite self-important
when it was swollen by a burst of rain, of which
the district was by no means sparing. Then it became
brown and insolent, and discontent with the proportions
of its bed, and went about with a head on it, like the
tawny mane which Father Tiber tossed at the Etruscans,
when Horatius cut the bridge down.

Carry my messages to Guy, little brook," sometimes
she whispered to it, "when you have joined the big
river which runs at the foot of the Abbey hill. Will
you whisper to him sometimes, even through the louder
message which the big river carries, of the forgetting
heart which I know he is thinking of now ? You will
not always think of it, Guy. If I went to London, and
you heard of me Or found me, you would be fretting
still, and unable to take up the work and the name
which are waiting for you, my fine old noble Guy. You
will be anxious and miserable about me at first now, I

VOL. III. M

know ; but you have grown accustomed to that in all
these weary years ; and in time you will think that I
have passed out of your life. If you do not — if you
will not — you shall think that I am dead, Guy ; and
whispers from the world without shall reach me of your
new career, and of the fame that I know you are bound
to win. And I will watch you quietly through the
world which will be no longer mine, and think how it
mio^ht have been with us if that dream of ours had but
turned to a reality — the dream we dreamed together so
long ago. And so it would have, Guy, if I had had
more of courage, and more of patience, and more of
faith. We never should have met again, dear and yet
I hardly know. It may have been good for us both,
after all, to know how much we could love, how much
we did love, and how impossible — how utterly impossible
is the lesser feeling we both thought we could live
upon, after the old ! Tell him all this, little brook, tell
him all this ! and tell him too, when one day he takes a
wife to his heart to help him in his life and in his home,
that the first love who prays for him has sent him her
blessing by you — in a tear ! "

For even as she thought out these things, Daisy
Brent was bending over the long green grasses which

wind and stream were brushing and laving where they
grew by the water's edge, and she felt something warm
fall from her eyes and mix with the waterproof, of
which she had been unconscious till it fell. Then she
looked with a sad smile downwards towards the valley,
and followed her tear in fancy, as we follow some stick
or leaf that we have cast upon the stream, till her fancy
lost it to the sight.

Sh took up her burden and she went back up the
village street again, after she had been thinking these
things one day, some weeks after her flight from Lus-combe
Abbey. The lips of autumn and winter were
just melting now in their long kiss of yearly welcome,
warm and rich in this season of which we are telling,
and full of the charm which the popular phrase associates
with an Indian climate. The season was an
abnormal one altogether; and Dame Nature was in
one of her contradictory moods with the calendar, interfering
with the calculations of farmers, disposing of the
auguries of prophets, and giving all the hints in her
power to the irrepressible American to let her alone.

Daisy Brent looked very tired. She .was changed

from the brightly dressed beauty whom we have known,

and wore nothing better than the modest gear of a

M 2

village school-mistress, which became her quite as well.
She was like Permit in the eyes of Florizel, looking
and doings her best whatever she looked or did. But
the tired appearance was marked and sad. It had
always been there during her years of London queen-hood,
and her looking-glass knew it well. But it was
kept out of sight of the world, who being no longer at
hand to keep it in check, it had its way. Time might
come, when the rest and tranquillity of the village on
the moor should bring something of their own repose to
Daisy's spirit ; but that time was not yet. The teaching
in the very primitive school where the youth of 
acquired as little education as they liked
to get, for schoolboys were in the infancy of their
development, was not perhaps very restful to her ; and
she liked as little the monotonous piano-strumming of
the Misses Bickers, which she superintended for a
small stipend. For poverty, in its grim reality, was in
good sooth knocking hard at Daisy's door.

She had secured for herself, with the help of
Lestrange, a small but sufficient room in one of the
cottages of the aristocratic quarter of the village, which
belonged to the old village sexton, Delves. A crabbed
but very honest specimen of humanity was he, holding

Tip his head at the Bells Inn, in the sanded parlour
which is vanishing before the bar of civilization, on the
strength of the varied experience of mankind, which he
considered that his official position towards all classes of
them gave him. He realized his position all the more
because he had for a better half the midwife of the
locality, and between them he considered that they
represented the sum of human life. They " assisted at
his birth, and attended at his death'' like the letter
h " in the old riddle, and had the right to feel that
but for them there could be in a manner neither living
nor dying in the village of Mould-on-the-Moss. He
had prospered as times went in that part of the world,
had Delves the sexton, and was respected as a warm
man and a well-informed, with a touch of scholarship
acquired by a large experience of epitaphs, and a dash
of political wisdom even upon extra-parochial matters.

The daughter who had shared the house and hearts
of the worthy couple had married and taken wing : and
they were glad of the opportunity to add to their
modest income by taking a lodger to supply Keziah
Delves's room.

Lestrange, who had ferreted out Mould-on-the-Moss
in the course of his many solitary researches in the

vicinity of Luscombe Abbey, and made an amused study
of the sexton's peculiarities, came to the conclusion that
this was just the place for Daisy to instal herself at the
outset of this new career of hers.

The catastrophe pleased the Count's sense of humour
very much, and the grim contrast of life which Daisy's
new experiences presented, added quite a new chapter
to the book of his studies in the see-saw of circumstance.
The fact that he had himself been riding; the
whirlwind and directing the storm, and that after
ingeniously compassing Daisy's flight he was installed
in her confidence as the one person to be trusted, of
course gave a considerable zest to his satisfaction. He
recommended his charge warmly to the parental care
of the Devises, inwardly resolving that one month of
the regime, would be quite enough for the fashionable
Mrs. Brent's patience ; and he introduced her *to the
Rev. Miles Bickers, widower and incumbent, as a young
lady anxious for quiet occupation, and exactly suited to
the requirements of his school, and. also of the Misses
Bickers' musical development. And Daisy on her side
took up her new part with a quiet seriousness which
astonished Lestrange, who confessed to himself that he
never came to the end of his surprises in the matter

of this young lady, though that the seriousness would
last he never supposed for a moment.

Daisy meant what she was doing, though. She
believed that she possessed in herself a strong capacity
for teaching, and teaching well, and for earning her
livelihood in more ways than one ; and she did not care
how low on the ladder she began, if by that means she
might acquire the elements of a profession in which she
might make an interest for her life, failing the great
interest of all, which was denied to her. She had confidence
in herself; and dreary as the surroundings were
in which she began this new battle in the campaign of
life, — in which she had lost, unhappily, so much, — she
felt in it something of the pleasure which earning your
own bread, and living a useful, however humble, member
of the working community, produces in every mind
above the lowest capacity of the drone. She started on
her forlorn hope gallantly.

The Reverend Miles Bickers was charmed with his
new school-mistress. He was a reserved student of
the old classic school, whose place is apparently to be
usurped before long by the more litigious followers of
science.

Bucklers, who had a dry humour of his own, was once

remonstrated with for confining all his excursions outside
the domain of theology to the districts of the
Athenian republic, on which he was a great authority.

My dear fellow," he said, " if you knew the comfort
of sticking to a nation which is dead and done with,
about which nobody can contradict you to any purpose ! "

But that was some time ago, before the humour and
the Hellenism had faded out of Bickers's life, being, ashe
was, one of those who have a certain alacrity of sinking
in this world, without any apparent reason for it, to
be compensated mayhap by some mystic buoyancy in
another. He was to have ended in a Bishop's see, it
used to be said for him, if only for that treatise on the
Anapaestic Tetrameter Acatalectic form, which recalled
the best thoughts of Person.

But Miles Bickers was growing old, and he wore a
very threadbare coat of cloth instead of the sleeves of
spotless lawn, and the Bishop's see had subsided into
the highest and loneliest and poorest benefice in England
— the perpetual incumbency of Mould-on-the-Moss.
He had loved his wife very dearly, and he had lost her
young ; and the absent student found in the two colourless
and depressed maidens, who grew up as her legacy
at his side, but poor consolation for the woman who had

lighted up a short passage of his life, and had been
leading him into the ways of other men, as the best and
earliest methods of access to that preferment for which
alone her Miles was fitted.

It is hard to say, and at this period of our story
unnecessary, how the sad decadence came about in the
career of the widowed solitary, who seemed to have
taken root in Mould-on-the-Moss, and to be falling day
by day to the level of those around him. He spent
most of his time, sometimes with a Horace, sometimes
with a New Testament in his pocket, in hanging about
his own churchyard or his own church, in which he took
the deepest interest. Sometimes — rare and precious
chance ! — some intelligent stranger would penetrate to
the place ; and looking haply into the old tumbledown
temple, lingered to examine the curious monuments and
strange complexities of mediaeval architecture, which
did their best to peep through the detestable whitewash
which neutralizes so many treasures of old ecclesiastic
work. The shambling and speedily-dressed man, who
would address him with some shy remark of half-apology,
and at first be taken for a decayed verger,
would presently make it clear to the visitor that he was
a cultivated gentleman of rare attainment, and hold

him charmed, if his own mind was open to it, with
discourse historic and archaeological, which would send
the other wondering away, perhaps to fall into the
hands of Delves the sexton, who, having long sate at
Mr. Bickers^s feet, would favour the stranger with a
second-hand edition of the same argument from a
popular point of view, many years in bottle.

On the memory of more than one casual pilgrim
the church and the clergyman and the aspects of 
left a curiously deep impression. It was
by some such traveller's accident that Lestrange hit
upon the place ; and with his adaptability and variety
of mind, he came back more than once to study his
fossil reverend, whom he helped in a variety of small
ways, and moved to such admiration and gratitude, that
his praise of the Count addressed to Daisy went far to
increase her growing confidence in him.

As for the answer which Lestrange sent him, to his
querulous wonder where he was to find a school-mistress
for the young flock of Mould-on-the-Moss, Mr. Bickers
found her a revelation. Her sweet face and gentle
manner soothed and softened him ; and the sympathy
which attracts two borrowers in a great sorrow, drew
them much together. She helped to refine and raise

the minds of the two unattractive girls, whose lines of
education had fallen on so hard a place, and before the
two or three months had passed which were to bring
about the close of the year, had made herself quite an
influence in the village upon all connected with it.

It was on that day of which we have been speaking
at the opening of this chapter, that Daisy returned
from sending her fairy-messages down the little Moss,
to have tea at the vicarage. How oddly she looked
round the bare walls of the poor room, sometimes;
how strange she felt as the rough country loaf and
the metal teapot went their rounds, and thought of
how many weeks ago ? Surely not weeks — but lives
worlds — anything ! Was she really Daisy Brent,
that had been Daisy Fairfield, and was she acting a
part in some private play, whose catastrophe was not
yet ? Or was she indeed that same Daisy turned into
another woman, seriously and humbly labouring to
make her own bread ? That evening Mr. Bickers' s odd
and slow, but rather pleasant, voice woke her out of a
dream she was falling into over the bread-and-butter.

"Yes, Mrs. Fairbank, I assure you. Count Lestrange
is not the only man of intellect and of cultivation
who has consorted with us of late. Another of the

true KoKoX Kayadol honoured us more than once not
many months ago, who had drunk of the true Castaway
at the same source as I. Balliol, Mrs. Fairbank, classic
Balliol— "

You were at Balliol, Mr. Bickers ? "

Yes, indeed, and I am proud to say so. Do you
know it?"

Yes, I have seen it."

He too came from Balliol, this scholar of whom I
am speaking, and made himself most attentive to Mary
and to Martha here — eh, Mary ? eh, Martha ? "

Lor, Papa," from Martha and from Mary.

A singular and delightful man, who had taken up
his quarters upon the moor some miles away yonder,
and liked to walk over here sometimes with his
bio doo."

Poor old Frisco ! " volunteered Martha or Mary.

Frisco ! " said the school-mistress, as she turned her
head aside.

Mr. Bickers and daughters dilated on the merits
of the dog's owner, and told Daisy how often he had
sate in that same seat of hers. Her heart beat very
fast and her eyes were full of tears. Should she go ?
should she stay ? might he not come there again ?

But the days passed by and he did not ; and a warm
and heavy Christmastide, with a sense almost of uncanniness
in the air, and some roses in bloom looking rather
ashamed of themselves, found Daisy Brent still teaching
in the lonely moorland village, while yet but a few days
remained for the winning or the losing of the Count
Lestrange's wager.

A NEW TEST.

London ! London ! London ! Reeking away in an
atmosphere of impossible fog, filth above and grease
below, everybody cursing the English climate, and
nobody putting in force the act to compel the money-spinners
to consume their own smoke, as by law provided.
(" Oh useful and wonderful English law ! " quoth
the Count Lestrange. '' Any two sham doctors and a
selfish person or two may make a man mad in law ; and
if he ' goes to law ' afterwards about it, it takes half the
bench and half the faculty to decide whether he was
ever mad or not, and unless twelve people of no faculty
at all agree one way or the other, it's a moot point till
the day of judgment. Meanwhile the manufacturers
are poisoning half England for their own profit, and the
law can stop them, but doesn't. Oh useful and wonder-fill

English law 1 one half evil and the other half useless !
Costs cCInglaterra ! What does anything matter")
Britons in general, and Londoners in particular, make
their own climate and then abuse it; and they were
abusing it more than usual in the early winter-months
of the year of grace of which we are writing.

It was hot, muggy, murky ; comforting and welcome,
it is true, to tens of thousands of unimportant units who
found life in warmth, and were apt to die off like flies
in fine old seasonable winters, but annoying to the
curled darlings who associate fixed months with fixed
pastimes, and are put out when they don't get them.
There was the consolation of talking about the weather,
certainly ; in comparing all the notes of all the oldest
inhabitants to show that there never within human
memory had been such a winter as that, so late on into
the year.

November came and went with a procession of fogs
as long and as depressing as her own Lord Mayor's ;
December took up the tale and crept on towards Christmas,
and still no sign of winter. The human passage-birds
who take flight at these times for Egypt or the
Riviera put off their Sittings, and talked of Torquay or
even of Brighton : for was not the western watering-place

reported to be too hot ? the botanists went crazy
over their flora, and the men of science over their
phenomena; and good people apocalyptically given
shook their heads in corners about the end of the world,
and held meetings to deprecate the tendencies of the
times, Which tend, as most times do, to the talking of
much nonsense upon matters not so insoluble as they
are made out to be, and to the setting up of sundry
claims to genius and to thought, on the score of
obscurity, and the gift of confusion of tongues.

Men and women get into print so much more easily
and generally than they used, that all the little doubters
come and buzz out their little doubts in ink, whereas of old
only the grave and serious spirits, on whom the calamity
of unfaith had fallen, were allowed to make their public
profession of it. It is not that more men doubt — but
that so many more talk about it ; and surely the smart
doubter, who haunts the skirts of ' Nineteenth Centuries'
and ' Fortnightly,' is of all men the most wearisome. He
is always great on " the processes of the mind : " as if there
was such a thing as " thu mind," or any two minds
processed in the same way. If my processes were as
those of Imply of St. Nips, I should arrive at the same
conclusions as his. But they ain't ; and I don't. The

impossibility of getting much further in mere human
philosophy than king Solomon meets one at every
point. Though indeed the old gentleman is like to be
revised before long, and to be shown to have meant
something entirely different.

Guy Faucit, during those two or three months which
followed the flight from Luscombe Abbey, spent his
time in London, in close and constant association with
his chosen mentor, the Count Lestrange.

Lestrange made periodical disappearances into the
country for some twenty-four hours or more, which
might have been shown to be coincident with certain
flying visits to the cottage of Delves the sexton, or the
parsonage of the Reverend Miles Bickers.

For the main part of the time Faucit and he were
inseparable, penetrating and examining together into
strange and obscure corners of London life, the thought
ever present in Faucit's mind that somewhere and some
(lay he must come across, in the great city desert, the
woman who was now more than ever the world to
him ; without whom money, position, ambition, health,
everything, seemed as the ashes of the Dead Sea. He
loved her more than ever since that parting at Lus-combe
Abbey. The idea of her having lost home and

VOL. 111. ^

friends for him — perhaps being in poverty for his sake
wrought upon the generous spirit with an overpowering
charm, and left room for no other thought but one.
Strangely enough, as happens, however, with .many men,
this great trial and crisis of his life proved the turning-point
in his mental history. He was up to that time,
as I think I have told of him before, one of the many
men perplexed by the buzzing of the doubters, and
half inclined to throw in his lot, and his trained literary
skill, with the speculative literature of the time. But his
Pegasus turned restive, and wouldn't obey him, arguing
with him in a fashion almost as articulate as Balaam's
donkey, and proving to him that on subjects which started
from the thesis that they couldn't be known, there must
assuredly be nothing to be said. And in the middle of
his doubts and fears and troubles, even among London
clubs and London talk, and with the cynical presence of
Lestrange at his elbow, conviction came home to him —
comes as it does come home — in a moment, as in some
flash lighting up the dark corners of doubt, in which
the searcher's mind has been blindly but prayerfully
searching, — setting his mind at rest for ever, victorious
over the after-struggles, the after-troubles, and the
after-pain. The paradise such a man so attains to maybe

but a fool's paradise ; but it is one for all that, and
even on the dreary showing of those who think so, he
has clearly the best of it.

So it was that in the time of his hardest trial and
his greatest sorrow, and through and out of that very
sorrow and trial, Guy Faucit became in one sense a
happier man than he had ever been in his life, even
with the one thought of Daisy otherwise uppermost and
alone in his mind, and the Count Lestrange discoursing
to him of the philosophies of life.

The Count, very much to his astonishment, found
himself to a certain extent the confidant of this new
phase of Faucit's thoughts, though indeed the other
was but shy and reticent upon the matter, as men who
partake of this singular good fortune are apt to be.
When first Faucit's views became clear to him, he was
fairly staggered by the presence of a phenomenon so
entirely out of his sphere of calculation. Wide as that
was, and widened every day by the active self-cultivation
which after his manner he followed, it beat him. He
understood worldly motives, and was as able to use the
good sides of worldliness as the bad ; and he. thoroughly
understood the use of religion as professed and practised
by many excellent persons, and the practical ends it

N 2

might be made to serve. He even believed in the
existence of a genuine religious conviction in a class of
people whom he regarded as of no conceivable use in the
world, and indeed cut off from it by the very fact. They
didn't amuse him and they couldn't serve him, and he
kept out of their way. But here was a man of another
kind, who would certainly before long, Daisy or no
Daisy, be likely to fill a considerable space in the
world's eye, — for Lestrange knew a man very well when
he saw him, — suddenly going off upon a tack which
might turn the boat's head none knew whither.

Good Heavens ! " he said, startled so far out of his
ordinary placidity as to drop his cigarette and sit bolt
upright in his arm-chair, when first Faucit broached his
new theories to him — " you don't mean to say that you
are going to believe in that sort of thing ? "

What sort of thing ? " asked the other, quietly.

*' Well, that sort of thing — illumination and supernatural
conversion, and all that."

"Why not?"

"Why not?" Here was one of the Count's own
favourite weapons of logical destructiveness turned
against himself. " Well, I'm sure I don't know. But
my dear fellow — nobody does now-a-days."

Oh yes, a great many do ; more than we think or
know, I suspect. It is an active agent in more lives
than you can guess at."

Horatio's philosophy, and that kind of thing ? "
said the Count. '' How very odd." The Count began
to laugh to himself and to twist about his ring. " Are
you going in for a conviction of sin ? " then he asked
abruptly.

*' No. I don't think I shall ever talk cant, or even
what may sound like it. I'm not aware that I've been
more sinful than my neighbours — at all events, towards
them. But my life wanted a purpose, apart from the
one you know of; and I think it has found one."

'' Dear me ! I don't quite understand. Isn't wealth
like yours, with what it may find for brains like yours,
a purpose in itself ? "

None whatever, to my thinking."

Are you going to turn monk then ? " said Lestrange,
or preacher, or what ? Or are you going to turn hermit
again ? "

No. I'm not going to turn anything. I shall find
work to do in the world presently, as you say, I suppose ;
and I shall know better how to do it. That's all."

The conversation did not go much further. But

Lestrange, after much smoking at home, and much
meditation, and much uneasy examination of his financial
condition, which a series of unlucky circumstances
was rapidly bringing to a crisis, which he didn't at all
like to contemplate, began to consider whether he might
not be able after all to utilize, as his manner was, even
so new and awkward a factor in the problem before him,
which had to be solved, now, in so inconveniently short
a time.

"Upon my soul," he said to himself, "I believe the
man will turn philanthropist. The philanthrope in
earnest is the most unaccountable type in the whole
Chinese puzzle of mental anatomies. The idea of
loving man, of all things in the world, except for what
you can get out of him ! What on earth am I todo
with my athlete now, if he goes in for this entirely
new form of training ? Religious exaltation, eh ? Wait
a bit."

Then with an infinite tact, and in a manner quite
his own, Lestrange set himself to play upon the chord
in Faucit's mind which answered to such new and
subtle music.

If Guy expected, as he did, that the Count would
laugh at him, he found himself wrong. On the contrary,

Lestrange contrived to show himself curious and
interested in the state of Faucit's mind ; to insinuate a
deep sympathy with the phase upon which it had
entered, and to profess himself only too willing and
anxious to arrive at a similar solution of the hard ways
of life. He neither did nor said anything to undermine
or to shake the faith that had entered into his pupil,
for, as he said with conviction to himself, he hadn't
the time. That if he had, the thing could be easily
done, he entertained no doubt at all. Much shallower
arguments and duller sophistries than he could use
were enough to demolish such crazy old fabrics as
Faucit's excited frame of mind had raised. But time
was required to knock such fabrics down. These fervid
phases, which he admitted were new to his personal
experience in men of his pupil's calibre, had to run
their course like the small-pox, or any other dangerous
malady, whose infection was carried by some subtle
particles floating about in the air.

If Lestrange had ever looked upon Guy as a likely
subject for such an ailment, he would have provided
against the danger by a process of mental inoculation.
But he never had ; and had so contented himself
with saturating him with purely worldly maxims

and safe-guards, that he had left the other ground
untrodden. His first feeling, when he understood the
change which had so suddenly taken place in Guy's
feelings and convictions, was that his wager was lost.
Armed with his new faith and purpose, Guy would befor
defending his mistress against harm with the armour
of the red-cross knight, rather than doing her any.

Ah ! but what was harm ? Might it not be possible
to persuade Faucit, that to one so newly and miraculously
convinced of a higher law, the laws of the world
were but a delusion and a snare ? that a pure love like
his and Daisy^s, tried and tested through flame after
flame, was in itself too sacred for the world's foolish
restrictions to meddle with ? He would try. And to
this, about the worst and most devilish task which the
man had yet set himself to do, the Count Lestrange
bent all the power of his magnetic mind. He did his
work wonderfully, and found Guy more apt for it than
he had hoped. Side by side with these higher convictions,
especially at first, is apt to run a dangerous
proclivity to tamper with what seem to be lower laws.
For a man who has never, in real earnest, however well-principled
in purpose and in life, done otherwise than
live the life of those about him inwardly as well as

outwardly, the reaction against the gods which he has
ignorantly worshipped runs into dangerous extremes.
It needs time, and the quiet setting down into the
world's work and the world's ways, which is the only
alternative to the life of a cloister (where, mayhap and
moreover, there is like to be as much world about as
anywhere else), before the man who has set his hope
upon another world can realize the very necessary and
salutary influence of the rules of this.

It was not difficult for Guy, exalted as he was, to
persuade himself, or unconsciously to allow Lestrange
to persuade him, that such an unblest marriage as the
Brents' was a breaking and not a fulfilling of the
Divine law ; that it was one of those cases where the
verdict of divorce has been emphatically pronounced
by the higher tribunal; and that it might be Guy's
highest and truest duty to take bravely upon himself
the consequence of his own doings — for it was he, after
all, who had brought about poor Daisy's flight from
Luscombe Abbey, and condemned her to the life of
struggle which she miojht now be leading.

In spite of himself Guy's excited fancy caught
the fire ; and when he was growing most evidently
warped towards Lestrange's purpose, the latter threw

in an ingenious suggestion, no more than insinuated,
that he might be able to lay his hand on Daisy. He
would do no more than hint at it ; and with it at his
own absolute obligation of secrecy. And much to his
infinite satisfaction and cynical delight, he began to feel
that in Guy's new phase of thought he might have
found his best ally instead of his most dangerous enemy,
and that what worldly wisdom would, in spite of all his
versions of it, have prevented, an unworldly wisdom
would abet.

Lestrange was delighted beyond measure. In all
his manipulations of mankind he had never been able
to congratulate himself on such a success as this, and
the audacity and defiance of his intellectual pride rose
to their culminating height. The man had a new
spirit in him, which gave him a certain grandeur. With
his friends and intimates he took a higher and more
masterful tone than before, and among the circles he
frequented was at his most brilliant and his best. The
sayings and doing of Lestrange during the early months
of that curious winter were not soon forgotten in
London.

It was late in December, when Christmas was close
at hand, that the Count Lestrange paid another of his

visits to Mould-on-the-Moss. The supplies which Daisy
had been receiving had been, by his contrivance, running
shorter and more short, and the pinch of genuine
distress was making itself clearly visible in the face
and figure, and in the brave, uncomplaining voice, of
the old sexton's lodger. He and his wife consulted,
and said it wouldn't do; and conferred with Mr.
Bickers, who couldn't see it through his old gold-rammed
spectacles, which had stuck to him as his
one piece of personal adornment, being himself too well
accustomed to the effect of chronic short-commons to
observe it much in others.

Lestrange marked it sharply enough ; and marked
too how the unutterable weariness of the whole thing
was beginning to tell upon Daisy's mind.

If it would only freeze," he said to himself as he
looked at her, and calculated what cold might be like
in a cottage at Mould-on-the-Moss. When he saw
her he talked about old haunts and old comforts, with
the professed intention of cheering her spirits; and
sketched for her Tantalic pictures of wealthy homes
and luxurious rest. He told her how provoked he felt
with Lady Pepperharrow, to whom he had written.
She was terribly indignant, and believed, as half the

world did — what ? — why, that Daisy had really gone
away with Guy, and was living somewhere in retirement
under his charge.

Daisy's pale cheek fired up for a moment, though
she said bitterly enough that it didn't much matter
now. She would write herself to Lady Pepperharrow,
though; though she would not let her know from
where. It would be no use now, Lestrange feared,
after the way in which the old lady had expressed
herself of Daisy's conduct to her.

A friend lost, then ! " said Daisy. '' Very well."

As a matter of fact, poor Lady Pepperharrow had
been half-distracted by the news of her favourite's disappearance,
had come home to find her, and had various
conferences with Faucit on the subject, thoroughly
believing his positive denial of all knowledge of Daisy's
whereabouts — about which, owing to odd circumstances
and the peculiar remarks of Lestrange, on none of
which could anybody lay an absolute finger, the world
was divided in opinion, according to its various proclivities
in the matter of charity.

So the world wore on, till Lestrange had paid
that last visit of his to the village on the moor.
And when Christmas-tide came, it came about that

once again, as if by the craft of some practised stage -
manager, a merry-making party was met at Luscombe
Abbey.

In a suit of sables, and under a new title, Lord
Viscount Gander, once Jemmy Gosling, had been
induced to pay a quiet visit to the house of a certain
young lady's aunt, who regarded him now with different
eyes, giving Lestrange the opportunity for many pleasant
insinuations both about aunt and niece ; Miss Carrie of
course not being absent upon the occasion.

Sir Brummel and Lady Coates supplied another
kind of interest, paying their first visit after their
wedding-tour, which had been by mutual consent
brought to a rapid end. And round the whole party
trotted Pentonville, busy and anxious as ever. •

Guy Faucit and the Count completed the party.
The former had at first refused to come, feeling himself
but little in cue for it ; but Lestrange let fall one
strange and vivid hint upon the subject he had been
plying so hard ; and eager, excited, his mind full of his
new ideas working upon the sad story of the past, Guy
Faucit came.

As for the Count, he stood at his open window one
night at the Abbey when the rest had gone to bed, and

the unnatural warmth of the atmosphere seemed to
charge it with a summer's electricity.

Phew," he muttered to himself. " I wish weather
would be always like this, as far as I'm concerned."

Then he paced the room anxiously and with a set
face, turning over a telegram Which he held in his hand.
Good-heavens ! " he thought, " what a narrow escape !
To-morrow makes me or mars me, schemes and all. If
I win, the news of this bit of paper will be known too
late to hurt me ; and if I lose — well, nothing matters,
and I throat up the game. I shall have to leave
England ; and tomorrow night I shall be out of it.
Nonsense. There's no such thing as losing in a fight
like this. Chaffers ! lay my hunting-suit out tomorrow
morning ; and good-night."

THE MEET ON THE MOOR.

The morning was closer than the previous night,
A heavy damp, which felt like August, was steaming
up from the moorland slopes, and there was a sort of
summer-hush upon the world that Christmas-tide. It
was a week-day in the Christmas week, when holiday
is still made far and wide by thousands who treat but
as a myth the name they still make it in. The holiday-makers
of that year made merry with the welcome
warmth, and dotted the sea and country side like flies,
to an extent which made the faces of railway directors
to beam, but failed to induce them to show any gratitude
by making more comfortable the customers they
fattened on. On the contrary, they treated them with
even more contempt than usual ; disregarded their contracts
with the magnificent indifference to the elements

of morality which has characterized corporations (railway
especially), from Sidney Smith's time upwards and
downwards; inveigled unwary tourists into first-class
tickets, and then jammed their laps into pancakes with
third-class passengers unlimited, carrying bird cages and
sandwiches free of charge (subsequently suing some of
the latter for travelling first-class with third-class tickets,
albeit thereunto not incited only, but compelled by the
company's own guards) ; treated the time-tables as a
myth, and time itself as a delusion; shunted their
victims into sidings, and played pitch-and-toss with
them at level crossings ; tortured their limbs and maddened
their tempers, causing improper expressions to
iiy about like flakes in a snow-storm, and every description
of execration and remonstrance to descend upon
the devoted heads of innocent guards and porters, who
bore them, as a rule, as only angels and railway-men
can, in the vicarious cause of superiors who don't
overpay them for it. Oh, that on some excursion
day these rank and file of the railway army might
pocket the receipts, and the directors be condemned
to run the gauntlet of abuse from their miserable
victims ! But then, what a number of accidents there
would be.

It would be difficult, I admit, to re-introduce 
by a less appropriate opening. The village
on the moor knew nothing of railway-trains, or even of
any definite communication with them. Its part in
the Christmas season would have been as usual one of
undisturbed placidity, but that on the special morning I
am writings of there were singular siojns of life about
the place. The rustics were all agape at their porches,
to gaze on an army of gentlefolk who invaded the
village from all sides at once, in uniforms of red, black,
and velveteen, a picturesque regiment of irregular horse,
with camp-followers of an attractive kind in the shape
of brightly-dressed dames and demoiselles in pony-carriages
of coquettish build, rattling up over the moor
to the pleasant music of merry laughter, as the wheels
cleared some sudden obstruction with an unexpected
leap, or the ponies shied at some barricade left casually
in the .middle of a turn of the road, like a relic of
the Deluge.

Behind and about the pony-carriages, and in close
and admiring proximity to the heels of the horses,
provoking sundry get-out-of-the-ways and hoarse remonstrances
of a more inarticulate kind, were a horde of
savage infantry collected from the stray cottages and

VOL. III. o

homesteads, apparently even the burrows, of the moor,
rushing out to see anything that might be to be seen,
deserting the plough at least as willingly as Cincinnatus
took to it, and hob-nailing the neighbourhood in a state
of unreasoning felicity. There were the hounds too, bred
out of the Spartan kind, and matched in mouth like
bells, answering name by name, like the boys at a
school roll-call, to the huntsman's mellow cry, and providing
a dappled variety of colour for the many-coloured
scene. For there was a novelty afoot in the world-forgotten
village, and there was a meet by .


The bell-music of the dogs was answered by a
different peal of bells, which sounded from the cranky-looking
old church-tower upon a series of discords quite
as cranks And as it sounded, the figure of old Delves
the sexton, shuffling in a crab-like fashion begotten of
rheumatic years, might be seen making its way through
the open place which still called itself the market-place,
where a rude stone cross with an inscription which
might have been Runic upon it, for all chance a casual
reader might have of deciphering its meaning, marked
the centre of gravity of Mould-on-the-Moss. An old
village fountain gurgled at its foot, and the moss-grown

pavement, rough and uneven, sloped and straggled up
or down from it to the best cottage homesteads of the
place, amongst which the sexton's house was conspicuous
on the upper side, its door opening upon the marketplace,
and side-wall abutting upon the mournful and
overgrown, but picturesque, churchyard, whose uncared-for
turf and thickly-scattered, nameless mounds of
sepulchral earth matched the pavement of the place in
unevenness of grain.

The sexton's house flanked one side of the churchyard,
and the church itself the other, its quaintly carved
porch and door opening upon the market-place westward,
to which a flight of steps also led down from the
middle of the churchyard, raised a little height above it.
To the north side the place contracted itself into the
straorcrlinor street, if street it might be called, which constituted
the village, which to the south came to an
abrupt end at the church, save only for the unpretending
parsonage, which hid itself in the fields beyond,
communicating by a foot-path and a stile with the
market-place. Delves had it to himself that morning,
the entire population being bent upon the gathering in
the fields beyond, which had drawn even the Reverend

Mr. Bickers and the fair Martha and Mary from their



trivial round and common tasks, to see what was
going on.

'' All right, mum, all right," the old sexton was
saying as he came out of his cottage, speaking in a tone
at once respectful and parental. 'you stay where you
are, and keep quiet. You couldn't be asked not to feel
more out o' spirits than ever, this being Christmas
time." And Delves threw into the word an indescribable
effect of grumble. " Oh yes, go on ! " he added to himself,
apostrophizing the church bells ; '' there's the bells
making' believe to be merry, and austin' themselves over
it, for all the world like the live folk that runs to
turkeys. Merry indeed ! who's a going' to be merry at
the end of December ? If you've troubles on the mind
or rheumatics on the body, that's when they finds yer out.
And when you puts the summer 'eat on the top of it,
and makes as if you meant to fling in a dash of 'thunder
and lightning, what's to become of you ? Hallo, sir, that
you ? " the old man proceeded, not varying his grumbling
tone a whit, for indeed it was part and parcel of him.

The man whom he addressed was leaning over the
stile, and had been watching the sexton with the quiet
observation of one accustomed to watch everybody, fora
few seconds before he was discovered. Picturesque

enough the Count Estrange, for he it was, looked in
the shapely hunting-dress he wore, which set off the
slight figure to advantage.

Good morning, Delves," he said. '' Is your young
lady lodger at home ? "

He came into the place as he asked the question,
raising his hat from his head and wiping his forehead
with his handkerchief, as he felt the stifling closeness
which was in the air.

Yes, sir," answered Delves. " Do you wish to
see her ? "

Not immediately," said the Count.

He said it with an odd smile on his lips, and a look
at his watch. It was not yet mid-day, and the start
from Luscombe Abbey had been made very early.

She's expecting of yer," said the old sexton, contemplating
the Count admiringly ; '' but not in them
gorgeous togs. That's for the hunting is it ? We
don't see much of that up this way.

'' You owe it to my suggestion that the hounds
meet near here. I look well in red and black, don't I ? "

Born to it," answered Delves.

Exactly. This is the only opportunity which the
age affords me of coming out in my true colours."

Eh ? " asked the sexton. " I don't fuller."

'rit's as well you shouldn't," said Lestrange, with
an amused smile and a look of mastery on his
face, 'rit might make you uncomfortable. Ouf! it's
close enough. What's in the air now, in this eccentric
climate ? "

Thunder an' lightning' 's in the air," growled Delves,
and it don't mean to stop there. We shall have a
big storm before were done with it."

Even as he spoke there were one or two drops
falling, but they ceased again for the time.

"A thunderstorm at Christmas!" said Lestrange.
That would be a curiosity."

Ay," added the sexton, seating himself on the old
market-stone by which stood the cross. " It don't
happen often, but it does sometimes. It's thirty years
ago and more come this Christmas-tide when the
winter lightning' struck the old tower yonder, and
twisted it all o' one side, just as you see it now. We
don't run to repairs much up 'ere."

"Ah! struck by lightning, was it?" asked the
Count, curiously. " I haven't heard that before. A
heavy storm, I suppose ? "

Ah, I believe you it was heavy. And it wasn't

content with dumb things like church-towers, neither ;
for the same flash that did that mischief struck a man
down just where you're standing a black blathers'
scoundrel who was never no good to anybody. It
knocked him clean out of time though, and he gathered
no more."

"Dead ?" asked the Count, with a slight shudder.

"Dead."

"Ah! . Has there been much more doing in that
way lately ? in your way, I means'

"What should there be doing?" answered Delves.
Nobody canst be expected to die sere when nobody
don't live sere. Drat the musty old place ! What's
the good of my telling them as I show over the church,
which it represents a income of about half-a-crown
every other year, — that it dates from the reign of
William the Conqueror ? What' s the good of that,
I asks' you, when there's nobody in it in the time of
Victoria ? ''

It's the thin end of the wedge, Delves," said
Lestrange, laughing.

He was leaning against the stone cross at the foot of
which the old sexton was sitting, being to the latter
personage a kind of rostrum from which he was wont

to discourse social and political wisdom to the rustic
senate of Mould-on-the-Moss.

"Is it now ? " said Delves, looking at his companion
with a face indicative of no comprehension whatever of
his meaning, but much conviction of its depth. "What
wedge ? "

Disestablishment of the national Church," laughed
the Count, carelessly. " You look disestablished enough
here to please anybody. What are your political views
on that point ? "

I don't rightly know as I has any — not to speak
on. I goes for advance, I does. That's where it is —
advance. And there's no doubt that we wants . it bad
down here."

Well, we shall educate your successor," said Le-strange,
" and dispose of your place by competitive
examination. But cheer ujd; you shall show your
church this morning to a party of fine folk from Lus-combe
Abbey, which you may have heard of They'll
be over here directly for the meet, and will have some
little time to spare."

"Fine folk in these parts!" answered the sexton.
Well, it's a sight o' time since I seen that. Darn me
if I hadn't forgotten what century that there roof was

restored in; it won't in this, I know. I can't be
expected to remember my history when I gets no
practice. Howsomever, I knows half-a-crown's worth,
I reckon."

"I want you to forget another half-crown's worth,"
was the quiet remark which followed, as the Count put
the coin in the other's hand.

Eh ? " asked Delves, puzzled again.

You'll forget my visits here during the last three
months," said the Count, " and you'll forget to mention
anything about your young lady lodger."

"About her, pretty lamb?" answered the other,
quite a touch of tenderness coming over his rough and
grumbling voice, which indeed was no uncommon
matter where that young lady was concerned. " That's
right enough. I promised her I'd never say anything
about 'er ; nor I wouldn't, without takin' 0' your money,
which I'll keep notwithstanding."

Excellent philosopher ! " laughed Lestrange.

Not much of that," growled back the other ; " which
I'm told it's one as don't mind other folk's troubles, and
weary much minds his own. Now her pale face goes
to my heart ; she's troubles enough of her own, whatever
they are, let alone a jolly Christmas."

An infinite emphasis of disgust the sexton managed
to throw into the last adjective, expressive of a contempt
for the festive season which might have made
the calendar blush. The season, however, being not
only a jolly but an assertive season, wont to insist upOn
its historical position and traditions, responded at once
to Delves's challenge by a fresh peal from the old
church-bells, whose ringers had free license from time
immemorial to discourse December music to the moor
when the spirit moved them. They found the spirit
move them mightily that morning when they saw the
number of groups of unusual visitors, from whom sundry
half - crowns might surely be expected. The Count
Lestrange didn't seem likely to be of the number of
contributors, however, for the bells of 
seemed in no way to commend themselves to his
sense of harmony. Certainly their notes were none of
the soundest, portending that the little rifts within the
metal had been slowly widening for many years past,
possibly even before the oldest Mould-on-the-Mossian
had worn the semblance of the tiniest of the trots now
sucking their dirty little fingers with their dirtier little
mouths at the door of some friendly pig-stye, or mud-built
hovel scarcely distinguishable therefrom. If that

same rift had carried the poet's process further, and
slowly silenced all, Lestrange for one would have had
no objection. His face bore the expression of pain
which defiance of tune wrings from involuntary muscles,
and he put his hands to his ears and drew up his legs
with that octo pedal contraction which is part of the
same expression of suffering. Delves' s face presented
a pleasant contrast to the Count's, as of one who regarded
the divinations of these charges of his with a
certain humorous parental pride.

Confound those bells of yours ! how cracked they
are ! " said the Count Lestrange.

Sold you be, if you'd stopped here so long as they
'ave," was the answer.

The tete-a-tetc between the strangely-assorted pair
was at an end, for the rattle of the wheels of a pony-carriage
was heard on the south side of the marketplace,
and it discharged its contents at the door of the
Bells Inn, which occupied (of course) the angle of
the market - place opposite the church, nestling in
confiding proximity thereto.

It was part of the same good old C^urch-and-State
system, and the progress which Delves desiderated
for the village had certainly spared it so far. Its

convenient position with reference to the church, and
the churchyard, and the sexton's own house, was very
welcome to him in his advancing years, and he rarely
stirred outside this three-cornered kingdom of his,
which he had as it were in a ring fence under his
hand. Under some protest, but with some curiosity,
he shuffled up to help the smart tiger-groom (specimen
of the genus hippo-anthropoid not formally tabulated)
in his ministrations by the pony-carriage, from which
the Count Lestrange, his hat raised in old-fashioned
and punctilious courtesy, assisted Lady Luscombe,
Carrie Beaufort, and Lady Coates, nee Challoner, to
descend.

THE Whip-hand.

"What a picturesque old place!" said Miss Caroline
Beaufort, fairly delighted with the oddities of the
scene, and taking it all in with a lively and pleasant
curiosity. She looked a very agreeable figure in her
well-fitted driving-dress, and the neat little Swedish
gloves, with buttons which had apparently-neither end
nor beginning, but disappeared from view in the
direction of the elbow. '' How strange that we should
never-have been here before, aunt."

"Not at all," Lady Luscombe said, languidly and
absently. She looked even more hunted and worn
about the eyes than of old, and with a restless movement
they continually sought Lestrange, who avoided
meeting them with his. "It's a great distance, and
there's nothing to see," she added. " How singularly

close it is." And she seated herself upon the sexton's
stone with unconsciousness, moving the venerable gentleman,
who had in it a sense of proprietorship or of
tenant-right acquired by long usage, to a look of distracted
uneasiness, as if he opined that the lady meant
to take it away with her.

"There never is anything to see in this sort of
place," observed Lady Coates, in a voice more distinctly
unappreciative of things as they are than had been
characteristic even of Miss Challoner. " Why did you
organize the meet in such an out-of-the-way corner.
Count Lestrange ? "

A meet is always the best of reasons for coming
anywhere," said the cheery Carrie. "Nothing like
hunting to wake a place up."

Why ain't you hunting yourself to-day, then ? "
asked Emily.

So I am, in a pony-carriage," answered Carrie,
examining the Runic inscription, and trying to scratch
the dust upon it into some intelligible form with the
help of her parasol.

The new Lord Gander doesn't like young ladies to
hunt," said Lestrange, sententiously, producing a grimace
from Carrie, unremarked.

No, of course," said Emily, with an added touch
of verjuice in her well-bred voice. " Only married ones,
like that Daisy Brent. No news of her, I suppose,
Lady Luscombe ? "

"None," said Lady Luscombe, slightly flushing,
wearily and with a sigh. " How fearfully hot it is,"
she said again. " The place is like a grave."

It is warm," said Lestrange. " I like it."

Don't talk in that way," Lady Luscombe answered
hurriedly, and in a low voice. " It sounds like an omen."

Poor Daisy ! " Carrie said, with regret and sadness
in her voice. " What can have become of her ? " And
as she looked very hard at the inscription, there were
tears in the kind eyes which looked. " Ah, well ! Why
don't you hunt, dear, by the bye ? " she added, abruptly,
to Emily, to change the subject.

Sir Brummel," observed the Count as before, but
with a rather more pronounced sneer than he generally
permitted himself (Lady Coates was one of his favourite
studies in womanhood), "wishes that his wife would
hunt."

Sir Brummel is not interested in anything I do,"
Emily said, in a tone of profound indifference which
seemed destitute even of pique; "let us find a more

agreeable subject. Is this the church which is supposed
to be so curious ? "

She moved across the market-place as she spoke,
and with a pair of double eye-glasses, which she had
assumed by right of fashionable matrimony rather than
of short sight, proceeded to survey the old temple without
any superfluity of reverence. She looked it up
and down as if it had been a young person of the
middle classes, speaking to her without an introduction.
Her inquiry, however, was D elves' s opportunity The
old sexton, having satisfied himself that the unceremonious
lady who sate down upon his stone had no
designs upon it, but was merely in a state of ignorance
of his claims and character in the village, for which she
Alas rather to be pitied than blamed, had transferred
his observation to the two younger ladies, having still
his share in the universal weakness of male humanity,
which finds the attractiveness of the opposite sex in
provokingly inverse proportion to its age. Delves,
who had an eye, as he thought, for everything, would
have been sorry indeed not to possess one for beauty.
He bestowed inward approval on the outward appearance
of both the young women, with a decided preference
for Carrie Beaufort.

A stuck-up sort t'other one," he thought to himself.
' The little one's nose does all the sticking-up for her,
and she's a good little filly."

Such were his reflections when they were interrupted
by Lady Coates's question, which brought him back at
once to meditations on half-crowns and the main chance.
He would not allow any shadowy preferences of his own
to distract him from that primary object, and bestowed
his gracious patronage upon Emily at once.

"Built in the early Norman," he said with much
promptness, as he came forward from the back, where
he had been suppressing himself by the churchyard
steps, and taking up the cue — '' as is observed in the
lancet window of the north lisle. The roof was erected
in the twelfth century, and till the time ' of Oliver
Crumbles "

"Thank you, yes," lisped Emily, with an infinite
impertinence which took no account of beings of that
clay; wounding the old gentleman's feelings with as
much compunction as she might show in treading on a
disabled wasp — less, as a display of sentiment on the
latter head might be interesting.

A]}iJelez-v(ms cela un homme she might have
answered if any one had suggested that any such result

VOL. III. p

could follow her words. To do her justice, it would
have astonished her considerably. She did not even
focus Delves with her glasses for a passing moment,
but continued to patronize the church with them.
What a tumble-down old hovel 1 "

And what a tumble-down old man ! " whispered the
delighted Carrie, careful with her very different instincts
that the sexton should not hear her; " and what tumbledown
everything ! And oh, Emily, what awfully jolly
poetry ! Look here," she said, as in the course of her
perquisition she had mounted the churchyard stairs,
and was applying herself to an examination of those
wonderful 'stales of the tombstones" which play such
an odd part in the literature of the country : —

"'TOBIAS Trotter— AGED 91.
He were the righteousness of men,

As there is few of such :
We ne'er no more shan't see again

One good for half so much.'

Now what's that out of? "

Out of the heads of his sorrowing relations," said
the Count Lestrange, laughing. " Probably he was one
of the worst characters in the parish, eh, Delves ? "

Which he certainly were, sir," answered the sexton,
scratching his head over his internal reminiscences, like

a famous member of his guild moralizing over the skull
of Yorick. " Beat all his Vives, as there was three of
'em, and starved all his chiltern, as there was sixteen,
exception' those as he boiled. And only died himself
when there was none left to keep him alive through
bullying' on 'em. He were a rare 'un, he were. And I
was main fond of him."

And perhaps wrote his epitaph ? " suggested the
Count.

"Well, sir," said Delves, with much ,
scratching the other side of his head with an
indescribable grin, ''I alius had rather a turn in the
way of verse."

"I thought so," commented Lestrange, while the
young ladies received the intelligence after their respective
manners. " What you might have been had
there been an Education Act in your time ! "

"A local poet," exclaimed Carrie. "How awfully
lovely ! "

How excessively silly ! " was the observation of
her more refined friend.

Carrie Beaufort, however, proceeded on the strength

of his lyric gift to cultivate an acquaintance with

Delves, who responded willingly to the young lady's

p 2

attention, and proceeded to bring to her notice the
flowers of the Mould on-the-Moss anthology one by one.
All the virtues seemed, from the touching records by
descendants provided, to have flourished garden-wise in
the ancient village, and anything like vice to have been
unknown in its Arcadian precincts.

Where are the bad people buried ? " is a question
which will exercise the mind as much as the fate of
postboys did Dickens's hero. Carrie went from mound
to mound and stone to stone, and delighted herself with
an examination of the old sexton's individuality, while
the other three still lingered in the market-place.

Ominous signs began to gather in the sky, which
seemed to threaten but a wet and soaking day's sport
to the Nimrod, and suggested uncomfortable reflections
to the tenants of the pony-carriages. Darker and
heavier grew that strange, unseasonable atmosphere,
and the ominous stillness which precedes an exceptional
storm was sensible everywhere.

If there is anything to see inside the church," said
Emily, drawing her shawl closer round her in spite of
the warmth, " come and show it to us. The rain will
be upon us in a moment, and at least it will be a
shelter."

Yes, ma'am," said Delves, who had by this time
made the circuit of the churchyard with his pretty
charge, and felt in nowise disposed to change her for
the other. 'will you come in too, miss ? The kneeling'
linger to the right, as you enter, represents the ."

And followed by Emily, producing his history by
the yard as he went, the sexton opened the stout old
door with an immense key of an antiquity as venerable,
and disappeared from the scene.

"Lady Coates is a good deal changed in the last
few weeks," said Lestrange to Carrie, who was following.

"Yes," answered she from the old porch, which
framed a very pretty figure ; " she's not too jolly."

Marriage is not good for young ladies."

Think so ? " Carrie said, off-handed. ' " But what's
come over my aunt ? " she went on, as she noticed Lady
Luscombe tracing idle figures on the ground, still seated
on the market-stone, and unconscious apparently, alone
with the painful thoughts which seemed to have possession
of her, of all that was going on around her. " Ain't
you coming to see the kneeling figure to the right,
aunt?" Carrie Beaufort added, with a^ funny imitation
of the old sexton's manner of speech.

Directly," said Lady Luscombe, absently, as her

niece followed the others into the church. Then she
raised her eyes straight to Lestrange's, now that she
was left alone with him, and spoke without parley.
What have you brought us here for ? "

For the meet."

'' And then ? "

To see the church."

"You are not so fond of churches."

As an outsider, yes," said the Count.

"You have some new scheme," Lady Luscombe
said, speaking rapidly and clearly, and with a nervous
emphasis upon the words. " I have not forgotten that
the time for winning or losing that wicked wager of
yours is nearly gone by. Have you won it ? The world
believes that when Daisy Brent left my house suddenly,
after that scene three or four months ago, it was with
the help and knowledge of Guy Faucit ; that he knows
where she is now, though he denies it. Is the world
right ? "

I am not a court of appeal from the world's
judgments," answered the Count, undisturbed. " Why
refer to such an old scandal as that ? "

Old ! " echoed Lady Luscombe.

Surely. Three months are a great age for a scandal

with us. There have been several since. Let us
hope," the Count proceeded, in his best sub-acid manner,
"that Lady Coates will soon provide us with
another."

I don't want fencing," said Lady Luscombe, impatiently.
'' Where's Daisy Brent ? "

Nor do I. She's here."

The Count reported with the vividness of a swordsman,
and he leaned upon the cross by the stone, from
which Lady Luscombe rose at once to her feet at the
answer.

'' In this village ! " she exclaimed.

"Yes."

I guessed it ! I guessed it ! " Lady Luscombe said.
I guessed it from your manner about this meet. She
is in the charge of Guy Faucit."

"No," said Lestrange, composedly. "He knows
nothing about her."

In whose then ? " Lady Luscombe asked.

In mine."

Yours ! "
• ■■ ■ The Count's softest and best-pleased laugh answered
her. " Are you jealous ? " he said. " Don't be alarmed ;
I only take a friend's interest in the poor girl."

Your friendship is only less dangerous than your
love," said Lady Luscombe, with a deep and scornful
bitterness.

"Well, you ought to know," said Lestrange, carelessly,
with a shrug of the shoulders and a turn of the
ring. " You're nervous and excited ; sit down while I
explain."

Nervous and excited Lady Luscombe was, so much
so that her hand shook with the agitation of her
thought, as she wondered and speculated what this
scheme might mean, which she had so rightly suspected
and feared. She sate down again upon the old stone,
and her face took a hard, set expression as she looked
straight before her, to listen to what the impassive
Count might have to say.

I repented," he went on placidly, leaning on the
cross close by her in a familiar attitude, "what you
justly call my wicked wager " (no expression in his voice
denoted anything much more than amusement), "and
provided this refuge for Daisy Brent, to save her from
Faucit and from herself."

Lady Luscombe looked at him eagerly, with a quick,
inquiring glance, then gave a merely contemptuous
ejaculation.

I don't believe you," she said.

"You're quite right," with the same quick parry.
Then his voice and manner took a sterner mould, and
all vestige of banter left them. He spoke with grave
and unusual seriousness, and Lady Luscombe's face
flushed deeper than before. She knew of old what
might be likely to happen when the Count Lestrange
was in earnest. v

You prefer the truth, and you shall have it," he
said, " I meant to win my bet four months ago, and
thought I had secured my lovers. I was wrong. I
meant the lady to run away with the gentleman, and
she ran away from him."

Good girl ! " Lady Luscombe said, with a genuine
gladness and even pride in her voice. "You had
miscalculated one thing, you see : a brave woman's
power of resistance."

Yes," said Lestrange, relapsing for a moment into
his wonted cynicism. " My excuse must be my want
of experience in that respect. For the time I had
failed," he went on, serious again. " But I found Mrs.
Brent at her wit's end where to turn, and offered to
find a home for her, though I could only find a humble
one. She was too proud even for that, but accepted

my help so far as to take work which I found for her.
She is living in this village."

Where ? " asked Lady Luscombe after a pause, as
the Count said no more.

She was trying to puzzle out the problem.

All in good time," he said.

You still dare to think that you will win that
wager ? "

Yes," he said, "I do ; to-day. I shall not fail
this time."

How ? " said Lady Luscombe, shortly.

As before, with your help."

She bit her lip till the blood came.

Again ! " she said. " What am I to do ? "

She had the old appearance of watching him, but
something with it of a new purpose slowly rising in
lier mind.

You will meet Daisy Brent presently," Lestrange
answered, with his dangerous seriousness, "and you
will be careful to receive her as one woman loves
to receive another when she is under a cloud, especially
when — "

When what ? " asked Lady Luscombe, as he did
not go on.

He shrugged his shoulders.

Never mind. Not a word of this, of course," he
added ; " I can trust Lady Coates to follow suit."

Is that all ? " presently Lady Luscombe asked
again, with the same air of increasing purpose, but
no definite expression in her voice either of submission
or of dissent. Lestrange's keen observation did not
miss the new phase, and he looked at her, this time
with no shifting of the eyes at all. This time her
eyes did not meet his.

At present, that's all," then said the Count.

Lady Luscombe waited as if she expected him to
say more. As he did not, she spoke again ; her eyes
turned away from him, but as if from some concentrated
thought.

Daisy will not be without a defender," she said.
Her brother has come home."

If she anticipated making some impression, she
was wrong.

I know that," was all the Count said.

You know it ? "

"Yes. You know I always know everything. He
will probably be at the Abbey this morning, find a line
which I left there for him, and follow us here'

Lady Luscombe's singular self-possession failed her
again, and she left the seat where through all this
conversation she had been sitting as quietly as if she
had been chained to it. She began to walk about
the grey market-place, which might have been a
desert left to the two, for any soul that interrupted
them. Still the omens hung heavy in the air; but
the clouds did not break, and the storm-god held
his hand.

To thwart you ! " then she said, looking at him -

To help me," was again the quiet answer. " He
has a violent temper. I am so much obliged to
you for making no objection." And with a graceful '
air of courtesy he raised her hand to his lips and
kissed it.

She did not wince ; but she looked at him again, as
Portia may have looked at Shylock across the • table in
the court, when she saw the man who was bent upon
a purpose as diabolical as ever crossed a human brain.
And there are people who want to represent Shylock
as a suffering martyr ! the savage usurer, whose best
and only plea is that he believed in his religion, which
he gave up in a moment to save half his cash ! Shylock
was merely a terrible specimen of a perverted brute ;

and Lady Luscombe remembered how they had spoken
of him on that day the wager was made.

Did you think that I might make objections ? " she
asked, quite gently.

If the womanly touch in her voice was meant
to disarm him, Portia's plea for mercy was never more
misplaced.

None that I shouldn't silence," said Lestrange,
with an unmistakable contempt from which sometimes
he could not refrain. It was not always wise.

''If it ruins me, I will save her if I can," was the
thought passing through Lady Luscombe's mind. " I
wonder that you can trust me," was what she said.

I can't help myself," answered Lestrange, with his
habitual tone of good-humour. "Now-a-days even
Satan cannot work without instruments. It takes two
now to make the devil, of whom one — at least — must
be a woman. Phew ! how hot and dark it is ! The
proverbial season for me — a green Yule ! "

As he spoke Count Lestrange turned away from the
cross by which he had been so long standing, and took
his handkerchief from his pocket to wipe his forehead.
Intense and more intense grew that pressure in the
air. His back was turned to Lady Luscombe, and

as he drew the handkerchief out, a paper fell from his
pocket on the ground. She saw it, and instinctively
leant forward to j^ick it up and give it him, for he did
not see it fall. '' You — " she began. Then the words
upon that paper caught her eyes, and she started as if
she had been stung. Then she looked at the paper
for a moment close, close, and crushed it up in her
hand.

What did you say ? " Lestrange asked, turning.

Nothing." With more than Portia's interest she
was looking at him now, and her heart beat almost
audibly under her dress, and her hand crushed the
piece of paper tightly away. Portia had no interest in
Antonio, as so many would-be critics want to feign.
Why should she have ? she knew that he was safe.
Portia was wrestling with Shylock, for Shylock's soul.
But Lestrange' s face, as Lady Luscombe looked at him,
wore nothing but its usual mask of well-bred indifference.
'have you heard anything of John Brent
lately ? " suddenly she asked, and without preamble.

The Count Lestrange looked at her very sharply.

Why do you ask ? " he said.

Have you ? " again she asked, weighing her words,
and pleading. " By the last news he was seriously ill."

His eyebrows went up in the old familiar way — the
way which she knew so well.

I have heard nothing since," he said on his side
as deliberately.

Ah," she said. What was the sound she used ?
A word, a whisper, or a sigh ? She made as if to
shake her head, and puzzled him. She looked at him
once more, with a look in her eyes which was a dumb
appeal, but found no answer in his. " I must go into
the church," then she said. " They will be wondering
what has become of me."

"Very well," said Lestrange. "You understand
me?"

About what ? Oh, yes. I ■ understand you very
well."

She did indeed. There was a crucifix in the porch
of the church, which met her eyes as she entered it,
and her lips seemed to move. On the threshold she
turned back once more, with one more earnest look at
her companion. He seemed to have forgotten her, and
was absorbed in his ring. She made a half-step towards
him, which he either would not or did not notice.

"Will you take those ten thousand pounds from meas
a gift ? " she said.

No," he answered. " But as a debt I will, to-day."

So she drew back again, and was gone. The sun

had been trying to struggle through the clouds just

then ; but the clouds closed over the sun, and the

darkness seemed almost to speak.

daisy's brother.

'' I don't quite like her manner," thought Lestrange.
"She wouldn't play me false: oh, no, she aren't.
Can I have made any mistake this time ? I think
not. Only a few days left to win in, and I must have
that money. Give it me, will she ? Well, that's a
comfortable hedge. So she shall if I lose it, and I
needn't leave the country after all. I've run it fine ;
but not too fine, I think. Unless I'm much deceived,
my Samson's last scruples have disappeared before his
new gospel. What an odd ally ! And as for the lady,
she has had more than enough of poverty and Bickers
by this time. With the women's tongues to stab, and
the men by to sharpen them, and that idiot of a
brother, if I've timed him rightly, fresh from the first
news of the scandal, and the longed-for lover on the

VOL. III. Q

spot, if they don't fall right into each other's arms —
well, I'd better go to school again, that's all. That's
awkward news from India, though, which she must
hear in a day or two; but not just yet, I fancy. It
upset me for a moment, but I can keep it back just
long enough. How it will sweeten my triumph when
it comes ! It's very exciting. It will be a ' meet '
with a vengeance. I'm glad I'm dressed for the
occasion, to be in at the death."

A sound of many feet and many voices made itself
heard in the street, where the pony-carriage had landed
its company before, and Lestrange drew back as he saw
them coming.

'' More of my puppets dancing to my tune," he said
to himself; " that's right. Now for my pretty penitent."

He knocked gently at the door of Delves' s cottage,
turned the handle, and went in. Quietly he went upstairs
to a room above, where Daisy Brent, with books
and account-books and papers before her, and unconscious
of the excitement which was agitating ,
was making ready for her village - school.
Worn and pale and thin she looked, the brilliant beauty
of a former day, and it passed through Lestrange's
mind, for a moment, that her changed appearance might

have the wrong effect upon Guy, and repel instead of
interesting him.

"It would me," the Count thought. "But Fruition
the high ropes, and the thing will be all the sweeter."

For a moment he glanced from the window of the
room down upon the place below.

Did you hear any noise in the market-place ? " he
said, after exchans^inor a mornings orreetins^.

No," she answered ; ''I was very, very tired, and
have been asleep. I am not strong now."

He drew the blind down upon some excuse, and

sate down to talk to Daisy for a time, consulting his

watch at intervals, and every now and then looking

out from under the blind. Just as he entered the

cottage, a group of four riders made their appearance

in the market-place, and dismounted for the moment

to leave their horses at the inn, while the inspection

of the church took place, as agreed upon. They were

old friends of ours all of them, and as they proceeded

to examine the market-cross, and other dilapidated

lions, were encroached in an animated discussion; — all

but one, who was occupied with his own thoughts, and

seemed at first to pay no attention to what the others

were saying.

Q 2

It's t — too bad, Gander, too bad," observed his
lordship of Pentonville with emphasis and conviction,
trotting about the while, though sensibly weaker in the
knees than when we first made his acquaintance. In
the head he seemed to remain stationary. 'you ought
to come to the p — point with the Beaufort girl. I
b — betted that you'd propose to her directly ; you came
down to the Abbey this C-Christmas, and now you're
going to th — th — "

Throw her over ? " supplied Coates.
No ! Back out."

I don't want to say anything indelicate. Pen," said
he whom we have known as Jem Gosling, dressed in
quiet and appropriate mourning; "but mind your
own business."

"It is m — my business," screamed the little lord,
emphatically; " I've got my money in it."

** He's haw quite right. Jemmy," quoth Sir Brummel
Coates, with the air of one now qualified as a moralist.
You ought to hum marry that little girl."

Awfully disinterested, old boy, aren't you ? "
answered Jem. '' Marrying little girls seems to have
paid so well with you."

That's a haw doosid different thing," said Coates.

Well, it may be ; but suppose it wasn't ? " said
Gosling, with a marked irreverence which nettled the
accomplished baronet.

Fact is," he said, rather angrily, *' you're too great
a hum swell since your brother's death'

"The fact is nothing of the kind," answered Jem,
taking the challenge up. " Look here, you fellows !
why can't you let a fellow alone ? I've had an awful
lot to think about since I lost my poor old brother ;
and I'd give all I've got, and lots more, if I could only
get him back again. The mum says I'm no good at
all after him, and she's right."

There was genuine regret in the tone, which
there was no mistaking. The new Lord Gander's two
companions looked at each other with undisguised
astonishment.

I d — do believe he's r — really cut up ! " confided
Pentonville to Coates, crescendo.

"Must be haw putting it on," said the worthy
baronet with much conviction.

You're a good fellow, Jemmy," said Guy Faucit
in his deep, grave voice, joining for the first time in
the conversation, and laying his Ijand affectionately
on the younger man's shoulder ; " and I'll tell you

another thing. Carrie Beaufort's a good girl ; marry
her."

Lord Gander's face felL "I suppose," he said,
that, like most girls, she'd take me now."

"Like few girls," said Guy with warmth, 'she'd
have taken you when you hadn't a penny."

Perhaps," Jemmy said. " But she knew how bad
my brother was." Faucit looked at him wonderingly.
'' Lestrange says — " the other went on.

"Ah ! he's been talking to you ?" said Guy.

Yes ; he's been awfully kind."

The less you listen to Lestrange, my boy," Faucit
said kindly, " the better for you."

Jemmy shook his head.

"Clipper, old man, you don't practise what you
preach."

"Lestrange can do me no harm," Guy answered,
with a sad and singular smile. " In the world's sense,
my life was broken long ago."

I hate to hear you talk like that," said his friend
impatiently. "You're awfully changed by all this.
That Daisy Brent business has been a bad one for
you."

Hush ! " said Guy.

'•' Oh, I know you won't let a soul speak to you
about it," Jemmy went on. " But it's awfully strange.
On your honour, Faucit," he said, gravely, "you don't
know where the poor girl is ? "

On my honour, no, indeed," Faucit answered. " I
don't know to what I've brought her. My old pupil,"
he went on, very earnestly, 'listen to me, and not to
Lestrange, whose unfaith in everything is well enough
for him, but isn't to be shared. Few men are so lucky
as you ; don't let your luck go by you. You know in
your heart that a good woman loves you for your
own sake ; marry her, and you'll be a good man."

Jem's cynicism could not have gone very deep,
seeing how easily Faucit's words moved him. His face
had a pleasant smile upon it, and his voice an expression
of much relief.

Thanks, old fellow," he said. " I'm awfully glad
we've met again down here. Yes, I suppose Carrie's
in the church. Time about thinking of looking at the
monuments, isn't it ? Good-bye ! "

And reconciled to his conscience with extreme
rapidity by a verdict upon Carrie Beaufort's merits,
which coincided completely with his private convictions,
pronounced by the man whom he had always regarded

as approaching infallibility upon all subjects, the young
senator proceeded to make his way into the old church,
to join the ladies in their discourse with Delves. Guy
watched and nodded to his old pupil kindly as he went,
then returned to his own reflections, not caring to
interpose in the conversation in which the other two
men were engaged.

'' Y — yes, you must go in for po — politics," Pennons
was observing, in answer to something Coates had
let drop which might not have been in favour of domestic
life. " It's the best dodge when you're nunc — comfortable
at home. I b — bet you two to one you'll g — get in for
the county if you stand."

Yes," said Coates, reflectively. '' I've haw stood
twice ; once as a Liberal and once as a Conservative.
Got licked both times. I'm sure I don't know why ;
I must have been right once. But politics are such
very rum things."

"Aw — awful ! " said the other. '' C — come into the
church ; they must be wondering where we are."

"Lady haw Coates never wonders at my being
anywhere," observed the baronet, "except when I'm
hum with her. But I suppose we've got to do it."

Q — queer shop altogether," said Pentonville, peering

about the porch. " I n — never before was in — in
m —

Inside a church, Pen ? "

No ; asked to see one 1 "

And resenting assistance as usual, the Viscount
trotted into the church with his oddly assorted companion,
to favour Delves and the ladies with his views
of architecture and antiquarianism. Only Guy Faucit
remained in the old market-place of this grass-grown
village of the dead, dreaming. He was sittings on the
old stone as Lady Luscombe had, like her infringing
upon the vested interests of the old sexton, and wondering,
wondering. Taking up the burden of his thought,
through which, now, two strains ran ever side by side,
he dreamed at once of the new purpose which had come
into his life, and of her who seemed to have vanished
out of it altogether. Where was she ? where could she
be ? what had been the meaning of Lestrange's mysterious
hints, which without assuming any definite form
had been enough to bring him down again to the scenes
so closely connected with the last chapter of their ill-starred
story ? Where could she be ? And as he sighed
over the last thought, he rose listlessly to follow into
the church. Even as he turned his head, his eyes meta

man's angry look fixed upon him. The man had
rapidly come up the road, and as rapidly come upon
the place.

Ah ! " he said, when he saw the other, and he
stopped him as he turned.

One word, Mr. Faucit ! " he said.

Captain Fairfield ! " Guy exclaimed.

At your service," said the soldier.

Dick Fairfield looked like a man, Guy saw at once —
more like one than he had ever thought before. And
he looked thoroughly in earnest, and spoke in suppressed
and passionate tones ; while he was white about the lips,
and dangerous about the eyes. Guy did not take much
note of this for the moment, for he saw nothing before
him but Daisy's brother.

"Have you heard anything of your sister?" he
asked, eagerly.

A good deal — just now — at the Abbey," Fairfield
answered, the voice quivering now with new passion at
the question. " I have come to ask you for an account
of her."

Guy Faucit was not a man often addressed in that
fashion. He drew himself up in a moment at Fairfield's
tone, and looked him in the face. He saw the white

heat there, and wondered what was coming. But he
was not in a hurry to resent anything from Daisy^s
brother, and he only answered, very shortly, " I have
none to give'

No one else would have had so much concession.
But Fairfield began to lose himself more. He had
blood in him, after all, and it was up.

By God, you have though, and a heavy one ! " he
said. "Where is she ? "

His hand would have gripped Guy's shoulder in a
moment, but Guy drew back. ♦

I don't know."

Have you thrown her off already, then ? "

Guy started, and stood a step back. His eyes and
face began to look very dangerous too.

"Thrown her off!" he cried, his old scorn of the
man before him coming into his voice, as he looked
him up and down. " By what right do you talk like
this to me ? "

By the best right. I am her brother."

And a careful one ! " said Guy, breaking into a
contemptuous laugh. "You remember it to-day, do
you, for the first time ? The child whom you helped
first to sell — the woman whom you neglected afterwards,

whom you left among all the dangers of a dangerous
life ; whom you left — "

'' Not to you ! " answered back Fairfield, as both
voices rose now, high in anger. " I know my own
faults — answer for yours, you — blackguard ! " •

"ah!"

No human being ever spoke to Guy Faucit like
that, and none ever saw his face look as it looked then.
The fist was clenched at once for the blow which would
have followed, and would have left Fairfield but small
chance of returning it, full of fight as at that moment
he was. It was an even chance, for a second, which
man struck first. Fairfield raised his arm, but Guy
caught it in a vice, even as for Daisy's sake he held
himself in still.

"Take care! "he said, "take care! I can't stand
that, though you are her brother ! "

But Fairfield shook himself free.

Again — where is she ? "

Again — I don't know ! "

The voices had risen to the height of the argument,
and the two men found each other under that leaden
sky, brimful of deadly mischief and of deadly harm.
But a hand had put aside a curtain above, in the

cottage near to whose door they were standing, and a
voice which startled both of them gave a cry. In
another moment Daisy Brent herself flashed right in
between them, just as Fairfield was once more on the
point of striking full at the other man — flashed between
them like a vision, with a cry of " Dick ! what are
you doing ? " — and the two men fell back instinctively ;
Fairfield to burst into a laugh which was bad to hear,
and Guy Faucit to say only, in a voice in which an
infinite variety of shades and expressions were blended
all together,

"Daisy here !"

'' And now, Mr. Guy Faucit ? " said Fairfield between
his teeth.

They had a full audience now. The tones of quarrel
had reached the church, just as the party inside were
finishing their round, and all the actors in this strange
scene were gathered to witness its climax. They came
out of the church, and they all saw Daisy — Daisy with
her pale face, paler than ever now, and in the modest
dress which might have given the lie to suspicion.
At the back of them all, having quietly followed Daisy
Brent out of the cottage, was the mai;i whose wakeful
ingenuity had planned his effects so well. He watched

the group from the church steps, resting one foot on
the lowest step of them, with an approving and appreciative
eye. He had contrived to dismiss Delves.

Neat — and well-timed — very ! " he said to himself.

******

"And again, now, Mr. Guy Faucit!" said Dick
Fairfield. " Surprised, are you not ? "

At nothing you can say or do, sir," answered Guy,
with more of the mischief in him than before. For
Dick Fairfield had put his sister roughly away from
him, and she was standing aside for the moment
alone.

The excited group were talking together, not knowing
what to do, and the buzz of voices might have
drawn all Mould-on-the-Moss together in a few more
minutes. Only a few gaping rustics, however, who
kept at a respectful distance from the "quality," supplied
the local contingent for the occasion. The Count
Lestrange it was who came to the rescue of propriety,
seriously endangered in the hands of the two men.

My good fellows," he said, very gently and persuasively,
indicating with a gesture the publicity of
the place, " remember that this is the nineteenth
century, when civilized emotions mustn't rise above

drawing-room level. Never forget that you are civilized,
and that there are ladies present."

Whether he meant to succeed in his pacific purpose
or not, he failed with Fairfield, though not with Guy.
The latter' s bow was calm and courteous to all outward
seeming, but Captain Fairfield was less scrupulous.

I won't forget it ! " he said. " Listen, all of you.
This was my sister, Daisy Brent : she is no sister of
mine now."

Dick ! you don't know — " Daisy appealed.

"Don't I?" answered the brother. "Let me
alone."

"Shall I stop him, Daisy?" whispered Guy, with
his teeth set.

No, Guy ! " she said, proudly. " Let him go
on'!

The scene was passing like a whirlwind, and took
its own course. Moved by a strong impulse. Lady
Luscombe moved a step forward.

Daisy ! — " she began.

Remember 1 " said Lestrange to her very low, and
with just enough force he held her back.

She looked at him again with thq strange look of
appeal, and again he let it go.

You have disgraced yourself and me," Fairfield
went on, " who should have known you better than to
have trusted you. But I never expected this. You
came to this place with your lover. Curse you — leave
it with him ! "

A shudder went through all there, even the coldest
of them, except the Count, who merely made an amused
observation of Fairfield, whose scratches revealed the
Tartar.

Hair about the heels," muttered the Count to
himself.

Daisy turned upon her brother like an outraged
goddess.

"My lover!" Then to Guy,— " Say that, it isn't
true ! "

It's a cowardly lie," Guy answered, " and everybody
here knows it. Speak out some of you ! "

Carrie Beaufort (who had a new" brightness of her
own in her eyes) was at Daisy's side, and had taken
her hand.

"I'm sure it is ! " she said. But she met with no
response there.

'' It looks awfully bad, you know," said Sir Brummel
Coates.

"You doubt my word, then?" said Guy. " Lestrange
! "

What can I say, my dear fellow ? I know nothing
about it," said the Count.

Lady Luscombe, speak for me I " Daisy cried.

Lady Luscombe was looking at the Count, and the
Count only. Still with that look in her eyes, and a
paper crushed unseen in her hand.

"I have nothing to say," she answered, with
mechanical coldness. " Won't he speak ? " was her
inward whisper.

Emily ! " Daisy said.

Sir Brummel," said her ladyship, with a sweep of
her garments, and even the eye-glass in requisition,
hadn't we better go ? "

Excellent Lady Coates ! " muttered Lestrange,
approvingly. "You see what you have brought her
to," he said to Guy.

What can I do ? " Guy said, distracted.

The suddenness the whole thing seemed to daze him.

You have only one course," Lestrange said to him,
in a matter-of-fact way. " Console her. You speak to
the poor girl. Lady Luscombe," he whispered, with a
cruel emphasis on the words.

VOL. III. R

I am sorry — that you should have come to this,"
Lady Luscombe said, with the same passionless deliberation,
and the same direction in her look.

Oh, oh ! " Daisy cried, pressing her hands to her
head, as if the words were wrung from her with physical
pain. " But where am I ? What does all this mean ?
I don't even understand of what I am accused. I left
your house alone. Lady Luscombe, driven out of it by
you. I have lived here alone, worked here alone, to be
saffron the shadow of a danger; and you all come
here like this, my brother and all, to insult Guy and
me with your wretched suspicions. And you know.
Count Lestrange, you know ! It was you who brought
me here — say so ! For shame, all of you, for shame ! "

Brought you here, I ? " said Lestrange, with an air
of sympathetic interest. " She's wandering. Didn't I
tell you that I never forgave ? " he whispered to her ina
pitiless undertone.

'' Oh ! " Daisy said. " Oh ! I see now. How cowardly
how cruel ! "

As bold as brass," said Lady Coates, in a voice of
vinegar. " It's quite shocking. But it is just what I
always expected of her. Lady Luscombe, it's time to be
going, at all events from here."

Yes," said Lady Liiscombe. " Let us go."

There was some purpose in her face which might
not be understood, and something in her manner
which affected Lestrange strangely; but only for a
moment.

The chattering group was clustered about the place,
and Carrie alone seemed to wish to remain at Daisy's
side. Daisy was unconscious of her presence, unconscious
of everything, for the stabs of her brother's tongue
and all the others had gone home.

In another minute the party had broken up under

the influence of this sudden catastrophe — some to their

horses, others to their pony - carriage, none for the

moment with any definite aim in view : for all thoughts

of meets and commonplaces of that kind had disappeared

before this unexpected incident. The hunt at Mould -

on-the-Moss, on the day of the great storm, though it

left its memories on many a drenched skin, was to be

innocent of the attendance of the party from Luscombe

Abbey. Gossiping, tattling, wondering, shrugging their

heads, — even Lord Gander was not quite proof against

suspicion, and a brief argument with Miss Carrie ended

in a pitched battle, in which he had* humbly to own

himself worsted, — the Abbey guests dispersed from the

R 2

market-place. As they were scattering, the church-bells
took up their Christmas tale once more.

Peace on earth ! good-will towards men ! " said
Daisy with a sad smile. She was too proud to try to
justify herself one step further just then, had she the
wish or the presence of mind. Guy Faucit knew the
truth. What cared she for the opinion of any one
else now? Captain Fairfield was still fuming, and
again tried to escape from the quiet remonstrances of
Lestrange.

Now, Mr. Faucit ! " he said once more.

Not now, Captain Fairfield," the Count urged.
I am pained that I should have brought you here for
this. You are naturally excited — not yourself. But I
have some things to tell you which may be worth your
hearing. You will see your sister again."

I leave her in safe hands," answered the other, for
Daisy had sunk down, rather than seated herself, upon
the market-stone, and Guy Faucit, thinking, was by the
church steps. The others were all gone, and the storm-clouds,
which had looked like dispersing, were gathering
more ominously again.

Daisy's attention was attracted by her brother's
voice, and she made one more appeal.

"Dick"—

Don't speak to me ! " was the answer.

Count Lestrange placed his arm in Fairfield's, and
led him away. As he passed Faucit the soldier breathed
quick and short, then suddenly said to him — "You
will have to cross the Channel with me, sir."

Faucit scarcely took the pains to look at him.

Wherever and whenever you please," he said.

Once more Lestrange spoke to Guy, a few words
heard by him only.

Don't desert her this time," he said, with an accent
of grave interest. " As a man, you can't."

Guy shook from head to foot.

And once more, in the vicissitudes of their lives,
these two hard-tried lovers were alone together.

THE COUNT Estrange MEETS HIS MATCH.

It is I who have brought these insults upon you'
Guy said after a time.

He was leaning against the wall in the church-porch,
and looked away from Daisy rather than at her.

No," she said, like him looking away. Looking
straight before her where she sate upon the market-stone,
as if out into a future which she tried to read.
The crisis of their lives, forced apparently upon them
in spite of their own brave efforts, had really come upon
them at last. " No, it was no fault of yours."

But a few words will clear you," said Faucit, not
leaving the porch, but turning round towards Daisy.
"All this was so sudden that there was no time to
think. And I don't understand, myself. Where have
you been living all this time ? "

Daisy turned her head, and looked at him with a
sad sweet smile. The pale face, the worn appearance,
the infinite look of weariness and suffering in the eyes,
struck him like a wound. Disenchant him. Count
Lestrange ? — no fear of that. Guy Faucit felt a rush of
passion and of tenderness come over him, which seemed
to rob his very eyes of sight.

Good God ! " he thought, " in a few more months
she would have been dead ! "

She made a sign with her head towards the sexton's
cottage.

Where have I been living ? In that house," she
said, answering his question.

Guy looked at it, wondered, walked from the church
across to it to look more closely, and then turned again
to look at her, the lady of his honour. He could not
realize the contrast.

Here ? " he said, with incredulous emphasis.
Here ? in this wretched place ? "

It's a peaceful place enough," she said, with a
sigh ; " and I have learned to love the old mounds
under the window, where so many generations of trouble
and sorrow have found one rest together.

The city's golden spire it was,

When hope and health were strongest ;
But now it is the churchyard grass
We look upon the longest.'

I remember your favourite poet, you see. I came hereto
escape from my old self, but these people have
brought it back with them."

The tone in which she spoke choked Guy. He felt
the rising in the throat, the dimness in the eyes, which
are the unspoken utterance of heartache, when a sharp
and sudden sympathy strikes on the sensitive chord.

Daisy," he said, with what voice he could find, and
his head was turned away again, as he seemed to be
examining the "sexton's cottage, " I would not lose the
old self."

Would you not ? " answered she. Then suddenly
she said, " Guy, come here''

She turned to him, and he came — came to the
market-cross, and leaned over her, and took her hand
in his. She was very still and very serious, and left it
there without pressure, but without withdrawal. Grave
thoughts were passing through her mind, and she
looked up in his face with the expression of a deep
trust.

I'm glad to see you again," she said.

And I — and I — " he managed to stammer out in
his choked voice. "But — " and the words followed
with a cry, and broke the barrier down — " how changed
the old self is ! how changed you look ! Oh, Daisy,
Daisy ! poor little Daisy ! "

It was too much for her. She burst out crying, and
sobbed her heart out for a while. The tears were
rolling down his cheeks too. in one of those fits of silent
weeping which seem to shake the fibre of a strongman's
frame. The frame gave no outward sign of it,
and he never looked stronger than when he stood
upright by Daisy there. But the tears fell, literally,
in big hot drops upon the ground. At last she began
to grow quieter, as he held her hand soothingly but
resentfully in his. The tempest passed in waves which
seemed almost to shatter the weakened breast and
nerves, and she looked up at Guy with the piteous
appeal of a little child, asking for protection and
caress.

"This has stunned me, I think, Guy," she said,
half sobbing through the lingering tears, and with her
handkerchief wiping them away. " I never could, you
know. I suppose that all this has changed me. I
have tried to pray, too."

"You won't be without your answer some day,"
he said gravely, growing calmer too as she recovered
calmness. " But you only see the world answer — as
it does answer prayers."

Yes," she said. " What am I to do now, after
this ? " added she suddenly, and clasping her head
with her hands, bewildered. " I canst die. Where am
I to go ? "

The appeal was absolute and submissive, and Guy
Faucit felt it. He had one short and sharp inward
struggle, one last wonder where the true right lay, one
last petition for light that he might know. Then he
said abruptly, roughly almost, " You must come with
me."

She showed no sign this time of resentment or of
confusion. She received what he said as he said it,
as a commonplace, and her eyes alone seemed to be
puzzling out the riddle. She fixed them straight on
his, and they filled with tears again. She was weak
and ill and shaken, and the old self-command was gone.
For a moment he wondered if he was taking an
unmanly advantage of her ; but he thought — no.

"You do care for me, don't you, and you don't
think me very bad ? " she said, with a trust, weakness,

pathos, desolation, which seemed to pull at his very
heart-strings. He had] never seen her at all like this,
he who thought he knew all the chords of the beautiful
lute so well.

Care for you ? think you bad ? " he repeated, with
an emphasis which nothing can describe. " Don't ask
me these things. Let me show you."

The unstrung nerves gave way again at the touch
of the intense tenderness which spoke in his voice, and
the deep respect which found expression there. It was
too hard ! too hard ! their love had been, and was, so
true, so jure, so high, their fate so unutterably perverse,
so incredibly cruel. They had strolled away
together from the market-place, and had found a corner
of the old churchyard where they thought themselves
safe from all possibility of an intrusive eye or ear.
Nature was holding her breath as before some strange
convulsion, at this terrible crisis in two lives. Neither
of them noticed, absorbed and over-strung, how close
and closer grew the unnatural warmth of the day.

I don't think I should have been tried like this —
I don't — I don't ! " Daisy Brent sobbed out, growing
almost hysterical as she went on, and Guy tried to
soothe her with what gentle and re-assuring words

he could find. "It is my punishment for treating
you as I once did ; but I wasn't so bad as to deserve
this. You told me that you had been a long time
formvinsc me. God has been loser."

"You'll break my heart, Daisy mine," was all he
could answer.

This time it had gone too far with him for even
outward calmness, and the deep, strong sobs through
which he drew his breath shook him from head to
foot, and struck full upon her ear. She looked at him
suddenly, tearfully, bravely, at the startling sight of a
strong man broken down ; and the sobs and the plea —
the most powerful, if he could have known it, which he
could possibly have used — calmed her on her side by
magic, and dried her tears up at their source. She put
her hand upon his shoulder with a sudden effort of will,
and in the spirit of a brave and, to her even then,
a terrible self-sacrifice, she said to him, in * a voice
into which all the gathered love of years threw every
tone in which love can weave its harmonies —

No, I will never do that. I can't think ; I can't
decide. Decide for me, Guy. Do with me what you
like."

He loved her as few men have ever loved a woman ;

aud it was written that, the shadow past, his love
should, growing day by day, be yet more nobly anchored
in his growing reverence. But never, to the final
parting, did he love her half so well for any words
she spoke to him as for those in which, that day, she
gave herself with a fearless grandeur up into his hands.
Would she have gone with him if it had come to
the test ? He was never sure ; nor she.

The test did not come. They had thought the scene
unwitnessed, and they were wrong. Witnesses there
were two, out of whose mouths that scene might
be established, and of those two one saw, the other
not.

She is lost ! " said to himself, but half aloud, a man
concealed behind a buttress of the church, to which he
had made, as he thought, his unobserved way. Low ashe
spoke, there was in those three words of the Count
Lestrange an inimitable triumph, which gauged the
measure of his infamous success. But even as he spoke
them the limit was reached, and the check was to come.
Another figure, and that a woman's, stepped from under
the church-wall also in front of his, and the woman
held a crushed paper in her hand. As she passed
Lestrange she heard his words, and answered them.

She is saved ! " Lady Luscombe said. " Daisy,
you are a free woman. Your husband's dead."

Dead ! "

From every one there it was almost a cry. Lady
Luscombe held out to Guy Faucit the paper which
she had taken — the telegram which, the night before,
had brought to the Count Lestrange from India the
news that all was over for John Brent, and that the bad
and harmful life had gone out for ever. The Count
Lestrange had known it all the time. When he saw the
paper in Lady Luscombe's hand, he tried to stay it, but
too late. It was secure in Guy Faucit' s strong grasp,
and when Lestrange sprang forward, it was to read
defeat and ruin in the other's look.

Then it was that the Count Lestrange lost before
others the mask that he had worn, and that the awful
evil of his face was written there in letters as of fire.
He seemed to have aged twenty years in a moment, and
a positive distortion of rage and disappointment made
every feature look as if it changed its very shape and
mould. He gripped hard at one of the old tombstones
which gave their silent testimony to the strange scene,
and for a minute he seemed absolutely dumb, and
incapable of articulate sound. He looked at Lady

Luscombe, and she looked back at him, with more of
wonder than of anything else in her eyes. The prophet
of Khorassan could have startled her no more. Great
God ! what a wicked face ! And darker and heavier
and hotter grew the lurid day.

Guy and Daisy were busy with the telegram
together, not able yet to realize the strange thing which
had befallen.

"My husband dead!" exclaimed Daisy. "What
does it mean ? "

It means that the storm is over," said Guy with
a great tenderness and reverence, '' and that we can
wait now."

It means'' muttered Lestrange between his teeth,
as he began to find his voice again, " that I am ruined,
but that the storm is to come ! "

He looked upwards savagely at the thick and murky
clouds, which carried for him neither warning nor omen.
Lady Luscombe looked at him steadily — steadily — as in
that perfect revelation she saw at last the nature of the
idol which she had set up and framed, with the head of
brass and the feet of clay. If she could have seen, even
then — if any one could have seen — a trace of repentance
or regret ! But neither she nor any one could, for no

such trace was there. If the outward change was
visible, inward change there was none. The man's
heart was seared with a red-hot iron, and there was no
place found there for any feeling but a baffled and a
fruitless rage. Lady Luscombe spoke next, and though
she spoke to Guy and Daisy, she accented her words
for him.

It means," she said, " that I would not stain my
soul and his with such a wanton sin ! It means that he
tried hard, step by step, to bring about your ruin. It
means, Daisy, that he failed once because you are a
good woman ; and that he has failed again, because I
am not so bad as he thought me. It means that I will
not be his instrument ; and that I defy him ! "

Daisy shrank back from the presence of this defiant
evil, and from Lestrange's vindictive look. What had
she done to him ?

"And it means one thing more, my Lady Lus-combe,"
hissed Lestrange, " that you shall pay to the
uttermost farthing for this day's work ! Failed, have I,
then, and through you ? No — not failed. Marry your
pretty piece of goods, Mr. Guy Faucit, and learn one
day what you have done ! Your scandal has become
too open, even if I had not heard what I have heard

to-day ! I defy all your money and all your love to
wash her name white again. And then for your turn,
Daisy Brent ! The pretty baby eyes have never cried
such tears yet, as shall dim them then. I should have
liked to see you brought to open shame before those
fair-weather friends of yours, though ! Why, I have
made you all my playthings and my sport — the tools I
worked with — the ladder by which I rose ! And I have
lost, have I ? — lost everything — curse it all ! Bah ! "
suddenly the Count said with a desperate effort at self-mastery,
after the one passionate outburst any one living
had ever witnessed from him — it fairly petrified the
three who heard it, — " I always did lose in the dark
ages — it's traditional."

So for the last time he assumed that Mephistopheles
fancy of his, and then he turned on Lady
Luscombe with a concentration of hatred which was
liable to see. It was the man all over — that in her

he always saw and remembered the destruction of his

Hi.
favourite scheme, for which he had toiled more than for

anything else in his life.

Good-bye for the present, Lady Luscombe," he

said, "I am going to fetch your letters — and to use

them."

VOL. III.

The threat came home to Lady Luscombe with the
shock of a blow, even after all the emotion which had
been roused by this stormy scene. In the strength of
her anxiety to save Lestrange from the sin he had been
so coldly contemplating, she had fairly forgotten her
fears for herself — the fears to which the Count's evil
ingenuity had given such vague but threatening shape.
In the tempest of the moment she had no room for
thought, and the formless fear of ruin and disgrace —
more even, for she had an indescribable terror of Lestrange's
power, and believed in it still as in a fate —
suddenly assumed meaning and presence in her eyes.
She turned suddenly to Guy as if for refuge.

'' Oh, Mr. Faucit — Guy — can you save me ? "

From what ? " he said, as the Count's threat had
conveyed no meaning to him, and his savage tirade
little but disgust.

From ruin ! " Lady Luscombe answered. " He
has letters of mine which he will use to ruin me. Oh,
get them from him ! Daisy, help me ! "

And she clung to Daisy Brent with a womanly
gesture. The Count Lestrange laughed.

Guy ! she has saved us," said Daisy. " Save her ! "

The Count laughed again, and turned upon his heel.

Just in the path and under the shadow of the church
Guy Faucit stopped him, and laid the strong arm upon
his shoulder. The two women who saw it never forgot
the picture. The Count Lestrange had recovered that
mask of his again, but for the mocking cruel devil in
his eyes, and, slight as he looked by the side of the
other man, his overweening pride of brain gave him,
in spite of it, again the look of mastery which all men
felt in him. He seemed to heed Faucit's arrest not a
whit, secure, even in defeat, of his own consciousness of
power.

You shall not pass. Count Lestrange ! " Guy Faucit
said, careless for the moment what nwht come of it.

Nonsense, my athlete ! Who ever stopped me ?
Who's to stop me now ? "

Sudden and terrible, out of the heart of the storm-cloud,
the man's only answer came. Even as the
strange scene above described was passing, the actors in
it all felt the gathering of the dread invisible presence
which charged the . clouds in the air. Heavier and
heavier and heavier, till every leaf and weed, every life
and organism, seemed panting as for want of breath, the
portent gathered, till the very principle of Life seemed

stayed. Then the clouds themselves first broke m upon

s 2

the awful silence in one livid flash, full upon Lestrange's
words. And even as the flash came the clouds crashed
together, and broke the silence itself to pieces in one
stupendous roar, followed by a horror of great darkness,
and a sudden waterspout of rain dashing down upon
roof and tree. In the churchyard there rang out one
unearthly cry as of a man in pain, but in a voice which
no one there knew, and so thick was the momentary
darkness, that in the shadow of the church-wall what
had passed was hidden. Daisy Brent broke the silence
first.

What has happened ? " she called out. " What is
it, Guy ? Are you hurt ? "

'' No, Daisy — not a hair."

The Count ! " whispered Lady Luscombe, in the
tones of an unutterable fear. '' Is he dead ? "

Guy Faucit was kneeling by a prostrate — powerless
insensible figure, and his hand was laid upon the
heart.

No," he said, after an almost intolerable pause.
'but powerless for further harm, poor fellow, I think —
and always. He will live to repent, Lady Luscombe ;
but, unless the old leech-craft of my wandering-days
deceives me, it will be a very death in life."

Lady Luscombe was kneeling by him too, now, and
she only said, " Thank God. It will be better so. I
loved him, you know ; " then she added with a very
simple dignity, " I may take care of him now."

Oh, Guy, this is terrible," Daisy said, as she clung
to Faucit's arm by the fallen man's side.

Hush, dear ! " he answered, raising his hat, — very
reverently and very low — 'let the justice of God
pass by."

And all unknowing of what had happened at their
feet, the old bells rans^ out again the comfort of the
Christmas chime.

LAST Words.

The chronicler takes up his pen once more, but
for a few minutes, hoping that his tale may need but
little epilogue. For what more is there to tell that an
acute and kindly reader will not guess ? If I tell anything,
will not many a reader wish that I had let it
alone, and given him scope for his own imagination ?
But then there is that trying personate enfant terrible
of literature — who will insist upon asking how it all
ended, and jibs at a ' t ' uncrossed, or at an undoubted ' i.'
For his benefit, then, let me supply something, which
had happened in the old church of Mould-on-the-MosS;
which may be that the more intelligent reader will have
divined from that brightness we spoke of, in Carrie
Beaufort's eyes. When the youthful Gander joined her
after Guy Faucit's admonition, what need to follow
him ?

"A touch of her hand, and a word in her ear,"
under the shadow of some fantastic gargoyle grinning
on them with an air of protection ; and the pink bhish
rose in Miss Carrie Beaufort's pretty face, and the
plump hand gave back an answering pressure, and the
frank eyes gave a promise which the frank life should
keep. Happy be you little people, in your own honest
way ; and as age tones down and steadies those frivolities
of sours, which are as harmless as the proverbial
crop of wild oats when a heart sound at the core underlies
them grow up together with your small Goslings
about you, worthy and useful members of the world's
motley club-house.

But oh. Sir Brummel and my Lady Coates, what are
we to say of you ? To say for how many months that
loving voyage was victualled, might be to do injustice
to the possibility that the term never ran into months
at all. Still I am in no mood to turn out the seamy
side of things, now that I am winding up the story
which has been so long my companion. There is oil to
strike in all of us, or nearly all, if the true means be
found. The terrible moral of Lestrange's accident, which
was the world's wonder for more than nine days, even
as he had filled a larger space in it than falls to the lot

of many men, may perhaps have carried home reflection
and wisdom to the not too. harmonious pair, and developed
in them, at all events, those capacities of mutual
toleration upon which at least a certain negative form of
happiness may be grafted. We may be sure, at all
events, that if the fair Emily were brought to that way
of thinking, she would find her lord's essentially imitative
mind ready to receive the necessary impression. He
was not a man of quick parts, Sir Brummel.

The Lord Viscount Pentonville trotted on his way
rejoicing, peering into everybody's concerns, and especially
proclaiming the friendly interest he had taken in
Mrs. Brent, and the perfect confidence he had always
felt in her. A proclaimed and confirmed bachelor to
the last, in spite of his sustained interest in the beauties
of the hour, and in the cotemporary journals of society,
he died at last suddenly, and creating much curiosity as
to the disposal of his very comfortable fortune, when
the world discovered, with a shock which it was long in
recovering, that he had been for upwards of ten years
married to his cook. The Duke of Surbiton and the
Marquess of Norbiton were especially exercised in the
matter, and made several bets upon the source of the
spirit which could have moved him, which they were at

last driven to refer to the widowed and ennobled artist
for decision. She refused with contumely to throw any
light upon the subject, and it was never known with
any certainty in society whether the lady had done the
trick with a jamhon en surprise, as Norbiton thought,
or, as Surbiton would have it, conquered with a
Mayonnaise.

Good Lady Pepperharrow returned from foreign
parts not much edified with her wanderings, and as she
said after her cruise in the Channel, with one of the
locutions of which her ladyship was occasionally capable,
thankful to set her foot upon terra cotta again. It was
a very short time before she learned of the stirring-things
which had happened since she left Luscombe
Abbey, and before a warm reconciliation took place
between her and her favourite Daisy, with a full explanation
of the dreadful things which that shocking
Count Lestrange had said.

Quite the most wicked stories, my dear," she said ;
and who could ave believed it of him and he so
distinguished ? But we mustn't think anything about
it now, poor dear man, in the state which e's brought to,
when all we have to think of is what Mr. Birmingham
Pope tells us about charity, though indeed he says it's a

word which never ought to have been used, and really
means nothing."

No more welcome and frequent guest sate at Guy
and Daisy's table, than good old Lady Pepperharrow.

One other guest there was of theirs, who came and
stayed often. A woman with hair as white as the
driven snow, and a face Which seemed to have outgrown
all human emotion but a gentle sorrow. A
woman quiet and tender and refined, speaking Avitli
kindness and sympathy and allowance of all, and
winning a sort of pitying respect from all who met
her. Much of her time — most of it — she spent inconstant
and in watchful nursing of a helpless invalid ;
a man looking old before his time, deprived of speech
and of the use of his limbs, and showing little sign of
remaining life but in a pair of black and restless eyes.
With those, before he died at last a quiet and a
painless death, he learned to watch her every movement
with what she could not but believe bore some
appearance of gratitude and affection, bred and cherished
obscurely in the darkened mind. During the early
days of his long illness he had crises which seemed
terrible — moaned and started in his feeble sleeps, and
shrank with those eyes of his. instinctively, from meeting

every other eye. From the poor lady who nursed
him he shrank most of all — cried and cursed at times
when she came near him, and looked at her as with
a blending of fear and of mislike. But she held her
own bravely and graciously, and she went on her way
with her sad and self-imposed task, till, as we have told,
she was rewarded in the end. The Count Lestrange
died with his hand confidingly in hers, without a quiver
and without a sigh, looking so young and placid when
he was dead, that it Alas hard to connect the face with
the perverted brain which had once so schemed and
sinned behind it. With his death, Marian Luscombe's
work in this world was done ; and not long afterwards,
after an'*affectionate farewell to Guy and Daisy, she
retired into a quiet sisterhood in the county in which
she had been born, to devote the rest of her years and
her own disposable wealth to the tasks of unobtrusive
charity.

Yet one more guest at the table, whom some of our
readers would perhaps not have altogether forgotten.
He has not shown himself much upon the scene of late,
from a wonderful instinct about beingvin the way.
When the sun shone again, and the events of life
settled down in their ordinary courses was as much

to the fore again as ever, and so remained till, in
extreme old age, laying himself down one day to ibis
toothless but vexed sleep in the sun, he blinked
himself quietly away to the side of his forefathers.
His remains rest under a special stone which records
the date and place of his birth and of his death, and
tells how before he passed away there were two equal
candidates for the affection of the famous Guy Faucit's
once only friend — Frisco.

And Guy and Daisy — our Daisy — what last of
them ? Quietly and unostentatiously they were married
after the year of formal mourning was past, which Daisy
spent with Lady Pepperharrow. I have not seen such
love as theirs, which seemed to reward these two
chosen souls for all their storms, in an excess of blessing
rarely given to men. Could she make him love her
more than he did ? If he had any feeling that jarred
at all, it was a sort of retrospective jealousy of that
husband to whom she had once belonged, which he
felt as an insult to his flower. One day in wifely love
and confidence she told him, with a face rosy red and
the deep soft eyes turned down, that he must not even
hint at thoughts like those to one who had never really
been John Brent's wife. And as Guy Faucit kissed

and blessed the mother of the baby-boy who threatened
in his tub-days to rival his father's athletic feats of
daring, and squared out with his one-year-old fist when
any unauthorized person came near during his ablutions,
he thought in his heart of all the force and meanings of
charity, and had a gentle thought even for the evil and
the meanness and the cruelty of John Brent.

Guy Faucit went into parliament, and became all
that his college friends had so proudly augured of him.
But his successes meant little to him save when those
steady eyes beamed their bright and proud approval,
and the noble face, chastened by trial and time into a
newer and more statuesque beauty, looked down upon
him in all the undoubting confidence, given and
received, of the perfect law of wifehood. She was
not his wife and his love only : but his friend, his
confidant, his companion, his " mate ■' in very deed.
Her pursuits were his pursuits, and his thoughts hers —
in emulous sympathy rather than in imitation — as his
mind insensibly moulded hers again, as it had once
begun to do in those early Oxford days. So, blessed
and blessing, loving and beloved, they went on hand-in-hand
together on a path which was made very happy
and smooth for them, when the storm-point had been

turned. And with faith and hope bestowed upon them
very largely, to make them look ujDon the happiness
here as but the shadow of the bliss beyond, they
thanked God night and morning that they had learned
from Him according to His Word, that " the greatest
of these is Love."

THE END.

CLAY AND Taylor, PRINTERS, BVN'GAV, SUFFOLK.

v^

m

,.^^ .", ;

-^^f'i;-S.

3 0112 051374392

VOL. III.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/faucitofballiols03meriv

% <^tarB ill Eton Parts.

BY

HERMAN CHARLES Derivable.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:

CHAPMAN" & HALL, Limited, 11, Henrietta ST.

Covent Garden.

1882.
[All Eights reserved

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER X.

PAGE

GUY AND FRISCO . . . . 3

CHAPTER XI.

Buncombe ABBEY . . . . 19

CHAPTER XII.
Carrie's love-tale . . . . 33

CHAPTER XIII.

THE CONSERVATORY . . . . .51

CHAPTER XIV.

DUOLOGUES . . . . 68

CHAPTER XV.

FROM GRAVE TO GAY .

CHAPTER XX.

A NEW TEST .

CHAPTER XXI.

THE MEET ON THE MOOR

PAGE



CHAPTER XVI.

THE WISDOM OF THE SERPENT . . . 107

CHAPTER XVII.

THE CRISIS . . . . . 124

CHAPTER XVIII.
)daisy's flight . . . . 133-

CHAPTER XIX.

MOULD-ON-THE-MOSS . . . . 153





CHAPTER XXII.

THi: Whip-hand . . . . 205

CHAPTER XXIII.

Fat V.

daisy's brother . . . . 22.5

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE COUNT Estrange MEETS HIS MATCH . . 246

CHAPTER Xxi.

LAST WORDS . . . . . 262

continued.)

Mephistopheles thrown upon real life, and obliged to manage his own
lots, would inevitably make blunders." — George Eliot.

VOL. III.

GUY AXD FRISCO.

The formal communication from Faucit's lawyer, of

the news which Count Lestrange had anticipated by a

day, reached him the next morning, when he was half

convincing himself that the singular events which had

happened to him were a dream of delusion. Now

there was no mistake about it. He had it in black and

white under his eyes, written in the well-known hand

of the copying clerk of Dryman, Rolls, and Dryman, of

Gray's Inn Square, that he, Guy Faucit, was the free

and uncontrolled owner of one of those vast properties

which now-a-days accumulate, one hardly knows how,

from small beginnings. James Foster had probably

found the truth of the answer made by some one like

him, when asked if he had not had great difficulty in

making his large fortune.

B 2

In making my large one, none," he said. " In
making the small one it began with, a great deal."

And so the chronicler of this history, who finds
himself dealing with colossal fortunes made and lost,
with a sense somewhat like his who turns over the
sovereigns at the Mint, and dreams of what he would
do with them, solaces himself with his humble pint of
the ninepence-a-gallon brew, and wonders why Foster
shouldn't die worth ten millions instead of one while he
is about it. Yet another nought, and the trick is done.
Ninepence a gallon, by-the-bye, as has been proved in
the course of our housekeeping by Mrs. Balbus and
myself, — and she is, I am thankful for it, cunning at the
work, — is the right sum to pay, in a well-conducted
neighbourhood, for the beer of ordinary life. As it is
the cheapest, so is it the purest and the best. Even so
doth the philosophic sage, agog among foreign tables
and the gorgeous ceremonials of the modern
pilgrim's progress, divert his eye from high-priced
champagne, from generous reds and luscious whites,
and quietly order to himself the fy)'dinaire of the locality,
at three-fourths of a franc, regardless of the name that
it may bear. Mark and perpend. A close and silent
observation, extending over some years, has convinced

the narrator that, in most cases, whatever urine you
order is that ordinaire. Reader, it is the same, touched
up. Otherwise, why should the Chateau St. Heliogabalus
(1801) of one district have a flavour so entirely different
from his fellow of the same name of the next ?

There is as much humbug about among the wine-fancies
as amongst other men, which is saying a good
deal now-a-days. When a man rolls his wine round
and round in his glass, passes it under his nose, and
then just to his lips, smacks them, holds the wine to
the licht and looks through it with one eve, then rolls
it back again and puts it down and says '' Ah ! "
(having, be it observed, hardly tasted it at all during
the ceremony), I mistrust that man.

I remember a jovial friend of mine who was of a
hospitable turn, but was wont to buy his wine just
as he wanted it, at the nearest vendor's, and startle his
family by bringing home bottles of fearful and wonderful
vintages — from Australia, California, Honolulu, anywhere
— about half-an-hour before dinner-time, in his
pocket. In fairness it must be admitted, that he did
poison his friends sometimes. Once he had a fancier
at dinner, who was great on wine, and discussed very
learnedly. His host's eye twinkled oddly as he went on.

Wilkins, my boy," he said, " my cellar, as you know,
is small. But I'll give you a glass of port after dinner
which — ha, well, I shall be glad of your opinion."

Wilkins acquiesced, and the port came. I remember
that it struck my uneducated palate as rather
heavy, but I said nothing. Wilkins submitted it,
strenuously, to the process I have described.

Good," he said, " very good, Ned. Now how long
have you had that in your cellar ? "

How long should you think now, Wilkins ? I
thought you'd like it."

Well, let me see. Seven years ? "

No, my boy. Exactly three quarters of an hour."

I shall never forget the roar which greeted Wilkins's
discomfiture.

One story leads to another ; and I have a second in
my quiver which I must let off here, while Guy Faucit
is deep in speculation upon Dryman's letter. One of
these tyrant wine-fanciers — one of the few, I think,
who may really have known what he was about, though
when I once dined with the man himself his sherry was
as bad as any I ever tasted — was entertained, upon
being honoured with some municipal dignity, by the
mayor of the locality, who was nervously anxious for

his opinions upon some particularly old wine of which
he was very proud. It was old, no doubt, and seemed
to me as if every vestige of flavour had long died out
of it. The magnate was civil and apologetic, and fought
off offering any opinion. But the luckless host was
urgent and importunate, and would not be put off. At
last the oracle spoke — enforcedly — slowly — cruelly.

There are some wines," he said, " which you can
tell at a taste have once been good. / i'll not undertake
to say if this is one of them."

Faucit had read his letter. The copying-clerk had
as usual written at the younger Dryman's dictation,
as he did upon all matters, being evidently a man who
must be deeply versed in the private histories and
differences of clients, and probably regarded them allas
a monotonous and wearisome race, who would careless
for law and correspondences if they knew as much
about them as he did. Dryman the elder was an old
friend of Faucit's parents, and had a warm regard for
Guy, for whose recent eccentricities he had been unfeignedly
sorry. Dryman the younger was a go-ahead
and bright young fellow, fond of sport and a good
dinner, and the comforts which moneyed clients may
bring, and he saw elysium in the future as Guy's man

of business, besides the professional delight which might
be taken in manipulating the Foster million, with much
intricacy of conveyance, and of act and deed. The
money was all safely and solidly invested, in house-property
here and in sound mortgage there, all first
charges ; but much of it still remained in the business
which had made it, which Guy would not of course
carry on. There would be plenty of scope for consideration
what should be done with it ; and Dryman, Rolls,
and Dryman, in a letter which seasoned the old tone of
easy friendliness with a flavour of deferential admiration,
hoped that Mr. Guy Faucit would at his earliest
convenience favour them with a personal interview.

Faucit sate and thought over the letter. One
million of money ! How in the world had his uncle
been able to put such a sum together ? It is difficult
for a layman, certainly, to understand how these things
are done, and done every day. Not long ago, the world
was speculating on the different sums left behind them,
as recorded in a single number of the "Times," by
three hard-working and able judges. One left forty
thousand, I think, another sixty, and another eighty.
And people said, some of them, as the nice people will
say, that these men of brains, which they had given to

hard public work, had feathered their nests well. Underneath
these personalities I saw the humble and remarked
notice of another, that of an auctioneer unknown even
to electioneering fame, who, dying younger than any of
these pampered justices, left just twenty thousand
more than the three put together. Peace be to his
ashes ! he must have sanctioned well, in his modest
manner. Nobody seemed to think but that his nest
was worthily lined. If money be the end of life, why
brains ? especially if it is wrong even to use them to
line a nest withal.

Of what he was to do with this mass of money
which had so suddenly fallen into his hands, Faucit
could as yet form to himself no idea. Even with
Daisy's image deep in his heart, and the strange
encounter of yesterday still thrilling through him, he
would have been more or less than man if he had not
felt that, after all, life must have some possibilities for
him now. Daisy's loss had robbed him of all the
energy and all the desire to work for money, but with
the money made for him and there in his hands while
he was in the fullest and best of his prime, and for some
years would be, the matter was different. His old
ambitions of the Lion at Oxford, and interest in public

matters, came back to his mind, and he began to dream

of Parliament, even while still dreaming of Daisy.

Failing that, if he bought some estate and settled down,

there was much to be done by an English squire, a

position Guy had often envied for its possible activities.

His heart — as the reader knows — had never been in

what is called professional work, which only allows of

other work as a second string, when the profession itself

has grown into a second nature. That is why he had

been willing to accept the literary and academic position

which Oxford offered, which seemed to him the highest

to which a man under his circumstances should wish to

attain. Daisy Fairfield came and spoiled the plan.

And now when his destinies called upon him to form

another, — his fourth scheme of life already, he thought,

with some disgusted reflections upon rolling stones, —

Daisy Brent crossed his path again, like some beautiful

and inexorable Fate. Was she his Parce, then, winding

her fairy skein round his life at every turn, and was she

to shape and to mould his destiny yet again, in some

undivided way ?

My thread is small, my thread is fine ;
But he must be a stronger than thee,
Who shall break this thread of mine."

In some unacknowledged, uncertain, un-understanding
way Daisy Brent was in the background of his vision.
Brent was her name, was it ? — it was not a pretty
name.

He would bestow upon Dryman, Rolls, and Dryman
the favour of an interview at his earliest convenience,
and that convenience should be very soon. But he
would go to Luscombe Abbey first, and he would have
some talk with the singular man called Lestrancre,
whose methods of speech and action had considerably
impressed him. This Count was a man of the world,
and his advice at so curious a crisis would be of great
value to him. Meanwhile, there was no hurry to do
anything in particular ; he could float with the stream
of Pactolus, which had suddenly sprung up in his life.
Its first earnest was in a cheque for a thousand pounds,
which Dryman, "Rolls, and Dryman apologetically enclosed
in the event of immediate needs, informing him,
at the same time, that one of the leading firms of
bankers, in the great city near, had been advised of the
transaction, and would be ready to cash it for him in
the most convenient form. Faucit smiled to himself ashe
studied the bit of paper with the four figures, one of
those documents which drop like the gentle rain from

Heaven upon the place beneath, sometimes just when
we are nearest to parching.

Father," a youngster of my acquaintance said
when his future profession was being discussed at an
early age, " I think when I grow up I should like to
become an annuitant. I've heard it's a very comfortable
profession."

Mrs. Balbus and I, living by the hand-monmouth
delights of literature, which knows not certainties,
regard those missives, when they make their appearance,
as telegrams from a better land.

After thinking the letter over, and smoking many
and meditative pipes, Guy Faucit made his mind up,
for the first and only time since he had occupied his
cottage, to make his way over to the big city and back,
deposit his cheque in the bank, and provide himself
with money for his immediate needs, as well as fit
himself out appropriately for his new voyage, for which
he was booked as a saloon-passenger of the most
comfortable order. So early in the morning he
shouldered his stick, and strode downwards over the
springy moorland with Frisco at his heels. The air was
fresh and keen and autumnal ; and the bright lining of
the "fall" wore its newest gloss upon everything, as

Faucit's trained observation noted with delight. There
was a sense of youth and battle in his pulse which he
had nearly taught them to forget, as far as his healthy
frame and elastic spirit would allow. He would not
own to himself — he could not — how much the meetings
with Daisy had fired and kindled him. He, who had
never since they parted been "on with a new love,"
could never, in despite of him, be " off with the old ; "
and the radiant beauty, which in Oxford days had spoken
straight to his heart, spoke to it as with a trumpet-call
at once again. He did not think he was "in love "
any more ; flattered himself that he was cured of that,
and need have no fear of himself with Daisy Brent,
from his memories of Daisy Fairfield. But he was
glad to see her, very glad; and he hoped that she
might be able to prove to him, perhaps, that her conduct
towards him had not been so light as it seemed.

I fancy that, with his fortune and its uses, and the
revolution in his plans of life, and everything else
together in his mind, the fact? that he was going to stay
in the same house with Daisy Brent was the foreground
of its picture. He would not have allowed it at all ;
and persuaded himself that his anxiety to get to
Luscombe Abbey as soon as possible rose from his

desire to hold council with the worldly wisdom of the
Count Lestrange.

He whistled as he went upon his way, while Frisco
made endless sallies on his own account about the heather,
rolled himself over and over on his back when he found
tempting rolling grounds, and treated himself judiciously
for indigestion with periodical doses of grass ; then trotted
back to his master's side and sniffed him inquiringly.
He was rather puzzled by the best clothes, to which he
was unaccustomed ; which Faucit, by some instinct of
coquetry, — an instinct which is not strictly feminine, asa
matter of fact, but partakes at times of the nature of
the epicene, or common gender, — had dressed himself
withal for his visit to the town. He did not wish to
impress the bankers or any one else with any notion of
eccentricity. Frisco missed the beard too ; which it was
his habit to bite occasionally, aiming at particular hairs
as the object of a jump. But he accepted the new
condition of things philosophically, if not, as is probable,
with a canine pride and pleasure. He had often told
his master by eloquent barks, as his manner was, that
he might be a very seemly-looking man if he tried. So
man and dog went on their way rejoicing.

Guy Faucit wandered curiously about the busy

toTVTi, like one awaking from a magic sleep of years
upon the Catskill mountains. Abroad, he had avoided
cities ; and he had rushed through London without a
pause, to take possession of his northern solitude. A
quiet observation of shops and slippers, and of the
throbbing life of trade, was new to him.

The sun which had shone out in all its glory on the
moor was dimly visible through the listless pall of
smoke, like a diseased ball of gloomy red. It seemed
to have neither warmth nor spirit in it, but to be
blinking dubiously at the perversities of city-loving
men, who like living in their o\sti smoke better than
consuming it ; build for themselves a world of uniform
blacks and greys, with never a contrast of colour
unconsciously to enliven their sense and intelligence,
and quicken their ner^'e and spirit ; and then find fault
with the English climate, and rush abroad, abusing
Providence for having cast their lives in a land where
the sun never rises. Poor old much-abused and patient
orb, the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever. On their
own coasts and downs, within an hour or two of them,
upon which citydom has not yet encroached, they may
find effects which Turner might yet paint, and Ruskin
write about, where the sun is as golden and the sky as

blue, kissing the sea to its own sweet colouring, and the
air as soft and pure and perfumed, as on the slopes and
bays of the much-rhymed Kiviera.

Everybody looked in a great hurry to make money,
and very sick of making it. A glimpse of curiosity was
the most they had to bestow upon the man of leisure,
who looked so strong and capable, but evidently had no
office to go to, wherein to be stowed for the better part
of his life. He took a leisurely luncheon at a pretentious
coffee-house, where, at his little table, he outside
some three or four relays of dyspeptic neighbours, who
hurled scalding soup down their throats, bolted a glass
of burning sherry to mix up with it, and hurried off
again.

Frisco, in a state of amazed curiosity, kept quietly
at his master's heels, and showed his teeth with a
suppressed snarl to one or two suspicious persons, who
seemed interested in him, in a manner which prevented
their advancing any tangible signs of the interest.
Contentedly he partook of his master's luncheon, Guy
being one who abhorred dog-biscuits and latter-day
horrors of the kind, holding that his dog's feelings were
best consulted by letting him share on the old principle.
He had tried the dog-biscuit regimen once, for two or

three days; but the mute reproach of the animal's
eyes, with the obvious internal suffering inflicted, cured
him of the plan. Frisco scraped a sniffing acquaintance
with one or two of the first town-dogs he met, but
didn't think much of them, and gave it up. Guy had
an odd feeling that the test was a good one, and felt
minded to try it himself, upon some of the uncongenial-looking
city mice he elbowed, suspecting a like result.

Luncheon over, he presented himself at the bank,
where he gave his name, and was received with looks
and words of much deference. He presented his
cheque as well as himself, opened a temporary account
for present purposes, and with a store of crisp banknotes
of sufficient value, departed. Then he made
some purchases in the town, ordered some things to be
addressed to him at Luscombe Abbey, resulting in more
bows and testimonies of respect ; and as evening threw
its shadows over the moorland, walked back to the
cottage aojain. He breathed the air like a liberated
prisoner as he left the smoke behind.

"I shall never make much of town now," he
thought.

One or two of his nomad pensioners called at the
cottage in the evening, and departed wondering, gazing

VOL. III. c

at some coins in their hands as a curiosity-hunter
makes discovery of an unknown mintage.

The next evening Guy was dining at Luscombe
Abbey, and Frisco was making acquaintance with a
select circle of highly-bred fellows, and narrating to
them, in very choice canine, his experiences of Western
life.

Buncombe ABBEY.

Ltjscombe Abbey was a noble example of its class,
so rich in decorative and architectural beauty. Original
and old, and time out of mind the capital of the
Vavasor, the late Lord had enlarged and improved it
in every direction, as his rent roll grew and prospered, a
careful taste presiding over its fortunes, and preventing
the symmetry and the order from being in any way
marred.

Lestrange used to look at it with bitter and concealed
pangs, thinking how much he had had to do
^vith the amassing of the fortune, and with the development
of the building and the beautiful pleasure-grounds
which girt it round. The gross ingratitude of the
owner, whom he had helped to all this with his brains,

gave him a just disgust at the vice and littleness of

c 2

mankind, and a longing to spoil and to punish the

Philistines with the confident conscience of one engaged

in a Holy War. All this would have been his — all — but

for John Brent. Well, he might have his revenge yet,

and his modest rent-charge on the property. He was

not sorry that he had preserved his title-deeds.

It was a beautiful sight which met Guy Faucit's

eyes, as, in a carriage chartered from the town, he drove

up through a long winding avenue of elms to Luscombe

Abbey, where

In morning splendour, full and fair,
The massive fortress shone."

It stood clear and strong upon a broad plateau, spreading
out at mid-ascent of a sloping westward hill, rich in
the luxuriant wealth of English verdure. The hills'
further slope, clothed with pine woods and hanging
gardens, which further from the house broke and
blended into a great park dappled with deer, protected
the Abbey from the keen easterly winds, while the
north-westward sweep of the hill-range, further on,
sheltered it from the other rough point of the compass
also. The beautiful valley, rippling with little dots of
silver stream and pool, grey village spires pointing
lazily heavenward, for the behoof of the small villages

clustered round them, and a few stray old-fashioned
factories, for some industry of paper or of curious glass,
looking just alive enough to support their modest tale
of hands, made up the landscape, on which, in all its
infinite variety, unsealed of custom, a lover of Nature
could never grow tired of gazing from the broad and
noble terrace which lay at the Abbey door. Upwards,
again, on the western side of the valley, surged the
wave of land, crested there with sunny cornfields, lacing
with their dead-gold patterns the carpet of emerald
turf, giving glimpses of some neighbour's rival turrets
and pleasance, bosomed in a nest of trees, or land-marked
by some quaint obelisk, erected by an admiring
neighbourhood to the memory of some local worthy
who had made for himself a national name in arms or
gown, and was thus fitly monument in the smiling
scenes from which he sprang.

Luscombe Abbey was a cameo worthy of this
lustrous setting. The old monastic chapel, which first
gave to the place its monastic name, still remained
as the north-eastern spur of the building, where the
ground rose so suddenly as to make its upper windows
level with the path above, from which a quaint bridge
gave entrance to a gallery of oak, where a fine old

mellow organ still discoursed music under a cunning
hand. The chapel had been carefully restored and
preserved, inside and out, and for many years in old
days had been open for services to the neighbourhood,
the Vavasor' chaplain having been an institution of
the place. Audley Vavasor had himself kept the
tradition up to the last ; and, after his death it continued
for a short time. But the old-fashioned chaplain
did not like Lady Luscombe's new ways and Lady
Luscombe's new guests ; and, it was said, spoke once or
twice to her ladyship in a way of which she did not
approve. One day it was announced that he had
accepted a piece of college preferment in another part
of the country ; and his place was not filled up. The
services ceased, and silence fell upon the chapel, which,
only as a curiosity of architecture, was still carefully
tended. Sometimes some guest, skilled in music, would
hold quiet converse with the old organ ; but that was
all. The place was Lady Luscombe's for her life, as it
was to have been hers altogether, no Vavasor surviving
within the limits of heirship and entail. Now, at her
death it was to pass to some distant connexion, whom
this story knoweth not, a poor working clergyman
somewhere in the west, whom Lord Luscombe had

equally declined to know, who was to take up the
Vavasor threads with the Vavasor name. The
change had been made when the codicil was made, and
was very bitter to Lady Luscombe. Was it not she
who, for her husband's sake, had done so much for
Luscombe Abbey ?

The character of the architecture had been carefully
preserved throughout the house, now of noble proportions.
The entrance-hall, with its richly-tiled floor,
was the full height of the house, spanned by oaken
girders which recalled in miniature Rufus's famous
timber in Westminster Hall. Over the door a Norman
window let in, through glass chastened in colour,
the flood of southern light, to play upon the gallery
which occupied three sides of the hall, led up to by a
solid staircase facing the door. Each wing of the gallery
was in itself spacious enough to be furnished as a room,
and one of them was devoted to the sacred mysteries of
the billiard-table. Rooms of infinite comfort opened in
all directions upon the hall and gallery — small snuggeries
and large state-rooms pleasantly interdicted
below, and dressing-rooms and bed-rooms above, furnished
with all the most luxurious accessories of the
great court of sleep. Noble statuary and pictures of

durable pigment; great bookcases filling the regular
spaces of the long library, built section-wise after the
old attractive fashion, and filled in their turn with
generations of volumes which made a chronology in
themselves, from the earliest illustrations of the Lus-combe
friars to the latest and most unilluminated of
feminine high-pressure stories ; sober wall-papers which
seemed graven on the wall ; and conservatories glowing
with Nature's richest qualities of form and colour,
made up a palace of Armada which, after his long
seclusion and oblivion of the very existence of such
things, fell upon Guy Faucit's spirit like a sudden
charm.

He was welcomed by a chorus of lazy dogs blinking
in the sunlight on the lawn, ranging in years over the
various ages of dog-kind, from sedate decline to playful
babyhood. The old sundial over the porch whispered
its pleasant legend — " I number not the hours, except
they be sunny," and an array of '' gallant gay domestics,"
as Tennyson sings, bowed before the visitor at the door,
from the gallant old butler in the front to the gayest
and most youthful of the powdered tribe, at the back of
the line of receding heads. Guy's portmanteau and bag
still a very modest kit — were transported to earth by

hands as agile as the bodiless ministers of the White
Cat's castle; and Faucit was inducted to his room
before joining Lady Luscombe's tea-table. All this
was accomplished with that luxurious smoothness and
absence of friction which is characteristic of these lofty
households, and is to the heavy-handed attentions of a
lower sphere like the Venetian gondola to the London
cab. So polished indeed was the manner of the satellite
who showed him to his room, that Faucit might have
imagined himself already in intimate relations with the
fashionable world, if James, anxious to be polite, had
not volunteered the dangerous statement, in excuse
of his mistress, that "her Ladyship was taking of a
airing."

The airing gave Faucit time to think again over
the strange anticipations which had been filling his
thoughts during the drive, to please himself with the
lazy luxury of the room made ready for him, and comfortably
to assure himself that a small collection of
choice books occupied a post of vantage near the head
of his bed. His mind had to travel back to his Oxford
days, when he had been one of the most popular of
guests at a pleasant round of English country-houses, to
fit itself to the associations of the scene. The sound

of carriage-wheels woke him from a loner reverie, and
he went over to his window, which commanded the
drive. There slu was at Lady Luscombe's side ; and
standing back by the curtain he scanned and considered
her again, the joy, the sorrow, and the story of his life.
Why? What was the magnetism, he thought, and
what the law, which had wrought so great a ruin out of
so frail a thing ? A beautiful and a gracious woman,
assuredly ; but no, no, Orlando 1 " Men have died from
time to time, and worms have eaten them, but not for
love." Was he, Guy Faucit of the strong will and
brain, really a weaker man than Troilus, who had his
dashed out by the Grecian club, or Leander, that washed
him in the Hellespont ? He had wasted all these years
on this fickle fashionable woman, who had cared no
straw for him, — or if she had, had whistled her straw
down the wind for very weariness, — and had allowed
her to make him rust unfurnished, instead of shining in
use, for a mere memory 1 Now here she was again,
popular and married, as far removed from him under
the same roof as she was when three thousand miles of
ocean rolled between the continents which held them.
And all the world were her admirers, Lestrange had
told him. He was not going to be one of all the world,

not Lie ; or if lie was, lie-would show lier that he could
talk the easy language of mock-gallantry as well as he
had once flattered himself that he could plead in another
tone. What a prosy admirer she must have thought
him ! He laughed at himself for it, and wondered
why, just when the weight which had hung about his
heart for eight good years ought to have been made tenfold
heavier by her presence as she lived, he should feel
as if it had all been Kfted away by magic. He supposed
it was his new fortune and position, and the sense of
consequence which it must give him in the world's eye
and his own ; though he owned to himself that he did
not, as yet, feel at all a different man for that. Or perhaps
it was that he had seen her again, and that there
was nothing so very much about her after all. That
must be it, he concluded to his o^tl satisfaction. He
had been hucrcrincr a delusion and a miracle all that
time, and was lucky to be brought face to face with the
disappointing reality just at the right moment, when he
most wanted to be cured of idle fretting. Guy Faucit
went down-stairs in high spirits, contented-sith himself,
and feeling ridiculously young. After all, he was glad
that her husband was not there, though at some future
day he should be pleased to shake hands with him.

The meeting this time was pleasant and easy, for
Daisy too had had her time for reflection, and had used
it. She knew her own ground and her own strength,
she thought, and was not going to deny herself the
pleasure of a free and frank companionship with the
companion whom her heart had once held in such high
honour. She too persuaded herself that it was " over " ;
that nothing survived of the past but a warm and half-regretful
interest, which might be cherished without
harm. He had never cared for her much, or he would
not have taken her so lightly at her word. So she
let her spirits rise also as she thought of being in the
same house with him, without afterthought. She was
so bright and natural all that morning with her old
friend Lady Pepperharrow, so brisk and laughing, so
full of little impulses and outbursts, and tricks of
playfulness, that it warmed the friend's heart to see and
to be with her. The old lady herself was quite innocent
of all knowledge of any reason for this, and edified
Daisy and herself by much speculation upon Faucit's
conduct and proceedings.

Why he should have done all those dreadful
things out among the savages, my dear ; and then
come one and turned permit without letting anybody

know, and they so dirty, is what I'm sure I shall
never be able to understand. But then, to be sure,
genius is always so eccentric." And then she gave a
deep sigh, as of one whose own innate sympathies with
genius gave to her also the right of eccentricity. She
welcomed Guy Faucit with a motherly interest, and was
for engaging him, upon her return to London, to give a
lecture upon savage life in the tents, at Glycerine House.
Upon reflection, she thought it would be better to
substitute a recital in costume, with a moving panorama
and living figures, painted and posed by the first artists
of the day. The notion was heartily welcomed by the
company assembled, and Jem Gosling and Carrie Beaufort
got into a comer to discuss it, whence they were
promptly expelled by Lady Luscombe.

Guy expanded again in the new sunshine, and had
hardly been in the house a day before he found himself
installed in the old post of leadership among the
younger men, which seemed by old tradition to fall to
him of right. It was the man's nature, and there was
an end of it ; and with Jem Gosling as an admiring
first lieutenant, to inculcate Clipper-worship as the first
law of conduct, he ruled as he had ruled on the dear
old river, or at the collesfe-meetino's of Balliol. With

the Count Lestrange he contracted a more serious
intimacy, fitted to the older side of his life of experience.
Lestrange laid himself out to please him, and did not
fail. He suppressed for Guy's benefit the cynicism
and hard sayings which rose so naturally to his lips, and
assumed a certain geniality which sate on him very
well, as every manner did which he chose to affect.
Like Faucit, he had travelled far and wide, and they
had in common all the traveller's talk of strange
countries which men find such a bond. The many-created
East, with all its experiences and peculiarities
which stay-at-home readers fail to understand or to
realize from all the books in the world, was known
ground to both of them ; and the peculations and persecutions
of Turkish rule they could discuss from their
own points of view. They could tell of the Druses,
whose religion mainly consists in abstinence from
tobacco ; and could assure their own fair countrywomen
that woman's world-wide rule may be as despotic in a
Turkish harem as in an English home. Guy could tell
indeed of a personal experience of his own, which would
sufforest that the Turks are more advanced in their
views of matrimonial justice than a class of Englishmen
are. For he had known of a Turk who beat his wife.

who thereupon took counsel with all the wives of the
street. They considered the matter in all its bearings,
and sent a lusty deputation of their number to beat
him, which they did mercilessly, the other husbands
on their part refusing to interfere in a matter of family
justice. And with stories of desert-travel and sand-buried
cities, Lestrange and Faucit could entertain their
listeners by the hour. So the days went by.

After a week or so Faucit paid his flying visit to
London, and Dryman and Rolls, and by sundry readings
and signing of documents and deeds, he entered in due
form upon his kingdom. He could not tell his anxious
lawyers, as yet, what his plans might be, though he
thought of buTOg an estate and settling down, unless
Time should show that he was not yet cured of the
wander-fever which leaves such intermittent fits behind.
As for Daisy and him, they rather avoided each other
at first, as by some tacit mutual compact. Guy, as we
know, had never been a man particular in his attentions
to women ; but if anything he seemed at first
something attracted to Miss Challoner's placid and
reposeful ways. That young lady seemed in no wise
ill-disposed to encourage an admirer of so desirable a
kind, and inflicted pangs upon the ruminating spirit of

Sir Bromine Coates, from which his well-made waistcoat
only partially defended him. The attraction did
not seem to last, though ; and gradually but surely the
two, who in old times had been such united lovers,
drew more and more together upon a new footing. The
courtiers who fluttered round Daisy Brent could not
but feel and see that her royal favour seemed more
directed to a special object than had been her wont of
old. They had so much in common : for in spite of all
the external frivolities and dissipations of Daisy's life,
she had succeeded in keeping green her interest in
larger things. Unconsciously to both of them, they
began to talk together again, with the old interchange
of thoughts and of ideas. Unconsciously to both of
them, the spirit of confidence and intimacy grew into
the talk. Unconsciously to both of them, Guy Faucit's
mind began to assert its old mastery over Daisy's.
And unconsciously to both of them^the Count Lestrange,
throwing them together 'with undetected art, and by a
careless remark dropped here and there even leading
others to do so too, watched and waited for his own
purposes; while with the growth of an uneasy feeling
unacknowledged to herself, the mistress of the Abbey
watched and considered him.

c aerie's love-tale. \

The Count Lestrange was in his room at the j

Abbey, brooding and anxious, as Chaffers moved about
it on his ministrations. !

This telegram only arrived this morning ? " i

he said. |

That is all. Count Lestrange." i

You are quite sure there was nothing else from
the same quarter ?"

Chaffers assented.

Now you are to be very careful," his master went
on. "Keep a stricter watch on the letter-bag than
ever, and if you see anything whatever from India, you
are to bring it straight to me. If there were a letter,
it would probably be addressed to Mrs. Brent. And
you are to be especially careful about telegrams. You
can contrive to keep an eye on them ? "

VOL. III. D

Yes, Count Lestrange."

That's right. Chaffers, you are invaluable ; and
most for showing no surprise when you are asked to do
unusual things. But there's good precedent. The
Government opens private letters. Why shouldn't I ?
Now, what other letters have you for me ? Let me
look at them."

Chaffers handed a packet of letters to his master,
who ran his eye quickly through them.

"Invitations, invitations, invitations. Take them
and answer them as usual. Chaffers, except those I
shall want to accept. You know my arrangements in
that way as well as I do. What next ? From Dick
Melton, the jockey. Rides Golden Rein at Doncaster,
and has reason to know — hem — hem — hem. Chaffers,
anything going on down-stairs, in your part of the
house, on the Leger ? " .

Yes, Count Lestrange."

Golden Rein in much favour ? "

Yes, Count Lestrange."

Lay against him as much as you can."

Thank you. Count Lestrange."

From my broker," the Count went on. " I don't
like this. Money wanted at once. Of course it is.

When isn't it ? Where am I to find a thousand pounds
for the moment ? Through Faucit, no doubt. Why
all that money should fall from the clouds into the
hands of a drone who has done nothing for it, but
nurse an idiotic sentiment out in the dominos, while
I toil for my daily bread like a ploughboy, I can't
imagine. But so it is. Chaffers," he added aloud,
what's that letter ? "

Will you see it, Count Lestrange ? "

How can I tell till you give me a chance ? Is it
one of those I told you never to give me ? Of course ;
I see. From little Rose Palmer ; the old story. Chaffers,
how often have I told you not to annoy me with
these things ? Tear it up."

If you could see her. Count Lestrange — "

I shan't, you know," said Lestrange, coolly. " Have
you an interest in the matter ? "

The poor young woman was so anxious — "

Chaffers ! Did I detect something like an expression
of Sympathy ? You are going beyond me
altogether. Human weaknesses forbidden. Perhaps
you are tenderly inclined in that direction yourself? "

Oh, Count Lestrange ! "

^Miy not ? " said the Count. " I shan't interfere.

D 2

Have you seen Mr. Faucit about ? " lie added, putting
the letters aside and walking to the window. " With
this news from India," he thought to himself, " I must
push matters on."

Mr. Faucit is in the garden, Count Lestrange, with
Mrs. Brent."

"Ah!"

The man Chaffers was arranging his master's clothes
in the wardrobe with an air of furtiveness which
managed to belong to everything he did, even of the
simplest kind. As stealthily almost as he, Lestrange
went out of the room in his customary suit of solemn
black, and left him there, and putting on his hat,
wandered into the garden, which in the northern and
western direction lay about the house. Two or three
croquet-lawns, neatly shaven for the game of the day,
were scattered among the trees, and on one of them
Lestrange saw the man he had asked for, leaning on

his mallet by a hoop, and talking earnestly with a

. . .

companion whose immediate interest in the game

seemed as small as his. The looped-up petticoat and
the shapely foot which peeped out of it, doing much
honour to the boot it was cased in, might be accepted
in proof that she was there for croquet purposes, but

her manner seemed to belie it. Whatever it was of
which the two were talking that morning; had a dee])
interest for them both, and neither of them saw
Lestrange coming towards them. He did not go far
upon the way, for he looked at them and smiled to
himself, then turned up towards the glass door which
opened into one of the rooms of the house, and for a
moment looked in.

Pairing-time this is," he said to himself, as he
caught sight of another pair of fresh and curly young
heads very close together, and strolled away just as the
two heads started apart, like guilty things upon a
sudden summons, at the intrusion of Lord Pentonville
through a side-door.

The little lord was in all the freshness of adornment,
swathed like a mummy in his little tight clothes,
which seemed to keep him together ; and he trotted
towards the young couple he had interrupted, with
evident satisfaction in the keenness of his vision in
discovering their presence.

I — I saw you ! " he said, delighted.

There wasn't much to see," said Carrie Beaufort,
poutingly, for that young lady it was. " Only Jem
Gosling arranging a bouquet."

Of course," chuckled the other. " For yo — yo — "

For her, Pen ? " suggested J em Gosling.

No ! " snapped his lordship ; " for Daisy Brent ; "
and he said it with a malicious chuckle, which made
Carrie set her teeth and shake her head at his back.

"I'm afraid it was," she said, looking at Gosling
rather ruefully.

But it's n — no good, you know," proceeded
Pentonville, triumphantly. "You're quite cut out
since that he — hermit came."

If the remark was intended to provoke the honourable
Jem, it failed in its object entirely. His worship
for his college idol was quite above proof.

He ain't much of a hermit now, the Clipper ain't,"
he declared, enthusiastically. "Isn't he an awfully
splendid fellow ? "

"He's very big," assented Carrie, with equanimity
not yet recovered, "which I suppose means awful
splendour."

"I — I — see them there," called out Pentonville
in ecstasy, having jammed his nose and his eye-glass
against the glass-door. " Out in the ga — ga — ga — "

In the garden ? "

"No, the shrubbery. He n — never leaves her.

They're 1 — leaving the ground. I w — wonder which
way they're going."

What odds can it make to you ? " asked Gosling,
rather disgustedly, as Pentonville trotted up to him.

"J —-just seven to four," he confided to Gosling's
ear. " I took those odds from L — Lestrange ; he gave
me seven to four in hundreds against their running
away in three months. I th — think they're all right."

"You mean they won't ruR away?" said Gosling,
with an expression of anything but admiration on his
honest face, and looking round lest Carrie should hear.

N — no," chuckled the other again, Hke an inferior
satyr; "I mean they will. There's C — Coates in the
garden too," he added, breaking out in a new direction,
w — with the Ch — Challoner ; they're always together
now. I'll g — go and dis — dis — dis — "

Disturb them. Lord Pentonville ? " asked Carrie,
shrugging her pretty shoulders.

No ; amuse them."

And on his benevolent schemes intent, the Lord
Viscount Pentonville trotted out into the garden, and
attached himself to the second couple whom he had
had the opportunity of discomposing that morning.

Poor Carrie had felt that she might be on the verge

of a moment of real interest when he broke in upon her
romance, which had been taking quite a delightful
shape of late days, since Daisy had seemed desirous to
abdicate her throne, and to play Queen of the Revels
no longer. It was not that Daisy was exactly changed,
certainly not to any of her friends ; but her manner
had grown more serious and reticent, and she seemed
to be putting on something of "the weeds of Dominic."
So Carrie Beaufort profited — the more so as her aunt,
who seemed prepossessed and absent, had kept less
watch over her doings of late, for some reason or another.

Horrid old mischief-maker ! " she said, therefore,
with a will, as Pentonville disappeared, knowing how
difficult it is to resume tender relations exactly as they
were before an awkward interruption.

"Poor old Pen," laughed Gosling, his universal
good will towards everybody getting the upper hand as
usual, "rum 'un he is; but not a bad sort when you
know him, you know. Did you ever hear how he
became a swell by winning a battle in India ? "

Never," answered Carrie, apparently with no great
interest in Pentonville's deeds of daring.

Well, a lot of niggers came down on him when he
wasn't looking out for them, and he wanted to give the

word to nm away, you know ; but lie stammered so
awfully he couldn't. ' Ret — ret — ret — ' says he.
Retreat ? ' says the aide-de-camp. ' Xo/ says he ;
charge ! ' and they did charge, and cut the niggers to
bits ; and old Hard Labour was made a K.C.B. for it.
I say, Carrie," said the honest fellow suddenly, resuming
more personal questions without prelude, " how nice
you look this morning."

Yery nice indeed Carrie looked when he said so,
with a very becoming promise of a blush in her plump
cheeks, and the pert nose assuming for the nonce quite
a sedate air. Less interested observers than Jem
Gosling might have thought her an attractive picture
of a maiden enough.

As nice as Daisy Brent ? " she asked, slyly and
shyly.

Well, I have hardly seen her to speak to for the
last day or two," said Jem, very frankly. " She does
carry on with the Clipper, doesn't she ? " he added, with
a moralizing air. " She's always pretty good at carrying
on," — this with a tone of conviction ;— " but this licks
the lot."

I suppose that makes you feel awfully bad ? "
suggested his companion, demure as before.

"Ton my soul, no, I don't think it does,"
said he of the ingenuous countenance and the
ingenuous modesty. "Any fellow might be proud to
be cut out by the Clipper, you know. And they
were old spoons too when they were young, so Lestrange
says."

"Jemmy, your language is confused," said Carrie,
decidedly.

"Can't help it," he answered. "You're quite enough
to confuse anybody."

More discreet or less malign than Pentonville, the
chronicler refrains from emphasizing: what may have
happened at this interesting point. Enough that it
was what a stage-manager would call, in contradistinction
to dialogue, " business."

"What would my aunt say?" was Carrie's next
articulate remark, the interval of sound having been
filled with something more expressive.

That she wished I was Gander," said the youth.
"I don't. I shouldn't," he continued reflectively, "make
half such a good Gander as Gander makes. I say,
Carrie," he said, suddenly changing the subject on the
suggestion of the train of thought, "your aunt and
Lestrange are as thick as ever."

Don't talk about him," said Carrie, liking neither
the change nor its character. " I hate him."

I don't love him either," admitted Gosling, unwillingly.
" Extreme beggar ; I wonder how he lives ! "

He seems to Hve very well," Carrie answered.
They do say, Jemmy " (confidingly), " that he writes
for the ' Saturday Review.' "

Oh, ah ! " said the other, disrespectfully ; " I know
lots of fellows they say that of. I wrote for it once, but
they wouldn't put it in. If they put in all the fellows
who say they write for it, the world wouldn't contain
the Saturday Reviews that should be written."

And what a very dreadful thing that would be."

"Awful."

The idea was so serious that it wanted a brief period
of serious contemplation before Jemmy went on with
the subject.

Still," he said, " Lestrange is just the man for that
sort of thing ; quite the fellow to cut up everybody for
the fun of hurting them, you know, and not say who he
is. Never could see the odds between an anonymous
cut-up and an anonymous letter, though one's caddish
and the other's the dignity of the press. When a
fellow's got anything ill-natured to say of another

fellow, he does like old Weller, and puts it down with
a 'we.' However, I don't know much about it.
Shouldn't wonder if Lestrange put us in an article next
week. He's always prowling about somewhere."

Even as he spoke the figure of a man in black was
by the glass-door again.

Just when you least expect him," shuddered Carrie
Beaufort, nervously.

Can't make out why the Clipper's so fond of him,"
resumed Gosling, who was constantly wanting to make
things out, and failing.

Wiser in his generation than persons of greater
mark, when he found that he couldn't make them out,
he let them alone.

"Carrie," he added, suddenly, shifting his ground
with the inconsequence of his nature.

Yes ? "

What makes people fond of other people ? "

Is that a conundrum ? " she asked, looking down
with a funny little dimpling smile.

No ; a question."

I don't know," she said, after a pause, in a voice low
and pleasant. " Pique ? " then she asked, looking up, the
dimples about the mouth growing very provoking indeed.

I do not know, nor did she, exactly what might
have come next; but a shock of cold water down an
expectant spine does not come with a more sudden
chill than the quiet — " Your aunt is asking for you.
Miss Beaufort," which followed.

The speaker was Lestrange, who had come in
through the glass door as if nothing had happened.
Poor Carrie ! twice within a short half-hour !

Talk of the — " muttered Gosling, fairly disgusted
this time. Carrie Beaufort had looked so irresistibly
pretty just then.

The devil, eh ? " supplied the quick-eared Count.
Were you talking of love, then ? "

The cold water was icing now.

Talking of love ! no ! " said Carrie. " It was
something very different."

Really ! " he said, scanning the pair with a smile.
Marriage, I suppose ? "

Ice — all over.

Unpleasant beggar ! " muttered Jem to his pretty
companion, as their two spines gave responsive shivers.
"Always sneering at something."

"Yes," she answered, "and at the best things —
marriage and all."

All," considered Gosling, " I don't quite know
about best."

The Count had brought into his Arcadia a whiff of
worldly wisdom.

What will you give me," said the Count, in a low
voice to him, with the well-known mockery in his tones
which men were so afraid of, " for coming in when I
did ? I am very sorry to have interrupted you. Miss
Beaufort,"

Oh, don't mention it ! " said she, who would have
Eked to cry.

But sou know your aunt," he added, in a paternal
tone, as if to a naughty child ; " you will get yourself
into trouble."

Thank you," she said, bridling. " I can take care
of myself."

She turned away indignantly.

Then why," said Lestrange again to Gosling, " does
she want you to do it for her? Have you forgotten
Daisy Brent already ? "

The Count had the art of changing the whole
current of a man's thoughts with a syllable or two, and
nothing amused him more than the exercise of this
power.

Oh ! she has thrown me over ! " said Jem Gosling.

o

Are you sure ? " said Lestrange, reflectively.
From what she said to me yesterday — yet I don't
know. "Women are so clever in disguising their
feelings ; at least' he added, with a look of slight but
perceptible depreciation towards poor Carrie, "some
of them."

Gad ! " ejaculated the Honourable Jem, the ever-ready
vanity of mankind being prompt to rise to the
bait ; " if I thought that the lovely Brent — "

Are you coming, Mr. Gosling ? " tapped out an
impatient little foot at the door ; '' you promised to
arrange these flowers in the drawing-room."

All ricrht," said Gosling. " Hano- it," thought he
to himself, as he followed, in his especial vernacular,
she's an awfully good little girl, and I Hke her. But,
by Jove ! I quite too awfully near put my foot in it ! "

The Count Lestrange laughed silently to himself
when the two had left him alone, the pleasure of so
spring sport being in itself a delight to him. As
usual with him, he reflected complacently on the high
character of his motives, even in so small a matter. It
was his clear duty to keep such a pair of moths out of
the flame as long as possible, and to fulfil a promise to

Lady Luscombe to do his best to avert premature combustion.
It might do all very well a little later ; but
much depended on the constitution of the reigning
Gander, which was ruined, but tenacious.

The entire absence of cerebral action, reflected
Lestrange, always retards decay in that family. It was
known that Gander was very ill, but worse even than
he had been known to disappoint everybody, and to
marry and beget heirs. Miss Beaufort must not be
allowed to throw herself away on the Honourable
James yet ; but as she was clearly prepared to do so
at any moment, the Honourable James must be kept
judiciously in hand. But this was trifling, and the
Count had his reasons now for not trifling too much.

"How goes the other flame," he thought within
himself, " which I must kindle and not quench ? Where
are my Hercules and my grass-widow, I wonder ? They
looked in very close confidence just now."
He looked through the glass-door again.
"Yes, there they are. What a pretty innocent
picture. Adam and Eve in the garden of Paradise. A
subject worthy of a painter — of a poet — a subject worthy
of me. So entirely conscious of the rectitude of their
motives, too, that they are not afraid of the windows of

the house. There's Pentonville at one of them. Ha, ha !
The thing of all others to help one in a complicated
matter is conscious rectitude on all sides. We all mean
well. I do. So does Pentonville. He means to have
four hundred pounds of mine. And so he shall. It isn't
a bad hedge to help me to the ten thousand ; for a more
useful agent of mischief I don't know. What a pity he
stammers ; he might do so much more harm. I don't
Hke the news from India at all. John Brent is dangerously
ill, confound him, and I must keep it from his
wife. She would be going out to nurse him, or something
silly. When people once get certain conceptions
of what they cal duty into their heads, there is no
telling when or where they may start up. And if
Brent were to die — oh no : that would spoil my
book, so it won't happen. But I must quicken my
athlete's stroke, now that I have him well in training.
Nearly a month here, and not up to the mark yet.
How slow he is," his thoughts ran on as he looked
again from the window. " Go on, Hercules, go on !
Muscles and scruples ought never to go together.
Nothing but indigestion makes a conscience excusable.
I must have another talk with Faucit, and — yes ; my
Lady Luscombe shall talk to Daisy. There will really

VOL. III. E

be a scandal in the house, I am afraid, if things continue
as they are. I'll go and find Lady Luscombe —
particularly," he thought, "as I don't think I am
wanted here."

The two whom he had been watching were approaching
the glass-door. Close to that door, the room in
which this scene had passed, — a sort of outer sitting-room,
— opened upon a long conservatory, in the centre
of which a thick and flowering row of tropical plants
and ferns divided two passages which ran down either
side of it, communicating at the other end with the
main part of the house beyond. Up one of these
passages, the further from the door, the Count Les
strange withdrew a little, and busied himself unnoted
with a close examination of some of the thickest of the
plants, as the two entered the room.

THE Conservatory.

Why are you so anxious to come in ? " said Guy.

Was I anxious ? " she asked.

Her face was very thoughtful, and his too ; and
there was a strange constraint on both of them.

You seemed so," he answered.

It's so awfiiUy wet."

Wet doesn't hurt Daisies," he said with a smile.

A slight smile crossed her face too as she answered,

You mustn't cal me by my Christian name."

He did not disclaim the intention, but he asked,
"Why not?"

Because it's awfully wrong."

It's not so wrong as your surname," he said in a
low voice.

Oh don't say that ; you mustn't," she said very
quickly, flushing and wincing as from a pain.

E 2

UNNERSITT Of ILUNOC

J

Why not, if I feel it ? "

There was no mistaking the deep earnestness
which spoke in Faucit's voice. Lestrange, watchful,
smiled to himself, and for a moment looked at the two
from the cover of a flowering palm. Then noiselessly
and rapidly he moved down the conservatory, and was
gone by the other side.

"Who was that?" Daisy asked, her ear catching
the sound.

No one," said Guy. " You haven't answered my
last question."

Why not, if you feel it — wasn't it ? " she said.

She had taken her place in an American rocking-chair
by a handsome flower-stand in the room, which
itself preserved some of the attributes of the conservatory.
And her hand was playing with a lily, and her
eyes were full as of a deep spring of thought.

"We mustn't say all that we feel," she added,
looking straight before her, the lily at her lips.

No," he said. And he leaned his arm upon the
flower-stand at her side, and there was a pause between
them. Something, that day, seemed to make it difficult
to speak. " Are you glad I came here ? " he abruptly
asked, without apparent reason.

No. Yes. Awfully."

I wish you wouldn't use that word about everything,"
he said, in a provoked and impatient tone.
Womanlike, she at once looked mischievous, and
laughed a little, a mere touch on a silver bell.

"What, awfully?" she asked. "It has been the
most expressive word in the language ever since it got
into it. It's an awfully good word."

"There it is again 1" said Guy. "How can a word
be awful?"

I didn't say it was an awful word," was her answer,
given with a spice of good-humoured mimicry of his
tone. " I said it was an awfully good word. Ha, ha,
ha ! Isn't that logic ? "

"Complete and unanswerable," he said, shrugging
his shoulders, not too willing 'sto fall in, perhaps, with
the light and careless manner which Daisy had now
assumed. But she would not let it go.

"You see how fast young women are getting
educated in these days," she said, laughing.

I am afraid you are rather a fast young woman,"
was his comment.

Why that's a pun ! " she exclaimed, " absolutely
and positively a pun. Not a good one, but still a pun.

Mr. Faucit, I didn't think you had it in you. You will
write a burlesque yet, and win the heart of Jem Gosling
entirely. How fond he seems of you."

Good little fellow," answered Guy. " Yes, I think
he is. I wish he would make haste and marry that nice
little girl, Miss Beaufort. It would be the making of him."

Marriage is not always our making," answered
Daisy. " It is a miserable imposture in some worlds, at
all events."

Not always, anywhere, I hope," he said. " Why
do you talk in that way ? It doesn't suit you, any more
than fastness does."

There again ! " she said. " How can you call me
by wrong names ? "

Well, you won't let me call you by the right one,"
answered Guy, recurring to the old point. "But it
frets me sometimes to see you play as you do at a
character which is not your own."

"How do you know that?" she said. "Our
characters change sometimes. Men change them for
us, or circumstance, or anything."

Was it a man who changed you, then ? " asked he.
Somehow I don't believe it. Your heart doesn't seem
to me in this butterfly life, the least'*

My heart 1 " she said, ^v^ith a laugh. " What can
make you suppose that I have one \ "

Or ever had ? "

She looked at him for a moment. " Or ever had, if
you wish it. It is a thing, from all I have heard of it,
one is much better without. Of course I have no personal
experience ; and you see how well we all get on
here without such a thing. I don't think we boast one
between us at Luscombe Abbey, except dear old Lady
Pepperharrow ; so we all laugh at her, of course."

"It's a worldly set enough, certainly, this of yours,"
answered Guy, shunning any direct issue. " And I
hate the familiarity," he suddenly said, with some
vehemence, " with which you let everybody in the
house treat you."

Do you ? " she said in a low voice. There had
been no mistaking the feeling with which Guy Faucit
spoke, and in spite of herself it thrilled through Daisy's
nerve. " Why do you want the same privilege, then ? "
she asked with a smile, not swerving from her careless
tone, or letting him read anything of what she might
think or feel.

That's different," he shortly answered.

Of course ! " she said. " How grave we are ! "

continued she in a bantering manner, which had in it,
notwithstanding, an odd mixture of expression if it
might have been read ; something of respect, something
of pleading, something of yearning. "You are just
what you were eight years ago," — with a frank and brave
allusion to past times which brought an answering
look into his eyes, — 'the same awful old don as
ever ! ' Awful ' is all correct there, you know," she
hastened to stipulate, in answer to the initiate protest
of his lips. " Do you think that everybody is to be as
particular as yourself ? "

"I think," he said, gravely, 'that married women
should be more careful."

Should they ? " she thoughtfully answered.
"Then" — with a smile playing about her mouth —
you had better go."

Not for the world would Daisy Brent have forfeited
the new friendship which was springing up upon the
ruins of the old building. For it was friendship, oh ye
cynics ; and it is possible under such conditions, and
true. Daisy knew her heart, and knew herself, hers
strength, and her weaknesses, and trusted herself out of
that knowledge with a deep and fearless trust. She
did not disguise from herself that she loved GuyFaucit,

and had always loved him, nth a love never to be
given by her to any one beside in this world. Had she
known and cherished it for a safeguard, all those
desolate years, to shrink from it now ? Might she not
rather — did she not rather — thank God upon her knees
night and morning for bringing back the old lover, to
give him to her for a steadfast friend, just when her
life, and heart, and value were going to rack and ruin
upon the reefs of circumstance ? He could and would
save her from herself, she felt, and in his time and way
show her what yet to do with her life for good, whose
beacon-light had never quite been sunk in all her
storms. She felt it all the more because to her heart's
core she knew, as she had known in those happy days
of the might-have-been, that he whom her heart
honoured was thoroughly akin to her. What she felt
he felt, what she meant he meant, and his heart and
purpose were as steady and as loyal as her own. He
showed it to her in a hundred self-controlled ways ; and
as she had trusted him as a lover, as she would have
trusted him as a husband, she could trust him as a
friend. Dangerous, would you call it ? oh small-thinking
and small-speaking world, dangerous — to such
souls of choice as these ? This was one of the tragedies

of life, it may be ; and none so well as Daisy felt what
she had lost. But it was a tragedy of high and noble
mould, which neither she nor he would turn to common
melodrama. She bowed her head as within herself she
owned the justice of the punishment which separated
their lives in the higher sense of union, in that she
could not pass safely through the vulgar trial which she
had succumbed to, and read her simple duty before her
in the bright letters of her love. It seemed so easy and
so paltry now ! Had she not owned to herself over
and over again, that she had expected Guy to remonstrate,
to make some sign ? If she had expected
that, why had she allowed anything to tempt her to
give him cause ? And as she looked at him now, strong
and straightforward, and single of purpose, she wondered
how she could ever have dreamed of any other result ?
Hers had been a • hard trial, true ; but are not the hard
trials sent for the strong and favoured souls ? and how
had she dared, with such a love in her, to play it false
for all the best conventions of the world ?

So Daisy Brent judged herself, and recognized the
justice of her sentence, while reading there the mercy
which tempers justice, and had given her back at last
the friendship which was better than all loves beside.

What had it given her more ? The instinctive knowledge
that, as she had loved Guy, so Guy had loved her,
and that to the mirage she had made of that love he
had been, and would be, true for evermore. Could
woman's wound have better balm than that ? No.
There was no danger. Here was no story of common
capacities, to end in any commonplace of 111. And so
she said to him, with that smile playing about her mouth,

'' Then you had better go."

I am your friend," said Guy. " I can be nothing
more now."

He did not mean to shrink, nor she, from such
allusions to the past. They were not to be avoided,
and were better met.

Yes ; they always begin by that," answered Daisy,
whose new fashions still hung about her, though ui
truth as garments they were but a poor fit. " But your
prejudices are so awfully old-fashioned. Look at our
hostess, Lady Luscombe."

"What is it about her?" asked Faucit, rather
roughly.

Alio is it about her, you mean," said Daisy.
Count Lestrange always, except when he's making
fun of Lady Pepperharrow. Can't you see that ? "

I haven't looked," said the other, with indifference.
You don't mean that they are beginning by being
friends ? "

No ; they're endings by it. Don't you know the
story ? Have you never heard why Lord Luscombe
left it in . his will, that if his widow should marry
again, she was to lose every penny ? ''

No," Guy answered. "What were his reasons ? "

Only one. Count Lestrange. Everybody knows
it, and nobody minds it. You have lived in the deserts,
Mr. Faucit ; you do not know our world as at present
constructed."

There was scorn in her voice, of herself as of others.

Was anything known ? " asked Guy, whose tone
caught hers.

Oh, no. Then it would have become wrong."

She was playing with the flower with her fingers,
absently ; and its leaves were falling to the ground. A
whole unwritten history of regrets and possibilities
seemed locked in the two hearts.

He is a strange man, this Count Lestrange," said
Guy.

"Yes; a strange man, and they say a dangerous
one. But I never quite understand what people mean

by talking so much of danger. Our dangers come from
ourselves, and the Count has always things to say out
of the ordinary run of gossip and commonplace. I like
his company for that reason."

So do I, sirs. Brent. One can always discount
a man's conversation from one's ideas of his character,
and make the best one can out of it without being
afraid of being contaminated. We are not sent hereto
go through life like a package, labelled ' This side up
with care.' The eternal suspicion of ' something wrong '
is a perfect pest of the day, and of every day, I suppose.
I often feel disposed to parody the old text, for the
benefit of the Bowdlerized edition of mankind so much
circulated now-a-days — ' To the proper all things are
proper.' "

She laughed and answered, " Your text would not
be a very welcome one, and would rob many people of
their bread. What would become of society, and of
morality, and of all sorts of things ? "

Inconsistency is an attribute of life ; and it is
impossible to say why Guy Faucit's next remark was
this, with something of a fro^\'n :

Do you Hve very much with this Lady Liis-
combe ? "

"Yes' said Daisy, "a good deal; though, as you
know, my home is with Lady Pepperharrow. Lady
Luscombe is not unkind, though hard."

Hard enough," said Guy.

I don't mind that," Daisy said, sadly, with a sigh
which, for the moment, she could not help. Aimless,
loveless, disappointed life that hers was, so full of
purpose and of affection and of promise that it had
been, it was a weird at times. '' God knows," she added,
rising from her chair, and throwing from her with an
impatient gesture the stalk of the dispelled flower,
I am hard enough myself ! "

She walked to the conservatory, and toyed with
some of the rich leaves which clustered there. He
followed her with a look, and a very sad one, which she
did not see. He did not wish that she should.

You are not just what you were eight years ago ! "
he said. " You are bitterly changed ! "

The whole frame quivered, the whole scene grew
misty, the whole brave heart seemed for a moment to
be dissolved in tears. But there was no outward
sign but of a graceful woman, bending over a graceful
plant.

Yes, bitterly," she answered, and put the question

by as not of much moment. " Come and look at this.
What a lovely fern ! "

He joined her, and they strolled up the conservatory
together, on the opposite side to that where Lestrange

had gone.

*****

There they are, you see," said the Count Lestrange

As the other two drew away, he entered the room
from the other side of the conservatory, with Lady
Luscombe. They had come in at the further end of it
some minutes before, and had been loitering in the
way close to the room. To anybody who had seen them
together as they stood, with their unspoken thoughts
between them, under the canopy of climbing tendrils,
the picture might have recalled the Count of Monte
Christ and Mercedes, when she offered him the grapes
in the chateau of Mercers her husband.

"Yes, I see," said Lady Luscombe, looking after
Guy and Daisy, as in close converse they passed out of
sight together. "I ^\'ish that I had never brought
him here."

Why ? " the Count asked.

To win you this infamous wager," answered she.

Her worn face looked more worn than ever, and the

hair seemed even to have been whitened under a fresh
fall of the snow of age. Her eyes looked harassed,
eager, miserable ; and the pity of her life, there among
all the rich surroundings which were hers, and not hers,
was written in her whole expression and bearing in a
way which might have appealed to any man. Count
Lestrange, who looked placid and unperturbed as ever,
did not appear to be moved by it, or to notice it in
any way.

Are you really beginning to be afraid of your
paragon, then ? " he said. " And why do you talk about
infamous ? What nonsense ! Exaggerated expressions
are such a mistake."

"If I had known the story of those two at the
time," said Lady Luscombe, " I would never have lent
myself to your schemes."

Oh, yes, you would ; but not so readily. That's
why I didn't tell you till afterwards."

And it is really true 1 " exclaimed Lady Luscombe,
seating herself impatiently in the chair which Daisy
had left, and tapping the ground with her foot in a
restless fashion. " For a bet — for a mere bet — you, who
by means of your own can always get money when you
want it, will deliberately ruin two people who have

never harmed you. There is something more than a
bet in this — some revenge. What is it ? "

I assure you there is not," answered Lestrange.
"I respect revenge very much in others, but never
practise it myself. It is so very human. I've made
a bet, and I mean to win it ; that's all."

By this abominable action ? "

I think it is a benevolent action — so benevolent
that I feel quite pleased with myself. Faucit will make
his new start in life with a real reputation. As for the
young lady, she has two passions, money and notoriety,
and I shall secure her both. She ^vill be the talk, and
consequently the envy, of her sex. She will change
one husband — bad, old, and poor — for another, good,
young, and rich."

How can they marry," Lady Luscombe answered,
when you have ruined her ? "

It won't be ruin, only bankruptcy. She can
start fresh, after going through the Court."

There was a more open sneer in the last words than

was usual with the speaker, who even with Lady

Luscombe generally veiled his cynicism decorously,

and seemed unconscious of their point. His manner

seemed to sting her, and she turned round upon him
VOL. in. F

with an unrepressed shudder, and looked him straight
in the face. His eyes wandered away at once, and he
played with the ring upon his right hand.

"Count Lestrange," she said suddenly, "had you
ever a mother ? "

No, I fancy not," he answered with indifference.

The two figures that they had watched down the
conservatory were approaching the room again together
as before. Lady Luscombe heard their voices speaking
in subdued tones, and she rose to her feet.

They are coming back. I shall warn them," she
said.

The Count had heard them too, and quietly gone
over to the other side of the conservatory, where he
stood in the archway of it.

"On the contrary," he said, 'you will come
this way."

I will not."

You will come this way."

There was the old tone of quiet and magnetic
command, and with it a certain cold glitter in the eye,
which enforced obedience as usual.

What do you mean to do ? " Lady Luscombe asked,
going up to the Count.

I wall tell you, and what you must do," he
answered. '' Perhaps I am not so bent upon this bet
of mine as you think, and wish, after all, to save things
from going too far. You have seen in the last few
days how far they are going. Come this way, and I'll
explain myself."

They went down the conservatory again together.

P2

DUOLOGUES.

So you are a very rich man now ? " Daisy was
saying.

Yes, I suppose so," was the answer.

*' And you mean to be a very great one ? "

No."

He spoke wearily and with indifference, and, without
meaning it perhaps, he threw into his tone a despondency
which struck painfully on his companion's ear, and
gripped her about the heart with a sadness like his own.
It could not but come to them both at times, steady
of purpose as they were. That same heartwholedness
on which Guy had congratulated himself on the day of
his coming to Luscombe Abbey had been exposed to
some dangerous siege-work in the days which had
passed lazily by since then.

"Are you so changed then, after all," said Daisy,
after a pause, in a voice which had in it a real and
gentle sympathy, " since the old days when you were
so ambitious of a name in the world ? "

The old days ! What a phrase of pregnant meaning
is there, and what a burden, only too often, of an unutterable
pain ! The very words seemed to strike a
new note of music on Daisy's peerless voice, and to be
echoed in the man's deeper modulations.

'' I am not selfish," he said. " I was only ambitious
of a name which I might share."

With others ? " she asked. And both, unconsciously
to themselves, spoke very low.
With one other. With a wife."
She turned her head away from him as he spoke
the words, that he might not see what she too surely
felt, how the soft colour which had tinged her cheek
deserted it in a moment, and left the blue veins traced
more clearly than was their wont upon the pure
marbled complexion which was one of Daisy's prides.
It was not marble now, but white. Marble has hue.
She fought with herself, and felt hot tears pressing
behind her eyes.

Why have you never found one ? " she said,

bending over a flower, but with a voice which she made
natural by a strong effort. Though there was interest
in it, too, the naturalness wounded Guy.

Don't you know ? " he said, shortly, and with a
feeling which on his side he was not at such pains
to conceal. '' I was poor."

"But you are rich," she answered, bravely preserving
the same tone, though the sad heart faltered as
she did it. 'now you will be able to choose for
yourself."

I suppose so."

Shall you do it ? "

Do you wish it ? "

I — suppose so."

There was hesitation there, or Daisy Brent had never
been Daisy Fairfield, or a true-hearted woman. His
wakeful ear caught the slight change of intonation,
and he welcomed it with another pause. Then he came
closer to her side than he had been standing before, and
she shrank, involuntarily, just a very little. And he
spoke quickly and thickly, with a feeling almost hoarse
in its suppression.

*' Do you advise it ? " were his words ; '' from your
experience of women ? Yes, I am rich ; and I might

ask some girl to marry me tomorrow, not knowing that
she was engaged, perhaps, to some poor devil who cared
for her, and for whom she was supposed to care, more
or less. She might say ' yes,' and forget to mention the
other. That would be a chance for happiness, would
it not ? "

The laugh in which the words ended was not very
genuine, or very pleasant to hear. Daisy shrank from
it, but gave no sign he saw.

She might learn to love you," she said, biting
her lip.

'' Yes ; unless I lost my money."

Guy Faucit was losing his steady tone, and his head
was leaving him a little. He said the hard words with
intention, and they pierced. But she pressed her hand
to her heart, and again she staunched the wound. She
did not justify herself in her own eyes, and if she could
fi^lp it she would not rebel. How could he know that
he was wronging her ?

Rich or poor," she said, deliberately, and in a calm
voice, " you would be a good husband to her."

If Daisy Brent could avoid it, she would not stand
between Guy Faucit and a happiness which might be
his. Yet for the first time, the very first since they

had met again, she felt at this moment in the soul
of her, that what he had been to her that had she
been to him. Yet between him and happiness she
would not stand, with the help of God. And herein I
think Daisy was doing a brave thing indeed.

He did not see beneath the surface, though, for men
do not, any more than they can with equal resolution,
in time of need, cover the surface over. He saw in
her words only their outward seeming, and he grew
more and more indignant as in that light he read
them. A flirt ! a deceiver ! and a heartless one, after
all. Was her last scheme to affect a friendly interest in
his prospects of marriage, then ? He could have borne
anything but that.

A good husband ! " he said, very bitterly indeed
this time, and with an unconcealed scorn. " What if I
found out that she had been so utterly base as to marry
me for my money, liking somebody else better, as far as
she had it in her to like anybody, and throwing him
over without a scruple ? I am not quite sure."

There was absolute evil in the sneer which Guy
threw into the last words, and threw at her as with
an insult. She could not bear it, and it could not befor
the wound of those savage words this time went

too deep, thoiigli it carried with it a strange balm, iox
she felt the love in them as she felt the misunderstanding.
But the misunderstanding was too terrible to be
borne, and her shield fell from her unnerved hand at
last. She turned round upon Guy with a look he
started from, for the hot tears had welled into her eyes,
the red flush had covered neck and brow with a very
glow of modesty and honour, and lip and nerve and
fibre quivered like an appealing child's.

But if the terms of the bargain were plain ! " she
cried, for it was as Tvdth a cry that she spoke, and in the
force of the feeling which she suddenly unloosed she
clasped her hands together as she faced him, and the
words rushed hotly from her lips without break or
stay; "if the girl told you of that other love, and
prayed you to be generous, and you would not ! if the
fortune, the subsistence, yes, and the honour of her
father and mother depended upon her saying ' yes ' to
the offer to which her very heart and soul said ' no '
with loathing ! if she told you all this, and you claimed
her in spite of it ! if she sacrificed herself to you, body
and soul, — and in all the world there is no sacrifice so
horrible as that, — and then you broke your bargain ! if
your fortune proved as hollow as your love ! if you

taunted her, day by day and hour by hour, with the
true friend and true man whose life she had laid waste
for you ! if you were bitter, cruel, violent ! if — if —
you It her, Guy, what then ? "

Did your husband do that ? " said Guy.

"Yes."

Damn him."

The silence fell between them like a death ; and the
beating of their two hearts filled the void of words.
There was no shadow of need for further explanation ;
for her sudden and passionate outburst had told him
everything, and he did not disbelieve or doubt her
for a moment more. The statue was restored to its
pedestal in all its gracious perfectness, and he might
lay all the garnered memories at its feet again. What
had she borne before she yielded to this ? and what had
her life been since ? God help them ! What had his ?
And a whole concentrated force of anger and of scorn
Guy Faucit threw into that savage curse, not loud but
deep, which haply cast its shadow over John Brent's
unlovely sick-bed, thousands of miles away.

As for Daisy, she shrank from its passion for a
moment, and then it recalled her to herself, though she
would not attempt disguise again just then.

Oh hush : " she said, " we mustn't talk like this.
What does it matter now ? " and the smile upon her
face was sad unutterably. " Only, if I'm fast, Guy,"
she added, earnestly, and with a depreciation of herself
which had more of frank self-pity than self-scorn, " if I
talk slang and scandal, and chaff, and flirt, and play,
and smoke a cigarette, don't be surprised, and don't
be savage, there's a good fellow. It's terribly hardwork.
I'm so lonely — so wretched ! Be my friend,
won't you ? and don't make love to me — at least," she
added, with another smile which struggled to be bright,
yet had little brightness beyond the tear which glistened
in her eye — " at least, not too much."

'you don't care about other men doing it," he
said, very sadly, though in a voice from which all the
hardness was gone.

I don't care — about other men."

\

^-x- ^ ^ ^

"It is shameful — cruel — wicked 1" Lady Luscombe

declared, as her whole frame shook with excitement, and

her eyes flashed as they had not done that many a day.

The Count Lestrange was watching the effect with

quite a pronounced interest. "You wish me," she

added, as if she couldn't believe her own words, "to

compromise Daisy Brent, to turn her out of my house,
to drive her to extremities by insulting her, — and all
to secure you £10,000!"

I wish it was more, with all my heart," Lestrange
answered. " You may make it double or quits if you
like. But you really must remember, Marian, the large
fortune which your imprudence lost me — for you must
have been most imprudent. If you had been more
careful, your husband would never have made that most
improper will."

He might have punished me worse," Lady Lus-combe
said, a sort of fascinated calmness taking the
place of the excitement, as it always did under the
hand of the imperturbable adventurer.
How ? " he asked.
He might have let me marry you."
The silence which Guy and Daisy had left behind
them in the room seemed to cling about it still, when
the two who had taken their places there had watched
the victims of this strange experiment wander away
again among the flowers together.

Things had advanced, Lestrange had thought as he
saw them. He had heard enough and observed enough
now to risk his grand cows. He only watched Lady

Luscombe with a certain curiosity, wliicli had something
of satiety in it. He had come to the end of her long
ago, to his notion ; and she was but a pipe to his finger,
to sound what stops he pleased. He was trying the
pipe this time, he knew; but it would bear it, and
respond. Very likely the effort would crack it ; but
what was that to him ? He had worn out many pipes
in his time in the same way, and thrown them away
when they were past work without wasting more time
over them.

I should have made you a very good husband," he
said with perfect good humour and an imperceptible
shrug of the shoulders, unmoved by her shrinking and
repellent tone. "I've an excellent temper, and you
never would have thwarted me. You will not thwart
me now," he added, with an additional infusion of
softness into his voice. He spoke meditatively, and
was much interested in his ring.

I will cut my right hand off before I will help you
in this," Lady Luscombe muttered, rather than said,
through her closed teeth, tapping the floor with the old
impatient action. Lestrange only lifted her eyebrows
a little.

"You would scarcely miss it if you did," he said.

"Am not I your right hand ? " She shrank away from
him as he approached her and looked at her hand, then
taking it in his added, "It would be a pity though.
Such a pretty little hand ! "

A compliment from you ! " she said, bitterly.
That is late in the day. You must be forgetting how
long it is since you cared to pay one to me."

Is it ? '' he said, carelessly. " You must know the
value I have set upon the little hand. To think that I
could not claim it ! "

You could have done so if you had chosen," Lady
Luscombe said.

"You mean," said Lestrange, "that you would have
given up your husband's fortune to marry me ? "

"You know that I would — then."

How handsome you are 1 " exclaimed the Count
suddenly, looking at her with an air of new attention.
"Marian," he added, almost under his breath, and
throwing into his tone an expression which she had not
heard in it since her husband died, " would you marry
me now ? "

She started and looked up at him, and the fragrance
of the flowers in the conservatory seemed heavy in the
room.

'what!" she said, 'give you the little hand
empty ? What greeting would it have from the penniless
adventurer, the Count Lestrange ? "

She emphasized the epithet scornfully enough, but
it did not affect him in any way.

Now that is unhandsome," he merely said. " If
I am penniless, you should cultivate charity and be
anxious to help me to ten thousand pounds. But —
perhaps I am not — altogether. What would you say,
Marian," he went on in quite a pleading voice, stooping
over her, and a hand resting on the back of her chair,
if I were to tell you that I am making a fortune, not
for myself — for you know that I don't care about it, —
but for you ? "

She started at first — but only for a moment.
'' I should say," she answered, hardly and scornfully,
mat I did not believe you."

She remembered scenes and days which his manner
brought back to her, only too well, and the bitterness of
her tone, which was something like contempt, should
have moved her companion if he remembered them too.
But it did not, apparently. He only threw into his
manner a more marked meaning, which looked like
devotion, associated with those times when, whoever

was in the room and to whomever he was speaking, he
conveyed to her that he was conscious of her only.

But if it were so ? " he pleaded. " If I had never
forgotten the past ? if I can never forget it ? If it had
been my dream to be able to say to you one day, ' I
have always loved you ! I could not bring you, rich
and high-placed as you are, to poverty and obscurity.
Even now I must ask you to sacrifice much — ' "

"Lestrange!" she said, in a hesitating, wondering,
wistful tone, which sounded to her like an echo of a
voice which had once been hers. Were the words
suddenly coming, now at this eleventh hour, which
after her husband's death her ears had once ached to
hear ? " Lestrange ! "

Let me go on. ' But, at least, I can give you
comfort and a home — comfort that you will owe tome,
a home that you will share with me ! ' If it were
true, and I said ' Come,' would you follow me ? "

Lady Luscombe had risen from the chair, her heart
beating stormily against its silken bars.

To the end of the world ! " she whispered. " Is
it true ? "

No."

Intolerably cruel ; even in him who made a study

of moral vivisection, and perhaps persuaded himself, or
tried to do so, that the results of his investigations were
as good for anthropology as the advocates of the
growing and peculiar practice in the animal-world
maintain their moralities to be for '' science " — a word
which, unless its worthier professors take some early occasion
to repudiate them with authority and with disgust,
such monstrosities as these will turn for honest men
to something worse than foolishness. Intolerably cruel ;
but Lestrange could no more help himself than, after
sufficient indulgence in vivisection, Doctor Domitian
could help, if the fancy seized him, vivisecting his
favourite dog, if he has such a thing, which is doubtful.
And Doctor Domitian would do it ^vith episcopal
sanction from the Midland Counties — a fact never to be
forgotten in that connexion.

Lestrange at that moment wanted Lady Luscombe's
help in that delicate matter of his very much, as the
Doctor might at the moment of his supreme pleasure be
afraid of burglars. But that sort of relish heightens the
enjoyment, as with voluptuaries of old. When Lady Lus-combe
professed her horror of the idea of being his wife,
Lestrange felt the necessity of a moral experiment, and
he dissected. Not more would Doctor Domitian gloat

VOL. III. G

over the writings of his dog, with a sense of pleasure
quickened by personal interest, than did Lestrange over
the pale flush which mantled to the worn face of Lady
Luscombe at that supreme insult. Even then it was
but a slight flush ; for the blood in her seemed to have
unlearned its office by long starving of the poor heart ;
but she shook in every limb.

Ah ! " she said, with something of a long low cry,
which had in it the ring of many feelings — indignation,
astonishment, self-scorn, shame.

Count Lestrange laughed quietly, and spoke with
the old placid good humour, as if there had been
nothing in his little experiment to offend or to injure
anybody.

"Why," he said, "five minutes ago you said that
the worst thing your husband could have done would
be to let you marry me. What foolish people women
are !

There is one who shall not be added to the list of
folly if I can help it," answered Lady Luscombe, when
she had recovered her self-command, and had space to
breathe. "I will protect Daisy Brent, and save her
from you. Was it wise to insult me, do you think,
when you wanted my help ? You should have fooled

me a little longer, and laughed at me only when you
had won your wager."

Perhaps it might have been wiser' he said ; '' but
I did not wish to cause you real disappointment."

You shall never win that wager now. I will
unmask you."

There's nothing to unmask," answered the Count.
'• I told you at the time, you will remember, that the
wager looked like a mere way of doing you a service.
You said so yourself. You can't hurt me. Now I can
hurt you."

How ? " she asked.
Your letters, you know."

Ah 1 " Lady Luscombe said ; " those miserable
letters again. What were they ? what are they ?
Whatever they are, I cannot believe that you would
stoop to using them publicly against me."

Did you ever really suppose that I kept them for
sentiment ? " he said, looking away from her, and consulting
the oracle of the ring. " Haven't I told you —
I think I have — that I am a man without scruples ? I
am in earnest ; you must act as I tell you ; and I must
win this wager — to-day."
To-day ! "

G 2

She shrank away from him.

To-day ! " he repeated, with an emphasis more
marked than before, as he looked down the conservatory,
from which-once more those two other figures were
approaching. " Really, it is becoming quite scandalous.
Look!"

*' I see no harm," said Lady Luscombe. " What if
Daisy goes at my wish ? She goes with Lady Pepper-harrow."


I think not. But if so, that absolves you. You
must come away."

You are in earnest in this wicked thing, then ?
God forgive me ! Even I didn't know you ! "

Not quite. Come and talk it over."

*****

"Is it true that you only threw me over for your
parents' sake ? " said Guy. " And that you still
believed that I should come to you ? and that you never
received the letter which I wrote to you ? "

Quite true."

Is it true that you were fond of me ? "

Quite true."

I want to know one thing more," he said.

And with short rapid steps, and rough and broken

utterance, Guy Faucit was restlessly wandering about
the room, in the middle of which Daisy stood, quite
still. The barrier of ice had been broken down, and
there was no reserve between them.

What ? " she asked, as if bound to answer without
a fear, to whatever it pleased him to ask her.

Are you very poor ? "

Yes ; and you're very rich. It's curious. Punished
for my sins, ain't I ? I, who of course never cared
for anything but money."

"It's not that," he said, roughly, putting the
words aside with a wave of the hand. "Your
people "

"My father and mother are both dead, as I told
you. There's only Dick and myself, and Dick doesn't
go for much, you know. He's just got wit and money
enough to live on, with his pay."

And you ? "

Oh, whist and horses, and one thing and another,"
she answered, with a brief return of the off-hand
manner which pained him in her more than anything
else, knowing as he did its sad affectation. " I live
with Lady Pepperharrow, and a great deal with Lady
Luscombe. And Mr. Brent is good enough to make

me a small allowance. My clothes always excite the
admiration of the men and the envy of the women.
What more can a woman want ? "

They tell hard stories of you," said Guy, coming
up to her side, and looking in her face.

But she raised her head in the old queenly way,
and gave him back the look into his eyes.

I know that," she answered ; " but you are to
believe me once for all. The worst stories are not
true, and they never will be."

"I do believe you," he said, with a choke in his
voice. "But," he spoke with infinite hesitation, and
with his eyes on the ground, " as, after all, your oldest
and best friend, wouldn't you let me help you if you
were in a difficulty, rather than whist and horses, and
one thing and another ? "

Daisy was almost crying, and didn't quite speak
at first.

How good and loyal you are ! " she said, with a
sort of pride in him, and in herself too, for having
known it of him long ago. " But in your position
and mine — no."

He turned away and he came back again, and he
went to the window of the garden, and then came

again to her, and he said in a low and hurried voice,
as if it came in spite of him —

"I could give you everything; put you above all
this."

Then she flushed again, and then she grew very
pale, and into her eyes and face there came a look
of sadness beyond words. But she spoke very, very
gently.

Above it, Guy ? " she said, steadily. " Was I right ?
Are you loyal ? "

And the sigh was deep with which he answered
after a while —

Yes, Daisy ; I think so."

FROM GRAVE TO GAY.

The situation was becoming painfully strained ;
and perhaps neither saw the way out of it. But the
beneficent Fate which so often waits on such situations
was at hand, and interrupted the talk in the intrusive
little person of the Lord Viscount Pentonville. He
had been hopping about all the morning in search
of news or of events, like an early sparrow in advance
of its species, and regarding everything as within the
province of crumbs. In everything he did he was a
glutton for information, out of a spirit of downright
curiosity worthy of Paul Pry ; a character, indeed, in
which his friends had been anxious to induce him to
appear at one of Lady Pepperharrow's dramatic galas.
His refusal, though the proposal had much gratified
his innate sense of the proprieties, had been based

upon the absolute unsuitableness of the character to
his nature and abilities.

"An old f — f — fellow, who's always b — bothering
everybody, and c — coming in where he's not wanted.
I s — saw Tools do it, and thought it a horrid caricature.
N — never was a f — fellow of that kind in real
life."

So, in spite of the insistance of his friends, and the
persuasions of Lady Pepperharrow, — who was convinced
that " Really, my lord, if you only would, you don't
know what a talent you might develop, and how much
you would surprise all your friends. "We never can be
sure of having nothing in us till we have tried everything,"
— the Lord Viscount Pentonville remained a
stranger to stage-triumphs, and confined his performances
of Paul Pry to the theatre of real life. This
morning he had been unusually on the alert. He had
observed Guy and Daisy at intervals ; had satisfactorily
convinced himself that the partnership between Jem
Gosling and Carrie Beaufort was interrupted for the
time ; had with much gratification given in a foiTQal
report upon that head to Lady Luscombe ; had hovered
like a shadow about the languid Emily and the
ruminating Coates; and had nevertheless found the

time to poke this nose into gardens, and stables, and
farm-buildings, and to drive the retainers of the Abbey
half wild by idiotic remarks about creepers or manure.

There never was a little man," Gosling said of
him, " so inappropriate as that little man."

His morning's labours on this occasion were crowned
with a signal triumph which he had not anticipated.
Fluttering about a laurel-walk near the house, he was
in a moment of propitious destiny the absolute earwitness
of a declaration, or rather of the confirmation,
ocular and ocular, of a compact which had been
entered into a day or two before between two of the
2MrsoncB minores of this veracious history. Old Pen,
to do him justice, did not intend to overhear; but,
whether from purblindness or natural impetuosity, or
both combined, he was one of those who are always
rushing in upon the paths shunned of angels, and
unable to extricate himself in time. He was as a bull
perpetually making his appearance in china shops, and
wearing a countenance of chronic dismay at the breakages
ensuing. One imagines the awkward eagerness
with which a bull of that sort, after a few lesser concussions,
beats a retreat from an untenable position,
and rushes with his head down into the rival shop

next door. I feel this simile to be Homeric, and
cannot but fall into the hexameter tone.

E'en as a bull in a shop — where Worcester, Sevres, and
Dresden,
Shelf over shelf up-piled, in patterns many and wondrous.
Yellow or rose or blue, the cross-swords glistening under,
Shine for aesthetic eyes in a blaze of cancerous glory.
Cups and chimaera dire, or fearful and wonderful fetish, —
All unawares is seen, ^\^th nostrils quivering strangely.
Head to the earth bowed down, and pawing with hoof

bisected ; —
Then, with a wondrous roar, and feet earth-shaking the floor-cloth.

Butts at the nearest group which first encounters his bull's

eye;
Upsets Phyllis the fair, whose lips of daintiest china
Meet with a pout some swain who pouts as daintily her way ;
Rushes away once more, with naught but ruin behind him.
Leaving, alas, too late ! his lame apology marine.
Then, like the wind let loose, whom sufferers execrate vainly,
Scatters the selfsame way, the neighbour's wares at the

corner ; —
So did the blameless Lord whose misadventures I sing of.
Blind and luckless and rash, from couple to couple proceeding.
Scatter them here and there like leaves tree-severed in autumn,
Nip in a golden prime the promising buds of proposal.
Cut flirtation adrift, and crush the flower of Affection.' '

Such was and such did the Lord Viscount Pennons
; for having ascertained the facts that excited him
with reference to the couple whom he surprised, he
trotted off, trouser-bound, to carry the news to the next

telegraph-post, and trotting in through the door of the
room next the conservatory without note of preparation,
chuckling to himself and incipient perspiring, he
came like a relief upon Daisy Brent at the moment
when the last chapter closed. He came like Monsieur
le Beau, with his mouth full of news, and seeing two
figures, which at a distance were but as shadows to
him, he made for them instinctively, like a pointer.

*' Ah ! " he said, in advance, not caring to ascertain
in whom he was going to confide, "wh — what do you
think has happened ? "

Then he trotted up, peered, and discovered; and
was quick enough to see, too, that the discourse which
he had interrupted was an interesting one.

I b — beg your pardon," said he, inwardly revolving
that bet of his with the Count Lestrange, and angry
with himself for his forwardness, for a wonder. '' How
stupid to have interrupted them," he thought.

Don't mention it," said Daisy with a laugh, which
had relief in it.

The strain on her nerves and heart had been very
great, and the tension relaxed suddenly. The sudden
contrast of life, which at a moment so trying brought
this ridiculous little peeling upon the scene, struck her

sense of humour at once ; and she came back to middle
earth more quickly than perhaps under any other circumstances
she could have done.

"What's the latest intelligence?" she continued,
with an immediate affectation of deep interest.

"Something delightful, evidently," suggested Guy,
with more of contempt and less of welcome.

The ingredients of the human mixture differ widely,
and he was perhaps not so pleased by the sight of Lord
Pentonville as his companion was, in spite of everything.

Is it a fire — or a sudden death ? " Daisy enquired.

"You're full of news. Out with it," added Guy.

"He can't! it's choking him," said Daisy. "Don't
keep us in suspense longer than you can help," she
added, in a tone of mock entreaty. With all a true
woman's quickness and adaptability, she had her usual
manner with her courtiers ready for use at once.

It's d — delicious 1 " chuckled his lordship. " Ague —
gue-"

Guess ? " suggested Guy.

"No! Find out."

I give it up," Faucit said, turning away with a
shrug of his shoulders, as one whom the coming revelation
did not deeply interest.

So do I ! " laughed Daisy. " Go on."

C — G — G — Coates," stammered Lord Pentonville,
with such a number of preliminary consonants tumbling
over each other in his excitement, that his veins began
to swell, and Daisy had vague thoughts of patting him
on the back, '' Coates is engaged to Emily Shallower !"

'poor devil ! " was all Guy's pregnant comment, ashe
sate down in a corner of the room with an odd
number of a magazine, and played with its pages,
upside-down very likely.

It must be some little time before he could bring
himself under command again after the sad and strange
confidences of the morning.

Daisy's more flexible spirit, more allured to the
gossips and the interests of the world in which she had
lived so long, enabled her to welcome the intelligence
at once with genuine amusement and delight. She had
watched, with a constant and harmless mischief, the fair
Emily's patient and undiscoverable angling, and the
floundering of the solemn fish for whom the hook had
been baited. The baronet's ox-like devotion to herself
had been Miss Shallower' s chief difficulty, which it had
been impossible to her not to stimulate at odd moments,
knowing as she did that the young lady hated her with

a stolid and hearty ill-will, and lost no opportunity of
insinuating the dangers and wickedness of her lightness
of character. When she had time to realize how
cleverly Emily Challoner must have taken advantage
of the lull in Sir Brummel's assiduities towards herself,
she laughed with a real enjoyment which Guy rather
gratefully envied her.

'' Oh I is that true?" she said, fairly clapping her
hands in an access of the girlishness which never seemed
to desert her, as it rarely does desert well-constituted
woman-souls. '' I haven't heard anything so perfectly
lovely for a long time I "

There was a rush of many feet, and the room gradually
filled in anticipation of the luncheon-hour, which
was a rather late and an important fixture at Luscombe
Abbey. Lady Luscombe was none of those painfully
punctual hostesses, who make of Ie breakfast-bell a
burden to the unfettered soul, and rally everybody to
the morning board at a time when half the world is on
its own cares and thoughts intent; when some of it
Kkes to be in bed and resting, chewing perhaps the cud
of work by the process of placid meditation in the
place most of all favourable to it ; and another part of
it, country-trained, loves to be afloat in the morning ail*,

upon its own researches and pursuits. The breakfast-tyrant,
who ignores the perfect law of liberty, is far too
common, and does not always meet with so ready a
j ouster as the town-bred bachelor, who, when a hostess
of this class said to him quietly on the first night of his
visit to her in the country, " Mr. Urban — we always
breakfast at eight o'clock' answered at once, with
politeness as imperturbable, " Do you, madam ? I
never do."

No; it is not in one direction only that the
agitation for a "free breakfast-table" is a valuable
thing. Let the early tea or coffee be imbibed in the
separate chamber ; and in this country, where the true
luxury of life and safeguard of digestion, the French
midday fork-breakfast, is unknown and practically
impossible, let the best substitute be found in a running
meal, with cold meats upon the sideboard, and due
relays of tea and dishes, with copies and covers warranted
to preserve the heat as long as possible, which shall not
be enforcedly closed before eleven, while compulsory
attendance before ten should at all times be out of the
question. Thus, madam, will you win your guest's confidence
and admiration, and grapple him to your soul
with hooks of steel. Thus, too, perhaps, will you be

able to think of him as of a person of equable and
genial disposition, and one not apt to let the small
crosses of life prey upon his mind, and drive him to
unpleasant moroseness and unamiable remarks.

Perchance, when you are speculating why he is
so acidly disposed some morning, he is but meditating
upon that other half-hour which he wanted in bed, to
bring his wits and his good-temper about him. General
laws about digestion are as futile as general laws generally.
But I for one hold, that after the first flush of
omnivorous youth mankind is not properly receptive of
a solid repast, when English customs are followed, until
the divine hour of luncheon — most wholesome, most
appetizing, most sociable of British meals. Luncheon
at Luscombe Abbey was an institution, and one so
tempting that it was apt to tempt even the most gun-loving
of guests to find himself in the covers nearest
home a little before two o'clock.

It would seem, on the day of which I am writing,
that Sir Brummel and his Emily had been tempted to
divulge their delicious secret in more than one quarter.
It is doubtful whether the baronet would have felt any
pressing anxiety so to do, and indeed he had resisted in
the matter for a day or two ; but his Emily was mildly

VOL. III. H

pertinacious, being indeed possessed of a conviction that
publicity was a certain guarantee in such matters, with
which it was not always advisable to dispense. There
was also a sense of triumph in her heart over her
intimate friend, Carrie Beaufort, who never had any
secrets from anybody, in that she had been the first of
the two to bring her wooer to the point. She was
inwardly conscious that, in respect of this running, the
betting had been decidedly on Carrie, therefore the
triumph was of the more moment. So, over and
above the results of Pentonville's enquiring mind,
Emily had confided in Carrie ; and Sir Brummel, in
his laconic fashion, in the Honourable Jem; and the
event of the day became the common property of the
Abbey.

Come into court. Brum," Gosling was saying, ashe
brought up his companion, looking decidedly sheepish,
for introduction to Daisy in his new character :
and don't look so jolly down in the mouth, old man 1
There's nothing to be ashamed of."

Almost at the same moment Carrie Beaufort made
her appearance with Emily. Whatever the latter young
lady might amiably have expected, there was no feeling
of annoyance about Carrie, who was genuinely delighted

with the catastrophe, and feU that she shone with a
reflected glory.

Oh Daisy, what do you think ? " she said, before
Gosling could proceed. '' Let me introduce you to Lady
Coates!"

'' Oh, Brum ! Brum ! " said Daisy, in a low voice,
with an au' of sad reproach, and her eyes dancing with
fun, after a complimentary salutation to the promised
bride.

Ton my soul, Daisy, you know," confided Sir
Brummel, in a tone of unusual and quite pathetic
earnestness, " I haw couldn't help it."

"Poor fellow!" Daisy said, 'did she make you
do it ? I congratulate you with all my heart, dear,"
she added to Emily.

Thanks, awfully, dear," said the heroine of the
moment, very languidly ; " it's so good of you to say
so. Isn't she just savage ? " whispered the amiable
maiden to Carrie Beaufort.

If she is, dear, she conceals it, don't she ? "
answered the young lady addressed. '' Do you know,
dear," she went on, the chapter of confidence having
been embarked upon, '' Jemmy has very nearly asked
me."

H 2

"Really, dear?" this with a superior smile, as of
one in safe haven. " What does your aunt say ? "

I don't know what has happened to her, dear ;
she left us together just now without saying a word."

''Ah ! Lord Gander must be bad, dear."

This was the conclusion of that worldly-wise Emily.

Faithless Brum ! " Daisy was saying to her baronet
meanwhile, holding him in amused play. " Have I
lived to be deserted in this way ? "

'' Ton my soul, no ! " Coates earnestly assured her.
If you don't hum like it, I'll haw break it off."

'' Not on my account, I beg," said Daisy ; ''I shall
get over it in time, but it took me by surprise."

Haw yes. So it did me."

I should like to know how you proposed. Would
you mind doing it over again ? "

"Haw yes, I would. I don't hum think I ever
can.

I'm sure I hope you never may," said Emily, with
a pout, a proper jealousy of her swain-attentions having
brought her within hearing of the last word or two.

Fact is, you know," Coates was still able to assure
Daisy, "you know you quite haw cut me for the big
fellow, and the other day it was too hum wet to shoot."

But Emily removed him before he could enter
into further explanations, only to encounter the anxious
gaze of the delighted Pentonville.

H — have you told Lady Luscombe ? " he chuckled
out, poised on the point of his varnished little toes,
about the breadth of a corn in their boots.

Haw no," said the Baronet.

Then 1 — let me, p — please let me ! " entreated
his lordship. " I wouldn't let anybody else t — tell her
for the world ! "

Oh, yes ! oh, yes ! this is to give notice ! " laughed
Carrie Beaufort, as Pentonville trotted off. The little
lady had again attracted the volatile Jemmy to her
side upon a tempting sofa, and was purring with much
content. " Exit the town-crier ! "

Somebody take care of him ! " called out Gosling,
in the same tone ; " if he gets so excited his pads will
work down. He's padded all over, you know, Copper ;
I'll take my oath of it. They brought me his coat
one night by mistake ; and, by Jove, he's all padding,
Hard-Labour is."

Don't speak disrespectfully of padding," said a
quiet and cynical voice, which now joined itself to the
conversation, though nobody had seen the owner make

his way into the room. " It's the motive power of the
age ; it's the staple of what we read and the bulk
of what we eat; it's another name for adulteration.
The creed of the statesman and the oratory of the
divine — padding. The backbone of Liberal progress
and of Conservative reaction — padding. The mushroom
millions that grow on the Stock Exchange, and
sprout out in West-end palaces — padding. The calves
of our servants and the hair of our wives — padding.
The liberal display of the female form divine, which
delights the Jemmy Goslings of the age, and constitutes
the modern British drama — padding ! '*

Hear, hear ! " said Guy, who looked up from the
magazine he had been communing with when Lestrange
entered, having recovered his self-command during the
preceding scene.

As he gave his approval of the Count's sentiments,
he got up from his seat and insensibly found
himself again with Daisy. Nor was it long before
the two, deep again in talk, though of a less disturbing
kind than that which Pentonville had interrupted,
strolled out of the room together down the path of
flowers.

Lestrange followed them with his furtive eye, and

tumec to the rest of the assembled party again. His
• disquisition on padding had been Listened to with the
reverential silence to which he was accustomed when
in the didactic vein. The sentiments of the company
on the subject first found a voice in Coates.

Haw," said the Baronet.

How the Count talks ! " said Carrie to her companion,
with much admiration.

He don't talk more than me," answered Jem, with
little grammar, but some jealousy.

No, Jemmie ; but he says so much more."

How jolly rude ! just like the fellows in a
comedy."

Let me add my congratulations, Sir Brummel," said
Lestrange.

How have you heard ? " Coates asked.

I've always heard," answered the Count, quietly.

He's Hke a haw damned conjuror," muttered the
uncomfortable Coates.

Don't you hate that man ? " asked Carrie of Jem,
with a sudden impulse, as Lestrange was saying something
to Miss Emily Challoner.

Awfully," he answered, with conviction.

Shall I tell your fortune ? " said Lestrange,

laughing, and turning again to Sir Brummel, " Mr.
Benedick, the married man ? "

I don't know why you call me Benedick," said the
Baronet, rather gruffly ; " but hum no."

'' By all means let us hear it," interposed Emily,
anticipating something pleasant in honour of the
occasion.

You will marry in a month," said Lestrange, in
the same tone of good-humoured laughter, which he
could put on like anything else when he chose; 'retired
of each other in two, separate in three, and get
divorced at the convenience of the Law."

He had taken Sir Brummel's hand in his palm,
and affected to study its lines in the true soothsaying
fashion.

'' Haw I say hang it ! " said Coates.

'how absurd!" added the disgusted Emily, laughing
not very pleasantly.

"I don't know," muttered the Baronet, under a
thick moustache, which allowed the charitable to suppose
that his mouth might be expressive. " It seems
so awfully possible."

What did you say ? " demanded Emily, in a rather
imperious tone which boded storms on the other side.

when the point of matrimony should have been safely
weathered.

*' Nothing to matter," answered the victim of her
spear.

And from her experience Emily believed him.

"You're like the gipsies at Epsom," said Gosling.
''By Jove, I'll have a turn. Have you anything to
teUme?"

"Let me see," said Lestrange, appropriating the
plump and rosy little hand which the other held out
to him. "The lines of wit and wisdom strongly
marked. You should be one of our hereditary legislators.
I think you soon will be."

You don't mean that Gander's bad ? " said Gosling,
with a real anxiety in his voice, which had the effect
of raising Lestrange's eyebrows a little. He had always
been a little contemptuous of the Arcadian side of the
Honourable Jem.

Didn't I say so, dear ? " whispered Emily to
Carrie, in a voice of confidence.

"Don't chaff a fellow about that," Gosling went
on, verb-mixing. "I'd rather anything happen than
lose dear old Gander. But it's all humbug this sort
of business. Why don't you tell us something

about yourself?" lie asked, with an audacity he
wondered at. 'all anybody knows about you is that
the fellows say you come from Greece."

Greece ? " said the Count, the eyebrows lifting
again ; "I give you my word that it's one of the few
countries I never was in in my life."

'' Hang it I where were you then ? " asked Gosling,
vaguely.

"Where was I when? This time last year I was
in Pondicherry."

Oh, I say, Carrie," said Jem to his friend, confidentially,
" where the deuce is Pondicherry ? "

'' I don't know," she said, recklessly ; '' somewhere
in the map. Thank goodness, there's luncheon," she
added, as a mellow sono rans^ its summons from the
hall. " Jemmy, take me in ; I don't half like it."

"Haw yes, lunch," murmured Coates, to himself,
his eyes visibly brightening for the first time since he
lead been promoted to the post of hero of the hour.
Proposing makes one awfully hum hungry. Come in,
Emily, I'm doosidly afraid of that man."

THE WISDOM OF THE SERPENT.

"You are ttiouo^htfiiL Faucit. What are \-our
thoughts ? " said the Count Lestrange.

A day or two had passed since the events recorded
in the last chapter, and a shadow as of something to
came seemed to settle dowTi upon Luscombe Abbey.
Changes had taken place in the personages of the
scene. Jem Gosling had been called away by the serious
illness of his elder brother, and Carrie Beaufort was
left for the time disconsolate. Lady Pepperharrow,
too, had taken her departure for abroad, somewhere
for the winter-quarters of the south, which her ladyship
had of late affected. Daisy had at one time arranged
to go with her, but they had parted. Daisy was growing
restless, strange, not herself, and for the first
time in her life had something like a scene sith her

kind old friend, who, to her astonishment and anger,
had one day taken her to task about her friendship
with Guy Paucity

always thought, my dear, that the young man
was very fond of you," Lady Pepperharrow said ; " and
indeed I never knew how anybody could help it. And
it disappointed me very much when he didn't come
forward, and you married that odious Mr. Brent. I'm
sure I'd have done anything I could to prevent it,
and to bring you and Mr. Faucit together ; and now
everybody says that, after all, you were engaged, though
you never said anything to me about it, and that you
didn't leave at all well to im, and — "

"Lady Pepperharrow, I wish everybody would let
me alone. Nobody does such mischief as everybody;
and I can't understand how you speak to me like that."

Well, my dear, I'm sure — "

But we need not follow too closely the story of
the difference between two firm friends. Lady Pepper-harrow
herself could give no account of the manner
in which she had been brought to take notice of the
growing intimacy between Daisy Brent and Guy
Faucit as something singular and to be discouraged.
She could not have told — for it had been carefully

concealed from herself — how it was that the Count
Lestrange had insinuated the first suspicions of something
wrong:, and had sown the seeds of distrust of
her favourite in Lady Pepperharrow's mind. Always
laughing with Lady Pepperharrow, and covertly laughing
at her, he paid her mock-gallant attentions which
from "a man of such powerful intellect, you know,"
delighted the worthy lady's soul and quite won her
confidence.

Count Lestrange had established the absolute
influence over her mind, which was desirable in the
high priest of the mysteries of Glycerine House, to
which post the accomplished Count had been exalted.
He was certainly the man for the place. A trained
painter and musician, he better than any one could
select the subjects and organize the groups for a series
of tableaux vivant, or superintend the details of a
concert or amateur opera. London rang with the fame
of a certain performance of the 'Barrier,' in which
the Count's Figaro was a masterpiece of subtlety and
usefulness, and Daisy Brent warbled the bird-notes
of Rosin like one of the feathered tribe hired and
tutored for the occasion. Ounce Kensington South
of the Colonial Office brought his cultivated aesthetic

taste to bear on the character of Almaviva, and was
seen to much advantage in the Spanish grandee's
costume, while his mouth was observed, by the initiated,
to open and shut in good time to the accompaniments.
To the TToWol among his audience he gave much of
the gratification which the page-boy derived from the
efforts of a great preacher whom • his master sent him
to hear in the neighbouring cathedral. " Well, James,
did you hear him ? " he asked, when the boy returned
with a broad grin. '' Oh no, sir, I didn't hear him.
But I seed him a hollering." And so young South
of the Esthetics (" isn't that one of the gentlemen they
call the Aztecs ? " asked an enquiring railway-porter
who saw him get out of the train) warbled " Echo
trident il ciel " so articulately that the whole of the
front row very nearly heard him. Patti and Nilsson
themselves were among the listeners to the opera,
and Lady Pepperharrow was in the seventh heaven.
She had been with difficulty dissuaded from herself
appearing in the duenna's part, but was gratified by
the appearance of Norbiton and Surbiton as two guards
(persmicB mute) in the scene of the arrest, where they
occupied the opposite corners of the stage like two
loving strawberries moulded on one stem. The performance

was a talk ; and not less so the amateur
comedies, which put the Prince of Wales's and the
Haymarket to shame, under the skilful guidance of
Lestrange. I attended some of them with Binks, who
growled a good deal, and deplored the absence of professional
training. Binks had himself begun stage life
as an amateur, and the ill-natured professed to detect
a flavour of the origin in his most pronounced feats.
But Binks's mgs stood the test of the severest criticism.

I feel that I never could have been strong-minded,
Count Lestrange," Lady Pepperharrow said to her
Prostrate, when recruiting herself after her exertions
on one of these occasions, and regretting her inability
to take a leading part in a thinking movement which
was then agitating society. "But I adore art and
science, and their charming professors. You see how
many of them come to my ouse, and are good enough
to say that I am naturally artful — I mean artistic.
My life is such a busy one ! "

"You take too much out of yourself, dear Lady
Pepperharrow, indeed you do," said the Count.

Do you think so ? I am afraid I do. You can't
think what a correspondence I ave. Count Lestrange.
It was only this morning that I was begged for another

subscription for the conversion of the poor dear Jews.
I ave so many friends among them that I naturally
long to see them converted, though indeed they seem
to do very well as they are. You really must help
me, Count, indeed you must, to see about the conversion
of the dear Jews."

So in small things and great Lady Pepperharrow
learned to lean upon the Count Lestrange, who had
a way of keeping all the threads in his hands when
he had some especial object in view. Neither Lady
Pepperharrow nor Daisy, nor any one else, could have
laid a finger on the moment in which he succeeded
in working the old lady up to a sense of the impropriety
of her favourite's alliance with Guy Faucit at
Luscombe Abbey, and inducing her to remonstrate
at the most inadvisable time and in the most inappropriate
way. She was a safeguard for Daisy of
the most invaluable kind ; and no sooner had she left
the Abbey, as she did, on bad terms with the sore-tried
woman for the first time in their lives, than Daisy
felt an utter sense of friendlessness descend upon her
which had had no parallel before. She had nobody,
then, to care for her, nobody but Guy. All communication
from her husband, direct and indirect, had

suddenly ceased, and even in that she felt a fresh blank
of isolation. More — the last payment of her allowance
had fallen due, and for the first time had not been
made-to the day. If it were to cease, what was to
become of her ?

Meantime, during the few days which passed after
the engagement of Coates and Emily had been
announced at the Abbey, the Count Lestrange had
seized every opportunity of being much with Guy,
especially at night in the quiet smoking-room, when
Daisy had left the place vacant. From the first he had
not forgotten the promised censorship, and his dubious
moralities and masterful cynicism had made their
way through the outworks of Guy's mental citadel,
carelessly insinuated, ceaselessly suggested, web-woven
with a skill in dialectics which the Count might have
learned from a close study of old state-crafts, and old
mediaeval habits of thought.

There are two guiding-stars in life, of which one
must needs follow one — truth and expediency. The
first is cloud-hidden and storm-racked now and again,
and not absolutely patent to the clearest vision. But
it is as steady as a pole-star behind cloud and storm,
and he whose course is steered by it knows always in

VOL. III. 1

what quarter of the heaven it lies, if he carry a conscience
in good repair by way of compass about him.
Once leave it, as an ignis fatuus, and, fall into Pilate's
questioning habit of what truth is, and expediency alone
remains to steer by. Woe to those who try the course !
for it sets in one quarter and rises in another by no
general laws that man's wit has discovered, and he is
apt to fix its latitude and longitude after the last caprice
of his own changeful desire. Hence many moral wrecks
and goodly lives cast away. There are always a dozen
expediences to choose between in a difficulty, each
equally defensible by argument. With a little trouble
at times in fixing it, there is always but one truth.
Guy's perceptions of truth were getting shaken.

He was watching the new-betrothed pair as, with
rather a semi-attached air of devotion, at all events on
Sir Brummel Coates' part, they were strolling down one
uf the garden-paths together, when Lestrange touched
him on the shoulder, as told at the opening of this
chapter.

"You are thoughtful, Faucit. What are your
thoughts ? "

They were in the same room as that described in
the last chapter — the room off the conservatory.

"If you are Satan, you should be able to read
them," Faucit answered, rather doubtfully, and with
sadness in his voice. The wound in his heart might
not be as wide as a church-door, but it served.

The nickname which men had sometimes given
to Lestrange was in his mind as he looked at him,
and some one of those timely storm-signals which are
set up in our tossing hearts seemed suddenly to speak
of danger. Guy was struck with a nameless feeling of
the evil in his companion's face. The companion, however,
did not wince under the epithet, which indeed he
rather took as a compliment, with an amused sense of
appropriateness. He was inwardly revelling in a certain
jubilant feeling of his own power as he thought of the
desert he had made round Daisy Brent. And he was
full of a sense of anticipation ; for — Lady Pepperharrow
gone, and not fixable anywhere for the moment, as
she was on travel bent — he had just come-from Lady
Luscombe, whom he had left crushed and beaten, after
a wrestle and a victory.

I will try," he said, in answer to Faucit' s remark,

seating himself comfortably in a chair, a cigarette

between his lips. Tobacco was free of entrance in all

the outer rooms of the Abbey. " You were moralizing

1 2

on that promising couple, and thinking that marriage
is a serious thing."

You are right — as usual," said Guy, shortly. " I
expect it will prove so — to them."

That depends upon how they take it," Lestrange
said lightly ; " and by such people marriage is not taken
seriously."

But it must be — ^by all of us."

"Why?"

Well — a woman might answer, because it must."

"And I answer as I should answer the woman —
why ? again. If you wish to simplify the world's problems,
Faucit, it is easily done. Most arguments are
assertions. Every one of them should be met not
by counter-assertion or counter-argument (which are
troublesome to oneself — always leave the other side to
argue, its standard sign of inferiority), but by one of two
questions — ' Why ? ' or ' Why not ? ' You have no idea
how that will bring men to their bearings. Why should
marriage be serious, except on scriptural grounds, which,
when fairly examined, admit of much debate ? "

"Do they know anything of each other?" asked
Guy abruptly, ignoring the issue.

Lestrange laughed as he did so.

Precisely. That is the way in which ' why ' and
why not ' are always evaded ; the only way of meeting
them — the ignoratio ehuchi. I can answer your question,
however. Xo, they don't know anything of each
other. If they did, neither would marry the other."

I don't understand it," said Guy, impatient of the
sneer. "My creed is Mrs. Browning's —

Learn to win a lady's faith

Nobly, as the thing is high ;
Bravely, as for life and death,
With a loyal gravity.' "

"Sir Brummel has not read Mrs. Browning," said
Lestrange, drily. " The motto of his school is an
old proverb — modified. Marry in haste, and — divorce
at leisure."

It's a new school," said Guy, with the same expression
of disturbed feeling, " and I hope a small one."

"At present," Lestrange proceeded, quite undisturbed.
" But we live in an age of progress. This is
the cream of society, and the cream always turns first.
You have heard how a little leaven leavens the whole
lump."

"I have heard," said Guy, with an uneasy laugh,
that you can quote Scripture to your purpose. But I

hide that these doctrines won't spread, and that you'll
prove wrong."

So do I," Lestrange answered, with a shrug of the
shoulders and a cheery laugh on his own side; "and I
don't pretend to know. Prophecy was always an uncertain
profession, from Isaiah downwards. But drifting
is a dangerous process ; and we drift, Faucit, we drift'*

*' Yes, all of us," Guy said, with a deep sigh, his head
resting on his hand and his eyes looking out into the
vague. " What am I drifting to ? '^

He spoke more to himself than to the other, who
watched him for a moment without taking any notice.
Then he said pleasantly,

You ? To a comfortable harbour," he added in a
quiet tone, " not often reached. The success of a first
love. I promised you, you remember."

He spoke quite naturally, as of the most natural
thing in the world.

A first love ! " said Guy, bitterly, and with an
unspeakable regret. " I have lost mine."

Have you ? Ask her."

He sent the arrow straight home, and Guy Faucit
started as it struck him. He turned upon the Count
Lestrange almost fiercely.

Do you think," lie said, " that I would i-uin Daisy
Brent ? "

I think that you might save her," said the other,
unmoved.

By robbing her of her good name ? "

This was not the first time, perhaps, that the subject
had been approached between them ; but it had not
been before broached so openly.

Her name is a bad one," Lestrange said, in a tone
rather quietly argumentative than anything else, as if
a point of business were under discussion, — "getting
worse. If you don't run away with her somebody else
will. How should you like that ? "

The very tone in which the Count spoke seemed to
carry the subject out of the region of anger, even of
reality. Insensibly Guy Faucit fell into something of
the same manner, though his head and heart were in a
whirl. Good God ! how in the last few days Daisy had
taken possession of every fibre and component of his
being, with the added strength and tenacity which had
sprung of the iron self-repression of the eight long
years.

It is impossible," he said.

Its a mathematical certainty. Given the premises.

a husband like hers, a nature like hers, a society like
hers, — the conclusion follows — elopement. You have
the first chance. Take it ; if you don't, I think I shall."
Quietly and more quietly still, with the venom distilling
in every subtle word.

You ! " exclaimed Guy Faucit with a laugh, as if
the last suggestion had been intended to remove the
whole matter into the region of the absurd — "what
have you in your favour ? "

"Modestly speaking," said Lestrange, deprecating
all personal merit in himself, " the same advantage as
other men, of course leaving you out of the question. I
am not her husband."

And the Count contrived to throw into the last
words such an immeasurable expression of contempt
for good, and disbelief in all its possibilities in the
conventional world about them, that Faucit fairly
shuddered as the iron went deeper into him. He
shrank from Lestrange with an uneasy and a formless
fear for the man, something of the feeling of
vague dread which a great German writer has said
always possessed him when he met with a man who
professed himself an atheist.

Lestrange ! " he said, after a moment's pause, almost

as if he were driven to make a personal appeal to the
man for his own sake, " are you afraid of nothing in
another world, that you venture so to play with evil
in this?"

Nothing," answered the other, with a look of quite
an innocent surprise. " Why should I be ? "

"You may learn some day," Guy said, after another
moment's interval. "I begin to think that you are
right' he added, looking steadily and thoughtfully at
the Count, whose eyes beat their usual retreat at once,
it was a habit which annoyed their owner, but he
had never been able to cure them of it, — "it would
be to save Daisy Brent, to take her out of the reach of
such men as you ! "

The Count Lestrange smiled as the other said it,
with a smile that was almost an inward one — a cruel,
imperceptible, victorious smile.

I told you so," he said.

A very fever of feeling was burning in Guy Faucit's
brain. All that he could do for Daisy — all that ought
to be done for her — all the bitter sorrow of her broken
life, and the blank isolation of his own, from which all
the ambitions and schemes he had begun to form when
first his chancre of fortune came to him had vanished

into space and nothingness again in the spell of her
constant presence, were a torture and a tempest in his
mind. How lightly men spoke to her ! how lightly
they spoke of her ! and what right or room had he to
resent? The Count's light words, which he caught
with the deep purpose which he missed, stirred all this
gathered feeling to a cry.

Oh Daisy 1 Daisy ! " he called out, forgetting where
he was and with whom, " that any man living should
dare to talk of you so ! "

More than once Lestrange's eyes had wandered to
the door before this burst of passion came. Even as it
came the door had opened, and Daisy herself had
flashed into the room, erect, red to the brow, and
quivering with anger, reckless of whom she met, reckless
of who was there. Without concert or warning her
passion answered Guy's.

It's cruel, and I'll not bear it ! " she said, as if to
any one who cared to hear. " What right has any one
to speak so to me ? "

Daisy ! what is it ? " Guy appealed, as the two
vexed spirits came together with a clang ; for he was at
her side in a moment.

Thank you, my lady ! " muttered to himself Les-trance,

effacing himself at once without note of wamin'j^.
The flint is hot — and the steel. Strike ! "

Unnoticed and missed he had opened the
glass door leading into the garden, and was gone —
not far.

THE CRISIS.

Is that you, Guy ? " Daisy Brent said. " Do you
know what Lady Luscombe has said to me ? " The
words came thick and fast and warm, and the indignation
in her struggled for expression.

"What?"

"That I shall have to leave this house — because
of you."

By what right has she dared — " Guy began.

By the right of every woman, I suppose," interrupted
Daisy in an infinite scorn, " to think and to say
the worst of another. She has insulted me, Guy, that
wicked woman, whose name has been Scandal's plaything,
to be broken and patched up at will. Oh ! why
did I ever come here ? But I will go now — and at
once."

"Child! where can you go?" Guy said, with pity,
and tenderness, and self-reproach, and a world of feeling
blended in his tone.

'* I don't know ! " she almost sobbed, for the tried
heart was failing. " My brother is abroad, and so is
my kind husband, and Lady Pepperharrow even. Oh,
whatshaUIdo?"

The woman was very desolate and very weak ; and
Guy Faucit had been less than man had not Lestrange's
words come back upon him with a strong temptation,
and shaken him from head to foot. He loved that
priceless woman so deeply ; she had been so sorely, so
mysteriously, so consistently tried ; and he had been
faithful to a dream so long. ^Tiat should she do ? The
answer seemed to be knocking at his hips for utterance,
but he would not yield. He walked away from Daisy
and he put himself under a strong constraint ; then
with a set purpose he turned back again.

You must not go," he said, hurriedly. " You need
not. I wil."

She started and looked up at him, and her face
grew very pale. Then the .tears which she had still
held back came welling up into her eyes.

You will oro ? " she said, in a voice so dreamily

sweet that it lingered in music on his ear — "forme?"


Suddenly he sate down by her, and he took her
hand in his, and she left it there, and in its soft,
involuntary, clinging caress all the story of her helplessness
seemed told.

I will go for you," Guy said, in a voice into which
in its deep repression passion seemed to have concentrated
all its notes in one, " as I would stay for you.
I will do that hard thing for you, as I would do the
easy things ; as I would work for you, live for you, die
for you ! If I can leave you, Daisy, judge how I love
you ! But you can't guess that."

For the moment — and who should grudge it her ? —
she yielded herself up to the influence of the charm,
and as her hand lay in his she listened with closed eyes.

I think I can," she answered.

Not quite."

Yes," she said. " I know what I shall feel — when
you have left me."

He started up and was standing at her side.

"Do you mean that you love me again ? " he asked.

She held her breath for a space before she answered
him, and then spoke, fearless of disguise, as to one

towards whom now concealment could be but as
another wrong.

I mean that I have loved you always," said she —
very simply and trustfully.

Thank God ! " Guy said, very fervently. " I have
felt it all the time. I did not know the feeling was
there; but it must have been that that I lived on.
You — love — me ? " he added, thinking out the words,
and dwelling on their meaning.

She had confessed it then.

"Hush! let me think," Daisy said. "I have told
you this, I think, because you are good and brave. If
you were not I would have died first. Yes, Guy, you
must go."

Once more there was a pause between them, and
each communed with grave and overpowering thought,
as two such spirits would commune. The tragedy of
the situation told itself — told itself in that frank avowal
more than it could have done in concealment. Mark
that in her it was very frank"; for she had told her
love to Faucit without questioning him of his, or
feigning womanly uncertainties where she felt none.
The position, one towards the other, in which Providence
or Fate had thrown them — and it was difficult

enough for either to read any ways of Providence for
the moment there — taxed human weakness nearly to
its uttermost, so far as man might judge of what
temptations are, or of the strength they are allowed to
carry. Go — then? go — so? go, with the music of that
confession fresh upon his ear ! Guy Faucit had a new
struggle with himself, and spoke as much to himself as
to Daisy.

Oh, but it is hard ! " he said, " when I can give
you all the things for whose want I lost you. What
will you do ? " he asked.

Nothing," Daisy calmly answered, as one who had
chosen her part, " that can make me less worthy of you
when you are gone."

Silence ! silence ! silence ! Silence in the room and
about it — silence in the air and in the flowers — silence
and a void almost, in the two hearts so full of thoughts
and so incapable of words. The silence which seems to
speak, sometimes, from all the objects in the room,
which choose such moments to fix themselves upon the
unconscious memory as part and parcel of some memorable
scene. The mind, unobservant of them before,
takes note of insignificant details which had before
escaped it, and recalls them afterwards, always — the

arrangement of some books or furniture, the aspect
of some ornaments, the expression of some pictured
face. Such a silence wraps us round in the supreme
trials of life, when the sense of their true bearings and
deepest realities seems to desert us for the time, and
leave us at the mercy of any commonplace distraction
or wandering thought, to save us from ourselves and
from the overstrain.

There was no one near either, but the stealthy
figure of one man which might have been occasionally
seen to linger near the garden-door.

But," said Guy at last — " but " — and his voice
began to take a new tone of pleading which seemed
half ashamed — "if we laughed at the world that has
been so hard on us ? Your husband is no husband to
you, your home no home. Have we not the right to
say to each other, ' Let your life be mine ? ' "

Yes; he spoke as one pleading, and pleading as
much with his own better reason as with hers. She
pretended no offence, and she thought a moment before
she answered, in a tone as of reasoning, like his own.

I think that we should have. I know — that we
have not."

"But," and his eyes were on the ground and his

VOL. III. K

words scarcely made headway — "if I were to plead
how well I have deserved you ? If I were to ask you,"
at last he added, in one yearning, faltering plea, " to
give up everything for me ? "

The blood flowed back and ebbed away in her face,
and the parched tears burned behind her eyes, and the
brave heart stood still in love and longing. But she
raised those eyes to his with never a quiver or a fear
in them, and she spoke gently, tenderly, pleadingly,
without reproach ; but firmly — as she stood.
Guy ! " she said, " dare you ask me ? "
You were wrong in your calculations, Count Lestrange
! And it was with a singular sense of pride and
pleasure, mixed with a miserable feeling that they must
part for evermore, — for theirs must be one union or
disunion only, — that Guy Faucit knew it.

I will never ask you, Daisy dear," he said — the
last monosyllable unconsciously and lingeringly prolonged
upon a note of immeasurable sorrow. He
suddenly took her head in both his hands, and she
bowed that graceful head to meet the embrace, as he
left upon her forehead one protecting kiss, which had a
blessing in it. " God bless you, and good-bye ! "

He turned straight away, not to look at her again,

and walked with a steady step to the glass-door leading
to the garden. His plan was formed at once, for it
brooked no faltering or delay. He would find Lady Lus-combe
and make some instant excuse, without allusion
of any kind to anything that had passed ; and without
good-byes or wasted words to any one else in the house,
he would pack his things at once, and make his way
straight to London. What lay beyond was formless in
his mind; but his thoughts were already travelling
beyond the seas again.

As we propose we act not, if it be not so written.
At the glass-door, even as he opened it, Guy Faucit
met the Count Lestrange. In a moment the Count's
quick glance took in the state of matters, and there was
a slight curl upon his lip, and a fitful glitter in his eyes,
which went in and out again like a glowworm's lantern.

Are you going away, Faucit ? " he said.

I am," said the other, quickly.

The Count Lestrange laid his hand lightly on Guy's
shoulder.

"You fool," he said, rather impatiently. "Look
there."

Guy turned his head round, forgetting Lot's wife.

Daisy Brent had turned deadly pale, and was swaying

K 2

to and fro upon her feet. He saw her falling, looked
at her for a moment, and with one cry, " My darling ! "
he was at her side. Even as he reached her she fell
forward in a dead faint, and he caught her in his arms.
At something which might or might not have been a
sign from the Count Lestrange, — nobody could say it
was, — two curious faces besides his, who seemed to
make room for them, peered in at the garden-door.
They were those of Miss Emily Challoner and the Lord
Viscount Pentonville.

Just so," muttered the Count Lestrange.

daisy's flight.

Daisy Brent left Luscombe Abbey before the night
had fallen. Before the night had fallen there were
whisperings in the line ladies' rooms and the men's
smoking-comers, and battling of much vehemence iu
the servants' hall, where Miss So-and-so's maid had
never thought much of Mrs. Brent's conduct, chiefly
because the Abigail attached to Lady What's-her-name
considered her a very charming lady. Calumny ran
its course unrebuked everywhere, when the little episode
witnessed by Lord Pentonville and the fair Miss Challenger
had leaked out in the utmost confidence to everybody,
in the course of a well-employed half-hour.

The hostess pleaded a bad headache and shut herself
up in her own room ; the Count Lestrange had about
him an air of deprecatory wonder, whereto was attached

a mysterious afflatus of private information in reserve,
which was exceedingly impressive ; and when it became
known that Guy Faucit had disappeared too, though by
a different train and at another time, the general excitement
grew and prospered exceedingly. When had they
met ? how had they met ? how had the arrangements
been concluded ? — all the surmises of a far-reaching
charity had room wherein to disport themselves at
will.

Miss Emily Challoner was in the rosiest flush of an
uncompromising virtue, and pointed stem morals to Sir
Brummel, which at first elicited from the baronet the
improper reply that Daisy Brent was a good little
haw soul, with no harm in her, and her husband was a
hum brute, who deserved all he got — except his wife,
Jem Gosling added.

Carrie Beaufort stood up for her friend, on the other
hand, right loyally. Daisy had been very kind and
considerate to her in the last few weeks, and had been
giving much unobtrusive help to her romance with the
Honourable Jem. She didn't believe a word about
Daisy, who had left because she had been insulted, and
quite right too, and she held her aunt's conduct —
for the whole story got about in all sorts of forms — to

have been very cruel and disgraceful; and she didn't
know how Mr. Gosling could even venture to suppose
that Daisy had gone away with that great big clumsy
Mr. Faucit, who ought to have known better: than to
get her into a scrape. Indeed, she lighted up so angrily,
and looked so wonderfully pretty and tempting in the
lighting-up of her anger, that the Honourable Jem felt
his piece of mind quite seriously threatened, and confided
to Norbiton and Surbiton that the girl was a
downright little trump, and no mistake at all about it,
quite too good for her aunt's set, and she ought to begot
out of it.

If Norbiton and Surbiton acquiesced, it was without
emotion. They confined themselves more exclusively
than ever to each other's company, but seemed but
negatively interested in the crisis. A new book of
cloth specimens from Poole's was for the moment
absorbing them, and they were men who had learned
the practical value of the maxim about attending to
one thing at a time. Though he had been at first
convinced that Guy Faucit and Daisy Brent had
concerted their departure together, Carrie's indignant
expostulations induced Gosling to send a message at
once to an address which Guy had given him in London,

telling him of what was being said, and to come back
if he wished to disprove it.

Guy did come back, and immediately, and he came
back in a tempest of trouble and of feeling. He had
left Luscombe Abbey in loyal agreement with his poor
mise to Daisy, and he had no knowledge of her having
gone : so he assured Jem Gosling, with whom he was
open in the matter, as with some one he must be.
Daisy had had a fainting-fit when he was by, but after
she had come to herself he had not spoken with her
again. Where was she ? where had she gone ? he knew
of no one to whom she could go, for they had been
speaking of it in the morning. At the Abbey no one
seemed to know; but Count Lestrange insinuated
London, and that Mrs. Brent meant to find herself
some employment there. She had spoken of the stage,
but she was anxious to avoid publicity ; and, at least in
cfoincr, she had left no sion behind.

The world at Luscombe Abbey received the reappearance
of Guy Faucit sceptically. Brave little
Carrie was triumphant, but found no response in Emily
Challoner, who knew that people always arrange these
things with some care, and Mrs. Brent was such an
adept in intrigue. The evil tongues were comfortably

loosed, and there was no chaining them again in a
hurry. A few uneasy days went by, and a constraint
and discomfort which infected the whole place increased
and grew ; and no news came of Daisy ; and in the cruel
position which was his in the matter, Guy Faucit could
make no open sign of all he felt, and of the dread
and anxiety which were mastering him; and Lady
Luscombe pleaded illness, and hardly showed herself
to her guests; and the circle broke itself up in an
admired disorder.

Jem Gosling was called away by a serious crisis in
his brother's health, and Carrie and he had a parting
which was something like a pledge ; Sir Brummel
Coates departed to make preparations at the ancestral
home of all the Contests for the reception of a blooming
bride, — he did not seem quite easy in his mind as the
time drew near, and hawed more copiously than ever ;
but his fate was in the hands of one of no vacillating
nature, and she thought delay in the nuptials unadvisable
; — the Lord Viscount Pentonville was all anxiety
to know whether or not he had won that bet of his
with the Count LLestrange, which the Count LLestrange
himself, with all his omniscience, seemed unable or
unwilling to decide; the Count was mysterious

and self-involved, but was a great deal with Guy
Faucit.

September bad been with them in its many-coloured
harvest robes when the recluse of the ruins turned his
face to the Abbey ; and when he left it — sad, hopeless,
weary, as he had been in days of old, though with a
name at his feet and a fortune at his back — chill October
was just coming in with the hectic on her cheek, and,
to the sad autumn music of the falling leaves, Nature
was drawing back the curtains of Summer from many a
far-off view which they had folded from the sight. The
fields were bare of grass and crops, and not three fall
months remained to the time when Lestrange must
win or lose his wager : for he knew well enough that
Faucit spoke the truth, and that he had not won it yet.
But he had not lost it, either. And Guy Faucit and
the Count Lestrange, in the early days of October, went
to London on a quest together.

Yet the Count Lestrange knew, and he knew all
the while, what had become of Daisy Brent. When
she fainted away in the arms of Guy, the Count was
comfortably persuaded that his wager was safe and sure.
She could never let the lover go now, he thought ; poor
human nature must be too strong for that ; and when he

had brought Guy back from the door to his lady's side,
and summoned those two convenient witnesses of his
to see what looked like an impassioned embrace, he
was gone.

When Daisy came to herself again, she saw no one
but Guy. She reproached him in the first rush of feeling,
the poor, tortured heart, and asked him why he had
not kept his word, and gone at once. Then in an outburst
of tears, which she could hold back no further, she
tore herself from him and rushed to her own room.
Even as she did so she met Emily Challoner, and from
a few pointed remarks from that virtuous maiden, who
already considered the proprieties and dignities of
married life under her special protection, she learned
that the cruel though hesitating words with which
Lady Luscombe had addressed her — she saw the cruelty
but not the hesitation — had been but the beginning: of
a storm that was to assail her. A bitter disdain and
anger took possession of her whole soul and spirit, and
she was on the point of going straight to Guy Faucit,
and trusting her life to him ; but in the quiet of her
room, even in the whirl of all the passion which possessed
her, she soon saw clear before her the purpose of
a steady soul. Not for her own sake — not for his —

would she allow fancy pictures to tempt her of a happiness
which could not be. She had seen an instance
before her own eyes not very long before, of a young
and frivolous friend of hers, who had taken the desperate
step to which she was so sorely tempted now, under
circumstances which, as in her own case, seemed to
make the transgression venial ; and she, who in a large-hearted
charity had befriended the poor desolate girl
when the world — which had encouraged her to the mistake
and given her every opportunity for and incitement
to it — turned its back upon her and cast her out, had
seen with her eyes the misery which followed, and the
rapid deterioration of character and loss of self-respect,
which she recognized as the inevitable consequences.
Was she not rewarded for her courage, for which the
world had, as she knew, after its fashion, blamed her
and held her cheaply, by the warning it had given her
of her own danger ? She would and could blind herself
with no sophisms, nor believe that Guy and herself
could be the solitary exception to the law which says,
that the happiness of two souls which " love on through
all ills, and love on till they die," is not to be won in
that way. But she knew that Emily Challoner's words
and Lady Luscombe's made the Abbey an impossible

place for her, whether Guy kept his promise of going or
not. How she honoured and loved him for the promise !
She would not sleep under that roof one other night ;
but without a word of farewell to anybody, she would
make her way to London with what money and jewels
she had, and find herself some employment. In the life
which she had been leading for the last few years she
had often thought of turning some of her many talents
and accomplishments to account in the way of work,
which seemed to her the one road to forgetfulness and
healthy occupation of the mind, for one in her false and
unhappy position. She felt within herself high capacities
of mind and soul untilled, and though her trial
seemed to her cruelly hard, yet she believed in her way
that the harder trials are for the stronger souls, and
began to brace herder to the thought of an entirely new
life, which should be severed completely from every link
with the old. And as her thoughts began to assume
form and purpose, she knelt down and prayed for help
to resist all recurrence of the terrible temptation which
beset her, out of the depth of her love for the man who
was ready to give his fate into her hands for good or
evil, with a career before him which she could but mar.
No — not that. She would not, ever. So she prayed as

she had not often prayed of late, poor girl ; and rose
from her knees with the strange but very real sense of
strength and comfort, which follows so often and so close
upon real and earnest prayer.

There was a knock at the door of the little anteroom
which was set apart in the luxurious Abbey for a
private boudoir of her own. By the time that knock
was heard, Daisy had entirely conquered her self-possession,
and was quietly resolved. She wondered for a
moment who was come to disturb or to notice her;
then solved the doubt by admitting the visitor. It was
the Count Lestrange. She looked at him with unfeigned
surprise and mistrust, to which he gave neither attention
nor encouragement.

'' You here ! " she said.

Yes, Mrs. Brent," he answered. " What are you
going to do ? "

For his glance had travelled quickly round the room,
and taken in all the signs of departure.

I am going away," she said.

"Alone?"

"Alone."

Her brow contracted, and she spoke with a serious
emphasis.

Hem ! " was his answer, or rather the inarticulate
sound of which that inadequate monosyllable is the
recognized expression in print. His mind canvassed
the situation, and he felt that he had failed again.
Confound the woman I " he thought to himself, " is
she ice then, after all ? "

He could only have made a mistake in temperament,
he thought. Principle did not enter into his
views of the matter at all as a possible factor. But
to one of his mind, the latter would have seemed far
the less awkward obstacle to encounter.

If Daisy were, as he now began to believe, strong
enough and bold enough to hold her own till the Indian
climate, or the course of Nature, or the spirit of perversity,
or anything, were to deprive her of Mr. Brent's
valuable husbandship, the result would be to the last
degree enraging ; and not only for the loss of the bet,
which, in the face of certain awkward complications
which had been taking place in the Count's finances,
was becoming with him a very pressing consideration
indeed. What was he going to do ? Provoking ! Here
were these two in the house, avowed lovers, who had
gone so far as to fall into each other's arms before
witnesses, with everything in the world to tempt and

encourage them to defy conventionality with a clear
conscience, and nothing to prevent it but either the
most ridiculous scruples or the most Machiavellian
calculation on the lady's part. She must have heard
of John Brent's illness in spite of his precautions, he
concluded.

''I am very sorry for you, Mrs. Brent," he said,
with a grave air of protecting friendship, having
sketched the next move in his campaign at once.

Yes ? " she answered, in no very responsive tone.

*'0f course I have heard the things which are being
said, and have been said to you."

She might have been stone for any sign of being
moved by this.

I suppose so," she answered.

And of that unlucky fainting-fit — " he went on.

Why unlucky. Count Lestrange ? " she interrupted
him. " It is a thing women are always liable to. If
what you call the ill-luck of it refers to Mr. Faucit, I
suppose he did what you or anybody would have done.
The things which are being said, as you put it,
are very foolish and very unworthy. But as I
don't choose to give them any countenance, I am
going."

Where ? " asked the Count, who watched the
proud face with an irritated admiration.

She baffled him, and he hated to be baffled.

I really hardly know," she answered, "smith an
admirable indifference. " Like most people, I suppose,
to London."

Not to India ? "

Count Lestrange ! "

I beg your pardon. I thought you might perhaps
have had some news from Mr. Brent." He spoke
hesitatingly.

She looked at him.

"We don't speak of him, you know," she said.
No, I have had none whatever."

The Count indulged in what, if he had given it
outward expression, would have been a sigh of relief.

Excuse me," he said, " but you know that I have
been, in a certain sense, his banker here for you for
the payment of the allowance he made you."

'* Which I have not forgotten that you secured forme,"
she answered. *' I have not found so many friends
in life that I should wish to forget that." She looked
frankly at him, and held out her hand. He did not
seem to notice the action, and the furtive eyes wandered

VOL. III. L

away from her. There was a hesitation in his manner
which might have been even more, or more meaning,
than was warranted by what he had to say. She anticipated
him before he said it. " The last quarter was
due a few days ago, and I have not had it," she said.
You told me there was a delay, but only a momentary
one. Can you let me have it now ? I really want it."

He walked away from her to the window, and seemed
to consider with himself. Perhaps it was another
wrestle of the good angel yet. But it did not last
very long. The throws had been too many and too
rude.

I am very much afraid," he said, in a low voice of
sympathy, " that the delay may be a more serious one
than I had hoped. I half feared it, but did not like
to say so : your husband has got into difficulties again,
Mrs. Brent, and his remittances have for some time
past been very irregular."

For some time past ! " she said, very pale, folding
her hands upon her lap. What new difficulty had she
to meet now ? Was the world to be begun indeed,
from the lowest rung of the ladder, by one so little
used or trained to climb ? " Yet I have been paid to
the day till this last time."

Yes," he said.

How, then ? By whom ? " Then in a flash of
thought — '' By you ? "

Yes," he said again, in a tone of considerate
unwillingness.

She looked at him wonderingly, doubtfully, for she
could not help it. Almost to her Kps rose the question,
With what object ? " But she kept the question
down. If he had really done this thing in kindness,
it would be too ungrateful. Surely, surely he could
hope nothing from her again.

"You have paid the allowance yourself?" she
asked.

I hope you Tv^ill forgive it," said he, in a tone of

deprecation. " It was so much simpler than alarming

you unnecessarily ; and I really thought the obligation

but don't think there is any — would be of the most

temporary kind." Why didn't he repeat it just once

more, she thought, in spite of herself again, rather

than confess the truth at such a moment as this ? He

seemed to read the thought perhaps, for he went on —

I would have concealed the real state of things from

you still, if I had not been convinced at last that it

is for the present desperate, and that I should be wrong

L 2

indeed in allowing you to take such a resolution as
that you spoke of just now, when home and friends
are most of all necessary to you."

He is right, she thought, and again mentally begged
his pardon. In a moment she had resolved to beg
it openly, and she did.

You have been, and you are, very kind and considerate.
Count Lestrange," she said, "and you must
allow me to express all my thanks for what you have
done. I am sure that I have misunderstood you in
mistrusting you, as we both know I have done, and I
beg your pardon. But if what you tell me means
ruin, it can make no difference now, for here I have
neither home nor friends, and never shall have."

Mr. Faucit ? " he suggested, with no sign of disrespect,
but as if with genuine interest in Daisy.

She flushed, but only a little, and her sad, grave
tone varied not a sound.

Count Lestrange, I know that you have heard
the story of my old engagement to Mr. Faucit, I
know that you all have here; and I was foolish to
think that it might not be known. Friends I hope
that he and I shall always be, but I must fight my
fight for myself without help from-him, for both our

sakes. I do not despise help, though, for indeed I want
it very much. You know London well. Will you give
me yours, and say nothing to anybody of what you
may be able to do for me, or of what I am doing ? "

Daisy Brent never showed her fearlessness more ;
for this was to place herself in Lestrange's power, and
she knew it. But it mattered nothing in her new
scheme of life, and she did not wish, from her ignorance
of the world's ways, to founder and to sink at the
outset. She was in her own power in the first instance,
and she knew its value. Lestrancre felt the significance
of her confidence as well as she, and felt a thrill of
satisfied surprise, though he had played for it. Once
more the idea of abandoning other pursuits, and using
the confidence for himself, came across his mind ; and
once more he put it aside for the colder and more
practical purpose of his matured scheme. " And for
three months — well ? " he thought within himself in
Shylock's words. His face showed a sort of pleased
emotion when he answered Daisy.

I am much touched by your confidence in me,
and will try to deserve it," he said. " What is it you
wish to try ? "

"The stage, if I can find an opening in no other

way," answered she. '' I have some jewels, which will
serve me at first, though not much."

You might have had a fortune in them by this
time."

In presents, you mean ? Yes ; I never cared
about that. Better than the stage I should like
teaching, in which I think I might, after a short
practice, succeed. I would rather have quiet than
publicity."

It's dreary work''

"That I don't mind. But it is difficult to find, I
know."

For an English-woman, yes. If you could pass
yourself off for a German it would be easy ; and I
know a Duchess or two who would take you up at
once. You speak German perfectly ; why not try ? "

Under false colours ? " she said with a smile.
No, I must stand or fall on my own merits."

Lestrange was deep in thought, and he was pacing
the room. Events seemed to play into his hands, yet
neither events nor he could bend the spirit of Daisy.
He risked the next card.

If you want quiet," he asked, " why do you mean
to try London ? "

Because everything that is to be found, is to be
found there," she said.

"Not always. I feel for you very deeply, Mrs,
Brent," said the Count, " though in that mistrust you
spoke of, which I know I brought upon myself, you
cannot yet quit bring yourself to believe me. I take
your confidence as a proof that you are beginning. If
you wish it, I can find you a place as a teacher at
once, for which you will be accepted on my recommendation.
It is quiet enough certainly, and modest ; but
it will be a beginning, and you will be safe from the
most passing annoyance."

"■ Tell me about it," she said.

It is a school-teaching place, in the care of a
clergyman near here, who is a friend of mine ; and
there would be lessons to give in his family too."

Near here ! that would be impossible."

"If it is Luscombe Abbey whose observation
you want to shun for the present, you could find
no safer place. Mould-on-the-Moss is right away
in the heart of the moors, and no breath of its
politics would ever reach the fashionable Abbey.
Half-an-hour's train and an hour's drive, and you are
there."

Rapid and clear was the course of Daisy s thought,
and she answered almost at once —

When can I go ? "

To-day, if you like. I can telegraph to the clergyman,
and no one here but myself need have trace or
knowledge of you."

•X--x- ^-x- *

There was some little more talk between them, and
within an hour or two, as has been told, Daisy Brent
was gone — gone out of the life and circle which had
been so entirely hers, of which she had been the centre,
without a sign.

In his own room Lestrange examined his hand of
cards, and felt that his ace of trumps was there yet.

Three months of that, Mrs. Brent, and I can
hardly fail again. Mr. Brent's remittance must be kept
back for the present. Not a bad stroke that ; and I
can still play the generous cashier. I shan't be out
of pocket by it either. Let me see — ' The Rev. Miles
Bickers, The Parsonage, Mould-on-the-Moss.' Chaffers,
this telegram to the office at once."

Yes, Count Lestrange."

MOULD-OX-THE-MOSS.

MouLD-ox-THE-Moss was the highest inhabited
village in the county, some said in England. In winter
it was generally inaccessible, and in the best seasons
of the year the springs of the carriages which made
their way to it groaned under the infliction : for the
roads were as unmade as the famous ones which General
Wade took in hand, and were Kttle more than rough
tracks struggling over moorland between was of stone.
The main road of the world of civilization was severed
from Mould-on-the-Moss by two miles of desolation,
over which distance these entrusted tracks made their
uneasy way. Between main road and village there
were no signs of habitation, and the two miles to it
were a long climb. When it was reached, the wonder
was why or how it had ever got there, or what in the

world could have induced the rude forefathers of such
a hamlet to sleep or to eat there, or to cast anchor fora
day. The village was one straggling street of white
homesteads, which the original designer had carefully
picked out with pounds and pig-styes, strewn about
in the orderliness of disorder. On a small scale,
the arrangements of next-door-neighbourdom were of
so casual a kind, that they recalled the city of magnificent
distances, called Washington, where an imposing
row of public offices rubs elbows with a pawnbroker's
shop, or a brand-new hotel and a stately private mansion
are separated by an unsightly piece of waste-land,
devoted apparently to a spontaneous growth of vegetable.
As you turned your back on the church, which
was the apex of the village, and wandered down this
street, the houses grew gradually fewer and more far
between, and the melancholy waste-lands more and
more patent to the eye, the acrid odours of pighood
being the more diffused withal. Purely agricultural
were the poverty-stricken population of this child of the
sleepy hollow. Eyes with as much of rumination and
as little of thought behind them as those of the animals
which made so large a part of the community ; the
fixed gaze of vacant curiosity, which is of all human

problems the most perplexing to the ixipoire^ avOpdoiroL
who have their senses for use, and can only speculate
darkly upon the way in which men can live through
twenty-four hours as long as our own, absolutely thinking
about nothings. If we are bored sometimes, what
must they be ? Yet no aspiration beyond seems to
stir them ; no Mould-on-the-Mossian was ever heard of
who tempted fame and fortune in a wider sphere, or
was other than content to marry and beget children
after his own ancestral type, and then to sleep with his
fathers after the orthodox but rather irritating form of
monotonous succession so insisted upon — surely in a
vein of quiet irony upon the recurring decimalities
which make our scene of life — in the chronicles of
their majesties of Judah and Israel. The only living
inhabitant who had ever been in London at the time
we are writing of had been so oppressed by the movement
and the unrest which were there about him,
that on his return he took to his bed to make up for
it, and left it no more. The inquiries of neighbours, sofar
as sine-mental organization permitted them to be
made, as to the things which he had seen and heard,
resulted in Uttle that could be held more articulate
than a shake of the head or a moan. In this strange

colony of agricola life was as an English edition of that
led by the wandering shepherds of Central Asia, commemorated
in the finest strain of pure human tedium
ever set to lyric shape, by the cripple-poet, Giacomo
Leopardi. His ' Canto Notturno ' has to me always
seemed like the reverse of the shield to Wordsworth's
Ode to Immortality,' even as between the two poets
there is a certain strange community of expression.

Thou silent orb of Night,

What dost thou in the Heaven ?

Thou rises up at even,
And o' er the deserts throws thy light,
To sink at day :
Answer — and say,
Hast thou not yet too weary found
The grey hills' everlasting round ?

Irks it thee not for aye
On the broad plains' monotony to gaze ?
How like to thine pass the poor shepherd's days I

He rises with the sun,

Drives to the field his flocks, and sees

Fountains, and flocks, and trees ;

Then, his task done.
Lies wearily down at eventide,
And asks for naught beside.

Oh, tell me, of what use may be

His life to him, or thine to thee ?

Oh, tell me, whither tend,

And to what end,

These our brief pilgrimages,

Or thine eternal course throughout the changeless ages ?

* * *

Happy, my flocks, are ye,

That know not your own misery !

How do I envy you your lot 1
Nor only so,
Because ye sorrow not,

And that all terror, pain, distress.

Are in a moment's time forgot, —

But that ye never chanced to know
Life's utter weariness :
Lapped in the soft shade, on the growing grasses,
Ye cheat the time in indolent repose ;
But, though for me as peacefully it passes,

No peace my spirit knows ;

Verdure and shade invite in vain.
Some strange spur goads me with an aching pain ;
The more I rest, the more upon me grows

This dull unrest of brain.
Yet have I naught to ask, naught to lament ;
As idle as your joy my discontent ! —

But, though I cannot measure
Whence or how great your pleasure,

Happy, my flocks, are ye I

Would ye could find a voice
To tell why ye rejoice.
And that which gladdens you so wearies me 1 " *

The translation (by the present author) of the ' Canto
Notturno,' from which these passages are taken, appeared in
Blackwood's Magazine ' for September, 1878.

It may be doubted if the speculations of 
ever rose consciously to this poetic vein of
enquiry, or exceeded a general wonder what it was
all about. That question strikes so home to many
of us in altogether different forms of life. Where did
I read of the actress who, in the middle of a passionate
scene upon the stage, stopped by a sudden impulse,
and whispered to her companion, " What nonsense all
this is ; suppose we don't go on with it ? " The story
has been quoted in depreciation of the actor's art ; but
surely it has a much wider moral, and is pointed equally
against all the pursuits of life.

For myself, Balbus, who write this chronicle, I
should be sorry to say how often during its progress
the same reflection has silently obtruded itself. Does a
politician never feel it in the middle of some passionate
burst of patriotism about the honour of England, which,
especially of late years, is always suffering the rudest
shock it ever received since the Conquest, in the hands
of the other side ? Does the barrister never feel it
during an appeal to the jury ? Perhaps not so often,
because of the fees. Above all, — I ask the question
with fear and trembling, — does the man of science never
feel it, he that for some occult reason is presumed nowadays

to monopolize what is called " information," and
propounds amazing and uncomfortable riddles, to be
answered perhaps " in our next world " in cases where
the continuous circulation is admitted ? Does he never
say, suppose he didn't go on with it ? I am sure his
readers do. Yet it is just because the mysterious baificov
insists upon answering us all in the same way, — " But
you must go on," — that the actors and the politicians
and the scientific (or knowing) ones, all set their heads
at each other, such as in their different ways they
are, to keep this jaded old world wagging. Even
therefore the herds of Central Asia, and the agricola
of Mould-on-the-Moss, give in all round to the remorseless
law, and I, Balbus, swayed as by a resistless
Nemesis, resume the diagnosis of the sleepy Yorkshire
village, after indulging in a digression towards which
five minutes ago I had not the vaguest disposition.
Perhaps it arose from a strong and sudden desire to " do
nothing;" to which immediately quoth the baijjLMv — " But
you must. You needn't do this; but you must do
something, whether you like it or not." Even so said
the judge to the jury, in the old days, at twelve o'clock
at night, when they were rather tired of it, — '' After all,
gentlemen, we must be somewhere."

So we are at Mould-on-the-Moss, watching with
the expectation of the rustic by the brawling little brook
which gives the place its name, and gliding and to glide
in its eternal roll, goes plunging down the meadows and
fields which lie behind and parallel to the village-street,
to mingle somewhere with a larger stream before its
baby-waters are salted in the sea. No wonder that the
rustic does watch. There is something so infinitely
tempting, when once the practice has been indulged in,
in the aimless contemplation of running or falling water.
The chirrup of the brook, and the call of the waterfall,
and the roar of the cataract, have all such wonderful
languages and burdens of their own, to which one seems
bound to listen, as in the hope of gathering from them
some definite meaning. They seem to make very sentences
in their flow, in a tongue which is strange but
should not be, and holds out a promise of being understood
some day, when the mighty waters shall be
rolling evermore " on the shores of the immortal sea.
It seems to me as if we " in a moment travelled thither,"
now and again, in the murmur of that gracious message.
Lie for an hour on the Canadian verge alone ;
give yourself up to the spirit of the place, and consult
the oracle of Niagara.

Very, very often did Daisy Brent commune in
this way with the whisper of the loss, when she had
fixed her quarters, lost but not yet forgotten, in this
'Ultima Thule' of the moor. Clear and bright and
sparkling, always a well-fed little bantling of a brook,
nurtured by a generous mother-spring which flowed from
a tarn upon the hills, the Moss became quite self-important
when it was swollen by a burst of rain, of which
the district was by no means sparing. Then it became
brown and insolent, and discontent with the proportions
of its bed, and went about with a head on it, like the
tawny mane which Father Tiber tossed at the Etruscans,
when Horatius cut the bridge do^vn.

Carry my messages to Guy, Uttle brook," sometimes
she whispered to it, "when you have joined the big
river which runs at the foot of the Abbey hill. Will
you whisper to him sometimes, even through the louder
message which the bisj river carries, of the unforo-ettincr
heart which I know he is thinking of now ? You will
not always think of it, Guy. If I went to London, and
you heard of me or found me, you would be fretting
still, and unable to take up the work and the name
which are waiting for you, my fine old noble Guy. You
will be anxious and miserable about me at first now, I

VOL. 111. M

know ; but yoii have grown accustomed to that in all
these weary years ; and in time you will think that I
have passed out of your life. If you do not — if you
will not — you shall think that I am dead, Guy ; and
whispers from the world without shall reach me of your
new career, and of the fame that I know you are bound
to win. And I will watch jon quietly through the
world which will be no longer mine, and think how it
might have been with us if that dream of ours had but
turned to a reality — the dream we dreamed together so
long ago. And so it would have, Guy, if I had had
more of courage, and more of patience, and more of
faith. We never should have met again, dear ; and yet
I hardly know. It may have been good for us both,
after all, to know how much we could love, how much
we did love, and how impossible — how utterly impossible
is the lesser feeling we both thought we could live
upon, after the old ! Tell him all this, little brook, tell
him all this ! and tell him too, when one day he takes a
wife to his heart to help him in his life and in his home,
that the first love who prays for him has sent him her
blessing by you — in a tear ! "

For even as she thought out these things, Daisy
Brent was bending over the long green grasses which

wind and stream were brushing and laving where they
grew by the water's edge, and she felt something warm
fall from her eyes and mix with the waterproof, of
which she had been unconscious till it fell. Then she
looked with a sad smile downwards towards the valley,
and followed her tear in fancy, as we follow some stick
or leaf that we have cast upon the stream, till her fancy
lost it to the sight.

She took up her burden and she went back up the
village street again, after she had been thinking these
things one day, some weeks after her flight from Lus-combe
Abbey. The lips of autumn and winter were
just melting now in their long kiss of yearly welcome,
warm and rich in this season of which we are telling,
and full of the charm which the popular phrase associates
with an Indian climate. The season was an
abnormal one altogether ; and Dame Nature was in
one of her contradictory moods with the calendar, interfering
with the calculations of farmers, disposing of the
auguries of prophets, and giving all the hints in her
power to the irrepressible American to let her alone.

Daisy Brent looked very tired. She was changed

from the brightly dressed beauty whom we have known,

and wore nothing better than the modest gear of a

M 2

village school-mistress, which became her quite as well.
She was like Permit in the eyes of Florizel, looking
and doing her best whatever she looked or did. But
the tired appearance was marked and sad. It had
always been there during her years of London queen-hood,
and her looking-glass knew it well. But it was
kept out of sight of the world, who being no longer at
hand to keep it in check, it had its way. Time might
come, when the rest and tranquillity of the village on
the moor should bring something of their own repose to
Daisy's spirit ; but that time was not yet. The teaching
in the very primitive school where the youth of 
acquired as little education as they liked
to get, for schoolboys were in the infancy of their
development, was not perhaps very restful to her ; and
she liked as little the monotonous piano-strumming of
the Misses Bickers, which she superintended for a
small stipend. For poverty, in its grim reality, was in
good sooth knocking hard at Daisy's door.

She had secured for herself, with the help of
Estrange, a small but sufficient room in one of the
cottages of the aristocratic quarter of the village, which
belonged to the old village sexton, Delves. A crabbed
but very honest specimen of humanity was he, holding

up his bead at the Bells Inn, in the sanded parlour
which is vanishing before the bar of civilization, on the
strength of the varied experience of mankind, which he
considered that his official position towards all classes of
them gave him. He realized his position all the more
because he had for a better half the midwife of the
loyalty, and between them he considered that they
represented the sum of human Kfe. They " assisted at
his birth, and attended at his death," like the letter
h " in the old riddle, and had the right to feel that
but for them there could be in a manner neither Having
nor dvinof in the villas of Mould-on-the-Moss. He
had prospered as times went in that part of the world,
had Delves the sexton, and was respected as a warm
man and a well-informed, with a touch of scholarship
acquired by a large experience of epitaphs, and a dash
of political wisdom even upon extra-parochial matters.

The daughter who had shared the house and hearts
of the worthy couple had married and taken wing : and
they were glad of the opportunity to add to their
modest income by taking a lodger to supply Keziah
Delves's room.

Lestrange, who had ferreted out Mould-on-the-Moss
in the course of his many solitary researches in the

vicinity of Luscombe Abbey, and made an amused study
of the sexton's peculiarities, came to the conclusion that
this was just the place for Daisy to instal herself at the
outset of this new career of hers.

The catastrophe pleased the Count's sense of humour
very much, and the grim contrast of life which Daisy's
new experiences presented, added quite a new chapter
to the book of his studies in the see-saw of circumstance.
The fact that he had himself been riding the
whirlwind and directing the storm, and that after
ingeniously compassing Daisy's flight he was installed
in her confidence as the one person to be trusted, of
course gave a considerable zest to his satisfaction. He
recommended his charge warmly to the parental care
of the Devises, inwardly resolving that one month of
the regime would be quite enough for the fashionable
Mrs. Brent's patience ; and he introduced her to the
Rev. Miles Bickers, widower and incumbent, as a young
lady anxious for quiet occupation, and exactly suited to
the requirements of his school, and also of the Misses
Bickers' musical development. And Daisy on her side
took up her new part with a quiet seriousness which
astonished Lestrange, who confessed to himself that he
never came to the end of his surprises in the matter

of this young lady, though that the seriousness would
last he never supposed for a moment.

Daisy meant what she was doing, though. She
believed that she possessed in herself a strong capacity
for teachings, and teachings well, and for eamino- her
livelihood in more ways than one ; and she did not care
how low on the ladder she began, if by that means she
might acquire the elements of a profession in which she
mio-ht make an interest for her life, faihnor the crpeat
interest of all, which was denied to her. She had confidence
in herself; and dreary as the surroundings were
in which she began this new battle in the campaign of
life, — in which she had lost, unhappily, so much, — she
felt in it something of the pleasure which earning your
own bread, and living a useful, however humble, member
of the working community, produces in every mind
above the lowest capacity of the drone. She started on
her forlorn hope gallantly.

The Reverend Allies Bickers was charmed with his
new school-mistress. He was a reserved student of
the old classic school, whose place is apparently to be
usurped before long by the more litigious followers of
science.

Bickers, who had a drv humour of his own, was once

remonstrated with for confining all his excursions outside
the domain of theology to the districts of the
Athenian republic, on which he was a great authority.

My dear fellow," he said, " if you knew the comfort
of sticking to a nation which is dead and done with,
about which nobody can contradict you to any purpose ! "

But that was some time ago, before the humour and
the Hellenism had faded out of Bickers's life, being, ashe
was, one of those who have a certain alacrity of sinking
in this world, without any apparent reason for it, to
tee compensated mayhap by some majestic buoyancy in
another. He was to have ended in a Bishop's see, it
used to be said for him, if only for that treatise on the
Anapaestic Tetrameter Acatalectic form, which recalled
the best thoughts of Porson.

But Miles Bickers was growing old, and he wore a
very threadbare coat of cloth instead of the sleeves of
spotless lawn, and the Bishop's see had subsided into
the highest and loneliest and poorest benefice in England
— the perpetual incumbency of Mould-on-the-Moss.
He had loved his wife very dearly, and he had lost her
young ; and the absent student found in the two colourless
and depressed maidens, who grew up as her legacy
at his side, but poor consolation for the woman who had

lighted up a short passage of his life, and had been
leading him into the ways of other men, as the best and
earliest methods of access to that preferment for which
alone her Miles was fitted.

It is hard to say, and at this period of our story
unnecessary, how the sad decadence came about in the
career of the widowed solitary, who seemed to laye
taken root in Mould-on-the-Moss, and to be falling day
by day to the level of those around him. He spent
most of his time, sometimes with a Horace, sometimes
with a New Testament in his pocket, in hanging about
his own churchyard or his own church, in which he took
the deepest interest. Sometimes — rare and precious
chance ! — some intelligent stranger would penetrate to
the place ; and looking haply into the old tumbledown
temple, Angered to examine the curious monuments and
strange complexities of mediaeval architecture, which
did their best to peep through the detestable whitewash
which neutralizes so many treasures of old ecclesiastic
work. The shambling and speedily-dressed man, who
would address him with some shy remark of half-apology,
and at first be taken for a decayed verger,
would presently make it clear to the visitor that he was
a cultivated gentleman of rare attainment, and hold

him charmed, if his own mind was open to it, with
discourse historic and archaeological, which would send
the other wondering away, perhaps to fall into the
hands of Delves the sexton, who, having long sate at
Mr. Bickers's feet, would favour the stranger with a
second-hand edition of the same argument from a
popular point of view, many years in bottle.

On the memory of more than one casual pilgrim
the church and the clergyman and the aspects of 
left a curiously deep impression. It was
by some such traveller's accident that Lestrange hit
upon the place ; and with his adaptability and variety
of mind, he came back more than once to study his
fossil reverend, whom he helped in a variety of small
ways, and moved to such admiration and gratitude, that
his praise of the Count addressed to Daisy went far to
increase her growing confidence in him.

As for the answer which Lestrange sent him, to his
querulous wonder where he was to find a school-mistress
for the young flock of Mould-on-the-Moss, Mr. Bickers
found her a revelation. Her sweet face and gentle
manner soothed and softened him ; and the sympathy
which attracts two borrowers in a great sorrow, drew
them much together. She helped to refine and raise

the minds of the two unattractive girls, whose lines of
education had fallen on so hard a place, and before the
two or three months had passed which were to bring
about the close of the year, had made herself quite an
influence in the village upon all connected with it.

It was on that day of which we have been speaking
at the opening of this chapter, that Daisy returned
from sending her fairv-messac^es down the little Moss,
to have tea at the vicarage. How oddly she looked
round the bare walls of the poor room, sometimes;
how strange she felt as the rough country loaf and
the metal teapot went their rounds, and thought of
how many weeks ago ? Surely not weeks — but lives
worlds — anything ! Was she really Daisy Brent,
that had been Daisy Fairfield, and was she acting a
part in some private play, whose catastrophe was not
yet ? Or was she indeed that same Daisy turned into
another woman, seriously and humbly labouring to
make her own bread ? That evening Mr. Bickers' s odd
and slow, but rather pleasant, voice woke her out of a
dream she was falling into over the bread-and-butter.

"Yes, Mrs. Fairbank, I assure you. Count Lestrange
is not the only man of intellect and of cultivation
who has consorted with us of late. Another of the

true KoKoX Kayadol honoured us more than once not
many months ago, who had drunk of the true Castaway
at the same source as I. Balliol, Mrs. Fairbank, classic
Balliol— "

"You were at Balliol, Mr. Bickers?"

Yes, indeed, and I am proud to say so. Do you
know it ? "

Yes, I have seen it."

He too came from Balliol, this scholar of whom I
am speaking, and made himself most attentive to Mary
and to Martha here — eh, Mary ? eh, Martha ? "

Lor, Papa," from Martha and from Mary.

A singular and delightful man, who had taken up
his quarters upon the moor some miles away yonder,
and liked to walk over here sometimes with his
big dog."

Poor old Frisco ! " volunteered Martha or Mary.

'' Frisco ! " said the school-mistress, as she turned her
head aside.

Mr. Bickers and daughters dilated on the merits
of the dog's owner, and told Daisy how often he had
sate in that same seat of hers. Her heart beat very
fast and her eyes were full of tears. Should she go ?
should she stay ? might he not come there again ?

But the days passed by and he did not ; and a warrant
heavy Christmastide, with a sense almost of uncanniness
in the air, and some roses in bloom looking rather
ashamed of themselves, found Daisy Brent still teaching
in the lonely moorland village, while yet but a few days
remained for the winning or the losing of the Count
Estrange's water.

A NEW TEST.

London ! London ! London ! Reeking away in an
atmosphere of impossible fog, filth above and grease
below, everybody cursing the English climate, and
nobody putting in force the act to compel the money-spinners
to consume their own smoke, as by law provided.
(" Oh useful and wonderful English law ! " quoth
the Count Lestrange. " Any two sham doctors and a
selfish person or two may make a man mad in law ; and
if he ' goes to law ' afterwards about it, it takes half the
bench and half the faculty to decide whether he was
ever mad or not, and unless twelve people of no faculty
at all agree one way or the other, it's a moot point till
the day of judgment. Meanwhile the manufacturers
are poisoning half England for their own profit, and the
law can stop them, but doesn't. Oh useful and wonderful



English law ! one half evil and the other half useless !
Costs d'Inglaterra ! What does anything matter")
Britons in general, and Londoners in particular, make
their own climate and then abuse it; and they were
abusing it more than usual in the early winter-months
of the year of grace of which we are writing.

It was hot, muggy, murky ; comforting and welcome,
it is true, to tens of thousands of unimportant units who
found life in warmth, and were apt to die off like flies
in fine old seasonable winters, but annoying to the
curled darlings who associate fixed months with fixed
pastimes, and are put out when they don't get them.
There was the consolation of talking about the weather,
certainly ; in comparing all the notes of all the oldest
inhabitants to show that there never within human
memory had been such a winter as that, so late on into
the year.

November came and went with a procession of fogs
as long and as depressing as her own Lord Mayor's;
December took up the tale and crept on towards Christmas,
and still no sign of winter. The human passage-birds
who take flight at these times for Egypt or the
Riviera put off their fittings, and talked of Torquay or
even of Brighton : for was not the western watering-place

reported to be too hot ? the botanists went crazy
over their flora, and the men of science over their
phenomena; and good people apocalyptically given
shook their heads in corners about the end of the world,
and held meetings to deprecate the tendencies of the
times, which tend, as most times do, to the talking of
much nonsense upon matters not so insoluble as they
are made out to be, and to the setting up of sundry
claims to genius and to thought, on the score of
obscurity, and the gift of confusion of tongues.

Men and women get into print so much more easily
and generally than they used, that all the little doubters
come and buzz out their little doubts in ink, whereas of old
only the grave and serious spirits, on whom the calamity
of unfaith had fallen, were allowed to make their public
profession of it. It is not that more men doubt — but
that so many more talk about it ; and surely the smart
doubter, who haunts the skirts of ' Nineteenth Centuries'
and ' Fortnightly,' is of all men the most wearisome. He
is always great on "the processes of the mind :" as if there
was such a thing as '' the mind," or any two minds
processed in the same way. If my processes were as
those of Imply of St. Nips, I should arrive at the same
conclusions as his. But they ain't ; and I don't. The

impossibility of getting much further in mere human
philosophy than king Solomon meets one at every
point. Though indeed the old gentleman is like to be
revised before long, and to be shown to have meant
something entirely different.

Guy Faucit, during those two or three months which
followed the flight from Luscombe Abbey, spent his
time in London, in close and constant association with
his chosen mentor, the Count Lestrange.

Lestrange made periodical disappearances into the
country for some twenty-four hours or more, which
might have been shown to be coincident with certain
flying visits to the cottage of Delves the sexton, or the
parsonage of the Reverend Miles Bickers.

For the main part of the time Faucit and he were
inseparable, penetrating and examining together into
strange and obscure comers of London life, the thought
ever present in Faucit's mind that somewhere and some
day he must come across, in the great city desert, the
woman who was now more than ever the world to
him ; without whom money, position, ambition, health,
everything, seemed as the ashes of the Dead Sea. He
loved her more than ever since that parting at Lus-combe
Abbey. The idea of her having lost home and

VOL. 111. K

friends for him — perhaps being in poverty for his sake
wrought upon the generous spirit with an overpowering
charm, and left room for no other thought but one.
Strangely enough, as happens, however, with many men,
this great trial and crisis of his life proved the turning-point
in his mental history. He was up to that time,
as I think I have told of him before, one of the many
men perplexed by the buzzing of the doubters, and
half inclined to throw in his lot, and his trained literary
skill, with the speculative literature of the time. But his
Pegasus turned restive, and wouldn't obey him, arguing
-wdth him in a fashion almost as articulate as Balaam's
donkey, and proving to him that on subjects which started
from the thesis that they couldn't be known, there must
assuredly be nothing to be said. And in the middle of
his doubts and fears and troubles, even among London
clubs and London talk, and with the cynical presence of
Lestrange at his elbow, conviction came home to him —
comes as it does come home — in a moment, as in some
flash lighting up the dark corners of doubt, in which
the searcher's mind has been blindly but prayerfully
searching, — setting his mind at rest for ever, victorious
over the after-struggles, the after-troubles, and the
after-pain. The paradise such a man so attains to maybe

but a fool's paradise ; but it is one for all that, and
even on the dreary showing of those who think so, he
has clearly the best of it.

So it was that in the time of his hardest trial and
his greatest sorrow, and through and out of that very
sorrow and trial, Guy Faucit became in one sense a
happier man than he had ever been in his life, even
with the one thought of Daisy otherwise uppermost and
alone in his mind, and the Count Estrange discoursing
him of the philosophies of life.

The Count, very much to his astonishment, found

himself to a certain extent the confidant of this new

phase of Faucit's thoughts, though indeed the other

was but shy and reticent upon the matter, as men who

partake of this singular good fortune are apt to be.

When first Faucit's views became clear to him, he was

fairly staggered by the presence of a phenomenon so

entirely out of his sphere of calculation. Wide as that

was, and widened every day by the active self-cultivation

which after his manner he followed, it beat him. He

understood worldly motives, and was as able to use the

good sides of worldliness as the bad ; and he thoroughly

understood the use of religion as professed and practised

by many excellent persons, and the practical ends it

X 2

might be made to serve. He even believed in the
existence of a genuine religious conviction in a class of
people whom he regarded as of no conceivable use in the
world, and indeed cut off from it by the very fact. They
didn't amuse him and they couldn't serve him, and he
kept out of their way. But here was a man of another
kind, who would certainly before long, Daisy or no
Daisy, be likely to fill a considerable space in the
world's eye, — for Lestrange knew a man very well when
he saw him, — suddenly going off upon a tack which
might turn the boat's head none knew whither.

Good Heavens ! " he said, startled so far out of his
ordinary placidity as to drop his cigarette and sit bolt
upright in his arm-chair, when first Faucit broached his
new theories to him — " you don't mean to say that you
are going to believe in that sort of thing ? "

"What sort of thing ?" asked the other, quietly.

Well, that sort of thing — illumination and supernatural
conversion, and all that."

Why not ? "

"Why not?" Here was one of the Count's own
favourite weapons of logical destructiveness turned
against himself. '' Well, I'm sure I don't know. But
my dear fellow — nobody does now-a-days."

'' Oh yes, a great many do ; more than we think or
know, I suspect. It is an active agent in more lives
than you can guess at."

Horatio's philosophy, and that kind of thing ? "
said the Count. '' How very odd." The Count began
to laugh to himself and to twist about his ring. " Are
you going in for a conviction of sin ? " then he asked
abruptly.

'' No. I don't think I shall ever talk cant, or even
what may sound like it. I'm not aware that I've been
more sinful than my neighbours — at all events, towards
them. But my life wanted a purpose, apart from the
one you know of; and I think it has found one."

Dear me ! I don't quite understand. Isn't wealth
like yours, with what it may find for brains like yours,
a purpose in itself ? "

None whatever, to my thinking."

Are you going to turn monk then ? " said Lestrange,
or preacher, or what ? Or are you going to turn hermit
again ? "

No. I'm not going to turn anything. I shall find
work to do in the world presently, as you say, I suppose ;
and I shall know better how to do it. That's all."

The conversation did not go much further. But

Lestrange, after much smoking at home, and much
meditation, and much uneasy examination of his financial
condition, which a series of unlucky circumstances
was rapidly bringing to a crisis, which he didn't at all
like to contemplate, began to consider whether he might
not be able after all to utilize, as his manner was, even
so new and awkward a factor in the problem before him,
which had to be solved, now, in so inconveniently short
a time.

Upon my soul," he said to himself, " I believe the
man will turn philanthropist. The philanthrope in
earnest is the most unaccountable type in the whole
Chinese puzzle of mental anatomies. The idea of
loving man, of all things in the world, except for what
you can get out of him ! What on earth am I todo
with my athlete now, if he goes in for this entirely
new form of training ? Religious exaltation, eh ? Wait
a bit."

Then with an infinite tact, and in a manner quite
his own, Lestrange set himself to play upon the chord
in Faucit's mind which answered to such new and
subtle music.

If Guy expected, as he did, that the Count would
laugh at him, he found himself wrong. On the contrary,

Lestrange contrived to show himself curious and
interested in the state of Faucit's mind ; to insinuate a
deep sympathy with the phase upon which it had
entered, and to profess himself only too willing and
anxious to arrive at a similar solution of the hard ways
of life. He neither did nor said anything to undermine
or to shake the faith that had entered into his pupil,
for, as he said with conviction to himself, he hadn't
the time. That if he had, the thing could be easily
done, he entertained no doubt at all. Much shallower
arguments and duller sophistries than he could use
were enough to demolish such crazy old fabrics as
Faucit's excited frame of mind had raised. But time
was required to knock such fabrics down. These fervid
phases, which he admitted were new to his personal
experience in men of his pupil's calibre, had to run
their course like the small-pox, or any other dangerous
malady, whose infection was carried by some subtle
particles floating about in the air.

If Lestrange had ever looked upon Guy as a likely
subject for such an ailment, he would have provided
against the danger by a process of mental inoculation.
But he never had ; and had so contented himself
with saturating him with purely worldly maxims

and safe-guards, that he had left the other ground
untrodden. His first feeling, when he understood the
change which had so suddenly taken place in Guy's
feelings and convictions, was that his wager was lost.
Armed with his new faith and purpose, Guy would befor
defending his mistress against harm with the armour
of the red-cross knight, rather than doing her any.

Ah ! but what was harm ? Might it not be possible
to persuade Faucit, that to one so newly and miraculously
convinced of a higher law, the laws of the world
were but a delusion and a snare ? that a pure love like
his and Daisy^s, tried and tested through flame after
flame, was in itself too sacred for the world's foolish
restrictions to meddle with ? He would try. And to
this, about the worst and most devilish task which the
man had yet set himself to do, the Count Lestrange
bent all the power of his magnetic mind. He did his
work wonderfully, and found Guy more apt for it than
he had hoped. Side by side with these higher convictions,
especially at first, is apt to run a dangerous
proclivity to tamper with what seem to be lower laws.
For a man who has never, in real earnest, however well-principled
in purpose and in life, done otherwise than
live the life of those about him inwardly as well as

outwardly, the reaction against the gods which he has
ignorantly worshipped runs into dangerous extremes.
It needs time, and the quiet settling down into the
world's work and the world's ways, which is the only
alternative to the life of a cloister (where, mayhap and
moreover, there is like to be as much world about as
anywhere else), before the man who has set his hope
upon another world can realize the very necessary and
salutary influence of the rules of this.

It was not difficult for Guy, exalted as he was, to
persuade himself, or unconsciously to allow Lestrange
to persuade him, that such an unblest marriage as the
Brents' was a breaking and not a fulfilling the
Divine law ; that it was one of those cases where the
verdict of divorce has been emphatically pronounced
by the higher tribunal ; and that it might be Guy's
highest and truest duty to take bravely upon himself
the consequence of his own doings — for it was he, after
all, who had brought about poor Daisy's flight from
Luscombe Abbey, and condemned her to the life of
struggle which she might now be leading.

In spite of himself Guy's excited fancy caught
the fire; and when he was growing most evidently
warped towards Lestrange's purpose, the latter threw

in an ingenious suggestion, no more than insinuated,
that he might be able to lay his hand on Daisy. He
would do no more than hint at it ; and with it at his
own absolute obligation of secrecy. And much to his
infinite satisfaction and cynical delight, he began to feel
that in Guy's new phase of thought he might have
found his best ally instead of his most dangerous enemy,
and that what worldly wisdom would, in spite of all his
versions of it, have prevented, an unworldly wisdom
would abet.

Lestrange was delighted beyond measure. In all
his manipulations of mankind he had never been able
to congratulate himself on such a success as this, and
the audacity and defiance of his intellectual pride rose
to their culminating height. The man had a new
spirit in him, which gave him a certain grandeur. With
his friends and intimates he took a higher and more
masterful tone than before, and among the circles he
frequented was at his most brilliant and his best. The
sayings and doing of Lestrange during the early months
of that curious winter were not soon forgotten in
London.

It was late in December, when Christmas was close
at hand, that the Count Lestrange paid another of his

visits to Mould-on-the-Moss. The supplies which Daisy
had been receiving had been, by his contrivance, running
shorter and more short, and the pinch of genuine
distress was making itself clearly visible in the face
and figure, and in the brave, uncomplaining voice, of
the old sexton's lodger. He and his wife consulted,
and said it wouldn't do; and conferred with Mr.
Bickers, who couldn't see it through his old gold-rammed
spectacles, which had stuck to him as his
one piece of personal adornment, being himself too well
accustomed to the effect of chronic short-commons to
observe it much in others.

Lestrange marked it sharply enough ; and marked
too how the unutterable weariness of the whole thing
was beginning to tell upon Daisy's mind.

If it would only freeze," he said to himself as he
looked at her, and calculated what cold might be like
in a cottage at Mould-on-the-Moss. mien he saw
her he talked about old haunts and old comforts, with
the professed intention of cheering her spirits; and
sketched for her Tantalic pictures of wealthy homes
and luxurious rest. He told her how provoked he felt
with Lady Pepperharrow, to whom he had written.
She was terribly indignant, and believed, as half the

world did — what ? — why, that Daisy had really gone
away with Guy, and was living somewhere in retirement
under his charge.

Daisy's pale cheek i&red up for a moment, though
she said bitterly enough that it didn't much matter
now. She would write herself to Lady Pepperharrow,
though: though she would not let her know from
where. It would be no use now, Lestrange feared,
after the way in which the old lady had expressed
herself of Daisy's conduct to her.

A friend lost, then ! " said Daisy. " Very well."

As a matter of fact, poor Lady Pepperharrow had
been half-distracted by the news of her favourite's disappearance,
had come home to find her, and had various
conferences with Faucit on the subject, thoroughly
believing his positive denial of all knowledge of Daisy's
whereabouts — about which, owing to odd circumstances
and the peculiar remarks of Lestrange, on none of
which could anybody lay an absolute finger, the world
was divided in opinion, according to its various proclivities
in the matter of charity.

So the world wore on, till Lestrange had paid
that last visit of his to the village on the moor.
And when Christmas-tide came, it came about that

once again, as if by the craft of some practised stage -
manager, a merry-making party was met at Luscombe
Abbey.

In a suit of sables, and under a new title, Lord
Viscount Gander, once Jemmy Gosling, had been
induced to pay a quiet visit to the house of a certain
young lady's aunt, who regarded him now with different
eyes, giving Lestrange the opportunity for many pleasant
insinuations both about aunt and niece ; Miss Carrie of
course not being absent upon the occasion.

Sir Brummel and Lady Coates supplied another
kind of interest, paying their first visit after their
wedding-tour, which had been by mutual consent
brought to a rapid end. And round the whole party
trotted Pentonville, busy and anxious as ever.

Guy Faucit and the Count completed the party.
The former had at first refused to come, feeling himself
but little in cue for it ; but Lestrange let fall one
strange and vivid hint upon the subject he had been
plying so hard ; and eager, excited, his mind full of his
new ideas working upon the sad story of the past, Guy
Faucit came.

As for the Count, he stood at his open window one
night at the Abbey when the rest had gone to bed, and

the unnatural warmth of the atmosphere seemed to
charge it with a summer's electricity.

" Phew," he muttered to himself. '' I wish weather
would be always like this, as far as I'm concerned."

Then he paced the room anxiously and with a set
face, turning over a telegram which he held in his hand.
Good-heavens !" he thought, "what a narrow escape !
To-morrow makes me or mars me, schemes and all. If
I win, the news of this bit of paper will be known too
late to hurt me ; and if I lose — well, nothing matters,
and I throw up the game. I shall have to leave
England; and tomorrow night I shall be out of it.
Nonsense. There's no such thing as losing in a fight
like this. Chaffers ! lay my hunting-suit out tomorrow
morning ; and good-night."

THE MEET OX THE MOOR.

The morning was closer than the previous night.
A heavy damp, which felt like August, was steaming
up from the moorland slopes, and there was a sort of
summer-hush upon the world that Christmas-tide. It
was a week-day in the Christmas week, when holiday
is still made far and wide by thousands who treat but
as a myth the name they still make it in. The holiday-makers
of that year made merry with the welcome
warmth, and dotted the sea and country side like flies,
to an extent which made the faces of railway directors
to beam, but failed to induce them to show any gratitude
by making more comfortable the customers they
fattened on. On the contrary, they treated them with
even more contempt than usual ; disregarded their contracts
with the magnificent indifference to the elements

of morality which has characterized corporations (railway
especially), from Sidney Smith's time upwards and
downwards; inveigled unwary tourists into first-class
tickets, and then jammed their laps into pancakes with
third-class passengers unlimited, carrying bird cages and
sandwiches free of charge (subsequently suing some of
the latter for travelling first-class with third-class tickets,
albeit thereunto not incited only, but compelled by the
company's own guards) ; treated the time-tables as a
myth, and time itself as a delusion; shunted their
victims into sidings, and played pitch-and-toss with
them at level crossings ; tortured their limbs and maddened
their tempers, causing improper expressions to
fiy about like flakes in a snow-storm, and every description
of execration and remonstrance to descend upon
the devoted heads of innocent guards and porters, who
bore them, as a rule, as only angels and railway-men
can, in the vicarious cause of superiors who don't
overpay them for it. Oh, that on some excursion
day these rank and file of the railway army might
pocket the receipts, and the directors be condemned
to run the gauntlet of abuse from their miserable
victims ! But then, what a number of accidents there
would be.

It would be difficult, I admit, to re-introduce 
by a less appropriate opening. The village
on the moor knew nothing of railway-trains, or even of
any definite communication with them. Its part in
the Christmas season would have been as usual one of
undisturbed placidity, but that on the special morning I
am writing of there were singular signs of life about
the place. The rustics were all agape at their porches,
to gaze on an army of gentlefolk who invaded the
village from all sides at once, in uniforms of red, black,
and velveteen, a picturesque regiment of irregular horse,
with camp-followers of an attractive kind in the shape
of brightly-dressed dames and demoiselles in pony-carriages
of coquettish build, rattling up over the moor
to the pleasant music of merry laughter, as the wheels
cleared some sudden obstruction with an unexpected
leap, or the ponies shied at some barricade left casually
in the middle of a turn of the road, like a relic of
the Deluge.

Behind and about the pony-carriages, and in close
and admiring proximity to the heels of the horses,
provoking sundry get-out-of-the-ways and hoarse remonstrances
of a more inarticulate kind, were a horde of
savage infantry collected from the stray cottages and

VOL. III. o

homesteads, apparently even the burrows, of the moor,
rushing out to see anything that might be to be seen,
deserting the plough at least as willingly as Cincinnatus
took to it, and hob-nailing the neighbourhood in a state
of unreasoning felicity. There were the hounds too, bred
out of the Spartan kind, and matched in mouth like
bells, answering name by name, like the boys at a
school roll-call, to the huntsman's mellow cry, and providing
a dappled variety of colour for the many-coloured
scene. For there was a novelty afoot in the world-forgotten
village, and there was a meet by .


The bell-music of the dogs was answered by a
different peal of bells, which sounded from the cranky-looking
old church-tower upon a series of discords quite
as cranky. And as it sounded, the figure of old Delves
the sexton, shuffling in a crab-like fashion begotten of
rheumatic years, might be seen making its way through
the open place which still called itself the market-place,
where a rude stone cross with an inscription which
might have been Runic upon it, for all chance a casual
reader might have of deciphering its meaning, marked
the centre of gravity of Mould-on-the-Moss. An old
village fountain gurgled at its foot, and the moss-grown

pavement, rough and uneven, sloped and straggled up
or down from it to the best cottage homesteads of the
place, amongst which the sexton's house was conspicuous
on the upper side, its door opening upon the marketplace,
and side-wall abutting upon the mournful and
overgrown, but picturesque, churchyard, whose uncared-for
turf and thickly-scattered, nameless mounds of
sepulchral earth matched the pavement of the place in
unevenness of grain.

The sexton's house flanked one side of the churchyard,
and the church itself the other, its quaintly carved
porch and door opening upon the market-place westward,
to which a flight of steps also led down from the
middle of the churchyard, raised a little height above it.
To the north side the place contracted itself into the
strao^o^Hno^ street, if street it micrht be called, which constituted
the village, which to the south came to an
abrupt end at the church, save only for the unpretending
parsonage, which hid itself in the fields beyond,
communicating by a foot-path and a stile with the
market-place. Delves had it to himself that morning,
the entire population being bent upon the gathering in
the fields beyond, which had drawn even the Reverend

Mr. Bickers and the fair Martha and Mary from their



trivial round and common tasks, to see what was
going on.

"All right, mum, all right," the old sexton was
saying as he came out of his cottage, speaking in a tone
at once respectful and parental. '' You stay where you
are, and keep quiet. You couldn't be asked not to feel
more out o' spirits than ever, this being Christmas
time." And Delves threw into the word an indescribable
effect of grumble. " Oh yes, go on ! " he added to himself,
apostrophizing the church bells ; " there's the bells
making' believe to be merry, and austin' themselves over
it, for all the world like the live folk that runs to
turkeys. Merry indeed ! who's a going' to be merry at
the end of December ? If you've troubles on the mind
or rheumatics on the body, that's when they finds yer out.
And when you puts the summer 'eat on the top of it,
and makes as if you meant to fling in a dash of thunder
and lightning, what's to become of you ? Hallo, sir, that
you ? " the old man proceeded, not varying his grumbling
tone a whit, for indeed it was part and parcel of him.

The man whom he addressed was leaning over the
stile, and had been watching the sexton with the quiet
observation of one accustomed to watch everybody, fora
few seconds before he was discovered. Picturesque

enough the Count Lestrange, for he it was, looked in
the shapely hunting-dress he wore, which set off the
slight figure to advantage.

'' Good morning, Delves," he said. '' Is your young
lady lodger at home ? "

He came into the place as he asked the question,
raising his hat from his head and wiping his forehead
with his handkerchief, as he felt the stifling closeness
which was in the air.

*eyes, sir," answered Delves. ''Do you wish to
see her?"

Not immediately," said the Count.

He said it with an odd smile on his lips, and a look
at his watch. It was not yet mid-day, and the start
from Luscombe Abbey had been made very early.

She's expecting' of yer," said the old sexton, contemplating
the Count admiringly; 'but not in them
gorgeous togs. That's for the hunting is it ? We
don't see much of that up this way.

"You owe it to my suggestion that the hounds
meet near here. I look well in red and black, don't I ? "

"Bon to it," answered Delves.

Exactly. This is the only opportunity which the
age affords me of coming out in my true colours."

Eh ? " asked the sexton. " I don't fuller."
'rit's as well you shouldn't," said Lestrange, with
an amused smile and a look of mastery on his
face, 'rit. might make you uncomfortable. Ouf! it's
close enough. What's in the air now, in this eccentric
climate ? "

Thunder an' lightning' 's in the air," growled Delves,
and it don't mean to stop there. We shall have a
big storm before were done with it."

Even as he spoke there were one or two drops
falling, but they ceased again for the time.

"A thunderstorm at Christmas!" said Lestrange.
That would be a curiosity."

Ay," added the sexton, seating himself on the old
market-stone by which stood the cross. " It don't
happen often, but it does sometimes. It's thirty years
ago and more come this Christmas-tide when the
winter lightning' struck the old tower yonder, and
twisted it all o' one side, just as you see it now. We
don't run to repairs much up 'ere."

"Ah! struck by lightning, was it?" asked the
Count, curiously. "I haven't heard that before. A
heavy storm, I suppose ? ■'^

Ah, I believe you it was heavy. And it wasn't

content with dumb things like church-towers, neither ;
for the same flash that did that mischief struck a man
down just where you're standing a black blathers'
scoundrel who was never no good to anybody. It
knocked him clean out of time though, and he gathered
no more."

Dead ? " asked the Count, with a slight shudder.

'dead."

Ah ! Has there been much more doing in that
way lately ? in your way, I means

should there be doing?" answered Delves.
Nobody canst be expected to die ■'ere when nobody
don't live sere. Drat the musty old place ! What's
the good of my telling them as I show over the church,
which it represents a income of about half-a-crown
every other year, — that it dates from the reign of
William the Conqueror? What's the good of that,
I asks you, when there's nobody in it in the time of
Victoria ? ''

It's the thin end of the wedge, Delves," said
Estrange, lauo^hinor.

He was leaning against the stone cross at the foot of
which the old sexton was sitting beings to the latter
personage a kind of rostrum from which he was wont

to discourse social and political wisdom to the rustic
senate of Mould-on-the-Moss.

Is it now ? " said Delves, looking at his companion
with a face indicative of no comprehension whatever of
his meaning, but much conviction of its depth. "What
wedge ? "

Disestablishment of the national Church," laughed
the Count, carelessly. '' You look disestablished enough
here to please anybody. What are your political views
on that point ? "

I don't rightly know as I has any — not to speak
on. I goes for advance, I does. That's where it is —
advance. And there's no doubt that we wants it bad
down here."

Well, we shall educate your successor," said Le-strange,
"and dispose of your place by competitive
examination. But cheer up; you shall show your
church this morning to a party of fine folk from Lus-combe
Abbey, which you may have heard of. They'll
be over here directly for the meet, and will have some
little time to spare."

"Fine folk in these parts!" answered the sexton.
Well, it's a sight o' time since I seen that. Darn me
if I hadn't forgotten what century that there roof was

restored in; it won't in this, I know. I can't be
expected to remember my history when I gets no
practice. Howsomever, I knows half-a-crown's worth,
I reckon."

"I want you to forget another half-crown's worth"'
was the quiet remark which followed, as the Count put
the coin in the other's hand.

Eh ? ^' asked Delves, puzzled again.

You'll forget my visits here during the last three
months," said the Count, " and you'll forget to mention
anything about your young lady lodger."

"About her, pretty lamb?" answered the other,
quite a touch of tenderness coming over his rough and
grumbling voice, which indeed was no uncommon
matter where that young lady was concerned. " That's
right enough. I promised her I'd never say anything
about 'er ; nor I wouldn't, without takin' 0' your money,
which I'll keep notwithstanding."

Excellent philosopher ! " laughed Lestrange.

Not much of that," growled back the other ; " which
I'm told it's one as don't mind other folk's troubles, and
worry much minds his own. Now her pale face goes
to my heart ; she's troubles enough of her own, whatever
they are, let alone a jolly Christmas."

An infinite emphasis of disgust the sexton managed
to throw into the last adjective, expressive of a contempt
for the festive season which might have made
the calendar blush. The season, however, being not
only a jolly but an assertive season, wont to insist upon
its historical position and traditions, responded at once
to Delves's challenge by a fresh peal from the old
church-bells, whose ringers had free license from time
immemorial to discourse December music to the moor
when the spirit moved them. They found the spirit
move them mightily that morning when they saw the
number of groups of unusual visitors, from whom sundry
half-crowns might surely be expected. The Count
Estrange didn't seem likely to be of the number of
contributors, however, for the bells of 
seemed in no way to commend themselves to his
sense of harmony. Certainly their notes were none of
the soundest, portending that the little rifts within the
metal had been slowly widening for many years past,
possibly even before the oldest Mould-on-the-Mossian
had worn the semblance of the tiniest of the trots now
sucking their dirty little fingers with their dirtier little
mouths at the door of some friendly pig-stye, or mud-built
hovel scarcely distinguishable therefrom. If that

same rift had carried the poet's process further, and
slowly silenced all, Lestrange for one would have had
no objection. His face bore the expression of pain
which defiance of tune wrings from involuntary muscles,
and he put his hands to his ears and drew up his legs
with that octo pedal contraction which is part of the
same expression of suffering. Delves' s face presented
a pleasant contrast to the Count's, as of one who regarded
the divinations of these charges of his with a
certain humorous parental pride.

Confound those bells of yours ! how cracked they
are ! " said the Count Lestrange.

Sold you be, if you'd stopped here so long as they
'ave," was the answer.

The tete-astute between the strangely-assorted pair
wis at an end, for the rattle of the wheels of a pony-carriage
was heard on the south side of the marketplace,
and it discharged its contents at the door of the
Bells Inn, which occupied (of course) the angle of
the market - place opposite the church, nestling in
confiding proximity thereto.

It was part of the same good old Church-intestate
system, and the progress which Delves desiderated
for the village had certainly spared it so far. Its

convenient position with reference to the church, and
the churchyard, and the sexton's own house, was very
welcome to him in his advancing years, and he rarely
stirred outside this three-cornered kingdom of his,
which he had as it were in a ring fence under his
hand. Under some protest, but with some curiosity,
he shuffled up to help the smart tiger-groom (specimen
of the genus hippo-anthropoid not formally tabulated)
in his ministrations by the pony-carriage, from which
the Count Lestrange, his hat raised in old-fashioned
and punctilious courtesy, assisted Lady Luscombe,
Carrie Beaufort, and Lady Coates, nee, Challoner, to
descend.

THE WHIP-hand.

"What a picturesque old place!" said bliss Caroline
Beaufort, fairly delighted with the oddities of the
scene, and taking it all in with a lively and pleasant
curiosity. She looked a very agreeable figure in her
well-fitted driving-dress, and the neat little Swedish
gloves, with buttons which had apparently neither end
nor beginning, but disappeared from view in the
direction of the elbow. " How strange that we should
never have been here before, aunt."

"Not at aU," Lady Luscombe said, languidly and
absently. She looked even more hunted and worn
about the eyes than of old, and with a restless movement
they continually sought Lestrange, who avoided
meeting them with his. " It's a great distance, and
there's nothing to see," she added. " How singularly

close it is." And she seated herself upon the sexton's
stone with unconsciousness, moving the venerable gentleman,
who had in it a sense of proprietorship or of
tenant-right acquired by long usage, to a look of distracted
uneasiness, as if he opined that the lady meant
to take it away with her.

"There never is anything to see in this sort of
place'' observed Lady Coates, in a voice more distinctly
unappreciative of things as they are than had been
characteristic even of Miss Challoner. " Why did you
organize the meet in such an out-of-the-way corner,
Count Lestrange ? "

''A meet is always the best of reasons for coming
anywhere," said the cheery Carrie. "Nothing like
hunting to wake a place up."

"Why ain't you hunting yourself to-day, then?"
asked Emily.

''Sa I am, in a pony-carriage," answered Carrie,
examining the Runic inscription, and trpng to scratch
the dust upon it into some intelligible form with the
help of her parasol.

The new Lord Gander doesn't like young ladies to
Int," said Lestrange, sententiously, producing a grimace
from Carrie, unremarked.

Xo, of course," said Emily, with an added touch
of verjuice in her well-bred voice. " Only married ones,
like that Daisy Brent. Xo news of her, I suppose,
Lady Luscombe ? "

"None," said Lady Luscombe, slightly flushing,
wearily and with a sigh. "How fearfully hot it is,"
she said again. " The place is like a grave."

It is warm," said Lestrange. " I Eke it."

Don't talk in that way," Lady Luscombe answered
hurriedly, and in a low voice. ." It sounds like an omen."

Poor Daisy ! " Carrie said, with regret and sadness
in her voice. " What can have become of her ? " And
as she looked very hard at the inscription, there were
tears in the kind eyes which looked. " Ah, well ! Why
don't you hunt, dear, by the bye ? " she added, abruptly,
to Emily, to change the subject.

Sir Brummel," observed the Count as before, but
with a rather more pronounced sneer than he generally
permitted himself (Lady Coates was one of his favourite
studies in womanhood), "wishes that his wife could
hunt."

Sir Brummel is not interested in anything I do,"
Emily said, in a tone of profound indifference which
seemed destitute even of pique; "let us find a more

agreeable subject. Is this the church which is supposed
to be so curious ? "

She moved across the market-place as she spoke,
and with a pair of double eye-glasses, which she had
assumed by right of fashionable matrimony rather than
of short sight, proceeded to survey the old temple without
any superfluity of reverence. She looked it up
and down as if it had been a young person of the
middle classes, speaking to her without an introduction.
Her inquiry, however, was Delves's opportunity. The
old sexton, having satisfied himself that the unceremonious
lady who sate down upon his stone had no
designs upon it, but was merely in a state of ignorance
of his claims and character in the village, for which she
was rather to be pitied than blamed, had transferred
his observation to the two younger ladies, having still
his share in the universal weakness of male humanity,
which finds the attractiveness of the opposite sex in
provokingly inverse proportion to its age. Delves,
who had an eye, as he thought, for everything, would
have been sorry indeed not to possess one for beauty.
He bestowed inward approval on the outward appearance
of both the young women, with a decided preference
for Carrie Beaufort.

"A stuck-up sort t'other one," he thought to himself.
' The little one's nose does all the sticking-up for her,
and she's a good little filly."

Such were his reflections when they were interrupted
by Lady Coates's question, which brought him back at
once to meditations on half-crowns and the main chance.
He would not allow any shadowy preferences of his own
to distract him from that primary object, and bestowed
his gracious patronage upon Emily at once.

"Built in the early Norman," he said ^^'ith much
promptness, as he came forward from the back, where
he had been suppressing himself by the churchyard
steps, and taking up the cue — '' as is observed in the
lancet window of the north lisle. The roof was erected
in the twelfth century, and till the time of Oliver
Crumbles "

"Thank you, yes," lisped Emily, with an infinite
impertinence which took no account of beings of that
clay; wounding the old gentleman's feelings with as
much compunction as she might show in treading on a
disabled wasp — less, as a display of sentiment on the
latter head might be interesting.

Appelez-vous cela un homer' she might have
answered if any one had suggested that any such result

VOL. III. p

could follow her words. To do her justice, it would
have astonished her considerably. She did not even
focus Delves with her glasses for a passing moment,
but continued to patronize the church with them.
What a tumble-down old hovel ! "

And what a tumble-down old man ! " whispered the
delighted Carrie, careful with her very different instincts
that the sexton should not hear her; " and what tumbledown
everything ! And oh, Emily, what awfully jolly
poetry ! Look here," she said, as in the course of her
perquisition she had mounted the churchyard stairs,
and was applying herself to an examination of those
wonderful 'stales of the tombstones" which play such
an odd part in the literature of the country : —

"'TOBIAS Trotter— AGED 91.
He were the righteousness of men,

As there is few of such :
We ne'er no more shan't see again

One good for half so much.'

Now what's that out of ? "

Out of the heads of his sorrowing relations," said
the Count Lestrange, laughing. " Probably he was one
of the worst characters in the parish, eh, Delves ? "

Which he certainly were, sir," answered the sexton,
scratching his head over his internal reminiscences, like

a famous member of his guild moralizing over the skull
of Yorick. 'beat all his wives, as there was three of
'em, and starved all his children, as there was sixteen,
exception' those as he boiled. And only died himself
when there was none left to keep him alive through
bullying' on 'em. He were a rare 'un, he were. And I
was main fond of him."

And perhaps wrote his epitaph ? " suggested the
Count.

Well, sir," said Delves, with much self-respecting
modesty, scratching the other side of his head with an
indescribable grin, '' I alius had rather a tutti in the
way of verse."

I thought so," commented Lestrange, while the
young ladies received the intelligence after their respective
manners. " What you might have been had
there been an Education Act in your time ! "

A local poet," exclaimed Carrie. " How a^^^ullv
lovely ! "

^•'How excessively silly!" was the observation of
her more refined friend.

Carrie Beaufort, however, proceeded on the strength

of his lyric gift to cultivate an acquaintance with

Delves, who responded willingly to the j'Oimg lady's

p 2

attention, and proceeded to bring to her notice the
flowers of the Mould on-the-Moss anthology one by one.
All the virtues seemed, from the touching records by
descendants provided, to have flourished garden-wise in
the ancient village, and anything like vice to have been
unknown in its Arcadian precincts.

Where are the bad people buried ? " is a question
which will exercise the mind as much as the fate of
postboys did Dickens's hero. Carrie went from mound
to mound and stone to stone, and delighted herself with
an examination of the old sexton's individuality, while
the other three still lingered in the market-place.

Ominous signs began to gather in the sky, which
seemed to threaten but a wet and soaking day's sport
to the Nimrod, and suofsrested uncomfortable reflections
to the tenants of the pony-carriages. Darker and
heavier grew that strange, unseasonable atmosphere,
and the ominous stillness which precedes an exceptional
storm was sensible everywhere.

"If there is anything to see inside the church," said
Emily, drawing her shawl closer round her in spite of
the warmth, " come and show it to us. The rain will
be upon us in a moment, and at least it will be a
shelter."

'' Yes, ma'am," said Delves, who had by this time
made the circuit of the churchyard with his pretty
charge, and felt in nowise disposed to change her for
the other. '' Will you come in too, miss ? The kneeling'
finger to the right, as you enter, represents the — — ."

And followed by Emily, producing his history by
the yard as he went, the sexton opened the stout old
door with an immense key of an antiquity as venerable,
and disappeared from the scene.

'lady Coates is a good deal changed in the last
few weeks," said Estrange to Carrie, who was following.

"Yes," answered she from the old porch, which
framed a very pretty figure ; " she's not too jolly."

Marriage is not good for young ladies."

'' Think so ? " Carrie said, off-handed. '"'But what's
come over my aunt ? " she went on, as she noticed Lady
Luscombe tracing idle figures on the ground, still seated
on the market-stone, and unconscious apparently, alone
with the painful thoughts which seemed to have possession
of her, of all that was going on around her. '' Ain't
you coming to see the kneeling figure to the right,
aunt ? " Carrie Beaufort added, with a funny imitation
of the old sexton's manner of speech.

"Directly," said Lady Luscombe, absently, as her

niece followed the others into the church. Then she
raised her eyes straight to Lestrange's, now that she
was left alone with him, and spoke without parley.
'' What have you brought us here for ? "

For the meet."

'' And then ? "

"To see the church."

You are not so fond of churches."

As an outsider, yes," said the Count.

"You have some new scheme," Lady Luscombe
said, speaking rapidly and clearly, and with a nervous
emphasis upon the words. " I have not forgotten that
the time for winning or losing that wicked wager of
yours is nearly gone by. Have you won it ? The world
believes that when Daisy Brent left my house suddenly,
after that scene three or four months ago, it was with
the help and knowledge of Guy Faucit ; that he knows
where she is now, though he denies it. Is the world
right ? "

"I am not a court of appeal from the world's
judgments," answered the Count, undisturbed. " Why
refer to such an old scandal as that ? "

'' Old ! " echoed Lady Luscombe.

*' Surely. Three months are a great age for a scandal

with us. There have been several since. Let us
hope," the Count proceeded, in his best sub-acid manner,
"that Lady Coates will soon provide us with
another."

"I don't want fencing," said Lady Luscombe, impatiently.
" Where's Daisy Brent ? "

Nor do I. She's here."

The Count reported with the vividness of a swordsman,
and he leaned upon the cross by the stone, from
which Lady Luscombe rose at once to her feet at the
answer.

In this village ! " she exclaimed.

"Yes."

I guessed it ! I guessed it ! " Lady Luscombe said.
I guessed it from your manner about this meet. She
is in the charge of Guy Faucit."

"Xo," said Lestrange, composedly. "He knows
nothing about her."

In whose then ? " Lady Luscombe asked.

"In mine."

Yours ! "

The Count's softest and best-pleased laugh answered
her. " Ai-e you jealous ? " he said. " Don't be alarmed ;
I only take a friend's interest in the poor girl."

Your friendship is only less dangerous than your
love," said Lady Luscombe, with a deep and scornful
bitterness.

"Well, you ought to know," said Lestrange, carelessly,
with a shrug of the shoulders and a turn of the
ring. " You're nervous and excited ; sit down while I
explain."

Nervous and excited Lady Luscombe was, so much
so that her hand shook with the agitation of her
thought, as she wondered and speculated what this
scheme might mean, which she had so rightly suspected
and feared. She sate down again upon the old stone,
and her face took a hard, set expression as she looked
straight before her, to listen to what the impassive
Count might have to say.

I repented," he went on placidly, leaning on the
cross close by her in a familiar attitude, "what you
justly call my wicked wager " (no expression in his voice
denoted anything much more than amusement), " and
provided this refuge for Daisy Brent, to save her from
Faucit and from herself."

Lady Luscombe looked at him eagerly, with a quick,
inquiring glance, then gave a merely contemptuous
ejaculation.

I don't believe you," she said.

"You're quite right," with the same quick parry
his voice and manner took a sterner mould, and
all vestige of banter left them. He spoke with grave
and unusual seriousness, and Lady Luscombe's face
flushed deeper than before. She knew of old what
might be likely to happen when the Count Lestrange
was in earnest.

You prefer the truth, and you shall have it," he
said. " I meant to win my bet four months ago, and
thought I had secured my lovers. I was wrong. I
meant the lady to run away with the gentleman, and
she ran away from him,"

Good girl ! " Lady Luscombe said, with a genuine
gladness and even pride in her voice. "You had
miscalculated one thing, you see : a brave woman's
power of resistance."

Yes," said Lestrange, relapsing for a moment into
his wonted cynicism. " My excuse must be my want
of experience in that respect. For the time I had
failed," he went on, serious again. " But I found Mrs.
Brent at her wit's end where to turn, and offered to
find a home for her, though I could only find a humble
one. She was too proud even for that, but accepted

my help so far as to take work which I found for her.
She is living in this village."

Where ? " asked Lady Luscombe after a pause, as
the Count said no more.

She was trying to puzzle out the problem.

All in good time," he said.

You still dare to think that you will win that
wager ? "

Yes," he said, "I do ; to-day. I shall not fail
this time."

How ? " said Lady Luscombe, shortly.

As before, with your help."

She bit her lip till the blood came.

Again ! " she said. " What am I to do ? "

She had the old appearance of watching him, but
something with it of a new purpose slowly rising in
her mind.

You will meet Daisy Brent presently," Lestrange
answered, with his dangerous seriousness, "and you
will be careful to receive her as one woman loves
to receive another when she is under a cloud, especially
when — "

When what ? " asked Lady Luscombe, as he did
not go on.

He shrugged his shoulders.

Never mind. Xot a word of this, of course," he
added ; " I can trust Lady Coates to follow suit."

Is that all ? " presently Lady Luscombe asked
again, with the same air of increasing purpose, but
no definite expression in her voice either of submission
or of dissent. Lestrange's keen observation did not
miss the new phase, and he looked at her, this time
with no shifting of the eyes at all. This time her
eyes did not meet his.

At present, that's all," then said the Count.

Lady Luscombe waited as if she expected him to
say more. As he did not, she spoke again ; her eyes
turned away from him, but as if from some concentrated
thought.

"Daisy will not be without a defender," she said.
Her brother has come home."

If she anticipated making some impression, she
was wrong.

I know that," was all the Count said.

You know it ? "

"Yes. You know I always know everything. He
will probably be at the Abbey this morning, find a line
which I left there for him, and follow us here."

Lady Luscombe's singular self-possession failed her
acrain, and she left the seat where through all this
conversation she had been sitting as quietly as if she
had been chained to it. She began to walk about
the grey market-place, which might have been a
desert left to the two, for any soul that interrupted
them. Still the omens hung heavy in the air; but
the clouds did not break, and the storm-god held
his hand.

To thwart you ! " then she said, looking at him.

"To help me," was again the quiet answer. "He
has a violent temper. I am so much obliged to
you for making no objection." And with a graceful
air of courtesy he raised her hand to his lips and
kissed it.

She did not wince ; but she looked at him again, as
Portia may have looked at Shylock across the table in
the court, when she saw the man who was bent upon
a purpose as diabolical as ever crossed a human brain.
And there are people who want to represent Shylock
as a suffering martyr ! the savage usurer, whose best
and only plea is that he believed in his religion, which
he gave up in a moment to save half his cash ! Shylock
was merely a terrible specimen of a perverted brute;

and Lady Luscombe remembered how they had spoken
of him on that day the wager was made.

Did you think that I might make objections ? " she
asked, quite gently.

If the womanly touch in her voice was meant
to disarm him, Portia's plea for mercy was never more
misplaced.

None that I shouldn't silence," said Lestrange,
with an unmistakable contempt from which sometimes
he could not refrain. It was not always wise.

''If it ruins me, I will save her if I can," was the
thought passing through Lady Luscombe's mind. " I
wonder that you can trust me," was what she said.

I can't help myself," answered Lestrange, with his
habitual tone of good-humour. "Xow-a-days even
Satan cannot work without instruments. It takes two
now to make the devil, of whom one — at least — must
be a woman. Phew ! how hot and dark it is ! The
proverbial season for me — a green Yule ! "

As he spoke Count Lestrange turned away from the
cross by which he had been so long standing, and took
his handkerchief from his pocket to wipe his forehead.
Intense and more intense grew that pressure in the
air. His back was turned to Lady Luscombe, and

as he drew the handkerchief out, a paper fell from his
pocket on the ground. She saw it, and instinctively
leant forward to pick it np and give it him, for he did
not see it fall. " You — " she began. Then the words
upon that paper caught her eyes, and she started as if
she had been stung. Then she looked at the paper
for a moment close, close, and crushed it up in her
hand.

What did you say ? " Lestrange asked, turning.

Nothing." With more than Portia's interest she
was looking at him now, and her heart beat almost
audibly under her dress, and her hand crushed the
piece of paper tightly away. Portia had no interest in
Antonio, as so many would-be critics want to feign.
Why should she have ? she knew that he was safe.
Portia was wrestling with Shylock, for Shylock's soul.
But Lestrange' s face, as Lady Luscombe looked at him,
wore nothing but its usual mask of well-bred indifference.
" Have you heard anything of John Brent
lately ? " suddenly she asked, and without preamble.

The Count Lestrange looked at her very sharply.

Why do you ask ? " he said.

Have you ? " again she asked, weighing her words,
and pleading. '' By the last news he was seriously ill."

His eyebrows went up in the old familiar way — the
way which she knew so well.

I have heard nothing since," he said on his side
as deliberately.

"Ah," she said. What was the sound she used?
A word, a whisper, or a sigh ? She made as if to
shake her head, and puzzled him. She looked at him
once more, with a look in her eyes which was a dumb
appeal, but found no answer in his. " I must go into
the church," then she said. " They will be wondering
what has become of me."

"Very well," said Lestrange. "You understand
me ?"

About what ? Oh, yes. I understand you very
well."

She did indeed. There was a crucifix in the porch
of the church, which met her eyes as she entered it,
and her lips seemed to move. On the threshold she
turned back once more, with one more earnest look at
her companion. He seemed to have forgotten her, and
was absorbed in his ring. She made a half-step towards
him, which he either would not or did not notice.

Will you take those ten thousand pounds from meas
a gift ? " she said.

No," he answered. " But as a debt I will, to-day."

So she drew back again, and was gone. The sun

had been trying to struggle through the clouds just

then; but the clouds closed over the sun, and the

darkness seemed almost to speak.

daisy's brother.

'' I don't quite Hke her manner," thought Lestrange.
"She wouldn't play me false: oh, no, she aren't.
Can I have made any mistake this time ? I think
not. Only a few days left to win in, and I must have
that money. Give it me, \\iU she ? Well, that's a
comfortable hedge. So she shall if I lose it, and I
needn't leave the country after all. I've run it fine ;
but not too fine, I think. Unless I'm much deceived,
my Samson's last scruples have disappeared before his
new gospel. What an odd ally ! And as for the lady,
she has had more than enough of poverty and Bickers
by this time. With the women's tongues to stab, and
the men by to sharpen them, and that idiot of a
brother, if I've timed him rightly, fresh from the first
news of the scandal, and the longed-for lover on the

VOL. III. Q

spot, if they don't fall right into each other's arms —
well, I'd better go to school again, that's all. That's
awkward news from India, though, which she must
hear in a day or two; but not just yet, I fancy. It
upset me for a moment, but I can keep it back just
long enough. How it will sweeten my triumph when
it comes ! It's very exciting. It will be a ' meet '
with a vengeance. I'm glad I'm dressed for the
occasion, to be in at the death."

A sound of many feet and many voices made itself
heard in the street, where the pony-carriage had landed
its company before, and Lestrange drew back as he saw
them coming.

More of my puppets dancing to my tune," he said
to himself; " that's right. Now for my pretty penitent."

He knocked gently at the door of Delves' s cottage,
turned the handle, and went in. Quietly he went upstairs
to a room above, where Daisy Brent, with books
and account-books and papers before her, and unconscious
of the excitement which was agitating ,
was making ready for her village - school.
Worn and pale and thin she looked, the brilliant beauty
of a former day, and it passed through Lestrange's
mind, for a moment, that her changed appearance might

have the wrong effect upon Guy, and repel instead of
interesting him.

It would me," the Count thought. " But Faucit is
on the high ropes, and the thing will be all the sweeter."

For a moment he glanced from the window of the
room down upon the place below.

Did you hear any noise in the market-place ? " he
said, after exchanorino^ a dominos oTeetincr.

No," she answered ; ''I was very, very tired, and
have been asleep. I am not strong now."

He drew the blind down upon some excuse, and

sate down to talk to Daisy for a time, consulting his

watch at intervals, and every now and then looking

out from under the blind. Just as he entered the

cottage, a group of four riders made their appearance

in the market-place, and dismounted for the moment

to leave their horses at the inn, while the inspection

of the church took place, as agreed upon. They were

old friends of ours all of them, and as they proceeded

to examine the market-cross, and other dilapidated

lions, were engaged in an animated discussion; — all

but one, who was occupied with his own thoughts, and

seemed at first to pay no attention to what the others

were saying.

Q 2

It's t — too bad, Gander, too bad," observed his
lordship of Pentonville with emphasis and conviction,
trotting about the while, though sensibly weaker in the
knees than when we first made his acquaintance. In
the head he seemed to remain stationary. "You ought
to come to the p — point with the Beaufort girl. I
b — betted that you'd propose to her directly; you came
down to the Abbey this C-Christmas, and now you're
going to th — th — "

Throw her over ? " supplied Coates.
'' No ! Back out."

I don't want to say anything indelicate. Pen," said
he whom we have known as Jem Gosling, dressed in
quiet and appropriate mourning; "but mind your
own business."

"It is m — my business," screamed the little lord,
emphatically ; " I've got my money in it."

He's haw quite right. Jemmy," quoth Sir Brummel
Coates, with the air of one now qualified as a moralist.
You ought to hum marry that little girl."

"Awfully disinterested, old boy, aren't you?"
answered Jem. " Marrying little girls seems to have
paid so well with you."

That's a haw doosid different thing," said Coates.

Well, it may be ; but suppose it wasn't ? " said
Gosling, with a^ marked irreverence which nettled the
accomplished baronet.

Fact is," he said, rather angrily, '' you're too great
a hum swell since your brother's death."

"The fact is nothing of the kind," answered Jem,
taking the challenge up. '' Look here, you fellows !
why can't you let a fellow alone ? I've had an awful
lot to think about since I lost my poor old brother ;
and I'd crime all I've o-ot, and lots more, if I could only
get him back again. The mum says I'm no good at
aU after him, and she's right."

There was genuine regret in the tone, which
there was no mistaking. The new Lord Gander's two
companions looked at each other with undisguised
astonishment.

I d — do believe he's r — really cut up ! " confided
Pentonville to Coates, crescendo.

'must be haw putting it on," said the worthy
baronet with much conviction.

You're a good fellow. Jemmy," said Guy Fauci t
in his deep, grave voice, joining for the first time in
the conversation, and laying his hand affectionately
on the younger man's shoulder ; " and I'll tell you

another thing. Came Beaufort's, a good girl ; marry
her."

Lord Gander's face fell. "I suppose," he said,
that, like most girls, she'd take me now."

"Like few girls," said Guy with warmth, "she'd
have taken you when you hadn't a penny."

Perhaps," Jemmy said. " But she knew how bad
my brother was." Faucit looked at him wonderingly.
'' Lestrange says — " the other went on.

Ah ! he's been talking to you ? " said Guy.

"Yes; he's been awfully kind."

The less you listen to Lestrange, my boy," Faucit
said kindly, " the better for you."

Jemmy shook his head.

"Clipper, old man, you don't practise what you
preach."

"Lestrange can do me no harm," Guy answered,
with a sad and singular smile. " In the world's sense,
my life was broken long ago."

I hate to hear you talk like that," said his friend
impatiently. "You're awfully changed by all this.
That Daisy Brent business has been a bad one for
you."

"Hush !" said Guy.

'•' Oh, I know you won't let a soul speak to you
about it," Jemmy went on. '' But it's awfully strange.
On your honour, Faucit," he said, gravely, "you don't
know where the poor girl is ? "

On my honour, no, indeed," Faucit answered. " I
don't know to what I've brought her. My old pupil,"
he went on, very earnestly, "listen to me, and not to
Lestrange, whose unfaith in everything is well enough
for him, but isn't to be shared. Few men are so lucky
as you ; don't let your luck go by you. You know in
your heart that a good woman loves you for your
own sake ; marry her, and you'll be a good man."

Jem's cynicism could not have gone very deep,
seeing how easily Faucit's words moved him. His face
had a pleasant smile upon it, and his voice an expression
of much relief.

Thanks, old fellow," he said. "I'm awfully glad
we've met again down here. Yes, I suppose Carrie's
in the church. Time about thinking of looking at the
monuments, isn't it ? Good-bye ! "

And reconciled to his conscience with extreme
rapidity by a verdict upon Carrie Beaufort's merits,
which coincided completely with his private convictions,
pronounced by the man whom he had always regarded

as approaching infallibility upon all subjects, the young
senator proceeded to make his way into the old church,
to join the ladies in their discourse with Delves. Guy
watched and nodded to his old pupil kindly as he went,
then returned to his own reflections, not carnot to
interpose in the conversation in which the other two
men were engaged.

Y — yes, you must go in for po — politics," Pennons
was observing, in answer to something Coates had
let drop which might not have been in favour of domestic
life. " It's the best dodge when you're nunc — comfortable
at home. I b — bet you two to one you'll g — get in for
the county if you stand."

Yes," said Coates, reflectively. " I've haw stood
twice ; once as a Liberal and once as a Conservative.
Got licked both times. I'm sure I don't know why ;
I must have been right once. But politics are such
very rum things."

Aw — awful ! " said the other. " C — come into the
church ; they must be wondering where we are."

"Lady haw Coates never wonders at my being
anywhere," observed the baronet, "except when I'm
hum with her. But I suppose we've got to do it."

Q — queer shop altogether," said Pentonville, peering

about the porch. " I n — never before was in — in
—in—"

Inside a church, Pen ? "

No ; asked to see one ! "

And resenting assistance as usual, the Viscount
trotted into the church with his oddly assorted companion,
to favour Delves and the ladies with his views
of architecture and antiquarianism. Only Guy Faucit
remained in the old market-place of this grass-grown
village of the dead, dreaming. He was sitting on the
old stone as Lady Luscombe had, like her infringing
upon the vested interests of the old sexton, and wondering,
wondering. Taking up the burden of his thought,
through which, now, two strains ran ever side by side,
he dreamed at once of the new purpose which had come
into his life, and of her who seemed to have vanished
out of it altogether. Where was she ? where could she
be ? what had been the meaning of Lestrange's mysterious
hints, which without assuming any definite form
had been enough to brings him down asjain to the scenes
so closely connected with the last chapter of their ill-starred
story ? Where could she be ? And as he sighed
over the last thought, he rose listlessly to follow into
the church. Even as he turned his head, his eyes meta

man's angry look fixed upon him. The man had
rapidly come up the road, and as rapidly come upon
the place.

Ah ! " he said, when he saw the other, and he
stopped him as he turned.

One word, Mr. Faucit ! " he said.

Captain Fairfield ! " Guy exclaimed.

At your service," said the soldier.

Dick Fairfield looked like a man, Guy saw at once —
more like one than he had ever thought before. And
he looked thoroughly in earnest, and spoke in suppressed
and passionate tones ; while he was white about the lips,
and dangerous about the eyes. Guy did not take much
note of this for the moment, for he saw nothing before
him but Daisy's brother.

"Have you heard anything of your sister?" he
asked, eagerly.

A good deal — just now — at the Abbey," Fairfield
answered, the voice quivering now with new passion at
the question. " I have come to ask you for an account
of her."

Guy Faucit was not a man often addressed in that
fashion. He drew himself up in a moment at Fairfield's
tone, and looked him in the face. He saw the white

heat there, and wondered what was coming. But he
was not in a hurry to resent anything from Daisy^s
brother and he only answered, very shortly, "I have
none to give."

No one else would have had so much concession.
But Fairfield began to lose himself more. He had
blood in him, after all, and it was up.

By God, you have though, and a heavy one ! " he
said. " Where is she ? "

His hand would have gripped Guy's shoulder in a
moment, but Guy drew back.

I don't know."

Have you thrown her off already, then ? "

Guy started, and stood a step back. His eyes and
face began to look very dangerous too.

"Thrown her off!" he cried, his old scorn of the
man before him coming into his voice, as he looked
him up and down. " By what right do you talk like
this to me ? "

By the best right. I am her brother."

And a careful one ! " said Guy, breaking into a
contemptuous laugh. "You remember it to-day, do
you, for the first time ? The child whom you helped
first to sell — the woman whom you neglected afterwards,

whom you left among all the dangers of a dangerous
life ; whom you left — "

Not to you ! " answered back Fairfield, as both
voices rose now, high in anger. " I know my own
faults — answer for yours, you — blackguard ! "

".-Ah ! "

No human being ever spoke to Guy Faucit like
that, and none ever saw his face look as it looked then.
The fist was clenched at once for the blow which would
have followed, and would have left Fairfield but small
chance of returning it, full of fight as at that moment
he was. It was an even chance, for a second, which
man struck first. Fairfield raised his arm, but Guy
caught it in a vice, even as for Daisy's sake he held
himself in still.

"Take care! "he said, 'take care! I cant stand
that, though you are her brother ! "

But Fairfield shook himself free.

Again — where is she ? "

Again — I don't know ! "

The voices had risen to the height of the argument,
and the two men found each other under that leaden
sky, brimful of deadly mischief and of deadly harm.
But a hand had put aside a curtain above, in the

cottage near to whose door they were standing, and a
voice which startled both of them gave a cry. In
another moment Daisy Brent herself flashed right in
between them, just as Fairfield was once more on the
point of striking full at the other man — flashed between
them like a vision, with a cry of '' Dick ! what are
you doing ? " — and the two men fell back instinctively ;
Fairfield to burst into a laugh which was bad to hear,
and Guy Faucit to say only, in a voice in which an
infinite variety of shades and expressions were blended
all together,

"Daisy here !"

"And now, Mr. Guy Faucit?" said Fairfield between
his teeth.

They had a full audience now. The tones of quarrel
had reached the church, just as the party inside were
finishing their round, and all the actors in this strange
scene were gathered to witness its climax. They came
out of the church, and they all saw Daisy — Daisy with
her pale face, paler than ever now, and in the modest
dress which might have given the lie to suspicion.
At the back of them all, having quietly followed Daisy
Brent out of the cottage, was the man whose wakeful
ingenuity had planned his effects so well. He watched

the group from the church steps, resting one foot on
the lowest step of them, with an approving and appreciative
eye. He had contrived to dismiss Delves.

Neat — and well-timed — very ! " he said to himself.

******

"And again, now, Mr. Guy Faucit!" said Dick
Fairfield. " Surprised, are you not ? "

At nothing you can say or do, sir," answered Guy,
with more of the mischief in him than before. For
Dick Fairfield had put his sister roughly away from
him, and she was standing aside for the moment
alone.

The excited group were talking together, not know-nor
what to do, and the buzz of voices miojht have
drawn all Mould-on-the-Moss together in a few more
minutes. Only a few gaping rustics, however, who
kept at a respectful distance from the ** quality," supplied
the local contingent for the occasion. The Count
Lestrange it was who came to the rescue of propriety,
seriously endangered in the hands of the two men.

"My good fellows," he said, very gently and persuasively,
indicating with a gesture the publicity of
the place, " remember that this is the nineteenth
century, when civilized emotions mustn't rise above

drawing-room level. Never forget that you are civilized,
and that there are ladies present."

Whether he meant to succeed in his pacific purpose
or not, he failed with Fairfield, though not with Guy.
The latter' s bow was calm and courteous to all outward
seeming, but Captain Fairfield was less scrupulous.

"I won't forget it !" he said. "Listen, all of you.
This was my sister, Daisy Brent : she is no sister of
mine now."

Dick ! you don't know — " Daisy appealed.

"Don't I?" answered the brother. "Let me
alone."

Shall I stop him, Daisy ? " whispered Guy, with
his teeth set.

No, Guy ! " she said, proudly. " Let him goon."


The scene was passing like a whirlwind, and took
its own course. Moved by a strong impulse, Lady
Luscombe moved a step forward.

Daisy ! — " she began.

Remember ! " said Lestrange to her very low, and
with just enough force he held her back.

She looked at him again with the strange look of
appeal, and again he let it go.

You have disgraced yourself and me," Fairfield
went on, " who should have known you better than to
have trusted you. But I never expected this. You
came to this place with your lover. Curse you — leave
it with him ! "

A shudder went through all there, even the coldest
of them, except the Count, who merely made an amused
observation of Fairfield, whose scratches revealed the
Tartar.

"Hair about the heels," muttered the Count to
himself

Daisy turned upon her brother like an outraged
goddess.

"My lover!" Then to Guy,— 'say that it isn't
true 1 "

"It's a cowardly lie," Guy answered, "and everybody
here knows it. Speak out some of you ! "

Carrie Beaufort (who had a new brightness of her
own in her eyes) was at Daisy's side, and had taken
her hand.

"I'm sure it is ! " she said. But she met with no
response there.

It looks awfully bad, you know," said Sir Brummel
Coates.

"You doubt my word, then?" said Guy. "Lestrange
! "

What can I say, my dear fellow ? I know nothing
about it," said the Count.

Lady Luscombe, speak for me ! " Daisy cried.

Lady Luscombe was looking at the Count, and the
Count only. Still with that look in her eyes, and a
paper crushed unseen in her hand.

"I have nothing to say," she answered, with
mechanical coldness. "Won't he speak?" was her
inward whisper.

Emily ! " Daisy said.

Sir Brummel," said her ladyship, with a sweep of
her garments, and even the eye-glass in requisition,
hadn't we better go ? "

Excellent Lady Coates ! " muttered Lestrange,
approvingly. "You see what you have brought her
to," he said to Guy.

What can I do ? " Guy said, distracted.

The suddenness of the whole thing seemed to daze him.

You have only one course," Lestrange said to him,
in a matter-of-fact way. " Console her. You speak to
the poor girl, Lady Luscombe," he whispered, with a
cruel emphasis on the words.

VOL. III. R

"I am sorry — that you should have come to this,"
Lady Luscombe said, with the same passionless deliberation,
and the same direction in her look.

Oh, oh ! " Daisy cried, pressing her hands to her
head, as if the words were wrung from her with physical
pain. " But where am I ? What does all this mean ?
I don't even understand of what I am accused. I left
your house alone, Lady Luscombe, driven out of it by
you. I have lived here alone, worked here alone, to be
safe»,from the shadow of a danger; and you all come
here like this, my brother and all, to insult Guy and
me with your wretched suspicions. And you know,
Count Lestrange, you know ! It was you who brought
me here — say so ! For shame, all of you, for shame ! *'

Brought you here, I ? " said Lestrange, with an air
of sympathetic interest. " She's wandering. Didn't I
tell you that I never forgave ? " he whispered to her ina
pitiless undertone.

Oh ! " Daisy said. " Oh ! I see now. How cowardly
how cruel ! "

As bold as brass," said Lady Coates, in a voice of
vinegar. " It's quite shocking. But it is just what I
always expected of her. Lady Luscombe, it's time to be
ffoinof, at all events from here."

Yes," said Lady Luscombe. " Let us go."

There was some purpose in her face which might
not be understood, and something in her manner
which affected Lestrange strangely; but only for a
moment.

The chattering group was clustered about the place,
and Carrie alone seemed to wish to remain at Daisy's
side. Daisy was unconscious of her presence, unconscious
of everything, for the stabs of her brother's tongue
and all the others had gone home.

In another minute the party had broken up under

the influence of this sudden catastrophe — some to their

horses, others to their pony - carriage, none for the

moment with any definite aim in view : for all thoughts

of meets and commonplaces of that kind had disappeared

before this unexpected incident. The hunt at ,

on the day of the great storm, though it

left its memories on many a drenched skin, was to be

innocent of the attendance of the party from Luscombe

Abbey. Gossiping, tattling, wondering, shrugging their

heads, — even Lord Gander was not quite proof against

suspicion, and a brief argument with Miss Carrie ended

in a pitched battle, in which he had humbly to own

himself worsted, — the Abbey guests dispersed from the

R 2

market-place. As they were scattering, the church-bells
took up their Christmas tale once more.

Peace on earth ! good-will towards men ! " said
Daisy with a sad smile. She was too proud to try to
justify herself one step further just then, had she the
wish or the presence of mind. Guy Faucit knew the
truth. What cared she for the opinion of any one
else now ? Captain Fairfield was still fuming, and
again tried to escape from the quiet remonstrances of
Lestrange.

Now, Mr. Faucit ! " he said once more.

"Not now, Captain Fairfield," the Count urged.
I am pained that I should have brought you here for
this. You are naturally excited — not yourself. But I
have some things to tell you which may be worth your
hearing. You will see your sister again."

I leave her in safe hands," answered the other, for
Daisy had sunk down, rather than seated herself, upon
the market-stone, and Guy Faucit, thinking, was by the
church steps. The others were all gone, and the storm-clouds,
which had looked like dispersing, were gathering
more ominously again.

Daisy's attention was attracted by her brother's
voice, and she made one more appeal.

"Dick"—

Don't speak to me ! " was the answer.

Count Lestrange placed his arm in Fairfield's, and
led him away. As he passed Faucit the soldier breathed
quick and short, then suddenly said to him — "You
will have to cross the Channel with me, sir."

Faucit scarcely took the pains to look at him.

Wherever and whenever you please," he said.

Once more Lestrange spoke to Guy, a few words
heard by him only.

Don't desert her this time," he said, with an accent
of grave interest. " As a man, you can't."

Guy shook from head to foot.

And once more, in the vicissitudes of their lives,
these two hard-tried lovers were alone together.

THE COUNT Estrange MEETS HIS MATCH.

It is I who have brought these insults upon you'
Guy said after a time.

He was leaning against the wall in the church-porch,
and looked away from Daisy rather than at her.

No," she said, like him looking away. Looking
straight before her where she sate upon the market-stone,
as if out into a future which she tried to read.
The crisis of their lives, forced apparently upon them
in spite of their own brave efforts, had really come upon
them at last. " No, it was no fault of yours."

But a few words wil clear you," said Faucit, not
leaving the porch, but turning round towards Daisy.
"All this was so sudden that there was no time to
think. And I don't understand, myself. Where have
you been living all this time ? "

Daisy turned her head, and looked at him eth a
sad sweet smile. The pale face, the worn appearance,
the infinite look of weariness and suffering in the eyes,
struck him like a wound. Disenchant him, Count
Lestrange ? — no fear of that. Guy Faucit felt a rush of
passion and of tenderness come over him, which seemed
to rob his very eyes of sight.

Good God ! " he thought, " in a few more months
she would have been dead ! "

She made a sign with her head towards the sexton
cottage.

Where have I been living ? In that house," she
said, answering his question.

Guy looked at it, wondered, walked from the church
across to it to look more closely, and then turned again
to look at her, the lady of his honour. He could not
realize the contrast.

Here ? " he said, with incredulous emphasis.
Here ? in this wretched place ? "

It's a peaceful place enough," she said, with a
sigh ; " and I have learned to love the old mounds
under the window, where so many generations of trouble
and sorrow have found one rest together.

The city's golden spire it was,

When hope and health were strongest ;
But now it is the churchyard grass
We look upon the longest.'

I remember your favourite poet, you see. I came hereto
escape from my old self, but these people have
brought it back with them,"

The tone in which she spoke choked Guy. He felt
the rising in the throat, the dimness in the eyes, which
are the unspoken utterance of heartache, when a sharp
and sudden sympathy strikes on the sensitive chord.

Daisy," he said, with what voice he could find, and
his head was turned away again, as he seemed to be
examining the 'sexton's cottage, " I would not lose the
old self"

Would you not ? " answered she. Then suddenly
she said, " Guy, come here."

She turned to him, and he came — came to the
market-cross, and leaned over her, and took her hand
in his. She was very still and very serious, and left it
there without pressure, but without withdrawal. Grave
thoughts were passing through her mind, and she
looked up in his face with the expression of a deep
trust.

I'm glad to see you again," she said.

"And I — and I — " lie managed to stammer out in
his choked voice. "But — " and the words followed
with a cry, and broke the barrier down — " how changed
the old self is ! how changed you look ! Oh, Daisy,
Daisy ! poor little Daisy ! "

It was too much for her. She burst out crying, and
sobbed her heart out for a while. The tears were
rolling down his cheeks too. in one of those fits of silent
weeping which seem to shake the fibre of a strongman's
frame. The frame gave no outward sign of it,
and he never looked stronger than when he stood
upright by Daisy there. But the tears fell, literally,
in big hot drops upon the ground. At last she began
to grow quieter, as he held her hand soothingly but
resentfully in his. The tempest passed in waves which
seemed almost to shatter the "weakened breast and
nerves, and she looked up at Guy with the piteous
appeal of a little child, asking for protection and
caress.

"This has stunned me, I think, Guy," she said,
half sobbing through the lingering tears, and with her
handkerchief wiping them away. " I never could, you
know. I suppose that all this has changed me. I
have tried to pray, too."

"You won't be without your answer some day,"
he said gravely, growing calmer too as she recovered
calmness. " But you only see the world answer — as
it does answer prayers'

Yes," she said. " What am I to do now, after
this ? " added she suddenly, and clasping her head
with her hands, bewildered. " I canst die. Where am
I to go ? "

The appeal was absolute and submissive, and Guy
Faucit felt it. He had one short and sharp inward
struggle, one last wonder where the true right lay, one
last petition for light that he might know. Then he
said abruptly, roughly almost, " You must come with
me."

She showed no sign this time of resentment or of
confusion. She received what he said as he said it,
as a commonplace, and her eyes alone seemed to be
puzzling out the riddle. She fixed them straight on
his, and they filled with tears again. She was weak
and ill and shaken, and the old self-command was gone.
For a moment he wondered if he was taking an
unmanly advantage of her ; but he thought — no.

"You do care for me, don't you, and you don't
think me very bad ? " she said, with a trust, weakness,

pathos, desolation, which seemed to pull at his very
heart-strings. He had] never seen her at all like this,
he who thought he knew all the chords of the beautiful
lute so well.

Care for you ? think you bad ? " he repeated, with
an emphasis which nothing can describe. " Don t ask
me these things. Let me show you."

The unstrung nerves gave way again at the touch
of the intense tenderness which spoke in his voice, and
the deep respect which found expression there. It was
too hard ! too hard ! their love had been, and was, so
true, so pure, so high, their fate so unutterably perverse,
so incredibly cruel. They had strolled away
together from the market-place, and had found a comer
of the old churchyard where they thought themselves
safe from all possibility of an intrusive eye or ear.
Nat are was holding her breath as before some strange

O o

convulsion, at this terrible crisis in two lives. Neither
of them noticed, absorbed and over-strung, how close
and closer grew the unnatural warmth of the day.

I don't think I should have been tried like this —
I don't — I don't ! " Daisy Brent sobbed out, growing
almost hysterical as she went on, and Guy tried to
soothe her with what gentle and re-assuring words

he could find. "It is my punishment for treating
you as I once did ; but I wasn't so bad as to deserve
this. You told me that you had been a long time
forsjivinof me. God has been honore."

"You'll break my heart, Daisy mine," was all he
could answer.

This time it had gone too far with him for even
outward calmness, and the deep, strong sobs through
which he drew his breath shook him from head to
foot, and struck full upon her ear. She looked at him
suddenly, tearfully, bravely, at the startling sight of a
strong man broken down ; and the sobs and the plea —
the most powerful, if he could have known it, which he
could possibly have used — calmed her on her side by
magic, and dried her tears up at their source. She put
her hand upon his shoulder with a sudden effort of will,
and in the spirit of a brave and, to her even then,
a terrible self-sacrifice, she said to him, in a voice
into which all the gathered love of years threw every
tone in which love can weave its harmonies —

No, I will never do that. I can't think ; I can't
decide. Decide for me, Guy. Do with me what you
like."

He loved her as few men have ever loved a woman ;

and it was written that, the shadow past, his love
should, growing day by day, be yet more nobly anchored
in his growing reverence. But never, to the final
parting, did he love her half so well for any words
she spoke to him as for those in which, that day, she
gave herself with a fearless grandeur up into his hands.
Would she have gone with him if it had come to
the test ? He was never sure ; nor she.

The test did not come. They had thought the scene
unwitnessed, and they were wrong. Witnesses there
were two, out of whose mouths that scene might
be established, and of those two one saw, the other
not.

She is lost 1 " said to himself, but half aloud, a man
concealed behind a buttress of the church, to which he
had made, as he thought, his unobserved way. Low ashe
spoke, there was in those three words of the Count
Lestrange an inimitable triumph, which gauged the
measure of his infamous success. But even as he spoke
them the limit was reached, and the check was to come.
Another figure, and that a woman's, stepped from under
the church-wall also in front of his, and the woman
held a crushed paper in her hand. As she passed
Lestrange she heard his words, and answered them.

She is saved ! " Lady Luscombe said. " Daisy,
you are a free woman. Your husband's dead."

"Dead!"

From every one there it was almost a cry. Lady
Luscombe held out to Guy Faucit the paper which
she had taken — the telegram which, the night before,
had brought to the Count Lestrange from India the
news that all was over for John Brent, and that the bad
and harmful life had gone out for ever. The Count
Lestrange had known it all the time. When he saw the
paper in Lady Luscombe's hand, he tried to stay it, but
too late. It v,^as secure in Guy Faucit' s strong grasp,
and when Lestrange sprang forward, it was to read
defeat and ruin in the other's look.

Then it was that the Count Lestrange lost before
others the mask that he had worn, and that the awful
evil of his face was written there in letters as of fire.
He seemed to have aged twenty years in a moment, and
a positive distortion of rage and disappointment made
every feature look as if it changed its very shape and
mould. He gripped hard at one of the old tombstones
which gave their silent testimony to the strange scene,
and for a minute he seemed absolutely dumb, and
incapable of articulate sound. He looked at Lady

Luscombe, and she looked back at him, with more of
wonder than of anything else in her eyes. The prophet
of Khorassan could have startled her no more. Great
God ! what a wicked face 1 And darker and heavier
and hotter grew the lurid day.

Guy and Daisy were busy with the telegram
together, not able yet to realize the strange thing which
had befallen.

"My husband dead!" exclaimed Daisy. " \Miat
does it mean ? "

'' It means that the storm is over," said Guy with
a great tenderness and reverence, 'rand that we can
wait now."

It means," muttered Lestrange between his teeth,
as he began to find his voice again, 'that I am ruined,
but that the storm is to come ! "

He looked upwards savagely at the thick and murky
clouds, which carried for him neither warning nor omen.
Lady Luscombe looked at him steadily — steadily — as in
that perfect revelation she saw at last the nature of the
idol which she had set up and framed, with the head of
brass and the feet of clay. If she could have seen, even
then — if any one could have seen — a trace of repentance
or regret ! But neither she nor any one could, for no

such trace was there. If the outward change was
visible, inward change there was none. The man's
heart was seared with a red-hot iron, and there was no
place found there for any feeling but a baffled and a
fruitless rage. Lady Luscombe spoke next, and though
she spoke to Guy and Daisy, she accented her words
for him.

It means," she said, " that I would not stain my
soul and his with such a wanton sin ! It means that he
tried hard, step by step, to bring about your ruin. It
means, Daisy, that he failed once because you are a
good woman; and that he has failed again, because I
am not so bad as he thought me. It means that I will
not be his instrument ; and that I defy him ! "

Daisy shrank back from the presence of this defiant
evil, and from Lestrange's vindictive look. What had
she done to him ?

"And it means one thing more, my Lady Lus-combe,"
hissed Lestrange, " that you shall pay to the
uttermost farthing for this day's work ! Failed, have I,
then, and through you ? No — not failed. Marry your
pretty piece of goods, Mr. Guy Faucit, and learn one
day what you have done ! Your scandal has become
too open, even if I had not heard what I have heard

to-day ! I defy all your money and all your love to
wash her name white again. And then for your turn,
Daisy Brent ! The pretty baby eyes have never cried
such tears yet, as shall dim them then. I should have
liked to see you brought to open shame before those
fair-weather friends of yours, though ! Why, I have
made you all my playthings and my sport — the tools I
worked with — the ladder by which I rose ! And I have
lost, have I ? — lost everything — curse it all ! Bah 1 "
suddenly the Count said with a desperate effort at self-mastery,
after the one passionate outburst any one living
had ever witnessed from him — it fairly petrified the
three who heard it, — " I always did lose in the dark
ages — it's traditional."

So for the last time he assumed that Mephistopheles
fancy of his, and then he turned on Lady
Luscombe with a concentration of hatred which was
horrible to see. It was the man all over — that in her
he always saw and remembered the destruction of his
favourite scheme, for which he had toiled more than for
anything else in his life.

"Good-bye for the present. Lady Luscombe," he

said, "I am going to fetch your letters — and to use

them."

VOL. III. s

The threat came home to Lady Luscombe with the
shock of a blow, even after all the emotion which had
been roused by this stormy scene. In the strength of
her anxiety to save Lestrange from the sin he had been
so coldly contemplating, she had fairly forgotten her
fears for herself — the fears to which the Count's evil
ingenuity had given such vague but threatening shape.
In the tempest of the moment she had no room for
thought, and the formless fear of ruin and disgrace —
more even, for she had an indescribable terror of Lestrange's
power, and believed in it still as in a fate —
suddenly assumed meaning and presence in her eyes.
She turned suddenly to Guy as if for refuge.

'' Oh, Mr. Faucit — Guy — can you save me ? "

From what ? " he said, as the Count's threat had
conveyed no meaning to him, and his savage tirade
little but disgust.

From ruin ! " Lady Luscombe answered. " He
has letters of mine which he will use to ruin me. Oh,
get them from him ! Daisy, help me ! "

And she clung to Daisy Brent with a womanly
gesture. The Count Lestrange laughed.

Guy ! she has saved us," said Daisy. " Save her ! "

The Count laughed again, and turned upon his heel.

Just in the path and under the shadow of the church
Guy Faucit stopped him, and laid the strong arm upon
his shoulder. The two women who saw it never forgot
the picture. The Count Lestrange had recovered that
mask of his again, but for the mocking cruel devil in
his eyes, and, slight as he looked by the side of the
other man, his overweening pride of brain gave him,
in spite of it, again the look of mastery which all men
felt in him. He seemed to heed Faucit's arrest not a
whit, secure, even in defeat, of his own consciousness of
power.

You shall not pass. Count Lestrange ! " Guy Faucit
said, careless for the moment what might come of it.

Nonsense, my athlete ! Who ever stopped me ?
Who's to stop me now ? "

Sudden and terrible, out of the heart of the storm-cloud,
the man's only answer came. Even as the
strange scene above described was passing, the actors in
it all felt the gathering of the dread invisible presence
which charged the clouds in the air. Heavier and
heavier and heavier, till every leaf and weed, every life
and organism, seemed panting as for want of breath, the
portent gathered, till the very principle of Life seemed
stayed. Then the clouds themselves first broke in upon

the awful silence in one livid flash, full upon Lestrange's
words. And even as the flash came the clouds crashed
together, and broke the silence itself to pieces in one
stupendous roar, followed by a horror of great darkness,
and a sudden waterspout of rain dashing down upon
roof and tree. In the churchyard there rang out one
unearthly cry as of a man in pain, but in a voice which
no one there knew, and so thick was the momentary
darkness, that in the shadow of the church-wall what
had passed was hidden. Daisy Brent broke the silence
first.

What has happened ? " she called out. " What is
it, Guy ? Are you hurt ? "

'' No, Daisy — not a hair."

The Count ! " whispered Lady Luscombe, in the
tones of an unutterable fear. " Is he dead ? "

Guy Faucit was kneeling by a prostrate — powerless
insensible figure, and his hand was laid upon the
heart.

"No," he said, after an almost intolerable pause.
But powerless for further harm, poor fellow, I think — •
and always. He will live to repent. Lady Luscombe ;
but, unless the old leech-craft of my wandering-days
deceives me, it will be a very death in life."

Laxly Luscombe was kneeling by him too, now, and
she only said, " Thank God. It will be better so. I
loved him, you know ; " then she added with a very
simple dignity, " I may take care of him now."

Oh, Guy, this is terrible," Daisy said, as she clung
to Faucit's arm by the fallen man's side.

Hush, dear ! " he answered, raising his hat, — very
reverently and very low — 'let the justice of God
pass by."

And all unknowing of what had happened at their
feet, the old bells ranch out ac^ain the comfort of the
Christmas chime.

LAST Words.

The chronicler takes up his pen once more, but
for a few minutes, hoping that his tale may need but
little epilogue. For what more is there to tell that an
acute and kindly reader will not guess ? If I tell anything,
will not many a reader wish that I had let it
alone, and given him scope for his own imagination ?
But then there is that trying person — the enfant terrible
of literature — who will insist upon asking how it all
ended, and jibs at a 't' uncrossed, or at an undoubted 'i.'
For his benefit, then, let me supply something which
had happened in the old church of Mould-on-the-Moss,
which may be that the more intelligent reader will have
divined from that brightness we spoke of, in Carrie
Beaufort's eyes. When the youthful Gander joined her
after Guy Faucit's admonition, what need to follow
him ?

"A touch of her hand, and a word in her ear,"
under the shadow of some fantastic gargoyle grinning
on them with an air of protection ; and the pink blush
rose in Miss Carrie Beaufort's pretty face, and the
plump hand gave back an answering pressure, and the
frank eyes gave a promise which the frank life should
keep. Happy be you, Uttle people, in your own honest
way ; and as age tones down and steadies those frivolities
of yours, which are as harmless as the proverbial
crop of wild oats when a heart sound at the core underlies
them, grow up together with your small Goslings
about you, worthy and useful members of the world's
motley club-house.

But oh, Sir Brummel and my Lady Coates, what are
we to say of you ? To say for how many months that
loving voyage was victualled, might be to do injustice
to the possibility that the term never ran into months
at all. Still I am in no mood to turn out the seamy
side of things, now that I am winding up the story
which has been so long my companion. There is oil to
strike in all of us, or nearly all, if the true means be
found. The terrible moral of Lestrange's accident, which
was the world's wonder for more than nine days, even
as he had filled a larger space in it than falls to the lot

of many men, may perhaps have carried home reflection
and wisdom to the not too harmonious pair, and developed
in them, at all events, those capacities of mutual
toleration upon which at least a certain negative form of
happiness may be grafted. We may be sure, at all
events, that if the fair Emily were brought to that way
of thinking, she would find her lord's essentially imitative
mind ready to receive the necessary impression. He
was not a man of quick parts, Sir Brummel.

The Lord Viscount Pentonville trotted on his way
rejoicing, peering into everybody's concerns, and especially
proclaiming the friendly interest he had taken in
Mrs. Brent, and the perfect confidence he had always
felt in her. A proclaimed and confirmed bachelor to
the last, in spite of his sustained interest in the beauties
of the hour, and in the cotemporary journals of society,
he died at last suddenly, and creating much curiosity as
to the disposal of his very comfortable fortune, when
the world discovered, with a shock which it was long in
recovering, that he had been for upwards of ten years
married to his cook. The Duke of Surbiton and the
Marquess of Norbiton were especially exercised in the
matter, and made several bets upon the source of the
spirit which could have moved him, which they were at

last driven to refer to the widowed and ennobled artist
for decision. She refused with contumely to throw any
light upon the subject, and it was never known with
any certainty in society whether the lady had done the
trick with a jamlmi en surprise, as Norbiton thought,
or, as Surbiton would have it, conquered with a
Mayonnaise.

Good Lady Pepperharrow returned from foreign
parts not much edified with her wanderings, and as she
said after her cruise in the Channel, with one of the
locutions of which her ladyship was occasionally capable,
thankful to set her foot upon terra cotta again. It was
a very short time before she learned of the stirring
things which had happened since she left Luscombe
Abbey, and before a warm reconciliation took place
between her and hpr favourite Daisy, with a full explanation
of the dreadful things which that shocking
Count Lest range had said.

Quite the most wicked stories, my dear," she said ;
and who could ave believed it of him and he so
distinguished ? But we mustn't think anything about
it now, poor dear man, in the state which e's brought to,
when all we have to think of is what Mr. Birmingham
Pope tells us about charity, though indeed he says it's a

word which never ought to have been used, and really
nothing."

No more welcome and frequent guest sate at Guy
and Daisy's table, than good old Lady Pepperharrow.

One other guest there was of theirs, who came and
stayed often. A woman with hair as white as the
driven snow, and a face which seemed to have outgrown
all human emotion but a gentle sorrow. A
woman quiet and tender and refined, speaking with
kindness and sympathy and allowance of all, and
winning a sort of pitying respect from all who met
her. Much of her time — most of it — she spent inconstant
and in watchful nursing of a helpless invalid ;
a man looking old before his time, deprived of speech
and of the use of his limbs, and showing little sion of
remaining life but in a pair of black and restless eyes.
With those, before he died at last a quiet and a
painless death, he learned to watch her every movement
with what she could not but believe bore some
appearance of gratitude and affection, bred and cherished
obscurely in the darkened mind. During the earl'
days of his long illness he had crises which seemed
terrible — moaned and started in his feeble sleeps, and
shrank with those eyes of his, instinctively, from meeting

every other eye. From the poor lady who nursed
him he shrank most of all — cried and cursed at times
when she came near him, and looked at her as with
a blending of fear and of mislike. But she held her
own bravely and graciously, and she went on her way
with her sad and self-imposed task, till, as we have told,
she was rewarded in the end. The Count Lestrange
died with his hand confidingly in hers, without a quiver
and without a sigh, looking so young and placid when
he was dead, that it was hard to connect the face with
the perverted brain which had once so schemed and
sinned behind it. With his death, Marian Luscombe's
work in this world was done ; and not long afterwards,
after an affectionate farewell to Guy and Daisy, she
retired into a quiet sisterhood in the county in which
she had been born, to devote the rest of her years and
her own disposable wealth to the tasks of unobtrusive
charity.

Yet one more guest at the table, whom some of our
readers would perhaps not have altogether forgotten.
He has not shown himself much upon the scene of late,
from a wonderful instinct about being in the way.
When the sun shone again, and the events of life
settled down in their ordinary course, he was as much

to the fore again as ever, and so remained till, in
extreme old age, laying himself down one day to his
toothless but unvexed sleep in the sun, he blinked
himself quietly away to the side of his forefathers.
His remains rest under a special stone which records
the date and place of his birth and of his death, and
tells how before he passed away there were two equal
candidates for the affection of the famous Guy Faucit's
once only friend — Frisco.

And Guy and Daisy — our Daisy — what last of
them ? Quietly and unostentatiously they were married
after the year of formal mourning was past, which Daisy
spent with Lady Pepperharrow. I have not seen such
love as theirs, which seemed to reward these two
chosen souls for all their storms, in an excess of blessing
rarely given to men. Could she make him love her
more than he did ? If he had any feeling that jarred
at all, it was a sort of retrospective jealousy of that
husband to whom she had once belonged, which he
felt as an insult to his flower. One day in wifely love
and confidence she told him, with a face rosy red and
the deep soft eyes turned down, that he must not even
hint at thoughts like those to one who had never really
been John Brent's wife. And as Guy Faucit kissed

and blessed the mother of the baby-boy who threatened
in his tub-days to rival his father's athletic feats of
daring, and squared out with his one-year-old fist when
any unauthorized person came near during his ablutions,
he thought in his heart of all the force and meanings of
charity, and had a gentle thought even for the evil and
the meanness and the cruelty of John Brent.

Guy Faucit went into parliament, and became all
that his college friends had so proudly augured of him.
But his successes meant little to him save when those
steady eyes beamed their bright and proud approval,
and the noble face, chastened by trial and time into a
newer and more statuesque beauty, looked down upon
him in all the undoubting confidence, given and
received, of the perfect law of wifehood. She was
not his wife and his love only : but his friend, his
confidant, his companion, his " mate " in very deed.
Her pursuits were his pursuits, and his thoughts hers —
in emulous sympathy rather than in imitation — as his
mind insensibly moulded hers again, as it had once
begun to do in those early Oxford days. So, blessed
and blessing, loving and beloved, they went on hand-in-hand
together on a path which was made very happy
and smooth for them, when the storm-point had been

turned. And with faith and hope bestowed upon them
very largely, to make them look upon the happiness
here as but the shadow of the bliss beyond, they
thanked God night and morning that they had learned
from Him according to His Word, that " the greatest
of these is Love."

THE END.

CLAY AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS, BUNGAY, SUFFOLK. «- -V H.
