m

Too PflST T0 Is$ST

MMMMMMMMi

r

By

John MllxkS

■MMMMMWMMMMMIM

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/toofasttolast01mil

VOL. I.

BY

JOHN MILLS

AUTHOR OF

"THE OLD ENGLISH GENTLEMAN"

&c, &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
1881.

All rights reserved.

Tainted BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

BLENHEIM STREET, OXFORD STREET.

TOO FAST TO LAST

CHAPTER I.

generations of the Lefernes had

^-^ come and gone. It was an old family
and a stately one. They had been bred instate,
born in state, lived in state, died instate,
and been buried in state. Nothing
could have been more stately than the
Lefernes. In the beginning, whenever that
might have been, they had possessed, as the
history of the county accorded, manorial
rights and lordly privileges, and it would
appear also a somewhat despotic inclination
to do whatever they pleased with their

VOL. I. B

own, to say nothing of a great deal of
that belonging and pertaining to other
people.

In the chancel of the church, within bowshot
of the ancient hall of the Lefernes, a
part of the early history of the family was
illustrated in stone and marble. In complete
armour a knight might be seen, among
other prostrate figures of a similar kind
with his hands raised supplicatingly upon a
time-worn tomb, and a likeness, blackened
with age, of the same stern warrior formed
part of the large collection of family
portraits in the long, dreary gallery of the
Hall, on the walls of which they were hung
in rows above rows, and forming a most
stately effect of this most stately family.
For be it known that the Lefernes had made
for themselves a local history and a name ;
but it was one, taking it all in all, more to
be dreaded than loved.

Sir Harold Leferne — he lying in complete
harness on the time-worn tomb — was
said to have made a vow, terrible in its
consequences, either to leave his bones to
whiten on the plains of Palestine, or recover
the holy places from the desecrating possession
of the enemies of the Cross. Failing
to do either one or the other, Sir Harold —
as the story went — unwittingly brought
with him upon his return from the Holy
Land a perpetual memento of his broken
pledge in the shape of a few roots of
daffodils, which, being planted by his own
knightly hand, seemed to thrive, as season
succeeded season, with marvellous luxuriance.
Nothing could destroy the daffodils.
Sir Harold had long since crumbled into
dust, but each succeeding spring the daffodils
peeping out slily from the ground, and,
unfolding their golden heads, seemed to say,
M Here we are again'' to remind all comers

b 2

of the broken vow of Sir Harold Leferne.
And so generation succeeded generation.
The Lefernes remained undisputed occupants
of Greatwood Park, and so did the
daffodils.

The old Hall itself was a patchwork
edifice, having been heightened, lowered,
altered, added to, subtracted from, and so
pulled about from time to time, in accordance
with the taste or requirements of the
Leferne in possession, that it would be
difficult to describe its order of architecture.
There were, however, gable ends, a high
sloping roof, upon which stood clusters
of tall, crooked chimneys, so twisted that
the smoke must have struggled with difficulty
to pass through them. There were
stone casements, deep-seated windows,
small panes of glass which glistened and
twinkled like diamonds in the . rays of the
setting sun. There were huge oaken

beams, dark, rusty' rooms, wherein the light
paled sickly on floor and panelled wall.
There were rooms within rooms, broad
staircases and narrow staircases. There
were galleries leading to everywhere in
general, and nowhere in particular. There
were huge closets, dark niches, dust, cobwebs,
silence, and gloom in the stately
mansion of Greatwood Park.

For seldom was a merry voice or footfall
heard now within its precincts. The Leferne
in possession of the inherited family rights
and privileges, had left long since in the
capacity of Colonel of a cavalry regiment in
India, and had, as report said, well supported
the high breeding and dignity of his race.
Colonel Leferne, as the despatches stated in
glowing terms, invariably distinguished himself
when the opportunity offered. Upon
more than one occasion he had led the
charge at the head of his regiment, and

riding straight at the serried lines of the
enemy, bristling with steel, swooped round
in their rear, and, with a graceful wave of
his sword, charged back again, through and
through, like a gallant soldier and accomplished
horseman, as he was.

A Leferne all over !" exclaimed the
local gossips of Greatwood Park.

Upon quitting England, to accompany
his regiment, Colonel Leferne left his only
child, Aubrey, under the care of his maiden
sister Margaret. The boy at the time of
his departure had just reached two years of
age, and his infantine eyes had scarcely
rested upon a mother's breast before a
separation took place between the mother
and son, for long, if not for ever; but
events must not be anticipated.

Aunt Margaret and her nephew were left
the stately tenants of Greatwood Park, with,
as rumour whispered, and which history

confirmed, very slender means to maintain
the dignity of their position. The steward,
a stern man of law and business, emphatically
declared that the constantly required
remittances to India, with the interest upon
the heavy mortgages and other incumbrances,
more than absorbed the rent-roll,
and that to continue to fell the timber to
make up the periodical deficiency, would
soon leave the estates of Greatwood Park
without a tree bigger than a walking-stick.

Aunt Margaret's thin lips became compressed
at this too-often repeated cause for
her diurnal anxiety concerning " ways and
means," and, with knitted brow, she would
insert her long, taper fingers among the
luxuriant, waving, nut-brown curls of her
nephew, and press a passionate kiss upon
his brow.

She had now been his guardian ten full
years, and had watched the growth of her

charge from infancy to childhood with care,
affection, and pride. Well indeed might
Aunt Margaret be proud of little Aubrey
Leferne, albeit of a disposition not too
obedient to her behests. Wilful he might
be, but then, as she said, when communing
with herself, u Is he not a Leferne, and my
brother's son ?" Here then was the solution
of little Aubrey's wilfulness — a Leferne,
and her brother's son.

That brother ! yes, she often thought of
him. He had been to her, to others, and
himself an enemy of no mean or contemptible
description. The small available fortune
belonging to herself he — she refusing him
nothing within her power to give — " ran
through," as the local gossips said, with
marvellous rapidity. His friends, too, and
creditors, who confided in his promises to
pay, suffered in proportion to the magnitude
of their trust, and, his resources at

length almost exhausted by extravagant
waste at home, he exchanged his commission
in the Life Guards for one in a
Hussar regiment on active service in India,
and earned distinction at the sabre's edge.

As may readily be conjectured, Colonel
Leferne had gained for himself a fame
besides that connected with soldier-like
qualities. Within a wide range of Great-wood
Park he had been regarded, proclaimed,
and registered as the wildest and
worst-conducted of all the Lefernes who
had preceded him, and this was piling up
his faults, whether of commission or omission,
to the height of a lofty pinnacle it
must be confessed. Aunt Margaret, however,
was never known to blame him, or to
listen patiently to one who did.

She would sit in the high-backed, rudely-carved
old arm-chair before the smouldering
embers on the hearth, and with her

dark hazel eyes fixed pensively on them, as
they threw a dull, lurid light around, recalled,
what she would fain have renewed,
the early scenes of her once happy youth ;
for Aunt Margaret was no longer young.
Numerous white threads silvered her rich
auburn hair, thickly braided above a brow
still fair to look upon, although now marked
and lined, more by thought than time.
Thus would she sit, when little Aubrey and
her small household were asleep, running
the sand through the hour-glass again and
again.

Singular in her costume, Aunt Margaret
never altered it winter or summer. In a
full black robe, sweeping to the ground in
ample folds, but fitting tightly to her well-proportioned
figure and rounded shoulders,
she might be seen moving with graceful
step and gentle footfall, without change
the seasons round. From the back part of

her small, classical head a large black veil
drooped, giving the effect, in some measure,
of the habits of those devoted to the Church
of Rome ; but Aunt Margaret had made no
vows dictated by priest or prelate. No
devotee, however, prayed oftener by day
or night, and the substance of her petition,
so often made, was that she might be patient
under affliction. Two heavy rows of black
beads encircled her snowy throat, and fell
over her bosom, upon which a cross was
fixed, generally accredited to have formed
part of the true cross itself.

Different from others of her age and sex,
Margaret Leferne would still have commanded
admiration from the most critical
in female beauty. Time, it is true, had
begun to line brow and cheek, and the
finely-chiselled mouth was no longer studded
here and there with dimples which
went and came like fickle sunbeams.

Long ago she was the sole putative heiress
of Greatwood Park, and when just budding
into womanhood a brother was born amid
great rejoicing, for dismal fears had been
long entertained that the name of the family
would become extinct. But, whatever might
have been the extent of these grave and
sorrowful apprehensions, they were dissipated
by the unquestionable facts succeeding
each other in the fulness of time — that
a male heir was born, lived, married, and
had a son, now Aunt Margaret's nephew,
Aubrey Leferne.

rilHE domestics were remarkably select in
■*■ number in the Hall of the Lefernes ;
but nothing can faithfully describe the
grandeur and self-importance of one of the
two comprising the establishment. With the
Christian name of Thomas, and the surname
of Soppy, no baron, or squire, or knight of
the shire could be prouder of his social
position. Thomas Soppy, or Mister Sop-py,
as he desired the whole of his numerous
inferiors to address him, was no ordinary
subject of the realm.

His self-complacency and reliance in his
own unsupported mental powers were such
as to lead to the instinctive creed in the

casual observer that the right place for
Soppy would have been the Bench of
Bishops or the woolsack. Whatever lie
knew he was ever ready to communicate
with prompt eloquence and unflagging
energy, and that which he knew nothing
whatever about he was equally prepared to
make his auditory believe, at the shortest
notice, that, if a master of the abstruse subject
existed on the surface of the upper
crust of this earth, they now possessed the
advantage of being enlightened by him upon
it in all its phases. He was never known to
admit ignorance concerning anyone or anything,
and, if asked to square the circle, he
would have sat down before the kitchen
table, and deliberately attempted to solve
the problem with a bit of chalk.

As perhaps it should be, Mr. Soppy's
personal appearance was impressive, to say
the least of it. His back bent inwards in

the form of a curve, and his front bent outwards
in the form of a bow ; the latter
effect, perchance, being the result of the
primary cause. Short of stature, he gave
as much height as practicable to his figure
by elevating his double chin over the deepest
and most stiffly-starched white cravat
that was ever seen, in any age, to encircle
the throat of a human being. His face was
rubicund and smooth, and his head was as
bald as a billiard ball, which, indeed, it
much resembled in shape and polish, relieved
by a fringe, or border of hair, thin,
white, and in growth sparse and far between.
If his ideas were lofty, his brow
was low, and his nose rather turned upwards
than otherwise, dividing a pair of
prominent and almost colourless eyes,
which seemed to be generally occupied in
staring at vacancy.

Taking him from the ground upwards,

Soppy's feet were large, his toes square,
and his calves tubby. Black cloth breeches
of the old school, with steel buckles shining
at the knees, met a pair of tightly-fitting
black silk stockings, hiding, but scarcely
concealing, the tubby calves shining through
them in a subdued tint. A prodigious buff
kerseymere waistcoat, of immense proportions
in height, width, and depth, covered
the bow, and a superfine black coat, high
in the collar and square in the tail, performed
a similar service to the curve and
beneath it. Such was Soppy in his regal
attire upon solemn feast-days and high
festival.

In his opinion, which, of course, was unquestionable,
no particular day, in the three
hundred and sixty-five forming the grand
total of the year, merited a more decided
mark of distinction than the anniversary of
the natal day of his young master. It will,

therefore, be no matter of surprise that Mr.
Soppy had paid unusual attention to the
details of his toilet, and that his " get up "
was as artistic as lay within the compass of
his power and taste, as, with a bow of the
best, and his right hand pressed on the left
of his breast, he offered his courtly congratulations
to Aubrey Leferne on the
morning of his completing twelve winters
and summers beneath the stately roof of his
stately forefathers.

You see, sir," said he, standing at the
foot of Aubrey's small bed in a room much
too large, one would suppose, for any purpose
but for a game of cricket under cover
- — " you see, sir," repeated he, " I am here,
as usual, to wish you many happy returns
of the day."

Thank you, Soppy," replied his young
master, and his voice sounded as if being
filtered through a thick blanket j " but I

vol. i. c

was asleep. I wish you had not come so
earth."

"To be asleep, sir," rejoined Soppy,
pursing up his lips, and speaking as if all
his words were round, and required to be
dropped from them like peas — " to be
asleep, sir," repeated he, " is one thing ; to
be awake's another."

I know that well enough." returned
Aubrey, with his head still buried beneath
the bed-clothes. " Why don't you tell me
something I don't know?"

If you'll condescend, sir, to raise your
nose from between the sheets," said his
early and unwelcome visitor, but unwelcome
only from being early, " I will endeavour
to comply with your wishes in that respect.
You shall be told something, sir, you don't
know, but perhaps would like to know."

Go on, then," grumbled Aubrey.

But your nose is not raised, sir," continued

Soppy, " and, to use the words of
Dr. Watts, ' Bid me discourse, I will enchant
thine ear.' This, however, can't be done,
Master Aubrey, when the ear is covered."

"There, then, Soppy," cried his young
master, laughing and throwing off the bedclothes,
" the ear is ?shivered. What have
you to tell me ?"

Something, Master Aubrey, which I
ought to be soundly flogged for telling,"
responded Mr. Soppy, in a most serious
tone.

Indeed !" exclaimed his young master.
"Then what a wicked old man you must
be!"

I am, sir," returned Mr. Soppy, with a
penitential air — " I am a decidedly wicked
old man, sir ; but there is something to be
said on that score. I was at Hoxford, you
know, Master Aubrey, with the Colonel,
and besides your much-respected father, sir,

c2

keeping his terms, he kept six hunters, four
harness 'losses, two hacks, late hours, and
fast company. I think I see him now,"
continued Mr. Soppy, folding his arms
across the buff kerseymere waistcoat, and
glancing at the ceiling immediately above
his head, " polished off by me to the nicest
touch of what a gentleman should be, as he
stepped into his tandem, random, harum-scarum,
or break-neck."

Did my father drive all these carriages
?" inquired Aubrey, raising himself
on his elbows.

"With the best-appointed drag, sir,"
proudly replied Mr. Soppy, " that was ever
turned out of Hoxford. I sat behind, Master
Aubrey, as we rattled along — for your
much respected father, sir, always did twelve
mile an hour, no matter what the road was
with my thoughts sometimes occupied
upon the laws of force."

"The laws of force," repeated Aubrey,
evidently puzzled.

In turning sharp corners at twelve mile
an hour," resumed Mr. Soppy, " for your
much respected father, sir, was particularly
fond of grazing the kerb, I used to
speculate upon the probable parish or
county I should be pitched into, provided
the shave was a little too close. In that
case the distance covered would be, Master
Aubrey, precisely in accordance with the
propelling force of the spill."

And that's what you call the laws of
force?" remarked his young master, gently
falling back upon his pillow.

"Exactly so," rejoined Mr. Soppy.
"Everyone, sir, and everything is governed
by the laws of force. When we little think
about it, Master Aubrey, and seem to behaving
it all our own way, there's something
dragging us forrard, or shoving us behind,

which is neither felt nor seen, and that's the
law of force."

If that is the case' returned Aubrey,
and we are not responsible for what we
do, I don't see why you should merit a
flogging for what you are about telling me."

I was coming to that, sir," added Mr.
Soppy, " I was coming to that. Admitting,
however, that I ought not to have done
many things that I have done, and," continued
he, with a pious shake of the head,
ought not to do many more things which
perhaps I shall do, I cannot forget, Master
Aubrey, that I possess a very fair excuse in
being the victim, sir, to the force of circumstances
over which I had little or no control."

"Tell me at once, Soppy, what will please
me to hear," added his young master, " or
I'll go to sleep again directly. I don't want
to listen," continued he, with an impatient
gesture, "to any more of this nonsense."

"In that case, sir," said Mr. Soppy, with
a respectful bow, "I'll come to the pint
without further introduction. My lady," —
Mr. Soppy invariably spoke of Aunt Margaret
by this aristocratic title, although not
recorded in the Peerage as the daughter
of a proprietor of any kind of coronet —
My lady," he repeated, " and the vicar
were closeted together yesterday morning
after breakfast, and having a strong suspicion,
Master Aubrey, that you were the
subject of conversation, I placed myself in
what may be called a comuianding^situation,
to overhear what they said, and report accordingly."


"Not a very proper proceeding," observed
his young master.

"Perhaps not, sir," replied Mr. Soppy ;
but there is no withstanding the force of
circumstances. Pressing my best ear to the
keyhole of the door "

"I begin to think," interrupted his young
master, " that you deserve that flogging you
spoke of."

"No doubt of it, sir," rejoined Mr.
Soppy, in the most imperturbable manner
and tone. "I should say, as a matter of
opinion," continued he, referring once more
to the ceiling immediately above his head,
that I richly deserved to be flogged. We
will, however, if you please, Master Aubrey,
refer that pint for discussion to some more
fitting opportunity. The first few words,"
resumed he, "that either by chance or design
I became the possessor of, convinced me, sir,
that I was right as to the cause of my lady
and the vicar being closeted together."

"They spoke of me, eh?" said Aubrey.

"The particular subject being, sir," continued
Mr. Soppy, " the contents of a letter
just received from your much respected
father "

I fear, Soppy," broke in his young master,
" that he was not quite so much respected
as you would have me believe."

"Always by me," returned Mr. Soppy,
with a superlative bow. " Whatever the
Colonel's 'playful tricks might have been,
such as kicking me downstairs, for instance,
I always felt that I was being kicked by a
gentleman who commanded my respect.
But as I was saying, Master Aubrey," continued
he, ft a letter had just been received
from your much respected father in which
he expressed a very strong wish — the
Colonel is always strong in his sayings and
doings — that you should no longer remain
under the tuition of the vicar."

I am glad of that," cried Aubrey,
springing from his recumbent position. "I
hate the old drone."

Exactly so, sir," added Mr. Soppy,
"and I see no objection to your continuing
to hate him."

"Go on," said his young master; "let
me hear all."

"My lady," continued Mr. Soppy, "of
course tried to make things as smooth as
possible ; for it is her ' water tow,' as Dr.
Watts says. And the vicar, I must say,
took this sort of notice to quit meekly."

Am 1 to go to school ?" asked his young
master, leaning forward to catch the first
syllable of the answer.

Now came Mr. Soppy 's moment of
triumph.

To Eton !" he cried, throwing himself
into the first position.

To his utter astonishment, however,
Aubrey Leferne stared in mute astonishment,
and made no corresponding sign of
delight at the contemplated change.

CHAPTER III.

1 WISH she would come," peevishly
-*- exclaimed Aubrey, as he stood by
the scattered and irregular bed of daffodils,
now in full bloom ; for the spring was close
at hand, and these were her heralds. "I
wish she would come," repeated he. " I
have no one to meet but Ivy, and she ought
not to keep me waiting."

Raising a straight switch he held in
his hand, he struck at the head of one
of the daffodils, and severed it from the
stalk.

u Oh, Master Aubrey !" almost screamed
a girlish voice close by, "what have you
done? What will become of us? You

have cut off the head of one of those
dreadful flowers !"

Upon turning round, he perceived the
near approach of Ivy Girling, the gamekeeper's
little daughter, upon whose fresh
and peach-like face considerable mental
anxiety was depicted as she witnessed the
decapitation of the daffodil.

"Then you should have been here before,"
replied Master Aubrey, with an angry
frown. "I told you to do so, and, if you
had not come now, I would have cut off all
their heads — ay, everyone of them."

Don't say so, sir, pray don't," rejoined
Ivy. " I am trembling all over. To think,
too, that it was my fault !"

"You may tremble, if you like," returned
her companion, with little decrease in his
ill-humour. "I shan't. What do I care
for all the daffodils that ever grew or will
ever grow ? I'd dig them up, if I could."

Many have tried, sir," added Ivy Girling,
brushing two unshed tears from her
eyes. " Many have tried' repeated she, ina
warning voice, "but don't you, Master
Aubrey, be among the number."

"Why not?" said the boy, in a defiant
tone and manner.

u Because," was her reply, in a whisper,
rendered almost hoarse from intensity of
feeling, " no hand, it is said, was ever yet
raised against them but, sooner or later, an
evil spell followed it."

Oh !" ejaculated Aubrey Leferne, irritably,
"I am tired of stories of ghosts and
goblins, and, what is more, I don't believe
in them."

But everyone hereabouts," resumed Ivy
Girling, u old and young, rich and poor,
believes in the curse which these flowers
from the Holy Land bring upon anyone
who disturbs or injures them."

"And that's the reason," replied he,
they have grown so. Everybody's afraid
to dig them up or cut off their heads but
me," and, as Aubrey Leferne concluded the
sentence, he aimed a well-directed cut at a
second daffodil, and the golden flower lay
in a moment at Ivy's feet.

A flood of tears followed the dexterous
blow. Poor Ivy Girling sobbed outright.

And this is your birthday, Master Aubrey
! How could you do it?"

Choking excitement prevented further
utterance, and, burying her face in her
hands, she gave full vent to her childish
fears and dread for what had been done by
Aubrey Leferne on his birthday.

Ivy's portrayed grief, however, produced
a salutary effect upon his angry feelings, not
altogether unmingled with self-reproach at
having thoughtlessly given rise to it, and,
taking one of her hands within his own, he

said, " Don't cry any more, Ivy. I'll not
touch the flowers again."

He seldom spoke so to anyone, and Ivy
Girling felt herself appeased in the shortest
possible measure of time. Tears readily
gave way to happy smiles, and they turned
and left the spot, hand in hand, the very
best of friends in the world, or, at least, in
that isolated part of it.

They were pretty children of about the
same age, the girl, perhaps, being somewhat
the elder of the two. Widely separated as
they were by birth and position, fate had
decided that they should be constant companions
as soon as each could lisp and
prattle to the other. The intimacy thus
commenced had continued without interruption
to the twelfth birthday of Aubrey
Leferne, rendered memorable by his cutting
off the heads of the daffodils.

It was a lovely morning, towards the end

of the rough and burly month of March,
which, "piping before the flowers like a
Bacchanal," bent the topmost branches of
the elms, and rocked the rook nests lately
built in the ornamental timber of Greatwood
Park, still spared from axe and hatchet.
Primroses and violets began to peep on
bank and hedgerow, and bright, glad things
of the earth were awakening from their
winter's sleep.

Aubrey and Ivy sauntered leisurely along
without speaking, as if a tacit agreement
had been entered into between them that
neither should break the silence for a given
period.

As before has been remarked, they were
pretty children, although of beauty as opposite
as possible. The boy in his features,
figure, and proud, independent gait, gave
evidence of the gentle blood which circulated
in his veins. There was no mistaking

the right and title of Aubrey Leferne to the
claim of being an English gentleman, albeit
a very young one. Tall for his years, slender,
and delicately pale, his features bore a
striking resemblance to those of Aunt Margaret,
and, indeed, for the most part to the
profiles, full and three-quarter faces, to the
rows above rows of the Lefernes, mouldy
and dingy from age, in the old portrait-gallery.
The aquiline nose and dark, flashing
eyes of his race were singularly conspicuous,
and the thin compressed lips, so
determined in their expression, seemed to
have been monopolized by successive generations
of his ancestors, and duly inherited
as a family brand by him. Thick and crisp
nut-brown curls surmounted a high and expansive
brow, and a small, round, black
velvet cap — the work of Aunt Margaret —
placed jauntily upon it, gave an effect of
which Aubrey appeared fully sensible. Too

VOL. I. d

proud, however, to be vain, he walked by
the side of his companion, hand in hand,
towards the Hall, pleased, as usual, with
Ivy's presence, although conveying in every
look and gesture that he was the patron and
she the patronized.

"Do you know," said he, after a long,
silent interval, "that Soppy told me last
night, as we sat together alone before the
wood fire in the still-room, and almost in
the dark, that, when I am master of Great-wood
Park, I can do nearly as I like with
everybody and everything on the estate."

"Dear me !" exclaimed Ivy, throwing her
long flaxen hair back, as it streamed like
tendrils of a vine from beneath a simple
straw cottage bonnet, tied by a bright red
riband across the crown, and trimmed with
wild flowers, for be it remembered it
was Aubrey Leferne's birthday. " Dear
me!" repeated Ivy, with a slight laugh,

6i then perhaps, sir, you'll be cruel to me."
No," quickly rejoined Aubrey, as if the
remark stung him, " I shall not be cruel to
you. Don't think I shall be that. But
Soppy said that when the Colonel dies —
and the wonder is that he's alive now — I
may claim a heriot of nearly all the tenants
on the estate, and that means the best or
prettiest thing they possess."

I have heard my father speak of the
Heriot," returned Ivy, " when Colonel
Leferne took possession."

Soppy said," resumed Aubrey, " that he
made a clean sweep of the best of everything
that he could lay his hands on. And
so shall I."

You, Master Aubrey !" exclaimed Ivy,
stopping in her walk, and bending upon
him as reproachful a look as a pair of soft,
loving blue eyes could inflict — f ' you, Master
Aubrey !"

d2

Yes," he added, " me. I want a great
many things now that I can't have, but I
mean to get them as soon as I can."

But you won't be hard upon the poor?"
observed Ivy Girling, interrogatively.

u I don't know," replied her companion,
shaking his head. "When I ask Aunt
Margaret for anything, she always says
she's too poor to buy it, and I feel that
very hard upon me. Now, when it comes
to my turn, why shouldn't I be hard upon
others ?"

The argument, possibly, was unanswerably,
for Ivy made no reply.

After a short pause, Aubrey resumed his
subject.

Your father, Ivy," continued he, " is a
small tenant, you know, and, when my
turn comes, I mean to claim a heriot of him."

Oh ! Master Aubrey," exclaimed Ivy,
my father has nothing but a pig, and

never has. You would not take our pig,
I'm sure."

"No," replied Aubert, "because a pig
would be of no use to the."

Then what would you take ?" asked
Ivy, puzzled to think what the selection
might be.

"You," returned he — "I should claim
you, Ivy, for a heriot."

A merry, ringing laugh burst from the
lips of Ivy Girling as she learned that she
was to pass as a chattel under the feudal
law to the little lord of the Manor of Great-wood
Park, upon his taking possession of
his rights and privileges.

But what would you do with me ?"
asked Ivy, still laughing.

Make you come, go, and wait for me,
just as I please," rejoined Aubrey, "because
then you would be mine, and that's just
what I should like."

Ivy threw her long, waving hair back
from her shoulders, and, with flashing eyes,
jerked her hand angrily from his.

Would you, then, treat me like your
dog ?" she asked, looking him steadfastly in
the face.

Aubrey Leferne saw at a glance that the
speaker was not qualified, at least, for a
submissive and obedient dog, and hastened
to correct any mistake that he might have
committed upon the subject of heriot.

I did not mean to offend you, Ivy,"
said he, again taking her hand. "All I
meant was," continued he, placing himself
about as close to her side as circumstances
would permit, and dropping his voice to a
low, earnest tone — " all I meant was," he
repeated, " that I should like you to be
with me whenever I wished, and that nobody
7 should be able to stop your coming or
going, or being with me as long as I liked.
That's all, Ivy."

The explanation seemed more than acceptable
to Ivy Girling. The cloud of
anger vanished from her still flushed features,
and they became on the spot as good
friends as ever.

CHAPTER IV.

WITHIN and without the archway,
forming the entrance to an old
brewery in the eastern district of the metropolis,
dust might be both felt and seen
all the year round — dust in clouds, dust in
eddying circles, dust in puffs, dust everywhere,
in, around, and about the dark,
gloomy gateway of the old brewery. Neither
for man nor beast was it a spot to rest
in and be thankful, and yet, upon a winter's
day, when the dust rose unusually high and
thick in the keen and cutting northerly
wind, both one and the other might have
been seen, apparently at ease, patient and
abiding, under the archway forming the
entrance to the old brewery.

Waiting for something or somebody a man
stood at the head of a horse attached by
several devices to a vehicle on wheels defying
description. The body might have been
formed from tea-chests, orange-boxes, or
waifs and strays of a similar kind, and the
wheels were never pairs in their original
condition. Paint there was none, unless
a coat of mud might be said to represent
colour, and, in short, as a work
of skill, nothing could be farther removed
from the beautiful.

The " several devices," to which reference
has been made, consisted of a small, very
small saddle, dark as time-stained mahogany
with wear and tear, and evidently, from its
narrow dimensions, intended by its designers
for racing purposes only. This fastened in
the required position with a strap, supported
the shafts of the vehicle on wheels
defying description, and a few odds and

ends of leather, rusty iron links and rope,
completed the " several devices," forming
the entirety of what was supposed to be
harness.

A contemplative animal stood between
the shafts. With head bent low, winking
and blinking at the stones beneath, a raw-boned,
shaggy-coated, old grey mare remained
as motionless as if carved from
granite. Her near hind leg resting on the
toe, ears thrown back, and tail kept close,
gave an air of absolute dejection to the old
grey mare, and, if latent causes could be
traced to perceptible effects, little would
be the wonder, perhaps, that so she stood.

Her driver, partaking of his share of the
dust through the medium of his eyes,
nostrils, mouth, and ears, leant against a
lamp-post, humming, with a sound not dissimilar
to that of a bee in a bottle, " God save
the Queen," with solemn variations of his

own composition. Having thus wiled away
the moments as they flew with philosophical
patience, Samuel Wideoo, cow-keeper by
trade, and general dealer in milk and water,
received in his vehicle on wheels a few
bushels of grain by w T ay of diurnal supply
to his limited dairy of two cows, and took
his departure homewards at a truly considerate
pace for the old grey mare's powers
of locomotion.

Samuel Wideoo was a diminutive man, with
a large round head which bore the appearance
of having continued to grow long after
his body had ceased. His frame looked
thin and pinched, and his beetle brow, high
cheek bones, and small restless eyes, with a
mouth much too wide for ornament, whatever
it might be for use, did not present
collectively features or form of an attractive
kind. And yet, ill-favoured as Samuel
Wideoo's countenance indubitably was, its

expression revealed a tender and sensitive
spot in his little pigeon breast* Samuel
Wideoo was kind to his limited dairy of two
cows, the old grey mare, and particularly
to his small and youthful dependent and
assistant, Johnny Tadpole. His neighbours,
too, who proved themselves defaulters in
their unpaid milestones, had no cause to
find fault with him for any harsh treatment
or legal threats, and a measure of compulsion
towards a debtor was never dreamt of
by Samuel Wideoo of Bromley Marsh.

Now Bromley Marsh, to be seen once by
the fastidious, would probably be avoided
henceforth and for ever. As its name
signified, it was a flat piece of oozy ground,
interspersed with wide ditches, containing
black mud, and a mixture of decaying cats,
dogs, rags, paper, egg-shells, orange peel,
and vegetable and animal matter, in various
stages of decomposition and gaseous

changes ; a few stunted, broken, and straggling
elder bushes grew here and there, on
the sides of the ditches, giving to Bromley
Marsh a rural effect which the tall factory
chimneys and forest of bricks and mortar in
the immediate vicinity, might have totally
expunged from the map of the imagination.
With a broad acreage around and about
him, Samuel Wideoo occupied a small redbrick,
unornamented dwelling in the middle
of the marsh, to which was attached an
outhouse, composed of black tarred boards,
designed for the protection, rest, and comfort
of the old grey mare and the limited
dairy of two cows. It was here that Samuel
Wideoo passed his days in peace, if not
in plenty, and in a season of drought, when
milk began to fail, consoled himself with
the reflection that water remained no less
abundant when forced from " the cow with
the iron tail' as the adjoining pump was

facetiously termed by Johnny Tadpole.

"The secret of the milk-trade, Teddy,"
said he, when giving his assistant a rudimentary
lesson, "is water. It may begetting
money under false pretences, as I
won't deny. But what is a poor devil todo
if his milk runs short ?"

Johnny Tadpole — a boy of small growth
and tender years — looked at his patron full
in the face, and, instinctively knowing that
he was right, boldly replied,

"Water it."

"That's it, Taddy," replied Samuel
Wideoo, rubbing his assistant's unshorn and
unkempt locks to and fro with demonstrative
satisfaction at his shrewdness. "That's
it, Taddy," repeated he. " Recollect, as
you grow up to be a man, that when a
poor devil's milk runs short he must water
it. That principle applies," concluded
Samuel Wideoo, with a shake of the head,

amounting almost to the solemn, " to other
lines o' business, besides creeping."

Johnny Tadpole listened attentively to
this brief delivery of a practical sentiment,
and, repeating each word silently to himself,
fixed it indelibly in Iris memory.

In person, Johnny Tadpole was short,
and, like the alder-bushes hanging over the
black mud near the abode of his master,
stunted. His biography was brief, and, at
the same time, formed a very fair sample of
the social histories of a large and interesting
class known under various titles. By some
he would have been designated " a street
Arab," by others, " a gutter-child." By all
he might have been truthfully called " an
outcast," cared for and loved by no one
from the ill-starred moment of his introduction
into the world to the happy accident
of a baker's cart-wheel breaking his left leg,
thereby causing the elementary friendship

which sprang, ripened, and flourished without
interruption between Samuel Wideoo
and himself.

To the several interrogatories put to him
at fitting opportunities by the owner of the
kind, strong hand which snatched him from
beneath the wheel of the baker's cart, a
little mangled heap of helpless pain, Johnny
Tadpole never had a father — as far as he
knew. A mother he recollected well, as
she observed the unexceptionable rule of
thrashing him soundly whenever labouring
under the influence of alcoholic fluids, and
daily evidence of the influence being forthcoming,
without the benefit of a doubt, it
may seem superfluous to add that Johnny
caught at least one diurnal licking. Things
never mended with him when residing in
the alley with his mother. His food he got
where, when, how, and from whom he
could, never being particular as to the

means, mode, or manner. His feet shoe-less,
and his raiment too much ventilated
for the eye of modesty, decked in regal
attire, the Government — represented by the
policeman on the beat — often sternly told
him to u move on." Government, however,
had done nothing more for Johnny Tadpole.
He continued a rover of the streets,
forming one of a countless band of young
free lances, ever ready for a tilt against the
laws of rheum and tuum, and in strict training
for the certain tenancy of the jail, and
a still, perchance, more dire punishment —
the scaffold. But Government — represented
by the policeman on the beat — contented
itself by merely ordering Johnny and his
companions in arms against the State to
move on."

That, however, which the executive and
municipal laws had failed to accomplish ;
that which commissioners, local boards, and

vol. i. e

parish vestries had never attempted — the
rescue of Johnny Tadpole from inevitable
destruction to mind, body, and soul— was
effected through the agency of a baker's
cart-wheel. Samuel Wideoo carried him tenderly
to his home in Bromley Marsh, and,
learning his history, took him, figuratively
and literally, to his little pigeon-breast ;
and, for the first time in his life, Johnny
learnt what human kindness meant through
a broken leg, and wept more from joy than
pain.

"We don't part, my little pal," said
Samuel Wideoo, as the juvenile cripple began
to limp about on a crutch fashioned by his
own hands. " Having no better place to goto,
you'll stop with me, and I'll try to set
you on your legs in more ways than one."

The cow keeper of Bromley Marsh kept
his word, and his endeavour was crowned
with signal success. Under his care Johnny

Tadpole throve with unrivalled speed, beating
time hollow. His poor wan face, of the
shape of a hatchet, so narrow and sharp it
appeared, became, as if by magic, plump,
and even rosy, for an inhabitant of the
marsh. The scared and frightened look,
produced mainly by the repeated orders of
Government to " move on," gave place to
one of boyish playfulness, not totally devoid
of the spice of mischief. Nobody having
condescended to point out the anniversary
of his birth, or to inform him of the precise
year in which he was born, Johnny was all
abroad upon the subject of his age. He
could not make even a guess at it; but
Samuel Wideoo overcame the difficulty by
"putting him down at eight," and if one
day was better than another in the whole
twelvemonth round, in his opinion that day
was Christmas Day.

"Therefore," he remarked, raising a formed



LfRDADV

finger to draw Johnny's fixed attention to
the conclusion of the sentence, " having
myself a partiality for Christmas Days, and
to plum puddings, with mince pies, we'll
keep your birthday, Taddy, on each Christmas
Day, proposing your health, as I shall
do, in a neat speech, to be drunk with the
usual honours in milk and water."

Johnny laughed, as it was intended he
should, and was either much pleased at the
proposal or pretended to be so with considerable
skill.

You'll not be strong enough for sometime,"
resumed Samuel Wideoo, " to carry
the milk and water round to the customers ;
but you can assist me, Taddy, in the business,
young and small as you are, if you
have but the will."

Johnny Tadpole was all will from the
crown of his head to the soles of his feet, ashe
was ready to swear on his knees, then
and there, on the ground itself.

tl Very good," continued Samuel Wideoo.
"Then you'll look after the old mare, and
do with her as you have seen me do, leaving
out the tickling under her flank now and
then, as she may regard it as a liberty from
you, and resent it accordingly."

Johnny promised most faithfully to refrain
from the tickling process ; but the tips
of his fingers itched notwithstanding.

'she's a bit o' blood," continued Samuel
Wideoo, diving both hands to the extreme
depths of both pockets of his trowsers, which
clung to his straight, fleshless legs with a
narrowness in the material amounting to
decided meanness on the part of the tailor.
She's a bit o' blood," repeated he, jingling
a few half-pence together, " and won't stand
liberties, Taddy, at all times. I have seen
her mill away with her heels, before you
were born, I suspect, like a mad hatter !"

Johnny was puzzled at the simile, but

maintained a reserved and discreet reticence.
"That old mare, Queen Mary is her name
in the Racing Calendar" resumed her owner,
with undisguised pride, as he continued to
jingle the half-pence, " has seen better days,
Taddy, and so have I. But both might
have seen worse, perhaps, and so we'll try
to be satisfied, eh, old gal?" And, as her
owner spoke, he gave her a familiar slap
under the flank.

Queen Mary threw back both ears, and,
lifting a hind leg, threatened to mill again
as in days of yore.

You wouldn't brush a fly from my
waistcoat, Mary, and you know it," said
Samuel Wideoo, fondly ; " but don't you try
it on, Taddy, or you may find yourself
grassed in a manner which is counted but
once in a kid's life. If she meant it, she'd
send you clean through a deal board like a
shot from a gun."

Johnny Tadpole now looked at the old
grey mare with feelings akin to awe.

"Then there's the dairy," said Samuel
Wideoo. " You can learn to milk — and
what a blessing that is when I come to
think of it! If I had learned to milk,
Taddy, when I was your age, instead of
riding a feather-weight in handicaps, I
shouldn't be " — his voice faltered, and he
rubbed upwards, with the back of a hand,
a trickling tear from the end of his nose —
'I shouldn't be," repeated he, sorrowfully,
shaking his head, " a poor, friendless, broken-down
old jock."

After a momentary pause, Samuel Wideoo
conquered his feelings.

"You can also brush and wisp over the
cows, Taddy, while I look on and see you
do it properly. Then you can feed them
little and often, and so keep yourself free
from idleness. Of an evening 1 shall be

your schoolmaster, and we'll see if you can't
become as good a scholar as I am."

"Are you a scholar, sir?" asked Johnny
Tadpole ; but, never having heard the word
before, was completely in the dark as to its
meaning.

"Yes, Taddy," replied Samuel Wideoo,
sententiously, tl I'm a scholar; and you shall
be one as far as the three R's go."

"And what are they, sir?" inquired
Johnny.

"Reading, 'rising, and arithmetic," returned
Samuel Wideoo.

CHAPTER V.

"TN the fulfilment of the design to make
-*- Johnny Tadpole proficient in learning
as far as the three R's went, Samuel Wideoo
might be seen, when the daily toils connected
with the milk business were at an end,
patiently and assiduously taking down the
shutters of his pupil's mental darkness. To
his most perfect satisfaction, Johnny soon
began to read fluently words of one syllable,
and could tell how many twice two
made without counting the tips of his fingers.
The progress was triumphant, and
Samuel Wideoo entertained a reserved, vainglorious
thought that the result was traces

TOO FAST TO LAST.

able, perhaps, as much to the teacher as the
taught.

It was an evening in autumn, and the
days were shortening fast, as Johnny sat
before a small round wooden table, hard at
his tasks. In the light, airy costume of a
cotton shirt, with the sleeves rolled up
above the tiny elbows, and a pair of canvas
trousers upon the small, spare legs, he was
diligently engaged in mastering the multiplication
of four times one ; for Johnny
Tadpole was now in the four line, and
expected promotion.

I like to see a chap, big or little, strip
at his work," remarked Samuel Wideoo, in a
tone and manner denoting admiration. " It
looks as if a chap means business, Taddy,
and not play."

Johnny knew that the compliment was
aimed point-blank at him, and blushed, accordingly,
from chin to brow. He pursued

his study, however, in silence, and Samuel
Wideoo stood in his usual attitude, with his
back to the empty grate, and the tails of
his coat widely separated, waiting patiently
for his pupil's announcement that he could
repeat four times four from end to end. It
might be as an outward and visible sign of
his elastic powers of imagination that in
summer, as in winter, Samuel Wideoo so
constantly maintained this position, with his
reverse to the empty fireplace ; but there
he stood, let the cause be assigned to either
fact or fiction.

The room which served them for parlour,
library, kitchen, and all — excluding the
dormitory — was well designed for a limited
quantity of furniture not exceeding the
personal requirements of two occupants, or,
at a stretch, three. A couple of straight-backed,
rush-bottomed chairs, and the
small, round, wooden table at which

Johnny Tadpole was pursuing his arithmetical
studies with great assiduity, comprised
about the whole of the useful
articles, to which, however, might be added
a poker, saucepan, and frying-pan. Whether
the tea was made in the frying-pan
or otherwise, was left to conjecture ; but
nothing more appeared to the eye in the
shape of cooking utensils.

To be consistent, and in keeping with
things coming under the head and front of
useful, those of the ornamental kind were
equally scanty. A straight cutting riding-whip,
a pair of thin spurs, and a faded
orange and purple satin jockey's cap and
jacket, suspended on pegs in a triangular
form against the sunny side-wall of the
apartment, comprised the whole of the
decorations ; but they were constant objects
of pride with Samuel Wideoo, and referred
to by him with a monotonous frequency
amounting to the tiresome.

"There," he would say, standing with his
back to the grate, to Johnny Tadpole as
regularly as the breakfast hour arrived, to
be repeated, with slight alterations, at dinner
time, and again rehearsed when the
supper was spread. " There," he would
say, pointing to the decorations, "are the
old Leferne colours. I wore them, Taddy,
for years when my master was in form.
Hah !" and then the speaker heaved a long-drawn
sigh, closely allied to a groan or
grunt, " that was form, and no mistake !
To see him, gentleman as he was, mounted
on his two hundred guinea hack, book and
pencil in hand, and backing the old grey
mare for hundreds and thousands as coolly
as if a glass of gin was only at stake ; that
was form, and no mistake ! He was a real
gentleman, Taddy — a truer was never born
and I was proud to serve him. But, like
many a high-bred un, he went too fast to

last, and" — here Samuel Wideoo's voice
shook with deep emotion — " he cracked
up."

After a brief pause — too brief sometimes
in the reticent opinion of Johnny Tadpole
he would continue the old, old story.

I rode Queen Mary in her first two-year-old
engagement, when I scaled, Taddy,
four — stun — six — in — my — boots — and —
breeches, and I rode her in her last when
she was aged, and I had to waste to get
down to nine — stun — three. She was a
grand animal, and nothing but weight could
beat her over a distance of ground. She
wanted scope, Taddy, and when she had
scope, and was fairly weighted, she would
lay hold of her bit, and beat a bird on the
wing!"

Such was Samuel Wideoo's old, old story,
sometimes needlessly drawn out to a prodigious
length, and sometimes considerably

shortened, but in the main the facts varied
in no important particular.

Johnny Tadpole, now entertaining both
the hope and belief that he had completely
impressed upon his memory the multiplying
of four times four from end to end, was
about announcing his readiness to make a
trial to his instructor, when a knock at the
door, which sounded as having been given
through the agency of a stick with a knob,
startled and checked hiui from his purpose.

I wonder who that can be ?" said
Samuel Wideoo, taking a couple of steps
towards the door, for the distance between
the fire-place and the door required but
two to reach it. Upon throwing it back
upon its hinges, Samuel Wideoo gave unmistakable
proof of being considerably astonished.


11 What, Bottles !" exclaimed he, giving
one step to the rear and raising his hands

above his head. iC Is that you, Bottles ?"
The same, Sam," replied the individual
addressed by the distinctive title of
Bottles' and now standing in the doorway.
" There is but one Bottles, and here
he is — the old original in his own proper
person."

And who could have dreamt of seeing
the old original in these parts ?" returned
Samuel Wideoo. " But come in," continued
he, " and let us know all about the hows,
whys, and wherefores," and, as he spoke,
he stretched forth a hand to Bottles, who
grasped and wrung it with more fervour
than discretion, for Samuel Wideoo began to
dance and skip with pain, and to make wry
faces, evincing all the decided symptoms of
one whose ringers were within the clutch of
something too strong to be pleasant.

"There's nothing like meeting with an
old chum," observed Bottles, dropping the

cramped and tortured hand of his friend.
With my chum I'd spend my last shilling ;
and if I hadn't one, and he had, I'd ask
him, without much ceremony, to do with
me as I would do with him. I would so /"
And, as he concluded the sentence, he jerked
forward his strong right hand of fellowship,
to be grappled by Samuel Wideoo ; butin
a figurative sense, he did not quite see
it, and kept, or monopolised, his hands to
himself, by crossing them behind his back.

I don't know whether I'm more
pleased than surprised," returned Samuel
Wideoo. " But whichever it is doesn't signify
much. Take a chair," and, as there
was but one chair unoccupied, no difficulty
existed in the selection.

By your leave I will," rejoined Bottles,
occupying the disengaged seat, and casting
a look of examination around the apartment.
Upon its falling upon Johnny Tad-vol.

i. F

pole, he added, " What kid is this?"

In one sense," replied Samuel Wideoo,
he belongs to me. In another sense, as
far as I can make out, he's nobody's kid.
A sort of human sparrer. Bred and born
in the streets. Awake and asleep in the
streets. Lived in the streets, and, all but
died in the streets."

A lively young card, no doubt," rejoined
the new-comer, u and one that could
fetch a pot of cooper, if the necessary
amount of the circulating medium was
placed in his hands, eh ?"

Oh ! yes," returned Johnny, having
abandoned four times four since the introduction
of Bottles, u I know where to go
for a pot of cooper, sir."

"Then be my banker, Sam, and advance
the circulating medium," added Bottles,
for I'm thirsty, and haven't a single coin
in my possession."

Out of luck I suppose," remarked
Samuel Wideoo, feeling in his pockets, and
not in vain, for the requisite amount.

Very much so," replied Bottles, speaking
with great pathos in every syllable.
I'm what you may call, Sam, a down pin.
The three card business is blown upon, and
as for thimble-rig that's gone clean out of
fashion."

We live in changeable times," remarked
Samuel Wideoo, reflectively, and taking his
usual position with his back to the grate.

We do so /" responded Bottles, with
undiminished pathos. " But the worst of
it is, Sam, I don't find any change for the
better. My misfortunes," continued he,
seem, indeed, to have taken root, and
they grow like mustard seed. They do so /"

Johnny Tadpole, having been furnished
with the necessary funds to procure the
cooper, hurried away on his errand ; but

f2

previous to his departure Bottles made a
vigorous effort to impress upon his juvenile
mind that "some things to be done well
must be done quickly, and if quickly done
were well done."

Consistent with his voluntary statement
concerning the vegetating condition of his
misfortunes, the garb of Bottles, and his
general personal effect, supported the theory
that there was no likelihood of an
immediate change for the better in his
prospects. In short he looked "a down
pin." His misfortunes evidently had not
only grown and flourished, but had run to
seed. Bottles was out at the elbows, and,
without capital or credit, they were denied
even a patch to conceal the defect.

"We're in different circumstances, Sam,"
said he, fixing a melancholy look upon the
faded and dusty orange and purple satin
cap and jacket, "than when you rode

in those colours, and I trained for the
Colonel."

Samuel Wideoo heaved a deep sigh, but
said nothing.

We little thought then," resumed Bottles,
dismally, " that you would take to the
milk trade, Sam, and I to thimble-rig and
the three card trick business."

Samuel Wideoo began to screw a bent
knuckle into the corner of an eye, moistened
with an unshed tear.

It's a terrible change in our condition,"
added Bottles, " it is so"

Samuel Wideoo now fairly broke down,
and his feelings found vent in a flood of
tears.

Don't blubber, Sam," expostulated Bottles,
" or you'll make me squeeze out the
briny. You will so. How is the old bit of
stuff?" inquired he, changing the subject.

"What, the old mare ?" feebly rejoined

Samuel Wideoo, as the tears forced their way
between his clenched fingers.

Ay," returned Bottles, jerking on one
side a hat which had been battered by
storms and time, until the original shape
was much disfigured, if not completely lost.
Ay," he repeated, with unequivocal pride
both in tone and manner, " the bit of cast
steel, the flyer and stayer, she who would
be with them, make the running as they
liked, and win as she pleased. How is
she ?"

"Come and see," said Samuel Wideoo, and
as he spoke he led the way towards the
humble stable adjoining, in which the
object of Bottles' admiration stood contentedly
munching from a crib some warm
and sweet-smelling grains.

From the effects of too much cooper and
two little exercise, Bottles was both puffy
and spotty. To be in strict proportion to

his height, which was about the middle, or
thereabouts, he should have been considerably
lighter, and the mulberry hue of his features
would have been less marked had
they been devoid of pimples, especially his
nose. A line of red, scrubby hair fringed
his cheeks, and met under his chin, and his
remarkably thick, overhanging eyebrows
were of the same colour, and matched to a
nicety. As if nature had determined that
redness should prevail at the time of his
birth, his eyes were red, like those of a
ferret, and his mouth and chin, coming to a
point, bore a facial resemblance to that persecuting
enemy of the rat tribe.

From a glance, unaccompanied by practical
examination, it would be impossible to
record whether Bottles wore a shirt or not,
as a double-breasted black coat, rather rusty
and decayed, was buttoned closely from
waist to chin, and vulgarly loud green and

yellow plaid trousers, sadly the worse for
wear and tear in more parts than one, with a
pair of boots cracked at the sides and worn
down at the heels, completed a costume not
to be closely imitated with advantage.

Upon the [stable door being unlatched,
Samuel Wideoo exclaimed, "There she is as
the Colonel left her, well, but older grown."

In leaving her to your charge, Sam,"
remarked Bottles, tl it would have been as
well, if not better, that he should have
provided the means of keeping her."

"The Colonel never thought o' that,"
replied Samuel Wideoo. " He merely said,
1 Keep her until I return and so I will, in
the best way I can, if they both live to
meet."

Upon Bottles going to the head of the
old mare she made a snap at him with her
mouth full of grains, as if desirous of a
change of food or relish.

;c Come, come," expostulated he, " you
don't want a bit of the carcass of an old
friend, I know, a friend of your youth and
beauty."

She doesn't know ye yet," said Samuel
Wideoo. "Speak to her as you used when
entering her box after she'd won a race."

What, my Queen !" cried Bottles.
Done it again, eh ?"

In the twinkling of something too quick
for description, the old mare sprang forward,
and, blowing through her nostrils like a
trumpet, she arched her neck sideways, and
turned her full, staring eyes upon the
speaker.

"She knows ye now," said Samuel
Wideoo, with admiration at his favourite's
sagacity. <{ She knows ye now," repeated
he, jingling the halfpence in his pocket.

"That she does," replied Bottles, "she
knows her old trainer well enough, don't ye,
my Queen ?"

Her Majesty gave a slight, inward musical
neigh, which said, as plainly as mare ever
spoke to man, " That I do, Bottles."

To be sure," rejoined her trainer, caressing
her soft velvety nose, "to be sure
you do."

ei How pleased she is to see you !" remarked
Samuel Wideoo, as the old mare
rubbed her head gently against the double-breasted
black coat which covered, perhaps,
the front of a shirt not exposed to view.

She is so" returned Bottles, running an
experienced eye rapidly over Queen Mary
from the tips of her ears to the extreme
ends of her heels.

Scarcely, however, had he completed his
examination when his lower jaw appeared
to drop from astonishment, and, in a moment,
he looked like one too surprised to do
more than mutely stare at what he saw.

"What's the matter?" quickly, and even
nervously, asked Samuel Wideoo.

What's the matter ?" echoed Bottles, ina
voice which sounded as if he were in a
dream., "Don't you see, San," he almost
gasped, " don't you see what's the matter ?"

N — n — no I don't," was Samuel Wideoo's
terrified reply.

"That which the Colonel would have
given thousands for, has come to pass at
last," returned Bottles, " it has so"

"What's come to pass?" almost gasped
Samuel Wideoo.

te It's a bill at not more than six months'
date," said Her Majesty's late trainer.

Samuel Wideoo began to entertain impressive
misgivings that Bottles had become
suddenly insane.

In little more than six months," continued
he, " Queen Mary " — he stopped short
and looked out of the corners of his red,
ferrety eyes at the wonder-stricken countenance
of Samuel Wideoo — " in little more

than six months' he repeated, in a tone of
great deliberation, " Queen Mary will give
us either a colt-foal or filly."

Samuel Wideoo was absolutely staggered
with the words he heard, and reeled a few
steps backwards in a paroxysm of astonishment.


u You may feel all of a heap at what I
tell ye, Sam," resumed Bottles ; " but it is
true, as you will find. It is so"

CHAPTER VI.

rpHE ivy-twined cottage erected in a
pleasant cosy, retired spot in Great-wood
Park, and, probably chosen long ago
as a commanding site for watch and ward
over the manorial rights of the ancient
demesne, was the home of Ivy Girling and
her father, the hereditary, as it would appear
from the unpublished biographical annals of
the Hirelings, head gamekeeper of the
Leferne family, and at the present time,
having no one beneath his sway and rule,
sole arbitrator of what should be done and
left undone with the wild animals of chase,
consisting for the most part of rabbits.
Harry Girling, however, had reared, or

assisted to rear, clouds of pheasants in the
precincts of Greatwood Park, and if but a
few stragglers remained to call to memory
what had been, it was only consistent
with everything around. The coverts had
been felled, and decimated, and, necessarily,
the clouds of pheasants became birds of the
past.

Harry Girling was a widower, and his
household affairs were managed, or mismanaged,
as the case might be, by his daughter
and only child Ivy. She did her best, however,
be it known. Ivy Girling would have
done more to make her father happy and
comfortable at home had she been familiar
with the means, but let it be distinctly
understood that she did her best. It was
Ivy who rose early — earlier than he knew
sometimes — to make, with gentle footfall, the
cottage as clean, neat, and tidy as small but
willing hands could render it. The spiders

had no chance with Ivy, and, as for dust, it
no sooner appeared than it was wiped away.
She polished everything to a brightness
highly artificial, if not unnatural. The fire-bars
in the summer time were not to be
looked into twice, unless you wished to see
your face more than once distorted in effect,
and made to look grotesque in the extreme.
The mahogany table reflected everything
above and around it with the distinctness of
a mirror capable of making shades and shadows
look substantial, and the seats of the
chairs, being composed of bare wood, were
rendered too slippery to be sat upon with
confidence. Wherever there was a bit of
brass, as the ring, for instance, which swung
at the end of the bellrope, the lustre was
really dazzling and painfully bright to eyes
of a weak tendency.

In addition to these several duties of
rubbing and scrubbing everything within

reach, and some odds and ends — with the
aid of climbing — beyond, Ivy Girling did
all the family cooking, and, it is supposed,
practised more upon rabbits than any cook,
large or small, within the United Kingdom.
Roasted, boiled, fried, broiled, baked, in
pies or otherwise. Ivy knew how to make
a rabbit look, smell, and taste as nice and
savoury as need be to the most epicurean
of palates. It was seldom that she had to
ask the head-gamekeeper of the Leferne
family what he would have for dinner; for
he seemed daily throughout the year to
anticipate the question by bringing from
one of the secret depths of a capacious
pocket in his black velveteen jacket a rabbit
slain expressly for the occasion.

Taking into consideration the erratic
manner in which his wages were paid it was
a subject for congratulation, perhaps, that
rabbits were still to be found, without much

seeking, on the manor over which he now
exercised discretionary power, and that they
were deemed, by law of usage and custom,
keepers' perquisites. Depending upon this
never-failing resource in the hour of need
and dinner time, Harry Girling and his
daughter met the exigencies of the day with
smiling countenances, and, come what
might, never grumbled.

The head-gamekeeper was of the order,
heavy, tall, stout, and burly of figure, and
with a stern expression of countenance
which plainly told he was a stranger to fear.
Harry Girling looked naturally constituted
as a living terror to poachers, who, according
to report, seldom evinced the slightest
inclination to try a bout with him at very
close quarters. And yet with his little
housekeeper he was mild in tone and as
gentle as a woman. Ivy never did anything
wrong, or what appeared to be so in his

VOL. i. G

eyes, and seeing how much she did in the
hope to please, and never weary with the
task, the rough, strong man would sometimes
almost weep for the love borne by his
child for him.

The days were short, for the winter was
nigh at hand, when Ivy Girling might have
been seen busier than usual preparing for
her father's return, and the special reception
of Mr. Thomas Soppy, who had been
invited to pass a quiet evening at the gamekeeper's
cottage.

A cheerful, crackling wood fire was blazing
away on the hearth, and a kettle, suspended
over it, hissed and spluttered in a
manner demonstrative of spite or venom.
Three teacups and saucers with spoons to
match, a highly burnished teapot, and a
small stack of nicely-cut bread and butter
were already arranged on the brilliant surface
of the mahogany table, awaiting the arrival

of the host and the guest. The dark
red curtains were drawn closely before the
diamond-paned window, giving a snug,
warm, and generally inviting effect to the
apartment. As a conspicuous and appropriate
ornament to the room, a cock pheasant,
with a tail difficult to manage, from its
extreme length it may reasonably be
conjectured in his lifetime, occupied a glass
case on the mantel-shelf, and a double-barrelled
gun, designed more for use than
ornament, was hung above the cock pheasant.


Such was the particular disposition of the
goods, chattels, and effects in the gamekeeper's
cottage on the evening on which
Mr. Thomas Soppy had been invited to take
a cup of tea and smoke a friendly pipe.

Among the human errors and failings of
Mr. Soppy, that of punctuality could not
be enumerated. At a given time when he

g2

said that he would be either here or there,
do one could truthfully charge him with being
elsewhere. With unexceptionable regularity
his advent might be depended upon, and
as the Dutch clock against the wall struck
five, and the little trap-door under its face
opened with a spring, and the little wooden
drummer-boy came to the front and pretended
to beat a tattoo on his little wooden
drum, Mr. Thomas Soppy raised the latch
of the cottage door, and walked in without
ceremony. .

If not cold the evening was chilly, and,
as Mr. Thomas Soppy took as much care of
himself as lay within the compass of his
ability, it is unnecessary, perhaps, to add that
he was well wrapped up, and, in a poetical
point of view, hidden from the world by the
repeated folds of a scarlet worsted comforter,
which not only covered his double chin,
but mounted over the bridge of his nose.

He also wore a great-coat in a literal sense ;
for the coat was ample in width, depth, and
length, and, from effectually concealing the
wearer from heel to head, rendered him a
moving mystery.

It was one, however, which Ivy quickly
solved. In that space of time known as a
trice, she, with nimble fingers, unfolded
the coils of the comforter, and shelled Mr.
Thomas Soppy from the great-coat like a
pea from the pod. And there he stood nearly
charmed with the attention, which was
complete when Ivy placed a nicely stuffed,
soft cushion made of feathers, on the hard
bottom of an armchair composed of wood,
and bade him " sit down and make himself
comfortable."

Mr. Thomas Soppy never required a
pressing invitation to render himself comfortable,
and accordingly he dropped upon
the caressing feathery seat, and, stretching

out his legs before the fire, abandoned himself
to the comforts of the time present
not without hope — seeing the arrangements
of the tea-table close at hand — of an improved
future.

Scarcely however was he in the position
described, when an addition was made to the
assembly by the arrival of the head-gamekeeper.


"Ah, Tom!" said he, heartily, on seeing
the guest of the evening, " glad to see ye."

Mr. Thomas Soppy was equally pleased
at the opportunity of seeing his host, and,
in a few appropriate words, said so.

Now, Ivy lass, let's have a cup o' tea,"
added he, cheerfully, to his little housekeeper,
and placing a stout ash stick in a corner of
the room ; "and then," continued the head-gamekeeper,
" we'll smoke a pipe and try
whether my October brewing is the right
sort of stuff, Tom ; for you're a good judge""

Mr. Soppy felt flattered at the compliment,
and was quite willing to deliver a
prompt decision upon the evidence being
brought before him.

It necessarily occupied a part of the evening
to swallow the generous supply of
bread and butter and tea, for Ivy took care
that the latter should be hot, and all the
blowing that can be brought to bear in a
saucer, will not cool tea in a trice. An
end, however, came to the several editions of
cups supplied by Ivy in a manner highly to
be commended for its neatness; the bread
and butter ceased to attract from more
causes than one, the principal cause being,
perhaps, that there was no more left, and
Mr. Thomas Soppy began to look out at
the corners of his prominent and colourless
eyes for the proof of the quality of Harry
Girling's October brewing.

His patience was not sorely tried.

Like a busy bee of more than commonly
industrious habits, Ivy fluttered among the
cups, saucers, and plates, and cleared away
the last remnant of the tea as if it had never
been. Then two snowy white pipes were
arranged tastefully bowl to bowl upon the
reflecting and refracting mahogany table,
with a remarkable tobacco box which, could
be opened only by those in the secret. A
brown jug of noble dimensions, crowned
with a head of foaming mild ale, now graced
the scene, and the guest of the evening felt
that the smallest addition would be superfluous,
and consequently out of place.

Ivy, being in the secret, dropped a penny
into the open slit of the tobacco box, and
the lid flew open as if by magic.

Now, Tom, fill your pipe," said Harry
Girling, preparing to charge his own, " but
before lighting it give me your opinion as
to the October brewing."

Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — had no
objection whatever to comply with so reasonable
a request, and, raising the jug, he
buried his visage in the foaming white head
and drank quite sufficient, at least for a
taste ; but some palates are not sensitive to
sips, and his, perhaps, was one of them.

"Good," gasped Mr. Thomas Soppy, replacing
the much less heavy jug upon the table,
" very good, Harry," continued he,
smacking his lips. " Just what ale should be.
Plenty of malt, the right quantity of hops,
and not too much liquor."

My own sentiments !" observed the head
gamekeeper, entertaining a belief, not easily
shaken, that his October brewing met with
a compliment well deserved and totally devoid
of flattery.

The host and his guest had begun to send
clouds of fragrant smoke curling slowly
to the ceiling, and Ivy, never idle, was

beguiling the moments as they flew, by
knitting a pair of winter hose, when her
ears tingled and her cheeks appeared rouged
in a moment by some unseen hand,
upon her father abruptly asking, " if Mr.
Soppy had heard lately from his young
master?"

"I heard of him through my lady this
morning," replied Mr. Thomas Soppy.

Tvy Girling dropped her knitting needles
and winter hose in her lap, and leant forward
with blindness eyes fixed upon the
speaker.

"My lady said," continued he, " that from
the letter she received this morning he was
looking forward to the vacation at Christmas
with more pleasure than he could well
express, and hoped to meet his old friends
again at Greatwood Park as well as he left
them."

Written like a gentleman," remarked
the head-gamekeeper, admiringly.

There never was one of his name," replied
Mr. Soppy, "but what was a gentleman,
let the family failings be what they
may. A Leferne," added he, with pride
amounting to pomposity, "is always a gentleman."


"I quite agree in all that, Tom," observed
Harry Girling. "The old family
comes from a stock that could produce
nothing else."

"A Leferne," resumed Mr. Thomas Soppy,
now mounted on his favourite hobby, " maybe
too tall, and overlook his debts. He
may be too short, and pay only when
pushed. He may look upon loose cash asa
natural supply for loose purposes, and not
be too particular whether he's at Hoxford
or in India. But a Leferne, do what he
may, or leave undone what he mayn't, is
always a gentleman."

The head-gamekeeper nodded approval.

Did you hear whether Master Aubrey
mentioned me in the letter?" timidly inquired
Ivy.

As far as Mr. Thomas Soppy knew, or
had reason to believe from inferences
drawn from facts, wholly admitted or
partly disputable, Ivy Girling had not
been personally alluded to ; but no doubt,
in his young masters memory, she was the
first among his old friends. Ivy sighed
softly, and continued her knitting.

"Any news lately of the colonel?" asked
the head-gamekeeper.

None," briefly answered Mr. Soppy.
"We" — he adopted the "We" in connection
with the old family whenever he
could — " have not heard from him since
his orders to my lady were carried out, to
send Master Aubrey to Eton."

"When he writes," continued Harry
Girling, still pursuing his interrogatories,

"does he ever name his unfortunate "

The head-gamekeeper hesitated, and the
sentence remained unfinished.

You would have said wife," added Mr.
Soppy. "No, he never names her. She
is never mentioned now by anyone."

Poor woman !" exclaimed the head-gamekeeper,
pitifully. " That first quarrel
o' theirs "

And the last," interrupted Mr. Soppy.
" It was their first and last quarrel,
Harry."

"I never heard quite the rights of it,"
remarked Ivy's father. "Some say, to this
very hour, that the colonel lifted his hand
against her ; but I never could believe it."

"What took place was this," rejoined
Mr. Soppy, again moistening his lips, if not
soaking them, in his host's October brewing.
" What took place," repeated he,
"was this. It was a twelvemonth to £ day

after their marriage, and I well remember
that the colonel went out before breakfast
and gathered a few early spring flowers to
give to his young and pretty wife upon her
wedding-day. Among them were some of
Sir Harold Leferne's daffodils."

Ivy shuddered perceptibly at the conclusion
of the sentence.

I think I can see her at this very
moment," resumed Mr. Thomas Soppy,
taking them from his hand, as she entered
the breakfast-room, as if they had
been pearls of great price, and, throwing
herself upon his breast, she looked fondly
but silently into his face, and so remained
for some few seconds. The colonel kissed
her, and the husband and wife, of one year
to a day, after marriage seemed, and indeed
were, as happy as their best friends
could wish them. My lady, being unwell,
was not present, and they were alone, with

the exception of myself, who was waiting
upon them. The breakfast was nearly over,
when the colonel pulled from a pocket of
his dressing-gown a somewhat large piece
of parchment, tied across the middle with
red tape. 'I have a favour to ask of you
this morning, dear said he, with a soft,
smooth kind of purr in his voice. ' You'll
not refuse me, I'm sure, on our wedding-day?'


"there is nothing, I hope, you would
ask,' she replied, 'that I could refuse.'
But I noticed that she kept her eyes fixed
with a half-frightened look upon the parchment
tied with red tape.

"jam not accustomed to refusals,' he
rejoined, with his haughty manner when
vexed. ' I have been used to have my own
way so long that a denial might lead to
most unpleasant consequences to both of
us.'

She gave no answer, but still kept a
steadfast gaze upon the parchment now unfolded
upon the table. I was told to fetch
a pen and ink, and ordered not to leave the
room, as my signature would be required,

' This is a deed,' said the colonel, ' giving
your consent to the trustees under your
marriage settlement for the money in the
funds — some thirty thousand pounds — to be
sold out. When it was suggested,' continued
he, ' that your fortune should be
settled upon you, I raised, as you will
recollect, no objection whatever, conditionally
that, with your consent in writing, it
might, at any time be realized, and applied
in accordance with your own uncontrolled
wishes. Do I make myself understood ?'

"With a face as white as chalk itself, she
merely answered ' Yes.'

' I now require that consent said he,
looking frowningly at his wife, for he saw,

as I did, that he was not going to have it
all his own way, as probably at first was
expected. ' Difficulties press severely upon
me, Julia he continued, ' and even my
honour is at stake.'

'Your honour ?' she repeated, as if in a
dream.

11 Approaching where she sat, he placed
the deed before her, and offering the pen 7
already dipped in the ink, said,

' You will rescue your husband's honour
from disgrace, I know, without another
word.'

She took the pen from his hand, and
quietly laid it upon the table.

' I have listened to you, Edward,' she
said. ' Do me the justice to listen to what
I have to say.'

"The colonel bit his lip with impatience,
but uttered not a word.

"you ask,' she began, 'for my consent

VOL. I. II

to place all, or nearly all, I possess to discharge
debts incurred before we met. I
was told that you would do so.'

'Then you are not surprised observed
he, with more of a sneer than a smile, but
it seemed to partake of both.

' Perhaps I ought not to be,' she replied,
with a melancholy shake of the head, ' and
yet I am. I hoped and believed that, whatever
might have been the extravagancies of
the past, I, as your wife, and nearly the
mother of your child, was loved too well
for any such request to be made

'Why?' he passionately asked.

'Because,' she returned, shrinking from
the angry glance bent upon her, ' complying
with it might, and probably would, consign
me and my child to '

' I'll not listen to another word,' interrupted
her husband, with the fury I never

saw in anyone but a Leferne. ' Sign that
deed.'

"' Never, Edward she replied, with a
decided tone, terror-stricken as she looked,
1 I will never sign it.'

"He now seized her by an arm, upon
which he left the purple impression of his
rough iron grasp, and, thrusting the pen
between her fingers, again said, in a tone
and manner almost savage, ' Sign that
deed.'

With a scream which I never shall
forget," said Mr. Thomas Soppy, " she
wrenched herself from his hold, and the
next moment lay stretched, as I thought,
dead upon the floor. The rest you know,"
continued he. " Within a few hours she
was a mother ; but her senses had fled, and
she never knew what the pleasure was to
kiss her own baby."

h2

"No," remarked Harry Girling, sorrowfully.
" Master Aubrey was taken from
her from the first. But that couldn't be
helped, poor thing !"

The guest of the evening, having absented
himself as long as was deemed expedient
from his duties at the Hall, rose with an
effort from the caressing seat of feathers,
preparatory to taking his departure. Iv r
assisted him to arrange the red-worsted comforter
in its old form, together with the
great-coat of infinite dimensions, and, exchanging
a hearty farewell with his entertainers,
Mr. Thomas Soppy quitted the
gamekeeper's cottage as he entered it, a
moving mystery.

CHAPTER VII.

A Int MARGARET sat, as was her
-*-■*- wont, in her quaintly-carved, high-backed
chair, ruminating upon the past.
Her white hands and long, taper fingers
were clasped together, and in the large,
dark room she sat as the last rays of the
setting sun threw long, lingering shadows
through the sraall-paned casement, alone
and thinking. More than one letter, received
in the morning, had monopolised her
thoughts the live-long day, and as the night
approached she still remained thinking.

And so her beloved, indulged, spoiled,
extravagant, and spendthrift brother, the
brave and gallant Edward Leferne, was on

his way back to England. Such was the
information contained in one of the letters
lying close at hand upon a table. Aunt
Margaret had read it through and through
so often that each syllable was stamped
upon her memory. Briefly and decisively,
as was his custom in settling everything
under his control, he had written to state
that, " his health being too much impaired
to continue longer on active service, he had
sold his commission, and should be on his
voyage home before she received his letter."
Adding a few particulars, as to the name
of the vessel, and when she might be expected
to arrive, he concluded his epistle
by expressing his intention of living with
his sister in strict retirement at Greatwood
Park.

The promise read almost too golden to
be true, and yet Aunt Margaret had never
been hopeless of that time when Colonel

Leferne perhaps might be ranked among
the good as well as the brave, and if she
sometimes felt weary with what appeared
so long deferred, she often prayed, when
others slept, that, if long coming, it would
come at last.

The sun had set; the long, lingering
shadows had gone, and yet Aunt Margaret
still remained in the quaintly-carved old
arm-chair thinking.

She had thought long, and would have
thought longer, but the creak of a rusty
hinge startled her from her reverie, and
as the heavy door of the apartment opened,
through the application of the natural force
of a human hand, Dame Soppy, the better
half, in a matrimonial sense, of Thomas
Soppy, and sole feminine domestic in that
wilderness of a Hall, entered with a reverential
curtsey, and approached her mistress,
with the introductory remark that " it was
a fine evening."

The figure and features of Dame Soppy,
with her " get up," may be described in a
very few words. Tall and somewhat bent
was her form, perhaps with hard work ; for
her husband, believing that nature had designed
him more for ornament than the
labours of life, left her to accomplish the
whole of her duties unassisted, together
with a large proportion of his own, particularly
when either unpleasant or irksome.
Mr. Thomas Soppy's unexceptionable and
diurnal rule was to do as little as possible,
making good the deficit with as transparent
a sham as was ever beheld.

Dame Soppy's features were round, ruddy,
and rustic, giving the decided impression
that she had enjoyed country air from the
hour of her birth, unmingled at any one
moment of her existence with city smoke.

The " get up " of Dame Soppy consisted
of a bleached mob-cap, with a limp, deep

frill or border, which flapped over her face
when she moved, and probably kept the
flies off. Across her remarkably flat
bosom a white kerchief was pinned as
smooth as if ironed in its position, and
without a visible seam or wrinkle. A spotless
apron of corresponding hue was girdled
round her waist and fell over the front of
a gown of sombre colour, which, covering
her ankles, reached her shoes, with soles of
great solidity, if sound might be depended
upon as a proof of their thickness.

Such were the figure and features of
Dame Soppy.

"Oh! dame," ejaculated Aunt Margaret,
with a slight start, as if her train of thought
had been abruptly broken, "I am glad you
are come. Be seated, for I have much to
tell you."

Obeying the order in a most becoming
and respectful manner, as Dame Soppy

thought, she perched herself upon the extreme
edge of a long-legged chair, and
looked ill at ease both in body and mind.

It will be necessary for us," continued
Aunt Margaret, in a. quiet, deliberate tone
and manner, " to commence preparations for
receiving my brother, Colonel Leferne."

Dame Soppy's hands rose with an involuntary
and almost mechanical action.

"Yes," resumed Aunt Margaret, and
there was joy in her voice, " my brother is
coming home."

Dame Soppy positively gasped with the
news, but uttered not a w T ord.

It is my wish," said Aunt Margaret, " as
I think it will please him best, that nothing
should be spoken by you, dame, to anyone
concerning his return. Reflection tells me,"
she continued, "that I must learn more
than I know at present, before one word
is circulated or known in the neighbourhood
upon the subject."

Dame Soppy promised, briefly, to be as
mute as a mole.

Let the crimson room at the end of the
long gallery' continued Aunt Margaret,
be got ready for his reception, and have
everything in it as it was on the night that
he slept there last — that night, dame, on
which I thought my heart would break."

Dame Soppy, as in duty bound, if not
from feeling, raised a corner of her white
apron to the end of her nose, and sniffed
convulsively.

After long, long years of absence," said
Aunt Margaret, as if now speaking to herself,
" I can well believe that to see his
home again, as he left it, would be far more
welcome to him than any change."

Dame Soppy gave a second detonating
sniff, finding herself at a loss for an appropriate
remark.

"The portrait of his wife, however,"

resumed Aunt Margaret, and her face became
sad on the instant with the thought,
"you will remove. It is better that he
should not see that upon his return, and yet
God help both him and her !"

Dame Soppy piously responded "Amen."
"If death," continued Aunt Margaret,
speaking in an audible whisper and as if to
herself — "if death," she repeated, "had
separated them, it would have been borne
as all such partings have been or must be —
with patient submission or without it. But
for reason to have been driven out by one
rude shock, leaving her a wife and mother,
and devoid of the knowledge of being
either, was a shaft of Fate, Julia Leferne,
too sorrowful to cause my tears to flow. If
I could only have wept over the dead, I
might been happy."

At these words Dame Soppy both felt
and looked one of the most miserable of
the human family.

"Shall I unlock the big chest," she inquired,
after a short pause, " and place the
Colonel's whips and spurs, the Queen
Mary's Cups, and all the odds and ends it
holds where he used to put them in his
dressing-room ?"

"Yes," replied her mistress; "let nothing
be omitted in so far as you can recollect,
exactly as he left it."

What shall I say to Sop, ma'am," — the
dame invariably curtailed her husband's
name of the second syllable — "when Sop
sees me making the crimson room again
what it was years ago ?"

Refer him to me for any explanation he
may require," replied Aunt Margaret. " I
know that he is somewhat inquisitive."

He can't bear anything secret to be
kept from him," rejoined Dame Soppy.
He will worry me morning, noon, and
night, ma'am, to find out what it all
means."

At this moment the heavy door of the
apartment again creaked slightly upon the
rusty hinge, and, had it been closed as
suddenly as it had been opened stealthily, it
might have flattened the end of Mr. Thomas
Soppy's nose. Forced by the pressure of
impatience, he was endeavouring to render
himself master of the situation by playing
the eavesdropper, and straining his ears in
listening to every word that had been
spoken.

"Shut the door, dame," said Aunt Margaret;
"the evening becomes cold."

Mr. Thomas Soppy probably did not hear
the mandate ; but no living man has had a
door slammed in his face by his wife who
was ever more startled, not to add frightened,
than he.

CHAPTER VIII.

Samuel Wide and his assistant,
^ Johnny Tadpole, might have been
discovered, one fine morning in the early
part of the year, in spirits strongly verging
upon ecstasy. The flow of joy, too, was
real, and had not been stimulated by
cooper," or any liquid stronger than
weak tea; for it was the hour of early
breakfast, and, therefore, beyond suspicion.
"I really" said the dairyman of Bromley
Marsh, airing himself as usual with his
reverse to the fire — " I really'" repeated he,
with emphasis, " never was so obsquatwated,
Taddy, in the whole course of my life
before. What to say, think, write, or do I
don't know."

Johnny Tadpole, with a grin fixed and
immutable, continued to stir a spoon round
an empty tea-cup with a cheerful chink, asa
sort of musical accompaniment to his
employer's address.

"Here we are," resumed he, "with as
promising a colt-foal as mortal eyes of man
could well behold of the age of six hours
old, more or less, as the case may be, not
being particular as to minutes."

It's a little beauty !" remarked Johnny
Tadpole, with a vigorous stir of the spoon.

"A pictor !" ejaculated Samuel Wideoo,
\vith enthusiasm. " But I should like to
know who the artist is that painted it ? A
great many of superior people might be
puzzled, perhaps, if asked who their fathers
were, but there's seldom any doubt," continued
he, " about the produce of a
thoroughbred mare, and yet here we are
with a colt-foal by Nobody-knows what !"

Never mind, sir, about the father," said
his assistant, swaying his head from side to
side like the pendulum of a clock. " We
know all about the mother, and that's
enough for us."

t€ But it isn't enough for the Stud Book,
Taddy," replied Samuel Wideoo. " As you
grow older, you'll grow wiser, and in due
course of time, perhaps, learn what is
enough for the Stud Book. When a man,"
continued he, touching his pigeon breast
with an egotistical movement of the. point of
a forefinger, "knows that volume from
beginning to end, like his A B C, put
him down, Taddy, as knowing something."


Johnny Tadpole stirred the teaspoon with
a kind of rapture amounting to violence.

'the day may come, Taddy," continued
Samuel Wideoo, spreading out the tails of
his coat in the form of a fan, l< when you

VOL. I. i

may look upon the Stud Book as something
more than a book of a common sort. You
may" — and the speaker looked at the ceiling
above his head by way of reference —
see, perhaps, in a future page of the Stud
Book an entry after this fashion, 'A bay
colt, sire unknown, dam Queen Mary, by
Gauntlet, by Bright Steel, by Helmet
Plume'"

As you have often said, sir," observed
his assistant, still engaged with the spoon,
the old mare is a stand-bred un !"

The best of blood, Taddy," responded
his employer, "the very best of blood.
Like the fine old family who owned her
stock for generations, a little vicious, perhaps
; but a better breed never was, and
never will be. All quality."

That's what I like," remarked Johnny
Tadpole, with profound admiration. "Give
us quality, sir, I say, and never mind a bit
o' wife."

"Well, well, Taddy," returned Samuel
Wideoo, as if graciously willing and spontaneously
ready to make full and fair allowance
for " quality." " At the same time,"
continued he, " we mustn't let quality take
hold o' the bit, and bolt. If so be quality
does, he, she, or it, as the case may be, is
sure to come to grief."

"What shall we call the little beauty?"
asked Johnny Tadpole, who appeared to
regard the subject under immediate discussion
as exhausted.

I have been a- thinking o' that," replied
Samuel Wideoo, " and for the present," continued
he, " we'll call him, what he is, the
Unknown. For all we can tell he may become
just the opposite of the name we give
him ; but that will do well enough just
now."

Johnny Tadpole did not appear favourably
impressed with the distinctive title

i 2

bestowed upon the little " beauty," but made
no critical observation in reply.

"Now," said Samuel Wideoo, taking up
the thread of his subject, " I shall put the
Unknown, Taddy, under your care and
charge from this very hour."

His assistant felt, for the first time in his
existence, the weight of a responsibility.

When he can eat a handful of bruised
oats," continued his employer, "you'll take
care that he has a full and fair allowance of
the best that can be bought with money, or
credit can procure."

Johnny Tadpole, at this precise moment,
took a mental bird's-eye view of the pecuniary
resources of the firm, and began to
speculate upon raising the wind and other
financial expedients.

"For air and exercise," resumed the
dairyman, " we shall have to turn him into
the marsh with his mother, and as he is
sure to take a spin round it now and then,

Taddy, like a meteor, when old enough to
know the use of his legs, 3^0 u must watch
and see that he doesn't go like a shot into
one o' them deep ditches ; for if he did, and
nobody near to keep his head above the
mud, he'd soon be food for rats and eels."

The responsibility became still heavier
upon the juvenile shoulders of Johnny
Tadpole.

We'll have a neat and nicely-padded
head-stall made for him," said Samuel
Wideoo, having, it seemed to his . assistant,
suddenly become reckless as to expenditure,
c{ and then we shall be able to handle and
half break him before he's mounted as a
yearling," continued he, rapidly building
one of those fragile edifices known as a
castle in the air. " I always like, Taddy,
a foal to be well handled. It saves a deal
o' trouble when he comes to be trained."

"Is the little beauty, then, sir, to be
trained for a race-ross?" inquired Johnny

Tadpole, with marked astonishment.
Samuel Wideoo's castle fell like a pack of
cards. The matter-of-fact question on the
part of his assistant scattered that visionary
erection into imperceptible fragments.
"To be trained for a race-ross?"
Who would, could, or should find the
money to rear, break, train, enter, try,
travel, mount, and bring to the post "the
bay colt, sire unknown, dam Queen Mary,
by Gauntlet, by Bright Steel, by Helmet
Plume ?"

The string of the dairyman's kite was
broken, and it fell flapping ignominiously
to the ground.

Ah, Taddy !" sighed he, drawing a hand
across his forehead thoughtfully, " I was at
Greatwood Park when I spoke of handling
the Unknown, not in Bromley Marsh. No
matter, lad. I stand corrected ; but still
we'll do our duty with the colonel's foal,
for he doesn't belong to us, and, as far as

we can, he shall be made as much of as if
lie was going to be entered for the Two
Thousand, Derby, and Leger."

11 That he shall," responded Johnny Tadpole,
with fervour, " for he's a little
beauty."

It may be," resumed Samuel Wideoo,
that the colonel will never see either the
mare again or the foal ; but I should like
him to know that what he once most wanted
he has now got. It perhaps would cheer
his spirits in foreign parts, Taddy, and make
him happy in the hope of seeing some day
his favourite old mare with a foal at her
foot."

How shall we manage to do that ?"
inquired his assistant.

A letter, I think, might reach him,"
responded Samuel Wideoo, " and you shall
write it, Taddy, in what may be called that
fine, bold hand of yours, while I'll tell ye
what to say."

The weight of Johnny Tadpole's responsibility
began to feel something like lead or
pig iron.

Get the writing materials," said the
dairyman, waving a hand with mingled
authority and pride of demeanour, " and,
between us, we'll see what can be done in
the shape of a letter to foreign parts."

Obedience being among the first points
of Johnny Tadpole's education in Bromley
Marsh, the writing materials were forthwith
produced and arranged upon the table,
and, after carefully holding the point of
the pen to the light to see that there was
no obstructive body in the shape of a hair
in it, the amanuensis announced that he
was ready to make a commencement.

Samuel Wideoo looked at the floor at his
feet, glanced furtively at the ceiling, rubbed
his large head violently both back and front,
coughed, and said nothing.

His assistant, prepared with the writing

materials before him, waited for the
expected signal to start the letter for
'foreign parts," but maintained a strict and
discreet silence.

I shall do a little bit of anti-Scriptural
presently, Taddy," said the dairyman. " I
know I shall swear — I feel I shall."

"What for, sir?" asked his assistant,
somewhat alarmed at what appeared to him
grave symptoms of disturbance in his employer's
mind.

Like the mad postman, Taddy," responded
Samuel Wideoo, "who fancied himself
a big bag of letters, and, in trying to
deliver the parcel, busted, I know I shall
follow suit presently."

Don't, sir," pleaded Johnny Tadpole —
pray don't do that. Take it easy, Mister
Wideoo — take it easy, sir."

"The words jib," rejoined the dairyman,
polishing his forehead with his dexter hand.
"I know what to say, Taddy, but can't say it."

"Shall I lead off?" considerately asked
his assistant.

Do," returned Samuel Wideoo.

Our mare," began Johnny Tadpole,
plunging at the simple fact, " having been
brought to bed "

"That won't do," interrupted the dairyman,
with vehement impatience. " Mares
are not brought to bed, Taddy."

The amanuensis was now at as great a
loss for words as the intended author of the
epistle, and both appeared at a dead lock.

I have it !" exultingly exclaimed Samuel
Wideoo, after a momentary pause. " I have
it, Taddy," repeated he. " Begin in that
bold hand of yours with a l Sir.' ' :

Capital !" ejaculated Johnny Tadpole.
I thought we should get at it at last."

Let your up-strokes be a little finer,
Taddy," said the dairyman, superintending
the penmanship with the eye of a critic,
and if the down-strokes were not quite as

thick as your thumb, I should say a marked
improvement would be seen in your writing."
Correction, like truth and tonics, may be
wholesome, but, nevertheless, bitter to the
taste. Johnny Tadpole had swallowed
something which at least brought the colour
to his cheeks. The "Sir" having been
completed to the accurate dotting of the i,
Samuel Wideoo resumed his dictation.

6 'Queen Mary — the old hussy "

"Wait a bit, sir," interrupted Johnny
Tadpole. " Hussy is a hard word to spell,
being of two syllables."

Don't put in hussy," said Samuel Wideoo.
"That wasn't intended to be put in the
letter for foreign parts."

It now seemed Johnny Tadpole's turn to
suggest an amendment.

"In telling me what to write, sir," said
he, again making a survey of the point of
his pen, " please don't put in anything
which you mean kept out."

Samuel Wideoo felt that this might be an
improvement in the art of dictation, and
determined to avail himself of it.

Queen Mary," repeated the amanuensis,
giving the tail of the y an extra flourish.
"I have done that, sir."

tl Has this morning dropped a colt-foal,"
said the dairyman, continuing his
narrative. u Sire unknown. Mother and
foal doing well."

Johnny Tadpole, sticking closely to his
task, soon came to a stop for additional
matter.

tl Those o's of yours, Taddy," observed
Samuel Wideoo, peeping over his assistant's
shoulder, " are about the size and shape of
small birds' eggs. Plainer o's, I should say,
were never written."

This appeared to Johnny Tadpole praise
of a doubtful character, and he looked,
slantingly, at his recently formed o's with
doubt, not to add disfavour.

Now give the finishing touch," said the
dairyman, "by adding, ' Your obedient
servant,' and I'll sign my own name."

u Is that all?" asked his assistant, slightly
astonished at the brevity of the letter for
foreign parts." " Is that all, sir ?" repeated
he.

Haven't we told the truth in a few
words, the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth ?" returned Samuel Wideoo. " Such
being the case," continued he, " what more
is wanted ? In writing and speaking, Taddy,
people are too apt to waste their ink
and breath. We'll set them a better
example."

The letter, being duly signed, and directed
to " Colonel Leferne, Great wood Park,
to be forwarded' was now pronounced by
Samuel Wideoo to be a perfect production of
condensed skill and genius.

CHAPTER IX.

mHOMAS SOPPY could not lay claim
-*- to the distinction of being an "Oxford
man," but, as is already known, he had
been at Oxford, and was not a little proud
of the opportunity of referring to what he
called his " University career."

It was scarcely believed generally that
Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — devoted
his leisure to the study of algebraical language,
or that he learned much of mo-nominal,
binomial, binomial, or polygon
and yet, when in a passion — particularly
with Dame Soppy — he was sure
to give vent to his ill-humour in copious
showers of mathematical anathemas, levelling
annoyance of the most confusing and

puzzling description upon the heads of the
dumb-founded objects of his wrath.

Now, with some reluctance on the part
of the historian, it must be recorded that
Thomas Soppy did not easily forget an
injury either designed or inflicted upon himself.
It will readily be understood, therefore,
that when the end of his nose was
nearly caught upon the door being slammed
in his face, the imminent danger and risk
did not pass quickly from his memory. Mr.
Soppy thought gravely upon what the effect-might
have been on the final shape of his
organ of smell, and felt at enmity with his
wife, of anything but a temporary nature.

The labour of the day was done. Mr.
Soppy, it is true, had not clone much, but
was, as usual, taking his ease in the evening
by sitting in the still-room in a stuffed back
chair, with elbows to match, and resting
his legs and feet by stretching them at an
angle which seemed most free from unequal

pressure. Physically at ease, however,
as Mr. Soppy unquestionably was, a
corresponding sensibility did not apply 7 to
his mental condition. Something was going
on in the Hall which he could not understand.
He had listened, peered, peeped,
and exerted his best powers to become
master of the situation, but obstacles of one
kind or other had hitherto frustrated the
scheme. He had examined and cross-examined
Dame Soppy until his voice became
hoarse and husky; but adopting the
privilege of her sex, either to be voluble,
or silent even to stubbornness, she selected
the latter course, and, as day succeeded days,
he could not move the length of a barleycorn
towards dissipating the haze which
surrounded the "something going on in
the Hall."

Failure, however, was a word not to be
found in Mr. Thomas Soppy's lexicon. There

was something to find out, and out it should
be found, if repeated attacks were sufficient
to carry the assault upon the barricade to
his knowledge.

Dame Soppy was his companion in the
still-room, and, though the labour of the day
was done, she as usual was not taking her
ease. Dame Soppy was at work in deftly
ironing a starched and bleached cravat,
which set off to much advantage the personal
appearance of her lord and master,
on state and particular occasions.

Mr. Soppy had, in the attitude described,
maintained a moody silence for some minutes,
which might be regarded, in a general point
of view, as the stormy petrel or harbinger
of the coming tempest. The clouds lowered
upon his brow, the breeze came, and then
the gale.

"Deinmit!" exclaimed he, without any
introduction, " you're an old quadratic equator.

I. K

tion. And where you can expect to go to "
here he shook his head more in anger
than in sorrow — " 1 don't know."

He paused, but only to take breath.

11 What was your solemn vow registered
at the altar some forty years ago, you
ancient axiom ?" he continued, with forcible
gesticulation. " Did you not swear, in sickness
and in health, for better or for worse,
to Obey ? You mouldy-headed harmonic
progression !"

Mr. Thomas Soppy was warming on his
subject.

"A wife," he resumed, " may be a multiplication,
and often is so, but she has no
right to be a division. Apart or divided
from her husband, she's a distrusting variation
and a beastly proportion !"

Dame Soppy continued to iron the white
cravat in silence, and appeared so far
shielded by the armour of indifference that

the battery of abuse opened upon her had
no palpable effect.

A married couple," resumed Mr. Soppy,
"as, I believe, Moses, in the early history
of the world, declared to the Publicans,
must be one body and one mind, having
and keeping no secrets from each other,
and joyfully sharing their pleasure, pain,
and peace. That's what Moses laid down
as the law for husband and wife to follow,
or I'm greatly mistaken. Do you hear,
you common multiple ?"

Dame Soppy heard beyond the shadow
of a doubt, for the expounder of the Mosaic
edict raised his voice to a high pitch, and
she was anything but deaf; but she gave no
reply, and continued her task of ironing the
white cravat.

My feelings are naturally hammered, if
I may be permitted to use the term," continued
Mr. Soppy, " to find you in my lady's

k2

confidence, and myself out of it. What's
going on between ye, I confess not being
able to discover, although I think I was
near being as wise as either w r hen my nose
escaped, with a close shave, from being
seriously damaged by an act of violence at
your wretched hands. You stony-hearted
logarithm !"

If his ears did not receive a false impression,
Dame Soppy had some difficulty in
suppressing a giggle which momentarily disturbed
her round, red, and rustic cheeks.

I hope, and may pray presently," said
Mr. Soppy, resuming his subject with unflagging
perseverance, " that you're not adding
to your list of numerous sins and transgressions
by laughing at your own iniquity,
which might have blemished your husband's
nose to the end of his days. You duplicate
ratio of a subtriplicate !"

At length Mrs. Soppy spoke, both to the
point and purpose.

Hard words, Thomas," said she, still
ironing the cravat, ff break no bones, and
oftener make the speaker smart than those
to whom they are spoken."

Beholding the imperturbable coolness of
his wife, and feeling the generated heat in
himself, Mr. Soppy entertained a vivid idea
that the illustration of this sentiment was
not far removed from the still-room in
which he then sat. He was not, however,
going to abandon the position he had taken
up.

It's all very well," rejoined he, " to
fling an angry man's words back into his
teeth, and preach about their breaking no
bones ; but when the wife of his buzzard
turns round, so to speak, and locks up her
secrets from him, just as she does the door
of the crimson-room when she leaves it,
and pockets the key, it's enough to make
that man howl, if not bellow. You coefficient
of a fraction !"

I had my orders from m}^ mistress,"
replied Dame Soppy, " and have only obeyed
them."

That may be all very well," rejoined
Mr. Soppy, " and I'm not going to stand in
the way of your doing your duty to my
lady ; but what I want to know is whether
you don't owe a duty to me also. You
permutation of a surd !"

"That's not denied, Thomas," returned
the dame, in an unruffled tone and manner.

"Then divulge," added Mr. Soppy, in a
voice almost sepulchral — " I say divulge !"

"Hark!" exclaimed Dame Soppy, "I
think I hear the sound of wheels."

•'And what if you do?" snapped Mr.
Soppy. " You inverted quotient I"

They have stopped at the lodge gate,"
she continued, almost breathless with excitement
as she listened.

Eh ?" ejaculated he, for rare, indeed,
was the occurrence for the old, gloomy gate

at the untenanted lodge to be approached
by wheels.

I know," gasped Dame Soppy, and the
still-room ran round, and everything in it,
as she spoke. " I know who it is, Thomas,"
and, dropping the cravat on the floor, she
was about hurrying past him without
further explanation, when, catching her
adroitly by a handful of garments in the
extreme rear, he dragged her backwards,
and held her fast.

u Who is it ?" thundered Mr. Soppy, in a
state of mind bordering on lunacy. " You
subtracted vinculum !"

Let me go," cried Dame Soppy, struggling
to obtain her freedom.

'never," replied he, and his grasp, if
possible, was firmer than before. " I will
never let you go until I'm told "

Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — was
mistaken.

Before being informed who it was that

now came towards the Hall with a rattle
along the sweeping drive, in a travelling
chariot and four post-horses, he dropped
the bunch of garments by which he checked
the egress of his wife as if they had become
much too hot to hold pleasantly.

Aunt Margaret's voice, in hurried accents,
was heard without, and, a moment afterwards,
he was staggered and rendered
dizzy with a peremptory order to attend the
arrival of his master — Colonel Leferne.

CHAPTER X.

rriHE lilac blossoms had faded, but the
-*- laburnums were radiant in their golden
hue, albeit winter still lingered on the leaf
and flower, as if loth to take his cold, farewell
kiss. The rays of the sun were pale
and sickly, and through copse and grove,
and over hill, heath, and moor, a rough,
burly wind swept in fitful gusts, awakening
things of the glad summer time from their
long, death-like sleep.

It was scarcely weather for an invalid to
be out, and yet one might be seen leaning
feebly on the arm of Aunt Margaret as the
two stood opposite the spot where the
much abused daffodils of Sir Harold Leferne
flourished so luxuriantly. The bright,

yellow flowers were withered and dead ;
but they nodded their heads still defiantly
in the breeze, and seemed to chant, " Worse
for wear we may be ; but here we are
again as we have been, and shall be again
and again."

u I gave Julia some of those flowers on
the day ending the year in which we were
married," faintly observed Aunt Margaret's
companion, pointing to the bed of daffodils
with the end of a cane.

c I recollect, Edward," quietly returned
Aunt Margaret.

We never had a quarrel before," said
her brother, for it was Colonel Leferne who
spoke, " and yet scarcely had I given them
to her when it proved to be the first and the
last."

Too true," replied his sister, with a
stifled sob. "Too true."

You tell me that now, as from that
moment," he rejoined, " she remains the

same, conscious of no one and of nothing."
Her mind and memory," added Aunt
Margaret, " are a perfect blank, devoid of
the slightest power to comprehend a single
impression of the past or the present."

Without uttering another word, Colonel
Leferne drew a heavy, military cloak more
closely around him, and, with a shudder
which might have been the effect of ague,
placed an arm within one of his sister's and
turned from where the daffodils were once
more about taking their departure from
above ground towards the Hall in Great-wood
Park.

Tall and erect, impaired in constitution ashe
was, Colonel Leferne looked the soldier
from head to heel. His emaciated features,
as seen beneath a foraging cap, ornamented
with a band of travel-worn gold lace, were
darkly bronzed from exposure to the sun ;
but so strong was the resemblance to the
family portraits in the old picture-gallery

that he might have been limned for almost
any one of them. The knitted and strongly-marked
brow, the full and flashing hazel
eyes, were those of generations of the
Lefernes long since passed away, and the
thin, compressed lips, on the upper one of
which grew a heavy, dark moustache, curling
downwards at the angles of the mouth,
bore the traditional expression of resolutions
that once fixed were seldom known
to change.

The hollow cheek and languid gait as he
slowly walked along, resting for support on
the arm of his sister, revealed at a glance
the present condition of the Colonel's
health. His strength of thew and sinew,
and bold, iron nerve were gone, but the
ruin of manhood that remained was not
without attraction.

"I have come home," said he, in a tone
of peevish complaint, " a sorry wreck,
Margaret, a sorry wreck, and shall be, as

heretofore, a source of trouble and care to

you."

No, no, Edward," replied his sister,
looking upwards into his face with an affectionate
smile as she spoke, and pressing the
hand resting on her arm within one of hers,
you were never that to me. I was ever
anxious for your welfare, nothing more."

Welfare ?" he repeated, with a deeply-drawn
sigh. " If thought of by you, Margaret,
I fear that I never knew what my
welfare was, and, if I think of it now " — his
voice dropped, and the words which died
upon his lips were — " it is too late."

Softly, however, as they were spoken, she
heard them, and quickly rejoined,

"No, no, Edward; a good purpose is
never too late. The past, be it what it
may, is beyond control, and they who livelong
enough to turn back the pages of life's
sad history, cannot but regret time misspent,
opportunities lost, and the abundant harvest

garnered from sin, human passions, and
errors which mastered their possessors.
But the penitent's claim, Edward, to be
forgiven is never too late."

A part of your argument I know to be
true," returned her brother. "We are,
indeed, held responsible for what appears
to me we cannot prevent. If human passions
are innate and act as causes to effects,
how is it that we can be free to perform the
parts of good and evil ?"

In so far as what we do or leave undone,"
added Margaret Leferne, in a tone
which conveyed a purpose of deep meaning,
we cannot but feel that we are the arbitrators
of our own fate. Specious arguments
may be used and sophistical excuses made
for deeds of sin, guilt, and crime, bringing
their bitter fruits of remorse and self-reproach,
but each and all endowed with
reason know full well that, finite as his

power may be, man is the controller of his
own actions."

But what do you allege, Margaret,"
said the colonel, "as to circumstances
surrounding us, which we can no more
direct or turn aside than the shattered tempest
? We are the very slaves and creatures
of circumstances."

For that which we cannot govern," responded
his sister, and her voice faltered
with emotion as she spoke, " rest satisfied
that divine mercy and justice hereafter will
visit with the full measure of forgiveness.
For what we have to answer is that which
we can control, not that which controls us."

It may be so," responded he, thoughtfully.
" We will not continue the subject
further now ; it wearies me."

At this juncture the figure, form, and
substance of Mr. Soppy appeared in the
perspective as it loomed between two rows

of lofty trees forming the avenue in which
the Colonel and his sister were sauntering
the morning after his arrival. Mr, Soppy
Mr. Thomas Soppy — had met with a
shock to his nervous system, in the sudden
and, to him, unexpected arrival of his master,
that he was not likely to get over in a
way commonly known as a hurry. To say
that he was " stunned " would be to assert
a condition of mind not strictly in accordance
with the historical fact, but that the
advent of the Colonel expelled temporarily
every vestige of his particularly commonsense
there cannot be the ghost of the shadow
of a doubt. As he subsequently avowed,
when his gift of speech returned, he did
not know the relative position of his head
and his heels, and that it occupied sometime
to collect his scattered senses in order
to decide how he should approach — whether
on his head or his heels — the presence of

his master. The mind, however, having
regained a healthy and proper bias, Mr.
Soppy found himself equal to the emergency,
and conducted himself with habitual
politeness and unlimited discretion.

The buff waistcoat formed a conspicuous
object as Mr. Soppy loomed in the distance,
and, from the decided curve brought out
strongly in the light, seemed to take precedence
of the wearer. Over and above the
ample folds of the stiffly-starched cravat
Mr. Soppy's double chin rolled in repeated
layers or stratum, and from the highly-polished
shoes-on his feet to the elaborately-arranged
few and far distant hairs on his
cerebrum and cerebellum, it was proclaimed
and emphatically announced to the world
at large that it was high festival at Great-wood
Park.

In his hand, or, to be more accurate, in
the two hands of which he was sole pro-vol.

i. ' l

praetor, Mr. Soppy bore a large and massive
silver salver, in the centre of which was a
small letter, sealed with a wafer and stamped
with a thimble. The natural indenture
of Mr. Soppy 's nose became intensified ashe
placed the plebeian-looking epistle on
the surface of the silver salver, and, holding
it as far off as possible from contact with
his olfactory organ, he took his way towards
Colonel Leferne, to whom the letter was legibly
addressed, with the o's as large as, and
of a corresponding shape to, small birds' eggs.

With a step forward, not dissimilar to a
skip, and a bend of the most perfect refinement,
Mr. Soppy presented the silver salver
to the colonel, and then with a corresponding
step, otherwise skip, backwards, stood
erect, with his toes turned out in the first
position, to await the issue of what might
follow.

A pleasing announcement," said the

colonel, smiling, as he offered the letter to
his sister. "You recollect Queen Mary''
continued he, addressing Mr. Soppy.

Mr. Soppy ventured to state, without any
reservation whatever, that the first thought
he had upon waking every morning of his
life was Queen Mary, and the last, probably,
he should be permitted to entertain in
this sublunary world, previous to becoming
an angel, was Queen Mary.

A grand and noble animal !-" exclaimed
the colonel, his eyes lighting up with enthusiasm,
and the colour crimsoning through
his bronzed cheeks. " Few men ever
possessed her equal," continued he. "And
her superior over all distances, Soppy, you
and I never saw."

Mr. Soppy would have regarded it as an
optical delusion had a different result been
seen even by himself in broad, open daylight,
and vouched for as a solemn, income



convertible fact by the bench of bishops.

Thomas Soppy, be it remembered, was a
natural-born courtier, and thoroughly knew
the concomitant parts of the oil of flattery.

And your favourite has a foal!" exclaimed
Aunt Margaret. " "We will regard
tins welcome information from your old
servant, Samuel Wideoo, as an omen of good
fortune."

To good fortune, Margaret," replied he,
I fear, like many of her favourites and
spoiled children, I have been anything but
grateful. We will, however, as you suggest,
look upon it as another of her gifts,
and at an opportune moment."

'aubrey will be delighted to learn this
piece of intelligence," remarked Aunt Margaret
; " for, although he never saw Queen
Mary, he knows, I believe, as much as
anyone of her triumphs and history."

"My son, I suppose," languidly observed
the colonel, "inherits the tastes of his father."

Aunt Margaret's lower jaw dropped slightly
at these words, and a close observer
might have seen that her pale face grew
paler than before they were spoken.

He is, perhaps, too young for me to
express an opinion concerning his distinctive
qualities," she replied. " But you will
soon have the opportunity of judging for
yourself."

I shall be more than pleased to possess
it," returned the colonel, with a slight yawn.
I think that you said the term ends today."


"Yes," added Aunt Margaret, "we shall
have our dear boy home from Eton tomorrow.
But 1 should have sued for leave
of immediate absence on your return had it
not so happened."

"It would have been more considerate
on your part, Margaret," rejoined Colonel
Leferne, again yawning, " than I could have
wished. The interval since we met is so

very long that an insignificant addition to
the time could make no sensible difference
to either."

4; Are you then, Edward, not anxious to
clasp your son to your heart?" inquired his
sister, with something like reproach in her
voice and manner.

cc Inexpressibly so," responded the colonel,
otherwise, I fear, you would place me in
the category of unnatural parents, or domestic
outlaws of some ostracised kind or other."

Aunt Margaret said nothing in reply, but
kept her eyes fixed steadfastly on the ground.

I must answer this note," continued he,
addressing Mr. Soppy. "Let pen, ink, and
paper be placed in the library."

Mr. Soppy 's nose, having slowly approached
the ground on which he stood, once
more ascended to an upper current of the
atmosphere, and, with majestic deportment,
he turned in the opposite direction of his
coming.

I hope to find my son," observed the
colonel, with a short pause, after Mr. Soppy's
departure, " a presentable effect of your
kindness, Margaret, the labour of my college
chum, the vicar, in his elementary
tuition, and the discipline and association of
Eton. In short," continued he, speaking ina
slow, deliberate manner, "if I am to
clasp my son to my heart, I must first feel
convinced, from an examination of my own,
that he is, in every particular, a young gentleman
worthy of his name."

"Aubrey will be an ornament to his
family," returned Aunt Margaret, with pride
at the thought of her handsome nephew.

If so," added her brother, " we shall
get on remarkably well together. I admire
ornaments of society, and, should my son
prove himself deserving of the claim of
being one, I shall be considerate to his
weaknesses, and perhaps blind to his faults."

41 Reserve your judgment," said Aunt

Margaret. "I do not fear, however, but
that it will be in his favour."

Let me be trustful in your zeal," responded
the colonel. " For whatever may
have been the indiscretions of the Lefernes,
Margaret, for many past generations no
question has ever been raised concerning
their refinement. My successor, therefore,
not to be a gentleman, measured by a high
standard of merit, would be sickening in the
extreme. "

Have you thought or determined what
his future career is to be ?" asked his sister.

"After Eton," replied the colonel, "Oxford.
Then, I think, a commission in the
Guards. What do you think of a commission
in the Guards ?"

Not knowing, perhaps, what to say at the
moment, Aunt Margaret coughed slightly.

You would delicately remind me, by
that significant cough, Margaret," resumed

the colonel, " that money will be required
to practically carry out this plan, and that
it is, as it has been for a long period, a rare
medium of power in my possession."

"I will confess, Edward," she replied,
with a smile, " that a thought concerning the
means at your command flitted through rav
brain."

And a sensible thought, too," rejoined
the colonel, approvingly. u No one could
possibly quarrel with a thought like that.
I must, however," continued he, " have an
interview with Early, and see what can be
done further in raising the supplies to the
level of expenditure."

Aunt Margaret made no observation in
reply, but walked on in silence by the side
of her brother.

CHAPTER XL

JOHNNY TADPOLE had been awake

^ long before the earliest suburban cock,
within a wide circle of Bromley Marsh, had
thrown his pugnacious challenge on the
breeze ; for his eyelids had not been
closed, or his senses steeped in forgetfulness,
throughout the livelong, weary night.

The weight of another responsibility was
rather too much for Johnny's nerves.

Now, Taddy," exclaimed Samuel Wideoo,
popping his head into the cupboard, which
might be supposed, by a flight of the
imagination, to be the bed-room of his
assistant, — " now, Taddy," repeated he, " it's
time to be stirring, lad. Be alive."

With the agility of something that was

not only alive, but lively, Johnny Tadpole
quitted the very small bed on which he had
enjoyed many a sound and refreshing sleep,
forgetful of the world and its hard knocks,
and by the world, with its ready clenched
and double fists, forgotten. With the cheerful
response of, "All right, Mister Wideoo,"
for Johnny was ever respectful to his
patron — he at once began, and soon completed,
the general outline and minute
details of his toilet.

It necessarily occupied but a short space
of time to plunge his head and face into a
basin of fresh, cold spring water, and after
wiping them with a discarded article of
linen which bore a striking resemblance to
a shirt — particularly a blue checked cotton
shirt — he ran his fingers upwards through
his close-set curls, and there he stood washed
and combed. Thrusting his legs — rather
spare in the calves — into a pair of clean
canvas trousers, pulling a blue cotton shirt,

fresh from the tub, over his shoulders,
and tugging a snow white linen jacket,
rather long in the waist, over the shirt,
there stood Johnny Tadpole dressed all in
his best, minus his shoes and stockings.
These, however, were soon added, and in
about the time that it occupies to boil an egg
lightly, from the moment of receiving the
summons "to be alive," there he stood
ready dressed to do his duty as previously
arranged with Samuel Wideoo. It was a
duty, however, amounting almost to the
solemn, and the weight of the responsibility
about to be undertaken felt overwhelming
in the extreme.

Turning his heel upon the cupboard, in
which he had slept so long and well,
Johnny Tadpole drew a deep, long-drawn
sigh, and hastened towards the stable where
Queen Mary and the Unknown had just
risen, like himself, from the soothing
slumber of the night. The old grey mare

saluted the appearance of Johnny with a
slight, musical, inward neigh, and the Unknown,
after stretching his slender limbs,
put forth his nose to be rubbed, as was the
wont of his attendant, by way of a morning
greeting.

"There's no time for play just now," said
Johnny, in a tone and manner clearly
signifying that his thoughts were far more
occupied with business than pleasure, " so
keep your nose to yourself. I've got something
more to do than rub your nose this
morning, I can tell ye."

The Unknown might have been disappointed
at this stern announcement; but
whatever his feelings were he made no outward
or visible sign of a mortified spirit,
and appeared contented with the passive
permission of his mother to commence his
breakfast in the primitive manner of a
suckling.

With a ready and liberal hand Johnny

proceeded to supply Queen Mary with her
matin meal, the measure of good, sound
oats being not only full but running over,
mixed as it was with some fragrant clover
cut into chaff. A preliminary draught of
pure water from a pail clean enough for
the milk to be carried to the most fastidious
of customers, and the old grey mare looked
as if all her wants for the time being, at
least, had been promptly and fully satisfied,
albeit in a manner depicting an earnest
desire on the part of Johnny Tadpole to
save the moments as they flew at all cost
and any hazard.

Has she got her feed ?" inquired Samuel
Wideoo, making a hurried appearance at the
stable-door, and as if time was capital too
precious to be lost.

Yes," replied Johnny, with a corresponding
briskness of deportment, " the old
dear's got her beak among the sugar."

O DC

Then come and put yours, Taddy,

among the fried eggs and bacon." rejoined
Samuel Wideoo ; " for they're hot and juicy
now, and there's not a minute to lose."

Following closely the footsteps of his
employer into the room of small dimensions,
which constituted the kitchen, and
parlour, and all, Johnny found what maybe
fitly described as a superb and luxurious
breakfast awaiting him. There was a loaf
of liberal dimensions and good household
quality, which carried the invitation upon
its surface to " Cut, and come again." There
was half a pound of butter, clearly not salt
but fresh, and of the highest marketable
value ; there was a black teapot, containing
tea in the strictest sense of the term, and
not water nicknamed tea ; there was a
frying-pan, containing eggs and bacon, still
fizzing and smoking, and placed in the
centre of the table to be within easy reach
open to objection perhaps as an ornament,
but, viewed in a utilitarian point of

view, far above criticism. There was unadulterated
milk in all its natural, pristine
simplicity ; there was mustard in a white,
dumpy-looking pot, free from stain or blemish,
and too pure to eat much of at once
without affecting the eyes. All these delicacies
were spread, collectively and respectively,
before the eyes of Johnny Tadpole,
and scarcely had he beheld them when he
was heartily bid to test their quality and
"peg away."

"This morning, Taddy," remarked Samuel
Wideoo, as intelligibly as a mouth fully
charged with eggs and bacon would permit ;
for the breakfast was a concern of joint
interest in apparently equal divisions, " is
what may be called " — the parts of speech
being behind the bacon — "your start in
life. Soak the crumb in the gravy, Taddy.
It eats nicer than when it's dry."

The instructions being complied with, the
dairyman resumed.

"The result of every great race is in the
scales, Taddy, and good men sometimes,
like good 'losses, are handicapped too heavy
to struggle to the front in that great field
called the world, while some of both allotted
to carry nothing heavier than a pair of
boots, Taddy, and worth about the price of
a lucifer match, rush from start to finish,
and bag the stakes which their masters
could have won in a walk, only the unfair
weight stopped them."

Johnny Tadpole began to suspect that he
was subjected to a crusher.

"Now sending you," continued Samuel
Wideoo, ''to Greatwood Park, in Wiltshire,
with Queen Mary and her foal, Taddy," —
the parts of speech being still behind a fresh
edition of eggs and bacon — "is handicapping
you, I'm free to confess, at an unfair
weight. Butter that crust, it will go down
easier."

vol. I. M

The crust being on the way it should 20,
Samuel Wideoo again took up the thread of
his discourse.

But what was to be done ? The Colonel
writes and says in his old style, c Send
the mare and foal as soon as they can
travel,' but not one word does he say how
they are to go ; and, what's worse, Taddy,"
here the dairyman dropped his voice
and glanced suspiciously over his right
shoulder, as if expecting to see a detective
behind his chair — " he doesn't send a single
quid to pay ex's with. Now," continued
he, in the same mysterious tone and manner,
" it's all very well to tell a sellar to doa
thing, and quite another to show him the
way, or help him how to do it. Like a
good many more people I've met with in
my travels, the Colonel was always ready
to order, but how he was to be obeyed you
must find out. Have another cut at that

loaf, Taddy, and don't spare the last egg on
account of its being the last''

If the assistant had entertained any latent
scruple upon the point of its being the last
egg, it vanished most completely with encouragement.


Here's a case before us," continued
Samuel Wideoo a the parts of speech becoming
much clearer from the eggs and bacon
ceasing to operate as an impediment. "The
Colonel orders Queen Mary and the Unknown
to go over one hundred miles, and
there, as usual, he stops short, and no more
at present from yours to command, Edward
Leferne."

Johnny Tadpole entertained a faint idea
that this was intended as a flash of caustic
wit, and, perceiving that he was correct in
his conclusion from a furtive glance at his
patron's countenance, he broke into a hearty
laugh, which, given with great dramatic

m2

effect, flattered the dairyman immensely,
and he almost thought that he must have
said something irresistibly funny, and rather
beyond his own comprehension.

The boisterous laugh, sinking to a few
inward chuckles, and at length, to the silent
expression of a grin which stretched back
the angles of Johnny's mouth almost to his
ears, Samuel Wideoo once more returned to
the subject of interest.

Doing the best, as I may say, Taddy, I
have ever done, as far as I knew how,
under difficulties, I made up my mind to
send you by easy stages, young as you are,
with the old grey mare and her foal to
Greatwood Park. The milk business," continued
he, " mustn't stand still, and, therefore,
I can't go further than a few miles
t'other side of London ; but I'll see ye well
on the road, and if you do just as I've told
ye, you'll get to your journey's end like a
cripple on a crutch, straight but slow."

The assistant was ready with another
burst of merriment, but, perceiving no sign
of approval, reserved it for another occasion.

Above all things," said the dairyman,
with great gravity, u don't forget j^he setting
sun. You are going due west, Tadcly, recollect,
from Bromley Marsh, and the consequence
is that the setting sun should shine
on your nose. Get it the other way, and
you're clean out o' the course, and the
wrong side o' the post. Put the setting
sun behind and you're done."

Johnny Tadpole made a religious promise
to keep the setting sun in front, if within
the power of human legs to control the
position of that luminary.

Very good," resumed Samuel Wideoo.
"Then, having settled the setting sun, we'll
just touch upon two or three trifling other
matters. You're sure to meet or overtake
on the way some ver 7 curious people, who
will be sure to want to know where you

came from, where you are going to, what's
your business, what's your name, who's your
mother, and so forth. Now, above all
things, except the setting sun, don't be
pumped. Keep a silent tongue, Taddy, and
then along other kinds of roads besides the
one you are going this morning you may bethought
wise, keeping dark any proof of
your being otherwise."

The assistant registered a vow to " be
mum."

"Ah!" ejaculated the dairyman, "what
a glorious thing it would be for people to
be mum instead of giving tongue ; there
wouldn't be half the mischief in this world,
Taddy, if people would only be mum.
Finish the loaf, and then we'll start."

Johnny Tadpole, however, declared, with
much emphasis, that the remains of the loaf
must remain where they were. The last
egg had topped him up.

"In that case," continued Samuel Wideoo,
"we'll not lose another minute, for to get
the Unknown through the streets before
they're crowded should be our first thought.
Shoulder your usage."

Yielding a ready compliance with the
mandate, the assistant placed a bundle tied
in a blue and white spotted handkerchief,
and about the size of a prize-grown turnip,
upon the end of a stick, and, shouldering it
with ease from probably its lightness,
announced that he was ready to begin his
start in life.

"A second or two more," rejoined the
dairyman, "and I shall be. To travel over
a hundred miles with a mare and foal, cut
down the ex's as close as you can, a lad
can't do it with nothing. It's not possible,
Taddy, and therefore you shan't try. Now,
as the Colonel has left me to find out as
usual how to obey his orders, I know of no

better means than to find the money to
carry them out."

From a pocket containing the available
balance of cash in hand, Samuel Wideoo
produced just enough silver to represent
one pound sterling. After counting it with
some deliberation upon the table to see. ashe
said, " all was right," he swept the
several pieces forming the whole into the
broad palm of one of his hands, and presented
them to his assistant, observing, ashe
did so,

It's all I've got, Taddy, so more you
can't have. Make the most of it."

Hadn't you better keep some, sir, just
to go on with ?" was Johnny Tadpole's considerate
interrogatory.

"It's not twopence a mile, Taddy," responded
the dairyman, " taking the journey
through, and looking at the pikes, which
can't be bilked ; you'll have all your work

cut out to reach the Hall with the last
farthing of my ready money. Take it with
my blessing, if you think it will make it last
a little longer."

All preliminaries being settled, there was
nothing to be done before leading out
Queen Mary and the Unknown for the
commencement of the journey to Great-wood
Park.

CHAPTER XII.

"Emerging from the silence and soli*
-*-^ tide of Bromley Marsh, and turning
to that point of the compass which indicated
where the setting sun would be when the
day waned, Samuel Wideoo led the old grey
mare, followed by Johnny Tadpole and the
Unknown in Indian file. Care and even
taste had been displayed in the equipments
of Queen Mary and her foal, for the front
of the snaffle bridle in which the former
"looked through," to apply a term of the
stable, was mounted with the Leferne
colours, purple and orange, in silk of no
mean quality, and the headstall and 
of the Unknown were new, soft,
and elastic, and bore the effects generally

of a design quite regardless of expense, and
as if money was of no object in the outlay.

Knowing, perhaps, that she again carried
the Leferne colours, the old grey mare
bore her head aloft, and walked with a
proud and dainty tread, closely followed by
her foal, as much as to say, "Look at me if
you want to know what blood is."

Bow, however, was not awake, and beyond
long rows of hay and straw carts
creeping towards Whitechapel, with their
drivers too heavy and lethargic with sleep and
beer to give even a passing glance of admiration,
there was nothing and no one, as
yet, to gratify the vanity of Queen Mary in
her pilgrimage towards the west.

Walking at a stout pace, Samuel Wideoo
soon made the old grey mare's newly-shod
feet clatter upon the London stones, and
taking a straight line through the almost
deserted wilderness of streets, disturbed
only the sparrows seeking an early breakfast.

Some wide, some narrow, some straight,
some turning, some serpentine, rough and
smooth, up-hill, down-hill, now with a bend
to the left, and then with a twist to the
right — streets, a world of streets.

Johnny Tadpole was no novice to many
parts of this world, and a slight shudder ran
through his still small, attenuated frame, to
think how much he suffered at the hands of
Government — represented by the zealous
policeman on the beat — when a denizen of
them. It was not so long ago but that he
well remembered the stern, unrelenting
command to " move on," backed with force.

The way was long and monotonous, between
gloomy rows and blocks of bricks
and mortar ; but at length a change became
visible in the appearance of the streets.
Trees, begrimed and blackened with smoke,
began to cast shade and shadow at the end
of long, narrow gardens, and these confined
spaces appeared left by architectural design

for air and light and play-grounds for the
cats. Then followed a sprinkling of pretentious
villas, which by degrees stood
wider apart as the distance lengthened, and
then came the broad, fair, open country,
with its bright green fields stretching faraway
in endless variety of upland and lowland,
hill and dale, mingled with wood and
coppice, and sparkling stream — far, faraway.


Removing his hat, Samuel Wideoo wiped
the perspiration from his brow with the
palm of a hand, and, dropping himself upon
a sloping bank by the roadside, took a long,
deep breath, as a temporary relief to his
pedestrian exertions.

There, Taddy," said he, " we've put
some miles between here and Bromley
Marsh without a check. Sit down and rest
yourself awhile."

Johnny Tadpole was quite disposed to
follow the example set to recruit his

strength, for he began to feel weary and
depressed in spirits, from the knowledge
that, being " well on the road," the time
had almost arrived for the separation between
the dairyman and himself.

Upon the halt taking place Queen Mary
began to crop the herbage on the bank hard
by, and the Unknown to refresh himself
in the ordinary manner of a suckling. With
an eye to the wants of the immediate future,
Samuel Wideoo had made a sort of commissariat
department of one of his capacious
coat-pockets previous to leaving Bromley
Marsh, and no sooner was he seated than
he produced a small stone bottle containing
cooper," and a supply of bread and Cheshire
cheese, formed on a liberal scale for an
early luncheon.

"Now, Taddy," said the dairyman, uncorking
the cooper, "take a pull at that,
and don't stop while your wind holds out.
You're tired, lad, and so am I."

Doing as he was told with great strictness,
the assistant turned somewhat purple in the
face before taking the stone bottle from his
lips, and failed to make his thanks audible,
in returning it to the extended hands of
Samuel Wideoo, beyond a spasmodic gasp.

The esculents being divided into fair and
convenient proportions were soon being
disposed of with much zest and little
ceremony, and both seemed as if governed
by the same resolve to appear as happy as
possible while scarcely concealing the effort
which was necessary for acting a decided
sham.

"How do you feel now, Taddy ?" said
the dairyman, trying to swallow a hard
lump in his throat more indigestible than
Cheshire cheese, for it rose from the
thought of saying "good-bye" to his little
companion by his side. " How do you feel
now, Taddy?" repeated he, giving his
assistant a sly poke in the ribs with a

straightened finger, intended for a display
of fun, but culminating in failure as decided
as was ever witnessed.

"Feel?" echoed Johnny Tadpole, dreamingly,
and then, perhaps, thinking of the
last egg which "topped him up," or not-knowing
what to say by way of improvement
upon the literal fact, added, " I feel,
sir, full."

In that case," rejoined Samuel Wideoo,
pocket the remains of the bread and
cheese to fill up gaps when gaps happen. I
suppose, however," continued he, " that one
more pull at the cooper is not impossible ?"

Accepting the proffered stone bottle
Johnny Tadpole raised it to his lips, and,
fixing his eyes with a melancholy expression
upon those of his patron, whimpered,
"Here's, sir, to our next merry meeting."

The sentiment almost overcame the feelings
of the tender-hearted dairyman, but he

managed to restrain them so as to prevent a
gush of sorrow which otherwise might have
rendered him extremely ridiculous in the
eyes of a stranger had one been present.

Nicely expressed, Taddy," added Samuel
Wideoo, with a dismal air of cheerfulness,
11 and nothing more to the purpose could
have been spoken. Here's luck !" and
immediately followed the entombment of
the last drain of the cooper.

A pause of some duration and much awkwardness
ensued. Instinctively Johnny Tadpole
felt that at this particular spot his friend,
the dairyman, and himself were doomed to
part, and no definite time either had or
could be fixed for their meeting again.
That, probably, would depend upon the
caprice or arbitrary will of the colonel, and,
in the absence of knowing what his wishes
or desire might be with regard to Queen
Mary and the Unknown, the future was

VOL. i. N

completely dark and hidden upon this
interesting point, although occupying the
silent thoughts of both.

You are well on the road, Taddy,"
observed Samuel Wideoo, with a half-smothered
sigh, "and the milk business
mustn't stand still."

Don't say any more, sir," whimpered
the assistant, screwing a couple of knuckles
into the corners of his eyes. "In course
the milk business mustn't stand still," and
then his tears began to fall so copiously
that the dairyman mingled in his reflections,
as usual, water with the secrets of the
trade.

Without a syllable accompanying the
action Samuel Wideoo significantly placed
the end of the rein of Queen Mary's snaffle
bridle into one of Johnny Tadpole's hands,
and taking off the Unknown's leading rein
he carefully rolled it up and, with a piece of

string, fixed it in a compact coil, and gave
it to his assistant.

u He'll follow the old mare better than
lead," said he, " but keep the rein handy,
in case ye may want it in getting through a
town or village. And now," continued the
dairyman, in a manner which drew Johnny
Tadpole's concentrated thoughts to this part
of his address into a small focus, for he
knew, as if the words had been already
spoken, that the finish was at hand — " and
now," repeated he, " go straight, slow, and
sure. Be governed by circumstances and
the weather where and when to stop ; butin
so far as ye can, Taddy, do as I've told
you, and by doing right, which is the best
of all rules, the long journey before ye will
be shortened many a mile."

Johnny Tadpole's vow was not expressed
beyond a whisper to himself, but, being
made in sincerity and truth to " do his best

n 2

in doing right," it was, doubtlessly, registered
among the last addition of good
intentions.

"Take care of yourself, your money, and
your luggage," said Samuel Wideoo, " and,
above all things, remember the setting sun.
Keep it in front, and you're as right as an
eight-day clock. Get it behind, and you're
done."

I'll keep an eye on the setting sun, sir,"
responded Johnny Tadpole, as if slightly
injured in his feelings at the inferred supposition
that the setting sun might get the
best of him.

One last squeeze of your fist, lad," said
the dairyman, extinguishing Johnny Tadpole's
hand as he wrung it rather too heartily.
" May God bless you, my little man !
Say your prayers, Taddy, as usual, and don't
leave me out because I'm out of sight."
Never fear, sir," again whimpered

Johnny Tadpole, with the knuckles of his
fingers again screwed into the corners of
his eyes. " You'll always stand first in my
prayers, sir, as it is now and ever shall be,
world without end, amen."

Amen !" piously responded the dairyman,
and then dropping his assistant's hand
suddenly, as if transformed into something
much too hot to hold, he started off at a
sharp run, retracing his steps again towards
Bromley Marsh.

Johnny Tadpole looked at his retreating
figure with tearful eyes, and, when a bend
in the road was about to hide the only
known friend he possessed from his sight,
the dairyman turned and waved one of his
hands as a signal of final farewell. The
next moment he was gone ; but, before it
sank on the quicksands of eternity, "Taddy "
opened the flood-gates of his pent-up grief,
and wept long and alone.

CHAPTER XIII.

TTTHO is that girl, Aubrey," said
Colonel Leferne, as they sat together
alone one morning in the library,
that I have seen you, occasionally, walking
with ?"

Aubrey's cheeks reddened at the question,
but he affected a carelessness of deportment
as he replied,

Ivy Girling, the gamekeeper's daughter."

"A rustic beauty, is she not?" rejoined
his father.

"She is thought so, I believe," returned
Aubrey.

What do you think?" asked the colonel,
fixing a penetrating look into his son's eyes

which made Aubrey feel what a searching
glance meant.

I think her pretty, sir, for a country
girl," responded his son, with indifference.

"So do 7," added the colonel, "and I
think her too pretty for a young gentleman
of a susceptible nature to make a companion."


With the approval of my aunt," returned
Aubrey. "Ivy was my earliest, and,
indeed, only playfellow as a child."

"Indeed!" ejaculated the colonel, with
feigned surprise, and raising his thick eyebrows.
"And so your unsophisticated aunt
beheld with composure your lamb-like gambols
with the gamekeeper's daughter?"

She never raised any objection to my
associating with her," added Aubrey, evidently
offended at the sarcastic tone and
manner of his father.

Had she done so," responded the colonel,

with an inward chuckle, " it would have
been the first objection, I imagine, that
Margaret Leferne ever raised in the whole
course of her exemplary life. Take my
word for it, Aubrey, that she never opposed
man, woman, or child in deed, word, or
thought. You probably discovered, as I
did long ago, this conspicuous weakness ?"

It demanded no keen search, sir, to discover
the unexceptionable kindness which
my aunt invariably displayed towards me
during "

The long and silent absence of your
doting father," interrupted Colonel Leferne,
with a suppressed laugh. " Is that
what you would have said ?"

No," returned Aubrey, stopping, and
looking full in his father's face, " I would
have said nothing of the kind, sir. I might
have added," continued he, "during a childhood
which possessed few joys or pleasures
for a child."

"Don't become sentimental, my dear
boy," responded the colonel, preserving the
most perfect good-humour, and apparently
amused at the portrayed irritability of his
son. " There is nothing," continued he,
raising the two first fingers of his right
hand deprecatingly, "that I detest more
than sentiment. Life, in all its phases, is
composed of such very plain, striped, not
to say ugly facts, that to attempt to decorate
them with garlands, or describe their
grotesque quaintness in the exaggerated
language of poetry, is simply to descend in
the social scale to the level of an ass."

"I was merely, sir, giving expression to
my thoughts," rejoined Aubrey, with flushed
cheeks and flashing eyes, "in what appeared
to me the plainest words."

Avoid sentiment, my dear boy," returned
the colonel, keeping his fingers still
raised, "and, as far as 1 am concerned, let
your verbal communications be made either

in blank verse or jingling rhyme, as may
best accord with your inclination. Devoid
of sentiment, I entertain not the smallest
dislike to poetry. Referring, however,"
continued he, " to what would seem to be a
grievance in connection with your infancy,
I must infer that you possessed the ordinary
toys popularly supposed to be inseparable
to the male sex in lisping disagreeable-hood?
You were supplied, for instance,
with marbles, kites, and tops ?"

Yes," responded Aubrey, with no palpable
decrease in his anger, "but I seldom
played with either without having a serious
lesson from my tutor concerning their mechanical
construction, scientific shape, or
ancient origin."

So like my dear old college chum,"
ejaculated the Colonel, repeating the inward
chuckle. " He must even teach you,
Aubrey, in the hours of recreation, as he did
his friends at Oxford, when perhaps brewing

a bowl of bishop. Our vicar was a great
expert at bishop," continued he, " and I can
hear him now, when dropping in the
roasted apples, expatiating upon the laws of
gravitation, and, as the pips rose to the
surface, proving to demonstration why they
floated."

"In a lecture he was once giving me
when spinning a top," said Aubrey, somewhat
softened with the tale of the bowl of
bishop, " he declared that the boys of
Rome, in the days of the Caesar, spun tops
of precisely the same shape, that they
pirated them from the Jews, who brought
them originally out of the land of Egypt."

"Ha, ha!" laughed the Colonel. "Picture
to the imagination Cheops or the head
of the distinguished family of the Pharaohs
spinning tops ! But," and the speaker
changed his tone to a confidential whisper,
far better spin tops, Aubrey, than play
with dolls."

"Dolls?" ejaculated his son, with inexpressible
astonishment.

"Ay," rejoined the Colonel, again lifting
his two ringers admonishingly, " there is no
more dangerous toy than a doll, Aubrey.
Boys," continued he, " after having passed
one of the early stages of disagreeableness,
feel an innate repugnance to dolls ; but
upon crossing the Rubicon, and entering the
succeeding one of blind puppyhood, they
are too apt to fall into the fatal error of
giving undivided attention to toys of this
kind, and I have known clever men — who
decidedly ought to have known better —
waste the most precious hours of their lives,
to say nothing of their fame and fortunes,
in playing with painted, powdered, and perfumed
dolls, with no more hearts or souls
than can be found in bran or sawdust."

Aubrey Leferne said nothing in reply, but
kept his eyes fixed steadfastly upon those of
his father.

I see that you begin to comprehend my
meaning," resumed the Colonel, dropping
his two fingers upon the table before which
he sat, and commencing to drum a light
operatic air upon its surface. "You are
young, Aubrey," continued he, " but, if weare
to believe the chronicles of our family,
a Leferne is innocent only when in the
arms of his nurse. It may seem a severe
thing to allege, but, being well acquainted
with the chronology of our family, I do not
hesitate to declare, without reservation, that,
the moment a Leferne can run alone, the
world, or at least the foolish part of it, had
better look out for squalls."

"I am sorry to learn, sir," rejoined his
son, smiling, " that we should have inherited
so objectionable a reputation."

There is no disputing the fact," said the
colonel, continuing to drum the light operatic
air with a few variations of his own
composition ; " and my sorrow quite equals-yours,

Aubrey, in the knowledge that for
cool, selfish rascaldom, where dolls are
concerned, no one in ancient or modern
history surpasses a Leferne. In justice " —
the air and variations were now stopped —
to many weak, silly, vain, confiding, and
departed toys, my dear boy, I feel bound
to make this admission, humiliating as it
must be to a sensitive mind, taken from a
moral point of view."

I hope, sir," returned Aubrey, now
interested in the conversation, for he felt
that he was being talked at in the light,
sarcastic tone adopted by his father — " I
hope, sir," repeated he, " that the particular
conduct to which you refer was not unbecoming
the character to which gentlemen
may lay claim."

"The world is extremely liberal in dealing
with certain voluntary iniquities, my
dear boy," added the colonel, throwing his
head back against the lounging-chair in

which he was sitting, and looking at his son
with half-closed eyelids, " and the gentle
born and rich may commit with impunity
immeasurably greater acts of transgression
than those without the right and title dare
contemplate for a single moment of their
plebeian lives. Governed, indeed, by the
elastic code of society, it is almost impossible
to define what may be done or left undone
without sacrificing — to repeat your own
words, Aubrey — the character to which
gentlemen may lay claim. I wish, however,
to confine our present discussion to the subject
of dolls. Now," continued he, again
telegraphing with the two first fingers of
his right hand, " Eton and innocence — unsophisticated
innocence — are not popularly
supposed to be synonymous terms. An
Eton boy with a doll is not generally chosen
as a sketch for the illustration of purity."

Ha ! ha ! ha !" laughed his son. " What
a picture it would make !"

"That somewhat boisterous and therefore
objectionable laugh of yours, Aubrey' said
the colonel, " revealed a white-lined scar
on the lower lip. I have a few here," he
continued, spreading a thin white band over
his breast, "in a less conspicuous place.
How was it gained ?"

In ray first fight, sir," was the proud
reply, " when I was overmatched in weight
and age ; but I won it."

"Come here," rejoined his father, with
a near approach to tenderness in his tone
and manner, " and press that scar upon my
cheek. It may make, Audrey, an impression
upon ray heart."

With mingled surprise and pleasure at
the request, Aubrey Leferne hastened from
his seat, and clasping the colonel's outstretched
hands, for the first time in their
lives, the white-scarred lip and the bronzed
cheek met.

u And so you won the fight against
superior force, eh ?" said his father. " Well
done ! Do me the favour to occupy your
seat again. Having brought this episode
to a finish, we'll again refer to the subject
of dolls. As I suspected, Aubrey, I find
that you possess a toy of this kind."

"I, sir?" exclaimed his son.

Ay," rejoined the colonel, effectively
raising the two fingers, u you ; and I fear
the probability of your having trifled with it
too long to make a cast off of the plaything,
Aubrey, as readily as I could wish, or your
welfare demands."

"You are alluding to Ivy Girling," remarked
his son.

"As I have been from the beginning of
this discussion," said the colonel; "and, to be
frank, which you knew as well as myself.
Now, I am not about wearying you with a
stale, profitless lecture upon ethics, my dear

vol. i. o

boy, but take my affectionate assurance that
a doll is too dangerous a passenger for your
light skiff. Over she must go, sooner or
later, or down together you will sink, ascertain
as any shaft of fate can be."

"I never thought "

Of course you never thought," interrupted
his father, with vehemence. " In the
daily association with a young and pretty girl
you never thought that a dream could
become a reality. You never thought of
committing the smallest wrong to either
Ivy Girling or yourself in what has taken
place between ye, and yet — accept it as a
warning, Aubrey — no Leferne ever sowed
such seeds, whether in youth or manhood,
but reaped the harvest of self-imposed
sorrow, and, too often, ruin. You see that
I can be serious ?"

"Beyond what I thought to be possible,
sir," responded his son. " Your seriousness

at the present moment amounts to almost
the deepest gloom."

"I am not generally — as you will find
when we are longer, and, consequently,
better acquainted — afflicted with fits of grum-
ble-on-the-brain, " returned the colonel ;
but having experienced the certainty — not
risk — of what toys can inflict upon suffering
humanity, Aubrey, I wish to depend upon
higher sublunary power than myself —
princes, prelates, and potentates — to guide
your erratic footsteps from falling into one
of the manifold man-traps set by dolls."

11 Ha, ha, ha," laughed Aubrey Leferne.
Ha, ha, ha !"

Your risible muscles may be excited,
my dear boy," resumed the colonel, with
unruffled gravity, " but / was never more
free from the unbecoming, distorting convulsion
in the whole course of my existence.
As a check to your ill-timed mirth,

o 2

Aubrey, let me impress upon your memory
that there is no subject more deserving of
serious attention than traps set by dolls.
As a father — in the fulness of time I may
become affectionate to example — as a father,
I repeat," continued he, " it is my paramount
duty to warn you from this enticing
lure, and to urge the framing of a
firm resolution from this time henceforth
and for ever to avoid the temptation of
dolls' society in general, and that of the
gamekeeper's daughter, Ivy Girling, in
particular."

"Is that the conclusion of the homily,
sir ?" asked his son, still laughing.

} DO

And a remarkably neat peroration, I
should say," replied the colonel, good-humouredly,
"if an unprejudiced opinion
might be expressed concerning its oratorical
beauties."

Our family motto is, I believe, i To live
with will unfettered,' " rejoined Aubrey.

It is," added his father. " Once upon a
time, as it is written in the fairy tales of the
olden time, I am almost shocked to confess,
the Lefernes, my dear boy, were free lances,
and a remarkable old scapegrace, who had
sold himself, I have no doubt whatever, to
the devil, adopted this motto, and had it
emblazoned upon his shield. If we may
place an average degree of faith in the
veracity of the chronicles of our family,
nothing could be more reprehensible than
the political, social, and moral conduct of the
ancient reprobate who selected its motto."

And yet I feel disposed to support it in
all its integrity," returned his son.

u Thus precisely following the cloven
footsteps of your disgraceful and unscrupulous
ancestor, who ought to have known
better, Aubrey," said the colonel, beginning
to drum a military air upon the table,
by way, probably, of a change in the music,
"than to have originated an inscription fit

only for an outlaw of the blackest type."
It sounds so nobly free," exclaimed his
son.

"But not in the smallest degree less objectionable
on that account," responded the
colonel. "Too much liberty, even of conscience,
may degenerate into licence, and
judging from what some of our ancestors
are alleged, in song and story, to have done,
it seems to me that, like the distinguished
old rascal whose authorship of the motto
remains unquestioned, they took a most unjustifiable
view of their own freedom of
action, and were particularly indifferent
concerning the effect, or result, where dolls

C 7 7

were concerned."

"Without giving any express promise,
sir," rejoined Aubrey, l< to be a perfect
stranger to Ivy Girling from this time, no
danger need be apprehended from my
slight association with our little humble
dependent."

She's young and pretty, my dear boy,"
remarked the colonel, composing a new,
soft variation of the military air upon the
table, and looking at his son with half
closed, sleepy eyes.

"There is no disputing that," rejoined
Aubrey. "I should say," continued he, " that
she will make a most beautiful woman."

You appear to inherit the fine judgment
of a Leferne," returned the colonel. " My
own reserved opinion upon the subject, most
accurately expressed."

But for the smallest suspicion to be
felt "

"Would, of course," interrupted the
colonel, " be an insult to common sense.
Entertaining, however, something akin to
mistrust upon a few points in connection
with this beautiful woman whom Time is to
develop, I beg to tender an apology to
common sense."

There is no cause to apprehend danger

or difficulty, sir," observed Aubrey, rising
from his seat as if indisposed to continue
the discussion.

The subject is, perhaps, exhausted,"
added the colonel. " Do me the kindness
to ring the bell. I want a short interview
with that worldly-minded old sham, Soppy."

CHAPTER XIV.

JOHNNY TADPOLE, Queen Mary, and
^ the Unknown proceeded on their pilgrimage
for a time, and for a distance, without
any particular adventure befalling them.
Now and then, indeed, Taddy's pride was
wounded by questions as to the value he set
upon the "old crock," and what he would
take for " the lot without their manes and
tails. ' To all such interrogatories he assumed
a stoical indifference which perhaps was
not altogether the genuine article ; but
an inhabitant or sojourner of Burnham
Green put a strain upon his forbearance
almost beyond the margin of Christian toleration
when he announced, in a loud voice
and turbulent manner, that " the nearest

knacker's yard was just round the corner,
but to save further trouble he'd buy, then
and there, by the pound weight." Johnny
Tadpole, in a metaphorical sense, looked
daggers at the perpetrator of this deep
wound to his feelings, and secretly wished
that he was big, brave, and strong enough
to administer a sound thrashing to the
offender on the spot, without the polite preliminary
of the professors of the noble art
of self-defence by first shaking hands with
him. The effect of the wish, however, was
the spontaneous thought and knowledge
that he was neither one nor the other, and,
therefore, he walked on steadily and silently,
leading Queen Mary, followed by her
foal.

The locality traditionally spoken of as the
identical spot where the two kings indulged
in the luxury of smelling one and the same
rose, had been gained by marching forward
at a pace known as slow and sure. Brentford

now possessed the opportunity of staring
with all its eyes, and gaping with all its
mouths, at the small procession as it entered
the main but narrow street ; but emulating,
perhaps setting a good example to " mind
your own business," Brentford took as little
notice as possible of the wayfarers, and
neither experienced the inconvenience of
being pelted with either chaff or stones,
which circumstance deserves to be marked
with a white stone in favour of its citizens.

From the clink of the anvil, Johnny Tadpole
became sensible that a blacksmith's
forge was close at hand, and, from the
sound upon his tympanum, became closer
at every stride he took. In a few seconds
more he found himself opposite the hissing,
roaring furnace, being plied, as it was, with
the customary huge bellows, and blown
through the agency of a pair of as lusty,
muscular arms as a blacksmith upon a large
scale was ever qualified to be proud of.

What, tiny lad ?" exclaimed a deep-toned,
thorough bass voice, as the bellows
stopped, and the scintillating furnace ceased
to throw bright sparks upwards. " What,
my lad ?" repeated the thorough-bass voice,
as its proprietor strode lazily to the entrance
of the forge, " where are ye pointing to
with that bit-of-the-days-gone-by, eh ?"

In his confusion at being thus questioned
concerning the ultimate termination of his
journey, Johnny Tadpole was nearly giving,
as a reply, " The Setting Sun," but checked
the answer just in time, and merely mentioned
the next place of importance in his
route, and said,

Hounslow, sir, where I shall put up for
the night."

"You're on a journey then?" returned
the blacksmith, being of an inquisitive turn
of mind.

I'm on my way to Wiltshire," responded
Johnny Tadpole, with excusable pride at

being able to announce that such an important
trust had been reposed in him, u with
this old mare and her foal — right down
among the shires, sir."

"You're a wee bit too young, lad, for
such a weary task," rejoined the blacksmith,
folding his arms across his full, broad chest,
"and I fear you'll be footsore and heartsore
afore ye reach your journey's end. But
what do you say to stop here awhile and
rest ? We shall have a bit o' dinner presently,
and I've accommodation for the
cattle in a nice, roomy shed behind."

There was something so cheery in the
invitation that any shade of wavering on
the part of Johnny Tadpole must have been
dispelled by the heartiness with which it
was given, and, in strict accordance with its
unequivocal merits, he gave a prompt acquiescence
to the considerate proposal, accompanied
by his brief but earnest thanks.

Then follow me without more ado,"

said the blacksmith, unfolding his arms
slowly, as might have been expected from
the movement of a large body, as he led
the way through the forge into what would
appear to be a back-garden converted into
a receptacle for heaps of old horse-shoes,
and other exotics of a decidedly iron nature.
Rust, dust, and ashes were prolific in the
blacksmith's back-garden in the rear of the
forge, but flowers there were none.

"There," continued he, lifting the latch
of as crazy-looking a door as ever squeaked
discordantly upon a hinge, and throwing it
open with no gentle movement, "there's a
box big enough for both."

As if satisfied with her quarters, and anticipating
a share of the hospitable treatment
proffered to her attendant, Queen Mary
entered with a ready action, followed by
the Unknown.

Under the immediate guidance and direction
of the blacksmith, a pail of fresh clearwater

was brought by Taddy from a fine
old Brentford pump, oats, bran, and hay
were forthcoming from hidden stores, and
sooner than can well be imagined for several
particulars to be supplied quickly, without
any omission of her requirements, the old
grey mare and her foal found themselves
under treatment of the most careful and
judicious description.

Having made them comfortable," observed
the blacksmith, " we'll now see what
we can do for ourselves."

Almost fearing, from nervousness, to tread
the ground on which he walked, Johnny
Tadpole accompanied his host once more
back into the forge, and from thence, through
a side door, into what seemed, to his untutored
organs of vision, a spot in which
a fairy might wish to dwell for a long term
of years, renewable upon the expiration of
the lease. It was a room, doubtless, of
substantial bricks and mortar in which he

stood, not a grotto of the imagination spoken
of by poets, and yet nothing had hitherto
fascinated him so much as what he now
beheld. The apartment, limited as it was,
appeared to be the centre of the collection
of the beauties of art. On the mantel-shelf
Adam and Eve, composed for the most part
of an elaborate piece of workmanship in
small shells, were represented sunning themselves,
in a primitive manner, on a bank
fabricated of green cotton velvet, than
which the verdure of Eden itself could
scarcely have been softer. There were
coloured plaster casts of birds, supporting
the first parents of the human family, which
might be excellent copies of dodos, griffins,
the phoenix class, or anything not supposed
to have formed part of the collection admitted
into the ark. There were questionable
likenesses of highly-tinted saints hung
in black wooden frames; Saint Peter, arrayed

in a scarlet robe falling from his shoulders
to his sandals, and properly girded, with a
couple of large yellow keys round his waist,
being more than ordinarily conspicuous.
An illustration of the abrupt ejectment from
Paradise was also presented to view, together
with a highly imaginative subject,
wherein round, red-cheeked countenances,
and curly heads with wings for ears, were
exhibited in the midst of rolling clouds,
suggestive of hail and thunder. There was
a bright red lion, in earthenware, lying on a
table by the side of a milk-white lamb, and
so like a lamb that Johnny Tadpole had not
to look more than twice steadfastly to know
for what it was meant. A spotted leopard,
of the same material, referred also to that
blissful epoch when the kid, with which it
was fearlessly playing, might do so without
suspicion of being utilised to the demand of

appetite.

vol. i. r

Upon these, and corresponding objects of
interest, Johnny's eyes were fixed with
almost rapture ; for anything so attractive to
his sight never yet had he the opportunity
of beholding.

"What you see," said the blacksmith,
giving his guest just sufficient time to glance
around upon the several works of art
which fascinated him, " is my missis's 'obey.
She goes in for Moses and the Prophets,
and has 'em all at her fingers' ends. I'm
not up in 'em myself; but she's a wonder."

Is she, indeed, sir?" returned Johnny'
Tadpole, for want, perhaps, of something
better to say.

She is," added the blacksmith, " and a
sort of walking dictionary. There's nothing,"
continued he, " but what she seems
to know naturally, and, hadn't it ha' been for
my missis, it's my solemn belief I should
have gone down to the grave the biggest
fool ever buried."

Johnny Tadpole felt his politeness at
stake, and at once joined issue upon the
point by expressing the firmest of convictions
that this result could not by any possibility
have been attained.

I'm not so sure o' that," rejoined the
blacksmith, expressing dissent by giving his
circular, black, cropped head a shake like a
dog fresh from the water, and at the conclusion
of a plunge. " I'm not so sure o'
that," repeated he. " But, before we talk any
further, tell me your name, where you come
from, and what particular part o' Wiltshire
you're going to."

Exaggerating, secreting, and reserving no
essential particular, Johnny Tadpole recounted
the history he had to tell in a concise
manner worthy of the strictest imitation.
Occupying a seat which he had been invited
to take upon entering the apartment of fine

arts, he kept his eyes modestly bent upon

p2

the floor in detailing the events of the past
and present, and produced an unbroken
chain, link by link, of simple facts which
brought him at length to the blacksmith's
forge. Upon the conclusion of the narrative
he raised his eyes from the ground, and
was positively alarmed at again beholding
the features of his host, who sat staring at
him with fixed, protruding eyeballs, and his
lower jaw dropped as if suddenly stricken
with paralysis.

"You don't," gasped the blacksmith, ina
kind of convulsive sob, " mean to say that
she's " — and he pointed with a turned thumb
to the roomy shed then tenanted by the
bit-of-the-days-gone-by " and her foal —
"that she's," repeated he, in a double,
treble bass, husky voice, " Queen Mary, the
flyer of my youth ?"

"The same, sir," replied Johnny Tadpole,
in a tone that placed doubt at defiance.

"The winner of the Doncaster Cup?"

rejoined the blacksmith, with feelings of
increasing excitement.

The same, sir," repeated Johnny, and
the assertion seemed to be hurled with stunning
effect against the os fronts of the
blacksmith.

"The — the — the winner of half the cups
in the United Kingdom?" returned the
questioner, as if his brain at length began to
reel.

"The whole of them, sir, I believe ray
master, Mister Wideoo, said," responded
Johnny Tadpole, with great confidence,
"and a few over."

"Let us pray !" ejaculated the blacksmith,
bringing the palms of his hands together
with a loud crack.

What for?" responded Johnny, in utter
bewilderment at the suggestion.

Without giving any reply to the question,
the blacksmith rose from his chair with a
movement not unlike a blended skip and a

jump, and, proceeding to a chest of drawers r
began to rummage the contents with a
hasty and impatient movement.

ei There !" said he, exultingly, " d'ye see
that ?"

Johnny Tadpole promptly admitted that
he saw the object exhibited, through the
medium of both eyes.

Do you know what it is ?" inquired the
blacksmith.

It looks to me," replied Johnny, "like a
narrer horse-shoe, sir."

It's a racing plate," cried the blacksmith,
having wound himself up to almost a
pitch beyond self-control, "and one that /
plated Queen Mary with, on her near forefoot,
when she won the Doncaster Cup. I."
continued he, " and my missis come from
Doncaster. Her name was Dump, mine's
Jolly. Only to think that such things
should happen in this world ! I have often
thought of the old mare — for better was

never seen in Yorkshire — and here she is
under my own roof. Miracles will never
cease !"

At this moment a mist, upon a small
scale, floated into the opened door of the
room, and, looming through it, might have
been seen the bearer of a dish, the smoking
contents of which proved to be the source
of the thick and rising vapour.

"Jane Jolly," said the blacksmith, as the
bearer of the dish of a decidedly savoury
odour lowered it gently and even tenderly
upon the table, already prepared with
knives and forks, spread upon a snowy
and speckless cloth. "Jane Jolly," repeated
he, u you told me there was an end
to miracles. I don't believe it."

It's quite optional, Ebenezer," replied
the bearer of the dish, now free from the
burden, and regarding Johnny Tadpole
with surprise, or at least with a look demanding
an explanation of the cause of his

presence. " Anyone, however, who can
believe in miracles ought never to be surprised.
But who have we here, just in
pudding time ? One with a good appetite,
I know. I can see that"

Johnny blushed as he frankly confessed
that he generally, at the period of the day
directly referred to, was in possession of a
keen appetite, and never more so perhaps
than on the present occasion.

Surprise was necessarily in store for Jane
Jolly, and she began to think that miracles
might not be quite at an end as the blacksmith
related the respective whys and wherefores
of Johnny Tadpole being their unheralded
but welcome guest. Numerous
and curt were the exclamations of Jane
Jolly — whose maiden name was Dump — as
the story proceeded, in conjunction with the
steady disappearance of the contents of the
savoury dish — under the culinary title of
Irish stew — and both seemed, with mute

intervals for swallowing on the part of the
blacksmith, to be brought to an end at one
and the same time.

Having had a remarkably good dinner,"
said the blacksmith, u I'm thankful for it.
Jane, get me my pipe, and I'll blow the
usual cloud."

You think too much of the good things
of this life, Ebenezer," replied his wife,
reprovingly, u as I have often told ye. Our
first parents "

Oh !" interrupted her husband, with a
groan, " don't get on them subjects, Jane.
Leave our first parents alone, there's a dear
old gal."

But the "dear old gal" was not to be
flattered from her purpose. Jane Jolly, as
she often did upon the commencement of
the duties of digestion, had mounted her
hobby," and was determined to have a
ride. Ebenezer Jolly had told her the
truth — varnished as the tale might have

been — when lie described her, in an evening
walk on the Town Moor at Doncaster, as
the finest and best developed Jenny Dump
that the muscular biceps of a blacksmith
could desire to entwine. He told her that
he admired a tall, upstanding gal of five feet
eight and a half, her points all round, without
corners or knobs. He told Jane Dump
that he liked black hair, black eyes, black,
arched eyebrows, a skin with a tinge of nutbrown
in it, and cheeks crimson with health.
He told her that she could not keep her
mouth open too much or too long, as her
teeth were as pearly as the inside of an
oyster shell. He told her all this with
several flowery additions, and then, falling
upon his knees, asked her " to be his'n,"
receiving in return a practical reply in the
shape of a stinging box on the right ear,
with the threat, in the plainest Saxon, that
he 'should catch a second box on the other

lug if he didn't leave off making a stupid
fool of himself."

If, however, success might be accepted asa
proof that Ebenezer Jolly had not rendered
himself liable to the charge of being
without the common measure of brains upon
this very particular occasion, then the oral
indictment fell flat to the ground, for Jane
Dump consented to change her name to
Jolly as the blacksmith rose with the cramp
in both of the calves of his legs.

It signifies little, perhaps, how it was that
Ebenezer Jolly and his bride migrated from
Doncaster to Brentford ; but there they
were, in what may be termed a flourishing
mundane condition, at the precise moment
when Johnny Tadpole had finished his portion
of the Irish stew, and the discussion
upon our first parents was strenuously
endeavoured to be cut short at the commencement
by the already surfeited blacksmith.


11 Leave our first parents alone," repeated
he, with something between a sigh and a
moan, (i there's a dear old gal."

I wish you to understand, Ebenezer,"
rejoined his wife, placing her knuckles upon
her hips, and her elbows forming acute
angles, " that I'm not going to let our first
parents alone. I never have, and never
will. They were sent, I suppose, as examples
for us to follow, and if we, as they did,
lived innocently on the uncooked fruits of
the earth, paying as little regard as possible
to raiment, it might be all the better for
our immortal souls, whatever it might befor
our perishable bodies."

Ebenezer Jolly knew that the temporary
comfort of the forge parlour had fled, and
that he must bear the infliction, whether he
grinned or otherwise. She whose maiden
name was Dump was fairly in the theological
saddle, and as determined as a witch
upon a broom to have a ride.

I have often called your attention,
Ebenezer," continued Jane Jolly, " to the
Garden of Eden, with the view of improving
your taste and morals, and although
King Solomon says, ' Hope deferred maketh
the heart sick,' I don't quite despair of seeing
you less of a pig, in some respects, than
you are at present."

Come, come, Jenny," expostulated the
blacksmith. " Don't drive a nail into a
fellow's soft corn like that ! I didn't give
myself an appetite any more than Adam
did. We're not masters of our own — " and
the blacksmith tapped significantly that
division of his frame which was placed a
few inches below his expansive chest.

That's just the mistake of your life,
Ebenezer," returned Jane Jolly, with great
force, as she raised her voice. "It isn't to
be supposed that our stomachs are our
masters, is it ?"

"In the case of the apple business,"

meekly added the blacksmith, " I think I
may say stomachs won easy."

"Then take it as a warning, Ebenezer,"
said his wife, with an admonishing shake of
the head. " Recollect what was lost — Eden
itself — when stomachs won easy."

"Being on this particular branch of the
subject, Jane," responded her husband,
pointing to the red earthenware lion, "I
should like to know what the wild beasts
fed on when they laid down with the lambs ?
We all know," continued he, " what the
sustenance was of our first parents, but how
about the tigers in Eden, eh?"

There was no disguising the fact. Jane
Jolly both looked and felt at great disadvantage
in the attempt to give a reply. As
far as she remembered, there was no authority
upon the point, and she could neither
parry nor avoid the blacksmith's thrust in
natural history. Jane Jolly, not being prepared

with an answer, was necessarily silent.

At this juncture, however, Johnny Tadpole
came gallantly to the rescue.

"Perhaps, ma'am," said he, "they lived
on milk."

"Ha, ha!" ejaculated she, with triumph
in the tone, " no doubt they did. Nothing
more likely than, before sin came into the
world, even the tigers lived on milk. A
soot thought, laddie, and one that could
only come from where good thoughts
spring."

"That being settled, then," added the
blacksmith, anxious only for the subject to
be brought to a close, " get me my pipe,
Jane, and I'll blow the usual cloud."

CHAPTER XV.

OIHE never looked prettier, albeit her
^ upper lip pouted as if lately stung.
Ivy Girling had been waiting close by the
bed of daffodils, now sleeping with the dead
under ground, as the tryst for meeting
Aubrey Leferne, and her patience had been
sorely tried at his absence, the appointed
time having long since passed, stealing
away with the dark, fading shadows of the
autumn sun. Years ago they had often
met at the same chosen spot, with childish
intent and purpose, and he never played
the laggard then. Why should he now ?

The question was repeated more than
once to herself and Ivy's upper lip pouted

the more, and her eyes flashed under knitted
brows, as she paced fretfully to and fro a
short beaten path close to where Sir Harold
Leferne's daffodils were lying, like the old
knight who failed to keep his terrible vow
concerning his own bones, underground.
With him, " dust to dust," not so with the
daffodils.

The wind perhaps had something to do
with the arrangement, but Ivy Girling's
curls danced carelessly over her shoulders,
and fell beneath her small cottage straw
bonnet in a natural kind of way which
might have put highly tried artificial aid at
a material discount. It of course was more
from accident than design, but the blue
ribbon passed over the middle of the crown
of the small cottage straw bonnet, and tied
in a large bow of truly liberal dimensions
under her chin — with a coquettish bearing
to one side more than the other — harmon.

i. Q

sized with her fair complexion to the nicety
of a shade, and seemed to give the effect of
a flattering frame to her features, and to set
them off amazingly. The closely-fitting
kirtle, coarse as the fabric might be, exhibited
a figure of which at least Ivy was
justified in being somewhat vain, under the
extenuating circumstances that Aubrey Leferne
had so often called her attention to it
as an object of his especial admiration. It
must be confessed, indeed, that nature had
done much for Ivy Girling without the
smallest assistance, and the few unimportant
details which she apparently had not condescended
to supply, the ready and tasteful
hand of Ivy herself furnished in a manner
that to be believed must have been seen.
A simple flower in her hair was sure to look
winning beyond improvement, and if Aubrey
essayed to alter the position, as he sometimes
did, failure was certain and complete,
as he was bound to admit.

Dressed and decked with care to please
him, Ivy had waited long and impatiently
for his expected advent ; but Aubrey Leferne
came not, and the dark, fading
shadows of the autumn sun grew deeper as
the veil of the coming night fell around.

A light and hurried footfall at length
struck upon her ear. Quickly it approached,
and Ivy Girling's palpitating heart revealed
that it was his.

I almost feared," said Aubrey, as he
arrived with panting breath, "that you
would have left; but it was impossible forme
to be earlier."

"Why?" curtly inquired Ivy, withholding
her hand, as he attempted to take it.

Come, come, Ivy," replied he, in a
soothing tone, " let us meet and part good
friends. Recollect, I leave tomorrow."

I am not likely to forget that," she rejoined,
in a voice tremulous with emotion.

Q2

But why could you not come before ? "
"Listen," returned Aubrey, taking one of
her now yielded hands, " and you will not
blame me. My father — and I am, as yet, too
young and dependent to disobey him — insisted
upon my remaining after dinner to listen
to a kind of lecture from the vicar, and to
see, I believe, how far I would submit to be
bullied. I bore it pretty well for a time,
and put up with a great deal of what, I consider,
ought to have been met with a facer,
or one, two, straight from the shoulder on
the nose-end ; but, being a clergyman, a
friend of my father, and sipping his wine
with his legs stretched under the family
table, I did nothing by way of a practical
stopper to a long, rigmarole sermon which
drove me nearly mad."

"What was it about?" asked Ivy.
And there sat my father," resumed
Aubrey, without heeding the question,
"drumming a military air with his fingers

on the table, and looking at us with his eyes
nearly closed, as if half asleep, enjoying the
fun to see me worked up to a froth."

I never heard of anything so strange,"
observed Ivy. " Was the object, then, only
to make you angry ?"

I'm sure I don't know," added he. " At
any rate, they were successful in getting me
into a pretty high pitch of wax, and after
letting the vicar have a few of my own
sentiments, garnished with some flowers of
rhetoric not of parliamentary origin, I
walked majestically out of the room, and
came here as fast as I could, to find you,
Ivy, with a tendency to the sulks."

I felt the time so long before you
came," responded Ivy, as if pleading against
the charge.

"So did I," rejoined Aubrey, "and it
was no joke, I can tell ye, to be badgered
as I was."

But you have not told me a single word
of the cause of all this," returned Ivy.

Well," added he, " I think the discussion
had better be dropped altogether ; for
I'm particularly sick of it."

After a slight, very slight pause, Ivy
remarked,

I see that you do not wish to tell me

«/

what passed."

Oh ! " exclaimed Aubrey, with vehemence,
" what's the use of driving a fellow
mad twice in less than half an hour ?"

"It's far from my wish," said Ivy, "to
be the cause of annoying you ; but I suspect,
from what you told me a short time since,,
that I was the subject of the vicar's lecture."

"Well, supposing you were?" responded
he, irritably, " who cares what the old
drone said ? I never did, and never will."

But I may have to do so," rejoined
Ivy, in a quiet tone, which produced a

marked change in Aubrey Les erne's careless
and angry manner.

Why," returned he. " What have you
to fear from hi in ?"

"The displeasure of my father," replied
Ivy. "A few words from his lips, and I
might wish that either you or I had never
been born."

Don't talk in that way," added Aubrey.
"We've been happy together, I'm sure, fora
great many years, and now, because we're
bigger and older, I'm told that I ought to
take no more notice of you. Pretty sort of
conduct that would be for all the birds'
nests you brought me, and the fairy tales
you used to relate by the hour together
when there was nobody else but Soppy to
say one word of fun to me."

"And yet it would be right," replied she,
although the words faltered on her lips.
It is remembered by others, you see, if not

by us, that, as year succeeds year, children
become less childish."

Those are about the very words used
by the old drone himself,' 1 retorted Aubrey,
11 in winding up his homily. How did you
learn them, Ivy?"

The same thoughts sometimes," returned
she, " produce the same words."

Well !" and he spoke as if his teeth
were clenched together, " as you seem to
agree with him, or them, in thoughts and
words, we had better, I suppose, be strangers.
Let it be so from this night, and from the
spot on which we stand."

Ivy gave no reply, but she turned away
her face, paler grown, to hide some very
hot tears threatening to scald her cheeks.

I cared little or nothing what my
father said upon the matter, or the vicar
preached," resumed Aubrey. " If not my
own master now, I shall be, and when of
age, Soppy says, my mother's fortune will

be mine, and it's all in hard cash. Won't I
let them see then who shall dictate to me !"

The tears were now trickling down Ivy's
face ; but not a word escaped her lips.

Remember," continued he, "that it was
no wish of mine that any difference should
be made in cfUr old companionship ; but, as
you join in the cry of its being right that it
should end, I shall make no further stand
against it. I return to Eton tomorrow,
and, when we meet again, it shall be in
accordance with your present expressed
desire — that is, as if we had never met."

His quick ear caught a stifled sob, and
the sound appeared to lessen the acerbity
of his tone.

Why all this should be, however,"
added he, " I'm at a loss to know. People
who, properly, may be called old sinners
are too apt to judge of others by themselves.
They seem to think that nothing
can be right which, beheld through their

own smoked glasses, looks shady. But
what more harm or wrong can there be,
Ivy, in our walking and talking together
now than when, as little children, we made
daisy-chains together, you, I recollect, doing
all the work and I sat by looking idly on?"

"The fault is, I fear," replied she, with
an effort, " your disregard of your father's
advice and wishes, which have been urged
in so unmistakeable a manner, and, if continued
to be resisted, will certainly lead to
evil of some kind or other. I shudder to
think," continued Ivy, " what a few words,
uttered to my father, might cause our
humble home to be."

That being so," rejoined Aubrey, and
the upper and lower teeth seemed to have
met again, " there shall be no cause for the
few words to be spoken, and your humble
home, therefore, will be left undisturbed.
I'm not going to beg for your society, however
much I may wish for its continuance."

11 You must remember your position,"
suggested Ivy, and her words were firmer
as she spoke.

I do," returned he, with passion and
pride in his demeanour, " and 1 mean to
maintain it."

"The difference is so great between
yours and mine," argued Ivy, " that I am
no longer a fitting companion for you.
The time was when neither remarks nor
sneers could be made on our being seen together
; but that is past. You must know
as well as I do that from what has taken
place this day our final separation is as certain
as if one were already dead. Colonel
Leferne never permits trifles to stand in
his way."

"Perhaps not," responded Aubrey,
neither will his son when he has the power
to tread them under foot. As he has done, so
will I, and, as our family motto has it, ' live
with will unfettered.' "

May it ever guide you in the path to
make you happy !" returned she.

And so lead me to the grave at last, a
good, old man. Ha, ha, ha ! Is that the
conclusion to the solemn entreaty, Ivy ?"
said he, in a tone and manner which jarred
painfully on the young girl's feelings.

Excuse me, sir," remarked somebody,
looming in space in the form of a gigantic
magpie, for his breast was white, and the
remaining parts of his plumage looked as
black as those of a venerable crow.
Excuse me, sir," repeated somebody,
making the lowest of bows, in the shades of
evening, now of considerable density, "but
the Colonel sent me to say that if you will
do him the great favour to return to the
dining-room as soon as you've done — you'll
excuse me, sir, in repeating the Colonel's
exact words, for he gave me the order with
those two fingers of his lifted up, which
means be particular or look out — as soon as

you've done," repeated Mr. Soppy, for the
gigantic magpie was that valuable retainer
himself, " making a young fool of yourself,
he will have much pleasure in relating a
few most interesting historical facts concerning
dolls. You will receive this, sir, if
you please," concluded Mr. Soppy, " as a
privileged communication."

"How did my father know that I was
here ?" fiercely inquired Aubrey.

My own impression is, sir," responded
Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — " that the
Colonel did not know you were here ; but,
suspicion haunting minds not altogether
innocent, he sent me as straight as a line
to this very spot to see, sir, if so be this was
not the identical locality in which you might
be found — to repeat his exact words —
making a young fool of yourself. You will
receive this, sir, if you please, as a privileged
communication."

Do you mean to say," said Aubrey r

with almost ungovernable passion, as he
strode dangerously close to Mr. Soppy,
that you have dogged my footsteps ?"

"Nothing could be further, sir, from my
thoughts." replied Mr. Soppy, moving a few-steps
backwards for safety and for succour
from threatening danger, ef or legs. The
Colonel's orders were to find you, sir, and
deliver his message, which I have done, I
hope, in the delicate manner of a privileged
communication."

Then be the bearer of my reply to
him."

"No, no," interposed Ivy; "do not send
one word to render him, perhaps, more
angry than he is."

You had better, 1 think, sir," suggested
Mr. Soppy, persuasively, " return with me
and hear what the Colonel has to say about
dolls. He never starts a subject, sir, but
what he thoroughly unearthly."

Aubrey appeared to struggle with his
feelings in silence for a few seconds, and
then, in a voice husky with passion, said,

I'll join ray father presently. Tell him
so, and leave me now."

Mr. Soppy bowed low and retired, his
form diminishing by degrees amid the
shades of evening until lost to sight, but
not to memory.

CHAPTER XVI.

FT1HE setting sun had been kept in his
-*- proper position. Long shadows, out
of all proportion to body and limb, were
thrown in the direct rear of Johnny Tadpole
as he progressed in his pilgrimage towards
the west, and not for one moment
did he feel "done" from the temporary
tangent of an angle. Over the hills and faraway,
the setting sun was always in his
front, and as he dipped beneath the horizon
in all the splendour of the god of day,
decked in robes of purple, crimson, and
rainbow tints, Johnny offered, with eyes
turned devotionally upwards, a hearty
thanksgiving that he had not been " clone."

There were several places of note and
distinction now left behind, and Johnny
Tadpole, as yet, was neither footsore nor
heartsore. The satisfactory condition of
his feet might be accounted for from adopting
the practical suggestion of the Brentford
blacksmith that Queen Mary should be
subjected to carrying the slight penalty
of his feather weight, where " the going

o i CO

was good," instead of his own small
forked limbs; and, as Her Majesty seemed
to bear her burden with indifference amounting
almost to contempt, nothing could be
more perfect than the arrangement to each
and both concerned. The daughter of
Gauntlet, by Bright Steel, by Helmet
Plume, jogged along the roadside turf,
sometimes walking at her ease, sometimes
trotting not altogether to the ease of her
rider, who, being temporarily churned, tried
his best to look like milk set for cream, and

VOL. I. R

failed, as might be expected, while the Unknown
gamboled and frisked far before and
greatly behind in a free and easy manner
which supported the theory of his having
been immensely indulged frcm his infancy
upwards, if not spoiled.

After Brentford then in routine came
Hounslow as a place of note, famous, as
Johnny Tadpole well knew from song and
story, for the exploits of one Dick Turpin,
and other celebrated gentlemen of the road,
whose morals were lax when their exchequers
were low, Johnny surveyed the
heath with interest, and began to speculate
upon the possibility of his having been a
highwayman himself in days of old, supposing
he had been born at an earlier period
of the world's history, although in corresponding
circumstances, as connected with
himself. Johnny thought of his accident
with the baker's cart wheel, and arrived by

a short cut at the philosophical conclusion
that a great many fortunes and misfortunes
may be more of an irresponsible nature
than a responsible one. By degrees, and
by the exercise of a discretion belonging to
a head older than the shoulders on which
it was placed through the medium of a thin
neck, Johnny Tadpole had surmounted the
difficulties of Staines, and Egham, and Bag-shot
— historical associations of knights of
the road again cropping up — and, nursing
his pecuniary resources with tender care
and great solicitude, Basingstoke was reached
without an approach to exhaustion, mental,
physical, or monetary, and, keeping the
setting sun in the assigned position with a
fixed and steadfast purpose, the pilgrim to
the west began to think of his preliminary
thanksgivings as the shrine — Greatwood
Park — became hourly an object of additional
interest as the distance decreased

r2

between him and the stately mansion of the
Lefernes.

Andover had been gained without unimportant
let, check, or impediment, and
previous to crossing the swift-running and
clear, shallow stream, in which speckled
trout rise to flies of the summer day, Johnny
Tadpole dismounted from the back of Queen
Mary, and, giving her head freedom from
the rein, she walked up to her middle in
the river, and, plunging her nostrils into the
fresh water, sucked in a deep, long, sobbing
draught, with a zest not to be misunderstood.
The Unknown, however, only wetted
his dainty pasterns, and, standing at a
respectful distance, looked at his lady
mother with pricked ears and full, staring
eyeballs, as if communing with himself
whether he should follow or not.

For lack of a wider, larger, and more
convenient cup, Johnny Tadpole placed his
two hands together, and, scooping up the

water between them at his feet, was about
to drink as deep a draught as his united
palms would permit, when somebody or
something arrested his attention, and, lost
by the hesitation, it trickled quickly away,
even to the last drop.

What, Taddy," exclaimed somebody so
very close to his elbow that he rubbed
familiarly against it, as he sat on the edge
of the rush-grown stream, "is it you, or a
remarkable beast of a boy, who takes upon
himself a shape that doesn't belong to him?"

Boiled beans and butter, what a luxury
! " exclaimed Johnny, in a tone almost
objectionable, perhaps, from the extreme
fervour of the ejaculation. " Why, if it isn't
you, sir, Mister Billy Bottles !"

It is so" replied the scion of the house
of Bottles, " and no mistake. There's but
one o' the old breed left," continued he,
and it may be just as well there is no
more o' the stock ; for if we were plentiful.

Taddy, upon my soul we should have to
swallow each other ! We should so"

"But what brought you here, sir?" inquired
Taddy, in utter amazement at the
meeting.

Billy Bottles jerked a conspicuously battered,
limp, and shapeless white hat, with a
wisp of black crape round it, at an acute
angle over his right eye, and, placing both
hands into the depths of his penniless
pockets, widened the position of his legs,
and resorted to the statesmanlike policy of
commanding the position before running the
risk of being outflanked.

"First of all," replied he, "tell me,
Taddy, what made you turn your back
upon that swindling concern in Bromley
Marsh, where more pump water is sold
under the name o' milk than weak eyes
ever beheld, for wandering down in these
foreign parts ?"

Without a single mental reservation,

Johnny Tadpole related every particular,
and not the most suspicious of mankind
would or could have doubted the accuracy
of a single syllable of the simple narrative.

Seeing the old mare and her colt foal
with ye," said Billy Bottles, "I knew pretty
well what you were going to tell me before
you began, Taddy. I did so."

Johnny Tadpole felt an instinctive admiration
for the speaker's powers of penetration.


"Now it so occurs," resumed Billy
Bottles, " that / am also pointing for Great-wood
Park. Hearing of the arrival of the
Colonel, I knew, if he had a guinea left, I
shouldn't be turned away without a bit of
it. I did so"

"Mr. Wideoo, sir," responded Johnny,
"always said he was much too liberal, without
the Bank of England had been at his
back."

"A perfect gentleman," rejoined Billy

Bottles, with a patronizing shake of the
head. u Have you a shilling, Taddy," continued
he, producing three much-used and
bilious-looking cards, " which you don't
particularly want ?"

"I haven't many shillings left, sir," returned
Johnny, with a sickly smile, " but I
think I could spare one if so be you— — "

Don't say another word," interrupted
Billy Bottles, kneeling and spreading out
the three cards upon the ground in front of
Johnny Tadpole, " but keep your eyes fixed
on them."

Johnny complied with the directions, and
stared at the three decidedly dirty cards
with blindness eyelid.

"There's the king o' diamonds," said
Billy, placing the Court card, with a slow,
deliberate movement, upon the ground with
the face downwards, " and there's the
knave o' spades," continued he, with a corresponding
action, "and there's the queen

o' hearts, all of a row, Taddy. Keep your
eyes fixed straight on 'em," said he, "or
you may make a mistake. Now, I'll bet
you a single shilling, just once and no more,
that you can't turn up the queen o' hearts
in less than twice. I will so."

"Why, Mister Bottles!" exclaimed Johnny,
with positive surprise at the exposed
innocence of the colonel's ex trainer, "it
would be picking your pocket, sir."

Billy Bottles drew back the angles of his
mouth, in the form of a broad grin, at the
suggested possibility of such a . sacrilege
being perpetrated.

Never mind that," rejoined he, with an
inward chuckle, " but try your luck, and
turn up the queen o' hearts."

With the confidence which a foregone
conclusion may be supposed to create,
Johnny suddenly pounced with finger and
thumb upon what he steadfastly believed to
be the queen of hearts, and brought to light

the black and begrimed features of the king
of diamonds.

Billy Bottles surveyed the mute astonishment
of the juvenile speculator out of the
corners of his eyes with a keen relish of enjoyment,
and watched in silence the victim
of a deceived vision examining the card, still
held between his finger and thumb, as if
doubting the evidence of his senses.

"There's nothing more likely to lead to
wrong," said he at length, " than our own
eyes, Taddy. A man thinks he sees a clear
path straight before him, and the moment
afterwards finds his nose flattened against a
stiff post. He does so"

"I could have sworn "

"In course you could," interrupted Billy
Bottles. "And like a sporting pal o' mine,
who was always swearing from the hour of
his birth until he was released from swearing
for want of breath, you would have

been a little perjured villain, if you had
sworn. You would so, Taddy."

"But, sir "

No buts," again interrupted Billy Bottles.
" Lies is lies, pepper 'em with buts
and ifs as much as you like. But come
along," continued he. " Catch hold of the
old mare's head, and let's step on our journey.
At the next public, Taddy, I'll stand
treat with your shilling, I will so"

CHAPTER XVII.

colonel LEFERNE and his son's late
^-^ tutor, the vicar, were seated together,
after dinner, in the quiet enjoyment of a
mutual exchange of reminiscences of days
long since passed away, but still remembered
with a lively sense of their having been
stern realities and not misty dreams.

There was no apparent change in the
colonel since his arrival at Greatwood Park.
His features were still pale, and the general
lassitude and slow, wearied movement of
his limbs showed that, as yet, there was
little, if any improvement in his health. A
contracted expression now and then knitting
the brow with deep furrows and a
nervous twitching of the compressed lips

were, occasionally, evidence of inward pain,
borne, however, without the faintest sigh or
murmur.

I must die," Aunt Margaret had heard
him once whisper, when communing with
himself ; " but not like a coward. A
Leferne dies but once."

You are free from suffering, I hope, tonight?"
said his companion.

"Yes, Bob," replied the colonel, faintly;
pretty well so," and he drew a white,
bloodless hand across his forehead, as if
assuring himself of the truth of the hazarded
assertion.

"We have spoken, perhaps, too much
and too long for your strength," rejoined
his friend. "Compose yourself, my dear
Ned, for a few minutes in silence by way of
a passive restorative to nature's exhausted
energies, while I help myself to another
glass of the dis entombed old port of your
ancestors — fine judges, I must confess — as

an active and agreeable agent for rendering
me a corresponding service."

"Are you, then, suffering from exhaustion,
Bob ?" asked the colonel, smiling as he
drummed his fingers upon the table to a
favourite air.

I cannot allege that I fear any sudden
collapse of the physical system," responded
his friend, helping himself to the additional
glass of the dis entombed old port ; " but
preventing mischief is better than resorting
to the remedy for its cure. Your health !"

As far as outward appearances went, no
one could possibly have less cause for apprehending
either immediate or remote effects
from the collapse of the physical system
than the Reverend Robert Roundhead, Mea.,
of Greatwood Vicarage, to which ecclesiastical
benefice belonged only the small
tithes of a large parish in the gift, absolute
and uncontrolled, of the knightly family of
the Lefernes.

From the popular belief of his possessing
a constitution which defied friction, he was
familiarly known among a choice set of
Oxford undergraduates as " Old Nails," and
from his lean, hard, straight, tall, and fine-drawn
figure, this distinction was occasionally
supplemented by his being referred to
as ic Old Nee die wire." It was a tradition
of Brazennose that no day or night was too
long for " Old Nails." He could ride, row,
run, jump, bowl a ball, or guard a wicket
with the picked few of the University.
When the war-cry of " gown and town "
was raised, the pet of Brazennose might be
invariably seen using his natural weapons of
offence and defence with admirable skill and
punishing force, and so frequently was he
conspicuous as a leader in these frays that
after the infliction of ordinary proctor pains
and penalties, combined with an unlimited
number of austere warnings, he was finally
threatened with peremptory expulsion.

Old Needle-wire," however, floated like a
buoyant cork over all difficulties, and, taking
his degree with unexceptionable credit,
quitted the University with the conceded
double first-class honours of being the best
man " at all in the ring" that Oxford ever
possessed.

As kindred spirits, Edward Leferne and
"Old Nails" were college chums, and, the
worldly prospects of the latter not being
particularly bright, he was glad to accept,
at the hands of his friend, the vacant living
of the vicarage of Greatwood ; albeit the
great tithes went to enrich the lay proprietor,
and the small tithes to keep the
head of the local church in a state not overburdened
with riches. There was, however,
little to do, and no questions asked concerning
the way in which things were done, and,
as the Reverend Robert Roundhead desired
to entail upon himself as little trouble as

possible concerning all parochial duties, no
arrangement could possibly be more in
unison with his heart-felt wishes of being at
perfect ease with his flock, and permitting
his flock to be at undisturbed ease with
him. There were no unseemly bickering,
controversies, or dissensions concerning
High Church, Low Church, or no church.
The Vicar of Greatwood was never heard to
rebuke anyone for his principles, or, indeed,
for the want of them, and it would appear
that peace reigned undisturbed from a total
absence of the elements of discord.

Year succeeded year ; but no change
was perceptible. In the old Norman church,
in which but little of the dust of the
knightly family of the Lefernes could have
been swept together, although generations
lay mouldering beneath its time-worn stones,
the Reverend Robert Roundhead performed
his duties, on each succeeding Sunday, in

vol. i. s

an orthodox manner which defied criticism.
If his homily was short it was not the less
popular on that account, and, if he failed in
the difficult task to please everybody, nobody
was heard to dissent or murmur loudly
at what he did, or did not.

The vicar, as he sat opposite his old
friend and patron, still retained some of the
qualities which distinguished him as " Old
Nails." His cheek bones were high, and
two small, contracted black eyes twinkled
brightly under a pair of beetling, shaggy,
grey eyebrows with a penetrating glance.
His aquiline nose had been damaged more
than once when leading; " Gown " against
"Town," but the bridge still remained
whole, if the arch was not altogether
perfect. To say that the Reverend Robert
Roundhead had a mouth might seem superfluous,
but it looked better designed as a
model for a buttonhole on a large scale than
anything else, exhibiting, as it did, a simple

slit. A broad, square forehead, however,
from which was carefully combed long,
silvery hair — once as black as the raven's
wing —to fall over the back of a well-shaped
head, revealed intellectual capacity of no
mean order, and he had but to speak a few
words in that full, deep-toned voice which
the ignorant and vulgar cannot imitate, to
convince the listener that he had not been
so idle as, apparently, he wished to bethought.
His face, cleanly shaven, was
somewhat florid, and he looked altogether
as if health and strength being conceded to
him in his youth, they were still the companions
of his middle age, and had not fora
single day deserted " Old Nails."

You like the wine?" said the colonel,
after a pause, during which he continued to
drum a tattoo upon the table ; but so gentle
was the touch that not the faintest sound
was heard.

s2

"With a palate it would be impossible
not to do so," replied the vicar, mechanically
refilling his glass.

The silent tattoo terminated abruptly,
and instead of bringing the replenished glass
to his lips, the vicar let it remain where it
stood, and looked at his companion with
something like an expression of astonishment.

A most decided change had certainly
taken place in the outward appearance and
manner of Colonel Leferne.

See if that door is closed," said he,
sternly. " We have listeners here, and
what I have to say is for your ears alone."

The door being found to be securely
closed, the vicar resumed his seat in silence,
as if under military orders, and seemed to
forget that a full glass of the disentombed
old port remained within easy reach.

There is nothing of the past in connection
with myself, Bob, " said the colonel,
jerking his chair a few inches nearer to that

of his companion, " but what is generally,
and even perhaps particularly, known to you.
Between us there have been few secrets,
and, if 1 refer to what has been, you will
excuse what would appear to be a prosaic
proceeding, and indulge me with patience."

The vicar was about making an acquiescing
observation in reply, but two raised
fingers of the colonel's right hand checked
the words, and, whatever they might have
been, they died in silence upon his lips.

Did it ever present itself to your philosophical
mind, Bob," resumed the colonel,
"that the planets forming the solar system,
storms, seasons, months, years, and ages,
which move in undeviating cycles, are not
more determined and immutable in their
course than we are in that which we are compelled
to take ?"

The signal for forbearance of speech being
again made, the Rev. Robert Roundhead
reserved his answer.

"We may appear to be masters of ourselves
and actions," continued the colonel ;
but are we so, in fact ? Sorrow and joy,
for the most part, hang upon slender
threads, which a breath of fate may snap,
and too often does. Now, look at me, Bob."

The vicar implicitly obeyed the instructions.


■' Here am I," said the colonel, " a victim
to adverse circumstances over which I have
had no more check or control than the express
direction of the most erratic of comets."

The Rev. Robert Roundhead shuffled uneasily
in his seat.

You would convey a negative to this
proposition," resumed the colonel, "and
have me remember that I depended upon a
continuance of fortune's favours, which I
ought to have known was opposed to every
law of precedent."

Without the slightest intention, my dear

Ned, of interrupting your easy flow of
thoughts," replied the vicar, " I must parenthetically
remark that your rocket-like,
sparkling career was too fast to last."

My present condition," rejoined the
colonel, with a deeply-fetched sigh, " is indeed
that of the fallen stick."

The Rev. Robert. Roundhead now deliberately
raised the untasted glass of wine,
and, holding it to the light of the bronzed
lamp, suspended b}^ massive chains above
his head, examined the delicate floating
beeswing, with one eye partially closed,
and, after a sip which might fairly be denominated
" copious," cleared his voice and
thus began :

You were resolved, my dear Ned, both
at Oxford, and at the termination of your
showy university career, distinguished by
many remarkable incidents and episodes, if
not by the highest academical honours, to

be the first man of the day. The pride of
your race appeared to be condensed and
concentrated in you."

A slight flush, from chin to brow, spread
itself over the colonel's wan features at
these words.

And it was obvious to all, my dear Ned
(including myself), who had the infinite gratification
of beholding you, in the meridian of
your popularity, driving that matchless drag
towards Newmarket Heath, drawn by four
high-stepping greys, with two outsiders in
front in crimson liveries, and your neatly-appointed
and well-mounted groom behind,
leading a thoroughbred hack, that it must
be, sooner or later, dust to dust, and ashes
to ashes."

I thought myself capable of maintaining
the position I determined to occupy," remarked
the colonel, sternly.

"A sanguine temperament is not adapted
for cold, methodical calculation," rejoined

the vicar, finishing the wine by a second
sip. " But thirty-eight race-horses in training,
my dear Ned, twelve hunters, four
chargers, eighteen harness-horses, and six
of the most perfect hacks that ever were
girthed, are not kept on trifles light as air."

"I have won forty thousand upon the
throw of a single main," said the colonel,
with a sneer upon his upper lip, as he
jerked back his head with an angry, impatient
gesture.

"And, possibly, lost as much," responded
his companion. " Be that, however, as it
may, my dear Ned. I cannot quite agree
in the defensible position you occupy. We
too often blame and bully circumstances of
which we are the sole authors."

11 Well, well," ejaculated the colonel,
right or wrong, it cannot be said but that
I had my day, and, if I live, it will come
again."

The Rev. Robert Roundhead began to

entertain sudden misgivings concerning the
sanity of his friend.

"Listen," said the colonel, raising the
two fingers of the right hand, a signal universally
obeyed when it was made. " You
men of the Church teach us — or pretend so
to do — that there is almost an inimitable
power in faith ; but I never heard it clearly
defined. What is it?"

The vicar thought well before he spoke r
and bent his eyes intently upon the polished
table just before him as he returned the
answer.

Faith, my dear Ned, as I interpret it, is
the unequivocal assent of the mind, and perfect
trust in undisputed authority."

'And such a condition may control more
than we can well believe," returned the
colonel. " Is that not so ?"

I have always held the opinion," added
the Rev. Robert Roundhead, reflectively y
"that, among the hidden, mysterious influences,

there is none so great as faith.
Unreserved belief is the revealed power of
Heaven itself."

"Then how can I doubt the restoration
of my fallen fortunes, Bob ?" said the
colonel, his eyes dilating with excitement
as he spoke. " I feel — I know that I shall
not die the helpless beggar that I am. A
few years hence, and Aubrey will be of age,
when, if he escapes the trap into which too
many of the youthful Lefernes have fallen,
all will be recovered. I confess, however,"
continued he, " that doubts too often arise
on this point to make me shudder for the
result."

You particularly refer, perhaps, to his
rustic attraction, Ivy Girling," observed his
companion.

"I have often feared, Bob," responded
the colonel, "that she maybe the stormy
petrel heralding the tempest which, notwithstanding
my faith, may shatter my frail

bark. I absolutely depend upon no one and
nothing standing between my son and me
when he can legally act for himself. I am
told that my wife's fortune, to a certain
extent, can then be utilized when my
alchemist plans for the transmutation of the
baser metals into gold, Bob, shall be carried
out before the admiring gaze of a wonder-stricken
world."

Might I venture to ask with earnest
solicitude," returned the vicar, "whether
you have taken, my dear Ned, anything
stronger to-day than a few glasses of wholesome
claret?"

No," replied the colonel, smiling. " If
intoxicated, Bob, it is with hope. But
what I want to call your particular attention
to is the assistance I require at your
hands to help me to extinguish this flame
kindled too long, and which, I fear, burns
with a heat which hot, young blood only
supplies. I have watched them, and know

from what I have seen that, to avoid the
usual mischief which befalls each successive
heir to our house, they must not meet
again."

The Reverend Robert Roundhead pressed
his lips so tightly together that there was
not even the effect of a slit left, and, shaking
his head, expressed a most decided dissent
to the proposed arbitrary course.

Upon his return home for the next
vacation," said the vicar, " I will plumb the
depth of this, probably, shallow pool in
which Love may have dipped his wings
only to strengthen them for a longer flight.
But nothing, my dear Ned, could be more
inexpedient with my late pupil, whom I never
could coach except with kindness, than to
attempt to oppose with force any of his
whims or caprices. An imperative ' you
shall not' would be met with as decided 'I
will.' "

"And yet," returned the colonel, with

flashing eyes, and speaking through his
teeth, " I'm not one of those tame, easy
natures who would receive an answer of
that kind more than once. When I command
my son," continued he, " he must obey."

"To prolong the subject of this discussion,"
added his friend, " is needless. I
will do my best to carry out your wishes,
and entertain little doubt of success. Aubrey,
at least, will confess to me whether
there is any ground for your suspicions, and
then we shall know how to act. For my
own part, I regard the matter as of the
least possible importance, and only as the
natural admiration of a boy for a pretty girl
with whom he has been associated from his
infancy."

"Young tendrils growing together," observed
the colonel, commencing "The Dead
March in Saul" upon the table, "cling
closely. Be it, however, as you will, Bob.
I have no doubt that you are right, and

leave, therefore, the delicate case in your
hands."

Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — having,
at this particular link in the chain of conversation,
applied a force superior to the
resistance, opened the door of the apartment,
and, being furbished to the full extent
of his resources, skill, and taste, looked
conscious of an effect which he desired the
spectator to appreciate. After clearing his
throat of an imaginary impediment, Mr.
Soppy proceeded to dispel any baseless
conjectures that might have arisen concerning
the cause of his presence, and, with his
heels close together, shoulders back, and
breast thrown out, delivered himself of a
pithy and, as he hoped, well-digested piece
of oratory as follows : —

I 'ave the honour to announce, colonel,
that Queen Mary, her colt foal, and a small,
bony boy 'ave arrived in charge of them.
Long as the journey has been, sir, you will

be pleased to learn that the grand, old
animal is as fresh as a frisking kitten, and
her foal — if I'm any judge — is a pictor o r
beauty. The bony boy, colonel, is quite
beneath any description at my hands, being,
as I learn from his own lips, a young savage
picked up from the gutter by your old
servant, Samuel Wideoo."

"Have my orders been carried out?"
said the colonel, sharply.

"To the utmost extent of my ability,
sir," responded Mr. Soppy, believing that
but one inference could be drawn concerning
the perfection of the task committed to
his hands.

Then come," added the colonel, addressing
the vicar, as he rose from his seat,
"and let us pay a visit to my idol, once
worshipped with the devotion of a fanatic."

CHAPTER XVIII.

7 MHE jackdaws wheeled around the tower
-*- of the old Norman church in the immediate
vicinity of Greatwood Park, as they
had done for successive generations of jackdaws.
There appeared to be little or no
more change in them than in the gnarled
ivy which had grown, and crept, and clung,
and twisted, and twined among the grey-crossed
stones for ages long since numbered
with the past. There always appeared to
be matters of family interest for discussion
among the jackdaws. They chattered, like
members of the human family, monotonously
about their rights and wrongs, and privileges,
and took advantage of every favour-vol.

I. T

able opportunity for setting the written
laws of property at defiance by robbing their
neighbours in a bare-faced, or secret and
clandestine manner, as best suited the emergency
of the position. Nothing, in sober
truth, could be more imitative than the
jackdaws. They mated in due season,
built their nests, reproduced themselves in
their successors, quarrelled, fought, plundered
each other, died either from accident,
disease, or age, and made room, when the
vacancy occurred, from stern necessity, for
their heirs and heiresses ready to occupy
the parent perch. So the jackdaws went
and came, and the ivy twisted, twined, and
crept among the grey-missed stones of the
old Norman church with little outward or
visible change as time went on.

There were narrow niches in the old
Norman church, wherein stone figures of
Our Lady and attendant saints once stood,

but now empty, and bearing passive testimony
of the hand of violence and triumphant
days of the Puritan. Richly-stained
2flass windows softened and mellowed the
light in prismatic colours as they fell on
dusty tomb and time-worn monument, banner,
helmet, and shield, which stood and
were hung against the crumbling walls —
silent witnesses of the x past. Proud heraldic
escutcheons, faded and tattered, were
suspended here and there, behind which
drowsy bats clung and made their homes.
Marble figures, as large as life, reclined, with
uplifted hands pressed together and faces
turned Heaven-ward, singly and in pairs,
praying for what, it is to be hoped, had long
since been received, considering the position
had been maintained for centuries.

By itself the cenotaph of Sir Harold
Leferne — he who had vowed his bones
should bleach in the Holy Land — stood

t2

apart in the chancel, and in complete
harness, with beaver up, the crusader was
sculptured in jet black stone, for ever praying
with raised eauntletted hands like those
who kept him such long, good, and close
company. In old English letters, almost
illegible, this panegyric to the stately family
was deeply cut beneath :

To the Memory of
SIR HAROLD LEFERNE,

Of the ancient and knightly family of the Lefernes,

Residents for ages in this County,

Descended, according to unchallenged tradition,

from Aubrey Sir Edward, son of John Fits Balearic Leferne,

to whom William the First presented

the Manors of Greatwood.

The narrow side-door of the old Norman
church led into what was known in its
earlier days as the sacristy. It was a door
with massive iron wrought hinges, and a
huge, quaint-looking lock, out of all proportion
to its width and height, and when the
key — a primitive production of the locksmith's
art — was pushed within it, there was

a harsh, grating noise which told of rust.
So at least Aunt Margaret thought, as she
essayed to enter the sacristy one night
when stronger nerves might have quivered,
perhaps, to have accomplished a similar task.
Wrapped in a black mantle which entirely
covered her figure, Margaret Leferne
looked, in the fitful gleams of the moon,
which burst from between rolling masses of
storm-driven clouds, as scarcely belonging
to things of the earth, but rather of the unreal
and incorporeal. Ghastly white were
her features as the pale moonlight streamed
now and then upon them, and her breath
was quick and short as she turned the key
with a harsh, grating sound in the huge,
quaint-looking lock, and, pressing open the
door, glided with noiseless step into the
sacristy. Perchance each nook and corner
were well known to her, for with unhesitating
footstep she passed through the dark,
Gothic room, and entered a side aisle of the

church, and from thence to the chancel,
where, pausing to clutch the cross which
hung, as usual, upon her bosom, she fell
slowly upon her knees before the altar, and
became as motionless as the sculptured
figure of Sir Harold Leferne, by the side of
which she knelt in earnest supplication,
whispered as the words were from a sad
and sorrowful heart.

Gloom and silence reigned. The wind of
the winter's night moaned through the
leafless branches of the trees like voices of
troubled spirits, and, save when the moon
broke from between black masses of floating
clouds, not a gleam of light was visible.
When, however, the fleeting and uncertain
beams darted through the stained glass
windows they lit up the interior of the old
Norman church with artistic effect, and
dusty tomb, and time-worn monument,
banner, helmet, and shield flashed out from

the depths of darkness, and the marble
figures, ever praying with uplifted hands,
looked ghastly in the extreme.

It seemed long, if it were not so, that
Aunt Margaret remained a supplicant to
heaven for the protection and welfare of
those she loved, and not for herself. With
her lips she prayed, and also with her heart,
that forgiveness might be extended for
transgressions of the past, and that temptation
to sin, perhaps again and again, might
be withstood.

And this was the lonely woman's petition
in the dead and silent hour of the night.

Rising from her knees, and turning to
leave the spot, she saw, in the momentary
light afforded by the moon, a figure, distinct
as anything in life could be, standing
motionless in the centre aisle. Impenetrable
darkness followed, and Margaret Leferne's
blood felt as if turned to ice in her

veins. Again the moon shone forth, and
there stood the figure as palpable to sight
as those chiselled in marble around.

ei Speak," exclaimed Aunt Margaret,
hoarsely, as, in a paroxysm of terror, she
raised her clasped hands, " and say what
or who you are !"

The pale, sickly light was now station T ,
and, as it fell on the form, it was seen, to
raise a hand slowly and press a finger, as if
for silence, across its lips, as mute as those
of a corpse, which, in that place of the dead,
it so closely resembled.

Dizzy with fear, Margaret Leferne stood
rooted to the spot, with fixed and
staring eyeballs at the figure, which again
melted into shadow, and then into darkness.
Upon the light returning it was gone, and
without a sound or trace of its having been.

Margaret Leferne, however, moved not,
but stood where she was, gazing with eager
and feverish look at vacancy.

"Heaven have mercy on me!" at length
she ejaculated, in a tremulous voice. "Am
I, too, becoming mad ?"

It might be the effect only of a heated
imagination, but a long-drawn sigh seemed
to fall upon her ear.

Beads of cold perspiration stood upon
the brow of Margaret Leferne, as she staggered
a few steps forward on tottering
limbs down the aisle, and, governed by
fear, she hastened into the sacristy, and
through the door by which she entered,
fleeing along the path leading to the Hall
as if pursued by something too horrible for
mortal eyes to look upon again.

CHAPTER XIX.

rflHINGS pertaining to horses, as well as
-*- their noble and ignoble masters, appear
to move in circles, and occasionally
come back to the point from whence they
started. Long years had come and gone,
with their inevitable changes and vicissitudes,
and there stood Queen Mary in her
old box again at Greatwood Park, with her
colt-foal by her side, and, notwithstanding
his sire was unknown, he looked patrician
blood from ear to heel.

The royal advent being expected, due
preparations had been made accordingly for
the arrival, and Mr. Soppy found himself
compelled, from the number of male servants

iD the establishment being limited to one,
to carry out the short and sharp orders of
his master by laying hold of the handle of
a broom, and, no scrutinizing eyes being
near to wound the sensitiveness of his
nature, to set diligently to work, in his
shirt-sleeves, and sweep away colonies of
spiders, with all their vested rights in webs
old as the hills, and accumulated dust which
smelt ill-flavoured and mouldy. From some
stimulating cause, however, — perhaps the
wholesome desire of carrying out with the
utmost strictness the colonel's short and
sharp orders — Mr. Soppy proceeded with
his aegean task with great assiduity, and
the stable, neat and trim as a lady's boudoir
in other days, began to look something like
that when Gauntlet's daughter was as young
and promising as her own son — sire unknown.


Mr. Soppy became warm with the prosecution

of his roost unusual work, and, whenever
the outward effects of heat were visible
on his manly brow or well-starched shirt,
his temper was certain to correspond, and
tg be found anything but cool. Dame
Soppy, a small bony boy, or anyone of a
meek and tame disposition, might have discovered
that Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas
Soppy — gave vent to his temper when a
certain amount of pressure became disagreeable
to bear, and that at no period of his
sublunary existence did he feel more inclined
to have recourse to the safety-valve
than when warm at his work.

His task being, as he fervently hoped,
finished, Mr. Soppy glanced with nice scrutiny
around him to see if it would be likely
to pass the keen inspection of the colonel,
and, feeling satisfied upon this point, he
flung the broom from his hands with needless
violence, and announced without introduction

that " no earthly pleasure he should
enjoy so much as punching somebody's 'eat."

The impulse, however, to commit a most
unjustifiable assault did not last long, and,
upon the colonel crossing the threshold of
the stable, no one could possibly exhibit a
more amiable and pleasant demeanour than
Mr. Thomas Soppy.

The morning succeeding their advent,
and when the lark had scarcely shaken the
dewdrops from her wings, Queen Mary and
the Unknown were enjoying an early breakfast
supplied by their faithful attendant,
Johnny Tadpole, who had passed a somewhat
restless night under the manger,
among the straw, for want of better lodgings.
Having attended to their wants and
necessities, Johnny took "a header" in a
fresh-pumped pail of water, wished himself
as dry as possible with a handful of hay,
and, as he said afterwards, " felt as well as
could be expected."

His dress being complete when his shirt-collar
was buttoned, Johnny Tadpole
thought that it could give no offence to
anyone — but in that particular he found
himself mistaken, as will be seen presently
if he just had a "look out." The stable
window being higher than four feet nothing,
he turned the pail, in which he had taken
a header," bottom upwards, and, elevating
himself upon the bottom, proceeded to
sweep the horizon in a free and easy manner
by crossing his arms upon the sill of the
open window, and resting his chin upon his
arms. Nothing, however, could be more
natural and comfortable than Johnny's position,
and why Mr. Thomas Soppy should
have taken exception to it must rest with
himself. That absolute dictator, however,
perceiving from his own dormitory, high
among the crooked chimneys of the Hall,
that the small, bony boy was taking what

he considered to be a great liberty, by
having a "look out" without his permission,
resolved to put an effectual stop to all such
misconduct for the future, and, hastening
the completion of a negligent and early
matin toilet, he rapidly descended from
among the crooked chimneys, and, with
stealthy tread and dodging manoeuvres
which completely covered his approach, was
close to Johnny's " look out " before he was
aware of being the observed of one observer.

Upon the eyes of Johnny Tadpole meeting
those of Mr. Thomas Soppy close beneath
the stable window, the former drooped with
instinctive modesty, and he felt, without
knowing why, abashed.

You young logarithm !" exclaimed Mr.
Soppy, with the most severe of countenances,
do you know what you're doing?"

"Nothing, sir," replied Johnny, with
raised eyebrows. "I'm doing nothing, sir."

"Nothing, sir!" repeated Mr. Soppy, ina
sarcastic, jeering voice. " Do you mean
to tell me, you permutatecl combination,
that in abusing the liberty of the subject
you're doing nothing?"

Johnny Tadpole began to suspect that he
must have committed some indictable offence
against the laws of his country, and, dependent
upon the rectitude of his conscience,
felt resigned to the consequences. The cry
for " police " would not have astonished
him.

Do you mean to tell me, you discounted
equation," added Mr. Soppy, rolling his
head from side to side, " that you're profitably
employing your time by staring out o'
winder early in the morning, and, in doing
nothing, are a-doing what you ought to do ?
For shame, you decimal cipher ! Think of
the busy bee, which sweet little insect, with
ready sting for bony boys, according to my

favourite poet, Doctor Watts, gathers honey
all the day, and sets an example by eating
none. If boys — bony boys — would do the
same, what an improvement that would be
in their minds and manners ! Shut the
winder, you fraction less than a unit, and
take hold of a broom. "

Johnny Tadpole now knew the particular
duty which was expected at his hands, and
before Mr. Soppy could lift the latch of the
stable door, and complete an entrance, the
broom was at work with some show if with
little purpose.

That's right," said Mr. Soppy, complacently
folding his arms across his breast.
Sweeping," continued he, u is one thing.
Looking out o' winders another. The colonel,
my young quotient, will be here before
breakfast this morning, and, if every straw
isn't in its place, look out, but not out o' winder,
for that with him might be" — dropping

vol. I. u

his voice to a solemn bass — "sudden death."

Johnny shivered slightly at these awful
words ; but nevertheless persevered with
the broom. Mr. Soppy, seeing the effect
produced, resolved to continue in the same
strain.

You've heard of Blue Beard, I suppose ?"
said he.

Johnny admitted that he had, and considered
him a great brute.

Whether Mr. Soppy was about making an
injudicious comparison between his master
and the well-known, if not popular hero
referred to, will never be known, for he
was completely silenced, and greatly subdued
in demeanour, by the sudden and unexpectedly
early appearance of Colonel
Leferne himself standing within the doorway
of the stable.

Mr. Soppy bowed stiffly upon the entrance
of the colonel, as a habit either

natural or acquired, and Johnny Tadpole
instinctively raised a finger and thumb to
the straight piece of hair growing in a highly
perpendicular condition in the centre of
his forehead, and pulled it with as much
reverence as could be expressed through
such a stiff and wiry medium.

The colonel, however, was anything but
demonstrative, and, taking no notice whatever
of either, strode to the side of Queen
Mary, and gazed at her with a fixed look
of admiration, which a lover might have
bestowed upon his mistress, long lost to
sight but cherished in memory.

And so thus we meet again," said he,
caressing the arched neck of his old favourite,
as, with ears thrown back, she continued
to eat her corn in the manger, and
seemed to be listening attentively to what
was being said to her, " with a colt-foal at
your foot, eh, my Queen ?"

u2

Her Majesty was in the habit of lifting a
near hind leg in a threatening manner
whenever a compliment was paid either to
her beauty or accomplishments.

She won't kick ye, sir," observed Johnny
Tadpole, drawing back the angles of his
mouth almost to his ears, as he stood with
his crossed hands leaning upon the handle
of the broom, and his chin resting upon his
hands. " She won't kick ye, sir," repeated
he, grinning. " It's only her gammon."

Mr. Soppy looked at Johnny with an expression
of such supreme surprise at his presumption
for uttering a syllable in the august
presence of Colonel Leferne uninvited that,
had Johnny's boots been long enough for
the purpose, he would then and there have
hidden himself within their depths.

A little hollow in the back," continued
the colonel, placing a hand tenderly over
the part alluded to, " and rather sunken in

the eyes, but beautiful still, for all that time
has done. Care, too, has been taken of ye.
That I can see."

It was impossible now for Johnny Tadpole
to refrain from paying what he conceived
to be an opportune tribute of praise
to his patron, whom, as he thought, was
ever associated with kindness to man and
beast, and "bony boys."

"Mister Wideoo, sir," said he, with not a
little dread as to ulterior consequences,
always took care o' the old mare first,
whatever he might want himself."

And did you assist him from anything
that you might want ?" asked the colonel,
turning, as it would seem, the first look
towards Johnny Tadpole.

Well, sir," replied Johnny, again bringing
back the angles of his mouth in close
proximity to his ears, and resuming his position
upon the handle of the broom, " I

couldn't do much ; but what I could do, I
did. When times were hard — because cows
were dry — I used to go to my money-box,
and buy her bran and beans with my savings,
while they lasted."

While they lasted," repeated the colonel,
as he appeared to weigh the conclusion of
the sentence. " You could do no more."

Mr. Soppy, with the prompt instinct of a
natural, born courtier, began to smile benignly
on the fraction less than a unit.

The attention of the colonel was now bestowed
upon the Unknown occupying the
same box with his royal mother.

A lengthy colt," said he, expressing his
opinion aloud, " good brisket, wide hips,
and well let-down quarters. He's been
handled, I suppose ?" continued the colonel,
addressing Johnny.

"Like a baby, sir," responded Johnny,
still leaning for support on the broom.

He's been my playmate since the day he
was born, and can almost do anything but
talk. He'd follow me up a ladder, sir, if
I were to call him after me."

In that case," observed the colonel, in
an undertone, as if communing with himself,
"he will not require much breaking.
It is not often, Soppy," continued he, "that
such legs, knees, and muscular thighs as
those are seen in one of his age."

Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — was
prepared to swear on the spot that the opportunity
was rarer than the rarest gem.

You will stop here for a time," said the
colonel to Johnny Tadpole, " and continue
to attend to the mare and foal."

This command was given in a manner
which conveyed the imperative mood, and
Johnny thought, at least, that his inclination
might have been consulted by way of
preliminary proceedings.

An irresistible impulse, however, committed
him to the compact, and, with a
respectful " Yes, sir," he felt that he could
no more escape from the net cast over him
by Destiny, or the despotic hand of Colonel
Leferne, than a small, weak fly from the more
than usually strong web of a muscular spider.

You will see," continued the colonel,
speaking to Mr. Soppy with severity of
look, "that the boy is properly attended to.
Let him sleep in the house, and tell your
wife to be a Mistress Wideoo to him."

Johnny felt the greatest satisfaction at
hearing these words, for they supported the
hope which glowed in his contracted little
breast, that the few words of praise with
which he had spoken of the now lonely
inhabitant of Bromley Marsh had not been
thrown away.

If it's your wish "

It is my wish," interrupted the colonel,

turning irritably upon his heel so as to cut
short Mr. Soppy 's remark.

I was merely about to venture to hob-serve,
Colonel," rejoined Mr. Soppy, speaking
like one who had met with an unmerited
injury, " that, knowing what the duties of
a mother air, and willing to perform the
same, I myself will be a Missis Wideoo to
him. During his visit, sir, long or short as
the case may be, to Greatwood Park, Tadpole
shall mean the same as Soppy. He
shall be, as we used to say at Hoxford, my
halter Hero."

You've not forgotten your University
training, I hear," returned Colonel Leferne,
good-humouredly.

"No, sir, no," added Mr. Soppy, pursing
his lips together and looking at the ceiling
of the stable above his head with what he
believed to be a lofty expression ; " I still
fall back upon my classics and mathematics,

and have forgotten, I believe, more than indeterminate
quantities of song-headed, addle-brained
undergraduates ever remembered."

Come, then," said the colonel, laughing,
ci solve me a problem."

Mr. Soppy expressed his utmost readiness
to do so, but added, with commendable
carefulness, " that he had met with problems
rather tough, and which seemed to
him designed to puzzle not only the brains of
the wise, but also those of the otherwise."

"Given," said the colonel, raising his two
fingers for immediate attention, " that I sella
horse for one hundred pounds and lose
twenty per cent on the purchase money,
expecting, however, to have made ten percent,
profit, how much will he have fetched
less than the estimated value ?"

Loss dealing," responded Mr. Soppy,
determined to evade what he could not
answer, " is anything but a mathematical

certainty, unless you put it down as the
certainty of a total loss. I should therefore
say, Colonel, that the estimated value
of an animal sold under disadvantageous

circumstances would be "

"An indeterminate quantity, eh?" added
the colonel, laughing, as he left Mr. Soppy
to finish the solution of the problem to
Johnny Tadpole

CHAPTER XX.

'V^' ^ 00 ^ p a ^ e? ^ w y" sa ^ ^ e s ane "

-*- keeper to his daughter as they sat
together, as usual, in the cottage parlour
one evening after his " rounds."

Do I, father ?" she replied, keeping her
eyes fixed on the smouldering embers on
the hearth, as if intently watching the bright
sparks fading away.

cl Yes," rejoined he, with an impatient
movement of his chair, " and I've noticed
for some time past that you're not the lass
you were. What's the matter or wrong
with ye ?"

"Nothing," she returned, with scarcely a

perceptible shake of the head, and still
watching the bright sparks fading away.

A silence of a few seconds ensued, but
the gamekeeper shifted uneasily in his seat.

Are ye out of health, lass," resumed he,
that you're dull and gloomy like ?"

"No," she said, repeating the slight
motion of the head. " I am quite well,
father. At least, I think so."

I wish to God that I could think so,"
responded the strong man, with a quivering
voice. " For months past you've daily
looked to me getting paler and thinner,
until I can keep the secret no longer from
ye, Ivy."

"What secret?" she exclaimed, with
frightened look.

"The sorrow I feel in the change that I
see," he replied. " I cannot sleep for the
thought of it, and nights and days it's ever
in my mind."

Ivy looked wistfully at her father as he
spoke, and unshed tears rose to swim in her
eyes.

Since your mother was lost to me,
Ivy," he continued, "you have been the
sole joy of my life. I've nothing to live for
but you, my little lass, and to see ye
wasting before my eyes, makes ray heart
feel that it's wasting too."

If changed as you say, father," returned
she, "I am quite unconscious of it."

You may be," added he, with an earnest
gesture; "but I am not. There's something
that preys on your mind, Ivy, 1
think."

And what can that be ?" she replied, asa
sickly smile spread itself over her features.

I cannot guess," rejoined her father,
but, if there's anything I can say or do to
make ye happier, you have but to tell me
what it is, and it shall be done without a
second thought."

Her eyes became full to overflowing, and
the tears ran over to course themselves down
her cheeks.

Perhaps, lass," continued he, " our
home is too dull and lonesome for ye, and
I'm free to confess that there's little enough
here to make a young heart glad."

61 1 love my home, father," returned Ivy,
and no place in the wide, wide world
could I love so well."

It is not your wish, then, that we should
leave?"

11 Leave ?" she repeated, drawing a hand
across her brow in a confused manner, as if
the word had stunned her. "Leave?"

I shouldn't have thought of it myself,"
added her father; "but parson Roundhead,
in speaking of ye, said it was a gloomy
place for one o' your age to live in, and he
believed that you'd be better away."

u Perhaps he is right," responded Ivy,

in a whisper scarcely audible, with her eyes
once more fixed upon the bright sparks
among the ashes on the hearth. " I might
be better away, and yet I must remain."

Why ?" asked her father, for the words
were not lost upon him.

Because I would rather die here," replied
she, with unwonted energy, " than
live elsewhere."

"Well, well, lass !" said her father, in a
soothing voice, " the parson only meant
kindly to ye. He was only thinking o' your
good."

It may be so," rejoined she, with her
cheeks flushed with two hectic, burning
spots, "but his remedy sounds like cruelty
to me. I cannot leave."

We'll say no more, then, upon that
point," returned the gamekeeper. " I
meant only that, if there was anything I
could do to make my little girl " — he now

rose from his chair, and, with the smile of a
loving father as he was, passed a broad,
rough palm over her forehead, and twined
his fingers tenderly among the silken curls
"to make my little girl," he repeated,
pressing a kiss upon one of the hectic, burning
spots, " look better and happier. I
only wanted to know what it was for it to
be done. I'd leave my service in the old
family, friends, neighbours, and home for
your sake, Ivy."

"You were ever kind," added his daughter,
" and never more so than in your
present thoughts of me; but there is nothing
I can have at your hands to make me
better or happier."

We will wait and watch, then, lass, and
see what time will do," said the gamekeeper.
"The spring flowers will be here
soon, and they may bring the bloom upon
your cheeks again."

vol. i. x

Among the first of the spring flowers,
father," responded Ivy, " are Sir Harold
Leferne's daffodils, and perhaps, in remembering
all I have heard of them, I never
feel a wish to welcome the spring."

"And yet it's a glad season," rejoined her
father, " let the gossips say what they will
of the daffodils. I often think, Ivy — having
no companion to talk to in my rounds — that
things of the spring are as wonderful to see
as what the parson tells us of the resurrection
of the dead."

"The dead sometimes come to life again
before the appointed time," observed Ivy,
moodily.

What do you mean ?" said he, as if
fearing the words meant more than they
expressed.

Nothing to make you wonder, father,"
she replied. " But, if you have sometimes
thought for want of a companion, so have I."

And too sadly, I fear, lass, of late," returned
lie ; " but why, I cannot say."

u Neither can I explain," added she, " if,
indeed, it be so."

"What is that?" cried the gamekeeper,
almost at the pitch of his voice, as he staggered
two or three steps backwards, and
pointing to the latticed window as if terror-stricken.


Ivy did not so much as turn her head,
although her breast heaved convulsively,
and her expanded eyes showed the fear in
her heart as she kept them rigidly fixed
before her on the hearth.

What do you see, father ?" she asked,
in a low, hoarse voice, after a pause of three
or four seconds.

"It is gone now," he replied, with a
spasmodic sob, and, as if ashamed at the
alarm he had exhibited, added, with a
feeble attempt at a laugh, " Perhaps it

x2

was only the light of the fire on the glass."

Is it gone — quite gone ?" inquired Ivy r
still without turning her head.

Yes," responded her father, with ghastly,
colourless cheeks, and remaining where he
stood, looking furtively at the window.
Whatever it was it is gone."

It was a " — her eyes now slowly turned
in the direction of her father's, as if the
temptation to look in the same direction
was not to be withstood — " it was a woman's
face, was it not?"

Have you, then, seen it before ?" asked
he, in tremulous accents, as if avoiding an
answer.

"Many times of late," rejoined Ivy, " but
I thought it might be a disorder of my brain,
and nothing more. When alone," continued
she, "and about this time, father, I have
seen pressed against that window-pane, a&
you have seen to-night, a face which looked

as if belonging to another world, with
blanched, hollow cheeks, and sunken eyes,
fixed in a lifeless, corpse-like stare at me."

I'm no coward," returned her father, ina
short, thick breath, "but I hope never to
see that face again. What can it be ?"

Heaven alone knows !" added his daughter.
" I have told you all I know or have
seen."

11 It's very strange, Ivy," said the gamekeeper,
laying a hand upon his brow, as
if to calm the confusion of his thoughts.
u And yet," continued he, " perhaps not so
much so as it seems. There was the face,
no doubt, and just as you say it looked."

Of that you can best judge, father,"
responded she, "for I did not see it tonight.
Its dead eyes make me shiver
so."

And so they did me," he rejoined, "as
well they might ; but we'll talk no more

about them now. I'll get a stoup of ale,
and, when less thirsty, think what's the best
to be done."

"I think I know the best, father," returned
Ivy, (( if you will listen to arne."

"To be sure I will," added the gamekeeper,
relieved with the hope that his
daughter's suggestion might fill the void in
his own distracted thoughts.

Then let us keep this secret as I have
kept it," continued Ivy, f 'for I've heard
that death soon stills the tongue that speaks
of the wraith."

"Do you think it was a wraith?" asked
her father, with icy dread chilling the blood
as it felt to stop in his veins.

"What else can it be?" she replied.
Coming and going like a shadow without
a sound, that face, father, belongs to the
dead."

I — I — I almost think it must," stain-ordered

he. " I never saw one living look
like that. But what can it come for?"

"Perhaps as the messenger of mercy,"
rejoined Ivy, solemnly, " to warn us of
coming evil. I, at least, have treated it as
such, and have prayed, father, the livelong
night, that you might be spared even knowing
what it was."

It was always so with my little lass !"
returned the gamekeeper, folding her in his
arms. " Her first and last thought has ever
been of her fond old father."

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME,

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

I

Toe FssT Te feast

By

John Minus

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

e>25
hAe2^^

VOL. II.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/toofasttolast02mill

TOO FAST TO LAST

BY

JOHN MILLS

AUTHOR OF

&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON;
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1881.
All rights reserved.

TOO FAST TO LAST,

CHAPTER I.

rriHE reflective powers of Colonel Leferne
-■- were engaged, and even riveted upon
things past, present, and to come* With
his eyes fixed steadfastly before him, and
resting on " nothing," suspended by an invisible
thread between the ceiling and the
floor of the library, he sat in a chair designed
for ease of limb and repose of brain ;
but not measured — as it would appear — to
produce either effect with the slightest approach
to a certainty ; for he was physically
restless, and his mind, from the knitted
frown on the brow, appeared ill at ease.

VOL. II. B

Colonel Leferne sat much longer than he
himself was aware, mzm£f^ with blindness
eyelids at no part or portion of any corporeal
substance, hung by an imperceptible
thread, and, the more he gazed, the wider
seemed to be the poles of mental satisfaction.

By accident, or, at least, by some unforseen
cause, his eyes at length turned upon
the portrait of a departed Leferne, arched
in steel, over the hisli and richly-carved
oaken mantel-tree, where, with a hand resting
on the crossed hilt of his sword, he
stood scowling: on men and things below.
The '* Past " and the " Present " regarded
each other menacingly, and he of the canvas
looked ready to draw a keen edge upon
him of the flesh.

You gave us," soliloquized the colonel,
nodding familiarly at the portrait, " that
magnificent motto, ' To Live ivith Will 
and set as noble an illustration of
it — if ordinary credence may be placed in
your biography — as could well be expected

from its author. Our house, sir knight," —
the speaker's upper lip curled sarcastically
as he spoke — " has sustained its true intent
and meaning from generation to generation.
You " — he again nodded at the portrait —
are responsible for the first precept, and
I, perhaps, for the latest example."

It might be that the eyes of him of the
'canvas" became painful to stare at longer
by those of him of the "flesh ;" for Colonel
Leferne's dropped suddenly as he finished
the sentence, and he commenced drumming
on the table with the ends of his fingers
some lively bars of music known only to
himself; for not a sound came from them,
albeit the movement was active and even
spirited.

If grace and elegance can be achieved in
the opening of an ordinary door, hung on
common hinges, then the combination of
these effects was produced as Mr. Soppy —
Mr. Thomas Soppy — introduced himself,
and, with a flourish which defied competitive

B 2

rivalry, said, "Do you receive, sir?'^

The colonel turned his head languidly
towards the quarter whence the question
emanated, and with half-closed eyes looked
at Mr. Soppy without giving utterance to a
syllable, and continued his silent harm on'.

Mr. Soppy, personating Patience, waited
for a reply, and, waiting much longer than
lie expected, looked embarrassed. The
colonel, from the twitching of his lips, appeared
in the full enjoyment of Mr. Soppy's
evinced perplexity, and anything but disposed
to offer immediate relief.

Mr. Soppy, feeling it irksome beyond endurance
to remain longer a lonely auditor
to dumb concord, coughed, bowed by way
of apology for coughing, and recovered his
normal position with his toes turned out
and his heels turned in.

The Colonel, notwithstanding these outward
and visible signs of a perturbed spirit,
was in no hurry to put an end to the evident
torment of Mr. Soppy's sensitive

nature. In all popular melodies there are
variations, as Mr. Soppy saw but did not
hear.

There being, however, limits to all things
of reasonable elements, Mr. Soppy resolved
to be no longer a witness of these silent
changes, and he once more repeated the
question,

Do you receive, sir?"

Colonel Leferne raised the two forefingers
of his right hand in the ordinary
manner to command uninterrupted attention,
and replied, with a kind of hiss
thrush his teeth,

'the devil, if he waits."

Mr. Soppy bowed a conditional concurrence.


•'It is not exactly the gentleman you
mention, sir," resumed he, "but Mister
Jeremiah Early 'as called, and requests a
audience."

"Let him come in," curtly rejoined his
master.

A reasonable conclusion may be drawn
that Jeremiah Early was barely without the
door of the library when permission was
given for him to be within it ; for scarcely
had it been conveyed when he appeared
with the suddenness of a spring having been
touched, his movement being purely mechanical.


'• Glad to see you, Early," was the
colonel's salutation, but whatever might bethe
degree of his happiness, positive, comparative,
or superlative, by the ingress of
Jeremiah Early, Esq., attorney-at-law,
solicitor in the High Court of Chancery,
and gentleman by special Act of Parliament,
it produced no hilarity of spirits.

With almost simplicity of manner he
pointed to an uneasy chair with a narrow
seat and straight back, and the instinct of
Jeremiah's nature told him that he was
then and there to occupy that seat, and not
make choice of any other, or, if he did, it
would be at his own cost and-evil.

Glad to see you, Early," repeated the
colonel, throwing his head slowly against
the back of his own chair and looking
down his nose with half closed eyelids at
his visitor. " What have you come fur? I
don't remember having sent for you?"

By no means, Colonel," replied Jeremiah,
with nervous quickness as he took
possession of his cruelly uneasy seat. " By
no means, Colonel ; you did not send forme,
sir. I am here, so to speak, a trespasser
without notice to quit ; but ivith
notice to quit, peremptory as the proceeding
might be, I, to sum up the case briefly,
should take up my hat, it being now on the
floor, and step it."

The two fingers were raised at this particular
juncture of the earth's evolution,
and Jeremiah Early looked familiarized
with the signal.

"At our last meeting, sought by me and
held at my special request," said the colonel,
lazily, '' you gave me to understand that,

for the present, and not until my son attained
his majority', could you render meany
further monetary aid. That time not
having arrived, I feel a natural surprise at
your being here uninvited, and shall deem
it a favour if you will dispel all trace of
such a ridiculous emotion with as little delay
as possible. I cannot conceive," continued
the colonel, " a more unbecoming effect
to the features than surprise. From some
mysterious agency, people are certain to
stare wildly under its influence."

The relative position of Colonel Leferne
and Jeremiah Early was this — the former
was supposed to be under the broad thumb
of the latter, and yet, to see them together,
the client looked anything but extinguished.
Jeremiah Early knew as well as any lawyer
in England the power he possessed, and the
indisputable sway held now by him over
the manorial rights, privileges, vert, heriot,
tithes, timber, rents, and everything belonging
in the remotest particular to Great wood

Park ; but in the presence of the colonel
he was meekness itself.

Jeremiah Early was bred and born a man
of business. He invariably kept a sharp
look out for the end — not being particular
concerning the means — and the end with

o

him meant " money !" Through a telescope
of his own construction he viewed the world
far and wide, as inhabited by one race composed
of two equal peoples — knaves and
fools — both of whom might be turned to
advantage at fitting opportunities. Such
was the cynical prospect which Jeremiah
Early took of the world which, in his estimation,
was earthy in the extreme, and not
improved with age.

In person Jeremiah looked a matter-of-fact
man of business, who might have been
born with a pen in his ear. He moved as
if time, being capital, was too precious for
one moment to be lost, and he shot his
words from his lips like peas from a peashooter.
Abrupt in manner and short of

speech was Jeremiah Early. If any man
however, knew himself" it was the present
occupier of that most uneasy seat in the
library, and among other matters he knew
full well that he did not possess the advantage
of carrying with him the best letter of
introduction in the shape of a good personal
appearance ; but, if small to insignificance,
he always looked, what he only aspired to
be, the respectable professional man of
business.

This was the extreme altitude of Jeremiah
Early's ambition regarding his personal appearance,
and the success attending the design
admitted of no dispute, even on the
part of those who were anything but disposed
to be considered his admirers. Jeremiah
was as Avell informed as i\Ir. Soppy
concerning the effect of a well-starched,
well-tied respectable white cravat. He
knew, also, that an unpretending suit of
black was scarcely open to criticism, and, if
he wore cotton stockings, and rather large

bows of black silk ribbon in his highly-polished,
square-toed shoes, well, so did his
father and grandfather before him, at least
so he said, when the subject was mooted.

From a too natural tendency to baldness
in his youth, Jeremiah Early resorted to
the artificial expediency of wearing a wig,
and beginning with the colour commonly
called " flaxen," which resembled to a shade
his prematurely mounted locks, he continued,
"in the sear and yellow leaf of life," to
wear the same shade and hue in the form
of "a thatch" over and above his cleanly-shivered
and ruddy features, by way, perhaps,
of a souvenir of the past. There,
however, was the flaxen wig, be the cause
of its retention what it might. In the
language of a dentist, his incisors would be
pronounced to be prominent, not dissimilar
to a rat's, and, like that well-known cosmopolitan,
his eyes were small, black, vicious,
and twinkling. If such things existed in
the animal creation as rats in human form,

Jeremiah Early might possibly have occupied
high rank, caste, and distinction among
rats.

I almost think, Colonel Leferne," said
the attorney, after a pause of awkward
duration, " that we don't quite understand
each other."

"Don't we*' replied the client, in a
manner and tone of the most complete
inertness. "The faint impression left on
whatever wreck of mind I may possess is
that there was nothing upon which the
slightest misapprehension could possibly
arise. I told you, when the opportunity
last offered, that I wanted more money
immediately, and you told me that more
money I could not have. Nothing could
be more remote. Early, from a misunderstanding
upon the subject. Its chief feature,
indeed, was its childish simplicity."

"Not then, Colonel, I said," rejoined the
lawyer. "Not then."

Your answer I recollect perfectly," returned

the colonel, beginning a very slight
air upon the table, " was conveyed in those
two monosyllables. My memory is not so
treacherous as I thought it to be."

"It's impossible to raise another shilling
by way of mortgage on the property," remarked
Jeremiah. "The interest now, in
one shape or other, eats up the rent-roll."

"So you were obliging enough to inform
me," playfully responded the colonel.
Repetition may be, of course, sometimes
necessary, but 1 don't perceive the irresistible
exigency in the present instance."

"The property can be disentangled "

You must not seriously expect me,
Early," interrupted the colonel, stopping
an unfinished bar of the air and looking
much aggrieved, " to listen again to those
very unpleasant and technical particulars.
As I told you then, so I tell you now, when
the estates can be disentangled, disentail
them. Nothing can be plainer than my
instructions."

Can your son's consent be depended
upon ?" inquired Jeremiah Early, fixing a
keen, penetrating look upon his client.

"Certainly not," replied the colonel,
sinking his head lower down on the back of
his chair, and closing his eyes as if for a
short doze. *' Our daily life, my dear sir,"
continued he, " is made up of a succession
of unexpected events and incidents. Things
happen as a matter of course which were
never dreamt of, and things don't happen
which, looking back by the tranquil light of
history, might be chronicled already as foregone
conclusions. Take my word, Early,
that nothing can be depended upon which
is not uncertain."

But your son "

"Like other sons who, being human,"
interrupted the colonel, " weill be governed
by the stern, unyielding, unflinching hand
of something he can't avoid and knows nothing
about. He is now sharing, upon what
T may call a liberal scale, the remains of his

affectionate father's pecuniary misfortunes ;
but unless I soon throw in a winning: hand
at the fine, old universal game of hazard, at
which we all play, I fear the remains
will — " and the colonel, to illustrate his
meaning, blew the tips of his two generally
used forefingers, by way of telegraphic
signals, in a graceful manner and with a
smile expressive of much cheerfulness.

'' Long before he is of age," observed the
lawyer, " every resource, even to the cutting
of a faggot, will be drained."

In that case," added the colonel, with
great coolness of demeanour, "he will feel
the force and power of money in the total
absence of possessing any — a negative proof
of its value."

His position will certainly be a helpless
one," remarked Jeremiah Early, reflectively,

Derived, I suppose, will be the ill-natured,
worldly charge, from the indiscretions
and sanguine temperament of his
father. The Lefernes," added the colonel,

with a shake of the head, *' have ever been
indiscreet, and, when unlucky, society has
told them so with almost wearisome monotony.
There is nothing, Early, more inexcusable,"
continued he, " than misfortune.
The unlucky must not even hope for pardon
in this sublunary planet."

*' I don't call you unlucky," observed the
lawyer.

Neither do I," added the colonel. "• I
have nothing to complain of on the score
of fortune in the past ; it is the future,
Early, however short, with which / have to
deal."

'such may be said of the lives of most
of us," responded the lawyer, with an inward
chuckle.

"Your rejoinder is common-place," observed
the colonel, drumming noiselessly,
but it possesses the advantage of being
true, and, taking into consideration the
commanding ascendancy of shams which
surround our truly uncertain existence, I

think the merit worthy of conspicuous
distinction."

You " Jeremiah Early stopped

short, and looked confused as he glanced
furtively at his client's careless expression of
features.

Pray proceed," added the colonel.
*' Hesitation too often promotes vulgar
curiosity."

You intend raising more money ?"
sullenly remarked the attorney.

'' I begin to suspect, upon my honour,
Early," replied the colonel, bending forward,
and leaning on the elbows of his
chair, "that you possess the spirit of divination.


"And obtain assistance," continued the
lawyer, " through other hands than mine ?"

"Your hands being rigidly closed, in a
figurative sense, ray dear sir," rejoined the
colonel, playfully, " rendered the alternative
a matter of expediency."

*' The position will not be improved by

VOL. II. C

any such step," returned Jeremiah, and
there was a slightly perceptible threat in the
jerk of the head which followed the words.
'' I have been your legal adviser and
friend "

'^ Friend ?" repeated Colonel Leferne,
lifting his eyebrows, as if much astonished at
the term.

"1 mean "

Don't apologise," said his client, waving
a hand gracefully. " Inconsiderate errors
of speech are anything but exceptional."

We will not differ now about words,"
resumed the lawyer. " What I was about
saying was that, so long as it was possible, I
carried out your wishes to the letter, and
while money could be borrowed on your
life interest you never knew the want of it."

Shall I express my gratitude," responded
the colonel, with an ironical smile, " or
leave it to be inferred ?"

"It is still my wish to assist you," said
Jeremiah, without noticing the remark.

If you could but add interest," returned
the colonel, blandly, *' I think it might lead
to the renewal of our business relations."

'' It is not your interest to remove your
business from my hands," observed the
attorney, with a second jerk of the head.

'' Don't trouble yourself," added the
colonel, " to negative a proposition which
has really never been suggested."

'' Can reliance be placed on your obtaining
the signature of your son at the hour —
ay, the very hour — he is of age ? That's the
question," said Jeremiah, drawing the breath
with a whistling sound through his prominent
incisors.

'ras a matter of opinion. Early," replied
the colonel, again throwing himself back in
his chair, and placing the corresponding tips
of the fingers of both hands together, "I
think it can. I am not accustomed, as you
know, to be refused, and, at the proper
time, I entertain little apprehension of the
defeat of my persuasive powers with

Aubrey, to say nothing of my inability to
assist him with a single shilling unless he
first comprehends the filial duty of assisting
his father by the simple process of signing
his name. Speaking from experience," continued
he, again drumming, " I should say
nothing was easier than signing one's name."

^Tll consider this matter, then," added
the lawyer, '' and prepare a security which
will meet the exigency of the case ; but I
frankly tell you, Colonel Leferne, that, in
so doing, the very chair you sit upon will
not be your own."

"How very awkward!" exclaimed the
client, recommencing a light air. " Without
much thought upon the subject it seems
to me approaching the serious. Early, when
one's easy chair is mortgaged. In consideration
to my sensitive feelings I think you
should not insist upon the chair in which I
sit daily."

Jeremiah vouchsafed no reply, and soon
afterwards took his departure.

CHAPTER 11.

TT7ITHIN a few hours of the arrival of
' Queen Mary and the Unknown at
Greatwood Park, Billy Bottles had, with a
little exercise of his sagacity in devising the
means to the end, succeeded in having an
interview with his old master, Colonel
Leferne, and readily obtaining from him the
re-appointment of head groom to his limited
stud of one brood mare and her foal not far
distant of the eve of becoming a yearling.
At this affecting conference — for Billy Bottles
could not prevent the tears of joy from
mingling with his still happier smiles — he
spoke in poetical praise of the progeny of
the fine old mare, and expressed the opinion
that, under his exclusive management, the
colt might turn out a 'gold mine."

A scarlet flush spread itself from cheek to
brow as the colonel listened to these words.

*' A gold mine, eh !" repeated he. " Well,
who knows ?"

He's a fine, slashing colt, sir," observed
the enthusiastic Bottles, " and has all the
grand points of his grand, old mother without
a single fault, that I can see, in make or
shape. If only as game — if his heart, like
hers, is only in the right place, — he'll coin
cash faster for you than you'll want it."

He will, then, indeed be a flyer !" exclaimed
the colonel, with a short, mirthless
laugh.

I've never seen, sir, a more promising
animal of his age," said Billy Bottles, continuing
the theme of his eulogy; ^'but,
where he came from on the father's side,
Queen Mary only knows. She must ha'
been a sly un, colonel, when out at grass.
She must so''

I'll give him at least the chance of
distinguishing himself," rejoined his master.

*' He shall be entered in engagements in
^vhich he will meet the best of company."

The Unknown '11 not disgrace himself,
sir, in the first of the first class," returned
the ex-trainer, swaying his head from side
to side, " if I'm any judge of what a race-loss
should be. A sterling good colt. He is so."-

When I make a venture," added the
colonel, '' it is not, as you well know, for a
stake of nutshells."

Reminiscences of hateful of money, and
pleasant recollections of a liberal share of
winnings, too large to be realized by minds
of ordinary powers, produced a grin upon
the features of Billy Bottles which stretched
the angles of his mouth to almost painful
tension. He was about making an observation
in reply, designed to be 'comical," buta
well-known signal caught his eye — one
that he had regarded with the utmost attention
in other days, — and, sooner than it
could be told, no one was more grave and
nothings more mute than Billy Bottles.

It is too extravagant to suppose," said
the colonel, letting his two fingers drop
gently to their former position, '' that an
accident of this kind should give me once
more the welcome sight of my colours first
at the finish of a great race, and yet, waking
and sleeping, I've dreamt that such would
be the case before I die."

** Like comes of like," remarked Billy
Bottles, determined to support his argument
now that the signal was not against him.
*the old mare could pull over them at all
distances, and weight never stopped her.
Why shouldn't her son show them a clean
pair of heels in the same slashing style,
colonel ?"

"Whether so or not," replied his master,
I have resolved to give him a trial at any
cost and all risk. You will, therefore, take
him in hand at once, and break and train
the colt as if intended to run for my life, as
perhaps he may."

Billy Bottles looked out of the corners

of his eyes at the colonel, to learn if the
conclusion of the sentence was intended ina
serious point of view, or that best known
to himself as " comical," but the evidence'
being doubtful, he threw up a halfpenny in
his mind's eye, and decided the issue with a
mental toss — head for '' reality," and tail
for '' comical"

"The lad," resumed the colonel, "who
exercised judgment beyond his years in the
journey here, will remain in attendance upon
the colt, as he appears fondly attached to
him, and the expression of his countenance
is honest, an attraction," continued he, as if
speaking to himself, " which greatly pleases
me, perhaps from its excessive rarity."

Johnny Tadpole, sir," replied Billy,
folding his arms, as if about to give judgment
in anticipation of passing sentence,
is one of those young asses that, having
been fed on milk in his early days, will have
to be suckled by somebody to the last of
his precious life. He will so."

Why ?" briefly asked the colonel.

*' It never occurred to a gentleman like
you, sir, perhaps," said Billy Bottles, taking
up the dropped thread of his discourse,
why there are so many out-and-out thieves
in the world ? The cause is this," continued
he, " a cheeky rogue can live, and often
will live well, when a bashful, innocent fool
would be as sure to starve as a rook on
rags. The thieves, colonel, have the pull
in this world, and they know it, their misfortunes
being only when they are found
out. Now, as regards Johnny Tadpole —
gutter-bred as he is — he doesn't know what
thieving means, only from hearsay, and such
is the soft putty of his poor, honest little
heart, that it would take a deal o' training
to get him to steal a bit of sugar from the
cage of a canary. It would sot'

If such are his unsophisticated qualities,"
rejoined his master, *' I prefer no
experiment being made in the endeavour to
improve them."

It wouldn't do, of course, Colonel," returned
Billy, with an air of commiseration,
'for the whole of the generation of flats to
be turned into sharps. A nice man, that I
used to know formerly, called 'era ' Bowels
and brains'"

"Like fish of the sea, river, stream, pond,
and pool," added the colonel, " we swim
among and live upon each other. It's a
great privilege to live, Bottles ! Don't you
think so ?"

To live well, sir, I do," responded
Billy, without the hesitation of a moment.
But when one has to box the compass fora
breakfast, a pinch below now and then,
raises a doubt upon the subject."

It is the pinches you refer to. Bottles,"
rejoined the colonel, with a gentle shake of
the head, " which remind us of the remarkably
nervous stuff forming our component
atoms. The verb to pinch. Bottles, seems
to me also to be the active and passive one of
omnipotent power. We pinch, and are

pinched, from the cradle to the grave, and
the secret of dominant power over men
and things is the comparative force of the
finger and thumb with that of the resisting
power to which the finger and thumb are
applied. Do you understand, Bottles ?"

Not exactly, sir," responded Billy ; " but
I daresay you're right, and as the nice man
I spoke of a little while ago used to say, ' it
takes two beggars to raise a argument,'
I'll not make one of 'em just now. He was
a particularly nice man, though, colonel.
He was 5^."

*' I could almost wish that he was here,
Bottles," returned the colonel, in his languid,
lifeless manner. *' From the brief quotations
you have given of his sayings I think
that he must be, what one seldom has the
opportunity of beholding, the embodiment of
a plain matter of fact. The expression would
doubtless," continued he, " be deemed objectionable
for a drawing-room, but ' bowels
and brains ' appear to me rather felicitous."

He was the sole proprietor of a cat's-meat
barrer, sir, " observed Billy, as if desirous
of elevating the social position of his friend,
and such was his pride that he wouldn't
wheel a pennyworth that wasn't thorough-bred
meat."

"A remarkable man, no doubt," sad the
colonel, without raising his voice; "but
whose society, perhaps, might be oppressive.
There is, however," continued he,
no accounting for self-inflated arrogance,
Bottles, and your friend with the barrow
may often be met in the highways and byways
of the world. I have seen him frequently
myself. Bottles, with his thoroughbred
meat — but carrion, after all, for cats
and dogs — cried by himself."

*have you, sir, indeed !" exclaimed Billy,
placing a too literal meaning upon the
colonel's cynical rejoinder. " Then you
met a very nice man. He was so,'^

"" You have had my orders concerning
the Unknown," responded the colonel, waving

a hand which Billy Bottles knew well
as another signal of old. " Do your best
with him ;" — the two fingers were now raised
for attention — " for he, perhaps, will
have to race for my life."

CHAPTER III.

SIR HAROLD LEFERNE's daffodils
had once more left no trace of their
whereabouts, for they were again underground
; but beneath the young crimson
tints of the oak, and the tender, silken
green of the beech, the blue hyacinth,
anemone, and the white stichwort flower
began to carpet the earth with brilliant
hues. Richness and rose-tinted bells of
dewberries announced that it was blushing
May almost within the arms of her expectant
bridegroom June. It was the season
of the " loves of the flowers," and bees and
butterflies were their messengers.

He had not sought for her — there was
no pretext for the need of any search being

made — but Aubrey Leferne and Ivy Girling
met as if the trysting-place and time had
been fixed with great precision and observed
with the utmost regularity.

It might have been by accident or design,
for nothing was said, either then or afterwards,
concerning that unfrequented spot
where they met after a separation of six
full months, which seemed to one, at least,
and perhaps both, as many as six long,
weary years. The wish was to be alone
with each other, and they were so, with the
greenwood tree for their bower, and silence
and solitude around them.

Are you pleased to see me again ?" said
Aubrey, taking both Ivy's hands within his
own, and holding them as he gazed earnestly
in her face.

''If I were not," she replied, with a
coquettish toss of the head, and leaning
backwards from him at arms' length, as if
detained against her will, " I should be
almost afraid to say so. You look so fierce."

"I might have both looked and felt so,
Iv}^," rejoined he, pulling her gently towards
him, "had you not been here. What !
so long away, and not one kiss ?"

I'm too old to be kissed. Master Aubrey,"
she returned ; "and you ought to
know better than to think of such childish
conduct. We are not children now."

"I wish, Ivy, that we were," added he,
and the distance shortened between his
eager lips and the rose-blush on her cheek;
for I was never so happy as when wandering
through these woods with you." ,

But you seldom wished to kiss me
then," expostulated Ivy, yielding slowly by
inches, but not yet vanquished.

"Amendment must therefore be made,"
cried Aubrey, saluting the maiden's cheek
with detonating force, " for neglected opportunities."


I'm rather surprised, sir," remarked Ivy,
drawing herself a little above her natural
height, and with becoming dignity, "that

VOL. II. D

you don't know better. I understood that
some improvement might be expected from
your Eton manners."

*' You are not angry with me, Iv}-, I
know," responded Aubrey, with a joyous
laugh, " and I'll not repeat the offence for a
little while. I won't, upon my honour."

For a little while ?" echoed she, slowly
scrutinising him from heel to head. " I
begin to think, sir, that your Eton manners
are anything but a change for the better."

"Well, the truth is, Ivy," said he, placing
one of his arms around her slender waist
"with gentle pressure which, it must be confessed,
was not resisted with energy, " we
fellows of the sixth form are compelled to
kiss every pretty girl we meet. We can't
help it."

A flush mantled over Ivy Girling's features
at these words, as if her blood had
been suddenly heated.

A fellow," continued he, looking as
serious as a rebelliously suppressed spasm

of laughter would permit, "belonging to
the sixth form would be expelled if he did
not fulfil this duty with painful strictness."

Then it appears to me, Master Aubrey,"
replied Ivy, making a truly feeble effort to
disengage the arm which encircled her
waist, " that the sooner the sixth form
meets with reform the better."

'' Oh !" exclaimed he, at the pitch of his
voice, which produced a wild commotion
among the young rooks on the wing above
his head, " don't attempt to be funny, there's
a dear little girl ! If there is anything
more melancholy to me in this wide, wide
world than another, it is the abortive
attempt to be droll."

"It was very Stupid of me," she rejoined,
still struggling with waning strength with
the arm.; "but I spoke without thinking."

The wisest, we are told," returned
Aubrey, " too often commit the same venial
error."

There was now a cessation to hostilities,

D 2

and the arm was left in quiet possession.

And so you are really glad to see me
again?" resumed he, walking slowly by her
side, and rendering far greater support to
her weight than appeared necessary from
any outward sign of weakness.

'' I have not said so," responded Iv\^,
letting him understand through the sense of
touch that the arm might receive summary
notice to quit.

"Having counted the hours since we
met," continued he, without noticing her
reply, "by the tick-took of the pendulum
of that old clock of yours."

'' I have done nothing of the sort, Master
Aubrey," rejoined she, with anger which, if
feigned, looked natural in the extreme.

The arm, however, was too strong in
possession, and from this reason alone it
was left in peace.

"Repeating to yourself," continued Aubrey,
without paying the slightest attention
to the denial, and as if, indeed, he had not

heard it, *' the last good-bye we exchanged
until it weighed your tearful eyelids down,
and soothed you to slumber and dreams of
me from wearisome monotony."

I must be permitted to say, sir— = — "

And when morning light succeeded the
night's murky darkness," interrupted he,
you had recourse again to the old clock
to lessen the interval of our separation. I
know it all, Ivy, without your telling me.
We fellows of the sixth form are something
of the nature of the fellowship of the
prophets."

It was a merry, ringing laugh which burst
from Ivy Girling s lips at the conclusion of
this remark, and, to her credit be it recorded,
she stoutly opposed being kissed
again at this juncture, protesting that, as "a
little while had not elapsed, his promise
had not been kept."

'' We fellows of the sixth form," returned
Aubrey, with the gravity of a sage, " are
the best judges in the world about natural

philosophy, and all that sort of thing. Now
it's the most natural of all philosophy for
every fellow on the sixth form to kiss a
pretty girl permanently, if he has the
chance, but never to allow a possible cause
of interruption to his doing so in the shape
of short and sharp repetitions."

The force of the argument prevailing, ora
little while" being supposed, or tacitly
confessed, to be now of the past. Ivy submitted,
without much show of resistance, to
"a short and sharp repetition."

"Nothing to me," resumed Aubrey, maintaining
the position which he had gained,
not without the semblance of a struggle, in
so far as the arm was concerned, "can be
more agreeable than a walk of this kind
with you, Ivy. It is what may be called
choice of its kind."

What would the colonel or my father
"

"Don't mention our stern and arbitrary
fathers, Ivy," interrupted he. "Let us forget

all about our fathers, and, if expedient,
deny our origin. No greater interruption
to my present happiness could possibly present
itself," continued Aubrey, '' than the
appearance of either of them."

What should we do," said Ivy, clasping
her hands together, and becoming several
shades paler as she spoke, " if they were to
see us ?"

I should instantly put this question,"
replied Aubrey. " Change places with me,
messieurs, and how would you like it''

The answer, I fear," rejoined Ivy,
'' would be of little service to me."

"Never fear," returned he. "No opportunity
will arise for its being given. • But
now listen, for I have something to say
which I know — remember I say know —
will please you."

What is it ?" asked Ivy, eagerly.

Aubrey placed his lips closer to the gaily-trimmed
cottage bonnet, and uttered in a
low tone the most musical words that

ever yet greeted the ears of Ivv Girling.

*you were, as you are," said he, •' my
first love — the only little sweetheart that I
ever had, and you can't think, Ivy, how fond
I am of you."

But I'm a poor girl, sir," expostulated
she, with her heart beating faster than ever
it had done before, "and you mustn't think
of me."

*' Oh, yes, I must, though," responded
Aubrey, with strongly-developed determination.
" It's no fault of yours that you're
poor, and I shall be rich enough for both
of us some day."

^' I feel that no good will come of this,
Master Aubrey," returned Ivy, in a voice
rather choked than clear. " It will be found
out, and then my peace of mind will begone."


"We fellows on the sixth form," added
he, " always put it down, as a rule, never
to anticipate your licking. When it comes
bear it, we say, as well as you can, it being

one of the soundest principles of natural
philosophy. Now, should we be found out,"
continued Aubrey, pressing her closely to
his side, '4t will be quite time enough to
count the consequences of the discovery
when it is made. To do otherwise would
be simply to take our licking before it was
due. You see. Ivy, what wonderful fellows
we are on the sixth form !"

*' But I know that I am wrongs, sir, in
listening to you," sobbed Ivy, " and it's all
wrongs together."

Of course it is," said Aubrey. '' There
is scarcely anything in this world that is not
wrong when it's pleasant. We know — I'm
speaking of the fellows on the sixth form —
that whatever is strictly proper is certain to
be tame and insipid. If improper, and possessing
a margin for the exercise of the
human faculties, it is almost as sure to be
exciting and palatable. I really begin to
have a profound disdain for everything that's
right."

Pray don't say so !" exclaimed Ivy.
You'll make me so unhappy if you do."

Under those circumstances' responded
he, " of course I retract the objectionable
part of the sentence. At the same time,"
continued he, " I must beg to impress on
your memory, Ivy, not to condemn everything
that's wrong, or become ecstatic about
everything that's right ; my own opinion
being, as a fellow on the sixth form, that
the wrongs have the best of it."

We are taught not to think so," returned
she, with an appealing look.

But Where's the proof that the teaching
is right?" added he. "Show me the most
perfect example of a life sacrificed to decorum
and virtue, and you'll find that the
most perfect example will bleat about the
treatment he has received as much, if not
more, than the victim to human weakness,
dio, with the utmost regularity, has done
things he ought not to do, and as persistently
left undone things which he oui^ht to

have done. The examples, indeed, I think,
howl the loudest."

'* I can't talk with you, Master Aubrey,"
observed Ivy, expressing her inability to
maintain the argument by a vigorous shake
of the head.

'' But you can talk to me," replied he,
which is so much more interesting.
Come, tell me quickly how pleased you are
to know that I'm your declared lover,
whatever you may have guessed in those
old wanderings of ours."

"I feel truly that I ought not to be,"
sighed Ivy.

"Never mind that," rejoined Aubrey.
"The ought not's are the very spice and
pepper of life, and the more we indulge in
them the better, I think."

"Must I speak?" plaintively said she,
turning her face aside at an angle which
looked very attractive in Aubrey's eyes.

"If you don't," returned he, "I'll pinch
you. Ivy, I will indeed."

*' Such was your threat if I displeased ye,
when we were little more than babies,"
added she.

'sto be sure it vas," said Aubrey, " and,
as it always proved effectual, I shall put it
into force again, if you don't confess on the
spot the height, depth, and breadth of your
love for me. I must have no doubt upon
the point."

To this arbitrary mandate Ivy Girling
complied, perhaps, too readily. In simple
language she avowed the only secret of her
heart. It was love for him, and, as each
word fell on his willing ear, his attention
became diverted from a wandering thought
concerning a fragmentary lecture upon dolls.
The interruption, however, was but momentary,
and, upon Ivy telling him all that
could gratify his selfish vanity, he caught
her in his arms, and was more emphatic in
his promises than sincere.

CHAPTER IV.

4 MONG the attributes of Mr. Thomas
-^-^ Soppy might be classed the great
love of the good things of this life. Mr.
Soppy was blessed with a palate of a discriminating
nature ; his appetite was rather
above an average in keenness, and his
digestion never gave him the slightest uneasiness.
Under these favourable circumstances,
Mr. Soppy indulged freely in " the
pleasures of the table " supplied by his
master, and was only dissatisfied when — let
the cause be what it may — his " little dinner"
did not come up to the standard of
his expectations.

Give me," he would sometimes say,
with Christian resignation, to the cook of
his early love, " only a mutton chop and a

mealy tater; but don't let rae have to ask
whether it's from the loin or neck, or whether
the tater's boiled, baked, or spiled. A little
satisfies me, but that little must be, as
nearly as possible, the best of its kind."

With these sentiments concerning his
"little dinners" in a general way, it will
readily be imagined that there were special
occasions which demanded the nicest care on
the part of the cook of his early love to
realize Mr. Soppy 's epicurean anticipations.
Dame Soppy knew, from an association of
many years standing, that there was nothing
so likely to maintain the peace of the household
as to earn a compliment for placing a
dainty dish before her partner's nose when
his hopes were excited — as he was nevermore
taciturn than when quietly diminishing
a dainty dish — and nothing more likely
to lead to a domestic quarrel of doubtful
length and strength, than for disappointment
to be conveyed to his breast through
failing to gratify his palate.

As before has been stated, Mr. Thomas
Soppy was averse to manual work ; but he
had no objection to assist in the amenities of
employment, and shewing, peas coming
under this definition, he might have been
seen on one of the days of the calendar exercising
his fingers and thumbs in the performance
of this mild and gentle office. Mr. Soppy
sat at his ease in a chair, with an apron tied
above the middle button of this waistcoat byway
of protection to its spotless character,
and watched with undisguised interest the
active culinary operations of the cook of his
early love as she continued to baste with
discreet attention a le of lamb of o-reat
beauty — looking at it in the light of lamb
and not mutton. Mr. Thomas Soppy was
fond of lamb and peas at their introduction
in the early part of the spring season, and,
taking time by the forelock, he had carried
out certain arrangements of his own particular
sketching which insured the minute
accomplishment of his intentions to have a

"little dinner" which demanded the natural
accessory of mint sauce.

^' There, my little semi-circle," said Mr.
Soppy, in the most playful of humours,
*' there's the last pea, and by the time they're
boiled I think that pictor of a leg, if I may
judge from its complexion, will be done to
an exact turn. One turn more or less than
it ought to have, my sweet numerator, and
I should have to be carried out in a fainting
condition."

"Leave it to me, Thomas," replied Dame
Soppy, entertaining a firm belief that good
dinners and good tempers bear close affinity,
'' and you shall have no cause to grumble."

'' That I feel with the utmost confidence""
rejoined Mr. Soppy, and placing a hand
rather below the belt — supposing he had
worn one as champion of the heavy weights
he added, ^'and I feel it here."

Indolent as Mr. Soppy might appear
while shelling peas and looking on, he now
bestirred himself with a briskness of manner

almost exceeding ordinary powers of belief.

"Our friend Bottles," said he, unfolding
a snow-white cloth, and throwing it gracefully
over the surface of the adjacent table,
'' who has seen too much of low society to
suit me, will take his farewell spread with
us to-day, and I particularly wish that his
coarse and almost disgusting habits may
receive a whole lesson in refinement before
leaving."

I look upon him," was Dame Soppy's
bland reply, "as rather a nice man."

"Then don't do it again," rejoined he,
turning an acute angle in his temper as he
flung a small pyramid of knives and forks
in the centre of the table with more force,
if not violence, than seemed necessary.

A nice man, my segment of an angle,
was never reflected in a looking-glass when
Bottles shaved before it. As my favourite
mathematician euclid wrote, ' What can't be
isn't.' "

The barometer of Mr. Thomas Soppy's

VOL. II. E

good humour being evidently in a falling
condition, the cook of his early love dropped
the discussion concerning the niceness
of Bottles as a matter of expediency, and
paid silent attention to the approaching
finish in dressing the lamb and peas.

In the meantime Mr. Soppy proceeded to
arrange the knives and forks, and placed a
pair of each at equal distances, clearly
designed in anticipation for the separate use
and benefit of four performers. Going on
with the light task of laying the table —
classed under the amenities of employment
Mr. Soppy put the mustard-pot in the
correct position which a mustard-pot should
hold in combining use with elegance, and,
paying the same discriminating attention to
the pepper and salt, the master hand of an
artist began to be seen in the skill already
displayed. The additional polish, perhaps,
would seem trifling to the eye of careless
indifference ; but not so to that of the
critical Mr. Soppy. Wherever a crease was

visible in the snow-white cloth he smoothed
it tenderly, and ironed it out with the palms
of his hands. Attention was paid to the most
minute detail, and, upon the completion of
the work, he stood and surveyed it complacently
with folded arms, and a smile of
satisfaction illuminating his countenance.

The leg of lamb was now taken from the
spit, and the peas — following in order —
from the pot just as the former had completed
that accurate rotation which Mr.
Soppy referred to as of vital importance.
The cook of his early love " dished up," and
the feast was ready.

Barely, however, could it have been so
stated in strict accordance with the fact
when a shuffling of feet was heard, and immediately
afterwards Billy Bottles entered
the kitchen, attended by Johnny Tadpole
in the capacity of 'henchman."

Here we are !" cheerfully exclaimed
Billy, bringing his hands together with a
loud crack, "just, I see, in the nick of time

E 2

winning on the post by a short head.
How are ye, Thomas, and how are you,
mum ?" added he, moving an amendment in
his manners by making an inquiry concerning
the health of his host and hostess.

Receiving the prompt assurance that both
were in a highly satisfactory state, and
polite exchanges having been made with the
henchman," who bowed and blushed with
united awkwardness and modesty, the entertainers
and the entertained sat down to
regale themselves on " lamb " — as Mr.
Soppy begged his guests to clearly comprehend
— "not mutton."

"If my memory is not treacherous," observed
the host, drawing the ball of a thumb
lightly down the edge of the carving-knife
as a preliminary flourish to the exhibition
of his skill, " you don't object to fat.
Bottles."

Billy had, at this early part of the proceedings,
selected, with his eyes twinkling
with emotion, a tir-bit of brown which

coveting so as to make his mouth water, he
made no scruple to point out in a direct line
with his fork as a morsel he should like to
be put in possession of.

'Must there, Thomas," said he, "and I'll
soon show ye how far you may depend on
your memory. I will .9^."

Mr. Soppy gave a severe look at Bottles,
and began to think that the association of
several months with him, and the purifying
atmosphere of Greatwood Park, had been
entirely thrown away upon an unworthy
object.

Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — severed
the piece of brown in gloomy silence, and
looked as if a personal injury had been
inflicted ; but, as soon as Bottles possessed
the opportunity of commencing
diligently to work upon the supply set
before him, he appeared to forget the
indignity, and all began once more to go
well and smoothly with the feast. Johnny
Tadpole made no ridiculous secret of having

a natural affection for both fat and lean,,
and illustrated it in a manner not open to
scepticism. Dame Soppy remarked, parenthetically,
that " she liked every part of a
pint but bone," and Mr. Soppy said nothing,
but did a great deal in a quiet, methodical
sort of way which proved effective in the
end.

Help yourself to peas, young Tadpole,"
suggested he, with the air of a patron of
high degree.

Johnny Tadpole complied with supreme
readiness ; but no sooner were the peas in
his plate than they were shovelled on the
point of his knife, and, with great dexterity,
into his mouth.

Mr. Soppy both felt and looked horrified.

Do you know," said he, " what forks
are for ?"

Johnny, being too much occupied with
the attention he was assiduously paying to
himself, did not perceive the perturbation
of mind in his host, and innocently replied

that, " having played a game of knife and
fork now for a good many years, he thought
he did."

"Admitting your premises," rejoined Mr.
Soppy, " then why the devil do you fork
\vith your knife ?"

Johnny Tadpole now became aware that
]mr. Soppy was serious. There was no mistaking
him when he was roused to a certain

o

pitch, and so terrifying were the effects
upon Johnny Tadpole that he dropped the
handles of the instruments under discussion
perpendicularly upon the table, and sat
staring between them with his mouth open,
and not so clear as might be desired by a
disinterested spectator of lamb and peas,

If you don't shut your mouth," thundered
Mr. Soppy, " I shall be sick."

"Do as you're told, Johnny," said Billy
Bottles, admonishingly. " Close your trap,
pull your ears a little back, and just polish
the end of your nose with anything handy,
and our friend Thomas Soppy's stomach

here will soon be restored. It will so''

"It always was a bit weakly," chimed in
Dame Soppy.

^' Wos it, mum?" rejoined Bottles. ''I
look upon stomachs, mum," continued he.
only in one way. If strong, I say, keep
'em strong. If weak, splice 'em."

What, splice your "

Why not, mum ?" interrupted he.
*' Nothing's easier. A good dinner everyday
in the week, and a better one on Sunday,
is as good a splice as I know of. It is
so, eh, Thomas ?"

Mr. Soppy, having partially recovered
from the excitement produced by Johnny
Tadpole's unconscious breaches of decorum,
answered mildly in the affirmative, but kept
his eyes fixed with a suspicious stare on the
delinquent, which made him shrink visibly
in his shoes. Entertaining, however, the
assurance that there would be no repetition
of the trial to his delicacy of feeling, Mr.
Soppy modified the rigidity of his look, and

soon removed the cause altogether of the
contraction in Johnny's system. Expansion
following as a natural effect, fair advantage
was taken of the opportunity to make good
the deficiency in the time lost, and Johnny
Tadpole finished a dinner quite equal to his
limited capacity.

At the conclusion of the repast Mr.
Soppy was seen to dive beneath the table
in a sudden and mysterious manner, and,
after being; lest to sisfht for as short an
interval as can well be described, appeared
again panting a little for want of breath,
and a purple tinge spread over his countenance
from the united influence of exertion
and " lamb and peas." As soon as he had
risen it was evident that he had not taken
his temporary departure for nothing, for in
one hand he bore a bottle of large dimensions,
commonly known to past generations
of Bacchanals as a " magnum of port."
Placing it on the board with much pride
and some ceremony, Mr. Soppy remarked

that " to insure condition there was nothing
like keeping a bottle of port between the
calves of your legs during dinner. It seemed
to brighten it, and give it a mellow flavour'

I'll not take sour word for it, though,"
responded Billy Bottles. "Let me decide
for myself, Thomas, whether it has the real
calf-like taste or not. I'm an out-an'-out
judge. I am so''

Before, however, the cork was drawn
from what looked a truly ancient specimen
of the art of bottle-making, Dame Sophy'
cleared away the remains, odds and ends,
and total vestiges of the feast, and when
everything around had been made, as she
expressed it, " tidy," the magnum's contents
of forty years old — as Mr. Soppy affirmed
with great earnestness — were disgorged, and
he both filled and passed the glasses round
with a ready and liberal hand, which proved
at least his desire to carry out his master's
special injunctions to share a bottle of the
best wine in his cellar with Billy and his

heucbmaii, Johnny Tadpole, on the eve of
taking their departure from Greatwood
Park for the historical town of Newmarket.

CHAPTER V.

A GREAT arrival was expected at the
^^-^ dairy in Bromley Marsh. It had been
announced through successive despatches
from Johnny Tadpole — the o's still bearing
a strong resemblance to small bird's eggs —
that the Unknown would be on his way to
Newmarket in a day or two, for the express
purpose of receiving some highly-finishing
touches to his education, and " to be tried."
Samuel Wideoo had been kept well " posted"
by his correspondent in all matters of interest
concerning the colt, and so graphic was
the description given of the breaking and
training of Queen Mary's son that, as the
erst wearer of the purple and orange declared,
'• he could see him doing his work

in Greatwood Park as plainly as if he had
been present."

With a modest reticence, highly to be commended,
Johnny wrote little about himself;
but it would appear that he had been specially
retained to ride the Unknown at exercise,
under the immediate superintendence
of Billy Bottles, and that "■ his head, hands,
and heels " had met with great commendation
from the eminent authority referred to.
He had also been told by Colonel Leferne
himself, after a rattling gallop of two miles,
that he "not only rode, but rode well," and
such were the amicable terms he was on
with the colt that he could do just as he
pleased with him, his temper being more
like an angel's than that of a '' race-loss."
It would seem, too, through the same unquestionable
channel of information, that a
most favourable opinion was entertained of
the Unknown's symmetrical points, and
grand, sweeping stride, and that both the
owner and trainer were sanguine of his

turning out " a flyer of the first-class."
To such an extent did this feeling prevail
that, upon the Unknown becoming a yearling,
he was entered as a competitor for
some of the highest prizes of the Turf, and
the time now approached, it would seem,
when his first essay must be made to support
this bright, glowing promise, or to
darken it for ever with disappointment.

Such may be described as a summary of
the principal events which had been communicated
to Samuel Wideoo, from time to
time, concerning the colt during his assistant's
absence from the milk business ; but
that which excited the liveliest enthusiasm
on the subject vas the announcement that
the Unknown would confer the honour
upon the inhabitants of Bromley Marsh and
its immediate vicinity by passing one night
at the dairy, on his road to Newmarket
'sto be tried."

Samuel Wideoo began to hope that the
light of other days had not so irremediably

faded, but that their colour might be renewed,
and with a sanguine impulse he at
once applied to his mind's eye a kaleidoscope
of dazzling and deceptive brilliancy'.
Once more the purple and orange came
before his enraptured gaze in all their fresh
and pristine beauty, and the glowing past,
with its infinite memories, became reflected
in the present.

Samuel Wideoo merited, perhaps, the title
of "a dreamer;" but then it should be recollected
that, after Johnny Tadpole's departure
from the dairy, he had been left
alone in the solitude of Bromley Marsh, and,
although the milk business occupied much
of his time, there was a wide space left for
building castles in the air, an architectural
employment well adapted to his tastes and
habits. . It must not, however, be conjectured
that one solid duty was neglected for
castle building. The daily strain upon
those well-known historical ends to enforce
their meetings was too :treat for Samuel

Wideoo to abandon plain, undeniable facts
for poetry. The two cows demanded his
attention, in more ways than one, as well as
the pump, and there was a crusty customer
or two who required to be mollified when
the milk looked too blue to be purely
natural. For, be it heralded through the
highways and byways of the world, that
Samuel Wideoo, the dairyman of Bromley
Marsh, as a member of the human family,
had his intervenient doses of bitters, acting,
perhaps, like tonics, wholesome but unpalatable.


For the long, long months that Johnny
Tadpole had been in the direction of the
setting sun, not a word had been written
concerning the probable length of his absence.
Colonel Leferne had given a peremptory
order for 'the assistant " to remain
where he was in the land of the west, and
as usual, no thought of opposition was raised
to his imperious mandate.

The earth had rotated on her axis, in the

usual whirligig fashion, at the rate of five
thousand miles a minute — more or less —
since Johnny Tadpole's departure, but the
dairy in Bromley Marsh remained as before
without any marked or discernible change.
The world might go round, but the dairy
stood still, as far as any outward or inward
appearances went, and within a confined
circle of its whereabouts things looked
stationary. Older he must have become, if
not wiser, but Samuel Wideoo and time had
shaken hands, and were evidently on friendly
terms.

In the cribbed and confined apartment of
the dairy which served for "parlour and
kitchen and all," Samuel Video sat alone
after the toil and troubles of the day, ruminating
on the news contained in the letter
last received from Johnny Tadpole. In a
hypercritical sense little improvement was
to be traced in the formation of the characters.
The upstrokes were still anything but
fine, and the o's were prodigious ; but the

VOL. IL F

intelligence it contained was nothing short
of startling, and fraught with the deepest
interest. The Unknown, now rising two
years old, was announced in unequivocal
terms, admitting of no doubt, to be on his
way *' to be tried '' at Newmarket, and by
Colonel Leferne's orders — " he was born
with an order in his mouth, I believe,"
sighed the ruminate, — he was to pass one
night beneath the unpretending roof which
sheltered him at his birth.

Here was honour and distinction conferred
on Bromley Marsh and the surrounding
district without so much as a bow or a
scrape or a word of solicitation. No
greater compliment either could have been
bestowed upon Samuel Wideoo, as he
thought, and he at once set to work to render
a more than fair equivalent for the
gratuity.

With the cheer catch of a son sum in
the blithesome days of his youth the dairyman
set to work and put his untenanted

stable ia the nicest trim for the reception of
his illustrious visitor. It was washed,
scrubbed, rubbed, and renovated in a way
befitting the occasion which demanded it.
Several patriarchs of spiders, in the possession
of wide-spread, ancient, and dusty webs,
received hasty and violent notice to quit.
A bed of the best wheat straw that money
could command " down on the nail," as
Samuel Wideoo expressed a business transaction
for cash, was carefully spread on the
floor for the bay colt — sire unknown — to
tread his dainty feet upon, and frills of the
same material ornamented the stallions
with picturesque effect, while a plait interwoven
with great skill was arranged in the
rear of where his heels would be, and as a
whole combined the useful with the beautiful.
Nothing was left undone, and everything
was done that could be, to honour and
welcome the Unknown to the birthplace
and scene of his foalhood.

The work being completed, Samuel

f2

Wideoo, in a feverish slate of expectancy
now sat in his parlour occupying both
chairs, for his legs and feet were on one
while his body occupied the other. Sitting
as he was, ''a-thinking" of things in general
and particular, both large and small, it can
scarcely be surprising that his mind should
be disturbed concerning the seat for Johnny
Tadpole. Two chairs for three persons
must be inconvenient, if not impossible, and
yet there were but two, and the apartment
was not designed to hold more. There was
the mantelshelf, it is true, in its old and
usual position, but to invite him to sit on
that high and narrow ledge was not worthy
of a second thought. If practicable the
position could not be rendered one of either
grace or ease, all must depend upon doubtful
want of room. A small corner of the
table might be spared, perhaps, but with
questionable convenience ; for, when Samuel
Wideoo played the part of host, it was on
the most liberal scale, and the profusion of

things in season, with a total omission of
everything out, was such that this rickety
article of furniture generally reeled with
the weight, and always threatened to be
clear of oppression by a summary pitch.
As many difficulties, however, which appear
insurmountable have vanished through the
medium of an electric thought, so was the
impediment to the dairyman's tranquillity of
mind removed in the time it occupies to
complete a wink.

The bottom of a milk-pail flashed through
his brain, and there was an end to the
confusion of ideas concerning Johnny Tadpole's
seat at the banquet already prepared
for his reception.

The evening had come for the Unknown
and his attendants to arrive, and, as the
hour approached for them to be there in
accordance with the time named in the last
despatch, Samuel Wideoo might have been
observed to become restless and even
fidgety. He crossed his legs and uncrossed

them, folded his arms and unfolded them
rubbed his hair in a manner which, had it
been done on a cat's back, might, in a
tempestuous state of the atmosphere, have
produced sparks of electricity, the way being
against the grain and the friction vigorous.
He went to the window and peeped through
the glass ; he went to the door and looked
out ; he jingled some keys and halfpence
together in one of the deep pockets of his
trowsers, and, as the shades of the coming
night began to fall like a veil upon Bromley
Marsh, Samuel Wideoo felt the ice-chill of
disappointment at his heart.

CHAPTER VI.

colonel LEFERNE and his son
^^ Aubrey were alone in the large wilderness
of a dining-room of the Hall, after
going through the stately form of dinner
with as much frigid ceremony as Mr. Thomas
Soppy could impart by an elaborate display
of his perfect knowledge of the rules of
etiquette.

Mr. Soppy having satisfied himself that
nothing more remained to be accomplished
in his particular art, for the time being, had
retired from the scene of his triumph, and
the father and son were alone.

The long, wide, gloomy room was imperfectly
lighted by a large, antique bronze
lamp swinging from a black, oak beam

just above their heads, which cast pale and
sickly rays beneath and around, and made
the dark, misty corners look darker still.
The portraits of a few members of past if
unforgotten generations looked scowlingl}^
from their worm-eaten frames on the
panelled walls, and supplemented the
unique collection which might be found in
various parts of the ancient house of the old
knightly family.

Before the windows were drawn in ample
folds large, heavy curtains of faded damask,
on which were woven quaint figures, flowers,
and forms in tapestry, the handiwork of
skilful fingers long since emblems of fixity
and rest. On the hearth — for there were
no modern stoves in the Hall of Greatwood
Park — huge logs of wood burned, smouldered,
and crumbled to white ashes between
the andirons, adding to the lurid light given
by the lamp, but in no way increasing the
cheerfulness of the scene.

Colonel Leferne never looked more tranquil

in body and mind, as with an intricately
cut glass claret jug partly filled, standing
within easy reach on the table, he sat in an
attitude of great repose, with his head
thrown back on his chair, drumming what,
perhaps, might have been a spirit-stirring
tune, but it was too subdued for a single
note to be audible. Twisting the corners of
his moustache with the unemployed hand,
he continued the air with a pleasant smile
upon his features, and looked on the very
best terms with himself, the world, and
things past, present, and to come.

His companion, however, exhibited as
positive an opposite to this picture of self-complacency
as can well be conceived.
Pale, thin, and dejected, Aubrey remained
motionless, with a fixed stare bent upon
some chosen spot on the polished surface of
the table before him — but the vacancy of
the look revealed that he saw nothing.
Young as he was, deep lines mapped his
brow and cheeks, and the frown shadowing

the fire which flashed the dark, hazel eyes
of his race, showed a mind disturbed and
anything but at rest.

*' You don't appreciate this wine, Aubrey?"
said the colonel, raising his glass
and looking at it with great deliberation,
and yet," continued he, drumming so as
to be slightly heard, "it is of a remarkable
vintage. You must be getting fastidious."

"I care nothing for wine, sir," replied
Aubrey, in a tone and manner which closely
approached the sullen.

*' Don't, my dear boy, annoy me with the
repetition of such a remark," rejoined the
colonel, persuasively. " No gentleman must
confess indifference concerning the quality
of the wine he drinks, whatever may be the
lamentable condition of his palate. Do me
the favour to fill your glass."

Mechanically Aubrey complied with the
request, but neither said nor did anything
by way of acknowledgment.

The music now increased on the table, so

that every note might be heard with great
distinctness, and, if it possessed no other
attraction, it was at least merry in the extreme.
After a lengthened pause, only enlivened
by the drumming, Aubrey turned
with a hasty movement towards his father,
and with an earnest, serious look said, in a
voice tremulous with emotion,

^' I think, sir, the time has come when
there should be few, if any, secrets between
us."

No well-considered words," replied the
colonel, bending his head slightly forward
as he spoke, *' could better express my
opinion upon the subject. Unreserved confidence,
however, between father and son,"
continued he, " seems too sublime a theory
for practical purposes."

"I have long wished," resumed Aubrey,
without noticing the remark, " to speak to
you concerning myself."

Few can speak of themselves without
committing irreparable blunders," rejoined

the Colonel, gently folding his arms across
his breast. " It appears to me nothing but
common fairness, my dear boy, to give you
this friendly warning."

I have no desire to keep my terms at
Oxford," sharply returned Aubrey, which,
perhaps from the total want of introduction
in the subject, brought the colonel's arms to
their former position.

If startled, however, he quickly recovered
his serenity.

*' It will clearly save much unnecessary
my dear boy," added he, in words
which sounded as if oiled expressly for the
occasion, " if you confine yourself to affirmatives,
and leave the negatives totally out of
the question."

"I wish to go abroad," said Aubrey,
and not to Oxford."

"That's better," responded the colonel,
with two or three gentle taps, which seemed
to signify suppressed applause. '• Let me
hear, with all imaginable interest, what your

wishes are, and spare yourself the fatigue of
giving the faintest description of what they
are not. And so," continued he, in a manner
of the most perfect cheerfulness, " the
enterprising, adventurous spirit of the old
Crusading Lefernes prevails as strong as
ever in the latest descendant ! Like some
of the knight-errants of our name, who conducted
themselves with anything but strict
propriety when distressed ladies were in
the case, if certain and numerous traditions
of our family are to be believed, you wish
to roam the world with will unfettered ?"

I merely wish to travel "

Alone ?" interrupted the colonel, bending
forward in his chair as if to catch the
answer more readily.

The eyes of the father and son met, and
neither seemed disposed to remove the
fixed, blindness gaze with which each regarded
the other.

I beg to remind you, my dear boy,"
observed the colonel, still maintaining the

steadfast look, but with a smile which almost
merited the description of being winning,
" that in the opening of this very pleasant
subject you expressed the thought that
the time had arrived for there being few, if
any, secrets between us. Now, all I ask at
the present moment is whether you propose
travelling alone ?"

I had not thought of a companion," replied
'Aubrey, while a red flush spread over
his features, and mounted from cheek to
brow.

"In that case," rejoined the colonel,
gently falling back in his chair, and re-occupying
his former position of mental and
physical tranquillity, "the question is solved.
"VVe need not pursue it further."

May I ask, sir, why it was put ?" said
Aubrey, with a vexed, angry expression
which was not lost upon the colonel.

From a natural and, I trust, affectionate
interest in your welfare, my dear boy," responded
he. "Like the moon, we borrow

SO much reflected light that nothing can be
more important than the associations by
which we are surrounded. The average of
human intellect," continued the colonel, 
to drum a fresh and favourite air of
a most lively kind, '' is distinguished for parasitical
dependence and opaque stupidity."

'you do not oppose "

"Not for a moment," intervened the
colonel. " I never charge the impossible
in front, my dear boy. You will have your
own way, as I have had mine, and nothing
can be more consistent than that history
should repeat itself. Written in vain for
our instruction," continued he, " the records
of the past are useful only as a proof that
human follies move in circles. Try the
claret, Aubrey. The vintage is unexceptionable."


Aubrey lifted the glass to his lips, and
perhaps tasted the wine, but it might have
been vinegar for aught he could tell.

There was now an interval of silence

^vhich might appropriately be called a pause
of extreme awkwardness, felt by one, at
least, if not by both. The colonel, it is
true, maintained his unruffled demeanour,
and, with head thrown back, looked down
his nose with half-closed eyes at his son,
and from the looped-up angle of the lip,
half smile, half sneer, seemed in the humour
of a capricious cat, as ready to scratch as
purr.

"Have you anything more to communicate,"
at length said he, *' concerning this
roving proclivity ?"

Not now, sir," responded Aubrey. '' I
have nothing more to say at present."

Then you'll excuse, I am sure, in return,"
rejoined the colonel, " my demand
upon your attention for a few moments."

Aubrey Leferne glanced uneasily at his
father, but said nothing.

T have," began the colonel, " an instinctive
dread of subjecting myself to the
accusation of dealing in platitudes, and yet

I fear, my dear boy, that you will, in what
I am going to say, put me down in the
chronicle of your memory as one of the
most prosy of mortals."

A slight, almost imperceptible motion on
the part of his hearer, and, as if some interruption
was expected, the two fingers
became raised.

'your patience shall not be strained beyond
the endurance of a few moments,"
said the colonel, and, letting the signal for
silence fall gradually as he sipped the claret
in finite, delicate quantities, he settled himself
in a lounging position in his chair, and
looked down his nose with half-closed, sleepy
eyes at his son as he began his address.

*' Adopting your own idiom, my dear boy,
I quite coincide in the well-timed suggestion
that there should not be held in reserve any
longer quite so much of the unknown between
us as hitherto has existed, more, perhaps,
from the force of attending circumstances
than deliberate intention on the part

VOL. II. G

of either. We have seen, comparatively
speaking, little of each other, and, to be
frank with you, my dear boy, I have not
had the slightest inclination for our interviews
to be more extended or frequent."

Aubrey Leferne started as if the words
had stung him to the quick.

The signal for silence was again raised.

'^ As I have before remarked," quietly
resumed the colonel, " your nature is sensitive
to a fault; but be consoled by my
assurance that, however ready I may be to
resent an affront, I never give one. My
words referred to my own transgressions, Aubrey,
and never am I so powerfully reminded
of them as in your individual presence,
which will account, logically, at least, for
my shunning rather than seeking it. Our
social iniquities," continued he, just moistening
his lips with the claret, '' being before
us in an intensified state are anything but
pleasant companions. Your glass meets
with little attention. I begin to fear that

you question my judgment concerning the
vintage."

Aubrey, with an impatient movement,
emptied his glass, and, replacing it on the
table with unintentional force, snapped it
from its stem.

^' Pray make no apology for so trivial an
outrage," said the colonel, drawing back the
angles of his mouth, as he looked down his
nose at his son, with partly-shut eyelids.
"I have no objection whatever to the enlivening
sensation of the cracking of brittle
elements. But referring," continued he,
"to what I was about to impart. You
necessarily are familiar, my dear boys,
through the ordinary channels of information
— your Aunt Margaret, and that transparent
old sham, Soppy, being the principal
mediums — with the family misfortunes of
the past, and which have, at length, culminated
in the person and position of the
present inheritor, Aubrey, of the Leferne
estates, signifying, of course, myself. It

g2

would, therefore, be mere waste of time to
drone into your ears the repetition of the
particulars of a series of causes which have
led not only to the demand upon my resources
being far in excess of the supplies,
but — if Early be correct in his view of the
emergency of the case — without the vestige
of any resources whatever. He had, in
fact," said the colonel, bringing himself
slightly' forward on his elbows, '^ the audacity
to declare, when I attached my autograph
to the last ugly-looking batch of
documents which he technically called
securities,' that the very chair which I
have now the privilege of occupying was
not my own. Only think, my dear boy,
of one's chair belonging to somebody
else !"

The colonel here sipped his claret, and
then continued.

^' Money, as you will learn some day, if
not already acquainted with the axiom, is
power, and without it our helplessness maybe

compared with birds devoid of feathers
to their wings. Now, it affords me some
consolation to be able to state that the last
mortgage on what, I believe, Early called
my goods and chattels, which includes even
the vulgar pots and pans in the kitchen, has
put me into possession of a limited and
available balance highly pleasant to contemplate
while it lasts, the drawback being that
reflection tells me it won't last long unless,
indeed, Fortune smiles once more upon her
favourite. Yes, Aubrey," and his colourless,
pallid features reddened as he spoke, " I
will once more try the hazard of a cast with
the wreck of what I have. Fortune favours
those most who trust her most, and in me
she shall find the culminating point of full
reliance."

"In what way, sir?" inquired his son,
almost startled with the vehemence with
which the last few words were spoken.

'' Listen," continued the colonel. " We
judge between right and wrong by the

result, and, if success attends the venture of
placing the last remnant of my fortune upon
the strain of a flexor tendon, the world will
felicitate me for my enterprise and courage.
Should the fibrous muscle stretch, and
thereby lose what otherwise J should have
won, the world will shake its sage head
reprovingly, and award me the honours of
a graduate for a lunatic asylum. A letter
received this morning informs me that the
colt, so strangely mine, and which I sent
some time since to Newmarket to be trained,
has proved himself to be the best and most
highly-tried two-year-old in the Heather
House stable. Knowing that I may depend
upon the truth of the statement, and the unquestionable
correctness of the trial, T have
determined that, in his first race, he shall
start for a stake for which no horse hitherto
has ever been known to run " — an almost
unnatural light darted from his eyes as he
spoke — " his owner's life."

The conclusion of the sentence was delivered

in a manner to admit of no doubt
concerning its meaning.

An exclamation of horror was about to
burst from Aubrey's lips after a deeply-drawn,
convulsive breath, but two uplifted
finfi^ers checked it.

Fear nothing," resumed the colonel.
With the Romans suicide was popular,
but in these degenerate days it is excused
only in the mad, and I am not that. And
yet for your sake, Aubrey, as well as my
own, the horse, so strangely mine, shall run
for my life !"

Pray explain your meaning, sir," added
his son; "for, doubtful as I must be, you
both look and speak as if you were in
earnest."

"1 was never more so*' rejoined the
colonel, "and to some extent I will indulge
your wish, if not to the fullest degree. If I
were to die, Aubrey, before you came of
age — to use the ridiculous conventional language
applied to that period of life when a

man is left unprotected by the law and at
the very moment when he most requires it
you would become the possessor of an
unfettered income of between ten and
twelve thousand a year, and, with the
exception of the general clearance of the
timber, you would have little cause to remember
your father as having been hostile
to your pecuniary interests. I may, also,
mention that, in so far as planting acorns
in unlimited numbers with the point
of my cane may be viewed as an amiable
intention on my part to do my best towards
compensating you for pocketing the timber,
it cannot be said hereafter that I treated the
restoration which time will produce with
either callous neglect or selfish indifference.
This would be the state and condition of
your affairs, my dear boy, in the event of
your becoming an orphan between now and
the day and hour when the law removes its
shield from your infancy and seems to me
to invite the harpies of the earth to swoop

crown like buzzards to a feast. The wine
stops with you, Aubrey. Help yourself and
pass it."

The colonel having replenished his glass
held it up before him, and appeared to be
bestowing another look of admiration upon
the wine of a remarkable vintage. A keen
observer, however, would have seen that
his eyes were momentarily fixed with a
searching glance upon the countenance of
his son.

But every medal has its reverse," continued
the colonel, "and what I am going
to tell you, Aubrey, is the exact position
you will occupy upon arriving at your majority,
if I keep you out of your life interest
by being alive myself. There will not
be a single sixpence in the shape of income
left for investing even in a gingerbread doll.
All, my boy, will have "

And he illustrated the conclusion of the
sentence by gracefully blowing the tips of
his fingers.

'what then, sir, is to be doue ?" asked
Aubrey.

A most sensible question," responded
the colonel, " and the reply shall be as
brief and condensed as possible? In the
event of my being so inconsiderate as to
stop the way at the time alluded to, the
property I believe, as much for your convenience
as my own, would have to be disentangled
— as Early terms it — and resettled, the
only objection to the adoption of this course
being that, in the process of resetting, the
present circumference and margin of the
estates must unavoidably be contracted. I
hope that I make myself clearly understood?'

It is scarcely anything more than I anticipated,"
remarked Aubrey, dreamily.

In that case," said the colonel, " there
is really nothing more to add, excepting
perhaps the explanation of the mystery
concerning the stake for which my horse is
to run — my life."

It is that sir," returned his son, " which

I beg in mercy to myself — for I fear, notwithstanding
the lightness of your speech,
the earnestness of some fixed and terrible
purpose — may be rendered clear without
the suspense of another moment."

*the interest you portray, Aubrey, in
so simple a matter, if measured by its value,"
added the colonel, smiling, "flatters me.
Being, however, wearied with the subject,
you must pardon the postponement of the
sequel to the occasion of our having another
bottle of this exquisite claret together.
Your hand. Good night."

Before Aubrey Leferne had recovered
from his astonishment at the sudden termination
of the subject under discussion, the
colonel had quitted the room, and he was
alone with the old portraits scowling upon
him from above.

CHAPTER VII.

4 CHANGE had come o'er the spirit of
-^-^ Mr. Thomas Soppy which can scarcely
be conceived by the highest powers of the
imagination. Instead of possessing the
master mind to control, dictate, and even
bully the yielding, amiable, and meek, Mr.
Soppy's personal appearance and general
demeanour gave the effect of his having
been lately ironed out as flat as a pancake.
Like the flabby cravat round his throat,
with the bow under his left ear, every atom
of starch had vanished from his system, and
as he sat gently rocking himself to and fro
on a chair in the still-room one evening,
while Dame Soppy's nimble fingers were
engaged in deftly knitting a pair of winter

hose for her liege lord's square-toed feet,
he looked as if stockings were farthest from
his thoughts, however touch they might
occupy those of his wife.

Dame Soppy had said not a word for
some minutes by the clock, being addicted
to the maintenance of unbroken silence on
her part in the presence of her husband asa
rule, made conspicuous only by exceptions.


Mr. Soppy sighed from the lowest depths
of somewhere supposed to be the source
from whence sighs rise, and, after making
one or two ineffectual efforts to speak, was
at length successful in finding utterance to
his woes.

'' I shall never be myself again, Martha,"
said he, in tremulous accents. " In your
lawful husband you'll discover a stranger to
your bed and board. His identity is clean
gone, and he may be looked upon in the
liszt of another !"

o

At this point he choked with visible

emotion, but, having swallowed it in a
masterly manner, proceeded.

When a mischievous but interesting
little child," continued he, " I certainly did
believe in ghosts, hobgoblins, and the origin
of hall devil " — Mr. Soppy glanced nervously
over the back of his chair — '' with
cloven hoofs and a forked tail. Possessing
that confidence which is ever the twin brother
of innocence, I did not think all men
were liars, and so far, perhaps, deserved a
nose-ender for going dead against the scripture.
At any rate, I had as much faith in
hobgoblin stories, witchcraft, and fear of
the devil as most boys of my age ; but upon
becoming a man" — Mr. Soppy gave a single
but significant knock with the broad palm
of his right hand on the left of his breast —
"I looked upon such tales as all mihi, as
we said at Hoxford, and Elizabeth Martin.
In short, Martha, I settled in my own mind
they were flams : and yet my grandmother
wished me to believe to the last hour of her

prolonged life that she had herself seen a
witch drowned in a pond, several of her
neighbours present having thrown her in,
and no hand allowed to help her out. I
not only now," continued Mr. Soppy, " entertain
the greatest respect for the truth of
my old grandmother's story, but am as firma
believer in ghosts as that intelligent old
woman was."

Martha continued her employment, but
said nothing.

I never shall be myself again," whimpered
the speaker. *' It's against the laws
of unerring mathematicks that I should be.
Having beheld a ghost, I'm doomed to everlasting
funk, from which there's no escape,
world without end, amen !"

How do you know it was one ?" inquired
Dame Soppy, quietly, as if at least she had
not been disturbed by any such apparition.

How do I know it was one ?" repeated
he, looking amazed at the question. " Didn't
I see it, she or he, as the case may be, with

my own eyes? Do you, Martha'' — Mr.
Thomas Soppy was waxing warm — " presume
to throw unpleasant and irritating
doubts upon the plain, unvarnished statement
of the husband of your bosom ?

D n it, Missis Soppy, limit your lengths,

ma'am, if you wish, desire, or expect to
escape a common assault !"

Dame Soppy dropped her knitting needles,
and, folding her arms collectedly across her
lap, looked in the direction of what may be
called the straight line of the countenance
of the husband of her bosom. There was
no mistaking the cool determination of that
look, and Mr. Thomas Soppy both winced
and flinched under it. Her turn had come
at last, and unexpectedly, and he knew that
she knew that he knew it.

Mr. Soppy was ready to apologise, but
felt that it was too late. Discretion coming
to his aid, lie said nothing, but secretly
wished he was alone in bed, with the clothes
over and above his ear?.

'' And so to hard words you threaten
blows, eh?" said Dame Soppy, with a brightness
in her eyes which proved rather too
dazzling for her husband to view attentively
Without the assistance of smoked glass.

Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — in shaking,
uncertain accents, expressed himself
more than prepared to make all possible
reparation, and appealed pathetically to the
excited state of his feelings under the
abnormal and spiritual influence of ghosts.

Bother ghosts !" ejaculated the active
partner of his toils.

Mr. Soppy was overcome, and looked in
that condition, whatever it might be.

'' You've often told me what you think I
am," resumed Dame Soppy, " now listen to
what I know you are."

Mr. Thomas Soppy requested to be
excused in words little short of plaintive.
It was useless, however, and he knew that
she knew that it was.

"You're a lazy "

VOL. II. H

Mr. Soppy pressed the palms and fingers
of his hands together in the form of a fervent
petition.

'' Cowardly "

Mr. Soppy felt, however, that the truth
was being spoken, and, as it was unanswerable,
said nothing in reply.

Empty-headed "

Mr. Soppy raised a hand and gave his
brow a vigorous polish, as if to assure himself
that it was the identical head to which
reference was being made.

Shallow-pated, duck-brained, chicken-hearted,
goose-tongued, drivelling, snivelling,
sneaking, listening, peeping, springing, 
old bumble-bee. That's what you
are, and I'm ashamed of you, and if there
was a grain of modesty in ye — which there
isn't — you would be ashamed of yourself."

'' Oh, Martha !" ejaculated Mr. Soppy, in
piteous accents, '' spare my legs, however
stiff you may lay it on my morals."

I'll spare nothing belonging to ye," rejoined

Dame Soppy, in scarcely fair condition,
however, to proceed from shortness of
breath, for her voice was raised far above
the usual pitch.

^' I'll take my gruelling like a Christian,"
returned Mr. Soppy, in a voice trembling
with emotion. "But please to recollect
that bow-legged, old bumble-bees have their
feelings, Martha."

If I remember yours, Thomas Soppy,"
added she, in the same sharp, acute tone,
I cannot call to memory when mine had
much of your consideration."

If matters can be mended by a handsome
apology, only say the word and it's
done," said Mr. Soppy, with the flourish of
a hand which bore the effect of more
triumphant occasions, pressing it, as he did,
on the left of his breast.

I want no nonsense," replied Dame
Soppy, maintaining the same high pressure
of severity in her address, '' and, what's
more," continued she, " I'll have none."

h2

"Then tell rae what you do want
Martha," pleaded he, in a mild voice and
meek manner, " that instead of being serpents
— as it appears to me we are just now
we may be doves again."

"To begin with, then," said Dame
Soppy, sharply, '* and in order that you
may not be set down as a greater fool than
you look "

Had a single pellet of number six shot
struck Mr. Thomas Soppy's nose on the
most sensitive part at a short range, and
with a fair charge of gunpowder, he could
not have given a more decided flinch.

You'll not say another word about this
ghost story"' continued she. " It not unfrequently
happens that one fool makes
many, and it only has to get abroad that
we've got a wraith here for the place to be
watched night and day, and a set of gapers
make the country round full of idle gossip
about us."

But Harry Girling and his daughter — "

"Must be taught to hold their tongues
as well as you," interrupted Dame Soppy,
and it may be that I shall give them a
lesson, as soon as you have learnt yours,
which they won't be likely to forget very
soon."

There are some things I soon make myself
master of, Martha," rejoined he, placidly,
" and you have quite removed the mote
from my mind's here respecting jour injunctions
upon this subject. Bowing to
superior authority as I have done from my
youth upwards, I at once and unconditionally
renounce the devil and all his works ;
but that it was something of the kind I saw
gliding along the portrait-gallery last night,
in the light of the moon, I feel persuaded."

You had no business to be there," returned
his wife, tartly, " and were only
dogging my footsteps about the house."

"That may be," added Mr. Soppy ; 'but
you should recollect, Martha, that curiosity
is only found in inquiring minds. I will,

however," continued he, "keep my thoughts
in silence to myself upon this matter, and
say nothing more about it, beyond expressing
the hope that, disliking more than ever
to be alone, you'll give me your manly
support always when it's dark, and as much
as possible when it's not ; for my nerves are
none of the strongest."

"There's nothing to be frightened at,"
observed Dame Soppy, quietly resuming
her knitting.

I wish I could think so, Martha," responded
he, in a whine of distrust, " for
then 1 should be a bolder man than I am
at the present moment. If I could but believe,"
continued Mr. Soppy, " that there
was nothing to fear, what a plucky fellow I
should become."

Perhaps the argument was exhausted, for
Dame Soppy gave no reply, and her companion
was left to ponder upon it without
interruption as long as he pleased, and perhaps,

from the expression upon his rueful
countenance, longer than quite coincided
with his suppressed wishes.

CHAPTER VIII.

RUMOURS were afloat in Newmarket
that the once " Prince of the Turf,"
Colonel Leferne, had the nucleus of a racing
stud again in training at the Heather
House stable in the shape of a single colt,
sire unknown. As the son of Queen Mary,
by Gauntlet, by Bright Steel, by Helmet
Plume, however, he drew the eyes, as it was
reported, of the best judges of horseflesh in
the world, far and wide — meaning of course
the inhabitants of Newmarket, — in a condensed
focus upon him, and the unanimous
judgment pronounced, as by one voice, was
that, if he continued to grow the right way
instead of the wrong, if his legs stood the
necessary amount of work, if his wind remained

sound, and he did not turn either
whistler or confirmed roarer, if he continued
to take his full allowance of corn daily
without interruption, if his feet remained
free from corns, bruises, and casualties,
if his heels did not crack, if his hocks
remained free from curbs, his fore legs from
splints, if no screw was loose from the tips
of his ears to his fetlock joints, and, above
all, if he had the flying pace and game
heart of his mother, he would make a racehorse.
In this opinion Newmarket was
unanimous to a man.

Like most places of any note or distinction,
Newmarket possessed one of those
representative characters known as 'the
oldest inhabitant," who boldly declared
that, "well and fit at the post, he should
expect to see him take a deal o' beating."
The parrot at the " Greyhound " was even
more decided in expressing her indirect
opinion concerning the qualifications of the
Unknown, for she continually announced to

the customers at the bar that " the colonel
'11 win the Derby." Guttural was the
sound, but Polly placed her head askew as
she spoke the prophetic words clear enough
to be heard with great distinctness, and,
partly closing one eye, looked quite as cunning
and well-informed as some of her
hearers.

"The colonel '11 win the Derby," repeated
she.

I hope he may," responded a voice. '' I
do so'' and there stood in a negligent, easy,
self-possessed attitude, at the bar of the
"Greyhound," Billy Bottles, with outward
and visible signs of vast improvement in his
sublunary fortunes substituted for his misfortunes.


In his own opinion, endorsed by the reflection
of the looking-glass — four inches by
two — which lie consulted and was known
to be anything but flattering in effect, he
was well dressed, and looked on such excellent
terms with himself as scarcely admitted

of the smallest space for improvement.
His light-corded trowsers might be
tight, and consequently " horsey," and the
waist of his dark-green cutaway coat was
rather long, with the brass buttons, of
the basket pattern, placed wide apart
behind, and evidently in accordance with
special injunctions given to the tailor. A
bright blue cravat, with a loud white spot
on its surface, was tied with artistic taste
round his throat, above which stood two
collars of great depth, rounded off at the
points, and of uncomfortable stiffness. The
coat being fastened by a single button across
the chest, secreted the motley vest of bright
and varied hues in part ; but what was
visible might have led to the inference that
it was intended, from its great length, to
shelter and protect his knees. A shining,
narrow-brimmed hat, stack jauntily on one
side, and nothing more seems necessary to
add to the minute personal particulars of
Billy Bottles as he stood at the bar of the

Greyhound," a gratified listener to the
oracle of the parrot.

With a benign expression upon his countenance
he regarded the prophetic bird
through the bars of her cage, and seemed
to derive secret gratification in encouraging
her to repeat the words which fell so musically
upon his tympanum.

'she's a miracle," remarked the wearer
of a small white apron about the size of a
bishop's, and, as would appear, from anything
to the contrary, for as useless a purpose,
behind the bar of the establishment.
She's a miracle," repeated the wearer of
the apron, " and says wot she thinks, not
wot she hears."

Billy Bottles darted an incredulous look
at the speaker, as if the assertion was to be
received with considerable doubt.

'she's a wonder to think," resumed the
wearer of the apron, folding his arms slowly
across his breast, "and often picks out a
good thing when the weights are out."

The speaker evincing the utmost seriousness
of tone and manner, Billy Bottles
listened with interest, mingled however with
distrust.

In handicaps she's good," continued the
wearer of the apron, " but nothing comes
near her weight for age judgment. For the
Two Thousand, Derby, and Leger, I always
follow our parrot."

"The colonel '11 win the Derby," now
came from the throat of the bird, as, with
an eye half closed, she seemed ready to
complete a wink not quite determined
upon.

She means the owner of the Unknown,"
said the wearer of the apron, in a confidential
whisper. " I never heard her yet
give the name o' the colt."

"Why's that?" asked Billy Bottles.

No one knows but herself," replied the
wearer of the apron, " but there's something
in it, I'll be sworn. A man's brains
sometimes wins a race. Perhaps," continued

he, 'rit will be more head than heels in the
one she's thinking about."

Billy Bottles now placed his nose close
to the cage, and, peering through the bars,
seemed to invite the bird to make a communication
of her secret. She was not,
however, to be cajoled into revealing it,
and, placing her head on one side again,
with half-closed eye looked at him without
uttering a word.

She sees now," added the wearer of the
apron, "that you want her to speak, and
the consequence is nothings persuade her
to say one word. You might wring her
head off first."

"If she only speaks the truth," replied
Billy Bottles, " I prefer that she should
keep her head on. I do soT

"Your money's on the Unknown then?"
said the wearer of the apron, in the form of
a question.

I should just say it was," replied Billy
Bottles, in a manner which might have conveyed

the supposition that the coffers of the
Bank of England were at stake.

"Ha!" exclaimed the wearer of the
apron, " I never plunge. Tf there's more
danger in one thing than another, it's plunging.
When sou put your pieces down, I
say, put 'em down cautiously, and then,
with a bit o' luck, you may take up a few
more in the shape of winnings."

"The cautious stay well, and he, who
waits longest generally gets all he wants,"
philosophically rejoined Billy Bottles. "He
does so''

The wearer of the white apron nodded
a silent approval.

"The devilish difficult part of the business
is," continued Billy Bottles, " to sit still,
with hands down, and wait long enough."

The proprietor of the apron repeated his
nod.

Talking makes me thirsty," added Billy
Bottles. " Let's have a pint of ale. Shall
we toss for it ?"

A sixpence was sent spinning in the air,
and as it fell flat on the counter the wearer
of the white apron cried,

'' Head."

Billy Bottles removed his hand from
covering it, and it was '' tail."

CHAPTER IX.

TN one of the rooms of the patrician hotel
-*- of Newmarket, " The Rutland Arms,"
Colonel Leferne reclined on a sofa one
morning after breakfast time, but not after
breakfast, for the varied edibles remained
on the table before him precisely in the
same condition as they had been left by the
officious waiter. A loose morning-robe was
girdled carelessly round his waist, and, with
slippered feet, he lounged in the idlest of
positions with upturned face, smoking a
cigar. The puffs of grey white smoke curled
in eddying circles upwards from his lips,
and, as he watched them melting away from
his view, he might be thinking, perhaps,

VOL. II. I

that much of the past with lira had left
remains about as transient.

*' But my object was gained," said he,
aloud, and the words sounded as if in reply
to some rebellious reflections. " I determined
to become the most conspicuous man
of fashion of the day, and he who occupies
a pedestal far above the heads of others
must pay, in some form or other, the price
for the position. I paid for mine, and, now
it's gone, I fear that, like a child with a lost
or broken toy, I'm ready to quarrel with
myself for having been its possessor. To
be, however, at enmity with oneself is anything
but stoicism, and I must support the
creed I profess."

With this he raised himself with a languid
effort from the sofa, and drew from one of
the pockets of his robe a small, dark blue
glass vial, protected with a piece of white
leather above and around the stopper.
Pressing two fingers upon his right wrist,
he counted in silence the throbbing pulse,

and, from the movement of his lips, continued
coins so for some brief seconds.

What a contradiction life itself is !" at
length ejaculated, he, regarding the vial
with a steadfast look as it lay in the open
palm of one of his hands. "Three drops
of this would bid the pendulum stop, and
yet, when it begins to beat faintly, 1 must
swallow a measured one to keep the damaged
machine moving on. So that which
would readily kill holds for a time death at
bay !"

Whether this special train of thought
would have been continued must remain a
matter of conjecture ; but it was interrupted
by a modest knock at the door, as if through
the agency of clenched knuckles, followed
by the granted permission for the disturber
to enter the apartment without further
ceremony. With great promptness the door
gaped open, and spat forth Johnny Tadpole,
manifested in neat, if not regal, attire, and
looking the new-blown pink of Newmarket

i2

stable-boys. As became a properly-disciplined,
well-mannered Newmarket stableboy,
Johnny raised a finger and thumb to
his forehead, and, clutching a lock of hair
trained in the form of a duck's tail in the
centre, pulled it straight over his nose, as an
outward mark for the inward and, therefore,
invisible respect he felt for being in
the immediate presence of a superior, and
there left it. With his eyes fixed upon the
floor, Johnny Tadpole felt that the penetrating
gaze of Colonel Leferne was upon
him, and that he was being surveyed with
great minuteness and perspicuity. First his
shoes, on the polished surface of which a
kitten might have frisked with the reflection
of herself, were subjected to close examination
; then the neat gaiter adorned with a
row of mother-of-pearl buttons followed in
turn. As a matter of regular course, the
breeches came next, and, looked at only in
the light of breeches of a miniature kind,
they might have defied, perhaps, a great

deal of criticism. The coat followed — and
a little, bob-tailed, cutaway, close-fitting,
single-breasted, pepper-and-salt garment it
proved to be without any corroborative
testimony — and a purple and orange silk
neckerchief, in all the splendour of the
Leferne colours, completed the task of the
eye-witness.

Well," exclaimed the colonel, in a tone
which sounded somewhat sharp to the ears
of Johnny Tadpole, " what have you to say?"

If you please, sir," began Johnny Tadpole,
having acquired his lesson by heart
on his way, but with too much fear of the
august presence in which he found himself
to raise even his eyes from the carpet — " if
you please, sir," repeated he, " Mister Mark
Rooksonon has sent me to say, sir, that the
colt was never better in his life than he is
this morning."

So far so good," rejoined the colonel,
with a deeply-drawn breath, and as if speaking
to himself.

'' He was as fresh and playful as a kid,,
sir," continued Johnny, gaining confidence
as he proceeded, " when I dressed him after
exercise, and kept up a regular fire o' kicks
the whole time."

He knows how to use his heels, then,
like his mother, eh?" rejoined the colonel.

"They say, sir," returned Johnny, beginning
to feel himself possessed of a few additional
degrees of assurance, " that one
handier with his heels was never trained in
our great stable."

I know what Rooksonon thinks of the
Unknown," said the colonel, " for he deceives
no one. But what," continued he,
smiling, much to the relief of his listener,
does your great stable say of him ?"

"We, sir," responded Johnny Tadpole,
swelling slightly with pride, for there was
not room for much enlargement — 'ewe, sir,"
repeated he, " never speak about our 'losses
outside our stable, but inside our stable

we talk among ourselves, particular after
dinner."

1 should like to hear a little of what
has passed," returned the colonel, " when
my colt has been the subject of conversation,
as I suppose he must have been."

Very often, sir, I assure ye," added
Johnny Tadpole ; " and when he and I first
arrived we were put through what is called
the chaff mill. Having made a sort of confession,
sir," continued he, " that I once
looked after a small dairy, I caught it hot
about the cow with the iron tail, I can tell
ye ; and, when it was found out that our
colt was entered for his engagements ^ sire
unknown,' I came in for rather more than
my fair share of pepper."

"This is just what I wish to hear," remarked
the colonel, with portrayed interest
in the narrative. " Go on."

In a short time, howsomever," resumed
the speaker, " there was a great change, sir,

for the better in this respect. With nie up
and the Unknown never goes so free as
when I'm up — it was soon seen that he
could pull over every one of the young 'uns
in his exercise gallops, and, after a rough
up with three clinkers one morning before
it was broad daylight, he became, sir, the
pride and hope of our great stable."

That was the trial Rooksonon referred
to," observed the colonel, as if speaking to
himself

"Very likely, sir," rejoined Johnny Tadpole
; " but trials with us are kept as secret
and silent " — here he dropped his voice
with dramatic effect — '' as the tomb. Nobody
is allowed to think about the trial of
a crack, much less to speak about it, and
when it gets wind, sir, depend upon it it's
from having been watched by some touting
cove on the look out."

^' You mean to say, then," returned the
colonel, '' that you are trustworthy."

'' Ask Mister Rooksonon, sir," added Johnny,

becoming somewhat warm upon the
subject; " he will bear me out, sir, that we
stable-boys are too fond and proud of our
'losses to do them any wrong, and often and
often when many things might be said and
done, for which a good price would be paid,
no sum of money could bribe any one of
us to split or nobble."

'' It is more frequently suspected than
committed," said the colonel, "I believe."

People talk about trainers, jockeys, and
stable-boys being thieves, sir," continued
Johnny Tadpole, now fairly heated, " and
judge of the conduct of others by what they
would do themselves if they had the chance.
Now I know through Mister Samuel Wideoo,
who taught me to write, and having been
in the great Heather House stables for
several months past, that, with a wonderful
many opportunities of feathering their own
nests at the expense of their masters, it's
seldom indeed that a robbery takes place.
I don't mean to say, sir, that one never

does. A few of the family of the Ann-strong
may always be found, and they'll
pull a loss now and then. It happens also
that hocussing is not altogether unknown,
and it may still be remembered that a blow
across the hock with the handle of a fork
has stopped a loss from winning a race
before now. I don't believe much in
visiting, sir."

The colonel at this moment, and as if by
instinct, placed a hand in the pocket of the
robe in which was the blue glass vial.

From what I've heard," continued
Johnny, " I've no doubt but bosses have
been poisoned, but that's a long time ago,
when cobblers were a great deal more
ignorant and consequently bigger fools than
they are at present, although not, perhaps,
bigger rogues, because I don't believe that's
possible. If a loss is to be made safe
without the help of Captain Armstrong, I've
heard say, sir, that a little emetic powder
rubbed over his gums is all that is necessary.

A painted bit has been used before
now, and this will make him as sick and
faint as a child with the measles. But as
innocent a mode as any, perhaps, is to let
him drink half a pail o' water just before
he leaves the stable to start for a race.
Nothing can make him safer than that, if
what I am told is true."

*' And yet upon the whole," observed the
colonel, "you think these several means for
knaves to enrich themselves are not often
applied."

'Tm sure they are not, sir," replied
Johnny Tadpole, "' and, considering the
many baits that are held out for wrong to
be done, it's wonderful — let people think
and say what they please — how seldom a
race is sold. Of course, sir," continued
he, rolling his head from side to side, ''if it
doesn't come off right, or as it was expected,
somebody must be blamed, and then
people begin to cry out about being robbed ;
but if they knew the hard and difficult work

it is to train a race-loss; the little that'll
upset hai ; his being in full-bloom to-day,
and pounds and pounds worse tomorrow;
the chances and accidents of the race itself;
the blunders that will and do happen in
private trials "

There has been no mistake committed
with that of the Unknown, I hope," interrupted
the colonel, feverishly.

*' You needn't fear that, sir," responded
Johnny, with unequivocal confidence. ^' The
weight was up, which is a secret to all but
Mister Rooksonon and yourself; but, whatever
it was, the trial was true. Mister
Rooksonon, sir, never makes the smallest
allowance in the scales. A trial with him
means the asking of a real question, and
when the answer's given it may be depended
upon like gospel truth."

'' And you all think that we shall win the
Criterion to-day ?" said the colonel, reddening
suddenly as he spoke.

With one accord, sir," replied Johnny,

giving a pull at the straight piece of hair
over his nose.

Is Wideoo here ?" asked the colonel.

'mister Samuel Wideoo," responded
Johnny, " has left the cows to take care o'
themselves, sir, and may be found at 'The
Greyhound,' in all probability, listening to
the parrot that's learnt to say — nobody
knows how — you'll win the Derby, sir."

It will be a great turn in ray fallen
fortunes if I should," said the colonel ; but
he spoke in that low voice which was heard
only by himself

"The parrot at 'The Greyhound,' sir,"
resumed Johnny, apparently determined not
to drop the subject with undue haste, 'ris
looked upon as a bird, by some people, as
not belonging exactly to this world, sir."

What world does she belong to ?" asked
the colonel, in the old languid tone and
manner. " I've heard something about her
oracular powers."

Opinions differ as to that, sir," replied

Johnny Tadpole ; " but some think she was
hatched from brimstone heat where common
feathers soon scorch."

^'You speak of a temperature too high
to be agreeable," rejoined the colonel.
^' Having fulfilled your mission, leave me."

'^ Am I to say anything to Mister Rook-son,
sir?" inquired Johnny, preparing to
obey the order with lingering footsteps.

"That I shall be with him immediately,"
replied the colonel. " Nothing more."

In respectful silence Johnny Tadpole
once more had recourse to the lock of hair
over his nose, pulled it, and departed.

CHAPTER X.

THE seasons of the year are popularly
supposed to comprise the equal number
of four; but in Newmarket there is but
one, beginning with the Craven Meeting
and ending with the Houghton. No other
season is acknowledged, or claims the smallest
attention at Newmarket. With the first
race, spring begins; with the last, winter
sets in. Ten seasons are equal to ten years,
not forty within the same space of time.

The season — there being but one — was
waning to its close, and the day for the
decision of the "' Criterion " had arrived.
Rumours were afloat and reports had been
circulated that the great Heather House
stable was sanguine in being able to furnish

the winner in a dark colt — sire unknown —
the property of the once greatest patron of
the Turf in its history. Years, however,
had fled since the Leferne colours had been
carried to the front, or, indeed, had been
even seen, and things out of sight soon pass
away from the memory. The colonel had
been a terror to all who had "taken liberties
with his horses," but this was a longtime
ago, and those who were rash enough
to take liberties, had been replaced by
others who lead not had the opportunity of
committing a corresponding mistake.

A dark colt — sire unknown — to beat the
best of his year.

Such was the task set for Queen Mary's
son to accomplish upon one bright autumnal
day, when the shades, shadows, and
silence of Newmarket had given place to
one of its periodical intervals of normal excitement.
If not crowded, the Heath was
thronged with anxious and eager spectators,
and in knots and groups the forthcoming test

of " the best of his year " was being freely discussed
with the difference of public opinion
which generally exists when conflicting interests
are at stake. It was admitted, however,
without one dissentient voice, that on
his mother's side nothing could be wanting
for a race-horse of the first-class ; but for
the sire to be '' unknown," men shook their
heads, and shrugged their shoulders in
contemptuous silence.

With a weak, uncertain gait, and bending
forward as he walked, leaning heavily on
a stout cane, a tall, military figure — albeit
not upright — might have been seen walking
alone towards the starting-post of "the
turns of the lands in." Not the slightest
notice was taken of him, and he took no
heed of anyone or anything as he passed
along with his eyes bent steadfastly on the
greensward. A few short years before, and
the scene was different. Upon that solitary
man the gaze of the enraptured crowd was
fixed as if some idol drew and riveted its

VOL. II. K

attention, and now he was a stranger where
he was once worshipped, and alone.

Familiar shouts occasionally fell upon his
ear, and, as he paused and listened, a smile,
which seemed to come from a melancholy
thought, flickered like a faint, dying light
over his features.

"I'll lay against the Unknown'' was
heard clear and distinct above the babel of
voices in the distance.

Be careful, whoever ye may be," muttered
Colonel Leferne, continuing to listen
as he leaned upon his cane.

"Ten to one in hundreds against the
Unknown," cried the same voice.

I hope Rooksonon's commissioner is not
far off that speculator," observed the colonel,
communing with himself.

ril do it again," was the shout from the
same stentorian lungs, after a short pause.
A thousand to a hundred against the
Unknown."

My money is being invested, I hear,"
remarked the colonel, still thinking aloud.
Rooksonon is carrying out my orders to put
on " — his lips became pressed together as he
spoke, but not before he muttered— " the
last shilling I can pay. That may be lost —
but not my honour."

'' Ten to one bar one," was the repeated
cry, and by the same voice.

A momentary lull in the offers against
Queen Mary's son followed.

'' Six to four on the field," shouted the
same persevering bookmaker.

'^ Safe betting as a rule," observed the
colonel, continuing to listen to the cries
from the ring. " Short odds secure large
pains."

'' I'll lay against all these runners," was
the halloo now raised far above the din.

There's one among them," returned the
colonel, sarcastically, as he walked gently
forward towards the starting post, assisted

k2

by his cane, ^' I would recommend your
reserving for some other occasion."

Whether the suggestion was adopted or
not is of little moment, and which would
entirely depend upon causes over which it
could have neither direct nor indirect control;
but there still appeared to be an eager desire
on the part of more than one in the
ring to '' lay against all these runners."

A wholesome sedative will be administered
presently," soliloquized the colonel, ashe
glanced at the dial of a watch which he
took from the pocket of his waistcoat. '• If
I am not mistaken " — a slight shudder ran
through his frame as he uttered these words
" an impressive silence will follow this
demonstrative opposition. Something," continued
he, " tells me within that it will be
so, as it did in bygone days, when success
was at hand, and yet it may be but deceptive
hope. Well, be it so ! The die is cast !"

The chain of his thoughts was now

broken b}^ the coming to his side, with a
strong and sudden pull on the curb chain,
of a mounted horseman riding a thick-set,
well-proportioned chestnut cob, whose
flanks were heaving evidently from the
distance he had accomplished in the time
given him for that purpose. It was Mark
Rooksonon's pony, as well known at Newmarket
as the forlorn old red betting-post
on the heath, and the rider of Mark Rook-son's
pony was Mark Rooksonon himself.
Like the pony he bestrode, he was short-limbed,
and bore, with striking resemblance
to the pony, the outward and visible effects
of either taking most judicious care of
himself or having particular and tender
solicitude bestowed upon him. The effect
being the same, the causes at least were not
antagonistic. Health glowed in a visage
the direct opposite of pale or lantern-jawed,
and good-humour, with a sanguine temperament,
was portrayed as the index to

the attributes of character in Mark Rook-son's
rubicund and cheery countenance.

^' Your commission has been executed,
Colonel," said Mark Rooksonon, putting a
nervous tug upon the jaws of the chestnut
cob which strained them to his chest, and
turning sideways in his saddle as he spoke.

"At what odds?" briefly inquired the
colonel.

"The five hundred, or, as we say,
Hie monkey'" replied Mark Rooksonon,
laughing, "has been put on cleverly at an
average of twelve to one, Colonel."

"That will do," rejoined Colonel Leferne,
and in this, as in everything in which you
have been concerned for me, I am more
than satisfied, even should the Unknown be
last instead of first in the race."

He'll beat more than will beat him,'^"
returned Mark Rooksonon, pulling up the
collars of his shirt and settling his chin
comfortably between them. " If he doesn't

quite win, Colonel, he'll stretch the neck of
the one that does."

Do you possess, at this moment, the
same confidence in him that you did ?"
asked the colonel, and the lines in his
features seemed more deeply furrowed ashe
spoke.

Nothing has happened to make me alter
my opinion," responded Mark Rooksonon. '' I
think we shall win ; but, as this is the
colt's first appearance in public, we must
recollect that we are depending alone upon
the private trial."

Which is too often deceptive," returned
the colonel, ''to be pleasant to think
of."

"Mistakes are sometimes made with
trials," added Mark Rooksonon, " as in everything
else ; but, if an animal will only do his
best when called upon, I seldom fail to get
his measure. It now and then happens,
however," continued he, " that, from fear of

a crowd, dislike to noise, hatred of anyone
to ride him in the shape of a stranger,
and other causes too numerous to mention,
a nervous horse will refuse to make an
effort in public, and then, Colonel, that
upon which our hopes have rested is upset.
The trial itself may have been correct to an
ounce, but there is no guaranteeing that
the form will be run up to in public."

'' I almost fear that you are preparing
me for disappointment," said the colonel,
moodily.

*' Fear nothing of the kind, sir," responded
Mark Rooksonon ; " but it is as well to
remember what we have to depend upon.
I think we shall win."

'* No words were ever more musical to
my ears," rejoined Colonel Leferne.

At this moment the Unknown, clothed
from head to heel, with Samuel Wideoo
leading him, with a spotless pipe-clayed
rein as white as snow, and with Johnny

Tadpole in the saddle, passed within a few-yards
of where Colonel Leferne and Mark
E-ookson stood. Bringing up the rear, and
close behind, was the irrepressible Bottles,
who completed the sraall group of the
colonel's retainers, deeply interested in the
approaching struggle for " the pride of
place."

We are going to saddle," observed Mark
Rooksonon. " Don't you mean, sir, to see the
finish ?"

'' No," replied the colonel, shaking his
head, and touching his left breast slightly
with the fingers of his right hand, " I'm not
well enough for that, Rooksonon, to-day.
Something here beats too fast already."

'' You'll witness the start, then," rejoined
Mark Rooksonon.

Such is my intention," returned Colonel
Leferne. *' But you may be wanted. Don't
let me detain you a moment longer."

Mark Rooksonon slackened the rein of the

chestnut cob, and his feet rattled responsively
on the greensward as he galloped
forward.

CHAPTER XI.

^' OIIX furlongs, from the turn of the lands
'^ in," was the distance set to be accomplished
by the candidates for Criterion
honours, and it must be a good colt, as the
best judges in Newmarket declared to a
man to be returned the victor on the present
occasion, as "the flyers of the year"
were not only engaged in the race, but
would, it was confidently announced, appear
at the post.

A pale October sun was sinking in the
west, throwing long unsymmetrical shadows
on the ground, when straining eyes beheld,
with palpitating hearts, the field of horses
drawn up in an irregular line, ready for the

signal to start for *' The Criterion Stakes, of
30 sovereigns each, 20 forfeit, for two years
old. Colts 8 stone sobs, fillies 8 stone cobs.
The winner of a £500 sweepstakes, including
the winner's own stake, with ten subscribers,
to carry 41bs extra, of two such
stakes 71bs extra. A winner of any other
sweepstakes value £200, including the winner's
own stake, and not having less than
ten subscribers, to carry 21bs extra. Sixty-three
subscribers."

Such were the full published particulars
and conditions of the prize for which thirteen
competitors were now being marshalled
to the post, among them a bay colt, sire
unknown.

Mark Rooksonon had given the finishing
touch to the toilet of Queen Mary's son with
his own hands, while Johnny Tadpole held
the bridle of the chestnut pony a few yards
removed, and looked on with a hard ball
of emotion sticking in his throat which

threatened to choke him. Men, horses, and
things, small and great, danced before his
eyes, for his brain was in a whirl, and he
looked sick, giddy, and pale. Still he
looked on as steadily as he could, and made
himself complete master of events that were
passing before him, as well as circumstances
of a dizzy description would permit.

If his uncertain vision did not deceive
him, or play high jinks with what appeared
plain, unvarnished facts, as opposed to the
unreal phantasies of fiction, there stood the
son of Queen Mary, by Bright Steel, by
Helmet Plume, not only saddled, but
mounted by *the Demon," arrayed in the
gorgeous Leferne colours of purple and
orange. Physically a small man, scaling
eight stone two pounds as the lowest riding
weight, ^* The Demon" was, nevertheless, a
great man in more ways than one. Society
in stays, with a white " choker " beneath a
double-double Exeter Hall chin might have

sighed, with upturned eyes, " only a jockey,"
and yet that noble institution, perhaps, could
not have boasted, with becoming meekness,
that it ever had beneath the span of its roof
one who had been more faithful to the
trust and confidence reposed in him. "Only
a jockey," and yet above the suspicion of
the most suspicious, against whose honesty
not a syllable of doubt was ever breathed.
"The Demon '' had earned for himself from
long years of resistance to temptation, self-denial,
painstaking obedience and courage,
a reputation above which no step was practicable.
The first of his order was "The
Demon," and personified the consummate
master of his art as he sat on the saddle of
the Unknown with a graceful, easy bearing,
waiting for a signal to ride for a life, albeit
not known to him.

Johnny Tadpole's fascinated gaze was
fixed on the Unknown and his rider. He
knew that before, behind, and around were,

to him, other Unknowns and their riders ;
but he saw the shining coat of a single Unknown
only glittering like shot silk in the
pale rays of the setting sun, and but one
rider decked in a purple satin jacket and
orange cap. He could look at nothing else,
and made no resistance to divert his view
from the focus of attraction.

The moment appeared almost attained
for the start to take place, when Mark
Rooksonon suddenly jerked the reins from
Johnny Tadpole's hands, and climbing into
the saddle with a nimbleness of action
scarcely to be believed, without being witnessed,
for one " who had taken particular
care of himself, or had had special care
taken of him," sent the chestnut pony along
towards the finish of " the turns of the lands
in" at a pace evidently stimulated by a
vigorous touch of the spur, and which the
pony, as undeniably the best judge, might
have considered in the more forcible light
of " a dig."

Before Johnny Tadpole could recover
himself from a kind of shock which vibrated
through his nerves as if received through
the medium of a galvanic battery, Mark
Rooksonon and the chestnut cob were rattling
away, and had almost reached the point of
their destination, the winning-post, placed
in conspicuous relief at the end of the six
furlongs.

Leaning with both hands on his cane
with two hectic spots glowing like small
furnaces in his cheeks, and bright, glassy
eyes, Colonel Leferne stood snatching, with
compressed lips, every movement of the
animal upon whose success rested the issue
of '* life or death." And yet, near as was
the decision, his heart quailed not for a
moment. The end was inevitable, and if
met, the time would be shortened, nothing
more or less. Such was the silent argument
passing within, and which many a time had
escaped his lips, when alone.

Strange indeed would it have been had
the field of thirteen exhibited the same
tractable and quiet disposition as that shown
by Queen Mary's son, who was perfectly
willing to be guided by '' The Demon''
either backward or forward, left or right,
just as he was required to move or stand.
No two-year-old at the post ever looked
more noble and dignified, great as was the
drawback in his lineage — sire unknown. It
was not so, however, with some whose putative
sires were remarkably well known and
registered. Here and there a leg was lashed
out in a manner likely to cause trepidation
concerning fractures. One or two declined
to go near the starting-point, and
were alike as determined to resist arbitrary
force as subtle stratagem. Rearing high in
the air upon his hind legs, the son of a putative
father took an impulsive dance of his
own composition, and, almost losing his
balance, threatened to stretch himself back-vol.

II. L

wards on the greensward with his legs uppermost,
and his rider flattened beneath the
saddle which he graced with so much skill
and apparent disregard to his own safety.
Round turned another as if upon a pivot,
and proved as deaf to persuasion as he
seemed blind to the coaxing endearments
lavished in vain upon him by his attendants.
During this trying ordeal, however,
the Unknown stood, with expanded nostrils
and dilated eyeballs, as if chiselled from
stone, moving only with the slight and imperceptible
touch of the rein by '' The
Demon " to maintain the desired position
for the start.

With both hands clasped upon the top of
the cane, Colonel Leferne stood in a line
with the unruly field, and, like his horse,
betrayed little outward emotion at the scene
before him, and in which he was interested
beyond the power of language to describe.

Life or Death !

At the first attempt down went the flag,
and off jumped the thirteen competitors as
if touched by a spring which released each
and all at one and the same instant. With
a flash the purple jacket and orange cap
were seen in the front ; but no sooner there
than the practised eye of the colonel saw
"The Demon" pull the Unknown back to
take a less prominent place in accordance
with the final orders he had received from
Mark Rooksonon.

He will not break his heart at the
beginning," said the colonel to himself, and
as he spoke he appeared to almost gasp for
breath, " whatever may be the condition of
mine at the finish."

A roar of voices, and then unbroken silence
as if from the grave.

Colonel Leferne remained as if rooted to
the spot, still resting in a bent position upon
his cane ; but with a strained, eagle-eyed
gaze turned in the direction of '' the in "

l2

from " the turn of the lands." Horses and
men had quitted the spot, and he stood
alone with his eyes fixed upon the whereabouts
of an object he could not see; but
which kept the look fixed and immutable.

'rit is over," muttered he, "and the stake
is either won or lost."

If life lives in but little there is no such
length as that measured by the moments of
suspense. Brief as was the space it seemed
as if time had stopped before anything was
visible in the shape of a mere speck in the
distance which might be conjectured as the
approach of the herald of the success of the
Unknown or his defeat. On came the
speck, growing into a spot, and then into
something larger as its nearer approach
became more manifest. A pair of heels, in
responsive action to a pair of arms, were
seen hard at work as if urging to an effort
of more than his best speed a chestnut pony
with his ears thrown back, outstretched

neck, and legs extended to their fullest
capacity. A few lengths nearer and it
required no powerful eyesight to discover
that the speck, now become much larger
than any ordinary spot, was Johnny
Tadpole and Mark Rooksonon's chestnut
pony.

'' We have won, Colonel," cried he at the
pitch of a very shrill voice, as he arrived
within range of a fair gun shot. ^' We have
won, sir, through the mercy of Providence
and the riding of ' The Demon,' by a short
head."

Was he weighed in before you started
to bring me this result?" quietly asked
Colonel Leferne, glancing suspiciously under
his knitted and beetling brow, still resting on
his cane.

'^\nd passed * all right,' sir," replied
Johnny, in a paroxysm of pleasure displayed
in tone, manner, and expression, as he
pulled hard upon the reins and, coming to

a dead stop, sprang from the saddle with a
light bound at the feet of the owner of the-unknown,
the winner of the Criterion.

CHAPTER XII.

TT almost demands an apology to add
-*- that an " ovation " followed the victory
of the Unknown, as whoever or whatever
achieves success in these alleged degenerate
days is sure to meet with an " ovation," if
discordant voices raised to an unnatural
pitch, and countenances wearing an expression
of absolute frenzy, may be supposed to
convey the effects of a triumph of any sort
or kind. Hats were tossed in the air with
a total disregard to their original cost or
market value. Arms flourished madly above
men's heads, and legs kicked, capered, and
danced in a manner approaching nearer the
savage exhibition of the ancient Britons,

when under the influence of wild excitement,
than what mio^ht have fairly been
expected from a division, large or small, of
a civilized modern community. Such, however,
were the outward and visible signs of
the *' ovation," as Queen Mary's son, now
closely hooded and clothed, walked daintily
through the crowd with a proud bearing,
on his way back to the Heather House
stable. Samuel Wideoo, by right and title
conceded by the autocrat Mark Rooksonon,
led the Unknown through the adulating
crowd, while Johnny Tadpole, as a feather-weight
of small specific gravity, bestrode
the conqueror in a way which can scarcely
be called the reverse of arrogant, for Johnny
displayed a grandeur of person and as
lofty a mien as a lord of very high degree
or prince of the blood. There was no futile
attempt to conceal the inordinate self-esteem
which pervaded the whole of his little system
as he sat on the pigmy saddle, girthed

across the back of the winner of the Criterion,
but which, it is needless to add, was
quite large enough for him, and with palpable
room to spare.

Forgetful, perhaps, of all the antecedents
of his life, — even to the special notice of the
Government, represented by the policeman
on the beat, in earlier if not happier days
of his youth — there sat Johnny Tadpole,
the admired, as he fully believed, of all admirers,
guarded in the immediate rear by
Billy Bottles, who handled a stout ash stick
in a threatening manner to those who presumed
to press too closely upon the flanks
and hocks of the now idol of Newmarket —
sire unknown.

Keep off, d'ye hear ?" cried he, and
then, as if no doubt should exist as to the
object of his address being sensible at least
to feeling, if not to sight, he made a thrust
with the point of his stick straight at the
ribs of the offender, which brought forth a

sharp ejaculation of the vowel "0 1" '' I'll
give ye something to holly about presently,"
continued Billy, with a vicious swing of the
stick, which might have left an ugly mark
upon anyone within reach. "I'll give ye
something to holly about presently," repeated
he, "if you don't give us room. I
will so. Keep off, d'ye he — avT'

Space being accorded by the multitude
through this practical argument, the procession
took its way into the High Street of
Newmarket, gathering in numbers as it
went, and each and all of the admiring
throng feasting their eyes on Queen Mary's
son as " if appetite grew upon what it fed."

'what about his sire now ?" shouted a
diminutive man divided into two equal parts
of jacket and gaiters, as he stood at the
doorway of the old-fashioned hostelry, '' The
White Lion."

Samuel Wideoo glanced at the speaker
with a broad grin upon his features. They

had passed '' a quiet evening," together, and
their joint and several sentiments culminated
at the termination of the " quiet evening
" in the unity of opinion that '' a good
Loss was neither better nor fuss for havens
no father at all."

'' Talk about fathers," remarked the diminutive
man divided into two equal parts
of jacket and gaiters, towards the termination
of the "quiet evening," passed with
Samuel Wideoo at "The Greyhound," when
the parrot was moody and silent, and seemed
to be asleep, but, nevertheless, had one
eye half open, and was gathering knowledge
for vaticination. "Talk about fathers," repeated
he, with portrayed contempt intone
and manner. " Show me a race-loss,
that's all I want to see in this bless — ed
world, and I'll ask no questions about his
father. What's his father to me ?" he, continued
with keen-edged sarcasm, and fixing
a look of mingled anger and brandy on the

brain upon his companion ; he seemed to be
grinding himself up to a fine point of excitement,
which threatened to leave little
power of discrimination between friend and
foe. " I say, sir," resumed jacket and gaiters,
" what the devil's his father to me ?"

The parrot woke up at this juncture, and,
giving her feathers a vigorous shake, repeated
the query in words almost as distinct
and clear as the diminutive man himself,
and concluded with his favourite peroration :

'' The colonel's win the Derby."

*' So say I," cried the two equal parts of
jacket and gaiters, '' and so say all of us.
Fathers be d d !"

With this expletive the " quiet evening "
was brought to a close, and the next opportunity
which Samuel Wideoo had of seeing
the two equal parts was as he stood at the
doorway of 'the White Lion," when he
again referred to the subject by shouting,

*' What about his sire now ?"

With a friendly recognition, which the
Road grin was meant to convey, Samuel
Wideoo continued to head the van of the
procession as its course was directed through
the High Street of Newmarket.

It was a grand sight — at least, so Johnny
Tadpole thought. At the head and front
walked Samuel Wideoo, with evidently no
more thought of the dairy at Bromley Marsh
than if that institution had never been established.
Then the Unknown, with as proud
a step as any peacock of the spring, carrying
that condensed essence of self-conceit,
Johnny Tadpole, and the rear brought up
by Billy Bottles, wielding unregulated
power and protection in the shape of a
long, tough ash stick.

Have a care !" cried he, as the colt, with
a sudden movement, displayed anger at the
foremost part of the throng pressing closely
upon him. " Have a care," repeated he,
raising the stick with a threatening gesture,

or more than one of ye will be kicked to
heaven in a twinkling. It will be short and
sharp work, I can tell ye. It will creaking

the warning in the spirit in which
it was given, and a more earnest one could
scarcely have been exhibited, the crowd fell
back, and Queen Mary's son strode along as
dignified as before, with his squarely-cut,
bang tail swinging like a pendulum, almost
level with his hocks, and with the proud
gait of the hero that he was.

Distance being regulated by time, "The
Greyhound " was soon reached, and as the
procession passed that hostelry, renowned
for wine in which the bee's wing might
always be seen to float when examined
critically, a loud but guttural voice was
heard to exclaim,

The colonel '11 win the Derby."

Do you hear that, Sam ?" cried the
guard of honour bringing up the rear.

Sam had heard the prophecy repeated

more than once during the course of the
"quiet evening" with jacket and gaiters,
and jerked his head on one side as a signal
of the affirmative kind.

In a few succeeding minutes the wide
gates of the adjacent yard to Heather House
stable were thrown open, and the Unknown
and his attendants were admitted in solemn
silence and with courtly etiquette, as if the
reception of the winner of a Criterion was a
mere matter of form, and as an event to be
looked upon in the light of a common occurrence.
Stiffly and slowly the gates
swung upon their hinges and closed again,
and the admiring crowd was left cut off
from the object of its homage and devotion.

CHAPTER XIII.

ljlOR some time past Mr. Soppy — Mr.
-■- Thomas Soppy — had passed a most
unhappy existence in an atmosphere of
quaking tremor. He was always in a shake
concerning something of the past, present,
or to come. Like the loosened strings of a
harp, his nerves were unstrung, and often,
with unshed tears swimming in his eyes, he
reclined in the easy, caressing chair in the
still-room, ruminating sorrowfully that they,
possibly, might never be screwed to their
former pitch of tension again. Thus musing,
Mr. Soppy would shake his head, rub
his nose on the back of a hand, sigh, sob,
and snuffle.

Excited too as his feelings were morning;,
noon, and night — but especially at night —
he had the great mortification of beholding
a liberal measure of the exact opposite
effect in those of Dame Soppy, who looked
upon all occasions, and at all times and seasons,
as cool and collected as the grave digger
in " Hamlet." She was never rushed, and
her homely cheeks were never blanched
nor flushed as she came from the dark lone-depths
of passages and galleries of the old
Hall in the eventide, or went from his presence
into them. It was not so, however,
with him. Thomas Soppy had heard from
Harry Girling's own lips what he had once
seen peering through the window of his
cottage. He might have entertained some
doubt had the story been narrated by his
daughter only, but there was the corroborative
testimony of the strong burly gamekeeper
himself, who kept the secret of what
he saw in the ordinary conventional way

VOL. II. M

by communicating it to everybody he met
in the strictest confidence, and " everybody
'■ returned the compliment by a similar
co-operative and general method of
transmitting intelligence. Mr. Soppy heard
and, what is more to the purpose, believed.
His faith was great in that which he had
been told concerning the wraith haunting
not only the precincts of Greatwood Park,
but of the Hall itself. The gossips of the
neighbourhood declared that an apparition
might be seen, had been seen, and would
continue to be seen in and around the old
house, and that, doubtless, it was the wandering,
disturbed spirit of a departed victim
of one of the libertines of the old knightly
family. As with most stories, whether
ancient or modern, the facts given as matters
ot history varied in accordance with the imaginative
powers of the several tellers of the
tale ; but, whatever might be the variations
in the narrative, Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas

Soppy — held the unwavering belief that in
the cardinal points it was true. If his remarkably
long and lop ears had not deceived
him, there were sounds in the house
which were difficult, if not impossible, to account
for. If this eyes had not conjured up
a mere phantom of the brain he had seen
once in the moonlight, streaming through
diamond panes of a window in the old portrait
gallery, a shadowy unreal something
which flitted noiselessly away at the farther
end as he stood riveted to the spot with
horror at what he saw. His conscience told
him that he ought not to be there ; for he
was bound to admit to himself that he was
playing the not rehearsed part of spy and
eavesdropper upon Dame Soppy's movements
; but however open to censure and
reproach his own conduct might be — such
was his argument — it had nothing whatever
to do with the *' shadowy, unreal something."
There it was, or, at least, had been,

m2

and as soon as he could recover his self-possession,
and collect a few of his scattered
senses to enable him to understand the
helpless absurdity of being riveted to a spot,
he turned upon his heel and bolted.

From that moment, however, he became
a victim to fear. His diurnal, and particularly
his nocturnal, life was passed in continually
shaking at what he might see or
hear at any given moment. Nothing could
exceed in intensity his chronic trepidation.
The malady took possession of each particular
hair which fringed the circle of his bald
and shiny head, making it stand up stiff and
straight, and such was the sensitive condition
of his nervous system that he was
always ready to scamper off and hide himself
like a frightened rabbit.

It was in the depressing light of an
autumn day, when the sun had set, and the
shadows cast by its last lingering rays had
faded, when Mr. Soppy was sitting in the

still-rooai, dependent upon his own mental
resources for companionship. Mr. Soppy
Alas alone, and had been so much longer
than was agreeable in a general point of
view, or soothing in a particular one. Man
being a gregarious animal, Mr. Soppy formed
no exception in not being fond of solitude,
more especially when it was dark, or rapidly
becoming so. He had borne, and was bearing,
the weary, irksome loneliness of his
position with as much fortitude as he could
summons, but it was an impossibility to
conceal from himself that the demand for
strength far exceeded the supply, and that
the deficit increased momentarily.

Mr. Soppy had a natural prejudice, or an
acquired repugnance, to owls, and, yet as
Greatwood Park was a well-known favourite
haunt for them, it was not a matter of
surprise that one of these birds of the night
should sail past the window of the stillroom,
within short range of his vision, on

her broad white pinions, like a ghost on the
wing. It formed, however, an additional
demand upon Mr. Soppy's deficient supply
of courage, and he began to feel that the
moment had almost arrived for a bolt.

"I can't stop here much longer' soliloquized
he, '' unless Martha comes to bear
me company. I'm getting in what may be
called, to use a forcible expression, a blue
funk."

Mr. Soppy stretched his ears — and they
seemed to prick forward with the action —
for some welcome and familiar sound to
lessen the oppressive weight which had sunk
his animal spirits to a depth far below zero;
but all he heard was the loud chirp of a
cricket, and this, in a way quite unaccountable,
seemed to increase, if anything, his
agitated state of mind. Then there was the
feeble sound of the old clock close at hand,
which had been playing marker in a match
with time so long that it was nearly worn

out, and appeared ready to succumb without
further stru2C]:le to the general law of wear
and tear* The tick-took of the pendulum,
as it swayed heavily to and fro, grated
harshly on Mr. Soppy's tympanum, and his
feelings at length becoming almost beyond
control, he entertained an impulsive inclination
to take off a shoe, and have a shy at
the face which seemed to squint at him. A
successful effort, however, rendered him
master of this emotion, and, checking the
wild, unregulated spirit of revenge, he rose
with a hasty movement from his chair, and,
looking around with a glance of mingled
dread and suspicion, girded up his loins and
skedaddled." Undefined terror of something
was at his heels, and Mr. Soppy displayed
a nimbleness of pace and action of
which a much younger man might well have
been proud, admitting the exciting cause
had not been " a blue funk."

Down a long, narrow, dark passage Mr.

Soppy went at full speed, running from
something concerning which he could have
rendered no explanation, and, terror lending
wings to his footsteps, flying to some
haven of peace, concerning which he had
not the faintest idea. Without a momentary
pause for either thought or breath, Mr.
Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — rushed to the
end of the long, narrow, dark passage, and,
the end being gained, turned to avoid flattening
his nose against the abrupt face of a
brick wall, and scudded — to use a nautical
phrase — up a long, winding staircase three
steps at a jump. Pursuing his career, Mr.
Soppy arrived, from a law of necessity, at
the last or highest step of the staircase, and
then, canning against a sharp angular
corner, grazed with effect the nearest elbow,
and became sensible to what concussion
means in the abstract. Checked, but not
stopped, he again gathered up his loins, and
continued his flight round the corner, leaving

it behind him with a fervent wish that
he had never felt it. One or two more
turns of a similar kind, but without collision,
and Mr. Sophy', witnessed by the ancestral
likenesses of the Lefernes of successive
generations hung so long and drearily on
the walls, flew along the old portrait-gallery,
making the stern knights in harness
and powdered, rouged, and patched lady
and belle of the olden time, smile in derision
at the sight, for any evidence which can be
offered to the contrary.

Before coming to the end of the long old
portrait-gallery, Mr. Soppy became sensible
also to what the want of breath means in
its most literal sense. He felt that without
a certain quantity in reserve it was impossible
to draw much longer upon the balance
in hand. Mr. Soppy slackened his pace,
puffed, panted, and came to a full stop with
a hand resting upon the fastening of a massive,
frowning oak door at the end of the

old portrait-gallery, and seemed to hesitate
whether he should open it or not. The
pause, however, was but for a moment.
Mr. Soppy turned the handle, and entering
an apartment of large, dreary dimensions,
known as the crimson-room, found himself
suddenly confronted by the presence
of Martha, who came with an athletic bound
to where he stood, and, holding out both
sides of the skirt of her dress between her
respective fingers and thumbs, offered a
somewhat imperfect screen to his vision,
but a decided and substantial bar to his
further ingress.

'' What do you do here ?" she said, in a
suppressed tone and manner, which seemed
to Mr. Soppy, in his then nervous condition,
almost approaching the savage. *' What do
you do here ?" repeated she.

*' I thought," began Mr. Soppy, as well as
his loss of breath would permit, and making
at the same time an unsuccessful attempt to

look beyond the screen both right and left,
but it was dodged with consummate skill,
*'I thought to find you here, and here you
are according-ly."

Having found me," rejoined Dame
Soppy, in a way which admitted of no misconstruction,
"go back."

*' But I can't sit below by myself any
longer," expostulated he, " and retain my
senses, Martha ; I can't, indeed."

Go back," reiterated she, now pointing
a straightened finger to the door by which
he entered. '' Go back. You're not wanted
here."

Half the screen having been permitted to
drop, Mr. Soppy took immediate advantage
of the opportunity, and threw a forward,
penetrating glance to the furthest end
of the crimson-room, and as he did so the
senses to which he had just referred seemed
to take a hasty departure without leaving a
trace of having been in immediate possession.

Who or what's that?" cried he, seizing
Dame Soppy in his arms and burying his
face, in so stir as it was possible to entomb
it, in her remarkably flat bosom. " Who or
what is that ?" he repeated, in a frenzy of
terror as he trusted to hide the whole of
his features, but particularly his eyes.

In a firm grasp, which it is to be hoped
was not designed to pinch him, Mrs. Soppy
disengaged herself from his embrace, and
giving him a shake the opposite of gentle,
deliberately asked him what he meant.

"Mean?" and his voice sounded almost
unearthly. " Look there !"

Dame Soppy, however, did not deign
even to turn her head in the direction.

Are you mad ?" she asked.

No," responded he, in piteous accents,
but soon shall be. Oh, Martha ! Who
or what's that? My head's a-swimming
round. It is, indeed 1"

It was a plain matter of fact that Mr.

Soppy's brain began a rotatory motion, and,
the sensation increasing, it quickly left hoi
in an undignified position upon the floor
with his face upwards, and his limbs " spread-eagle."


Mr. Thomas Soppy had fainted.

CHAPTER XIV.

During the absence of Samuel Wideoo
-^-^ from the dairy in Bromley Marsh
history is silent as to what became of the
cows, and tradition lends no aid in the solution
of the mystery. Things, however, maybe
accepted to have gone on to his satisfaction,
or stood still as the case may be ; for upon
his return no happier dairyman was ever
beheld within a wide range of that flat
and oozy land. The visions of his youth had
returned. Buried and lost hopes had risen
again. The impenetrable clouds of darkness
which surrounded the horizon of his
life had dispersed, and there stood Samuel
Wideoo himself once more, or as good a

counterfeit in every detail as might unsuspectingly
be received and passed current
for the original. Such was the buoyancy of
his animal spirits upon his return from witnessing
the signal triumph of Queen Mary's
son, that it was generally believed in the
vicinity of Bromley Marsh that he was
invariably occupied in either singing or
dancing, and that the two accomplishments
were not unfrequently blended.

It's come again ; our turn's come again,"
he would repeat, with a double shuffle of
his squared-toed boots, and in a voice which
warbled the happiness of a heart lighter
than his heels. "You've only to wait
patiently," continued he, " as in duty bound
a Christian ought to do if he can, and if he
can't to be as quiet and serene as circumstances
will permit, and the trump card is
sure to turn up when perhaps least expected."


If varied in its delivery the substance of

the soliloquy was still the same, and Samuel
Wicleo appeared never tired of the repetition.


There was scarcely a sufficient number of
superficial inches of atmosphere of a healthy
description in the parlour of the dairy one
evening from the sanitary objection of its
being over-crowded. Designed for two
occupants, or at most three, strong pressure
had been put upon space, and four might
have been seen taking their ease in so far
at least as it was possible for occasional
twinges of cramp to permit the description
of "taking their ease" to be literally in
accordance with the fact.

If we had here one of those unfurnished
apartments of yours, Tom Soppy, in Great-wood
Park," observed Billy Bottles, sending
a cloud of tobacco smoke curling from his
lips to the ceiling within easy reach of his
head as he sat, " we should have a little
more elbow room. I now know," continued

he, discursive, " what a mouse feels in a
trap. I do so

"A mouse in a trap?" reiterated Samuel
Wideoo, with an approach of indignation in
this speech and manner. " I hope I may
say, William Bottles, that a mouse in imp
trap — if it deserves the name — would always
find a nibble of cheese, and that I
never robbed a canary bird of its sugar."

sewell," returned the imperturbable William
Bottles, in no way disconcerted at the
sarcastic tone of his host, " I have. But no
offence, Sam. I only meant that a little
more elbow room would be rather more
pleasant."

Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — at this
moment shook off a lethargic demeanour,
and, rousing himself to action, expressed
the anxious desire of both beings heard and

o

understood.

I'm here," began he, between a whine
and a whimper, *' under " — waving a hand

VOL. II. N

as he spoke — " a roof. A roof," continued
he, with a decided tendency of melting into
tears, "shelters this hoary head, and the
winter's blast may do its worst. But, having
changed the commodious apartments of
Greatwood Park for what may be called a
rather incommodious one, don't let us make
it more inconvenient by quarrelling. Always
look out for room when inclined for a
row.

Why so, sir?" innocently inquired Johnny
Tadpole, who comprised the fourth, last,
and least of the assembly.

"Because," replied Mr. Soppy, "if things
come to extremities, you can dodge — as I did
Martha upon the last connubial difference
which led to our separation — a facer, and
bolt for protection. Here I am," continued
he, spreading out his arms, " without damage
; but confined, as I now am, what
would have been the consequences ?" — here
the speaker dropped his voice with great

dramatic effect — " they might have been
sanguinary."

'' Not beyond the nose, Tom," rejoined
Billy Bottles, modifying the supposition.

"No, no," returned Mr. Soppy, '' not beyond
the nose. I did not wish my hearers
to suppose that Martha would have gone
beyond the nose ; but if anyone present has
ever received a straight-un from the shoulder
on the tip, as I have more than once at
Hoxford, then he will agree with me that
nothing more is wanted to bring tears into
his heres."

"As to quarrelling among such old friends
as we are," remarked Samuel Wideoo, '' whether
in a room large enough to fight it out,
or too small for a couple of tom-tits to
settle their differences in, that's impossible.
But I didn't particularly relish William
Bottles speaking of himself in my crib as
^ a mouse in a trap.' That's all."

Such being the case," added Billy 



ties, who found his unintentional offence
rankling with the venom of a thorn in the
breast of his host, "I beg to apologise. I
do so:'

"A gentleman— the Colonel himself —
could do no more," observed Mr. Soppy,
folding his arms deliberately across his
breast, and referring to the ceiling. " The
Colonel himself," repeated he, " could do no
more."

"He's not though, one of the apologising
sort," remarked Samuel Wideoo.

Did you ever know him to give offence
Sam, in look, word, or deed ?" asked Mr.
Soppy.

I've heard you say," returned Billy
Bottles, *' that, in his young days "

He was playful," interrupted Mr. Thomas
Soppy. " He was certainly playful —
decidedly playful. I have certainly known
his boot maker to introduce himself to my
tailor in a way called practical."

B}^ kicking ye downstairs, I suppose,"
suggested Samuel Wideoo.

You might guess again, Sara," replied
Mr. Soppy, " and not be so near the mark.
But, as I have said before, when the
Colonel's toe of his boot produced a sort of
shock to your system from the extreme
rear, you felt, at least, that it was done by
a gentleman."

'' I can't quite see that, sir," deferentially
remarked Johnny Tadpole. '^ A kick's a
kick, let it come from what boot it may,
and all 1 should think about would be it's
weight."

"A very sensible observation, Taddy,"
acquiesced Samuel Wideoo, rolling his head
from side to side. " Sense," continued he,
** will always beat nonsense."

Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — felt
much aggrieved at this, as it appeared to
him, personal reference to a want of sense,
and made up his mind to resent it effectually.

'' Do you mean, Sam," said he, with vehemence
of tone and ardour of manner, *' to
applaud this stable-boy's cackle "

Come, come, sir," interrupted Johnny
Tadpole, instinctively turning up the cuffs
of his coat, '' I'm not going to stand this.
If you want a round or two, I'm your man."

"Very plucky," added Samuel Wideoo,
admiringly, "for five stun three. Very
plucky indeed !"

Mr. Soppy, feeling perhaps that he had
gone too far, was desirous of retracing one
or two of his steps taken in advance.

If I have wounded your feelings," commenced
he, turning his full, pale gooseberry
eyes in a steady stare upon Johnny Tadpole,
by calling you a stable-boy, I withdraw
the expression. If the term cackle is disagreeable,
forget that I made it."

It now appeared to the reflective mind of
Billy Bottles an opportune moment to act
the part of peacemaker.

*' It seems to me," began he, " that withall
the good luck around us, and when we
ought to be as chirp as crickets, we're trying
to make each other as miserable as
possible. Here," continued Billy Bottles,
warming on his subject, " is the colt that
was dropped within a few yards from this
very identical spot acknowledged to be the
flyer of his year. His owner's won a good
stake. We have our pockets lined with a
liberal share. Taddy is home for a holiday.
I'm here on leave to help him in doing nothing,
and Tom Soppy's parted from his
wife. What blessings we're all enjoying, if
we did but value them !"

**My domestic relations with Martha,"
interposed Mr. Soppy, dolefully, " are tender
subjects. They may be looked upon as
blessings in one light — confidence being
destroyed between us — but not in another.
I miss her attention to my linen, and my
little dinners are things to be thought of,
but no longer enjoyed."

In giving notice to quit the Colonels
service," observed Samuel Wideoo, " was he
surprised ?"

"Not in the least," replied Mr. Soppy.
*'Hewas playing a soft tune with his fingers
on the table after dinner, as usual, when I
managed to screw up courage enough to
tell him I wished to go. He simply stopped
in a sort of quiet rub-a-dub, and told me to
go and be d — d."

Just like him," said Billy Bottles. ''He
asked no questions, I'll be bail !"

"Not one," replied Mr. Soppy. 'continuing
his rub-a-dub with one hand, he
pointed to the door with the other, and,
seeing a flash in his eyes which could never
be mistaken in a Leferne, I knew it was
time to put the door of the apartment between
the Colonel and me, and retired
according-ly."

'' You did 50," rejoined Billy Bottles,
and thereby threw yourself out o' doors

into the cold, wide world. Some unfortunate
scoundrels," continued he, " are
pitched out o' winder against their will; but
you, Tom Soppy, took a header as if thinking
you were going to fall upon a bed of
roses."

It was impossible to stop and keep my
senses," returned Mr. Soppy, his frame vibrating
with a perceptible shudder.

What senses ?" curtly asked Samuel
Wideoo.

Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — felt a
slight degree of anger mingle with surprise
at this question ; but, recovering from the
shudder, proceeded to give a placid reply.

*' To see again what I saw," said he, in a
voice deep and tremulous with emotion ;
to hear again the sounds which I heard ;
to feel again Martha's rough handling, to
put it mildly, and I should have become,
Sam, blind, deaf, and a stiff-run."

As he concluded his answer, Mr. Soppy

glanced around in search of sympathy, and
found it.

'* I'm glad to see you here, sir," returned
Johnny Tadpole, " and think you were
quite right to make a bolt of it; for, although
I don't believe in ghosts myself, I've
heard of many old women who do."

Whether a minute measure of sarcasm
was intended to be conveyed in this observation
must be left to conjecture, but it was
evident, from the expression on the respective
features of Messrs. Wideoo and Bottles,
that they had drawn their own conclusions.

Well !" exclaimed the dairyman, after
drawing a hand over his face, as if to hide,
smooth, or burnish down any marks or
wrinkles which might have aroused the suspicions
of Mr. Soppy that his host was not
quite so serious as the occasion demanded.
*' Well," repeated he, "all I can say is, Tom
Soppy, that so long as you can make yourself
comfortable here, so long I hope you

will stop. There's no likelihood, at least,
of your being frightened out of your wits'
end by seeing a ghost in Bromley Marsh."

In the buzzing of this happy family,"
remarked Billy Bottles, " you must forget
your Martha."

I will," responded Mr. Soppy, and he
tried to steady his voice as he spoke ; but
some tender emotion seemed to rise and
almost choke him.

CHAPTER XV.

T AM constrained to think, Aubrey," 
served Colonel Leferne to his son, ina
languid voice, as he stood leaning heavily
upon his cane in close proximity to the
irregular bed of daffodils, now in full
bloom, " that the time has almost arrived
for your decision as to the future. At the
end of next term you will leave Eton, and
although disposed not long since to adopt
the family motto in all its integrity, and
live with will unfettered,' I am not without
hope that you will see the expediency
of checking this rather objectionable, if not
lawless desire, and comply with the civilized
restraint which the rules of modern society

impose upon gentlemen. What says our
sister here ?"

Aunt Margaret had at this moment her
hands crossed upon his shoulder nearest to
her side, and was looking lovingly in his
face.

"That which his heart would say if it
could speak," replied she ; " for he was always
obedient."

"Nothing can be more admirable in the
young and, consequently, inexperienced,"
rejoined the colonel, '' than perfect submission.
The Lefernes," continued he,
have not been remarkable for the possession
of this virtue, and I am, therefore, both
pleased and surprised to learn that it is to
be found in my son."

My aunt, sir," returned Aubrey, with a
slight laugh, '' always wishes me to bethought
better than I am."

'rit is not the way of the world, Aubrey,
as you will find," added his father, cynically.

But come," continued he, " how think
sou of employing or kilHng time — which is
about one and the same thing — upon leaving
Eton ?"

'^ I have no wish to leave here," was the
measured and deliberately-spoken reply.

The eyes of the father and son met, and
for a few brief seconds were fixed in a
blindness gaze upon each other.

'' I begin to fear," said the colonel, in a
tone of raillery, and turning to his sister,
'' that we shall not find the full measure of
obedience which we were led to expect.
Am I to understand, then," continued he,
that your intentions are to vegetate here ?"

'' With your consent "

"That sounds better," interrupted the
colonel. *'I now hope that obedience is in
the ascendant. Pray finish."

'' I was going to add," resumed his
son, "that with your consent, which I
repeat "

Accept my best thanks for the exertion,"
again interrupted the colonel. *' Repetition
is generally irksome."

I'll continue here," resumed Aubrey,
*for a time, at least, in idleness, and reflect
before taking a step of so much importance
to myself."

It appears to me, Margaret," replied the
colonel, " that prudence is about to be
introduced into our family. The dust of
the old crusader who planted those daffodils
will no longer rest in peace from astonishment."


'' We shall both be happy to have my
nephew with us, as he proposes," suggested
Aunt Margaret. " I feel certain, Edward,
that I may answer for you as for myself."

I share in the pleasure by anticipation,"
responded the colonel, ^^ and if not greatly
mistaken," continued he, " here comes one
who will claim the right of possessing an
equal division of our rapture."

Ivy Girling," observed Aunt Margaret,
Aubrey's earliest playmate."

*sand probably the latest," replied the
colonel, in an under-tone, which, however,
was heard by one.

With hurried steps the gamekeeper's
daughter approached, and, from the sudden
stop and start which she made upon seeing
who were at the trysting spot, besides him
she had appointed to meet, it would appear
that, absorbed with her thoughts, she failed
to perceive the error she had committed
until too late to correct it. For a moment
lie hesitated whether to turn and fly, but,
with indecision, stood as motionless as a
statue.

Come here, Ivy," said Aunt Margaret,
in a soft and gentle voice. ^' You have
nothing to fear."

Thus invited, Ivy waveringly drew forwards
with downcast eyes and cheeks flushed
with the crimson blood beneath them.

From under his beetling brows Colonel
Leferne measured with criticising look the
gamekeeper's daughter, and, as a man of
refined taste, was compelled to admit, albeit
in silence to himself, that he had never seen a
prettier rustic girl, or one more simply dressed
to set off natural attractions to advantage.

"Where were you going so hurriedly?"
inquired Aunt Margaret, as Ivy stood with
heaving bosom before her, after dropping a
respectful, if not graceful curtsey.

Not to frighten the birds, I'm sure""
said the colonel, with a chuckle.

'' It being rather cold, ma'am," replied
Ivy, evincing some confusion in tone and
manner, "I was walking fast."

Nothing could be more natural," rejoined
Colonel Leferne. " Walking fast circulates
the blood ; but there are times and seasons
when it moves quickly enough without exertion.
The question, however, I think,
remains unanswered."

VOL. IL O

'' I certainly asked where were you going,
Ivy ?" repeated Aunt Margaret.

Ivy Girling glanced furtively at Aubrey
Leferne, but remained silent.

She was coming here," replied he, with
a defiant look and gesture, "and at my
request."

As the words were spoken Ivy receded a
step or two, and, from the expression of her
features, looked as if suffering pain from an
unseen cause.

Had you informed me or your aunt of
this little innocent appointment," rejoined
the colonel, with his eyes twinkling v/ith
mirth, " we should have taken care not to
have been present. I cannot conceive,"
continued he, " anything more thoughtless
on your part, Aubrey, in the shape of an
injustice to yourself."

Aubrey Leferne winced at the delivery
of this pointed speech, and glanced angrily
around, but said nothing in reply.

They often met here when little children,"
remarked Aunt Margaret, as if feeling
that some excuse was necessary for her
nephew's declaration.

'indeed!" slowly drawled the colonel.
Then their habits of infancy seem to have
been maintained to years of maturer growth.
You know what I think about dolls,
Aubrey ?"

"Dolls!" repeated Aunt Margaret, looking
with amazement at her brother.

Ay," responded the colonel; "but the
subject is exhausted. The ruin of the
Lefernes has been dolls. Sir Harold," continued
he, pointing with the end of his cane
to the bed of flowers now in full bloom,
and waving their heads jauntily in the cold,
nipping breeze of the early year, " has
more to answer for than he's aware of in
the long slumber of ages. That Sir Knight
of the olden time set an evil example with
his motto to alive with will unfettered

o2

which, I fear, has met with a too liberal
construction on the part of his descendants."

*' Your words to me, Edward," observed
Aunt Margaret, " are devoid of meaning."

'^ Are they?" said the colonel, laughing;
but the external effect was scarcely perceptible.
" Give me your arm," continued
he, turning to his sister, " and let us stroll
on at the snail's pace at which I can now
only move."

Will you accompany us, Aubrey ?"
asked Aunt Margaret.

No," replied her nephew, with the same
defiant look and gesture ; " I have an
engagement here."

For what purpose ?" inquired Aunt
Margaret, as the colonel, resting upon her
proffered arm, slowly moved away.

"To practise the game of dolls," rejoined
the colonel, turning his head in the direction
of his son, ^' if the truth were confessed.
But come," continued he, *let us

not be exacting. We will leave the players
to themselves."

With eyes fixed on the retreating figures
of the colonel and Aunt Margaret, Ivy and
Aubrey Leferne stood, as they had done in
years before, at the old trysting spot, with
no witnesses by but the daffodils.

CHAPTER Xii.

rpHE meeting had been protracted, and'
-■- was not yet closed between Jeremiah-early
and his client.

'eat the present moment, Colonel," said
the lawyer and hard-headed man of business,
"I only ask for payment on account
of interest due on the last loan."

Raised, among other things," returned
the colonel, throwing himself back in his
seat with a yawn, 'upon the very chair on
which I sit. I protested, as you will remember,
Early, against the chair being
included in the security, but I suppose that
the objection was over-ruled. Is it mine or
yours ?"

Jeremiah Early had not come there to
waste his time in idle discussion, and said
so. He was there to be settled with.

It was a light tune which the colonel
commenced playing on the library-table, so
light that it was scarcely audible ; but the
air — particularly the variations — seemed to
grate harshly on the ear of Jeremiah Early,
and hi? low, contracted brow lowered still
more with malice aforethought.

'through this horse of yours," said he,
"it is well known that you possess money."

I am not labouring under the imputation,
I hope," replied the colonel, blandly,
"of having thrown any misty doubt upon
the fact."

"Pay me," rejoined the lawyer.

"That really sounds, Early," returned
Colonel Leferne, " like ^ stand and deliver.' "

"I demand payment," added Jeremiah,
angrily.

"If the demand is to be repeated, sir,"

said the colonel, " I must impose the condition
of its being expressed more temperately."


Give me my money," responded Jeremiah,
his fears beginning to be awakened
from the sudden change in the colonel's
manner, '^ and let me go."

There's nothing whatever, as far as I
understand, to prevent your going — certainly
nothing on my part," added the colonel.
^'My present opinion, however, is that your
departure will not be accompanied with
what you facetiously call your money ; but
which happens to be in my possession."

The lawyer was about making a hasty,
inconsiderate reply ; but he saw two fingers
raised, and felt instinctively what that signal
meant.

"Your patience, Early," said the colonel,
"I will not tax it long."

A short pause ensued. The colonel cleared
his voice, drew the tips of his fingers

delicately across his lips, lounged backwards
in his easy-chair, half closed his eyes with a
sleepy expression, but fixed them, nevertheless,
on Jeremiah Early's unprepossessing
features, and then began to carry out his
voluntary promise of being brief.

The money which I have won, and been
paid, Early, over the race won by my horse,
50 strangely mine, may be compared with the
last few drops of blood still circulating in a
fainting man's veins. With what I have I
may, and sometimes confidently think I
shall, get back all my losses ; but if you,
Early, were to diminish the cause you
would lessen the chance. Do you see the
force of my argument ?"

I would rather see "

The money," interrupted the colonel,
^' which is an additional proof, if one were
necessary, of your limited powers of sight.
Extreme selfishness invariably contracts our
vision."

My unsecured claire upon you, Colonel
Leferne," replied Jeremiah Early, sullenly
"is very large, and I wish it reduced."

'' If you were ridiculous enough to say
otherwise," rejoined the colonel, " I should
not pay you the compliment of placing the
slightest belief in the statement."

"I have the power of enforcing my
security," returned the lawyer, with no improvement
in his tone.

What, over my chairs, the pots and
pans, and portraits of my ancestors?" added
the colonel, with a chuckle. " I wonder,
now," continued he, ^'what that old curmudgeon
there would bring at the hammer?
He was eminent for living with will unfettered."


You treat this subject very lightly, sir,'^
remarked Jeremiah, with increasing ill-humour;
'' but I was never more serious."

So you look," responded the colonel
^* and forgive me for saying that the emotion

in no way improves the expression."

Have you no proposal to make?" asked
the lawyer.

"None whatever," was the reply. 'shave
you?

'* Yes," quickly answered Jeremiah
Early, and his thin lips were compressed ashe
spoke, while his hands twitched together
nervously, as if the resolution to speak was
not unmingled with dread.

You will find me a most willing listener,"
rejoined the colonel, throwing his head
further back, and looking down his nose
with a sleepy, patronising mien at the
lawyer, whom he saw at a glance was terribly
ill at ease. *' Pray proceed."

It was easier, however, to give directions
than to commence carrying them out. So,
at least, it would appear from Jeremiah's
hesitation to begin.

I know little of racing," at length said
he, '' beyond the knowledge that more

money seems to be lost by gentlemen than
won by it."

'nothing can be more singularly correct
than the clearness of your perception,"
remarked Colonel Leferne, striking three or
or four vigorous rub-a-dubs on the table.
You quite surprise me, Early, with the
grasp you possess of the subject."

I also have learnt," resumed the lawyer,
'that there is little difficulty in winning
when a certainty is insured."

It's my decided opinion," replied the
colonel, " that you must have been. Early,
a member of the Ring for the last decade.
What remarkable proficiency you've attained
!"

And that the only way to win," continued
Jeremiah, speaking with great deliberation,
and glancing askance at the
colonel, '■ without the possibility of risk, is
to make a horse safe to lose when he's
expected to win."

*' It has been done, no doubt, and that
which has been, Early," returned the
colonel, " is sure to recur at some interval
fixed by Fate but unknown to us. History
repeats itself."

** Then the means of escape from your
present difficulties," added the lawyer, '' are
in sour own hands."

How so ?" asked the colonel, with a
change so quick and sudden in his manner
that it seemed to electrify Jeremiah Early.

It was impossible to disguise it even from
himself. The lawyer both looked and felt
as if treading on a quicksand.

How so?" fiercely repeated the colonel,
as his features became deeply lined and
contracted with anger. "Do you dare to
intimate to me a scheme for cheating?"

Jeremiah's inclination was to get nearer
the door previous to uttering another syllable
and retained his seat with difficulty,
while he watched his client's movements

with evident dread of anticipated consequences
.

knowing uie, however, as you do," continued
the colonel, suddenly regaining much
of his usual softness of tone and mildness of
manner, "I must suppose that I was mistaken.
The Lefernes have much to answer
for without a doubt ; but the portrait of a
black-leg — a common, low, cheat — is not to
be found as yet in the family picture gallery,
and I'm strong in the faith that it never
will."

^'It is knowing you as I do," replied the
lawyer, with evident trepidation, " and the
desperate state of your finances, that emboldens
me to speak. May I do so without
reserve, or shall I leave without uttering
another syllable ?"

"Say what you please," rejoined the colonel,
settling himself in his chair, and waving
a hand backward as he spoke, " I'll not
interrupt you again. We must swallow our

full share of bitters in some shape or other,
and I'll take my present dose at your hands,
Early, in silence. Say what you please."

You were ready to quarrel with me
just now," said Jeremiah, as if having met
with a recent injury which had not been
compensated for, "and felt that my words
stung ye, because the means I would employ
to make you rich, compared with what
you are, deeply wound your high sense of
honour " — he paused, and added, with great
significance, "concerning the Turf."

"And of all things," proudly answered
the colonel, "above and below it."

Indeed," returned Jeremiah, conveying
as direct a negative as was ever expressed
to a proposition.

A flush of risen anger spread itself rapidly
over the colonel's features from brow to
chin ; but he made no observation in reply.

What can be said of your marriage
settlement? Did you, Colonel Leferne,

display a high sense of honour when that
trick was played ?"

The colonel's hands clutched convulsively
both arms of the easy chair as he bent suddenly
forward, and looked ready to spring
at the lawyer's throat.

'' Trick !" he exclaimed, between his
clenched teeth.

"Your instructions just now," continued
Jeremiah Early, sideling instinctively on
his seat towards the door, " were that 1 was
to say what I please. Shall I stop or goon
?"

The colonel, with a long-drawn breathy
which sounded like a stifled sob, let his
hands fall from the arms of the easy chair
and, sinking gently backwards, replied in a
hoarse whisper, " Go on."

Is your plan then," resumed the lawyer,
'for disengaging the estate at the moment
ay, the very moment — of your son becoming
legally entitled to his inheritance.

one to be applauded for its high sense of
honour ?"

If a look could have struck Jeremiah
Early dead, he would then and there have
been lifeless.

Perhaps it was lost upon hint, for he continued
his address without apparent sense of
danger.

What shall be said of your sister's
squandered fortune ?"

It was not much, Early," expostulated
the colonel. '' It was not much," repeated
he.

More could not be taken," rejoined the
lawyer, '' for it was all she had."

Difficulties surrounded and hedged mein,
Early," returned the colonel. '' I was
compelled to take it."

The position being caused by your own
selfish indulgences," added Jeremiah Early,
*' and your own insane love for ostentatious
display."

VOL. IL X^

For the first time in his life Colonel
Leferne was listening to the truth concerning
himself, and, to his consternation, felt
silenced by it.

"Your fortune spent and wasted to the
last farthing," resumed the lawyer, 'friends
impoverished, and a debtor still, and yet
you would have the world believe that you
are governed by a high sense of honour !"

I shall pay all, Early," murmured the
colonel, in a half articulate voice. '' I shall
pay all."

"How?" returned Jeremiah, and the
monosyllable seemed to come from his lips
with a snap.

That which has been, Early," responded
the colonel, " may be again — from my
winnings. Fortune," continued he, with
flashing eyes and flushed cheeks, "has favoured
me, and she will again. I can trust
her."

But I can't," returned the lawyer,

'rand, what is more to the purpose, will
not. I never yet. Colonel Leferne," continued
he, "allowed anything to rest on a
chance which might be reduced to a certainty."


Explain your meaning in detail," said
the colonel, with his chin upon his breast,
and presenting altogether a drooping
appearance.

I have done so already," added Jeremiah,
now beginning to look the triumphant
master of the situation. " Give me a written
permission to put a pen through the name
of your horse," continued he, " when I think
proper, and I'll secure you more money
than you will ever live to waste."

And if I refuse this discretionary order?"
asked the colonel, with closed eyelids, and
in a voice scarcely above an audible whisper.

Then be either prepared to pay my demand,"
replied the lawyer, " or take the
consequences of not doing so."

p2

*rand those are?" interrogatively rejoined
the colonel, with a drowsy aspect.

"The immediate sale of everything sou
possess," replied Jeremiah, "including the
very animal you call your own, but which,
in fact, does not belong to ye."

*' Is this the alternative, Early ?" asked
the colonel, plaintively.

"Your choice lies between the two""
responded Jeremiah. " Accept whichever
you please."

The crowning ambition of my life,"
rejoined the colonel, " was to win the
Derby."

Your vital interests," returned the lawyer,
'' are to lose it. Your object of ambition,"
continued he, " might unexpectedly
be frustrated ; but the substantial benefit to
be derived from the course I suggest admits
of no shadow of uncertainty."

'' You will afford me time for reflection,
Early?" said the colonel, drawing a long sigh.

'' As much as you please," replied the lawyer,
" so as the opportunity is not sacrificed
by delay ; but I should prefer having your
prompt answer."

"That, at least, I cannot give to-day,"
rejoined the colonel. "The intention, however,
is that I shall consent to the withdrawal
of my colt from the race at anytime
you think proper, so that the money
for which he has been backed shall be
lost."

"The scheme is anything but original,"
returned Jeremiah, '' but one which has
always proved profitable when managed
with skill."

He will seem to be supported," added
the colonel, "when, through you and your
confederates, the horse will be laid against,
I sharing in the — what shall we call it.
Early?"

"Robbery," responded Jeremiah, "if you
see no objection. The term is often used,

and it seems to me appropriate enough in
this instance."

What a couple of cool rascals we must
be, Early," rejoined the colonel, re-commencing
a soft tune on the arm of the chair,
to call a plan of our own, by which we are
to be enriched, a robbery !"

So long as 1 get money," added the
lawyer, *' I care nothing about what is said
of my sayings or doings. Money, Colonel
Leferne — give me money !"

It is decidedly useful," said the colonel,
reflectively, " and many ways of procuring
it are not too nice or particular. Now, I
should say," continued he, with a slight
lauofh, " that this scheme of ours cannot be

CD '

called nice."

'' We need not discuss that point," replied
Jeremiah. '' Give me your written consent
to put the pen through the name of your
colt when I please for the Derby, and leave
the rest to me."

Have I no choice," rejoined the colonel,
*' between this and the immediate transfer
of the chair in which I sit, to say nothing
of the pots, and the pans, and the portraits
to somebody else?"

You have my decision," added the lawyer.
'' The bill of sale will be enforced at
once if you are mad enough. Colonel Leferne,
to let this great opportunity be lost."

It would be such a personal inconvenience
to part with the chair, Early," said the
colonel, " that I hope it will plead in justification
of my becoming as great a scoundrel
as yourself. You shall have the order to
scratch the Unknown."

An exulting laugh broke from the lawyer's
lips.

Now, Colonel Leferne — now ?" said he.

The present," responded the colonel,
"is as fitting, perhaps, for the dirty act as
the future. Give me a pen."

Upon Jeremiah Early quitting the presence

of his client, he took with him the
coveted document which would erase from
among the Derby candidates the bay colt,
sire unknown, dam Queen Mary, by Gauntlet,
by Bright Steel, by Helmet Plume.

CHAPTER XVII.

"VrOTHING was to be seen of the daifo-
-^^ dies ; for, early summer being near,
they were taking a long rest after a dance
in the cold, rough wind, which pipes before
the coming of spring. Under the ground,
without a withered stem to mark their
whereabouts, the daffodils slept. The hand
which planted them, as. tradition said, had
long since crumbled into dust ; but when
the seasons came round there were the
daffodils as fresh and young as ever. Sir
Harold Leferne's monument had faded with
the lapse of ages ; but the daffodils raised a
perpetual one for themselves of fresh golden

flowers, which seemed to mock that noble
work in marble, as black as night.

Beneath the wide-spreading branches of
a chestnut-tree in Greatwood Park Queen
Mary stood reflecting on the past, its vicissitudes,
phases, and dearly-bought lessons.
With outstretched head and drowsy eyes
the old mare remained, resting one of her
hind legs on the toe of her foot, and gently
switching her flanks with the point of her
fine silky tail, grown long from persistent
neglect of the scissors. The action of the
tail, be it known, was not to drive the flies
away, for although the day was warm, and
the sun's rays streamed through the thick
foliage of the chestnut-tree, so as to render
the shade a cool and pleasant retreat, those
disturbers to the peace and comfort of
Queen Mary during her summer's enjoyment
at grass were not as yet on the wing.
Queen Mary was a-thinking, and she lazily
switched her flanks with the point of her

tail to assist her thoughts by way of a gentle
stimulant.

Gauntlet's daughter, in turning over the
leaves of the past, seemed to think that the
cry of a mother might meet with recognition,
and giving a slight neigh, as if made ina
dream, she threw one ear backwards as
if to catch a distant whinny in reply, while
the other was kept pointed to the front, for
an}^ that might come from that direction of
the compass.

'* What does thee want, lass r" said a
cheery voice, and, upon the old mare arching
her neck on one side to glance at the
questioner, she saw the burly figure of
Harry Girling, the gamekeeper, approaching
the spot where she stood. " What does
thee want, lass ?" repeated he.

Queen Mary turned leisurely as he spoke,
and, meeting him by full half way of the
distance separating them, placed her soft,
velvety nose between his broad, rouorh

palms, and invited it silently to be rubbed.

I shouldn't wonder, now," continued
he, chafing away at her majesty's nose with
mingled energy and tenderness, " that
you're a-thinking about that colt o' your.
Mothers are more likely to do so, perhaps,
than fathers, when their loved ones are away ;
but I do think," said Harry, with emphasis,
and pursuing his task with marked industry,
that if my Ivy was not always at home,
my heart would be always abroad. But
these secrets we keep to ourselves, lass,"
continued he. *' Because, if our loved ones
only knew, sometimes, how much we loved
'em, they'd take liberties, ye know, and get
both parties into trouble."

Queen Mary, either tickled by the remark,
or Harry's fingers, brought her teeth
together with a playful snap, which threatened
violence without carrying it into
execution.

** Come, come," expostulated Harry,

*' you're not a man-eater, as some o' your
race ha' been ; but that was on the side o'
the sires and not the dams. Helmet Plume,
I think it was," continued he, '' that made a
meal of his boy, and, as Bottles says, the
poor Loss didn't recover his sickness for a
week, and had to be fed on bran mashes and
gruel."

The old mare, at this juncture, raised her
nose from between Harry's palms, and, lifting
sr her head aloft, stood with her ears
pricked, and her large, full eyes opened
wide, like those of a startled gazelle.

What doth see, lass ?" asked Harry,
throwing a keen, strong look in the same
direction ; but, perceiving nothing to attract
his attention in particular, resumed his
address to his solitary hearer.

That boy," continued Harry, who liked
perhaps to hear himself speak from the few
opportunities presenting themselves for his
so doing, " being digested, as Bottles says

was never buried in consecrated ground ;
but a stone was erected to mark the spot
where he fell."

Standing motionless as a statue, the greensward
forming the plinth at her feet, Queen
Mary remained with a fixed stare gazing in
the distance.

"I don't see what you're looking therefor,"
observed the gamekeeper, again directing
his eyes in the same direction ; " but
there's no accounting for many o' your
strange ways. It may be that, old gal-like,
you think you look handsome when
stretching out your legs, and looking more
like an image than flesh and bones. You
were a beauty, no doubt, and sou look now
a bit o' quality ; but old gals should always
recollect," said Harry, with a sage nod of
the head, " that stretching out their legs
don't suit 'em."

Gauntlet's daughter paid no attention to
the criticism bestowed upon her attitude,

but remained, as before, with an intent look
concentrated at a certain point.

It isn't often that we see anything particularly
strange in these parts — at least by
daylight," said Harry, correcting himself,
^' and I don't discover exactly what the
focus is."

Queen Mary stood motionless, and might,
for any effect to the contrary, have been
carved from granite.

Here we are," soliloquised the gamekeeper,
" with the rooks to caw at us, and
the wood-pigeons to coo at us ; but beyond
these companions — as Ivy says sometimes —
there isn't much to make life cheerful."

The old mare continued as frigid as stone
itself.

'' It's a lonesome place," continued Harry
Girling, " for a young heart, and I often
think my little one must feel buried afore
1:1 er time."

At this moment, and in the direction of

Queen Mary's gaze, two figures were seen
to emerge from the shade and shadow of a
cluster of fir-trees in the distance.

Why, your eyesight's better than mine,"
observed Harry. '' Who have v/e here ?"

Shading his eyes with a hand raised
above them, the gamekeeper stood watching
the movements of the two figures.

One," remarked he, keeping his hand
in the same position, " is my lady, sure
enough, and the other — " stopping short, he
added nothing more, but, with features
turning gradually pale, stared in mute
silence between astonishment and dread.

CHAPTER XVIII.

"VyOTHING could be more favourable
-^^ than the reports concerning the Unknown.
Newmarket to a man, to say
nothing of little Mite, who was accredited
to be the smallest lad who ever wore
a gaiter Within its precincts, felt, and said,
and circulated in prose, and sometimes
poetry, that "there was one, and one only,
in the Derby." The parrot at the 'greyhound
" had become profane, and swore, by
the highest authority, in addition to the
hitherto mild assertion, that "the colonel
would win the Derby." Not the ghost of a
peg appeared to hang a doubt upon. Public
form proved that the Newmarket idol, The

VOL. II. Q

Crack, was at least from seven to ten
pounds superior to anything he would have
to meet. There was a dark lot, to be sure,
but, as far as human foresight could draw a
conclusion, there was little, if anything, to
be feared from " the dark lot."

The Sporting Press reminded its readers
that the owner of the Unknown — a once
princely patron of the Turf — had always
gone straight, and that he was so far above
suspicion that nothing earthly could measure
the intervening space. It also called attention
to the assuring; fact that the colt was in
the Heather House stable, and that his
trainer expressed himself as never feeling
greater confidence in a result which might
be regarded only as a matter of health —
barring accident. *' The Demon," it was
confidently announced, had been retained
to ride the favourite, and then the pertinent
question followed, *' What more could be
required ?"

Jeremiah Early, perhaps, might have
given a reply without much difficulty.

During Johnny Tadpole's leave of absence,
on a visit to Bromley Marsh, subsequent
to the Unknown's victory in the
Criterion, his friend and companion, Mite,
was specially appointed to fill his now distinguished
position of attendant on the Unknown.
Mite, like his bosom friend and
associate, "Taddy," knew the full weight of
a responsibility, and, being only a small
pinch of humanity, felt the force of the
handicap axiom that " the race is in the
scales." It was agreed — tacitly agreed —
that Mite was to have half of Taddy's plum-pudding
for four distinct and separate consecutive
Sundays, after his return to the
Heather House establishment, by way of
compensation for extra services, in a friendly
point of view, and the agreement being
kept with honourable impartiality on both
sides — Mite, although pressed, declining to

q2

take more than a full half — the two parties
to the contract were on the very best terra
with each other.

Mite was very small, as the name by
which he was best known implied, and
five-stun-three " looked a giant by the side
of '' three-stun-five," albeit no advantage
had been taken of the difference in the
specific gravity when their opinions did not
exactly coincide on social matters, setting,
therefore, a bright example to people of
heavier weight.

Mite, it must be repeated, was very small,
and barely drew the beam towards him, in
heavy marching order, at the weight before
mentioned. Boots, breeches, and buttons,
with the assistance of a shirt of microscopic
proportions, scarcely turned the scale at
three-stun-five ;" but Mite's merits and
moral worth were not to be weighed in
this fashion. He had the confidence of
his master as being one of those '' good

boys" that would not play 'the monkey."
Mite abjured tricks, and was as grave and
almost as dignified as a bishop in all that he
said and did, with the eyes and ears of the
world ready to bear testimony concerning
his errors and frailties. He felt, through
the ordinary agency of ways and means, that
he was regarded as a great example, and
^vith commendable pride Mite determined
that the character should be supported in
all its integrity. " Head, heels, and hands "
were the rare qualities conceded to be in
his possession, and history had made him
acquainted with the pleasant reminiscence
that men's fortunes had been made through
these mediums. It was, therefore, nothing
but a natural conclusion — spiced with vanity,
perhaps — that Mite should, when his countenance
was reflected in a mirror — two
inches by four — as he arranged his cravat
with scrupulous care, look upon himself
with a generous measure of personal satisfaction,

known only to himself in its full
and minute particulars.

With a face ruddy and round, and about
the size of an orange of fair dimensions,
Mite looked blessed with health and contentment,
and, if his frame was bony and
bare, it evinced no effects of being kept
down through a systematic cause of self-denial
approaching the extreme point of
starvation. Mite was a feather weight from
a design by nature, not sketched by art.
Had his eyes been otherwise than clear, and
as blue as the sky above him sometimes is
in the finest summer weather, they would
scarcely have been the right colour in the
right place for a really " good boy ;" but,
being ethereal blue, no question of dispute
could arise on this point. ISTot having been
consulted in the choice of a nose, he was of
course above the reach of censure for possessing
one totally devoid of a bridge, and
which, when described without reservation,.

is conjiDonly called a pug. Little need be
stated respecting his mouth. Like giants of
the past, and over-grown forked animals of
the present, Mite found his mouth useful,
and, as his incisors and molars were as
sound as unblemished ivory, he did not
neglect to apply them, at all convenient
opportunities, to the general and particular
purposes for which they were constructed
with such admirable skill.

Nothing could exceed the miniature work
in detail of Mite's costume, when dressed
all in his best and going to church on Sunday.
As a " good boy," he might have
gone, perhaps, on special days in the week
saints days, for instance, — but, being an
apprentice, he was not absolutely master of
his own time, and the saints had to be
neglected. A couple of small shirt-collars,
rounded at the points like blinkers, indented
the sides of his cheeks, and produced a fulness
of effect above them from pressure

commonly called squeezing. The cravat,
always of a showy colour and fine silky
texture, was tied with a skill which gave
rise to feelings of envy in more stable-boys'
breasts in Newmarket than can be enumerated,
although the neck it encompassed was
not much bigger than that of a sparrow.
Square was the bow, and mathematically
even the ends, while the centre held a pin
in the shape of a gold horse-shoe, rather
too large, perhaps, for the exact nicety of
proportions ; but still, as a pin in the shape
of a horse-shoe, there it was, a conspicuous
object upon which the eyes of Newmarket
were frequently concentrated. Having a
natural affection for drab breeches, and
gaiters of the newest and neatest cut,
strongly linked to a passion for pearl buttons.
Mite was the very head and front of
fashion in a large circle of small boys in
and around "the metropolis of the Turf,"
and, being imitated closely, was consequently

flattered. Having next to nothing
to hide, Mite wore a long-waisted jacket
which looked, to a keen observer, all waist
and nothing beyond, besides two outside
pockets in which his hands were thrust, as a
rule, when unemployed, and not as an exception.
A hat of the chimney-pot construction,
round as a shield of the old type,
and jauntily tipped on one side of his
closely-cropped head, and there stood Mite
dressed all his best as he went to church on
Sunday.

Now it so happened that the toilets of
Johnny Tadpole and Mite being complete,
and, it is needless to add, perfect, they
were wending their way one Sunday, like
*^ good boys," to church, and, although it is
fair to conjecture that their thoughts were
generally bent upon serious subjects, there
is no refuting the fact that worldly ones
would now and then rise to the surface to
disturb the tenor of their reflections.

*' I mean to go at it strong to-days
Taddy," observed Mite, sauntering by the
side of his companion with both hands
thrust into the pockets of his jacket. "I
mean to go at it strong to-days' repeated he.
*' If faith will do it, it will be as good as over."

What do you mean ?" inquired Johnny
Tadpole, evidently bewildered at the remark
which, for anything that preceded it,
seemed to have no foundation.

"I mean this," replied Mite, withdrawing
a hand from one of the pockets of his jacket,
and thrusting it straight from the shoulder
as if to convey emphasis with the expression
— " I mean this," said he. " What the
parson tells us is either true or it .
Now, if it's
true, I've only to throw all my weight into
the scale to make what our prophet the
parrot says as right as an eight day clock."

I don't quite see it," replied Johnny
Tadpole, dreamingly.

Mite replaced his hand in the pocket of
his jacket, and continued.

"Parson says," resumed he, "nothing
beats faith. We have only to believe in
getting what we want, or doing what we
wish, and the thing's as good as over. Now,
if this is the right tip, Taddy," said Mite,
one of the Unknown's plates will be nailed
on the door of his box as the winner of the
Derby."

'why so?" asked his companion.

'' Because of my going in strong for it today,"
rejoined Mite. " I shall pin my faith
to the prophecy of the parrot, with a loud
amen for the finish."

But our parson didn't mean to speak of
two-year old engagements, weight for age
races, or handicaps," returned Johnny Tadpole,
indignant at the supposition.

Oh, yes, but he did, though !" added
Mite. " I heard what he said, more than
once, about the race not always being won

by the fastest, which called to my mind
what a stayer can do over a scope o'
ground."

'' I tell ye," added Johnny Tadpole, '' it's
altogether a mistake. You mustn't think
what the parson says in this way, or you'll
find yourself, perhaps, in a devilish awkward
situation."

"Let my situation," returned Mite, "be
what it may, head lad or not, I shall stick
to faith in the prophecy of the parrot."

The time's pretty near at hand," remarked
Johnny Tadpole, '' when we shall
know all about it."

"Ha!" gasped Mite, "the Unknown's
being wound up for his great engagement
next month, and you ride him in his exercise
gallops, Taddy. I wonder you've not
grown proud."

"To look after such a race-ross," responded
his companion, " is enough, perhaps, to
make one feel a little starchy."

"It is, indeed," rejoined Mite; 'but
you're just the same quiet, good-tempered
cove, Taddy, as when you came here from
milking the cows in Bromley Marsh."

"There hasn't been time for much change
since then," returned Johnny, laughing.

"More than two whole years," added
Mite, " and a good deal can be done in less
time than that for better or worse."

Our colt's made a wonderful change in
what people think of him since then," observed
Johnny Tadpole.

"He has indeed," replied Mite, with profound
admiration at the thought promoted
by his companion's remark. " He has
indeed," repeated he. " We looked upon
him, ye know, when he first came to our
stable, in the light of a duffer, and you,
Taddy, were called • Milk 5^-low.' "

So I was !" ejaculated Johnny Tadpole,
and it was a name that rather pleased
me than not. I shall feel obliged. Mite, by

your calling me Milk ^^^-low for the rest of
this day."

Why?" briefly inquired Mite, obviously
surprised at the request.

Because feeling a little starchy now
and then," responded Johnny, in a serious
tone, accompanied by the sedate manner of
a 'good boy" going to church on Sunday,
'rit may cause me to think what I was, and
thereby render me thankful for what I am."

"My sentiments all over !" returned Mite.
There's nothing like sentiments such as
them. I often feel 'em," continued he,
pressing a hand upon what he probably
meant his breast, but which, in a strictly anatomical
point of view, was rather too low
down, "a-rumbling and a-jumbling here,
but haven't the flow o' the tongue to let 'em
out, Taddy. You have."

Johnny Tadpole smiled like one having
deserved a well-merited compliment, and
been promptly paid. For, with happy recollections

of the pains taken in his education
by Samuel Wideoo, he held a favourable
but silent opinion of his own intellectual
capacities, and, if pleased, was not surprised
at their occasionally meeting with acknowledgment.


The two " good boys " were now within
the precincts of turf-covered and daisy-speckled
mounds, beneath which some
"good boys" slept forgotten, but not unknown
to fame, and they said no more.

CHAPTER XIX.

A S may readily be conjectured, there are
■^-^ places of honour in the Heather
House stable, and among them a "box" of
great distinction, wherein the reigning favourite
has his daily toilet performed, eats,
drinks, sleeps, and receives the privileged
few admitted by special introduction to his
august presence.

This 'box," it is almost needless to add,
was now tenanted by the Unknown. Oa
the door was nailed a plate worn by a whilom
successful candidate for Derby honours,
and although his name and the date of the
triumph were recorded in letters of gold in

the centre, time and the seasons had obliterated
both.

Johnny Tadpole and the Unknown were
alone in the " box," as they had often been
before, and no one — not even the head lad
was close at hand to interrupt their privacy.
It was obvious, however, that '' company"
was expected, for the "box" had
been set in that order which may fitly be
described as apple-pie. Not a single straw
was out of place, but each distinct and particular
one looked to have been combed
into the place it occupied. In speckless
clothes the Unknown stood racked up above
his crib, and placed upon a white damask
napkin on the off-side of his oiF-heel, spread
With dainty care, were rubber, comb, and
brush, the respective articles of his toilet.

Johnny's undress, as he stood with folded
arms silently contemplating the scene before
and behind him with great satisfaction, was
nothing more nor less than a sham. He

VOL. IT. R

had evidently studied the effect of that undress
as much as the full costume worn on
state occasions or when going to church on
Sunday. The unfastened gaiter had been
permitted, if not coaxed, to slip down increases
so as to display the spot where a
calf might be partly visible some day, if the
fond hopes concerning his legs were doomed
to be realized. His unbraced and slackened
breeches drooped, but not by accident, and
his shirt fell in graceful folds over the waistband,
in conformity with the strict rules of
the fine arts. Even the careless-looking
turned-down collar was evidently arranged
with study, and from head to heel Johnny
Tadpole looked the personification of premeditated
carelessness.

"They'll be here presently," muttered he
to himself, " and I'm ready for 'em."

The words were scarcely spoken, when
the sound of feet was heard approaching,
and immediately afterwards the latch of the

door was lifted with a clink, and Mark
Rooksonon entered, accompanied by Colonel
Leferne and Jeremiah Early.

As soon as the sharp click of the latch
fell upon Johnny's tympanum, and before a
single eye could bear witness to the nimble
act. he was standing at the head of the Unknown,
rubber in hand, ready to strip off
his speckless clothes, or obey any order
with alacrity which might be given him.
That order was conveyed by a silent motion
of one of Mark Rooksonon's hands, and, as if
with the touch of a harlequin's wand, there
stood Queen Mary's son in all his natural
and unbidden beauty. No additional polish
to his coat appeared either possible or desirable,
for satin itself could not be brighter,
but, as soon as the clothes were deposited
on the floor of the '' box," his attendant,
with unsurpassable agility, commenced to rub
down the Unknown with a " Ss-ch-ws-ch,"
which seems an indispensable accompanied



ment to grooming, whether in the higher
or lower grades of the profession.

How do you think he looks, Colonel ?"
inquired Mark Rooksonon, after allowing a
few seconds for Colonel Leferne's keen look
to measure his colt, inch by inch, from head
to heel.

"All that I could wish him," replied the
colonel, " with nearly a month intervening
before the race."

He will be some pounds lighter," rejoined
the trainer, cheerily, "and fit to run fora
"

Man s life," added the colonel. " Is
that what you would have said ?"

"Well, sir," returned Mark Rooksonon,
lauf^jhins, '' I've heard that offered to be
staked before now ; but never knew its being
run for."

1 have," said the colonel, '*' and no one
can have an idea of the interest in the
finish excepting him staking his life, particularly

if it's a shave on the post by a
short head."

Egad !" exclaimed Jeremiah Early, " my
bones rattle in my skin at the bare
thought !"

*' Do they ?" rejoined the colonel, throwing
his head back and looking at the lawyer
with half-closed, sleepy eyes, while a sneer
looped up the angles of his mouth. "A
man," continued he, ^' can die but once,
Early."

The subject, perhaps, was not an agreeable
one to the lawyer, for he said nothing
in reply, but stood Watching Johnny Tadpole
vigorously rubbing down the Unknown,
with his spluttering " Ts-ch-ws-ch," in silence.

This fellow, Colonel," observed Mark
Rooksonon, " if he goes on as he is going, will
about win the Derby."

Will he ?" responded the colonel,
abstractedly.

"I never felt greater confidence in any

colt that I have trained," rejoined Mark
Rooksonon. "From the moment I knew the
stuff that he was made of there has not been
the interruption of a single day to his
training."

^'He's a star of the first magnitude!"
observed the colonel, surveying the Unknown
with an admiration, perhaps, felt only
by himself.

In public as in private," returned Mark
Rooksonon, " he has never deceived me ; but
always ran generously to his true form."

"You hear that. Early?" observed
Colonel Leferne, interrogatively.

Jeremiah gave no direct answer ; but
with a look bent under his knitted brows
turned to the trainer, and said,

'' He will be a great favourite with the
public, I suppose, before the day of the
race."

No hotter one will ever have started for
the Derby, sir," replied Mark Rooksonon,.

With unreserved confidence in his tone and
manner.

"But remembering the unforeseen circumstances
which arise," rejoined the
lawyer, " I'm astonished that the multitude
should be sanguine in supporting a single
horse, among many, to win a great race."

"The public sometimes suffers with the
owners," returned the trainer, " from causes
which can't be controlled. Horses, like
ourselves, are capable of doing to-day that
which they are incapable of accomplishing
tomorrow, and in and out running might
often be found a matter of health At the
same time," continued he, " barring accidents,
it is generally pretty well known
where confidence may be placed."

"The owner comes in for his share of
the responsibility," remarked the colonel.

And the trainer and jockey for theirs,"
added Mark Rooksonon, laughing. "When
the event comes off right nothing can be

more agreeable to each and all interested.
"When it comes off wrong — well, then it's
not so pleasant, and ugly words are sometimes
applied to express ugly thoughts."

*' But we can't shut our eyes to the
historical fact, I fear," observed Colonel
Leferne, 'that robberies of the most barefaced
description are encouraged in connection
with the Turf, eh. Early ?"

Are they ?" inquired the lawyer ; but it
was scarcely a question.

You must, I suppose," resumed the
colonel, '' have heard of poisoning horses ?"

Jeremiah Early admitted that his attention
had been once engaged in a trial in
which a man was found guilty of poisoning
horses, and subsequently hanged for the
offence.

A most exemplary punishment !" exclaimed
the colonel. "I would have every
scoundrel hanged for a much less crime. It
would rid the world expeditiously and

economically of many baneful influences —
eh, Early?"

The lawyer made a visible effort to look
indifferent, and, if a slight shock to the nervous
system was felt, it was scarcely perceptible.

And you cannot be ignorant, I imagine,"
resumed the colonel, as if determined to
persevere with the subject under discussion,
that horses have been purposely lamed,
pulled, and scratched."

'* I may, and believe, have heard of something
of the kind," replied Jeremiah Early,
'* but no child, Mr. Eookson," continued he,
addressing the trainer, ^' can know less of
racing matters than I do."

*' There are rogues to be met everywhere,
sir," responded Mark Rooksonon ; " but, considering
the opportunities which men have
and often needy ones too — of putting
monty in their pockets at the expense of
the owners of racehorses, it may be looked
upon with pride among a large body of

dependent individuals that seldom a well-founded
accusation either is or can be made
against their honesty."

'this flattering eulogium, Early," said
Colonel Leferne, " does not apply to what
are called the workers of a commission.
The workers of a commission," repeated he,
^' are sometimes employed to lay against a
horse, and when the last shilling is got
out of him that can be squeezed, he is
scratched."

'' With the usual cry," added Mark Rook-son,
'' that the owner was forestalled in the
market. It is a certain method of making
money," continued he, " but not a very
honest one."

But still, as you say — certain," returned
the lawyer, glancing furtively out of the
corners of his eyes.

Nothing can be more so, for no risk is
run," added the trainer. "Fictitious bets
are made to lead the public to suppose that

a genuine stable commission is being executed
; the public rush on, thinking to have
a fair run for their money, and discover,
when too late, that a dead horse, or one not
foaled, might as well have been backed !"

I perfectly understand," replied Jeremiah
Early, 'ras I thought I did. Notwithstanding
the conclusive proof," continued he,
of the determination to withdraw a horse
from the race before the bets are made,
they are as bona fide as if he started for it."

^' By my honour. Early," rejoined the
colonel, " with the confessed knowledge of
a child in these matters, you appear to
possess the experience of a man associated
with the fraternity of sharpers ! Where did
you graduate in this code of rascality ?"

The lawyer said nothing, but glanced
angrily at the speaker.

"I begin to suspect, Early," continued
Colonel Leferne, in a bantering tone, which
seemed to be habitual to him on most occasions,

"that you have the instincts of the
spider. Without being specially educated
to weave woofs for poor confiding flies, you
know how at least to spin the web to catch
them from a voluntary gift of nature."

Johnny Tadpole's "Ts-ch-ws-ch " was undiminished
in its vigour as the conversation
proceeded, and, having to keep all his senses
on the defensive for the erratic movements
of the Unknown, he probably scarcely heard
a syllable that was spoken.

Now the bay colt — sire unknown — made
a playful snap with his teeth, which threatened
to cut Johnny clean in halves. Then
he doubled up a hind leg, and, lashing out,
seemed to entertain the innocent design of
sending Johnny straight through the wall
of his *box" into space, or anywhere that
might be handy upon the exhaustion of the
propelling force. At one moment, when
the rubber seemed to tickle him in a spot
too ticklish for endurance, there appeared

a likelihood of Johnny taking the shape of
a pancake or muffin ; for the Unknown
threw the whole weight of his body at an
angle so acute that had he fallen, and
Johnny been under him as he fell, nothing
short of a miracle could have prevented the
catastrophe.

'but then," as Mark Rooksonon observed,
it was all play — nothing but play. He
would not hurt the boy."

Everything, then, connected with the
colt appears, at the present time," observed
the colonel, '' to be as we could desire."

With one exception," responded the
trainer.

'* What is that ?" nervously asked Jeremiah
Early.

The money for which the horse is backed
from time to time," rejoined Mark Rooksonon,
"never lessens the odds in the betting. 1
don't like that."

Why ?" curtly asked Jeremiah Early.

"It raises a suspicion that there are
strings being pulled," replied Mark Rooksonon,
not by friendly fingers."

'those fingers," rejoined the colonel,
audit to be scorched to the bone. What
do you say, Early?"

Is there no trace from whence the
opposition comes?" inquired the lawyer,
taking no notice of the question.

"None whatever," responded the trainer.
"It may be the honest conviction on the
part of the bookmakers," continued he,
that the Unknown is not good enough to
win; but the recent outlays upon him ought
not to keep him stationary."

"You hear that, Early?" remarked the
colonel. '* I shall begin to think that you
are the miscreant who have been laying
against the colt with the diabolical intention
of making him safe."

This facetious remark on the part of
Colonel Leferne was intended, of course,

only as a jest; but Jeremiah Early took a
different view of the matter, and no one
could look more serious above one degree
from solemnity.

In a commercial point of view, then,"
remarked the lawyer, " the market is not
so healthy as it ought to be."

This colt," replied Mark Rooksonon, extending
the palm of a hand towards Queen
Mary's son, who was momentarily threatening
to snap Johnny Tadpole in two equal
parts, flatten him, or kick him into the adjoining
parish — it being, however, nothing
but play. "This colt," repeated he, "has
only to repeat that which he has lately
done to win the Derby. Highly tried in
private, with the true weight in the scale,
and no allowance made, he answered the
question required of him in a manner which
renders the race a certainty, if he only
keeps well."

You hear that, Early ?" rejoined the

colonel, but the words sounded as if he had
become as suddenly grave as the lawyer.
"You hear that, Early?" repeated he, 'the
hope of my life !"

Such being the case," resumed the
trainer, " and the race being so near at
hand, I'm surprised that the horse is not
now quoted at a shorter price; but there
always appears to be an undercurrent at
work."

x\n undercurrent at work," echoed
Colonel Leferne. " You hear that, Early ?"

Hear it or not, the lawyer said nothing
in reply ; but, with eyes bent upon the
around, stood as if absorbed in thought.

"We may feel satisfied, however," continued
Mark Rooksonon, " that nothing exists
at the present moment to prejudice the
great chance of our horse. Well at the
post, and he will win."

It might have been that the cane upon
which Colonel Leferne rested somewhat

heavily, with both hands clasped over the
handle, slipped as these words were spoken,
for he reeled, staggered against the side of
the box, and would have fallen but for the
ready aid of Mark Rooksonon.

Are you unwell ?" asked Jeremiah
Early, with evident alarm, clutching the
colonel by one of his arms.

*' Very — very unwell," gasped the colonel.
Let me get into the air. I can scarcely
breathe."

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XX.

T3Y arrangement, a special appointment
-^-^ had been made that Jeremiah Early
should be at the dairy at Bromley Marli
on a certain evening, and at a certain hour,
to meet William Bottles on a certain matter
of business. What this " certain matter of
business " was had not been expressed or
even implied ; but William Bottles being
a most complete and perfect master of his
own time —having generally nothing to do
determined to be punctual in keeping the
appointment, buoyed with the hope that
something might " turn up " profitable to
his interests, and knowing that the opposite,
in a pecuniary point of view, was absolutely

impossible ; for with the last remarkably
social meeting with jacket and gaiters be
had shared his last shilling, and not one
farthing of change remained as the means of
self-indulgence.

Light come, light go," was the force
which directed the circle in which William
Bottles moved and as it had been, so it
was, and was likely to be, world without
<3nd, or, at least, so long as he possessed any
worldly interest in the world.

The two lonely chairs in the parlour of
the dairy were occupied one evening by
Samuel Wideoo and his compatriot, William
Bottles, when the sun was set, and the long,
weird shadows cast upon the coarse, sedge-like
grass of Bromley Marsh had vanished,
to be succeeded by approaching darkness.

The parlour remained just as it had been
in the Tadpole days of innocence, and the
cow with the iron tail. There was the table
on which Johnny had learned to make o's

sas

large and in the shape of small birds'"
eggs, and became proficient in the rudiments
of the science of numbers by discovering
how many two and two made.
There were the ornaments on the wall —
the faded Leferne colours, the whip and
spurs — as of old, and nothing more.

Feeling, as was natural, ill at ease upon
a chair which was never designed to grive
ease in any position, Samuel Wideoo rose,
and, separating the tails of his coat, stood
with his back to the grate, although no fire
was burning therein, and the powers of his
imagination must have been excessive for
the hypothesis to exist that the slightest
warmth could be derived under such chilling
circumstances. There, however, Samuel
Wideoo stood, in an attitude often occupied,
with William Bottles as a companion —
whether congenial or otherwise was best
known to himself.

I wonder what this artful old nag wants

with me?" remarked Billy. *' I do so''

It will soon be no secret," replied
Samuel Wideoo.

If it's to put some money in my fob,"
rejoined William Bottles, " I'm not particular
as to who cuts or shuffles the cards. All
I want is to stand in. Now, if this artful
old nag has a little winning game in hand,
all I shall say to him is let me stand in. I
shall so''

I shouldn't be surprised to find that it
has something to do with our loss," observed
Samuel Wideoo.

Perhaps he wants me to nobble him," responded
Billy, with a laugh which sounded
loud and long, if not musical, ^' and so drop
the colonel in the hole. Like a good many
of my betters," continued he, wiping his eyes
with one of the cuffs of his coat, so as to
remove the tearful effects of his mirth, " I've
been a rascal more from necessity than
choice, Sam. I have so. But, whatever

hanky-panky games I may have played, I
could never play a false one with the Colonel.
He's too good a sort. He is so"

^' A gentleman," returned Samuel Wideoo,
always a gentleman."

"And no one's enemy but his own," added
William Bottles.

I don't go quite so far as that," replied
the dairyman, reflectively, '' knowing one
or two individuals who might take a different
view o' the subject. Tom Soppy, for
instance," continued he, " if here, could tellus
that old story of his about the colonel's
wife, which is not one of the most pleasant
domestic tales I ever heard of."

Nothing's been heard of that poor lady
for years, has there ?" inquired Bottles.

Only, as you've heard from Tom Soppy,"
replied his companion, " that she must be
dead, as her wraith haunts the Hall and
the neighbourhood. He says, you know,.
that he saw it."

*' It wouldn't take much to frighten Tom
Soppy out of the few wits he's got," rejoined
William Bottles ; '' but I've often wondered
what it was he saw in the crimson-room
before he was clean pumped out with fear."

Miss Leferne, the colonel's sister," returned
Samuel Wideoo — " that's who it was,
and what it was he saw ; but the old fool
had worked himself up to such a pitch that
he didn't know his own missis."

*' His wife told him so before he left,
didn't she ?" added William Bottles.

Yes," responded the dairyman, ^' and
has told him so since he's been back again,
I suspect."

How he snivelled and whimpered to
get his feet once more under the still-room
table !" added William Bottles. " His fat
began to run away ever since he left ; but I
suppose he begins to pick up a bit now."

The Colonel received him in a nice and
friendly way," observed the dairyman, turning

the palms of his hands backwards towards
the grate as if for additional warmth.

^' How was that?" briefly inquired William
Bottles, curious to learn the particulars
of the reception, which the forsaker of the
bosom of Dame Soppy met with upon his
return to Great wood Park.

The Colonel was sitting alone in the
library," began Samuel Wideoo, " as Tom
Soppy entered the room shaking from head
to foot, and, without any inquiry being
made as to the state of his health, asked
him then and there to repeat what he had
told him upon his giving notice that he intended
to go."

*' ' You said. Colonel,' replied Tom
Soppy, 'that I might go and be d — d.'

' That being so and as the colonel
spoke he held up the two forefingers for
attention, * I've only to give you permission
to be consistent upon the subject — to
come back again and be d — d.' "

'pleasant and friendly in the extreme I"
ejaculated William Bottles, " and the Colonel
all over."

*' Nothing more was said," added Samuel
Wideoo, " and thus it was that master and
man met after Tom Soppy's visit to me."

From circumstances over which I have
no control," observed William Bottles, " I
don't carry a watch. I lent it to a relation
of mine some time ago and he stuck to it ;
but it can't be, I suppose, far off for this
artful old nag's arrival."

Upon the dairyman's referring to his own
watch, which had not been held in trust
since it came into his possession, he announced
that 'time was up," and as he uttered
the words there was a slight knock against
the outer door of the apartment as if given
through the instrumentality of clenched
and mused buckles, perhaps gloved.

"Come in," shouted Samuel Wideoo,
remaining with his back to the fireplace ;

for guessing correctly that the expectant
visitor had arrived, and not regarding him
with any special favour, he resolved to receive
him in the spirit of independence.

Slowly — even stealthily — the door was
opened, and Jeremiah Early's features
became visible in advance of his figure.

Come in," again shouted Samuel Wideoo.
Don't make it half and half, sir."

'* I'm not intruding, I hope," said the lawyer,
fully developing his form as he closed
the door behind him. " I'm not intruding,
I hope," repeated he, with the angles of
his mouth drawn back in the shape of a
parenthesis.

'not at all," replied William Bottles.
*' As the spider said to the fly, pray
walk in."

'stake a chair, sir," invited the dairyman,
and as there are but two and Billy there's
got one, you can't make much of a mistake
which to choose."

In occupying the seat, and before he
had taken full possession of it, Jeremiah
Early — in order to save time, perhaps, which
he always declared was the same as money,
to which he was extremely partial — commenced
to announce the particular object of
his visit.

'' I'm here," began he, '* instructed by
Colonel Leferne."

"" A gentleman," added William Bottles,
that both of us — Sam as well as myself — -
would lay down our lives for at any moment."


He knows that," responded the lawyer,
'' and, therefore, feels there is no danger in
your not strictly obeying an order from
him which I'm about to give by his command."


"Only let us know that it comes from
the Colonel," rejoined William Bottles,
and it's as good as done. It is so''

'' The day after tomorrow is the race

for the Derby," returned Jeremiah Early,
"and the intentions of both of ye are, it is
fair to conjecture, to see the Colonel's horse
run for the great stake."

Remembering the colt was bred on ray
marsh," rejoined Samuel Wideoo, '^ and born
in my stable, I don't think there ought to be
any strong objection to my going to Epsom
at my own expense, to be one of the hundred
thousand witnesses to see Queen Mary's
son walk in."

Walk in," repeated the lawyer, with a
sneer imperfectly concealed.

"Ay," replied William Bottles, 'walk
in ; for there's nothing to make him gallop."

We'll not discuss that point now," added
Jeremiah Early. "It will presently be a
matter of history."

"As I broke and partly trained the Unknown,"
observed William Bottles, '^ and
have backed him for the last mag I could
beg, borrow, or bag, I'm bound to see him

spill for my money, and," added he, bringing:
his hands together with a loud crack,

CO '

which sounded of enthusiasm, " to win it."

"Then you'll disobey the order I am
charged with from your master?" responded
the lawyer.

Both Samuel Wideoo looked at the speaker
as if struck mute with astonishment.

Colonel Leferne," continued Jeremiah
Early, slowly and methodically, 'Bold me
to give you this letter," and, as he spoke,
he handed to William Bottles a document
sealed with the knightly crest of the
Les ernes, " and as the clock strikes twelve
on the day of the race — neither before nor
after — you are to present it where it is
addressed."

William Bottles turned the letter overlooked
at it upside down, twisted it round
and round by holding it in the middle between
a finger and thumb, and then seemed
to abandon all hope of solving the mystery.

No questions are to be asked," resumed
the lawyer, " or, if asked, no replies will be
given ; but I will tell you so far that upon
the performance of this duty the fortune
which Colonel Leferne is certain to win
depends. It hangs upon the slight and
single thread of delivering the letter at the
time named."

"Such being the case, sir," responded
William Bottles, looking at the document as
if he expected it to burst into a flame and
burn his fingers, " it shall be there as true
to the second of time as the sun itself. It
shall so:'

"If I understand correctly," returned
Samuel Wideoo, *' we are not permitted to
ask for any explanation ?"

The Colonel," replied Jeremiah Early,
is not the man to allow whys to be put for
his wherefores. His habit is to command,
and he expects a ready compliance to his
orders."

"That's true," added William Bottles.

^' It is so:'

Taking, however, into consideration,"
resumed the lawyer, " the self-denial which
must be borne in your not being at Epsom,
William Bottles, on the day of the Derby,
I'm commissioned by Colonel Leferne to
present you now with ten guineas," —-as he
spoke he counted the gold deliberately
before the glistening eyes of William Bottles
and placed it on the table — 'rand, conditionally
that your easy task is performed with
punctuality, a balance of ninety more will
be handed over by me on the following
morning."

'' A hundred guineas for delivering a
letter 1" ejaculated William Bottles, with Iiis
eyebrows raised, and his lower jaw dropped.

Your master is well known for his
liberality," responded Jeremiah Early, " and
to none more so than to those who serve
him. You have but to do, as I've told you,

to secure the money for yourself, and more
important results to the Colonel than I could
describe, if permitted."

*' Don't say another word, sir," returned
"William Bottles, at a loss for breath from
the combined causes of overwhelming delight
at his good fortune and astonishment.
Don't say another word, sir," repeated hein
a voice bearing a strong affinity to a sob.
'' It shall be done. It shall sot'

Learning from the speaker's earnest tone
that his object was effected, Jeremiah Early
rose from his seat and announced the intention
of taking his departure without further
delay.

Samuel Wideoo, with a fixed look bent
upon the lawyer, still maintained his position
with his back to the grate.

Good night," said Jeremiah, as he stood
for a moment on the threshold of the door
and turned his head slightly towards the
dairyman.

Good night, sir," echoed William Bottles,
as, pausing in the doorway, he watched
the lawyer's figure becoming less distinct as
it faded in the outer darkness.

Samuel Wideoo, however, uttered not a
word in reply, but stood in silence with his
back to the empty grate warming the broad
palms of his hands.

VOL. IL

CHAPTER XXI.

nriARLY in the morning, and before the
J-^ first silver streak of light had tinged
the east, a strange, secluded spot had been
selected on Epsom Downs for a solitary wayfarer
to lie down and rest his travel-worn
and jaded limbs. Upon a gentle slope, and
within a few yards of the imaginary line
where the start for the Derby would take
place, the solitary wayfarer had stretched
himself within the narrow circle of some
high and thick bushes of gorse growing
luxuriantly in front and behind him, and
between which a hare on her form might
have fancied herself secure from disturbance.
It was one of those few spots which

presented no attraction whatever to the inquisitive,
and seemed certain of escaping
the search of the most watchful. That
solitary wayfarer was travel-worn, and, his
senses weighed down and heavy with sleep,
seemed disposed to yield to the tender influences
of " Nature's soft nurse " before he
could light the pipe held between his fingers
to the ignited match.

At break of day, and on Epsom Downs,
William Bottles was alone, and, for the
first time in his chequered existence, in that
immediate locality, felt lonely. He cast his
eyes around, and saw the camp fires of the
followers of the summer race-meetings burning
brightly like glow-worm lamps in the
darkness. No one knew better than he did
the sort of outlaw company that was not far
off, and now and again, as loud, angry shouts
were raised, William Bottles entertained the
strong belief that, for personal safety, he
could scarcely be better off than screened

t2

by the furze like a hare on her form.
With his back to the wind, and a pipe
burning like a small furnace at white heat,
William Bottles stretched his wearied limbs
upon the ground ; but scarcely had he
placed himself in a comfortable, recumbent
position, before the furnace began to wax
pale, and soon afterwards he smoked only
in a dream. Hour succeeded hour, and still
he slept on with the extinguished and fallen
pipe resting upon his breast, and, notwithstanding
the increased and increasing noise
and clamour about him, his slumber remained
deep and unbroken. At length,
however, there were signs of returning consciousness;
for William Bottles, albeit his
eyes were shut, began to rub his nose, and
soon afterwards to comb his hair backwards
through his fingers by way, perhaps, of collecting
his scattered senses. He now yawned
as no man ever did without wide, capacious
jaws, and then drawing himself up, with the

aid of his elbows, into a sitting position, remained
for a few seconds with a steadfast
gaze fixed on nothing.

'' I shall be all right presently," said he.
I only want a little time to pull myself
together." And, as he spoke, he rose with
a slight reel upon his feet, and began to
make a survey of the surrounding country
with the prominent objects of interest within
view of his observatory.

With his head just topping the furze in
front of hin, William Bottles threw a strong,
comprehensive look over the broad downs
as they lay basking far and wide in the
radiant light of a sunny morning late in
May.

"Everything looks just as it did," solos
he, " a year ago. Time has changed
the comers and goers, no doubt, and a good
many are under the turf who were above it
last Derby ; but there's no alteration that I
can see in the Downs and the country

round. Beginning at the beginning," continued
William Bottles, '' which is always a
good plan if you don't want to go over
some of the ground twice. There's the
paddock, out of which the runners for the
Derby will come mounted by-an'-by, and
looking for all the world like a bed of
gorgeous tulips. They will soT

The speaker drew a long breath, and
shook his head mysteriously.

'then," resumed he, 'rafter forming a
line alonsf the road, their heads will be
turned round, and down that slope they'll
come altogether as even as a pack o' cards.
There's sure to be a break away or two, and
delay in the start from some cause or
another, which makes thousands o' people
feel that a few moments in their blessed
lives may be longer than as many hours ;
but just opposite where I now stand the
flag will be dropped, and ' they're off' will
be roared from more open throats than one.

Up the hill they'll go at a steady pace, past
the bushes" — William Bottles followed the
line with a keen eye as he swept the horizon,
— 'around the bend, down the hill,
when the race begins in earnest, and a
cracker it is as they turn the corner can-noting
into the straight. I can see 'em,"
continued he. '' Bang over the road they
come, dust and smoke, a few in front and
many behind. 'What colours are those?'
'Purple and orange lead.' 'The Unknown
wins.' * The Unknown's beaten for a thousand.'
'Purple and orange, with a rush,
comes in the last stride upon the post.'
'The Colonel wins. Colonel Leferne wins
the Derby,' and his colt wasn't scratched.
I can see it all !"

As William Bottles, in an excited state,
finished the imaginary sketch of the race
with, to him, its most satisfactory termination,
he produced from the breast pocket of
his coat, which appeared unusually deep

from the time it occupied in diving this
hand into it, the letter begrimed, rubbed,
creased, and worn, given him by Jeremiah
Early for punctual delivery at twelve o'clock
on the day of the Derby.

I and Sam suspecting a cross," said he,
following the subject of his discourse to
himself, *' with a little gum made a good
counterfeit of the Colonel's seal, and then
took the liberty of making ourselves masters
of the contents of this letter. Had it been
on the square, we should have sealed it up
again, no one knowing anything about it
but our two selves, and I should have nobbled
the balance of ninety quid. But when
we found out that I was to take the written
order for our colt to be scratched within
two or three hours of the race, we saw
what was meant, and made up our minds to
play a little game of our own. To get the
last guinea out of the colt was clear enough
the milking dodge of Jeremiah Early, and

the Colonel seems to have agreed to stand
in With hint ; but Sam thinks with me that,
if he did, he couldn't help himself, as the
owners a race-loss sometimes is not the puller
of the strings. As a gentleman — always a
gentleman," continued William Bottles,
the Colonel never could have consented
to play the sharp hadn't his throat been
under somebody's heel "

*you but do .me justice," interrupted a
voice, and, as William Bottles turned round
with the startled look of intense surprise,
there stood Colonel Leferne leaning slightly
forward, with both hands clasped on the
top of his cane. " You but do me justice,"
repeated he.

I beg your pardon, sir' stammered
William Bottles, instinctively touching his
forehead with a straightened forefinger,
^'but I was only thinking aloud."

*' Possessing, as I have heard," replied
the colonel, " the inestimable quality of

thinking aright. Give me that letter."
It was with the delay scarcely of an
instant that the order was not complied
With ; but Colonel Leferne perceived the
hesitation slight as it was."

argive nie that letter," repeated he, with
his eyes flashing angrily as he spoke. " I
must have, as I thought, a more trustworthy
messenger than you."

I would have done anything else on
earth to serve ye, sir," nervously rejoined
William Bottles, giving up possession of the
letter; 'but I could be no party to scratching
our colt."

And yet not very scrupulous on points
of honour, if history may be trusted," returned
the colonel, with a haughty sneer
curling his upper lip.

I won't say I have been, sir," added
William Bottles; "but I couldn't give the
order out of my hands to scratch our colt."

*' You accepted a bribe, and gave the

promise to do it," harshly retorted Colonel
Leferne.

Not knowing exactly what I was about,
sir, at the time," pleaded the accused.

"And basely and criminally broke the
seal of the letter with which you had been
intrusted."

William Bottles was suddenly seized with
a short, hacking cough.

"Placing your own infamous construction
upon the contents," continued the colonel,
"of which, in common honesty, you should
have known nothing."

The irritating cough became more violent.

Indifferent of the consequences to me,"
said the colonel, sternly, " and studying
your own gratification and interests in the
result."

"I'm a d 'd scoundrel," responded

William Bottles, in a tone which revealed
feelings of deep emotion; "but I couldn't
scratch the colt."

'' Thereby imputing by inference," added
the colonel, " that I'm a far greater rascal
than yourself."

William Bottles felt the overwhelming
force of the argument, and, with the reflection
of a moment, thought it expedient to
say not a word in reply.

'sis that what you mean ?" curtly inquired
the colonel.

Not believing it possible, sir," modestly
responded William Bottles, ^' / don't."

At the same time knowing that you
held my written authority for an act to be
done," rejoined the colonel, "against which
your own black nature rebels."

^' I couldn't scratch the colt," muttered
William Bottles, almost inaudibly. '' I
couldn't scratch the colt," repeated he.

^*Why not?" asked the colonel, passionately.


Because, sir," responded William Bottles,
with his right hand pressed on the left

of his breast, " it went against my heart todo
it. It did so''

*' I entertained no thought that you possessed
a heart," replied the colonel 'the
instinct of the animal is sometimes mistaken
for sensibility."

'* We common scoundrels, sir," added
William Bottles, serious and respectful in
his tone and mien, "have our lengths in
whatever branch of business we trade.
Some cro in for robbins without violence,
some with ; but / couldn't scratch the
colt."

So you've said before," replied the
colonel. "And as you know that I could,
and cadi "

But won't," interrupted William Bottles,
and his hands were raised in the form of an
evangelical petition as he spoke. ^' You
won't do that, sir, will ye, hard up as you
may be ?"

Would you have him, then, run to win,

and the stake my ruin, certain and inevitable
ruin ?"

*' It's a hard word, sir," replied William
Bottles. " Ruin is a hard word in the
mouth of a gentleman."

'still believing what I have said," rejoined
the colonel, " you would, reckless of
the consequences to me, let him start and
win ?"

'' If left to me, sir," returned William
Bottles, *' he should go if I were to die ashe
passed the post, winner or loser. I
couldn't scratch the colt."

So I learned, with a little seasonable
pressure, from Wideoo," added the colonel,
and, beinf]f furnished bv him with the
exact point of your whereabouts, will account
for my finding you here. I now
think that I can trust ye."

The warm blood began to mantle through
the cheeks of William Bottles as this remark
was made in the tint of a maiden's
blush.

"I now think that lean trust ye," repeated
Colonel Leferne, musingly.

In anything but scratching the colt,"
rejoined William Bottles. '' I could crib the
bit o' sugar from a canary bird's cage, but
would have no hand in making the Unknown
a safe-un."

With his eyes fixed upon the greensward,
and a brow knitted in deep thought, Colonel
Leferne began to tear the letter, which
hitherto he had held motionless in his hand,
into small fragments, and let them fall
fluttering to the ground.

It's early yet," remarked he, as if
communing with himself, '"' and there is
plenty of time for mischief to be done
between now and sunset."

'many a man will be a mouse," philosophically
rejoined William Bottles, " and
many a mouse a man ! They will so

"The lifelong changes in the social scale,"
continued the colonel, as if impressed with

the remark, " being woven by fate within
the limits of two minutes and forty-eight
seconds."

The small fragments of the letter still
continued to fall fluttering to the ground,
and the colonel stood tearing them asunder
in a manner which seemed to give vent to
feelings of a somewhat intense description.

'* Backers and bookmakers are put out of
their misery, sir," returned William Bottles
in about that time for the Derby, and I've
seen a few coves look as if they had lived
forty years between the start and the finish.
I have so."

"More lives are run for than we know of,
perhaps," added the colonel; 'rand, after
all, in the long run, the losers may be the
gainers, for aught we can tell, so little can
we see beyond the present."

'* I never yet saw a man look pleased
with the boot on the wrongs leo:, sir," observed
William Bottles.

Probably not," responded the colonel,
musingly. '' I can understand, without
much effort," continued he, "that uneven
pressure is painful and inconvenient."

The last remnant of the letter had now
dropped from the colonel's fingers, and he
stood thoughtfully leaning forward, with his
hands crossed on the top of his cane.

Be here," said he, after a short pause,
and bending a stern look upon William
Bottles, " as the clock strikes twelve. I
may want to see you then — neither sooner
nor later." And, thus speaking, he turned
and slowly quitted the spot, leaving William
Bottles gazing in silence at his retreating
form.

VOL. II. u

CHAPTER XXII.

THE bell was clanging harshly for the
course to be cleared, and '' the ring "
had arrived at the climax of excitement,
when Jeremiah Early might have been seen
within the circle of speculators, momentarily
questioned by men in whispers, with deeply-lined
and bloodless features, and looks betraying
anxiety hidden but not concealed.

"It's long past the time," mysteriously
remarked a member of the ring, "and I
can't hear of his being scratched."

The lawyer drew from a pocket, with
great deliberation, a watch, and, glancing at
the hour, sneered in silence, and replaced it
without a syllable falling from his lips.

The Demon's weighed out," observed
the communicative member of the ring, ina
manner which denoted anything but
mental composure, '* and is now going to
mount."

*ris he?" curtly replied Jeremiah Early.
"What then?"

'' He'll start," was the rejoinder, " if not
proved by authority that the Unknown is
scratched."

And what then ?" inquired the lawyer,
with an inward chuckle of mental satisfaction.


'' If he wins," rejoined the member of the
ring, with a look of serious import, '' and,
from any accident, the pen has not been put
through the name of the Unknown, the
bets will go with the stakes. That's all !"

That's all?

The words appeared to strike Jeremiah
Early in a sensible spot, for he gasped as
if at a sudden loss for breath, and stared at

u2

his informant with his lower jaw dropped
and protruding eyeballs.

That's all ?

He was legally responsible for thousands
for had not he commissioned others to lay
for him ?

That's all ?

What if his messenger failed ? Were the
savings of a life, no matter how saved or
made, to be lost in two minutes and forty-eight
seconds ? The lawyer's brain reeled,
and he staggered backwards as if from a
blow. That which had been most distant
from his thoughts now presented itself in a
form of hideous reality. The possibility of
losing never came across his shallow brain
until told that '• the bets would go with the
stakes." So, then, be the intention of the
owner or nominated of a horse what it
might, so long as the strict conditions of the
race were fulfilled, he might be returned a
winner against the absolute order that he

was not even to be allowed to start.

'' Is this true ?" said he, as if speaking ina
dream.

You'll find it to be so," replied the
member of " the ring," '' if he's not scratched
and wins."

'' Had I known this," rejoined Jeremiah
Early, faintly, " no risk should have been
run. I would have taken the letter myself;
but I wished to see "

^'The last shilling got out of the horse,"
added the member of '' the ring," with a
broad grin. " Isn't that what you mean ?"

"The scoundrel Bottles cannot have
played false with me !" ejaculated the lawyer,
without noticing the observation. '' I
agreed to pay him well for his work."

But supposing he was better paid for
not doing it," suggested the member of
the ring."

I begin to fear the villain has been !"
bitterly exclaimed Jeremiah Early. "It

should be known by now," continued he,
again referring with a feverish, anxious
look at his watch ; " it should be known
by now that the Unknown is not to
start''

There go the numbers up," remarked
the member of "the ring," 'ewe shall
soon see if number three is among them."

As he spoke some long black boards were
hoisted with white numbers painted on
them, corresponding with those on the
official cards which professed to give '' a
correction of the names, weights, and colours
of the riders."

Number three," read the member of
*' the ring," and referring to his card.
The Unknown, bay colt, sire unknown,
dam Queen Mary, by Gauntlet, by Bright
Steel, by Helmet Plume, and, as I said, the
Demon rides."

There's foul play here," responded
Jeremiah Early, in a voice scarcely articulate.

" I begin to suspect that I'm robbed."
He's anything but the dead-run your
commissioners have been laying against,"
returned the member of " the ring," " and,
if I see the Demon up, I'll take ray own
money back, and cover every penny of my

Loss.

Cover mine too," whined the lawyer.
*' I feel that I'm about to be let in — I do
indeed."

Every man for himself at a moment
like this," added the member of '' the ring."
Get out, if you can — 1 will," and, thus
speaking, he hurried away, leaving Jeremiah
Early alone in the crowd with a brain bewildered
at what he both saw and heard.

A marvellously sudden change was now
perceptible in the odds offered against the
Unknown. Instead of being more than
willing to lay fabulous sums against Queen
Mary's son, the crafty bookmakers appeared
seized with suspicion that " something was

wrong," and as hasty words and looks were
exchanged, they shook their heads, and
sullenly announced 'they were full against
him." No one would venture to lay against
the chance of the Unknown, for he was now
seen in the paddock saddled for the start,
and that the Leferne colours, the erst
well-known purple jacket and orange cap,
were V70rn by the Demon, who had the
mount.

Muttered oaths were heard from various
and opposite quarters of " the ring," and
nothing could be more evident than 'something
was wrong."

Jeremiah Early, besieged with a group
of fiery members of '* the ring," each demanding
to be informed "what was meant,"
replied that " he didn't know," and no form
of answer, either general or particular, could
be nearer the truth. He wished that he
knew, and said so ; but no apparent satisfaction
was given to the excited questioners by

the expression of his wish. Rough charges
were made of a strong belief that the lawyer
had been both " backing and laying,
and that ' the ring,' through him, had been
robbed to a man."

"Where's all the money to come from,"
cried one, ''if this horse wins?"

The lawyer shuddered at the thought
that much of the loss would have to be
produced from his own pocket.

The discussion, fierce and angry as it was,
although the tone was subdued so as to be
heard only by those close by, came to a
sudden termination by the appearance of
the mounted horses walking in line in front
of 'the ring." Eyes with gifted and acquired
powers of criticism examined the
candidates for the highest honour of the
Turf as they walked along with dainty
tread, " the observed of all observers," but
the majority of eyes which gazed upon them
knew nothing more of their qualifications

beyond the bright and showy colours in
which they were ridden.

Twenty-two horses paraded between the
double lines of admiring spectators ; but
there was still another to complete the
number given on the telegraph-board, and
that was number three.

The sanguine hope rose like a bright and
sparkling bubble in the despairing breast of
Jeremiah Early that he had been inflicting
upon William Bottles a most unmerited injury,
and that, after all, the condemnation
passed upon him was undeserved. Oh, that
such hopes, unlike bubbles, where never
doomed to burst ! Such, at least, were the
human sentiments of Jeremiah Early as he
both saw and heard the confirmation of his
worst human fears.

Alone, and with a wide distance separating
him from the close line of horses which
had gone before, the Unknown came with
stately tread and head aloft, while every

now and then he lashed his flanks with his
silky, square-cut tail, as if in defiance of the
coming struggle. Amidst both loud and
suppressed admiration, the favourite strode
along as if conscious of his own symmetrical
beauty, with his bright coat shining like
satin in the sun, and looking from head to
heel the perfection of a race-horse.

Carried with that graceful ease and confidence
which pertain alone to the perfect
master of his art, the purple jacket and
orange cap never looked, perhaps, to greater
advantage than at the present moment.
'the Demon," to the joy of many and
mental distress of few, had, as was anticipated,
the mount on Queen Mary's son, and
this was enough to be known, that, if honest
and skilful riding could secure success, the
race would be won.

The dam all over except in colour,
Jane," observed a spectator sitting in a
large, high-wheeled cart, between the shafts

of which stood harnessed a small, hog-manet
pony with a short-cut and somewhat
ragged tail. "The dam all over, Jane,"
repeated the spectator, '' except in colour."

^' That saint-like creature who gave me
this precious tract just now as we were
coming on the course," replied the spectator's
companion in the cart, " called, 1
see, ' A race to the Devil,' has turned my
mind heavenwards, Ebenezer. I'm bethinking,"
continued she, '' of the Apostles."

'' Oh !" sharply exclaimed the Brentford
blacksmith, for the occupants of the cart
were he and his wife, 'leave the 'Apostles
alone, Jane Jolly, and let's talk of dams.
There's a time and place for all things,"
continued he, in a persuasive tone, '' and
this is the place for dams."

Jane Jolly sighed, arranged her blazing-coloured
shawl over her ponderous shoulders,
shook her head, and was silent.

'' When I plated that colt's dam "

"I wish you'd drop your parts of speech'
interrupted Jane Jolly, in a reproving
manner. " They quite grate on my feeling's,
Ebenezer. They do, indeed."

''I Alas going to say," continued he, in a
manner expressive of coaxing, 'that you
were about as nice shaped a filly, Jane, as a
man could wish to put his arms round."

As a matter of plain, unvarnished record,
unmingled with the poetry of action, Mrs.
Jolly turned her head aside with becoming
modesty, and gave a straight thrust at the
ribs of the Brentford blacksmith which
brought forth an emphatic '^ Ho !"

"None o' your tenderness, Ebenezer,"
rejoined Jane, with downcast eyes, " or I
may have recourse to violence."

Feeling at least what the effect of ordinary
force was, the Brentford blacksmith
seemed to arrive at a conclusion that 'tenderness"
had better be postponed, and his
general deportment became forthwith as
hard as iron.

Get on, Bob," said he, drawing a stiff
ash stick from between his knees and administering
a cut straight down the spine of
the hog-maned pony. *' Get on, Bob," repeated
he.

But Bob had learned from daily experience
between the shafts of the large, high-wheeled
cart that whether he went on or
stood still made little difference in the
amount of punishment he received on the
average, that he had to study his inclination
solely upon the subject, and, preferring ease
to exertion, he generally stood still when
required to move on, the verdict being in
his own mind, "and quite right, too."

"I don't think Bob'll move on just yet,"
blandly remarked Jane Jolly, raising her
eyes from the tract which had been presented
to her by 'the saint-like creature."

I see he won't," replied the blacksmith,
acrain drawings the stick from Bob's shoulder
in a line to his quarter. "I see he won't,"

repeated he; "but he shall have his licking
for all that."

And Bob took his licking like a philosopher,
never moving a peg.

'' Here they come," shouted Ebenezer, as
the horses swept towards them in their
preliminary canter. " How it stirs up my
young blood ! Doesn't it your ?"

Jane Jolly gave no reply; but, coming
from the north, her pulses beat quickly and
her cheeks flushed crimson as the field
streamed by, number three being last and
far behind.

CHAPTER XXIII.

rpHOUSANDS of eyes strained and 
contracted to one point ; thousands of
hearts beating with hope, fear, and dread,
many with pain, and few with pleasure ;
tens of thousands of pounds sterling depending
upon the result, all and everything
in connection with the Derby being enumerated
in thousands and tens of thousands.

Twenty-three horses were at the post
ready for the start, but, although ready,
there was some difficulty in effecting it, and
an interval elapsed of long, suffering,
agonizing suspense before the bright red
flag was dropped and a roar of voices proclaimed
they were 'off."

As good a start as ever was seen,"
remarked William Bottles, behind his screen
of gorse. *' As even as a pack of cards,"
continued he, watching, with a riveted gaze,
the position and movement of the Unknown,
as, sweeping up the hill in the ruck of
horses, his colours were carried forward,
but not in front.

He's just where he ought to be at the
beginning," observed William Bottles. " ' The
Demon' knows what the race means — the
best turn o' speed from Tattenham Corner
to the post. That's what winning the Derby
means."

The changes were not many in the places
held by the horses at the start as they
gained the top of the hill, but immediately
afterwards the purple jacket and orange cap
were seen more forward still ; but not in front.

The Demon's taking a feeler," remarked
William Bottles, with blindness, blood-shot
eyes, as he watched the race.

VOL. u. X

Past the well-known bushes which momentarily
hid them from his sight, and then the
work began to tell upon those manifestly
unequal to the task of making the pace.

They begin to tail off now," remarked
William Bottles, exultingly ; "but our colours
don't drop back, and won't."

Forward kept the purple jacket and
orange cap ; but not in front.

Now for the corner. Down the hill and
round the bend they came like winged
arrows from a bow. With a force which
brought them nearly to the ground two of
the leaders cannoned against each other, and
for a moment impeded the line of the
Unknown. His rider, however, steadied him
with a skilful, judicious pull, and, recovering
his knocked out stride, he was over the road
among the forward ; but not in front.

First one and then another looked to
have the best of the race as they approached
the distance, challenge after challenoje'beinf]j
given by the leaders.

A yellow jacket and black cap came with
a rush to the van.

Merry wins," was shouted from a
thousand throats. " Merry wins !"

Then a bright cherry colour threatened
danger to the yellow as they raced side by
side.

Sir Joseph wins," was now the cry.
'• Sir Joseph wins !"

'the Baron," roared countless partisans, asa
dark blue jacket and yellow cap were made
conspicuous in the front rank. " The Baron
wins 1"

The moments were now few for the
termination of the contest.

Jeremiah Early stood in the ring bewildered
at what he heard, and, as for seeing,
everything seemed to flicker and dance before
his eyes as if looking through air heated
to intensity.

In a spot chosen by himself, far removed
from the excited crowd, a figure might have

x2

been seen alone resting with his hands crossed
on the top of his cane, and watching
the race with compressed lips and flashing
gaze.

"My orders were for him to come now,"
said he, in a tone only heard by himself, for
it was what might strictly be called inward.
^' I told him," continued he, " to break their
hearts at the distance."

Just as the thought was expressed, the
purple jacket and orange cap came more
forward, and the next instant were in front.
"And it will be done !" muttered the colonel,
with bated breath " Now he'll break their
hearts !"

The Demon rode side by side with a
horse whose heart, perhaps, was tougher
than the rest, for, unlike the remainder of
the field, he was not to be shaken off, and
the two, as they stretched towards the winning
post, looked as if linked together.

Frantic shouts arose from every point.

The Unknown wins." *' The Unknown's
beaten."

Three strides more, and the last given in
favour of Queen Mary's son.

Won by a short head."

Such was the fiat of the judge which
awarded the Derby to the Unknown, and
realized the prophecy of the parrot at the
'' Greyhound."

'the ambitious object of my life attained
at last," murmured Colonel Leferne, as he
lifted his hat, and wiped his hot and feverish
brow with a handkerchief. " But at
what cost?" continued he. "Well, no
matter ! If I have made a loss by winning,
still the race is won."

It's all r — r — right, sir," stammered
William Bottles, as with breathless haste he
ran at the top of his speed to where the
colonel was standing. 'number three's
up and he's weighed in. What a day
for us !"

It's one that is likely to be reaieaiber-
ed," responded Colonel Leferne.

Those that laid against our boss thinking
he was sure to be scratched," returned
William Bottles, with a laugh which might
have been heard a considerable distance
with the wind, "are not likely to forget it
soon. They've caught what may be called
a facer, sir."

Great rogues possess little wit," added
the colonel, " and in trying to net others
often get into the trammels themselves.
You backed the horse with the hundred I
gave you ?"

"With as good a man as any in the
ring,' sir," exultingly replied William
Bottles, " at the liberal starting price of
five to one."

Divide the amount equally between
Wideoo and yourself' rejoined the colonel.
"That must satisfy you," continued he, " for
I have no more to give."

*' But you have won a fortune for yourself,
sir ?" said William Bottles, interrogatively.


'' When the stakes are apportioned in
accordance with my promises," responded
the colonel, raising the two fingers of his
right hand for his hearer to observe marked
attention, ''I shall have left for myself the
honour of having won the Derby with a
colt — sire unknown."

William Bottles was about to return an
answer, and of a generous kind ; but before
a word could be spoken Colonel Leferne
had quitted the spot, and he instinctively
knew that to follow him would be an
offence.

END OF THE SECOND Y0LUI\rC.

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN AfACDONALD, Blenheim HOUSE.

\

t ""^^y!^ s Bf-S^^^-'Trn"

(•.iii:e

>

X

john Mil

VOL. III.

in 2009 with funding from ^

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/toofasttolast03mill

TOO FAST TO LAST

BY

JOHN MILLS

AUTHOR OF

THE OLD ENGLISH GENTLEMAN
&c., &c.

IN THREE Volumes.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13. GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1881.

All rights reserved.

ruined BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE,

BLENHEIM STREET, OXFORD STREET.

TOO FAST TO LAST.

CHAPTER I.

rpHE thin sounding tick-took of the clock
-■- on the high, intricately carved oak
mantelshelf of the room in which Colonel
Leferne and Jeremiah Early were sitting,
when the minute and hour hands announced
that midnight was near, told its own story
of being nearly worn out in measuring the
past. The old clock had struck the hours of
the births and the hours of the deaths of
generations of the Lefernes, and it was now
about to mark the time of the introduction
of the last heir to the ancient honours which
VOL. iir. B

awaited him, in due order of succession, just
twenty-one years ago, neither more nor less.

At the last stroke of the old clock, as it
completed the hour of twelve, Aubrey
Leferne would attain his majority — the heir
of the old knightly family, and the last of
his race.

On the table, and in front of the lawyer,
was arranged several skins of parchment
engrossed in black letters with a phraseology
too technical for ordinary comprehension ;
but signifying, nevertheless, a remarkably
clear and conclusive mode by which a
family estate, devised in fee for ever, might
be disentangled with one stroke of the pen,
and sold to the highest bidder.

Within easy reach of Jeremiah Early was
an inkstand and a small bundle of pens
bound with red tape. Selecting one with
care he held it above his head, between the
light of the lamp and himself, and minutely
examined the nib, while now and then he

cast an impatient look at the face of the old
clock, slowly but surely approaching the
hour of twelve.

"I was just thinking, Early," observed
the colonel, sitting in the dark shade thrown
by the lamp to the further end of the room,
and beating a slow, dull, monotonous sound
on the elbow of his chair, " what two unmitigated
scoundrels we should look on
canvas, if sketched by the master hand of
an artist !"

Jeremiah Early continued to look at the
point of the pen which he held between his
fingers ; but gave no reply.

"Within a few minutes, my son," resumed
the colonel, " will be his own master, and
the control of his deeds and misdeeds must
rest with himself when those two hands join
in pointing to the coming hour."

I begin to think that the clock must be
slow," replied the lawyer, with a gesture of
impatience.

B 2

It can scarcely be that," rejoined the
colonel, with a slight variation in the tune
still being played on the elbow of the chair
in which he was seated, " for what we are
about to do. Instead of being near," continued
he, '' the time could scarcely be too
distant for the execution of an act little
short of an execrable crime."

*' I have known you to be less scrupulous,"
returned Jeremiah Early, with a sneer,
*Svhen an impediment has stood in the way
of your interests."

"Ay!" added the colonel, with what
sounded like a long-drawn but stifled sigh.
"AVho shall tell the depth he will reach
when he plunges into the vortex of ruin ?"

You were once the master of the opportunity
to retrieve your fallen fortunes," responded
the lawyer, with mingled bitterness
of tone and expression. 'perhaps you
may now feel what too late means."

*you refer to my Derby victory," returned

the colonel, clrawiugj back the angles
of his mouth, and changing the air to one
of a lively kind. '' It was a great race, and
brilliantly won by a first-class racehorse."

"I wish that his neck or heart had been
broken instead !" bitterly ejaculated Jeremiah
Early. '^ Had you not played that
trick with me I should have been a debtor
instead of a creditor."

But in the absence of the trick of which
you complain," retorted the colonel, " I
should not have been a spectator of a
triumph of priceless worth, and you will dome
the justice to recollect that the trick was
rather of a forced character than chosen.
You threatened," continued he, "if my
memory is not treacherous, to sell even the
easy chair in which I now sit, to be catalogued
with the culinary pots and pans."

I used the threat as the means to the
send," responded the lawyer, surlily, " but
without intending to put it into execution."

"No greater mistake could have been
committer], Early," rejoined the colonel,
throwing his head back, and looking at the
lawyer with half-closed, sleepy eyes. " I
invariably construe a plain signification from
plain language. If a man," continued he,
'ein speaking of a crowbar means a toothpick,
the misinterpretation must rest with
himself."

But you "

'' Temporarily played the most unfortunate
of all games," interrupted the colonel,
that of fast and loose. My pecuniary
interests, combined with the expressed design
of taking away my easy chair, and the
whole of the goods and chattels beneath
tapis ancient roof, even to the daubs of
portraits of my revered ancestors, tempted
me, Early," continued the colonel, in a tone
and manner of the most perfect indolence,
'* to accede to your rascally proposition,
and, in so doing, I became a partner of

a moiety of the villainy which should have
transferred both at once to the hands of
the hangman, under that stringent law
which would have flatly denied us the benefit
of the clergy."

The lawyer was about making an observation,
but the colonel's two fingers were raised
languidly, and the signal for silence was
obeyed.

"When too late — as most mundane benefits
are," resumed the colonel, " to prevent
your laying against the Unknown, on our
joint account, to an extent not likely to be
forgotten on this side of eternity, I was
tempted to change the game from fast to
loose, and run the horse to win."

Jeremiah Early, at this juncture, gave a
deep and audible groan, expressive of great
mental anguish.

Do me the favour," observed the colonel,
'' not to repeat that uneuphonious grunt,
as it interferes with the chain of my thoughts.

The temptation," continued he, " was too
great tb be resisted. The chance — the probable
chance — of realizing the phantom
hope of my life resolved me, at the last
moment, to withdraw the order I had
given, let the consequences be what they
might."

Jeremiah Early was about repeating the
^'uneuphonious grunt ;" but two raised fingers
operated as a decided check, and it
died away upon his lips.

In the conclusion of this brief summary
of events I shall not trespass upon your attention
much longer," said the colonel.
"An interval has taken place since they
were recorded among the things of the past,
and we each know the effects of the present,
however questionable may be those of
the unknown future."

AVe are both without a single shilling
to call our own," growled the lawyer, throwing
the pen from his fingers on the table.

*' Without a single shilling to call our own !"
repeated he.

But you had my solemn promise," rejoined
the colonel, '' to make things as
pleasant as possible at the very earliest
opportunity. For the sacrifice made in not
carrying out our iniquitous fraud, so that
my personal ambition or vanity might be
gratified, I pledged you the honour of a
gentleman that to-night I would unhesitatingly
rob my son of his birthright."

You think he will sign ?" said the
lawyer, glancing nervously at the face of
the old clock.

"Had you not thought so," returned the
colonel, "there would have been another
occupant, ere now, of my easy-chair."

But I'm asking what you think," responded
Jeremiah Early, " and at a critical
moment."

"Like most of the Lefernes who have
preceded him," added the colonel, with a

smothered laugh, " ray son would require
little persuasion to sign anything — even his
own death warrant."

Is he prepared for your request ?" asked
the lawyer.

"I have been in the habit of receiving
implicit obedience at the time of giving my
orders," replied the colonel. " As soon as
Aubrey is of age to act for himself," continued
he, "which, by a ridiculous fiction of
the law, will be within one minute from
this time of the world's monotonous and
stupid history, I will press upon him the
paramount necessity of doing his affectionate
duty to his father by impoverishing himself."

The first stroke of the hammer of the old
clock, which had struck the hours of the
births and deaths of generations of the Le-ferns,
now fell with a clear, thin, ringing
sound upon the ear.

The moment has arrived," observed the
colonel, "for the consummation of our rascality.

Pull the bell, Early, and we will
learn if Aubrey is occupied in playing with
his doll."

CHAPTER 11.

MR. SOPPY— Mr. Thomas Soppy— appeared
promptly in answer to the
summons, and, having entered the room by
opening the door and closing it gently behind
him, stood in the first position, with
his toes turned out, and a blended air of
meek attention and polite deference.

Where is my son ?" inquired the colonel.

Mr. Soppy began to chafe the knuckles of
one hand with the palm of the other.

''If I might be permitted to give an
opinion, sir," replied Mr. Soppy, blandly,
"without offence to either party, I should
say that Master Aubrey, being tired with
a-walking and a-talking with a certain young

gal up and down in front of the daffodils,
had gone to bed, having, of course, first
said his prayers like a gentleman."

Mr. Soppy bowed lowly as he spoke,
thinking, with the utmost sincerity, that a
gentleman saying his prayers ought to command
more than ordinary respect.

'' They were together when you saw them
last?" observed the colonel.

"As usual, sir," rejoined Mr. Soppy,
plainly, and to the point.

The fate of the Lefernes !" returned
the colonel, in a voice addressed only to
himself. '' Always a doll, like a syren on
the rock 1"

'master Aubrey, sir," added Mr. Soppy,
"vouchsafed to make a confidential communication."


What was it ?" asked the colonel.

'ein strict confidence, sir," replied Mr.
Soppy, continuing to rub the knuckles of
one hand with the palm of the other, ''he

threatened that, if I were watching his
movements to-night in order to report them
to you, he'd punch my nose."

"I could scarcely have rebuked him from
carrying his threat into execution," added
the colonel. " Knowledge is power," continued
he, 'rand my son knows how to
punch a nose scientifically."

*' I can bear testimony to that, sir," replied
Mr. Soppy, " having had tears brought
into my eyes from a straight shot from the
shoulder more than once."

"You say that my son has retired to
rest ?" said the colonel.

"As a matter of A{?pinion, sir," responded
Mr. Soppy, " I should say that, at the present
moment, he is between the sheets and
blankets."

"Get a lamp," rejoined the colonel, "and
show the way to his room."

Having the means ready at hand, Mr.
Soppy promptly appeared bearing a small

lamp of antique shape, the flame of which
flickered with a pale, uncertain light.

"Now, Early," said the colonel, rising
from his chair and stretching out his arms
above his head, " let us earn the reward of
two execrable scamps''

Jeremiah Early made no reply, but
gathering together the skins of parchment
on the table, and the pen with the finely-pointed
nib which he had selected, he also
rose from his chair, and followed in the
wake of the colonel as he quitted the room,
the van being led by Mr. Soppy, dio carried
in his hand the lamp of antique shape.

Mr. Thomas Soppy 's nerves were, perhaps,
never of the strongest, and from increasing
infirmities, and circumstances over
which he had not the slightest power, both
the natural and supernatural causes of his
fears became greater as he grew older, and
he knew of but one spot of peaceful rest,
and that was the fiat bosom of his wife with

Ins eyes closed. As he led the way through
the long, dark passages, With the flickering
flame of the lamp momentarily threatened
to be extinguished by the strong draughts
of air which swept through them — the
family portraits frowning and scowling upon
him as he passed — Mr. Soppy felt strongly
disposed to double back upon his line and
bolt. The obstacle to this course, however,
was the colonel in the immediate rear, and
this strengthened him in his resolve to goon.
Mr. Soppy led the way, possessing at
the same time an unusually strong desire to
bring up the rear, supposing the shade of a
wish to exist concerning his most reluctant
presence, let the position be where it might.
The small procession having gone in a
straight line where it was practicable, and
turned, twisted, and twined where it was
not, arrived at length at the closed door of
the apartment occupied by Aubrey Leferne
as his dormitory since he was an infant, not

only in the great goggle eyes of the Law,
but in the more tender ones of Aunt Margaret,
who, more frequently than he suspected,
even in his dreams, watched his
slumber, and smiled with pleasure to see
him smiling in his sleep.

Shall I knock, sir ?" inquired Mr. Soppy,
turning half round for instructions as he
held the clenched knuckles of his left hand
ready for action.

Greatly to his surprise, he received no
answer, and, just as he was about repeating
the question, the lamp was snatched from
his hand by Colonel Leferne, who held it
at arm's length above his head, and stood
as if turned into stone, gazing with a fixed
look into the impenetrable darkness beyond.


"What vas that?" ejaculated he, with
blanched features and bloodless lips.

At these words Mr. Soppy appeared to
shut up like a large telescope, and gently

VOL. III. c

to slide upon the floor, more dead than
alive, in a heap of inexpressible fear.

I saw nothing," replied Jeremiah Early,
*' excepting our own shadows."

"It was no shadow that saw," rejoined
the colonel, moving forward.

Stay," returned the lawyer, placing a
hand upon the colonel's arm next to him.
We are here upon a plain matter of business
which admits of no delay. The following
of shadows," continued he, " can be
postponed."

Do you suspect "

I suspect nothing," interrupted Jeremiah
Early ; " but I want the signature of your
son to these deeds, and the time for the
execution is now, and the place here," and,
as he spoke, he pointed to the door close
to which they were still standing.

For a few brief moments Colonel Leferne
appeared undecided how to act or what todo.
He still stood with the lamp held

above his head, staring into the darkness,
motionless and silent.

Shall I or will you open this door ?"
asked the lawyer, preparing to turn the
handle.

Refraining consciousness — admitting that
it had temporarily departed — enabled Mr.
Soppy to understand that one of his prerogatives
was in danger, and, with a fine
conservative sense of his own privileges, he
determined not only to assert his right but
to maintain it.

Excuse me, sir," said he, repossessing
the noble position of an upright and forked
animal, "but no one must do that while I
live and am near."

To a signal now given by the colonel,
who seemed to look and act like one in a
dream, Mr. Soppy applied gentle and noiseless
force to the handle of the door, and
the procession of three entered the apartment,
large, dark, and desolate.

c2

Nothing, indeed, could be seen as they
entered but the darkness made visible by
the lamp still carried by Colonel Leferne.
Upon a forward movement being made,
however, a small bedstead was perceptible
in the shade, and, as they approached it,
Mr. Soppy would not have felt surprised — if
bruised — at a hard substance coming in
contact with his head, possibly in the shape
of a pair of boots ; but nothing broke the
utmost serenity and quietude of Aubrey
Leferne's dormitory, and, for undisturbed
silence, it might have been his tomb.

One wave of the lamp, however, revealed
that no head had pressed upon the pillow
that night.

*' What does this mean?" asked Jeremiah
Early, with a suspicious frown.

That my son not being in his bed,"
replied the colonel, " we must seek him
elsewhere. Nothing can be plainer or more
easy of comprehension."

I was led to believe that I should find
him here," rejoined the lawyer, in a tone
which seemed to convey a reserved but
revengeful meaning.

*' And you now know," returned the
colonel, in a manner which left little doubt
that his humour was quite equal to the
occasion, " that you were misled. Have
you anything more to say or for me to
infer?" and, as he spoke, he made one
stride towards Jeremiah Early which
brought them close together, face to face.

For a moment Jeremiah Early met the
colonel's steadfast, passionate look ; but it
was more than he could bear longer, and
his eyes drooped beneath the gaze.

I'm not in the vein to submit to insult,"
continued he, " as you will soon discover if,
by word or gesture, you dare offer one."

As the colonel spoke, the lawyer might
have thought that he was one of the

o

knightly Lefernes in the portrait gallery,

placing lance in rest ready for a tilt, so
strangely like was the fierce expression of
the past and the present.

*' You think," resumed the colonel, " that,
in not finding my son here, some deception
has been practised ; but, for your own safety,,
you had better dispel that thought at once
and for ever."

^'Then let him be found," quietly suggested
Jeremiah Early. '* Your engagement
of many years' standing," continued
he, ^' was to have these deeds signed by
Aubrey Leferne on the night and at the
hour he came of age. That is all I want injustice
to yourself and me."

But what shall be said as to him ?"
returned the colonel, with a sneer of contempt.


I'm not here to discuss the interests of"
others," added the lawyer, sullenly, " but
to support my own."

Perhaps, sir," said Mr. Soppy, in tremulous

accents, as he produced a sealed letter,
*' this may explain something. I found it
lying on that table," continued he, pointing
to one within a few feet of where he stood,
'^ and which I daresay I should have seen
before had I possessed the eyes of a cat."

It was short work to clutch the letter
from Mr. Soppy's hand, and as Colonel Leferne
tore it open, and eagerly scanned the
contents, the lawyer was shrewd enough to
see that no deception was being practised.

To-night, " read the colonel, as the
lamp threw a pale, dim ray on the paper,
"I am my own master, and, fretful-of
control, I have left to * live ivitli will unfettered
— it must be for long, and it maybe
for ever.

Aubrey Leferne."

The letter fell mechanically from the
colonel's fingers, as he turned, with a steadfast

look, to gaze in bewildered silence at
Jeremiah Early.

** We are ruined !" gasped the lawyer in
despair — '^ both are ruined !"

CHAPTER III.

rpHE soft, balmy air of Italy, breathed in
J- her island home of Capri, had not
added to the fresh tint on the cheeks of
Ivy Girling. Many long, weary months had
passed since she arrived, a stranger in a
strange land, accompanied by him who left
his home to " live with will unfettered,"
and it had not escaped Aubrey Leferne's
notice that the colour which he had admired
so Ions; bef]fan to fade too soon. Pale and
paler still the white rose began to usurp
the place of the red, and often, when trying
to look most happy by his side, she
looked most sad. He had given, however,
no cause for her to blame or reproach him.

His promise to be kind to her had been
strictly kept, and, if somewhat wearied with
the practice, he had done his best to conceal
the feeling from her, with what result
was only known silently to herself.

High up on the rock-ribbed shore, overlooking
the bay which in the calm of a
summer's night reflected like a mirror the
stars glistening above, they had made their
home, chosen for its being secluded, and by
itself. In the distant outline was the coast
of Sorrento, while Vesuvius and Mount St.
Angelo rose in bold relief, and stood out
like towering and frowning giants. The
vine-crowned hill of the Vomero, with the
convent spires of Mount Camaldoli, and the
dark groves surrounding the villas beneath,
formed a scene upon which Ivy s gaze had
often rested with admiration mingled with
sorrowful thoughts of home.

Home ? God help her ! she had no
home.

Such in her heart was the answer to the
thought.

One night they sat looking from the
verge of the cliff, as they had often looked
before, at the beautiful lake-like bay before
them, and listening to the barcaroles and
Neapolitan airs played and sung by those
gayer in spirits than themselves in the dim,
fading; shades of twilight.

Do you see that boat, Aubrey ?" said
Ivy, placing a hand in one of his, and drawing
his attention to a vessel gliding past in
the distance, leaving a long, silvery track in
her wake, as if her course was to be marked
for ever on the waves.

Yes, he saw it, and was condescending
enough to say so.

'that bright shining line," rejoined Ivy,
*' behind her Avhite sails, which look like
the broad, outspread wings of a swan, puts
me in mind of something, Aubrey."

Does it?" returned he, carelessly.

'' It seems," she continued, with a heaving
breast — but the sigh as it rose was checked
" like the memory of past happiness."

"Whatever has gone," added Aubrey
Leferne, " possesses but little interest forme."


An interval of silence now took place,
while her hand, still resting in his, might
have been one that he had never pressed.

*' You begin to feel as I do, I suppose,"
continued he, 'tired of this slow existence."

Ivy withdrew her hand as if an adder
had stung it ; but he took no notice of the
action. It was a matter of indifference to
him, and whether left or removed he
appeared neither to know nor care.

Coming here as we did," resumed he,
how or why I can scarcely tell, excepting
that you meant to run away with me as
soon as you could," continued Aubrey, with
a laugh which jarred harshly on her ear,
*' with an exchequer too low to be agreeable

upon our arrival, and which has gradually
become lower, notwithstanding our
ascetic fare, principally of fish caught by
myself and fruit gathered by you, I know
that the poetry of our Capri life, Ivy,
mast give place to the history of stern
reality."

She listened attentively, but said nothing.

'' Like the Prodigal Son," continued
Aubrey, in a tone of levity, ''I must return
to my father, and make an eloquent speech
relating to my misdeeds, hoping for forgiveness
and money."

"You said," observed Ivy, in a voice
scarcely above a whisper, "that you must
return. Am I not to accompany you?"

If it were possible. Ivy," responded he,
with the hesitation of one knowing that the
lie was in his heart, "you should as a
matter of course ; but the means are not at
my command."

*' What, then," she returned, in a soft,

supplicating voice, while a hand seemed
instinctively to seek one of his, '' is to
become of me ?"

Oh !" exclaimed Aubrey Leferne, with
a laugh, which sounded light and gay,
you must sit and watch and weep, singing
plaintive songs, and doing the love-sick lady
for the return of her knight. Old stories
tell," continued he, still laughing, "that the
beautiful and the best have had to undergo
similar trials of patience with some of my
ancestors."

In the fast darkening shades of evening
he might not have seen the pallor which
spread itself over Ivy's features from brow
to chin ; but it lead the hue of one whose
heart had ceased to beat.

It's very unpleasant, and all that sort of
thing," continued Aubrey, "to be compelled
to leave you, Ivy, even for a short time ;
but what is to be done ?"

She was as mute and inanimate as the dead.

"We have been in this Paradise together,"
resumed Aubrey, " in what may be
called an undisturbed state of heavenly
bliss for some months, and the time having
arrived for a change we must be prepared
for it. Nothing lasts for an indefinite time.
Ivy, as I told you when a fellow on the
sixth form."

"You told me a thousand times'' replied
Ivy, in a weak, faint tone, but he heard
each syllable with painful distinctness,
that your love for me would never
change."

To be sure I did," rejoined he, " and
I'm ready to make the number a couple of
thousand, beginning now, if that will please
you."

A deeply drawn sigh was her only
response.

*' What greater proof of my affection
could you have," resumed Aubrey, '' than
my running away on the very night of my

coining of age, and bringing you here where
we have lived together, Ivy, without the
separation of an hour?"

She listened, but said nothing.

"In a hut built for a common Capri
fisherman — beautifully situated, I admit,"
continued he, " I have been as patient as
possible, and never grumbled once at our
rough quarters, or the fare better adapted
for a peasant than a gentleman."

His thoughts being of himself exclusively
there was now no reference to her.

But in leaving your home for this," replied
Ivy, with a reproachful look, but it
was lost upon him, for his head was turned
aside, " you caused me to leave mine."

'' Pray don't argue when there's no difference
of opinion upon an admitted fact," rejoined
Aubrey, with irritation in tone and
manner. " I asked, pleaded, pressed, prayed
— if you like it better — for you to go
with me, otherwise there would have been

no temptation for me to have gone, and you
consented, after declaring, girl-like, in the
most positive terms, that nothing could,
would, or should induce you to leave your
father. That's how the matter confessedly
stood between us, and stands at the present
time."

Concerning the past," returned Ivy, ''' 1
have nothing to chime you for. You promised
much, and I believed in all you said."

'* Which was girl-like in the extreme,"
added Aubrey, " and therefore anything
the opposite of sensible. At the same time,"
continued he, '' I mean to give no cause to
be reproached for the future. You will
find in me. Ivy, a remarkable descendant of
the Lefernes, who kept strict faith in love
his first and only love."

Speak not so carelessly of what it has
been," earnestly pleaded she, in broken
accents, "and what it must be still, if my
heart is not to break''

VOL. III. D

I fully expected the melodramatic introduction
of the broken heart," responded
Aubrey. '* It is sure to come in, like most
things not wanted, at the improper place."

"Do not leave me here alone," sobbed
Ivy. " I shall die before your return."

Softened, perhaps, by the too natural
expression of her feelings, Aubrey placed
an arm around her waist, and, drawing her
head upon his shoulder to rest there, began
to pass the ends of the golden and clustering
tresses through his fingers.

Listen' said he, and, as he spoke, lie
pressed a kiss upon her 'brow. 'ewe have
not the means of remaining longer here,
even in the poor and humble way in which
we have lived, and, if we had, I will not
deny that I am weary for want of change.
We must have a new home, Ivy, not so stir
removed from the world, of which neither
you nor I have had the opportunity of
seeing much. To effect this I have no

x:)ption but to leave you. It will not belong
for you to remain without me, as you
may accept my solemn promise of returning
as quickly as circumstances and distance will
permit."

I shall not — cannot live alone !" murmured
Ivy, with scalding tears tracing deep
lines of sorrow down her cheeks.

We know but little of our own powers
until putting them to the test," replied he.
•' You will live to welcome me back, Ivy,
and, as I sail across this bay again, you'll
forget, in the joy of meeting, all these
childish fears."

She knew full well that further remonstrance
was useless. His avowed resolution
was to go, and she knew, from a few solitary
pages of the past, that her fate was to be
left — let the result be to her death itself.

I must seek my father "

*' Promise me not to meet mine," interrupted
Ivy, with an energy of expression

d2

which almost startled her companion, "or
there may be murder. Promise me this,"
she continued, with her hands clasped upon
his shoulders, and looking with a close,
anxious gaze into his eyes, as if to read
therein what might be his destiny if that
interview took place.

'' We shall not meet from any intention
on my part," rejoined Aubrey, '' as unpleasant
scenes are always to be avoided
when practicable ; but whoever attempted
my life," continued he, " would run the
imminent risk of forfeiting his own."

You would not lift your hand against
my father?" exclaimed Ivy, with overwhelming
horror at the thought.

"But once, perhaps," returned he, significantly
touching his breast, which concealed
a weapon as ready for use as a
wasp's sting, *' if he raised his against me."

She gave no reply; for, as this threat
was made, all power of speech seemed to

have gone, and, as if paralysed with terror
at some foreboding evil, she fell like one
dead at his feet.

CHAPTER IV.

TN compliance with the colonel's mandate
-■- to disentomb one of the finest magnums
of port buried in the catacombs of the
Hall of Greatwood Park, Mr. Soppy executed
the order, without requiring further
particulars, by placing the time-crusted
measure within easy reach of the Rev.
Robert Roundhead, who smiled graciously
at its introduction, and bowed politely at
the bottle as it was invitingly put before
him on the table.

'' You will find that wine, Bob," familiarly
observed the colonel, *' exactly suited to
jour good taste, or I am greatly mistaken."


In certain matters of a mundane kind the
vicar never allowed his judgment to be
warped by a direct or indirect opinion whether
interested or otherwise, and, acting
upon this general principle in the present
instance, he mechanically proceeded to fill a
glass in silence and raise it to his lips.
Slowly, drop by drop, the wine passed over
his palate, and, as it did so, the warm tint
of inward satisfaction, spreading in a glow
over his features, offered presumptive evidence
that the critical decision was in favour
of the quality being unexceptionable.

As you supposed, ray dear Ned," replied
the vicar, pursing his lips together and
separating them with a loud smack, " nothing
could more thoroughly coincide with
my opinion of what really grand wine should
be than this."

Take another glass, Bob," rejoined the
colonel.

The Rev. Robert Roundhead obeyed the

injunction without an interval bearing the
name of lengthened.

*' It may enable you to be philosophically
patient during the relation I am about to
deliver in the hope of relieving some excessive
pressure here, Bob," and as the
colonel spoke he drew a hand languidly
across his forehead while the other was employed
in beating a phantom tune on the
table, for not a note could be heard.

The vicar cleared his throat preparatory
to making a response ; but two raised fingers
rendered him mute at the very moment
he was about speaking, and he swallowed
his words like pills, applying the contents
of his glass to carry out the convulsive effort.

*' Irrespective of troubles with which you,
Bob, are as well acquainted as myself,"
began the colonel, '' there are things perplexing
me which you know nothing of."

The vicar lifted his eyebrows as a signal
of silent astonishment.

'' Oq the night that my son forgot his
filial duty by quitting his home so unceremoniously,"
continued the colonel, ^* and as
we approached the door of his chamber, I
saw — or thought I saw — in the gallery beyond,
that which seemed to stop the pulsation
of my heart."

A spasmodic question was on the vicar's
lips ; but it was effectually choked as the
two fingers again caught his view.

*' Our purpose, as you know, in being
there," resumed the colonel," was not of the
most pleasant kind, or one adapted to soothe
the nervous system. Two greater scoundrels
than myself and Jeremiah Early," continued
he, "I can scarcely, conceive to be
more diabolically employed, and with this
impression on an excited brain, I readily
admit what visionary effects might be. It
is impossible, however, to get rid of facts
rendered manifest to our senses by specious
arguments concerning unhealthy vapours of

the brain. That which our eyes behold.

we see."

The vicar gave a nod of silent approval,
and, thinking it about time to replenish his
glass, did so.

*you saw ray wife on the night she
became a mother ?" said the colonel, inquiringly.


The Rev. Robert Roundhead, having raised
his glass in close proximity to his lips, gradually
lowered it, and replaced it solemnly
on the table.

'' He had."

That was all he said.

Colonel Leferne's angry glance darting
beneath his knitted brow, momentarily revealed
an emotion not intended to be seen ;
but, as if aware of the mistake committed,
the angles of his mouth where suddenly
drawn back, and a light, cheerful air was
re-commenced on the table.

You remember the night and the circumstance?"

said the colonel, with a smile
of his own manufacture.

It had not been forgotten, and never
would be. Such was the substance of the
reply.

'* There were echoes of suffering not
likely to be forgotten by those who heard
them — eh, Bob ?"

The effect of those piercing cries was too
fresh still, although long years had fled
since they were uttered, and the thought
was pain to him who had listened to them,
little short of agony.

An unpleasant recollection," observed
the colonel, still drumming a tune of a
lively kind, " but one which I desire to
be recalled to your memory."

Nothing could be more fresh between the
past and the present. He heard them now.

From that moment," resumed the
colonel, but his fingers were motionless ashe
spoke, " my wife, and the young mother

of my child, was pronounced to be mad, the
inference being that I had made her so."

The cause, perhaps, being deemed sufficient
for the result, not a syllable was
offered by way of mitigating it by the
Rev. Robert Roundhead.

The quarrel that we had," continued
the colonel, with his fingers still motionless,
leading to the total aberration of reason,
was the first and the last. We never knew
what a word of dissension meant before or
after."

The vicar was listening to a repetition
of a black page of the family history as well
known to himself as to the narrator ; but,
from what he either said or did, it might
have been an unknown one to him.

*' Being governed by professional advice,"
resumed the colonel, "and told that, from
symptoms of the softening of the brain,
recovery was impossible, I arranged for her
admission into a maison de santa in France,

which, I suppose, buried my wife from the
world — and from me."

The Rev. Robert Roundhead decidedly
coincided in the hypothesis, but reserved
the smallest expression of an opinion concerning
it.

Having exhibited a firm, if not obstinate
resolve to oppose my wishes and interests,"
said the colonel, "I will say nothing
about my sorrow at the separation. Anything
and anyone thwarting me I hate,
and I can hate, Bob, better than I caa
love."

It was a well-known and historical failing
of the family, and no one was more intimately
acquainted with it than the vicar.

'^ Failing to possess that which I regarded
as my own from the moment of my marriage,"
continued the colonel, " I looked
upon my wife, Bob, as the sole prostrating
cause of my fallen fortunes."

Under a confessed influence of this kind,.

there could be no doubt concerning the
result.

'rand my only hope concerning her was
that we should never meet again."

Which, 1 believe, has been realized to
the letter," responded the vicar, as if speaking
to himself.

From time to time," resumed the
colonel, re-commencing the light air upon
the table, " and with long intervals and uncertain
dates, I learned from my sister that
her condition remained so far unchanged
that I almost ceased to remember that she
even lived."

Nothing could be more consistent with
the connubial records of the Lefernes.
Their forgetfulness, perhaps, might be their
plea of 'extenuating circumstances."

"But in the firm, unhesitating, unflinching
faith that what was, has been, may be
again, Bob," continued the colonel, " I
struggled against the long odds of stern

reality to the inflated bubbles of hope."

"The lesson should have been learnt at less
cost." So thought the vicar.

I felt, as the successful gambler always
feels, that I wanted but the means to continue
the game to insure the turn of Fortune
in my favour."

"The play has been too reckless, and the
stakes too high." So thought the vicar.

Then came the one great chance and
ambitious object of my life frustrated by the
threats and power of that blood-sucker,
Jeremiah Early. Relenting when too late,
I won the Derby, and secured a loss ; but
not greater to me than to him."

In some mundane matters repentance
seems to possess a doubtful reward." So
thought the vicar.

Nothing then remained but to wait for
the hour when Aubrey came of age," resumed
the colonel, " and Early perceived
that his interests in this respect were identical

with mine. Like many a villain of the
same kind, he plunged too deeply to extricate
himself, and he was compelled to turn tome
for help."

Assistance which might be depended
upon as long as it suited your own purposes."
So thought the vicar.

'the niofht at length arrived — as all
nights do in their turn, Bob, whether for
good or for evil — when our rascally plan
for disengaging the property was to be carried
out. The 'result need scarcely be
repeated. Consistent with the innate weakness
of some of his forefathers, Aubrey had
run away with a doll the moment he was
his own master, and' nothing remained for
us but to wait for his return ; as back we
agreed he must come when his slender
means were exhausted."

That might be deemed a foregone conclusion."
So thought the vicar.

Nothing has been heard of him since,"

continued the colonel, " and. feeling: how
purposeless the attempt would be to seek
him, I have made no inquiries concerning
his whereabouts. There is one, however,
who, I have little doubt, has been making
an active search from that moment to this."
And that one is Ivy Girling's father."
So thought the vicar.

o

My object, however, in drawing your
attention to these few particulars was to
communicate the cause to which I referred
as the first which struck terror here," and,
as he spoke, the colonel brought the pain
of his right hand violently on the left of his
breast. '' The first," repeated he, '' which
struck terror here."

The vicar gave a strained look of inquiry,
but said not a word.

"As we were about entering my son's
chamber," resumed the colonel, and his
voice dropped to a low whisper, although
each syllable was slowly measured and dis-vol.

III. E

tinct, '' I saw, as plainly as I now see you,
the form and figure of my wife."

A faint smile of incredulity passed over
the features of the Rev. Robert Roundhead
as he raised his glass and looked at
the bees-wing floating between the light
and him.

I am not surprised at that smile, Bob,"
added the colonel, " and yet let me entreat
you not to class me among the mad. I
have thought that at certain seasons, and to
serve special purposes, invisible things may
become visible."

*' If I understand your theory, then,"
responded the vicar, '' the form and figure
of your wife which you believe to have seen
was spiritual."

If not a phantom of my own heated
imagination," returned the colonel, " it could
have been nothing else."

Being the hobgoblin, I suppose, which
is reported to have haunted this old house

for some time past," rejoined the vicar,
laughing, *' and making an addition to the
marvellous and horrible old ghost-stories
connected with it throughout long generations."


^' There have been strange and unscrupulous
deeds perpetrated beneath its roof,
Bob," added the colonel, " but few more
so, perhaps, than the one I was about to
commit, in conjunction with my associate in
villainy, on the night and at the hour when
my son lost the legal right of protection
from thieves. Two were about stealing into
his chamber, when, years ago as it is since
we met, I recognised the form of Julia Leferne,
within a few feet of where we stood,
fading away like a shadow in the darkness."

*' The vision of a brain disturbed and ill
at ease," observed the vicar, sipping his
wine.

** It might have been, and probably was,"
rejoined the colonel ; " but as I gazed the

E 2

lIBRARf

ice of fear for the first time reached my
heart, and it remains there still."

Have you mentioned this to your sister?"
inquired the vicar.

No," replied the colonel, " neither
should I think of doing so, unless prepared
to hold the rank of being the first coward
in the family. Even from her I might meet
with well-merited contempt."

'whatever your active faults or deficiencies
maybe, Ned," returned the vicar, "rest
assured that your courage is unquestioned
and unquestionable. At the same time,"
continued he, "I am glad that you have
confided this cause of embarrassment to me
alone, for more reasons than are necessary
to specify. As, however, its existence, in
fact, was impossible, treat it as a vision of
the mind's eye — an unreal thing."

Such has been the argument I have
constantly applied in secret with myself,"
added the colonel, " but to little purpose.

That which I saw was so palpable and real
that I cannot remove the impression from
my memory."

'' Let me assist you by directing your attention
to something better," returned the
vicar, pushing the lessened magnum towards
his friend. " Come, fill your glass, Ned,"
continued he, cheerfully, " and then we'll
try to find a reason fair to fill it once
again."

CHAPTER V.

iniROM the night that Ivy Giving was
-■- missed from her home, a very great
change appeared beneath its roof. She was
gone — that was all her father knew, and
more than he wished to know. He was
told by many, who seemed to have heard
and seen what was never dreamt of, sleeping
or waking, by himself, that the companion
in her flight could be no other than
his master's son, and the strong man felt
but one desire — to clutch Aubrey Leferne
by the throat and choke the life from him
then and there. It might be murder, but
he could do it, and would, let the consequences
be what they might, if one chance
were given for his fingers to meet.

His daughter — she who had done lier
best so long to rake his home a home to
him — had gone, and, if not for ever, it
might be, perhaps, as well that it should
be so. Still he could not rest. He would
revenge the wrong committed at the forfeiture
of his life, and he could do no more,
but pray that he might clasp her in his arms
once again before he died. And then the
strong man wept like a little child.

He had earnestly sought an interview
with the colonel, but it was peremptorily
refused, and the messenger, Mr. Soppy, told
not to repeat the request in a manner which
admitted of no appeal. The decision must
be accepted as final.

I no more dare ask him again to see
ye, Harry," said he, raising his hands with
the palms exposed and the fingers turned
back, " than wear a bunch of old Sir Harold
Leferne's daffodils in my button-hole on
Easter Sunday."

The particular reason for objecting to
wear the flowers of historical dread on
Easter Sunday was not explained ; but Mr.
Soppy added, with great and marked solemnity,
'that he wouldn't, indeed!"

'' I should like, then, a few words with
Miss Margaret before going," dreamily said
the gamekeeper.

My lady might not refuse to see you,
Harry' replied Mr. Soppy. " She can't
say no to anyone with a sore heart ; but the
subject is not altogether a delicate one fora
lady to be spoken to about, and 1 always
say, under the most disgusting circumstances,
let us be delicate."

Harry Girling stood with a fixed, blink-less
stare on the ground at his feet, but said
not a word in reply.

If we are not delicate," resumed Mr.
Soppy, 'we're not far removed from animals
in general, and swine in particular. Above all
things be delicate. Such is my sentiments."

'' Will you ask her to see me, Tom, *
before I go ?" asked the gamekeeper. •' I
think she would listen patiently to what I
have to say, and it might remove a dead
weight here," and, as he spoke, he pressed
the broad, hard palm of his right hand upon
his breast.

Mr. Soppy was suddenly seized with a
short dry cough, which seemed to interrupt
his reply, and afford time for reflection.

'' In course," said he, at the finish of the
sough, which bore the effect of a drawn-out
effort of the lungs, " you'll be mild in your
remarks to my lady about this little mishap?"


A little mishap ! That which had strained
his heart-strings to their utmost tension !

Mr. Soppy caught the angry, passionate
glance conveying the thought, but considered
it expedient to treat it as unnoticed.

In calling things by soft names instead
of strong ones," continued Mr. Soppy, 'sit

by no means alters their nature, Harry ;
but many offences lose much of the high
and game flavour by treating 'em delicately,
and in this particular instance I don't see
what good can be expected by anyone from
using the rough edge of his tongue."

'' If she will see me before I go," rejoined
the gamekeeper, '^ I promise you, Tom, not
to say one word to wound her feelings, and
she may say something, perhaps, to soften
mine." ^

"Very good," returned Mr. Soppy.
'' Under those conditions I'll make known
your wish to my lady, and see what can be
done ; but in saying that you mean to go,
Harry, I, as an old friend, should like to
know where you are going, and what for?"

"To find out where they are," was the
hoarse and husky reply.

"You're more likely to do that by remaining
here," added Mr. Soppy. '' When
tired "

A groan of mental agony broke from the
strong man's lips.

Of being away," continued Mr. Soppy,
blandly, '^ or when his money is gone — and
it's sure to fly fast enough with a Leferne —
the young scapegrace will come back again
as if nothing had happened, and knowing
his own youthful failings at his time of life,
and the weakness of the family as long;
as it has been a family, the colonel will
shake hands with him when they meet,
in his own polite Hoxford way, and drum a
tune at the same time on the table. That's
what will happen, Harry — or Fm no prophet
in a very short time."

But what have you to say about the
meeting of my child with me ?" asked the
father, in a voice so hollow and sad that,
whatever feeling of levity might have been
entertained by Mr. Soppy, it became stifled
on the instant.

"I'd rather leave that to my lady," responded

Mr. Soppy. *she will handle the
subject better than I can, and tell ye, perhaps,
what to do, and what not to do, which
I can't. At the same time," continued he,
my advice is to stay where you are, and
make the best of a very unpleasant piece of
business."

The best, indeed ! What, to let day by
day go by, and not to move one step in
search of her, however hopeless the search
might be ? No, he would roam the wide
world over, if he could — anything but remain
where she had been to remind him of
the past.

CHAPTER VI.

rriHE silver threads of grey hair now 
numbered those of the auburn hue
among the still thick and luxuriant tresses
of Margaret Leferne, and it was said among
the gossips of Greatwood Park that the
hand of care had more to do with the
bleaching of them than time itself. Be this,
however, as it may, she locked as if each
day added many to her age since Aubrey's
departure ; but not a word of reproach concerning
him escaped her lips. As she had
been throughout her life with the faults and
frailties of others, so Aunt Margaret remained
— silent and sad. He had left without
one word of parting — without a look that

she could remember of regret that in leaving
her, perhaps, they might never meet again.
But he had gone, and the grief for his
absence permitted no reproach for the
cause, although she knew full well that it
could scarcely fail to scatter the seeds of
sorrow to be reaped hereafter. The colonel
spoke but little upon the subject. It was
lamentable, he said, to think that the family
did not improve in its morals and social
duties ; but to the examples of evil set bypast
generations, he supposed, might be
attributed a kind of inheritable malady todo
wrong whenever the opportunity presented
itself. As with the order of nature so
things with the Lefernes seemed to move ina
circle, and to a reflective mind a vast
amount of philosophical interest might be
created in the research for what would seem
to be certain but erratic causes. He had
not given the subject much thought, neither
was it his intention so to do ; but the family

rule of wrong seemed to be unexceptionable
it never came aright.

Aunt Margaret listened to her brother's
argument, which generally conveyed a
latent excuse for his own errors of commission
and omission, and, if she said nothing in
reply, it was from forbearance and consideration
towards him, who had scarcely exhibited
one sign in return throughout long years
of patient trials and self-denial.

*' Your very silence," said he, one evening,
as they sat alone in the library, while
the shades of evening were darkening
around them, "is a reproach to me,
Margaret, and yet it is one of the least disagreeable
kind. I could not bear to be told
of my faults ; but to be chided — as I think
I am — in your silent thoughts, makes me
feel that I must still be deemed a free
agent in the universal school of scoundrelism.
If I were not, I think you Vv'ould
promptly discover some palliation for my
confessed transgressions."

Margaret Leferne's fingers stole to the
cross upon her bosom, and, clasping it there,
she whispered an inaudible petition for their
forgiveness.

'the large preponderating mass of
rascals," continued the colonel, " being foiled
with better weapons than their own,
generally whine about good intentions, and
swear what was done was never meant.
Now i," said he, commencing a tune on the
arm of the chair of a lively and inspiring
kind, "admit unreservedly that I never
knew a good intention direct a single action
of my life. I totally ignore good intentions
as the excuse of cowards for their defeat."

But if we mean well "

"All mean well," interrupted the colonel,
in a hasty tone, "when it suits them. We
must be held responsible for our acts,
Margaret, without the credit filched for good
intentions, and in admitting this I stand confessed
of having much to answer for."

Confession is the first step of a contrite
heart towards repentance," rejoined his
sister.

"" So the priests tell us," resumed the
colonel. " But, notwithstanding the mortifying
disappointments I have met with
throughout a somewhat long and remarkably
chequered career, I can scarcely state,
with a proper regard to the simplicity of
truth, that my heart — in its figurative sense
is sorrowful. The last gift in Pandora's
box still remains with me. I am not without
hope," continued he, '' that my worldly
prospects may yet brighten."

"■ Oh, Edward !" exclaimed a voice, and it
almost startled him with its earnestness,
*' let me entreat that you will listen to me."

*' Nothing, my dear sister, will afford me
greater pleasure," rejoined the colonel, recovering
from the slight shock ; "but pray
do me the favour to recollect that my
nerves are not quite so strong as they were."

VOL. III. F

*' Pardon me, if I have given one moment's
pain," returned his sister, in a plaintive
voice ; 'but the time appears to have
come when I feel that I must speak."

Not a word of interruption shall be
uttered," responded the colonel. " Pray
proceed."

A long-drawn sigh was heard, and then a
pause followed.

"You must not think, Edward," at length
'began she, and the words quivered on her
lips as she spoke, '' that, in recalling to your
memory some of the sorrowful events of
your life, it is done to reproach you. I have
no such purpose."

"Let me tender you my best thanks for
that assurance," added the colonel. " I began
to suspect that I was about to be inflicted
with a prosy discourse on morals,
prudence, and Christian virtues."

"The time approaches, Edward," resumed
sh, in the same tone, and without noticing

the reply, "when we must part."

Nothing could be more abrupt than the
stoppage of the tune played by his fingers.
They remained fixed in one position, as if
chiselled from stone.

'' So long as the gift to which you have
referred," continued Margaret Leferne,
mournfully, *ris not denied to us — so long
as life is not without hope, we may live ;
but, having no hope, / feel that I must
die, and that our earthly separation, Edward,
is at hand."

The colonel made a strong effort to speak,
but it signally failed. With the dying he
had never held a discussion, and something
told him that the voice now so tenderly
addressing him would soon be silent.

"With mingled pride and love, known
only to myself," she resumed, " I beheld, in
the wayward career of your childhood, what
one of the last of the Lefernes would be ;
but, with a fervent trust, relied that not a

v2

thought or action of his life would be unworthy
of his name."

The colonel started, and drew a long
breath, as if a sensitive chord had been
touched.

** All shall be passed as transient follies,
notwithstanding their cost' continued his
sister, in a tone that fell gently as she spoke,
until you made her your wife, Edward,
who deserved a better fate."

He could say nothing ; for the truth was
being spoken, and by one whom he knew
had loved him best and longest.

On the returning morn of the first year
of her bridal day," resumed Aunt Margaret,
you well remember the scene which led
to the consequences a few hours later. She
was a mother; but the eyes of a maniac
gazed unconsciously upon her child."

The pages turned back in the history of
his life, grated harshly on the ear of the
listener; but, if impatient with the narrative,

his fingers remained motionless.

*the quarrel between you," continued
his sister, in a voice scarcely above an audible
whisper, and yet each word fell distinctly
on his ear, " was the first and the last."

The colonel sat, gazing mutely, in the
thickening darkness, at the speaker, and he
seemed to breathe with difficulty as he
listened.

Years fled by," resumed Aunt Margaret,
and for anything that appeared on your
part, Edward, either by word or deed, she
might have been thought never to have been
your wife. If not forgotten, you at least
made no pretence of remembering her."

** T complied, " responded the colonel,
hoarsely, " with the best advice I could
obtain."

In sending her away to France, and
there left forsaken to pine among the wretched
or die friendless and alone. Was that,
Edward, the treatment which the mother

of your child should have received at your
hands when their rough grasp snatched the
power of reason from her brain ?"

Not a syllable was spoken in reply.

'eon what she hoped to be the happiest day
of her young life," continued Aunt Margaret,
"sorrow drove her mad, and, as she was
driven, so was she left. From that moment
to this you have never seen her."

''I sometimes think that I have," rejoined
the colonel, in a husky tone.

When and where ?" almost gasped
Margaret Leferne.

It was strange — most strange and inexplicable
— that it should be so," responded
the colonel, drawing a hand slowly across his
forehead; "but on the night that Aubrey
came of age, and at the very moment we
were about entering his chamber to despoil
him of his birthright, the form of my wife,
as clear and palpable as when we last parted
long years before, flitted like a spectre in the

gallery beyond. I saw her pale and bloodless
face as I now see yours, and the look
which met mine was more of grief than
of anger."

Poor Julia !" exclaimed his sister. " Her
sorrow commenced suddenly ; but has lasted
lonsr."

^' I know," continued the colonel, 'what a
morbid brain or excited imagination can do
in producing shades of the dead and duplicates
of the living, but could scarcely have
thought that anything could have been so
real, less than reality itself."

Did this disturbing cause, be it what it
might," inquired Aunt Margaret, '*' appear
adam?

•' But once," replied the colonel. *' One
night, and not long since, I awoke suddenly,
and in a slanting, bright ray of moonlight
saw a figure, which I recognized in a moment
as that of my wife, standing within a
few feet of my bedside, with a forefinger

raised and pressed across her lips. I almost
fancied that I heard it whisper, 'Hush'"

Aunt Margaret's lips moved as if saying
something to herself ; but not a sound
escaped them.

"I am no coward," continued he, "and
not one of our name was ever suspected of
knowing what fear is ; but as I gazed at the
object, and felt that her eyes were fixed on
mine, a feeling stole over me that seemed to
prostrate body and thought. I could do
nothing, but remained staring and motionless
as if paralyzed at what I saw."

"Did this vision continue long?" asked
his sister.

'' It appeared to me," resumed the
colonel, "so long as to freeze the blood
within my veins."

Conscience makes cowards of the
bravest," rejoined Aunt Margaret ; " but let
us not talk of spectres. The stern and sad
realities of life demand our attention, and it

is of these that I would now speak to you.
As I have said, Edward, our earthly separation
is at hand."

The colonel's fingers had begun to beat
a noiseless air ; but they remained stationary
and in a fixed attitude as the last syllable
was expressed.

"Why should you say this to me?" he
asked, in a tremulous voice.

Because," she replied, looking earnestly
in his face, " it is true. As I speak, Edward,
I conjure you to listen to the words
if not the last — of the dying."

He stared with blindness eyelids at the
speaker, but said nothing, and his fingers
remained in the same attitude as if prepared
to drum a tune unknown to himself.

*' Whether rio;ht or wrong for what I
have done," resumed Aunt Margaret, " is
scarcely, perhaps, a question to be raised at
a moment like this. Judging, however, of the
future by the past, I now tell you, Edward,

that, did I not feel that my secret must be
revealed with ray death, it should still be
kept."

What secret?" asked he, hoarsely.

"One that has hastened that end," she
replied, sorrowfully, " which no one has less
cause to regret than myself."

His fixed look remained ; but he said
nothing in reply.

You once loved your wife ?" said his
sister, plaintively.

The colonel waved a hand mechanically
as a signal which might be received either
affirmatively or the reverse.

*' And she is the afflicted mother of your
son !"

A quickly lowering frown knitted his
brow as he replied,

Which, perhaps, may account for the
forgetfulness of his duty to his father."

Oh, say not that !" exclaimed Aunt
Margaret, raising her hands beseechingly.

*^ Think, for one moment, what your loving
duty was toward? them, and whether you
have performed it."

I have not the patience to be catechised,"
responded he, with ill concealed anger.
What of this secret ?"

''I fear, Edward Leferne," rejoined his
sister, rising with difficulty from her seat,
and standing before him like one possessed
of a power of control which she had never
felt before, ''I fear, Edward Leferne," repeated
she, " that this is not the moment to
reveal it, although my fleeting moments are
numbered."

*' Tell me "

'* Not now," she interrupted, with a sorrowful
shake of her head. " To-morrow,
Edward ; we will speak of this tomorrow,"
and with tearful eyes bent on his she slowly
quitted the room.

CHAPTER VII.

T Little MITE— still barely sinking the
-■-^ scale to ^' three stun five " — had received
limited leave of absence from his
onerous stable duties at Newmarket, and
was now a guest of Samuel Wideoo at the
dairy, Bromley Marsh. Johnny Tadpole
was also a guest, the time being Christmas
when the holly berries were popularly supposed
to be red and plum-puddings in course
of preparation. As a matter of fact, without
the slightest alloy of fiction or colour of
romance, Johnny's weight now made an
abrupt and decided movement of the beam
with " five stun three " only as a counterbalance,
and this was endeavoured to be

accounted for by "William Bottles — also a
o^uest at this festive season — " by laying: on
too much flesh in certain parts."

'* There's a crowd deal to be said about
training," said William Bottles, "and there
isn't one man in a hundred knows anything
about it. I do, I do soy

*' I should say," remarked little Mite,
with becoming modesty, as he sedulously
scraped the rind from a small piece of
cheese, designed as a relish to his supper,
'that Mister Mark Rooksonon knows something
about it."

*' In keeping you down to your lowest
riding weight, Mite," replied William Bottles,
he certainly shows that he knows a branch
of his business. But let us turn our eyes in
this direction," continued he, waving a hand
where Johnny Tadpole occupied a chair,
with the whole of his countenance hidden,'
through the medium of a pewter pot, from
which he was endeavouring to extract the

last few drops of cooper, " and we m ay-begin
to doubt whether he knows more
than a branch. We may 56>."

Johnny Tadpole, feeling himself instinctively
the object of this severe observation,
slowly withdrew the capacious pewter pot
from his countenance, and, gently permitting
it to descend on the table before him, the
effect was not altogether dissimilar to the
moon emerging from opaque darkness.

Was you speaking about me, sir ?" said
Johnny, with a hectic flush on his features.

'eyes, I were, Taddy," replied William
Bottles. " I were speaking about you, Taddy.
I were so''

"In what particular ?" asked Johnny, ina
tone demonstrative of great indignation.

'' Softly, Taddy," returned Samuel Wideoo,
in the most conciliatory manner that could
be adopted by the most earnest of peacemakers.
" Softly, Taddy," repeated he.
'' Let's hear what Billy has to say."

'* Let him say what he likes," grumbled
Johnny, " I'm a feather still."

Light enough, here and there," rejoined
William Bottles, moving a hand as if putting
a fine edge on the blade of a razor, "but
too heavy in parts."

Parts !" repeated Johnny Tadpole, knitting
his brow angrily. " What parts?"

Samuel Wideoo, however, perceiving the
rucrc^ed course that things were taking, seemed
to think the time had arrived for an
attempt at a treaty of peace, and to proffer
his good offices.

Come, come, Taddy," said he, with the
beneficent object of smoothing the way,
'don't quarrel about trifles."

"I wasn't, sir," returned Johnny, with
more energy than can be easily be described.
" I was standing up for my parts."

''I like man or boy to show plenty of
pluck," added Samuel Wideoo, airing himself
now with his back turned towards a fire

which, from his uneasy movements, seemed
to scorch that portion of his frame which
might be called his "reverse." '^I like
man or boy," repeated he, "to show plenty
of pluck in defending himself or his friend ;
but, where no offence is meant, none should
be felt."

"Well done, Sam," ejaculated William
Bottles. 'spoken like a bishop! All I
meant to say, Taddy," continued he, " was
that, while you were the Unknown's lad at
the Heather House stable, you put on a
trifle too much flesh in parts. You did 5<9."

Johnny's head swayed to and fro in a
manner not to be mistaken for unquestionable
dissent to this proposition.

"It's well known," resumed William
Bottles, "that the boys in that stable get
more beef and plum-pudding than is good
for the light weights, if they want to rise
and be called fashionable."

"Mister Rooksonon don't cram 'em, sir,"

remarked Johnny, in a tone denoting that
he was having the best of the argument, or
would have it presently.

T didn't say he did," added William
Bottles. "But where is the boy, sharp-set,
that would turn away from roast beef
and plum-pudding? Show me that boy,
Taddy, and 1 shall at once look to his
shoulders for wings. I shall so,'

We certainly live like fighting bantams,"
observed little Mite, parenthetically.

Johnny Tadpole, being over sensitive with
the subject under discussion, felt that Mite
was taking the opposite side, and suggested,
in a voice of an acid and biting kind, that
he would speak for himself."

'' In the we he did speak for himself as
well as others," said Samuel Wideoo. '' There
"was nothing wrong in that, Taddy."

some lads, like some possess' resumed
William Bottles, " can't be kept on full
allowance without rattling work, if they're

VOL. III. G

to be light, strong, and fit for anything.
Now, what I mean to say is that Johnny
Tadpole has either had too much grub or
too little work, and if that's first-rate training
I should like to know what's called
bad."

"Would you have the setting muzzle
kept on every day in the week Sundays
included, to keep a poor little boy below
fair riding weight ?" asked Johnny Tadpole,
commiserating poor little boys in general
and himself in particular.

'' Yes, I would," replied William Bottles,
without the slightest prevarication. " You
can't starve losses into condition : but you
can boys, and when a trainer's got a
promising feather weight in his stable, with
head, hands, and heels, it's a duty he owes
himself, the lad, and his country, to keep
his flesh down by stratagem if he can, and
by force if he can't. Professionals know — ■
and only professionals," continued he,

addressing Samuel Wideoo, '' what may besot
out of a feather when acknowledged to
be fashionable, and he's only profitable so
long as he's light. Starve him, if necessary,
/ say. I do soT

I don't think he ought to be drawn too
fine, Billy," observed Samuel Wideoo, with a
touch of humanity dictating the suggestion.

"I do," rejoined William Bottles. '' I'd
draw him as fine as wire."

Mite began to think that if subjected to
this process of wasting there would soon be
nothing left of his corporeal substance, and
wondered where he should be when, taking
nothing from nothing, nothing remained.

In drawing the scale down a pound or
two more when I left the Heather House
stable than when I entered it," observed
Johnny Tadpole, still with a gloomy brow
and dissatisfied air, "speaks well, I think,
for the treatment I met with."

"For the treatment, I admit," argued

g2

William Bottles; 'but not the training.
You put on too much flesh, Taddy, in parts.
You did so''

Well, well !" ejaculated Samuel Wideoo,
*' let's drop the subject. Taddy 's right
enough in weight for his age, and, perhaps,
we may all here see him wearing the purple
jacket and orange cap in front at the
finish of a great race before he's much
older."

A flush of pardonable pride spread itself
over Johnny's features at the conclusion of
this remark, and his eyes became fixed
admiringly on the faded and time-worn
Leferne colours still hanging in their old
place on the wall opposite to where he
sat.

''If I really believed it would ever be
my turn to do that, sir," responded Johnny
Tadpole, "I think I should drop down on
the floor, curled up in a heap of joy."

'' There are more unlikely things to happen,"

said Samuel Wideoo, " I can tell ye."

"To be sure there are," rejoined William
Bottles, with a decided tendency to sarcasm
in his tone and manner. " For instance,"
continued he, "it's more unlikely that
Taddy will forget what the training of a
feather ought to be on Christmas day — tomorrow
being that specious occasion — than
remember that roast beef can't lessen the
weight in those parts which are now too
heavy."

Bother my parts !" irritably exclaimed
Johnny Tadpole. *' I wish I had none."

Taddy, Taddy !" reprovingly said Samuel
Wideoo, with an admonishing shake of the
head. " Don't call a judgment down upon
your head. A flash of lightning might "

The sentence being left unfinished, William
Bottles illustrated the conclusion by
blowing the ends of the fingers of one of his
hands with great force, but said not a
syllable of an audible kind.

It was now little Mite's turn — as he
thought — to vindicate the cause of the
feathers, and, in a voice slightly tremulous
with emotion, ventured to convey the hope
that "not one would be scorched or blown
away, so long as he did his duty to his
stable."

Hear ! hear !" shouted William Bottles,
with strongly-displayed enthusiasm. " 1 like
good boys, being, I suppose, too rare to be
seen very often. What do you say, Sam ?"

As to boys ?" curtly inquired the dairyman.


William Bottles gave a signal in the
affirmative.

Then, looking at boys, as I do at spar-hers,
that is in numbers," rejoined Samuel
Wideoo, " 1 can't say I admire 'em much.
At the same time," continued he, making a
significant gesture with a pointed finger to
the immediate positions occupied by Messrs.
Mite and Tadpole, " there are boys, perhaps,

that won't live to be hanged or have
penal servitude for life."

'' The laws of the present day being more
merciful than just," added William Bottles,
rolling the end of his tonsure into a cheek,
and looking out of the extreme corners
of his eyes at the downcast and modest
countenances of Messrs. Mite and Tadpole,
who felt themselves aggrieved, bat said no
more that night upon the personal subject
of " feathers."

s

CHAPTER VIII.

IR HAROLD LEFERNE's daffodils
^-^ were once more in full bloom, and
their golden heads waved in the pale sunshine
of early spring, as they had done since
that false-sworn knight planted them with
his knightly hand for a lasting remembrance,
as it would appear, of his broken vow. The
panegyric on his tomb became less legible
as time went on, but the daffodils were as
fresh and bright as at their first appearance
in Greatwood Park lonsj centuries aizo.
Dust to dust, ashes to ashes," but not so
with the daffodils.

In accordance with the instructions he had
received — he rather objected to " orders '*

Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — placed
a chair, with its back to the ^Yinc!, opposite
the bed of daffodils, and after examining
the position with minute care, as if anxious
for the instructions to have been carried out
strictly to the letter, turned upon his heel
and quitted the spot in silence, but not
altogether devoid of pomp and circumstance.


Soon after his departure Colonel Leferne
might have been seen approaching slowly,
as he leant more heavily than usual upon
his cane, and the supporting arm of the
Rev. Robert Roundhead.

Dropping almost helplessly into the seat,
the colonel drew a long breath, as if unequal
to the exertion he had undergone.

You will feel better now," observed his
companion.

I hope to breathe here, Bob," replied
the colonel, '* but felt suffocated within the
house, and, if mv wishes are consulted, I

shall breathe a little while longer. I want
to meet my son again."

If I only knew "

You know enough," interrupted the
colonel. " I must be as patient as I can,
and wait — if life remains — for his return.
If dead, Bob, tell him that his father forgave
him nothing, for he had nothing to
forgive."

He will not think so," replied the vicar,
in the calm moments of reflection."

Whoever heard of a Leferne having
calm moments of reflection ?" asked the
colonel, with a slight, inward, and scarcely
audible laugh. " Did you ever know me to
have one ?"

The Rev. Robert Roundhead was perhaps
opportunely attacked with a short,
dry cough, and placed a hand upon his
lips.

*' We," continued the colonel, " whose
motto is to ' live with will unfettered,'

must not turn back the pages of life's history.
Our race having lived each for himself,
Aubrey has carried out the example
only set by his ancestors."

•'And yet, Ned, I have known you to
feel what family pride is," returned his companion,
"let the objections raised to its fame
be what they may."

'you apply a mild term," added the
colonel, " in saying ' objections,' for which,
I fear, the more potent one of selfish rascality
might be substituted with greater
justice. You are right, however, in stating
that, in spite of all that may be thought,
said, or written against the rectitude of our
family, and its total disregard for the moral
code by which the artificial state of society
permits itself to be governed, my vanity is
gratified at the bare thought that I am one
of them. I would be, had I the choice,
neither more nor less than a Leferne."

"The name, at least," said the Rev.

Robert Roundhead, '' is conspicuous for its
brave deeds."

Ay, Bob," responded the colonel, as a
red glow lighted up his features, " you have
thrummed the right chord. The old blood
never blanched before an enemy. Our bitterest
detractors must call us bold, if not
innocent."

There was now a pause of some duration
which neither seemed disposed to break.
At length, however, the vicar, appearing to
feel it awkward, remarked,

*' In bringing me here, Ned, I think you
wished to speak upon a special subject."

"For once in my life, at least," replied
the colonel, 'the subject will be a serious
one, and I chose this spot purposely to discuss
it — opposite Sir Harold's daffodils,
which come and go, die and appear again.
What is life. Bob ?"

The unexpected and somewhat abrupt
question seemed to take the colonel's companion

so much by surprise that he did
nothing but continue to look in mute silence
at the questioner.

*siam not disposed, you had better understand,"
continued the colonel, " before introducing
it, to listen to platitudes from the
pulpit, or quotations from the most erudite
works on theology. 1 want to learn, if I
can, from you, while I possess the mysterious
gift, what is life in its reality?"

'the active condition of the physical and
mental organs seems to me," replied the
Eev. Robert Roundhead, "about as plain
and simple an answer as I could give."

"Through what agency?" asked the
colonel.

You object to my referring to the
generally accepted authorities on this
point?" said the vicar.

In giving me one," responded the
colonel, '' I might probably bring forward
another to controvert it. Let me have

your own definition, Bob, of what life is."
The Rev. Robert Roundhead cleared his
voice, and thus began :

'•'The subject is replete with interest,
resolving itself into a problem beyond the
finite reasoning of man to solve, and yet it
seems to me that, in both holy and pagan
history, we possess an inkling of the truth.
When man was created, it is written that
the breath of life was breathed into his
nostrils,' showing conclusively that the
power of animation was given direct from
his Maker. The living power of man is
also attributed by the heathen to the fire
stolen from heaven by Prometheus, and the
sources of both allegations may be, and, I
think, are, one and the same. The conventional
expression of the vital spark having
fled, so often used in describing the latest
moment of existence, is an additional support,
however unconsciously given, of the
truth of the theory that life in its reality is

vital heat bestowed in accordance with the
unerring laws of Nature, governed and
regulated by them, and its influence ceasing
only when the circle of its current in which
it moves stops, and the machine moves no
more."

I like the argument," remarked the
colonel, with his eyes fixed thoughtfully on
the ground before him. " It sounds rational,
Bob. Let me have a continuation of
this strange philosophy. The allegation on
your part is that something has quitted the
machine when it stops, no matter the name
by which it is called or known. What
becomes of it ?"

'* Ay," responded his companion, "there
is the impenetrable mystery, the great
secret ! That a force which directed the physical
organization, and gave to the marvellous
nervous system sensation, thought, volition,
and will has left the body, with the last
beat of the pulse, no one can doubt for a

single moment. It is apparent to our senses.
When life ceases, call it by what we may,
something real but unsubstantial has fled.
Who can say where ?"

"Your question is the one I want answered,"
rejoined the colonel. " As everything
we see and touch around us is under
the influence of fixed and certain laws, why
should not the shadowy and unsubstantial ?
I began to think that, as the old material —
or matter, as you philosophers call it — is
worked up afresh, varying in shape and
appearance, and producing different effects,
so may the heat, force, or power which
directed it when a tenant of the frame.
Seeing, as we do, that traits of character are
often hereditary, I am far from being convinced
that we are more responsible for oursins
and transgressions than the particular
form in height, width, or depth of our
bodies."

"We are taught "

''To be all outside," interrupted the
colonel, " and a few look conspicuously
good. That, however," continued he, with
a slight, inward laugh, " may be traced to
their not having been found out. For it's
my opinion, Bob — putting entirely on one
side the finding out part of the business —
that the distinction is very small between
the bad and the good."

"As a polemic," replied the vicar, "I
could almost congratulate you."

"For speaking the truth," .rejoined the
colonel, "although not in a conventional
fashion?"

At this moment a third shadow was
thrown from an approaching figure in front
of the bed of daffodils, and the colonel
asked, without turning his head,

"Who is that?"

Before the question could receive a reply,
a haggard, worn, and desperate-looking
man stepped from behind the colonel's

VOL. III. H

chair, and stood, with compressed lips and
silent revenge depicted in every lineament
of his features, glaring savagely at him.

The stern, haughty, and blindness look,
however, which was returned, seemed to
make the stranger's eyelids droop, and the
effect was not altogether lost upon Colonel
Leferne.

'* Who gave you permission to intrude
yourself upon me ?" said he, in a tone which
corresponded with his look.

No one," replied Ivy's father ; for it
was he, although so changed that even his
own child — she who had done her best so
long to make his home happy — might have
passed him as one unknown to her. " No
one," repeated he, "but I have been a long
way, sir, to no purpose. I cannot find her."

"And this you seem to deplore," rejoined
the colonel, with the steady, unflinching
gaze still bent upon Harry Girling, who appeared
to cower beneath it. " My opinion

is that you may be congratulated on the
result."

"Why?" was the harsh and passionate
demand.

Colonel Leferne's two fingers were raised,
and the gamekeeper, from a long.practised
habit, perhaps, became silent at the signal,
although the expression of his countenance
-vvas anything but caloi.

"Because you might have found one,
also, that 1 wait for," was the calm and
collected reply.

If I had," rejoined Ivy's father, and the
words were muttered between his lips,
locked closely together, '' you might have
waited to the last moment of your life,
sir, however long — but he never would
have come."

"The inference is plain," added the
colonel, turning to the vicar, " and I cannot
be expected to listen to anything so revolting
as deliberately planned murder. Rid

e2

me of this fellow's presence, for I am not
equal to the exertion myself."

'you had better leave," said the vicar, ina
conciliatory tone and manner. ''No possible
good can arise from any discussion on
this most painful subject."

'' And is this all that is to be said to me
before I go?" mournfully inquired Harry
Girling.

'what more do you expect?" asked the
colonel, " after your expressed intention of
committing murder had a favourable opportunity
presented itself ?"

I meant what I said," responded Ivy's
father, with unquestionable sincerity in his
words. " Your son would never have
returned."

•'He forgets, or, perhaps, never knew,"
returned the colonel, addressing the vicar,
of some of the most interesting episodes
in the lives of those who bore our name
when dolls seem to have been the exciting

cause. There have been — if we uiay place
confidence in their annals — both red and
ready hands, and it would appear, sometimes,
that the first raised was the first to
fall."

Again the ominous words were uttered.

'your son would never have returned."

'' If history repeats itself," observed the
colonel, as if the words were merely the
unconscious expression of his own thoughts,
'' he will come back when his doll ceases to
prove attractive. It has always been so,
and, until the toy is thrown aside, no argument
prevails. Beauty fades with time, and
a Leferne sees none in decay."

'* I came not here, sir," said Ivy's father,
and his voice quivered as he spoke, " to
give offence, but to ask if you can lighten
the load at my heart by telling me something
of my child ?"

The colonel's eyes were fixed thoughtfully
on the daffodils; but he said nothing in reply.

'' 1 have travelled far in search of hers
continued he, " and could go no further.
Day and night have I wandered in the hope
that I might hear, perhaps, where she might
be found ; but all proved useless, and I am
here only to ask, sir, your pity for my
sorrow."

As rigid as if carved from stone, Colonel
Leferne sat gazing in silence at the daffodils.

'pity I" at length ejaculated the colonel,
"I never knew its meaning. But, whatever
may be its worth at my hands, consider
that you receive it, and go from m}^ presence."


May I ask, sir, if you know anything of
ray daughter that you can tell me ?" asked
Ivy's father, without the faintest trace left
of his feelings when he first appeared ; for
he now stood before one who controlled
him with a look.

*^ Nothing," curtly responded the colonel.
''I await my son's return, being informed

of no movements of his from the moment he
left until this."

Have I your leave, sir, to go to my
cottage again for one night ?" inquired
Harry Girling, and if the tears did not fall
from his eyes they floated in them.

Yes," replied the colonel, waving a
hand impatiently. " So long as you leave
me, go where it pleases you most. I care
not where."

Without further remark Ivy's father
slowly quitted the presence of Colonel
Leferne, who, as soon as the gamekeeper
had left, observed, "That philosopher was
not far from right who called the attention
of mankind to the fact that the wrongs and
misfortunes of others are remembered with
a degree of satisfaction — if not with pleasure
that they are not our own. Now, that
fellow," continued he, " only thinks of the
loss of his daughter, and neither knows
nor cares of the ruinous effects which her

doll-like charms have produced upon my
broken fortunes. It is a selfish world, Bob.
Give me your arm," and as they came
towards the bed of daffodil so they departed
from it.

CHAPTER IX.

mHE parrot at " The Greyhound," 
ing proved to be a true prophet,
was regarded at Newmarket as a very
rare bird, and one in which unreserved
confidence might be reposed. Having
repeatedly expressed the opinion, and held
it to the last, that *' the colonel would win
the Derby," she had won for herself the
distinction of beinor an oracle which might

o c

be consulted in full reliance of its being —
in accordance with the description of
Jacket and Gaiters, who still frequented the
bar — " the right tip." From some cause,
however, known only to herself, she became
remarkably silent after the consummation of

her prophecy, and, with one eye closely
shut, peered through the bars of her cage
with the other in a way which proved somewhat
tantalizing to the expectant beholder.

Come, I say," exclaimed Jacket and
Gaiters, as he stood before the bar using
every kind of blandishment to prevail upon
the dumb bird to speak, " what's the matter
with ye ?"

It's my opinion," replied the gentleman
behind the bar, in a light, airy costume, of
which the sleeves of his shirt, and a small
white apron, formed conspicuous but separate
portions, " it's my opinion'" repeated hein
the act of drawing a pint of old mixed,
'that our parrot isn't to be fiddled."

"Who wants to fiddle her?" inquired
Jacket and Gaiters, in a strong tone of
powerful indignation.

I don't say you do," rejoined the
gentleman behind the bar, dexterously
blowing the head off the pint of old mixed,

in order to see that the measure was fair ;
*but some does."

Well, whether I don't and brothers do'
returned Jacket and Gaiters, " it seems all
the same. The old devil remains as dumb
as a post."

She'll speak again some day," said the
gentleman behind the bar, '' when she's had
time to think a bit longer. Our parrot is
not to be fiddled."

Again the gentleman before the bar
seemed to feel that his honour had been
impugned, and wished to be distinctly
understood by the gentleman behind the
bar that the intention of '' fiddling " was as
remote from his mind as any supposed
distance in infinite space.

*'A11 I ax is," said Jacket and Gaiters,
"what she's got to say about the Great
Match?"

'* / should like to know that," replied the
gentleman behind the bar, with a grin.

quite as soon as you. It's no use trying
to get on when all the books are full."

You'd then back the parrot's tip ?" said
Jacket and Gaiters.

"Let me have the first chance," responded
the gentleman behind the bar, " and I'll
put it down like a man who expects to take
it up again. They'll see no flinching in
me."

It's wonderful," returned Jacket and
Gaiters, with a long-drawn sigh, '' how
people will follow a parrot's tip. 1
back it."

At this moment the bird particularly referred
to gave a vigorous shake of her feathers,
and with her head placed at an acute
angle, and an eye screwed close, seemed to
convey the impression that she was not to
be "fiddled," whatever might be thought
or said of her.

"When the bookmakers," observed the
gentleman behind the bar, " thought the

Unknown was a dead-un, how she stuck toit
that he would win."

I began to fear that all my sugar was
in the melting pot," returned Jacket and
Gaiters, " it looked as if he was as safe not
long before the start as cat's meat. But
that's all over " continued he, '' the losing
paid or owing, and the winnings spent.
What we want to know is something about
the Great Match. Come, Polly, what's
your tip ?"

Acrain the reticent bird shook her deaths



hers, and with one eye open, and the other
shut, peeped through the bars of her cage
in a manner which seemed to say, " Here is
one that's not to be fiddled."

She's never spoken a word about racing
since the Derby," remarked the gentleman
behind the bar, *' although," continued
he, dropping his voice a full octave, "I
believe she swears to herself night and
day."

*^ What a d — d old reptile she must be !"
exclaimed Jacket and Gaiters.

^' Not a bad sort, either," replied the gentleman
behind the bar ; " only she's not
made up her mind about the Great Match,
and she's a-thinking."

At this juncture the object of discourse
made known that one thought at least
should no longer be concealed, and she
forthwith expressed it by announcing that
the gentleman behind the bar was not to be
trusted in a strictly moral point of view.

'^ She had you there !'' said Jacket and
Gaiters, in great glee, as he dived both
hands into the bottom of his breeches pockets.
'' She had you there !" repeated he.

And you're another," added the hitherto
silent bird, with a shake which dispossessed
her permanently of a few of her
feathers.

It was now the turn of the gentleman
behind the bar.

c( We're both alike, you hear," said he,
with a laugh which expressed much personal
satisfaction. ''I don't care so loner as I'm
not alone among bad company. Give me a
pal and I'm 'happy."

"There's something in that," replied
Jacket and Gaiters, reflectively. '• If I was
a-going to be scragged, I should like to be
strung up with a pal at my side, and if so be
my back was a-going to be scratched by a
dozen or two of the cat, I should say, as a
matter of choice, let my best friend take a
full share with me. It would lessen my
pain, I think, to know that he got a dollop
as well""

At this moment, and for a third time,
the parrot shook her feathers, and, raising a
foot, gave the top of her head a rub which
displayed more violence than tenderness in
its action.

That's the way she polishes up her
thoughts," observed the gentleman behind

the bar, " before talking more sense sometimes
than most men."

Perhaps she a-going to give us the tip
about the Great Match," replied Jacket and
Gaiters. " Now, Polly, what is it ?"

But Polly seemed, as yet, not in the humour
to speak, and merely looked in silence
at her interrogator with one eye fixed steadily
upon him.

It's no use trying to fiddle one word
out of her," rejoined the gentleman behind
the bar. " We must wait until she's ready."

"Our Loss is getting ready," returned
Jacket and Gaiters, folding his arms deliberately
across the front of his shirt, and
widening the position of his legs before the
bar like a pair of stretched out compasses.
*' I saw him," continued he, with the most
profound admiration as the vision again
appeared in his mind's eye, " take a pipe-opened
this morning over the Rowley Mile,
and he went like a meteor."

'' It will be a great match !" exclaimed
the gentleman behind the bar. " But it's
asking the Unknown to do a marvellous
thing to give a year to such a stayer as
Belted Will over the Beacon Course."

He'll do it," confidently responded
Jacket and Gaiters, " and easy, too."

*' Will he ?" returned somebody or something,
in a thick, guttural voice, and, to the
great dismay of the gentlemen both before
and behind the bar, the foreboding monosyllables
seemed to come from inside the
bars of the parrot's cage.

'was that Polly?" asked Jacket and
Gaiters, looking, as he felt, anything but
gratified at the inferred doubt which the
question raised.

I think it was," replied the gentleman
behind the bar between hope and dread ;
but the latter emotion prevailed, or the
tone and manner did not portray the dominant
sentiment.

VOL. III. I

"It'll be a great match," said the bird,
repeating the precise words of the gentleman
behind the bar as she winked at Jacket
and Gaiters.

'rand the Unknown will win in a walk,"
exclaimed Jacket and Gaiters, " as a first-class,
unbeaten race-loss should win !"

'' Will he ?" responded the parrot. " Will
he?"

I begin to think," remarked the gentleman
behind the bar, with a feeling of unconscious
dread stealing over him, '' that
she's not cock-sure that he vnll win in a
walk."

Let us say in a canter, then," suggested
Jacket and Gaiters, by way of amendment.

Will he ?" again echoed the parrot, and
the one eye that was opened seemed to
twinkle as she spoke.

Belted Will," continued Jacket and
Gaiters, still dwelling on the subject of so
much interest to himself, " is a rare sticker

over a distance, and may make a fight of it
on the post by a short head."

Will he?" reiterated the parrot. " Will
he ?"

This takes some of the confidence out
of me," remarked Jacket and Gaiters,
gloomily. " I don't quite like it."

"Nor I either," responded the gentleman
behind the bar, with corresponding depression.
*rit doesn't sound musical to my ears."

But what can she know about it ?"
sneered Jacket and Gaiters. " We ought
to feel ashamed of ourselves for listening to
a parrot."

You wouldn't have said so," replied the
gentleman behind the bar, '* if she'd spoken
as you wished."

"There's a good deal in that," rejoined
Jacket and Gaiters. " But, after all, what
can a parrot know about the Great Match
that's to come off between the Unknown
and Belted Will ?"

I 2

The Colonel '11 " but the bird left

the sentence unfinished, and, nestling her
head under a wing, the gentleman behind
the bar and his companion remained to
cogitate undisturbed upon the mysterious
future anent— "the Great Match."

CHAPTER X.

fTlHE Unknown had fulfilled his two 
garments to the intense satisfaction
of those who had practically and substantially
supported their ardent opinions that
he would win them. As a Newmarket
horse, the inhabitants of Newmarket — including
the parrot — were strong and loud
in their praise of Queen Mary's son, and
expressed their belief that '' weight for age
nothing in training could beat him over a
severe course." Many and general were
the sanguine hopes entertained on the part
and behalf of the inhabitants of Newmarket
that the hypothetical accomplishment might
become a matter of record, or the myth

dispelled by a less glorious enrollment.

The colonel had been in his time so great
a sportsman, and was still so popular, that,
although the owner of but a single horse in
training, the eyes of Newmarket were drawn
to a focus, and fixed in a blindness gaze
upon him. The colonel had been in his
time the best matchmaker that Newmarket
had ever known, and, whether before dinner
or after, seldom made a mistake in accepting
with a weight which won ; it being confessed
that the race lies always in the scales.
The colonel had been in his time invincible,
and Newmarket desired a proof that he retained
some of the form of other da3^s.

It was not long, after the excitement
reached a culminating high pitch, that Newmarket
was kept in the torture of suspense.
Rumours had been circulated that a challenge
had been sent by a great stable in the
north to match Belted Will, 'one of the best
cup horses of the present century," so the

oracles of the Turf averred, against the Unknown
over his own distance. In the ordinary
course of mundane events, these
rumours, being left uncontradicted, strengthened
with acre until it was generally acknowledged,
as a fact in anticipation, that these
cracks of the north and south " would
meet as rivals for the double first-class
honour to decide which was the best of the
two. Then followed by way of climax the
public announcement of the conditions of
the race, which set at rest all doubt, if any
remained, upon the subject : — " Houghton
Meeting. Match, £1,000, Beacon Course.
The Unknown, 4 years old, st. 7lb, Belted
Will, 5 years old, st. 71b."

There was now but one topic of absorbing
public interest at Newmarket. Men and
lads of all weights, from welter to feather,
spoke, thought, and dreamt of nothing but
the Great Match. The opposed horses representing
antagonistic interests, it is needless

to add that opinions clashed with
pardonable violence concerning the probable
result, and those of the north and south
were apparently as wide asunder as the
poles themselves. Upon one point, however,
all seemed united, and that was that,
taking into consideration the relative merits
of each, it was asking the Unknown to *' doa
great thing to give a year to Belted
Will over the Beacon Course." All the
weights, feather and welter, at Newmarket
were agreed as to this, and no opposition
was offered by the most interested concerning
the herculean nature of the task assigned
to Colonel Leferne's single horse in training.
- Mark Rooksonon, in the scarcely enviable
capacity of trainer, had known, from long
experience, what the responsibility meant
of having a great public favourite under his
immediate charge; but never did the full
weight sit more heavily on his shoulders
than as the day approached for the decision

of the Great Match. The Unknown was
doing as well as he could wish, and he
entertained little fear of enemies without or
enemies within. The strict discipline and
watchfulness of the Heath House stable was
such as to leave but the bare possible chance
of treachery proving successful in the most
cunning guise it could assume.

'' It must be a near thing," soliloquized
Mark Rooksonon, turning over the pages of
the Racing Calendar, a work of reference,
which he had frequently to consult, '' and T
wish I could think it would not be quite so
close. The one a four-year-old and the
other five, at even weights over the Beacon
Course. It is asking our horse to do too
much ; but still I think," continued he, after
a short reflective pause, 'that he will do it.
Looking at what the north country horse
has done," continued he, again glancing at
the volume before him, "and knowing what
ours can do, I believe there are not more

than three pounds between them ; but that
the difference is on our side. Over such a
course, however, this is too small to depend
upon for anything like a certainty, and I wish
the colonel had not drawn it quite so fine
for his own sake, and " — the speaker stopped
short in his speech, and then added —
mine."

A timid if not modest knock was now
heard at the door of the apartment in which
Mark Kookson was sitting, and permission
being given for the visitor to make his or
her appearance, as the case might be, William
Bottles entered without further announcement,
and stood in an uneasy position,
with a look of grave doubt as to
whether lie was a welcome visitor or not.

Oh ! Mister Bottles," exclaimed Mark
Rooksonon, in a voice and manner which
scarcely displayed a gush of joy at seeing
his visitor, '' is that you ?"

William Bottles, nervously and unconsciously

rubbing his hat the wrong way,
replied that "he was the identical individual
referred to. He was sot'

"And to what am I indebted for this
somewhat early morning call ?" rejoined
]\Iark Rooksonon, closing the volume before
him in a deliberate, methodical way, crossing
one leg over the other, and gently subsiding
backwards in the easy chair in which
he was sitting. " And to what am I indebted
for this somewhat early morning call ?" repeated
he, bending a look upon William
Bottles which seemed to do anything but
add to the strength of his temporary want
of self-confidence.

William Bottles coughed as if something
in his throat threatened to strangle him,
applied a bent elbow by way of a brush to
his hat, which began to look the picture of
illustrated misery, and, in an uncertain voice,
essayed to give a reply, but failed as the
first syllable died still-born upon his lips.

Without lifting his eyes from his much-injured
hat, William Bottles felt that the
disturbing look was still fixed upon him,
and he remained dumb under its influence.

You have something to say," encouragingly
observed Mark Rooksonon. "What is
it?"

The obstructing impediment to William
Bottles' powers of speech seemed now to be
removed, and he left off brushing his hat
the wrong way.

I wanted to speak to sou, sir," began
he, but with marked hesitation in his manner,
'about the Great Match."

'* Well?" briefly returned Mark Rooksonon.

Billy Bottles began to feel the choking
sensation in his throat again, but managed
to swallow it with an effort which partook
of a spasm.

"We all know what it must be to the
colonel if the Unknown loses, sir," resumed
he. "There won't be a button left upon

his last shirt, to say nothing of what must
become of the only shirt belonging to me."

Mark Rooksonon entertained a reserved
opinion that the interest of the speaker was
quite as great in the article of linen mentioned
as his own personal property as the
buttonless shirt of Colonel Leferne.

"Admitting your statement to be true,'^
responded the Unknown's trainer, '' what
then ?"

"The plunging has been awful on this
event, sir," rejoined William Bottles, in a
tone approaching the solemn, " and, to say
nothing of the colonel and his party, the
only question to be settled is which is to be
broke, the north or the south ?"

*' A truly momentous question for each,"
observed Mark Rooksonon, as if addressed to
himself.

And it's one, sir," returned William
Bottles, gaining confidence as he proceeded,
that we ou£:ht to know a little more about

than we do at present. We ought so"

How ?" curtly asked the trainer.

William Bottles was again subjected to a
feeling of obstruction in the throat, but with
a convulsive effort seemed to get rid of the
impediment.

A trial would settle it," replied William
Bottles, '* bar accident. It would so""

'with what?" inquired Mark Rooksonon.

William Bottles gave a suspicious glance
over each shoulder, and then, stooping forwards,
whispered hoarsely,

"With the north-country 'loss himself, sir.
Belted Will."

"Are you authorised to make this proposal
to me ?" inquired the trainer, fixing a
steady look upon the speaker, which gave a
slight shock to his nervous system.

'there's nothing of a cross about it,"
returned William Bottles, in the belief that
the moment had come for justifying himself
"All is to be on the square — a fliir trial

between the two before the race comes off
for the private advantage of all in the
know."

In order—"

"That we ray not be among the skinned
lambs," interrupted William Bottles, having
a slight dread that the conclusion of Mark
Rooksonon's sentence might not be so mild in
conveying the same meanings.

"The game is certainly a winning one,"
observed Mark Rooksonon. " and almost as
good as the three card trick."

William Bottles felt that the latter part
of this remark, whether intentional or otherwise,
was rather of a personal kind, and
suspected that some of his antecedents were
not altogether hidden from Mark Rooksonon.

As a safe bit of business," observed
William Bottles, after a pause of irksome
duration, " I don't think it could be much
improved upon."

And to whom are we eternally indebted

for scheming this safe bit of business ?" asked
Mark Rooksonon, with an expression upon his
features which no one skilled in physiognomy
would have felt the shadow of a doubt
about the impression.

William Bottles, however, felt flattered
at the question, and admitted, without reservation,
that it originated with him. It
did so.

Belted Will's trainer and I," continued
he, " are old pals who have seen the ups
and downs of a racing career, and we all
know, sir," said he, with a nod of the head
which signified emphasis, " that it's not all
beer and skittles."

Mark Rooksonon, with a long-drawn breath,
appeared to tacitly agree in every minute
particular to this sage aphorism.

"Now, said I to myself," resumed William
Bottles, " and then to my old pal,
'What a chance there is to land a gold
mine, with about the risk of a glass of gin.

by having a trial between these losses over
the Beacon Course itself, and then being
guided by the result as to what our next
move should be !' "

"Are both owners to be in the secret?"
inquired Mark Rooksonon.

Both'' replied William Bottles, complacently,
" so neither is to be robbed."

"I never heard of a more honest piece of
rascality," rejoined Mark Rooksonon, laughing.
" It begins to look like thieving no
robbery."

"No one is to be dropped in the hole,
sir," rejoined William Bottles, beginning to
feel sanguine of the success of his proposition,
*with the exception of those innocent lambs,
the outsiders, who won't be in the know"

"The racing weights to be up?" said
Mark Rooksonon, interrogatively.

And the racing weights to be up," repeated
William Bottles, by way of reply.
They are so"

VOL. HI. K

"We will speak of this again at no distant
date," returned Mark Rooksonon. " In
the meantime, not only be silent upon the
subject, but endeavour to forget that it has
either occupied your thoughts or mine for a
single moment."

William Bottles thought instinctively what
was meant, and, without further observation,
took a respectful departure.

CHAPTER XL

TTTITHIN the almost sacred walls of the
* Unknown's box, so jealous was the
watch and ward kept that no objectionable
approach should be made within a safe
circle of its whereabouts, Johnny Tadpole
and little Mite — the recognized " good
boys " of the Heather House stable — were
occupied one morning in dressing Queen
Mary's son, and completing his toilet in a
manner which could scarcely have failed to
have proved a most valuable lesson to a
lady's maid of high rank. Energetic, skilful,
and delicate were the palpable proprieties
which belonged to the artistic labour
now being bestowed in putting a polish

K 2

upon the already polished coat of the
Unknown. No half-and-half measures for
Messrs. Tadpole and Mite ! Their hearts
were in their work, and, therefore, it seems
superfluous to add that it was well done, or
done well, which, perhaps, is the same thing.

Upon his knees, and in a posture which
approximated the devotional, Johnny Tadpole
was assiduously engaged in rubbing
down the satin-like fore legs of Queen
Mary's son, and enlivening the minutes as
they flew with the normal " p-s-h, w-s-h "
of the stable.

In juxtaposition to his friend, companion,
and sharer of his small earthly possessions,
little Mite had elevated himself upon the
bottom of an inverted pail, and was doing
all he knew to make the withers, neck, and
back of the Unknown glisten through a full
allowance of elbow grease, which he was
administering with a vigour which could
only belong to a 'good boy."

Being properly and, therefore, securely
*' racked up," Queen Mary's son could take
no undue liberties with his attendants ; but
every now and then his incisors came together
with a loud snap which, as he turned
his head in the direction of little Mite,
seemed to signify a strong desire of making
a harsh acknowledgement for the tickling; he
was receiving at his hands, the sequel being
a mouthful.

The discipline being decidedly strict in
the Heather House stable, all boys, whether
avowedly good or otherwise, were required
to work in solemn silence, and reserve their
powers of conversation for the more fitting
opportunities which the hours of play presented.
When two, however, happened to
be in the same box, and occupied in the
same task, the temptation was irresistible to
indulge in a mutual exchange of thoughts,
and little Mite — at the imminent risk of
tarnishing his character — took the objectionable

lead in breaking a first commandment.
I say, Taddy," began he, in a voice
which would not have been heard on the
outside of the door of the box, " I feel as if
I should like to laugh right out loud."

Don't do that' replied Johnny, looking
up at his friend on the bottom of the
inverted stable-pail, in a subdued tone of
reproach, " or, perhaps, you'll be heard, and
we shall both catch it."

Little Mite compromised his inclination
by giving vent to a kind of inward explosion,
which, although it temporarily interrupted
his labour, was totally devoid of all
cachinnatory sound.

Grin as long as you like, so long as it's
not loud," continued Johnny Tadpole, in a
voice so gentle that a neighbouring mouse
remained undisturbed in his slumber. '' But
what's it all about ?"

*rit's all about," replied little Mite, quitting
his work, and pressing both hands on

his very small ribs, as if they began to ache
from the convulsive action which had been
going on within, and standing in a bent attitude
on the pail as if for ease. '' It's all
about," repeated he, " they're trying to
nobble the guv'nor."

The announcement of the immediate
cause of little Mite's mirth was now almost
too much for the serenity of Johnny Tadpole,
and, leaving off hand-rubbing the Unknown's
legs, he began to roll his head from
side to side as if suffering from a similar
attack as that of his friend.

"" Don't say anything more about it," at
length gasped Taddy, '' or I shall bust. I
shall, indeed !"

"My sides feel ready to crack at the
thought of that bit o' business," replied little
Mite. "I can't help it," continued he,
partly recovering from temporary exhaustion.
*they always do, and always will."

"The party must have been pleased with

themselves to think they could get the better
of our guv'nor," observed Johnny Tadpole,
still chuckling, as he resumed his work
in a devotional posture.

I think, Taddy," responded little Mite,
also giving his hands their former occupation,
'that great rogues are greater fools
after all. They're cunning and sly enough
up to a certain point, and then they seem to
forget that other people have eyes and
ears."

*' That's true enough," rejoined his companion.
'' Three-stun-five never spoke truer
words than them."

'mind your grammar, Taddy," returned
little Mite, reprovingly. " I don't think
them was quite in tune, and, as Mister
William Bottles says, ' when you speak
plain English, don't let it be doubtful
French.' "

'' He put his foot nicely into a trap,
though, when they got him to propose that

trial," added Johnny Tadpole, without paying
the slightest attention to his alleged
grammatical blunder.

We shall never, perhaps, quite know,"
replied little Mite, " but I think our guv'nor
suspected it was a plant from the beginning,
and only waited a bit to find out who was
in the swim."

'for once in his life, at any rate," responded
Johnny Tadpole, '' William Bottles
was not sharp enough for the game he had
to play. He thought, no doubt, the trial
was to be on the square, and not on the
cross."

Which speaks so far well for his being a
flat on this occasion," returned little Mite.
But he ought to have known better'
continued he. " He ought, indeed !"

You wouldn't have been shared in a
similar way," remarked Johnny Tadpole,
again turning an upward look upon the
occupant of the pail. "You wouldn't have

been shared in a similar way ?" repeated he.

I !" exclaimed little Mite, momentarily
forgetful of the strict discipline of the
Heather House stable.

Hush !" ejaculated the more discreet
partner of his toil. "You'll be heard
presently, and we shall both catch it."

The caution acting with electrical effect
upon little Mite, he called, in a whisper, his
friend's earnest attention to the fact in all
its simplicity that, upon being interrogated
one day by a designing tout as to his exact
weight, his evasive reply was, " With my
breeches on or without 'em ?"

'* That's my answer, Taddy," continued
he, " as to whether I was likely to be
shared like Mister William Bottles by the
Belted Will party."

1 wonder how our guv'nor smelt the
rat ?" observed Johnny Tadpole. " He
must have a wonderful nose."

Nose ?" repeated little Mite, in profound

admiration. " Let me see one like his, and
I'll take my hat off!"

How the Belted Will party must have
stared," rejoined Johnny Tadpole, with a
''p-s-h, w-s-h " at the Unknown's fore legs,
which began to shine now more brilliantly than
satin, " to have heard when their loss was
mounted for the trial, ' We had better see
that the weights are right first.' "

That's what our guv'nor said," returned
little Mite, 'eat the particular moment you
speak of, Taddy. Says he in a very solemn
sort of way before our loss was stripped,
We had better see that the weights are
right first.' "

*rand then the Belted Will party,"
added Johnny Tadpole, " seeing their little
game "

Was up," interrupted little Mite, " and
that the guv'nor was not to be nobbled in a
trial with false weights, sent their loss
home "

It was now Johnny Tadpole's turn to
take up the thread of the narrative.

"With just as much sorrow as thieves
always feel," continued he, '' when they're
found out."

Yes," said little Mite, with exultation
in his tone, as he rubbed away at the Unknown's
withers; 'but the guv'nor was not
to be nobbled !"

What a game it would have been,"
remarked Johnny Tadpole, " if they had
got the measure of our boss at their own
weights, and we not knowing what they
were. They might have cracked up the
Bank of England."

'' It was an artful dodge," replied little
Mite ; " but like a great many dodges of a
similar kind, it didn't come off in a way
that was meant."

"The trial was never intended by our
guv'nor," rejoined Johnny Tadpole.

"Not it," returned little Mite, "as he

told the Belted Will party in a way they
were not likely to forget. Says he, ' We
shall meet but once at even weights over
the Beacon Course in a fair public trial. I
only wanted to learn whether I was right or
wrong about this private one being as honest
as it pretended to be, and I now know that
my suspicions were well founded ; but under
no circumstances whatever would my horse
have been started. I rarely brought him
here this morning for the purpose which
has been served.' After this, Taddy, you
should have seen the Belted Will party
slink away. They looked' continued he,
'ras they felt, licked to a standstill. They
did, indeed !"

I wish that it had been mv luck to see
them," added Johnny Tadpole, discontentedly;
"but I'm always out of the good
things of this life."

'' Never mind, Taddy," responded little
Mite, wishing to impart a timely measure of

consolation to his friend and sharer of his
small earthly possessions. " It may be your
turn by-an'-by."

The head lad — a concentration of dictatorial
power in all great stables — now made
his appearance within the precincts of the
Unknown's box, and Messrs. Tadpole and
Mite appeared quite sensible of his presence
without bestowing a single look upon him
from even the extreme corners of their eyes.
The head lad — all head he was faithfully
believed to be in the Heather House stable
minutely scrutinised the work done by
Messrs. Tadpole and Mite, and, being satisfied
with the general effect, it may reasonably
be supposed, from the absence of any
fault being proclaimed, they received an
order to " look sharp," which appeared to
be understood in a figurative sense, for the
two " good boys," without further invitation,
went willingly to breakfast.

CHAPTER XII.

A LONE in the old gloomy room in which
■^-^ his dark-visaged ancestor, in complete
harness, scowled frowningly from the wall,
Colonel Leferne sat in the easy-chair which,
in a legal point of view, was not his own,
looking like one, as he glanced impatiently
at the door, and strained a watchful ear fora
hoped-for footfall, who, tired with waiting,
was still waiting for an expected arrival
too long delayed.

"Where can Aubrey be?" at length said
he aloud, as if to give vent to a train of
loner silent thoughts. '' Where can Aubrey
be ?" he repeated, thrumming his fingers
irritable on the elbow of the chair. '^ He

must be wearied with his doll by this time,
or he is no son of mine. A Leferne was
never known to play so long with the same
toy."

An approaching footstep, light as it was
in the passage without, now attracted the
colonel's acute sense of hearing, and his
fingers became motionless as, with a fixed
and rigid look, he gazed intently at the door
as it swung gently back, and his sister, Margaret
Leferne, became indistinctly visible in
the thickening shades of departing day.

A cloud of disappointment passed over
the colonel's features, but there was none
either in his voice or manner as he expressed
a few common-place words of welcome and
the pleasure he felt at her coming to relieve
his loneliness. As he spoke in gentle terms,
Aunt Margaret placed a hand silently in one
of his, which made him give an involuntary
shudder, so cold and thin did it feel within
his clasp. Seating herself close by his side,

-with the corpse-like hand still resting in his,
she seemed to breathe with difficulty, and
for a few seconds made no reply.

'' Recover yourself before speaking," said
he, considerately. " The exertion of coming
here has quite exhausted }'ou."

I can speak now," responded Aunt Margaret,
in a feeble voice scarcely articulate
as she looked with a close, strange, penetration
gaze into her brother's eves. "Will
you listen to me?"

Nothing would afford him greater pleasure
than to give his undivided attention to
whatever she had to relate. So he said, at
least, whatever doubt might exist as to his
meanings.

'Tis hard to part from those we love,
Edward," she began, in trembling accents,
'but harder still, perhaps, to live and bethe
helpless witness of their sorrow. What
would I not do," continued she, with an
earnest gesture, "short of committing sin,

A^OL. III. L

to see you once again happy before I die ?"

"There is yet fall time for that, let us
hope," replied the colonel, vainly attempting
to assume a cheerfulness he did not feel.

Would that I could think so !" rejoined
his sister, sorrowfully.

'* When the prodigal returns," observed
the colonel — "and we must remember," continued
he, with a slight hollow laugh, " that
we have been a family of prodigals — much
of my anxiety will be relieved, if not removed.
So I am told, at least, by that
ogre, Jeremiah Early, if my son proves
obedient."

A deeply-drawn sigh arose from Aunt
Margaret's heart, and, slowly withdrawing a
hand from that of her brother, she stanched
some hot tears which began to flow, not the
less bitter because shed in silence.

"When will the cloud which has lowered
so long," murmured she, " have one ray of
limit ?"

*' Sooner, perhaps, than we dream of,"
responded the colonel, with a sudden energy
of manner. " I have known," continued
he, '' fortune to be most kind when she
appeared most hard and cruel."

*' All has been so long dark to me," rejoined
his sister, '' that the hope deferred
for one gleam of sunshine has not only
made my heart sick, Edward, but has
broken it with despair."

So sad and low was the tone in which
she spoke that he involuntarily drew her
towards him, and pressed a kiss upon the
nearest cheek.

''I have been," said he, '^a hare-brained
incorrigible, I fear ; but you may as well
forgive me, Margaret, and ascribe my normal
transgressions to the force of inherited
example. As a family of social freebooters
and anti-moralists I begin to think that
society would be greatly benefited by our
total extinction. I have had personally,"

L 2

continued the colonel, " as most men have
in their alternate excited and depressed
conditions of the nervous system, many
serious thoughts as to the least objectionable
mode of ridding society, at once and forever,
of my objectionable presence ; but
there are really so many ways for quitting
the world that I never could make up my
mind which was the readiest, and here I
remain because of the doubt and a disapproval
of each that presented itself."

Oh ! speak not so lightly as this, Edward,"
exclaimed Aunt Margaret, " of life
and death !''

'' Did my unconsidered words leave that
impression ?" responded the colonel, commencing
to beat a few slowly-measured
notes with his fingers. ^' Then let us turn
to a more serious subject. What shall it be?"

"I wish to engage your attention for a
few minutes' replied his sister, ** concerning
your "

The sentence was left unfinished ; but
Colonel Leferne felt what the conclusion
was without its being added.

'that, indeed," ejaculated he, "is a
weighty one. AVhat have you to say now
about the effects of the first and last quarrel
with my wife ? Is she dead ?"

No," was the quiet answer, " not dead."

'' Then it could not have been a shade of
the departed Julia Leferne that I saw in the
moonlight," rejoined the colonel.

It was Julia Leferne herself," calmly
returned his sister, and in a voice and manner
which disclosed that it was no sudden
impulse which dictated the revelation.

It might have taken him by surprise, and
perhaps did so ; for the colonel's lips became
convulsively pressed together, as if to
prevent the escape of some sudden exclamation,
and a deadly pallor spread itself over
his features as he sat gazing with a steadfast
look at his sister in silence which he resolved

at the instant not to break by the utterance
of a single word. He might have been
changed into stone for any evidence of life
which remained ; for Colonel Leferne was
waiting — and he would have waited till
doomsday had he the power — for what was
to follow.

Your wife," resumed Aunt Margaret,
after a lengthened pause, and in the same
collected voice, as if her lesson had been
well studied, "is now under this roof, as
she has been for a long time past, and, but
for the fear that she might have been compelled
to return to the place of her confinement
from which she escaped, the secret
of her being here would not have been so
long and rigidly maintained. Do you listen,
Edward?"

Yes, to every syllable. That she saw,
but neither muscle nor nerve moved as he
remained like the petrified form of Colonel
Leferne.

*' Dull as was her poor distracted brain,"
continued his sister, '' upon her return to
her home, which she had left so long, an
improvement soon became apparent when
assured that the kindness she received at
the hands of her first confidant, Dame
Soppy, might be depended upon, and that
the secret of her being here was kept inviolable,
although the too frequent cause of
anxious embarrassment."

Attentive the colonel sat listening to
every word which fell from Aunt Margaret's
lips, but said nothing in reply.

Upon learning all that she had suffered
when away from us," resumed his sister,
and knowing that the torture of mind and
body would be repeated if again torn away
from our care, I took the most secure means
at my disposal to keep her here without
being discovered by anyone, and watched
with hourly solicitude the gradually returning
powers of reason."

Colonel Leferne still listened, and offered
no interruption to the narrative.

^' With an instinctive feeling which guided
her footsteps in the direction of home," continued
his sister, ** poor Julia wandered to
the sea-shore upon her escape from her
prison-house. Enlisting the sympathy of
some French fishermen, they felt compassion
for the friendless wanderer, and, taking her
willingly on board their vessel, landed her
in safety on English ground, forcing their
generous assistance upon her to complete
her journey. Upon her arrival here "

*your voice grows weaker," at length
interrupted the colonel, " and, therefore, I
will not impose upon sou the exertion of
describing the conclusion of this story, which
I believe may now be accepted as sufficiently
known to me without adding, perhaps, more
painful particulars. If, however, I hear
aright and understand what is said," continued
he, drawing a hand slowly across his

forehead, '• my wife is at the present moment
under this roof, and restored to reason.
Is that so ?"

Yes," replied Aunt Margaret, '' such is
the happy intelligence I have to impart."

She is much changed, of course, by time
and disease," remarked the colonel.

*' Much, very much," sorrowfully rejoined
his sister, " but there are still the remains
of what was beautiful."

*that plainly signifies that she is now
the ruin of beauty," returned the colonel,
"and I am not an enthusiastic admirer of
ruins of any kind. But say," continued he,
and as he spoke Aunt margaret's bosom
heaved as if with dread, " has she expressed
a strong desire for being reconciled to me ?"

Beyond that which language can describe,"
responded his sister, *^ praying night
and day for the moment to arrive when she
might be told that you were ready once
more to clasp her to your heart."

The colonel's fingers began to move noiselessly
on the elbow of his chair.

*' I am glad to learn," said he — but there
was something in the methodical tone which
jarred harshly on Aunt Margaret's ear —
that she looks forward to that minute
particle of time with so much unalloyed
pleasure. It's absolute arrival, however,"
continued he, slowly dropping word by word,
'' must depend entirely upon herself."

His sister's fixed look met his, but neither
spoke for a few seconds.

I may infer," at length resumed he,
that my wife — the title is not familiar to
my lips — knows the present unfavourable
state of my pecuniary affairs, which means
ruined !"

I have told her all," mournfully replied
Aunt Margaret, drooping her eyelids as
they fell at the thought.

"' In that case," continued the colonel,
*' nothings remains to be added, which will

save much unnecessary trouble. May I
accept as the pleasant sequel to the somewhat
romantic tale of our first and last
quarrel that, being restored to her senses,
she is prepared to be dutiful ?'*

Am I to understand, Edward," whispered
his sister, " that there is a condition
to the meeting between yourself and wife?"

"The cause of our separation will be the
cause of its continuance," returned the
colonel, in a tone that admitted of no doubt
as to its being cool and collected, "unless I
have her signature to that deed which, years
aro, she refused to sicrn. Jeremiah Early
has it in his possession, and, if the parchment
is yellow by time, its true intent and
meaning, he will tell us, remain in all their
pristine freshness."

**Do not mock me, brother!" exclaimed
Aunt Margaret, burying her face between
her hands as if the anguish she then felt
was more than she could possibly bear.

'^ You cannot be serious in this resolve ?"

"You know me too well to doubt the
gravity of my resolutions," responded the
colonel, as his fingers began to play the few
bars of a tune which might now be heard.
"I fear that even the characteristic of
obstinacy might be applied to them."

'* But it seems so harsh "

"To require a wife to be dutiful ?" interrupted
the colonel, feigning, perhaps, surprise
that he scarcely felt. " If my memory
is not unusually treacherous," continued he,
"she made a religious promise to obey in
the very act of becoming one."

"But not against her conviction of coins:
wrong," softly argued his sister.

"Between right and wrong," returned
the colonel, "there is often but a narrow
margin, and, not being governed by any
written or fixed code, the difference may be
regarded as quite a matter of opinion. The
case before us, however, offers no ground

for controversy. My exigencies of to-day
are more pressing than those approximating
to a quarter of a century since, and the
assistance, therefore, which I required then
in the shape of substantial relief, I must
necessarily want now. nothing, possibly,
can be more easy of comprehension," concluded
the colonel, now drumming aloud
the finishing notes of a martial strain.

*' Nothing," repeated Aunt Margaret,
*' and yet would that I had died before
hearing such words as these from you,
Edward !"

*'I really fail to see any decided objection
to them," added the colonel. My — "
he paused — " wife has an advantageous
opportunity of rectifying, as far as it maybe
possible, the very greatest mistake of
her life which led to such lamentable consequences
both to herself and me. Now,
any positive objection being raised to correct
this error would present itself to my

mind as something too conspicuously wicked
to merit forgiveness in the mildest form that
can be conceived, sat least must not be supposed
capable of possessing the sentiment."

'' You will not, then, Edward," said his
sister, reproachfully, " even go with me to
see her who now awaits your coming with
a loving, throbbing heart?"

"" I am not in the health or humour for
the exciting effects of a dramatic scene in
real life," responded the colonel. '' Foiled
of late at every step," continued he, " disappointment
has left me what I am, a
debtor to all that's good, I suppose the
good will say."

Aunt Margaret, slowly rising from her
chair, once more placed her hand silently
in one of her brother's.

You will think better of this, Edward,"
at length she said, in a gentle voice. '' Kinder
feelings will prevail at happier moments.
Good night."

Upon the fulfilment of my condition,"
rejoined the colonel, as Aunt Margaret left
the room, " I shall be ready to greet the
return of my " — he again paused — " wife
most affectionately. Tell her so, with the
best love I possess," and thus speaking he
waved a hand in the direction of his sister's
retreating form in the darkness, and was left
alone.

CHAPTER XIII.

rriHE day for the decision of the Great
-*- Match had arrived. Newmarket was
astir betimes. Up in the morning early all
the good boys had left their beds, not for
play, but healthful work, and among the
foremost in setting this praiseworthy example
might have been seen Messrs. Mite
and Tadpole, still of the respective weights
of ''three-stun-five " and '' five-stun-three,"
having, by practising strict self-denial, managed
to keep themselves down to these
exact quantities, ascertained by repeated
visits to the scale.

I wish," remarked Johnny Tadpole to
the companion and partner of his toil in the

Unknown's box, 'that either you. Mite, or
I had the mount on our grand horse in this
great match to-day. I know he'd try his
best if one of us was up."

'that he would," replied little Mite,
bending a look of affection upon Queen
Mary's son, as, with his nose buried in his
crib, he was eating the last allowance of
corn previous to being stripped for the race
With Belted Will. "That he would," repeated
he, giving the Unknown a playful
slap on the shoulder, for which liberty a
pretence was made of snapping off his head
then and there.

If he meant business," rejoined Johnny,
folding his arms methodically across a chest
which remained one of the narrowest of
dimensions, and without the quality of expansion,
'that crack of his teeth would have sent
you " — the speaker raised a forefinger, and
pointed, with a solemn gesture, above his
head — '' upwards."

VOL. III. M

One mouthful, and it would, no doubt,
be all over with me," returned little Mite.
*that is to say," continued he, ^' if he
meant business."

But there's no knowing," resumed Johnny
Tadpole, '' when a race-loss, like some
men and women, is in the humour to swallow
a dose of fun, and, if it shouldn't be the
proper moment, it may turn out anything
but pleasant to all parties concerned —-givers
and takers. Never take liberties, / say."

And good advice, too, in a general
way," responded little Mite. " But I know
him well enough. He wouldn't hurt a hair
of my whiskers, if I grew such ornaments —
which I don't. Would you, my flying
rocket," continued he, addressing the Unknown,
'' all stars, and no stick ?"

The Flying Rocket threw back his ears,
and lifted a near heel threateningly, but,
gently dropping it on the straw below, the
inferential conclusion drawn by little Mite
was a favourable one.

"Xot a hair of my whiskers," repeated
he, ''if I grew such ornaments — which I
don't."

"If either of us was in the pigskin," said
Johnny Tadpole, '' he must carry, of course,
a lot of dead weight ; but every ounce of
lead would be life to him. He'd fly under
it!"

'' To be sure he would," coincided little
Mite. " We should only have to call upon
him when to do his best, for the best to be
done, and, if necessary, as far as he could
struggle on one les."

CO c

We have had many an exercise gallop
on him," continued Johnny, in a whimpering
voice which savoured of grief; "but
there seems no hope now, Mite, of our
sporting the purple jacket and orange cap
in public. It's to be the colonel's last race
with his last loss."

"By all accounts he's been a wonder,"
rejoined little Mite, " and if neither of us

m2

have worn his colours we've looked after
the best loss he ever had, and that's something
for us, and our grandchildren, perhaps,
to say and think of."

As a little ganibolsome foal, Mite,"
returned Johnny Tadpole, with a strong
inclination to screw the acute angles of his
knuckles into the extreme corners of his
eyes, "I recollect him well as I took him ina
line with the setting sun to Greatwood
Park. I little thought, as a lad, that I had
then the charge of a winner of the Derby ;
but " — and here his unshed tears were
checked from the pride which glowed
within — "" if we could only see what we
may become, and others could see it too,
what a difference we should feel when eating
humble pie and our neighbours watching
us t

*ewe shouldn't be choked by it," emphatically
added little Mite, " as some folks are."

'not a bit would stick by the way,"

resumed Johnny Tadpole, smiling at the
mental picture he was drawing, " and all
would slip down as smooth as oysters."

'' But that only belongs to a lift up,"
observed little Mite. " It's a different things,
you know, when we're grassed head foremost
with our heels in the air."

We are creatures of circumstances, no
doubt, Mite," philosophically responded
Johnny Tadpole, " and much depends upon
which end. a man stands — his heels or his
head, I don't deny that, and it often
happens that, when a chap thinks himself
strong and upright as the old red betting-post
on the Heath, he's just about to be flung
clean out of the pigskin in a way which he
feels if he can't describe. The Colonel,"
continued he, '' from what I have heard,
has known what it is to be the creature of
circumstances."

"But always a gentleman," rejoined little
Mite.

*' But always a gentleman," echoed Johnny,
widening his legs as he stood, and folding
his arms more closely over his narrow chest.
But always a gentleman !"

'' Newmarket has seen the best of blood
in losses and men," added little Mite; "but the
Colonel in his best day was never equalled."

A great man !" ejaculated Johnny Tadpole.
" Like, however," continued he,
many of the game sort who make too
strong running at the beginning, the finish
is not all his best friends could wish."

'' It may be a glorious one still in this
match," remarked little Mite.

'' If all we've heard be true," replied
Johnny, dropping his voice to a confidential
whisper, " the Colonel has not been particularly
lucky in every match he's made."

Feeling that the ground was somewhat
delicate on which they were now treading.
Mite determined to check the advance of a
single inch.

'^ Let's mind our own business, Taddy,"

observed he, in a manner which could not

be mistaken for the object in view. " I was

thinking and speaking of the match with

our loss and Belted Will. It's no secret that

the old Leferne colours will be seen for the

last time to-day."

•' But they'll be carried in front !" 


claimed Johnny Tadpole, with a glow of
enthusiasm spreading over his features, and
which mounted from chin to brow as he
spoke. " If never again to be seen at start
or finish, they'll be carried in front from
end to end."

That depends upon the orders how the
race is to be ridden," responded little Mite,
"and, as our 'loss has to give a year to
Belted Will, I should say," continued he,
speaking like an authority of no questionable
nature, "that he won't make the
running."

'* You think, then "

*that Belted AVill, having a great pull in
the weights," interrupted little Mite, continuing
the thread of his argument, '' will
make the pace and go a cracker, and our
'loss, waiting on him stride by stride, will
come only at the finish, and then the old
colours, Taddy, will flash in front, where
they have often been before, but will never
be again."

Johnny Tadpole could not restrain his
emotion at these words, and, feeling that
silent tears were not the kind of vent to
give immediate relief, he momentarily forgot
the discipline of the Heather House
stable, and began to bellow.

'hush!" ejaculated little Mite, making a
rush at the companion and partner of his
toil, and judiciously thrusting a rubber over
his mouth in a way which at once muffled
the unmelodious sounds ; they were rendered
little more than audible just without
the walls of the Unknown's box.

*' Hush !" repeated he, ^' or you'll be heard."

'* I quite forgot myself," was Johnny
Tadpole's excuse for his indiscretion, the
parts of speech sounding thick and unnatural
from the rubber still being held
over his mouth. " But take it away, Mite,"
continued he, "as Vm better now, and it
tastes dusty."

'you deserve to be smothered for making
such a howl," rejoined little Mite.
"Never make a row, I say, either in joy
or misery. Do the quiet."

"We're not always masters of our own
feeling's," returned Johnny Tadpole, evidently
subdued at the peremptory tone of
the companion and partner of his toiL
They sometimes," continued he, " get to
be the masters of us."

Masters or servants," added little Mite,
still in the dictatorial vein, " do the quiet."

Taken, as it seemed to him, at a great
disadvantage, Johnny Tadpole came to the

conclusion that lie could not adopt a wiser
course, and, removing the liquid effects of
his impulsive grief through the agency of
the back of a hand, he looked much more
composed and, consequently, better.

"I'm all right now," said he, with a sound
through the nose vulgarly called a snuffle.

If so, remain so," replied little Mite ;
'' amen, and so be it. Don't try to make
any improvement upon all right."

At this precise moment of the earth's
history of sighs and sorrows, comings and
goings, meetings and separations, the well-known
footfall of the head lad was heard
approaching the Unknown's box, and, upon
lifting the latch of the door, he found the
two good boys assiduously at work.

CHAPTER XIV.

.taking the seasons through Newmarket
-■- may be said to be rather in a lethargic
state than otherwise. Irrespective of certain
fixed dates for the disposal of certain events,
fraught with the deepest interest to its inhabitants,
Newmarket, like the parrot at
'' The Greyhound," looks to maintain but
one eye open, and appears, in a general
way, inactive, dull, and drowsy. It might,
however, prove unreliable security for a
stranger to depend upon this apparent state
of coma, and hope to catch any one of the
inhabitants asleep with a view of taking undue
advantage of their helpless condition.
More wide awake than she appears, Newmarket

knows full well the value of taking
care of herself, and, dead or ghostly as she
may often seem, there is no denying the
simple fact that her thoughts are more inclined
to things of the earth than those of
an ethereal nature. " Of the earth, earthy."
Such is the mundane sentiment of Newmarket.


The day to which precise reference is
being made concerning time, place, and
circumstance was anything but a dull or
dreary one. Astir betimes, the very cocks
were heard to crow long before the first
streak of silver light tinged the east, and,
much earlier than her wont, Newmarket
proclaimed herself to be wide awake. It
was remarked, however, by a frequenter of
the " Greyhound," who might have been
seen at daybreak, with great punctuality,
before the bar, as a recipient of refreshing
attentions from the gentleman behind the
bar, that the prophetic parrot was anything

but lively. With a ruffled shake of her
plumage, she now and then lifted a foot and
scratched the back part of her head, and
then, settling down on her perch, peered in
silence, with one eye closed, from between
the bars of her prison, like a sagacious bird
as she was, a-thinking. Nothing, however,
could either provoke or persuade her to
speak, and there she sat, as she had done
since the public announcement of the conditions
of the Great Match, as mute as a
mummy.

She's not given ye the straight tip, I
repose ?" remarked the gentleman before the
bar, sipping a mixture of something hot
redolent of the fragrance of rum.

"Tip be blowed !" ejaculated the gentleman
behind the bar, in a tone which marked
extreme irritability of the nervous system.
'sto follow her at one time was to put down
money only to take it up again ; but now,
right or wrong, she won't speak a word."

Doesn't she swear, then ?" inquired the
gentleman before the bar, with incredulity
in his manner.

Never gives us a round shot now," replied
the gentleman behind the bar. " There
was a time," continued he, with admiration,
when she could let go a volley to be
remembered."

^' I've come here often and often to hear
her," rejoined the gentleman before the bar,
with a smile which amounted to sweetness
of expression, '' and I was never more edified
in the whole course of my life. A master
of the art he must have been who taught
her."

The gentleman behind the bar, being the
tutor referred to, felt that praise had been
given to his accomplishments, and did not
scruple to receive it with becoming modesty.

'' I gave her the first lesson she ever had,"
said he, " and, when she found out what
was really wanted, no bird could have improved

more rapidly. She soon became my
master.

"And gave you, perhaps, a few novelties,"
added the gentleman before the bar,
with a smile which amounted to additional
sweetness of expression.

'' Not a few, but many," returned the
gentleman behind the bar, *' and of the
choicest kind ; but she says nothing now,
good or bad."

Just at this moment, however, the parrot
announced, in the plainest of Saxon vernacular,
that the speaker was a decided
perverter of the truth. It was pronounced
in a guttural tone, but there was no mistaking
the true intent and meaning of what
was said.

You're a liar," repeated the parrot.

'' The colonel '11 " but here she stopped

short.

The gentlemen occupying the respective
positions of both before and behind the bar

seemed greatly excited and interested at the
prolonged silence having been so rudely
broken, and stood gazing with fixed eyes at
the prophetess, eager for the conclusion of
the sentence.

She'll give us the tip presently," whispered
the gentleman before the bar, with a
sage nod.

*' You're a liar," responded the parrot,
turning her head on one side with a closed
eye, as she slily peeped through the bars of
her cage with the other, and, in accordance
with the fixed rules of arbitrary strictness,
there was no gainsaying the fact ; for neither
coaxing blandishments nor hostile threats
produced the slightest effect, and the oracle,
standing in a defiant attitude upon her
perch, refused to speak another syllable.

We must give it up," groaned the
gentleman before the bar, draining his glass
to the last available drop, and give it up
they did.

The day wore on, as all days do, measured
by infinite precision of time, and the
hour fixed for the decision of the Great
Match approached. North was pitted against
South, and the partizans of the opposite
poles were fierce in their antagonism. It
was no secret that Yorkshire would chancre
hands if Belted Will was beaten, and those
immediately interested in the transfer of the
county were rubbing the ends of their
fingers with a cat-like motion, in anticipation
of the deeds being duly signed, sealed,
and delivered. North and South were alike
confident. Commissions to the amount of
thousands had been thrown into the market
as the chronicles of the Turf averred — to
first back one horse and then the other,
and no sooner were they executed than more
followed, as if the sum to be staked in this
one venture was inexhaustible. Rash concerning
the means, and reckless as to consequences,
North was bent upon the ruin of

VOL. III. N

South, and South slily laughed in her sleeve
at the attempt.

*' Our champion has the best of the
weights !" cried the North, exultingly.

Ours can stay the Beacon Course from
end to end," replied the South in defiance,
and fly at the finish !"

Rumour had stated that Colonel Leferne
would not be present to witness the result
of the great match between his horse and
Belted Will in consequence of severe indisposition
; but, in this particular instance,
rumour was at fault, for the owner of the
Unknown might have been seen, unobserved
by most observers, standing by himself under
the cover of the two old, time-grown,
storm-torn bushes on the Heath, with his
hands crossed upon the top of his cane for
support, as he seemed to lean upon it
heavily, and with a cynical smile upon his
lips. He heard the roar of the crowd at no
great distance off, and only wished that he

could join it with the means that he once
possessed, and silence that roar.

Ha !" exclaimed he, in an undertone, ashe
turned a listening ear to the cries that
arose from the Ring, "if I had but the
power, as of old, I would strike ye all
dumb. Xot an offer to lay against my
horse should pass. I would accept them allay,
as long as a pencil would be moved
against him."

The colonel's eyes flashed as he spoke.

*• I'll lay against the Unknown," shouted
a shrill voice in the distance.

*' To your own loss," responded the
colonel, but the words were addressed to
himself, and did not cross his lips. ''To
your own loss," repeated he ; 'for the Unknown
will win. Yes," continued he, muttering
as he spoke, " something whispers
within that my last stake will be avon. Fortune
treats those best who trust her most,
and she has no cause, hitherto, to find fault

n2

with m}^ want of confidence. The finish
shall be, at least, what the commencement
was."

As the time approached for the start to
take place, the excitement of the assembled
crowd became intensified. Horsemen galloped
to and fro, and the din of voices rose
higher and higher ; but one thought ruled
in the minds of each and all, and that might
be read in the anxious faces that flitted past.

"They're off!" was the cry, and soon, as
if by universal consent, a dead silence reigned.
Men stared in the distance with bated
breath, and with pulses that beat feverishly
fast or sometimes stopped. One, however,
stood alone unmoved, and without the perceptible
quiver of a nerve, under the shade
of the two old time-grown, storm-torn
bushes on the Heath, but gazing like the
rest with a fixed look in the distance,

How do you feel, Taddy ?" inquired
little Mite in a whisper, as he stood by the

side of his companion and partner of his
toil, and in a direct Hne with the judge's chair
in order, perhaps, that he might supplement
the decision of the eminent authority occupying
it, in the event of there being a
difference of opinion on the part of the
British public concerning its justice. " How
do you feel, Taddy ?" repeated he.

"Don't talk," curtly replied Johnny
Tadpole, and in a manner which may be
described as approaching the disagreeable
rather than the opposite. *' I've more than
I can do well with my eyes now. Let's
keep our tongues still."

The reproach seemed to subdue little
Mite, and he forthwith collapsed into unbroken
silence.

Like the rest of the spectators, little
Mite stared with a fixed look in the distance.


On they came, pigmy of size at first,
looming larger, as, apparently, head to head

the colours of the Unknown and Belted
Will became more conspicuous as they raced
side by side, without the perceptible advantage
of an inch between them.

Not a voice was raised. Locked together
the horses came running as straight as
arrows from a yew bow. Stride by stride
they approached the winning post ; but
they might have been, for aught of any
appearance to the contrary, one horse for
any difference in the position of being first
or second. "The Demon " sat with hands
down as motionless as if carved from oak,
casting, perhaps, furtive glances at his rival ;
but these were without a witness, for the
Unknown was being watched far more
closely than his jockey.

The rider too of Belted Will was an
artist of no mean order. Like " The Demon"
he never moved in his saddle, but
swept along like a shadow from the substance.


Stride by stride. Side by side.

Just before the post was gained a roar
burst from the throats of the assembled
multitude.

The Unknown wins."

Belted Will for a kingdom."

Opinions differed with the most unprejudiced
as to which had won, before the fiat of
the judge himself had been given ; but as
all eyes were stretched and strained to
learn the number announcing the victory
two numbers were placed side by side on
the board which has made many a brave
heart quail to look at.

It was a dead heat.

CHAPTER XV.

COLONEL LEFERNE had "made up
his mind' and when this balance had
been struck in the debtor and creditor
account between himself and nobody else,
he was never known to make any additions,
subtractions, or modifications.

Colonel Leferne had " made up his mind '^
on the spot to accept the offer of the deciding
heat being off by consent. People
clamoured, people argued, people persuaded,
but all to no purpose. Colonel Leferne
had " made up his mind," and there was an
end to the controversy, or, if not an end toit,
there might quite as well have been for
any change in the ulterior measures connected
with it.

The deciding heat is off by consent,"
said Colonel Leferne to an importunate
questioner, as he strolled with a feeble gait
from the heath towards the town, " and the
stakes are drawn."

But what benefit will that be to us ?"
hissed a well-kncnvn voice, albeit sent
through his clenched teeth.

"The negative advantage of avoiding a
certain loss," replied the colonel, without
directing even a single look towards the
speaker, "and, therefore, certain ruin."

"But "

You would say, Early," interrupted the
colonel, '" that we have by our commissions
and omissions already arrived at that most
unpleasant stage in the journey of life. It
may be so," continued he, " and yet no one
would insure a certainty of such a result
while a shadow of a chance remained of
escaping it. In the deciding heat my horse
would have been beaten."

How do you know that?" fiercely inquired
Jeremiah Early — '' how do you know
that?"

Colonel Leferne drew back the acute
angles of his mouth, and replied, in a tone
vexatious from its gentleness, as he stopped
and rested with both hands crossed upon
the top of his cane.

Do you doubt my judgment, gained
from such long and costly experience ?"

Jeremiah Early felt that he was now a
partner in the costly experience, and felt
that his judgment, at least, was not at a
premium from an investment of the capital,
but, as it seemed to him, at a considerable
discount.

Now, as formerly," bitterly rejoined the
lawyer, "you, at any rate, are wrong, and I
suffer from the error."

Compensation for my mistakes," blandly
returned the colonel, "is certainly postponed.
I hoped that the event of to-day

would by its result have enabled fine to
liquidate a considerable portion of my debt
due to you. As it is," continued he, " I
fear that the sum must remain in its entirety."


*' Not for another day," added Jeremiah
Early. " Not for another day," repeated
he, and there was determination both in his
tone and manner.

Indeed!" languidly exclaimed the colonel
; " you surprise me."

I'll realise my securities, even "

"To the sale of my easy-chair," interrupted
his client. '' Nothing could possibly
be more inconsiderate, Early. But still
don't reserve it on my account. Let it go
with the pots and the pans."

*' All shall go," said the lawyer, bitterly.
*' I'll wait no longer for anything or anyone.


There must, of course, be limits even
to patience," rejoined the colonel, " and, as a

smatter of opinion, I think that yours, Early,
must necessarily be exhausted. Let me
suggest that you forthwith carry out your
determination of not waiting longer for anything
or anyone."

The steps that I shall take will be your
ruin," responded Jeremiah Early, with the
venom of a man wishing to sting deeply, but
scarcely knowing how to sharpen his speech
to the keenest edge.

Father say," added the colonel, with a
cynical smile, " that the steps / have taken
have been my ruin. Don't reproach yourself,
Early, on my account. It is quite unmerited."


And with the opportunities you have
had of paying all that you owe me, principal
and interest !" ejaculated the lawyer.

"Lost opportunities are the bitters. Early,
which most of us have to swallow in our
moments of reflection," replied the colonel.
"**But to what do you now particularly refer?"

To this blunder of yours," rejoined his
companion. "It was in your power to turn
this last race to your own certain advantage."

*' You have, perhaps unwittingly, applied
a truly proper description to the event so
recently numbered ^vith the things of the
past," returned the colonel. " It is the last
race, Early, in which my colours will have
been seen by friend or foe."

Why not have had the trial," said the
lawyer, " and so held the trump card in
your hand ?"

An arrangement, no doubt, worthy of
the abilities of thimble-rig graduates," replied
the colonel; 'but scarcely to be thought of
twice bv a gentleman."

Gentleman !" sneered Jeremiah Early.
'* What is a gentleman without money ?"

"A helpless biped it must be confessed''
responded the colonel, " as I can testify
from familiar experience. But still he maybe
a gentleman without a penny."

"I could see nothing wrong in having a
trial," remarked the lawyer, ^'and then we
should have known what to have done."

'* By doing the unsuspecting, confiding,
and innocent British public," replied the
colonel. " That, Early," continued he,
can scarcely be classed among the accomplishments
of a gentleman."

'' British public !" exclaimed the lawyer,
with ill concealed anger. " What is the
British public to me more than I am to it?"

*' There is sound reasoning in that question,"
said the colonel, "" and yet the mutual
indifference which may probably be felt on
the side of both can scarcely justify systematic
robbery by either."

It's too late, perhaps, to say anything
about it," returned Jeremiah Early. " But
why was not the trial brought off?"

With a special interest in your profession,
Early," replied Colonel Leferne, with his
lips separated, if not with a smile, " you

will persist in referring to the trial. As
you seem incapable of forming a conclusion,"
continued he, '' from events within

your own knowledge, I will sive you a
J ~ ' kit'

plain and simple answer. The proposition
of having a private trial between the Unknown
and Belted Will emanated from the
professors of rascaldom. The design was to
have the game in the hands of the few and
to rob the many. Now, Mark Rooksonon, to
whom the scheme was first suggested, entertains
a nervous susceptibility about the ways
and means of securing certainties, and has
the independent habit of calling men and
things by their proper names. In speaking
of a crowbar he would not describe it as a
toothpick."

*' But what has this to do with the
trial ?" irritably inquired the lawyer.

More, perhaps," coolly replied the
colonel, " than at the present moment
appears. To be brief, however," continued

he, "Mark Hooks was thrice armed in
that honesty which is above suspicion, and
I, beggar as I am, resolved that the Great
Match should be as good as it has been
great."

"And as unprofitable as both," added
Jeremiah Early.

Colonel Leferne shrugged his shoulders ;
but said nothing in reply.

"Do you return home at once?" asked
the lawyer, after a short pause.

Immediately," replied the colonel.
My carriage and post horses will be herewith
as little delay as possible."

You travel with four, of course," rejoined
the lawyer, with a sneer.

•' Always," returned the colonel. " I am
too impatient naturally to travel with less.
'Tis the pace, they say, that kills. Now the
pace to me, Early, is that by which I have
lived, and I may as well be consistent on
my last journey."

Your last journey." repeated the lawyer,
as if the words rose voluntarily to his
lips.

"Ay," returned the colonel. "Each and
all must take their last journey, and by far
the greater number without knowing when
they take it. My exceptional privilege is
the knowledge that the journey I am about
taking on my return to Greatwood Park is
my last."

Why ?" nervously inquired Jeremiah
Early.

You saw me, perhaps," responded the
colonel, " after the decision was announced
that the deciding heat was off by consent,
put my hands down the arched neck of my
horse and caress him. How did I look?"

"I saw nothing particular in your looks,"
replied the lawyer, with careless indifference,


And yet, Early," rejoined the colonel,
what was left of a tough heart at that

VOL. III. O

moment was broken. Hope had fled, and,
worst of all, I knew it."

But you are no worse off than sou
were," returned Jeremiah Early, beginning
to feel that at least he might be from the
words of despair just spoken by the colonel.
''If a bankrupt before," continued he,
*' you are not more so now, and your son's
return may still put all things straight."

"I have awaited for my son's return so
long," said the colonel, "until I believe
that when it takes place — as take place it
must — it will be too late for any repairs to
my dilapidated fortune. I shall probably
have taken possession before we meet,
Early, of that small freehold that even you
would not wish to turn me out."

Neither think nor speak in this doleful
manner," said the lawyer, feeling that his
threats of what he either could do or would
were almost useless now, " I'll give you
time still, and "

"Xot sell ray easy-chair," added the
colonel, smiling, as he stopped upon the
verpre of the heath leading into the Hide
Street of Newmarket and announced that he
could not walk another step.

'• Lean on me," said Jeremiah Early, ashe
proffered an arm for support.

'that I have done, figuratively speaking,"
replied the colonel, '* for a long page in
my life's history. You have been heavily
handicapped, Early, and shall no longer
bear the dead weight."

Jeremiah Early slightly started at these
words delivered in a slow, deliberate tone.

'' Or being more strictly correct," continued
the colonel *' let me say dying. But
here comes my carriage, and as you anticipated,
Early, with four horses."

With the assistance of his cane on which
he leant heavily, and a helping hand from
Jeremiah Early, Colonel Leferne took his
seat, and the post-boys, knowing their

o2

passenger, started, as soon as the carriage
door was shut, at a gallop on their first stage
to Greatwood Park.

CHAPTER XVI.

Tender the same roof, but from the
^ remote date of their first and last
quarrel, Colonel Leferne and his wife had
not met. Strangely disappointed and mortified
with her brother's expressed indifference
and selfish objects, Aunt Margaret had
avoided his presence for some time previous
to his departure from home to witness, ashe
said, the victory of his favourite, and to
wain that which he never had yet had —
enough. Upon his return no welcome, as
usual, awaited him, and the lonely, friendless
man crossed the threshold of his home with
nothing but the echo of his footfall to strike
painfully on his ear.

He was alone, and, for the first time in
his life, felt that he deserved to be.

As he slowly approached the door of the
room in which he generally sat, it was
thrown gently and noiselessly back upon its
hinges, and Mr. Thomas Soppy, with a bow
of the best, bowed him in.

Mr. Soppy, at a single glance out of the
corners of his gooseberry eyes at the colonel's
lined, pale, and furrowed features, saw
that things generally and particularly were
not so pleasant as might be desired, and
jumped suddenly at the conclusion that it
might be expedient to abide the issue of
events, and not anticipate them by any motion
of his own. Mr. Thomas Soppy felt
that to be silent, even to profound dumbness,
would exhibit the wisdom of a truly
wise head.

Colonel Leferne sank languidly into the
seat of an arm-chair, and, clasping his hands
upon the elbows, bent a look steadfastly

upon the floor beneath his feet, and appeared
totally unconscious of the immediate whereabouts
of Mr. Soppy, or, indeed, of anyone
or anything beyond the range of the circle
of his own concealed thoughts.

Acting with, perhaps, wise discretion, Mr.
Soppy continued mute, but felt uncomfortable
at the prolonged demand upon his physical
and mental powers.

I wish he would speak," said Mr. Soppy,
in confidence to himself, " if it were only to
rosin me up a bit."

Mr. Soppy 's wish was scarcely entertained
before its gratification was complete.

"Who told you to remain here?" thundered
the colonel, with a full measure of
the old fire of earlier days.

Mr. Soppy — Mr. Thomas Soppy — knew
instinctively that he was going to be joined
up a bit. " I thought, Colonel "

"Who the devil, sir, gave you permission
to think ?" roared his master.

If a liberty," replied Mr. Soppy, blandly,
it shall not be taken twice Colonel. I'll
never think again."

By the saints' ejaculated the colonel,
things have come to a pretty pass when I
am told — deliberately told — that a fellow
who has blacked my boots for the best part
of half a century has the insolence to
think !"

Mr. Soppy's natural and acquired pride
was slightly wounded at the acidity of this
remark, and he bit or nibbled the end of
a thumb by way of compensation to his
feelings.

''To be joined," said he, within his inner
self, " is one thing, but to have it rubbed in
too strong is cruelty to animals."

'you know what I expect from those
under my command or immediate control,"
said the colonel.

'quite so," replied Mr. Soppy, slightly
relieved from the embarrassment of nibbling

the end of a thumb — "quite so, Colonel."

I expect them," rejoined the colonel,
to do, think, speak, hear, and touch precisely
in accordance with my own present
sentiments, and to leave undone, unthought,
unspoken, unheard, and untouched everything
that fails to accord with my own
present sentiments."

'quite so," responded Mr. Soppy, deferentially
— *' quite so. Colonel."

"That being indisputable," returned the
colonel, hoisting; the well-known signal of
his two fore-fingers, " by what right had
you the audacity to think you had a licence
to remain here without knowing my present
sentiments upon the subject?"

Mr. Soppy, remembering his unqualified
admission, felt that the argument was against
lira, and resolved so far as he was concerned,
to close the subject in discreet silence.
A second pause ensued, and was prolonged
to so great a length that it became decidedly

awkward, and Mr. Soppy once more had
recourse to his thumb.

Has anything taken place during my
absence which ought to occupy ray attention,
whether it will do so or not ?" asked the
colonel, as if about to drop into a quiet
doze.

Not so far, Colonel," returned Mr. Soppy,
*ras I can recollect, worth mentioning."

'' My sister ?"

'"' Goes a shade slower, Colonel, day b}^
day ; but she does not change much for
better or worse," replied Mr. Soppy.

*' And her companion ?"

Mr. Soppy was suddenly seized with a
cough of a most irritating kind, which seemed
to threaten instant suffocation.

And her companion ?" repeated the
colonel, in the same drowsy tone.

"As she was, Colonel," spluttered Mr.
Soppy, making a powerful effort to check
the violence of his cough ; "or, as we

used to say at Hoxford, as she were'*

Xo intelligence of my "

'' Not a word, Colonel," interrupted Mr.
Soppy, thinking it a master stroke of policy
to nip the expression in the bud.

*' Is that fellow Girling seen about here ?"
^''Xot often. Colonel," responded Mr.
Soppy. '' Now and again he comes to make
as it seems to me — a fool of himself in
more ways than one ; but he doesn't stay
long to bray about this part of the country."

*' Bray !" repeated the colonel, with a
slight smile separating his lips. " I like the
term. It sounds so redolent of the jackass."

Quite so, Colonel," chimed in Mr. Soppy.
'' Quite so."

The signal which had been lowered was
again hoisted.

*you cannot be otherwise than aware
that I know you would as readily tell an
unqualified, unmitigated lie. Soppy," observed
the colonel, letting his fingers fall gently

upon the elbow of the chair, " as the simple,
unvarnished, creditable truth."

Mr. Soppy's thumb went with a convulsive
jerk to his teeth again.

The colonel raised his eyes slowly, and,
fixing them upon those of Mr. Soppy, looked
as if he expected an answer without much
delay, if any.

'' Quite so. Colonel," stammered Mr.
Soppy. " Quite so."

You, in fact," continued the colonel,
never seem to have realized the difference
between plain, solid history, and the too
exalted flight of the imagination."

The alternative of the thumb being nearly
exhausted, Mr. Soppy's cough opportunely
came to the rescue to fill in a small blank.

I entertain the suspicion," resumed the
colonel, in a somewhat less austere tone and
manner, which seemed to mollify the nervous
disarrangement of Mr. Soppy's system,
'' that you are not so ignorant of my son's

movements and whereabouts as you appear
to be."

Mr. Soppy was about to be evidently profane
in his emphatic denial of this impeachment,
but was checked by the signal, and
cut short in the delivery of a strong personal
condemnation.

It is not my devout wish that you should

be d d, Soppy," continued the colonel;

"but you can consult the vicar upon this
subject at your perfect convenience. What
I want to know at the present moment is
whether you have had, directly or indirectly,
any correspondence or communication with
my son during his now long absence ?"

Mr. Soppy raised his hands clasped together
above his head, and was about to
drop upon his knees.

"Don't trouble yourself," said the colonel,
by posing in ridiculous, ungraceful, and
unnatural attitudes. You mean, I see, to
convey that my suspicion is groundless."

*' Quite so, Colonel," responded Mr. Soppy,
straightening his knees, and, in a figurative
sense, shaking himself into his accustomed
form. "" Quite so."

His small resources must long since
have been exhausted," observed the colonel,
reflectively, " Without the means of living,
how can he live ? Dolls, we all know,
Soppy, are expensive toys, and his, I suppose,
would not fail to impress upon his
memory that he was a Leferne."

Quite so," returned Mr. Soppy. '' Quite
so, Colonel."

"Admitting, then, the circumstances by
which he is surrounded," said the colonel
as if nearly asleep, " how can he live, or,
indeed, exist r"

Without ready money," replied Mr.
Soppy, "we all know, who know anything,
that things work rusty. But the old blood,
Colonel, of our family "

Mr. Soppy felt that he had committed

a mistake, and hastened to correct it."

"Of the family, Colonel," continued he,
*' knows what credit means."

Colonel Leferne smiled almost imperceptibly,
and as if in a dream.

"The old blood, Colonel," resumed Mr.
Soppy, "is not, was not, and won't be particular
when its wants exceed the supply."

"Your conjecture is, then," returned the
colonel, '' that my son and his doll are
living somewhere on the mistaken credulity
of some one."

Quite so, Colonel," added Mr. Soppy,
as if he had earned a compliment, and was
repaid with compound interest. "Quite so."

But this cannot last," said the colonel.

With the old blood of our family "—
Mr. Soppy knew that the error of speech
had been repeated, and slightly stammered
before the sentence was finished — " this sort
of business has lasted, Colonel, for a precious
long time. It may come to an end, of

course ; but not in a promiscuous hurry
with my young master. As a thorough
gentleman, he knows how to get what he
wants without money."

I wish that / did, Soppy," responded
the colonel. " At the present moment it
would be more than convenient."

My wish, of course, Colonel," returned
Mr. Soppy, *' naturally agrees with yours,"
and, with a bow of the best, he pressed his
right hand upon the left of his breast.

What a humbug and transparent sham
you are. Soppy !" added the colonel. *' But
then you always were so in the past, and,
consequently, are consistent in the present."

'' Quite so, Colonel," said Mr. Soppy, with
great self-complacency. " Quite so."

*' I am almost exhausted with my long
and last journey," observed the colonel,
drawing a hand slowly across his forehead
much too hot for the effect of a brain at an
approach to ease. '' Get me some refreshment,"

continued he, "and let me be the companion
only of that ancient rascal," and ashe
spoke he pointed to the blackened portrait
of his ancestor in steel harness upon
the wall, " who was the author of our
family motto to ' live with will unfettered.' "

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XVII.

rriHE night was far advanced, and yet
-*- Colonel Leferne remained in this chair
as unconscious of the companionship of his
steel-clad ancestor in canvas on the wall as
the begrimed portrait of his ancestor was of
his ; for he was asleep, and apparently,
from the motionless form and placid, deathlike
expression of his features, at rest.

Hour succeeded hour, and Colonel Leferne
still slept on. It might have been
the effect of a dream, but something between
waking and sleeping led him to be partly
conscious that a hand was pressed closely
on the back of one of his, dropped carelessly
on the elbow of the chair in which he

sat. Confused with the abrupt disturbance
of his long, unbroken slumber, the colonel
raised his heavy eyelids and saw, or thought
he saw, a thin, white, shadowy hand covering
his own. Not a nerve was shaken, nota
muscle moved. Colonel Leferne bent a
fixed and steadfast look upon the hand, as
if to assure himself that it was not an unreal
vision, and to leave no doubt concerning its
reality.

The colonel knew that he was no longer
a wanderer in misty dreamland, and the
hand, cold and immovable as if carved in
marble, remaining where it was confirmed
the knowledge. Raising his eyes, he saw
the wan, spectre-like face of a woman in
the flickering, uncertain light of the dying
embers on the hearth, standing by his side,
and it required no second look to know
that that woman ^Yas his wife. With a
gentle movement he withdrew his hand
from beneath hers, and then, rising slowly

p2

from his seat, stood in silence gazing at her.

"It is a long time since we met, Julia,"
at length said he, in a broken voice which
sounded like a hoarse whisper.

*every long," she replied — "or, at least,
since we exchanged a single word. Years,
Edward, long years, have passed since then,
and not one hour of happiness for me."

Not one hour of happiness," repeated
he, in the same hoarse tone, " throughout
long years ! That is a long time, Julia, for
uninterrupted sorrow."

Very long," she rejoined, mournfully,
and with a deep sigh. " The hours themselves
were often counted, and I sometimes
thought the night would never come or go."

•' You were then very unwell," remarked
her husband, as if at a loss what to say, and
keeping a fixed but almost dazed look upon
the white and bloodless features of his wife.

Very unwell," she returned ; *' but still,
Edward, I was not mad. Indeed I was not.

My brain at times felt scorched' and she
drew a hand slowly across her forehead ;
*but I was not mad, Edward. Indeed I
was not."

Whether so or not," added he, '' that
subject need not be discussed between us
now. It is too late, as most errors are
when discovered, either to prevent or
correct."

But not too late, Edward," she ejaculated,
" for which to make a few amends !
Say but one word of kindness to me, and all
the wrongs that I have suffered at your
hands shall be forgiven, even if not forgotten."


I have not the slightest objection in
giving utterance to that one word, Julia,"
said the colonel, recovering some of his self-possession,
"if you will prompt me to speak
it."

I hoped, Edward," was the mournful
reply, " your heart would have done that."

In days long ago," rejoined the colonel,
it might have rendered me eloquent ;
but " — and he touched his left side with the
ends of the two forefingers of his right hand
as he spoke — " without a cause there can
be no effect."

"Am I to understand then," returned
she, clasping her hands together, and advancing
closer to him, " that we are never
to be friends again ? Is the short future of
my life to be like that of the past, hopeless?"

'' If so," he replied, " it will only correspond
with my own, Julia. In being hopeless,
I accept the inevitable."

Not one living should be that," added
she. " The condemned ought to know only
what hopeless means !"

*' It may be so," continued the colonel,
*rand, if I am to judge from my own feelings,
Julia, I must hold a high position in
that category."

^'But let me pray "

For Die, if you think it advisable," interrupted
the colonel; "but not with me.
I am not in the humour for either petitions
or thanksgivings."

But what have you to say to me ?" she
asked, wringing her hands convulsively, and
moving still nearer to where he stood.

Colonel Leferne's lips where compressed
as he stood gazing at his wife with blindness
eyelids, and not a syllable escaped them.

But what have you to say to me ?" she
repeated, in a tremulous voice.

'• A reply," he returned, in a voice still
hoarser and more broken than before, '' that
a man may give for acknowledged and committed
wrongs."

With one throw forward she was in his
arms, and her head rested upon his breast,
for the first time since their last quarrel,
and the first in their lives — long, long ago.

And so they remained, while the light
thrown from the smouldering embers on

the hearth grew paler and more indistinct.

I have been," said he, smoothing the
chestnut hair separated upon her brow, and
now streaked with silver threads, ^' most
cruel to you, Julia, and there is nothing I
can either do or say to compensate for what
can never be atoned for."

'* We will not even speak of atonement,"
she replied, looking upwards into his face
with a loving smile, which brought to
memory thoughts of happier hours. " Let
us only recollect that we are together here
as in the old time when I had but one wish,
and that was yours."

Colonel Leferne said nothing, but remained
in silence, smoothing the chestnut
hair, now streaked with silver threads, and
still resting upon his breast.

It was my fault to refuse you," she murmured,
" what you asked, and, for all that
followed, perhaps, I am myself to blame."

Her husband now pressed his lips upon

her brow, and kept them there as if sealed,
without uttering a word — not a single word.

*' You must think, Edward, for my sake,"
she continued, with a cheerful smile, and
her face still turned upwards towards his,
"that I was the wrong-doer. It was I who
thoughtlessly refused your urgent request,
and that which followed I alone am accountable
for to myself, and only to myself who,
perhaps, have suffered most."

The colonel's arms seemed to entwine
more closely the form of his wife as he
stood mechanically smoothing her bright,
chestnut hair, and as if listening in mute
expectancy for something more.

"Tell me, Edward," she said, with an
appealing look which seemed to drive the
last tinge of colour from his cheek, " what
your wishes are, and if I know in this moment
of joy that the fulfilment of one only
will break my heart — my heart as your
loving wife shall be broken."

Colonel Leferne pressed her more closets
to his side ; but gave no utterance to a
word.

I was, and am so proud of you," she
resumed, with her head still resting on his
breast. " The well-bred gentleman and
brave soldier was the hero of ni}^ young
and girlish days, and in you, Edward, I met
with the romance of my most sanguine
hopes, highly raised as indeed they were."

The colonel smiled, but still said nothing
in reply.

'rit might be," she added, now raising
her head and fixing her eyes steadfastly
upon his as if she would read his inmost
soul, " that in ray pride and love for you
I forgot all else in the worship of my idol."

Colonel Leferne's hand no longer smoothed
the chestnut hair streaked with silver
threads, but remained motionless upon her
forehead.

It was wrong, and perhaps sinful," she

said, " to forget in my thoughts and prayers
all else besides ; but you will not blame
me. A woman loves but once, Edward, and
too often once too well."

In me, Julia," replied her husband, in
the same hoarse whisper, " I fear that you,
indeed, committed the error you describe."

And yet," she rejoined, with a long,
loving kiss which stopped further utterance,
I would at this moment freely give to you
that love had I not given it long before."

Colonel Leferne could not speak. The
hoarse whisper in the attempt died upon
'his lips.

We have no control over the past,
Edward," she resumed. " That which belongs
to days gone by is beyond even immortal
power. Let us, therefore, try to
make the future joyous and live for the
happiness of each other."

"The future," repeated the colonel, in a
murmur that was scarcely audible.

'* Yes," she rejoined, '' the future, whether
it be long or short," and she again kissed
him with an affectionate, womanly love.

Do you know that you are speaking,
Julia, to a hopeless, ruined bankrupt ?"

"I know much, if not all," replied his
wife, "but nothing to make you hopeless
while I live and possess the free will to
help you."

"There must be no sacrifice of your
interests, Julia, for me," said the colonel.
The time has gone for that, and doubtlessly
should never have been."

"Forgetful once," she replied, "I remember
now that what belongs to me is
yours. Take all and more than all if it
were mine to give."

In your enthusiasm to give all to me,"
rejoined her husband, speaking in a slow,
thoughtful voice, with his arms still entwined
around her, "you seem to forget, Julia,
that we have a son."

She might in those few transient moments
have forgotten that she was the mother of
a child whom she had never seen ; lout reminded
of being so the sudden thought appeared
to strike the life blood from her
heart.

CHAPTER XVIII.

1\ metaphorically speaking, the
■^^-^ shutters were closed at the dairy in
Bromley Marsh. Samuel Wideoo's establishment
was wrapped in darkness and
gloom, and the immediate neighbourhood
seemed shrouded in a fog of unusual density.
There was no joy in the house or out of it,
as far as concerned the privileged few forming
the small circle beneath its roof. When
the duties of the day were done, and the
last minute measure of milk had been delivered
to the last, perhaps doubtful, customer,
Samuel Wideoo stood with his reverse
to the empty fire-grate, and the tails of his
coat divided as if deceiving himself with

imaginary warmth, but the real chill upon
and through his system generally came from
within and not from without The pleasure
of raemor}^ was clearly not ]his, as he stood
one evening staring at the floor as if looking
for a pin which happened not to be there,
as far as he could see.

"You don't seem very chirp, Sam," observed
William Bottles, balancing himself on
the hind legs of a chair, with his head resting
against the wall. " You don't seem very
chirp, Sam," repeated he.

"To lose it only by the skin of his teeth,"
groaned Samuel Wideoo. "It's enough to

make one " and to illustrate his natural

meaning, he thrust a clenched fist straight
from the shoulder into mid-air.

"I shall never get over it," remarked
Johnny Tadpole, with a sigh so deep that it
sounded as if coming from his toes. " I
shall never get over it, Mister Bottles."

"Yes, you will, Taddy," replied Mr.

Bottles, "ill the course of time. You are
young, recollect, and only a little more than
half-fledged as yet. It's wonderful," continued
he, addressing his observation particularly
to Samuel Wideoo, " how thin our
skins are when half fledged."

o

Time touches them," was the sate response.
"Time touches them, Billy."

"If I may judge by mine," rejoined
William Bottles, " that's the religious truth,
Sam. It is so''

"To be a mouse instead of a man by the
skin of his teeth !" whimpered Tadd}^ " I
wish I'd never been born !"

'' Come, come," expostulated the dairyman,
" let's have none o' them heathen sentiments.
You wish you had never been
born ? Think what a Christian privilege it
is to be born, the earthly comforts you have

had, Taddy, and — and " Samuel Wideoo

was clearly at fault for an appropriate conclusion.


*' The beef and puddle you've digested,
washed down by cooper," added William
Bottles, coming to the rescue of his friend's
more than broken sentence.

*' I don't forget my earthly comforts,"
returned Taddy, sitting on the edge of the
table of small dimensions, and dangling his
legs to and fro, " and never did when I had
the chance; but the scale is often too light
with 'em to keep the balance straight."

'' Nicely put," added Samuel Wideoo, with
unquestionable admiration at the remark.
"Nicely put for five-stun-three, eh, Billy
Bottles ?"

'don't let us go into weights, sir," expostulated
Taddy, remembering a former
unpleasant discussion upon the personal
subject. *ewe had better bar weights. I
do a great deal," continued he, " and leave
undone a great deal to keep mine down to
the lowest ; but somehow or other the fat
will lump on in parts and licks me."

VOL. III. Q

^'You mustn't let it do that, Taddy,"
replied Billy Bottles, "if you're to be a
fashionable light weight, as I've told you
before."

'how am I to stop it lumping on,"
irritably asked Taddy, " or when or
how am I to get rid of it when lumped
on ?"

Starve yourself," benignantly responded
William Bottles, with a graceful flourish of
his broad-palmed dexter hand. "Starve
yourself, Taddy."

I've heard of that before," said Taddy,
with a slight increase of ill-temper. " Starve
yourself!"

'' Physic yourself," blandly returned Mr.
William Bottles.

Physic be bio wed !" angrily replied
Taddy.

Sweat yourself," rejoined William Bottles,
with a pronounced flourish of his
broad-palmed dexter hand, "and. heap on

your sweaters, Taddy, if you want to be a
fashionable light weight."

"I begin to think, sir," returned Taddy,
addressing his patron with a flushed cheek
and flashing eyes, " that wee shall get into
boiling water presently upon this subject.
We'd better cut it short, sir, we had indeed."

'• By all means," added Samuel Wideoo.

"Amen," concluded William Bottles,
turning up the whites of his eyes with a
pious demonstration if not particularly in
season. "Amen."

The colonel's colours will never be seen
in public again, I suppose," observed Samuel
Wideoo, in a melancholy tone and depressed
manner.

Never will the purple jacket and orange
cap be brought to the front again, sir," responded
Taddy, with an unchecked tear
trickling and tickling down his nose, "or go
behind as circumstances will prevail."

The foremost that were ever carried,"

q2

rejoined Billy Bottles, philosophically,
'' must sometimes take a back seat. They
can't always be in front."

*' That's the rule in more occupations
than racing," observed Samuel Wideoo. " It
even holds good in the milk line in a
sense," continued he. " We can't always
carry our milk pails before everybody."

"But kept in training," said William
Bottles, "what a cup-loss he would have
been, Sam !"

'she'd have swept the board of all the
cups in the United Kingdom," observed
Samuel Wideoo, with the air and almost
swagger of a man who set controversy at
defiance. '' The Unknown," continued hein
a determined tone and manner, " would
have swept the board of all the cups in the
United Kingdom."

"And may sweep the board of all the
cups in the United Kingdom," was the
ventured opinion of Johnny Tadpole.

** Who knows when I'm his attendant "

Attendant ? Ho, indeed," interrupted
Billy Bottles, " attendant, eh ?"

*' Well, hoy, if you like it better," added
Taddy. " I'm not particular. Boy, if you
like it better, mister William Bottles. I'm
not particular, so long as 1 have a leg up in
his best form. We shall win then, and
that's all I care about."

Ho, indeed !" ejaculated Billy Bottles,
and that's all you care about, Taddy, eh ?"

'' What should I care about else ?" inquired
Taddy.

The precious certainty of losing, Taddy,"
replied Mr. William Bottles, with a flourish
of his dexter hand. " Winning can never
be made a certainty, work it as you will,
but losing always can if the strings are
nicely pulled by those who know the difference
between twice one and twice two.
Don't talk to me about the honour of winning,"
continued he, with confessed contempt

in his tone and gesture, "but let us
have a pronounced blessing upon the profits
and virtues of losing, Taddy."

I shall give my pronounced blessing,"
rejoined Johnny Tadpole, '* when it's asked
for and not before. As a fashionable lightweight
I shall win when I can."

'' What a little donkey, then, you must
be!" exclaimed William Bottles. "Win
when you can, and not listen to reason ?"

A man who listens to reason once," and
Johnny Tadpole threw out his pigeon breast
with a swell of manly pride, " often finds
that he has listened to reason once too
often."

"Nicely put for five-stun-three, — eh,
Billy Bottles?" interrogatively remarked
Samuel Wideoo.

I don't say it worst," responded
William Bottles, cynically. "But what's
the good of heavenly opportunities, if you
don't embrace 'em ?"

'* Roping isn't one," rejoined Johnny
Tadpole, with an outward effect almost
approaching the majestic. '* Foul riding
isn't another," continued he, in a manner
closely connected with the sublime. " And
a man "

William Bottles raised the broad palm of
his dexter hand as if commencing a practical
obstruction.

Who sells a race," said Johnny Tadpole,
without seeing or, at any rate, heeding the
sinister interruption to, perhaps, his maiden
speech, *^ who sells a race," repeated he,
with now a solemnity of manner treading
closely upon the extreme, 'sought to be
jugged!"

Jugged ?" said William Bottles. "What's

that r

It isn't pleasant whatever it may be,"
responded Taddy, " and when a chap's
jugged he begins to sing small, I can
tell ye. No more real jam for him 1"

William Bottles looked puzzled, but
maintained a strict reticence upon the
respective subjects of "jugged " and '^ real
jam."

"No more mounts," resumed Johnny-tadpole,
" except it's Major Armstrong up.
Stand down is the order even from those
who have worked a barney with a poor
little fellow tempted to work a cross ; for
even the sharps are afraid to trust him
afterwards. From bad to worse down he
goes, and there's no more real jam for him."

William Bottles began to suspect that
some of the dearth of the confectionery
referred to might be traced to his having
yielded too impulsively, perhaps, to heavenly
opportunities.

"Nicely put," again chimed in Samuel
Wideoo, " for five-stun-three — eh, Billy
Bottles r

Mr. William Bottles might have entertained
an opinion upon the point under discussion

; but if so it was concealed. In
silence he rubbed the end of his nose upwards
more than once, and said nothing in
reply.

What a cup-loss he would have been,
Sam," at length he exclaimed, " if constrained
for long distances ! He wants a
scope o' ground fairly weighted, and then
nothing of any age would make him even
gallop."

*' Can't you see him pulling over the
whole lot, Mister Bottles, and making
everyone of 'em either lie down or standstill?"


Perhaps 1 can and perhaps I can't," curtly
replied William Bottles, who felt that he
had had rather the worst of the late argument
with Johnny Tadpole.

Don't give way to temper, Billy," mildly
remarked Samuel Wideoo. '' It was
nicely put for five-stun-three."

I'm getting a little dusty about the lips,"

observed William Bottles. '' Can't we have
a drop of cooper ?"

His host — generous to a fault — ventured
to think that a drop of cooper might be
introduced by way of an episode, and
Johnny Tadpole hurried off to secure a
supply equal to the demand.

CHAPTER XIX.

rriHE gamekeeper's cottage continued to
-^ be tenanted at loner short, and uncertain
intervals. Harry Girling was sometimes
there, it was said, but no one in the
neighbourhood of his home appeared to
know when he came or when he left. Keeping
completely aloof from all his friends and
acquaintances, he seemed to be wandering
to and fro, looking helplessly, it was conjectured,
for his lost child, not knowing
where to seek for her. He had asked for
information from everyone he could think
of as to where he should go in search of
Ivy, no matter how far, so long as he could
but find her. He would go on foot, and

beg his way, or starve in the attempt, over
distant lands to once more have his daughter
in his arms and kiss her before he died.
It was his only wish, so he sometimes said ;
but there was another quite as strong and
absorbing, and never from his memory, except
when weeping silently and alone. At
such moments as these the fierce wish for
the opportunity of clutching Aubrey Leferne
by the throat and strangle the life from him
in a grasp that should not slacken for an
instant so loner as his heart beat, misfht be
forgotten, but only at such moments as
these. It soon came back with renewed
strength. Then there was no scalding trace
left of tears, and he looked capable of the
deed he so long contemplated — murder.

Either with or without Colonel Leferne's
consent, he scarcely knew which, Harry
Girling was an inmate, at least, if not a
recognised tenant, of the cottage which had
been his and Ivy's home so long. The

room in which he now sat had been left
precisely as she had quitted it. Nothing
had been disturbed. In a small glass on
the mantelshelf there were a few dead and
withered flowers, the last placed there b}^
her. On a small table, close to the latticed
casement where Ivy was often watched by
her father deftly plying her knitting-needles,
a piece of unfinished work was left, and as
it dropped from her hand so it remained.
The rickety old clock nailed against the
wall had run slowly down, and stopped for
the want of the hand that hitherto, with
systematic punctuality, had maintained its
popular character for keeping a well-balanced
check upon the flying hours. The
dial revealed the moment of the omission,
and the swaying pendulum never moved
since.

Dust had accumulated. Spiders had spun
long, black, thick meshes here and there,
and within easy reach, but without apparent

fear, of the disturbing broom. Proofs were
numerous and conclusive that Ivy had been
long away from her home, for neglect was
too visible in and around it.

Brooding over the one grievance of his
life, Harry Girling paced one night about his
dwelling with the restless, irritable motion
of a wild beast in its cage, and with about
the corresponding instinct of one goaded to
fury, when he became aware of the near
approach of a footfall, and suddenly stopped
to listen as it came nearer to the entrance
door of his cottage.

Who could that be, and at such an hour ?
A click of the latch, and the Rev. Robert
Roundhead appeared with the cheery
self-announcement, " It's only me, Harry
Girling. Don't be afraid of me. I'm the
vicar, once called by the Oxford undergraduates
Old Nails, or Needle Wire. Don't
be afraid of me."

Few indeed were the men that the stalwart

gamekeeper had ever yet entertained
fear of, and he must have been framed in a
different mould to that of the vicar to make
his heart quail.

'•' I'm not at all afraid, sir," quietly replied
Harry Girling. " Why should I be ?"

The question seemed unanswerable ; for
the Rev. Robert Roundhead, after a pause,
ejaculated, " Humph ! and didn't see why
he should be."

'' I'm very glad to see you here, sir," remarked
Ivy's father — *' very glad."

"So should I to be here," replied the
vicar, " if I could only see you, Harry. Can't
we have a light ?"

'■' I think I can manage that, sir," rejoined
Harry Girling, " although it's a long time
since I have had a light here*'

In a short time a candle was found among:
some hidden stores, and was soon throwing
things within reach of its rays into light and
shadow.

*' There," exclaimed the vicar, gently
dropping himself upon the seat of the nearest
chair, " how cheerful that is ! I can see
you, Harry, and you can see me. How
cheerful that is !"

Ivy's father might have felt the influence
of the proclaimed cheerfulness thrown
around by the solitary candle, but there
was no outward effect of his being so.

"Follow my example, Harry," said the
vicar, *' and occupy a chair. Rest is Nature's
compensation for fatigue."

1 wish that I knew what rest was, sir,"
responded Harry Girling, taking a seat ;
but I am a stranger to that, and have been
so for many a long day."

'' In my opinion," rejoined the vicar, *' no
time should be lost in the endeavour to
make you and rest, Harry, better friends."

*' How can that be, sir, situated as I am?"
asked Ivy's father, and his eyes almost glared
with ferocity as he spoke. " Look around."

The vicar's purpose would not have been
served by looking around, and he therefore
refrained from doinpr so.

*' You will then see, sir," continued Harry
Girling, " what a ruined home means."

'the injury, the grievous wrong, that
you have met with, Harry," responded his
visitor, "is unquestionable, and admits of
no plea that I know of in defence. A specious
excuse might be offered, perhaps, by
the unscrupulous and careless," continued
he — '' those who are indifferent to the sufferings
of others, and mindful only of their
own— about the thoughtlessness and impulses
of youth ; but I am not here to speak
in such language to you."

I hope not, sir," returned Ivy's father,
between his clenched teeth. '' I could not
listen to it."

perhaps not," added the vicar. "At
any rate, your patience will be spared the
trial."

VOL. III. R

** It may be as well, sir," said Harry Girding,
" that we should avoid speaking upon
the subject altogether. It only makes me
feel worse," and he struck his breast with
his broad hand as if he would drive it in.

The little I have to say about your sad
case'' replied the vicar, "and I have come
here specially to say it, will, I trust, have a
different result."

"That is impossible, sir," rejoined Ivy's
father. "Nothing that can be said while I
live can make me feel better. There is an
act that will do so — a deed to be done — but
that must be my own."

There is no mistaking your intention,
Harry Girling," returned the vicar. " You
mean to add wrong to a greater wronpj, and
so increase misery to yourself. What shall
be said of a man who does this ?"

"That his misery drove him to do it,"
was the reply. *' To which many a black
and bloody deed may be traced."

I will not gainsay that," said the vicar ;
but it would be, as it has been, no justification
whatever, and a sorry excuse for its
commission. If we allow sinful thoughts to
possess our hearts, we must be hopeless of
our acts being less hostile to ourselves than
to others."

"And yet it should be remembered, sir,"
replied Ivy's father, " by those who sit in
judgment upon the wretched without having
known what their feelings were, that
what they sometimes do cannot be measured
by themselves."

"Be that as it may," rejoined the vicar,
"and I am not disposed to do otherwise
than agree with you, Harry, let me implore
you to quit this place and neighbourhood
for a time, if not for ever, so that your dark
thoughts may not be fanned by what you
daily see, and others occupy their place, of
forgiveness to her you love so well, and,
perhaps, mercy to him who wronged both

r2

her and you. The means," continued he,
'* shall be supplied for all your wants, and
without stint."

Ivy's father leant suddenly forward in his
chair, and said, in a voice almost inarticulate,

'' Are they coming back ?"

*' Nothing more is known of them at the
present moment," quietly responded the
vicar, " than for many months past. Since,
indeed, they left not a trace of where they
are, or where they have been, has ever
been discovered, and so the position remains."


'* I have been often told so," returned
Ivy's father, " and I suppose it's true, because
all say that it is. Has anyone but
me," he continued, '' tried to find them ?"

"No," replied the vicar, *none but yourself,
and, in the belief — which amounted to
almost knowledge — that they straightway
left England to avoid the immediate consequences
of their rashness, the Colonel

resolved to await the compulsory return of
his son, and he awaits it still."

How loner it seems !" groaned the unhappy
listener. '' How long it seems !"

Will you be governed by my advice,
Harry," asked the vicar, "and leave before
"

'• Xo," interrupted Ivy's father, resolutely,
not to save my soul ! I'll meet him, sir,
when and where I can, without the loss of
a single moment, and we shall meet but
once."

This is mere raving, Harry," returned
the vicar, " and I begin to think that your
uncontrolled thoughts may lead to uncontrolled
deeds. I must think more of this,"
said he, rising from his seat, "and decide
what should be done, if I have not your
assurance, coupled with your departure in
accordance with the conditions I have expressed,
that they are but idle threats. You
must not meet."

'Til remain here, sir," was the repl}^^
with a dogged and sullen determination,
and take the consequences of my own
acts."

"That being so," added the vicar, "I
have now nothing more to say. Goodnight,"
and he took his departure from the
lonely man's cottage.

CHAPTER XX.

JEREMIAH EARLY and Colonel Le-feme
had been closeted together for
some hours. They had often been "closeted,"
but the consultation had never been
extended beyond the present limits of confidential
communication. Up to the present
moment, however, no satisfactory effect was
perceptible in the contracted features of
either, and each looked at the other as if
he knew that he saw his enemy face to face,
and that there was not the slightest error in
the conclusion.

*' You admit, then," said Jeremiah Early,
"that your wife is both competent and willing
to sign "

Quite so," interrupted the colonel, leaning
back in his chair, and beginning to
thrum a lively but noiseless air with the
ends of his fingers upon the cushioned
elbows. " Quite so," repeated he. '' There
is no necessity, as far as I can see, Early,
for me to repeat her legal and too affectionate
powers."

*' But that you will not exercise your influence
in obtaining her signature, by which
most, if not all, of your debts could be satisfied.
Is that so ?" asked the lawyer.

My reply must sound almost wearisome,
Early," responded the colonel ; '' but
I repeat it literally by your request. My
wife will not render herself penniless for me
by ray express wish, or, in an arbitrary
sense, by my permission."

"There was a time that she would have
had to have done so," observed Jeremiah
Early, in a cynical tone.

*' You are referring, perhaps, to our first

and last quarrel," said the colonel, without
the quiver of a nerve. *' A long time since,
Early. Pardon my calling your attention
to the difference between the past and the
present."

"In so far as I am concerned," replied
the lawyer, ''I see but little. You owed
me a great deal then, and you owe me a
great deal now."

"Your present condition*' rejoined the
colonel, continuing his soundless tune upon
the arms of the chair, " may be attributed
to your senseless abuse of a golden opportunity.
You should have backed the Unknown
for the Derby."

Jeremiah Early gave a stifled groan, as
if it came from a latent store of pent-up
agony.

Had you done that " resumed the
colonel, " had you backed my horse instead
of laying against him, I should not have
been in your debt, Early, a single penny,

and a plethora of riches might have been in
your possession."

The lawyer gasped as if for want of
breath.

Owing, therefore, to your own miscalculation
— I use the mildest of terms, Early,"
continued the colonel, 'you have put yourself
in the unpleasant position of which you
complain."

"But only through your capricious decision,
Colonel Leferne," added the lawyer,
in a deprecating tone. *' The scheme had.
but to be carried out," continued he, "for
it "

''To systematically rob me of the great
object of my life, and effectually to swindle
our friends, acquaintances, and the British
public. Is not that so, Early ?"

Jeremiah Early had a reply, but it seemed
to die upon his lips before it could escape
from them.

'* In so far as my being your debtor,

Early," resumed the colonel, " I entertain a
strong opinion that you are mine. If we
balanced the account in its entirety, I think
the result would be in my favour."

A court of law," responded the lawyer,
would give a different decision."

Which cannot fail to remind you, Early,"
continued the colonel, " that a court of law
is not always a court of justice."

*for large sums borrowed from tiQie to
time," added Jeremiah Early, and with the
angles of his mouth drawn back he seemed
to hiss the words from his lips, "I have
neither principal nor interest."

To be directly traced to the miserable
folly," said the colonel, throwing his head
further back in his chair and looking at his
companion with half-closed sleepy eyes, *' of
not taking advantage of a golden opportunity.
It was placed unconditionally at
your feet, Early, and you villainously kicked
it from you, insuring an irretrievable loss
to both of us."

'' It is useless now to speak of that," replied
the lawyer, in a subdued tone, which
revealed the acquired knowledge that his
client was not to be influenced by threats.
The question is, what is the course you
mean to adopt to satisfy me ?"

'' By my honour," rejoined the colonel,
*' that seems to be the exact question that I
should put to you, Early."

The lawyer bit his lips in silence, for he
saw that he now possessed an impracticable
client, one that had resolved to set him at
defiance.

'' In what is termed, I believe," continued
the colonel, '' a strictly legal point of
view, I must be considered your debtor ; but
apart from that red-taped position, which a
gentleman cannot be expected to regard
otherwise than with contempt, I look upon
you, Early, with the doubtful affection of an
insatiable creditor. You owe me a debt —
let us call it of gratitude — for placing at

your feet a golden opportunity, undeserved
you must admit, and few amongst us,
whether deserving or not, ever possess.
You fail to see, perhaps, the value of a lost
golden opportunity, and you are not singular
in your impaired mental vision. Men do
not as a rule derive much satisfaction in
weighing it to a nicety."

Do you intend, then, to repudiate my
debt ?" inquired the lawyer, fiercely. '^ Am
I to understand that ?"

** Certainly not," replied the colonel, in a
bland tone, and strong contrast to that in
which he was being addressed. '' Certainly
not," repeated he. "No gentleman permits
such a word or its definition to be in his
vocabulary. I merely wish you, Early, to
take into consideration whether, from the
respective points of view we entertain concerning
our indebtedness, a fair balance
might not be struck between us."

I am not disposed to continue this

child's talk any longer," was the angry rejoinder.


'rit grieves me to hear you say so," returned
the colonel, in a soft voice ; " for I
am just in the humour to continue our
light and gossamer discussion. It really
seems, Early, to refresh me."

"Your compact with me," added the
lawyer, *' was that the estate should be dis-entailed
and sold through the consent of
your son, and the proceeds applied to the
complete discharge of my claim."

'' I am at loss to conjecture," said the
colonel, in a quiet and unruffled manner,
"which of the two was the greatest rascal —
you, Early, in proposing the brigand scheme,
or me in acceding to it."

We must look to ourselves," responded
Jeremiah Early, "in matters of business."

And in so acting," rejoined the colonel,
we too often forget the sublime mandate
of doing unto our neighbour that which we

would he should do unto us. In carrying
out the instinctive policy of looking to ourselves,
Early, we think, primarily, of the
benefit that our neighbour should confer
upon us, and then, in return, consider the
best plan of doing him. Is not this the
result of your great and varied experience r"

No answer being given to the question,
Colonel Leferne, after a short pause, continued,


"Referring to our devilish compact for
dispossessing my son of his inheritance at
the very stroke of the clock that he was to
become master of it. Early, I have a few
words to say which cannot fail to prove
interesting to you."

Jeremiah Early became on the instant as
attentive a listener as ever strained the
sense of hearing so that not a single syllable
might escape him.

*' Upon my son's abrupt departure with
his doll," said the colonel, ''1 was quite

prepared that it would last in strict accordance
with the precedents of his ancestors,
particularly of that disreputable old vagabond
" — hind he pointed to the portrait of
the knight in armour upon the wall above
him — 'who illustrated in his acts the motto
of our family to ' live with will unfettered
T knew that, consistently with the inclination
and moral limits of a Leferne, Aubrey
would stay with his doll so long as the toy
continued new, and, perhaps, while his
slender resources lasted so as to prevent
great personal inconvenience to himself. I
must confess, however, that his prolonged
absence, beyond the probable realization of
both these events, surprises me in so far,
Early, as anything can give rise to that ridiculous
and feature-distorting emotion."

Jeremiah Early was about to speak, but,
the signal of the two fore-fingers being
raised for reticence, he responded to it and
said nothings.

'^ You would suspect that, with the facility

'

ties learned at Eton for borrowing," resumed
the colonel, " he may have obtained
temporary aid. It is neither impossible nor
improbable ; but there still remains the inexplicable
duration of the charms of the
doll. They have continued, I suppose,
longer than usual with the Lefernes of old ;
but, however delayed, his return home is
certain upon the discovery of their departure.
With the tradition of his race, Aubrey
is sure to separate from her the moment she
fails to find favour in his eyes, and I cannot
comprehend, Early, how or by what means
it has continued so long, entertaining, as I
do, implicit faith in the extremely fugitive
attractions of dolls for each successive
generation of our family."

You now at least have little doubt of
his speedy return ?" observed the lawyer,
interrogatively.

^' None whatever," responded the colonel,

VOL. III. s

and it is concerning his anticipated reappearance
in the home of his forefathers,
of course penitent for his misconduct and
outrage against good manners in closely-following
their footsteps, that I wish to
draw sour particular attention, Early."

The lawyer required nothing to stimulate
his attentive powers. His ears were more
than ready to hear.

'' Upon taking a retrospective view of
what I have done," resumed the colonel —
and there are a great many things both of
commission and omission which, as a matter
of choice, I should not care to repeat — there
is not one less deserving of absolution than
the design upon my son when you and I,
Early, awaited the minute hand to mark
the exact time when he could lawfully, by
his own hand, set the seal upon his own
ruin."

You borrowed my money and agreed — "

*' At your instigation," interrupted the

colonel, '' to commit an act little short, if
any, of a crime. I have to thank neither
you nor myself for the consummation being
defeated."

"All I want is to be paid," growled
Jeremiah Early.

Anyhow and by anyone," responded
the colonel. "Is that it?"

I must have my money," rejoined the
lawyer. " Upon your son's return get him
to sign the deed, and I will release you of
every farthing due to me, principal and
interest."

*' What if I say no to this generous
offer ?" asked the colonel.

"Then I will realise the securities I hold,
and sell "

"My easy-chair," added the colonel.
"Well, be it so ! I feel that I shall not want
it long. Early, and if taken from me a
little too soon I shall be consoled with the
thought that I lost it through you."

s2

'' Do you accept the terms I offer ?" passionately
asked Jeremiah Early.

*'No/' was the colonel's firm and collected
reply. " Upon Aubrey's return home."
continued he, "should I be alive at that
time of the world's sad history — a wearisome
record of most that is sorrowful and
all that is disagreeable — I will place before
him a full, true, and particular account of
every transaction of the slightest importance
that has ever taken place between us, even
to the loss of the golden opportunity, and
the exceedingly crooked way in which that
loss was incurred. He shall be told the
whole truth, Early, and then left to do ashe
pleases, or what he considers right, for
the sake of his father's honour — not for his
love."

And I have to depend upon this ?" said
the lawyer, as if he had recently swallowed
a chemical combination of acids and bitters.

Together with the securities you hold,"

coolly added the colonel. " Do not forget,
Early, the pots and the pans, and, least of
all, the portrait of that various or infamous
old scoundrel who, in a very few words,
taught unborn venerations of the Lefernes
how to live."

Without further remark Jeremiah Early
sullenly quitted the room, and as the door
closed upon his heels the colonel began to
drum an invigorating martial air upon the
cushioned elbows of his easy-chair.

CHAPTER XXI.

OilNCE'the close companionship of Aunt
^^ Margaret and Julia Leferne had been
restored at Greatwood Park, everything had
been told, but with hesitating reluctance,
concerning her son's absence and the foreshadowed
pecuniary ruin of her husband.

Happy, at least, in having a few words of
kindness spoken to her, the wife — full well
remembering earlier and happier days —
often entreated that she might give up all
she possessed for him, would to heaven that
it were more !

A smile lighted up the pale features of
the colonel as these words were uttered in
the lengthening shadows of a summer sunset,

and as they sat together with one of
her hands clasped in his in the very room
in which their first and last quarrel took
place years and years ago.

Aunt Margaret was the only witness
present of what she had so earnestly and
hopefully prayed for, and, gazing upon
then with a loving look, whispered a petition
in secret that each might be spared to
live and render the other happy.

eye are but the creatures of time and
circumstances, Julia," remarked the colonel.
"The very cause which made us strangers
to each other long since is now urged by
you as a medium to unite our friendship."

'' I care nothing, Edward," she replied,
looking at him as no woman can look but
at the man she loves, and the only man she
ever loved — "I care nothing," she repeated,
*' how or by what means we are friends, so
loner as we are amon^^r the dearest that ever

o o

lived."

"You must refrain from becoming enthusiastic,"
rejoined her husband, smiling, *' or
I shall soon be unable to give utterance to
my prosaic sentiments. As a lover, you
will recollect that I was neither eloquent
nor poetical."

And yet no words that were ever spoken
then, Edward," she returned, *' but are remembered
now, so sweet and dear were
they to me. I was always thinking of them
when away from you, and believed that the
day must come when you and I should
again be as we are at this happy moment of
my life."

^' But have you nothing to say of past
wrongs — nothing to reproach me with ?"
asked her husband.

Not one word," she replied, " or of
anything that you have ever said or done
to me."

Colonel Leferne fixed a keen, inquiring
look upon his wife, but knew in what he

saw that he had heard only the simple
words of truth from a heart still young that
loved him, perhaps, too well.

After a long, unbroken silence, with her
hand remaining clasped in his, the colonel
said, in a low tone, scarcely above a whisper,


To feel that we have done a great injury,
and know that it is too late to retrieve
it, Julia, is a bitter thought."

'* Let no reflections of sadness be associated
with me, Edward," she returned.
"Look in my face, and you will learn that
a happier wife could not be."

But of recent date, to be measured by
hours," rejoined he, in a voice scarcely
audible. '* What shall be said of the long
interval of years of sorrow caused by me ?"

'not one word," she replied, earnestly —
not one word. Let all be forgotten as it
has been forgiven."

If I could but recall the past," added

her husband, " I would prove to those I
have most wronged — and they are present
to hear the confession — that my repentance
should be practical and sincere to them, at
least, if to none besides."

'ewe will believe," observed Aunt Margaret,
in her usual plaintive and quiet voice,
'that in those words you have to us, Edward,
recalled the past, and made the future
bright and full of hope."

"The future," said the colonel, reflectively,
" within the limits of our individual
actions, is under our own control ; but the
past is beyond the reach of even immortal
power. That which has been lias been,
and the record either for good or evil must
remain for eternity."

How different would be the hourly
deeds of men if such a thought as this preceded
their commission !" exclaimed Aunt
Margaret.

"The imperfection of human nature forbids

the possibility," responded the colonel.
*' Men live for self-gratification, and, the
present being, as they think, their own,
forget the harvest which must follow their
scattering of evil broadcast as certain as the
night succeeds the day."

'*'Tis a forgetfulness which seems to bethe
very source of human misery," observed
Aunt Margaret.

"And when reminded by the stern reality
of Time," added the colonel, "it is always
too late. The law unchangeable to others,"
he continued, " must be so to me, and I
now feel, towards its closing scene, what a
misspent life truly means."

His wife threw her arms around him, and,
resting her head upon his breast, large, hot,
scalding tears stole down her cheeks which
almost scarred them as they fell.

"What stern duty of life." resumed he,
have I performed, or how have I performed
it? As a husband, what shall the

wife say," and, as he spoke, he smoothed
the chestnut hair streaked with silvery
threads beneath the tender, gentle motion
of a hand — "what shall the wife say," reiterated
he, '' unless she flatters him with
merits he never possessed ?"

Who shall be the judge of that ?" said
Aunt Margaret.

"Myself," responded the colonel. "Knowing
myself, I think that I may give that
reply without reservation. I repeat," he
resumed, still smoothing the silky, chestnut
hair, " what shall the wife say?"

"That I love you, Edward," was the
reply, stifled with rising sobs, 'ras when
you first said that you loved me — a trusting,
believing girl."

And had I been as kind to you, Julia,
as you deserved," rejoined her husband,
"you would not have loved me more."

*' Because it would have been impossible,"
she returned. " You possessed my

heart when I gave it, and you have it now."

Despite of all then, Julia," added the
colonel, and he pressed his lips upon the
liable-like forehead of his wife, " I am in
your mental eyesight the model of what a
man should be when he plights his troth to
her whom he persuades to believe him."

If by well remembering your acts and
words to me in other days," she responded,
^* I should recollect anything, Edward, that
might be the shadow of a reproach to you,
let it be deemed a circumstance of the past
leaving no trace behind."

"And yet the unsparing forgiveness
which is offered for its having taken place,"
returned her husband, " is red-handed evidence
of what I have done, and for which
no recompense can be made. Too late,
Julia, too late !"

"That can never be," said Aunt Margaret,
'' while we live. Repentance," she
added, solemnly, ^' cannot be too late even

if it comes with the last fleeting breath of life."

Such has been the dogma of Mother
Church in all ages," responded the colonel.
But what has our sister to say of the sighs
and tears breathed and shed for me ?"

"• Nothing, Edward," rejoined Aunt Margaret,
'' beyond the fervent hope that they
were neither sighs nor tears given in vain."

And so," continued the colonel, " with
the confessed wrongs I have heaped on the
heads of both, I am to be released of all
consequences to in3^self, and leave you to
bear the burden which I alone should know
the weight of. But what will our son say
upon his return home to greet his mother
for the first time since he left to live with
will unfettered? Will he, too, have nothing
to accuse his father of?"

Not a word was uttered in reply by
either his wife or Aunt Margaret, but each
looked at the speaker with tearful eyes and
sorrowing hearts.

"Am I to think?" continued the colonel,
'that he can forgive me, as you have done,
for neglecting or abusing every duty that I
ought to have performed, born as he was,
Julia ?"

These self-reproaches are torture to me,
Edward," responded his wife. '' Let me
beg of you that they may cease."

"If such anguish to you," added her husband,
" they can be no less so to the author
of them, and I feel that I much more deserve
to bear the pain than you, Julia, who
should be a stranger to what self-reproach
means. The guilty only should know this
sting of conscience — not the innocent."

There Alas an interval of silence, which
neither seemed disposed to break. At
length, however, the colonel resumed.

In the short-sighted selfishness of my
nature," said he, " I thought only of myself,
forgetting even my wife and child, or, if
remembering them, simply as the means to

gain at some distant date my own selfish
ends. Strange as this voluntary admission
must sound — and the struggle that I have
had to make it Heaven only knows ! — I
Avould not retract a single syllable to add
one hour to my life; for I never felt so
content to part with it as at this moment of
peace, if of humiliation'

"Oh! Edward," exclaimed Aunt Margaret,
*' that I should have lived to hear
such words from you !"

And I to live to speak them," responded
her brother, 'must be an unsolved
mystery to myself. They are, however,
recorded," continued the colonel, "either
for or against me, and I will accept the
issue."

The lengthened shadows grew paler with
the sinking sun, and darkness began to fall
around when Colonel Leferne suddenly
started to his feet and ejaculated —

"Hark! Did you hear that footstep?

It is one that is familiar to me, and I know
full well the sound of."

Thus speaking, and with an effort he
seemed scarcely master of, Colonel Leferne
hurried from the room.

VOL. Il

CHAPTER XXII.

MR. SOPPY— Mr. Thomas Soppy—
since his penitential return to the
bosom of his family, which, stripped of all
metaphorical verbosity, meant nothing more
nor less than that of his wife, was no longer
the arbitrary, dominant lord and master of
the provision to his comforts, contributor to
his luxuries, and full partner of his daily
labours, to say as little as possible concerning
the manifold odd jobs which were
thrown in to make up the sum total. Mr.
Soppy felt that, having been supposed — for
he never quite admitted it — to have made a
fool of himself, he could not consistently
occupy the high pedestal which formerly

seemed to him either his natural or acquired
position in the presence of her who now
evinced anything but a disposition to be
patient under abuse, whether mathematical,
poetical, or historical.

Dame Soppy had had enough, and more
than enough, of this sort of thing, as she told
him, and followed up the statement by
letting him understand that not an infinitesimal
addition would she submit to.

The change in Mr. Thomas Soppy's outward
demeanour became great in the extreme.
To say that it was gentle would
fall, perhaps, short of the pronounced effect,
and to add that it was meek might give a
flattering colour which it did not quite possess.
Be this as it may, he looked like a
man who had feasted plentifully, in a figurative
sense, on humble pie without interfering
with his digestion, and was ready to
make further progress.

I think, dame," said he, stirring the

t2

sugar from the bottom of a cup of tea as
they sat together, with a small round table
acting as a barrier between them — "I think,
dame," repeated he, 'that we understand
what connubial bliss mean, as we used to
say at Hoxford."

Dame Soppy entertained no desire of
being informed of anything that was said in
such a heathen place, believing, as she had
heard, that a great deal was spoken thereof
a kind not so nice as it ought to be.

I will not go the full length to say,"
resumed Mr. Soppy, pursing his lips together,
and assuming as consequential an air
as he dared to adorn himself with temporarily,
" I will not go the full length to say,"
repeated he, " that everything that's said at
Hoxford is quite as nice as it ought to be ;
but the classics "

Bother the classics !" interrupted the
dame. " Let's have no more of the classics.
When you begin to talk of them, I know
what the classics mean."

As I more often than not," replied Mr.
Soppy, '^ don't know myself, would you, if
in an obliging humour, be kind enough to
tell me ?"

A sham," returned his wife, curtly —
nothing but a sham. What do you know
about the classics ?"

'• I've seen the pictures of a few of 'em,"
said Mr. Soppy, blandly.

"The more shame for you," added the
the dame, " and that's all I'll say or have
said about the matter."

*' In that case, we'll return, if you please,
to the subject I started with" — Mr. Soppy,
by way of an episode, here took a deep sip
of his tea — "our connubial bliss."

The less of your humbug, Tom Soppy — "

Her solitary hearer started and winced,
for he knew from recent experience that
when he was thus addressed he was sure to
be exposed to a battery of great force.

— The less of your humbug, Tom

Soppy," she repeated, in a tone too deliberate
to be musical to his ears, " that I am
exposed to this morning, the better I shall
be pleased. If ever there was or is a time
for that sort of thing, the present is not the
right one, as yon ought to feel without
being told so by me. None of your humbug,
Tom Soppy."

I was only going to observe "

"Then don't observe it," interrupted the
dame, seriously. " Nothing you could say
would be worth listening to, and might only
add to the long list of stupid things you
ought not to have said."

Mr. Thomas Soppy entertained at this
moment of his chequered existence what a
direct change of position might bring about.
For a long series of years he had — still in a
figurative sense — been sitting upon his wife,
and here was his wife sitting upon him !

** People without brains, Tom Soppy —
or, if you like it better, I'll say Sop-j9?/ —

often left their tongues run loose," continued
she, " to make up in chatter what they want
in sense."

Mr. Soppy stared with his gooseberry
eyes at the bottom of his tea-cup, and came
to the sudden conclusion, from \yhat he
saw, perhaps, that reticence was a virtue
which he had much better sedulously practise
than neglect.

ril hold my tongue," said he, in an injured
tone— 'that's what TH do— I'll hold
mv tongue."

Do," responded his wife, with emphasis
in the monosyllable. *' Do, Tom Soppy.
What a treat it would be," she continued,
"if you would only keep your tongue to
yourself !"

Mr. Soppy at this moment entertained the
firm conviction that he was not only sat
upon, but flattened — still in a figurative sense
into the shape of a muffin.

Not being allowed to speak," said he to

himself, in a voice that was not heard even
by himself, '' I'll say nothing. Henceforth
I'm dumb."

The superior force by habit, however,
soon surmounted this stubborn resolution,
and after an interval of a few moments to
recover himself Mr. Soppy felt equal to the
task of delivering a mental impression
through the common and ordinary expression
of speech.

"What a pleasant prospect it is," said he,
to behold the colonel — weakly as he is —
walking about with his wife billing and cooing
like doves just as if they never had a
jolly quarrel in their whole lives. But I
saw and heard one, you know, dame, and
Fm not likely to forget it."

"Like most people, including ourselves,
Tom Soppy," replied the dame, with a
predominating quantity of acid in her tone,
man and wife quarrel much too often ; but
they began and ended with one."

"That iL'cis a breeze I" ejaculated he.
*' I can see the colonel now thundering for
her to sign the parchments."

"And the lightning scorched her brain
for a time, poor thing !" responded the dame,
with grave commiseration in her manner.

"You don't think she was quite — "and
Mr. Soppy significantly touched the centre
of his forehead with the end of a forefinger.

"There's little doubt o' that," returned his
^vife, " when she first arrived from across
the sea. For months after, when she was
here and attended only by my lady and me,
I was afraid that she never could be seen or
known by anyone else."

With the reports that the house was
haunted," added Mr. Soppy, reflectively," my
manly nerves became unstrung, and from
what I saw upon one or two promises occasions
I thought she was a ghost — I thought
she was a ghost !" repeated he, with great
solemnity.

The reminiscence produced a slightly livid
effect in Mr. Soppy's features ; but it soon
gave way to a more healthy hue.

'' The occasions you speak of, Tom Soppy,"
said the dame, with marked acerbity of manner,
" make me remember that if there is a
greater coward than another in this county
you are that out-an'-out bunker."

Don't say bunker," expostulated Mr.
Soppy. " At Hoxford I was looked upon asa
real glutton with the gloves."

They must have been stuffed then with
feathers, and very soft, Tom Soppy," responded
his wife, " or sou would soon have had
enough without being called a glutton."

'courage, or, as we used to say at Oxford,
pluck, depends upon the state of the
stomach," rejoined Mr. Soppy, by way of an
extenuating circumstance, " and mine is not
always right. At times," continued he, " I
am attacked with the willy warbles, and my
manly nerves seem to go as they come on."

*' From what I have so frequently witnessed,"
returned the dame, slowly folding her
arms, ''I suspect that you are never quite
free from the complaint."

Mr. Soppy's self-esteem subsided at this
caustic remark, and he seemed to droop
beyond recovery.

CHAPTER XXIII.

TT was a rough but sunny day, early in
■- March. The wind blew strong and
cold as it hummed through the still leafless
branches of the trees, and swept along over
hill and dale, wold, heath, fen, and moor,
piping his herald tune of the joyous springtime.
Few, as yet, were the flowers to be
seen above the frost-locked ground ; but
among the earliest to sway and nod their
golden heads in the breeze were Sir Harold
Leferne's daffodils, in full bloom and pride
of display. Winters had come and winters
had gone ; the young had grown old, and
the old had left no trace of ever having
been ; but there were the daffodils as when

Sir Harold's hand first planted them. Xo
decay or 'adust to dust" in the daffodils.
Time itself was defied by them.

From a cause unknown, or perhaps unthought
of by himself, Colonel Leferne,
wrapped and carefully protected from the
cold as an invalid would be by a loving
hand, walked slowly, resting upon his cane,
with his eyes fixed upon the flowers, and,
upon coming to the end of the bed in
which they grew, he turned with the same
measured pace and retraced his footsteps.

The colonel continued his solitary march
up and down, and before the bed of the
flaunting, golden-headed daffodils, thinking
of the past as the flowers represented it.
Alone, and yet not alone.

It might have been observed that now and
again he stopped and listened as if for an
expected sound which failed to catch his ear,
and, after waiting to be assured of its absence,
he resumed his patient walk with the

same even, unaltered action of machinery.

He thought not of the time, and was unconscious
how long he had been there, or
how often he had paused to listen for the
sound which hitherto had not been heard,
when in an instant he stood as if rooted to
the spot, with his head turned slightly on
one side, and bent attentively forward.

"I am not mistaken now," muttered he
to himself, with a hectic flush suddenly
glowing in his pallid cheeks, " if I was before.
That is Aubrey's footfall."

The sound approached. Near and nearer
it came, until it ceased close to the shoulders
of Colonel Leferne, as he remained in the
attitude of attentive listening.

Having awaited your arrival so long,
Aubrey*' said he aloud, '' I can scarcely say
that this is a surprise. Give me your arm,"
and thus speaking, he turned slowly round
and met the steadfast gaze of his son fixed
upon him. " Give me your arm," repeated

he. " I want more support now than when
you left to live with will unfettered."

"What shall I say, father," returned
Aubrey, in a voice scarcely under self-control,
'' of having left you as I did ?"

As little as possible," replied the colonel,
placing an arm in one of his son's, and continuing
his walk in front of the daffodils.
"You cannot say too little, my dear boy,
and, therefore, if in your place, / should
adopt the pleasant alternative of saying
nothing."

Have I your forgiveness ?" asked
Aubrey.

*most perfect," responded his father,
smiling. " I cannot conceive anything beneath
the moon more complete than my
forgiveness. My only astonishment is that
you should contemplate for a moment the
possibility of my withholding it."

*' You state this, father," rejoined Aubrey,
"but am I to believe that you are serious
and in earnest r"

'* Look at me," returned the colonel
and, if the effect be not too unpleasant
for a momentary gaze, say if I seem to
apply my words to conceal my thoughts."

'' No," added his son, pressing the hand
passed through his arm ; " your words
appear to be their echoes."

'' Your sojourn in "

"Italy," added Aubrey, as his father
hesitated to complete the sentence.

Has evidently qualified you for the
accomplishments of a courtier. But, flatter
as we may, Aubrey, powder and paint cannot
hide the wrinkles of facts. How do I

look r

The abruptness of the question, perhaps,
rendered a prompt reply difficult, if not
impossible, for his son said nothing as he
bent a long and mournful gaze upon his
father's pale and bloodless features.

'' Your answer is correct, Aubrey," said
the colonel, quietly. " We have little time

left for pleasant bantering; but I am happy
to think that you have not come too late to
pass a few last cheerful hours with your
father. Where have you left, or what have
you done with your doll ?"

Aubrey let his father's arm drop suddenly,
and, without moving from where he
stood said nothing in reply.

The question I learn is anything but
agreeable," continued the colonel. '' Well,
well, let it pass. In the sublime character,
however, of an outraged parent, I must
suggest that your meeting with Harry Girding
should be postponed as long as possible.
An outraged parent, Aubrey, when
big and muscular is always to be avoided,
unless a tendency exists that to be murdered
is preferable to suicide."

His son still remained immovable and
without uttering a word.

"Let me have the support of your arm
again, for I feel weary," said the colonel.

VOL. III. u

'the wind is cold. We will resume our
walk. And so," continued lie, after a short
pause, " you have been fortunate enough not
to meet or to be run against by this outraged
parent, Aubrey, on your way hither."

I have seen no one but you, sir, since
my arrival," was the reply, in a voice somewhat
unsteady from imperfectly concealed
emotion.

Failing, perhaps, to persuade the outraged
parent to take his departure from the
neighbourhood in anticipation of your advent,"
continued the colonel, '' it is not
impossible or, indeed, improbable that the
Rev. Robert Roundhead has applied
sufficient physical force for the attainment
of this desirable end. The patriarch, Old
Needle-wire, is quite equal to such occasions,
and generally attains the command of
the situation."

"I hope that no harm or injury would
be done to the man," observed Aubrey.

"That would entirely depend upon himself,
my dear boy," responded the colonel,
*' as the patriarch would certainly calculate
mathematically the exact strength requisite
to overcome the opposing force of resistance,
and the weakest, as we all know, is sure to
get the worst of it. Let us, however, dismiss
the outraged parent from our thoughts. He
is not here to disturb us, and that may be as
Avell for him as for you ; for 1 see — " and he
stopped in his walk and drawing himself upto
his full height, with his head thrown backwards,
bent a look of fatherly admiration
upon his handsome son by his side — " for I
see' he repeated, '• that the blood of the
Lefernes flows freely in your veins, and
not one of the name ever yet knew what
fear was or turned his back upon an
enemy."

I do not regard this man as mine," remarked
Aubrey, "let his feelings be what
they may of anger or revenge. He knows

u2

only of his one great wrong, and me as the
wrong-doer."

"That reminds me," rejoined the colonel,
and you must pardon my curiosity, that a
question — probably an objectionable one —
remains unanswered. Excuse my repeating
it. What has become of your ."

Wife ?" sharply interrupted Aubrey, ina
tone and manner not to be mistaken. *' Is
that, father, what you would ask?"

Not a word escaped Colonel Leferne's lips.
They moved as if in utterance ; but not a
syllable came fran them as he stood staring
at his son in bewildered astonishment.
Slowly drawing a hand mechanically over
his face, he at length said, in a voice scarcely
raised beyond a whisper, " In the term ivife
you do not mean that the church has given
sanction to the title ?"

We were married by the British Chaplain
at Naples," replied Aubrey, with a determined,
unflinching tone and manner, *' under

^vho5e protection my wife remains awaiting
my return."

'then you are the first of your race,"
rejoined the colonel, in a manner still confused
with what he heard, 'that ever made
honourable reparation to the woman he
injured. I begin to think that I ought to
admire the exceptional deed more than I
confessedly do from, perhaps, the total
absence of precedent."

In acting as I have done I have no reason
to regret," added Aubrey. '^ ]\Iay I hope
that you will acknowledge and presently
receive my wife ?"

'• Without the objection of a thought,"
returned the colonel, regaining his self-possession,
" and let the no longer outraged
parent hesitate to accompany or precede her
coming. I particularly wish, however,
that as a connection of the family he should
not be painfully respectful in my presence
for the future. Tell him, Aubrey, to keep

his thick, ugly lingers from pulling the
unkempt sprout of hair continually over his
forehead when addressing me or being
addressed, and impress, if possible, upon his
obtuse intellect that the back of a hand is
not designed by nature for removing the
superfluities of the nose. You will oblige
me I am sure in these few unimportant
particulars concerning your father-in-law, in
order to prevent, otherwise, the consequent
irritation of my stomach upon the few limited
personal interviews we may have from the
force of arbitrary circumstances."

*'He shall not, sir, trespass upon your
privacy' observed his son. " I will take
care of that."

It is within the range of possibility that
the patriarch. Old Nails, has adopted most
decisive measures to anticipate the necessity
of your interference, Aubrey," remarked the
colonel. '' I suspect that we shall learn of
a peremptory and original method for the

extradition of your father-in-law before weare
much older or wiser — perhaps spread-eagle
on a turnip hurdle, and left for the
crows to pick."

As he was speaking, and before they were
aware of her near approach, the attenuated
form of a lady, with features ghastly white,
noiselessly joined them in their walk side by
side. For a few moments nothing was said
by either.

^' Who is this ?'' at length ejaculated
Aubrey, in tremulous accents.

Permit me the pleasure," slowly replied
the colonel, bending his head as he
spoke, " of being, the medium of introducing
you to — your mother''

CHAPTER XXIV.

Tears had passed since this memorable
-^ introduction — memorable, at least, to
those whom it immediately concerned. The
ancient tomb of the Lefernes containing
their knightly dust had been opened not
long after it, and an additional tenant gently
lowered to its depths to crumble with
the rest. That his faults were many, not a
single voice was raised to dispute ; but the
colonel was a gentleman, after all, and one
worthy of the grand old family name. Such
was the decision of those who professed to
know him best, and, perhaps, did so when
left 'sashes to ashes," defiant alike to praise
or censure. Whatever evil he might have

done had been forgiven, if not forgotten,
since the first and last quarrel with his wife,
and tears which felt too hot for eyes to shed
scalded the blanched cheeks of Julia Leferne
as she turned away and quitted the
spot where her heart now lay buried with
him in death as it had been possessed by him
in life from the moment she consented to
be his — loving always, if not beloved.

CHAPTER XXV.

rriHROUGH a system organised solely by
-^ William Bottles, the dairy at Bromley
Marsh, when he was admitted a sleeping
partner with Samuel Wideoo, without the
impossible introduction of fresh capital, became
as flourishing a concern as any of a
corresponding kind in the East End of London.
Let the demand for milk be what it
might there was the prompt supply, although
the number of cows remained stationary.


** Leave the working of the concern all tome,
Sam," observed he, upon the conclusion
of a more than ordinary good day's business.
''I know my way about. I do so''

But we can't give 'em more water, Billy
Bottles, than seventy-five per cent," remonstrated
Samuel Wideoo.

'' Oh, yes, but we can though !" rejoined
the sleeping partner. " We can give 'em
all water with a little colouring:. What's
chalk for ?"

Their tastes agreeing, for both were
decidedly partial to draughts of cooper at
irregular intervals of the day, and their
interests united, Messrs. Wideoo and Bottles
passed their evenings together in uninterrupted
bliss, having the ready means at
their command to possess it. As a fixed
and unexceptionable rule their figures loomed
through a cloud of smoke when the cares of
the day were gone, and the light of other
days illuminated the glories of the past.

Fading and faded, with little left of the
original bright purple and orange tints, the
Leferne colours still remained suspended
upon the wall of the dingy apartment, and

reference was often made to the way in
which the bay colt, sire unknown, dam
Queen Mary, by Gauntlet, by Bright Steel,
by Helmet Plume, carried them to the
front in the Derby to the dismay of the
layers against him and the joy of his backers.

The partners, sleeping and waking, often
thought of his great performance with the
admiration of those who had greatly profited
by it, and not the slightest division of
opinion existed upon the subject.

''He ought to have been kept in training
for the cups," observed William Bottles,
watching the thin cloud of smoke curling
upwards from his lips as he sat with his
companion ruminating upon the past. 'thought
to have been kept in training for the
cups, Sam," repeated he.

For a few succeeding seconds Samuel
Wideoo vouchsafed not a word in reply ; but
remained staring at the floor beneath his
feet, as if expecting to see something

written thereon to prompt his gift ot
speech. The discovery, perhaps, was made.

I'm not quite certain, Billy," said he, at
the conclusion of the pause for reflection,
but what it's just as well that he was not
trained for the cups. A loss, like a man,
ought to leave off trying to win when the
game is won."

Had the colonel lived "

But then the colonel did not live,"
interrupted Samuel Wideoo. '' The colonel
died as he lived, like a gentleman, and
about the last order he gave — he knew how
to give orders — was that the colt which
gained for him the object of his life was

never to run aizain."

"And he never did," added AA'illiam
Bottles.

And he never did," repeated Samuel
AYideo.

CHAPTER XXVI.

rpHROUGH the laudable practice of that
-^ most difficult of Christian virtues, self-denial,
Johnny Tadpole attained, in the
fulness of time, the height and summit of
his ambition, that of being acknowledged
the most popular and fashionable lightweight
of the day. By paying strict attention
to reducing the threatened increase of
certain " parts," Johnny was able to leave
the beam of the scale scarcely in doubt
when the feather of " five-stun-seven," including
saddle and bridle, was required only
to be carried, and nothing could exceed the
satisfaction on his own part, and the envy
on that of others not so successful as himself,

ill finding that he could keep his weight
down.

Great was the call for Johnny's services,
and the first, second, and third claims upon
them commanded the premiums governed
by the general laws of demand and supply.
He never " stood down " in any handicap of
importance, and, often a good round sum
being " put on to nothing," the fashionable
light weight grew rich, but not arrogant.

Little Mite could answer for that. Without
the opportunity of coming to the front
as his friend had done, little Mite shared
to some extent, although limited, the successful
fortunes of his companion of early,
and now of later days.

We have done pretty well together,
Mite," observed he, occupied in turning
back a few of the historical leaves of their
antecedents, " and we'll continue to do well.
I'll ride as long; as I can scale the weights
I'm wanted for, and when I can't they

may get some one else to take my place."
They'll have to look sharp to find one,"
replied little Mite, with an approach to
strong indignation in his tone and manner.

I'm not so sure o' that," modestly returned
Johnny Tadpole. " Many of us
think," continued he " that when our saddles
are empty there '11 be nobody to have
a leg up in them ; but a greater mistake
was never made. Good as a chap may be
in the pigskin, or any other line of business,
trade or profession,, be it soldiering, tailoring,
sailoring, pardoning, and suchlike, a
fellow is more than likely to meet with his
match, and perhaps his soO'\)enor, I'm not
one of those who think there's nobody in
the world besides himself."

The abnegation of the remark elevated
the speaker, if possible, in the estimation of
little Mite ; for he felt that the fashionable
light weight had scarcely any available space
to climb higher than the position he already

occupied, and tears of admiration rose in his
eyes, to swim therein without falling to
trickle and tickle down his cheeks, as he
gazed at Johnny Tadpole's rubicund visage
with devoted friendship promoted by the
experience of long years of kindly association.

'you're a brick, Johnny, you are indeed
!" sobbed little Mite. '' You'll excuse
me, I know. I can't help it."

Then try to help it," rejoined the fashionable
light weight, with unmistakable energy.
Then try to help it," repeated he. " Crying
won't lay the dust of our troubles, if we
cried, as most begin, from the cradle to the
grave. Better sing than cry."

Would you like a song ?" inquired little
Mite, in a melancholy voice approaching
the solemn.

*' With much pleasure," replied Johnny,
extending a graceful but rather patronizing
flourish of a hand. " With much pleasure,"
repeated he. ^' Sing by all means."

VOL. III. X

Then here goes," added little Mite ; but
the effort proved too much for his nervous
system, and, in the attempt to clear his voice,
it completely choked from emotion.

Give it up," ejaculated Johnny Tadpole,
slightly irritated. " I'll ride as long as I
can, and you shall want for nothing, Mite,
while I can and when I can't."

Little Mite felt completely overwhelmed
with the kindness of his friend, and, breaking
down, he wept as if his heart would
break.

CHAPTER XXVII.

rpHE particulars of the arrangement 
tered into between Aubrey Leferne
and Jeremiah Early for the amicable settlement
of the pecuniary affairs in connection
with his late father and himself never transpired.
It was generally known, and often
discussed by the gossips in and around
Greatwood Park, that Aubrey had behaved
honourably and generously to the lawyer,
albeit deserving, perhaps, little or nothing
at his hands.

They had often for long weary hours, as
with the colonel, been closeted together in
strict privacy, greatly to the provocation of
Mr. Soppy's curiosity, which essayed to embrace,
not only the family history of the
past, but also that of the immediate present
and the deferred future. It was, however,

x2

with infinite satisfaction that he gleaned a
few important particulars, through the facility
of a keyhole, concerning the amicable
arrangement finally entered into between
Aubrey Leferne and Jeremiah Early. He
became possessed with the information, by
taking advantage of the keyhole, which removed
to some extent a great impediment
to the conveyance of sound, that the pots
and the pans, the easy-chair, and the grim
old portrait of the knight who planted the
daffodils were to remain untouched in their
respective places. In short, by opportune
concessions, the iron grip of adversity was
to be relaxed from its long clutch upon the
home of the Lefernes and their broad acres,
so long possessed by them.

Mr. Soppy learnt all this, with some interesting
additions. He understood — distinctly
heard, in fact — that an income for
life, more than equal to his requirements,
was to be granted to Harry Girling, who
forthwith was to be his own master, to come

or go when and where it suited his inclination.
His cottage, too, was not only to be
put in order — if Mr. Soppy 's ear against the
keyhole did not treacherously deceive him
but was to be highly decorated with paint
and paper, and ornaments of no mean degree.

mr. Soppy, at this juncture of the family
history, began to hope that he also might
find a testimonial in ready preparation for
himself, feeling that, if virtue ever merited
a particularly conspicuous reward, no more
worthy recipient could be found.

Like many other worthy recipients in
their own estimation, however, Mr. Thomas
Soppy had the mortification of listening to
his merits being totally disregarded, and he
turned from the keyhole with mingled feelings
of chagrin and disappointment.

Dame Soppy, however, at the earliest
opportunity which presented itself, called
his attention to the historical fact that, sofar
as she knew, he had never done anything
in his life of the value of the smallest

coin in circulation, but had systematically
left undone most of the things which he
ought to have done for either herself to
accomplish or somebody else, down to the
very blacking of his own boots and shoes.

*' Be satisfied with your place, Tom Sop'
said she, in her high-pitched voice, " and if
knowing that you don't deserve half so good
a one will make you more contented, thank
your lucky stars at having kept it so long,
and, as it appears to mo, likely to keep it,
as long as you may want a situation of the
kind on this side of the "

Don't call the exact spot by the too
well-known name," interrupted Mr Soppy
the word affects my spirits. Call it six
feet by four, or something of that sort."

'' We have grown old in the service of
the old family," rejoined Dame Soppy, with
a serious tone and manner becoming the
expression of the thought. *' Let us try to
be thankful, and end it with those who have
been so long kind to us."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

TT was generally known, or at least 
verbally admitted, that Ivy Leferne
was the lawful wife of .the heir, now in indisputable
possession of the ancient estate
of Greatwood Park, its freeholds, copyhold,
hereditaments, heriot, appurtenances, and
all thereunto belonging in fee, expectancy,
reversion, or bv whatever claim or right
anything did, could, would, or should be
deemed his hereditary property, let the
title be derived only from the good old
plan of :

'' Letting him take who has the power,
And let him keep who can."

The feudal power of the Lefernes had
existed too long for the oldest inhabitant of
the county to relate the faintest, shadowy

trace of its commencement. The accepted
tradition was that they had done just as
they pleased with *will Unfettered" from
generation to generation, and in marrying
the gamekeeper's daughter Aubrey — it was
confessed — had been consistent with the
elastic precedents set by his forefathers,
albeit exceptional perhaps in the way in
which he redeemed the trust of honour
reposed in him.

It was strange — so it was thought — that
Ivy should not return to Greatwood Park.
Her husband had left her, as he said, in
Naples, and it was his imperative injunction
that there, for a time at least, she should
remain. He would visit her at convenient
seasons, and use his best endeavour, to make
her contented with her Italian home ; but
she was not to return to England for long,
very long, for reasons which he should reserve
and express to no one living or likely
to live.

Such was the peremptory announcement
of Aubrey Leferne concerning his wife, and
no one who had the opportunity of listening
to it entertained a doubt but what he said
he meant.

'^ But how much our happiness would be
increased by having your wife with us, Aubrey,"
said his mother, in a soft whisper,
with her arms clasped around his shoulders
as she gazed entreatingly in his face.

Do not compel me to repeat my stubborn
refusal so often, mother," replied he,
pressing a kiss upon Tier cheek, " but accept
this as my final answer. I cannot comply
with your wish, difficult as it is to resist it."

Before your reply is to be received as
irrevocable, may not my petition be added
to my sister's ?" returned Aunt Margaret,
with as much reproach in her tone and
manner as she was mistress of.

Let me entreat of you both not to press
me further upon this subject," added Aubrey.

"The tiQie may arrive for my wife
to return here and take her rightful place
as the mistress of my household ; but it
cannot be yet. She must learn, as she is
assiduously learning, to be qualified for
her position, so as not to entail upon
me greater humiliation than I have
made up my mind to bear, let the consequences
be what they may to her or " — he
paused before completing the sentence —
to others that I sometimes feel that I love
better than myself."

CHAPTER XXIX.

A FEW short years had Heel when, hand
in hand, a child might be seen walking
by the side of a tall and elegantly-formed
woman towards the neighbouring churchyard
of Great wood Park. In the child's
hand was a small, well-filled basket of
violets and primroses, and as they were
passing the long, irregular bed of Sir Harold
Leferne's daffodils — planted long years ago,
but still blooming as brightly as ever — he
darted from her side, and, before she could
restrain him, plucked a golden-headed
flower and laid it among the collection
already gathered.

"This is the prettiest of all," said he.
Shall I pluck some more, mother?"

"No," she replied, sorrowfully, taking
the flower, and, pulling it asunder between

her fingers, let the torn and spoiled leaves
flutter in ruin to the ground. "No," she
repeated. " It may be the prettiest, Aubrey;
but we will not have one of these daffodils to
mingle with our flowers to-day."

Why not ?" sharply said the boy, turning
his dark, bright eyes upwards with an
eager, inquiring look.

*' You will learn, perhaps, at some future
time," she rejoined, in the same sad voice,
"why your mother rejected the flower her
little son gathered when they went together
the morning after their long, long journey
to pay a first visit to a grave that she will
often return to."

Whose is it ?" inquired he. '^ You have
not told me."

Dropping upon her knees, Ivy Leferne
clasped her child lovingly to her bosom,
and would have replied, '' My father's ;" but
no sound came from her lips. The words
died upon them.

THE END.

MESSRS. HUPtST MD Blackest

LIST OF NEW "WORKS.

A VISIT TO Abyss-IA ; an Account of Travel

In Modern Ethiopia. By W. "WixsTAXLEr, late 4th (Queen's Own) ,
Hussars. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 2l3.

"ilr. Instantly may be congratulated on having produced a capital record of
travels, cast in a popular mould. The narrative is written in a lively and entertaining
style, and abounds in capital character sketches of the men with whom the
author was brought into contact." — Athenaeum.

"Mr. "Instances volumes contain a very considerable quantity of fresh information."
— Academy.

'these volumes are extremely readable, and supply a large amount of curious
information about regions and people but little known." — Literary World.

•'Mr. Winstunley's personal adventures are in themselves sufficiently amusing,
and, did they stand alone, would be well worth reading; but he has much to say
besides about the strange land he explored, and the inhabitants who live in if —
Daily Telegraph.

•• We congratulate Mr "Instantly on having produced a very interesting narrative
from his experiences during an adventure surrounded with perils." — Globe.

LIFE IX WESTERN INDIA. By Mrs. Guthrie,

Author of '• Through Russia," •• My Tear in an Indian Fort," dec.
2 vols, crown 8vo. with Illustrations. 21s.

"This is a remarkable book, for the variety and brilliance of the pictures which
it sets before us. Mrs. Guthrie is no ordinary observer. She has a keen eye for
scenery, and can describe what she sees with much vividness. Then she is a botanist,
at home in the vast variety of the Indian flora, something of an archaeologist,
and has more than an ordinary knowledge of Indian history; and she notes
with a keen interest the life and character of the native population. Altogether
this is a charming book, in which we can find no fault, except it be an embarrassing
richness of matter which makes us feel that we have given no idea of it to
our readers ; we can only say. Let them judge for themselves." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Mrs, Guthrie's ' Life in Western India " is worthy the graphic pen of this accomplished
writer. Her familiarity with Indian life enables her to portray in
faithful and vivid hues the character of Hindoo and Mohammedan tribes, noting
the peculiarities of their social and religious traditions, and representing their
personal habits and manners with picturesque fidelity'' — Daily Telegraph.

"A most charming and delightful book." — Home Sews for India.

CATHARINE OF ARAGON, and the Sources

or THE English Ref(^r5iatio>'. Edited, from the French of Albert

Du Bois, with Notes by Charlotte M. Yonge, Author of "The

Heir of Redclyffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 2l3.

'• This book is valuable as an able compendium of documents about Catharine.

and also as a statement of the causes which led to the English Reformation. It

should be read by all who want to take a comprehensive view of the period. Miss

Yonge's work ia thoroughly and conscientiously done." — Graphic.

'seven those who are well acquainted with Miss Strickland and Laggard may
derive much additional information and renewed pleasure from M. Albert du
Boys. We do not think that the labour of translation has been in vain in the case
of the present work. Miss Yonge's well-deserved reputation would of itself be
sufficient to give it currency." — The Tablet.

MY JOURNEY ROUND THE WORLD, via

Cetlox, New Zealand, Australia, Torres Straits, China,
Japa>-, a>-d the United States. By Captain S. H. Jones-party,
late 102nd Royal Madras Fusileers. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 2l3.
"A very pleasant book of travel, well worth readings"— spectator.
"A lively account of the author's experiences ashore and afloat, which is well
worth reading." — Daily Neics.

"It is pleasant to follow Captain Jones-Parry on his journey round the world.
He is full of life, spa rule, sunlight, and anecdote"— (graphic.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW Wombs— Continued.

ROYAL WINDSOR. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Second Edition. Volumes I. and TI. Demy 8vo. sos.
CONTENTS OF VOLS. I AND II.— Castle Hill, Norman Keep, First King's House,
Lion Heart. Kingless "Windsor, "Windsor Won, Geoffrey Plantagenet, Windsor
Lost, The Fallen Deputy, The Queen Mother, Maud de Braose, The Barons'
War, Second King's House, Edward of Carnarvon, Pert de Gaston, Isabel
de Franco, Edward of Windsor, Crecy, Patron Saints. St. George, Society of
St. George, Lady Salisbury, David King of Scots, Third King's House. Ballad
Windsor, The Fair Countess, Richard of Bordeaux, Court Parties. Itoyal Favourites,
Rehearsing for Windsor, In the Great Hall, Simon de Burley, Eadcote
Bridge, A Feast of Death, Geoffrey Chaucer, At Winchester Tower. St. George's
Chapel, The Little Queen, At Windsor, Duchess Philippine, The Windsor Plot,
Bolingbroke, Court of Chivalry, Wager of Battle, Captive Little Queen, A New-year's
Plot, Night of the Kings, Dona Juan, Constance of York, The Norman
Tower, The Legal Heir. Prince Hal, The Devil's Tower, In Captivity Captive,
Attempt at Rescue, Agincourt, Kaiser Sigismund, The Witch Queen, Sweet
Kate, The Maid of Honour, Lady Jane, Henry of Windsor, Richard of York,
Two Duchesses, York and Lancaster, Union of the Roses.
' Royal Windsor ' follows in the same lines as ' Her Majesty's Tower,' and aims
at weaving a series of popular sketches of striking events which centre round
Windsor Castle. Mr. Dixon makes everything vivid and picturesque. Those who
liked 'Her Majesty's Tower' will find these volumes equalIypleasant."—^?/ien«7/w».
"A truly fine and interesting book. It is a valuable contribution to English
history; worthy of Mr. Dixon's fame, worthy of its grand subject"— iI/o?-«i«(7 Post.

"Mr. Dixon has supplied us with a highly entertaining book. 'Royal Windsor'
is eminently a popular work, bristling with anecdotes and amusing sketches of
historical characters. It is carefully written, and is exceedingly pleasant reading.
The story is brightly told ; not a dull page can be founder'— Exanii7ier.

These volumes will lind favour with the widest circle of readers. From the first
days of Norman Windsor to the Plantagenet period Mr. Dixon tells the story of this
famous castle in his own picturesque, bright, and vigorous way"— Davy Telegraph.

"Mr. Hepworth Dixon has found a congenial subject in 'Royal Windsor.' Under
the sanction of the Queen, he has enjoyed exceptional opportunities of most
searching and complete investigation of the Royal House and every other part of
Windsor Castle, in and out, above ground and below ground"— Z)ai7// News.

VOLS. III. AND IV. OF ROYAL WINDSOR. By

W. Hepworth Dixon. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. sos. Completing
the Work.
CONTENTS OF VOLS. Il AND IV.— St. George's Hall, The Tudor Tower, A
Windsor Comedy, Tho Secret Room, Treaties of Windsor, The Private Stair,
Disgracing a Knight, In a King's House, The Maiden's Tower, Black Days.
The Virgin Bride, Elegy on Windsor, Fair Geraldine, Course of Song. Windsor
Gospeller, Windsor Martyrs, A Royal Reference, Hatchment Down, The
People's Friend, St. George's Enemy, Lady Elizabeth's Grace, Queen Mary,
Grand Master of St. George, Deanery and Dean, Sister Temperance, Elizabeth's
Lovers, Dudley Constable, The Schoolmaster, Peace, Proclaimed,
Shakespeare's Windsor, The Two Shakespeare, The Merry Wives, Good Queen
Bess, House of Stuart, The Little Park, The Queen's Court, The Kings
Knights, Spurious Peace. King Christian, A Catholic Dean, Apostasy, Expulsion,
Forest Rights, Book of Sports, Windsor Cross, In the Forest, Windsor
Seized, Under the Keep, At Bay, Feudal Church, Roundheads, Cavalier
Prisoners, The New Model, Last Days of Royalty, Saints in Council, Changing
Sides. Earshot Lodge, Cutting Down, Windsor Uncrowned, A "Merry"
Caesar, Windsor Catholic, The Catastrophe, Domestic Life, Home.
"Readers of all classes will feel a genuine regret to think that these volumes
contain the last of Mr. Dixon's vivid and lively sketches of English history. His
hand retained its cunning to the last, and these volumes show an increase in force
and dignity." — Atfieiiocum.

"Mr. Dixon's is the picturesque way of writing history. Scene after scene is
brought before us in the most effective way. His book is not only pleasant reading,
but full of information"— Craij/jic.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW ^VOVdv^— Continued,

CONVERSATIONS with Distinguished Persons

during the Second Empire, from 18G0 to 1863. By the Lat
Nassau W. Ses-ior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M, Snipsox.
2 vols. Svo. 303.
Among other persons whose conversations are given in these volumes are: — Prince
Napoleon; the Due de Broglie; the Marquises Chambre, Lasteyrie, Pallas
Vogue ; Marshal Random; Points Arrivabene, Circourt, Corneille. Kern
Moutalembert, Re'musat, Zamoyski; Generals Changarnier, Fe'neioa,
Trochus; Lords Cowley and Clyde; Messieurs ampere, Beaumont, Chamber,
Chevalier, Cousin, Dayton, Drouyn de Lhuys, Duchatel, Dufaure, Demon.
Duvergier de Lausanne, Guizot, Lamartine, Lomeaie, Auvergne, Sanguinis,
Maury, Marochetti, Mason, Me'rimee, Dillon Barrot, Pellets, Pietro, Renal,
St. Haire, Slide, Thiers, De Witt; Mesdames Circourt, Come, Moil, &c.
"Mr. Senior's 'Conversations with M. Thiers, M. Guizot," &c., published about a
year and a half ago, were the most interesting volumes of the series which had
appeared up to that time, and these new 'Conversations " are hardly, if at all less
welcome and important A large part of this delightful book is made up of studies
by various critics, from divers points of view, of the character of Louis Napoleon,
and of more or less vivid and accurate explanations of his tortuous policy. The
work contains a few extremely interesting reports of conversations with M Thiers.
There are some valuable reminiscences of Lamartine, and among men of a somewhat
later day, of Prince Napoleon, Drouyn de Lhuys, Moutalembert, Victor
Cousin, Ee'nan, and the Ch.eviiliers.''—A(henoeum.

"It is impossible to do justice to these 'Conversations' in a brief notice, so we
must be content to refer our readers to volumes which, wherever they are opened,
will be found pregnant with interest'' — The Times.

"Many readers may prefer the dramatic or literary merit of Mr. Senior's ' Conversations
' to their historical interest, but it is impossible to insert extracts of such
length as to represent the spirit, the finish, and the variety of a book which is
throughout entertaining and instructive." — Saturday Review.

CONVERSATIONS with M. Thiers, M. Guizot,

and other Distinguished Persons, during the Second Empire. By
the Late Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. 31.
Simpson. 2 vols, demy Svo. sos.

-Vmong other persons whose conversations are recorded in these volumes are:

King Leopold; the Due de Broglie; Lord Cowley; Counts Arrivabene. corneille,
Daru, Flahault, Kergolay, Montalembert; Generals Lamoriciere and
Chrzanowski; Sir Henry Ellis; Messieurs Ampere, Beaumont, Blanchard,
Buffet, Auguste Chevalier, Victor Cousin, De Witt, Duchatel, Ducpetiaux,
Demon, Dastard, Duvergier de Lausanne, Leon Faucher, Frere-Orbau. Grim-blot,
Guizot, Lafltte, Baume, Lamartine, Sanguinis, Mallac, Main, Me'rimee,
Magnet, Jules Moil, Monticello, Dillon-Barrot, Quetelet, Re'musat, Eogier,'
Rivet, Rossini, Horace Say, Thiers, Trouve-chapel, Villain, Wolowski-
Mesdames Circourt, Come, History, &c.
"This new series of Mr. Senior's 'Conversations' has been for some years past
known in manuscript to his more intimate friends, and it has always been felt that
no former series would prove more valuable or important Mr. Senior had a social
position which gave him admission into the best literary and political circles of
Paris. He was a cultivated and sensible man, who knew how to take full advantage
of such an opening. And above all, he had by long practice so trained his
memory as to enable it to recall all the substance, and often the words, of the long
conversations which he was always holding. These conversations he wrote down
with a surprising accuracy, and then handed the manuscript to his friends, that
they might correct or modify his report of what they had said. This book thus
contains the opinions of eminent men given in the freedom of conversation, and
afterwards carefully revised. Of their value there cannot be a question. The book
is one of permanent historical interest. There is scarcely a page without some
memorable statement by some memorable man. Politics and society and literature
the three great interests that make up life — are all discussed in turn, and there is
discussion which is unproductive of weighty thought or striking ia,ct.''—At/tenaium.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW Works— Continued,

HISTORY OF TWO QUEENS: CATHARINE

OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN. By W. Hepworth Dixon.
Second Edition. Vols. 1 & 2. Demy 8vo. sos.

"In two handsome volumes Mr. Dixon here gives us the first instalment of a
new historical work on a most attractive subject. The book is in many respects a
favourable specimen of Mr. Dixon's powers. It is the most painstaking and

elaborate that he has yet written On the whole, we may say that the book

is one which will sustain the reputation of its author as a writer of great power
and versatility, that it gives a new aspect to many an old subject, and presents in
H. very striking light some of the most recent discoveries in English history." —
A thenxum.

"In these volumes the author exhibits in a signal manner his special powers
and finest endowments. It is obvious that the historian has been at especial pains
to justify his reputation, to strengthen his hold upon the learned, and also to
extend his sway over the many who prize an attractive style and interesting narrative
more highly than laborious research and philosophic insight'' — Morning Post.

"The thanks of all students of English history are due to Mr. Hepworth Dixon
for his clever and original work, 'History of two Queens.' The book is a valuable-contribution
to English history"— Z)at7y News.

VOLS. HI. & IV. OF THE HISTORY OF TWO

QUEENS : CATHARINE OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN.

By W. Hepworth Dixon. Second Edition. Demy 8yo. Price sos.

Completing the Work.
These concluding volumes of Mr. Dixon's ' History of two Queens ' will be perused
with keen interest by thousands of readers. "Whilst no less valuable to testament,
they will be far more enthralling to the general reader than the earlier
half of the history. Every page of what may be termed Anne Boleyn's story affords
a happy illustration of the author's vivid and picturesque style. The work should
be found in every library"— Poi.

HISTORY OF WILLIAM PENN, Founder of

Pennsylvania. By "W. Hepworth Dixon. A New Library Edition

1 vol. demy 8vo, with Portrait. 12s.
Mr. Dixon's ' William Penn ' is, perhaps, the best of his books. He has now revised
and issued it with the addition of much fresh matter. It is now offered in a
sumptuous volume, matching with Mr. Dixon's recent books, to a new generation of
readers, who will thank Mr. Dixon for his interesting and instructive memoir of
one of the worthies of England"— £';ra??Jtner.

VOLS. III. & IV. OF HER MAJESTY'S TOWER.

By W. HEPWORTH DIXON. DEDICATED BY EXPRESS
PERMISSION TO THE QUEEN. Completing the york. Third
Edition. Demy 8vo. sos.

FREE RUSSIA. By W. Hepworth Dixon. Third

Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, with Coloured Illustrations. sos.
"Mr. Dixon's book will be certain not only to interest but to please its readers
and it deserves to do so. It contains a great deal that is worthy of attention, and
is likely to produce a very useful effect." — Saturday Review.

THE Swimmers. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Third Edition. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
A lively, interesting, and altogether novel book on Switzerland. It is full of
valuable information on social, political, and ecclesiastical questions, and, like all.
Mr. Dixon's hooks, is eminently readable"— Z?a j7y News.

MESSRS. Hurst AND BLACKETT'S
NEW ^OB.KS—Contmued.

PLAYS, PLAYERS, AND PLAYHOUSES, AT

HO:\IE AND ABROAD ; ^YITH Anecdotes of the Drj^ix axd tee
Stage. By Lord William Pitt Lexxox. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21?.

Lord WLHiam' Lennox's gossiping volumes will be read with great interest.
They embrace notes concerning Peg "Washington, Mrs. Jordan, G. F. Cooke, the
Infant Roscius. T. P. Cooke, Mrs. Honey. Romeo Coates, Alfred Bin. the Kemble,
Editing Kean. Liston, Abraham, Young, Grimaldi, Mrs. Wellington. Morton,
Coleman, Planche, Sheridan Knowles. Theodore Hook, ^ilark Lemon, Palsgrave
Simpson, Byron, Bumand, Arthur Cecil Tools, Coney Grain, Irving, and many
others. A vast amount of curious information and anecdote has been gathered
together in these pleasant, readable volumes." — .Sunday Times.

These volumes are full of good stories and anecdotes, told with remarkable
spirit, and will be a treasure to playgoers"' — Graphic.

"The lover of the stage will find a host of interesting and amusing passage?,
let him dip into these volumes wherever he wilL"" — Era.

TALES OF OUR GREAT FAMILIES. Second

Series. By Edward "Walford, Mea. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
€oxTENTS :— The Old Countess of Desmond, The Edgcumbes of Edgcumbe and
Console, The Inches of Galway, A Cadet of the Plantagenet, The Proud
Duke of Somerset, Lady Kilsvth, The Dalzell of Camwath, The Ladies of
Llangollen, The Foxes, The Stuart of Traquair, Belted "Will Howard. An
Episode in the House of Dundonald. The Ducal House of Hamilton, The
Chief of Dundas, The Duke of Chances and Princely Canons, The Spencers
and Comptons, All the Towards, The Lockhart of Lee, A Ghost Story in the
Noble House of Beresford, A Tragedy in Pall Mall, An Eccentric Russell, The
Lady of Fathom House, Two Royal Marriages in the Last Century, The
Boyle. The Merry Duke of Montagu, The Romance of the Earldom of Huntingdon,
Lady Hester Stanhope, The Countess of Xithsdale, The Romance of
the Earldom of Mar. Margaret Duchess of Newcastle, Lord Worthington, The
Cutlers of Wentworth, The Earldom of Bridgewater, The Cares of Beddington,
A Chapter on the Peerage, The Kirkpatrick of Closeburn, The Clifford
Earls of Cumberland. The Homes of Polwarth. The Ducal House of Bedford.
Tragedies of the House of Innes. The Dual House of Leinster, The Royal
House of Stuart, The Great Douglas Case, The Radcliffe of Derwentwater.
The Rise of the House of Hardwicke, Field-marshal Keith.
'■'• The social rank of the persons whose lives and characters are delineated in
this work and the inherent romance of the stories it embodies will ensure it a
widespread popularity. Many of the papers possess an engrossing and popular
interest, while all of them may be read with pleasure and profit"— ir.raHii"«er.

Dairy OF A TOUR IN SWEDEN, NORWAY,

AND RUSSIA, IX 1827. By The iL^cmoxEss of Westminster.
1 vol. demy 8vo. los.
"A bright and lively record. So pleasantly are the letters written which Lady
"Westminster sent home, that her book is most agreeable; and it has this special
merit, that it brings clearly before us a number of the great people of former
days, royal and imperial personages, whose intimate acquaintance the traveller's
rank enabled her to make'" — Athenaeum.

*' A very agreeable and instructive yolvjne."— Saturday Review.

OUR HOLIDAY IN THE EAST. By Mrs. George

Sumner. Edited by the Rev. G. H. Sumter, Hon. Canon of winchester,
Rector of Old Beresford, Hands, 8vo, with Illustrations. 15s.

' Our Holiday in the East ' may take its place among the earnest and able
books recording personal travel and impressions in those lands which are consecrated
to us by their identification with Bible history'— Daily Tchgraph.

"A most charming narrative of a tour in the East amongst scenes of the deepest
interest to the Christian. No one can rise from the perusal of this fascinating
volume without the pleasant conviction of having obtained much valuable aid for
the study of the inspired narrative of Our Blessed Lords ]iiQ:'— Record.

An attractive volume, which is very agreeable reading." — John Bull.

MESSRS. HUEST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW Works— Continued.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

ISTi). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.
Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

"Madame de Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the subject"— ,Sa<«/-cZa(/ Review.

"This book was well worth translating. Mrs. Simpson has written excellent
English, while preserving the spirit of the French"— 77(c Times.

M. Guizot stands out in the pages of his daughter's excellent biography a distinct
and life-like figure. lie is made to speak to us in his own person. The best
part of the book consists of a number of his letters, in which he freely unfolds his
feelings and opinions, and draws with unconscious boldness the outlines of his
forcible and striking characterises 3Icdl Gazette.

THE VILLAGE OF PALACES ; or, Chronicles of

Chelsea. By the Rev. A. G. L'L'Estrange. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

Mr. L'L'Estrange has much to tell of the various public institutions associated
with Chelsea. Altogether his volumes show some out-of-the-way research, and
are written in a lively and gossipping style"— The Times.

These volumes are pleasantly written and fairly mterest\ng."—At?ienieiim.

":\Ir. L'L'Estrange tells us much that is interesting about Chelsea. We take
leave of this most charming book with a hearty recommendation of it to our
rea.(\evs."'— Spectator.

One of the best gossiping topography since Leigh Hunt's 'Old Court Suburb.'
So many persons of note have lived in Chelsea that a book far less carefully compiled
than this has been could not fail to be amusing"— Zic<//// Telegraph.

Every inhabitant of Chelsea will welcome this remarkably interesting work.
It sheds a flood of light upon the past; and, while avoiding the heaviness of
most antiquarian works, gives, in the form of a popular and amusing sketch, a
complete history of this ' Village of Palaces.' "chelsea News

AN ACTOR ABROAD ; or, Gossip, Dramatic,

Narrative, and Descriptive : From the Recollections of an
Actor in Australia, New Zealand, the Sandwich Islands, California,
Nevada, Central America, and New York. By Edmund
Leather. Demy 8vo. 15s.
"ran Actor Abroad' is a bright and pleasant volume— an eminently readable
book. Mr. Leather has the great merit of being never dull. He has the power of
telling a story clearly and pointedly'— 5a/M?-(/fl?/ Eevieu:
A readable, gossipping, agreeable record." — Era.

RORAIMA AND BRITISH GUIANA, with a

Glance at Bermuda, the West Indies, and the Spanish Main. By
J. W. Boddam-Whetham. 8vo. With Map and Illustrations. ] ys.

"The author has succeeded in producing an interesting and readable book of
travels. His remarks on every-day life in the tropics, his notes on the geography
and natural history of the countries he visited, and, above all, his vivid descriptions
of scenery, combine to form a record of adventure which in attractiveness it
will not be easy to surpass." — Athenaeum.

"Mr. Whether travelled in portions of Guiana little known, meeting with many
adventures, seeing many strange sights, and taking notes which have furnished
matter for a book of fascinating interest"— Z>«/7)/ Neics.

CELEBRITIES I HAVE KNOAVN. By Lord

William Pitt Lennox. Second Series. 2 volumes demy 8vo. sos .
This new series of Lord William Lennox's reminiscences is fully as entertaining
as the preceding one. Lord William makes good use of an excellent memory,
and he writes easily and pleasantly"— Pa// Mall Gazette.

MESSES. HUEST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW ^OYvKS— Continued,

HOLIDAYS IN EASTERN FRANCE ; Sketches

of Travel in Champagne, Franche-Comte, the Jura, the Valley of
the DouBS, &c. By M. Beth.ajsi-Edwards. 8vo. illustrations. 15s.
"Miss Edwards' present volume, written in the same pleasant style as that which
described her wanderings in Western France, is so much the more to be recommended
that its contents are fresher and more novo" — Saturday Review.

"Readers of this work-will find plenty of fresh information about some of the
most delightful parts of France. The descriptions of scenery are as graphic as the
sketches of character are lifelike"— Code.

ROUND THE WORLD IN SIX MONTHS. By

Lieut-colonel E. S. Bridges, Grenadier Guards. 1 vol. 8vo. 15s.

The author may be congratulated on his success, for his pages are light and
pleasant. The volume wiirbe found both amusing and nsefal'^—Atfienxum.

Colonel Bridges' book has the merit of being lively and readable. His advice
to future travellers may be found serviceable." — Pall Mall Gazette.

A LEGACY : Being the Life and Remains of John

:Martin, Schoolmaster and Poet. "Written and Edited by the

Author of " John Halifax." 2 vols, crovrn 8vo. With Portrait. 21s.

"A remarkable book. It records the life, work, aspirations, and death of a

schoolmaster and poet, of lowly birth but ambitious soul. His writings brim v^-ith

vivid thought, touches of poetic sentiment, and trenchant criticism of men and

books, expressed in scholarly language." — Guardian.

"Mrs. Craik has related a beautiful and pathetic story— a story of faith and
courage on the part of a young and gifted man, who might under other circumstance*?
have won a place in literature. The story is one worth reading." — Fall Mall Gazette.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS diaries and correspondence. By His Wife.

2 vols, large post 8vo, with Portrait. 24s.
"Thistle of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
179-Jr, and ending at 1870. We need scarcely state that all the portions of Moche
diary which refer to his intercourse with Beethoven, Hummel, Weber, Czerny,
Sporting, Rossini, Auber, Hale'vv, Schumann, Cherubini, Spohr. Mendelssohn, F.
David, Chopin, J B. Cramer Clement!, John Field, Habeneck, Hauptmann. Kalk-
brenner, Kiesewetter. C. Klingeraann, Laplace, Dragonetti, Sontag, Persian,
Malian, Paganini, Rachel, Ronzi de Begnis, De Heriot, Ernst, Donzelli, Cinti-
Moreau, Heard, Bochsa, Reporte, Charles Kemble, Baton (Mrs. Wood),
Schrcider-Devrient, Mrs. Siddons, Sir H. Bishop, Sir G. Smart, Staudigl, Thalers,
Berlioz, Veluti, C. Young, Bale, Abraham, and many other artists of note in their
time, will recall a flood of recollections. It was a delicate task for Madame 
to select from the diaries in reference to living persons, but her extracts have
been judiciously made. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called the ' Music of the
Future' audits disciples, and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr Liszt, bernstein,
Dr von Billow, Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a
liberal spirit. He recognizes cheerfully the talents of our native artists ; Sir S.
Bennett, Mr Macfarren, Madame Goddard, Mr J. Barnett, Mr HuUah, ilr A. Sullivan,
&c. The volumes are full of amusing anecdotes." — Athenaeum.

COACHING ; With Anecdotes of the Road. By

Lord William Pitt Lennox. Dedicated to His Grace the
Duke of Beaufort, Keg., President, and the Members of
the Coaching Club. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

•' Lord William's book is genial, discursive, and gossipy. We are indebted to the
author's personal recollections for some lively stories, and pleasant sketches of
some of the more famous dragoman. Altogether his volume, with the variety of
its contents, will be found pleasant reading"— Par Mall Gazette.

MESSES. HURST AND BLACKETT'S

NEW WORKS— Continued.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to, 5s. bound.

"These letters, the work of a pure and devout spirit, deserve to And many
readers. They are greatly superior to the average of what is called religious
literature." — A theseus.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissiveness
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice ; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly find even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of the life." — British
Quarterly Review.

This touching and most comforting work is dedicated to The Queen, who took
a gracious interest in its first appearance, when printed for private circulation, and
found comfort in its pages, and has now commanded its publication, that the
world in general may profit by it. A more practical and heart-stirring appeal to
the afflicted we have never examined." — Standard.

THE YOUTH OF QUEEN ELIZABETH. Edited,

from the French of L. Weesener, by Charlotte jM. Yonge, Author
of " The Heir of Redclyffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
"M. Wiesener is to be complimented on the completeness, accuracy, and research
shown in this work. He has drawn largely on the French Archives, the
Public Record Office, and British Museum, for information contained in original
documents, to some of which notice is directed for the first time. M. Wiesener's
work is well worth translating. Miss Yonge appears to have successfully accomplished
the task which she has undertaken." — Alienum.

THE SEA OF MOUNTAINS : An Account of

Lord Dufferin's Tour through British Columbia in 1876. By
MoLTNEUx St. John. 2 vols. With Portrait of Lord Dufferin. 21s.

A YOUNG SQUIRE OF THE SEVENTEENTH

CENTURY, from the Papers of Christopher Jefferson, of Bellingham
House, Cambridgeshire. Edited by John Cord Jefferson,
Author of "A Book about Doctors," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

OUR BISHOPS AND DEANS. By the Rev. F.

Arnold, Bea., late of Christ Church, Oxford. 2 vols. 8vo. sos.

LIFE OF THE RT. HON. SPENCER PERCEVAL ;

Including His Correspondence. By His Grandson, Spencer Walpole.
2 vols. 8vo. With Portrait. sos.

HISTORIC CHATEAUX: Blois, Fontainebleau,

ViNCENNEs. By Lord Lamington. 1 vol. Svo. 15s.
"A very interesting volume." — Times.

THE THEATRE Francis IN THE REIGN

OF LOUIS XY. By Lord Leamington. 1 vol. demy Svo. 15s.

RECOLLECTIONS of COLONEL DE Bonneville.

Edited from the French by Charlotte M. Yonge,
Author of the "Heir of Redclyffe," i'c. 2 vols, crown Svo. dis.

MESSRS, HUEST AND Blackett
NEW ^V OYvKS—Contmiied.

LONDONIAXA. By Edward Walford, Mea.,

Author of •' The County Famines," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 2l3.
"A highly interesting and entertaining book. It bristles with anecdotes and
amusing sketches." — Court Journal.

MEMOIRS OF Georgians. LADY chatterton;

With some Passages from her Diary, By E. Herbage
Derixg. 1 vol. demy 8vo. los.

HISTORY OF ENGLISH HUMOUR. By the

Rev. A. G. L'EsTRANGE. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21$.

ACROSS CENTRAL AMERICA. By J. W. .

8vo. With Illustrations, los.

A MAN OF OTHER DAYS : Recollections of the

Maeqos de Beauregard. Edited, from the French, by Charlotte
M. YoNGE, Author of " The Heir of Redclyffe," etc. 2 vols. 21s.

MY YEAR IN AN INDIAN FORT. By Mrs.

Guthrie. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. 2l3.

THROUGH FRANCE AND BELGIUM, BY

-RIYY.R AND Canal, IX THE STEA^^t YACHT " YTEXE."
By W. J. C. MoE>-s, R.Y.Y.C. 1 vol. 8vo. With illustrations. 15s.

MY YOUTH, BY SEA AND LAND, from 1809 to
1816. By Charles Loftus, formerly of the Royal Navy,
late of the Coldstream Guards. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

MY LIFE, FROM 1815 to 1849. By Charles Loftus,

formerly of the Royal Navy, late of the Coldstream Guards.
Author of " My Youth by Sea and Land." 2 vols. cro\sTi 8vo. 21s.

A BOOK ABOUT THE TABLE. By J. C.

Jeatfresox. 2 vols. 8vo. sos.

Costs ESPANOLAS ; or, Every-day Life ix

Spain. By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-Bury. 2nd Edition. 8vo. 15s.

PEARLS OF THE PACIFIC. By J. W. Boddam-
Whether. 1 vol. demy 8vo, with S illustrations. 15s.

TURKISH HAREMS & CIRCASSIAN HOMES.

By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-Bury. 8vo. Second Edition, los.

MEMOIRS OF QUEEN HORTENSE, MOTHER

of Napoleon III. Cheaper Edition, in 1 vol. 6s.

RECOLLECTIONS OF SOCIETY IN FRANCE

And England. By Lady Clementina Davies. 2nd Edition. 2 v.

THE EXILES AT ST. GERMAINS. By the

Author of " The Lady Shakerley." 1 vol. 7s. 6d. bound.

PUBLISHED BY Vilest & BLACKETT.

A MAN'S MISTAKE. By the Author of *' St,

Olavc'ri," " Jiinita'ri Cross," &c. 3 vols.

IVY : COUSIN AND Bride. By Percy Greg,

Author of " Errant," &c. 3 vols.

TOO FAST TO LAST. By John Mills, Author of

The 01(1 English Gentleman," dec. 3 vols. (7» Ainjvst.)

WANTED, AN HEIR. By C. L. Pirkis, Author of

A Very Opal," &c. 3 vols.

RESEDA. By Mrs. Randolph, Author of '^ Geu-

tianella," &c. 3 vols.

This story is charmingly told, and promises to be one of the most popular of
the author's novels' — Sum/aii Times.

"There is much that is clever in this story, both in the way of character-painting
and incident." — John Bull.

' Reseda ' is pleasant to read, and will sustain its author's reputation. It is
calculated to give a good deal of pleasure to lovers of modern llciion." — Post.

LOVE, HONOUR, AND OBEY. By Iza Duffus

Hardy, Author of " Glencairn," &c. 3 vols.
A very clever story. It is likely to attract many readers"— /(j/j« Bull.
A story of strong interest and power'' — Post.

"The best novel Miss hardy lias written. The interest is steadily maintained
to the end." — Sunday Times.

SYDNEY. By Geoegl\na M. CraHv, Author of

Dorcas," " Anno Warwick," &c. 3 vols.

There is much to commend in this novel. It is a vez'y pretty stores cleverly
devised, and wholesome' carried out." — Sciturchqi Pevieic.

"Miss Craik has treated her subject with great freshness, and has succeeded in
giving a marked individuality both to her heroine and her book'" — Pall Mall Gazette.

' Sydney ' is one of the best of Miss Craik's novels. It is a well-written, pleasant
story', and a highly interesting study of character"— ^^^ James's Gazette.

THE FUTURE MARQUIS. By Catharine

Child. 3 vols.
"Miss Child's story is exceedingly readable"' — Acatlemn.

An interesting story, written in an agreeable manner. It ought to attain considerable
popularity." — John Bull.

BESIDE THE RIVER. By Mrs. Macquoid, Author

of " Patty," " In the Sweet Spring Time," &c. 3 vols,

A bright and pleasant story." — St. James's Gazette.

We are inclined to rank this as the best of Mrs. Macquoid's novels. Her
stories are always entertaining." — Academy. x

This book is well worthy of being read'. It is full of invention, and not a little
discrimination of character'' — British Quarterly Eevieic.

Love-knots. By the Author of "Ursula Love

Story," " Under Temptation"' &c. 3 vols.

There is a good deal of interest in these cleverly-knitted ' love-knots.' ''—
A thenxum.

A pleasant, healthy novel, full of life and spirit. It will secure a large number
of readers." — Sunday Times.



PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

AMONG THE HILLS. By E. Frances Porter,

Author of "My Little Lady," &c. ''2 vols.

'miss Pointer has undoubted pow-er. She showed this in her first novel. ' lily
Little Lady ' ; she has proved it yet again in her new venture, 'Among the Hills,'
which is, moreover, a distinct advance upon its predecessor. The author has
learned to handle her subject with a firmer grasp, and she develops her narrative
with more freedom and skill. For depth and sincerity of feeling, quiet pathos,
and good taste, 'Among the Hills ' may take rank among the better-class fictions
01 the day." — St. James's Gazette.

'• * Among the Hills ' deserves high praise as a work of art'" — Academy.

"A touching and powerful story." — Spectator.

HARRY JOSCELYN. By Mrs. Oliphant, Author

of " Chronicles of Carhngford,"' &c. 3 vols.

Mrs. Oliphant has great versatility of imagination, and a happy power of drawing
on her memory for details in painting both people and places after nature.
In 'Harry Joscelyn ' she makes judicious use of sharp and telling contrasts. Nothing
can be better than her pictures of the bleak Cumberland fells and their
rough inhabitants except her clever sketches of Anglo-Italian life in Leghorn.
Harry himself is a clever and interesting study'" — 7?ie Times.

This book is very clever and entertaining. The characters are good, and every
page abounds in those little touches of true and subtle observation in which Mrs.
Oliphant excels'— PaZ? Mali Gazette.

"Mrs. Oliphant presents in these volumes a succession of studies, worked outwith
great care, and evidencing her own peculiar skill." — Saturday Review.

HIS LITTLE MOTHER, and Other Tales and

Sketches. By the Author of " JoHx Halifax." 1 vol. 10s. Gd.

This is an interesting book, written in a pleasant manner, and full of shrewd
observation and kindly feeling. It is a book that will be read with interest, and
that cannot be lightly forgotten'' — St. James's Gazette.

"this Little Mother' is one of those pathetic stories which the author tell
better than anybody else"' — John Bull.

"We cordially recommend ' His Little Mother.' The stones most affecting.
The volume is full of lofty sentiments and noble aspirations, and none can help
feeling better after its perusal"' — Court Journal.

Strict r TIED UP. By the Right Hon. A. J. B.

Beresford Hi.^pe, 3LP. Third and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. Gs.

A clever story. In ' Strictly Tied Up ' we have vigorous sketches of life in
very different circumstances and conditions. "We have the incisive portraiture of
character that shows varied knowledge of nankin 1 We have a novel, besides,
which may be read with profit as well as pleasure, for the author deals occasionally
with burning topics of the day"' — The Times.

' Strictly Tied Up ' is entertaining. It is in every sense a novel conceived in a.
light and happy vein." — Athenaeum.

"A cleverly constructed novel, as amusing as it is ingenious-Sf. James's Gazette.

HER DESERTS. By Mrs. Alexander Eraser.

Second Edition. 3 vols.
"A striking novel, which cannot fail to engross all readers"— J/omzngf Post.

BERYL FORTESCUE. By Lady Duffus Hardy,

Author of " Made," &c. 3 vols.

FIXED AS FATE. By Mrs. Houston, Author of

Recommended to Mercy," &c. 3 vols.

IDONEA. By Anne Beale, Author of-fay

Arlington," &c. 3 vols.



Published annually, in One Vol., royal Svo, with the Arms beautifully
engraved, handsomely bound, with gilt edges, price 31s. 6d.

LODGERS PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

THE FIFTIETH E Edition FOB 188 1 IS NOW READY.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.
A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

A Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal.

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to be
the readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the subject" — Spectator.

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— Post.

The best existing, and, we believe, the best possible Peerage. It is the standard
authority on the subject." — Standard.



OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS,

ILLUSTRATED EY SIR J. GILBERT, MILLAIS, HUNT, LEECH, FOSTER,
Pointer, TENNIEL, Sands, HUGHES, Tambourine, &C.

Each in a Single Volume, elegantly printed, bound, and illustrated, price 5s.

1. SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett s Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking.
Nature and Human Nature' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous
productions, and is well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain
in its present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type, and good paper, the lesser but attractive merits of
being well illustrated and elegantly bound"— /•o5(.

2. JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

•' This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man — a Christian gentleman; and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and
written with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass
freely from hand to hand as a gift book in many households." — Examiner.

3. THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT Warburton.
independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is
its reverent and serious spirit" — Quarterly Review.

4. NATHALIE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

'Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good." — Athenaeum.

5. A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman."
•'A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well-written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical. ^Vhoeve^ wishes to give advice to a
young lady may thank the author for means of doing so." — Examiner.

6. ADAM Gramme. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"A story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its admirable pictures
of Scottish life and scenery. The author sets before us the essential attributes of
Christian virtue, with a delicacy, power, and truth which can hardly be surpassed-fo.??.

7. SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS & MODERN INSTANCES.

•' The reputation of this book will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's Novels.
Its remarkable originality and happy descriptions of American life still continue the
subject of universal admiration." — Messenger.

8. CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS OF
THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has treated a special subject with so much geniality, that
his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously opposed
to every idea of human infallibility represented in Papal domination." — Athenaeum.

9. A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHX HALIFAX, Gentleman."
"In 'A Life for a Life' the author is fortunate in a good subject, and has produced i
work of strong effect" — Athenaeum.

10. THE OLD COURT SUBURB. By LEIGH HUNT.

"A delightful book, that will be welcome to all readers, and most welcome to those-who
have a love for the best kinds of reading"— .Examiner.

11. MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming"— .dWi^Hieum.

12. THE OLD JUDGE. By SAM SLICK.

"The publications included in this Library have all been of good quality; many give
information while they entertain, and of that class the book before us is a specimen.
The manner in which the Cheap Editions forming the series is produced, deserves
especial mention. The paper and print are unexceptionable ; there is a steel engraving
in each volume, and the outsides of them will satisfy the purchaser who likes to see
books in handsome uniform." — Examiner.

13. DARIEN. By ELIOT WARBURTON.

"This last production of the author of 'The Crescent and the Cross 'has the same
Elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands"— ff^ote.

14. FAMILY ROMANCE.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.
"It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting hook'— Standard.

15. THE LAIRD OF NORLAW. By MRS. OLIPHANT

"The 'Laird of Norlaw' fully sustains the author's high reputation"— 5««(/ay Times

16. THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

"Mrs. Bretton's book is interesting, and full of opportune instruction"— Ttm^i.

17. NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Nothing New ' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax '
sone of the most popular works of the day." — Post.

18. FREER'S LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET.

"Nothing can be more interesting than Miss Freer's story of the life of Jeanne
■D'Albret, and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive. ' — Post.

19. THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

Br THE AUTHOR OF "MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

"If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between 'John Halifax 'and
'The Caxtons.'"— <Sia/ictorci

20. THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM.

BY PETER BURKE, SERGEANT AT LAW.
•' A work of singular interest, which can never fail to ch^vm."— Illustrated News.

21. ADELE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

' Adele ' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh ; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-paintings"— ^ «/*««««/«.

22. STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
these ' Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. The
book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished author"— Saturday Review.

23. GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

"We commend Grandmother's Money ' to readers in search of a good novel The
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting"— At>ienieu7}i.

24. A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS. By J. C. Jefferson.

A delightful hook"— Athenaeum. " A book to be read and re-read ; fit for the study
as well as the drawing-room table and the circulating lihi-M-Y."— Lancet.



25. NO Church.

"We advise all who have the opportunity to read this hoo^^"—At?i(nsntm.

26. MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman."
"A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instruct
" A charming tale charmingly told"— Standard.

27. LOST AND SAVED. By HON. MRS. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved ' will be read with eager interest It is a vigorous noxeV'—Tt/nes
"A novel of rare excellence. It is Mrs. Norton's best prose worlds"— £"xa/;jtVier.

28. LES Miserable. By VICTOR HUGO.

AUTHORISED COPYRIGHT English Translation.
"The merits of 'Les Miserable' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. iLYictor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of g(^mns."— Quarterly Ee'cieic.

29. BARBARA'S HISTORY. By AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as ' Barbara s
History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very graceful
and charming book, with a well-managed story. clearly-cut characters, and sediments
expressed with an exquisite elocution. It is a book which the world will like." Times.

30. LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. Oliphant.
A good book on a most interesting theme'— Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. Irving's Life ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography"— 5a?«7-(/av Review.

31. ST. Slave's.

"This charming novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writings
well as experience and knowledge of the world. '—Atfienoeum. "'

32- SAM SLICK'S AMERICAN HTIMOTJR.

"Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize "pott

33. CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHX HALIFAX, Gentleman."
"A more charming story has rarely been written. Even if tried by the standard c f
the Archbishop of York, we should expect that even he would pronounce 'Christians
Mistake' a novel without n fault' —rime.

34. ALEC FORBES. By GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

•'No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that '^ervaJ^s
the work from the first page to the \a.%t." —Athenoewn. ^

35. AGNES. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

' Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant former wot^sS'— Athenaeum.
"A story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers-/"oif.

36. A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHX HALIFAX, Gentleman."

"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax' speaks
out of a generous heart the purest truths of life." — Examiner.

37. NEW AMERICA. By HEP WORTH DIXON.

k very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and yew— Times
"We recommend every one who feels any interest in human nature to read ifr
Dixon very interesting book'" — Saturday Review.

38. ROBERT FALCONER. By GEORGE MAC DONALD.

■' ' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and ieelmgs."—At/ienceum.



30. THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR' OF " JOHX HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
' The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the
purest and noblest kind of domestic stories. — Athenaeum.

40. ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.

"A racy, well-written, and original novel. The interest never flags. The whole
work sparkles with wit and humour." — Quarterly Review.

41. DAVID ELGINBBOD. By GEORGE MAC DONALD.

•* The work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of readers"— T^m^.

42. A BRAVE LADY. By the Author of *' John Halifax.'^

•A very good novel; a thoughtful, well written book, showing a tender, sympathy
with human nature, and permeated by a pure and noble spirit" — Examiner. '

43. HANNAH. By the Author of " Join Halifax."

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a
wide circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

44. SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

"This is one of the most amusing books that we ever rea.^"— Standard.

45. THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"The author of 'John Halifax 'has written many fascinating stories, but we can
call to mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful
sketches in this work"— United Service Magazine.

46. A ROSE IN JUNE. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

•' ' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its
own with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

47. MY LITTLE LADY. By E. F. Pointer.

There is a great deal of fascination about this boole The author writes in a clear,
unaffected style; she has a decided gift for depicting character, while the descriptions
of scenery convey a distinct pictorial impression to the reader." — Times.

48. Phoebe, JUNIOR. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"This novel shows great knowledge of human nature. The interest goes on
growing to the end. Phoebe is excellently drawn"— Times.

49. LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.
\ work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the
most popular English history of ilario Antoinette-S/w^a^or
"This book is well written, and of thrilling inteveaV—AcaJemi/,

50. SIR GIBBIE. By GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

» Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius." — Pall Mall Gazette.

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There is not a character which is not

n,e,u». ■ .»,»»„ ^^ YOUNG MRS. Jardine.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
'Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English"— r/ie Titles.
There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome"— /K/i^nawm.

.52. LORD Brandenburg. By AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"*A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-class
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There is plenty of
variety cheerful dialogue, and general 'verve' in the book"— ^^'(WJa'M/?^

"lord Brackeubury' is pleasant reading from beginning to en"— Academy.

16 ^
