m ^9HH

n HI

1 i W^ m

Wm

^^^^

WmSm

s^

■

asa

H

VOL. I.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES.

INCOGNITA. By Henry Cresswell, author of 'A

Modern Greek Heroine,' ' Fair and Free,' &c. 3 vols.

THE COUNTER OF THIS WORLD. By Lilies 

and Isabella Meddle, authors of 'A Man of the Day,'&c. 3 v.

LADY Water's COMPANION. By the Author

of 'St. Olave's,' 'Janita's Cross,' 'Annette,' &c. 3 vols.

Hawthorne HALL. By John M. Fothergill.

3 vols.

VENUS' DOVES. By Ida Ashworth Taylor. 3 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

BY

JOHN MILLS

AUTHOR OF

"THE OLD ENGLISH GENTLEMAN,'
"TOO FAST TO LAST,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

Ail rights reserved.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/onspurofmoment01mill

ON THE SPUR OF THE MOMENT.

A

CHAPTER I.

x : It was a pretty picture, criticise as your?
might from any jDO-int of the compass.
n Framed by the surrounding and drooping
branches of an apple-tree in full bloom
there sat Griselda Peepem, in a careless,
languid attitude, with a large red and
white spaniel stretched at full length on
the grass at her feet. The dog had his
nose snugly resting between his fore paws,
with his eyes turned upwards upon the
face of his young mistress, and if ever a look
displayed unqualified devotion at what he

VOL. I. B

saw, it was in the concentrated gaze
fixed in the worship of his idol, Griselda
Peepem.

Well, Sam !' said she, with a slight
toss of her head so as to throw the clustering
golden ringlets aside from her brow,
'well, Sam!' repeated she, in a listless,
dreamy tone and manner. ' I wish that
we had something to do.'

Sam acquiesced by one gentle sweep
of the end of his tail.

I hate being idle,' continued she, without
displaying the smallest practical objection
of being so.

Sam yawned a doubtful affirmative.

4 And yet when I am not idle, resumed
Griselda, 'aunt says that I am always
doing something wrong, or very wrong, as
the case may be.

Sam assented by a kind of suppressed
inward growl.

By some strange fatality,' continued
Griselda, almost peevishly, ' I am sure todo
exactly the opposite of what I know
to be right, and just the contrary to
what I intended to carry out as a good
intention.'

Sam gave a signal t of assent by lifting
up his head, and, throwing his ears back,
closed one eye.

Be polite enough, Sam,' continued his
mistress, 'to open the other eye. At
the present moment you look as if winking
at me, sir, with almost an expression
of insolence.'

Sam, however, kept the offending eye
shut, and took no notice of the request.

Griselda Peepem, shifting her arm

upon which her head rested lazily on

the elbow of the garden-seat, lifted a

large sheet of pasteboard from the ground,

and began sketching with a crayon pencil

b 2

the likeness of Sam lying at her
feet, who still appeared to wink deliberately
in the face of his mistress.

There the two remained in their respective
positions, the sketcher and the
sketched.

For a few minutes no interruption took
place in the progress of Griselda's task ;
but, an approaching footstep attracting her
attention, she temporarily left the point
of the pencil resting upon the pasteboard,
and turned to see her maiden aunt and
sole custodian, Penelope Peeped, who with
erect figure and measured tread, was, rendering
the distance shorter by degrees
and palpably less which separated them
and the apple-tree.

4 Now, Sam,' observed Griselda, in a
tone of voice only to be heard by Sam,
now, Sam,' repeated she, ' we are in for a
lecture.'

Sam instinctively opened his jaws with
as profound and wide a yawn as was ever
given by an animal, biped or quadruped,
knowing that he was about to be tired
out.

'You are completing, I suppose, your
drawing-lesson, Griselda ?' said her aunt,
upon arriving at and stooping under the
branches of the apple-tree. ' Signor Vest
will be here in a few minutes. '

1 I'm afraid, aunt dear,' replied her niece,
and as she spoke a little musical, suppressed
laugh was heard, although no outward
effect was seen of the audible but invisible
cause. ' I'm afraid, aunt dear,' repeated
she, ' that Signor Vesprucci will not be
pleased with the progress made in my
drawing-lesson.'

If my memory,' replied Miss Penelope
Peepem, ' is not more than ordinarily
treacherous, a circumstance by no means

improbable, the signor gave you the head
of Tiberius Caesar to copy in chalk upon a
slightly-tinted yellow ground.'

A little, merry chuckle was heard ; but
Griselcla's features wore a most serious and
even stoical expression. Sam was laughing
to himself, perhaps at the thought of having
recently robbed the cat,

1 I fear, aunt,' said Griselda, ' that Signor
Vesprucci will hardly consider that a fair
copy of the head of Tiberius Caesar,' and,
as she spoke, she handed the very sketchy
outlines of Sam, as he sat for his portrait
with one eye closed.

'Tiberius Caesar !' exclaimed Miss Penelope
Peepem, raising her voice to something
like a screech with unfeigned astonishment
as she glanced at the unfinished
portrait. ' Why, it is the likeness of that
rebellious Sam, and I must say,' continued
she, lowering the tone to softer notes, ' a

most excellent likeness, but vulgarised by
the low expression of his closed eye. In
fact, winking.'

So I told him,' quietly responded her
niece ; ' but, as usual, he took no notice
whatever of my request, and I had to draw
him with the wink which you reasonably
object to.'

Reasonably object to !' ejaculated her
aunt, stepping backwards and regarding
Griselda and Sam with a look intended to
convey withering scorn. i What can —
what will Signor Vesprucci say to this act
of wilful insubordination, amounting to
little short of high treason, combined with
mutiny ?'

I told you so, Sam,' rejoined Griselda,
shaking her head reprovingly. ' I knew
that you would get me into another scrape.
You hear what you have done. I almost
prayed that you would not wink at me.'

Prayed that he would not wink at you !'
repeated Miss* Penelope Peepem, in a tone
of great severity, posing on one foot between
advancing and retreating. i I am
not censuring your rebellious dog for
any share of the misconduct on his part,
but you, Griselda Peepem, for setting even
the laws of decency at defiance. '

How very dreadful !' returned her niece,
with an accompaniment of the little laugh,
although not a trace of mirth could be
seen upon her features, which remained
smooth and unruffled. ' How very dreadful!'
repeated she. 'But what particular
act of indecency have I committed, aunt
dear ?'

1 1 refer,' was the reply, with great dignity
in tone and manner, ' to Tiberius
Caesar. The lesson given you by Signor
Vesprucci was to draw that historically-renowned
head of the Roman Emperor,

and instead of which yon have substituted
Sam's with a vulgar and, consequently,
objectionable expression of countenance.'

I was very wrong,' rejoined Griselda,
raising a remarkably small and well-shaped
foot in a threatening attitude, ' and I
feel much disposed to kick Sam.'

Sam drew back the angles of his jaws
to the fullest extent, and if ever a dog
laughed at the fun of the thing, he did.

I cannot see how the responsibility of
this most reprehensible conduct of yours,
Miss Griselda Peepem, can be transferred
to your dog,' returned her aunt. ' He too
often participates in your mischief and
total disregard of all rules of decorum,
and, I must add, of propriety for a girl of
your age, who seems to entirely forget
that the time has arrived for a positive
change from childish tricks to accpiire the
accomplishments of a lady in order that

she may take her proper place in county
society. But what do I see?' she ejaculated,
as a somewhat strangely-dressed figure
stood before her, grinning with evident
delight at the opportunity of presenting
himself in — as he called it — ' his fresh
moult.'

Oh !' returned Griselda, languidly.
It's Robin in his new clothes which I
made entirely for him. Don't you admire
them, aunt dear r'

Miss Penelope Peepem slowly raised a
pair of strong magnifying glasses, and
began a measured and critical examination
of Robin's ' fresh moult,' beginning from
his feet to his head.

You will observe,' said her niece, with
a serious face, bub with an inward laugh,
that his legs are encased in elastic black
worsted tights, which I knitted with
praiseworthy industry and patience to

imitate as closely as possible the slender
limbs of a robin. The waistcoat, you will
see, is bright red bordering on scarlet,
which I worked in the same material to
copy — I think successfully — the breast of
a robin. The jacket of brown velvet,
which certainly is a misfit and baggy, I
made from an old garment of yours, aunt
dear, which I dis entombed from a chest
long since forgotten, I should say, from
the cobwebs and dust in which it was
enshrined.'

At this particular juncture Miss Penelope
Peepem slowly raised her hand with
an involuntary movement and kept a fixed
stare upon the ' misfit.'

The close and small skull-cap of the
same material,' continued she, ' I also designed
from a piece of the old brown
velvet, and the general effect seems to me
that Eobin, from a close resemblance,

merits the title and distinction I intend
that he should henceforth be known by.
I now,' said Griselda, after a short pause,
call him Cock Robin.'

The individual to whom personal reference
was being made here grinned in a manner
which showed that he almost revelled
in the addition to his name, whether family
or otherwise.

'And from what cause has this new
outrage been designed ?' inquired her
aunt, in a tone trespassing upon the
haughty combined with the indignant.

You will recollect,' responded Griselda,
with an elastic manner of extreme ease if
not of indifference, 'that Gazelle, in a
sharp run of last season, J jumping short,
nearly fell backwards into a deep ditch,
where Cock Robin laid with his heels resting
upon the margin to all intents and
purposes buried — absolutely buried.'

'sell ?' snappishly interrogated her
aunt.

Had he been a little more externally
conspicuous,' resumed the narrator, ' supposing
even that his legs only had been
then as they are now '

Cock Robin glanced at his legs with admiration
which, incased as they were in
1 tights,' showed oh their form and shape,
as he thought, to supreme advantage, and
the expression of his features was that of
gratified pride, if not of pourtrayed vanity.

Easily to be seen if not admired,' continued
Griselda, placing the back of her
head upon her hand iu a languid attitude
as she surveyed the tights. • I should have
pulled a few inches either to the near or
off side, and so avoided the imminent risk
of rendering Cock Eobin as flat as any
fritter that was ever fried

1 1 quite expect that the poor lad will

meet with a violent end some day,' remarked
Miss Lucretia Peepem, deprecatingly.

Cock Robin drew back the angles of his
month, to the full limits of their stretching
powers, and exhibited a remarkable even
and sound set of molars and incisors ; but
maintained a strict silence upon the
subject.

So do 1/ rejoined her niece, with supreme
and most philosophical indifference,
and I should not be extremely surprised
if, eventually, he comes to be hanged.'

Cock Robin was still silent; but his round,
ruddy cheeks looked at the final point
of cracking with the storage of mirth depicted
in them.

'And this is your explanation of your
having dressed the poor boy in so absurd
and grotesque a garb !' returned her aunt,
cynically.

Safety for the future to some of his
bones added Griselda, ' and immunity from
being flattened into the shape of a muffin
almost assured. Nothing, I think, could
possibly be more considerate or even charitable
in carrying out the design.'

Sam threw himself upon his back, and
began rolling in a kind of convulsive
ecstacy. The design, as he thought, defied
improvement.

In my opinion, which I have expressed
upon several opportune occasions,' resumed
her aunt, with marked emphasis, ' the time
has arrived for a complete and perfect end
to be put to these childish absurdities.
You are now, Miss Griselda Peepem, about
entering your sixteenth year.'

1 How very sad !' murmured her niece.
'I'm growing, then, quite old.'

Old enough,' rejoined Miss Penelope

Deeper, with all the severity that she
could command with the prompt aid of her
reserve forces, l to know better.'

1 How very sad !' repeated her niece,
shaking her head mourns ally. i Old enough
to know better, and yet without any reasonable
hope, so far as I can see, of the smallest
improvement. How very sad !'

If true,' returned Miss Penelope Peepem,
without relaxing any of the austerity
of her address, f most sad. As I have told
you very often '

Griselda sighed.

Accompanied by ill-concealed and infinite
impatience on your part, that your
long and well-sustained character of Tomboy
should be discarded altogether for the
more dignified and elegant deportment of
a young lady about to be introduced into
the best county society.'

6 1 much prefer that of Gazelle, Cock

Robin, and Sam added her niece, ' to any
society I have yet seen. 5

Sam evidently appreciated the flattering
compliment paid to his companionship, and,
with a loud bark, began running round ina
wide circle, with the apple-tree for a
common centre.

1 Pray make that noisy and ill-mannered
dog of yours quiet,' said Miss Penelope
Peepem, ' while I conclude the very few
words I have to say

Griselda's spirits rose at the announcement
that her aunt's speech was limited in
its finish to a few words.

4 Pending the short interval of your introduction
to the best county society,' recommenced
Miss Penelope Peepem, ' it
becomes a paramount duty which you owe
to yourself to apply assiduously to your respective
studies, and become mistress of
the arts and sciences.'

vol. i. c

A little ebullition of mirth was beard,
not seen.

1 In these days of progressive refinements
continued Miss Penelope Peepem,
with great and even stiff dignity, ' what is
a young lady without the usual, and, I
may add, the unusual accomplishments ?'

'A kind of fossil, I suppose was the
quiet reply.

Not even presentable to ordinary
society resumed Miss Penelope Peepem,
'to say nothing of the best county circles.'

I have no desire to enter them,' responded
her niece, 'any more than the
best county circles desire for my entering
them. I have no money, aunt
dear.'

1 But if you became mistress of the arts
and sciences '

In the meantime interrupted her
niece, springing suddenly from her seat,

4 let me have a gallop on Gazelle. Go and
saddle her, Cock Robin. You shall give
the a lead over a few flights of hurdles.
She always jumps better with a lead.'

1 But take a pull at her if she gets too
close to me, Miss Grizzle,' interposed her
personal attendant. ' She made a sharpish
snap when too near to be pleasant
the last time we had a Grand National.'

I thought that her teeth, I must
admit, came together rather viciously as
she cleared that last hurdle,' rejoined Gris-ella,
carelessly.

'And with her ears thrown back, Miss
Grizzle,' added Cock Robin, placing a hand
significantly behind him, ' she made an
ugly try on to savage me.'

It shall not occur again,' returned his
young mistress, with a laugh which, instead
of being hidden or suppressed, was
carried down the wind to where echo rec

2

seated it in ringing mocking mirth. ' I
will take care that Gazelle does not get too
close for the future. Go and saddle her,
Cock Robin.'

With this mandate Cock Robin took an
abrupt departure with his round, red-apple
looking face beaming with delight at the
thought of having another Grand National
in which he was to take, as usual, a leading
part.

And what excuse or apology am I to
offer Signer Vesprucci?' inquired Miss
Penelope Peepem, as if having met with a
recent personal affront or injury. ' He
will expect as a natural consequence of
this being the day of your taking your
drawing lesson a complete head in chalk
of Tiberius Caesar.'

There is no alternative, as far as I can
see,' responded her niece, ' but his accepting
Sam's instead.'

Sain at this juncture had another vigorous
roll on the grass, and seemed to enjoy
the joke to the fullest extent.

May I ask, Miss Griselda Peepem,' said
her aunt, with the utmost gravity, 'byway
of introducing Sam's head instead of
that of Tiberius Caesar to Signor ,
may I ask,' repeated she, ' in what
particular words you would like the excuse
or justification to be made ?'

1 You are so eloquent, dear aunt, in
making excuses for me, and so skilled in
practising the art,' replied Griselda, i that
no instructions could possibly improve your
accomplished style.'

1 Signor Yesprucci,' rejoined Miss Penelope
Peepem, ' will naturally be greatly
incensed at what will appear to him a deliberate
insult.'

It was not intended,' returned her niece,
in a voice closely resembling the plaintive,

and looking very penitent, if not feelings
so.

You invariably put forth this plea for
every insubordinate act of your life,' added
her aunt, ' and I begin to feel ashamed of
myself for being weak enough to listen toit,'


Let me entreat,' returned Griseida, iu
the same tone and manner, 'that you will
not exert any additional strength, however
small, to set aside my one poor, little defence
in doing things which I ought not
to do, and leaving undone things which I
ought to have done. What will become of
me if you turn stony-hearted and deaf,
dear aunt, to my one little defence, which
has been so successful for long, long years ?'
and then, raising a cambric pocket-handkerchief
to her eyes, she slily peeped from
behind it, and looked with dramatic effect
one of the most irresistible of penitents.

You always succeed in getting your
own way,' observed Miss Penelope Peepem,
by way of parenthesis. ' I suppose that I
must strain a point to conciliate Signor
Vesprucci.'

How very kind and affectionate of you
to strain a point responded her niece,
warmly embracing her aunt and energetically
kissing her on both cheeks. ' Tell
Signor Vesprucci that he shall have a
meritorious copy of Tiberius Caesar next
week; but this morning I must yield to
the temptation of having a gallop on
Gazelle :' and away she started with a bound
like a roe-deer, from under the drooping
branches of the apple-tree, with Sam close
at her heels, barking loudly at what he
already knew to be romping fun in store
for both.

CHAPTER II.

Upon the boundary line of the western
part of the New Forest, Hampshire, a
house stood, upon which the gaze of the
stranger seldom fell without expressed or
entertained admiration for the natural
beauties by which it was surrounded.

Quaint and old as the architecture was
with its high sloping roof, gable ends,
heavy casements, and small, diamond-paned
lattices, which glittered, shone, and twinkled
in the rays of the setting sun as he
began to throw long, dark shadows upon
the earth, a more modern edifice, perhaps,

would have failed to present so pleasing
an effect as Foresters Lodge, built
by no one remembers who, when, or for
whom.

That it was long ago there could be no
disputing, and generations, perhaps, of
Rangers and Foresters, decked in green
and gold, had come and gone without the
faintest trace of their ever having been. The
cedar, stretching its wide, flat, and dark
green branches over the angular roof, had
taken centuries to rear, and its thick and
gnarled trunk bore evidence, at least, of
the growth being anything but of the
mushroom kind. Large holly bushes,
planted in days long since passed away for
the deer to browse upon the barbed and
prickly leaves in winter, and called in the
Saxon tongue ' Holm Trees,' formed thickets
here and there, sufficiently dense to
harbour as noble a stag as was ever hunted

by king or belted earl in greenwood glade,
forest, or field.

It signified little where the spectator
turned when within the clearly defined
but small domain immediately pertaining
to Forester's Lodge. The view presented
was precisely the same north, south, east,
and west. Hedged in, flanked, sheltered,
hidden, surrounded, cradled, and almost
buried among trees, bushes, and thickets
of the growth of ages, it was barely practicable
to catch a glimpse of the world
without, albeit stirring scenes had taken
place within the short range of a peashooter
when, in the olden time, bow and
arrow and hunting spear were deftly
handled by Norman hands, and the bay of
the sleuth hound heard as he stretched
along in the outlaw's track.

This, however, was of the past.

Forester's Lodge was now occupied by

Miss Penelope Peepem, as it bad 'been fora
sufficient number of years to account
for a commanding majority of silver
threads in her hair in comparison with
those of the nut-brown hue of the earlier
days of her youth.

There was nothing, and had been nothing,
particularly startling in the known
life of any member of the somewhat
prolific family of the Peepems. The common
belief was that as each succeeding
generation presented itself before the footlights
of the world's stage it progressed in
numbers as most families appear to do ;
but was unprogressive in the visible means
of maintenance. The heirs male grew up
into manhood with scarcely an exception
from, it is supposed, the great and enduring
strength of their several constitutions,
and did either something or nothing in accordance
with the physical or mental

capacity which they possessed or were
found wanting in not possessing.

The heirs or heiresses female were not
so fortunate; for, consistent with the unchallenged
chronology of the Peepems of
Forester's Lodge, New Forest, Hampshire,
many in growing up into womanhood stopped
prematurely short in the attempt, and
so left the preponderance of numbers in
the male representatives of the family as
compared with the gentler sex.

History repeats itself, and as soon as
Miss Penelope Peepem could be made or
persuaded to understand anything at — it
must be stated in justice to her ordinary
powers of comprehension — the early age
of lisping her requirements in imperfect
English, she found herself one of eight in
having six remarkably strong and muscular
brothers, and one delicate, thin, and
pale-faced sister, some years older than

herself. Being considerably the youngest
of eight, in consequence of a decided
check in the multiplication of the current
generation of the Peepems, Penelope soon
became acquainted with the commonplace
fact that her brothers, after going to and
returning from school at pretty regular
and stated intervals, quitted the paternal
roof one by one to seek, as she understood,
their fortunes in other latitudes, and,
consequently, longitudes, until all being
gone, not a single muscular brother remained
to teaze Penelope, or be teazed in
return by her.

From remote and even distant regions
letters came addressed to their father,
Godfrey Peepem, Esquire, J. P., who, now
and again, read aloud to his daughters and
companions at the breakfast table lengthy
extracts, the principal subject being an
acknowledgment of the receipt of the last

remittance, or the affectionate hope that
the fondly expected one would not be
much longer delayed in coming into the
absolute possession of the writer.

It appeared to Godfrey Peepem, Esquire,
J. P., that his six muscular sons in seeking
their respective and collective fortunes in
far distant lands, took a prodigious and
disappointing time in finding them.

At length came the turn of Penelope's
sister, who possessed the unquestionable
right and title of being spoken to and of
as ' Miss Peepem.' She communicated to
her father, at a chosen moment which she
considered opportune, a strong inclination,
amounting almost to an irrevocable decision,
to insert her finger and thumb ito
the matrimonial basket of prizes and
blanks, and place her maiden trust of sublunary
bliss in the keeping of a tall, bony
lieutenant, under immediate orders, as it

was said, for the West Indies ; a somewhat
undefined address, perhaps, but still near
enough for the temporary purpose of enlightening
Godfrey Peepem, Esquire, J. P.,
from what particular quarter of the terrestrial
globe he might reasonably expect
to receive an addition to the usual kind of
letters from foreign parts.

A parent's consent, without much apparent
reluctance, was given to the union
of the hands of Miss Peepem and her betrothed;
their hearts, in a figurative sense,
having undergone a corresponding preliminary
process at the termination of a
waltz at the last county ball, where they
met for the first time under the favourable
conditions of both looking at their
best.

Penelope cried like a child, as she was,
when her sister took her departure from
Forester's Lodge, but her tears, like all

tears that were ever shed since the first
fell in grief or sorrow, were eventually
dried by the soothing hand of time or her
readily applied pocket-handkerchief.

The family being now reduced to herself
and father — for Penelope had no memory
of what the tender caresses of a mother
were, she having died in her early infancy
they became the closest of friends and
constant companions. Riding, driving,
and walking, the little daughter was close
to the side of Godfrey Peepem, Esquire,
J.P. ; and as day succeeded day in the
rapidly passing years, although not moving
with abnormal velocity, Penelope seemed
to become more and more necessary to him
as his associate, as the old man older
grew.

Inheriting the property he possessed
early in life, amounting to some two
thousand a year from land in that part of

the county in which he lived, Godfrey
Peepem enjoyed the luxury of doing nothing
towards earning: his own livelihood
from what may, practically, be called the
beginning of his mortal career to its close.
His rent-roll being under the discretionary
management of a local agent he did not
interfere with his tenantry, and, as ends
appeared to meet between his receipts and
expenditure, things jogged on pleasantly
enough from the beginning of each year
successively to its close.

As a magistrate when he sat upon the
bench, which was very seldom, his decisions
were proverbial for being lenient and
always mingled with mercy, except in
poaching cases, when the delinquents were
certain to meet with the extreme punishment,
for Godfrey Peepem, Esquire, J. P.,
was fond of field sports, and deemed any
unlawful interference with them as a crime

vol. I. D

of the greatest magnitude to his king,
country, and himself.

Be his merits or demerits, however, what
they might, a day at length arrived which
had only been postponed since that of his
birth, and not to be avoided by the noblest
born or the most humble, the richest or
the poorest, the good or the bad, the wise
or the otherwise.

A summons was served upon the magistrate
himself, and he departed, it is to be
hoped, in peace to answer it.

Penelope Peepem was alone.

CHAPTER III.

Pink and white blossom was no longer to
be seen upon the apple-tree. Dried, crisp,
and yellow leaves fell, and were falling,
from its branches as Griselda Peepem and
her aunt sat together at the breakfast-table
in a snug, cosy room looking upon
the lawn, after the first night of an early
autumnal frost. Parts of the greensward
which the pale rays of the sun had just
reached glistened as if polished gems had
been scattered by fairy hands far and
wide, and thin threads of gossamer floated
in the calm, clear, unruffled air. Summer

d 2

bad gone, and the heralds of approaching
winter trod closely in her footsteps.

I am glad that cub-hunting is nearly
over,' remarked Griselda, as she sat in a
careless, negligent attitude in her chair ;
but not less graceful than Titania herself.
We shall have our first meet advertised,
the squire told me, the week after
next.'

Miss Penelope Peepem looked down her
straight and somewhat pointed nose,
screwed her lips tightly together as if
more than prepared to speak ; but still
with an effort maintained a rigid and
unbroken silence.

Gazelle was never in better form,' resumed
Griselda. ' Two couple and a half
of hounds this morning got away by
themselves with a full-grown cub, and
the squire holland me to get to their heads
and too them

Miss Penelope made a stiff and ceremonious
bow.

They were going at racing pace,' continued
Griselda, crumbling a piece of
bread upon the cloth between her fingers,
and so much occupied with her very slight
task that she did not appear to notice the
frigid indifference with which her communication
was being received. ' They were
going at racing pace,' said her niece, 'but
as no one was near them but myself I
put Gazelle's head straight at a gate,
and she never topped timber in better
style.'

Again Miss Penelope Peepem bowed
as if her spine was constructed of cast
steel.

The eyes of her niece being fixed upon
rendering the crumbs still smaller by
manipulation, she failed to perceive the
effect produced, and being increased in

production, upon her aunt's nervous-system.


As soon as we cleared the gate,
Gazelle was on her legs without a
moment's pause, and in a grass field
of about forty acres she flew along,'
said Griselda, with a flush crimsoning
her cheeks as she spoke. ' Having
it all to ourselves, I was determined
to get to the hounds' heads before
they reached the next fence, a thick and
high bullfinch, which I knew must stop
us.'

Miss Penelope Peepem raised both her
hands, and, pressing them upon her eyelids,
appeared to be shutting out a scene
from her mental vision which was too
vivid to be pleasant.

I lifted my whip, but Gazelle knew
what I wanted without touching her,'
continued her niece, as her large dark-blue

fearless eyes flashed between the
long, silken lashes. ■ With an effort
worthy to be called supreme, she threw
her whole heart into her work, and as the
cubs slipped through the fence, not fifty
yards in front of the hounds, she rushed
forward and, getting to their heads, I
cracked my thong and stopped them in
full view of the squire who, lifting his cap,
cried out, " Well done !" '

Instead of which,' said Miss Penelope
Peepem, gravely, ' had John Oakacre of
Oakacre Court done his duty, he would
have severely reprimanded you for running
such an imminent risk of breaking some of
your bones or even your neck.'

A ringing laugh burst from Griselda's
lips.

He never thought of that,' she replied,
neither did I.'

In the announcement of that reckless

disregard of all prudent safety,' rejoined
her aunt, drawing herself up to her full
height on the edge of her seat, and looking
severity personified — rigid and inflexible ;
I am anything but surprised. Had the
opposite been alleged I might, indeed, have
been agreeably astonished. John Oakacre,
as a young man, never had the reputation
of being prudent.'

I thought that he was one of your
most ardent admirers,' observed Griselda,
looking out of the corners of her eyes
at her aunt, but without turning her
head.

Miss Penelope Peepem coughed slightly,
blushed slightly, and looked slightly
stupid.

Among others,' simpered she, whilst a
long-drawn sigh struggled to escape her
remarkably flat bosom, ' he might have
been ; but John Oakacre's heart was always

more absorbed in fox-hunting than devotion
to the fair sex.'

If I were a man so would mine be
rejoined her niece, still engaged in crumbling
the crumbs.

Miss Penelope Peepem felt exceptionally
indignant at this voluntary declaration
of unequivocal bad taste, or what appeared
to be so ; but having, in a figurative sense,
other fish to fry, she resolved that the
particular subject under discussion should
terminate without any further observation
on her part.

After a brief but effective pause which,
in itself, announced that the final stage had
been reached, Miss Penelope Peepem
cleared her throat of any real or imaginary
obstacle, and commenced her already prepared
address with,

c The time has arrived '

Griselda gave a slight but audible groan.

The time has arrived,' repeated ber
aunt, with a slight shake of the head
which caused a small, white lace cap to
flutter, expediently placed to conceal from
view a circular, bald spot, l for you to become
clearly acquainted with your present
worldly condition and prospects, in order
that there may be no mistake committed
in dealing with the more important and
most momentous future.'

If Miss Penelope's sense of hearing did
not deceive her, somebody not far off was
indulging in a very subdued and quiet
laugh, which was not, however, allowed to
break the thread of her aunt's eloquence
or to interfere with its continuance to any
serious extent. So far as outward appearances
were concerned, Griselda's features
bore as serious an effect as could possibly
be desired by the most sensitive of
speakers.

The time has arrived '

Another groan was heard, rather more
distinct than the first.

Tor you to clearly understand continued
her aunt, dropping her words
slowly and almost solemnly from her lips,
'how much, if not all, depends upon yourself
in occupying, at any rate, an enviable
position in this world by making a good
match, which means, in the simplest
language that can be used perhaps, a rich
husband.'

1 1 have no objection,' responded Gris-ella,
carelessly, ' to marry a rich husband,
aunt clear. Where am I to find him ?'

It is not my intention to flatter you
with false hopes,' rejoined Miss Penelope
Peepem, 'but, upon becoming mistress of
the arts and sciences, which I say with
pride and pleasure that I afford you the
daily opportunity of possessing in the fulness

of time, you will not have to seek fora
rich husband. Eligible candidates will
present themselves upon your introduction
to the best county society, and I shall be
proud beyond description to see my accomplished
and popular niece,' — the little
lace cap fluttered as if it was going to fly
off and expose the bald spot, and the
colour of her cheeks increased by several
shades as she spoke — ' the admired of many
admirers.'

And so shall I, aunt dear,' returned
Griselda, with a merry, ringing laugh, ' if
such an improbable event should happen,
lou seem to forget that I have no money.

It is the knowledge that you have
none,' added Miss Penelope Peepem, with
the utmost seriousness, ' that renders it
indispensable for you to embrace and make
the most of the favourable chances of
entering the best county society, which

you will clo at the next hunt ball. It will
not surprise me if it is opened by John
Oakacre and yourself, as it was thirty-five
years since by him and me and the little
lace cap fluttered from a sudden toss of
the head, but not as if it were going to flyaway.


1 The dear old squire !' exclaimed her
niece. ' It will give me the greatest pleasure
to dance with him should he ask me.'

That he will do I am quite certain,'
added Miss Penelope Peepem, ' for you
know what a pet you are of his. But
now listen as patiently as you can to what
I am going to say. The time has
arrived '

f Oh, aunt,' ejaculated Griselda, vehemently,
' it must have lone since arrived.
The time has always been arriving !'

For you to learn from me,' continued
Miss Penelope Peepem, without heeding

the interruption, ' the exact circumstances
by which you have been and are surrounded,
in order that no error may be committed
on your part regarding the more important
and most momentous future.'

At this juncture Miss Penelope Peepem
slowly brought her nicely-starched and
prettily-edged pocket-handkerchief to the
corners of her eyes.

'Your father, mother, aunt Matilda
Slomax, and five uncles,' she continued,
after a brief interval of, perhaps, silent
grief, ' have all gone, doubtlessly, to a
much better world, and the history of each,
strange, perhaps, to relate, bore a strong
resemblance one to the other. They married
on nothing, saved nothing, and left
nothing.'

1 Their heirs, then, had not much to
thank them for,' observed Griselda.

Your father, Captain Godfrey Peepem,

of the " Old Die-Hards," as his regiment
was most irreverently called, in my opinion,'
she resumed, with half-closed eyelids, ' no
sooner saw your dear mother upon her
arrival at Bombay than he yielded to what
would appear to have been a constitutional
impulse, and at once offered his hand and
heart. She promptly accepted both, and
the result of their union, which took place
with all practicable despatch, was a pledge
of their affections in the seasonable arrival
of yourself who, sad to relate, experienced
the irreparable loss of a most exemplary
mother — although I never saw or scarcely
heard of her before or since — within the
limited space of two years of your birth.'

I think, aunt dear,' remarked Griselda,
with unmistakable weariness, ' that you
have been kind enough to make me acquainted
with all these particulars long
since.'

Miss Penelope Peepem's domestic narrative,
however, was not to be cut short so
readily as her niece most fervently desired.

1 If so,' continued she, with some degree
of sharpness in her tone, l they will bear
repetition. Within six months of this
truly lamentable occurrence an additional
cause for mourning followed in the sudden
decease of your doting father, Captain
Godfrey Peepem, of the " Old Die-Hards."
He died,' the speaker concluded the sentence
with evident emotion, ' of tiffin.'

Of tiffin !' exclaimed Griselda. ' I never
heard of such a malady.'

4 Let me be more strictly accurate,'
added her aunt. ' I mean from the effects
of tiffin. In most of the civilised parts of
our Indian Empire, I believe, there is a
mid-day refreshment called tiffin at which
there are considerable quantities of brandy-pawnee
consumed. Brandy-pawnee did

not agree with Captain Godfrey Peepem's
constitution, and be died. He did.'

A slight choking sensation in the throat
checked further progress in the family
history for a few seconds, but Miss Penelope
Peepem soon recovered her powers of
speech.

At less than the interesting but somewhat
tiresome age of three years, you were
intrusted to the tender and thoughtful
care of a lady passenger from Bombay to
England, designated, as I was subsequently
given to understand, as a grass widow ;
the precise meaning of which I have
searched for in several dictionaries, but,
hitherto, without success.'

4 In consequence, perhaps,' suggested
Griselda, 4 of her probably seeking fresh
fields and pastures new.'

Perhaps so, my dear,' responded her
aunt. ' At any rate, she delivered you to

VOL. I. e

me upon her arrival at the Southampton
Docks with a most impressive speech concerning
the importance and sacredness of
my trust. We shook hands with the
utmost warmth, arid parted on the deck of
the ship upon which we had met a few
minutes before, never having seen or heard
of her from that day to this.'

1 The grass widow, then, does not seem
to have taken much permanent interest in
the welfare of her charge,' remarked
Griselda.

1 Perhaps she possessed tender offspring
of her own which absorbed both her time
and attention,' rejoined her aunt. * At
any rate, we met and parted but once, and
I hope that my feeling upon the subject
was reciprocated on her part, as I certainly
was not anxious for the interesting scene
to be repeated and here the lace cap

threatened to fly off, and publish the bald
spot, from a little explosion of mirth for
which, perhaps, it was not altogether quite
prepared.

1 1 saw at a glance,' continued Miss
Penelope Peepem, upon the termination of
her laugh, ' that you were a fat, sweet,
pretty child '

Ob, spare me, aunt dear !' exclaimed
Oriselda, hiding her face with the palms
of her hands, but peering between her
open fingers with a look full of fun and
glee. ' You will make me so sorrowful for
the past. Is it possible that I ever could
have been pretty ?'

1 As you are, were, and will be,' responded
Miss Penelope Peepem, ' as your glass
has long since informed you, and which
gratifying intelligence I now confirm;' and
then the middle-aged, if not elderly, lady

e2

UBRARf

«NrVERSf7?0FWJW»f

laughed as in days, perhaps, when the bald
spot required no lace cap to hide its abnormal
deficiency.

You will make me most dreadfully
vain, aunt dear,' rejoined Griselda, rising
from her seat, and, throwing herself upon
the floor before her aunt, she embraced
her with an energetic force approaching to
violence, and kissed her on both cheeks
with great rapidity of exchange.

Miss Penelope Peepem began to realise
the fact of what being smothered with
kisses meant.

I shall lose my breath completely if
you persist in assaulting me in this way
expostulated she, and pretended to force
herself away from the entwined arms of
her niece ; but the sham was too transparent
to appear real even for the minutest
grain of time. Miss Penelope Peepem

loved that hearty caress in a manner known
only to herself.

1 Having a little more to say by way of
conclusion '

1 If really the conclusion, aunt dear,' interrupted
Griselda, re-occupying her seat,
I will endeavour to listen to it with the
effect of resigned patience.'

Our family history,' continued Miss
Penelope Peepem, 'like the records, probably,
of a great number of strictly private
families, is not totally without singular,
strange, and startling incidents ; but none
more so, perhaps, than within a few weeks
of your arrival from the East Indies I
received a letter from the West Indies,
informing me of the mournful tidings of
my dear sister's death from — as Lieutenant
Slomax wrote in rather bad taste as I
then thought, and still think — an attack of

Yellow Jack, which carried her off. His
son, and only child, he added, was much
too precious a life to be subjected any
longer to the dangerous climate of Jamaica,
and he had, therefore, secured a passage
for him to England in a ship which might
be expected to arrive soon after the delivery
uf his letter; knowing that I would
receive the little orphan child as a mother,
and be a mother to him in every respect.
What could 1 do?'

That which you did,' replied her niece.
1 Hurry to meet the little orphan child
on the deck of the vessel before she
anchored, clutch him in your arms, and
bring him here to make him the happiest
of nephews.'

But to become slightly tyrannical with
you,' rejoined Miss Penelope Peepem, with
closed eyes and a slight shake of the head.
When sleeping in your cot, he, occasionally,

would tickle your nose with a feather !'

1 With the unselfish thought, no doubt
returned Griselda, ' of adding pleasure to
nay dreams.'

And disturb your rest by reversing the
feather, and trying, experimentally, how
far the sharp end of the quill would go
into one of your ears — an act of premeditated
cruelty, which produced the
first aud last application of the birch at
my hands, vigorously administered added
her aunt, with something like exultation
at the reminiscence.

How very cruel, aunt dear !' exclaimed
Griselda. 'I should have thought you incapable
of giving the smallest pain iso clear
Teddy.'

He also used to pick out the eyes of
your dolls,' said Miss Penelope Peepem,
1 and, immediately upon his arrival from
the West Indies, he treated them, as he

said, just like niggers, which treatment, as
it appeared to me, was most inconsiderate
and coarse in the extreme.'

'Being young and thoughtless,' said her
niece, apologetically, 'and from evil associations,
perhaps, not knowing right from
wrong

He soon improved, however, in these
objectionable respects, and you became
the very best of friends and inseparable
companions — the two happiest children
with each other that I ever saw play or
quarrel.'

Who could be otherwise than happy
with clear Teddy,' said Griselda, enthusiastically,
' the best, noblest, and most
clever fellow that ever lived !'

Miss Penelope Peepem was suddenly
seized with a dry, short, hacking cough ;
but the effect was not altogether that of
bronchial irritation.

My nephew, and your cousin Edward
Slomax, as a schoolboy at Rugby,' said she,
recovering from her cough, ' distinguished
himself at cricket, football, and wrestling,
but no prize fell to his lot in intellectual
pursuits. The same remark, I fear, applies
to his present position at the University
of Cambridge.'

He is in the university eleven,' observed
Griselda, with a flush of pride mantling
over her features.

4 But he is not to be found high up in
the tripos,' rejoined her aunt, ' or, indeed,
in the tripos at all.'

1 He is stroke in the university eight,'
returned Griselda, ' and admitted to be as
strong and finished an oarsman as Cambridge
ever possessed.'

A fine, dear, good fellow !' added Miss
Penelope Peepem, with profound admiration
at the thought of her nephew's athletic

accomplishments. ' But and, closing her
eyes, she shook her head gravely, and the
bald spot was again in danger of being
published. 'But,' she repeated, 'recollecting
that his future depends upon his
success at the Bar, I must come to the
conclusion, opposed as it is to my feelings,
that his time both at Rugby and Cambridge
might have been more profitably
employed. That is all I have to say upon
the subject, and I wish that, truthfully, I
could express myself in more pleasant
words.'

1 Whatever he gives his attention to
said her niece, with a proud toss of the
head, £ he succeeds in

We will put our entire trust, then, my
dear said Miss Penelope Peepem, ' and
place our earnest faith in the fervent hope
that he will soon see the expediency of
giving up athletic sports for intellectual

pursuits, so as to qualify himself for taking
a splendid position at the English Bar.
I can see him now,' she added, 'in a wig
and gown, eloquently pleading for justice
to his clients.'

Which sometimes means, I think,' remarked
her niece, ' a successful effort to
make right appear wrong, and wrong
right.'

Having proceeded so far in my review
of some of the antecedents of our family,'
resumed Miss Penelope Peepem, without
noticing her niece's cynicism upon the
professional duty of counsel, ' I will now
make a few concluding observations upon
your five uncles.'

k I almost wish, aunt dear, at the present
moment,' responded Griselda, 'that I had
not possessed quite so many.'

It might have been better, taking all
things into consideration,' rejoined her

aunt, ' had their number been less from the
beginning, as much personal trouble must
have been saved to themselves, at least,
and probably to others. It was not, however,
to be. Five was the number, neither
more nor less, and, as their several positions
at the termination of their lives can
alone influence your future interests, my
dear, I shall confine myself by giving a
few particulars of their respective ends, in
so far as this remarkably troublesome
world is concerned. For there can be no
two opinions, / think, concerning its being
a troublesome world.'

'It seems to me to be a very pleasant
one,' returned Griselda, with a slight attempt
to suppress a yawn, ' and, speaking
for myself alone, I wish no change or
alteration in it.'

1 Which admission I almost am inclined,'
the little lace cap had a shake — ' to accept

as an undeserved compliment paid to
myself,' rejoined Miss Penelope Peepem.
1 To be as brief as possible, however, concerning
the earthly ends of your five
uncles '

Griselda either jumped for joy, or was
quite ready to do so, at meeting with this
assurance of something like a defined
limit.

I shall merely state,' continued she,
that in Ceylon, China, Zanzibar, South
Africa, and North America their graves
may be found, or might have been many
long years since by, perhaps, a vigilant
search being made for them. At the
present moment it is doubtful if any trace
remains of the positive interment of anyone
of your dear uncles ; but considering
the time which has elapsed no proof is
necessary or likely to become so, as far as
I am aware, that their dust or ashes repose

in these distant regions of the globe.
"With their children, however, most important
questions arise. As your and dear
Teddy's cousins they are co-heirs and co-heiresses,
under their grandfather's will,
to a division of the property, which is to
be sold at ray death and the money distributed
in equal proportions to the survivors,
male and female. As my man of
business says, and the assertion is perfectly
obvious, great difficulties must necessarily
present themselves in discovering the
number of the survivors, where they are,
and their personal identification. He also
states, with undeniable common-sense,
that, after all the mortgages upon the property
are paid off, principal and interest,
which were created from time to time to
meet the drawings of your uncles upon my
dear father while he lived ; the costs of
applying to the Court of Chancery for

general instructions which must be made,

he tells me, when I am no ' a slight

choke prevented the completion of the
sentence, l and from one cause and another,
needless to mention, there will be little
left to be divided among the survivors,
whether satisfactorily proved to be limited
or unlimited.'

I am rather glad to hear that,' replied
her niece, throwing herself backwards in
her chair, and resting her head upon a
folded arm. Having nothing to expect,
aunt dear, w r e cannot, under any circumstances,
be disappointed.'

I have little more to say,' rejoined Miss
Penelope Peepem.

Griselda was secretly rejoiced to bear
it.

1 My-life interest, punctually paid quarterly
by ray man of business,' resumed
her aunt, ' is just over a thousand

a year, and when I have paid the
household expenses, and the masters
and mistresses for your instruction, my
dear, in the arts and sciences, together
with clear Teddy's college allowance, which
is under what he ought to receive so
that things might be more pleasant with
him, I have left just about enough to
buy an inexpensive pair of gloves and
nothing more.'

How reproachfully generous of you,
my dear aunt !' exclaimed Griselda, suddenly
regaining an upright position in her
chair. ' We must be more economical.
Dismiss Signor Vesprucci, and all the rest
of the professors of the arts and sciences.
I shall be quite as happy without them.'

Miss Penelope Peepem entertained a
corresponding opinion, but, instead of expressing,
reserved it.

At this moment the door of the apartment

was burst open with a sudden jerk,
and in bounced Sam, with his nose, eyes,
ears, and chest blocked, jammed, and covered
with red sand.

'You've been poaching sir,' said his
young mistress, as he squatted at her
feet and stared in her face as well as the
sand would permit. c You've been trying,
sir, and, I have no doubt, most successfully,'
continued she, raising a forefinger
to admonish him, ' to dig out a rabbit
from its burrow.'

Sam offered no defence, but, still occupying
his position, gave a strong and
vigorous sneeze as a relief to the irritating:
effects of the sand in his nose.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER IV.

Saddled and bridled, and awaiting with
feverish excitement the anticipated presence
of her mistress, Gazelle stood at the
ivy-twined porch of Forester's Lodge, pawing
the gravel restlessly with her feet, aud
making herself anything but agreeable to
Cock Robin, who held her in a firm grasp
by the reins close to the bit. Her small,
quill-tipped ears were thrown back, and
the white of her full, dark eyeballs had
almost a vicious effect as she continued to
cut up the gravel with her fore-feet, and,
occasionally, lash out with her heels.

1 Come, come expostulated he, stretching
out his legs at an acute angle as far
as possible from the reach of her plunges,
1 can't you let me alone just for once, just
by way of a treat ?'

Gazelle reared, and lifted Cock Robin
bodily from the ground by way of a practical
answer.

That's nice behaviour, that is,' continued
he, ' for all my care of ye ! Hereon
the morning of the first regular meet,
you stand without a stain on your skin,
which looks as white as a snow-flake from
head to heel, and without a puff, windgall,
or scratch on a single leg, all four being as
sound as a stag's, and looking as fine as if
they belonged to a stag, instead of a nasty-tempered,
biting, kicking, plunging varmint
of a pony. Nice behaviour, isn'fc
it?'

Gazelle looked at Cock Robin sideways,

P 2

and champed the bit as if trying to snap
it in halves.

1 Now, I wonder, sometimes,' said he,
1 if you mean all this, or whether it's not
all kid. I'm your best friend in or out of
the stable, think what you like of Miss
Grizzle, and yet you are always trying, or
pretending to try, to have a mouthful of
me, or kick my precious body into the
middle of the next parish. Nice behaviour,
isn't it ?'

Gazelle had another vigorous champ at
the bit, and the white of her eyes became
more visible than before, as she turned
them towards Cock Robin with anything
but a look of amity.

When you come home after a clipper
continued he, ' who nicely washes ye allover
with soft soap and hot water, gets ye
dry as soon as plenty o' rubbers and lots
of elbow grease can do it ; gives ye a

couple of quarts of warm oatmeal gruel as
smooth as cream to suck in ; throws into
your crib a quartern of bruised oats mixed
with a handful or two of w r lite peas ;
bandages your legs all round, and then
leaves ye to yourself for a while to get a
little over the pumping you've had ?'

Gazelle maintained the same attitude of
offence, and did not seem to be softened in
the least by the appeal.

1 And then back I come to take oh your
damp clothes and bandages, well rub your
legs until they are quite dry and warm,
just as if you were the first lady in the
land as wanted her legs well rubbed, and
which you often look as if you thought
yourself. After that, what do I do?
Why, I give ye a short and sharp dressing,
brush over your silky mane and flag, put
on fresh and warm clothes and bandages,
pitch a liberal allowance of corn into your

crib, which means as much as you can

eat, rack ye up with hay as sweet as

violets, litter a straw bed under ye which

reaches above your hocks and knees, and

then, with a friendly slap or two on your

quarter by way of saying good night, we

part to meet again early next morning, to

see what I can do more for ye to make

you feel as fresh as a kitten.'
■/

Gazelle, at this division of his address,
reared again, standing exceptionally upright
on her hind legs, and Cock Robin's
feet were once more lifted visibly from the
ground.

Exactly so,' said he, regaining them.
That's just what I get for all my nussin'
of ye, nothing more and seldom less ; but
whether it's all in earnest or all kid, /
don't know, and, perhaps, never shall.'

Griselda now appeared by the side of
Gazelle, to whom she presented, as washer

wont, a small piece of white sugar.
The pony turned her long and shapely
neck towards her mistress, and, accepting
the palatable gift with evident satisfaction,
stretched her limbs out and stood as motionless
as a statue chiselled in white and
speckless marble.

Your invitation to mount observed
Griselda, smiling; and placing her right
hand on the cartel of the saddle, and her
left on the pommel, she vaulted into her
seat with a light, elastic spring which required
no aid to give it additional impetus.
No sooner was she mounted than, slipping
her fingers quickly through the reins, Gazelle
felt that she was to move, but in a
very different fashion from that which she
had just exhibited* when Cock Robin held
them close to the bit. Like all indulged
beauties, she was capricious and had a will
of her own ; but she knew full well that,

to avoid unpleasant consequences, she
must obey the firm, light hand which held
her. And so Gazelle strode forward along
the gravel drive leading to the road with
the vanity of a peacock displaying his tail,
now and again lowering her head between
her knees, and tossing it aloft as high as it
would reach.

That's what I call a pictor !' observed
Cock Robin, folding his arms across his
breast, striding his legs widely apart, and
watching with the most profound admiration,
the receding forms of Gazelle and
her rider. ' That's what I call a pictor,'
repeated he, as he turned and quitted the
spot.

Griselda, having received from Squire
Oakacre the flattering *title of being his
first whip,' since her getting to the heads
of the hounds and stopping them, on that
memorable occasion when Gazelle cleared

the gate and flew to the front, resolved to
please the finest old sportsman in the
county, as he was acknowledged to be, by-appearing
at the meet this morning in a
costume consistent with the distinction
bestowed upon her, and which, she knew,
if rather conspicuous, would, at least, be
becoming in its effect.

In carrying out this design, therefore, a
well-cut, close-fitting scarlet cloth jacket
was procured, which, encircled at the
waist by a broad, gold band, set off to advantage
the wide, short, blue skirt flowing
beneath it. A small, black velvet cap, as
like as possible to the squire's in shape,
covered her golden tresses, which were so
closely braided and plaited as to be kept
within confined limits, although from their
profusion defying concealment. A pair of
white doeskin gauntlets, and a light,
single-thong hunting-whip completed Gris-ella's

livery as : ' first whip ' to Squire
Oakacre's fox-hounds, every one of which
knew her as well as he did.

Thus equipped, and Gazelle indisputably
as fresh as a kitten,' they wended their
way at a gentle pace towards Oakacre
Court, the ancient seat of the Oakacres.

CHAPTER V.

They continued their course uninterrupted
along the road without meeting or being
overtaken bj anyone, until arriving between
the high, sloping banks of a long,
sinuous lane, Griselda heard the distant
clattering hoofs of a horse approaching her
in the rear. Catching the sound at the
same instant, Gazelle threw back one ear
and so kept it until the arrival of the horse
by her side, when she threw back both,
and looked promptly prepared to give the
stranger a reception with either her teeth
or her heels.

6 OX THE SPUR OF THE MOMENT.

'Your pony won't bite, miss, will she?'
asked the rider of the horse, in rather
tremulous accents.

'No,' replied Griselcla, glancing at the
stranger, whom she saw at once was so to
her. ; You need not be afraid.'

She won'fc kick, miss, will she ?' rejoined
he, in a still more uncertain tone,
as Gazelle looked quite ready to give him
a taste of what she could do if disposed to
lash out behind.

4 No,' returned Griselda, who felt more
than amused at the pourtrayed fear of the
horseman. ' She never kicks with me on
her back. Yc^i need not be afraid,'

I'm glad to hear that,' added he, ' for I
thought she looked a little too handy both
with her teeth and her heels just now.'

My pony often does herself an injustice,'
responded Griselda, ' by looking
what she really is not, inclined to be

somewhat vicious when only playful.'
1 I'm glad to hear that,' repeated the
horseman, ' as we can now ride on comfortably
together.'

Griselda darted a look of mingled surprise
and anger at him, which, had he
perceived, he would have come to the
ready conclusion that the journey must be
short for the probability of mutual comfort
being insured.

'You're going to the meet, miss, I see
by your dress,' he continued, curvetting
his horse close to her side, slightly spurring
and pulling hard at the same time,
and a very pretty dress it is, I think, and

you look very ' the remainder of the

sentence must be left to the imagination,
for a pair of eyes, wide open and flashing
with indignation, were fixed upon the
speaker, and not a syllable followed from
his lips by way of a finish.

A short silence of a somewhat awkward
kind followed, but the horseman, regaining
some of his temporarily lost assurance, at
length observed,

I suppose you can jump, miss ?'

My pony can,' was the curt reply.

c I know nothing about hunting,' rejoined
he, 'and am altogether a stranger in
these parts ; but I shan't remain a stranger
long, I expect, for I mean to do the thing-handsome,
and be liberal, hospitable, and
charitable.'

No observation was made by his companion
upon this vain-glorious announcement,
but a contemptuous curl of the
upper lip conclusively evinced the effect it
produced.

I belong to a good, respectable, and
responsible Middlesex family of the name
of Chickabiddy '

The speaker might have been mistaken ;

but he thought he heard somebody laugh.
No one and nothing, however, could be
more solemn and imperturbably grave than
the features of his solitary auditor. Mr.
Chickabiddy felt, therefore, that he had
committed an error of judgment, aud
resumed the thread of his personal narrative.


• I bought an old, tumble-down place a
few miles from here, called Hawkhurst,
and I mean to enlarge, decorate, and furnish
it, and make it fit for a merchant
prince to live in.'

Griselda thought there was a kind of
swell in Mr. Chickabiddy's voice as he
completed the sentence.

You may perhaps know Hawkhurst,
miss ?' continued he.

I know it well she replied. ' It has
not been inhabited for many years.'

Not a living soul under the roof for

more than a quarter of a century rejoined
he — ' nothing but the rats, and they were
starved out long ago. It was plunged
into Chancery before I was born, and remained
there until I got it out by the
sheer force of my money, when all the
rightful claimants to the property had
either spent theirs or gone to take possession
of those freeholds which can't be
mortgaged either here or elsewhere.'

Mr. Chickabiddy chuckled, as if he
thought he had said something which
merited a compliment ; but, if deserved,
he did not • receive the reward, Griselda
being reticent even to dumbness.

I then stepped iD,' continued he, a
little chilled by his companion's manner,
4 and here I am the legal proprietor of
Hawkhurst, with a good marketable title.'

Having proclaimed himself to be the
owner of a neighbouring property well

known to Griselda, although a deserted
and mouldering ruin, from her earliest
recollection, she entertained a feeling of
curiosity, if not of interest, in what he
was now telling her, and listened, as he
saw, with attention.

1 1 shall have my work cut out to make
my way among the country's families, I
know well enough resumed he, ' but I
shall come to the front with the best of
'em, and I will tell you why, miss. They
are poor and proud — / am rich and proud,
and money must win in the end. No one
knows better than I do the power of
money r . / have known the time when I
was without a shilling to call my own or
anybody else's.'

His companion made no remark, but
continued to listen in silence, although
now impatient for an opportunity to escape
from Mr. Chickabiddy's society.

vol. i. a

1 All !' exclaimed be, at the end of a
long-drawn breath, ' a man knows the
value of money when he can remember
not having a shilling, and afterwards feels
that his pockets are lined with gold.
That's my case, miss, past and present. A
fellow never looks so small as when he's
without cash, and doesn't know where
or how to get some. I'm not very

big — '

Griselda had already seen that he was
not.

But twice the size I've felt before now,
when ready to go down on my knees for
some money-bag to put his heel on my
throat and walk over me. It matters
not how sharp and clever a chap maybe.
If he hasn't money, or the talent to
get it by hook or by crook, he's sure to
take a back seat among the fiddlers.
Education and book-learning, and all that

sort of thing, is well enough in its way,
and a man may lay claim to being a gentleman
because his father was one and his
mother a lady, but if he's poor he'll know
what snubbing means. I tell you, miss,
and you may take my word for it, there's
nothing in this world like money. A
rogue with it has more friends and flatterers
than a saint without it. In fact,'
and Mr. Chickabiddy was most pronounced
in his delivery, ' people now-a-days do very
nearly what they did in Nebuchadnezzar's
reign. They then worshipped the golden
calf, and now they worship the golden ass.
I beg your pardon, miss ; it might have
been more polite, perhaps, to have said
golden donkey, but you'll excuse me, I
know.'

Whether Griselda excused him or not,
or whether any cause existed for excuse,
did not appear, for she continued to ride

Gon

between the high sloping banks with
her lips closed, if not sealed.

c Now there's this Squire Oakacre, ashe's
called '

I He's an old and beloved friend of mine
interrupted Griselda, with an energy of
tone and manner which seemed to almost
startle Mr. Chickabiddy, ' and of my
family.'

I I wasn't going to say anything against
him, miss, added he. ' I was only going
to repeat what I was told, that he's none
too rich, and to pay his way is about as
much as he can do and scarcely that.'

Griselda felt ready to strangle him.

1 He-hunts the hounds himself, I hear,'
resumed Mr. Chickabiddy, 'because he
can't afford to pay or mount a huntsman,
and yet won't take a guinea subscription
towards paying the expenses.'

The dear, generous, kind, good old

gentleman !' enthusiastically exclaimed ibis
companion.

He may be all that,' added Mr. Chickabiddy,
sententiously, ' but to be short of
money must be gall and wormwood to him.
Why, I'm informed that he does nearly
the whole of the work himself, and has
but one whipper-in !'

An expression of amusement passed
over Griselda's features as she remarked,

c He now claims, I believe, having a
first and second whipper-ia.'

'Upon small wages, I expect, if he has,'
responded he. 'I treated him, however,
upon my taking possession of my property,'
with the repetition of the swell iu his
voice, ' like one gentleman should treat
another gentleman. I wrote a letter to
him, telling him who I was, and enclosed
a cheque for fifty guineas as a subscription
; but it was sent back with, I must

say, as polite a reply as one gentleman
could write to another gentleman, informing
me that be had always hunted his
hounds at his own expense, and that he
should continue to do so, as long as be
lived. At the same time he expressed the
hope of seeing me as regularly as I could
make it convenient at the cover side, and
invited me to breakfast at Oakacre Court
this morning, where, as he said, I should
be introduced to most of his friends who
hunted with him. I think, miss, you will
say this was handsome on both sides, just
as one gentleman should treat another
gentleman.'

His companion probably had an opinion
upon this particular branch of the subject ;
but, whatever it might have been, it was
reserved in silence, and they rode on between
the high, sloping banks of the lane,
Mr. Chickabiddy monopolising nearly the

whole of the conversation upon the favourite
subjects of himself, his possessions, his
savings and doings.

The parson of the parish called,' resumed
he, ' as soon, almost, as the baker,
when it was known that I was to be found
at home, and, knowing what he came for
as well as he did, I told him, before he had
quite done shaking me by the hand, that I
would do the thing handsome, and give
freely to all his local charities, societies,
coal clubs, blanket clubs, missions, and
anything and everything that he thought
proper to mention. When I said this,
miss, you should have seen his reverence
smile. It really was lovely to behold
!'

Gazelle, with her ears pricked forward,
now began to pull and chafe upon the
reins, for the end of the lane was in view,
and she knew that, according to custom,

a bit of a steeple-chase would soon commence.


I mean to be popular, miss,' continued
Mr. Chickabiddy, 'in this division of the
county, as popular as money can make
me, and nothing makes a chap so popular
as giving his money away. Like most,
people in being generous said he, with a
loud chuckle, ' I mean to give it away to
please myself.'

You know the road, I suppose, to
Oakacre Court?' observed his companion.
' It is to the left at the end of this
lane.'

'But ain't you going there, miss?' inquired
he, with some surprise.

Gazelle was now steadied by an experienced
hand.

4 Yes,' replied her rider, ' but I am going
straight ;' and, before Mr. Chickabiddy
could recover from his profound astonishment,

she was in the air and over a
thickly-bushed hurdle without touching a
twig, in a direct line for Oakacre Court.

CHAPTER VI.

Including Sam, who had taken possession
of the large arm-chair at the bottom of
the table without being invited, and was
casting a sly look around for any stray
bits which might be considerately thrown
for him to catch with his acquired dexterity,
the small party at breakfast in the
cosy room of Forester's Lodge one morning
seemed to be on the very best terms
with each other, the big world without,
and the little world within.

The small party, including Sam, consisted
of four. Miss Penelope Peepem,

with a burnished copper urn of boiling
water hissing* and steaming in front of
her, was flanked on the right within arm's
length by her nephew, Edward Slomax,
and on the left by her niece Griselda, with,
as before has been described, Sam at the
measurable distance of the length of the
table, impatiently waiting for what he could
get.

Edward Slomax had just finally quitted
Cambridge with what seemed to be, from
his present energetic occupation, a healthy
university appetite, for mutton chop after
mutton chop disappeared, to the admiration,
mingled with silent surprise, of both
his sister and aunt, but decidedly not
Sam's. The sentiments, indeed, of Sam
upon the progress of events were a blend
of selfish envy and supreme jealousy, expressed
now and then by a suppressed
inward growl, particularly when, from his

coign of vantage, he perceived a tempting
tit-bit of brown fat vanishing for ever from
his sight.

Giant,' said Miss Penelope Peepem,
with a smile which was quite natural, as
she poised upon a fork a mutton chop of
no contemptible size and weight, ' let me
have the pleasure of again helping you.'

The giant, however, admitted that his
personal happiness in receiving more would
not approach within measurable distance
that of his aunt in giving more, and announced
in plain English that ' having
done, and done well, it was not his intention
to attempt the smallest improvement
upon the satisfactory result.'

If not exactly ' a giant,' as Miss Penelope
Peepem had somewhat poetically
designated her nephew, Edward Slomax
might lay claim to being on the big side
of humanity. By the exact length of a

barleycorn, if there Lad been no mistake
in the latest measurement, he stood just
over six feet in his socks, with a broad
and deep chest, and a pair of shoulders in
symmetrical width to correspond. A well-formed
head, with plenty of room for
brains, was set on a muscular throat, open
to view from the loose shirt-collar which
encircled it, and, surveyed from the short,
crisp hair, looking more as if it had been
recently mown than cut, to the rather
diminutive feet for his size, he had all the
appearance of possessing that strength
and agility for which he had rendered
himself famous as an athlete. With features
inclined to be ruddy, and somewhat
large dark-grey eyes, which looked as if a
smile had been settled in them as soon as
they could see, there sat Miss Penelope
Peepem's nephew, as fine a physical specimen
of a young English gentleman as

could be found, perhaps by diligent seeking,
within the territorial boundary of the
county of Hampshire.

Cutting a crust from what looked an
exceedingly crusty loaf, he cried, ' Play !'

Sam was on the look-out.

Bang went the crust. Sam caught it
most dexterously, but sneezed, as if his
nose had suffered in the attempt.

1 Well done !' exclaimed the giant, preparing
a second ball of about the same
size. ' Look out !'

Sam looked out.

Bang went the crust. Sam ducked,
and the ball flew harmlessly over his head
as he again sneezed, clearly signifying to
all whom it might concern, ' No more of
that for me. It comes too straight and
fast.'

Oh, you clever darling !' ejaculated
Griselda, as she rushed from her chair

and embraced Sam with the utmost
warmth. ' Was it not brilliant talent,
Teddy, to duck his twopenny ?'

4 His what ?' cried her aunt, fixing a
look of combined surprise and indignation
upon her niece — ' his what ?'

Twopenny replied Griselda, stroking
Sam's sleek, petulant ears, and kissing
him between his full black eyes as fondly
almost as he could desire in his most jealous
mood.

Miss Griselda Peepem,' rejoined her
aunt, with the essence of seriousness in
her whole deportment, ' the time has
arrived '

1 May it never return !' interrupted her
niece, vehemently. ' May it never return
!' repeated she.

1 For such an objectionable expression
never to escape your lips again,' continued
Miss Penelope Peepem, with the gravity

of a judge passing the extreme sentence
of the law. c I cannot conceive anything
more highly indecorous than a young ladj-
on the very eve of entering the best
county society making use of any vulgar
term, more especially such an objectionable
one as twopenny

I meant merely Sam's head, aunt dear
returned Griselda, resuming her seat, with
the corner of her upper lip slightly curled.
I'm always wrong in whatever I say ordo.'


Not always,' added her aunt, with
partly-closed eyelids, and a slight shake
of the head. ' But there are limits to
expressions, and twopenny seems to me
greatly to exceed them. What do you
say, giant?'

The giant, having a strong tendency to
agree with his fair and pretty cousin upon
all occasions, was not disposed to make

this a conspicuous exception, and rejoined
that, twopenny being a figurative synonym,
he thought it was about as good as
most of its kind.

Miss Penelope Peepem, finding herself
in the minority, both felt and looked so.

By way of an expedient to render surrounding
things pleasant again, he broke
the awkward pause which now prevailed
by observing,

1 AY hat fun we had last Saturday — De-greedy
! The undergrads were more
stormy than ever I knew them bes ore-nothing
but thunder and lightning.'

1 Tell me all about it, Teddy,' said Gris-ella.
' I like to hear nothing better than
your college shindies.'

Miss Penelope Peepem shut her eyes
completely, and a deep sigh rose from
somewhere to audibly take its departure
nobody knows where.

VOL. I. II

Well commenced Teddy, ' last Saturday
being Degree-day, there in the Senate
House, as usual, were the fathers and mothers,
cousins, aunts, sisters, lovers, and
governesses, proctors, bull-dogs '

What !' ejaculated Miss Penelope Peepem
— ' bull-dogs ?'

1 In their brown cloth capes and brass
buttons continued he, by way of an illustrated
explanation, c awaiting the advent
of the old vice to take his seat with his
pompous, solemn drop into the big armchair.'


There was not a pin point upwards iu
the cushion, I sincerely trust ?' remarked
Griselda, with her hands raised in the
form of supplication.

This was rather too much for Miss
Penelope Peepem to maintain a rigid
gravity of demeanour, and her sides began

to shake convulsively, and her chin to
quiver beyond control.

1 As far as I know responded he, laughing,
' I should say not, as I failed to perceive
any spasmodic effect.'

Miss Penelope Peepem turned her head
slightly on one side, and lifted a hand to
conceal a supposed blush.

1 As soon as the old vice was seen,' continued
he, ' we in the gallery all joined in
chorus,

11 Slap bang, here we are again,
Here we are again, here we are again,"

until I began to think that the very roof
of the Senate House would fly wolf .'

I wish I'd been there,' observed Gris-ella.
' There should have been one voice
above the rest.

Miss Penelope Peepem became serious

on the instant.

H 2

I As the old vice dropped into bis chair,
with his dignified and gracious condescension
to sit when everybody else was standing,'
resumed he, ' we all sang together,

I love it, I love it, and who shall dare,
To chide me for loving this old arm-chairs"'

I should have led the chorus,' said
Griselda, ' had I been present. Nothing
would have stopped me.'

I I am gratefully thankful to think that
you were not present,' remarked her aunt,
curtly. c There might have been a scene
in the Senate House, never before witnessed
in the ancient history of the University.'


A novelty, therefore, replete with interest,'
responded her niece. ' What a
lost opportunity !'

We, of course, whistled all the popular
melodies,' continued the giant, 'and cheered
everybody, theological, political, and

social. I came in with " Well rowed, well
ruined," and, from the Senior Wrangler
down to the Wooden Spoon, all came in
for a full share of the lusty honours we
roared upon them.'

1 have frequently heard of the Wooden
Spoon,' said Miss Penelope Peepem, with
a dubious smile, 'but surely there is no
such culinary, academical honour.'

Oh, yes, there is !' replied he. ' The
undergrads let down by a string from the
gallery a large spoon made of wood, which
the last man of the Tripos — always a jolly
good fellow — seizes and shoulders, and
carries off amidst hurrahs enough to deafen
ye. No one is more popular than the
Wooden Spoon.'

1 I wish,' said his aunt, with a look of
very soft reproach, ' that you, Teddy, had
been the Wooden Spoon.'

1 I don't,' sharply rejoined Griselda. ' I

couldn't bear bis being a spoon of any
kind.'

The last man of the Tripos,' returned
Miss Penelope Peepem, mildly, ' would
have been an improved position upon not
being in it at all.'

Mathematical Tripos honours,' said the
giant, ' and University physical distinctions
too often clash. They don't agree.
Feel that !' and, as he spoke, he bent his
elbow upwards at an acute angle, and invited
his aunt to place her fingers upon
the developed, large knot of muscles which
might have compared favourably with
those of a Roman gladiator of old. ' Feel
that,' repeated he.

I really much prefer not doing so,'
responded Miss Penelope Peepem. c It
appears to me indelicate.'

Oh,' exclaimed her niece, 'they are

only his biceps ! Feel his biceps, aunt
dear.'

Overcoming her reluctance and yielding
to persuasion, Miss Penelope Peepem
slightly touched that part of her nephew's
arm presented to her, and simpered that it
was ' unimpressionable.'

Hard as cast steel,' said he ; ' all done
through training for the boat-race which
we won by three lengths, and might have
made it thirty.'

Gratifying as the result was,' returned
his aunt, 'I should have much preferred
the Wooden Spoon as being a triumph of
intellect.'

1 It would not have pleased me half so
well,' rejoined Griselda. ' Stroke in .the
winning 'Varsity eight beats all the Wooden
Spoons out of sight.'

Varsity eight !' ejaculated Miss Penes

r

lope Peepem, displaying every outward
effect of inward and irrepressible astonishment.
'Did I hear you say 'Varsity eight?'

The giant, as was his wont, came to the
rescue.

An abbreviation for University,' said
he, scarcely, however, able to smother a
laugh. ' Nothing more, most lovable of
aunts.'

1 A term, perhaps, commonly used by
bargemen and boatmen,' added Miss Penelope
Peepem, with all the starch at her
command in manner and parts of speech,
but foreign I hope, generally, to the lips
of young ladies about entering the best
circles of county society.'

Griselda, with a shake of her auburn
curls, threw herself back in her chair, resting
in a most easy but still graceful
posture, greatly admired in secret by the
giant, but by no means a secret to Gris-ella

; for she guessed something long ago,
and had she guessed twice she might,
possibly, have been much further from
guessing right.

CHAPTER VII.

The ancient pile of baronial buildings
known far and wide within the county as
Oakacre Court,' was not, as may reasonably
be surmised, an edifice of yesterday's
construction, but one erected prior to the
sinking upon the quicksands of Time a
very long list and succession of yesterdays.


The Oakacre family had been born beneath
its roof long before any record of
the first of the name had been kept, or, if
kept, no tittle of evidence remained of its
ever having been. The monuments in the

adjacent Norman church of successive
generations having been buried there,
offered presumptive proof that the dust of
the first of the Oakacres might be there or
thereabouts, but no inscription, worn and
almost obliterated as it was on many,
seemed to offer the faintest trace that the
dust of the original proprietor of the name
crumbled beneath. From father to son
they had come and gone, if the abbreviated
history on their respective tombs
might be trusted as revealing the simple
truth, and nothing appears to have checked,
interrupted, or prevented the order of succession
for more centuries than, in justice
to the past, ought to be enumerated in
haste, as an error in one or two might
easily have been committed. As far, however,
as could be learnt from what remained
to be read, either legibly or illegibly, no
flattering special tribute had been paid to

the memory of any particular member or
members of the Oakacres. Their good
deeds, perhaps, had not been sufficiently
numerous or conspicuous to be blown far
and wide by the trumpet of Fame, or, if
blown, her breath had been expended before
the accomplishment of the object.
They came and departed with the utmost
regularity, and but little apparent variation
broke the monotony of their daily or
yearly lives. The landed property, and
they possessed but little else, came into
possession of the eldest son upon the death
of his father, and except that one Oakacre
lived, perhaps, a little longer or shorter
than the other Oakacre, the changes, like
the gnarled and knotted trees around,
from which it would seem the ' old family '
derived or borrowed its name, were few
and slow in the extreme. For any effect,
however, to the contrary, the ' old family '

might have stood still while time went on,
and perhaps had.

John Oakacre, commonly called and
known as ' Squire Oakacre,' the last of a
long race of a popular county family, continued
to dispense the hospitalities of his
house as his forefathers had clone before
him, and with no niggard hand.

Without inquiring too carefully into the
difference between expenditure and income,
or seeking to learn, in a commercial
spirit, what balance there might be on the
deficit side of the annual account, the
squire kept his hounds at his own cost,
entertained his friends and neighbours at
good, substantial hunt breakfasts and
dinners, drank his bottle of old port daily
without the slightest perceptible detriment
to his health, subscribed to all the local
institutions and charities, went to church
regularly once every Sundays and did his

utmost to keep awake during the sermon,
sometimes with, only partial success, and
sometimes with a complete triumph over
indisputable temptation.

Having been asked by a too curious
questioner, perhaps, upon this particularly
personal matter ' how old he was,' the
prompt answer given, accompanied by a
hearty laugh, was, ' Old enough to know
better,' leaving the subject, as a matter of
course, in the opaque darkness in which it
had been introduced.

As a matter of fact, however, it was
generally understood by those who knew
how to count through the agency of their
fingers that the squire had advanced to
the shady side of sixty, and, although he
danced with the vigour of youth at the
hunt ball, was first in the foremost flight
in the best run of the season, and with the
strongest fox that was ever pulled down

in that county, wide as it was, be could
not have honestly asserted that he remained
on the sunny side of that epoch
of his life. Possessing a light, wiry figure,
through constant exercise from his youth
upwards, John Oakacre both looked and
felt younger than he was in years, albeit
the hair upon his brow had lost the nutbrown
shade of earlier days, and looked
little less bleached than the snow-white
cravat, tied with scrupulous care beneath
his chin, giving an effect, through the
assistance of starch, of blended stiffness
and dandyism of the Beau Brummell
period. His nose — John Oldacre felt proud
of his nose — was decidedly aquiline, if not
possessed of a half-Roman bridge, and as
the portraits of his ancestors hanging in
long rows in the galleries, corridors, and
rooms of Oakacre Court in powdered periwigs
and trunk hose, to say nothing of

other multifarious costumes of grotesque
and quaint design, had, if nature had
been copied truthfully, olfactory organs of
exactly similar shape, the squire thought,
and sometimes said, that it was a mark of
his pedigree being right.

With features painted red by the artist
hand of health, and eyes of Saxon blue,
or what is supposed to be the correct
definition of that colour, there sat the
squire in a straight-backed, carved oak
chair at the head of his table, surrounded
by his guests who had responded to his
invitation of being present at the first
hunt breakfast of the season. The sallies
of wit might not have been great, and the
jokes and stories recounted anything but
remarkable for originality or interest, but
still there was a great deal of laughter,
which fully compensated those who told
them, perhaps, for the want of both. All,

at any rate, could not apparently be on
better terms with each other, the squire
taking the lead in the fun and keeping it ;
for if anyone in the whole county loved to
laugh with the concentrated force of his
whole heart more than another, it was
John Oakacre of Oakacre Court.

Come,' said he, after removing a silver
tankard with two handles from his lips,
his rubicund visage slightly heightened
from a temporary suspension of air to the
lungs, ' come repeated he, ' it's time to be
off. My first whip will take the liberty of
rating me. I know, if I'm not punctual at
the meet, which, conveniently for some of
us, is just outside the door. Come, gentlemen,'
continued he, ' take your stirrup
cups or jumping balls, and we'll be off and
try for a fox in the Home Wood.'

A sure find,' remarked a yeoman of
the heavy kind, attired in brown top-boots

VOL. I. I

as dark as Spanish mahogany, white cords,
and a green, cutaway coat fastened by a
single button across the breast. ' A sure
find,' said he, with an air of confidence
which dispelled the possibility of the
shadow of a doubt being entertained in his
mind that the Home Wood would be drawn
blank.

1 Perhaps,' observed somebody, with a
chuckle, * you've taken care, Tom Brown,
to shake down a bagman.'

'A what?' shouted Tom Brown, in a voice
of the most detonating, nitro-glycerine force,
'a what?' repeated he, glancing round to
discover the offender, but without immediate
success. ' The Home Wood,' he
continued, ' is in my occupation, and always
holds a litter of natural-born cubs,
season after season, as it has done long
before my great-grandfather was born.
Did you say bagman, sir ?' and he turned

upon a solitary individual, almost savagely,
happening to stand nearest to him, looking
anything but aggressive.

It was Mr. Chickabiddy, dressed, for
the first time in his life, in a new scarlet
coat, doeskin breeches of the most fashionable
West-end cut, patent leather military
boots, with large, shining brass spurs
screwed into their heels, a light, blue-satin
cravat with a glittering horse-shoe
pin in brilliant, fixed conspicuously in
front, and a pair of tightly-fitting white
kid gloves, gave a finish to a hunting
costume of his own selection and characteristic
taste, which, to be seen once, was
sure to be remembered.

To complete Mr. Chickabiddy's photograph
as he stood with an expression of
startled astonishment at the abrupt question
put to him by Tom Brown, it may bea
fitting opportunity to mention that his

i2

nose turned up, his complexion wore the
bilious hue of a sweet-turnip, except where
a crop of inflammable spots, both large
and small, intervened, his eyes were small,
black, fiery, and ferret, and, his hair
being a thing of the past, his head looked
little less smooth and polished than a
billiard ball.

Such was the outward and visible effect
of the outward and visible man of Orlando
Chickabiddy, the new occupant and proprietor
of Hawkhurst, as he stood in a
confused state of absolute bewilderment
beneath the angry, uncompromising glance
of Tom Brown.

'Did you say bagman, sir?' repeated he.
swaying his head to and fro.

At the end of a short cough, as the
means, perhaps, to clear his voice or afford
time to regain his self-possession, Mr.
Chickabiddy replied with great calmness

of manner, if slightly disturbed in spirit,

'No, sir, I did not mention the word
barman. I was once a '

Mr. Chickabiddy was as near as possible
admitting that, once upon a time, he had
been 'a bagman,' but managed to swallow
the humiliating confession before it escaped
his lips.

1 Do you know, sir, who I am ?' continued
he, breaking off at a tangent, and
drawing himself up to his full height,
rather above than below five feet four
inches, ' do you know, sir, who I am ?'
repeated he.

'No, I don't,' replied Tom Brown, still
swaying his head to and fro, like the
pendulum of a clock in motion. ' But I
should say, from the look of ye, that
you're a farrier.'

A foreigner !' exclaimed Orlando Chickabiddy,
with more reserved indignation

than lie could have possibly expressed intone
or manner. ' Let me tell you, sir,
that I'm a free-born Englishman,' and his
little pigeon-breast seemed to swell with
pride as he delivered the patriotic words.
I belong, sir, to an old, responsible, and
respectable Middlesex family, and I am the
owner of Hawkkurst.'

At the conclusion of the sentence it
must be admitted that Tom Brown evidently
winced, for he had heard through
common report that the owner of Hawk-hurst
was not only rich beyond all ordinary
calculation, but was positively the sole
proprietor of a gold mine. Tom Brown
felt on the instant that he had committed
a blunder, and looked so.

This effect did not fail to be observed
by Mr. Chickabidd}^, who, with a clank of
the brass spurs, strode towards where
Tour Brown was standing, and, with their

faces scarcely separated by the respective
points of their noses, he again asked at
the pitch of his voice, which sounded not
dissimilar to a shriek,

Do you know, sir, who 1 am ?'

The squire at this moment interposed
with the friendly assurance that a mistake
unintentionally, but still a mistake — had
been made by Tom Brown, and that as no
one could seriously suspect him of turning
down a bagged fox in the Home Wood,
which was always, as alleged, a sure find,
neither could anyone suppose that his new
neighbour and friend, Mr. Chickabiddy,
capable of using the expression of bagman
in an offensive sense.

1 The word never escaped my lips,'
pleaded Mr. Chickabiddy. ' I did not
utter it, sir, upon my sacred word of
honour.'

Somebody else did, then rejoined Tom

Brown. ' I heard it with my own ears.
But as it wasn't you, Mr. Chickabiddy, you
needn't beg my pardon. Forgive and
forget, I say, all the world over. Let's
take a glass of cherry-brandy together. It
may sweeten our thoughts, and make
us on better terms with each other,
sir.'

A truly desirable finish to a slight
error of speech,' observed Squire Oakacre,
leading the way from the breakfast-room,
closely followed by his spurred and booted
guests gaily dressed in scarlet and
green.

Upon emerging from the old, time-worn
porch of Oakacre Court, wherein the
martins had built their nests year after
year, with undisputed and undisturbed
possession, a group might have been seen
upon the expansive lawn in front — surrounded
by tall elms upon the topmost

branches of which a colony of rooks cawed
and surged with apparent interest everything
that was going on below — composed
of horses and hounds, and, in her picturesque
dress of first whip, Griselda herself
the most conspicuous figure of all.

Mounted on Gazelle, the pony stood
motionless in the midst of the hounds,
with Cock Robin in his ' new moult ' at
her head, and, as she permitted him to
pass a hand repeatedly down her arched
and smooth neck without even a single
attempt to snap it off, it may fairly be
conjectured that a truce to hostilities had
been temporarily carried out between them
in a practical and satisfactory form.

Edward Slomax, otherwise ' the giant,'
rested in a careless attitude with one arm
thrown over the pommel of the saddle, and
acting, it may be presumed, as a kind of
self-constituted body-guard, with a stout

ash-plant in his grasp, and which he looked
quite capable of using upon any case of
urgency or emergency.

Such was the situation upon the squire
and his friends presenting themselves to
view upon the outside of the old, timeworn
porch of Oakacre Court.

No sooner, however, did the hounds
catch a glimpse of him who carried the
sheathed horn than, throwing their tongues
in a musical chorus, they rushed and raced
towards him with a loud cry of welcome.

Gently,' halloed the squire, in a pleased
and good-humoured voice, with a soft crack
of his thong which would scarcely have brushed
a fly from their flanks. ' Gently,' repeated
he, as they stood in a circle about him with
ears thrown back and waving sterns ; and
then, mounting an old-fashioned looking
horse, with a long, thin neck, and closely-cut,
short tail, he rode forward to greet

with a cheery voice and a hearty shake of
the hand, his most attractive-looking ' first
whip.'

CHAPTER VIII.

The Home Wood, as may be inferred from
its title, was a cover at no great distance
from the demesne of Oakacre Court, and
upon approaching its dark outline the
squire was seen to stoop from his saddle
and say something in strict confidence to
his c first whip ' who, contrary to strict
discipline, was riding close by his side
instead of slightly in advance of the
huntsmen.

No sooner was the whispered communication
made than Gazelle jumped into her
stride, and away went the first whip in a
direct line for the Home Wood. All eyes

were fixed in admiration upon the two as
they approached a line of hurdles stretched
before them, and, as the pony rose at the
leap and carried her mistress over it with
graceful ease, the squire cried out ' Well
clone!' and 'Well done!' was repeated by
every sportsman present until it was
echoed and re-echoed, and carried down
the wind far away. It was music of the
sweetest kind to Griselda's ears, and a
flush of gratified pride spread itself over
her features, and flashed in her eyes, as
she kept her onward course, turning
neither to the left nor the right.

She won't take that double ditch and
rail,' said the squire, in a nervous tone and
manner, as he continued to watch the two
now within a few lengths of the obstacle
referred to. ' She won't take that,' continued
he, shading his eyes in order to get
a clearer view.

Scarcely, however, were the words
spoken than Gazelle was seen to gather
herself together as if for a grand effort,
and the next moment she was in the air
and over the barrier as if in possession of
wings to try across it.

Thank God !' exclaimed the squire,
fervently. ' She's landed safely : but not
one man in a hundred would have taken
that leap with hounds running hard from
scent to view.'

I know where I should have been,' observed
Mr. Chickabiddy, with a chuckle.

So do I,' quickly responded the squire,
8 or you possess a better seat, sir, and finer
nerve than most of us here, including myself,
with the best horse in my stable.'

1 never saw her ride bolder or better !'
remarked Edward Slomax, keeping pace
on foot with the squire's hunter, assisted
by the stout ash-plant. ' She must be

cautioned, however, not to repeat such an
experiment. The least mistake and she
would have been fluncr into the next
parish.'

Ha,' exclaimed the squire, with his
eyes still bent upon the receding forms of
Gazelle and her rider, i my first whip has
head, hands, courage, and beauty !'

He little thought of the fatal effect of
those few words upon one enraptured
listener. The giant heard, and, if not
already conquered, he was now completely
vanquished, and a fast and bound prisoner
beyond all possibility of escape. The
destiny of the chequered life of Edward
Slomax was fixed beyond recall at
that precise moment of the world's sad
history — the Nemesis which never forsook
him.

At a hand gallop Griselda disappeared
round the nearest corner of the Homo

Wood, and the squire, gently trotting
forward, soon brought his hounds within
a short distance of the verge of the cover
where, as was his wont, he kept them
impatiently waiting for the well-known
signal to throw them in for the find.

With a single wave of his whip-hand
and a cheery ' Hoik in,' the whole pack, each
independent of the other, crashed through
and over the thick hawthorn fence into
the wood, followed by the squire, whose
old-fashioned horse with the short bob-tail
crept leisurely through a convenient gap
close by, and carried his master forward
with as much ease as possible to himself
and the saving of all unnecessary exertion
; for he knew what a strong fox and
a long run meant, and acted accordingly
on the suspicion, perhaps, that this kind
of work might be required of him to-day.

A faint whimper was now heard in the

middle of the cover, followed by two or
three hounds throwing their tongues in a
louder and more decided tone.

Puppy-like,' said the squire, as if communing
with himself, and at the same
time taking his horn from its sheath. ' It's
only a drag, I know ; but we may soon
have the challenge.'

Scarcely were the words from his lips
when a favourite hound called Tassels, a
famous old line hunter seldom known to
commit an error of the most trifling kind,
threw his tongue, and the first note heard
was taken up by a roar which seemed to
burst like thunder through the Home
Wood from end to end.

1 That's it ; have at him !' hallooed the
squire. ' Have at him. Hoik, hoik ! Hoik
together, hoik !'

The hounds in a close body were now
pressing their challenged fox to the far-vol.

t. k

these end of the cover, making the welkin
ring with their music.

As a rival to their melody, however, a
clear, ringing ' Gone awa-a-ay !' was now
heard from the position the first whip
might be supposed to have stationed herself
under the express directions of the
M.F.H., Squire Oakacre.

In a moment, or some such limited
space, he spurred his old-fashioned horse
to the edge of the cover, and driving him
through the boundary fence without the
option of a gap or choice of egress, sent
him along at his best pace towards the
spot from whence came the welcome,
heart-stirring ' Gone away.'

1 She's as true as Tassels,' said the
squire to himself, applying the rowels of his
spurs rather too freely, as his old-fashioned
horse naturally thought. ' I can depend
upon one as well as the other.'

To bo always with bounds, both at the
find and the finish, was the fixed, unalterable
determination of Squire Oakacre, his
theory being that their huntsman should
be in that forward and defined place, and
he carried it out strictly in practice at all
personal risk and any hazard. The old-fashioned
horse knew this, and, knowing it
from long experience, stretched himself
out and essayed his best pace towards
where Griselda sat on her pony, with her
black velvet cap raised high above her
head and her auburn hair exposed to
view, shining like gold in the bright sunlight.


There was no necessity or time for
questions or answers, however terse, as
the leading hounds burst from a corner
of the wood, and raced forward with a
burning scent — heads up and sterns
down.

K 2

1 Hold bard!' cried the squire. 'Let
them get at him.'

The field of horsemen willingly obeyed
the mandate, not one attempting to get
too well away and over-ride the hounds ;
but Gazelle, impatient for the lead, taxed
her rider's skill and strength to the utmost
to keep her in her place.

There might be a straggler or two.

Twang, twang, twang, went the squire's
horn.

Now, gentlemen,' said he, standing in
his stirrups and leaning slightly forward
over the pommel of his saddle, i ride over
them if ye can.'

The scent being breast high, the hounds
flew across the first field, a wide open
fallow, and, notwithstanding the dust rose
in a cloud as they rattled along at full
swing, there was no check to the pace
from its failing for a single moment. On

they raced like greyhounds from the slips.

Ride over them if ye can, gentlemen
repeated the squire, exultingly. 'It will
take a fast horse and a bold rider to be
with them to-day.'

He is the biggest fox that I ever
viewed in my life,' said Griselda, joining
the squire, as she rode at a stretch gallop
by his side.

I We have got well away with them,'
replied he ; ' but it will be a fast and,
perhaps, long run. Be careful.'

4 1 mean to keep my place,' rejoined the
4 first whip ' let it be fast or long.'

If about the first at the finish, as I
hope to sea you,' returned he, 'you must
not take too much of the steel out of your
pony now. Pull her back a little and
steady her.'

I I mean to keep my place,' added she,
with a resolve not to be doubted, ' if

Gazelle can carry me. Nobody shall be in
front of us.'

Here the short discussion ended, for the
squire both heard and saw that it would
be useless to continue it. Right or wrong,
Griselda was determined to have her own
way, and, from experience of the past, he
knew it.

As straight as an arrow could fly from a
bow-string, Gazelle's head was kept in a
line with the next strong fence, a high,
straggling bullfinch, through which the
hounds crashed in full crj^.

If your pretty face ain't scored a bit I
shall be mistaken,' observed a somewhat
remarkable-looking individual in a long
skirted coat which had once been scarlet,
a velvet cap which had once been black,
and top-boots and breeches which looked
none the better for the wear and tear of
three successive seasons. ' If your pretty

face ain't scored a bit I shall be mistaken
repeated he, watching the near approach
of Griselda to the bullfinch ; but whether
'scored' or not, she was through it, and
the temporarily separated boughs and
twigs came together again with a sharp
spring, leaving but little trace of the lead
she had given the field.

1 She may call me old troublesome,'
continued he, in a most unquestionable
surly tone, ' or what she likes to call me.
1 don't care ; but instead of being the
squire's first whip, as he chooses to call
her, supposing she was his second, as I am
now, I suppose. In that case, she'd have
to boil, feed, exercise, keep the kennels
clean, and with broom, shovel, and fork
make herself what she isn't — generally
useful, without much time to spare for
making herself particularly ornamental,
and that wouldn't suit the first whip. And

yet,' said he, with a grim smile taking the
place of the hitherto intensely sulky expression,
* she's a nice young lady, after
all that can be said against her, and, if a
little too full of the devil, it isn't her fault,
perhaps. Let me take a Christian-like view
of the first whip. There she goes close to
hounds, leading the whole field. Come
up, old 'loss !' and as he concluded the
sentence he gave the animal he bestrode a
practical reminder that he was not to try
to pitch upon his head twice without an
effort to keep upon his legs once.

Ambling and stumbling at an easy pace
towards an open gateway, ' old Grumble-some,'
after a short interval of reticence,
resumed the thread of his audible thoughts.

1 Everybody, rich and poor, has a kind
sword for her except me ; and why don't
I ? I sar, you old beggar, Bill Baxter —
that's me — why haven't you a soft word

ready for our first whip, instead of always
a rough and rusty one? It's because, you
crotchety, bad-tempered, cantankerous old
varmint, are jealous of her. That's what
it is, Bill Baxter; you're jealous of her
knowing as much, and perhaps more, about
hounds and hunting than yourself. Come
up, old *loss ;' and again the double thong
was applied upon the repetition of a stumble
of a too decided kind to pass unnoticed.
' I can't be in the run, if I
would,' continued he, 4 on this worn-out,
stumped up, rickety old sheep's hurdle ;
and, if better mounted, I wouldn't, if I
could. Why should I want to jam myself
close to hounds for ? Master would ask,
perhaps, if I knew my place ; the first whip
might like to see me head foremost in
the deepest ditch in the county, and nearly
everybody behind me wishing my precious
neck broken long before the kill took

place. I'm not wanted to turn bounds.
Master has only to give 'em a chink-wink
on his horn, and away they fly to him
like mad. Come up, old 'loss ;' and again
the whip reminded the old 'sheep's hurdle
' that he had much better stand up
than fall down.

Hark !' cried he, raising a hand to an
ear, to catch the faint, distant sound.
1 He's doubling back on his line — perhaps
headed. Come up, old 'loss ;' and, with
an united effort, the two went forward at
the combined pace of a shamble, stumble,
trot, limp, canter, and gallop. ' We shall
see a bit o' this run,' said he, ' without
much hard riding;' and the second whip
grinned a grim smile as he spoke. ' Without
much hard riding,' repeated he. ' For
if some folks don't care about breaking
their precious necks, I do mine. Come
up, old loss !'

Hounds in fall cry were now beard more
distinctly, and, as the second whipper-in anticipated,
the fox was evidently doubling
back towards the Home Wood, wherein
he had been found.

We shall have a view o' the varmint
presently,' said he, reining in the 'old
sheep's hurdle,' as they came to a high
bank, over which the second whipper-in
craned, standing as high as he could in
his stirrups. ' We shall view the hunted
fox presently,' said he, ' or I'm much
mistaken in what I hear.'

Nothing could be more in accordance
with his expressed belief ; for he had
scarcely spoken, when the fox, with his
tongue hanging from his jaws, was seen
running almost in a straight line towards
him, at about a hundred yards from where
he stood craning over the high and steep
bank.

1 They've given you a dustin,' said he,
1 and in a very few minutes too. If you
don't mend your pace pretty soon, they'll
run ye from scent to view before your
draggled brush gets to the Home Wood.
Now then, first whip, here you come, as
usual, first in the first flight. Hie over,
that's it! Bang she goes; nothing stops
her. Master always with hounds ; close
to their sterns, no matter what country it
is, open or close, high fences, low fences,
or no fences. Here they come, good
riders, bad riders, and no riders. I'm
among the no riders. I can ride, but
I won't ; never would, and never will.
Keep in front, some say. Keep behind,
say. That's the place for a second
whip ; and I always keep my place.
That's what Bill Baxter says to himself ;
and, if he doesn't wait for an answer,
it's because there's nobody near, as far

as be knows, to give him one. Come up,
old 'loss.'

The ' sheep's hurdle ' responded to the
call made upon his reserved powers, and
from standing still broke into a lively
canter.

Yes,' continued he, ' there you go with
your red rag out, and bellows to mend,
doubling on your line for where they found
ye. A fool — an out-an'-out fool — would
now give a tally-ho because he views the
hunted fox within fifty yards of him ; but
I, Bill Baxter — that's me — know better.
Let them alone, I say, and so says master,
when you can't help them to do better.
Now, when hounds are racing their fox
down as they began at the burst, how the
devil and all his saints can a d — d stupid
tally-ho do any good. Let them alone, I
say — that's me — Bill Baxter. Come up,
old 'ossa

Together, as if coupled, Squire Oak-acre's
old-fashioned horse and Gazelle roseat
the yawning fence, separating them
from a large, open grass field in which the
pack now swept along almost in view of
the sinking fox, and both 'lauded' at the
same moment. In the succeeding one
they were again in their striding gallop,
neck and neck, head to head.

1 Lord, how that savage bitch of a pony
can jump !' exclaimed the second whip.
She leaps like a stag, and goes as straight
as a crow flies. Come up, old 'loss.'

Extensive and thick as the Home Wood
was, the hounds rushed through it, making
the thorns and bushes crack and snap
again as they pushed the fox along without
let, check, or stop.

Short to the left,' said the squire to
his first whip, as* they still rode side by
side. ' Hold hard,' added he, turning

round sharply in his saddle as the cry of
the hounds was now a little behind them.
4 We are a little too for'arcl and may head
him.'

With her face flushed from chin to brow,
and her eyes flashing with excitement,
Griselda brought her pony to a stand-still
within less than a hundred yards from the
end of the cover from which she had
viewed the fox away at the find.

c He'll break away again,' whispered she
to the squire, ' from the same corner.'

The huntsman, absorbed at the critical
moment of the sport — for he feared that
the fox could not live to be pulled down in
the open — still continued to listen with a
hand raised as if to enjoin silence, and even
the feverish champing of Gazelle's bit
produced the angry knitting of his brow.

Pressed at a pace which the scent
breast-high ensured, the fox, as the 'first

whip ' anticipated, again broke from the
extreme end of the wood, and a clear,
musical, ringing 'Tally-bo' burst from her
lips, as she lifted her cap from her somewhat
dishevelled hair now streaming in
the wind.

Squire Oakacre smiled at the enthusiasm
of his ' first whip and with a • hold hard,
let them get at him,' a bunch of leading
hounds swept from the cover, and settled
on the line of the fox bristling for blood.

Gazelle reared and stood almost upright
on her hind legs as a steady pull upon the
bridle rein effectually stopped a plunge
forward to take the lead of the pack itself
if permitted to have her will.

f His point is the Granny pits,' said the
squire, 'but he'll not live to reach them.
It will soon be from scent to view at this
pace, and a, kill in the open as it should
be.'

The squire and his ' first whip getting
well away, took a strong lead of the field,
which straggled in a long line behind with
two or three horses carrying empty saddles,
and taking an independent course of
their own.

I fear Chickabiddy has had a fall,' observed
the squire, pointing with his whip
to a riderless horse. ' I think that's the
animal he rode.'

1 Yes,' replied Griselda, with a subdued
laugh of the inward kind, 'and quite as
much like a giraffe in shape and make asa
horse.'

He certainly lacks the form of a perfect
hunter,' rejoined the squire, good humoured,
'but let's hope that his first day's
fox-hunting may not prove his last.'

'I should be really sorry if his neck
were broken,' returned she. ' I have often
heard of broken necks, but never saw one,

VOL. i. l

I'm happy to say. They must look, as
indeed they are, so far beyond the reach
of mending.'

Having skimmed over a high grass
bank, looking like a flock of pigeons as
they rose, the hounds rattled along over
an open common interspersed with stunted
and dwarfed gorse bushes, but too thinly
grown for the fox to gain a moment's
breath by hiding himself in. The Granny
pits were in front, and these strong earths
could alone save his life — not one of his
loud-tongued pursuers being better informed
upon the vital subject than himself.

Ha !' ejaculated old Troublesome,
blundering on as usual through gates,
gaps, and bridle paths. ' Ha !' repeated he,
you may try them earths ; but they're all
stopped, everyone on 'em. I was there
before break o' day this morning, and
closed 'em up so that a mouse couldn't

get in. For besides being second whip,
kennel huntsman, and feeder, I'm earth-stopper
as well, and all for fifteen shillings
a week. Ha ! the pay an't great ; but it's
as much as the squire can afford, Expect.
Come up, old 'loss V

Do you see that magpie ?' observed the
squire. c She's mobbing the sinking fox ;'
and as he spoke a bird on the wing was
seen in the distance darting to the ground,
and then rising high in the air to stoop
again. 'The magpie, crow, and jay,' continued
he, 'love to mob a sinking fox.
Keep your eyes forrard, it will soon be from
scent to view.'

With their heads up and sterns down,
the hounds now raced along, and the
squire and his first whip had to ride hard
to enable them to live the pace they were
going.

1 1 should like to see a bit of the finish

lo'

this,' said the second whip to himself.
Come up, old 'loss !' and answering to the
call made upon him the ' old 'loss' frisked
into a canter, and carried his rider in the
line of the chase, far behind, it is true,
but still in the wake of those who went
before. c I should like to see a bit of the
finish o' this,' repeated he, and the double
thong was once more applied to stimulate
the ' old 'loss,' who responded to it by doing
his best.

That's it ! ' ejaculated the second
whip;. ' That's the squire's ringing who-whoop.
You may hear it a mile down
wind any clay. They've pulled him down
- — the flying devils — without a check from
find to finish in as fast a run as ever I
crawled behind at. But Bill Baxter —
that's me — knows how and where to nick
in, and get over the country, without
going the pace, which he couldn't go if he

would, and wouldn't if he could. Come
up, old 'loss !'

Who-whoop !' cried Squire Oakacre,
1 who-whoop !' repeated be in clear musical
notes, as be held the dead fox high above
his head from which he had cut the mask,
pads, and brush, w T hile the hounds, throwing
their tongues in a frenzy of excitement,
stood waiting impatiently for the prize to
be thrown to them. 'Who-whoop !' again
he cried, and the welkin rang and echoed
with the death halloo.

Before the carcase reached the ground,
eager jaws and ready teeth seized it, and,
amid growls and wrangling, it was broken
up, leaving not a fragment of the remains
of as gallant a fox as ever ran for his life
from the Home Wood.

Thirty-five minutes without a check
observed the squire, glancing at his watch.

"We had all the finish to ourselves,' returned

Griselda, holding Lis horse close by,
who, with Gazelle, stood with their heads
between their knees, and both looked as
having gone ' too fast to last.'

Selfish as it may appear,' said the
squire, laughing, ' there is nothing more
enjoyable than in a run like this to beat
the kill with nobody near, as it is with
us to-day. But here they come,' and, ashe
spoke, the beaten-off field began to
appear in twos and threes, limited numbers,
and in irregular line, straggling in
the distance.

Fastest thing I ever was in,' remarked
one, upon pulling up his horse with heaving
flanks.

1 I couldn't live with them,' rejoined
another, arriving at a gentle trot.

1 It was more like racing than hunting,'
observed a third. ' My horse was chopped
at the beginning.'

1 Permit me the pleasure of presenting
the brush to my first whip said the squire,
as he handed it, with a large white tag at
the end, to Griselda. ' No one could possibly
deserve it more,' continued he; 'fora
better or straighter rider to hounds was
never seen.'

The first whip would have expressed her
thanks for the hearty, genuine compliment
paid to her in the presence of the whole
field of horsemen, including ' old Troublesome,'
who had arrived too late to be
in at the death ; but her joy was too great
for utterance, and she received the trophy
with a graceful bow in silence as loud
plaudits were expressed unanimously
around.

What have we here ?' said the squire,
taking the reins from the hands of the
first whip, and remounting his horse. ' Is
that you, Chickabiddy?' continued he, looking

with astonishment at what may be
historically described as a mournful procession
approaching the spot of the triumphant
kill.

Orlando Chickabiddy, smeared, if not
soaked, with black mud from head to heel,
was in the immediate front of a high,
leggy, tucked-up, ewe-necked horse, led
slowly by Cock Robin, with his eyes cast
modestly upon the ground before him, as
if measuring his steps with mathematical
exactness, and holding in one hand a hat
smashed together from crown to brim.

1 Where have you been, my friend ?' continued
the squire, scarcely able to suppress
a laugh. ' You look as having come to
grief.'

If being plunged head foremost into a
deep, narrow ditch, with two feet at least
of black mud at the bottom, means, Mr.
Oakacre, coming to grief,' replied Orlando

Chickabiddy, in a dignified manner blended
with extreme irritability of tone, 'the,
sir, I most unquestionably have come to
grief. Had it not been for this good

young manet

this juncture 'old Troublesome'
and Cock Robin might have been seen to
exchange signals. The former seemed to
roll the end of his tongue in a protruding
cheek, and the other to momentarily screw
up one of his eyes.

Had it not have been for this good
young man,' repeated Orlando Chickabiddy,
pointing with a straightened finger
to his deliverer, ' I might have been positively
smothered.'

1 really am most sorry,' said the squire,
to hear of this accident.'

'You may, of course, feel most profoundly
sorry, Mr. Oakacre,' responded
Orlando Chickabiddy, with increasing ire ;

'but I must be permitted to add that you
don't look so. I should like, indeed, to
see you supremely happy, in order to know
the difference in the expression of your
features between sorrow and joy

Well, well !' exclaimed the squire,
unable to restrain from a burst of hearty
laughter. 'No bones were broken,
luckily.'

But every bone in my body feels
dislocated, Mr. Oakacre,' rejoined Orlando
Chickabiddy. ' I ran, also, an imminent
risk of being smothered in the most offensive
black mud 1 ever smelt or tasted in
my life, and had it not been for this good
young man '

4 Old Grumblesome' and Rock Robin
again exchanged signals.

Who rescued me from my perilous
position,' continued the speaker, c by dragging
me by the legs or heels from the

dreadful depths of the horrible ditch, I
might, and indeed should have been a
lifeless corpse. This good young man,'
aud he pointed to Cock Eobin as an object
of universal and particular interest,
will henceforth be considered by me as
my preserver from the jaws of death. He
wiped the choking mud from my mouth
with his pocket-handkerchief ; removed
it from my face and head by a vigorous
rubbing : scraped it off my clothes with
his knife, and rendered me as free from
the effects of the terrible immersion as
the surrounding circumstances would permit.
I have made this public acknowledgment,'
continued Orlando Chickabiddy,
drawing himself to his full height and
throwing out his chest as far as it would
go, ' in justice to the Christian virtues
of what I believe to be a good young
man.'

Signals were once more exchanged between
Cock Robin and ' old Grumble-some.'


1 You had better, perhaps said the
squire, ' make the best of your way home
as soon as possible.'

I am perfectly aware of that, Mr. Oak-acres
replied Orlando Chickabiddy, with
almost frigid coldness. ' I am perfectly
certain, sir, judging from my own feelings,
that the sooner I arrive at home and go to
bed the better.'

1 Get, then, into your saddle again,' suggested
the squire, ' and let this friend-indeed
of yours lead your horse.'

I will avail myself of your excellent
advice, Mr. Oakacre,' rejoined Orlando
Chickabiddy, almost gladly.

With a little ready assistance from Cock
Robin, who supplemented the feeble effort
by a muscular push from behind, Orlando

Chickabiddy remounted, and taking the
crushed and battered hat from the hands
of the ' good young man ' he put it upon
his bald aud mud-besmeared brow, and
with a single wave of the hand, remarkable
for its solemnity, commenced his journey
homewards with a fixed resolution
that his first day's fox-hunting should be
his last.

CHAPTER IX.

Walking under, and from under, the apple-tree
with its drooping branches on the
lawn, Miss Penelope Peepem promenaded
to and fro one morning with her nephew,
having to carry out a diplomatic design of
her own which, as she thought, required
the utmost skill and delicacy to bring to a
successful and triumphant issue.

It was therefore that she maintained an
unbroken silence in their walk, under and
from under the apple-tree, in order to
gather her thoughts together, and concentrate
them into a focus, so as to possess the

required mental force for the anticipated
attainment of her object.

This reticence having continued until
it became positively irksome to bear any
longer, Edward Slomax thought an amendment
might be moved on the original
resolution of saying nothing, and made a
general remark about the condition of the
weather.

If it doesn't rain before night said he,
4 we shall have a dry day.'

I'm quite of your opinion, giant,' replied
Miss Penelope Peepem. ' Nothing,
indeed, could express my opinion upon the
subject more clearly or concisely. But
dismissing the weather,' continued she,
for a short time, at least, may I ask
you, my dear giant, to give me your undivided
attention for a few minutes upon a
matter of tremendous importance to yourself
and Griselda ?'

Had she raised her eyes quickly from
the ground, she might have seen her
nephew's features become suddenly flushed;
but the colour fled and left no trace before
it could be observed.

I'm all attention, most lovable of aunts
replied he, drawing one of her arms
through his and clasping a hand as it
rested upon his wrist. l Now, what is this
matter of tremendous importance ?'

Miss Penelope Peepem, finding herself
at a loss to begin her address, brought
forward a little affected cough, which
seemed to answer the purpose of filling
up the vacant interval.

The time has arrived,' at length she
began.

Edward Slomax felt relieved with the
knowledge that these introductory words
were not within the hearing of his impatient
cousin.

The time has arrived,' repeated she,
for us to have a serious aud confidential
consultation together about things past,
present, and to come.'

c What awful subjects for discussion,
.most lovable of aunts !' exclaimed the
giant. ' You really make me tremble at
the very thought of them.'

Don't talk nonsense, giant,' responded
Miss Penelope Peepem, and the diminutive
lace cap fluttered from its position as she
spoke, and once more threatened to publish
the bald spot. ' Nothing that 1 could
say, or all the inhabitants of the earth,
both before and after the flood, could make
you tremble with fear, I know.'

What confidence you must have in my
pluck !' rejoined he, laughing.

I have,' returned Miss Penelope Peepem,
' in the full belief that, as Griselda
often says in language not quite so refined

VOL. I. M

as 1 could wish, you are most plucky.'

My cousin pays me a high compliment,'
said Edward Slomax, with a deeply-drawn
sigh, which, if not completely lost upon
his aunt's sense of hearing, was most certainly
little understood by her as springing
from the source of a love-sick heart.'

But now,' resumed she, ' to begin what
I have to say, which, by way of commencement,
refers exclusively to the early history
of your childhood, giant.'

Let the introduction be as short as
possible,' added he. ' For what I remember
of it, nothing could possibly be more
objectionable than my ways, manners, conduct,
and misconduct.'

Your early boyish faults and foibles,
giant,' responded his aunt, smiling, ' were
no doubt both natural and acquired by
assiduous study, more particularly those
successful schemes and designs for teasing

and, I may add, torturing — positively torturing
— your cousin

The giant felt at this moment an impulsive
desire to inflict prompt and personal
torture upon himself by running his nose
against the trunk of the apple-tree, but,
with commendable self-restraint, the emotion
passed away without damage to his
facial attractions.

1 Without dwelling, however, upon the
excusable, if not justifiable, faults and
foibles of your early boyhood continued
Miss Penelope Peepem, ' invariably concentrated
in one fixed, if not obstinate determination
to disturb the peace and comfort
of your cousin as soon as she awoke, and
after she even slumbered in peaceful
sleep '

The giant at these words gathered himself
together for a sudden rush against
the trunk of the apple-tree ; but wiser

u 2

thoughts prevailed, and he walked on
quietly by the side of his aunt in a mood
free from all apparent excitement.

1 Without dwelling,' she resumed, ' upon
these faults and foibles of your early boyhood,
you were, to me, the dearest little
monkey that ever lived on the face of the
earth, as you are now the biggest.'

1 Oh, most lovable of aunts !' exclaimed
her companion, ' don't, don't call me a big
monkey.'

'I do,' rejoined she; 'and, as a proof
of my affection, I repeat it. Nothing is
more fascinating to me than monkeys, big
and little, male and female. Griselda is
a monkey, full of mischief, and so are
you.'

In the twinkling of something like an
incandescent electric spark, Miss Penelope
Peepem found herself clutched between
the stalwart arms of her nephew, and,

being lifted bodily from the ground, bad
to submit to a most violent embrace, with
her ankles exposed and her feet dangling
helplessly in the air.

You are really too strong, giant, fora
weak, helpless woman to be grappled
with in this highly indecorous fashion,'
said she, slightly gasping from loss of
breath, as she regained her feet ; ' and
I must peremptorily insist upon no second
assault of the kind being committed, in
thought, word, or deed. My own private
.ankles might have been exposed to public
gaze, had the prying eyes of the British
public been present to gratify its vulgar
curiosity.'

And to the great admiration of the most
critical,' added the giant, thoroughly well
knowing the vulnerable link in his aunt's
chain-armour ; ' commanding unanimous
praise, followed by loud plaudits.'

If you utter another syllable upon this
strictly-forbidden subject,' rejoined Miss
Penelope Peepem, with the utmost seriousness
of manner at her immediate command,
1 1 shall certainly retire. The discussion
must end here, or I shall certainty
retire.'

And so practically terminate the confidential
consultation about things past,
present, and to come, before it is even
commenced?' returned he. ' Most lovable
of aunts, pray open the subject without
further delay.'

I will,' added Miss Penelope Peepem,
conditionally that my ankles are allowed
to remain where they are, and where they
ought to be, veiled and screened from all
observation, whether ocular or verbal.'

Her nephew having given an earnest

x O CD

assurance that the condition should be
complied with, Miss Penelope Peepem

cleared her voice with a slight, nervous
cough, and then began.

4 The time has arrived '

Her nephew could not entirely suppress
a groan, which rumbled inwardly.

1 For me to refer to the time,' continued
Miss Penelope Peepem, ' when you were
consigned to my care and protection by
your greatly lamented father, Lieutenant
Slomax. At the time of his carrying out
this project, which subsequently proved to
be the joy of my heart '

The giant's arms became convulsively
extended, as if again to clasp somebody
or something ; but, recovering his self-possession,
he dropped them, and looked
placidly resigned to anything that might
follow.

Which subsequently proved to be the
joy of my heart,' repeated she, with great
and measured deliberation. ' It was accompanied

by a written promise to periodically
correspond with me concerning
your health, welfare, and education, and
convey from time to time his affectionate,
parental views upon these most interesting
subjects concerning his only child.'

Which promise was, of course, kept,'
observed the giant, patting the back of
the hand which still rested upon his wrist,
4 as became a loving father, an officer, and
a gentleman.'

4 The lieutenant certainly wrote periodically,'
responded Miss Penelope Peepem ;
for I received three letters from him at
the equal and distant dates of one year
each ; and with the third terminated the
whole of his communications concerning
his parental views.'

Without, I suppose, much improvement
in the regularity of remittances to meet
the necessary outlay, most lovable of aunts,'

remarked he, glancing downwards with a
smile at bis companion.

1 An officer in the army,' rejoined she,
even upon full pay, has a decided difficulty
in making both ends meet if he has
nothing additional to depend upon than
his pay, poor fellow. J am, therefore, nob
much surprised that no remittances came
to hand, as my man of business speaks of
them commercially to this day, although
the lieutenant intimated that the next post
would certainly convey a banker's bill. I
can only say that if the next post, or a
great many succeeding posts, ever conveyed
a banker's bill, it was never delivered
into my possession in trust for you,
giant, and my conscience acquits me of
the smallest criminal act of embezzlement ;
and then Miss Penelope Peepem thought
she possessed the perfect right to laugh,
like other people, at her own wise, or

otherwise, parts of speech, and did so in
the ordinary manner of, temporarily, distorting
her features.

4 My father, then, does not appear to
have given himself much personal trouble
about me,' observed her nephew, ' or contributed
greatly to my support.'

1 can't say that he did,' she returned,
beyond writing the three annual letters ;
but then his martial duties may have completely
absorbed every moment of his
time, and his ready cash, probably, ran
far too short to make both ends meet,
poor fellow.'

Under the most adverse circumstances
said her companion, ' I think he might
have written oftener, and at much shorter
intervals.'

1 shall raise no dispute whatever upon
this particular branch of the subject,'
added Miss Penelope Peepem, decisively.

It, indeed, would be worse than useless
to do so, as the lieutenant has long, long
years since — ' she raised a pocket-handkerchief
to her eyes to stop two unshed
tears swimming in them, and, after a
pause, added — ' been removed from all
writing materials. I saw a paragraph
under the head of intelligence from Jamaica
announcing bis death, poor lamb !
and, as you were too young at the moment
to comprehend the magnitude of
your loss, I kept it a profound secret until
the time arrived ' — a slightly suppressed
groan was heard — 'for my divulging it,'
continued the narrator, ' so as not to shock
your feelings.'

How did I receive the melancholy tidings?'
inquired he. ' I trust, in a manner
becoming a son for such a depressing
communication ?'

1 You were tickling your sleeping cousin's

nose with a feather when I commenced
the intelligence,' replied Miss
Penelope Peepem, ' and you continued to
tickle it to the end.'

Revengeful thoughts once more took
possession of the giant's breast, and he
looked savagely at the trunk of the apple-tree,
as if again ready for a tilt.

Upon the rudiments of your education
being completed by myself, teaching you,
my dear giant, your ABC and words of
one syllable with great difficulty, as you
may recollect, from systematic inattention
and total disregard of my admonishing
your neglect, I most reluctantly parted
with you to become a public school-boy,
and go to Rugby, where, if the classics
and mathematics were, to some extent,
neglected, you greatly distinguished yourself
in cricket, football, wrestling, and
pugilistic encounters, for which you were

occasionally, giant, most properly birched.'
1 Ob, don't say that, most lovable of
aunts !' ejaculated he. ' You bring forcibly
to my recollection retributive justice
for breaches of arbitrary orders and truly
stem discipline. Let us change the
subject.'

Upon finishing your academical studies
at Rugby,' continued Miss Penelope Peepem,
for she had resolved that the subject
should not be changed just at present, £ I
offered you the choice of the universities,
Oxford or Cambridge, and you selected
Cambridge, where, as at Rugby, you acquired
high renown in athletic sports,
and became stroke-oar in the university
eight, and captain of the university eleven.'
'And you cannot den r , most lovable
and indulgent of aunts,' returned her companion,
patting the back of the hand still
resting upon his wrist, ' but that you were

as proud as a little peacock, or peahen, at
my achieving these distinctions.'

If I acknowledge my weakness in this
respect,' responded Miss Penelope Peepem,
with serious gravity of demeanour, ' I
must also express my extreme disappointment
at your not being in the
Trip?, either high up or low down. In
short, your name was not in the Tripos at
all, and you failed to become a gold
medallist.'

'I did not even try for the honours
you refer to, most lovable of aunts,' added
her nephew, with a rather careless
indifference of manner as he sauntered by
her side, ' and therefore logically I cannot
be charged with failing to secure that
which I made no attempt to win. But
you shall see what I will do when called
to the bar. I'll let them have it !' and ashe
concluded the sentence he thrust out a

clenched fist with a force sufficient to
bring an ox upon his knees.

1 Don't be violent, giant,' expostulated
Miss Penelope Peepeni, closing her eyes.
1 Pray, don't be violent or you'll upset my
nervous system. Let us continue our discussion
in peaceful tranquillity. 1

'By all means,' rejoined he, becoming
instantly subdued at this appeal, and looking
as meek and mild as could be desired.
1 Let the calumet of peace be smoked between
us as it has been, is, and ever will be
smoked, most lovable of aunts, if my daily
prayers are responded to.'

8 If offered in the true Christian spirit
of faith,' returned Miss Penelope Peepem,
having recourse to her pocket-handkerchief
as she invariably did when spiritual
matters were mentioned. ' I entertain no
doubt whatever of your affectionate petition
being not only heard but granted.

We shall smoke ' but her feelings were

too overcome from emotion, and the
broken sentence remained unfinished.

After a brief interval she recovered her
composure, and with a steady voice and
calm manner took up the thread of her
discourse.

Having quitted Cambridge you are
now a member of the Honourable Society
of the Middle Temple preparing to be
called to the bar, a most splendid position,
as I am told by my man of business, fora
young man determined to get on in life
and obtain forensic distinction.'

Not being aware of the splendour of his
position, the giant felt in some degree
cheered with the gratifying information
imparted to him.

'You will then wear a wig and a gown,
and be called my learn-ed friend,' continued
Miss Penelope Peepem, proudly; 'goto

court, or into court, as a matter of
right, and, iu fact, claim all the privileges
of the bar.'

4 1 hope they will be associated with
substantial benefits in the shape of mutton
chops and really potatoes,' responded her
companion.

4 While I am permitted to enjoy my life
interest,' rejoined Miss Penelope Peepem,
and her voice seemed to falter slightly as
she spoke, 'you will not experience the
want of mutton chops or really potatoes.
The past in this respect may be accepted
as a guide for the future. Your cousin
and yourself have shared my life-interest
from the moment you were, most fortunately
for me, committed to my care, and

you will continue to do so until ' the

words were delivered with a more decided
quiver — 'I am summoned to depart for a
state of pure, angelic bliss, and conseil.

i. n

quietly happier condition of existence
than the present, although not satisfactorily
defined in all the particulars as I
could wish. My life-interest ' — she quite
broke down, and buried her nose temporarily
in the folds of her handkerchief —
will cease when, as my man of business
says, my life falls in ; but why in 'instead
of out I never could understand. Nothing,
however, can be more positively certain than
that, as he says, my life-interest will stop
short as soon as I cast off this mortal coil.
The high court of Chancery must be applied
to for instructions as to the reversionary
interests. A receiver will be appointed,
and when that receiver will part with what
he has received, no one gifted even with
the extraordinary powers of prophecy
could foretell within the natural limits of a
generation or two.'

A bad look out for the reversionary interests
remarked the giant.

Very rejoined Miss Penelope Peepem,
shaking her head with closed eyes.
1 Very.'

I wouldn't guarantee the next of kin
returned he, ' often revelling in mutton
chops and mealy potatoes.'

Neither would 1/ added Miss Penelope
Peepem. ' Neither would 1/ she repeated.
It would be too hazardous, and might
lead to great disappointment.'

It appears to me said the giant, stopping
suddenly in his walk, and gazing
earnestly in his aunt's face, ' that the
next of kin have a devilish bad look out.'

Satanic in the extreme !' ejaculated
Miss Penelope Peepem, emphatically.
Satanic in the extreme !'

1 They had better, as a matter of prey

2

caution,' responded he, ' look out for
squalls.'

Your opinion so entirely agrees with
mine, giant,' returned Miss Penelope
Peepem, 'that I shall at once confide ruy
principal motive, and little innocent plan
for carrying it out, in systematically seeking
this conference with you. I may rely
upon your assistance, I know.'

At all times, and under any circumstances,'
rejoined he, 'you may command
my best and loyal efforts.'

f The time has arrived — '

He winced as if touched unexpectedly
with the point of a sharp pin.

1 For your cousin to seriously think of
settling in life,' continued Miss Penelope
Peepem, ' and she can only do so advantageously
by marrying a rich man.'

Edward Slomax, a member of the Honorable
Society of the Middle Temple, felt at

this moment what the true value of money
meant, if he had never done so before in
the whole course of his life.

4 1 have on more than one occasion,'
resumed she, ' brought this subject most
forcibly to Griselda's attention, and her
too careless and somewhat indifferent
reply has generally been that she had no
objection to marry a rich husband. Where
should she find one ? Now,' continued
Miss Penelope Peepem, with infinite exultation
in her tone and manner, ' I think that,
to save all further trouble upon this
delicate subject, I have found one for her.'

The aspirant for legal distinction stopped
suddenly in his walk, and stared in his
aunt's face as motionless as if turned into
stone.

1 You look surprised,' said she ; ' but I
know you will be pleased beyond measure
to learn that my selection is the sole owner

and possessor of a gold mine, if common
report may be believed.'

You don't mean — '

Miss Penelope Peepem disengaged her
bands, and, bringing the palms together
with a loud crack, shouted, ' I do.'

'Heaven, earth, and ocean!' exclaimed he,
and his brain reeled as he spoke. ' Not
Chickabiddy?'

Don't guess twice,' rejoined she
pressing a hand playfully over his lips.
You would be sure to guess wrong if you
did.'

What, that little cad for my cousin's
husband ?' and the giant's massive fists
were then and there clenched as if preparing
for somebody or something.

Miss Penelope Peepem became instantly
serious even to gravity.

I do not see why the proprietor of a
noble mansion like Hawkhurst and its

surroundings,' said she, with conspicuous
indignation in her tone and manner, ' to
say nothing of the gold mine, should be
designated a little cad.'

But without the noble mansion and the
gold mine,' responded he, with a demeanour
approaching to fierceness, i you would
be among the first to call him what he is —
a little cad.'

Miss Penelope Peepem was seized at
this precise moment with a cough which
stifled speech.

I hope that, under the most objectionable
circumstances she returned, at the
termination of the cough, whether real or
artificial, ' that I should not call Mr. Orlando
Chickabiddy by an}^ improper name.
He is, certainly, not developed upon a
large scale, and might be improved in his
personal appearance if he wore a wig. I
do not shut my eyes to these drawbacks.

Certainly not. At the same time, looking
at Griselda's substantial benefit from such
an alliance, and her helpless position upon
my departure to a better world — her
voice became slightly tremulous, — ' I do
not hesitate to, alternately, both hope and
pray that my dear Griselda may eventually
become Mrs. Chickabiddy ;' and, breaking
down at the conclusion of the sentence,
Miss Penelope Peepem shed tears in a
copious shower, trying effectually to stop
their overflow through the medium of her
handkerchief.

Upon removing it from her eyes, after
an interval of a few seconds, she found to
her profound astonishment that the giant
had taken a secret and abrupt departure.
She was alone under the apple-tree.

CHAPTER X.

Is the library of Oakacre Court, a dark,
gloomy-looking room, with shelves upon
shelves from floor to ceiling, packed closely
with old books bearing no appearance
of having been read or even touched by
the hand of man or woman for a very longtime,
sat the squire, negligently dressed in
morning gown and slippers, faced by Orlando
Chickabiddy.

The subject under discussion was evidently
one of great, if not of absorbing,
interest, for the squire, leaning forward in
his high-backed carved chair, clasped the

arms firmly with both hands, and seemed
to be literally devouring the words spoken
with volubility and earnestness by his
companion, who not only warmed as he
went on, but appeared upon the eve of
becoming red-hot.

1 I tell you, sir,' said he, c that there are
but two sources from which gold can begot,
not one more nor one less. There is
the floating gold which was once taken
from the mine, and there is the gold which
still remains in the mine ready to be taken out
of the mine by those who know how to get
at it. I am one of those,' and the speaker
gave his little pigeon breast a significant
touch with a fore-finger.

I am most delighted to hear it,' replied
Squire Oakacre, gently chafing his hands together,
with evident pleasure at what had
been related to him, 'most delighted. A man
is not met with every day,' continued he,

smiling, ' who knows bow to get at a gold
mine and put his bands upon it.'

1 There is no doubt whatever,' resumed
Mr. Chickabidd}', with a flourish, of his
own particular stamp, ' that more gold remains
in the solid rock at the present time
than has ever yet been quarried out of
it.'

You really astonish me,' rejoined the
squire. ' Perfectly astonish me. But I
must confess that I have never given the
subject even a single thought.'

I have given it, sir, many thoughts,
morning, noon, and night,' returned Orlando
Chickabiddy, ' and greatly to the
credit side of my banker's account. As a
promoter of public companies by profession,
embracing vast undertakings, some
scarcely begun before they were finished,
aud a few never finished until handed over
to the official liquidator, I know the effectual

means of erecting at the floating gold
or capital always to be found in the
pockets of that large part of the British
public disposed to become shareholders in
any undertaking which presents an enticement
and opportunity for a gamble.
In bringing out a company, the first thing
for the promoter to think of is, can the
prospectus be issued w T which the investing
public will believe in, and the speculating
public — a considerable portion of the commercial
and trading classes — be tempted
so as to go in for a right-down good
gamble ? Nothing more is necessary, sir,
for floating a company with unquestionable
success, taking care, by judicious
rigging of the market, that the shares
come out well backed, rise by degrees,
and stand at a good premium, until,
to quote the words of the Throgmorton
Street poet,

You take away the props,
And down they drops." '

All this is as unintelligible to me,' observed
the squire, ' as if spoken in the
Chinese or Japanese languages.'

No doubt of it, Mr. Oakacre,' rejoined
Orlando Chickabiddy, ' and I did not for
one moment suppose that you would,
could, or should understand what I was
telling you, sir. It takes the practical
experience of years, and the best part of a
man's lifetime, to comprehend the intricacies,
wily secrets, and stupendous circumventions
of the Stock Exchange. But
previous to laying my plan before you,
Mr. Oakacre, for turning the possession
of my gold-mine into that of a limited
company, I wished you to clearly understand
that you would be in the hands of a
man ' — he again tapped his little pigeon-breast
with a fore-finger — ' who thoroughly

understands his business. Having
passed an apprenticeship, I may say without
bunkum that few in this world are
better qualified to float a company than
myself. I know every rope in the ship.'

1 If I understand you riorhtlv, however,'
returned the squire, ; the project in
view is a certain benefit to each and all
concerned.'

A perfect certainty,' added Orlando
Chickabiddy, with the essence of confidence
in his tone and manner — ' a foregone
conclusion.'

May I ask, therefore said the squire,
but of: course only for information, why
it is that you don't keep this gold-mine in
your own exclusive possession ?'

• You might as well ask, Mr. Oakacre,'
replied Orlando Chickabiddy, ' why the
man who projected the establishing of the
Bank of England did not keep it in his

own exclusive possession. It would
doubtlessly have been a nice little snug
tiling for him, but he knew, as I know,
that the Bank of England was too large
for any individual to manage single-handed.
He, therefore, determined most wisely,
like a good man of business, to lessen the
difficulties of management by dividing it.
Hence its governor, board of directors,
chief cashier, proprietors, and general
of officers and subordinates. With a corresponding
view of forming my gold mine
into a company I mean to take similar
means as the man adopted who established
the Bank of England. I shall go to the
public. There is nothing like going to the
public, Mr. Oakacre, when you can offer
the public a good taking bait. They rise
at it, sir, like fish at a fly, and it matters
not how often they have been pricked, or
even hooked, they are sure to come again

and again, so long as the lure is continued
to be thrown by a skilful hand. Mine has
never yet failed, Mr. Oakacre. I have
attacked — using the term advisedly — the
coined gold in the pockets of the British
public with, great success, but the game is
played out, and I mean now to go in for
the gold which, remains uncoined and
glitters only in the crushed, solid
quartz. 7

c There is no doubt of its being there, I
suppose,' remarked the squire, somewhat
confused, and not entirely free from
suspicion that the antecedents of Mr.
Chickabiddy were all that could be desired
in accordance with the Christian code of 'doing
unto others as you would they should
do unto you.'

1 If not there,' responded his companion,
drawing back the angles of his mouth in
the form of a parenthesis, ' why should /

be here ? 1 am here by appointment this
morning, Mr. Oakacre, to submit a plan to
you by which a large sum of ready money
will flow — positively flow — into your
pockets without an effort, mental or
physical, or the smallest personal trouble
on your part.'

'I do not hesitate to state in strict confidences
rejoined the squire. ' that a
moderate sum of ready money would
relieve me from much anxiety and considerable
inconvenience.'

So I thought,' returned Orlando Chickabiddy,
throwing back the collar of his
coat, and placing his inverted thumbs in
the corners of his waistcoat. ' So I
thought,' repeated he.

I am not involved in debt,' resumed the
squire, ' but so much of my rent-roll is
deducted for the interest of long existing
charges upon the property, that I am often

vol. i. o

compelled to appear mean when I wish to
be generous.'

So I thought,' repeated Mr. Chickabiddy,
maintaining his attitude of the
combined thumbs and waistcoat. ' So I
thought,' repeated he.

c With more economy than I like to
practise continued the squire, ' I keep my
hounds, hunting them myself to save
expense, without subscription, and do all
that I can to support my position as their
Master in this county and as a landed
proprietor ; but it is not done without a
struggle, sir.'

'So I thought again reiterated Mr.
Chickabiddy. ' So I thought,' repeated
he.

I am often compelled to postpone the
payment of my obligations continued the
squire, ' and like all men, I believe, in
want of money, frequently use subterfuges

and humiliating excuses for not promptly
meeting my engagements.'

1 So I thought said Mr, Chickabiddy
with a profound nod of the head, and still
keeping his position. ' So I thought,'
repeated he.

1 You will, therefore, easily understand,'
continued the squire, ' what mental relief
it would be to '

1 Have a share in my gold-mine,' added
Orlando Chickabiddy, laughing, c and I
am quite ready to give you not only one,
but several shares.'

'I could not, my dear sir,' rejoined the
squire, with great seriousness of manner,
4 accept as a gift anything so valuable. I
should consider it unjust, and almost
dishonourable, to take a part, however
small, of your property without making a
fair and equitable return for the possession
of it.'

1 This can be done,' returned Mr. Chickabiddy,
removing his thumbs and throwing
himself backwards in his chair with
portrayed satisfaction, 'in a way which
cannot fail to meet every real or imaginary
obstacle. Your name, Mr. Oakacre,
announced as the chairman of this gold ■
mining company would bring the whole
of Hampshire in as shareholders. They
would tumble over each other, sir, in their
rush for shares, and the easy and successful
floating of it rendered a positive certainty
through the sole influence and
popularity of } T our valued name. From
my point of view, and I hope that you
will consider it a liberal one, I shall deem
this an adequate return for the substantial
stake I intend that you should possess
without the outlay of a single penny. I
will not conceal from you, sir, that I, as
the promoter of this great company, shall

be a gainer by the arrangement. You
could not fail, Mr. Oakacre, to be a gainer,
as, putting nothing iu, you would simply
take something out in the shape of fees
as Chairman of the Board of Directors,
premiums on shares allotted to you at par,
and dividends from profits when declared.'

'A great and heavy responsibility, however,
would seem to rest on my shoulders
observed the squire, thoughtfully.

'None whatever,' quickly retorted Mr.
Chickabiddy, drawing from one of the
pockets of his coat a brightly-coloured
map, and, unfolding it, handed it to the
squire for inspection. ' There is the gold,'
continued he, ' in the longitudinal section
estimated at the value of twelve to fifteen
millions of pounds sterling.'

The squire gasped at these words, and
his eyes became riveted in a blindness gaze
upon the longitudinal section.

'It is not, Mr. Oakacre, as if the rich
lode had still to be discovered resumed
Orlando Chickabiddy. ' There it is and
he pressed the end of a finger upon a
small yellow space in the map, ' as any
shareholder may see for himself. No responsibility,
therefore, can rest upon your
shoulders, and you will meet in the end
with nothing but everlasting gratitude
from the Hampshire proprietors for being
the factor for enriching them to a fabulous
extent.'

'It would seem remarked the squire,
with his eyes still fixed on the longitudinal
section, ' that everybody concerned is to
be benefited.'

Without an exception responded Mr.
Chickabiddy. ' Everybody, without an
exception.'

6 As you know, my dear sir, I am totally
unacquainted with mining business rejoined

the squire, ' or, indeed, any other,
and, in consenting to become the chairman
of this projected gold company, I should
really know nothing about the duties of
the office.'

1 No chairmen do returned Mr. Chickabiddy.
' It is not necessary that they
should. Any gentleman with a handle to
his name or not, so long as he sits in the
chair when required, or gets the vice-chairman
to take his place when inconvenient
to himself to occupy it, is fully
qualified for all the duties and responsibilities
of the office.'

They do not sound very onerous,' observed
the squire, with a smile, carefully
folding the map after a last and lingering
look at the longitudinal section.

Nothing, I venture to say,' added Mr.
Chickabiddy, ' could possibly be less irksome
or exhaustive. To occasionally sit

in a well-stuffed easy chair is about as little
laborious work as any man could modestly
expect to be called upon to perform for
ten thousand a year.'

The squire started from his seat, and
his slippers flew from his feet as he did so.

Ten thousand a year !' he exclaimed,
looking as if the words had galvanised him.

And perhaps more,' returned Orlando
Chickabiddy, with serene and imperturbable
coolness. 'If the lode continues to
yield, as it now does, without picking the
eyes out of the mine, six ounces to the
ton of crushed quartz, your income, Mr.
Oakacre, from the shares which I, as the
vendor of this extraordinary property,
consisting exclusively of a pure quartz
matrix, and promoter of the company, shall
allot to you at par, your income will
exceed, and greatly exceed, ten thousand
a year

The squire's breath seemed checked, if
not temporarily stopped, by the announcement,
and he could only wring Mr.
Chickabiddy's hand in silence until he took
his departure.

CHAPTER XL

The night arrived in its turn, as all days
and nights must so long as time goes on,
for the annual Hunt Ball to be given by
the gentlemen hunting regularly, or in
accordance with their convenience or inclination,
with 'the Oakacre fox-hounds, r
and the assembly rooms in the adjacent
market-town being specially engaged for
this special purpose, all the arrangements,
to the most minute particular, were carried
out and completed in a highly satisfactory
manner by the committee chosen
to bear the heavy responsibility of executive
authority.

There were the flags, and the fiddlers,
harp, trumpet, trombone, flute, flageolet,
and drum. In short, a full band, with the
drum, perhaps, a little too full for perfectly
sound and sensitive ears free from all
impediment. Hot tea and scalding coffee
could be had for the asking, or without if
intelligible signs were made, and there
appeared to be no limits to the supply of
biscuits, cakes, buns, and bread and butter
fresh from the oven and the churn. In
fact quite new, and therefore indigestible.
Lights in dazzling numbers blazed from
the ceiling and the walls, as if wax candles
were cheap in the extreme, or the committee
of management censurable extravagant,
and the floor chalked in elaborate designs
of flowers and fruit that never grew since
the flood, at any rate, looked too artistic
to be danced upon.

All was ready for the arrival of the expected

company, and punctually at the
appointed time a few entered the assembly
rooms to be received by the committee of
management in due state and form,
while others came later, and a few latest,
from motives of their own, not associated
with the belief that it was the right
thing to do.

Having determined within himself to
open the ball with Griselda Peepem, John
Oakacre, Esq., M.F.H., in full regimentals
of new scarlet coat, white waistcoat, stiffly
starched cravat to match, and his fringe of
grey hair expressly curled for the occasion
by the village barber, began to feel slightly
ill at ease at the delay of her advent. The
room was full enough for dancing to commence,
the fiddlers had tuned their fiddles
until tuning became tiresome to listen to,
and the harpist looked out of temper with
continually twanging the strings of his

harp to little purpose ; but still the master
of the ceremonies, John Oakacre, Esq.,
M.F.H., made no sign for a beginning to be
made in what was unanimously agreed to
be the absence of the belle of the Hunt
Ball. As absolute dictator, notwithstanding
the committee of management, he exercised
an arbitrary right, and none present
seemed disposed to interfere with it.

Among the latest, if not the last of the
arrivals, were Miss Penelope Peepem, her
niece, and nephew. As they entered the
room there seemed to be, and indeed was,
a little flutter of excitement. Proud as
fond, and fond as proud, of the young and
beautiful girl by her side, Miss Penelope
Peepem swept in with a bearing which to
be seen must be remembered. In black
velvet with a train of no mean length, and
the bald spot well protected by a lace cap
of sufficient size to act as a perfect shield,

Miss Penelope Peepem with bead erect and
graceful bearing, as became a recognized
member of one of the oldest of the county
families, advanced to exchange friendly
greetings with her admirer of other days,
John Oakacre, and as she gave him her
hand, which he pressed as warmly as when
he danced with her too often to escape
critical observation in that identical room,
and upon that identical floor long years ago,
her heart beat more quickly than its wont,
and her thoughts were of the past.

1 I began to think,' said he, addressing
Griselda with a smile, 'that your promise
to open the ball with me would not be
kept and as he spoke he offered his arm,
gave a signal to the leader of the full band,
and as the music began the dancers took
their respective places for the first dance
on the list of the programme.

In a plain white silk dress, with a single

blush rose in her hair, Griselda became the
focus of admiration of all the wearers of
the scarlet coats, black coats, and blue coats
then and there assembled beneath the ceiling
of the Assembly Rooms. She never
looked more attractive, and perhaps, not
altogether unconscious of the silent homage
paid to her beauty, her eyelids drooped, and
the dark fringe of the long, silken lashes
almost met as they fell upon cheeks slightly
flushed and hectic in colour.

Miss Penelope Peepem from her seat
against the wall — somewhat cramped and
confined in order that as much available
space as possible might be left to the
dancers — watched her niece, and she also
watched those who were watching her niece,
with inexpressible pride and pleasure. The
giant, sitting in a negligent position by her
side, watched too ; but from the stern if
not angry expression upon his countenance

his watching did not appear to afford unalloyed
pleasure.

The giant felt secretly disposed to exhibit
his muscular strength without further provocation,
and to make Orlando Chickabiddy
a sacrifice to his feelings — in short, to
punch his head.

'Why don't you dance?' inquired his
aunt. ' There is not a girl present but
would be delighted to waltz with the late
captain of the Cambridge eleven.'

I have no inclination,' replied he, ' and
much prefer a seat here talking to you,
most lovable of aunts.'

You really pay me a very high compliment,
giant,' rejoined Miss Penelope
Peepem. ' 1 may say that such an admission
is flattering in the extreme. But I
should much prefer your imitating Mr.
Chickabiddy's example by indulging in the
poetry of motion.'

At this moment Orlando Chickabiddy
was flourishing his legs and squaring his
elbows in a most entertaining, if not
graceful manner, and as directly opposed
to what might be conceived the ' poetry of
motion ' as any exaggerated picture that
the imagination could possibly sketch.
He, however, held a different opinion, and
continued to draw general and marked
attention of the spectators, if not their
unqualified admiration.

1 What an ass that little fellow is making
of himself !' exclaimed the giant. ' The
stewards ought really to ask him to desist
and sit down

4 My dear Edward,' returned his aunt,
greatly disturbed in mind and body from
indications too conclusive to admit of
doubt — ' my dear Edward,' repeated she,
1 pray be more guarded in your language
and less cynical in its tone. Recollect

VOL. i. p

that you are speaking of the owner of a
gold-mine.'

'Where is it?' curtly inquired he.

1 You cannot mean to throw unjustifiable
doubt upon its very existence,' responded
Miss Penelope Peepem, becoming roused
almost to the point of indignation.

4 Where is it ?' he repeated.

I think John Oakacre told me,' responded
his aunt, in a quiet and firm
voice, as if in defiance of any further interrogatories,
' that it was situated in
South America ; but he particularly wished
that this communication should be deemed
strictly confidential.'

No extended circulation shall be given
to it by me,' returned her nephew, with a
grim smile. ' The exact locality shall be
kept a profound secret, at least, by me.'

I felt sure that I might depend upon
your reticence, giant,' added Miss Penelope

Peepem, ' or I should not have divulged
the precise situation of Mr. Chickabiddy's
gold-mine, more particularly as I am to
have a liberal allotment of shares at par.'

And what do you understand by that,
most lovable of aunts ?' asked he, laughing.

I really am not prepared to give an
immediate answer to your question, giant,'
she replied. ' I only know, or am told,
that by having a liberal allotment of shares
at par a large sum of money will flow —
literally flow — into my exchequer, always
totally exhausted at the end of each half-year.
I need scarcely say that this improved
state of things in anticipation is
most pleasant to contemplate.'

Further discussion upon the subject was
now interrupted by Griselda's approach,
leaning on the arm of as ardent an admirer
as she possessed in that ball-room in
the person of John Oakacre.

f2

1 am open, I fear, to the charge of
selfishness,' said he, addressing Miss Penelope
Peepem, ' for having claimed the
right of dancing with your niece the first
dance, when so many were candidates for
the honour with far higher pretensions
than my own ; but, old as I am, I would
not give way to any one of them, not even
to Chickabiddy here.'

'It was too bad, though, to shove me
out, squire,' returned the object of his
remark. i I had made up my mind to
make all the chaps here envy me in iris
lead off with Miss Peepem, and you stepped
in and spoiled my little game.'

Had Orlando Chickabiddy looked at
Griselda as he delivered these words, instead
of being engaged in looking at the
reflection of himself in an adjacent mirror,
he would have seen the corner of an upper
lip curled with haughty contempt, and her

eyes flashing with a momentary anger.

1 1 think,' said he, ignorant from not
witnessing the unpropitious symptoms, ashe
offered an arm to Griselda, ' that it is
now my turn.'

He is evidently much pleased with
your cousin,' observed Miss Penelope
Peepem, as they moved away to take their
places, f and seems to be perfectly fascinated
by her.'

The giant's hands became instantly
clenched in the shape of two massive fists.

I scarcely think, however, that she responds
-to his feelings.'

The giant's hands became suddenly relaxed
and the fists disappeared.

But if you were to take him under your
wing,' resumed Miss Penelope Peepem,
and, in the University phrase, coach him,
a most desirable change might be effected.
I shall esteem it as a great personal favour,

giant, if you will take Mr. Chickabiddy
under your wing and coach him.'

What can you possibly want me to do
with him ?' asked he, with his hands slowly
regaining the shape of two ponderous
fists.

Give him instructions in riding, rowing,
cricket, and football,' responded his aunt.
1 These accomplishments would so much
elevate him in your cousin's eyes, and he
so much requires elevating.'

'I've no objection whatever,' returned
he, pressing his lips together at the conclusion
of the sentence, and looking anything
but willing to give Mr. Chickabiddy
a friendly lesson. ' I have no objection
whatever,' repeated he, ' to initiate him into
the mysteries of football. How I will
hack him !'

Nothing could be kinder on your part,'
rejoined Miss Penelope Peepem, ' and I

feel sensible of an obligation in your
promise to hack him. When will you
begin ?'

1 Now,' replied her nephew. ' I should
like to begin now.'

My dear giant returned she, slightly
astonished at his tone and manner, ' what,
hack Mr. Chickabiddy while he is dancing ?'

'No finer opportunity,' added he, 'and
no finer time than the present.'

The peace of the ball-room, however, if
threatened was not disturbed, and as Gris-ella,
having completed her second dance,
again approached her aunt and cousin, he
rose from his seat and only scowled upon
Mr. Chickabiddy, who looked hot from
over-exertion. His shirt collars, losing
their starch from the chemical process of
evaporation, had become limp and drooped
in obeyance to the laws of gravity.

You seem to require a little cessation

from dancing, Mr. Chickabiddy, 1 observed
Miss Penelope Peepem, with as winning a
smile as she possessed in the back-ground.
Take a seat by my side, so that I may
enjoy, daring the interval, a little intellectual
conversation.'

1 I'm out of breath, and as hot as a
baked tater with its jacket on,' replied he,
fanning his bald and shining forehead with
his pocket-handkerchief. ' But, while I'm
here, I mean to dance as much and as
often as I can with your niece. She's the
best all-round in the room, and nothing
suits me so well as the best, no matter
what it is.'

f You are most complimentary to Grim
rejoined her aunt, in a nervous
flutter of excitement, ' and I am sure that
she appreciates the praise so generously
bestowed upon her by you, Mr. Chickabiddy.
Nothing will please her and me

more, I may take the responsibility of
stating, than your dancing as much
as circumstances will permit with my
niece.'

'I'm engaged for every dance,' observed
Griselda, sharply, ' and wish it was time
for the last to*begin.'

Mr. Chickabiddy felt checked, if not
checkmated, as those words were expressed
in no disguised or measured tone. He
came to a rapid conclusion that he had
been dancing for nothing, literally nothing.

c Is your programme full ?' inquired
Edward Slomax, awaiting the answer with
tremulous anxiety.

'Quite was the quick reply, accompanied
by a glance which produced a
slight shiver through the giant's nervous
system.

I hoped,' rejoined he, in a pleading
tone and manner, ' to have had the pleasure

of dancing with you at least once
to-night.'

'And you learn that in deferring the
pleasure too long,' returned Griselda, with
a corner of her upper lip curled and her
brow knitted with a frown, ' it is now too
late for gratifying it.'

In the fulness of time, as hour succeeded
hour, the hunt ball began to evince signs
of coming to an end. Some of the wax
candles guttered and spluttered their
speedy retirement. The band was no
longer full, for the harp had ceased to
thing-twang, and the drum had become
subdued and calm even to dulness. The
musicians to a man were worn out with
their unwearied efforts to please everybody,
and, having succeeded in this most
difficult task, they now retired, having
played the programme through, to please
themselves.

The end had come. The assembly-rooms
were deserted, and the hunt balla
thing of the past.

CHAPTER XII.

It was a cold, wintry night, the ground
being ice-bound, and an effectual stop,
therefore, put to hunting, when Bill Baxter,
having placed a small copper kettle on
a blazing wood fire in his parlour, which
served as kitchen, larder, cellar, 'and all
with one or two exceptions, said to himself
— a mode of conversation he frequently
indulged in — c Now, Cock Eobin, I'm ready
for ye,' ending the sentence with a loud
chuckle expressive of great inward satisfaction.


The words were scarcely spoken when

approaching' footsteps were beard, and
soon afterwards the latch of the outer
door being pressed through the agency of,
probably, a finger and thumb, a sharp
click followed, and, without farther introduction,
Cock Robin entered the apartment,
looking cold and feeling frost-bitten,
particularly at the ends of his fingers and
the point of his nose.

Devilish cold,' said he, spreading out
his hands before the wood fire and rubbing
the palms briskly together with a
turn over at the knuckles. ' Devilish cold
he repeated, continuing the action.

1 Never heard of anybody being devilish
cold,' said Bill Baxter. ' The parson lets
us know, often enough, what devilish hot
means ; but I never heard him preach
about devilish cold.'

1 I'm not surprised at Miss Grizzle calling
you old Grumblesome,' retorted Cock

Robin. ' A chap can't open bis mouth
sometimes, without your being ready to
jump down it.'

I'm not aware of being disposed to
jump over, across, or down anything,' returned
Bill Baxter. ' I couldn't if I
would, and I wouldn't if I could. And as
for the first whip calling me old Grumble-some,
all I can say is let her do it as often
as she likes. It won't hurt me and it may
please her.'

'I said it was devilish cold,' rejoined
Cock Robin, slightly wounded in his feelings,
c and you raise an objection to its
being devilish cold.'

Only upon religious grounds replied
Bill Baxter. ' That's all. Take a chair,
and as soon as the water biles we'll have a
cup o' tea.'

Tea !' exclaimed his visitor, evidently
amazed at the proposition.

Yes,' responded Bill Baxter. ' Under
the advice of Doctor Tom Tidy, I've
taken lately to tea. My tissues, he says,
ain't right.'

What's tissues ?' inquired Cock Robin.
1 1 never heard of 'em.'

1 Nor I either,' rejoined the second whip,
1 until Doctor Tom Tidy told me mine
were not right and that I must drink tea.
As soon as the water biles we'll have a
cup.'

So you said before,' returned Cock
Robin, ' but I'm not in a hurry for a cup
of tea.'

'You're not fond of tea?'

1 Can't say I am added Cock Robin.
it may do for old women well enough.'

Bill Baxter's eyes twinkled with fun
at his visitor's discomfiture, but he was
determined to persevere in keeping it
alive.

When your tissues are out of order, or
warbling instead of going on like well-greased
machinery, Doctor Tom Tidy says
drink tea. The water biles and so we'll
have a cup.'

As far as 1 am concerned,' said Cock
Robin, ' you needn't be in a hurry

When the water biles, 1 say make your
tea, not before or after,' returned Bill
Baxter, ' but when the water biles. Them's
my sentiments upon matters in general,'
continued he, ' and if people would only,
as a rule, make their tea when the water
biles, they would find out what the right
time meant which is the grand secret of
success. Can't I patter a bit, Cocky?'

You really can, Bill,' replied his visitor,
with an approving shake of the head.
4 You give tongue, now and then, in what
I call stunning style.'

The second whip having been paid this

compliment to bis eloquence, which was
received with becoming modesty, he went
to a cupboard in a dark corner of the
room and in shadow began occupying himself
by rummaging the contents and placing
them on the table.

When the water biles '

You said that at least once before
interrupted Cock Robin, irritably. ' Don't
trouble yourself by going on with it.'

In not proceeding with the finish of the
sentence it may be assumed that the second
whip became silenced by the interruption,
for he said nothing more upon the subject ;
but continued his hospitable task of preparing
the entertainment for his visitor without
uttering another syllable. Things, at
length, it would seem, being in an advanced
stage towards completion the little copper
kettle, hissing like an enraged snake
from the spout, was lifted from the blazing

VOL. i. Q

wood fire by Bill Baxter, and soon afterwards
a strong, pleasant, and aromatic
perfume rose like incense and spread itself
throughout the apartment.

'What's that?' inquired Cock Robin,
giving a couple of vigorous sniffs. ' It
can't be tea.'

You've soon found out that, Cocky,'
replied his host. ' No six seasoned hound
ever challenged a fox with greater confidence,
and you threw the right tongue
when you said it can't be tea. But if it
isn't tea what is it ?'

The smell is uncommonly like lemons
with a mixture of old whisky,' replied Cock
Eobin, rising from his chair in order to
make a closer examination of the cause of
the surprising effect just discovered.

4 You've hit off the right scent,' rejoined
his host. ' Punch it is, mixed by Bill
Baxter — that's me — and, if the flavour is

only equal to the smell, improvement maybe
put down as impossible.'

IVe almost made up my mind,' returned
Cock Robin, ' not to take your word for
it.'

'You might,' said the second whip,
smacking his lips as he withdrew a glass
from them. ' You might, Cocky ; but I
daresay won't.'

By your leave I won't.'

c So I thought,' added Bill Baxter.
Then judge for yourself whether that's a
real gum tickler or a sham ; for I'll swear
it's either one or the other.'

I think it's the other responded Cock
Robin.

c "Which other ?' indignantly asked the
second whip, looking almost ferociously at
his guest. ' Do you mean to tell me that's
not a gum tickler ?'

1 I'm not going to make my sins greater

Q2

than they are by saying anything of the
sort replied Cock Robin. ' But before
being too certain I should like to have
another trial.'

c You are as artful a varmint as ever
lived, Cocky rejoined Bill Baxter, ' and
one that knows all the short cuts aud nicks
in across country far and near. If there
is anything left for you to learn, I should
like to know what it is. Another trial, eh ?'

Cock Robin nodded assent.

'Very good observed the second whip.
Let us sit down, then, and make ourselves
comfortable for the evening. Over a bowl
of punch such as this is brewed by Bill
Baxter — that's me — and with a whiff of
dacca, I don't think we shall find the
world, for the next two or three hours,
quite as miserable as some folks whine and
howl about. Bring your chair close to the

fire, opposite me, Cocky, spread out your
legs, and try to look, as I feel, that the
county of Hampshire ought to belong to
you, if it doesn't.'

Cock Robin, without raising the smallest
objection, either practical or theoretical,
did precisely as he was told, and, having
lit the tobacco in the bowl of his pipe by
applying a charred ember fallen upon the
hearth, looked as independent as his host's
imagination had just drawn so graphic a
sketch.

Punch, particularly when mixed with
the real old mountain dew which never
paid a sixpence duty '

If this was smuggled,' interrupted Cock
Robin, ' it would go against my conscience
to drink it.'

1 Which never paid a sixpence duty,'
repeated Bill Baxter, totally ignoring his

guest's conscientious scruple — ; punch of
this kind,' continued he, ' requires time to
draw like tea.'

Bother tea !' ejaculated his companion.
' Let's have no more of that rot,
Bill.'

4 In place, then, of any more rot, taste
that,' responded the second whip, proffering
a well-filled glass for ' another
trial.'

Cock Eobin fulfilled the instructions
with combined alacrity and strictness, and,
after an interval of a few moments given
for reflection, pronounced the c old mountain
dew' blended, as it was, with lemon
peel and thin, delicately-cut slices of
lemon, f as choice a gum tickler as ever
was swallowed, which, when gone, made
him feel what a real earthly loss
meant.'

Bill Baxter felt flattered, and looked ashe

felt, remarking that ' We only know
the value of what we've had when we
haven't got it to have. Such is life.' And,
with this philosophical conclusion, he
threw himself backwards in his chair in
an attitude of the most perfect ease and
indolence, and blew a thick cloud of smoke
from his lips which rose slowly and curled
in rings above his head.

For a time, but not for long, an unbroken
silence reigned between the guest
and his host, when the latter observed,
as the effect, apparently, of an inward
thought,

1 It will be a match, 1 suppose ?'

A pair, but not a match, Bill replied
Cock Robin. ' A match should be alike,
but where could you find two more
different?'

1 In shape, make, form, pace, and colour
rejoined the second whip, ' there were

never, I suppose, two greater opposite*,
and yet, it seems, they will be brought
together. Such is life !'

1 Then life ought to be improved,' returned
Cock Eobin, ' and the sooner
somebody takes it in hand the better.
I wish I had only known when Chickabiddy
was in Swamp's Hole continued
he, 'that he was going to make up to
Miss Grizzle, he should never have got
out alive.'

1 You don't mean to say, Cocky '

Yes, I do,' interrupted his companion,
in a most emphatic tone and manner. ' I
would have left him in Swamp's Hole,
head downwards.'

In that case,' rejoined the second whip,
having removed with great deliberation
the pipe from his lips, ' 1 should have had
the pleasure of rising one morning at the
break of day and jogging comfortably

over to Winchester on the old 'loss to see
you hanged.'

Upon the conclusion of the sentence his
companion looked rather ill at ease and
gave two or three quick and nervous puffs
at his pipe.

It wouldn't have been murder,' said
he, in a hoarse whisper, ' would it ?'

I Pure and simple,' responded Bill Baxter,
' and, as the big-wigs call it, with
malice aforethought. You'd have been
hanged to a certainty, Cocky.'

I I didn't put him in Swamp's Hole,'
argued Cock Robin. ' He plunged in of
his own accord.'

1 But you would have left him there,
had you known he was going to make
your young missis his old woman,' rejoined
the second whip, ' and that, too, by your
own confession.'

I would,' added Cock Robin, slapping

a knee with the palm of one of his broad
hands. ' 1 would, Bill,' repeated he, ' ascertain
as his name's Chickabiddy.'

'swell, he's alive and you're not hanged,'
remarked his host, ' and so we can drop
that part of the subject. Help yourself
to another glass of punch, and forget, if
you can, Cocky, the risk you ran of being
strung up at Winchester. At the same
time, you may rely upon it that I should
have been there to see the end of an old
friend, violent as that end must have
been.'

It's kind of you to say so, Bill,' replied
his companion, obeying the order to refill
his glass, ' and you mean it as kindness, I
know ; but I'm not sorry that '

f It's put off for a more favourable
chance,' added the second whip. ' A
pleasure deferred, but not altogether hopeless
of being enjoyed.'

This was an opportune moment, Cock
Eobin thought, for the indulgence of a
good hearty laugh, which, being followed
closely by a peal of equal power from the
second whip, the two seemed to be rivals
in the joint and separate force of their
mirth. With the unerring law, however,
of all explosives, strength diminished with
duration, and at length a calm, unbroken
quietude regained supremacy in Bill Baxter's
parlour, kitchen, ' and all.'

1 1 suppose it's all settled, ' observed
the second whip. ' How did it come
about ?'

She was got at,' briefly and angrily
replied Cock Eobin, rolling his head from
side to side. ' She was got at.'

1 Nobbled ?' said Bill Baxter, interrogatively.


Nobbled,' responded his companion,
with increasing anger, i and made as safe

as a mouse in a trap. Miss Grizzle,' continued
he, ' was baited and badgered on all
sides until she said " yes," when she meant
to say " no." There was the aunt at her ;
there was Chickabiddy at her ; and, worse
than both, there was the squire at her.
They each and all persuaded her, against
her will, I know, to consent to marry a
gold-mine — for that's what it means, Bill
and, like a great many people in this
world, when she's rich she'll be miserable.'


Ha !' exclaimed the second whip, ' I
begin to think it's a blessing not to know
what riches are. Fifteen shillings a week
and nothing found, but everything to find
for yourself, can't be properly called
wealth.'

But you have a few good perquisites,
Bill,' observed Cock Robin.

The squire's old red coats,' replied the

second whip. ' The squire's old top-boots,
his old caps, old breeches — sometimes a
little too much worn in parts — old shirts,
old hose, and his old blundering, stumbling,
shambling screws of old lame 'losses
to ride. These are my perquisites and
privileges, Cocky, with board wages of
fifteen shillings a week.'

1 And yet with all your grumbling,' rejoined
his companion, ' you manage to get on
pretty well in the squire's service.'

He knows when he's got a good servant,'
returned Bill Baxter, ' and I know
when I've got a good master. If I grumble
now and then, or always, as your
young missis says, it's my water to
grumble. I can't help it, Cocky, and
don't mean to try. That fine, strong
young chap didn't join in the cry to urge
her to marry the gold-mine, did he ?'

1 No,' replied Cock Robin, with a slow

and sorrowful shake of the head. ' Mr.
Edward is as silent as a mole about the
matter, and never mentions it, as far as I
can learn, or seems by his looks or actions
to know anything about it.'

And yet he's as well up, I'll be bail,'
rejoined the second whip, ' as Chickabiddy
himself.'

He knows too much for his own peace
of mind,' returned Cock Robin, dolefully.
1 They played and quarrelled with one
another, and were sweethearts when little
mites of children together, although Mr.
Edward used to teaze Miss Grizzle in fun
sometimes, until getting hold of a stick,
and running quite as fast as he could,
she'd let him have it across the shoulders
iu a way which made him holloa for mercy.
I used, being p boy myself, to laugh to
see her lace him, until the tears rolled
down my face.'

I Ha !' ejaculated Bill Baxter, emptying
the shallow remains of his glass, and taking
an advantageous opportunity of refilling
it, ' if a little vexed she'd make him feel
what the stick meant, and so she will
Chickabiddy. He'll have to take his licking
if he offends her in thought, word, or
deed, and it will be the same sort of
thing if he doesn't think, or do just as she
wishes him. I wouldn't be in Chickabiddy's
trowsers for double my wages,
Cocky, I wouldn't, indeed !'

I I would,' sharply rejoined his companion,
'and for less than half. She's a rare
plucked-un, no doubt; but only wants a
plain snaffle and a light hand. With a
little judgment she'd never shy, jib,
bolt, rear, or kick.'

But you've not said a word about her
buck-jumping,' returned the second whip,
with an evident desire of having the best

of the argument. ' Not a word about her
buck-jumping.'

I never heard of a young lady buck-jumping,'
rejoined Cock Robin, with an
approach of contempt at the supposition.

Perhaps not,' added Bill Baxter, ' perhaps
not,' repeated] he, swaying his head with,
the gentle motion of a pendulum. ' But
you've heard of young ladies bolting sometimes.
She'll bolt, Cocky.'

You're always saying something
against Miss Grizzle,' added his companion,
in anything but a conciliatory tone. ' She
can't do or say anything right in your
eyes ; but that's not the opinion of everyone
who knows her.'

Perhaps not,' responded the second whip,
still maintaining the movement of the pendulum
with his head, 'and it may not be
mine. But she'll bolt, Cocky, or I'm no
prophet. With snaffle or curb, martingale,

single or double rein, Chickabiddy
will never be able to hold her. She'll take
hold of her bit some day, and away she'll
go, with Chickabiddy pulling double ; but
he might as well pull at a tree. Go she
will, and I, Bill Baxter — that's me — tell
you so, Cocky, and remember my words
from this night, henceforth, and for evermore,
world without end. She'll bolt.'

At the conclusion of the second whip's
most unwelcome prediction, Cock Robin
stared vacantly at the floor, as if in deep
thought, and, for a few minutes, not a
word was spoken by either.

c I begin to think it will go precious
hard with poor Mr. Edward,' at length
said he. 'In turning a sharp corner in
the forest to-day, I came upon him unawares
sitting upon a fallen tree in the
biting cold wind, with his elbows resting
upon his knees, and his face buried be-vol.

i. R

tween his bands.' Being close to him, he
looked up with a kind of start, and ' — the
speaker dropped his voice, adding after a
pause — ' I shall never forget that look,
Bill, while I live.'

The second whip gave three short and
sharp whiffs from his pipe, and then, withdrawing
it from his lips, said,

Why, he didn't look ready to kill anybody,
did he?'

He did,' replied his companion, in a
whisper, turning his head instinctively to
see that he was not overheard. 'He did,
Bill, quite ready.'

And do you suspect who it was ?' inquired
the second whip.

I do,' responded Cock Robin, dropping
his voice until it was scarcely audible. ' I
think it was ' — and, glancing suspiciously
over both shoulders before completing the
sentence, added — ' himself. 1

The evening being far advanced, and
the bottom of the punch-bowl having become
too palpable to admit of the shadow
of a doubt as to the exhaustion of its
contents, it was deemed expedient to
bring the somewhat prolonged sitting to
a close, and the two boon companions
separated for the night.

r 2

CHAPTER XIII.

Mrs. Chell — her Christian name being-jane,
she was familiarly called ' Jenny ' —
was in undisturbed possession of a set of
chambers in Middle Temple Lane undermost
exceptional circumstances. Her husband,
the departed Luke Chell, had been
clerk not only to a rising barrister, but
one who had risen to the highest altitude
in his profession by being elevated to the
judicial bench, and, from some unexplained
cause of favouritism, that august body, the
benchers of the Middle Temple, as landlords
in perpetuity, permitted the transfer

of possession of the judge's chambers to
Mrs. Chell's husband, Luke Chell, while he
was active in the flesh, and subsequently
to his widow when he became passive in
the dust.

Acting upon the admirable plan of taking
fair advantage of favourable opportunities,
the Judge's Chambers were sublet
for an improved rent far above that
paid to the benchers of the Middle Temple,
and Mr. Chell, during his lifetime, pocketed
the difference ; while Mrs. Chell, being
allowed to remain in undisturbed possession,
felt no compunction whatever of conscience
in continuing to pocket the difference.
Barristers, briefless and otherwise,
students, studious and otherwise, came
and remained for certain and uncertain
periods, and departed like shadows upon a
wall, leaving no trace behind them with
the exception, now and again, of a few

unpaid bills, which acted prejudicially
upon the credit of the incoming tenant of
the Judge's Chambers. For a time, and
until he had established a position of unquestionable
responsibility, Mrs. Chell presented
her weekly bill with the utmost
regularity, and made no sign of taking her
departure until it was in a condition to
which her sign manual might be affixed in
the form of a receipt in full. Mrs. Chell
wished to be considered a woman of business,
as her husband had supported the
character, over a long series of years, of
being a man of business.

Knowing full well the value of money,
he had saved, by practising great self-denial,
a 'good round sum,' as he called
it, against the approach of the proverbial
rainy day ; but, as he was not exposed to
the anticipated soaking, Luke Chell's riches
were never utilised by the gatherer, but left

at the absolute disposal of his relict, Jane
Chell, commonly called ' Jenny.'

By a shaft of fate the Judge's Chambers,
or, to be strictly accurate, the chambers
which the judge once occupied, were
vacant at the precise moment that Edward
Slomax was in search of ' rooms ' within a
short radius of their fixed centre. The
newly-entered student of the Middle Temple
stared at the outside of the black oak
door upon which was advertised ' Apartments
to let,' and after taking quite sufficient
time to read the announcement
critically, so as to satisfy himself that the
composition and orthography were free
from error, he pulled the time-worn and
finger-rubbed little brass knob, supposed
to be linked by a wire to a bell on the
inside of the black oak door, and, a faint
tinkle-tinkle following, Mrs. Chell appeared
before the tinkle-tinkle had ceased to

render itself disagreeable to the ear.

Walk in, sir,' said Mrs. Chell, for she
knew without any unnecessary introduction,
the object and the subject of the
summons for her presence.

Responding to the invitation, Edward
Slomax walked in, being closely surveyed,
as he did so, by Mrs. Chell, with a view of
forming a decision as to the eligibility of
his becoming her tenant or not ; for in her
own opinion she was a good judge of
character, and could read a man as well
as a book.

The result of the survey appeared to be
complimentary to the personal appearance
of Edward Slomax, for he had scarcely
entered the Judge's Chambers before he
was asked to ' sit down,' the seat of the
chair meeting with a preliminary dusting
from a corner of Mrs. Chell's apron.

You are a young gentleman studying

for the law, I suppose she remarked,
who requires chambers

I was entered a student of the Middle
Temple Inn of Court this morning,' replied
he, with a smile.

1 And thereby means to study for the
law which a good many who've been here
did the same,' rejoined Mrs. Chell ; ' but
didn't. At the same time, sir, it gives me
much pleasure to say that one did, and
he's a living judge.'

From some undefined and inexplicable
cause Edward Slomax, upon receiving this
interesting piece of information, resolved
to agree to the proposed terms without
any attempt to modify them, and, having
done so, merely asked, ' When he could
take possession ?'

As soon as may be most convenient to
yourself, sir,' was Mrs. Chell's gracious
answer. ' For although,' continued she, ' I

always have required references hitherto
I shall not ask you for any. I will do
away with references.'

Edward Slomax rose from his seat and,
as became a gentleman upon receiving a
handsome compliment, ' bowed his best
with his right hand pressed upon the left
of his breast.

Send in your luggage, sir,' added Mrs.
Chell, her vanity tickled with the most
polite bow she ever remembered to have
had, 'as soon as you please.'

Her very new tenant, for the agreement
if not sealed was settled, expressed his
deep sense of the obligation, and then informed
Mrs. Chell who he was, where he
came from, and the why and wherefore of
his being then and there in Middle Temple
Lane at that exact moment of the earth's
rotation upon her axis, and generally and
particularly made Mrs. Chell — who he soon

afterwards took the liberty of calling
1 Jenny' — the repository of his family
secrets, great and small, strictly excluding
one, however, which he retained as a monopoly
for his own bitter reflections.

I feel honoured by your confidence, sir
rejoined Mrs. Chell, as he concluded his
brief personal narrative ' and am pleased
to find that I've a celebrated Cambridge
man under my roof. As a matter of
choice I prefer Cambridge to the sister
university Oxford, but why I never could
tell, and, probably, never shall. The
colour of their riband, perhaps, has something
to do with it, for I prefer light blue
to dark.'

At this precise point of the interesting
conversation between Mrs Chell and her
lodger, he casually remarked that, 'being
rather hungry, he would return to his
hotel and get a mutton chop.'

Don't think of doing that, sir returned
Mrs. Chell, quickly. ' Let me cook a
mutton chop for ye. I've a clear cinder
fire in my kitchen, and you shall see, in a
very few minutes, what a mutton chop
ought to taste like with some hot mushroom
catchup and a mealy potato combined.
In the meantime,' she continued,
'you can take a look round the apartments,
or, as they are called in these legal
quarters, chambers, while I am getting
ready the mutton chop.'

Not to have readily acquiesced in the
proposition regarding the voluntary supply
of the mutton chop and mealy potato,
must have proved a most ungracious
return for the spontaneous offer, and
totally foreign to the natural feelings of
Edward Slomax. He, therefore, promptly
accepted it with a profusion of acknowledgments,
and Mrs. Chell retired

from his presence to carry it into effect.

An opportune moment now presented
itself for ' looking around,' and he at once
began to make himself master of the situation
by closely examining the architectural
proportions of the chambers, and the
useful and ornamental furniture contained
within them.

The judge's chambers, once occupied by
a judge then living, were correctly described
in the plural number, for they
consisted of two, and two only, one being
appropriated for a sitting-room, in which
the judge had eaten innumerable mutton
chops that nothing sborfc of a large flock
of sheep could possibly have supplied, and
the other formed his sleeping apartment,
wherein he had slept, dreamt, and snored,
and, forgetful of a few brief hours of the
world, was probably for a few brief hours
by the world forgotten.

In the olden time a Knight Templar's
spurs had clanked and his harness jingled
in those very chambers, when they formed
part of the barracks of the ' monk in peace
and soldier in war;' but this was long ago,
and they had been modernised since then
by paint and whitewash, and the rough,
massive oak beam stretching from one end
of the low ceiling to the other had been
hidden from sight and covered neatly by
a longitudinal case of elm, effectually shutting
out this witness overhead of the
Knight Templar doings and misdoings,
the balance of which might have been
creditable or discreditable ; but in so far
as the silent witness overhead was concerned
it remained, as it had long continued,
in utter darkness.

Upon the walls were hung in a formal
line engravings of departed Lord Chancellors,
Chief Justices, and Masters of the

Rolls, robed, wigged, and each and all
looking implacably stern, and terribly
prepared to deliver judgments from the
bench of ruinous effect to unsuccessful
suitors. Whether a portrait of the living
judge who 'once upon a time' occupied
the chambers was among the collection,
there was no evidence to show, but there
was the easy-chair in which he sat for
many years previous to his promotion to
the judicial seat, and the newly-entered
student of the Middle Temple dropped
himself gently into it with a smile of self-satisfaction,
as his successor, at least, for
the time being.

Pursuing his task of observation, he
saw that a faded carpet, somewhat worn,
but not altogether shabby, a well-polished
mahogany table, in which his features
were reflected out of all fair and natural
proportions, some chairs, exhibiting decided

effects of friction at the corners of
the horsehair seats, and an extensive row
of empty bookshelves, completed the inventory
of the useful furniture in the 
vacated by the living judge,
and now most recently tenanted by the
newly-entered student of the Middle
Temple.

The ' look round ' was just completed,
when Mrs. Chell re-entered from a private
door covered with green baize, and ornamented
with brass-headed nails, leading
out of and into her kitchen, wherein more
mutton chops had been broiled for the
living judge than could be conveniently
counted, and she proclaimed her presence
by the cheery announcement, accompanied
by a bustling, fussy manner, that ' it
would be done as soon as she had laid a
knife and fork and set the table ;' but
whether she referred exclusively to the

mutton chop, or to the mutton chop and
mealy potato combined, must be left to
conjecture, for she offered no further
explanation upon the subject.

During the short period that Mrs. Chell
was most industriously occupied in 'laying
the table,' by making a few arrangements
with the salt-cellar and pepper-box,
her tenant in possession embraced the
moments as they flew by, in a figurative
sense, taking her photograph.

Mrs. Chell was not only fat, but had
been so from her earliest infancy. She
was a fat baby, a fat girl, a fat bride, and,
at the present time, a fat widow, fair, and
some twenty years over forty ; but not so
much by ten or a dozen years in what
may be correctly, if not elegantly described,
in her jolly, personal appearance.
Short, and even dumpy, was her figure,
and yet her movements were agile, and

vol. i. s

she almost skipped in placing the saltcellar
and pepper-box in their respective
positions upon the table.

Mrs. Chell — wooed and won by Luke
Chell as ' Jenny ' — possessed a round and
ruddy face, shining from a heart the pulsations
of which were governed by 'doing
unto others what she would have them do
unto her,' a model and paragon of neighbours
not too frequently met with in the
highways and byways of the world. Her
eyes were blue, of a cerulean shade, and,
having been much admired by Luke Chell
in the days that they went blackberries
together in Epping Forest, might have
influenced her predilection for the Cambridge
colour in preference to that of the
sister university.

Be that as it may, she l stuck,' as she
said, ' to light blue,' and would continue
to do so to the end of her days. Her nose

possessed no decided shape, being of the
common order of nothing in particular,
and her profusion of nut-brown ringlets,
once upon a time,' were now smoothed in
two equal divisions of grey hair over a
forehead unwrinkled by woe, notwithstanding
Luke Chell had preceded her deliverance
from this land of toil and turmoil,
and left her to fight out the finish of the
battle of life alone, an unprotected, but
buxom widow.

His relict felt quite equal to the occasion,
and there she flitted in the presence
of her new lodger, as she had frequently
done in years passed away, ready and
willing to do her duty as England might-expect,
or that part of the British Empire
known as Middle Temple Lane.

Mrs. Chell, having arranged the table
satisfactorily to herself by placing a knife
and fork, one spoon, the salt-cellar and

s2

pepper-box in relative and conventional
positions, expressed the earnest hope that
the mutton chop and mealy potato were
not only done, but done well, and went
through the green baize door with a footstep
firm and pronounced in its action, to
introduce without further delay the anticipated
triumph of her culinary art.

Edward Slomax, even with this short
introduction, began to feel quite at home
with his landlady, and was almost disposed
to take a liberty with her Christian name
without further postponement by calling
her ' Jenny.'

CHAPTER XIV.

Among the professors of arts and sciences
specially engaged to render Miss Penelope
Peepem's niece one of the most clever and
accomplished young ladies in the county
of Hampshire, and an unapproachable distance
from its acknowledged boundaries,
was the well-known local apothecary, ' Tom
Tidy,' a man of learning, albeit it had
been chiefly acquired through his own
teaching. Without arrogating to himself
any particular distinction, it was generally
admitted within the range of the smoke
from his own chimney pot, even when

blown by a strong wind, that ' the doctor
was a clever little fellow,' and knew a
great deal more about things than he
thought it advisable to talk about.

As a licentiate of Apothecary's Hall
he possessed the indisputable right of
poisoning his neighbours either by chance
or design ; but had fortunately escaped the
suspicion of any charge of professional
neglect or criminal intention to kill the
most insignificant subject in the realm.
And yet it could not be alleged with proper
regard to veracity that Tom Tidy was
strictly attentive in person to his medical
business. Being an enthusiastic naturalist
he was too often in pursuit of moths and
butterflies, scampering through fields and
forest net in hand, instead of standing
behind the counter of his little chemist's
shop awaiting, perhaps, the ingress of the

next patient for a couple of mysterious
pills, and a complicated blend in the form
of a nauseous black draught. It should
be stated however, that under these circumstances
Tom Tidy in his absence did
not permit that the demand should not
meet with a prompt supply.

His assistant and housekeeper, Mrs. John
Sprat, commonly called by the rudest boys
in the village ' Jack Sprat,' had imperative
instructions from her employee to go to a
certain drawer for the pills, and to a certain
bottle marked in conspicuous letters
Aqua Pueri,' for the draught. "What the
pills consisted of was a profound secret
with the doctor ; but, as nobody suffered
the smallest harm from taking them, it may
fairly be supposed that they were quite as
innoxious as the ' Aqua Pueri ' itself which ,
if described in plain English, might have

been suspected to have come from a neighbouring
pump, and so defeated the object
of creating professional mystery.

"When not engaged in chasing moths
and butterflies Tom Tidy attended to his
practice. When occupied with the capture
of specimens for his ever increasing collection,
his assistant, Mrs. John Sprat, too
frequently addressed by the rudest boys in
the village as ' Jack Sprat,' much to her
lofty indignation, undertook his responsible
duties by dispensing the medicines, in
strict accordance with the solemn injunctions
she had received, from the draw r er
containing the pills and the bottle containing
the ' Aqua Pueri.'

Such were the fundamental principles
upon which Tom Tidy conducted his limited
local practice, combining the business
of life in bleeding, blistering, and physicking
with its unalloyed pleasure in the study

of natural history ; the latter being much
preferred to the former.

The world — or a very small part of it —
having accorded to Tom Tidy the reputation
for being 'a clever little fellow,' Miss
Penelope sought his aid in imparting a
few of his accomplishments to her niece,
and to render her a sharer in the firm of
1 Tidy & Co.' in so far, at least, as the
natural history branch was concerned.

Unlike Signor Vesprucci, and one or
two more professors of the arts and
sciences who essayed their best, too frequently
with questionable results, to impart
some of their acquirements to Gris-ella
Peepem, ' the clever little fellow was a
great favourite of hers from the introduction
of his teaching to its close, and
upon his regular day of attendance at
Forester's Lodge she greeted him cordially
upon his arrival, and listened to all he had

to say with profound attention from the
beginning of his lecture to the announcement
that it had been brought to a close.
For it was no task to her to listen to his
pleasant talk about bees and butterflies, or
to look at the beautiful specimens he frequently
brought for examination through
the microscope.

Years had passed since he attended
to give the first lecture, and now — consistent
with the universal order of all
things — the day had arrived, as arrive it
must, for him to give the last.

As a matter of historical fact, nature had
not been too liberal in her personal gifts
to Tom Tidy. In a literal sense he was
a little fellow with high sloping shoulders
not dissimilar in shape to a champagne
bottle. His knees bent inward and his
legs were entirely devoid of those muscular
developments commonly called ' calves.'

The form of his features was long, the
colour pale, and the general expression
and effect created the instinctive idea that
he might have been occupied in playing
the flute during the greater part of his
sublunary existence.

As a medical man he seemed to think
he ought to appear in public in a suit of
sombre black with a white cravat ' got up '
by Mrs. John Sprat ; but not possessing,
perhaps, unlimited credit with his tailor,
and his laundress being rather too economical
with the starch, his dress, even at
the best of times, bore the united effect
of shabbiness and flabbiness without the
smallest vain effort of concealment.

Upon the arrival of the day, however,
which came round periodically once a week,
for him to give his pupil a lesson in
natural history, Tom Tidy ' brushed himself
up,'- as he called it, and presented

as full dress an appearance as those best
of cosmetics, soap and water, and a careful
attention to the details of his toilette would
admit of producing.

It being mutually understood that this
would be the concluding lecture after the
long term of several long years, the professor
and his pupil were somewhat disposed
to be reticent as they sat opposite
each other one morning in the breakfast-parlour
of Forester's Lodge, the one scarcely
prepared to speak as usual, and the
other scarcely prepared to listen.

Sam was present in possession of an
arm-chair, with his nose dividing his fore-paws,
and his eyes turned upwards watching
events, but with a full and comprehensive
knowledge of what was going on,
both active and passive, Sam looked in
anything but good spirits. Sam was
depressed.

And so, Mr. Tidy, you have coupe to
give me the last delightful and instructive
lesson in natural history,' said Griselda,
throwing herself back in her seat, with
her head on a folded arm resting on the
back of the chair.

Tom Tidy sighed from the little bottom
of his little heart, but said not a syllable
in reply.

4 Have you brought some fresh caught
and unfortunate victim impaled on a pin
and choked with brimstone to show me,' she
asked, ' killed because of its beauty ?'

No,' replied the professor, almost sharply.
'I thought it better that the conclusion
of my lectures should not be associated
with cruelty, even if justified by necessity.'

Justified by necessity !' reiterated Grim
in a suppressed tone, as if speaking
to herself. ' This is a most cruel world,
Vir. Tidy,' continued she, 'and I have

often thought that the beautiful creatures
of the earth suffer more pain and persecution
than the ugly.'

I cannot admit the existence of ugliness,'
responded the professor. ' We may
often see shapes, forms, colours, and
effects which are opposed to our conceptions
of the symmetrical and harmonious :
but upon close examination they will be
found to command our equal admiration
for their wonderful proportions, marvellous
formation, and singular adaptation
for the special purposes for which they
were designed. There is no such thing
in nature, Miss Peepem, as ugliness.'

Not in men and women,' rejoined she,
and all the beasts of the field ?'

Tom Tidy pressed the ends of two
fingers upon his lips, and coughed slightly,
in order to gain a little time for shaping a
reply.

Men and women,' resumed he, after a
short pause, 'by the grand and gradual
process of evolution, which is ever working
towards the ultimate end — perfection
are the apex of the tree of life, having
ascended from '

Reputable motherhood,' interrupted
Griselda, 'as I have been given to understand.'


Yes,' returned the professor, ' I see no
reason to throw the shadow of a doubt
upon the preceding link to the long chain
of human development.'

I am really quite glad to hear you say
so, Mr. Tidy,' responded his pupil, ' and
feel a natural monkey pride in my descent.'


c Ascent, Miss Peepem, if you please,'
returned Tom Tidy, ' not descent. We
have climbed to our present exalted position,
not '

Tumbled to it added she, with a laugh
which, although heard, was without any
visible effect. ' And yet I've been told
more than once that we are creatures
fallen from a state of unqualified perfection.'


Tom Tidy again pressed the ends of
two fingers upon his lips, and paused
before resuming the subject.

In a physical and material point of
view r , Miss Peepem,' continued he, ' I can
only state, without the smallest reservation
for a doubt to '

Have a little peg to hang upon.'

The very expressive words I was about
to add,' said the professor, * when you were
considerate enough, Miss Peepem, to relieve
me from the necessity of uttering
them. I repeat continued he, ' that
there can be no question upon the fact, as
the successive pages in the book of nature

reveal, spread open for all to read who
will only use their eyes to correct conventional
errors, and render valuable additions
to their already acquired knowledge, that
we have risen to our present high position,
in the animal sphere through incalculable
ages of evolution, and the general type of
our bodies is common alike to fish, fowl,
frog, and '

1 Monkey,' added Griselda. ' Pray do
not omit the monkey, as he is so immeasurably
superior, in my opinion, to one or two
of the lords of creation that I am acquainted
with.'

Tom Tidy begged to be distinctly understood
that he had not the slightest objection
to include the monkey.

'Man's place in nature,' continued the
professor, ' is indisputable. He is the
head of the quadruped class '

vol. I. t

But he hasn't four legs as far as 1 have
seen,' interrupted his pupil.

His direct and immediate ancestors
had,' rejoined the professor, 'and man,
therefore, is scientifically classed among
the quadrupeds.'

With donkeys, apes, pigs, and all the
other beasts of the field,' returned Griselda,
with a now unconcealed, merry laugh.

'Yes, Miss Peeped added Tom Tidy,
they may be included among the near
relations to man in his assigned place in
nature. In fact, Miss Peepem, he can only
claim his position in the animal world
which every creature with a backbone
possesses an equally legitimate share, if ina
less degree.'

'A mouse, then,' observed his pupil,
1 may be regarded as one of his backbone
relatives.'

Without the shade of the shadow of a
doubt,' responded the professor. ' A mouse,
indeed continued he, ' has quite as sensitive
a nervous system, and, considering
the scale of its anatomy, an unquestionably
superior development of strength and
muscular power than man.'

What an upstart and ridiculous sham,
then, he is !' exclaimed Griselda. ' I begin
to feel the utmost contempt for him. It
would be great fun,' continued she, ' to
tell a lord of the creation I am acquainted
with, of his decided inferiority to a
mouse.'

1 Notwithstanding his lowly origin, however,
man is the paragon of animals, Miss
Peepem, and occupies the highest position
among the children of life,' said the professor,.
' albeit he inherits the essentials of
the mammals, which may be traced from

t 2

the duck-billed water-mole to those of a
more exalted and elaborate nature such as
the bats and '

i Monkeys,' added his pupil. ' Please
put in the monkeys. Aunt is so fond of
them.'

1 Having accidentally and incidentally
overheard this statement referring personally
to myself,' returned a voice, 'I confess
my admiration for two monkeys;' and there
stood Miss Penelope Peepem, prepared to
make as graceful a curtsey to Tom Tidy as
was ever rendered in homage to a
monarch.

The professor rose with a jerk from his
seat, as if touched by a spiral spring, and
brought his nose within a few measurable
inches of his knees.

Miss Penelope Peepem lowered herself
gradually and perceptibly.

Tom Tidy made an effort to bring

the point of his nose lower than his
knees.

Miss Penelope Peepem drooped, and
then drooped lower than before.

Tom Tidy tried to bring the point of his
nose about the centre of the exact spot
where his calves ought to be and failed.

Miss Penelope Peepem rose majestically
from almost a sitting position upon the
floor, and felt herself mistress of the
situation.

I hope, madam said he, advancing
towards her with a tripping step, ' that weare
in a state of perfect salubrity.'

It ought, perhaps, to be recorded here
that if ' we ' — that is, Miss Penelope
Peepem — had given either an affirmative
or negative in reply, the result would have
been precisely the same — two pills at
night and a restorative draught in the
morning.

How, madam, may I delicately inquire,,
are your boots?' inquired he, softening or
modifying the substantive so as to reduce
it of as much harshness as possible.

"With her eyes cast modestly downwards,
Miss Penelope expressed the belief that
her ' boots ' were remarkably right.

In that case,' rejoined the medical
man, feeling her pulse with a gentle
pressure, ' we must do our best to keep
them right. Permit me the honour of
looking at your tongue.'

Miss Penelope complied to a certain
extent by thrusting forth the tip of her
tongue from between her screwed up lips,
which looked not dissimilar to a cherry,
cherry ripe.

Very good,' added he, ' very good
indeed.'

The two pills, however, and restorative

draught were inevitable, notwithstanding
the unqualified admission of the satisfactory
state of Miss Penelope Peepem's
1 boots.'

1 I will send, madam resumed Tom
Tidy, with the blandest of his professional
smiles, ' the usual weekly corrective. Being
right, we cannot do better than exercise our
skill in keeping them right. If wrong,
we cannot do better than exercise our
skill in making them right. I draw these
respective qualities from a long professional
experience, if not altogether allied
to a large professional country practice.
Much depends upon our boots, and greatly
augmented happiness to the human family
at large would follow in the shape of a
foregone conclusion, if more affectionate
attention was paid to them. My first
question to a patient invariably is, impressed

as I am with the depth of its
importance, how are your boots ?'

Miss Penelope Peepem curtsied again
lowly, and far beneath the average depth ;
but, not being desirous of continuing the
delicate subject, said nothing more in
reply, and so brought it to an abrupt
termination.

Your cavalier will soon arrive,' she
said, addressing her niece, ' mounted on
his noble steed.'

His noble steed !' repeated Griselda,
with a decided loop in the corner of her
upper lip. ' His noble steed looks more
like a camel than a horse.'

1 Not being a judge of the symmetrical
form and shape of a horse,' rejoined Miss
Penelope Peepem, ' I do not pretend to
dispute your assertion of Mr. Chickabiddy's
noble steed bearing a close resemblance to
a camel ; but still I must say that he looks

to rue more like a horse, particularly in
the immediate locality of the tail. He
certainly has no hump.'

Griselda made no observation in reply,
but the loop in the corner of the upper lip
became rather more decided in the curve.

I fear, Mr. Tidy continued his patient,
who was never out of his hands all the
year round, ' that I must ask you the
favour to excuse my niece from further
attention to your charming lecture on
natural history. She is engaged to ride
this morning with her cavalier, Mr. Orlando
Chickabiddy, and the time has
arrived '

Griselda's departure from the room must
have been of the most sudden and abrupt
kind, for, upon raising her eyes to the
seat occupied by her one moment before,
Miss Penelope Peepem discovered that it
was empty.

For her to adjust her raiment,' she
continued, ' for this pleasant, poetical, and
practical purpose.'

Tom Tidy bowed low, as became a
gentleman when not knowing what todo
better.

Miss Penelope Peepem curtsied lower,
maintaining unbroken silence with the
graceful movement.

Tom Tidy again tried whether the point
of his nose could possibly be reached where
his calves might be expected to be seen,
and once more failed from want of elasticity
in his backbone.

Miss Penelope Peepem drooped by degrees
lower and lower still, until, the surface
of the floor being reached, there was no
lower level between herself and the carpet.

Good morning, madam,' said her now
defeated medical man.

'Good morning, sir,' responded his now

victorious patient, and they separated then
and there, as they had done often before
much in the same way.

CHAPTER XV.

After having been in the fostering care
of the Court of Chancery for many years,
and left entirely to the occupancy of the
rats, owls, and bats, Hawkhurst had been
restored and renovated, quite regardless
of expense, by its present owners Orlando
Chickabiddy, Esq. Determined, as he
said, to render his mansion second to none
in the county, the old, deserted, modern
ruin had a new face given to it, and,
through the application of paint, paper,
varnish, and whitewash, with a few other
auxiliaries cf the decorator's art, no one

would have suspected that the wreck of
the Chancery suit could have been patched
up, furbished, and polished into the almost
glittering edifice now in the possession of
and tenanted by its legal freeholder, Orlando
Chickabiddy, Esq.

When sold by the arbitrary order of the
Court of Chancery, there were no trees
upon the adjacent grounds of Hawkhurst.
They had been already cut down root and
branch, and, when an injunction 'to restrain
from further felling' was obtained
by a successful litigant, not a stick remained
bigger than his thumb to fell.
Devoid, therefore, of all shade and shadows
of trees, the ' mansion ' stood out
stark and bare, looking much more conspicuous
than picturesque, notwithstanding
the lavish expenditure in restoring the old
wreck of the Chancery suit.

Refinement of taste might be questioned,

and questionable, in the gorgeous
furniture of Hawkhurst, and the paintings
profusely adorning its walls in square
yards of canvas, but no one could gainsay
that the chairs and tables were almost
radiant with polish, and the surrounding
gilt frames looked from their depth, width,
and breadth much more valuable even than
the pictures themselves.

Be that, however, as it may, Orlando
Chickabiddy felt perfectly satisfied and
gratified with the general and particular
effect of his ' mansion,' inside and outside,
and entertained the firm belief that it defied
competition.

At about that season of the year, when
the young rooks begin to caw, Mr. Chickabiddy
might have been seen, after a light
breakfast, consisting of a single egg, lolling
or lounging in a well-stuffed cushioned
chair, mentally adding up, subtracting

from, and balancing accounts in connection
with the past, present, and the future.
No witness being within sight or hearing,
he felt relief, perhaps, in giving vent to
the concealment of his thoughts and indulge
in a soliloquy.

{ Upon my sacred word of honour,' said
he, rubbing his fingers together, not
unlike the soft action of a cat when purring.
' Upon my sacred word of honour,'
he repeated, ' there appear to be only two
kinds of coves or chaps in this blessed world,
rogues and fools. Now, I am not going to
say to which particular class I belong, but
it isn't the fools, I know. For here am I,
a landed proprietor, owner of this strikingly
handsome and elegantly furnished mansion,
and engaged to be married to the
prettiest gal in all the county of Hampshire.'


At this point in his address to himself

Mr. Orlando Chickabiddy chuckled, and
for a few moments was solely occupied in
chuckling.

4 How the young chaps of the neighbourhood
look at me when they see us
riding out together,' at length continued
he. ' Upon my sacred word of honour
their eyes flash lightning ! But what do I
care ? They couldn't buy her and I did,
although I can't say she has seemed particularly
pleased or satisfied with the purchase
and sale from that day to this.'

Mr. Chickabiddy paused in his speech,
and drummed a few bars of a popular tune
upon the elbow of his easy chair.

Her old fool of an aunt and John Oak-acre,
the chairman of my gold company '
the speaker chuckled with additional
force — ' put the screw upon her objections,
and after a little too much see-saw between
yes and no to be altogether complimentary

to the sole proprietor of a gold

mine '

Mr. Orlando Chickabiddy cat short ibis
delivery by bursting into a loud, hoarse
laugh which, at the same time, did not
sound as if fully charged with mirth.

4 She at last said yes, when, upon my
sacred word of honour, I believe she
would have much preferred saying no.
But what do I care? She's mine, or will
be mine, through money, which has
given me everything that I possess in
this world, from a blacking brush to a
silver spoon, and so long as I get what I
want, I don't mean to quarrel with what I
get or how I get it. Sufficient for me
that I know it's in button-hole park, which
means my pocket.'

Mr. Chickabiddy united a few. more bars
of the popular melody, and then resumed
the thread of his listened-to speech.

vol. i. o

'Talk about fools said he, 'just think
for a moment about this gold mine. I
come down here without knowing or being
known by a single soul, and starting with
a bit of shine as the owner of Hawkkurst,
and scattering a few sovereigns about as a
good investment for my purpose, I am
believed to be, what I take great care to
describe myself, a man of wealth and the
sole proprietor of a gold mine. A gold
mine !' repeated Mr. Chickabiddy, with a
sneer. ' Well ! a gold mine is one thing
and a mine of gold another, which the
adventurers in my rich and auriferous lode
will find out sooner or later ; but quite as
soon as anyone of them will feel much
pleasure in finding out.'

The speaker tried a few more bars of the
melody upon the arm of the chair, and
collected his thoughts by way of a preliminary

to the continuance of his solitary
discourse.

I knew it would be so. No sooner had
I caught John Oakacre for chairman of the
company, and publicly announced him as
such, than the whole county of Hampshire,
or this part of it, made a bull's rush for
the shares, neither he nor a fool among'
them knowing more of the so-called gold
mine, than if quarried in the moon, and
yet head over heels they tumble to stake
their all in a venture which is set forth
only in a prospectus written by Orlando
Chickabiddy, Esquire. Talk about fools !
The world is choked with them, and they
seem born to be robbed.'

The speaker again broke off in his
address to himself, and had recourse to a
little more music during the interval.

There'll be a blow up by-an-by of course

u 2

continued be, c but that won't be just yet.
John Oakacre, Lis friends, neighbours, and
acquaintances must all, to a moral certainty,
be dropped in the hole, and Griselda's old
fool of an aunt will squall like a cat in a
trap when she finds out what marrying her
niece to a gold mine means. Ha, ha, ha !
Let those laugh who win, and I shall be
found among the winners.'

This reflection seemed to afford immense
delight to Mr. Chickabiddy ; for a fixed
smile took possession of his features, aud
the angles of his mouth were drawn back
as far as they could be stretched exposing
to view nearly the whole of his teeth.
Gradually, however, they were relaxed,
and regaining their normal position, a
more than ordinary seriousness usurped
the place of Mr. Chickabiddy's broad

grin.

Drawing a hand slowly across his fore-lead

be stared at the Turkey carpet at his
feet as if reading in the oriental pattern a
communication of anything but an agreeable
nature, and delivered much too
abruptly for the composure of his nervous
system.

1 But what will Griselda say to all this?'
at length whispered he hoarsely to himself,
and his countenance became contracted and
deeply lined as he spoke. ' What will
Griselda say to all this?' he repeated, with
the fixed stare still riveted upon the carpet
and his hands pressed closely upon a brow
now becoming feverish with thought.
1 She will then be Mrs. Chickabiddy, and
as such I shall catch it hot, very hot, morning,
noon, and perhaps night. When the
smash-up comes, as come it must, I shall
have slipped out with the coin, and John
Oakacre, his friends, neighbours, and
acquaintances will have slipped in the deep

hole to drop it. But what will Mrs.
Chickabiddy say ?'

There was now a lengthened pause, and
the speaker looked truly disturbed, and far
distant from a state of mental tranquillity.

She's generally spoken of as a high
spirited gal in these parts at length continued
he, ' but I call her as fiery a young bit
of muslin as ever I saw or ever wish to see,
and I shouldn't like to be in a small room
with her alone when devilish out of temper.
It wouldn't be safe. In a large apartment
such as this, one niisfht be able to
dodge her a bit under the table and get
out of her reach a little ; but no small room
for me with the future Mrs. Chickabiddy
in a towering passion. She probably would
get one's back in a corner and hit out straight
for the nose, and if she did the consequence
might be too dreadful to contemplate. The
shape if not the size would be altered to a

certainty, and the lasting effect perhaps
anything but an improvement to one's
beauty. I must certainly take precautions
against the announcement of the smash-up;
but what to do at the present moment I'm
at a decided loss to speculate upon. It's very
serious,' continued Orlando Chickabiddy,
1 very serious, indeed, and I don't altogether
like the aspect of affairs,' and he recommenced
the rub-a-dub upon the arm of the
easy chair ; but the strain was anything but
lively.

END OV THE FIRST VOLUME,

LONDON: Printed BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENUK1M HOUSE.

Mi



■

■

1 1

University OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 051399035

WSm

.'"•• '.••.■-■

Pin « - .

3iii»

VOL. II.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/onspurofnnoment02mill

BY

JOHN MILLS

AUTHOR OF

THE OLD ENGLISH GENTLEMAN,'
TOO FAST TO LAST,"

ETC. ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

All rights reserved.

ON THE SPUR OF THE x^I03IEXT.

CHAPTER I.

What a most entertaining and delightful
correspondent my dear nephew is,' remarked
Miss Penelope Peepem, holding a letter in a
favourable light so as to peruse it with greater
ease through the assistance of a pair of
clearer,' balanced upon nearly the end of
her straight and — as she had been told at
more than one Hunt Ball — Grecian nose.
What an entertaining and delightful correspondent
my dear nephew is,' repeated Miss
Penelope Peepem, displaying by her earnest

VOL. II. B

look, and the fixed expression of her smiling
countenance, how deeply interested she felt
in the letter she was reading partly to herself
and partly to her niece who, however,
maintained a rigid and frigid silence as the
task proceeded towards completion.

His description of his landlady, Mrs.
Chell,' continued Miss Penelope Peepem,
who I now see he frequently refers to as
his dear friend Jenny — '

Does he say how old his dear friend
Jenny is ?' inquired Griselda, in a somewhat
sharp tone of voice, as she leant
forward in her chair to eagerly catch the
first words of the answer.

Miss Penelope Peepem glanced through
the letter hurriedly from beginning to end,
and then, failing to obtain the information
required, by a rapid movement, went
through and between the lines in a quiet,
methodical manner, and announced at

length that ' she did not see anv mention
of Mrs. Chell's certificate of birth.'

Griselda threw back her head with an
irritable toss of displeasure, but said
nothing in reply.

Teddy states, however,' resumed her
aunt, still perusing the contents of the
letter, 'that she is a perfect angel, although
on a large scale, and decidedly on
the fat side. '' Xot a button," he writes,
'' is allowed to be off a single shirt that I
possess, and my socks are completely free
from holes, so neatly does my dear Jenny
darn." '

There was another angry toss of Grim
head.

It affords me much pleasure, and, I
may add, infinite consolation,' continued
Miss Penelope Peepem, folding up the
letter so that the creases might fall neatly
into their original places, ' to find that my

b2

clear nephew is so extremely pleased and
satisfied ivith the attentions of his dear
Jenny.'

Griselda's chair was evidently anything
but an easy one at this particular moment.

^ I entertain no doubt that, as he states
resumed her aunt, ^ she is a most sincere
friend and charming woman, sustaining
her Christian character in her disinterested
attention to his shirts and socks. It
is truly beneficent on her part,' said Miss
Penelope Peepem, closing her eyes and
speaking in tremulous accents, ' to take so
great a personal interest in the poor orphan
lad, and if she does not meet with her
full reward in this world, which, I am led
to fear, too often falls a little short, I feel
the utmost confidence that she will meet
with it in the much better world to come.
This to me is '

The sentence remained unfinished from

a succession of choking sobs being filtered
through Miss Penelope Peepem's pocket-handkerchief,
now pressed closely to her
lips.

I really see nothing to cry about, aunt
dear,' observed Griselda.

He's a poor orphan lad,' murmured Miss
Penelope Peepem through the impediment
which rendered her voice somewhat thick
and inarticulate. ' He's a poor orphan
lad,' repeated she.

But remarkably strong, healthy, and
big,' rejoined her niece.

It consoles me to think that he is,' returned
Miss Penelope Peepem, staunching,
if not drying her tears. ' He's a giant in
size, and I am proud and pleased to call
him my giant ; but still he's a poor orphan
lad, who, being turned out upon the cold,
friendless world to seek the hard means of
living '

through your affectionate liberality
aunt clear,' interrupted Griselda, ' he has
the means for every possible comfort and
requirement.'

And shall continue to have them by
prompt remittances at periodical dates
from the income I receive from my life
interest,' — she gently shook her head —
'and so long as that interest does not
become in absolute possession of the reversionary
estate, repeating nearly the
exact words of my man of business when
speaking to me a few days since upon this
anything but cheerful subject.'

Referring to the past and even to the
present,' said Griselda, ' I cannot think my
cousin is an object of much compassion.
He does not seem to regret the loss of
the society he had here, and appears unusually
pleased with the companionship of
his dear Jenny.'

'Not companionship,' responded Miss
Penelope Peepem, closing her eyes and
tightly folding her arms in a close link.
In writing in somewhat flowery terms of
commendation of his landlady, Mrs. Chell,
Teddy says not one word as to his companionship
A\dth her, and no such construction
can be placed upon any sentence
or syllable of his most interesting letter.
It might, indeed, be rather objectionable,
and even indecorous, for Teddy to have
expressed supreme pleasure at any personal
association with Mrs Chell. As my
beloved nephew, I am delighted to think
that he has written nothing upon which
any such misconstruction can possibly be
placed. He describes her, it is true, as an
angel on the fat side, and makes particular
reference to her kind attentions to his
shirts and socks : but there the matter
most properly begins and ends. I can

perceive not the slightest evidence of his
having been fascinated by them, and my
firm, unalterable belief is that his moral
rectitude not only continues unimpaired,
but remains exalted above the faintest
suspicion.'

You can scarcely approve of his speaking
of her as his dear Jenny,' returned
Griselda, with pouting lips. ' Such an expression
is far too familiar.'

I might object to it in the abstract,'
rejoined Miss Penelope Peepem, 'but, united
as it is with full particulars and minute
details, I am at a loss to perceive the
smallest objection to the term, strong as it
may seem in its tone of endearment.'

I feel the greatest surprise at the
support you seem ready to give my
cousin's transgressions, aunt dear,' returned
Griselda, with her lips still pouting and a
brow knitted With anger.

'' If I could possibly view it in the light
of a transgression,' responded Miss Penelope
Peepeni, nth the utmost gravity of
tone and demeanour, ' I should convey my
natural indignation in a manner not to be
misunderstood by my beloved giant. He
would learn that I am not to be trifled
With by transgressions of any kind, but
more especially ^^'ith those of the dear
Jenny kind. Convinced, however, of his
entire innocence from the commission of
any transgression we ^vill dismiss the
subject from further consideration or
discussion. He has my unqualified
approval to both write and speak of Mrs.
Hell as his dear Jenny.'

Griselda's lips pouted rather more prominently
at the conclusion of the sentence,
and the rapid movement of one of her feet
upon the floor betokened impatience and
general disturbance of the nervous system.

'■ If you please, Miss Grizzle,' said a
voice, as the floor of the apartment was
thrown open with a jerk, ^ Bill Baxter has
brought a couple of foxhound puppies
from the squire for you to take on walk,'
and there stood Cock Robin with about as
modest a bearing as he could assume without
a great display of affectation.

A couple of foxhound puppies on
Av^alk!' exclaimed. Miss Penelope Peepem.
What can — what does this mean?'

Send old Grumblesome in,' rejoined
Griselda. ' He will soon give us an explanation.'


Are the foxhound puppies to come in
With him. Miss Grizzle ?' inquired Cock
Robin.

Yes,' returned his young mistress, in a
careless tone of indifference. ' It may be
as well, perhaps, for the puppies to accompany'
old Grumblesome. Their presence

may render him less disagreeable and obstinate
than usual.'

As I am not in the habit of receiving
old Grumblesomes or vouno' foxhound
puppies,' observed Miss Penelope Peepem,
with a stately and dignified air. ' I had
better, perhaps, retire."

Please remain where you are, aunt
dear,' rejoined Griselda, ' and receive the
puppies. They are sure to be great beauties,
or the squire would not have sent
them on walk to his first whip.'

Miss Penelope Peepem's hands were involuntarily
raised, and then left to fall
gently ; but she did not retire.

With commendable promptitude the
order given for the appearance of the
couple of foxhound puppies and 'old
Grumblesome' was obeyed, and, much
within measurable distance of the chair in
which Miss Penelope Peepem sat in rather

an upright, stiff, and almost starchy position,
there they stood, the latter with a
hand respectfully lifted to his forehead,
and the former with their ears thrown
hack, and the tips of their sterns Having
gracefully, as much as to say : ' We smile
upon you. Miss Penelope Peepem, and
trust that you will make a f\xir and equitable
return in smiling upon us. We ask
no more. Miss Penelope Peepem, not even
a biscuit.'

^ What loves they are !' exclaimed her
niece. ' T always admired the badger-pied.'


Miss Penelope Peepem widely opened
her eyes, probably from not having heard
of the ' badger-pied ' before.

'What is your opinion of them, Bill
Baxter?' inquired Griselda, to the second
whip, as he held the ' loves ' in couples,
still staring with smiling; countenances

and waving sterns at Miss Penelope
Peei)em.

I should like to have yoiirn first, Miss
Grizzle,' replied he. ' You know, or are
said to know, as much about a foxhound
puppy as I do, and so I should like to have
your first, Miss Grizzle.'

'Well, then,' rejoined the first whip, Til
begin with their muzzles '

Miss Penelope Peepem made a sudden
start, but subsided immediately afterwards.

I don't thmk any fault can be found
with their muzzles.'

'I do,' rejoined Bill Baxter. ' They're
not the best I've seen by a long shot.'

"What do you say to their backs ?' asked
Griselda.

'What do you say about 'em. Miss
Grizzle ?'

Stronger I never beheld for their age
returned the first whip.

I have,' added old Grumblesome, ' in
litters out of number.'

Then how faultlessly straight their legs
are !'

I've seen straighter.'

And rounder feet I never wish to see.'

I do,' briefly returned old Grumble-some.


'What loins they have and deep
quarters !'

Miss Penelope Peepem gave a second
start, but again gently subsided":

I've seen broader, deeper, and better,'
returned old Grumblesome, ' times and
often.'

Their shoulders and elbows, too, are
perfection itself.'

T never saw perfection yet, in hound or
horse,' added old Grumblesome, ' neither inman,
woman, nor child.'

Miss Penelope Peepem thought that a

voluntary, unprovoked opinion of this kind
was little short of inexcusable impertinence
on the part of ]mr. Bill Baxter, and felt almost
disposed to say so on the spot ; but
her moral courage failed to support the
feeble resolution, and she continued, in a
temporary state of mental and physical
inactivity,

Looking at their points altogether,'
resumed Griselda, without taking the
smallest notice of old Grumblesome's
adverse criticism, ' they are perfect pictures
to look at.'

Handsome is as handsome does,' remarked
he. ' We shall see what they'll do
when entered.'

1 may,' responded the first whip, vAx\\
the laugh that was often heard but not
seen. but you, Bill Baxter, are never
close enough to hounds to see them work.'

I wouldn't be if I could and I couldn't

be if I would,' replied he, in a tone which
seemed to admit that he was now getting
the worst of the argument. ' My place is
behind the whole pack, stragglers, babblers,
cripples, line hunters, and the flying devils
that don't hunt their fox one yard.'

And you keep your place capitally from
the find to the finish,' rejoined the first
whip.

'As well as you keep your. Miss
Grizzle,' returned old Grumblesome, byway
of a judicious compromise, remembering,
perhaps, that he had been the aggressor.
' As well as you keep your, Miss
Grizzle,' repeated he, ' the first in the
foremost flight, but oftentimes at the risk
of your precious neck.'

Miss Penelope Peepem exclaimed ' Oh !'
and brought the palms of her hands together
with an energetic clasp. ' I must
speak seriously to John Oakacre about

this dreadful hunting. I must, indeed.
My peace of mind departed with those
frightful words alDOut your precious neck
Griselda. If my entreaty to abandon at
once and for ever the risks of this truly
dangerous sport is of no avail, I shall
supplicate for the powerful aid of Mr.
Chickabiddy, who, from the sad experience
of his first day's fox-hunting, as he gave
me clearly to understand, manfully determined
that it should be his last.

Had Miss Penelope Peepem been a keen
observer she would have beheld one corner
of her neice's upper lip looped up in the
form of what is generally called a sneer.

I do not feel disposed that the person
named should interfere in the preservation
of my neck, aunt dear,' observed
Griselda. * I shall endeavour to take care
of it without his assistance.'

But still I may reasonably suppose

VOL. ir. c

that he has a voice in the matter,' rejoined
Miss Penelope Peepem. ' As your intended
'

Give my love to the squire,' interrupted
Griselda, with an angry gesture,
^ and tell him I will take the greatest
care of the puppies while on walk here.
They shall have the best of food and
plenty of exercise.'

'That's the training for 'em, Miss Grizzle,'
said the second whip. ' If I was a young
fox-hound puppy, I should like nothing
better than to be under your care.'

And yet you very seldom agree with
me, Bill Baxter,' rejoined Griselda.

Oftener, perhaps, than you think for,
Miss Grizzle,' returned he. ' Like a o-ood
many other folks, I don't always say what
I mean, and, when it suits my purpose,
I'd just as soon tell a lie as speak the
truth.'

'Highly objectionable !' exclaimed Miss
Penelope Peeped, mali a shake of the
head which for a moment brought the
bald spot in view. ' A most objectionable
sentiment !'

It may be, ma'am,' returned old
Grumblesome ; ' but it suits me very
well, and I mean to stick to it. Speak
the truth, I say, when it pays. Tell a
lie when it doesn't. Them's my sentiments,
rio^ht or wrongs

are the names of these puppies ?'
inquired Griselda.

The squire told me to say. Miss Grizzle,
that you were to call 'em what you please.'

'Then I will name them,' rejoined the
first whip, ' Grumble and Growler.'

CHAPTER II.

In the room in which a livings niclo-e had
studied the rudiments of the law as a preliminary
step to his present elevated position
on the Bench, Edward Slomax sat
one evening poring over the pages of
Blackstone's Commentaries ' until he felt
more than wearied with his self-imposed
task.

'This is anything but light literature
said he, throwing his arms upwards and
following the action by a loud yawn.
*This is anything but light literature,'
repeated he, 'and my head aches and

temples throb with, I suppose, an overdose
of " Blackstone's Commentaries." '

He threw a glance around the walls of
the apartment, upon which hung a few
mouldy engravings of robed and engaged
Lord Chancellors and Chief Justices, and
smiled at the wild extravagance of the
thought that his might possibly be added
to the collection at some time or other
among the portraits of the judges of
England.

'And yet,' said he, Shy not? Those
old chaps, once upon a time, were young
chaps, and seemed to possess no more
chance of becoming judges of the land
than I do. They worked hard, and I
work hard. They, I daresay, hoped more
for success than expected it, and so do I ;
but still what came to them in the long-run
may come to me. When well up in
the knowledge of the law, they, of course,

wanted the opportunity for displaying their
knowledge, and it is fair to suppose the'
had it in the long run. That's just a
parallel case of what mine may be. I
mean to know all that can be known b}'
reading hard from six to eight hours a
day. No more rowing, no more cricket,
no more football for me. I have made up
my mind to cram myself full of law until
it runs over, and then, like those old chaps
there,' — the new student of the Middle
Temple made a practical reference, with
the sweep of a hand, to the portraits ' all
in a row,' — ' and await for somebody or
something to let others know that I know
a good deal more than they know, or are
likely to know. I'm afraid that's not ver'
good English, and open to objection froui
a tautological point of view. No matter,
it conveys a plain meaning; which is n
great improvement upon better English

delivered in marble halls and upon more
important occasions — when, perhaps, the
destiny of a nation is at stake, and not
that of a sucking barrister. Xow, in my
opinion, that's rather neat than otherwise.
I, therefore, repeat — for my own satisfaction,
and not that of any other living
soul, no other living soul being within
hearing — when perhaps the destiny of a
nation is at stake, and not that of a sucking
barrister. I will try, however, a cup
of tea, made by Jenny's fair hand, to
apply poetical language in lieu of historical,
and see if it will remove, or at least
modify, this thundering headache. I shall
also invite her to relieve me of the labour
of pouring out the tea, and share the
contents of the teapot, vdth an equal
division of the buttered toast. I must
have a few hours' recreation, combined
With hard work ; and Jenny's society' is

of the most refreshing, not to say exhilarating,
kind. She shall, therefore, be my
guest for the evening ;' and, touching the
spring of a small gong upon the table,
Mrs. Chell, otherwise ' Jenny,' made an
appearance before the shrill sound had
ceased to announce that it was required
with all expedition.

'Did you ring, sir?' inquired she.

'As nobody in this room could have
done so but myself, Jenny,' replied her
lodger, ' you may come to the conclusion,
without further interrogatories, that it was
me who sounded the loud timbrel o'er
Egypt's dark sea.'

'And what do you please to want, sir?'
asked the relict of the departed Chell, in a
cheery voice and manner, and without the
faintest trace of sorrow for his having;
gone in advance. ' And what do you
please to want, sir ?' repeated she.

Three distinct and separate supplies,
Jenny, to three distinct and separate requirements,'
replied her lodger, holding
up a finger to mark each nmnber of his
needs as it was made known.

You have only to acquaint me, sir,
with what they are,' rejoined Mrs. Chell,
*and nothing more is necessary.'

'To sum up, then — as might, perhaps,
he the language of my predecessor in the
legal atmosphere of the apartment I now
occupy' returned Edward Slomax, ' I
want some tea, hot buttered toast, and
your cheerful society for the Avliole of the
evening, Jenny.'

Mrs. Chell felt highly complimented, if
not flattered, at the last of the requirements
; but, not being prepared with a
fluent and flowery acknowledgment, briefly
expressed her thanks by saying, ' Thank
you, su'

If not buttered on both sides, Jenny
returned lier lodger, ' let the toast be at
least well buttered ; for I am going to
confide the secrets of my heart to you
after I have refreshed and fortified myself
with tea and buttered toast. I have long
since wished to pour forth the locked-up
secrets of my heart to you, Jenny, and
shall do so at the conclusion of our frugal
feast; when, if your hair does not stand
on end with amazement, I shall feel sadly
disappointed.'

What, at my hair, sir ?' asked Mrs. Shells
with a o'ood humoured lauo^h.

eyes,' responded he, emphatically, 'at
your hair, Jenny, and if each particular
one does not stand on end like prickles
upon the back of that milch abused beast
the beetle-devouring hedgehog. Prepare
to hear something ; but what that something
is I scarcely know myself'

Try and recollect, sir,' suggested Mrs.
Shells while I go and get ready the tea and
toast.'

But to introduce the subject as briefly
as circumstances mil permit,' continued
he, ' I will at once confess that I'm in
love.'

Which is a most natural condition fora
gentleman of your '

Weight you would say, Jenny,' added
he, ' and no doubt you are right in your
prompt conclusion. But make preparation
at once for our frugal feast, and, upon
the disappearance of the tea and toast from
natural causes, I will rcA'eal the hitherto
hidden secrets of my heart ^\'ith the most
complete and perfect knowledge, Jenny,
that the unreserved trust will not be abused
by you.'

Whatever you please to tell me, sir,'

rejoined Mrs. Chell, ' shall be as safe as if
locked up '

In the silent tomb,' added her lodger,
energetically. ' I know it and fully
appreciate the value of my depository
for the secrets of my heart. You shall
be in possession of them, Jenny, after
tea.'

It would achieve no purpose whatever,
either good, bad, or indifferent, to conceal
the unadorned, simple fact that Mrs. Chell's
curiosity was excited to learn the full
particulars of these secrets of her lodger's
heart.

In a general way he had stated that he
was in love, but she now wanted to know
with whom, her christian and surname,
and address. Whether young, middle-aged,
elderly, or old. Whether fat or lean.
Whether fjiir, brown, or black. Whether
tall or short. Whether hio^h-born, hedo-e-

born, or if not, why not and how otherwise
?

These with several other minor questions
flashed through Mrs. Chell's brain as she
proceeded with the utmost alacrity to make
preparations for the frugal feast, and,
persevering to the end, they were completed
in a rational manner, and within
reasonable limits.

Would Mr. Slomax like a little more
sugar?'

^Xot unless she thought an additional
lump would remove or relieve that thundering
headache.'

Mrs. Chell ' was not in a position to give
a decisive answer as to the probable result ;
but would hope for the best.'

I am always hoping, Jenny,' rejoined
he, as if speaking in a dream ; ' but as the
last bit of toast is left blooming alone, and
all its companions are swallowed and gone,

clear everything away, and upon the
fulfilment of the task I will reveal, Jenny,
the hidden secrets of my heart almost
broken, but not quite.'

Mrs. Chell ' was more than happy to
learn that her lodger's heart if flawed was
not beyond repairing.'

Being full to overflowing of expectation,
Mrs. Chell made short work of clearing
away the things, and quickly settled herself
in her chair to listen to the promised
narrative.

I'm in love, Jenny,' commenced he,
^ with the prettiest, pluckiest, and j oldest
girl in all Hampshire.'

A county celebrated for its rabbits,
sir,' remarked Mrs. Chell, parenthetically.

And then without further introduction
Edward Slomax plunged into all the details
of his boyish love for his cousin.
Told of the means by which he daily

tetzel her even to tickling her nose with
a feather or straw when asleep, and dwelt
in terms of rapture of the way in which
she chased and thrashed him round the
garden, in and out among the shrubs, up
and down the lawn, until compelled to
stop and cry aloud for mercy, while Cock
Robin stood a looker-on, convulsed with
laughter.

At this stage of the revelation Mrs.
Chell lifted the corner of her snow-white
apron to her lips, and, shutting her eyes,
adopted the precedent set long ago by
Cock Robin, and became similarly attacked.


In continuation her lodger told her that
loving her as he did, he never told her
so since he was a child, and although he
believed that she loved him she had never
told her so since she began to study the
arts and sciences.'

^ There I think you were wrong, sir
responded Mrs. Chell, ' decidedly wrong.
You should have come to an understanding
with one another.'

Our most lovable of aunts,' resumed
he, shad one great and absorbing object in
view for my cousin and that was that she
should marry a rich man, and had I even
hinted the shadow of a thought of my
deep affection for her with the view of
ultimately marrying her, Jenny, she would
have put me down as the greatest rascal
that ever lived.'

I really don't see why, Mr. Slomax,'
returned Mrs. Chell. ' I really don't see
why, sir.'

Without a single penny in the world to
call my own, and not knowing when, where,
or how, to earn or get one,' added he, ' was I
in a position to say one word about marrying,
or try to obtain a promise of any kind in

connection with marriage, however remote
mio;ht be the indefinite time thought of for
its fulfilment, from such a girl as my
cousin ?' inquired he almost passionately.

Your most lovable of aunts, sir, has
made every arrangement for your being
called to the Bar,' observed Mrs. Chell,
introducing, as she thought, extenuating
circumstances.

Bar !' exclaimed her lodger, vehemently.
'When called, how do I know that I
ever shall get a brief? Or if getting one
placed in my hands hour do I know that
I shall not fail in the case and never get another?
Was I to think of marring the
prettiest, pluckiest, and j oldest girl in all
Hampshire upon such prospects as these,
Jenny?'

Mrs. Chell coughed slightly, but said
nothing in reply.

'My aunt,' continued he, 'kind and

VOL. II. D

generous as she is to a fault, would never
have consented to what she must have
known to be a certainty for the miserable,
poverty-stricken future of her indulged
niece, whose wishes and whims, however
unreasonable, she gratifies to the fullest
extent even when mildly pretending to
oppose and resist them.'

Mrs. Chell began to think that any
small addition to the extenuating circumstances
had better be left in blank, and
filled in upon some more favourable
opportunity.

'The worst of it is,' continued her
lodger, clenching his fists, and hitting
out ' one, two ' straight from the shoulder,
my most lovable of aunts has picked
out such an unmitigated cad for my
cousin to marry. Oh, Chickabiddy ! If
I only had you here, and you would, or
could, stand up before me for just three

minutes and a half by the Middle Temple
clock, what a picture you'd be to gaze
upon by the philanthropists of Great
Britain !'

Mrs. Chell, perceiving the somewhat
excited condition of her loco-er, felt a slight
state of relief that the gentleman referred
to by the name of ' Chickabiddy ' was not
present.

This deplorable, debased, and execrable
snob, Jenny,' continued he, ' talks about
being the owner of a gold mine.'

A gold mine !' exclaimed Mrs. Chell,
raising her eyebrows. ' That's a great
temptation for any woman, sir.'

But not for my cousin,' quickly rejoined
he. ' I can see that she hates him, gold
mine and all.'

In that case,' returned Mrs. Chell, ' no
good can come of such a marriage, with

the gold mine thrown in."

d2

'That's just what I think, Jenny,' responded
her lodger. ' But how is she to
be rescued from Chickabiddy's jaws? Tell
me how, Jenny ; and I shall look upon
you for ever and ever as an angel of
light.'

There's but one straight course for you
to take, sir,' returned Mrs. Chell, ' as far as
I knoAV.'

Name it,' he almost shouted.

Declare openly your love for '

I dare not,' interrupted he. ' I dare
not, Jenny. It would break my most
lovable aunt's heart to know that I was
such a scoundrel.'

'But you can tell her, Mr. Slomax,'
added she, ' that, like other young men,
you mean to work, and, like other studious
and steady young men, make your way in
the world.'

'She would remind me, Jemi}^,' he re-pled,

combing his hair back from his forehead
with the divided fingers of one hand,
• that I was not in the tripos.'

But yon were '

Stroke oar in the winning eight against
Oxford,' added he. ' But that won't do.'

And you were '

Captain in the eleven when we licked
Oxford at cricket. But that won't
do.'

'Now, then, comes the question, Mr.
Slomax. What ^vill do?' rejoined Mrs.
Chell, who, apparently, was a little out
of tune ^^dth the negatives.

Xothing,' rejoined he, in a tone and
manner of absolute despair. 'Xothing,
Jenny. She, the prettiest, pluckiest, and
j oldest girl in all Hampshire, must be left
to the jaws of Orlando Chickabiddy, and
be swallowed.'

Mrs. Chell rose from her chair with a

slow and stately movement, and, fixing a
serious and determined look upon her
lodger's lined and anxious features, said,

'Not if I were a man, sir, and loved
her as you do. Good night, Mr. Slomax.'

CHAPTER III.

John Oakacee, Esq., M.F.H., of Oakacre
Court, was pacing up and clown the floor
of his library after breakfast one morning,
or, to be particular, after breakfast time —
for he had eaten nothing from a total want
of appetite — ^\ith the restless, aimless, and
pointless motion of a bear in a cage. A
newspaper was held in one of his hands to
which he momentarily referred, and seemed
to be absorbed in the intelligence rendered
in one short paragraph under the head of
City News.'

I can't understand it !' ejaculated he.

A fall of six per cent, in our gold mine
shares in one day, and now, instead of
standing at three per cent, premium, they
left off, it states here, at three per cent discount.
I begin to feel alarmed,' continued
John Oakacre, crumpling up the ill-omened
journal in the form of a wisp. ' I begin to
feel alarmed,' reseated he, 'not only for
myself, but for my friends and neighbours
who have entered into this venture with
me and, confessedly, upon my representations
of its being a magnificent property.
But, if magnificent, how is it that the shares
fall six per cent, in one day ? The company
has not been floated, to use one of j\Ir.
Chickabiddy's Stock Exchange phrases, for
more than a week, and, instead of being-able
to realize my shares at a large profit,
as he emphatically assured me would bethe
case, I should now have to sell them at
a considerable loss. To pay the deposit

money upon application for so large a
number,' continued lie, 'was exceedingly
inconvenient. I had to borrow the whole
amount from my bankers Who, knowing
what I wanted it for, were not particularly
disposed to giant my request if I may
judge from the hesitating manner in which
they acceded to it. I really must see
Chickabiddy upon this matter without the
delay of an hour, and try to investigate it
to the fullest extent, even to the very
bottom ; for I begin to feel most uneasy
about it — painfully uneasy.'

The squire had scarcely finished the
sentence and was biting his lips with
feverish impatience, when he became
conscious of the presence of the person he
had just referred to, following an announcement
being; made of his immediate
approach.

Ah, Chickabiddy !' he exclaimed, slightly

surprised at seeing his visitor, ' I was
just about starting for a ride to Hawkhurst
in the hope of finding you at home.'

I am glad to have saved you the trouble,'
replied Orlando Chickabiddy, without
much apparent disturbance of his nervous
system, and yet not altogether accompanied
by his usual self-possession.

'Take a chair,' rejoined the squire. 'I
wish to learn from you the cause of the
o-reat and sudden fall in the value of our
shares in the Gold Mine Company, which I
sec in this morning's paper fell six percent,
in one day.'

Mr. Chickabiddy's features became
illuminated with a faint and sickly smile
Which in no way improved the expression
of them.

To me,' continued the squire, ' this
appears an announcement of coming
disaster, and for which some explanation

will be expected by those who have risked
so much upon the responsibility of what I
have both said and done.'

Mr. Chickabiddy's smile became fainter
and fainter, and, as the squire completed
the sentence, no trace of it remained where
it had been a very short time before. Try
as he would — and try as he did — Mr. Orlando
Chickabiddy could smile no more at
that precise moment of his sublunary existence.
A thought flashed through his
brain as to what Mrs. Chickabiddy might
say upon the subject when it came to be
discussed between them.

'You are alarmed, my dear sir,' replied
he, 'at what you have seen in the City
article of this morning's paper ; but there
is really nothing in it.'

I see quite enough,' rejoined the
squire, 'to fill me with the greatest
apprehension.'

'The object of my being here so soon
after breakfast this morning, my dear Mr.
Oakacre,' returned his visitor, 'is to
remove the cause of your natural and
reasonable fear. I thought what must
be the state of your feelings as soon as
I saw that the Bears had been at us.'

The Bears !' exclaimed the squire, with
intense astonishment depicted upon his
countenance. 'Who or what on earth
are the Bears ?'

'The direct and distinct opposite of
what are called the Bulls,' replied Mr.
Chickabiddy. ' The Bears go for the fall ;
the Bulls go for the rise, and, their respective
operations being successful in the
ordinary course of events, the Bears secure
their profits by the dropping of the quoted
prices of the stocks and shares in which
they gamble ; while the Bulls, going for
the rise, make their profits by forcing up

the stocks and shares in which they gamble.*
But I was not aware, sir,' rejoined
Squire Oakacre, drawing himself up to
his full height, ' that there was to be any
disreputable gambling in the shares of our
company. I and my friends were led to
believe by you, sir, that we were embarking;
in a sound and visible undertakings
that nothing could be more positively
certain — gold having been discovered in
unheard of quantities in the Longitudinal
Section — than that we, each and all, might
confidently look forward to profitable and
and gratifying results.'

^ And so you may, sir,' sharply retorted
Mr. Chickabiddy, in a voice and manner
indicative of feelings himself ao^o-rieved at
the undisguised attack made upon him
by the chairman of the newly-floated
company. 'And so you may, sir,' repeated
he. ' I am not personally responsible for

the attack of the Bears. It is an operation
of the most common and e very-day
kind on the Stock Exchange, and not
unfrequently closely followed up by a
counter attack on the part of the Bulls.'

Am I to understand,' said the squire,
without any real or substantial cause for
either ?'

In nine cases out of ten,' rejoined Mr.
Chickabiddy, ' the fall and rise are skilfully
worked, and depend upon the unscrupulous
lies told and circulated upon
the Stock Exchange. You can have no
conception, Mr. Oakacre,' continued he,
smiling, 'of the number of unscrupulous
lies that are told daily upon the Stock
Exchange.'

I was totally unaware of this state of
things,' responded the squire, beginning
to feel that he had been a little too hasty
in prejudging Orlando Chickabiddy, and

thought of volunteering an apology without
further explanation being rendered
upon the subject.

Seeing by a mental glance the advantage
of his present position, and knowing that
it could not last very long, Mr. Chickabiddy
was determined to strengthen it in
the meantime.

I am a man, sir,' resumed he, tapping
his left breast sith the tips of the fingers
of his right hand, ' who when known is
certain to be trusted. When not known
it is only a question of time for him to
have that unlimited confidence placed in
his hands which the interval prevents his
possessing. My word, Mr. Oakacre, is my
bond, and my bond ' — the speaker seemed
to swell a little as he spoke — ' has hitherto
commanded a premium.'

The squire bowed a polite acquiescence,
and began to feel that he had entertained,

at least, temporary ungenerous thoughts
of the promoter of the Gold Mine
Company.

That which I say, Mr. Oakacre,' resumed
Orlando Chickabiddy, ' may be accepted
as nothing short of the gospel truth.
That which I do, Mr. Oakacre, may be
accepted as the act and deed of one of the
noblest out-turns of the City of London — '
Mr. Chickabiddy made a most efFective
and even dramatic pause before completing
the sentence — 'an honest man.'

The squire again bowed rather lower
than before, but said nothing in reply.

Now, sir, I do not hesitate to declare
unreservedly, and with the utmost confidence,
that no more opportune moment
could possibly be for averaging your
shares than the present.'

Averaging my shares !' repeated the
chairman of the Gold Mine Company,

evidently bewildered. 'AYliat does that
mean ?'

It means this, sir,' responded Mr.
Chickabiddy. ^ Having had your shares
allotted to you at par, you have nov the
golden opportunity, through the onslaught
of the Bears, to purchase an additional
number in the open market under par.
Between par and below par, or at the
present quoted price of three per cent,
discount, you ^vill at once arrive at the
profitable average between the two.'

But what real advantage will that be
tome?' asked the squire, somewhat confused
with the ' pars,' ^ discounts,' and

averages.

Great,' rejoined Mr. Chickabiddy.
Whether regarded in the light of an
investor or speculator, it cannot fail to be
of the greatest advantage to you, sir. In
holding the shares bought at a discount

VOL. II. E

you possess them at a price less than their
intrinsic value. If on the other hand you
determine to realize them upon their going
up above the price that you purchase them
at, you simply pocket the difference
between the purchase and the sale.
Nothing, my dear sir, can be clearer or
more obvious.'

But in the event of their not going up,'
returned the squire, ' what then ?'

You are supposing an impossibility,'
added Mr. Chickabiddy extending his
arms with the palms of his hands turned
outwards. ' One might as well suppose,'
continued he, ' that the river Thames will
turn round and run towards Oxford
as that the shares of the company of
which you are the honoured chairman
will not rise again far above what they
have already stood at. A gold mine, now
ascertained to be yielding, as a minimum,

four ounces to the ton of quartz quarried,
must command the floating capital of the
British public. In order that I may be
perfectly understood, I repeat, sir, must
command the floating capital of the British
public'

'A further purchase of shares will involve
an additional advance of money,'
said the squire, with a fixed and reflective
stare upon the carpet.

Xot necessarily,' responded Mr. Click
biddy, sith a bland smile. 'Xot necessarily,
my dear sir. If prudently resolved
to average your shares by increasing
your investment the matter can be financed
without the production of a single shilling
of hard cash. The Chancellor of the
Exchequer himself has, occasionally, to
finance, and you will remember that
exchequer bills are from time to time
issued for the temporary convenience of

E 2

UNIY£KSntaFIl*W

the nation. In the place of exchequer
bills we will finance the matter by issuing
yours, my dear sir. I will draw upon you
for the whole amount required ; get my
bankers to cash the paper ; instruct my
broker to buy the shares, and, upon the
Bulls coming in to take the place of the
Bears, order him to sell them in time to
retire your acceptances prior to their
falling due. So that, in fact, my dear sir,
all that you mil have to do will be to sign
your name across the stamps which I will
provide — a mere matter of form.'

You really are very kind. Chickabiddy,'
replied the squire. ' But I fear that I am
giving you an immense amount of trouble
in carrying out these intricate business
arrangements.'

Say not a word about trouble, my dear
sir,' returned the promoter of the great
Gold Mine Company. ' I'm a business

man. What fox-hunting; is to you business
is to me. The more I have of business
the more I want of it, and I shall
never have enough if I get more than
I want.'

I scarcely know '

The meaning of the word,' added Mr.
Chickabiddy ; ' but in due course of time
you will, my dear sir ; or I'm greatly mistaken.'


Under your skilful guidance I may do
so,' returned the squire ; ' but I fear that
your pupil will prove to be a great tax
upon your patience.'

Leave all to me, my dear sir,' said Mr.
Chickabiddy, rising from his chair as an
introductory movement to taking his departure.'
'Leave all to me, my dear sir,'
repeated he, ' and your brightest visions of
wealth shall all be realized.'

Upon mounting the animal bearing the

alleged resemblance to a camel, which
stood at the porch of Oakacre Court,
Mr. Chickabiddy might have been seen
struggling to stifle a laugh of no ordinary
explosive force.

^ Upon my sacred word of honour,' said
he, in a muttered tone, designed to be overheard
by no one, ' the longer I live the
more fools I meet, lunatics at large. It's
impossible to avoid them if one would.
They run against you in the highways,
byways, lanes, streets, and alleys. Put
your hands in our pockets, they say,
which we keep unbuttoned for your special
convenience, and ease us of our monck'.
It's much too heavy for us to carry. Take
it. Well, we respond to the invitation and
do as we are told. We take it, and the
exchange is naturally effected between those
who have brains and those who have not.
I have brains. John Oakacre, Esquire, of

Oakacre Court has none, and the consequence,
therefore, will be that I shall have
his money, and he will find himself without
it — his pocket lightened from the weight, as
most fools' pockets are in the long run.'

Mr. Chickabiddy chuckled as was his
wont when exceptionally pleased with his
own reflections ; but stopped abruptly as
if a thought of anything but a hilarious
nature had suddenly presented itself.

But what,' said he, drawing a long face
with his lower jaw dropped, 'will Mrs.
Chickabiddy say ?'

CHAPTER IV.

Mrs. John Sprat — most improperly and
too often vulgarly spoken of and addressed
by the rude boys of the village as ^ Jack
Sprat ' — was unusually tall of stature, unusually
devoid of fat, as far as could be
seen, and possessed of a countenance made
up generally of a large, hooked nose, closely
set small black eyes, and a mouth which
from its extreme range seemed to terminate
where it began at remote angles. Her
skin was yellow, approaching to orange
tint, relieved with freckles in great abundance,
and an irresistible thought arose,

when the spectator's look became fixed
upon her nose, that Mrs. John Sprat must
belong to an extinct class of parrots of
great size and devoid of plumage.

Her dress, the seasons round, was of the
simplest kind, consisting of a washed-out
brown holland o-own, fastened round the
throat bv a sinoie horn button, and left in
other respects to sit closely to her figure as
it could, or float idly in the T^dnd as sometimes
it would, A cap, not generally of
snowy whiteness, answering the two-fold
purpose of a day and nightcap, covered her
tresses of doormat thickness and colour,
and a deep frill flapping over her nose,
completed the personal appearance and
outward effect of Mrs. John, otherwise
^ Jack Sprat.'

It may be mentioned, however, that this
cap, with a deep frill flapping over her features,
invariably stood cocked' on one side

of her head, lending a jaunty and almost
defiant expression to them.

Among the collective and several annoyances
of Mrs. John Sprat's diurnal existence
was the great want of punctuality in
the doctor's appearance at dinner time.
Do what she would, and say what she did,
Tom Tidy paid little or no attention to
either. In vain she repeatedly called his
attention to the fact that it was worse than
useless to get his mutton chop cooked to a
turn upon the gridiron or boil his mealy potato
to the last scientific bubble in the pot.
He was never ready to give fair play to her
culinary art, but always arrived when both
were cold, tasteless, and spoiled. She did
her best ; but from what she could see she
might as Avell do her worst. To all this,
however, Tom Tidy turned a deaf ear, or if
hearing was totally indifferent to what was
said upon the subject, and proceeded to cat

his mutton clio in silence long after it
had become cold/tasteless, and indigestible.

Having been for a hunt of some three
hours after a fly scientifically called ' 
Medius,' which eluded his capture,
notwithstanding an exhibition of great
patience and endurance, Time, like the
insect, had been on the wing, but without
Tom Tidy devoting a single thought upon
the speed of his flight. As usual, therefore,
he was late, too late, for perfecting
the mutton chop and mealy potato which
Mrs. John Sprat now placed before him
with an air of triumph.

I've not tried to keep 'em hot this
time,' said she, with bitter severity in her
tone, ' and never ^Yill again. If back intime,
well and good. If not back in time,
well and bad. I shall take no pains for
the future in keeping or trying to keep
them hot. I have done with it, sir.'

Pray control your temper, Mrs. John
Sprat,' responded the doctor, in a quiet
tone and most placid manner. ' I'm quite
contented with the viands as you have
placed them before me.'

^ They look nasty enough,' rejoined she,
with increasing acerbity of temper, ' and I
hope they taste as they look.'

Anyone been here during my temporary
absence ?' asked the doctor.

Your temporary absence,' rejoined Mrs.
John Sprat, with a sarcastic laugh, ' means
that you arc always out shimmering after
flics, butterflies, and such-like.'

Paying no heed to the reproof, Tom
Tidy repeated his question.

Yes, there has,' was the short and sharp
answer of Mrs. John Sprat.

'Who?' briefly inquired he, noiselessly
dropping his knife and fork, and looking
with an earnest gaze at his assistant, who

stood ^\itli folded arms, as if prepared for
any emergency.

'That chap Cock Robin, as he's called,'
she replied, ' and a worse or more audacious
chap doesn't live in these parts.'

'What did he come for?'

'A dose.'

And '

I gave him one.'

'Aqua pueri, of course,' added the
doctor, vdih great complacency, as he
resumed the offices of the knife and
fork.

'Not this time,' returned Mrs. John
Sprat, with an expression approaching
malignity. ' Xot this time,' repeated she.
I thought I'd make a change.'

Tom Tidy's knife and fork dropped in
his plate with a loud chatter, and his look
was that of extreme dread of what he
felt was about to be revealed.

A change,' said he, in tremulous
accents.

'Yes,' replied his assistant, compressing
her lips and rolling her head from side to
side. ' He came this morning, and, as
usual, said, " Jack Sprat, I want a dose."
Said I, "What's your symptoms?" Said
he, " My symptoms be blowed. Give mea
dose. Jack Sprat." Said I to myself,
You shall have a dose and a change of
physic this time. It shan't be out of the
old bottle." '

From what bottle, then, did you take
it ?' almost groaned the doctor, seeing preparations
for a coroner's inquest not far
off.

I poured out a full vial, a good two
ounce, from the dark green one next the
old bottle, thinking it would do him more
good ' — Mrs. John Sprat laughed loudly

at this juncture, and then resumed — 'as
it might be a little bit stronger than aqua
pueri.'

'A little bit stronger,' gasped Tom Tidy.

Yes,' continued Mrs. John Sprat ; ' I
thought it not unlikely, as I never heard
of aqua pueri making anybody worse than
before, and most of the other stuffs you
give the people do, if they speak the
truth.'

The doctor looked at his assistant in
mute silence for a few seconds, and then
said, in a voice scarcely audible,

Did he swallow the decoction ?'

'Xot in the shop,' replied Mrs. John
Sprat. 'He paid twopence for it, and
after making all the fun of me he could
by calling me Jack Sprat, and asking
whether it was I who loved the fat or
my husband the lean, and if between us

we didn't manage to lick the platter clean,
he left, saying that he would swallows the
dose just before dinner, to strengthen his
appetite.'

^ Strengthen his appetite !' repeated Tom
Tidy, with all the palpable effects of an
attack of paralysis. ' He will never know
again what an appetite is. He's a dead
Cock Robin !'

Dead !' exclaimed Mrs. John Sprat,
whose turn had now arrived for feeling
alarm, not far removed from extreme
terror.

It was poison for rats,' almost shrieked
the doctor, so shrill were the notes of
his voice ; and then, clasping his forehead
between both hands, he reiterated, in
almost a hollow, sepulchral tone, ^ It was
poison for rats.'

^t won't kill him. Say it'll not kill
him. Please say it will not kill him

quite exclaimed Mrs. John Sprat, ranging
her hands, ' and my mind will be
relieved !'

Let us think more of relieving his
stomach,' responded Tom Tidy, springing
from his chair with a vigorous effort.
Get the stomach pump, and follow me.'

'Where is it?' was the question, almost
asked in a scream, by Mrs. John Sprat.
Oh, say where is the stomach pump, or
I may be condemned to be hanged for
murder !'

Drawer after drawer in the shop was
opened with a jerk, and closed with a
slam, without the instrument being found ;
but at last it was discovered where least
expected.

Follow me,' shouted the doctor, clutching
it, and rushing, bareheaded, through
the door into the road without. ' Follow
me.'

VOL. II. F

The order was promptly obeyed by Mrs.
John Sprat, who ran at her best pace so
closely upon her employer's heels, that
the danger seemed imminent of her treading
upon them.

CHAPTER V.

Having had this joke with Mrs. 'Jack
Sj^rat,' by putting the pointed and personal
questions as to the fat and the lean,
and the united labour of herself and husband
in licking the platter clean, Cock
Robin had resigned himself to the pleasurable
anticipation of a remarkably good,
albeit plain, dinner, and was watching the
cook in the interesting act of 'serving u}),'
With eyes glistening ^\ith epicurean delight.
'I should say, cooky,' observed he, sitting
in a chair already placed close to the
table, and balancing a knife playfully 



tween a finger and thumb in readiness to
begin, ' that that's a leg of mutton.'

Cooky,' who Alas always ready to laugh
immoderately at anything said or done by
the low comedian of Forester's Lodge,
began to shake with an eruption of mirth,
and wished to be informed, ' If not a leg
of mutton, what else could it be ?'

I like leg-of-mutton-day,' rejoined Cock
Robin, ' better than any other day in the
week, including Sunday, when I have nothing
to do but look on. The suet-pudding
cut in slices under it, with the gravy
nicely dropping on 'em until they're a
rich brown, put me in mind of what that
heavenly food manna must be.'

^: Cooky ' thought the conclusion of the
sentence just delivered most objectionable,
in a theological point of view, and became
serious on the instant.

I'll thank you not to mix up suet-pudding

with religion, Mr. Cook Robin.
As the parson would tell you, the thought
of the one doesn't ao-ree ^\ith the thought
of the other, and both can't be inwardly
digested at the same precise moment of
time. Things for the body are quite different
from things for the soul.'

Give me things for the body,' rejoined
he. ' I seem to understand 'em better.'

AYhich shows that heathens are still to
be found," returned ' Cooky,' ' without
much time beings lost in searching; for
them.'

Ha, ha, ha !' laughed Cock Robin. ' Call
me a heathen, eh ? Well, no matter ! Ha,
ha '

The laugh begun was not only checked,
but effectually stopped, and remained unfinished
from that instant of time and forever
afterwards.

Conscious of some great disturbing

agency in his immediate rear, but not
knowing who or what the factor was,
Cock Robin found himself suddenly seized
from behind round the throat, and pulled
firmly backwards against the chair in
which he was sitting.

What does this all mean T he would
have said, but the words were choked
l:)efore they could be uttered.

What does this all mean ?' ' Cooky '
expressed in her looks of unutterable
amazement as she saw her fellow-servant,
the low comedian of Forester's Lodge, with
a dismal countenance, held in the firm
clutch of Mrs. eJohn Sprat, while Tom
Tidy was actively occupied with a surgical
instrument which he was putting together
as speedily as possible with the
evident design of performing an operation
of ' urgency.'

What does this all mean ?' was the
repeated interrogatory of ' Cooky,' conveyed
in silent astonishment, for she
continued to stare with widely stretched
eyes and blindness eyelids.

Where's the vial you got from Mrs.
John ?' He had no time to add ' Sprat.'

I took it "

Xot a single moment is to be lost
interrupted the doctor. ' Bring me a pail
of water. We'll pump him in and then
pump him out. It's the only way to make
sure of saving his life if the poison has not
been already absorbed into his system,
which is more than doubtful. Hold him
fast, Mrs. John.'

Taking a still firmer clutch upon his
throat, Cock Robin felt himself in a state
of complete helplessness and at the entire
mercy of Mrs. John Sprat, whose manly

grasp brought forcibly to his inincl what
a similar sensation would be, if held by
an iron vice With a powerful leverage.

Mechanically, but quickly, a pail of
water was brought by ' cooky,' whose
every action betrayed the greatest consternation,
and set in front of the now
refractory patient, who began to exhibit
a rebellious spirit by kicking out behind
and before in a manner totally regardless
of all consequences.

'Hold him fast, Mrs. John,' said the
doctor, ' and I'll soon have the gag in.'

'I've got hiui,' replied his assistant,
and I'll hold him, never fear*, until you
tell me to let go.'

Cock Robin, hearing this, and feeling,
practically, the force of the expressed intention,
gave up all further resistance, and
became passively resigned to whatever
might follow.

That irdYt of the machinery belonging
to the stomach pump called the ' gag '
having been thrust between Cock Robin's
jaws, the flexible tube was inserted
through the centre, and so passed gently
and steadily direct below, when the
pumping in ' commenced, and the water
quickly subsided in the pail from the
operation of the transfer.

let him have another gallon,' said Mrs.
John Sprat. ' Wash him out clean while
you're about it.'

Tom Tidy's professional opinion was,
however, that enough water had been
pumped in,' and the next act of expediency
for effecting the special purpose of
rendering the poison for rats innocuous
was to reverse the movement of the
machine, and 'pump him out.'

AVith commendable energy, combined
with great good will, Tom Tidy set the

piston ill motion again, and a vacuum
Alas soon afterwards produced in Cock
Robin's stomach.

There said the doctor. ' If your life
is not safe, nothing can make it safer th^-t
I know of.'

Was he, then, in danger ?' asked
cooky,' recovering at length her faculties
of speech.

Great,' shortly and sharply replied the
doctor.

From swallowing what ?' inquired
^ cooky,' who began to be enlightened
ns to the object of applying the stomach
pump.

^ Poison,' responded Mrs. John Sprat.
Poison for rats.'

The gag being removed, and his throat
released from Mrs. eTolin Sprat's embrace,
Cock Robin felt enabled to give vent to his
pent-up feelings, and at once proceeded

to convey a most emphatic denial to tliis^
assertion in the most positive form.

'I say it's a lie, Jack Sprat,' rejoined
he, trying to regain his lost and expended
breath, ' and as big a lie as ever you
gave tongue to. I didn't swallow your
beastly stuff; and knowing that I might
be poisoned if I did, I never intended to
SAvalloAV it.'

'You said that you took it,' returned
Tom Tidy, beginning to feel apprehensive
that a little professional error might have
been committed. ' You said that you took
it,' repeated he, appealing to ' Cooky ' with
outstretched arms for confirmation of the
statement.

But you didn't wait to hear where I
took it,' added Cock Robin, in a faint voice
and feeble manner, 'before shoving that
long thing down my throat, and begin
pumping away at me as if I was a water

cart. T still such treatment of a fellow
Christian scandalous !'

^ You said that you took it,' repeated the
doctor, determined to justify or, at least,
extenuate his little professional error as
far as might he possible under existing
circumstances.

Took it !' Reiterated Cock Robin. ' Yes,
I took it to the stable and threw it down
the drain so that it oughtn't make n dog-sick.'


You should have explained this before,'
said Tom Tidy', in as bland a voice and
manner as he was master of, ' and then all
unpleasant consequences would have been
avoided.'

Mt was Jack Sprat's doing, I know,' responded
Cock Robin, sulkily, ' but 111 let
her have it back again before long. She
.shall remember spoiling my dinner on 
-day.'

Without waiting longer for any addition
to be made to Cook Robin's threats of
revenge for the grievous tong he had met
^vith at the united hands of Doctor Tom
Tidy and his assistant, they took their departure
from the kitchen of Forester's
Loose, confessing' to each other that a
little professional error had been committed,
but for which, however, there was
much to be advanced bv wav of excuse.

CHAPTER YI.

John Oakacre, Esq., M.F.H., amved one
morning at Forester's Lodge much earlier
than the ordinary cause of an ordinary
visit might be supposed to justify, and ashe
sat restlessly in his chair in the presence
of Miss Penelope Peepem and her niece,
twitching the toe of a stretched-out boot
with the point of his riding whip, a correct
inference might have been drawn that
something was pressing upon his mind in
the shape of a Responsibility from which
he Alas desirous of being promptly relieved.


*And how are Grumble and Growler?'
inquired Griselda, who, perceiving the
indications of the squire's mental disturbance.
felt that ' the something his mind '
referred probably to herself, and ought, if
possible, to be avoided.

They are the best looking of our young
entry replied he, ' and I have no douljt
will turn out the best. A couple of more
beautiful or symmetrical puppies I never
wish to see.'

And their condition ?' rejoined Griselda.
^ Xot too fine drawn, I hope.'

Miss Penelope Peepem slightly raised
her hands and lifting her eyes to the ceiling
gave a sigh which could not be mistaken
as to its depth.

The squire smiled.

No,' returned he. ' In my opinion
neither is a pound too light or a pound
too heavy.'

That's the perfection of condition
added Griselda, 'and just Avhat I intended
they should be when taken from walk by
old Gruniblesome.'

Miss Penelope Peepeni repeated her
sigh which, if anything, was rather more
audible than before.

After a slight pause the squire remarked
making at the same time a severe cut at
the toe of his boot,

'The cause of my early visit here, today,
is of much greater importance than
anything connected with foxhound puppies.'


Griselda darted a fiery glance at the
sqiure, and threw herself back in her
chair with a gesture of the utmost impatience.


She felt instinctively the object of the
squire's early visit.

I am here,' said he, in a hesitating

voice and confused manner, ' as Mr. Chickabiddy's
advocate.'

How is the o-ood man's leo?' asked Miss
Penelope Peepem. ' I sent yesterday to
inquire, with Griselda's affectionate love,
expressing the fervent hope that he wa?i
free from pain.'

The fiery glance Alas now turned A\ith
full force upon the last speaker.

I sent no such message,' rejoined her
niece, with the corner of her upper lip
looped so as to expose to view some exceedingly
white teeth. ' I sent no such
message,' repeated she.

Xo, my dear,' returned Miss Penelope
Peepem, with a flutter of the little lace cap
which more than threatened to publish
the circular l)ald spot ; ' but, then, you
ought to have sent one, and I considered it
my paramount duty to supply your marked
and hiohlv censurable error of omission.'

VOL. II. G

I suppose he was in bed,' observed
Griselda, with the white teeth still in view.
Whenever he gets a scratch, even in his
little finger, he is sure to go to bed.'

It was not a scratch upon his little
hngcr,' said Miss Penelope Peepem, with
great gravity of demeanour, ' that impelled
the poor sufferer to go to led ; but a decided
bite in the leg.'

For which Sam is much to be pitied,'
added Griselda. ' Poor, dear Sam ! He
was sick for nearly an hour afterwards,
although I gave him a large bit of sugar
to take the taste out of his mouth.'

But what shall be said of poor Mr.
Chickabiddy?' asked her aunt, gravely.
Have you no compassion for your intended
husband ?'

It was the result of his own awkwardness,'
replied Griselda. sin coming into
the room he blundered against Sam, and.

treading heavily upon one of his feet, the
dear, sensible dog reminded him that he
possessed feelings as Avell as himself, and
let his tormentor understand what they
Avere in a very natural way.'

By making his teeth meet in the most
developed part of his leg,' added her aunt.
^ A most savage attack, in my opinion, and
a lasting stain upon Sam's general good
character for consideration, kindness, and
forbearance to everyone and everything,
even to the l:»lind old bantam which he
loves to carry about tenderly in his
mouth.'

Poor, dear fellow !' exclaimed Griselda.
I .beo^an to fear that he would never set
the taste of Mr. Chickabiddy's leg out of
his mouth. He was so dreadfully sick.'

There was now a pause in the discussion
which the squire thought might be a favourable
opportunity for commencing the

G 2

address lie had come specially to make upon
Orlando's behalf.

'The injury to Chickabiddy's leg is little
more than skin deep,' said he, ' and therefore
'

'He has taken to his bed,' added Grim


We can at any rate,' returned the
squire, ' dismiss this part of the subject.
There is not much the matter with Chickabiddy's
leg, and Sam has recovered from
his sickness.'

For which I cannot be too thankful,'
added Griselda. ' Poor dear fellow ! He
was so very sick that I began to fear that
he had been really poisoned.'

The squire once more applied the point
of his riding-whip to the toe of his boot
and then began the serious introduction of
the subject which pressed sorely upon him
in the shape of a responsibility.

I ciiii here said he, addressing Gristle
' to frankly ask you to name an early
day for carrying out your engagement
to many my friend, Orlando Chickabiddy,
who, with unremitting care and
attention has now everything prepared for
the reception of his bride that gold can
produce, and should anything appear to
be wanting I am commissioned b}' him to
state that you have only to make known
your Lavishes for the void to no longer exist
even in a thought.'

'A most generous and noble offer,' responded
Miss Penelope Peepem, in a flutter
of great excitement, ' and quite worthy
of the tender source from whence it
emanates.'

Griselda darted a passionate look at
her aunt, but maintained unbroken silence.


The time has arrived ''

It appears, indeed, that it has,' interrupted
her niece, vehemently, as the words-seemed
to hiss between her clenched teeth,
lout I have something to urge for a little
merciful delay. As both of you well
know, I yielded a reluctant consent to become
this man's wife, upon your urgent
and repeated solicitations. The more than
probable consequences of my persistent
refusal were continually pointed out tome
in language impossible to admit of two
meanings. I might be at any time homeless
and friendless, and as little capable,
as you said, of fighting the battle of life
or getting the simple means of existence
as a child still nursed in its mother's arms
These were the words addressed to me
when the often-repeated subject of my
contemplated marriage with Mr. Chickabiddy
was mentioned. As you will admit,
I resisted all the force of your persuasion

in 111}' power, but at length gave way, as
most things must, before a superior force.
I began to fear, and then believe, that
I might be homeless and friendless, and at
last said yes with my lips to become what
I can only be in name, when my heart
replied emphatically no. It was my unalterable
resolve, however, when I gave
ni' consent, not to be too precipitate in
the fulfilment of my promise, and I am
(quite unprepared to name a time for
carrying out Mr. Chickabiddy's wishes,
(opposed as they are to my own inclination.
I will do so, having entered into the
engagement, at no distant date ; but not
yet.*

More from her decided tone and manner
than her words, the squire knew that no
argument would prevail over Griselda's
determination that mornings, and risings
his chair he shook her warmly by the

hand, saying, preparatory to his departure,


Try to think of this in a better spirit.
Your permanent interests and welfare are
at stake, and have alone been thought of
by your aunt and myself, and considering
Avhat the power of wealth is, and the happiness
it commands, T feel convinced that
you will never have cause to regret following
our advice in the most important step
to be taken in yours or any woman's life.'

The squire having quitted the room,
Miss Penelope Peepem crossed her hands
before her, and squaring her elbows in a
stiff and formal manner, with her eyes
cast upon the floor, observed,

Referring for a moment only to Mr.
Chickabiddy's natural wish for a termination
to be put to his agonising suspense, I
must think the time has arrived '

Before another syllable of the sentence

i-ould be continued, she became sensible of
the sharp closing of a door.

Upon looking u]), Miss Penelope Peepem
found herself in full possession of her own
exclusive society.

CHAPTER VII.

It Alas early in the morning of the last
day of November, and, therefore, the concluding;
one of the first month of regular
hunting with the Oakacre hounds, when
Bill Baxter was seen stumbling and sham-bing
along the high-road mounted on a
horse which might have been in the foremost
flight in days gone by, but now
exhibiting higher qualifications for a more
modest place in the extreme rear. Time
and the seasons had produced the change.
Come up, old 'loss,' said he, reminding
him with a touch of the spurs that his

immediate duty was to stand upon his
legs if he desired to avoid a sharp repetition
of the practical notice.

Early as was the hour, the second
Avhipper-in was already equipped in hi
hunting livery, time-worn, faded, and
stained.

'I wonder what's up this morning?'
said he, taking off his cap and examining
the outside of a sealed note lying about
the middle of the crown upside down.
There's something more than I know or
can guess,' continued he ; ' but the secret's
there, and I suppose I shall know all aljout
it presently. The squire looked precious
pale when he gave it to me to bring to
Miss Grizzle, and I feel inwards that the
something up is not altogether a pleasant
something.'

He had scarcely concluded the sentence
when the entrance to Forester's Lodge was

gained with a few additional stumbles and
corrections for stumbling addressed to the
old 'loss,' and a hearty welcome followed
In the form of a loud greeting from the
stentorian lungs of Cock Rol)in, engaged
in the light occupation of sweeping up a
fcAv crisp and faded leaves scattered on the
gravel-path before him.

Why, what has brought you here, Bill,
thus early ?' said he, advancing with a roll
and a swao^o-cr towards him.

The squire's orders,' was the prompt
reply, ' and this old 'loss — a staggering,
blundering, dropping, pecking, grogg}^
rusty old screw that no oiling of your
rowels can keeps steady on his feet for
three strides at a time. Precious hard
Avoir, Cocky, I can tell ye, to ride such a
stumped-up bit of untanned leather. I
wish he was in the liquid state of broth,
and then my precious neck might be safer

than it is whenever I have a mount on
hin.'

Oh, never mind your precious neck !'
rejoined his friend and genial companion.
That'll be all right until the hangman
pays a ^'isit to Winchester jail one mornings.
But tell me what has brought you
here betimes ?'

• The squire wants this note given to
Miss Grizzle,' responded Bill Baxter, ' and
I am to take her answer back as soon
as possible ; which means as soon as this
bless-ed bag of old skin and bones can
carry me.'

Cock Robin took the proffered note
from the hand of the second Avhipper-in,
and disappeared within the portal of
Forester's Lodge with the utmost display
of activity.

I wonder what this is all about?' said
Bill Baxter to himself ' I don't quite

like the outside of things just hoar. They
look to me smoky.'

He was not kept Awaiting long before
Griselda appeared hurriedly reading the
note in her hand, and partly equipped in
her hunting: costume, lout her toilet generally
anything but complete.

'The squire,' she said, addressing Bill
Baxter, with her eyes still bent upon
the note, ' is unexpectedly compelled to
oro to London this morning and wishes
me to take his place and hunt the hounds
for him.'

'That's just the right place for the first
Avhip,' responded he, with a grin which
brought the nobles of his mouth within
measurable distance of the loss of his
ears, 'when the huntsman can't be with
em.

I'll do mv best '

In course you will, Miss Grizzle,' 

old Grumblesome, ' and if not
quite so much up to the hest as it might
be, it's sure to be thought so by the
gentlemen of the hunt. You, Miss Grizzle,
never do anything wrong in their eyes ;
lout, if I did exactly the same thing, I
should have mine anything but blessed
now and then.'

Name one,' rejoined Griselda angrily.

Jamming too close to hounds in a fast
run,' returned he, ' and sometimes overriding
them.'

You never do that,' said Griselda, With
a cynical laugh. ' You never do that,'
repeated she.

I wouldn't if I could,' replied Bill
Baxter. ' And couldn't if I would. My
place is well behind hounds, and it suits
me better than to be with 'em at any
part of the run, unless it's particularly
slow.'

The huntsman's place is to be with
his hounds at the find, in the run, and
at the finish,' responded Griselda, adding,
while her eyes dilated and flashed
nth pride, 'That shall be my place today.'


Very good, Miss Grizzle,' added old
Grumblesome; ' and I daresay you'll keep it
from the find to the finish. But I wouldn't
if I could, and couldn't if I would.'

'You'll give me all the help you can,'
]returned she, 'and, remembering what I
have to do, not be spitefully jealous of
my being M.F.H. for one glorious single
day of my life ?'

I won't. Miss Grizzle,' added old Troublesome.
' I'll obey your orders,' continued
he, 'just as I would the squire's
at a distance ; for I don't like to be too
close to him when a little ruffled in his
temper, and his hackles are up. He then

scares the very thoughts out of my head,
and sets my brains all a-wobbling.'

You shall have no cause to complain of
what I say.'

^ You'll not swear, I know, Miss Grizzle
interrupted old Grumblesome. 'You re
too much of a Christian lady for that, or,
if you do swear, you'll take precious care,
as the parson did, that nobody hears you,
which is about as innocent a think; as I
know of. Swear if you Hke, I say, but
don't let anybody hear ye, and then no
offence is given here below, whatever it
may be from Whence all blessings flow.
That I know very little about.'

Have the hounds been drafted for
hunting to-day?' inquired she.

Yes,' replied old Grumblesome ; ' but
if you ride over to the kennels. Miss Grizzle,
before o'oino; to the meet, and want to
make any change, you can do so as well

VOL. II. II

as the squire, for you know the hounds,
unci they know you, just the same as if
you were their own sister.'

111 do so,' rejoined Griselda, ' for I
should like to have them as nearly perfect
as possible for this one glorious single day
of my life, when I'm to carry the horn of
a M.F.H.'

And know how to blow it, too,' returned
old Grumblesome, ' and when to blow
it, and when not to blow it, and when to
chink-wink 'em along, and lift 'em hard
when they can't hit the line of their fox,
or make a successful cast. That's what
you can do. Miss Grizzle, as well as the
squire.'

'This is praise indeed from you. Bill
Baxter,' added Griselda. ' You never said
anything of me or to me half so '

Oh, yes, I have,' interrupted he — ' not,

perhaps, to ye, but of ye many a time.
Praise to people's faces don't mean much,
but praise behind their backs may betaken
as meant in full, with something to
spare.'

Knowing this for the first time,' rejoined
Griselda, ' we shall be on more
friendly terms for the future. I will try
to forget what you have said to me in the
remembrance of what you have said of
me.'

As a fox-hunter. Miss Grizzle,' continued
he, ' and a thorough good sportsman,
you have no superior in the whole
county of Hampshire. You know what
hounds and hunting mean, and the difference
between riding well and straight to
hounds and riding over them.'

From sour remarks, made not long-since,'
returned she, ' I thought that I

might not be aware of the distinction.'

You mustn't, Miss Grizzle,' added ol^I
Grumblesome, 'believe all I say all at
once. I generally keep a little bit up my
sleeve. But I must go now, or the squire
will be down upon me like a cartload of
bricks for keeping him waiting for your
answer, Miss Grizzle.'

Tell him that I will fill his place today
to the best of my ability, and above
all things remember his golden rule to let
them alone.'

That's it. Miss Grizzle,' rejoined old
Grumblesome, enthusiastically. ' Leave
them alone means patience, and makes
hounds work for themselves instead of
throwing up their heads when at fault,
and looking to the huntsman for help.'

And the more the' get,' added the
newly-appointed M.F.H., 'the more they
look for. As arranged,' continued she, ' I

Avill be at the kennels, and inspect the
draft, previous to riding to the meet,' and,
turning upon her heel. Bill Baxter was
left to stumble and shamble back on his
road to Oakacre Court.

CHAPTER Vii

Gazelle looked, from lier dainty tread
and general appearance of a peacock in an
unusually proud spirit, to fully comprehend
that going to the meet on the present
occasion was of more than ordinary importance
and interest.

High in the air she tossed her head, and
then, dropping it between her knees, she
again threw it up, with her nostrils distended,
snorting and blowing hard with
excitement. Her large, full eyes, as black
as those of the animal from which she
took her name, flashed as she strode along

turning them backwards every now and
then, as if suspicions of approaching
danger in the rear, and watching vigilantly
for the safety of her rider.

In front of Griselda. the M.F.H. for
one day only of the Oakacre hunt, several
couples of hounds trotted with their sterns
raised and turned over their backs, while
some were on either side of Gazelle, and
the remainder of the pack straggled independently
behind, whipped in by Bill
Baxter, at a distance, mounted on the
old 'loss.'

With her hunting-crop lifted occasionally
to the peak of her cap, Griselda
acknowledged the salutations and greetings
of the villagers and rustics lavishly
bestowed upon her in going to the meet,
each and all of the enthusiastic spectators
being unanimous that neither the M.F.H.,
Gazelle, hounds, nor even old Grumble-some

himself were ever seen to turn out
in better or more sporting form.

From the effect, transitory as it might
be, it was conjectured that the time-worn,
mud-stained, and dilapidated livery of
Bill Baxter had undergone the recent
process of renovation. It looked, at any
rate, brighter and cleaner than usual, as
if a rubbing up, brushing, and sponging
had proved highly successful.

Bill Baxter had done his best to make
himself and the ' old 'loss ' look as smart as
possible upon this eventful occasion. Even
the girths of his saddle had been whitened
to the extreme of whiteness, and
nothing done or left undone but with the
object of making the general effect as
perfect as existing circumstances would
permit.

Beacon Hill now came in view, the
jilace of the fixture, and in the distance

might be seen red coats, green coats,
black coats, and coats of divers colours,
all pointing for the brow of Beacon Hill.

The M.F.H. smiled With satisfaction as
the crowd assembling, some mounted and
some afoot, proved from the unusual numbers
that the rumour of her presence in
the place of the squire must have been
rapidly circulated far and Avide.

^ The first draw,' she said to herself, ' the
first draw,' repeated she, ' is almost a sure
find, and if the scent only proves a holdings
we shall have a run that will be
remembered.'

A gleam of pale November sunshine
broke from between the murky clouds as
Griselda with the hounds reached the top
of Beacon Hill, and as she reined in
Gazelle, and brought her to a standstill,
every hat and cap was raised, and the
M.F.H. for 'one day only' felt that she

possessed a full share of popularity nth the
squire of Oakacre Court.

I'm to my time, I think, ' said the
M.F.H., addressing a member of the hunt,
and one of the squire's oldest friends.

'To a minute,' replied he, glancing at
the dial of his watch, adding, with a good
humoured laugh, ' as a huntsman ought to
be.'

A move was now made in the direction
of the first 'draw,' a large and thickly
grown piece of gorse, within little more
than a quarter of a mile from Beacon Hill.

Arrived within a few yards of the cover,
Griselda closely followed the course invariably
followed by the squire, and stopped
to glance at the hounds With their
faces turned towards her, and waving
sterns, eagerly watching for the signal to
be thrown into the brake.

For a few moments they were kept on
the strain of expectation when a single
wave of Griselda's whip hand and every
hound was crashing through it, each
ambitious to challenge the fox, and have
the huntsman's cheer for the find.

A whimper was now heard about the
middle of the brake.

'Softly,' hallooed Griselda. 'Softly,
puppy! That's only a stale drag or the
older hounds would have taken it up.'

Xot honos after, however, a fourth season
hound was seen to feather his stern, and
lifting his nose from the ground gave
tongue to as musical a note as ever proclaimed
a find, and a sure one.

That's it,' cried the M.F.H while the
challenge was responded to by a roar from
the whole body of hounds, who clustered
and flew to the spot. ' That's it ! Hark

to Clarion ! Hark to Clarion ! Have
at him, good hound ! Hoik together !
hoik !'

The echoing, musical cheer broke from
the lips of the M.F.H., who squeezed her
pony through the high and thick gorse,
much to Gazelle's torture, for she could
not take a step without having her thin
and delicate skin pricked and lacerated by
the thorns.

Through them, however, she was urged
until a long ' ride ' cut through the centre
of the cover, presented a clear space, and
then away went Gazelle at her to) speed
With the whole body of the hounds crashing
through it, and throng their tongues
in ecstasy at being close to the driven fox.

With her neck stretched out and pulling
hard to have her head, ' Be with them
I will,' was pourtrayed both in the fire of
her eyes and determined dash of speed, as

she galloped along the 'ride,' rough and
rugged as vas the turf.

The fox was now being pushed towards
a thick corner of the cover, from which it
seemed certain that he must either break
and run for his life or submit to the alternative
of being ignominiously chopped like
a coward.

'Hold hard, gentlemen,' shouted the
M.F.H., holding up a hand to some of the
field who were evidently resolved to be in
front at the burst wherever they might beat
the finish. ' Hold hard, gentlemen,'
repeated she. ' Give them room. Have
at him, Dauntless, Tribus, Crafty,
Valentine,' cheered the M.F.H., as she
recognised the cries of the several hounds
now pressing their fox close and hard to
break and run for his life.

Gone away. Gone awa-a-ay !' hallooed
a well known voice.

It was old Grumblesoine's, who had
quietly stumbled and shambled into a
forward position in time to view the fox
break cover.

At a stretch gallop Gazelle carried the
M.F.H. to the end of the ' ride,' which led
direct out of the gorse-brake and the first
object that met her view was Bill Baxter
sitting on the ' old 'loss,' with his faded and
seedy velvet cap held high above his head,
chanting somewhat melodiously, ' Gone
away. Gone awa-a-ay !'

Each for himself the hounds flashed
forward from the verge of the cover and
being clear of it rushed wildly to pick up
the scent and hit off the line.

'Steady!' cried the M.F.H. 'Steady
there. Steady !'

To her inexpressible delight the puppy
'Growler' put his nose to the ground a few

paces to the extreme left, and then gave
tongue to as musical a note as was ever
thrown in wood, field, or forest.

'That's it. Growler!' hallooed the
M.F.H. ' Get to him, hounds, get to him !'
It wanted no second cheer. In a compact
body his companions rushed to the assistance
of Growler, and the truth of his
announcement being confirmed up went
their heads nth a roar of music, and down
went their sterns, beginning to race their
fox down swithin a few minutes of the
find.

• They sill carry a head to-day,' said
the M.F.H., in a cheery voice, as she pointed
vnih her horn reversed to the hounds
streaming over a ^\'ide upland. " To live
A\dth them,' continued she, ' we must ride
fast and straight or see very little of this
run.'

Gazelle, however seemed resolved to
see all she could and to keep first in the
foremost flight. With an impetuous rush
she carried her willing mistress in front of
the whole field, and as they approached a
double flight of stiff and strong rails,
it required all Griselda's strength and skill
to steady her for the leap.

I • shall not face that,' observed a
horseman.

'Nor I,' rejoined another.

We had better make for that gate,'
added a third, 'and take to Featherbed
Lane. He's pointing for Eastern
Earths.'

The last remark was scarcely concluded
when Gazelle, being steadied for the
leap, rose at the double flight of the
rails, and over she flew like a bird on the
wing.

It was a bold and gallant leap, and

brought forth * Yell done !' from the lips
of more than one looker-on.

Glancing' for a moment, as she safely
landed, the M.F.H. saw that not one of
the whole field followed her, and she was
with the flying pack alone, in the same
field Anti them.

It was a triumphant moment for Gristle
for she knew sith what pleasure the
squire would learn that she had led the
field from the first, 'as it shall be,' was
the inwardly expressed determination, ' to
the finish.'

Without a check, the hounds swept on
in full saving, and now and again a distant
'Tally-ho' proclaimed that the fox had
been viewed in the line for Eastern
Earths.

Being a ^\ide and open country, the
leaps were few and far between ; but, when
one presented itself, both the rider and

VOL. II. I

horse had to exhibit qualifications of no
mean order to accomplish it in safety.

Hounds had been running with a burning
scent for nearly thirty minutes without
the check of a moment, and the held
began to straggle in a long, irregular line,
but the M.F.H. kept her place conspicuously
in front by herself, and the rest
almost ' nowhere.'

Gazelle faced everything, Avithout the
remotest thought of refusing Gate, bank,
brook, hedge, and ditch, each and all came
alike to her and the M.F.H.

Over or through they went, close and
straight to hounds, for ' be with them we
will ' was their motto that day, and with
them they were.

A large flock of sheep was now being
driven before the hounds, huddled together
by fear, and running wildly in
front of the pack.

They must throw up nov,' said Gristle
to herself, ' and I shall have to make a
forward cast.'

These words were scarcely thought — for
not one was spoken — when the cry of the
hounds ceased, and every tongue was
mute.

It was the work of an instant only for
the M.F.H. to unsheathed her horn, and,
uro^ino; Gazelle to make one of her best
efforts, she galloped to get to the heads
of the scared sheep, and effectually stopping
them, blew a clear and ringing
come away,' to which every hound responded
by rushing at his best pace
towards the spot where she stood.

Let your first cast be '

I shall let them make their own first

cast, sir,' interrupted Griselda, somewhat

irritated at the interference.

i2

As soon as the hounds came up, they
spread out in the form of a fan, each
working his best to pick up the scent
and hit off the line of the fox.

Every hound, young and old, felt with
his nose to the ground patiently and
carefully, but certain, as it appeared,
that the fox must be forward, from some
inexplicable cause, not a trace of his
being so could be discovered by the
hounds.

Having done your best,' said the
M.F.H., ^ I must now try mine ;' and
riding quickly down wind, with the
hounds close at Gazelle's heels, she proceeded
to make the forward cast perfect
in that direction, previous to making it
up wind, as she knew from the practical
lessons she had had from the squire,
that the former was the way that foxes
constantly run, when they can.

The first forward cast was almost completed
without any appearance of a successful
result, when a hound was seen to
poke his nose among a patch of rough
sedo^e grass on the edo-e of a Avide ditch
and beo^an to be busy in his action. A
moment more and a whimper announced
that he began to believe that what was
wanted had been found. Then up went
his head as a deep bell-like note was
thrown from his tongue, and. being
taken up, away the pack streamed again
on the line of the fox, still pointing for
Eastern Earths.

The horn of the M.F.H. was again in
its sheath, and Gazelle once more holding
the pride of place, first in the foremost
flight.

The check was advantageous both to
the pursuers and pursued, for the flanks
of the horses heaved quickly, and the

hounds looked almost choked with the
pace they had come. The fox, however,
had been rattling along while
they were not making a yard towards
him, and this put a wide and safe distance
between himself and the eager
jaws ready to break him up Avhen run
into.

I begin to think,' said thud M.F.H., as
Gazelle cleverly topped a high and steep
Ink, ' that this run will not end with a
kill. He is now too near some headstrong
earths, if he has not already
reached them.'

Scarcely were the words spoken when
a view holloa was heard faintly in the
distance.

As I both thought and feared,' remarked
the M.F.PI. ' That tally-ho came from the
ploughman on the ridge scarcely more

than a quarter of a mile from the East-mere
Earths.'

With his brush clown, and the tag dragging
upon the ground, the fox, with his
back hooped, was making the last dying
attempt to save his life. He could scarcely
gallop, and now and again drojDj^ed into a
trot, as he went down the long slope towards
the earths, the cry of the hounds
becoming more distinct at every stride as
they approached him, beaten almost to a
crawl.

From scent to view the pack rushed at
him just as he reached the mouth of an
open earth, but before the leading one
could pull him down the sanctuary was
gained, and as gallant a fox as ever stood
before hounds lived, as he deserved to live,
for another day.

A clipper !' ejaculated a sportsman,

mounted on a horse with a rapidly-shaking
tail. ' One of the finest runs I ever
was in.'

We only wanted a kill to make it perfect,'
returned another, on a little less
exhausted animal.

That the hounds deserved their fox,'
added the M.F.H., with a light crack of
the thong of her Avhip to stop them from
throwing their tongues at the mouth of
the earth. ' That the hounds deserved
their fox,' repeated she, ' no one can
gainsay, but his death would not have
improved the run in the smallest degree.
Let us recollect with pleasure that a good
fox gave us a good run and fairly saved
his life by merit at the finish.'

Bowing right and left to the remnant of
the field who had come up slowly, Griselda
touched her horn, and began to retrace

lier steps towards the kennels at Oakacre
Court.

In the far-off distance was heard ' Come
np, old 'loss.'

CHAPTER IX.

With a careworn, deeply-marked countenance,
the squire sat one morning in the
library reading a letter, that he held
before him with hands which slightly
trembled, and shook the paper as he
seemed to be making himself master of
its contents by committing every word
and syllable to memory.

Over and over again John Oakacre perused
that letter, judging, at least, by its
length, and yet he continued to read as
the furrows in his face became deeper, and

large beads of perspiration began to stand
upon his forehead.

Dishonoured !' at length he ejaculated,
glancing sith a fierce, passionate look
around the room, and, crumpling up the
letter in one of the palms of his hands, he
flung it violently upon the floor at his
feet. ' It is the first time in my life,' resumed
he, ' and, as far as I know or believe,
the first in that of any of my names
kith or kin, that the word dishonour has
ever been applied.'

He stooped, and, picking up the crushed
letter, smoothed it out, and again commenced
reading it.

We are instructed to inform you
that your dishonoured acceptance for
£2,000 having been placed in our
hands '

John Oakacre again crushed the lawyer's

letter between the palms of his hands
and threw it violently from him.

^ I was promised,' said he, ' upon Chickabiddy's
sacred word of honour that he
would provide for these bills from the sale
of my shares, and yet upon the very first
becoming due, which I was told by him
Avould be "met like a Bank of England note,
I am charged with dishonour and threatened
with legal proceedings.'

He paused and drew a hand across his
hot and feverish forehead.

Sad was the hour,' continued he, ' and
evil the day when I was beguiled into becoming
the chairman of a gold company.
And yet what I was both told and shown
was more than enough to tempt anyone
into the undertaking, speculative as it
might 1)0 deemed by the prudent. All
looked fair and promising, and I kncAv

from his own admission that Chickabiddy's
large fortune was gained entirely by ventures
of this kind — fair apparently in
themselves, and satisfactory to all concerned
as investors of capital.'

There was now a cessation in the delivery'
of his thoughts, and John Oakacre
bent a fixed look upon the carpet, as if
reading' soniethino^ there not contained in
the letter delivered by the post that
morning.

'But, supposing,' said he, and, as he
spoke, he seemed to almost gasp for breath,
that I have been deceived by a trickster !
Supposing this to be one of those bubble
schemes of which I have sometimes read
in the newspapers, what must be the
result to me and others who have connected
themselves nth it through my persuasion
and influence ?'

The answer given by himself to his own
question was anything but prompt. At
length, however, he acldecl, in a voice
broken and husky with the emotion of his
feelings,

Ruin !'

Burying his face between his hands,
John Oakacre sat for a few minutes in
silence, occupied with his bitter thoughts
concerning the possible ruin to his friends
and neighbours more than that threatened
to himself.

It must have been with a noiseless footstep
that Orlando Chickabiddy entered
the dark and somewhat gloomy room, and
there could have been no creaking of the
hinges of the door, for the squire heard
not a sound of the approach of anyone ;
and yet. upon turning round, there sat
the proprietor of Hawkhurst, within a few

feet of Avhere he stood, ^^dtli his legs
stretched out and looking aggressive and
defiant.

I was not aware that you were present,'
said the squire, in a tone and manner of
unequivocal surprise.

I know that you were not was the
curt reply. ' I know that you were not,'
repeated Orlando Chickabiddy, stretching
out his legs still further, so that the heels
only rested upon the floor in an independent
if not elegant attitude.

I have had a letter '

So have I,' interrupted his visitor, ' and
not upon a very agreeable subject : your
dishonoured acceptance for two thousand
pounds, which I endorsed and made myself
responsible for.'

But you religiously promised me, sir,
to provide for the acceptances as they fell

due,' rejoined the squire, ' out of the sale
of my shares in the gold mine.'

Nothing possibly could be nearer to
the truth,' returned Orlando Chickabiddy,
in a careless tone of indifference, and deliberately
folding his arms across his remarkably
small and pigeon breast. ' But you
cannot do otherwise, Mr. Oakacre, than
agree with me, that to effect a sale it is
necessary to find a buyer. Now, I do not
hesitate to say that the present public
animosity to the company's gold mine, so
continually manifested in the . columns of
the daily press, absolutely forbids the
possibility of the sale of a single share at
any discount or at any price, however
nominal.'

The squire heaved a sigh of no ordinary
depth, looking almost panic-stricken.

At the first general meeting over which

you presided a few days since, Mr. Oak-acre,'
resumed Orlando Chickabiddy, ' when
your hounds had such a remarkably good
run, you were savao-elv attacked by several
shareholders, as the chairman of the company,
in the most disgraceful manner;
some of them turning round even upon
me as the vendor, and accused me of not
only picking the eyes out of the mine, but
knowing it to be completely exhausted,
sold it to the present proprietary for an
exorbitant sum by gross misrepresentations
and criminally fraudulent acts. I flung
their accusations back, Mr. Oakacre, as
you know, ^\\t\\ the indignation of an
honest man, to their very teeth — supposing
they had any teeth, and, if not, to their
very gums. The language used, if not,
strictly speaking, bad, was violent in the
extreme, and the actions accompanying it

VOL. II. K

little less objectionable. We were, in fact,
bullied, Mr. Oakacre, not to say badgered,
and the meeting, as the several reports in
the morning and evening papers stated,
broke up in the greatest disorder.'

Greatest disorder!' exclaimed the squire.
I never shall forget the horrid l)ear-
garden scene of crimination and recrimination.'


And yet it's one often repeated, Mr.
Oakacre, by disappointed shareholders.
Pay them a fat dividend,' said Orlando
Chickabiddy, ' no matter whether out of
capital or revenue, and they will praise
everybody and everything ; but let them
have a fair, honest balance-sheet, showing-nothing
for division, because nothing has
been made, and they are ready to commit
the most atrocious acts of injustice against
the chairman, the Board of Directors, and

even the poor, meek, and helpless secretary.
Xot a soul escapes, Mr. Oakacre,
not a single soul.'

But, from what was said,' returned the
squire, ' I think that the shareholders had
grave cause for complaint and censure.
Every statement in the prospectus of the
probability, and even certainty, of a great
and almost unlimited supply of gold had
been refuted by the admitted flint in the
report that there was not enough to pay
working expenses.'

But that is no cause, as far as I know,
Mr. Oakacre,' rejoined Orlando Chicks
' that a o-reat change for the better
in the yield of gold should not take place
as soon as that did, unfortunately, for the
worse. It once, sir, gave four ounces to
the ton of crushed quartz.'

That was positively denied at the

meeting,' said the squire, ' and no one rose
to '

'i did,' interrupted Orlando Chickabiddy,
with vehemence. ' I rose on both
my legs instantaneously, Mr. Oakacre, to
tell the honourable proprietor that he was
a confounded liar.'

But the practical retort was not very
favourable to you,' rejoined the squire,
with a slight smile.

I was certainly put doAvn,' added Orlando
Chickabiddy, With great indignation
of manner, ' by a most brutal blow on the
end of my nose sir, which brought salt
tears into my eyes. This, however,' continued
he, ' will occupy the courts of law
for a short time. I shall bring an action
for damages, and depend upon a jury of
my country for compensation to my injured
sensibilities.'

Being satisfied with the peroration of
his speech. Orlando Chickabiddy thought
it was not open to improvement, and determined
to sav nothing; more about the
assault committed upon him at the general
meeting.

'As a matter of expediency, sir,' said
he, ' I think we had letter devote our
attention to arrive at a sound conclusion
as to what should be done to remove the
pressure of the moment with regard to
your dishonoured acceptance for two
thousand pounds.'

That term dishonour has a terrible sound
to me ! ' exclaimed John Oakacre. ' Throughout
my long life, now approaching its
close, it was never applied before concerning
anything said or done by me.'

'Oh, that's nothing!' returned Orlando
Chickabiddy. ' A dishonoured bill means

that it isn't paid, that's all — mere City bosh f
Bankers, bill brokers, notaries, Jew money-lenders,
lawyers, money scriveners, and
chaps of that kind call a returned spill dishonoured,
Init there's nothing in it. All
you have to do is to take it up. Pay the
principal, interest, and expenses, and the
dishonour won't be remembered by them
very long. They want the money and

car.'

nothing about honour.'

But if the shares cannot be sold, as you
state, at any price,' rejoined the squire,,
'how am I to pay?'

'I said in the present state of things, Mr.
Oakacre, added Orlando Chickabiddy; 'but
it's impossible that they should remain as
they are. Nothing is more hopeful than a
gold mine. People never despair,' continued
he, ' of aii'ain finding o-old where it
has been already found. They think, and

often think rightly, that it is only playing
a game of hide and seek. Instead of a
failure as the Longitudinal Section is pronounced
to be in the last report, and upon
which we relied for the grand yield of four
ounces to the ton of crushed quartz, and
probably more, it may turn out, at any
moment, as great a success as was reasonably
expected when it was first opened up,
Mr. Oakacre. We have only to be patient,
sir, and do our best to tide over the present
temporary difficulties to achieve a triumphant
success in the end. / ^dll take care of
that,' and Orlando Chickabiddy gave a
double knock upon his pigeon breast ^\dth
a significance which might lead to the
supposition that he held something in
reserve — something up his sleeve.

But putting on one side the triumphant
success in the end,' responded the squire,

somewhat cynically. ' tell me how I am to
pay this dishonoured acceptance for two
thousand pounds.'

^ It must be borrowed.'

How and from whom?' asked the squire,
quickly.

That's a difficult question to answer,' replied
Orlando Chickabiddy, sunless you are
on good terms with your bankers, which
means that you keep a large unemployed
balance in their hands, and never ask for a
loan except upon unexceptionable and easily
convertible securities. Should such be your
enviable position, sir, I can give a prompt
reply and without the hesitation of a
moment.'

My bankers,' rejoined the squire, 'are in
possession of the title-deeds of the Avliole
of my property for advances to purchase
shares from time to time in this company,

and being in arrear of payment of some of
the interest, I cannot apply for an additional
one of a single shilling. If I did,' continued
he, ' I should only be humiliated by
a refusal, reluctantly as it might be given.'

'Your financial position, Mr. Oakacre,'
returned Orlando Chickabiddy, ' is even
much worse than I suspected. You appear
helpless.'

And to whom am I indebted for this
position?' said the squire, bitterly, and With
ano^er scarcely under control.

I should say to no one in particular,'
responded Orlando Chickabiddy, in a careless
tone of indifference ; ' but to adverse
circumstances generally. It is impossible,
Mr. Oakacre, to command success in this
world, however much we ' — the speaker
gave a single tap with the end of a forefinger
upon his pigeon breast — 'may deserve

it. With the favourable indications
gradually developing themselves,' continued
he, ' it could not even be suspected for
n single moment that the Longitudinal
Section would yield, within a few days of
its hoeing opened up, nothing but barren
(quartz, without a single grain of gold to
be found in it. Such a result was far
beyond the extreme range of human foresight,
]mr. Oakacre, or the undertaking
wovdd have been prudently abandoned, and
our joint and several pecuniary difficulties
— although of a temporary kind
would not have required all the skilful
management at our command to tide
over.'

A short silence now ensued, as if by
mutual consent, which neither seemed
disposed to break.

'With this peremptory demand for immediate

j)aynieiit of two thousand pounds
in my hand,' at length said the squire,
howling the crumpled letter alcove his
head, ' how do you suggest that 1 shall
tide over — as you call it — the present
difficulty, to say nothing of similar
liabilities which must follow soon in a
similar form?'

A friend of mine would lend the
amount,' replied Orlando Chickabiddy,
if we could offer him anything in the
shape of security — but, if I understand
you correctly, Mr. Oakacre. the whole
of your title-deeds are in pawn."

'They are in the possession of my
bankers,' rejoined the squire, getting
momentarily more severe in the tone of
his voice and manner, ' for money Sorrowed
to purchase these worthless shares,
sir; which I bought through your devilish

advice, whether intended to be good
or otherwise.'

Orlando Chickabiddy sprang with great
agility to his feet.

I did not come here, Mr. Oakacre,
to be insulted,' said he. ' I came here,
sir, to render yon all the aid in my
power for tiding over a pecuniary difficulty
; and this errand of mercy is met
with a strong doubt cast upon the good
faith of my devilish advice.'

I was wrong, no doubt, in making the
observation,' added the squire ; ' but my
brain seems to be on fire ' — and he drew
a hand across his forehead as he spoke —
and I scarcely know what I say ordo.'


In order that you may know you were
wrong in making the observation, Mr.
Oakacre,' returned Orlando Chickabiddy,

I Avill at once announce my readiness
to lend you the two thousand pounds
from my own resources. I shall have
to disturb some of my securities — at a
loss and great inconvenience to myself
continued he, ' but I vnll prove to you,
Mr. Oakacre, that you possess a friend
in need, which, as the psalmist beautifully
expresses it, is a friend indeed.'

This generous offer completely overcame
the squire's feelings, and he could
only grasp Orlando Chickabiddy's hand
in silence.

CHAPTER X.

With a few smouldering embers flickering
upon the hearth, and a dull, lurid flame
occasionally springing from them to render
the surrounding darkness momentarily
visible, Bill Baxter and his social
companion Cock Robin sat one winters
evening in the gloom of ' the kitchen, the
parlour, and all,' looking in anything but
the best of spirits.

After a long uninterrupted silence,
which had not assisted to enliven the
scene, old Grumblesome cleared his voice

from every effect of business, and thus
began,

What All you have to drink.
Cocky ?'

His social companion dived both hands
to the extreme depths of his trover
pockets to give time, probably, for returning
an appropriate answer and in
accordance with the present circumstances
of the case.

'What will 1 have to drink?* slowly
repeated he. ' Well, suppose I was to
ask what can I have to drink before coming
to a final decision as to what I i'll
have to drink. Won't that be a safe
movement on my part, Bill Baxter V'

'Xothing could be safer," rejoined old
Grumblesome. ' In fact,' continued he,
it's having a look before you leap, which
I always did and do, and, therefore, never

jumped much in the whole course of my
whi2:>pcr-in life.'

I ne'er saw you take a leap, not over
a water furrow even,' observed Cock Robin,
or sheep's hurdle.'

That's because you were looking the
other way when I cleared the six foot
• brick wall, coped with glass bottles on
the old 'loss,' responded Bill Baxter. ' It
was a bold and grand leap,' said he,
swaying his head from side to side, ' and
I think I see myself doing it nov : but
I never tried it twice. Cocky, and to have
seen me do it once you must have had
your eyes in the right direction.'

^ Ha !' exclaimed his social companion,
I daresay I must.'

But harking back to what we were
talking about,' returned old Grumblesome,
I say with you, Cocky, first learn what

you can have in this world before saying
what yon loll have. I admire the sentiment.
Let's drink to it.'

In what ?' asked Cock Robin, ' I'm
rather particular at this time of day.'

It's no use, I suppose, recommending a
cup of good strong tea ?' said Bill Baxter,
interrogatively. ' The water just begins
to bile, I see.'

Cock Robin deigned to give no reply
to this question ; but maintained a rigid
and frigid silence.

As tea won't do, I see,' continued old
Grumblesome, ' I'd better think of something'
that is more likely to do. Xow it
so happens that a particular friend of mine
many a long year ago said to me, " Bill
Baxter, always keep a bottle or two — for
two are better than one — of choice old
Scotch whisky in the cupboard as medical

VOL. II. L

comforts, and there is no finer than
that brewed at the top of Ben Nevis.'

I never heard of Whisky being brewed
on the top of Ben Nevis ?' responded
his social companion, beginning to take a
little interest in the conversation.

Ignorance may be bliss. Cocky, in many
respects,' rejoined Bill Baxter, ' but not
in want of knowing all about Ben Nevis
whisky. It's brewed from the dew of the
mountain itself, not only on the top in
the early morning before sunrise, but a
good deal of it is drunk there on the very
spot long before sunset.'

I should like to taste a drop or two of
that mixture,' returned his social companion,
smacking his lips.

The particular friend of mine,' added
old Grumblesome, ' said it was to be kept
as medical comforts, and I've managed to

keep one bottle ;i long time by shutting
my eyes when going to the cupboard, and
looking another way to where it stood.'

you have one left, then?' remarked
Cock Robin.

For medical comforts,' replied Bill
Baxter, with a sly look out of the corners
of his eyes at his social companion.

Let's have the medical comforts now,
then,' rejoined Cock Robin, * for no one
wants comforting more than I do in the
Avhole county.'

In that case,' returned Bill Baxter, ' I
think we may be justified in drawing the
cork of the one bottle of Ben Xevis ;' and
thus speaking, he rose from his chair, and,
going to the cupboard in the corner of
^ the kitchen and parlour and all,' brought
forth, as was alleged, the pure, unbounded
dew of the mountain.

l2

Placing it upon the tajjlc, with two
glasses and spoons, and a brown paper
bag containing a liberal supply of loaf
sugar, old Grumblesonie pointed to the
little kettle of boiling water hissing and
spluttering upon the adjacent fire, and
said,

Help yourself, Cocky, if your conscience
doesn't smite ye.'

Why should it smite me ?' inquired his
social companion, placing the bottle to
his nose and inhaling the aroma of Ben
Nevis.

^ For medical comforts only, as a special
caution from my best of friends,' responded
Bill Baxter. ' I'll leave it to you and your
conscience to settle the matter. But it
may be as Avell to remind }'ou. Cocky,
that, having become one of the blessed,
sou will perhaps hear a voice presently

from the silent tomb. I mention this
before you mix a single drop of Ben Xe^is
as a sort of friendly Warning against sin
and temptation."

It's very kind and neighbourly of you,
Bill,' returned his social companion, 'and
I can't be too thankful for your giving me
the chance of keeping out of trouble ; but
I'll risk it this once, and for a small sum
Wouldn't object to make it a certainty.'

Under present circumstances, then,'
added Bill Baxter, ' we'll say no more
upon the subject of the silent tomb. Mix
your licj^uor."

Cock Robin proceeded forthwith to
carry out the injunction, and evidence
was soon forthcoming that the ' blend '
was c[uite to his taste.

Ben Xevis and I are upon the best of
terms,' said he, at the end of a most copious

sip. 'We arc sworn friends from this-moment,
henceforth, and for ever. Let
anyone say one Avoid against Ben Nevis
continued he, ' and I'll let him have a
drive straight from the shoulder, which
he'll be sure to remember once in twenty-four
hours all the year round.'

I thought you only wanted to know
one another to become good friends'"
rejoined old Gruinblesome, with one of his
best of good humoured smiles. ^ Ben Nevis
and I have been intimate for many a long
year.'

To our better and longer acquaintanceship,
Ben Nevis !' said Cock Rol:>in, raising
his glass and decreasing a fair moiety of its
contents.

I thought you'd only' have to know
one another for a few short minutes,' rejoined
Bill Baxter, ' to become the best of

friends. I look upon Ben Xevis as a noble
institution.'

So do 1/ returned his social companion,
'if a noble institution means rare good
liquor.'

The definition, perhaps, might be accepted
as synonymous, for the discussion
upon the point terminated here, and
their attention in mute silence was concentrated
in practically testing the ' medical
comforts of Ben Xevis."

After a prolonged interval devoted to
this special purpose, Cock Robin inquired,
If the squire had been to the kennels that
morning?'

Yes,' replied old Grumblesome, with a
melancholy shake of the head. ' The
kennel bell was pulled, as the clock struck
the hour at which he has come on non-hunting
days for the last thirty years and

more, and what is left of the squire walked
into the court.'

What do you mean ?' asked his social
companion.

Just Avhat I say,' responded Bill Baxter,
with a repetition of the demonstrative
shake of the head. ' His remains walked
in.

You mean that he has grown so much
like a skeleton of late ?'

I do,' added Bill Baxter, with the
utmost depression of spirits expressed in
his tone and manner. ' The old squire,'
continued he, ' who looked so Avell and
jolly last season, and who never rode
straighter to hounds in his life, has become
drawn as tine as needle wire, and ten years
added to his age in the time if counted lev
his looks.'

'There's something wrong with him no

doubt,' remarked Cock Robin. ' A screw
loose somewhere.'

Bill Baxter gave a deep drawn sigh, and
then had recourse to Ben Xevis for temporary
relief from the weight of care.

I'm better now, Cocky,' said he, in a
thick, shaky voice, ' through medical comforts
; but I could have cried like a pinched
baby when you mentioned the screw
being loose with the squire. I coukl
indeed. To see him this morning in the
kennels,' continued he, 'was enough to
break a common Christian's heart, and Fm
only a common Christian, Cocky. Tm not
one of those boiled down, stiff-backed,
whalebone lined, steel hardened, tough
skinned old growlers, who go round about
the country, preaching no end about the
sins of their neighbours, without remembering
their OAvn. I try to think at the

end of every day's work, before putting my
head upon the pillow, what I have done,
and what I ought to have done, and
whether done or left undone there's anything
to be done or left undone to make
myself more like a saint than a sinner, as
day by day, and night by night, 1 am
slowly, perhaps, but surely being run to
earth. At the same time put me down
only as a common Christian, Cocky.'

I tell you what it is. Bill Baxter,'
rejoined his social companion, 'you, like
some of our parsons, give us too much
(^f the same thing in your sermons. I
thought you never would have done ^Nath
'' left undone and done." Come, leave
off preaching, and tell us more about the
squire, as you saw him this morning.'

His remains,' returned Bill Baxter —
'for there's not much left of him — came

to the kennel-door just in the nick of
time, as the clock struck the hour, and
as the squire walked into the court,
he looked more like a ghost than belonging
to this world, so pale, thin, and
noteless he appeared.

" Give me my frock," said he, and, if
my ears did not deceive me, added — without
intending I should hear him — 'perhaps
for the last time of wearing it." '

Cock Robin gave a convulsive start at
these words, and, placing his elbows upon
the table, leant forward, with his face
between his hands, in an attitude of the
most profound attention.

Do you think he meant what he said T
asked he.

He looked so,' responded Bill Baxter,
and he seldom says anything he doesn't
mean.'

'And what followed?' inquired his social
-companion, with his face still looming
between his hands.

I asked him how he would have the
hounds drafted,' returned Bill Baxter,
'although I well knew what his answer
would be, from snore than thirty long-years'
experience.

" The young entry first," said he, " and
each hound singly."

'Now, it so happened that, seeing the
couple of puppies, Grover and Grumble,
in front, on the bench in the lodging-room,
I called them hast, and out they (same
with a, rush, their' ears thrown back, and
their sterns waving like playful beauties,
as they are. Taking a biscuit from his
pocket, he broke it in pieces, and throwing
n bit to each, said,

'they are a couple of as promising

puppies as I ever saw, and both worked
well, I hear, in that run of the season,
when my first whip carried the horn of
the M.F.H."

'they did, sir," I replied, "about the
best I ever sav for first season hounds."

" That only shows what the walk v,i]l
do," he said ; '• for a better one nota
foxhound bred, vouloir old, ever
had."

'As he spoke nothing more, I waited
for a few minutes, and then asked, '' if
I should go on drafting the hounds ?"

" Xo," he replied, " not this morning.
I'm not well enough to stand long-er on
the flags ;" and as he spoke, he turned
slowly towards the kennel-door.

I opened it for him ; and as he went
out, he left, as I thought, v^ith a look — '
the speaker paused before completing the

sentence — ' as if he knew he should never
center it again.'

If that be so,' responded his social
companion, removing his hands and presenting
a front and full view of his rubicund
visage, ' if he gives np hunting the
country there'll be a mighty change in
these parts.' .

A mighty change !' repeated Bill Baxter.
' There s not a living man in the
whole county to fill his place. Our squire,
you must recollect, is the last of the Oak-acres,
an old family that dates further
back than anyone can tell of, and the
head of it has always been a hast-class
sportsman, and a master of fox-hounds.
Think of a strain of blood like that,
Cocky, and then tell me Who is to fill his
empty saddle ?'

'■ But don't tell me he's going to give up

hunting the country whined Cock Robin,
with tears rising to flood his eyelids. ' It
^vill break my heart.'

If what I both hear and see are true,'
replied Bill Baxter, letting his voice drop
to almost an inaudible whisper, • the ]poor
old squire must'

Why ?' sharply inquired his social
companion.

His money is — ' and then Bill Baxter
conveyed the meaning of the conclusion
of the sentence by giving a vigorous puis
at the end of his lingers.

Gone ?' added Cock Robin.

^ Lost,' responded Bill Baxter, ' to the
last guinea in the gold mine.'

A dull and gloomy silence succeeded.

Neither spoke one word for several minutes,

and Ben Xevis, or what remained of the

medical comforts,' seemed to be forgotten.

As if scarcely master of his own movements,
Cock Robin rose from his chair
and clutching his friend's hand, held out
mechanically for him to take, quitted the
kitchen and parlour and all ' like a man
in a dream, to retrace his footsteps homewards
through the black darkness of the
winter's night.

CHAPTER XL

In the daytime, when the sun was up,
if not always visible, the ancient Middle
Temple gate was thrown back upon its
hinges and stood wide open for the wayfarer
to pass in or out as his business
might demand or the urgency of the case
require.

Upon the shadows of night falling
around, the ancient Middle Temple gate
was securely closed, and a summons had
to be given to the guardian keeping ward
and watch, before entrance or exit could
be made or effected.

VOL. II. M

Now it may be stated as an unquestionable
fact beyond dispute that Edward Sloe
seldom disturbed the janitor of the
ancient Middle Temple o-ate from his
first sleep and still less from his second ;
but exceptions to the best of rules
will arise and creep in, despite of the
firmest resolutions to prevent them, and
Edward Slomax, in giving a double knock
for it to be opened long hours after
it had been closed in accordance with
the rules and imperative orders of the
benchers of the Middle Temple, proved
to demonstration that even a model
student might be late. It was not
often that he was late, as Mrs. Chell
would have averred with the utmost
solemnity, and the night porter could
testify upon his oath if called upon,
especially if accompanied with the small

fee of one shilling, for the night porter
knew the value of money, if not an
absolute worshipper of mammon.

In order that the model student's reputation
may not suffer temporarily even in
thought, it may be advisable, perhaps, to
divulge the cause of his falling under the
charge of hoeing late, previous to climbing
the dark, twisting, twining staircase which
led to Mrs. Chell's chambers, now occupied
in part by himself.

Forming one of a small party of ' choice
spirits ' from Cambridge, he had been to
Putney, and from thence to Mortgage, to
be a spectator of the university boat-race,
which had been appointed to be rowed
that very day at high water mark. To
the inexpressible satisfaction of the Cambridge
men, popularly designated as the
Light Blues,' and to an equal degree of

m2

mortification on the part of the Oxford
men, commonly described as the 'Dark
Blues,' the Cambridge boat was declared
to be the winner by a clear length.

Having been stroke-oar in the victorious
Cambridge eight well within the memory
of almost the youngest undergraduate
present, Edward Slomax found himself
surrounded, hemmed in, and captured ])y
a shouting crowd of enthusiasts, who,
associating him with the present triumph
in some exclusive Avay of their own, insisted
upon slapping him between the
shoulders in a patronising kind of way,
and shaking his hands A\dth so much fervour
that the ends of his fino-hers tingled
from the force.

All this, however, was submitted to with
exemplary patience and undisturbed good-humour,
and the somewhat rough usage

from friendly hands borne in a most
friendly spirit.

It seems almost needless to add that the
object of this popular demonstration was
one of the honoured guests at the dinner
given with unexceptionable regularity upon
the day of the decision of the match, and
to this cause must be assigned the lateness
of the hour that Edward Slomax returned
to disturb from his dreams the night-porter
of the Middle Temple gate.

^"hen side awake, as he could quickly
be from long habit, however deep and
profound his slumber, the night-porter,
upon admitting the model student, expressed
^ his happiness as having arrived
at the highest pinnacle in this world
upon learning that Cambridge had won
again.'

The night-porter knew almost instinctively

that a coin of the value of half-a-crown
of the hiwfiil money of Great Britain
was now in the pain of one of his hands.
It felt to the touch as a half-crown should
feel, and nothing smaller.

Had he hailed from Oxford,' observed
the night-porter, pocketing the half-croAvn,
I should have said something quite different
to that. Suit what }'ou have to say
to those to whom it has to be said. Praise
Cambridge when Cambridge wins, pit'
Oxford when Oxford loses. That's my
rule, because it pays,' and, jingling the
half-crown with a bunch of keys at the
bottom of his pocket, he re-entered his
watch-box, and quickly' became unconscious
of all belonging to Cambridge
triumphs and Oxford defeats.

In climbing the twisting, twining, dark
staircase leading to his dormitory, the

model student made a few noisy stumbles,
slips, and blunders, and Mrs. Chill distinctly
heard them.

'Mr. Slomax is late to-night,' she remarked,
with her nose slightly elevated
from between the bed-clothes, in order
to obtain increased power of hearing.
'Mr. Slomax is late to-night,' repeated
she, ' and all on account of this rowing-business.
I ^^ish the grass and the ,
as they are called, would let him
alone, and keep more away from his rooms
than they have done of late. Less cio-ars
would be smoked, and less empty ^^dne-
bottles carried off by the waiter at " The
Rainbow " every morning, when they come
up for the University match. I don't
like the ways, customs, or manners of
these glads,' continued Mrs. Chell, ' or the
undergrads either.'

The model student's boots mio'ht have
been obstinate, and resisted every mild
attempt to disengage his feet from them ;
but Mrs. Chell became sensible that unusual
violence must have succeeded it
from the clattering bang with which they
were kicked or hurled against the adjacent
wainscot.

Mr. Slomax is late to-night,' reiterated
Mrs. Chell ; and she would have shaken
her head, more in sorrow than in anger,
but its present position on the pillow was
not adapted for the movement.

The model student Alas not popularly
known as a vocalist, and, therefore,
commencing a song in a powerful, if not
melodious, voice afforded a further proof
to Mrs. Chell's mind that the effects were
consistent with the advanced hour of the
night and the University boat race.

• " Did you ne'er hear of a jolly young waterman
Who at Blackfriars' Bridge used for to ply." '

I much wish, Mr. Slomax, that you
had never heard of him added Mrs. Chell,
slightly irritated at the disturbance to
her peaceful and refreshing sleep.

" He feathered his oar with such skill and dexterity;
Charming each heart and delighting each eye." '

A sudden and abrupt check took place,
and the refrain terminated from necessity.
Imperfect both in the words and music,
rendering the attempt abortive in the
extreme, the model student at once ceased
to render himself disagreeable, and nio^ht
hideous, to Mrs. Chell, whose last audible
words, muffled beneath the blankets, were
^ Mr. Slomax is late to-night.'

Late, however, as he might have been,
he was up at the usual hour, and ready

for the substantial breakfast invariably
provided by bis landlady with the utmost
punctuality.

Upon the snow-white table-cloth, spread
smoothly upon the round table placed
within comfortable distance from the firc^
so as neither to scorch his legs nor chill
them, a rasher cut from a mild Suffolk
ham, and broiled to a nicety, appeared
when a bright and polished little cover
Alas lifted from the dish in which it lay
invitingly to be eaten while it was hot
and fizzing. A couple of new-laid eggs,
covenanting the high price of twopence
each at this time of year, were in the
background, flanked by a hot roll and a
small brown loaf, brought up the immediate
rear, with the addition of a large
bunch of watercresses, which looked almost
too green and fresh to be really devoid of

artificial aid. Surmounting a small basin
of boiling water a toasted muffin might be
seen, and as an ornament onh", it may
rational' be supposed, a swan moulded in
letter and garnished with parsley completed
Mrs. Chell's supply for the model
student's ordinary breakfast, objectionable
late as he had been the previous night.

Shall I pour out the tea, sir?' inquired
Mrs. Chell. ' It has been standing long
enouoii to be strong and o-ood.'

If you please, Jenny,' replied he. ' I
feel to require a cup of tea more than
usual this morning.'

Mrs. Chell closed her eyes and shook
her head gravely, but said nothing.

The shake of the head, however, was
not lost upon Edward Slomax.

I was late, Jenny,' observed he, making
short work of the taro new-laid eggs, preceded

by the total disappearance of the
rasher cut from the mild Suffolk ham — ' I
was late, Jeiinj,' repeated he, commencing
an attack upon the muffin, ^ and, I fear,
disturbed you.'

Mrs. Chcll still kept her eyes closed, but
discontinued shaking her head, as it gave
her a tendency to giddiness.

Had you been a little less violent with
your boots, Mr. Slomax,' responded she,
and postponed singing that very loud
song until after dinner, instead of several
hours before breakfast, there would not
have been much cause for complaint,
under the circumstances of its beings the

o

day of the boat-race ; but altogether there
was too much noise and too little harmony
to enchant one's ear, sir, if I'm any judge
of music, as the late lamented Chell declared
I was upon several occasions.'

^ Say not another word about it, Jenny,'
rejoined the model student, making a perfect
finish of the watercresses, as the last
green leaf of the bunch dipped in salt
vanished. ' Say not another word about
it, Jenny,' repeated he. ' It ^\dll not occur
again until next year, which is a long interval
for unbroken sleep and undisturbed
rest. Give me another cup of tea, Jenny,
and prepare to pack up my travelling-bag,
for I'm oiF swithin three hours hence to
Forester's Lodge, Hampshire.'

To see your most lovable of aunts ?'
returned Mrs. Chell.

And my most adorable of cousins,'
added Edward Slomax, with great emphasis
upon the ' adorable.'

Ah !' ejaculated Mrs. Cher, ' if I had
been a man, instead of the opposite sex,
and loved my cousin as you, Mr. Slomax,

did, and I believe do, she would have been
mine, and not another's, sir. Xo, Mr.
Sloniax, she would have ]been mine, and
not another's.'

So you have told me dozens of times,
Jenny,' responded he, ' and almost in tha
same Avoids. But with nothing in this
world, and not knowing when, if ever, I
shall have anything, how could I think fora
moment of making a girl like my cousin,
who has never known what a want means,
my wife ?'

Your cousin, Mr. Slomax,' replied she,
^ would only have had to run the risk of
ninety-nine women out of every hundred,
let them be born ladies or not. Things
may look certainties for a good many,'
continued Mrs. Chell, ' before they marry,
and when they marry, and all looks as if
no harm could come to them : but their

lives tell a different tale. The certainties
too often prove worse than uncertainties,
and poverty and ruin mark the spot
where the secured fortune was thought to
be out of the reach of danger. Let a
woman's husband be a man, I say,
capable and Availing to work and face
the troubles of life with a brave heart,
never knowing what to be beaten is.
A woman A^'ith such a husband as that,
Mr. Slomax, need never fear. Riches
may melt away, and money become too
short to be pleasant for housekeeping
purposes ; but all will come right in the
end, sir, she may depend upon it. There's
more confidence to be placed in a husband
who says to his wife, '* Til do my
best, put your trust in me'' than in all the
money-grubbers that where ever born.
Give me pluck, mr. Slomax, in man or

woman, above every other quality in this
world.'

That sounds like tinkling cymbals from
your lips, Jenny,' replied the model student,
' and I thoroughly understand the
kindness of your flattering speech. But,'
and he shook his head mournfully, ' it
wouldn't do, Jenny. It wouldn't indeed !'

If I were a man '

But, then, you are not a man, Jenny,
and therefore it's useless to dwell upon
that subject. I repeat, Jenny, that you
are not a man,' said he, ^ but, probably, if
you were you would adopt the example
set by the majority of men, and do as they
do, which too often is just the opposite of
what they ought to do.'

It's not too late, Mr. Slomax, to cut him
out,' rejoined Mrs. Chill. ' A little 
of a fellow with the name of

Chickabiddy can't be wortliv of such a
girl as your cousin for a wife. Cut
him out, Mr. Slomax, cut him out
sir.'

It's all settled, Jenny,' returned he
Anti a oToan. ' The letter received this
morning from my most lovable of aunts,
contains the awful and hideous announcement
that the marriage is ' a second

groan of much greater force prevented the
completion of the sentence.

Cut him out, Mr. Slomax,' added Mrs.
Chell. 'Buckle up your loins, sir, and
cut him out.'

'The settlement, Jenny,' said he, 'is
signed, sealed, and delivered. How am I,
then, to cut him out ?'

It's not too late, Mr. Slomax,' responded
she, ' until the ring is upon
the finger. When the ring is upon

VOL. IT. N

the finger, and over the second joint,
continued Mrs. Chell, 'I should recommend,
sir, no further attempt being made
to cut him out ; hut (certainly not until
then.'

Go, Jenny, and pack my travelling-bag,'
he rejoined, with a sigh to which
there could scarcely be a lower depth.
^ I'm the most miserable man that ever
put his hat on to go out of the Middle
Temple gate, and religiously believe that
I shall be more so when I enter it

again.'

sit's your own fault if you are,' returned
Mrs. Chell. 'There is still time,
and so I say cut him out. If I were a

man '

I have before called your attention,
Jenny, to the simple fact that you are nota
man,' added he, irritably, ' and never will

lie a man, and therefore let the subject be
dropped at once and for ever.'

AVitli this reproof, Mrs. Chell in silence
retired to pack the travelling-bag.

CHAPTER XII.

Tom Tidy still continued to call at Forester's
Lodge once during the week, notwithstanding
his lectures upon natural
history had been discontinued with the
teaching of several of the professors of
the arts and sciences who had attended
with equal regularity to render his pupil
proficient in their several accomplishments.


The village apothecary now and again
came to ascertain the condition and health
of Miss Penelope Peepem, and to rectify

tiny irregularity of the system which might
possibly be discovered, this being the sole
object of his frequent visits.

In the ordinary course, and in the ordinary
way, Tom Tidy's arrival had been
announced by Cock Robin, and his patient
of indefinite long standing was promptly
ready to receive him T^dth her accustomed
elegant and graceful deportment.

As the apothecary entered the reception-room,
he bowed his best, and with the
point of his nose quite as near the ground
as usual.

Miss Penelope Peepem curtsied low, but
held a lower curtsey in reserve.

^ I hope that we are in our usual state
of uniform salubrity,' said Tom Tidy,
smiling, as he pressed the ends of two
fingers upon her wrist, and glanced at
a thick silver watch held in his hand

to count the normal beatings of her
pulse.

Miss Penelope entertained an idea that
she was, lout was not quite sure.

How are your boots ?' inquired he, ina
confidential whisper.

With a modest, downcast look upon the
floor, she replied that she thought they
were exceedingly correct.

In that case,' returned he, ' we nuit
do our best to keep them correct. A pill
at night and draught in the morning, my
dear madam, I have no doul)t will meet
the exigencies of the case.'

His patient fully coincided in this
suggested treatment, and promised to take
the pill and draught, with the regularity
of many long years by way of a precedent.


It's the system of all others to be adopted,

my clear madam,' returned Tom Tidy,
as I have before stated. If well take the
best means at your command of continuing
well. If unwell, or a little off colour, to
apply the expressive language of an
eminent physician of the present day, take
your medical man's advice and physic —
lout above all his physic — and wait with
combined hope and patience for improvement
and progress, however slow, towards
convalescence.'

'Most excellent advice," added Miss
Penelope Peepem, emphatically, ' and
which I shall most decidedly follow. Send
the weekly pill and draught as usual, and
they shall meet with the utmost attention
they deserve at my hands.'

Interpreting this as a compliment to his
professional skill, Tom Tidy bowed his
best, which means his lowest, making a

successful dive at the calves of his legs
with the end of his nose.

This was met with a corresponding drop
on the part of Miss Penelope Peepeni, who,
with infinite grace, swept gradually downwards
until a very limited space intervened
between herself and the carpet.

Tom Tidy's essence of politeness met
With its match in Miss Penelope Pepeem's
elegance of deportment, and the balance
may be said to have been about equal
between them.

At this moment the clattering of horses'
feet was heard and from the endow of the
reception-room might be seen the near
approach of Griselda mounted on Gazelle
and Orlando Chickabiddy riding by lier
side.

'My niece and her cavalier !' exclaimed
Miss Penelope Peepem, clasping her hands

together in admiration of what she saw.
*They really look superb, Mr. Tidy, and
seem as if made expressly for each other !'
Whatever the apothecary's opinion might
have been upon this point will never be
known, for it was not conveyed either byword,
look, or gesture.

Upon arriving at the door where Cock
Robin stood ready to attend to the dismounting
of his mistress, and take the
reins from her hand, Griselda showed her
independence of all hel^J by slipping from
the saddle lightly and hurrying into the
house.

Orlando Chickabiddy promptly found to
this trembling fears that he was not so independent
of all help.

AY-oho I'' exclaimed he, as his steed
alleged by Griselda to possess more
of the symmetrical points of a camel

than those of a horse — began to fret and
chafe upon the bit. ' Wo-o-o !' repeated
he, in a state of nervous agitation. ' Be
quiet, I say, and let me get off.'

Can I help you, sir ?' asked Cock Robin,
with the spirit of mischief twinkling in his
eyes.

^ Good young man, I shall feel much
obliged if you will,' replied Orlando
Chickabiddy, clutching the pommel of the
saddle with one hand and tugging hard at
the reins with the other. ' I shall feel
much obliged, good young man, if you
will,' repeated he, 'for my seat is anything
but safe, and I earnestly want to get
off.'

'Wait a-bit, sir,' rejoined Cock Robin,
and I'll manage it for ye,' at the same time
leading Gazelle away from the capering
and dancing steed towards her stable door.

This, however, proved anything but a
judicious step, for no sooner were the two
separated by a few paces than Orlando
Chickabiddy's capering steed began to rear
and plunge most violently, rendering his
seat conspicuously unsafe if the effect at
the moment might be relied upon ; as a
matter of fact there being a wide space every
now and then between himself and the
saddle. ' I shall be off,' shouted he, clasping
his arms round the neck of the unruly
animal while his hat was jerked from his
head and rolled upon the ground. ' I
shall be off,' shouted he, at the extreme
pitch of his voice, which sounded not dissimilar
to a scream. ' Good young man,
save me !'

All right, sir,' rejoined Cock Robin,
with perfectly undisturbed coolness of
demeanour, as he again turned Gazelle and

led her to the head of the dancing and
prancing steed who, being restored to her
companionship, instantly became quiet and
devoid of all tendency to restiveness.
-'■ All right, sir,' repeated he. ' Let me
help you down, sir,' and laying hold of
one of Mr. Chickabiddy's legs instructed
him to throw the other over on the same side,
so as to ease him gently down upon his
shoulders, and thus enable him to alight
upon the ground perpendicularly instead
of a more hazardous and less dignified
position.

Acting under these express injunctions,
Orlando Chickabiddy descended from his
perilous situation with his arms transferred
from the Jieck of his horse to that of Cock
Robin, who iu a cheery voice said,

There, sir, I said it would be all right,
and all right it is !'

Good young man, as I addressed you
upon a former head do^^^l^vards position
in which you most miraculously
discovered me,' responded Orlando Chickabiddy,
with commendable warmth,
you shall have an ample reward for
this second noble act of devotion. You
^vill find yourself remembered in my
codicil.'

Cock Robin lifted a straightened forefinger
respectfully to his forehead ; but
thought that a small donation on the spot
might have been more certain and, therefore,
preferable.

My dear mr. Chickabiddy, I am quite
prepared to faint at what I have beheld
from an upstairs window ; but thank
heaven the threatened catastrophe has
been mercifully avoided !' and there stood
Miss Penelope Peepem panting for want

of breath and looking perfectly bewildered
with terror.

I fear,' continued she, ' that I shall
never get over this shock to my nervous
system ; but my medical man happens to
be here, and he will prescribe a remedy
should a remedy be possible.'

It seems to me. Miss Penelope Peepem,
if I may judge from my OAvn acute
feelings,' rejoined Orlando Chickabiddy,
^ that I have narrowly escaped the jaws of
death.'

Let me offer you my most sincere
congratulations,' returned she, ' and at the
same tune recommend that my medical
man should feel your pulse and prepare
for the worst symptoms of hysteria which
probably may closely follow so terrible a
cause of disturbance to the nervous
system.'

The presence of Tom Tidy now became
prominent as an actor in the
scene.

If there is anything' I can do to relieve

your sufferings, sir said he. beginning to
feel without further introduction Orlando
Chickabiddy's pulse, 'you have only to
command my services. Hysteria,' (Continued
he, ' is not restricted only to the
shedding of tears in a kind of convulsion
or spasm, but it may take a totally opposite
form in uncontrolled bursts of laughter
and apparent merriment, however
unreal or devoid of foundation they may
be. Take my arm, sir, and lean on me as
we return to the house.'

At the present moment I hear somebody
laughing unusually loud,' observed
Orlando Chickabiddv, having his natural
suspicions awakened that ' somebody's '

risible muscles were being exercised,
probably', at the expense of his personal
dignity.

It's Miss Griselda in a fit of hysteria
responded Tom Tidy, with a somewhat
unscrupulous design of making things
pleasant. ' It commenced in my presence
when upstairs, and I hear that it is not
quite abated. She was seized, Mr. Chickabiddy,
in beholding from the window the
imminent danger in which you were
placed, and your happy escape has
produced, doubtlessly, an abnormal repetition.'


Orlando Chickabiddy received the explanation
in silence, as he crept slowly towards
the house in an exhausted state,
leaning on the apothecary's arm, but his
mind was not altogether free from doubt
as to the real cause of Griselda's hilarity,

pronounced to be ' hysteria ' by a
duly qualified licentiate of Apothecary's
Hall.

Til go to my niece a little in advance
said Miss Penelope Peepem, ' and see what
can be done to mitigate the e^^il of this
sudden and terrible shock to her nervous
system,' and hurrying away she left
Orlando Chickabiddy under the tender
care of Tom Tidy, who gently conducted
him towards the ivv-covered entrance of
Forester's Lodge.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XIII.

It became widely known through the
weekly gossip at the market (dinner-table,
and the countless sources from whence
rumour* gathers her news, tales, and scandal,
and stories of endless variety and
Avant of truth, that Squire (^akacre's last
season as M.F.H. had arrived, and at the
close his Limited stud of wei2:ht-carryini>'
hunters won hi be sold without reserve,
together with the unrivalled pack of foxhounds
which had been kennel in the
vicinity of Oakacre Court — generation
after generation — for centuries.

Various were the causes assigned for
this unexpected step on the part of the
squire. Some said he was ;[iTOAving too okl
to hunt the hounds himself, and that he
would never consent for anyone to take
his place. Others thought that his health
was :failing. and that he had no longer
the strength to bloodhounds out of cover, and
be ^\ith them from the find to the finish
as he had done time out of mind. There
were those. however Who, Ijcing letter
acquainted with the surrounding circumstances
of the case, came to the correct
and final conclusion that Squire Oakacre
was about giving up his popular' position
in the county as M.F.H. because he no
longer possessed the means of maintaining
it.

His money is gone,' observed Tom
Brown, the yeoman, whose pride was to

o2

have a litter of cubs in the Home AYood
season after season. ' In trying to get a
bit more gold,' continued he, ' as many a
man has done before him, and will do
again, he's lost all he had, I'm told, and
now the hounds and hunters are to be
sold, and the establishment broken up.
It will be a nice state of things in this

o

part of the county presently, and the
sooner I give notice to quit the better, as
I certainly will do next Michaelmas.'

Tom Brown's anticipation was soon followed
by the public announcement of the
unwelcome fact. Advertisements appeared
in the local newspapers, and the walls and
gate-posts for miles around were placarded
conspicuously with the particulars of the
forthcoming sale of the Oakacre hounds
and hunters,

^ John Oakacre, Esq., having decided to

resign the mastership and cease li anting
the country.'

No further explanation was rendered for
his retirement, neither was it necessary
that it shoukl be. It became generally
and particularly known that on a certain
fixed day and hour the sale by auction
was to take place at Oakacre Court, and
numbers from all distances, long, short,
and close at hand, were resolved to be
present at the separation of the old pack
and stud for ever from its precincts.

In the large square stable-yard adjoining,
surrounded by well-ventilated buildings,
containing stalls and boxes for the few
but choice horses, a waggon was placed asa
convenient rostrum for the auctioneer,
who, punctually to the time for the commencement
of the sale, presented himself
in full view of the assembly, and announced

ill a cheerful voice and manner that ' the
honour had been conferred upon him of
being instructed to sell without reserve
the well-known pack of Oakacre foxhounds
and the small Init highly valuable
stud of hunters, with Avhicli few sportsmen
in the whole county of Hampshire wei*e
not familiar. ' It an as to be a genuine sale,'
continued he, 'for every horse and hound
was to be sold for whatever they Avould
fetch. He need not dwell upon the pedigree
of the old (3akacre blood. No bette]*
could be found, it will be admitted, in all
England, the greatest attention having
been paid to the strain by the squire himself.
Possessing unrivalled pace, a fox
has to fly before them as soon as found,,
and yet, Avhen it comes to slow hunting,,
or picking the scent over a cold fallow,
down go their noses, and inch by inch

they work it tliroiigli. He might speak
for a month aljoiit what they can do and
Avhat they have done, but the masks and
pads to ])e seen on the kennel door are the
best proofs of the account they give of the
foxes they run. He would not unnecessarily
waste more time in his preliminary
remarks, but proceed at once to offer Lot
No. 1, a couple of first season puppies
called Grumble and Growler.'

Bill Baxter, looking as if ten years
had been added to his age swithin less
than as many Aveeks, led them into the
centre of a circle formed by the motley
group, and kept his eye fixed in silence
upon the forms of Grumble and
Growler.

Lot number one shouted the auctioneer,
' a couple of first season hounds,
called Grumble and Growler. What will

any gentleman please to give for them ?
Recollect, they are to he sold.'

I beg your pardon, sir,' said a voice,
'but I suppose a lady may bid as well as a
gentleman ?'

Certainly,' replied the auctioneer.
There's no law, as far as I know, to
prevent a lady from buying a couple of
foxhounds. She may want them for lapdogs.
Put them up. What shall we
say, fifteen guineas?'

They're worth twenty,' remarked Tom
Brown, the yeoman.

'Twenty guineas are bid for a matchless
couple of first season puppies,' cried
the auctioneer. ' Any advance upon
twenty guineas ?'

Not for me, Mr. Knockemdown,' replied
Tom Brown, the yeoman, with firmness
of purpose depicted in this compressed

lips and knitted brow. ' What I said
was, they were worth twenty guineas,
not that I would give twenty guineas for
em.

A mistake on my part.' rejoined the
auctioneer. ' Xo matter. Put them up
at a price. What does the lady bid for
Grumble and Growler ?'

A tenner,' was the reply ; and it was
given by Griselda's commissioner, Cock
Robin, who occupied a place on the outside
of the ring of spectators.

AVhich means the lady's bid for Grumble
and Growler is ten pounds,' rejoined
the auctioneer. ' Going,' continued he,
lifting his hammer. ' Going. Any more ?
Going.'

You may as Avell say gone, Mr. Knock-endow,'
returned Tom Brown. ' Xo one
here Avill bid against the squire's first

Avliip. She's too good a sportsman, and
too much to the front for anyone in these
paints to oppose her.'

Any more ?' repeated the auctioneer,
doing.' He paused for a moment, with
his hammer raised ; and then added, as
lie bi-hight it down sharply upon a small
deal table, placed as a kind of desk in
the waggon, ' Gone !'

The auctioneer, busy in his calling, recorded
the i^rice at Which Grumble and
Grover had been sold, and then asked
who was the purchaser.

Miss Grizzle Peepem, sir, of Forester's
Lodge,' replied Cock Robin, raising his
voice, so as to ha heard distinctly by
everyone present, ' is the sporting lady
that's bought these hounds, and I've got
her money in my pocket, to pay for 'em.
Say the word, and out it comes.'

o o

As if regarding it as one of his :special
missions, Bill Baxter led into the middle
of the ring the pride of the pack, Craft'
and Vanity, linked together in couples.

There, gentlemen,' said the auctioneer,
are the acknowledged two best hounds
that ever threw tongue, with a pedigree
dating as far back as William the Conqueror.'


Tom Brown, the yeoman, thought an

opportunity presented itself here for indulging
in a hearty laugh, and took
advantage of it.

'You may laugh, sir, if you please,'
remarked the auctioneer, seriously. ' A
man may laugh, I believe, in these days
without running the risk of being hanged,
drawn, or quartered. But it is a tradition
in this county that the ancestors of Crafty
and Vanity were owned by William the
Conqueror when he hunted the stag in
the NcAv Forest. It's not an uncommon
thing,' continued he-to hear people talk
of their forefathers coming over with William
the Conqueror; but these hounds
which you see before you in their prime
of health and condition are undoubted
lineal descendants of those kennel bathe
Norman king, and probably the best
blood in the royal pack. As they are

^vell known to nearly all the gentlemen
present, I need not occupy unnecessary
time by speaking more about them. Put
Crafty and Vanity up at any price you
please, and remember they are to be sold.
What shall vre say for lot number two, the
pride of the pack and the oldest blood in
England ?'

Fifty guineas,' was the reply by what
would appear a stranger from a distance ;
for, although whispered, Questions Avere
put by many as to who the bidder was,
nobody seemed to know.

• Fifty guineas are bid for Crafty and
Vanity,' rejoined the auctioneer. 'Why,
it's the price of an old song for the pride
of the pack and the oldest blood in England.
Any advance on fifty guineas ?
Going.'

Five ' returned a voice.

Fifty-five,' added the auctioneer, ' is
bid for lot nuinljer two. Any advance on
fifty-five? Goinir, going,' and he lifted
his hannncr, but with no intention of
bringing it down so pi-onipth' as he appeared
to threaten.

Sixty,' said the stranger from a distance.


Xo reserve, recollect,' ejaculated the

auctioneer. ' They are to be sold with all
that's offered for sale to-dny. Any advance
on sixty guineas for Crafty and
Vanity?' and he once niorc^ Raised his
hammer. ' Going.'

There was uoav a pause of some duration
in the bidding and twice the auctioneer
cried ' going,' with his hammer
lifted above his head, when, to the petrifying
astonishment of everyone present,
Bill Baxter, who continued to hold 'the

pride of the pack ' coupled in the
middle of the ring, jerked his head
sideways towards the auctioneer*, and
added in a firm voice, as if a well-considered
intention accompanied it, ' 'sixty


The auctioneer arrived at the hasty
conclusion that either his eyes and ears
had deceived him most unaccountably, or
that Bill Baxter had suddenly become a
confirmed lunatic on the spot.

The auctioneer stared With blindness
eyelids at Bill Baxter without saying a
word, and Bill Baxter returned the lookin
corresponding silence.

Sixty-five guineas !' at length exclaimed
the auctioneer, addressing the second
whipper-in. ' Do you mean to say that
you, Bill Baxter, bid sixty-five guineas for
Crafty and Vanity ?'

I do, sir,' quietly responded Bill
Baxter.

A commission, I suppose,' rejoined the
auctioneer, ' otherwise it might be suspected
that lot number two had a reserved
price, and if so I knoAV nothing about it.'

'You need not be afraid, sir,' returned
Bill Baxter. ' All is fair and square here.'

If it's no secret, then,' added the auctioneer,
'let's have the name of the purchaser
of this couple of hounds, the pride
of the pack.'

'Miss Penelope Peepem of Forester's
Lodge,' replied Bill Baxter, with a glow of
pride mantling over his features as he
made the public announcement.

A loud clapping of hands followed with
cries of ' Bra-^;6> !'

The best of the old blood, then, is not
to leave this part of the county,' observed

Tom Brown, throng up his hat and
catching it dexterously. 'The Peepems
are the right sort and, no doubt, mean to
start a subscription pack with, perhaps,
Miss Grizzle as the M.F.H., and a better
or more popular one couldn't be found in
all Hampshire ;' such was the expressed
opinion of Tom Brown, the yeoman.

Upon the excitement of this episode
having abated, the sale of the remainder of
the hounds proceeded without interruption
or any special feature attracting particular
notice. It was generally conceded, however,
that the lots, as they were knocked
down, fetched great if not unprecedented
prices, and no pack offered for sale before,
within the memory of the oldest sportsman
present, ever fetched so much money as
the Oakacre foxhounds.

Next in turn followed the stud of light-vol.

II. p

weight carrying hunters, two lacks, and
one horse, aged, that had carried the
whipper-in for several successive seasons.

The whole are to be soh, recollect,' said
the auctioneer, ' at whatever prices they
will fetch.'

For some unexplained ]reason the aged
horse that * had carried the whipper-in for
several successive seasons ' Alas brought

o

forward as the first lot for public competition.


What shall we say for this well-known,
seasoned and useful hunter?' asked the
auctioneer, as Bill Baxter led the ' old 'loss '
into the celtic of the ring formed by the
spectators. ' What shall we say for
him?'

No offer being made, notwithstanding
the blandishments of the auctioneer, who
expatiated eloquently upon what the ' okl

'loss ' had clone as conclusive proof of what
he might be expected to do.

There was a time,' said the auctioneer,
^ when he could run clean away from his
own shadow and leave it standing still.
As for jumping — he'd go straight for a fly
at the chancel of a parish church. Xo
pace was too fast, no day too long. The
further he went the fresher he galloped,
and never knew what sixteen stone seven
pounds meant in negotiating six feet of
timber or brick. That's the kind of cross-country
animal he was in days gone by,
gentlemen, when he was reckoned the best
horse in the squire's stable. What will
you put him in at ? recollect he is to be
sold at whatever price he wil fetch.'

'Forty shillings,' and the reply was
followed closely by a loud laugh from the
general body of spectators.

p2

And sixpence,' was the supplementary
hid to the modest oiFcr of forty shillings,
and this brought forth a louder laugh from
the same hilarious body of spectators who
seemed quite oblivious of the wide difference
in the ' old 'loss ' between the past and
the present.

Forty shillings and sixpence are bid
for this once perfection of a hunter,' said
the auctioneer. ' It shows what the veriest
of us may come to in horse kind and
mankind. Yes, gentlemen,' continued he,
'the proudest in the land are not safe
from the cat's meat barrow ! Any advance
on forty shillings and sixpence ? Going,'
his hammer was lifted. ' Going,' he repeated,
and it fell with a sharp and loud
click, sealing the fate of the ' old 'loss.'

As Bill Baxter slowly led him from the
spot, it Alas noticed that the whipper-in

rubbed the nose of the ' old loss,' as soft as
velvet, A\dth a gentle action, and now and
again pressed his cheek against it and held
it there.

When the moment for parting arrived
the traces of tears, shed in silent sorrow,
might have been seen on the velvet nose
of the ' old 'loss.'

CHAPTER XIV.

The library in Oakacre Court, had been
the scene of more than one interesting
discussion between the chairman of the
Cold Company and its promoter; but
from the serious and earnest manner in
which they were speaking to each other it
might be readily inferred that the present
conference was quite as important as any
that had preceded it.

It was on the morning of the sale of the
hounds and hunters, that John Oakacre
and Orlando Chickabiddy were sitting together

talking of pecuniary exigencies,
dishonoured bills, and hostile legal proceedings,
which threatened absolute ruin,
at least, to one of the Pavo present.

I think, sir,' observed Orlando Chickabiddy,
and he spoke as if he had met A\ith
a recent injury at the hands of the squire,
that you should have consulted me before
taking so decided a step as breaking up
your hunting establishment. With a
little tact,' continued he, 'and judicious,
financial skill, it might have been averted,
and no one can tell what may turn up
^v\\en time is given for the teetotum of
chance to spin round. I have kno^^^l some
men, Mr. Oakacre, penniless, and hopelessly
insolvent, pull through their difficulties,
and leave large fortunes behind them by
]persistently keeping up appearances.
Credit being capital, and credit more

frequently than not depending upon
appearances, far removed as they may lee
from what they seem to represent, it
behoves every man of the world, who
means to take a front seat, to keep them
up at all cost and any hazard. In truth
and in fact, Mr. Oakacre, it is one of the
secrets of success. However much of a
sham the outward effects may be of the
way in which society moves and lives, it
signifies but little so long as it is not found
out to be a deception, the difficulty being,
perhaps, to prevent the discovery. In
keeping up a show of wealth, as numbers
of the Middlesex families manage to do
without professing any, almost unlimited
credit is established, and it seems strange,
indeed, when the collapse comes, as it often
does, to find the supposed and acknowledged
capitalist not only without a shilling of

his owTi, but that he never possessed one.'
It appears to me,' said the squire, ' that
these proceedings are nothing short of
swindling or robbery of the most flagrant
description.'

These are harsh terms, Mr. Oakacre,'
rejoined Orlando Chickabiddy, ' and the
law is not so severe as yourself in giving
these creditor and debtor cases milder
titles without imputing the smallest criminality.'


Which proves that a great distinction
is often made,' returned the squire, 'where
there is no difference.'

It may be sometimes a matter of vital

«/

expediency to support one's credit by the
best means in one's power, regardless of
the consequences,' resumed Orlando
Chickabiddv, ' and you could not, in mv
opinion, Mr. Oakacre, have taken a more

effective step to ruin your own than by
the sale of your hounds and hunters. It
advertises the undeniable fact that you
and your money have parted company
and this should have been kept from the
knowledge of the public as long as
possible.'

Why ?' shortly asked the squire.

In order that your credit, Mr. Oak-acre,
might not be prematurely injured,'
responded Mr. Orlando Chickabiddy, ' and
thus prevent you from operating in the
meantime so as to put you straight
on your legs again. Your shares in
the gold mine,' continued he, 'may
be affected by this ill-advised proceeding.'


^ As they are worth nothing,' rejoined
the squire, with a sneer, ' I cannot
see how their value is to be 

by anything I have done or can

do;

But as I have before stated upon
many previous occasions,' returned Orlando
Chickabiddy, ' it does not follow that
because the shares in a gold mine, or for
that matter in any other, be it iron, coal,
lead, copper, or tin, are looked upon as
worth only the price of waste paper, but
they may be rushed to an exorbitant
premium upon the circulation of a mere
fabricated report that the metal has at
length been found in superabundant-quantities.
There is nothing, sir, so full
of hope with the speculating public
as a mine, and above all a gold mine.
People think that at any moment the
pickaxe and spade may bring about all
their most sanguine expectations have
pictured, and fresh investors may easily be

found to try at a tempting price their
chance of success in what others have
so practically and signally failed to accomplish.'


Without pretending to dispute anything
you have said,' added the squire,
^ for I know little or nothing about matters
of this kind, I feel that as nearly the
whole of my rental is absorbed for years
to come, T am bound in common honesty
to decrease my expenditure and economise
my means in every possible way. The
first step, therefore, as it appeared to me,
was to l)reak np my hunting establishment.'


'You should have consulted me, Mr.
Oakacre, before taking it,' responded
Orlando Chickabiddy, in a petulant tone.
In supporting your credit our united
interests are at stake. I have done, as

you know, the best in my power to enable
you to meet your engagements, and I have
never hesitated to continue that assistance
when required, although often at
personal sacrifice to my own convenience.


Without blaming you, sir, or oiFerino-

o

join

the shadow of a reproach, even in a
thought,' rejoined the squire, ' I cannot
forget that through your counsel and
advice I am a ruined man. In consulting
you, Mr. Chickabiddy, from time to
time, as to what was best to be done,'
continued he, ' nothing more unfortunate
could be than the results that followed.
They were always the direct opposite of
that which I was led to expect, and loss
Alas added to loss, until I had scarcely
anything more to lose. I, therefore,
thought that the time had come forme

to (consult myself alone, in order that
I might ]iot lose the only thing of value
left — my honour.'

'You should remember, Mr. Oakacre,
that, in providing for your calls on the
shares, unpaid acceptances, and obligations
generally, I am your principal
creditor,' observed Orlando Chickabiddy ;
and 1 think, therefore, that you should
have taken me into your confidence before
adopting so decided a step as selling
your hounds and hunters. It informs
everyone in the county, from the highest
to the most humble, that the gold mine
may be looked upon as a complete failure,
and our united interests are that exactly
the reverse should be the public
belief.'

^ How is that within the range of possibility
T asked the squire.

Nothing is impossible ^^'itll speculative
shareholders,' replied Orlando Chickabiddy.
' As the promoter of a long list of
companies,' continued he, ' I say, without
fear of contradiction, that they will swallow
any bait that has a look of realty
about it, no matter what. The hooks
have only to be covered vdth. red rag,
and you may land your fish without an
effort.'

I do not perceive the object of your
remarks,' observed the squire. ' Plain
matters of fact, and truthful as they may
possibly be.'

Listen patiently for a few moments,'
replied Orlando Chickabiddy, * and you
will discover it. This morning's post
brought me the information that a petition
is being prepared to wind up the
company, and in a few days will be

presented for the consideration of the Court
of Chancery. If an order were granted,
every shilling of your money, Mr. Oak-acre,
and that of your friends, would be
irretrievably lost. It is, therefore, necessary
that it should be opposed by all the
means in our power, foul or fair. You,
as the chairman of the company and
largest shareholder in it, are bound to
take the foremost place in meeting this
hostile measure, and I will prepare the
means for your doing so. Winding up,
Mr. Oakacre, would be ruin to you, and
the gravest wrong and injury to me.'

Fearing the worst,' rejoined the squire,
with a deep-drawn sigh, ' I am prepared
to accept the inevitable with as much
stoicism as I can summon to my aid.'

'Not being a man of business, sir,'
returned Orlando Chickabiddy, ' you cannot

be aware of the thin and tender
threads upon which momentous issues
rest. One unintentional word spoken at
random, and a line written without a
thought, have made men of straw, men of
substance, and men of substance ' — the
speaker made an effective break in the
sentence, and then added — ' paupers.'

The squire said nothing in reply, but
rested in his chair, as if wearied with
what he heard, and was still listening
to.

It is not too late,' resumed his companion,
' for you to get out of this gold-mine
company without the loss of a shilling,
if you will consent to be guided by
me, notwithstanding the reckless imprudence
of the sale of this morning.'

It seems needless for me to state that
I shall be only too glad,' responded the

VOL. II. Q

squire, ^ if you will inform fine how my
deliverance is to be achieved. Remembering
the past, I cannot believe in the possibility
of its existence.'

Orlando Chickabiddy jerked his chair
several inches closer to the squire, and
then said, glancing over his right and left
shoulders to make sure that no third person
was present, ' the shares in the gold-mine
mil go up like a sky-rocket before
the order for winding-up can be made,
and then yours, sir, shall be slipped at
the right moment, and your money got
back. The bills which I hold of yours, instead
of scarcely representing the value of
the stamps upon which they are written,
will be taken up, and everything in so far
as we are personally concerned rendered
pleasant and profitable in the extreme.'

You forget the omission of not having

told me how this magical change is to be
effected remarked the squire, with a smile
of incredulity upon his lips.

Orlando Chickabiddy again looked suspiciously
over his right and left shoulders,
and then added, in a confidential whisper,

I'll salt the mine,' and, rising from his
seat, hurriedly took his departure before
the squire could ask a question as to what
salting the mine ' meant.

q:^

CHAPTER XV.

Miss Penelope Peepem and the giant
were taking a constitutional walk among
the trees and shrubberies of Forester's
Lodge, concealed, if not altogether hidden,
from vulgar public gaze, and having a little
pleasant, cosy chat about things of the
past and things to come.

The ^ most lovable of aunts ' leant on
the arm of her stalwart nephew, and he,
with his head turned towards her, was
listening to all she had to say with profound

attention, and occasionally painful
interest.

I can scarcely express to you, my dear
giant, the acuteness of my sensitive feelings
as the day named for Griselda's marriage
approaches,' observed she, ^^dth a
shake of the head which published the
bald spot beyond a transitory glimpse.
^ They really are sometimes almost insupportable.
I do my best to bear up against
the depressing influence, but not possessing
your great physical strength, my dear
giant, I feel too often ready to sink into
the ground.'

Let us speak of something else, then,
less trying to your nerves, most lovable of
aunts,' replied he. ' It may be quite as
.acceptable to both of us during this delightful
walk, which I almost superstitiously
believe will be remembered by meas

something marked in my life by a white
stone. I feel so supremely happy in being
with you again in the old spot where I
used to play as a boy and romp with Grim
It brings back in all their freshness
the merry scenes of the long past, which
may be recalled, but can never be renewed.'


'To hear you speak in this eloquent
way, giant, makes me feel proud of having
such a nephew,' rejoined she. ' It must
be, I suppose, studying for the Bar, or the
legal air of the Middle Temple, which has
rendered you such an orator.'

Edward Slomax laughed at the compliment,
and drew his 'most lovable of aunts ^
closer to his side.

And so they walked on among the trees
and shrubberies of Forester's Lodge, talking
about many things of interest ; but,.

as if by mutual consent, the topic which
was at first started, Griselda's approaching
marriage, was not included among
them.

You may well feel surprise,' said Miss
Penelope Peepem, continuing their discourse,
' at learning that 1 and your cousin
bought no less than four of John Oakacre's
foxhounds ; but we did so with the intention
of returning them to him. as the best
of his magnificent pack, when the gold-mine
turns out a success, and he is enabled
again to start his hunting establishment
upon the same scale as before he relinquished
it.'

When the gold-mine turns out a success
!' repeated he.

As I am daily assured it will in the
most solemn language and pious manner
by Orlando,' rejoined Miss Penelope .

' He says that just beneath the longitudinal
section, which much disappointed
him by not yielding an ounce of gold
where tons were reasonably expected, the
precious metal will be found as a matter
of certainty in great quantities. Orlando
continually says this to me, and I believe
Orlando.'

Orlando !' reiterated he, with a curl of
the upper lip. 'That sounds strange to
my ears.'

You must not be jealous, my deaj-
giant,' returned Miss Penelope Peepem,
in my having dropped the surname of
Chickabiddy. I can't say that I ever liked
it much. But then, as the swan of Avon
wrote, "What's in a name? A rose ])y
any other would smell as sweet," and this
I have successfully persuaded myself is a
parallel and corresponding case with orlando.

Taking all things into consideration,'
continued she, ' it is a most desirable
match for your cousin, giant, and I am
perfectly satisfied With her matrimonial
prospects.'

He made no observation in reply, and
the conversation between them dropped
for a short time.

I have not told you that in buying the
foxhounds for John Oakacre,' returned
Miss Penelope Peepem, ' I had to apply
to my man of business to advance the
purchase-money, and, upon understanding
what I wanted it for, he seemed to think
that the act was not governed by the
principles of strict prudence or economy.'


I am not surprised at that,' observed
her companion, ' although it was for your
consideration rather than his.'

^ Knowing how John Oakacre loved and
valued Crafty and Vanity,' resumed she, ' I
could not allow that they should go into
the possession of a stranger, and Griselda
entertained the same affectionate feelings
for Grumble and Growler. But as Orlando
says the sale should not have taken
place at all. With the exercise of a little
patience, which John Oakacre never possessed,
not a hound or a horse would
have been sold., I have Orlando's authority
for stating this without reservation,
and he must know much better than
anybody else. But John Oakacre always
acted upon impulse,' continued Miss
Penelope Peepem. ' As a young man his
actions were never properly weighed
before committing them, and sometimes
scarcely excusable from their impulsiveness.
I remember several ;' and her head

shook SO as to make the diminutive lace
cap flutter in the breeze, and publish to
full vieAv the bald spot it not unfrequently
failed to secrete. ' I remember several
repeated she, 'and I was compelled to
remonstrate with .him upon more occasions
than one, and urge the propriety
of putting a Wholesome check upon his
unrestrained feelings."

'You, most lovable of aunts, hold a
few shares in this gold mine, I believe,*
observed her nephew, after a pause in
their discourse.

I do, giant,' replied she. ' I have the
gi-eat pleasure of stating that I have twenty
shares of one hundred pounds each allotted
to me at what Orlando calls par,
and I am told by him that they will
be of prodigious value in the course of
time.'

If T were to express an opinion
totally different,' remarked her companion,
'you would not pay much heed toit;



'I certainly should. not, but still continue
to believe Orlando,' rejoined Miss
Penelope Peepem. 'His knowledge concerning
everything belonging to the mine
is most perfect and complete, and he says
the gold having been once discovered
above the longitudinal section shows that
the indications are more than favourable
for its being found beneath it when the
hover level of the quartz is reached. In
short, my dear giant, 1 shall be so rich
that I shall not know what to do with my
money ; lout rest assured that a liberal
share of it shall be yours with the clear
understanding that the possession is
not to render you indolent or interfere

in any way ^\itli your studies for the
Bar;

Accept my positive assurance that
any part of your wealth, coming from
such a source,' added he, ' will not interrupt
my day and night work for a
moment as a reading man in Mrs.
Chell's lodgings. You shall examine
her yourself upon this matter of simple
fact should it become necessary.'

In that case you may depend upon
having your allowance doubled at least,'
responded Miss Penelope Peepem, ' and a
quarter in advance to open a banker's
account with. You will find it a pleasant
occupation to draw cheques upon
your balance at the banker's, particularly'
when it is not so close to being even
on both sides the book as to render it
expedient to add up the pence with great

care. I too often, my dear giant continued
she, ' have to look with much attention
to the pence column at certain
fixed times and seasons, particularly just
before the half-yearly remittances are
made by my man of business. It is then
that my attention is invariably drawn to
the pence column.'

'There will be no necessity for this
rigid care and economy,' rejoined her companion,
smiling, 'when the gold is found
beneath the longitudinal section.'

o

'None whatever,' seriously added Miss
Penelope Peepem. ' I shall then confine
my attention to the pounds only, and not
trouble myself about the pence.'

'It is wiser to do the reverse, I have
heard,' said he. ' But here comes my
cousin;' and, as he spoke, Griselda appeared
walking towards them, with Sam

by her side, looking grave and sedate,
like a thoughtful dog having things of
weight and responsibility upon his mind.

I was wondering where you were
hiding yourself this morning,' observed
Edward Slomax. greeting her in a cheerful
voice and manner ; and, extending a
hand, drew her towards him, and impressed
a kiss upon her peach-like cheek,
flushed with health.

You admit, then,' she replied, • having
bestowed one thought upon me.'

One thought !' he exclaimed. * AVhv,
I am always thinking of you and Sam.
The two are inseparable from my
thoughts.'

Sam squatted himself deliberately in
front of Edward Slomax, and, staring at
him full in the face, said, as plainly asa
dog could speak,

you may bamboozle her, but you can't
me. I'm Sam, not a confiding young lady ;
but a sly old dog.'

You have not given yourself the
trouble of recording much of this constant
thinking of Sam and myself,' responded
Griselda, 'by writing frequently
either about one or to the other. Your
letters of late have been few and far
between.'

'As you well know,' telegraphed Sam,
by throwing himself upon his back and
indulging in a luxurious roll upon the
grass, 'if ever there was a shining humbug
you are one,' continued he, regaining
his feet and giving himself a vigorous
shake ])y way of completing his toilet,
begun when he rose ivith a stretch from
his straw bed.

A man [ reading for the Bar, ' rejoined

Edward Slomax, trying his utmost
to look serious, ' has not much
time to spare for-sitting to his friends
and '

Acquaintances,' added Griselda. " For
I still claim to lye an acquaintance, however
slight and precarious the intimacy
may be

It ought not to be either one or the
other,' returned he, 'considering the length
of time it has existed.'

'Does time, then, strengthen acquaintanceship
?' asked Griselda. ' I have
thought otherwise lately."

Sam yawned, as if wearied \^ith this
discussion, and wanted something more
stimulating to engage his attention.

Cock Robin now approached and announced
the arrival of Doctor Tom Tidy
on his weekly professional visit to Miss

VOL. II. R

Penelope Peepem, who at once took her
departure, leaving the cousins alone nth
Sam.

CHAPTER XVL

My being here with you and Sam,' said
Edward Slomax, as they strolled together
at a leisurely pace under the thick foliage
of the overhanging' trees, ' makes me
bitterly envious of the past, and spitefully
discontented with the present.'

'Why so?' inquired she.

To think of the fun that you and I had
together,' continued he, ' and to know that
it's all over now, makes me feel as wretched
a fellow as ever lived. If we could only
have remained, as we were, two happy

1? 2

little kids — you my child wife, and I your
little boy husband, who was soundly
thrashed sometimes to his great enjoyment
what an improvement upon our lives it
would have been. In growing up, as it is
called,' continued he, ' I fear that we have
committed a fatal mistake.'

I wish with you, Teddy,' responded
Griselda, ' that, instead of naturally growing
up, we could artificially grow doAvn,
and again take to our dolls, hoops, kites,
and balls. I was then so happy with you
for my playfellow, wanting no one besides,
and nothing but what I possessed.'

'What a glorious state of mundane
felicity !' exclaimed he. ' To have me for
your playmate, and wanting no one and
nothing but what was in your absolute
possession. I cannot conceive a more
perfect state of earthly bliss.'

I might not then have understood how
]iiuch I had to be s^ratefnl for, Teddy,' rejoined
Griselda, with a laugh that was just
heard, but the effect of which was scarcely
seen. 'You used, I remember,' continued
she, 'to introduce the novelty of tickling
my nose with a feather when rocked in the
arms of Nature's soft nurse and asleep, or
thrusting a straw into my ears by way of a
change in the instruments of torture. Do
you recollect these early practical jokes of
yours played upon your child-wife,
Teddy?'

He remembered them well, and was
frank enough to say so.

And you were most affectionately forgiving
in all I did,' responded he, 'and
seldom chased and thrashed me soundly
more than twice or thrice for each offence
of the kind. Nothing could more forcibly

illustrate the seasoning of justice with
mercy than the retribution I received at
your hands, although I sometimes thought
the ash plant supplied by Cock Robin
quite thick enough for the purpose, and
too full of knobs.'

'It was great fun !' ejaculated Griselda.
Nothing pleased me more than to make
you run and shout to be rescued by my

aunt, who always took your part because

you got the worst of it in the end.'

In order that, as usual, she might take

the side of the oppressed,' returned he.

An unexceptionable rule with my most loveable

of aunts.'

You were never attacked until you

greatly provoked me to apply the ash plant

added Griselda.

'That's a matter of prosaic history, I

fear ' said Edward Slomax. ' But the

provocation was given as a proof of my
early and everlasting love for my little
termagant of a wife.'

'Everlasting love for me!' exclaimed
Griselda, stopping in her walk, and looking
at him with a stedfast, penetrating gaze.
I thought the feeling you entertained forme,
call it by what name you like, was of
the most ephemeral kind, and left no trace
of ever having been.'

Your thoughts then,* replied he, ' were
diametrically opposed to the simple truth.
As my child wife I loved you with the
feelings of a child, Which grew as I grew,
and strengthened day by day, and year by
year, until I awoke from the dream and
saw that my child wife was a woman.'

And then you ceased to love me,'
rejoined Griselda. ' Was that so ?'

No,' responded her companion, and as

the word fell from his lips it sounded as if
prompted by his heart. ^ The love for my
child wife had taken too deep a root for it
ever to be stopped or checked by fate
itself But T felt that as a woman,
Griselda, I must no longer talk to you, or
think of you, as I had done when you
were my child wife, and I your plague of a
little boy husband, who often teazed you
for the supreme pleasure of being chased
and thrashed. My most lovable of aunts,'
continued he, ^ had set her loving heart
upon your marrying a rich man, and your
devoted juvenile cousin was not only
penniless, but without the means of earning
a penny. What, then, would have
been her thoughts of me had she even
suspected for a moment the presumption
of my being seriously in love with you ?'
Perhaps the same as when she hoped

that John Oakacre was seriously in love
with her,' rejoined Griselda.

But he Avould have been justified in
being a suitor for her hand,' returned
Edward Slomax, 'as the possessor of ample
means to support a wife becoming her
position as mistress of Oakacre Court.'

In my opinion,' returned Griselda,
^ Miss Penelope Peepem in the early part
of the present century would not have
been too exacting about the sufficiency of
the means so long as the end was attained.
She always so much admired the old county
family of the Oakacres.'

And with sufficient reason,' added her
companion, ' as a stainless race of English
gentlemen beyond reproach and above
suspicion.'

How dear aunt's sanguine hopes and
ardent expectations were doomed to disappointment,'

returned Griselda, ' I never
could quite understand, for even now one
looks, occasionally, ready to propose and
the other to accept.'

They now and then feel the latent
warmth of their earlier days,' returned
Edward Slomax. ' Well, it is only turning
the hourglass upside down and living them
over again !'

Sam here gave a wide and loud yawn,
to remind them, perhaps, that he was
Wearied with this branch of the subject
and wanted it improved in interest with
as little loss of time as possible.

'From what you have just told me,
then, Teddy, although the secret has been
Avell kept until nov,' observed Griselda^
I am to believe that the love you entertained
for me as your child-wife has been
continued without interruption to this
very hour of my life.'

Indeed you may well believe it responded
he, ' and as much so as if it
formed part of your religious faith, for it
is founded uj^on truth.'

And yet you nearer said so before,' rejoined
Griselda. 'Why was that?'

Because that nothing I could sa' ordo,'
returned he, ' might influence your
resolution in complying with our most
lovable aunt's absorbing desire for you to
marry a rich man. I had nothing. Orlando
Chickabiddy was reputed to possess
a gold-mine. As I have often said,' continued
he, ' to dear Jenny Chell, I was too
heavily handicapped to have more than a
good view of the race.'

'And so you have loved me, Teddy,'
added she, reproachfully, ' all these years
in silence, and had not the courage to tell
me so until it Alas — too late T

By a scarcely audible growl, which might
be said to have been almost whispered,
Sam intimated that their privacy was
about being disturbed by the unwelcome
approach of somebody, heard by him, but
as yet unseen.

Within the brief period of a few seconds,
Miss Penelope Peepem made her appearance
from behind a thick screen of evergreens,
and communicated the interesting
fact that ' her medical man had only just
brought his professional visit to a close,
otherwise she should have returned honos
before.'

CHAPTER XVII.

Orlando Chickabiddy, having completed
his plan and arrangements for ' salting the
mine,' was now waiting with feverish expectation
and anxious dread for the result,
which, as he knew, must soon become a
public secret, instead of continuing a
strictly private one, confined to himself
alone.

We are the creatures of circumstances,'
observed he, philosophically, sitting before
a table on which was a heap of opened
letters, newspapers, and writing materials.

*We arc the creatures of circumstances
repeated he, Svhich pull, and drag, and
drive us here, there, and everywhere,
Avithout our having any more control over
our movements than a lit of thistledown
blown about in the wind. We seem to be
our own masters of our own actions, but
we are not. Now what am I scheming todo
at the present moment? Why, just
the opposite of what I was scheming to doa
few weeks since. I intended to drop
John Oakacre into the hole, as the (chairman
and largest shareholder in the company,
and that, too, up to his very eyelids.
It was my intention to have his
possessions in the county of Hampshire,
and for him to have my auriferous property
in South America, but nothing to
the value of a farthing besides. An end,
however, is put to all this snug and profitable

arrangement, and by what? Circumstances
said he, living a reply to
his own question, 'nothing but circumstances
over which I not only had no
control but worse still they controlled
me.

Orlando Chickabiddy looked much
oppressed with the weight of thought at
this moment and became absorbed for a
few seconds in silent reflection.

• If I were not about doing that upon
which I have long fixed my whole heart
resumed he, ' marrying the prettiest girl
in all the county, and making every
young chap envious and jealous of me, I
would have Oakacre Court and John
Oakacre might have the South American
property in exchange with an undisputed
title. But in that case what would Mrs.
Chickabiddy say, and continue to say, as

long as she had a tongue to speak and I
ears to hear ?

I should catch it hot and strong morning,
noon, and night from the beginning
of the week to the end all the year
round. There would never be a moment's
]peace in the house or out of it with her
old friend John Oakacre turned out of his
home to wander about where he might fora
stray dinner. In order to avoid, therefore,
a rock which must have knocked my
little skiff into splinters, T determined to
go upon another tack and make an effort
to ease him of some of his difficulties, and
be satisfied with annexing a moiety of his
]possessions instead of wrecking the whole,
an act that deserves more praise than it is
likely to get.

Look at it as I would,' continued he,
after a slight break in the soliloquy, ' the

situation was anything but favourable, and
I came to the conclusion that unless the
gold mine shares could be rushed up so
as to slip John Oakacre's at the proper
moment, and thereby secure the hard cash
to the amount, at least, of his bills in my
hands, it would turn out in the end a
devilish bad bit of business for me compared
nth what my hopes were of sacking a
big swag of money by the promotion of
the company. It is true that I have a
pretty big bit in hand by the sale of the
mine ; but I wanted more, and such is my
natural feeling that the more that can begot
out of anything, or anyone, the more
I want and try to get, being not too nice or
particular as to the means, which no man
ought to be who intends to win the game
he is playing at.

Marked cards ? yes. Loaded dice ? yes.

VOL. II. S

Bubble companies ? yes. False balance
sheets ? yes. Guinea-pig directors ? yes.
Insolvent and fraudulent managers ? yes.
Runaway secretaries? yes. Dividends
paid out of capital? yes. These are the
certainties by which experienced talent
takes advantage of brainless asses, and so
long as men and women continue to live
to make fools of themselves, or be made
fools of, so long will the inexhaustible
family of the flats be the helpless and
plucked pigeons of the sharps.

Now, in John Oakacre I found as
innocent a lamb as ever was skinned ; but
I must be content with what I have got
out of him, and the money to come in for
his shares when they arc rushed up to a
good marketable figure by salting the
mine, which is progressing, I see by these
letters, as well and favourably as I could
wish.

The report of a rich vein of ore having
been discovered,' continued he. ' will
soon be forwarded, and the once fondly-anticipated
result of upwards of four
ounces to the ton be circulated for and
wide to the gratified and astonished
ears of the hitherto despairing shareholders.


'Ha ! ha, ha !' chuckled Orlando Chicks
' ha, ha, ha ! They little think,'
continued he, ' that the rich vein of ore
containing upwards of four ounces of pure
gold to the ton was placed where it was
found by my secret orders. They little
think that the specimen sent direct from
the captain of the mine, with the elaborate
details of the weight of the crushed
quartz, and the carefully ascertained
quantity of gold yielded, were all prepared
by me in my ow]i mansion

s2

called Hawkhurst in the county of Hampshire.


The poor deluded imbecile fools don't
know what salting a mine means. I
do.

'Nothing short of worst luck,' resumed
he, ' than was ever heard of in this world,
and that's saying a good deal, considering
the drawbacks, can prevent a rise in the
shares, and thus enable me to slip John
Oakacre's and get him out of the scrape.
He must not be skinned like a lamb or I
should never hear the last of it from Mrs.
Chickabiddy.

The game I have to play,' continued he,
'and am playing, is led, followed, and
hemmed in with dangers and difficulties,
and yet it does not vary much from
several ventures of a similar kind which I
have brought to a successful issue, running

great risks for large profits. Asa
professional promoter of bubble companies,
and general vendor of bubble
schemes, I might have been, as I may be,
found out ; but if I am my nest-will be
discovered to be well-lined.

'There is no such power on earth as
money,' continued Orlando Chickabiddy,
glancing at the ceiling directly above his
head, and slowly folding his arms across
his pigeon breast, and I understand its
full force from two distinct and separate
causes. One when I could not call a
-sixpence my own, and the other when I
had defaulters hammered on the Stock
Exchange to the tune of thousands upon
thousands. Many a speculator knew to
his cost when I was the head of a syndicate
either for the rise or fall, for
nothing; could be more certain than a

big loss to either the bulls or the bears,,
in accordance with which way the
wires were secretly pulled behind the
scenes.

I then held the trump-cards in my own
hand, as I do now in this gold-mine venture
; but I must take care to play them
cleverly, so that I'm not found out, otherwise
the threatened petition for winding
lip might lead to more unpleasant proceedings.


'Sooner or later, however, it must ])e
known by those deeply interested in the
operation what salting a mine means in
all its simplicity.'

Such was the peroration of Orlando
Chickabiddy's speech, addressed to an
auditory composed of himself.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Among Mrs. John Sprat's amenities in
her duties as assistant to Tom Tidy, the
licentiate of Apothecary's Hall, was rolling
pills into little spherical balls between her
finger and thumb, and, under his professional
directions, mixing black draughts.
It was evident to the most indifferent observer
that Mrs. John Sprat took no small
degree of pleasure in preparing unpalatable
doses for those supposed to be in
want of them, and, the more nauseous
their taste, the greater the satisfaction to

the dispenser, for she had a, pleasant and
lasting impression upon her memory that
bitter stuff for ' others ' interfered in no
remote Avay with her own palate. In truth
if a veracious statement is to be made
without reservation — Mrs. John Sprat recollected
that physic for other people was
not physic for herself, and she felt slightly
more pleased than otherwise when informed
that her mixtures produced ' in
others ' a tendency to cramp rather thana
sensation of ease and repose to the system.
In short, Mrs. John Sprat partook
largely of the flinty nature of the world,
and reflected with no great mental distress
upon the physical pains and twinges borne
by her friends, neighbours, and acquaintances.
Being ' of the earth,' she was most
decidedly 'earthy.'

It was eventide, and the duly qualified

practitioner and bis assistant were resting
after the toils of the day, the former leg-weary
from his long pursuit of rare specimens
for his collection, and the latter
from the somewhat monotonous occupation
of rolling pills, not by machinery, and
inixinof black draughts.

You have heard, I repose,' observed she,
in rather a sharp-edge tone of voice, as if
her present temper was not quite so even
as might be desired for agreeable society.
^ You have heard, I s pose,' repeated Mrs.
John Sprat, with a twitch of the nose not
dissimilar to that of a rabbit's, ' that the
day of this long-talked-of marriage is fixed
at last, and time it was, I think.'

Tom Tidy had not been told of the absolute
day for Miss Griselda's marriage ;
but believed, from confidential and private
information received at the last professional

visit paid to Forester s Lodge, that
it was not far off, or, at any rate, very-distant.


the interesting event,' rejoined Mrs,
John Sprat, with a sneer, for she made no
secret that, forming one of the rank and
file of the /loble army of widows left for
long in an inconsolable condition, she
hated weddings with a feeling too deep for
ordinary language to express — ' the interesting
event,' repeated she, and the rabbit-like
twitching of her nose became more
distinct and rapid, ' is fixed for the first of
next April.'

It was not often that the licentiate of
Apothecary's Hall felt the slightest inclination
to be hilarious, for his life and
the lives of ' others,' as they appeared to
him, were much too serious matters foi-laughing
about ; but, upon the first of

April being given as the precise clay lor
the marriage to take place, Tom Tidy gave
vent to his unrestrained feelings, and for
once in a way astonished his assistant
^dth a loud ' Ha, ha, ha !'

May I ask, Mr. Thomas Tidy,' observed
sirs. John Sprat, looking gravesend almost
threatening, 'if it's not giving you too
much trouble, sir, why you thought proper
to laugh in my face ?'

Oh !' exclaimed he, as soon as it was
possible for him to say anything, however
brief, ' I was not laughing in your face,
Mrs. John ; but it really struck me as
irresistibly funny that All Fool's Day
should have been chosen for the most
popular and interesting event of the kind
that has taken place in these parts for
nianv long; years.'

I repose, then, that you had not heard

of it before, Mr. Thomas Tidy,' rejoined
she, still maintaining a rigid and inflexible
expression of countenance, as was
invariably the case when she addressed
her employer in full.

It was my good fortune,' returned the
licentiate of Apothecary's Hall, in as conciliatory
a manner as he could command,
to learn the glad tidings of great joy
from you, Mrs. John. I still think, however,
that the first of April is an odd kind
of day for a young lady to choose to be
married on.'

You do,' added Mrs. John Sprat,
sharply. ' I don't. It's the day of all
others throughout the year for people to
marry on, as nine oat of ten make asses of
themselves.'

That's rather a strong term, Mrs.
John,' responded the apothecary, deprecatingly.

' Let us modify it by substituting
noodles. I prefer noodles to asses as
being fuller of Christian charity for the
weak and misguided.'

You were never married yourself
remarked this assistant. ' Were you ?'

I never was replied lie, with great
firmness.

'And, therefore, know nothing about it
rejoined Mrs. John Sprat, '/do, and shall
stick to asses.'

AVho, may I ask,' inquired Tom Tidy,
blandly, for he perceived that it was not
an opportune moment for adding to the
disturbance of Mrs. John Sprat's temper —
'who, may I ask, informed you of All
Fool's Day being selected for this most
interesting event to be brought off?'

'That audacious chap, Cock Robin,
called here this morning,' responded his

assistant, ' to give me a shot, as he called
it, for that stomach-pump business, and he
told me '

And Avhat was the nature of the shot T
inquired her employer, not Avithout apprehension
that an act of violence had
been committed in his absence.

half a pound of stale butter and a
couple of eggs not over fresh,' responded
Mrs. John Sprat, pursing her lips
together, and looking fiery in the
extreme.

Tom Tidy expected further information,
and Awaited patiently for it, but his
assistant appeared resolved that the subject
should be abruptly dropped, and
vouchsafed not another AA^ord.

sand for AAdiat practical purposes,' at
length meekly asked the licentiate of
Apothecary's Hall, Severe the butter and
eggs to be applied?'

To have a sly at me ^\dtli,' replied
she. ' But the audacious young chap
missed his mark, and only made your
shop stink worse than it did.'

You escaped his mocked and malevolent
design, then ?'

By ducking my head, they flew over
it,' rejoined Mrs. John Sprat, 'and I scored
against his miss.'

every nicely expressed,' returned he,
applauding the graphic description of Cock
Robin's failure, ' and quite worthy of a
cricketer of distinction. What followed,
Mrs. John?'

'I did,' replied she, 'with a mop just
out of a pail of soapsuds.'

'And '

He swallowed more soapsuds than he
is likely to swallow again as long ashe
lives,' continued Mrs. John Sprat.
Didn't I rub them into him, when I

drove him into a corner. I should just
think I did!'

And, as a matter of opinion,' added
Tom Tidy, ' I think the rubbing in served
him right, although we must not entirely
forget the professional error of the
stomach-pump as a set-off to his feelings.
To some extent he has my sympathy,
it having been, as it subsequently turned
out, leg of mutton day when we administered
the pump with such perfect
success, and greatly, therefore, to the
contentious violence which necessarily
followed. Our friend Cock Robin, it is
evident, has not . forgotten, or forgiven,
the unintentional strong we committed,
and, in seeking his revenge upon you,
Mrs. John, I am not in the least surprised,
although, I need scarcely add, it
in no way meets with my sanction. I

think, indeed, that the dose of soapsuds
was a fair and equitable return for his
hostile demonstration ^^dth the stale butter
and — as I reasonably infer — rotten
eo^DTs.'

'The smell in your shop will tell you
whether they were fresh or rotten,' rejoined
Mrs. John Sprat, with a Violent
twitching of the nose. ' I repose he kept
'em buried for a month on purpose.'

Admitting that he did so, for the
mere sake of argument,' returned the
licentiate of Apothecary's Hall, 'it only
forms a slight addition to his stupendous
iniquity.'

But I paid him out for it,' added his
assistant, closely buttoning up her lips.
He'll never forget the dose of soapsuds,
and I told him that I'd give him another if
he ever called me Jack Sprat again.'

VOL. II. T

Then rest assured, Mrs. eJohn,' said
Tom Tidy, with great deliberation, for the
words came slowly from his lips, as if
dropped like peas at short intervals.
'Then rest assured, Mrs. John,' repeated
he, That you will never again he called
Jack. You may regard that indignity asa
thing of the past, having no connection
whatever with the future. It would be
well, perhaps, for all of us to remember
that the past is gone ; the present is our
own, and the future is unknown. In
these respective tenses, Mrs. John, make
an effort to treat Cock Robin's reprehensible
want of refined respect in having
wantonly called you Jack Sprat, I fear,
repeatedly.'

At this juncture this particular branch
of the subject was finally disposed of, and,
from an admission made by Mrs. John

Sprat that peace had been ratified between
Cock Robin and herself, he related
in strict confidence, which had been communicated
to everyone he had either met
or overtaken that morning, that the first
of April was the day appointed for the
marriage of Orlando Chickabiddy, Esquire,
of Hawkhurst, and Miss Griselda Peepem,
of Forester's Lodge, Hampshire.

t 2

CHAPTER XIX.

Slight were the perceptible changes in the
apple-tree ; but those who now sat beneath
its drooping branches were changed indeed.
In their early childhood, Griselda
and the ' giant ' — when much too small to
be physically qualified for that distinction
often played, laughed, and quarrelled
under the apple-tree, and, as little children,
entertained no thought of sitting beneath
its shade when man and woman grown ;
and yet, years having rolled on, there they
sat together in the pale light of the

-crescent moon, man and woman grown,
albeit still young, and with no T^dtness
near.

It seems hard,' observed he, after a
lengthened pause which neither seemed
disposed to break, 'very hard that this
should be the last evening on earth that
you and I should pass together in this old
and well remembered spot.'

A close observer might have seen that
these few words acted something like a
galvanic shock upon Griselda ; but the
effect soon vanished.

'To think,' continued he, 'that we who
have been so happy together for long,
long years past, can never meet again is
more than enough to drive me mad. and I
am not sure that it has not done so.'

Griselda threw back her head with an
angry gesture, but said nothing in reply.

^ By my aunt's wish,' resumed he, ' I am
to see you married to-morrow, and, as the
squire has declined to attend the ceremony
at the last moment, to give you away.'

sto give me away?' she repeated, in a
slow, sarcastic tone. ^ You will not hesitate
to perform so easy and agreeable a
task;

Would you like to know what I should
much prefer?' he asked, laying hold of
one of her hands and clasping it firmly in
his.

Yes,' was her answer. ' Nothing at
this moment, perhaps, would please me
more.'

To follow you to your grave,' replied
he, in a hoarse and unsteady voice ; ' and
instead of seeing the bridal wreath upon
your brow, to place it, with my own
hands, upon your cofhn.'

Governed by my own inclination,' rejoined
Griselda, ' such would be my
choice.'

'- Do you really mean what you say ?'
inquired he, bending forward and gazing
earnestly in her face, which looked in
the pale moonlight as if chiselled from
marble.

When have you known me say that
which I do not mean?' she rejoined, and
the Avoids grated harshly upon his ears
like a deserved reproach.

Never,' returned he, ' never.'

Ay,' added Griselda, in a slow, deliberate
tone, as if every word had been fully
weighed in the balance of her thoughts,
you may believe me. I would much
rather be taken to the church tomorrow
morning a lifeless corpse than that which
is often miscalled a happy bride.'

For a few seconds not a word was
spoken by either.

I cannot allow this at length said he,
as if communing more with himself than
speaking to Griselda. ' At any cost or
risk this shall not take place.'

'Are you referring to my marriage?'
inquired Griselda, doubtful as to the
meaning of his words.

Yes,' responded he ; ' it must not at
such a sacrifice as this, let the consequences
be what they may to anyone or

any

thins.'

O'

But how is it to be prevented ?' she
asked. ' Tell me, Edward, or my hot
brain will scorch with dreadful uncertainty.'


Give me your consent to be my wife,'
he returned, 'and you shall escape, at
least, the certainty of a miserable existence

; for with such a man — if he deserves
the name — nothing can be more inevitable
than a life of daily and even hourly
wretchedness. In becoming mine you
may have to face poverty and all its
attendant troubles. I have nothing, as
you know, but still a voice whispers,
sleeping and waking, that I shall not lee
always poor. .This may be, I admit, nothing
but a delusion, lout still I feel
confidence in myself, knowing that my
best and unwearied efforts will never
cease so Ions; as the end remains unattained.
With the knowledge of everything
connected with my position, not
having anything to relate or conceal,
Avill you, Griselda, place yourself under
my care and be my wife, loving and beloved,
while our hearts shall continue to
beat ?'

Bewildered at his words, and with her
senses almost stunned from what she had
so unexpectedly listened to, Griselda could
not at first give utterance to a syllable
in reply, but sat with her hand in his
looking almost lifeless.

You hesitate ?' said he.

^ Not for a moment,' she hastily rejoined
' not for a moment. I consent to all
you ask, let death itself be the portion of
my doing so.'

At the conclusion of the sentence, she
was clasped passionately in his arms, and
hot, burning kisses pressed upon her
cheeks, which left a hectic flush upon
them. And so they remained, with no
Witness of their ardent love but the light
of the crescent moon.

But tell me,' at length said Griselda,
withdrawing from his embrace, while tears.

might have been seen slowly stealing from
her eyes, to which they had Ijeen hitherto
almost strangers — ' but tell me,' she repeated,
' how is this to be done on the
very eve of my marriage?'

There's but one practicable course to
adopt,' responded he. ' AYe must place
Forester's Lodo:e and ourselves many miles
apart before sunrise tomorrow. In short,
to apply a well-known phrase, we must
bolt.'

How and where ?' asked Griselda, little
short of feeling stupefied at the proposition.


Listen,' rejoined he. ' I will take Cock
Robin into our confidence, and arrange
with him for meeting us at a given
point ^\'ith barely sufficient of your
wardrobe for our flight. As soon as we
arrive '

Where ?' asked Griselda, still under the
influence of extreme astonishment.

In Middle Temple Lane,' continued he,
as if no break had occurred in the sentence,
' I will place you in the robust
arms and under the affectionate solicitude
of the most glorious old girl on earth —
Jenny Chell.'

^ But Avhat will she do with me under
the circumstances ?' inquired she.

Under the circumstances !' he exclaimed.
' Why, everything that under the circumstances
will permit. There is nothing
under the circumstances that Jenny Chell
will not do her best to make as pleasant
and easy as possible. She's a grand old
girl, and we have oily to trust her to pullus
through with lumps of weight in
hand.'

But we cannot be married '

Immediately upon our arrival in Middle
Temple Lane ?' added he. ' Certainly
not, for although I am not well up in
ecclesiastical law, I know that the banns
must be read for the first time of asking,
the middle time of asking, and the third
time of asking, which means that an interval
of three Sundays must necessarily
take place before we can possibly be, in
the eyes of the law, legally joined together
in holy matrimony.'

But what is to become of me in the
meantime ?' asked Griselda. ' Adhere am
I to go to, and with whom ?'

Leave all that to Jenny Chell,' responded
he. ' She's a grand old girl, as
you will soon find out, and she'll arrange
everything in a way little short of
heavenly.'

^ But I must know what this arrangement

is to be before assenting to it,' observed
Griselda.

Put your trust in fenny Chell,' responded
he. ^ She's a grand old gii'l. You
have only to put your trust in Jenny
Chell.'

Ready and willing as I am to do
this, ' returned Griselda, ' I cannot depend
solely upon her discretion, more
particularly as a perfect stranger tome.'


Oh ! yes, you can, take my word for
it ' added he. ' She's a ii'rand old 2:irl.
You have only to put your trust in Jenny
Chell. In fact, there's no alternative at
the present moment. Upon our arrival
in Middle Temple Lane, there Avill be nobody
in about four millions, two hundred
thousand of people that you can trust but
Jenny Chell. She stands out singly and

alone in about four millions, two hundred
thousand of people.'

But I cannot go to your chambers,
Edward, until we are married,' rejoined
Griselda.

I never said that you could,' returned
he, ' never intimated that you could, except,
perhaps, upon our arrival for a little
refreshment in the shape of a cup of tea
and bit of bread and butter. When you
become a co-tenant with me in Jenny
Chell's apartment, it must be, as a matter
of course, upon the thorough and broad
understanding that you are already my
beloved and charming young wife. Nothing
less would satisfy that grand okl
girl, Jenny Hell'

What will my aunt say ?' said Griselda,
with an involuntary raising of both her
hands.

'A great deal, no doubt replied he,
Avitli the introduction of much irrelevant
matter. My most lovable aunt must have
so much to say upon this delicate subject
that I cannot conceive within measurable
distance when it will be exhausted.'

^ She will be dreadfully angry, Edward,'
rejoined Griselda, 'and can never forgive

us;

I am quite prepared for her just anger,*
returned he, Svhich will eventually be
exploded in a continued series of indignant
letters sown broadcast with superlatives.
But as to my most lovable of aunts
never forgiving us, that is a natural impossibility.
Thc^ order of nature in such
a case would be interrupted and rendered
too exceptionally eccentric to be j)i"^<^'"
table.'

To your care, then, and protection, and

that of Jenny Chell,' added Griselda, ' I
am to consign myself, it appears, ^^dthout
reservation.'

And more faultless guardians,' said he,
emphatically, ' could not be found on this
side of the threshold of Paradise. Jenny
is such a strand old girl !'

I suppose that she has some female
relative or other whom I can visit or lodge
with during the arbitrary interval of our
probation,' observed Griselda.

'Entertain not the shadow of a doubt
upon that point,' responded he. ' Jenny
Chell in all probability — although I never
heard her speak one word upon the subject
— has scores and hundreds of female
relatives. There will be no difficulty in
her finding one most eligible in every
minute particular for our purpose, and we
need not, I am sure, trouble our heads

VOL. II. u

upon the subject for a single moment.
Jenny Chell is such a grand old girl !'

'For the first time in my life,' rejoined
Griselda, ' I positively tremble at what I
am going to do.'

I am not at all surprised, dearest
returned he, again clasping her in his arms,
'that you should feel something of this sort
just at the present moment. It's a very
shaky business for all concerned, and to
none more so than yourself, joy of my heart
and soul ! running away is no joke for a
young girl under ordinary circumstances ;
but we are about to bolt under most extraordinary
surroundings, quite unique and
devoid, I should says without fear of contradiction,
of any approach to a precedent.
No wonder that you should quake and
quiver a little at what we are about doing.
It's only one plunge, however, and no sooner

shall eve take the plucky header than weare
sure to rise afi^ain to the surface and
feel as refreshed as mermaids after combing
their hair.'

Tell me now what you expect me to do
in preparing for this frightful conduct on
my part,' said Griselda, 'for I feel that I
must implicitly rely upon your instructions.'


Go to your room, and select as few things
as you can manage with for the journey,'
replied he, 'and meet me here, under this
very tree, as the hour hand points to the
Witching hour of twelve. I like midnight
for deeds of darkness, and lovers running
away can do so with much more safety
then than at noon. In the meantime,'
he continued, ' I will enlighten Cock Robin
as to our highly objectionable proceedings,
and bind him to inviolable secresy as to

u2

what Ave have done, what we are doings
and A^^hat we are about to do. From an
intimate acquaintanceship and long association
with Cock Robin, I feel that I may depend
upon his fidelity, knowing, as he does,
that he would run the imminent risk of
having his neck broken if he proved traitor
to his trust. I Avill write an affecting and
contrite letter to our most lovable of aunts
]praying eloquently for her forgiveness, and
adding in the postscript that Ave fully expect
to receive it. This shall be placed in
the hands of Cock Robin to have delivered
to his mistress at the exact time of her bed
curtains being drawn to let in the light,
and the AvindoAv blinds jerked to fly upwards
upon their springs for the same
purpose. She Avill then be able to read the
contents and display, AAdthout doubt, an
amount of energetic astonishment, upon

reaching the end, too exaggerated to admit
of description. It would have to be witnessed
to be understood and fully appreciated.'


^ Poor dear aunt !' exclaimed Griselda.
How great will be her surprise, and hoar
deep her mortification !'

Both must folloAvas inevitable sequences,'
responded he; 'but like the majority of
mortal errors, whether of commission or
omission, they may be traced directly to
her own determination of persistently doing
wrong in compelling you, sorely against
your will, as she knew full well, to marry a
gold mine which, in my opinion, will be
found to contain not one single grain of
gold. Our most lovable of aunts could
not be otherwise than thoroughly acquainted
with your feelings upon the subject, for
they were constantly displayed in words,

looks, and acts, and yet she continued
to persevere in the attempt to
accomplish her purpose to what may be
properly called the litter end, and
which must have culminated in your
life long misery had it proved successful.'


'You begin to persuade me,' replied
Griselda, ' that we are almost justified
m

Bolting,' added he, ' not the shadow
of a doubt of it, and, therefore, as it
is getting late, go at once and prepare
for running away,' and thus speaking
he pressed her again to his breast and
kissed her with a lover's Warmth upon
cheeks, which were not so bloodless as they
looked in the pale light of the crescent
moon, under the drooping branches of the
apple-tree.

From that instant in the world's bitter
records of human frailty and blind selfishness
Griselda's fate was sealed. She
had consented to the most important
act in her life on the spur of the
moment.

END or THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE,

VOL. ni.

BY

JOHN MILLS

AUTHOR OF

THE OLD ENGLISH GENTLEMAN,'
TOO FAST TO LAST,"

ETC. ETC.

IK THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON:
HIIEST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

All rights reserved.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/onspurofmoment03mill

m THE SPUR OF THE M03IEOT.

CHAPTER I.

Edward Slomax and Mrs. Chell — relict of
the departed judge's clerk — were engaged
in the discussion of a subject of no slight
importance, and from the somewhat stiff
and unyielding deportment of the latter
it seemed as if a decided difference of
opinion existed between them.

Without the smallest wish on my part,
sir, to dictate what the conduct of people

VOL. III. B

shoiikl be, and what it should not be,
morning, noon, and night,' remarked she,
looking): straight down her nose with her
eyes half closed, and sitting more on th(^
edge of her chair than in the centre of it,
I think I may say that I knoAv what the
proprieties of life are. My late and soh;
husband, Chell, took a great pride in acknowledge
of the proprieties of life, and
often said that the large and increasing
population of the metropolis would be
much benefited by carrying them out in
every particular, not omitting one. Now,
I opine,' continued she, 'that your wish
for Miss Griselda to come and dine in
chambers previous to your marriage nth
her is extravagantly unreasonable and
ought to meet with, as it does, the most
determined opposition on my part. Never.

Slomax, never will I consent to a prenuptial
dinner.'

I really cannot see the smallest objection
to it, Jenny,' replied he. ' Instead of
having her nmtton chop at your first
<.-ousin's, the wife of that most industrious
and sober boot maker, she would have,
perhaps, the wing of a chicken cooked in
your best style.'

Xo pre-nuptial dinner, Mr. Slomax,'
rejoined Jenny, with a shake of the head
and compressing her lips. ' Xo pre-nuptial
dinner.'

But you, Jenny, as I said,' returned
he, ' were to make up the odd number of
three of the party.'

'And therefore being one too many,'
added Mrs. Chell, 'would certainly spoil
the pre-nuptial dinner. I opine, Mr.

b2

Slomax. that you had much ]potter dismiss
it altogether from your thoughts.'

'Your objection, Jenny, groundless as it
appears,' responded he, ' must be accepted
I suppose, as over-ruling and conclusive.
The dinner shall be a post-nuptial one.'

'That's a very different state of things,'
added she, ' and I will do my best to make
the post-nuptial dinner worthy of the
occasion.'

On Sunday next,' continued Mrs. Chell,
as the bright sunshine of her thoughts
spread itself over her rubicund visage,
before giving expression to them, ' the
third time of asking will be finished up,
and the following day, which is the earliest
that could be fixed for the august
ceremony, you, Mr. Slomax, will be
married to the Sweetest and loveliest young

lady that it has ever been my happy lotto
take upon my lap and fondle as I would
a babby/

You have done, Jenny, and are doing
everything in your power to render her a
spoiled child,' observed he.

Which if showing a little bit of extra
kindness is a sin,' responded she, ^ let it
lie at my door. Til not even try to sweep
it away.'

Referring to the august ceremony,
appointed to take place on Monday next
the first of May, that being the anniversary
of Jack-in-the-green and his attendant
sweeps,' remarked he, with a good humoured
laugh, ' what are the arrangements
about the bridesmaids ? You, Jenny, I
.suppose will be one.'

'■ As the widow of a demised judge's

clerk the witness, perhaps, Mr. Slomax, of
my actions here below from his merited
high position above,' replied Mrs. Chell,.
with great solemnity, ' I am not qualified
for the honour of being a bridesmaid.
Upon one occasion, only, and that was
previous to my marriage, I acted the part
of bridesmaid to my first cousin the Avifo
of — as you are pleased to call him — that
most industrious and sober shoemaker with
whom Miss Griselda is now staying in the
capacity of a lodger.'

Am I to understand then,' rejoined he,
that a widow cannot be, in the eyes of the
law, a bridesmaid ?'

Decidedly not,' returned Mrs. Chell, ina
most positive tone and manner, 'or in
the eyes of anybody else besides the law.

All widows have lost the claim for ever of
being bridesmaids, sir.'

Then it appears to me that, at this late
stage of the proceedings,' added he, ' weare
in a pretty pickle.'

'Why?' curtly asked Mrs. Chell, feeling
for the moment that her discretionary
arrangements were being impugned.

It seems that we are running the imminent
risk,' responded he, ' of appearing at
the altar without bridesmaids. That's all,
Jenny,' and he threw one knee over the
other and flung himself back in his seat
with an air of profound discontent.

'And supposing the worst that can
happen, Mr. Slomax,' returned she, rather
more defiant in her manner than conciliatory
; ' supposing that WT, the bridal

party, do appear at the altar without
bridesmaids, that will not render the
august ceremony null and void. Bridesmaids,
sir, are only ornaments, not essentials.'


^My impression was, Jenny,' added he,
^ that they were essentials.'

Oh, dear no, sir !' exclaimed Mrs. Chell.
^A marriage is quite as legal without
them as with them ; and, on this particular
occasion, I think we had letter
dispense with bridesmaids.'

'As you please, Jenny,' said he. 'The
arrangements are entirely in your hands,
and you are under the heavy responsibility
of carrying them out so as to
fulfil the whole of the . ecclesiastical conditions
in rendering our marriage bnvful
and ratified beyond the possibility of a

doubt. I care nothing about bridesmaids,'
continued he, ' or any other kind
of maids, so long as you will give nie
the positive assurance that, when we
turn our backs upon the altar, no man
can put asunder those whom God has
joined together. That's all I ask at your
hands, Jenny, and less will not satisfy

me.'

rn take great care, sir, that, after
next Monday, the first of May,' rejoined
she, ' no man living — not even that Chickabiddy
himself, backed by the entire body
of the Bench and the whole of the members
of the English bar — shall put you
asunder. Having cut him out, !Mr. Lomax,
he shall remain cut out as long as his
name is Chickabiddy. It was my great
privilege,' continued Mrs. Chell, ' to have

a hand in cutting him out, and out he
shall be as long as this world turns round
upon its bottom.'

^ I am not sure that it does, Jenny,'
observed he. ' In fact, we are taught
to believe that it revolves upon its own
axis.'

In that case; Mr. Slomax,' responded
she, ^ it is under no obligation. The
world, having its own axis — whatever that
may mean — is independent of any other
axis ; and I am glad to hear it. As
my Chcll often used to say, there's nothing
like independence.'

That concluding word of yours, Jenny,*
returned he, ' has struck a chord in my
heart which gives me pain,'

Then I wish, sir, that it had stuck
in my throat,' added she, 'and remained

there until swallowed with the utmost
difficulty.'

• Independence !' repeated he, shaking
his head sorrowfully. ' When shall I
possess independence, Jenny ?'

• In time, sir, no doubt,' responded she.
But, as my Chell used to say, " Rome was
not built in a day." '

Here am I, Jenny,' continued he, ' a
young lav-student of the ]middle Temple,
without a penny of income, going to marry
on Monday next the loveliest girl in all
Hampshire, and one of the best and pluckiest
in all England. What do you think
of that for a prudent start in life ?"

Xot being prepared for a ready answer,
Mrs, Chell was opportunely seized with a
short, hacking cough which afforded time
for reflection.

What do you think of that, Jenny
repeated he, ' for a prudent start in life ?'

Don't say Avithout a penny of income,
Mr. Sloniax. You have '

'A generous but limited allowance from
my most lovable of aunts,' added he, still
shaking his head more in sorrow than in
anger, 'who may, with justifiable disgust
at my reprehensible conduct, stop the next
quarter in advance, and so cut off the
credit with the baker. A pretty state of
things, Jenny, this would be!'

One of the saints, Mr. Slomax — 1 think
St. Paul — wrote, '' Sufficient for the day
is the evil thereof," and quite in accordance
with this sentiment of the saint,'
observed Mrs. Chell, ' I recommend no
such serious thoughts as the baker stopping
the supplies, occupying your mind at

the present moment. Think, sir, of something
more genial and pleasant.'

I will, Jenny,' responded he. ' I will
do my best to carry out your affectionately
expressed suggestion, and think only of
the approaching events of absorbing interest
in connection with Monday next —
Sweeps' day.'

CHAPTER IT.

A FULL week had passed, including the
day of the ' august ceremony,' that Griselda
had been a co-tenant with her husband in
Mrs. Chell's apartments, and nothing had
arisen to interrupt the beginning of one
of the most delightful honeymoon ever
spent in Middle Temple Lane. It is
almost needless to state that the bride and
bridegroom were ' all in all ' to each other,
and that the outside world, with the avIioU*
of its inhabitants, possessed not the smallest

interest for them. The outside world
was never thought of, and, being forgotten,
the outside world seemed to retaliate
precisely in the same manner. Xo one
came to make an inquiry. Xo one came
to whom an answer could be given in the
event of a question being asked. The
postman even absented himself from the
door of Edward Slomax's chambers, and
not a single letter, by design or accident,
found its way into the letter-box always
open to receive.

It's remarkably pleasant, joy of my
heart and soul,' said he, at the conclusion
of one of Mrs. Chell's best little dinners,
sto be left entirely to our own enchanting
society in this wav. I wish that it could
continue to the end of time, without introducing
any extraneous diversion,' and,

lighting a cigar, he blew a thin cloud of
smoke from his lips, which slowly curled
in misty circles upwards, and, settling
himself in his easy-chair, looked the personification
of human happiness. ' It was
a magnificent arrangement of Jenny
Chell's,' continued he, after a short pause,
for us to pass our honeymoon here and
in the Temple Gardens, and walking
round and round the fountain by way of
a change. It was what I call a sublime
idea, avoiding all fatigue of travel and
extortionate hotel bills.'

We could not, in my opinion,' responded
Griselda, occupying a corresponding
easy-chair facing that of her husband,
^ have possibly enjoyed a more economical
or delightful honeymoon. The early spring
flowers in the Temple Gardens were bright

and beautiful to look at, and the fountain
played in the bright sunshine, and whispered
a song of certain happiness in store
for us, Teddy, if we only try to make each
other happy.'

Did it really sing a song of that kind?'
rejoined he. ' How very nice and considerate
of the fountain ! It was not my
happy lot to hear the song myself; but
that the fountain warbled the history of
the future I entertain not the slightest
doubt. We will do our best, joy of my
heart and soul, to make each other the
jolliest of the jolly, and fulfil the prophecy
of Jenny Chell that, as a newly-married
couple, we shall remain newly married as
it was in the beginning, is now, and ever
shall be, world without end.'

The sentence was scarcely concluded,

VOL. III.

when a slight, unusual sound was heard
on the outside of the thick and black oak
door of the chambers, which was strong-enough
to withstand a siege, assisted by a
battering-ram.

Did you hear that noise, Teddy ?' inquired
Griselda, slightly disturbed from
her posture of ease in the easy-chair.
^ What was it?'

'Without having paid much attention
to the disagreeable noise,' replied he, ' T
thought the sound not dissimilar to a
suppressed growl, blended with a subdued
howl, expressive of impatience or discontent.'


Shall I open the door,' asked Griselda,
and learn who or what it is ?'

T will trouble Jenny to perform that
task,' rejoined he, ' as being more experienced

than yourself in answering applicants
for information at chamber doors,
particularly when the oak is sported,' and,
touching the spring of a small gong upon
the table close at hand, Mrs. Chell made
her appearance ^\dth abrupt suddenness
from an adjoining apartment, devoted to
her exclusive privacy.

AVith her face beaming '\\dth smiles at
what she beheld, at a glance, the unequivocal
happiness and personal comfort in the
highest ceo-ree of the bride and bridegroom,
Mrs. Chell simply asked ' what
she could have the pleasure of doing for
them?'

'There's somebody or something, Jenny,'
replied he, giving a final puis at the
final end of his cigar, ' on the other
side of the oak requiring your attention,

I suppose, to his or her howl or growl
as the case may be, and, as the sound
is anything but soothing to our feelings,
we shall feel deeply impressed
by the obligation of your taking upon
yourself the responsibility of first of all
discovering the cause of the howl or
growl by opening the door, and then,
as speedily as possible, removing the
effect;

Certainly,' rejoined she, ' most certainly,
Mr. Slomax,' and, walking straight
to the 'oak,' she flung it back upon its
hinges and peered through the almost
impenetrable darkness on the staircase
without. Failing to see anybody or
anything, Mrs. Chell began to think
of the expediency of retiring from the
ineffectual attempt, when somebody or

something attracted lier immediate attention
by rubbing familiarly against her
knees.

'Heaven preserve us!' she exclaimed.
What can that possibly be ?' and as she
spoke, not Sam, but Sam's remains, crest
slowly past her, and tottered feebly into
the room.

Speechless With astonishment at what
they saw, both Griselda and her husband
watched the poor skeleton, whose bones
were barely stretched over A\dth skin,
crawl towards where his mistress was sitting,
and, crouching down at her feet,
looked up piteously A\ith deeply sunken
eyes as much as to say, ' I am not dead in
seeking: you, but dying.'

Without uttering a word Trriselda
dropped upon her knees, and, clasping the

remains of poor Sam round the neck,,
held his head closely to her bosom
and wept in silence — the first tears she
had shed as a bride ; but not the
last.

It's our favourite old dog from
Forester's Lodge, Jenny,' observed Edward
Slomax, ' or what, poor fellow,
there is left of him, and he is evidently
starving, footsore, and dreadfully
used u}) in searching for us
night and day for a month, I suppose.'


I'll get some food for him immediately,
poor dear lambkin,' replied Mrs.
Chell, ' and wash his feet in warm water
for I see that they are very sore,' and,,
hurrying fi'om the room, she re-appeared
sooner than it seemed practicable with

a soup-plate filled with warm mutton
broth, which was placed within
Sam's easy reach, as he still lay upon
the floor in the fond embrace of his
mistress.

There, poor dear lambkin,' said Mrs.
Chell, as she gently stroked his lean
and gridiron-looking ribs, ' take a little
of that. It-will support nature, and give,
perhaps, a tone to your stomach.'

Faint and famished as he was, Sam
licked her hand gratefully, previous to
tasting the broth, which he was able to
swallow only, at first, in very small
quantities ; but, to the admiration of the
several and silent spectators, the whole
of the contents eventually vanished, and
Sam began to look much refreshed.

He certainly is better,' remarked Gris-ella,

attending to Sam with the greatest
solicitude. ' Don't you think so,
Teddy?'

To be sure I do,' replied lie, diving
his hands, with an air of satisfaction,
to the extreme bottom of his trowsers
pockets, and keeping them there. 'To
be sure I do. The fact renders itself
patent. Sam already feels the stimulating
effects of Jenny Chell's mutton
broth. I have done so myself before
now.'

'If I but wash his tender feet in
water about as warm as new milk,' observed
Mrs. Chell, without paying the
smallest attention to the praise bestowed
upon her mutton broth, ' I opine it
will add greatly to the poor lambkin's
comfort.'

Her suggestion meeting with the entire
approval of those deeply interested in
Sam's mitigated pains, the water, about
his warm as new milk, was quickly brought
by Mrs. Chell, and his cut, sore, and
blistered feet laved by as gentle and
-wdUing hands as ever did an act of
kindness to lessen suffering.

Compared with what he was a short
time since,' observed Griselda, smiHng,
^ he be onus to look almost frisk v.'

At this observation, Sam was seen to
wag the end of his tail, and throw back
his ears.

I opine,' said Mrs. Chell, ' that he
wants rest more than anything else just
now, and if left entirely to himself for
two or three hours' sleep, tucked up ina
blanket, with the hearthruir for his

bed, that he will wake up full of mirth
and glee.'

Sam expressed his concurrence in this
arrangement by again wagging the
end of his tail and throwing back his
ears.

I perfectly agree with Jenny,' remarked
Edward Slomax. 'Let us afford
him the opportunity of courting sleep,
and forgetfulness in dreams, perhaps, of
other days, of his present exhausted condition,
which may'' be attributed, Griselda,
to his love for you.'

Poor fellow !" she exclaimed. ' He
seems to have paid dearly enough for
this affection.'

The arrangements being complete for
Sam's repose, he quickly announced that
he was quite oblivious of all earthly ills

sis a present inhabitant of dreamland.
After a silence of some duration, wliicli
neither made any sign to interrupt, Gris-edda
at length said,

I fear, Teddy, that this silent messenger
from home is a foreboding of evil. What
do you think ?'

'I will at once confess.' replied he, 'joy
of my heart and souL that, instead of Sam
in this sad plight, I should have preferred
receiving a series of letters by each post
since our abrupt departure from Forester s
Lodge, pitching into both of us. Without
having called your particular attention toit,'
continued Edward Slomax. ' I have
been restless, uneasy, and dissatisfied atour
most lovable of aunts not ]pitching
into us. She was bound to do so, as I
thought, considering' that our behaviour

towards her, in bolting as we did, was
about as reprehensible as it could possibly
be.'

I fear that we committed a most unpardonable
act,' rejoined Griselda, 'and
yet I would rather have died than marry
that man.'

At the same time,' returned he, 'joy of
my heart and soul, you preferred living
to marry me, and spend your honeymoon
in Middle Temple Lane, with a few diurnal
walks in the gardens, and round
and round the fountain by Avay of a
change.'

T fear,' returned Griselda, ' that something
of a serious nature has happened at
home, and that poor, dear Sam is here as
the herald of bad tidings.'

Whether that be so or not,' added he,

it is time for us to put an end to all
suspense upon the subject, the only
question being as to the means to be
employed.'

Consent to my going alone, Teddy
responded she. 'Dear aunt will not be
very cross with me after she has driven
vent to her feelings in a flood or even a
torrent of tears. I can quite depend upon
her not being very cross with me after
that, Teddy.'

'Jenny Chell, I think, must be supplemented
as a companion on the journey
said her husband, ' as travelling by yourself
is objectionable from many points of
view.'

'Let me go alone, Teddy,' rejoined she
in a supplicate tone and manner. ' Let
me go alone.'

It shall be, then, as you Lavish,' returned
he, ' and an early start be made
for Forester's Lodge tomorrow.'

CHAPTER III.

Few were the incidents absolutely known
in connection with the eventful morning
appointed for the marriage of Griselda
"vvith Orlando Chickabiddy, Esquire, and
yet, limited as they were, a great and
even painful amount of local interest was
manifested in them.

Among the domestics of Forester's
Lodge it was necessarily knoTN^i that a
letter, left in the hands of Cock Robin,
to be delivered to their mistress as

soon as she awoke, explained the cause
of the mysterious and sudden absence of
the bride-elect and her cousin Edward
Slomax. The particulars of its contents,
however, were a profound secret, for no
sooner had they been read to the end
than the trembling hands Which held the
letter clasped it convulsively to her breast,
mid, without a word being spoken, she
fell gently back upon her pillow, and
closed her eyes as if in sleep. For a
short time a death-like stillness prevailed
ill the room, and fears began to arise
among those who watched around the
bed that it might be a sleep from which
no earthly hand would wake her. A
deeply-drawn sigh, however, at length
announced that, if the vigour of life was
suspended, its spirit had not yet fled.

Faint as was the pulse, it still beat, and
was just perceptible to the slight touch
pressed upon it, and although hour succeeded
hour, and little increase of strength
was apparent in the sufferer, yet she
lived, and that was all that could be
said.

'What is your opinion now of your
patient, doctor T inquired the squire, ashe
and the medical man of the neighbourhood
sat together in the breakfast-room of
Forester's Lodge.

It remains as it did, Mr. Oakacre,' was
the reply of Tom Tidy, in a voice and
manner deeply touched with melancholy.
*The shock to her nervous system was
too great to be resisted, and I regret to
say that symptoms of amendment from
the first attack, followed as it was by a

VOL. III. D

succession of hysterical fits, are anything
but decided.'

'has that letter been taken from her,'
rejoined the squire, ' and removed from
her sight ?'

^ No, sir,' returned Tom Tidy. ' I found
it impossible to do so without causing
increased distress. In trying to
draw it from her grasp, however gently,
she clutched it more firmly than before,
and nothing but injudicious force could
have taken it from her hands.'

Beyond herself, then,' added John
Oakacre, ' nobody knows anything of
these lamentable proceedings on the part
of her niece and nephew.'

'With the exception of the lad Cock
Robin,' responded Tom Tidy, ' nobody in
the house or neighbourhood, as far as I

can discover, is acquainted with a single
step taken by them, and he declares that
he knoAvs nothing more than what he has
already told you and me. The resolve to
run away together on the night in question
seems to have been most hastily conceived,
and as hastily put into execution ;
but everything; else is left entirely to doubt
and conjecture.'

Does Chickabiddy continue to call and
utter his threats of vengeance ?' asked the
squire.

As regularly as the morning comes he
arrives here,' replied Tom Tidy, 'to inquire
if he can have an interview with Miss
Penelope, and to repeat his intentions of
taking the most severe legal steps in his
power to adopt. He talks of actions at
law, chancery suits, indictments for conspiracy,

nd criminal proceedings of every
sort and kind, and declares that he will
never rest while he lives lin til he has had his
revenge in full for the abominable insult
and wrong that he has suffered.'

'The little scamp,' observed John Oak-acre,
and he spoke with slow and litter
emphasis, 'forgets the deliberate injuries
he has basely committed against others,
and, with a vicious design worthy oily of
a demon, contemplated adding to their
number by further wholesale robberies.
But he shall learn, Mr. Tidy,' and he spoke
with vehemence in tone and manner as he
rose angrily from his chair, 'that the
career of a heartless rascal — the systematic
plunderer of other men's goods — is not
triumphant to the end. He will find, low
cunning knave as he is, that retribution

The sentence was scarcely finished when
the door of the room opened vdth a noiseless,
gentle movement, and to the speechless
amazement of John ( )acre, and the
medical man of the neighbourhood, Griselda
entered and stood motionless before them.

CHAPTER IV.

No one besides the feeble occupier of helped
was to be present when Griselda entered
the room where her aunt Lay in m
dying state. No witness was to be near at
that meeting. She would approach the
bedside alone, and pour forth her sad but
unavailing sorrow for the wrong she had
committed against one whose life had l)een
passed in loving her, and shoving it in
daily and hourly indulgence. None, however,
were to hear her plaintive words ;

none see her shed the hot, scalding
tears.

In the subdued and gloomy light of the
sick-room Griselda stood gazing stedfastly
at the pale wax-like face lying sideways
upon the pillow. Xot a word could she
speak, for stifling sobs rose to choke the
power of utterance, and she continued to
look earnestly at the blanched and bloodless
features over which a faint smile now
and then flickered, at some pleasing
thought, perhaps, of her whose happiness
]had been her own.

And so Griselda stood weeping bitterly.

I am here, dear aunt,' at length she
whispered, nth a soft and long kiss pressed
upon her lips. ' Do you not know me,
your own Griselda ?'

Oh, yes ! She knew the voice of the

speaker. It was Griselda's, and With an
effort, of which she seemed incapable, her
arms were raised and her niece eagerly-clasped
between them with her head resting
upon her bosom. Neither spoke.
Their hearts were too full, and so they
remained locked in each other's mute
embrace.

To have you with me again,' said the
invalid, in a voice so faint that it Alas
scarcely heard, 'is the happiest moment
that I ever felt, Griselda. How kind of
you to come just when I wanted you !'

Say not a word of my kindness, dear
aunt,' replied Griselda, 'but rather let
me think, as a reproach, of yours tome.'


'This is not the time for reproaches either
on your part or mine,' rejoined the invalid,

in slow but measured accents. ' I know
all now, when it is too late, and I ouii'lit
indeed to have thought of much before.
If I have to forgive, I know, also, that I
have to be forgiven.'

You vriW pardon me and '

Your husband you were about to add,'
interrupted her aunt, with a fervent kiss
which stifled the word upon her lips. ' Yes,

as freely and from mv heart as I do you,

^ t/ %j

Oriselda/

At this moment the exertion she had
made seemed to overcome her. and her
arms, still clasping her niece, Relaxed
their hold and fell helplessly by her
side.

Starting with fear Griselda sprang fi'om
the bed when a hand was laid gently upon
one of hers.

Not yet, not yet, Griselcla,' murmured
the invalid. ' There is still time for me
to say a little more, and to offer u[>
to the throne of mercy a last prayer
together. I taught you your first, and
I can hear your infant lips lisping it
now.'

'Oh aunt, dear aunt !' exclaimed Griselda,
dropping her head upon the pillow in a
paroxysm of grief ' If I could only have
died when a child, and had not lived to
feel the misery of this hour, my Hfe
would then have been the happiest of the
happy. What will it be now in the sad
remembrance of it?'

It is of that, and of your dependent future,
Griselda, I would speak,' returned the
invalid, ' while I possess strength to do so.

You are now a A^dfe, and mast remember
that the first duty of a Avise is to render
her husband happy. Let no regret or
sorrow for the loss of me be ever expressed
in his presence, for repining about the
dead is, according to my belief, little short
of sinful. It is,' she continued, ' the
omnipotent will that all who are born
shall die, and those obeying the irrevocable
decree in going first, are soon followed
by those who are left behind. The
mourners, in turn, become the mourned
from generation to generation. Earth to
earth, ashes to ashes, Griselda, dust to
dust.'

But to part with those we dearly
love,' added Griselda, in words almost
choked with grief, 'is torture too

acute to stiffer patiently. 1 cannot
bear the thought, dear* Munt,
it seems to scorch my very brain.'

Let calmer feelings take possession of
your mind,' was the faint and whispered
rejoinder, 'while I am permitted still to
speak to you, for I know that it cannot
last.'

These fcAV words caused Griselda's
heart to almost cease its beating, and
an ashy paleness overspread her features
; but with a look approaching to
terror she continued to listen to the
words becoming momentarily less distinct.


'He does not require to be reminded
by me,' said the invalid ; ' of the
sacred trust he lias taken upon himself in
making' you this wife, Griselda : lout

tell my beloved giant ' — a smile separated
her lips as she pronounced the
word — ' that in possessing you he
has the treasure of my heart. It
was my too anxious wish, dearest,
that you should never know what the
struo^orles of life meant, and I had
but one worldly dream, night and
day, that of seeing you married to a
rich man. Events have dissipated it,
and I now know, when too late, that I was
wrong, very wrong.'

But it was your love for me
replied Griselda, ' only your love forme
!'

'Kiss me, darling,' rejoined her aunt, ina
scarcely audible voice, ' and let your lips
from which those kind words have fallen
as the last I shall ever hear on earth,

rest on mine. For the time lias arrived
'

It had.

CHAPTER Y.

On the succeeding morning to her
aunt's death the squire was offering all
the solace in his power to the distressed
and still weeping Griselda, as they sat
together alone in the library of Oakacre
Court.

It would not be wise or kind on my
part,' said he, ' to attempt to check suddenly
this absorbing grief for what you
feel to be the first great sorrow of your
life. But still I cannot but remind you.

(iriselda, even at such a moment as
this, that there are duties which belong
to the living as well as those Which belong
to the dead. Calm, therefore, these
violent emotions, and let us try to think
and act for the best under the trjdng
circumstances by which you are surrounded.'


I can do nothing,' replied she, with
a fresh outburst of tears, ' but weep for
her T have lost. Oh, Mr. Oakacre, to
think of what I have done is more than
enough to drive me mad !'

Whether right or wrong,' rejoined the
squire, 'the step taken by you, Griselda,
is beyond recall, and must, therefore, be
accepted as unavoidable. It is worse
than useless to repine deeply at that
Which refers only to the past. Come,'

continued lie, laying hold of one of
her hands, ' let us talk quietly over
every matter immediately connected with
yourself, and try to discover the safest
course to pursue.'

He had scarcely finished speaking, when
a loud and angry altercation was heard
just outside the library-door, and soon
afterwards there were sounds as if a
violent scuffle ensued to prevent its being
opened.

'You shall not go in, sir,' said someone,
in an angry tone, ' until I have
had my orders from my master. As I
have already told you, he is engaged ^vith.
a lady.'

Stand out of my way,' was the
reply, ' or I'll send for .the parish
beadle, and give you into custody

VOL. III. E

for threatening' to assault a gentleman.'

'That's the little rascal Chickabiddy's
voice,' observed the squire, rising hastily
from his chair.

Oh, Mr. Oakacre !' ejaculated Griselda,
clasping and wringing her hands, ' what
shall I do ? Where shall I go ?'

Remain where you are,' was the
short and sharp reply, ' and meet him,
as he seeks the interview. He shall be
admitted ;' and, thus speaking, he strode
hurriedly towards the door, and roughly
threw it back upon its hinges.

'I am glad, Mr. Oakacre, that you
have prevented a further outrage and
breach of the peace on the part of
your servant here, who has had the
insolence to bar the passage to your
private room, by placing this back against

the door, and defying all my strength
exercised perhaps with moderation
to remove his back,' gasped Orlando
Chickabiddy ; for he Alas certainly
at a loss for breath with the recent
strno^orle and looked as if having had
the worst of it. ' I hope, sir,' continued
he, ' that you will dismiss him on the
spot.'

The squire gravely looked at the intruder
in silence, who still stood in the
doorway arranging his coat which seemed
to have been drao'Ofed from his shoulders,
and lodged anything but gracefully between
his elbows, so as to pinion him.

In the absence of an invitation, either
by sign or otherwise, Orlando Chickabiddy
remarked, after the completion of shaking
himself into his disarranged coat,

e2

UBRART
UNlVERSmrOF

No further opposition being presented,
either in words or acts, he carried out the
design of ' walking in,' and, his astonished
gaze falling upon the figure of Griselda, he
then was conscious, for the first time, that
she was also present in the library.

'You here?' he said, staring at her, vindictively.
' You here ?' he repeated, advancing
a few steps towards where she was
sitting.

Instinctively she rose from her chair,
and receded from him close to where the
squire stood, a stern and silent witness of
the scene.

What have you to say for jilting me,'
he fiercely asked, ' on the very day that I
was to be married to you ?'

His voice rose higher as he continued.

'When everything was ready — when
everything was clone that ought to be
done, by a member of a highly respectable
and responsible Middlesex family for his
marriage with a penniless country miss —
you gave him the slip, and ran clean away
with a vouno; fellow without a shillings in

JO o

his pocket, unless it's one raised through
pawning his shirt. That's the way you
treated me, miss, and I may thank my
lucky stars, perhaps, that you showed a
clean pair of heels before the solemn ceremony,
instead of after it.'

I beo' to remind you, sir,' observed the
squire, in a serious voice and manner,
that you are speaking to a lady.'

And one you might well say,' rejoined
the irate Chickabiddy, his voice being
raised to almost a shriek, ' that has played

me a pretty trick. How would you like,
Mr. Oakacre, to be treated as I have been
by her?' and he pointed a straightened
finger at Griselda. ' I am laughed and
sneered at wherever I go, and every
vulgar boy, big and little, seems to takes
particular delight in shouting out, " Get
home to your wife." How would you like
that, Mr. Oakacre, in taking a daily walk
or ride through the village ? It's insupportable,
sir,' continued he, bringing the
palm of one of his hands with a loud crack
upon the oj^en and cleared space of hem
forehead. ^ It's insupportable, sir ! I can
stand, as I have stood, a great many
things ; but to be shouted at, and told to
get home to my wife when it's generally
known that I haven't i>'ot a wife, is a trifle
more than I can stand. In fact it's ins up-portable

! I'm determined, however, to be
• compensated for the injury. The law
says that for every wrong committed
there's legal redress. I'll go for legal redress.
I'll go for damages. I'll bring an
action for breach of promise. I'll file a
bill of discovery. I'll prefer an indictment
for conspiracy. I'll — I'll — I'll sell the
very chair you sit upon, and the absolute
bed you lie upon. I'll sell you up to the
last stick you possess, if it's the cradle in
which your baby may be sleeping. I'll
let you know the sort of fellow I am to
jilt on the very day fixed for his marriage.
It shall go precious hard nth you, ma'am,
as you'll find out sooner or later ; but
probably sooner than later.'

Orlando Chickabiddy, having exhausted
his vocabulary of Avrath and threats of

vengeance against Griselda, stood scowling
at lier with an expression of hatred
which made her involuntarily shrink, and
approach closer to the squire's side as if
for protection.

^ You have nothing to fear,' said he,
drawing himself to his full height, ^ from
that little, miserable cheat.'

At these unexpected words, Orlando
Chickabiddy gave a skip in the air, as if
the shock of surprise had supreme command
of his legs.

^ I repeat what I have said,' continued
the squire, ' a little, miserable cheat — a
common swindler — who, in setting traps
to catch confiding fools, will discover that
one has at length caught him, and holds
him fast between its iron teeth.'

Orlando Chickabiddy's brain reeled, and

the room seemed to whirl round more
than once before he could drop himself
for safety into a neighbouring chair.

I little thought what salting a mine
meant resumed John Oakacre, ' when
suggested by you, sir, for raising the price
of the shares in your sham gold company;
but, as soon as I understood it, I took
prompt measures for exposing the stretched
trick, and denouncing the contemptible
promoter of it.'

Orlando Chickabiddy looked at the
speaker as if prepared to see him put on
the black cap, and condemn him to i)e
hanged then and there.

On a petition for evincing-up the company,
which will be presented this very
day,' resumed the squire, ' the infamous
scheme for robbing the unsuspecting shareholders

will be publicly made known, and
a peremptory order of the Court of Chancery
obtained, as a matter of course and
certainty. So, at least, I am informed by
the solicitor who has the conducting of
the case.'

If this be true,' replied Orlando Chickabiddy,
in a sepulchral voice, and nth
the forlorn hope that it might possibly bethe
opposite, 'if this be true,' repeated he
trembling as if stricken with palsy, * all I
can say is that most serious consequences
must inevitably follow both to you and
me, sir. If you have been mad enough,
Mr. Oakacre, to do what you say you have
done, then the game is up, and we are
both ruined men.'

'I, at least, have saved my honour,'
rejoined the squire, 'whether a single

guinea remains of mv fortune or
not.'

'Should you find that nothing is left
but your honour to meet your liabilities,
Mr. Oakacre,' returned Orlando Chickabiddy,
sith a grin, ' I suspect that the
dividend Avill not be very satisfactory to
your creditors ; but, had you kept the
secret inviolable, told in the strictest
confidence, the shares would have been
scrambled for by this time at a tremendous
premium, and an intense stake
landed by both of us. As it is,' continued
he, in a whimpering tone, ' I see
nothing before us but bankruptcy, and,
perhaps, penal servitude for me for a stretch
of years if not for life. Oh, Mr. Oak-acre
! Can't this unfortunate irregularity
be met and compromised between us ?

Think of the torture it would be to me,
sir, to break granite and pick oakum for
the remaining; term of my natural life. I
am not equal to the task, Mr. Oakacre.
I am not, indeed ! If I have done wrong,
and, being found out, I am quite ready to
admit it, like the generality of sinful people,
let there be, at any rate, defined limits
to its punishment. Don't let me be consigned
to Portland Island, sir ; but in the
magnanimity of your large heart— if I
may be permitted to use the expression —
let us approach each other in the Christian
spirit of compromise. On my j^art, Mr.
Oakacre, I shall be found quite ready to
disgorge, like a cormorant when he has
swallowed too many conger ells to conveniently
soar into the air with ; but, like the
cormorant, I can do no more than give up

what I have got. Take it, I say, in a
corresponding liberal spirit ; but don't be
too hard upon a chap who acknowledges
his transgressions, and whose sins
are ever before him. As a magistrate,
sitting in state upon the bench to dispense
even-handed justice, sir, you are
deservedly popular in being considered
far more disposed to let off a well-known
and repeatedly convicted thief than send
him to be tried by a jury of his countrymen.
I repeat, Mr. Oakacre, that you are
deservedly popular in this respect, and
many of the greatest rascals and ruffians
in Winchester jail that ever entered it to
be hanged or transported, could bear
testimony to this most pleasing and interesting
fact. I may state, therefore, that
it is characteristic of you, sir, to show

forbearance to the misguided and unfortunate,
and that I may confidently
depend upon your extending your usual
clemency upon a poor fellow who acknowledges
his transgressions in full,
and whose sins are ever before him. You
must not forget,' continued he, in a pleading
tone and obsequious manner, as he
bent forward in his chair, ' that in doing
my level best to salt the mine I was not
forgetful of your pecuniary interests. It
was my intention to slip your shares at
the earliest opportunity of realizing them
at their best price so as to relieve you
from every difficulty and responsibility. J
was, therefore, not actuated by merely'
selfish motives to salt the mine for my
own exclusive benefit. Yon were to partake
largely of the benefit in the undertaking,

and be my partner in the
profits.'

Your partner in the profits !' ejaculated
the squire, as if doubtful of the
correctness of his sense of hearing
partner in the profits I' repeated
he.

Share and share alike was to be the

division,' returned Orlando Chickabiddv,

and a more liberal one could scarcely be

expected, more particularly as the design
and entire scheme was exclusively my
own.'

You admit that ?' said the squire.

I do,' responded Orlando Chickabiddy.
^ I claim it as being one of the smartest
things out, and a positive and certain
success, had it not been upset by the last
man on earth who should have pitched

over the apple cart, and that's yourself,
Mr. Oakacre ; for your substantial interests
were mine, and mine yours. We were, in
fact, to be partners in the profits, share
and share alike.'

At this moment John Oakacre's hands
and fingers became nervously agitated, as
if preparing to act aggressively.

Under these particular circumstances,
therefore,' resumed the speaker, ' I hope
that we may approach each other in the
Christian spirit of compromise. No benefit
that is to say, no money — can be got
by punishing me in any way, shape, or
manner, and, looking at it in a business
point of view, I am convinced from a
large experience, sir, that we cannot do
better than approach one another in the
Christian spirit of compromise. I have

only to be told ^vliat to do to meet the
emergency continued Orlando Chickabiddy,
'for the emergency to be met, and
I'll correct and modify — if I may be
allowed to use the expression — any little
irregularities which may appear to surround
it to my o"\vn prejudice and personal
disadvantage. In short, Mr. Oak-acre,
I penitently throw myself at your
feet in the confident hope that I shall
not be kicked by either the right or the
left;

'Do you see that door?' hallooed the
squire, at almost the pitch of his voice.

I do, sir,' replied Orlando Chickabiddy,
comprehending the inference to be drawn
from the question, accompanied by a
palpable disturbance of his nervous system.
' I do, sir,' repeated he ; 'it is the

VOL. III. F

one by which I entered this room, and, to
my inexpressible astonishment, saw as
soon as I came into it, if not a littk',
sooner, a, young lady who had promised
upon several distinct occasions to become
mine and mine only ; but without giving:
me the smallest or shortest notice of the
intended transfer of property, signed,
sealed, and delivered herself up to the
unconditional possession of another. It
was nothing more than natural, Mr. Oak-acre,'
continued he, ' that I should feel a
trifle sore upon first seeing my bride that
was to be ; but who had become, without
warning, the bride of another. Disappointments
such as these, sir, make a
fellow sore, and if I gave vent to my
excited feelings in a little too plain Saxon,
it was nothing but natural, perhaps, that

I should do SO. Expenses had been
incurred to a large amount in preparing
for the happy occasion, and, although the
eno^ao'ed inland a few other similar
articles were returned with a message of
kind condolence from poor Miss Penelope
Peepem, who now, I hear, is among the
happy' departed, I was left considerably
out of pocket. These marked and striking
features in the case, With a few of the
surrounding incidents, Mr. Oakacre, may
offer some excuse, if not justification, for
the plain Saxon used by me upon entering
this room, and running against Mrs. Edward
Slomax suddenly. I now, however,
take the earliest opportunity of withdrawing
every word and syllable uttered by mein
haste and without due reflection. I'll
not go for legal redress. I'll not go for

F 2

damages. I'll not brings an action for
breach of promise. I'll not file a bill of
discovery. I'll not prefer an indictment
for conspiracy. I'll not sell either the
chair you sit upon, Mrs. Slomax, or the
bed you lie upon, and will have nothing
whatever to do with the last stick you
possess. I freely forgive you, ma'am, for
the great inconvenience I have been put
to at your hands, and trust that, in return,
I shall meet With a reciprocity of consideration,
by your soliciting your old
friend here, Mr. Oakacre, to show me
all the leniency in his power. He can
keep dark many transactions which might,
otherwise, see the light, inflicting incalculable
injury upon me, and conferring
not a particle of benefit upon a single
living shareholder"; for as the whole of

the capital is gone, and not a grain
of gold can possibly be found, the undertaking,
so full of promise, must now
be looked upon as a total loss and
failure.'

To the ruin of many,' returned the
squire, ' through the gross and scandalous
deception practised upon them by
you.'

'May I be allowed, Mr. Oakacre, to
make a short addition to my defence
before you give your final decision?'
pleaded Orlando Chickabiddy, finding
that what he had already said had not
produced a favourable impression.

Xo,' was the quick and energetic
answer ; * 111 not listen to another word.
You have proclaimed yourself to be an
unmitigated rascal, without the conclusive

proof in ray possession of you* being
so. Leave this house instantly, and
never presume to enter it again.'

'Am I to accept this, sir, as your
unqualified and unalterable judgment, in
which not a single atom of your usual
judicial mercy can be traced?' rejoined
Orlando Chickabiddy, rising slowly from
his chair. ' Am I to be turned out of
this house with the clear understanding
of never being permitted to enter it

again ?'

Yes,' returned the squire, nth his
anger and indignation momentarily increasing.
' Go, and go at once, if you
wish to escape the crack of the double-thong
of a hunting-whip across your
shoulders.'

'To the serious, if not ruinous, injuries.

about to be received at your hands, Mi
Oakacre,' rejoined Orlando Chickabiddy,
with great calmness, if not coolness, of
manner, ' I certainly am not desirous of
having the addition of the crack of a
double-thong of a hunting-whip across
my shoulders, and, knowing that you
are most expert in applying that instrument
of torture, I will obey your
arbitrary order without further delay,
and leave this house, never to enter it
again ;' and, so speaking, he quitted the
room sith a hurried gait, as if not entirely
devoid of apprehension that the
squire's threat might be carried out before
he had completely escaped from the
environs of Oakacre Court.

CHAPTER VI.

A FEW months had passed since Sam
became one of Mrs. Chell's lodgers in
Middle Temple Lane, and, the question
of his individual board never having
been discussed as to limits, he grew fat,
lazy, and luxurious. The active occupation
of his country life having completely
gone, Sam might generally he
seen stretched on the hearth rug, doing
nothing. When not quite half-asleep, he
watched, m a posture of the most per-feet

ease, with his nose between his
foresaw, and his eyes turned upwards,
any incident that might occur within
range of his sight or hearing, and requiring
no physical effort on his part.

With the daily care and attention bestowed
upon Mrs. Chell's 'lambkin,' he
grew heavy, and even ponderous. His
increasing weight, however, with his increasing
age, seemed to give great satisfaction
to those who witnessed the perceptible
and steady change in Sam's ' remains,'
and to no one more so than Jenny
Cher herself.

Like my Chell,' she observed, looking
at Sam affectionately, as he laid slumbering
at her feet, ' like my Chell,' she repeated,
towards the close of his leo-al life, he L>:ot
fatter and fatter every day, and nothing'

pleased me more than to see him get fatter
and fatter. I like fat, Mrs. Slomax, and
always did, in man and beast. None of
your skin and bone subjects for me ! I
hate the sight of skeletons !'

Griselda, who Alas engaged in deftly
knitting a pair of lilliputian lamb's wool
stockings, — perhaps for a doll — offered no
remark, but continued to ply the needles
ill silence.

'Things turn out, sometimes, remarkably
fortunate,' continued Mrs. Chell,
stitching away with a quick, industrious
movement at what appeared to be a small
channel garment designed for somebody, or
something, not much bigger than a dolL
Things turn out, sometimes,' repeated she,
'remarkably fortunate. Soon after my
marriage with Chell — I think within a

week — he insisted upon my making the
necessary provision for an expectant
family. Take time hy the forelock, Jenny,
said he, and buy the flannel and dimity
for the expectant. Let no time he lost,
said Chell, for it's impossible to say how
soon, or when, the expectant may come to
hand. Acting upon his sound, commercial,
and legal advice, T went to market and
purchased, upon a liberal scale, all that
could possibly be required for the expectant.
At the same time I thought it better, on
the score of care and economy, not to have
the material made up until the time was
nearer at hand for the expectant to arrive,
and as it pleased the ruler of all events,
both great and small, that he, she, or it, as
the case might be, should never arrive at all,
the materiaL or stock on hand, sirs.

Slomax, was reserved by circumstances,
over which Ave have had no control, to be
made up for your expectant, heaven less
him, or her as the case may be ! This is a
:flannel shirt, or chemise, to meet the case
as it may turn out,' said Mrs. Chell, ' and
we all hope that it may turn out for the
best.'

In this poetical narrative, Mrs. Chell
relied, alone, upon her imagination for the
facts, and, in her natural desire to make
things as pleasant as possible, had committed
a pious fraud. Her assertion that the
flannel and dimity wci'e originally bought
in strict accordance with old Chell's
personal instructions, was at direct variance
with the truth. No such directions
were ever entertained or expressed by the
judge's clerk ; but th(^ ^^PPb' ^^'*^^ been

-very recently giggled for at a neighbouring
shop by Jenny Chell herself, and
delicately placed at the disposal of Mrs.
Slomax for her 'expectant,' with as little
injury to her sensitive feelings as possible.
For it was no secret that the young wife
and her hard reading husband were very
poor, and their resources, at the present
time, much too small for the ordinary calls
upon them, to say nothing of the extraordinary
claims which invariably attend
the coming of an ' expectant.'

Jenny Chell not only knew this, but Alas
in full possession of the state of things
which silently appealed with such force to
her ]benevolence. Her weekly bill for rent
and outlay, which had been settled, hitherto,
with punctilious regularity, was now
suppressed instead of being presented on

€aeh recurring Monday morning, unci
whenever Edward Sloniax reminded her,
with a fixintand sickly smile, that 'she had
forgotten, perhaps, to deliver it,' Mrs.
Chell Avoid offer the excuse that 'she
had had no time as jet to make it out ;
but would do so by-and-by.'

By-and-l^y,' however, like the weekly
account for rent and outlay, was indefinitely
]postponed, and the balance, as a
matter of inevitable certainty, increased
Aveek by week.

Edward Slomax nov entered the room,
where Griselda and Mrs. Chell were respectively
occupied in knitting and stitching,
and his face looked unusually pale
and lined as he took a chair, and, placing
it close to the fender, rested his feet upon

the edge, and silently crossed this arms,
Avithout speaking a word to either.

Griselda cast an anxious, momentary
glance at lier husband, but continued to
work at the little lambsAvool stocking's,
designed, perhaps, for a doll.

'You look tired, Mr. Slo]nax,' observed
Mrs. Chell, " and I opine that a cup of
good strong tea and a round of buttered
toast would refresh you.'

I thank you ver' much, Jenny,' he
replied, ' and think a cup of moderate tea,
not too good, and without sugar, ^Yith a
small piece of dry toast, might relieve the
present e^dl effects of an empty viscera.'

Moderate tea and dry toast !' ejaculated
Mrs. Chell. ' Xot if I know it, Mr.
Slomax ; you shall have as good a cup of

tea as lances can make, and the round of
toast shall be buttered on loth sides.
That's the sort of toast for you, sir, I
opine, after six hours of Coke upon Littleton,
mixed with Blackstone's Commentaries.'


It Avill be more consistent with surrounding
and hostile circumstances, Jenny
rejoined he, ' to have it dry ; for nothing
goes right with me.'

There will be a turn presently,' said
Mrs. Chell, encouragingly. 'Things are
sure to turn round all right, sir, in the
end.'

I cannot help wishing, therefore, Jenny,'
added he, ' that the end would approach a
little faster than it seems to travel.'

Impatience, Mr. Slomax,' returned Mrs.
Chell, philosophically, 'is one of the

human weaknesses of the lilian sex.
We always want to suck our lemon before
it is sweet, and forget that sour
grapes require time to ripen. You have
only to wait, sir, for the harvest — as my
Chell often used to say — for it to come,
wet or dry, sooner or later ; but, as he
said, it is sure to come. Xow we all
know, Mr. Slomax, or ought to know,
sir — for I believe it to be a part of holy
writ — that as we sow, so shall we reap.
Now, we all know, Mr. Slomax, in this
part of Middle Temple Lane, the present
living Judge's Chambers, of which the
departed Chell was his chief and only
clerk, that you have been sowing Coke
upon Littleton, and Blackstone's Commentaries
in your brain for the best part of
the last two years with scarcely the rest

VOL. Tll. G

of a singles day. As my Chcll would
have said, had he been in the flesh instead
of the spirit, it has been all collar.
At the same time, such dry and tough
reading as that must be looked upon as
sowing the legal seed, the fruit of which,
I opine, will be gathered, in a few years,
in the shape of heavy and, perhaps, whacking
fees marked uj^on l:)riefs of colossal

size.

But you knows perfectly well, Jenny,'
responded he, ' that I cannot he even
called to the Bar for the next twelvemonths.
Supposing the best — supposing
the improbability of whacking fees being-marked
upon colossal briefs, as soon as I
am qualified to make myself look like a.
jack-pudding in a horsehair wig and stuff

gown, how am I to live — what am I to
<\o in the meantime?'

Hope for the best rejoined Mrs. Chell,
with firmness of purpose in her tone and
manner. * Hope on, Mr. Slomax, hope
ever ! Look upon the bright and sunny
side of the hedge, and turn your back
upon the shady one. That's what mv
Chell both said and did, sir, and a more
wholesome precept, I opine, or better
example was never offered by a worthy
man to his neighbours when a little down
in the dumps. I will now go,' continued
she, cheerfully, 'and get the cup of good
tea ready, together with the toast buttered
on both sides,' and Mrs. Chell made her
exit through the green l)aize door into the
adjoining apartment for the express purge



pose of preparing the viands for the immediate
supply to the urgent demand of
Edward Slomax's empty viscera.

CHAPTER Iii.

Bill Baxter and his social companion.
Cock Robin, were in the full enjoyment of
a little cjuiet conversation together, and
smoking half an ounce of bird's-eye tobacco
at one and the same time, the occasional
breaks and pauses in the smoking
being momentarily produced by the pifF-
puis from their respective lips.

The scene was old Grumblesome's
'* snuggery,' and the hour eventide.

You don't mean to say. Bill,' observed

Cock Robin, as n small cloud of white
smoke curled above his head towards the
ceiling, ' that thc}^ rung him out ?'

Yes, I do,' replied Bill Baxter, with an
inward chuckle, expressive of great satisfaction
at the reminiscence. 'They sot
the bells a-ringing as merry a peal as ever
I heard, and rung him clean out of the
parish.'

It would have been a precious good
thing,' rejoined his companion, 'if he had
never entered it ; and had I knoAvn what
was to follow, Bill, his first step in the
parish should have been his last.'

Old Grumblesome deliberately })hu'ed
his half finished j^ipe upon the table, and,
A^dth a slight cough, cleared his throat as
if about to make an observation of no
slight importance.

you don't mean me to think, Cocky
returned he, ' that, in stopping his second
step into the parish, you Avould have disembowelled
Chickabiddy ?'

Perhaps not,' added Cock Robin, sententiously.
' I might not have gone quite sofar
as that ; but had I known that our
tine old squire would have to give up
hunting' the country through him. That
every hound and 'loss, including your
old "loss, Bill, would have to be sold
through him. That my good and kind
old missis would have died through
him ; for, say what they like about Miss
Grizzle's running away killing her, she
ran away through him. That my h(^me,
from a little bit of a boy, Avould be broken
up and shut up through him. That
Gazelle, like myself, would be turned out

to get her own living as best she coukl
through him. That we should part company
with Sam through him. That you
and I, Bill, are left together in this world
almost alone, without a shilling to bless
ourselves with, through him, I feel that I
could turn that Chickabiddy inside out. I
do indeed. Bill Baxter.'

'I don't see much difference between
that and disembowelling him,' remarked
old Grumblesome, taking up his pipe and
again beginning to increase the thick cloud
of smoke in the ' snuggery.'

The finish would be about the same,'
continued he, with a puff-pufF, ' and I wish,
Cocky, that as soon as he had put his first
step into this parish you had turned him
inside out. It would have proved a great
blessing to man, woman, and infant in this

23art of the country, to say nothing about
Sam, Gazelle, and my old 'loss.'

It often happens,' resumed Cock Robin,
that when we know what we ought to
have done it's too late to do it. There's
not much harking back in our lives, Bill.
Had I known what this Chickabiddy was
going to do — ' here he dropped his voice,
and bent forward in his chair so as to be
distinctly audible to his social companion
notwithstanding the subdued tone — ' I
would have left him. Bill, head downwards
in that deep ditch ^^dth his heels on
the bank, and with such a dose of thick
black mud in his mouth and throat, I
don't think he would have troubled us
much beyond sitting upon him at the
inquest.'

That would have been not the smallest

trouble to me, Cocky,' responded old
Grumblesome, swaying his head to and fro
with the corresponding movement of a
pendulum. ' In plain English I should
have looked upon it as a very great pleasure,
taking a back look at events.'

And a very proper way to look at it,'
rejoined Cock Robin. ' We can only judge
of men and things when we get well hold
of the facts, and it's a fact, which nobody
can deny, that had that Chickabiddy been
smothered in mud, Avhen the opportunity
came to the front, we must have been in a
very different and improved situation to
what we nov seem to occupy as fixtures.'

'You speak like a book, Cocky,' returned
old Grumblesome, ' and I wish you had left
him where he was found. It was just the
place for him, and yet you couldn't let him

alone, but must interfere and drag him outby
the heels.'

It Alas a teat mistake on mv part, Bill,'
added his social companion. ' I admit that
it was a great mistake on my part, Bill, and
perhaps something worse ; but, looking upon
it even as among my sins, I can do no more
than confess what I have done, and hope for
pardon in the next world, if I don't meet
with it in this.'

Nicely put,' observed old Grumblesome,
repeating the pendulum movement with his
head, ' very nicely put. Cocky, and you do
yourself great credit by giving tongue to a
sentiment Hke that.'

There was now an interval entirely free
from debate, and nothing was heard but a
succession ofpifF-pufFs as if rapid explosions-from
a miniature battery of toy guns.

Is there any fresh report going the
rounds?' at length inquired Bill Baxter.

'The last I heard,' replied Cock Robin,
was that the sheriff would have a sale at
Hawkhurst in a very short time, and everything,
stock and lock, will be knocked down
under the hannnerfor what it'll be fetch —
a regular clearance sale.'

'And the sAvarm of rats again bethe
tenants,' rejoined old Grumblesome,
Smith the OAvls and the bats, just as
they Avere when I Alas a little snivelling-boy.
Hawkhurst,' continued he, 'alAA^ays
looked a God-forsaken place, and it only
looked, perhaps, Avhat it Alas. I have
AA^atched, Alien a little, snivelling l)oy,
a large, Avhite oavI sailing round and
above the roof in the coming darkness,
like a ghost on the A\dng, and I thought

then, as I do now, that its screech was
a curse upon it.'

Xo good ever happened to the owners
of Hawkhurst that I ever heard of,' returned
his social companion. ' They were
sure to come to grief, in some form or
other, if the stories are in any way true
that are toil of them ; and when it
seemed settled that Miss Grizzle was to
be the missis of the patched-up and
white-washed old Chancery suit, I shook
and shivered as if a pail of cold water
had been thrown down my back.'

Have you heard anything lately about
her or Mr. Edward ?' inquired Bill Baxter.
' How do you suppose they get on up
in London ?'

It's difficult to guess,' was Cock
Robin's reply ; ' and nobody here seems

to knoAv. I said to the squire, a few
mornings since — meeting him as I went
to give Gazelle a handful of oats out
of my pocket ; for grass doesn't altogether
suit her — that I hoped they were Avell ;
and, with a shake of the head, as he
passed on without stopping, he answered
that he hoped so, too.'

'That didn't sound very cheerful,' responded
Bill Baxter; 'and I should like
to have further particulars. I can't help
wondering to myself, now and then, how
they get on for the needful.'

*They may have the same thoughts
respecting us. Bill,' rejoined his social
companion. ' How do we get on for the
needful ?'

On paper,' returned old (Troublesome,
as he refilled the bowl of his pipe, 'I

think I may say pretty well. Neither
has received notice to quit. We have
nothings to do, and o^et the same Avao^es
for doing it — on paper.'

We shall be paid some day or
other, if there's anything left to pay
us with, ' added Cock Robin. ' It
will not l:»e always on paper, if the
lawyers don't swallow up everything, as
I am told they do when they get the
chance.'

But the difficulty seems to be, Cocky,'
observed old Grumblesome, 'how are we
to make ends meet until we touch the
coin ? We can't go on "as it was in
the beginning, is now, and ever shall
be, world without end," on paper. Our
creditors,' continued he, with a proud
swell of the voice, ' such as the butcher

and baker and candlestick-inaker, won't
give us tick for eternity. They can't
be expected to do so, Cocky, they can't,
indeed.'

'We haven't to pay any rent, and
through your cap money lasting out as
well as it does. Bill,' replied his social
companion, Sve don't owe much.'

'Ha!' ejaculated old Grumblesome,
again trying the pendulum movement
with his head. 'Ha!' repeated he, 'that
last cap, when Miss Grizzle was the
M.F.H. for one day only, was a bumper,
and no mistake. Not a gentleman or
farmer present but dropped in something,
and' — here he made a most effective
and dramatic pause — ' there was more
gold in my cap that day than ever there
was in Chickabiddy's mine, Cocky, when it

was handed to me by Tom Brown the
yeoman.'

'What a comfort it has been to us!'
exclaimed Cock Robin. ' I feel it in the
light of an earthly blessing.*

That's exactly my sentiment upon the
subject returned old Grumblesome, ' and
notwithstanding my tissues want a little
liquorice-up from a sort of sinking sensation
here,' — and he pressed an open hand
a few inches lower down than his chest —
I have eschewed Ben Nevis, and all
medical comforts of the kind, so as to keep
our heads above water as long as possible
on my cap money.'

A very wise act on your part. Bill,'
added his social companion, ' and one
which makes me more at ease with myself
in sharing your bounty. Had you given

VOL. III. H

up your mind to drinking it away, I don't
think I could have taken up my quarters
here as comfortably as I have done.'

But you might have tried with a little
inconvenience, Cocky,' rejoined old Troublesome
; ' for you were never particularly
fond of either the smell or taste of tea,
although we get nothing better now when
the water biles.'

Not long afterwards the bird's-eye tobacco
was consumed, probably, in about
equal divisions ; but before the vapour had
disappeared frOm hanging like a thick veil
below the ceiling of the snuggery,' Bill
Baxter and his social companion were
wrapped in balmy sleep, forgetful alike of
their debts and debtors.

CHAPTER VIII.

In a conference of a strictly domestic kind,
Edward Slomax and this A^dfe — 2i'0'^dno'
paler and paler as week succeeded week —
were engaged in talking over, and discussing
in detail, matters of grave and serious
import.

I cannot shut my eyes to the too plain
fact, joy of my heart,' said he, ' — but I
cannot say soul, for it doesn't seem at
present mine to call my own — that we are
totally devoid of the means of bare subsistence.
What we have had, and are

H 2

having, in the shade of the necessaries of
life, and their more pleasant adjuncts,
spring alone from Jenny Chell's resources ;
but the intermitting drain upon them
must, in the absence of the smallest practical
supply, produce Within a truly limited
period, nothing short of sheer exhaustion.
I know Jenny so well,' continued
he, ' that we shall never hear a word
about the weekly bill, or the terrific
balance due on an accumulation of weekly
bills ; but things cannot go on much
longer in this way, joy of my heart, as
come to a standstill they must for want of
a locomotive power.'

'What are we to do then, Teddy?' she
exclaimed, in a voice and manner almost
approaching despair. ' What are we to do
then, Teddy?'

'That is the very question, joy of my
heart,' replied he, ' that I want answered
in the most satisfactory and prompt
manner in which it can possibly be manufactured.
I have been so frequent in my
visits to the man of business, who has the
family matters in hand, that the soles of
my boots begin to show the effects of
daily friction, and I continually receive
his serious and almost solemn assurance
that no time is being lost, although I

cannot discover that any one thing

IS

beings done but losing; time. He continually
tells me that he is waiting for instructions
from the Court of Chancery which,
it appears, is never in a hurry to give them.
Ashen these are obtained, he says,
commissions will have to be issued to the
distant, opposite, and remote quarters of

the globe, where our relatives are supposed
to have married and left, of course,
inexhaustible families, in order that the
survivors may be traced to come in and,
proving their claims, share alike whatever
may be left of our grandfather Peepem's
estate, after payment of the costs, which
consequently leaves the dividend most entertain,
and of a truly precarious nature
The legal machinery for working out this
problematical end seems, from what the
man of business says, intricate in the
extreme, and costly to the point of hnisli
extravagance. AVith a slight experience
only, he stated, giving a strong shrug of
the shoulders as he spoke, anyone must
possess a naturally sanguine temperament
to expect the smallest substantial benefit
during an ordinary lifetime from a property

SO situated. It is nothing but the shadow
of a phantom substance, sir, observed the
man of business — nothing but the shadow
of a phantom substance. I then asked him
if it would be practicable to raise a small
sum upon our reversionary interest ; but
he replied that it remained to be proved
that we possessed any reversionary interest,
and, if that was beyond cavil or dispute,
not the most skilful of actuaries could
possibly appraise the value of a share
which depended upon an unknown quantity
or number of distant claimants upon the
estate. This appeared to me, joy of my
heart, reasonable enough, and nothing but
good, sound conan sense ; I, therefore,
took my departure from the office of
the man of business, accepting this as his
final answer to my several applications for

his professional assistance in effecting a
loan.'

ewe must inform dear Jenny of this
terrible state of things at once, Teddy,'
rejoined Griselda, ' as to be dependent
upon her generous kindness for one moment
longer, Avithout her being fully acquainted
with our hapless circumstances, would bo
nothing less than sinful.'

With a strong; sio-ht for divines into the
darkness of the future,' returned he, ' and
her Temple-wide experience having taught
Jenny to judge of tomorrow by to-day,
as a mere repetition of ordinary incidents,
with a fcAv extraordinary accidents now
and then thrown in hy way of a change
in the depressing monotony of round-ego
human existence, I entertain but little
doubt that she is almost as well posted up

in the knowledge of our hapless circumstances
as ourselves. At the same time, a
plain and distinct revelation shall be made
most unreservedly, and Jenny positively
understand that we are not only ^\'ithout
a penny in the world, but cannot ix the
exact date for having one in our possessions
or the means by which a penny can
be raised in the current coin of the realm.
We will tell her this, and, being completely
powerless to render us the smallest
assistance in our financial difficulty, I am
prepared to see poor Jenny open wide the
floodgates of her heart, and shed a copious
overflow of tears. But this, however
grateful and pleasant to one's feelings to
possess the sympathy of such an angelic
being as Jenny Chell, will riot contribute
to the hidden ways and means of our getting

or earning that particular penny, for
which Ave stand so much in need. I must
do something, joy of my heart. Life demands
action, Griselda, and I must do
something to keep the proverbial wolf
from the door, or we shall be aware of his
presence, perhaps, when too late to escape
his deadly fangs. I must begin to make
a profit of my labour, mental or physical,
without waiting to eat the necessary number
of dinners as a preliminary to being-called
to the Bar, and if necessary, as it
may be, to work with my hands, for I am
big, burly, and strong enough to earn my
daily bread with the thews and sinews of
a man.'

But what could you do with your
hands, Teddy dear?' inquired his wife,

evidently doubtful as to a successful effort
on his part.

^ Before giving a ready and decisive
answer to that question, joy of my heart
replied he, ' 1 require a short time for reflection.
There are many things to be
done nth the hands, but at the present
moment I can think of nothing better in
the shape of a ready-money profession
with a small investment of capital than
with a new l)room to sweep the well-attended
crossing of a street. The occupation
would be light, and the gross profits
devoid of the usual drawbacks of bad
debts.'

Oh, Teddy !' exclaimed she, struggling,
at the same time, to prevent a smile from
spreading itself over her features, ' how

can you joke at such a moment as
this ?'

^ Joy of my heart returned he, ' no time
couki possibly be more opportune for a
joke than the present. A merry jest in
the hours of fun and raillery may promote
a laugh without much strain upon the
risible muscles ; but when one's thoughts
are turned to the dire necessity of sweeping;
a crossing' with a new broom, and still

(DO ^ •

the risible muscles do not remain totally
inactive, I must come to the gratifying
conclusion that the joke Alas not only
well timed, but one that may be pronounced
uncommonly good, if not supremely
excellent of its kind. jMv opinion
is that the joke, of which I seem to have
l^een the unconscious author, not only

deserves a compliment upon its merits,
but almost commands a premium payable
on the spot.'

Do not speak longer in this light and
careless way, Teddy dear, of matters of
such vital importance to us,' added Gris-ella.
' Be serious, as I knots you can be,
and tell me of any plan that you may
have formed for making, as you say, a
profit of your labour even by your
hands.'

'Without dwelling further, then, upon
the business of the broom, which shall
now be looked upon in the light of a last
resource instead of the first,' responded
he. 'I ^yi[l take counsel with myself, and,
after mature deliberation, inform you, joy
of my heart, what I mean to attempt substantially,

in order that our heads may be
kept above water instead of ducking under
it ; for knowing that I can work, Griselda,
you shall see that I AvilL'

CHAPTER IX.

A MOST interesting event had taken place
in Middle Temple Lane. No public notice
of it appeared in the Court Circular' or
under the head of ' Fashionable Intelligence,'
but, had Mrs. Chell's unblessed
opinion been expressed upon the subject,
she would have said that the ' event ' deserved
a special paragraph in all the
morning and evening London journals, to
sav nothing; of an editorial article in
every country paper of distinction and
respectability.

Mrs. Edward Slomax was the recent
mother of as fine a boy as ever was seen
of his age — scarcely six hours old — and
both were doing as well as could be either
hoped or expected, under the immediate
superintendence of Mrs. Chell, who evinced
by her manner more than by what she
said that the importance of the ' event *
could not possibly be over-estimated.

As head nurse and under nurse, for
she monopolised both situations in her
anxiety to do everything that was necessary
and superfluous, Jenny Chell's state
of mind bordered closely on fussy. Had
there been an observer present, which
there was not, she might have been continually
seen airing something before the
fire, or cooking, preparing, or making hot
something over it. With tea, gruel.

arrowroot, pap, and other farinaceous
aliments, lie was ever busying herself in
getting ready, whether required when
ready or not.

The infant angel is asleep now, Sam,'
she remarked to the obese and lazy
animal stretched in a position of perfect
ease at her feet, and who watched
the cooking proceedings with a degree
of interest only known, perhaps, to
himself. ' The infant angel is asleep now
Sam,' repeated she, briskly stirring round
a supply of pap more than sufficient for
t^^dns with good and healthy appetites,
'and, therefore, does not require food just
at the present time ; but when he wakes,
Sam, we shall see whether he can't dispose
of this — sharp. I think,' continued she,
still stirring round the pap in a truly

VOL. III. t

vigorous manner, and addressing herself
to the obese and lazy animal at lier feet,
I think, from his striking likeness to his
father, that he mil have a relish for his
meals few angel infants are blessed with,
and which only goes with a strong, constitutional
appetite, combined with good
digestion.'

Sam, being wearied with the angel
infant's supposed gastronomic powers, for
as yet they had not been put to a severe
test, gave a loud yawn and licked his lips
nth the end of his tongue as much as to
say, ' There are more constitutional appetites
in this world than the one
particularly referred to, and if, sirs. Chell,
you have any shadow of a doubt upon
the subject, you have only to mix the
gruel, arrowroot, pap, and other farinaceous

aliments, into one compact and
solid mass, and 111 give you undeniable
proof of the truth of what I
allege.'

Xo notice, however, was taken of
Sam's ^ hint, and sirs. Chell continued
busying herself with stirring up the
pap.

Awhile thus enofao-ed, Edward Slomax
gently and noiselessly opened the green
baize door, and, entering Mrs. C hell's
private apartment on tip-toe, stood
by her side T\itli a mysterious air ashe
glanced, almost suspiciously, over
each of his shoulders before saying, in a
whisper,

How, Jenny, are they getting on ?
How is the joy of my heart doing ? And
what about my son ? For I am assured

by you, Jenny, that there is not the
slightest doubt of his being a son.'

'None whatever, Mr. Sloniax,' replied
she, ' and a remarkably fine 1)0}' for his
age — a remarkably fine boy !'

'And both are on the high road of
becoming robust,' rejoined he. ' May I
lay that gratifying unction to my soul,
Jenny?'

'You may, sir,' returned she, 'as T
see no cause whatever to doubt about
their continuing to do as hitherto they
have done, since the infant angel was
born, admirably well in every respect.'

Your expressed confidence, Jenny
added the recently-qualified parent to
the title of father, ' has thawed and positively
melted a large lump of ice here ;'
and as he spoke he pressed the broad

palm of a hand over an equally broad
portion of his chest, "just here, Jemmy' ;'
and he took o;reat care to direct her
attention to the exact spot from which
the congealed water had been dispelled.
Just here,' he repeated.

I am most glad, Mr. Slomax, that it
has gone,' rejoined she; 'for I know
something of what a lump of the kind
feels in the bosom. It is not only painful,
sir, while it lasts, proceeding as it
does from weak digestive orleans, but
sets at defiance the usual simple remedies
of ginger, peppermint, and rhubarb.'

Mrs. Chell having assigned a too literal
meaning to the cause of the sensation
referred to, Edward Slomax reflected for
■a few brief moments upon the expediency
of undeceiving' her, but thought it better

policy to let the error pass without further
notice or comment.

'We shall soon have to think about
the christening, jenny,' he remarked,
rubbing his hands together, followed by
throwing his coat from his shoulders, and
standing in an upright position, amounting
to rigidity.

'We shall, Mr. Slomax,' responded she,
still engaged in stirring round the pap.
'We shall soon have to choose the infant
angel's name from the long list at the
end of an old dictionary which formerly'
belonged to my Chell. There are some
beautiful names in it, Mr. Slomax ; of
poets, painters, prophets, martyrs, popes,,
emperors, kings, soldiers, sailors, and perhaps,
if Ave look closely, with our spectacles

on the bridge of our nose —
tailors.' •

At the finish of the sentence, Mrs.
Chell considered it time to hugh, and,
being generally consistent in the resolve
that her acts should correspond ^vith
her thoughts, laugh she did, then and
there, while stirring round the pap.

'Without referring to the list in the
dictionary,' returned he, 'have you any
favourite name in particular that you
Avould like for my son ?'

'What do you think of Jacob, sir?'
replied Mrs Chell. ' It's a scriptural
name of ancient date, and sounds rather
musical to my ear.'

But belongs more to the house of
Israel than that of Slomax,' rejoined he.

I think, Jenny, that we shall have to
fall hack upon* the dictionary, if yon
cannot hit upon something less associated
with the traditions of the twelve
tribes.'

Then let the matter stand over,' returned
she, ' for further consideration.
As Jacob does not seem as palatable as I
fondly hoped, let the selection be deferred,
as my Chell would have said, si72e die,
Which means, I believe, the day after tomorrow,
or the day after that, as occasion
may demand.'

In its strict sense, Jenny,' added he,
sine die is a postponement for an indefinite
period.'

^^nd that's just what I mean, Mr. lomax.
We will put off our absolute choice of the
infant angel's name without fixing any

particular day or hour for doing so,' returned
lie, ' and then there will be plenty
of time for having a thorough look through
the. dictionary. But, dear me !' ejaculated
Mrs. Chell, ' in chattering to you, Mi*.
Slomax, the pap has become too cold for
the infant angel's stomach, and must be
warmed up afresh.'

^ It Avould appear, then,' added he, ' that
in causing my first-born's pap to become
too cold, I have committed the introductory
blunder of a fond parent not too
familiarly acquainted with his duties. If,
however, as the poet says, ignorance is
bliss, 'twere folly to be wise.'

CHAPTER X.

At direct variance with the colour which
mantled over her features when under the
aj3ple-tree at Forester's Lodge, Griselda's
face was blanched to a deadly hue as she
sat, with her baby sleeping in her arms,
looking as if 'the white rose had triumphed
o'er the red.'

Her indefatigable husband had been
absent nearly the whole of the day, as he
had been for many successive days, in
search of something, or anything, by which

he could work and earn sufficient to
live and get a living for those he loved
and were dependent upon him, but hitherto
his diligence had been in vain. There
was no demand for what he could ofFcFy
hence the supply met with the usual rejection,
' not wanted.'

Wearied A\dth his long and fruitless
walk, Edward Slomax, hoping to find
something, but what he would have had
difficulty to explain, retraced his steps to
Middle Temple Lane, sadly disappointed
at his continued failure, but still
determined to do his best to achieve
success.

His wife was listening anxiously for his
return, and his first footstep on the dark,
winding staircase falling upon her ear, she
prepared to meet him with a smile, as

usual, of joyous welcome, weak, faint, and
hopeless as she felt.

I am so glad that you are back again,
Teddy,' she said, as he entered the room.
As I told Jenny only a few minutes
since, all I wanted to make me well and
happy again was to have you always with
me.'

My fear is, joy of my heart,' replied he,
with a loving kiss, ' that, in having me
always With you, the over-dose of my
presence might become nauseous and even
oppressive.'

'No, Teddy,' rejoined his sickly-looking
young wife, coughing slightly as she spoke,
I could never be tired of your being with
me. It is Avhen you're away that T feel
what it is to be alone, and without a companion
in the world.'

'Forgetful returned he, 'of Jenny
Chell, and your fat old friend and familiar
associate of your tom boyish days, Sam.'

Without the self-reproach of forgetting-them,'
added Griselcla, ' I want you, Teddy,
to be close to my side, to speak cheerfully
of our happy childhood days, and make
me think, sometimes, that there are still
happy days in store for us.'

As she finished speaking there was
another attack of the hollow-sounding
cough, and ■\^dth a start he darted an
anxious, inquiring gaze at her, as if frightened
at what he heard.

'Have you a cold?' asked he. 'I don't
remember having heard you cough so
before, Griselda.'

It has been more troublesome, to-day,
than usual,' added she, ' but I have no

doubt that Jenny's innumerable remedies
will soon effect a complete cure, for
one succeeds another with marvellous
rapidity.'

'And how is our son?' said he, bending
over the sleeping child, and impressing a
long kiss upon his lips.

If unbroken slumber denotes a condition
of health,' responded the young
mother, fondly looking at her baby
with a smile, ' then our little son can
scarcely ])c better than he is. But you
look dreadfully tired, Teddy dear, and I
am selfishly wearying you with my senseless
chatter.'

To confess the truth,' rejoined he, ' and
the whole truth, I admit feeling overdone
to-night, joy of my heart. I have had a
long round, and had I remained stationary

at the starting-point, Avitliout moving a
single step, the result would have been
exactly the same, without the fatigue and
wear and tear of boot leather.'

Griselda gave a long, deeply-drawn sigh,
but uttered not a word.

A fellow in search of general employments
resumed he, 'seems to be chasing a
shadow which is never approached nearer
at the end of the run than the beginning.
Nobody is in want of anybody who professes
to be able to do everything. There
appears to be a great doubt in the minds
of the employers of labour concerning my
asserted capacity and willingness to do
anything. In trying this morning to persuade
a painter '

A painter !' interrupted Griselda, with
an expression of surprise.

^ Not an artist of the pencil and canvas
kind, joy of my heart,' continued he; 'buta
worthy stopper of the brush on the outside
of a house, that I was an applicant for
assisting him in his work, for a fair consideration.
He asked, with a dubious grin
which stretched itself across his face from
ear to ear, whether I was out of my
apprenticeship?

'Making no imbecile attempt to suppress
the undisguised fact, I at once confessed
my absolute inexperience, but supplemented
it with expressing the firm belief that I
could accomplish the task to his perfect
satisfaction. The practical answer I received
was the resumption of his sloppy brush
in silence, not deigning even to bestow a
starting look upon me as I turned dejectedly
to quit the spot a disappointed painter.'

Griselda's long and deep sigh was repeated,
and she looked piteously at her husband
as he continued his narrative of the respective
failures of the davy

then proceeded straight, but several
miles away,' continued he, ' to the well
known yard of an eminent boat builder, and
telling him who I was, as stroke in a successful
university eight, solicited his permission
to submit the diagram of a ship which I
considered, when built, would prove to bethe
best, lightest, and fastest racing boat
ever steered by a Cambridge coxswain. The
eminent builder, who ranks Al of his class,
bowed with the politeness of a Chesterfield,
and smilingly said, "There is a wide
difference, Mr. Slomax, and a marked distinction,
between building a boat and pulling
a boat. The latter part of the business

VOL. III. K

I should leave with the most unlimited confidence
in your masterly hands ; but the
building part, I consider, must be left, as it
hitherto has been, entirely in mine."

I used all my powers of persuasion, joy
of my heart,' continued he, 'to obtain his
consent to submit the diagram of the ship
of my own original and peculiar design ;
but the eminent's answer amounted in the
end to that given in the beginning: — "pulling
a boat was one thing, building another."
This hcing practically the mortifying termination
of my interview with the eminent
l)oat builder, I walked, with as much haste
as the exhausted condition of my legs would
permit, to the well known factory of a civil
engineer, who received me, not exact'
with open arms, but in a friendly spirit,
listened with assumed, if not real, patience

to all I liacl to sav reofardinof my chemical

my

theory for cleansing steam boilers. His
opinion, however, did not coincide with
mine, either in a general or particular sense,
and his mental conclusion seemed to be
that a sufficient supply of soft soap and
hot water with a mop might answer the
purpose equally well, if not better.'

And was this the end of your visit to the
civil engineer, Teddy?' inquired Griselda,
in a desponding tone.

I much regret to be compelled to add
that not being invited to repeat it,' rejoined
he, ' it must be accepted as his
final decision not to give my chemical
theory a practical test, and I returned
here, tired almost to a standstill, with the
dispiriting knowledge that I had been
equally unsuccessful "with the artist, with

K 2

the sloppy brush, the eminent boat builder
and the civil engineer.'

I could almost entreat,' returned his
wife, trying to check her rising tears,
'that you would give up, and entirely
abandon, these harassing daily journeys
which merely exhaust you in mind and
body, and cause your return home to mea
poor, worn-out Teddy.'

'I do not remember, joy of my heart,'
added he, ' that I have ever refused one of
your many affectionate requests, made, asa
rule, for my direct and indirect special
benefit, and this, perhaps, will fairly and
justly account for their meeting with
unconditional and ready assent on my part,
but the spell must be broken now, joy of
my heart. Until I can find something todo
by which we can live, no matter what,

i shall continue trying to make the discovery
while I possess a pair of legs. In
the battle of life I must take my licking
With as much resignation as I can summon
to my aid, when getting the worst of it ;
but I shall never be ready, joy of my
heart, to throw up the sponge.'

Mrs. Chell now entered upon the scene
from the reverse side of the green baize
door.

shearing your voice, Mr. Slomax,' observed
she, A\ith a face beaming with the
Jennet of smiles, ' and knowing it to be
your voice, sir, summed up, as Chell
would say, that you had come back to the
buzzum of your wife and little son, sir, to
make them as happy and merry as crickets.
Without, therefore, waiting for orders, I
began to cook a dish of egg and bread-crumbled

mutton cutlets, which are now
ready with some fine mealy potatoes,
boiled to a bubble, and if you will do me
the kindness to go into the next room, and
take your cushioned seat in a chair, ready
for your seat, at the table, and demolish
the whole supply at your convenient leisure,
I will, in the meantime, undress and
wash the infant angel, and attend to the
going to bed immediately of both
mother and son, for I see one, at
least, ought to be there now, if not
before.'

CHAPTER XL

Mrs. Chell was occupied in seriously
looking into the present state of her
pecuniary affairs, and it seemed from the
grave expression upon her features, which
momentarily increased, that the result,
gradually and steadily developing itself,
proved much less satisfactory to her mind
as she proceeded.

Through the praiseworthy thrift and
extreme caution of the deceased judge's
clerk, he had left his ^ddow a nice little
nest egg in the three per cent, consols, and,

with equally commendable care, she had
not reduced the principal one single
shilling since she became its undivided
possessor, until the weekly bills of
Edward Slomax were not presented for
payment, from the knowledge that they
must necessarily be returned, in consequence
of the insufficiency of funds to
meet them. A¥ith a bi-ave determination,
however, to come to the rescue of
her lodgers' impecunious condition, however
indiscreet and hazardous it might
have been held in a commercial point
of view, Mrs. Chell began to sell out ;
and she continued selling out, from time
to time, until she began to entertain a
reasonable ground for fear that but little
remained to her credit in the books of
the Bank of England.

Without being an expert accountant,
or calling in the assistance of one, Mrs.
Chell soon discovered, through the aid
of common arithmetic, that her conjecture
was strictly supported by the
plain and patent fact. By the rules
of simple addition and substraction, she
found that, having repeatedly sold out
Avithout buying' in, the nest-eo'o^, in a
figurative sense, had little more left than
its outside shell. The truth mio'ht be
unpalatable, and even bitter, as a wholesome
tonic generally is ; but Mrs. Chell
was not going to close her eyes, and
then declare, with no unconnnon effrontery,
that it was impossible for her
to see. She saw plainly enough, and
indeed too plainly, that her capital had
decreased to such an extent, that what

remained could scarcely be deemed sufficient
for the household expenditure
of Middle Temple Lane for the succeeding
lunar month. It was a painful discovery,
through a strict and honest investigation
of her pecuniary affairs ; and
Mrs. Chell looked at the balance sheet
with great calmness of spirit, but with
unshed tears swimming in her eyes, and
ready to fall

Like the gentle drops of rain from heaven.'

It puzzles me greatly,* she remarked,
in strict confidence, to herself, ' what todo,
or what can be done, when I have
sold the last five-pun note out of the
Three per Cent. Consols. So long as
I had the Three per Cent. Consols to
fly to, when a little ready money was

wanted, there seemed to be no cause for
fear of the ready money not being as
ready as anybody could possibly vdsh.
As a never-failing resource, I could depend
upon the Three per Cent. Consols ;
but the proceeds of the next selling out
will be the last, the very last, of my
dear C hell's provision for his lonely
widow, but which has been applied, as
occasion demanded, for the provisions of
my two dear lodgers, of the masculine
and feminine gender, both equally dear
to me in equal shares.'

Mrs. Chell's unshed tears now overflowed
their boundaries, and, rolling down
her cheeks in tributary streams, met in
one common channel at the first crease
or indenture of her double chin.

Not that I grieve about spending the

Three per Cent. Consols upon my dear
lodgers,' resumed she, in a voice both
husky and choked. 'Far from it. I am
sorry only that there's little more to
spend, and am at my wit's end to
know what to do when it's gone.'

Mrs. Chell paused in her soliloquy to dry
u[) her tears, finally, and regain her moral
courage, and temporarily lost self-possession.


It's not a bit of use crying,' continued
she, ' or if it Alas I'd cry night and day fora
month ; but, as it isn't, I won't cry anymore
to please anybody.'

It did not transpire whose pleasure,
inferentially, was supposed capable of
meeting; with an addition through Mrs.
Chell's tears ; but she repeated,

'■ I won't cry any more to please anybody,'

and she kept her word with the
utmost strictness.

I have nothing to complain of,' resumed
she, taking up the thread of her discourse
to herself ' What I did, and have
done, has been done ^\dth my eyes wide
open. I knew their circumstances, poor
dears, which meant upon the premature
death of their most lovable of aunts they
had not a penny of income in the world.
The family property was all locked up, and,
as my Chell used to say, when a family
property is locked up it is impossible to
foretell when it ^^dll be unlocked. It must
be long, he used to say, and it may be forever.'


Referring once more to the balance sheet
she examined nth methodical care each
figure of the credit and debit side of the

account ; but no improvement was discerned
in the result. The Three per Cent.
Consols were substantially of the past, in
so far as Jenny Chell was concerned, and
not of the present. Her provision as a
widow had gone in the supply of provisions
for others.

I have in my cupboard a silver tea-pot
of great beauty, a milk jug to match, with
six teaspoons of the same choice pattern,
which formerly belonged to my Chell's
grandmother,' observed she, thoughtfully.
These, of course, will bring in a little
ready money if sold ; but then how long
will it last with the dear young mother of
the infant angel in her present state of
health? She can eat nothing but little
delicacies, and little delicacies soon swallow
up all your ready money. Well,' exclaimed

she, ' the old plate shall go the way of
the Three per Cent. Consols. I'll not let her
Avant for soups, chicken broth, oysters, and
jellies while I've the means of getting
them. She shall not go without a little
delicacy while I've a spoon left.' and thus
speaking Jenny Chell relegated the balance
sheet to the table drawer from whence it
had been taken, and, with a cheerfulness
of demeanour rather more artificial than
real, proceeded to the adjoining apartment
to learn whether her presence there might
not be utilised.

CHAPTER XII.

With writing materials placed within easy
reach, and a pyramid of ruled paper close
at hand, Edward Slomax sat before a small
table copying with great energy word after
word, and line after line, from a large skin
of ]parchment to which he continually
referred.

His wife, propped up with soft pillows
and looking what she felt to be an invalid
hopeless of returning health, reclined in a
languid position by his side, and a sickly

pale face little child, albeit pretty as the
picture of a seraph, was sleeping in a
cradle, decorated by loving hands with
lace and bright riband within a few feet of
his mother's easy chair.

She could not bear the thought that
little Ted ' should be further from her
either night or day.

How fortunate it was that you thought
of calling upon that law-stationer, Teddy
dear,' she remarked, as he stopped writing
to dip his pen in the ink. ' It was really
a most lucky accident.'

Edward Slomax slowly dropped his pen,
and, placing his face between his hands,
rested his elbows upon the table.

In the ordinary and accepted meaning
of the word, joy of my heart,' replied he,
I do not admit that any such thing as an

VOL. III. L

accident ever occurred since the needle
first pointed to the North. Possessing, as
we do,' continued he, every limited powers
of seeing into the future, we ascribe to
accident or chance that which is merely
a secreted or hidden cause the effect of
which must, necessarily, be unexpected
and often sudden. The cause itself, however,
existed, whether perceived in anticipation
of the result or not, and should be
classed among the fixed and certain influences
of our lives. It is not because the
mysterious approach cannot be foreseen
that we are to attribute the cause to
hazard or chance. Now you, joy of my
heart, term my calling upon this law-stationer
a lucky accident. I maintain
there was no accident whatever in it.'
she, at any rate,' rejoined his wife, with

a smile, ' was the only person to give you
some work out of the dozens to Avhom you
applied, Teddy.'

'As an interesting matter of history,'
returned he, ' that is strictly and perfectly
correct. Sticking; to the collar in mv daily
endeavour to o-et something; to do for a
living Twas, at last, rewarded by a magnificent
offer on the part of a noble law-stationer
to give me a little copying work
for which I am to be paid at the usual
rate — neither more nor less.'

'You could not, reasonably, expect more,
Teddy dear,' remarked his wife.

And was overjoyed to find,' rejoined
he, 'that the noble law-stationer did not
propose to give me less.'

You have not told me yet what your
remuneration is to be,' observed she, ' and

l2

I am equally interested in knowing as
yourself.'

I am to be paid replied he, ' by what
is technically called the folio, consisting,
as it does, of seventy-two words, for three
halfpence.'

Three halfpence for seventy-two words,
Teddy dear!' ejaculated she, with pourtrayed
astonishment. ' That seems

a very small sum for a great deal of
work.'

It's the usual rate,' added he, ' neither
more nor less, as the noble law-stationer
took infinite pains to inform me, with
the expressed intention of dealing out
even-handed justice, by holding the scales
level without stint or flavour. I have
nothing to complain of in the payment
I am to receive from the noble law-stationer,

as be will give me that
Avliicli lie gives to others ; and I cannot
see why or wherefore I am entitled to
more.'

But how much, Teddy dear, will you
be able to earn by this drudgery ?' inquired
his wife, beginning to feel that
the newly-acquired employment of copy-ins:
leo'al documents was little better than
n sham.

^ That must entirely depend upon the
pace I drive the pen at, joy of my heart,'
responded he. ' If I made strong running
at the start, and stayed long enough
at top speed to the finish of twenty-four
hours, I might manage to write legibly,
in a fine, bold hand, eleven thousand fixe
hundred and twenty words, which, at
three halfpence a folio, Avould amount

exactly to one level sovereign of the current
coin of the realm.'

but what a poor return for such
an arduous task !' exclaimed his wife,
almost dismayed at what she heard.

You pay me the compliment of thinking,
joy of my heart,' returned he, ' that
my plain, fine, and bold handwriting
should command a better price; but we
must recollect, A\dth satisfaction, that it
is at the usual rate, as the noble law-stationer
impressed upon me several times
during my interview with him; and, I
fear, there is no profitable character belonging
to it, that would lead me to
think that he might be induced to make
the smallest advance. With the usual
rate, joy of my heart, Ave must try to
be content ; and I will work the hardest

of the larch to get as much as possible,
by making strong running, and winning,
if necessary, under punishment.'

^ Don't talk of punishment, Teddy
dear,' added his wife, sorrowfully. 'You
get nothing else, day by day ; and all
through me. I wish that I had '

If you express the wish of anything
that is sinful, joy of my heart and soul,'
interrupted he, ' I will call in a parson.
I will indeed. What, I get nothing but
monkey allowance day by day ! Just
look around, circumspect, as somebody
wrote, in the classic language of the
ancients, and tell me if my diurnal
whack is not mingled with a generous
measure of the condensed essence of the
pleasures of life. Cast a mother's glance
at our little Ted there, sweetly sleeping

in his cradle, and endeavour to think
Avhat my feelings of pardonable pride
must be at being the father of such a
baby, celestial as he is in every lineament
of his features. Reflect for a moment on
Jenny Chell, and all the angelic attributes
of her nature, with the peace, affection,
love, and hope centred in these chambers,
once occupied by a living judge, and tell
me if I get nothing else but punishment
day by day. Joy of my heart and soul —
for I feel that I have come into possession
of one again, my soul feeling my own
once more through the generosity of the
noble law-stationer — you were labouring
under a great mistake when you ventured
to make that remark ; but I trust, now
that the fallacy has no longer any existence,
but may be considered as having

been wiped clean ois the slate of sour
memory, leaving not a smear, or even a
smudge, behind to mark the spot of its
false record. What do you think of that,
joy of my heart and soul, for a little bit
of forensic eloquence ?'

His wife smiled at the question, and as
^ little Ted ' began to exhibit symptoms
of restlessness, she stooped forward for the
evident purpose of lifting him from his
cradle, and taking him to her caressing
arms.

Stay,' said he, checking her movement.
^ Little Ted is oTowins; so fast into the
form of a big bouncing boy, that he is
much too heavy for you to lift, joy of my
heart. Let me try his weight," and, suiting
the. action to the word, ' the weight '
appeared little more than a feather as he

raised and placed him across his own
broad chest, to which the child nestled
closely, looking lovingly in his father's
face.

Do you think that he gets heavier ?'
asked the mother, watching with delight
the gentle and tender way in which the
strong and herculean man handled his
little child.

I can answer that question better than
anyone,' was the reply, as Mrs. Chell made
her appearance, and extended her hands
to take little Ted from his father, ' for I'm
his nurse, and, having him in my arms
the best part of all the day long, I ought
to know, and do know, that he grows
heavier and heavier every hour.'

I wish that I could think so,' rejoined

the mother ; ' but he looks to me thinner
day % day.'

He is not quite so robust a baby as
might be found, perhaps, in mountainous
parts of the United Kingdom,' returned
Mrs. Chell ; ' but he was lorn in Middle
Temple Lane, and has dwelt in Middle
Temple Lane ever since the hour of his
birth. Xow there is a wide difference
between the atmosphere, and perhaps
milk, in mountainous districts and that in
Middle Temple Lane. Wq must make due
allowances in these respects, and not be
too hopeful for our little Ted to look
ruddy and fat all at once. It being past
his regular time, however, for having his
pap,' continued she, ' I shall feel much
obliged by your leaving off running the

great risk of squeezing him as flat as a
pancake or muslin, sir, and restoring him
to my arms and safer custody.'

Only one more cuddle, Jenny,' expostulated
he, ' and then you shall have him.'

CHAPTER Xii.

The English spring had commenced with
its usual Siberian severity ; but the early
flowers in the Temple Gardens looked
bright and beautiful, notwithstanding the
coal, north-east ^^'ind which swept in gusts
among them. The sun was warm and
tempting for a walk among the crocuses,,
snowdrops, daffodil, and ,
and judicious care being taken that
the bitter, north-east wind had not a
favourable opportunity for being too rough

for pale, baby-chicks, 'in dancing before
tlieni like a Bacchanal,' Mrs. Chell came
to the conclusion that it Alas just the
morning to give little Ted an airing, saying
inaudibly to herself,

It may freshen up the little infant
angel, and paint his pale cheeks a different
colour.'

Sighing deeply at the completion of the
sentence, she raised a handkerchief to her
eyes and held it there a-thinking.

I have done my best for him and for
them,' she continued, after an interval for
thought, ' and more than one's best a lone
woman can't, it appears to me, go beyond.
Not much more than my teapot and
spoons are left, and when they are gone,
as go they must, all I can say is may
heaven have mercy upon us, for I don't

know where it is to come from else !'

Jenny Chell again applied the handkerchief
to the corners of her eyes, and effectually
checked the copious overflow of
tears.

May heaven have mercy upon us,' she
repeated, in a voice unsteady and choked
from emotion, ^ when the teapot and spoons
are gone !'

With a stoical effort, however, she managed
to regain quite a moiety of her usual
self-possession, and commenced carrying
out the design of freshening up the little
infant angel, and paint his poor, baby
cheeks a different colour.

For if any change takes place in them,'
resumed Mrs. Chell, sadly, ' it must be for
the better, as they cannot look worse than
they now do.'

Her bonnet and shawl already donned,
she quitted her private apartment for the
adjacent room wherein Edward Slomax
sat driving his pen at a strong pace in
copying for the noble law-stationer, his
invalid wife occupying her usual place by
his side, propped up by soft pillows, in an
easy chair.

I opine,' observed Mrs. Chell upon
entering, and being quite clear of the
green baize door, ' that this is the morning
of all others we have seen of late for
taking our little Ted into the air and sunshine.'


'You claim a share, then, in the partnership
of our little Ted, Jenny?' responded
he, smiling, as he let his pen
fall upon the table.

'I certainly do, sir,' rejoined she, with

great seriousness of manner, amounting
almost to gravity ; ' and, with as much
affectionate respect as I can have the
strength to command, I mean to maintain
the claim to my share, as long as
I possess the breath of life, against all
comers.'

'That appears to me, Jenny,' returned
he, ' the display of a contentious spirit ;
and, being prepared to resist all comers
in supporting your claim, you might meet
with a tough customer.'

I look upon him as my own child,
sir added she, lifting little Ted from
his recumbent position in the cradle,
'without knowing exactly what the feelings
of a mother are ; for, much to my
Chell's disappointment, the expectant failed
— to use one of his legal phrases — to

VOL. III. M

winter an appearance ; and I remained,
from the beginning of my marriage state
to its sudden close, Avithout hoeing blessed
with offspring. This precious baby, therefore,
Mr. Slomax, brought forcibly to my
mind — as it was natural that it should
do — what the expectant would have l)een,
had he, or she, as the case might bo,
some to hand when due ; speaking, of
course, from a commercial point of view.
My dormant feelings, as a hopeful mother,
sir, doomed to the inexpressible
mortification of not being one, from first
to last, were awakened the moment I
saw our little Ted here in the land of
the living, and I have looked upon him
ever since in the light of my own, my
very own.'

The last words were accompanied with

a mild attempt to smother little Ted vdth
more than a profusion of kisses.

sin spots well sheltered from the
mind ' continued Mrs. Chell, oiyino-
little Ted an opportunity of regaining
his breath from the smothering process,
^ and where the sun shines the
brightest, I'm going to carry him round
and about the Temple Gardens ; and
it ^^-ill not surprise me to behold a
vast improvement in the colour of his
cheeks upon his return home.'

Mine, perhaps, would be benefited
by going sith you, Jenny,' observed
Griselda; 'for I am wearied at being
shut up here. Like a caged ^dld bird,
I want to fly away.'

AVhat ! and leave me, Jenny, and
little Teddy behind?' said her husband.

with feigned surprise. ' This would prove
the greatest cruelty to animals ever committed,
and the society for its prevention
ought to be communicated with.'

^ No, no,^ replied his wife, rising with
difficulty from her chair, and throwing
her arms around his neck, she gave a
long, fixed, and close look into his eyes,
as if conveying the secret thoughts in
her own brain to his. 'Xo, no,' she repeated,
kissing him as she spoke, ' such
freedom as that would ensure exquisite
torture, to be relieved from which, I
should pray for a speedy death. Whatever
may bell us, Teddy, we must not
part while life remains. Such ' — her
voice fell to a whisper — 'is my love for
you.'

There was no apparent cause for the

hasty improvement of this hand ; but Edward
Slomax brushed something from his eyes,
as he thought unperceived ; but Mrs. Chell
was a close observer.

^ A gentle walk in the gardens upon
such a morning as this,' she said, 'would, I
have no doubt, freshen you up as well as
the infant angel, and, although you could
manage to get down the stairs well enough,
I don't see how exactly, my precious dove,
you are to climb up again without more
fatigue than you can bear.'

feel that, Jenny,' said Edward Slomax,
bending an arm at an acute angle from the
elbow. ' Feel that, Jenny,' repeated he,
^ and then you'll know how joy of my
heart is to mount the long, dark, narrow,
twisting, twining, corkscrew staircase
without fatigue.'

Mrs. Chell, however, was in no haste to
*feel that,' and acted the part of looker-on
in preference.

It's only my biceps muscle, Jenny,'
continued he, ' and it remains as hard as
oak. Without a puff, strong enough
to blow a rush light out, I could carry
her and you too, Jenny, one under each
arm, with little Ted as a balancing
weight, from the first step of the staircase
to the last.'

That you may lee nearly as strong as
Samson, sir, I won't pretend to dispute,'
replied Mrs. Chell, ' but dien you talk
about carrying me under your arm, like
an umbrella, it seems a little too much to
credit all at once.'

There's certainly a good deal of lumber
«nboutyou, Jenny,' rejoined he, ^ and every

ounce tells in weight carrying at the
tiniih. But leaving you to negotiate the
stairs in your own way, and as you think
best, I will undertake the responsibility of
transferring joy of my heart from the
bottom to the top as a careful nurse bears
a young and tender child. You need not
fear that I shall make a blunder in the
steep ascent

Mrs. Chell announced that, ' possessing
unlimited confidence in the strength of his
biceps she would at once proceed to wrap
up her precious dove and little Ted, so as
tu secure them from the chilling effects of
the north-east wind, and act as their
escort for a Avalk in the Temple Gardens,
among the bright and beautiful spring
showers.

CHAPTER XIV.

TiiK imperative orders of that august body
the Benchers of the Middle Temple met
with occasional neglect, and were sometimes,
it would appear, set openly at
defiance ; for, notwithstanding their strict
injunctions that the flowers were not to
he picked, little Ted carried, in his tiny
hand, a small lunch of lilies-of-the-valley
presented in a liberal spirit by the gardener
; but then the gardener, perhaps, was
a privileged person, and could give any
that which did not belong to him.

Mrs. Chell's programme having been
supplemented by just one turn round the
fountain, which recalled to Griselda's
memory a few of the happy hours, mingled
with some of sadness, of her honeymoon,
they slowly retraced their steps homewards,
and saw, at a short distance, Edward
Slomax approaching them with combined
force and speed in his gait.

Xow you shall see, Jenny,' observed
he, ' the pace I'll go in whisking joy of my
heart up the stairs ; but let me see first
how little Ted looks after his airing in this
bracing breeze and sunshine.'

Bending over what had the appearance
of a bundle of shawls and wrappers of
various kinds and descriptions, but each
and all designed to keep the north-east
wind from too close an approach to the

infant angel, lie saw little Ted asleep in
Mrs. Chell's arms, like a bird in its nest,
with the lilies-of- the valley clutched in his
tiny hand.

He looks remarkably comfortable and
contented,' said he, ' with the forbidden
Bencher's flowers in his unlawful possession.
I'm almost surprised, Jenny, that
you Avere a consenting party, as you must
have l)een, to this early defiance of the
laws of his country. You should have recollected,'
continued he, ' that he is the
son of a member of the English Bar, or, to
speak far more accurately, the son of a
member of the English Bar that is to be,
provided that he successfully passes his
exam., which must remain a stern matter
of uncertainty until it becomes an accomplished
fact and record of history I beg

to enter iii protest aa-ain't this illegal
and morally objectionable transaction; but
like all protests that I ever heard of,
whether political, social, or theological,
not the smallest benefit will arise from it.
The Bencher's flowers are picked, and no
one, and nothing designed by man, can
unpick them. AVe ought to think of this,
Jenny, before heedlessly picking our
flowers, and more particularly wheii the
flowers belong to somebody else.'

Mrs. Chell thought the homily not only
too long, but equally barren of interest,
and maintained a strict reticence upon the
subject, which was not an encouragement
for continuing' it.

By giving me your attention for a few
seconds,' observed Edward Slomax, upon
arriving at the first step of the dark, twisting,

twining corkscrew of a staircase,
'you shall sec nie Avliisk joy of tiny licart
to the top at the-atc of forty miles an
hour.'

Pray, sir, go a little bit slower,' interposed
Mrs. Chell, ' or you'll sto]) her
breath, poor dear, which is not too good
Just at the present time.'

Before, however, the last words were
spoken, Griselda found herself clasped in
his arms and being borne swiftly and carefully
up the stairs to Avherc Sam stood
like a sentinel outside the oak door, impatiently
awaiting their return, with ears
thrown back and Having tail.

In the ordinary coarse of time, lout
at a greatly reduced speed, ]airs. Chell
arrived, puffing, at the spot still occupied
bv Sam, dio Divini;' received this master

and mistress with all the polite attention
in his power to display, considered it a
duty, combined vdih unalloyed pleasure,
to await the advent also of little Ted
and his nurse.

'Xow, Jenny,' observed Edward Lomax,
'ha^dng made a safe return from
the perilous journey into the Temple
Gardens and back, I wish to know, before
re-commencing; mv light work for
the noble law-stationer, whether you consider
your fond hopes are realised in
little Ted being freshened up ; the primary
object of the excursion being that
he should be freshened up.'

Lowering him slowly in her arms, she
placed him gently in the cradle, smoothing
his pillow with one hand as she
did so, but without saying a word. For

little Ted's pale checks appeared almost
as white as the lilies of the valley which
he still held in this l)al)y hand, and
both he and the flowers now looked
as if fading away, and were dying together.


Yon have not given nie a reply to
my question, Jenny,' resumed he, somewhat
surprised at the unexplained cause
of her silence, and, with an instinctive
feeling of apprehension, he wait to the
cradle, and stooping low over it, gazed
long and sorrowfully at the little pale
and wan face pressed sideways upon the
pillow.

With a furtive and nervous glance at
his wife, who, wearied with exertion, remained
unconscious of anything unusual

happening to her child, he lifted a fore-tin
over to sirs. Chell as a signal for
silence.

The short and quick breathing of little
Ted became momentarily more rapid, and
the two sad watchers knew that the
fleeting minutes of his life were numbered.


He's going,' whispered sirs. Chell, with
a broken sob she was unable to suppress.
' Our daring is being called away
from us, and another angel ^^^ill soon be
with his brother and sister angels in
heaven.'

'Hush!' rejoined Edward Slomax, ina
corresponding tone. ' Hush, Jenny,'
repeated he ; ' for this must reach his
mothers ears as if told in a dream.'

It will break lier heart returned
lie, wringing her hands convulsively.
I know that it will break her heart,
sir, as I feel that it has already broken
mine.'

We must try not to think of our own
hearts, just now, Jenny,' added he, and,
as he spoke, he lifted his baby boy tenderly
from the cradle, with the lihes-of-the-
valley still held in his tiny hand, and
carried him across the room towards his
mother, who appeared to be lightly sleeping
in her easy chair.

Griselda, dear.'

It was seldom that he addressed her
thus, and, although spoken in a soft, low
voice, there was something in the tone
which startled her from her slumber, and,
with eyes fixed intently upon her hus-land.

she looked as if terror lead awakened
her.

Yes she replied, as she drew a hand
across her forehead, as if to collect her
wandering; thoughts. ' What do you want

with me ?'

To sav something' about little Ted,' rejoined

he, ' whom I have brought to place

in your arms.'

The mother looked, as only a mother
can look, at her dying child, and clutched
him frantically to her breast.

The lilies-of-the-valley fell from his tiny
hand as she did so, and marked the
moment of little Ted's death.

VOL. III. N

CHAPTER XY.

With nothing to do either physically or
mentally, and requiring no assistance from
any busybody to take part or parcel of his
work, Bill Baxter occupied a seat in this
'snuggery,' one evening, A\dth his legs
stretched out before a small wood fire, and
his hands and arms buried to their elbows
in the pockets of his old leather hunting-breeches,
which had evidently seen better
days. The negligent position of ease
seemed to indicate clearly that in mind,
body, and estate his condition was, to say

the least of it, satisfactory and pleasant to
contemplate A\dthout fear of a change for
the Averse.

Aniono' old (troublesome's exceptional
hours of contentment with the world, and
those who were in it, the present appeared
to stand out conspicuously by itself, for
he smiled at his own silent thoughts ashe
was never seen, perhaps, to smile
before.

It's a great and a grand thing, Cocky,'
observed he, addressing the sharer of his
cap money and partners his troubles ' all
the year round,' who was sitting opposite,
smoking a pipe of birds-eye in silence.
^ It's a great and a grand thing. Cocky.'
repeated he, swaying his head from side to
side, corresponding with the motion of a
pendulum, ' for a man to be able to say

from his heart '' Thank God," and mean
what he says. It's easy enough to slip it
from the tip of your tongue ; hut for a
chap to feel thankful inwards is the right
thing, depend upon it !'

'No doubt about that,' rejoined Cock
Robin, sending forth a thin cloud of smoke
from his lips to curl upwards to the ceiHng
just above his head. 'Avoids not meant
are nothing but babble, and may as welland
perhaps better, had not been spoken
at all.'

Them's my sentiments, Cocky,' returned
old Grumblseome. ' Quite so. But what
I was going to say is it's a leg up for a
chap to feel thankful inwards for some of
the blessings of this life, particularly when
they have fallen a little short of what
seemed to him his fair allowance. Now I

<,*an say, and do say, Cocky, thank God
from my iii'ards of inwards for the turn we
have had lately.'

Things are certainly better with us.
Bill,' added his social companion, ' than
they were, and I may say much better ;
but still there is room for improvement.'

At this moment a iinolino- of coin was
heard as it was rattled together in one of
the pockets of old Grumblesome's antiquated
leather hunting breeches, which was
soon followed by a corresponding sound of
a jingling of coin in the other opposite.

'There's music iji that sound. Bill,'
observed Cock Robin, ' to which we haven't
been accustomed lately.'

It was quite a rare and rich treat to seethe
squire yesterday morning,' rejoined
-f)ld Grumblesome, with the pendulum

movement. ' T shall never forget the
precious sight as long ns I live, for as I
lifted the latch to his knock, and saw him
standing in the doorway', there was Squire
Oakacre of other days looking almost himself
again.

'''Bill Baxter," said he, 'your weekly
wages have not l)een paid so regularly of
late as they ought to have been ; hut I
hope that you liaA^e not been inconvenienced."
'

Spoken like a gentleman, as he is, bred
and born !' ejaculated Cock Robin.

Being taken aback, as it were,' resumed
old Grumblesome, ' T didn't know exactly
what to say at first ; but managed to
tanner out, ' " Don't mention it, squire,
money is of no object." And then,
Cocky, he burst' into as hearty a laugh as-over

he gave, in my hearing, in his life
before.'

A better master,' remarked his social
companion, ' or greater gentleman never
lived I'

" As money is of no object, Bill Baxter,"
said he, still laughing, '' we need not
trouble ourselves this morning by going
particularly into the account ; but
there are ten pounds to enable you
to go on with, which I hope will prevent
your being inconvenienced for the
present*' '

Spoken like a gentleman as he is, was,
and ever will be !* remarked his social
companion.

I could scarcely believe my eyes or
my fingers,' continued old Grumblesomc ;
but when the gold was fobbed in my

pocket I, of course, Cocky, couldn't doubt
its being there.'

^ And that was a nice and pleasant
touch, Bill, wasn't it?' observed his social
companion.

^ Such a touch my fingers hadn't met
with,' replied old Grund^lesome, again rattling
the money in this pocket by way of a
forcible reminder of the pleasure, ' since
the cap Tom Brown made for me when
Miss Grizzle was M.F.H. for one da' only.
What a clipper she was to be sure, to go
across country. I think I see her now
flying that double rail and ditch, deep
enough to huvy both lier and her poii}-,
nd riding straight to hounds, with tlieij-
heads up and sterns down, having it all to
themselves, and the field sj)read-eagled a
mile distant.'

'And you, Bill,' rejoined his social
companion, 'as usual in your pr()])er
place.'

'Which was last of all, havini:- a hue
view of the run in the open, as I always
did,' returned old GrumLlesonie, ' and
being' ready at all times to o'er (lie stragglers
on to the front.'

But harkino- jack to the money' ijart of
the business,' remarked Cock Roljin, ' isn't
it something; like a miracle, Bill, that l)f)th
of us should h(^ tarred with the same
brush just about the same time.'

What do you mean. Cocky ?' inquired
old Grumblesome, again rattling the coin
in his pockets by way of a musical accompaniment.


I mean,' responded his social companion,
'that as I went this moi'u-

ino", soon after light, to give the best
pony that ever looked through a
bridle a small feed of corn which 1

had '

Don't say stolen, Cocky,' interrupted
old (Troublesome. ' It sounds so much
like thieving.'

I was going to say,' resumed Cock
Robin, slightly irritated at the interruption,
' Avhen you stopped the word from
bolting out of my mouth, annexed.'

That's better,' rejoined old (troublesome,
' that's a great improvement upon
prio^mnic- (io on, Cock v. What about
the annexed feed of corn ?'

When the squire met me on the way
to the straw yard,' continued his social
companion, ' where Gazelle has had a nice
comfoi-table time of it since her summer's

run at grass, and he said, said
he,

'' Cock Robin, how are you ?''

'Said I, 'pretty well, sqiure. and my
most respectful thanks for asking after me,
and how do you do"'

^ '' / do." said he. with the old smile
upon his face which put me in mind when
a fox was away and the body of the
hounds settled to him. '• / do' said
he, 'ras I have done. Cock Robin, and
intend doing. Accept my best thanks for
your thoughtful inquiry."

AVith this 1 touched my hat. for he looked
and spoke like the Squire of Oakacre
Court, not exactly with pride, but as I
used to see and hear him when mounted and
dressed in scarlet by the cover side, with a
horn in its sheath at his saddle ])ow.-

That's the way the squire looked and
spoke, Bill, as I was on my way to give
Gazelle her feed of corn up in the morning
early.'

But what about the miracle. Cocky,'
inquired old Grumblesome, ' and our both
being tarred with the same brush?'

I'm coming to that,' replied his social
companion. ' Give a fellow time. Bill,
and don't bustle him. I had just finished
touching my hat,' continued Cock Robin,
Svhen the squire said, said he, "Your
board wages, I fear, have not Ijcen paid as
regularly as board Savages ought to be."
T again lifted my forefinger to the brim of
my hat, but Avithout speaking a Avoid, for
I thought it ]manners not to contradict
him, and if I lead it Avould only be telling
a lie. "Your service began With me'' said

the squire, said he, '' immediately after the
death of your a'ood and kind mistress, and
it Alas agreed, between us, that you were
to have twelve shillings a-week to look
after Gazelle while she remained under
my care."

I once more touched my hat in silence,
Bill, for it was only a simple truth what
he said, and called forth no remark on my
part."

'There's nothing like silence, Cocky,'
observed old Grumblesome, ' when you
have nothing to say.'

'you have done your duty to the pony,"
said the squire, said he ; '' but whether I
have done mine by you, Cock Robin, is
quite another question. Shall Ave leave it
Avhere it is?"

'"If you please, squire," said I. 'let it

stand wlierc it docs as it can't stand better.
In the event of your being satisfied with
my services, Fni more tluin satisfied ^vith
my wages."

" But you haven't had any," said the
squire, said he, " and how you have
managed to get on without them is a
puzzle to me. What credit you must have
had with the baker !"

I then made boil to tell him, Bill, hoar
I had got on through becoming a partner
in your cap money, share and share alike,
and this seemed to tickle the squire
amazingly. " You had the ]pest of the
bargain there with Bill Baxter," said the
squire, said he ; '' but his heart's in the
right place, and he'd share the last shilling
with an old friend." '

At these complimentary Avowals old
Grumblesome blushed like a maiden of
bashful fifteen, and, doubling up his legs,
shuffled uneasily in his chair.

'^ It's time, however*' said the squire,
said he, ' '* for you. Cock Robin, to have
some money for what you have already
done, and done well ; and there is a
little on account," and With that he
shelled out from one of his waistcoat
pockets a crisp ten-pun Bank of England
note, and handed it to me. I now
hand it over to you, Bill Baxter, in
part payment of what I have had. in
meal or in malt, as the case may
be;

'No, no,' rejoined old Grumblesome,
thrusting back the proffered * ten-pun

Bank of England note.' 'We will goon
as ^^'(;'ve been f^'oino; on for about
a veal* and n half, and trust in one
another for the time to come, as wo
have done in the time that's past. Keep
the each, Cocky, until it's wanted
perhaps, for a rainy day.'

There's some little truth in the report
Bill, you may depend upon it,' remarked
his social companion, returning the 'ten-pun
Bank of England note ' to a place
of security. ' They say '

'Who are they?' interrupted old Grunt
)1 some, sharply.

It's impossible to tell ye Who fhe//
are, Bill ; lout when a report or story
goes the rounds,' replied Cock Robin,
''thei/^ Avithout being particulary named,
or their addresses given, are always said

to be the people who set the ball a-rol-
liii, and keep it a-going.'

'I don't like theu^' rejoined old Grnm-
l^lesonie, with the clockwork motion of
his head. 'There's a good deal of mischief
sometimes in what they say.'

Tn the present case there's none,' returned
Cock Robin ; ' for all they say
is. that the squire has won the day with
the lawyers, and, although it has cost
hir-i a mint of money, his head will be
above water again ; and, in a year or
two, we may see him once more the
master of his own hounds, and the first
gentleman in the county, as he used to
be when I was a boy.'

And always remained so,' added old
Grumblesome, poor as he became, through
being robbed by that gold mine, in which

VOL. III. o

there was not a grain of gold. Money-can
make a great many men ; but not a
John Oakacre, of Oakacre Court. There's
good old blood in his veins, Cocky ; and
it takes time to make old blood.'

'Things have turned out, and are turning
out, for the better with us, Bill,
you may take my word for it,' continued
his social companion. 'Nothing stands
still here below; and if people would
only think of this in the midst of their
troubles, they wouldn't be as miserable
as they often are. Hope on, I say, hope
always for the best ; being prepared, as
well as we can be, for the worst ; and,
if the worst should come, don't let us
think that the worst will last for ever
and a days, for it won't. Bill Baxter, take
my word for it.'

I begin to think, Cocky,' rejoined old
Grumblesome, 'that you ought to have
been a parson. Many a worse sermon
has taken much longer to preach.*

o 'I

CHAPTER XVI

Time eventful day, like every clay in the
order of its coming and going, whether
eventful or otherwise, at length arrived
for Edward Slomax to be called to the Bar.
He had qualified himself by keeping the
allotted number of terms, and had eaten
the necessary number of dinners in the
hall of the Middle Temple. The candidate
for forensic honours had passed his
exam.' in a creditable manner, to say the
least of it, for every question had been
met with an answer devoid of the slightest

hesitation, as if Blackstone's Commentaries
and Coke upon Littleton were, to speak
figuratively, at his finger ends, and Edward
Slomax saw with pardonable pride,
his name announced, among other students
of the Inns of Court, as having been
called to the Bar.'

He was now entitled to wear a stuff
gown and horsehair ^dg, for both of which
he gave an early order on credit, in the
hope that neither the robeinaker nor the
learner would have to wait much longer
for payment in full than was tolerably
agreeable to their personal feelings. This,
however, he was feign to confess to himself,
must entirely depend upon circumstances
connected with the future over
which lie did not [pretend to possess the
-smallest control or influence.

Several days had come and gone, and
been sunk upon the quicksands of eternity
since the successful student of the Middkr
Temple had been ' called to the Bar,' but
nothing in the shape of the smallest
tittle of evidence presented itself that in
being ' called to the Bar ' he was required
to make the most insignificant response to
the call. Not a single brief with a
nominal fee marked upon it, not even a
half guinea motion, was presented in the
form of a slight substantial return for a
great deal of reading, a great deal of
thinking, and a great deal of general
hard work. So far, indeed, as the newh'-
created member of the Bar could see
he mio^ht as well have remained completely
reticent to the call, and not
made himself responsible for the outlay

for the stuff gown and horsehair

CD

It won't do,' said he, addressing himself,
' to let things go on, or, more correctly
speaking, stand still in this way.
If briefs and half guinea motions won't
come to me, I must try the alternative of
2'oino: where the briefs and half guinea
motions are to be found, contrary, I know,
to the acknowledged dignity of the profession.
I must, however,' continued hebe
not too particular concerning the
means to the end, in the hope, faint as it
may be, that the end eventually will
justify them. I will seek an early interview
with our family' man of business,
and let him plainly understand that a
favourable opportunity now exists for his
rendering a little professional aid to a

very young barrister. He may, perhaps,
be inclined, if his digestion is in good
order, to extend a helping hand, and give
me my first brief with a whacking fee
marked upon it. I'll go, at any rate, to
our family man of business and take the
measure of his inclination for springing a
young member of the Bar forward, and
assist him to occupy a front scat instead
of a back one, perhaps, for the remainders
his natural life. For unless a fellow
has the opportunity of dropping himself
into a front seat, how the devil is he to
take one? T shall do my best to impress
this indisputable fact upon the mind of
our family man of business, and, unless his
brain is opaque to density, he cannot fail
to see the force of the argument without
the necessity of continuing it.'

Acting upon this somewhat impulsive
decision, Edward Slomax thrcAv doAvn the
pen with which he still daily and hourly
employed himself in copying folios for the
noble law-stationer," and telling his wife,
who still more than ever could not lear
the thought of his beings out of her si^-ht

O C P

for a single moment, that a case of urgency
demanded his temporary absence,
hastened from middle Temple Lane towards
Lincoln's Inn Fields, where the
offices of the family man of business were
situated.

To the common-place question as to
whether he was to be seen, the answer
given was in the affirmative, and as soon
as a door, upon which the word ' private '
looked conspicuous in black letters, could
be opened and closed, Edward Slomax

found himself in the presence of the family
man of business.

'This is really a singular coincidence
said he, coming forward to receive his
client with a friendly shake of the hand ;
'■ but I was in the act of writing a letter
to you, Mr. Slomax, when your name Alas
announced.'

The hope of a thick brief and a fat fee
began to flit before the mental vision of
the very young barrister.

Remembering that I am now called to
the Bar,' said he to himself, ' this estimable
attorney is about filling in the blank
which hitherto has presented too conclusive
evidence of my not being Avant.'

I was about to inform you, Mr. Slomax,'
continued the family man of business,
that we are nearly in a position to apply

again to the Court of Chancery for further
instructions in re Peepem's estate.
The proceedings in this complicated matter
are necessarily slow, but it is with
much satisfaction that I can state without
fear of contradiction that they do not
stand still. They are, in short, progressive.'


If my memory does not deceive me,'
rejoined his client, ' such was the exact
state of Peepem's estate when we last
had a discussion upon the subject, long
before I was called to the Bar.'

The very young barrister considered the
finish of the sentence as most expedient
under all the surrounding circumstances
of the case, and with the particular object
he had in view of pang a visit to the
offices of the family man of business.

I liavc not the slightest hesitation in
admitting, Mr. Sloniax,' returned he, ' that
your memory does not deceive you. Be
Pcepem's estate Alas then, as it is now, sub
judice and in going to the Court of
Chancery for further instructions, as Ave
are about doing at the present time, there
does not appear to be a prominent distinction,
with a material difference, in the
respective applications to the Court of
Chancery for instructions, and further instructions.
At the same time you may
accept my assurance, Mr. Slomax, that re
Peepem's estate does not stand still. Weare
moving, sir, and I entertain no doubt
but that a final decision will be arrived at
.some future day. In the meantime we can
only watch, and be guided by, the cun-eut
events which transpire and present themselves

for our consideration, so as to
enable us to apply to the Court for further
instructions, as occasion may require.'

In short,' added Edward Slomax, with
a smile, ' Peepem's estate drags its
weary length along, and consistently remains,
as you so graphically described it
at the commencement of the proceedings
the shadow of a phantom substance.'

Fearing, mr. Slomax, from what
passed between us,' rejoined the family
man of business, ' that you might depend,
to a great extent, upon your undefined
unproved, and unacknowledged interest
and share in re Peepem's estate, I applied
those emphatic terms in order that }'ou
might not deceive yourself, or be deceived
by what I will call a legal will-o'-the-A\'isp.
Recollecting what the result has been upto

the present moment,' continued he, ' I
think that I shall not be exposed to much
severe censure on your part, Mr. Slomax,
for the strong language used upon the occasion
referred to, and, subsequently, when
you often called to inquire if there was
anything fresh in re Peepem's estate. I
believe, sir, that you were invariably told
that not only was there nothing fresh, but
everything remained as stale as possible,
and was likely to remain in statu quo as
far as could be seen, for an indefinite
period. " It must be for long and it might
be for ever," such, I think, mr. Slomax,
was the plain, unvarnished language used
by your legal adviser when you came to
consult him in re Peepem's estate.'

^ My hopes for a speedy termination of
the friendly suit, as it was facetiously

called,' returned the very young barrister,
^ were, certainly, never elated by anything
said or written by yon, sir.'

You do me simple justice, Mr. Slomax,
but nothing more or less,' rejoined the
family man of business, 'by making this
unqualified admission. I never yet
deceived a client, naturally panting for a
favourable settlement of his suit, and I
never ^Yil\. It is my invariable custom to
say to him, expect nothing at any time,
and you cannot possibly be disappointed.'

'A safe and careful intimation to the
sanguine !' returned the very vouno;
barrister. ' But my object in calling upon
you this morning, sir,' continued he, ' was
not in re Peepem's estate ; but relates to a
totally different matter.'

The family man of business braved

politely, and looked prepared to listen
patiently to the communication whatever
it might lye.

I mentioned incidentally resumed
Edward Slomax, ' that what you have just
said in re Peepem's estate was a repetition,
in substance, of a similar statement made
to me long before being called to the Bar

The family man of business again bowed,
and maintained an unbroken and attentive
silence.

The past and present circumstances by
which T have been and am surrounded,'
resumed he, 'you are generally, if not
particularly, acquainted with ; but if you
knew more of their details, perhaps, you
mitrht feel additional inclination to render

o

me the friendly assistance I now seek at
your hands

The family man of business gave a cold,
icy stare at the floor, as if preparing to
refuse an objectionable request.

This was not lost upon Edward Slomax.

It is not to borrow money,' said he.
I want work which, I believe, I am
capable of doing, and know that I am
willing to do.'

The family man of business felt a certain
amount of relief at this announcement and
looked at the very young barrister, who
had just spoken such brave words, as if
the ' thick brief and fat fee' might be more
substantial than ideal.

I like to hear a man speak as you have
done,' rejoined the family man of business,
with undisguised admiration. ' It is not
often that when assistance is asked for
that work is meant. You, however, Mr.

VOL. III. p

Slomax, ask for work, and, without considering
yourself under the smallest obligation
to nie, I will give you work upon the most
equitable of all principles, that of the
labourer being worthy of his hire.'

The very young barrister was about
expressing his thanks in the most eloquent
words at his command ; lout the family man
of business raised a hand as a signal for
him to reserve his powers of speech.

I will send to your chambers an
important case which I have in hand,'
continued he, 'for your opinion as to
the evidence necessary to support it in
all its minute and complicated ramifications.
There are some very nice points
to settle, of the most delicate and abstruse
kind. Precedents will have to be
diligently searched for, and, looking at

it in the abstract, it is a case which
demands your warmest zeal and most
unwearied attention. '

It shall receive ]both at my hands,
sir,' responded the very young barrister,
flushed with pride and pleasure at the
decided success of his mission.

v2

CHAPTER Evil

I SOMETIMES think, Teddy dear,' observed
Griselda, reclining in her usual position
in the easy-chair, placed close by the side
of her husband. ' I sometimes think,' repeated
she, ' that our own sorrows make *
us very selfish, and forgetful of those of
others.'

'Why so, joy of my heart?' rejoined
he, placing on the table before him a
thick volume of ' PetersdorfF's Abridgement,'
consisting of thirty volumes, over

which he had been sedulously poring, page
by page, line by line, for hours, in search
of ' cases ' in support of the abstruse one,
^yiih its 'nice points' and 'ramifications,'
of the family man of business. ' "^Vhy so,
joy of my heart?'

We seem, for instance,' returned she,
to have cjuite forgotten the sad state
of the dear old squire, with Oakacre Court
absolutely deserted; for we never speak
of it now.'

'AYe have had more than enough todo
perhaps,' remarked he, 'in talking
gloomily about our own griefs, without
dwelling needlessly upon his, however
much Ave may have sympathised A^-itli him.
T told you, however, joy of my heart,
that I read, not long since, an account
of the winding-up of that swindling gold

mine company, in which the squire had
been the principal victim ; and the decision
of the court was that his losses
were to be recouped from the accumulated
plunder — called the estate — of Orlando
Chickabiddy, Esquire.'

A faint smile passed over the pallid
features of his wife as the name was
mentioned, to which her maiden one was
so nearly being exchanged for, but no
observation escaped her lips.

It is reasonable, therefore, to suppose,'
resumed he, ' that our old friend-john
Oakacre, has completely surmounted
his pecuniary difficulties, and Avill be, at
no distant date, if not so already, in
full possession of the clear rental of his
property, and all belonging to it.'

'Nothing could possibly delight me

more,' responded she, ' than to learn
from the dear old man himself that
he vas prosperous and happy again.
AVill you let me go and see him?'

The suddenness of the question seemed
to be the sole or principal cause of its not
receiving a ready answer.

Edward Slomax looked at his wife as if
doubtful of comprehending the meaning
of her words.

I feel,' continued she. ' that if I were
to go and see him, and my old home, and
Gazelle. Teddy dear, that I should become
quite well and strong again.'

'Then you shall go,' rejoined he. 'if I
have to carry you in my arms along the
highways and byways of the road, regardless
alike of their length, breadth, and
deist.'

Can Jenny and Sam be taken avitus
?' inquired she. ' I should be much
happier with them.'

In that case,' returned her husband,
we must see what can be done ; but my
first fee being, at the present time, an
unknown quantity, upon which we shall
have to entirely depend for meeting the
expenses of the pilgrimage, we must not
be too lavish in adding to the number of
our pilgrims.'

Poor Jenny will cry so if left behind,'
added Griselda.

And Sam, no doubt, would howl a
most discordant accompaniment to her
weeping,' rejoined he ; ' but we will do
our best to prevent this visitation of profound
evil, for I cannot imagine anything
more trying to the nerves than Jenny and

Sam's combined efforts to advertise their
misery to the world. Each would trv to
surpass the other in sorrow's doleful
strains.'

^ You consent, then, to their goiup; with
us, Teddy dear?' responded she.

'with the imperative condition of the
means being forthcoming for their going,'
rejoined her husband, ' they shall go. I
can say no more upon the interesting*
subject of their projected travels into
Hampshire, and \A%\ in my present compliant
humour, to say no less. The reside,
however, whether favourable or unfavourable,
must depend upon the unknown
quantity of my first fee. If expanded
in amount beyond our expectations, all
we shall have to do is to tell Jenny to
put her bonnet on and pack up Sam. In

the event, however, of its proving too
cramped, limited, and confined to carry
ont the object in its entirety, we shall be
compelled, from the force of circumstances
to reluctantly instruct Jenny to keep her
bonnet ois and leave Sam unpacked. As
far as I can see with a prophetic eye into
the immediate future, joy of my heart,
there is no alternative, and consequently
patient submission becomes a duty.'

CHAPTER Xviii.

It is reasonable to suppose, in the absence
of any evidence to the contrary, that the
first fee * paid to the very young barrister
by the family man of business equalled his
fondest hopes of being upon a liberal scale,
for all the pilgrims, including Sam, from
their habitation in Middle Temple Lane to
the shrine of Oakacre Court, were respectively
and collectively located beneath its
roof at the termination of a pleasant journey,
without unforseen accident or particular
incident.

John Oakacre might have felt a little
suppressed astonishment at the unexpected
advent of the pilgrims ; lout the summary
of what he had to say upon the subject
was that no one on this earth knew
but himself the pleasure he felt in
seeing: them, and he beo-an to think
that life, at last, was worth living
for.

The squire's great difficulty, however,
appeared to be in not knowing what .todo,
all at once, to show that he had commenced
to learn the true value of life,
and that he meant to live up to the
standard of the newly-acquired knowledge.


John Oakacre's measure of delight, in
fact, overflowed. To apply an expressive
and local phrase, he acted as if

something was wrong with his chump.'
For some time subsequent to the arrival
of the pilgrims John Oakacre did not
appear to possess the ordinary control
over his own actions, which were certainly
strong, if not approaching the violent.
After storming Griselda with a battery
of kisses, and wringing Edward Slomax by
the hand, now and again, until, to say the
least, he had enough of it, he grasped
Mrs. Chell round the waist, and, to her
utter consternation, lifted her from the
ground and dropped her suddenly upon
the cushioned seat of an old hard
chair, saying, at the same time, that ' probably
she was fatigued after so long a
journey.'

Jenny felt shaken, but not injured.

Xo notice being taken by the squire of

Sam as soon as lie expected, this sensitive
feelings were liiivt, and lie stood close by
with his head and tail drooping disconsolately
in a state of great mental
depression.

'My dear old friend,' ejaculated John
Oakacre, as his eyes fell for the hast time
upon Sam at his feet, 'and do we tins
meet again?' and, lifting his fore legs
to rest upon his shoulders, he embraced
him warmly like a man and a
brother.

Sam let him clearly comprehend that
they had met by industriously licking
his face from chin to brow.

'What a heartfelt pleasure this is tome,'
exclaimed John Oakacre, ' to be
puppy-licked in this way !'

Encouraged to proceed with his most
natural manner of greeting his old friend,
Sam permitted no check or stop to interrupt
the continuance of it, and the squire
began to think that ' puppy-licking '
might be objectionable from becoming

^C5

excessive

Judo'ino- from your fat, Sam,' said he,
you have been well cared for during your
long absence from this part of the county,
and, having returned to it, we must see
that great attention is paid to your
retaining every ounce of it.'

Sam wagged his tail, and conveyed, in
the clearest lano^uao-e of which as a

o o

sensible dog he was master, that nothing
could possibly be more consonant
^\dth his feelings than that the best

means should be at once employed
for the gratifying purpose referred
to.

'And so,' observed the squire, looking
around at each of his guests in turn,
including Sam, ' you have come expressly
to see ine^ if I fully comprehend the
declared object of your visit here today.'


'And I feel sure that you are pleased
that we have done so,' replied Griselda,
for it is a long time since you saw your
first whip.'

'Ah,' exclaimed John Oakacre, with
a deep-fetched sigh, 'it is indeed! And
great changes have taken place since
then with all of us ; but we won't speak
or think of them just now. I will says
this,' continued he, ' that I must learn

what can be done to make my first
Av hip's cheeks look a little more ruddy
than they are at present. A few rides
on Gazelle, in the morning air, when
the dew is upon the grass, will prove
as fine a remedy, perhaps, as any that
I can think of.'

'How is the good, dear old pony?'
inquired Griselda. ' I wonder whether
she has forgotten me.'

'Xo more than you have forgotten
her,' replied he, ' as you will see when
she is brought b}' Cock Robin, saddled,
for you to ride tomorrow morning.'

I fear, ' observed Mrs. Chell, thinking
that an opportune moment had
arrived for her no longer to maintain
an irksome reticence, ' that ]airs.
Slomax is too much of an inva-

VOL. III. Q

lid to mount on the hack of a fiery
steed.'

^ Except when going straight to hounds,
ma'am, in a sharp burst,' rejoined the
squire, ^ I never saw her shoal much
fire when ridden by her mistress, who
coukl hold her with the lightest of hands
and a silken thread.'

^ Having had the motherly care of Mrs.
Slomax since the day of her marriage
up to the present moment, sir,' returned
Mrs. Chell, in a solemn tone, and with
a serious manner, ' I think I may say,
without fear of connnittino; a mistake,
that I thoroughly understand her intricacies,
and I feel that her intricacies
are such as to render it a temptation
to the spirit of evil to cause her to

tumble off, if lie mounted the back
of any steed, whether fiery as a dragon
or tame as a lambkin.'

'When you see my dear old gentle
pony, Jenny added Griselda, 'you will
think me as safe on her back as if I
were on a rocking-horse.'

'I am not certain,' rejoined Mrs. Chell.
I should certainly want a few moments
for calm reflection before coming to a
decision — that I should consider you beyond
the reach of imminent danger if
mounted upon a 'rocking-horse. Set in
motion, I should sav, from want of your
juvenile strength, notwithstanding the
number of delicacies you have taken, you
would, most probably, come to the ground,
with bruises black, blue, and orange.'

q2

There's no accounting for the colour of
bruises, ina'ani,' returned the squire. ' I
have had many upon my frame, in all the
shades of the rainbow, at the end of a
hunting season before nov. But what,*
continued he, turning to Mrs. Chell, 'area
few black, blue, and orange bruises more
or less ? I daresay, ma'am, you know what
it is to be bruised.'

Mrs. Chell felt that she did from a very
recent concussion ; but thought it advisable
to let the subject drop and not enter into
farther particulars.

Speaking of Gazelle,' remarked Griselda^
'■ puts me in mind that I have not yet heard
of several old friends. There's her head
groom. Cock Robin, whom we have lost
sight of so long, does he still keep up the
feud with Mrs. Sprat, and fan the sparks

of her anger by calling her Jack
Sprat ?'

• He has neither forgotten nor forgiven
that stomach-pmnp business on the leg-mutton
clay,' replied the squire, ^^dth a
laugh, 'and, I believe, never will. His
revenge still remains unsatisfied, if I am
told the truth, and he takes advantage of
every opportunity to gratify it.'

And old Grumblesome,' continued
Griselda, ' is he still disposed, do you
think, to quarrel with me about everybody
and everything ?'

^ You will be able to judge about that
tomorrow,' rejoined the squire, ' when
Gazelle is brought on the lawn, for he is
sure to attend with his companion Cock
Robin to witness the meeting of yourself
hind the Pride of the County, as they used

to call her, when she went straight as a
crow in a flying run.'

'I wish that I was on her back now
returned Griselda, with flashing eyes and
crimson cheeks.

'And leading the field as M.F.H. for one
day only,' added he, ' as you did with my
horn at your saddle.'

Ay !' exclaimed Edward Slomax, with
admiration. ' That was a run reentered
and spoken of among hunting men a
long time after the finish.'

As Avell it might he,' responded eton
Oakacre, with the enthusiasm of a true
sportsman, 'and is not forgotten in song
and story to this day. My first whip of
the past,' continued he, ' keeps her place
in their memories just as she did in the
field — first of the first flight.'

I see lier going at a rasping fence at
this moment,' remarked Edward Slomax,
addressing Mrs. Chell, ' as if it was but
yesterday when she pounded the whole
field, the squire included.*

I don't know, of course, what pounding
the whole field means,' replied Jenny,
looking at an acute angle down her nose, as
if she entertained grave doubts as to the
humanity of the proceeding ; ' but I'm
convinced that, as a lady in a most delicate
state of health, she ought not to be encouraged,
by complimentary remarks, to
repeat the act of recklessness.'

You need not fear, Jenny,' rejoined
Griselda, with a smile at seeing the disturbed
condition of Mrs. Chell's feelings.
I shall never pound the field again.'

I hope not, sirs. Slomax,' returned

Jenny, slightly appeased, but still ruffled.
I hope that the thought of pounding
fields will never enter your head ao-ain,
connected as it must be, I conjecture,
with fractures, contusions, and dislocations.'


That recalls to my recollection,' added
Griselda, 'that I have omitted to ask about
the licentiate of Apothecary's Hall, and
professor of natural history, Tom Tidy,
whose pleasant discourse concerning things
of the earth, air, and water Tired to amuse
and instruct me so much. Does he still
occupy most of his time in hawking for
rare specimens to add to his collection,
and leave his patients, during his absence,
to be treated by sirs. John Sprat ?'

Our medical man,' replied John Oak-acre,
'is precisely what lie Alas, and goes

on, from day to day, exactly as he did.
Like the majority of his neighbours, however,
he has a grievance, and that is the
people in the neighbourhood are much too
health'. They seldom want physic, he
says, and, therefore, his bills for professional
treatment are short and profitless in
the extreme. In the strictest confidence
he told me a short time since that he
would sell his practice, the difficulty being
that there was nothing to sell.'

At this moment a bell was heard to
rin' loudly and cheerful as it swung* to
and fro, on a huge beam placed above the
sloping roof and gable ends of (Jakacre
Court.

'• That,' said the squire, clapping his
hands together, and briskly rising from his
chair, ' is the first dinner bell, and, as we

shall hear the second presently, let us pay
due attention to it, as a summons to the
most enjoyable meal of my life partaken,
as it will be, among old and never forgotten
friends.'

CHAPTER XIX.

The faintly man of business looked in an
unsettled, restless, and almost feverish
state of mind as lie paced up and down his
office in Lincoln's Inn Fields, with his
hands thrust under the tails of his coat,
and muttering inaudible language to himself,
for his lips moved quick', but no
sound escaped them.

I was not prepared,' at length said he,
aloud, ' that my last application to the
Court of Chancery for further instructions
in re Peepem's estate, would be met by a

final order ; but, to the profit of my client
and loss to the profession, it has decided
that no further inquiry is necessary concerning
the co-heirs. The result of the
inquiry of the commissions issued to the
several parts of the civilised and uncivilized
quarters of the globe, where some
trace of their existence might reasonably
be supposed to exist, has been conclusively
answered to the satisfaction of the court,
that there are no surviving heirs beyond
the present petitioners in the suit, and
that they are entitled to the decree they
ask for.'

The family man of business paused in
his soliloquy ; but continued his rapid
walk, up and down the office, with this
hands still thrust under' the tails of his
coat.

^ A good property,' at length resumed
lie, 'free from mortgages, annuities, or
liabilities of any kind, now belongs to
Edward Slomax and his Anse, who, having
proved their legal and equitable claim to
beings the descendants in a direct line of
Peepem the grandfather, and original
testator, will enter into undisputed possession,
and exercise all the rights of the inheritors
of many a broad acre.

To-day a man of wealth. Yesterday
depending upon chance for bread !

Such is the marvellous change in my
client's sublunary affairs, and it would not
take a great deal of vigilant seeking, perhaps,
to find the exact opposite swithin a
stone's throw of where I stand.

It is said,' continued he, ' and I think
with the semblance of truth, that the

looker-on sees the best of the game. As
the close observers of the great game of
life we often see loth the best and the
Avorst of it, Init in either case a winning
(me to us. If it were not for the vain and
Aveak folly of the spendthrift, the selfish
gratifications of the man of .pleasure, ending
in debt and bankrupt ruin, family dissensions
followed by bitter feuds, crimes,
sins, and human errors, there would belittle
employment for lawyers. We profit
bv wrongs committed, too often grievous
ones, and just rights Insisted with no
better moral defence than the hope of the
truth not being found out.

Such is the great game of life, as we
see it, played alternately by knaves and
fools !'

The family man of business having

epitomized the several causes of professional
gain, brought the general subject
to a close, and l^egan the practical business
of the day by making a note in
his diary to write to Edward Slomax,
and promptly inform him of the triumphant
success which had attended the last
application to the court for further instructions.


'He sent me his present address,' said
he, ' in acknowledging the receipt of the
fee which I sent him, and not one, either
first or last, was ever more deservedly
paid for work well done, and done quickly.
The case submitted to him was difficult
and abstruse in the extreme ; but,
meeting with profound research and
patient consideration, he made himself
master of it, and gave an opinion, supported

by unanswerable precedents, which,
if equalled, could not have been excelled
by the oldest and most experienced member
of the Bar.

" T Avant work," said he, " which I
believe I am capable of doing, and know
that I am willing to do."

These words, combined with my knowledge,
to some extent, of the past and
present pecuniary state of the speaker,
made an appeal to the flinty heart of
an old lawyer, who, before he knew so
much of the masked faces and stony
hearts of plaintiffs and defendants, was as
prepared to help the needy and sympathise
with the sorrowful as the average number
of his fellow men ; but I am referring to
when I was unacquainted with the world,
and the world unknown to me.

'All that has been changed since then,
I never allow my feelings to interfere
with my interests. '• Never lend, and
never borrow"' is the maxim I both
preach and practise ; and by it I avoid
bad debts and obligations to those who,
if the opportunity presented itself, might
take undue advantage of them. Example
is better than precept, and my clients
vrould admit, if they did me justice,
that I have observed it strictly with
them, without a single exception. Some
may think, in reviewing the past — and
among them, perhaps, Edward Slomax
that I ought to have rendered him
aid when the wolf was at his door, and
that I should have run but an ordinary
business risk in doing so ; but then, I
never trust to chance what may be re-vol.

in. R

ducecl to a certainty. He had no security
to offer of the marketable value of a
straw. Hence, no advance was forthcoming
from the flinty-hearted old lawyer,
who never allows his feelings to interfere
With interests.

I admit, however,' continued he, ' that
it was with great reluctance that I said
no " to him when he stood before me
looking and speaking like a man, and
confided, in no crinoline; tone or manner,
his dependent and helpless position.
It cost me something to say " no " to
him, and, in doing so, the pain ' — as he
spoke, he touched his breast significantly
' remains slightly Avhere it began.

The fierce struggle, however,"with adverse
circumstances in which Edward
Slomax has been lon^^ eno'a<ved in a hand-to-hand

fight is over, and the victory
Avon. He Avill begin life anew With the
smiles of the world upon him, because —
he is rich.'

r2

CHAPTER XX.

^ It's a remarkable coincidence,' observed
the squire, sitting in the library of Oak-acre
Court, privately closeted with Gris-ella
and her husband, ' that this morning's
post should have brought the more than
joyful intelligence that the chancery suit
in which you have been so long engaged
should have terminated in your favour
immediately after your arrival here, and
that now you will be put in possession of
your own.'

'We ought to be truly grateful, and.

doubtlessly, are so,' replied Edward Lomax,
' for being put in possession of our
own ; but what our acute sensibilities
were at certain times in being kept out of
the possession of our own had better be
conceived than described in forcible language.
I can only say for myself that I
was far from disposed to offer to our
mundane rulers an earnest thanksgivings,'

I never heard you complain or murmur
at our forlorn state of penury, Teddy
dear,' rejoined his wife. 'You were always
cheerful and full of hope that to-morrow
would be better than to-day.'

'And the tomorrow hoped for,' returned
the squire, ' has at length arrived
may heaven's blessing rest upon it !
Each of us has known what the severest
of trials are, and among them not one was

more so to me than the bitter knowledge
of my being helpless to assist you. I had
absolutely nothing to call or treat as my
oAvn, and I was dependent for a time for
even the necessaries of life. Such was the
condition of John Oakacre through trying
to enrich himself 1)}' speculating in a gold
mine.'

That affair, as it was proved to be conclusively
at last,' added Edward Slomax,
was nothing short of a disgraceful swindle,
concocted bv as base a little vult-ar
rascal as ever scandalised the form of
man.'

Common cheat, as undoubtedly he
was,' said the squire, ' and fully deserving*
of the criminal prosecution with which
he was threatened, I am far from being
free from the gravest censure by falling

headlong into such a trap. As perfect
strangers to each other, what possible
reason was there to suppose that, as the
proprietor of almost unlimited wealth, he
Avould volunteer to give me a share of it ?
I had no claim upon his friendship, and
only knew him as a slight acquaintance,
when, with as little knowledge of business
or commercial matters as it was possible
for anyone to possess, I borrowed thousands
of my bankers to take up the shares
allotted to me in a bubble company, of
the true nature of which I knew nothing,
and made myself responsible for thousands

more. Such was the act of extreme folly

»/

I committed, amounting almost to insanity.'


It was most fortunate that Orlando
Chickabiddy exhibited himself in his true

colours,' responded Edward Slomax, ^ before
it was too late.'

His proposition to " salt the mine," ashe
called it,' rejoined the squire, 'opened
my eyes as to what the nefarious scheme
had been from the beginning, and the
designing unscrupulous knave with whom
I had been associated. Acting without a
moment's delay, I took the earliest proceedings
in my power to denounce him to
the deceived and cheated shareholders, and
a petition was filed at once to wind up the
company, with the ultimate result that
the promoter of it was held liable for the
whole of the loss incurred. The court,
in giving judgment,' continued he, 'was
not sparing in its severe remarks upon my
blind and senseless folly ; but thought that
a prosecution should be instituted against

the promoter, and this abominable agents,
for a conspiracy to defraud.'

Has this been done ?' inquired Edward
Slomax.

Xo, ' replied the squire. ' It was
warmly entertained at first, but, subsequently,
more pacific counsels prevailed,
and it was decided that upon
his giving up the whole of the plunder
in his possession, the criminal indictment
should not be preferred, and that he
miD:ht be left to 2:0 when and where he
pleased.'

Do YOU know what has become of
him ?' asked Edward Slomax.

Xot in the least,' rejoined the squire.
He vanished from the sight and knowledge
of everyone as soon as the proceedings
terminated, and he may be now, sofar

as I can tell, in the wilds of Australia
or Timbuctoo.'

There was still, I suppose, a heavy loss
to be borne by the proprietary?' remarked
Edward Slomax.

Between the liabilities and the assets,'
rejoined the squire, ' there was, what appeared
to be at first, a ruinous deficiency ;
but, by a judicious compromise, this was
greatly' modified and reduced, and the day
is not far distant when the last instalment
of the still existing claims will be paid,
and I shall be free, and completely discharged
from everything connected with
the gold mine, except the lasting thought,
while life remains, of the core odious and
unpardonable folly I committed in becoming
a speculator in it.'

And then we shall see the Oakacrc

hounds again in the kennels and courts
returned Edward Slomax, 'and a select
stud of hunters in the now empty boxes
and stalls

The very thought of the sight,' added
Griselda, flushed from cheek to brow,
makes me feel that I am once more your
£erst whip, in a flying run from the find to
the finish ^dth Gazelle leading in the foremost
flight.'

I have seen you there before now,'
rejoined the squire, ' and when the best
mounted and hardest rider in the held
could not have got to her head. It was
the pride of place,' continued he, ' and I
never saw anyone take it from you when
once you were there.'

Who knows but what she may repeat
her pride of place,' returned Edward

Slomax, ' after a few months' exercise
canters when the dew is on the grass,
and you again are the M.F.H. of your own
hounds.'

There may be, perhaps, more unlikely
things to happen,' added the squire, with
a smile that betokened the unalloyed happiness
of his heart. »

CHAPTER Xxix

the far east of what is sometimes
called ' the modern Babylon,' and in the
immediate neighbourhood of Whitechapel,
a slip-shod man, literally and figuratively'
^ down at heel,' might have been seen 
two flat hoards upon which were
corresponding bills, in large and bold type,
inviting the public to ' Try Our Fresh
Dorset at Fourteen pence a Pound.
Good Weight.'

The occupation of a ' sandwich man '

is of a light nature. It requires neither
much physical power nor great mental
culture, and Orlando Chickabiddy, in his
fallen fortunes, thought, when hungry and
without the visible means of satisfying a
most natural appetite from long abstinence,
that he could not improve the occasion
than by adopting the profession of a
perambulator of popular advertisements
at the modest stipend of one shilling
a day.

There is, however, scarcely anything
without its drawbacks. In addition to the
inclemency of the changeable seasons ' all
the year' round,' Orlando Chickabiddy was
also exposed to the taunts and jibes of a
set of little vulgar boys, who habitually
congregated round and about him, and,
after the fashion of young savages in the

South Sea Islands, danced, capered, and
yelled in triumph at the defenceless state
and condition of the ' sandwich man ;'
for, as they knew full well, he could
neither use his arms nor his legs for
attack or defence, and was left completely
at their mercy, of which they
showed none.

Among their many and several methods
of tantalizing the ' sandwich man,' was
playing a lively rub-a-dub, with sticks
prepared for the express purpose, upon
the boards carried in equal divisions between
his front and rear.

Rub-a-dub.'

In vain he turned, with as much sharpness
in the movement as the embarrassing
boards would permit ; but no sooner did
his reverse become the change of front

than ' rub-a-dub ' sounded from an
exactly opposite point. Change as he
might, and change as he did, ' rub-a-dub '
rattled on his ears with the same monotonous
sound, varied only by the piano
or forte movement.

This is nothing less than the persecution
of a martyr,' said he, ' and I'll stand
it no longer. The law is bound to protect
me, as a subject of the British cro^\^l,
from the assaults of these base urchins,
and I will call at once for the assistance
of the police.'

The resolve being promptly formed, it
was as speedily carried into execution,
by Orlando Chickabiddy shouting, at the
extreme pitch of his voice, ' Police !
police!! police!'

As a matter of course, time dragged

wearily along before the summons was
answered by the personal representative
of the physical force of the
government coming forward, and briefly'
asking,

'AYhat'sup?'

Appealing, as well as the surroundings
circumstances would permit, without the
assistance of his arms to render the action
suitable to his words, Orlando Chickabiddy
fondly hoped that his tale of woe
would produce a favourable impression
upon the executive officer of the law,
and lead to his happy deliverance from
the pains and penalties of a long-sufFering
martyr.

After hearing all he had to say, down
to the last syllable, Orlando Chickabiddy
found to his chagrin that, if he deserved

VOL. III. s

success, he most certainly had not achieved
it.

With an official frown, which was meant
to convey his official indignation and
contempt for the charge made against
the ' base urchins,' the personal representative
of the physical force of the
government commenced his reply, and
thus began :

'In the first place, where are the culprits
? I don't see one — on — 'em.'

'The moment I called police,' meekly
replied the complainant, ' they were off
round that corner ;' and, being temporarily
denied the use of his arms, he jerked
his head in a direct line towards the
exact spot of the successful retreat of his
flying enemies.

The executive officer s attention being-specially
called 'round the corner,' his
faith, amounting to almost conviction,
led him to believe that he perceived in
the distance a hand ^\dth a thumb pressed
upon the end of a nose, and the disengaged
fingers playing an imaginary
flageolet.

The executive officer made a couple of
rapid strides towards the angle of the
corner, and the thumb, nose, and imaginary
flageolet departed as if by magic.

It's the boast of the law of this free, great,
and noble country,' said Orlando Chickabiddy,
' that there is no wrong without a
remedy. Xow, I want to be informed
what legal steps can be adopted for obtaining
redress for the daily assaults and bats



tery to which I am exposed at the hands
those base urchins. I have called for
the police, and, as a ratepayer in the days
of my prosperity, I hope not in vain.'

'Yes,' rejoined the representative of the
physical force of the government, with
knitted brow, ' and if you do it again, Mr.
Sandwich, I'll run you in.'

Mr. ' Sandwich ' had never been personally
addressed so before, and the
sound seemed to him anything but euphonious.


Boys will be boys,' resumed the executive
officer of the law. ' They always have
been, and, I repose, always will be, until
they grow up into men, With all the
mischief of monkeys in 'em ; but we arc
not to be called from our dootiGS on
account of their pranks with a Sandwich.

Do it again,' repeated he, ' and I'll run you
in.'

But what ain I to do, Mr. Policeman ?'
returned the complainant, in a supplicating
tone. ' Tell me what I am to do in trying
to get an honest livelihood in a peaceful
way ; for I never speak to anyone, unless
anyone speaks to me, and it's very hard
that I can't be left alone by these base
urchins, who batter me morning, noon, and
night.'

The remedy's in your o^\ii hands was
the rejoinder of the representative of the
physical force of the government. ' Step
it.'

But where am I to step it to, ^[r.
Policeman?' inquired the 'sandwich man.'
'where am I to go for peace on earth ?'

The scarcely perceptible effect of a grim

smile biassed over the stern features of the
executive officer of the bw as lie replied,
^ Where there are no boys.'

CHAPTER Xxii

With the utmost serenity of mind and
body Mrs. Chell was resting after the
slight toils of the day in her private apartment
in Middle Temple Lane. She Alas
meditating upon the past, and, in running
the sand of the hour-glass of Time backwards,
feelings strangely conflicting prevailed
in accordance with the nature of
the grains which marked off the particular
events of her life, bringing them

with all their pristine force to her
memory.

Some of the grains, as they fell through,
recalled those happy days, which necessarily
were ^ too bright to last,' when
the judge's late clerk proffered his ardent
love, and persuaded her to believe
that his ' heart prompted his tongue to
speak.'

Some of the grains told of the day when
his last words, affectionate and true, were
spoken to her, and then poor Jenny
wept.

Still the grains of sand ran quickly
through the hour-glass, turned upside-down,
and marked off, with infinite precision,
each succeeding event as it affected
the balance of her life, for she had known
what its ups and downs meant, and had

not been ^^dtllOut heart-sinking dread that,
being down, the scale would never rise
again.

As the grains continued to run on,
her attention was called to this abnormal
state of her nervous system when her
silver teapot and spoons, remnants of antiquity,
had to 1)0 parted with for the
marketable value of old silver, in order
that ' little delicacies ' might be obtained
when most urgently required.

'The Three per Cent. Consols,' said
Jenny to herself, * had been sold out to the
last shilling, and there was nothing left but
the Queen Anne teapot, and spoons of a
corresponding pattern, upon which I could
depend for substantial help in the hour of
need.'

The grains of sand were not exhausted.

They still continued the story of other
days.

And then fell the heaviest blow of all
resumed she. ' Our infant angel was taken
from earth to join his brother and sister
angels in heaven. Little Ted died as the
lilies of the valley fell from his tiny
hand.'

For a time Jenny's grief at the reminiscence
choked further utterance.

'- It nearly broke his mother's heart,' at
length continued she between her sobs,
and I thought that she would soon be
placed by the side of her poor baby-boy
in the little grave where he lies buried in
the far-off country churchyard.'

A few more grains of sand yet remained
to run through the hour-glass turned
upside-down.

I may not be exactly a prophet or
prophetess,' said Mrs. Chell, recovering
her spirits to some extent sifter a short
interval, ' and I don't suppose that I shall
ever be read about as one, but what I
prophesied would be is, and will be, and
let any of the prophets, old or young, beat
that if they can. I said that Mr. Edward
Slomax would be '

^ I am personally interested in knowing
what you had the audacity to sav about

r. Edward Slomax,' interrupted a well-known
voice, and upon turning her head
to the quarter of the room from whence it
came, which was the green-baize door,
Jenny Chell entertained not the slightest
doubt concerning the possessor of it.
Now, Jenny, confess the truth, the whole

truth, and nothing but the truth, as to
what you said that Mr. Edward Slomax
would be.'

You reedy take me quite unawares, sir,'
replied Mrs. Chell. ' I had no thought of
your overhearing my words.'

'Of course you had not,' rejoined the
young barrister of the Middle Temple,
although no longer very young, for the
consecutive terms of years had come and
gone since he took his maiden fee from the
family man of business. ' Of course you
had not,' repeated he, ' and, therefore, the
revelation will be no doubt genuine, and
above suspicion. Now, Jenny, what did
you say that I should be ?'

I must not tell you all that I
said, Mr. Slomax,' returned Jenny, with
a merry laugh, ' otherwise you might

become afflicted with a proud stomach.'

In order that I may not be exposed to
the attack of such an unknown malady tome,'
added Edward Slomax, ' relate a bit of
what you said, Jenny, as an instalment of
the whole.'

I observed then to myself, being in the
habit of thinking aloud, sir,' responded
Mrs. Chell, ' that you Avould be a rising
man at the Bar until you could go no
higher.'

'Say no more at present, Jenny,' rejoined
he, ' I already begin to feel an unusual
sensation in my stomach.'

'Recollecting, also, what Chell said,'
continued Jenny, ' when clerk to a living
judge, who breathed the atmosphere of
your chambers, sir, for many years, that
every man at the Bar, with his nut screwed

on right, carried the Lord Chancellor's
woolsack in his pocket, I opined that you,
Mr. Slomax, would only have to bide your
time, and go on as you were going on, to take
your seat upon that very woolsack, Robed
in scarlet and ermine, as the keeper of Her
Most Gracious Majesty's conscience.'

I am seized with excruciating cramp
in the stomach, Jenny !' exclaimed Edward
Slomax. ' I feared what was coming
on.'

And as another step in the right direction,'
resumed Mrs. Chell, without taking
the slightest notice of the 'cramp,' or offering
a soothing remedy to mitigate its
acuteness, 'what is to take place tomorrow?'


Edward Slomax must have heard the

question, but designed to give no answer
to it.

I shall have the honour of seeing with

my own eyes

Come, come, Jenny,' interrupted he,
don't be a sham ! It's too late in life
for you to begin to act the part of a
sham.'

'■ I shall have the honour of seeing with
my own eyes,' slowly and emphatically
repeated Mrs. Chell, 'your first appearance
in court splendidly arrayed in a silk
gown to the envy, no doubt, of many
beholders in stuff gowns.'

'The spasm increases, Jenny,' rejoined
Edward Slomax. ' It does, indeed !'

And with my precious dove, looking
more like a Queen than a subject,' added

Mrs. Chill, ' we shall ride in her own
carriage, drawn by a pair of noble, high-stepping
bays, and be set down at the court,
on the bench of which, I am given to understand,
we are to be graciously permitted to
occupy places to witness the grand ceremonial
of your taking your seat directly in
front of the junior members of the Bar,
who have to wear stuff gowns, and look
with vexation of spirit at the backs of their
seniors in silk.'

^ When we meet again then, Jenny,*
returned he, preparing to take his departure,
' we shall both be wearing silk

gowns.

My new black silk,' rejoined she,
with pride, 'which has yet to be worn,
for th-first time, will, I hope, be considered

equal to the august occasion, Mr.
Slomax.'

The green-baize door closed gently upon
his retreating form, and Mrs. Chell was left
in her private apartment alone.

Not a grain more sand was left to run
through the hour-glass. The tale had
been told.

THE END.

LONDON ! PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM House



HURST & Blackett's

LIST OF Nev WORKS,

LONDON:
13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.

4-

ff

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

A TWO MONTHS' CRUISE IN THE Mediterranean
IX THE STEAM-YACHT '^CEYLON.- By Scrgeox-
General Munro, M.D., C.B. Author of " Reminiscences of
Military Service with the 9c3rd Sutherland Highlanders." 1 vol.
crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

"A frank, hearty record of an experience which those who shared it must
remember with cordial pleasure"— Pa// Mall Gazette.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 —
1849. By the Count H. mandeville. Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy 8vo. 303.

Contexts :— Birth and Childhood— Private Soldier— The Coronation— The Camp
at Bologna— Ansteriitz—Polani — In Spain— Terida—lS14r and 1815- The
Hundred Days — Country Life— Revolution of July — The Duchess de Berry
Legitimist Tactics — Politics — Duel — Landing in Africa — The Sickack — The
Treaty of the Tanna— Abd-el-Kader— The Brossard Trial— System of War in
Africa — Political Orator — Military Orator — Governor-general — Medea and
Milianah — Tackdempt and SuiJ.i— Chciif and Ourenseuis — Tones and Orleans-ville—
The Small— Delays and Biskra— The Battle of Isle— Return to France
Bou-Maza and the Dahra — Sidi-ibrahim — The Five Months' Campaign —
Abd-el-Kader in the South— Kabul: a— Final Departure— Departure from
Algiers — D'Aumale — Arab Offices — Soldiers— Colonisation — Revolution of
1848 — Provisional Government — The Days of June — Presidential Elections —
The Army of the Alps— The Assembly— Death.

This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of
the book will convince any reader of BugeauTs energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,
and his philanthropy and humanity He was, indeed, a general who
may serve as a pattern to all countries, and his name deserves to live long in the
memory of his countrymen. His sagacious, far-seeing opinions on military as
well as civil matters they will do well to ponder and take to heart." — Athenaeum.

"Miss Yonge has done well to edit for the English public M. mandeville's life of
the conqueror of Abd-el-Kader. Marshal Bureau was worth knowing as a man
even more than as a soldier. M. mandeville is both an enthusiastic and a veracious
chronicler." — Spectator.

Marshal Bureau was a more remarkable man than nine out of ten who have
been the idol of a biographer, and his career is fertile in episodes or incidents
characteristic of the times, and throwing light on history'" — Quarterly Revisit.

GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrim," &c. Demy 8vo.
With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

"A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest,
and is able to tell her readers a good deal of the present condition and prospects
of the people who inhabit the country." — St. James's Gazette.

"Every lov^rcf Greece must hail with pleasure each new book of travels in
that country which tends to increase the interest of English people in Greece, and
spreads the knowledge that it is not only delightful, but quite safe, to travel there.
Miss Smiths "Glimpses' are lively and pleasant.' — Academy.

"These 'Glimpses " are presented to us in a very bright and sensible fashion.
It is a very agreeable and instructive book. The chapter on the language and
character of the modem Greeks is well with reading for the sotmd judgment
and knowledge of the subject which it displays." — Pall Mall Gazette.

NEW WORKS— Continued.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of " The Devil's Advocate,'
"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

"Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully-succeeded
in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout." — Morniurj Post.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power
and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive anti stimulating"' — Scotsman,

'• This is the work of a man full of thought upon a number of highly important
subjects, and of strong convictions strongly enunciated, which no one can read
without benefit." — Morning Advertiser.

"Mr. Greg's speculative works are always worth study, and this certainly not
the least of them. It is a powerful and instructive book for the doubter to read,
and the author has given us many discussions of great subtlety and depth." —
Spectator.

SIBERIAN PICTURES. By Ludwig Niemojowski.

Edited, from the Polish, by Major Szdlczewski. 2 vols 21s.

This book contains a good deal of interesting matter. M. Niemojowski's description
of Siberian game and the hunting of it is clearly valuable, and shows
that he really has lived among the people. His work is not without interest to
biographers, for it deals with almost every race that inhabits Siberia— tongues
and Tartars, Samoyedes and Sticks, the Burials of Lake Baikal, and the
Gilliacks of the Pacific coasts." — Saturday Review.

Major Szulczewski has done a service by translating from the Polish the interesting
account which Mr. Niemojowski has given of the dreary land in which
he spent so many years of exile. The book contains a number of very inter sting
stories." — Athenaeum.

"This book contains by far the most exhaustive and reliable account which has
yet been given in English of Siberia"— .Bri7/5/t Quarterly Review.

REMINISCENCES OF MILITARY SERVICE

WITH THE 93rd SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDERS. By

Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., C.B., Formerly Surgeon of the
Regiment. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

"This is a book of interesting recollections of active military campaigning life.
It is told in a frank, simple, anti unpretentious manner." — Illustrated London Neics.

"This book is not only bright and lively, but thoroughly good-natured. What
makes these reminiscences exceptionally readable is the amount of illustrative
anecdote with which they are interspersed. The author has a keen appreciation
of humour, with the knack of recalling appropriate stories." — Saturday Review.

"There is much in these interesting reminiscences that will gratify while it
pains the reader. A book like this, which portrays the horrors and not merely
the showy side of war, has distinct usefulness. Dr. Munro recounts many incidents
with pardonable pride." — Pall Mall Gazette.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford: As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited hy the Rev. A. G. Estrange,
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Mitford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
"These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Milford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mid they ate invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention." — Daily TJajrajih.

"In this singular and probably unique hook Miss Mitford is painted, not in
letters of her own nor in letters written of her, but in letters addressed to her;
and a true idea is thus conveyed of her talent, her disposition, and of the impression
she made upon her friends. It seldom happens that anyone, however distinguished,
receives such a number of letters well worth reading as were addressed
to Miss Mitford; and the letters from her correspondents are not only from interesting
persons, but are in themselves interesting. ' — St. James's Gazette.

THE REAL LORD BYRON: New Views of the

Poet's Life. By John' Cord Jkaffreson, Author of " A Book
about Doctors," &c. 2 vols, demy 8vo. SOs.

ilr. Jeaffreson comes forward with a narrative which mast take a very important
place in Byronic literature. Almost every chapter contains material
which may be fairly called new, and the book differs from many biographies of
Byron in one very important point— it is scrupulously just to every person concerned,
the facts dealt with being placed before the reader in a judicial spirit Mr.
Jeaffreson had a specific work to do. and he has done it fully, conclusively, and
well ; and it may reasonably be anticipated that these volumes will be regarded
with deep interest by all who are concerned in the works and the fame of this
great English poet." — The Times.

Mr. Jeaffreson has produced a work that throws a flood of new light on the
most critical periods of Byron's life, and that every future critic of modern
English poetry will have to read and re-read." — Athenaeum,

"Everybody will read these volumes, many for the sake of the great poet,
whose biography forms the subject, and others simply on account of the extraordinary
amount of interesting gossip which it contains about the famous personages
who flourished in the days of our grandfathers. It is a very able book
admirably written, and evidently entirely unprejudiced"' — Morning Post.

"This is a masterly performance, and one of the most important contributions
to literary biography published for many years. Mr. Jeaffreson writes not only
like a student, but a man of the world, and his entire analysis of the relation between
Byron and his wife is admirable." — Tie World.

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS; or, London

under THE Fist Georges, 171-t — 1760. By J. Fitzgerald
MoLLOT. Second Edition. Vols. 1 and 2. Crown 8vo. 2l3.
Well written, full of anecdotes, and with its facts admirably grouped, this excellent
work will prove of the greatest value to all who desire to know what manner
of men the first Electors of Hanover who came here really were. Pictures of
Court life so drawn cannot fail to be very instructive. Some of the word pictures
are wonderfully well drawn '" — Daily Telegraph.

VOLS. HI. and IV. of COURT LIFE BELOW

STAIRS; or, London Under the Last Georges, 1760 — 1830.

By J. Fitzgerald Molloy. Second Edition. 21s. Completing

the Work.
"The reigns of George the Third and George the Fourth are no less interesting
and instructive than those of George the First and George the Second. Mr.
Molloy's style is bright and fluent, picturesque and animated, and he tells his
stories with unquestionable skill and vivacity'" — Athenaeum.

"These last two volumes of Mr. Molloy's 'Court Life Below Stairs' are likely
to attain as much popularity as the first two did. The narrative is fluent and
amusing, and is far more instructive than nine-tenths of the novels which are
published nowadays"— .Si. James's Gazette,

GRIFFIN, AHOY ! A Yacht Cruise to the Levant,

and Wanderings in Egypt, Syria, The Holy Land, Greece, and
Italy in 1881. By General E H. Maxwell, C.B. One vol.
demy Svo. With Illustrations. 15s.
•' The cruise of the Griffin affords bright and amusing reading from its beginning
to its end. General Maxwell writes in a frank and easy style — Morning Post.

WITH THE CONNAUGHT RANGERS in Quarters,
Camp, and ox Leave. By General E. H. Maxwell, C.B ,
Author of " Griffin, Ahoy !" 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.
"A warm welcome may be presaged for General Maxwell's new work. It is an
eminently readable book, quite apart from the special attraction it must possess for
all who are. or who have been, connected wich the gallant seth." — Duilu telegraph.
"When General Maxwell made his debut in that capital book, 'Gritliu. Ahoy!"
we expressed a hope that we should soon meet him again. This expectation is
now fulfilled, and again we have to congratulate the author on a distinct success-scarcely
a page in his volume but has its little anecdote, and these stories have a
real touch of humour in them"' — Globe.



LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.
2 vols, large post 8vo. With Portrait. 248.

"This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called tho ' Music of the
Future,' and his judgments on Ilerr Wagner, Dr. Liszt, Bernstein, Dr. von Billow,
Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a liberal spirit. He recognizes
cheerfully the talents of oar native artists: Sir S. Bennett, Mr. Mac-barren,
Madame Goddard, Mr. J. Bamett, Mr. HuUah, Mr. A. Sullivan, &c. The
volumes are full of amusing anecdotes." — Athenaeum.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.

Simpson. 1 vol. demy Svo. 15s.
*' Madame de "Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the &\xh]QcV'— Saturday Reek.

MY OLD PLAYGROUND REVISITED ; A Tour

IN Italy in the Spring of 1881. By Benjamin E. Kennedy.
Second Edition, icith Appendix. 1 vol. crown 8vo. With Illustrations,
by the Author. 6s.

It is no small merit of Mr. Kennedy that he has rendered an account of a
journey over such familiar ground as that lying between London and Naples remarkably
readable. These pages are full of really useful information, and travellers
'going South' cannot do better than take Mr. Kennedy's experiences as
their rule of conduct." — Morning Post.

' ]\Iy Old Playground Revisited ' will repay perusal. It is written with the
ease that comes of long ex-perience.''— Graphic.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Juliet
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissively
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly And even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of thelUe.'"— British
Quarterly Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.
"ewe recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Craik's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance." — St. James's Gazette.

MEMOIRS OF QUEEN HORTENSE, MOTHER

OF NAPOLEON III. Cheaper Edition, in 1 vol. 6s.
"A biography of the beautiful and unhappy Queen, more satisfactory than any
we have yet met with." — Daily Nets.

Published annually, in One Vol., royal 8ro, u?iM the Arms beautifully
engraved, handsomely bound, with gilt edges, price 31s. 6cf.

LODGERS PEERAGE

AND BAPtOXETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

THE Fifty-third EDITION FOE 1884 IS NOW Ready.

Lodge's Peerage and Baeoxetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage. ; The Archbishops and Bishops of EngiKud

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords. | and Ireland.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their The Baronetage alphabetically arranger.,
orders of Precedence. ' Alphabetical List of Surnames assmueJ by

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain I members of Noble Families,
and the United Kingdom, holding super Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
prior rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage. ! Peers, usually borne by their Eldest

A Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers, j Sons,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of i Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom. I Dukes, Marquises, and Earls-who. >iav-

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of i ing married Commoners, retain the title
Precedence. I of Lady before their own Christian and

Table of Precedency among Men. ! their Husband's Surnames.

Table of Precedency among Women. Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of

The Queen and the Royal Family. Viscounts and Barons, who, having

Peers of the Blood Royal [ married Commoners, are styled Eiviour-

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged. [ able Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left being a Baronet or Knight Hon. Lucy.

Widows or Issue. j A List of the Orders of Knighthood

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the , Mottoes alphabetically arranged and trans-peers,

lated.

"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: ilrst. it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modem works on the subject" — Spectator.

"A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— Poi.

"The best existing, and, we believe, the best possible Peerage. It is the standard
authority on the subject" — Standard.

THE Brandies.

By the Right Hon. A. J. B. Beresford Hope, M.P.,

Author of " Strictly Tied Up."

In 'The Brandies ' we have a sequel to Mr. Beresford Hope's clever novel of

Strictly Tied Up,' and we may add that it is a decided improvement on his

maiden effort. Mr. Slope writes of political life and the vicissitudes of parties

with the knowledge and experience of a veteran politician. The novel is one

which will repay careful reading." — Times.

'The Brandies ' has all the charm of its predecessor. The great attraction
of the novel is the easy, conversational, knowledgeable tone of it ; the sketching
from the life, and yet not so close to the life as to be malicious, men, women,
periods, and events, to all of which intelligent readers can fit a name. The political
and social sketches will naturally excite the chief interest among readers
who will be attracted by the author's name and experience." — Spectator.

SOPHY:

OR THE ADVENTURES OF A SAVAGE.
By Violet Fane,

Author of "Denzil Pace," &c.

•' ' Sophy ' is the clever and original work of a clever woman. Its merits are of
a strikingly unusual kind. It is charged throughout with the strongest human
interest. It is, in a word, a novel that will make its mark." — World.

"A clever, amusing, and interesting story, well worth reading." — Post.

This novel is as amusing, piquant, droll, and suggestive as it can be. It overflows
with humour, nor are there wanting touches of genuine feeling. To considerable
imaginative power, the writer joins keen observation." — Daily News.

'sophy' throughout displays accurate knowledge of widely differing forms of
character, and remarkable breadth of view. It is one of the few current novels
that may not impossibly stand the test of time"— Graphic.

MY LORD AND MY LADY.

By Mrs. Forrester,

Author of "Viva," "Mignou," &c.

This novel will take a high place among the successes of the season. It is as
fresh a novel as it is interesting, as attractive as it is realistically true, as full of
novelty of presentment as it is of close study and observation of life." — World.

A love story of considerable interest. The novel is full of surprises, and will
serve to while away a leisure hour most agreeably." — Daily) Telegraph.

A very capital novel. The great charm about it is that Mrs. Forrester is quite
at home in the society which she describes. It is a book to read." — Standard.

Mrs. Forrester's style is so fresh and graphic that the reader is kept under its
spell from first to last"— /'osf.

HIS LITTLE MOTHER: and Other Tales.

By the Author of " John Halifax, Gentleman."

"This is an interesting book, written in a pleasant manner, and full of shrewd
observation and kindly feeling. It is a book that will be read with interest, and
that cannot be lightly forgotten." — .S<. James's Gazette.

"The Author of 'John Halifax' always writes with grace and feeling, and
.never more so than in the present volume"' — Morning Post.

"this Little Mother' is one of those pathetic stories which the author tells
better than anybody else." — John Bull.

This book is written with all Mrs. Craik's grace of style, the chief charm of
which, after all, is its simplicity." — Glasgow Herald.

PUBLISHED BY Hurst & BLACKETT.

MR. NOBODY. By Mrs. John Kent Spender,

Author of " Godwin's Ordeal," " Both in the Wrong," &c. 3 vols.

"This is a novel out of the common. There are some bright and Lively scenes.
The principal character, the waif who became the millionaire, is a fine conception
in many respects, and is well worked up"— .Sf. James's Gazette.

•• Mrs. Spender's novels do not show any falling off in merit. They are quite
readable and by no means ill written, while the author appears to take considerable
pains with their construction"— <S'a;«rc/ai/ Review.

KEEP TROTH. By Walter L. Bicknell, Mea.

3 vols.
There are many passages in this clever and interesting novel which lead to
more serious reflection than works of fiction, even of the higher class, are wont
to awaken'" — Spectator.

THE MASTER OF ABERFELDIE. By James

Grant, Author of " The Romance of War," &c. 3 vols.
The graphic picture of the battle of Tel-els Kebir. which Mr. Grant gives in his
novel, augments the effect of a romance which bears witness to the authors
powers"— ^(. James's Gazette.

THE PITY OF IT. By Mrs. M. E. Smith, Author

of " It Might have Been," " Tit for Tat," &c. 3 vols.

"A bright story. The principal character is fresh and lovable. The plot is
well worked out in all its details"' — Morning Post.

A very readable story. There is plenty of movement and mystery inlthe
latter part of the tioo^."— Daily Telegraph.

HER SAILOR LOVE. By Mrs. Macquoid, Author

of " Patty," " Diane," &c. 3 vols. —

This is a good business-like novel of the homely sort There is a great deal
in the story to awaken interest, and not a little to afford pleasure and entertainment'"
— Illustrated London News.

WE TWO. By Edna Lyell, Author of '^ Donovan,"

&c. 3 vols.
A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then
brightened by rays of genuine honour. Altogether this story is more aud better
than a novel." — Morning Post.

TO HAVE AND TO HOLD. By Sarah Streamer,

Author of " The Fate of a Year," &c. 3^013.
"This novel is strong and romantic. It is a tale of real life, with incidents of
po stirring a nature that they cannot fail to arrest attentions'— J/c//-«i«y Post.

OMNIA Vanity : A Tale of Society. By Mrs.

Forester, Author of "Viva," fcc. Third Edition. 1 vol.
This book is pleasant and well meant. Here and there are some good touches:
Sir Ralph is a man worth reading about." — Academy.

DAWN. By H. Rider Haggard. 3 vols.

"This novel is well written, it has considerable interest of plot, and the author
shows not a little ability in character-drawing." — Academy.

"■ Mr. Haggard writes with a flowing pen, and succeeds in maintaining the
reader's interest. The plot is very skilfully developed, and many of the scenes
are powerfully realised." — Scotsman.

DONOVAN. By Edna Lyell, Author of 'ewe

Two," (tc. 3 vols.
"Ttiis novel is thoroughly well written; it is full of scenes which prove the
author's powers of observation and description ; it contains variety ot incident,

and has much real merit. The character of Donovan is powerfully drawn"

Morning Post.

PUBLISHED BY HUliST & BLACKETT.

JOY. By May Crommelin, Author of '' Queene,"

Orange Lily," &c. 3 vols. (In September.)

INCOGNITA. By Henry Cresswell, Author of

A Modern Greek Heroine," &c. 3 vols.

ON THE SPUR OF THE MOMENT. By John

Mills, Author of " The Old English Gentleman," &c. 3 vols.

THE DOUBLE DUTCHMAN. By Catharine

Child, Author of " The Future Marquis," &c. 3 vols, (/w
S('pte7nber.)

LADY Water's COMPANION. By the

Author of " St. Olave's," " Janita's Cross," &c. 3 vols.

Pure in tone ami abounding in incident, this novel deserves warm commendation."
— Morning Post.

"the characters are well drawn, and have the merit of being exceedingly
natural'' — Guardian.

Hawthorne HALL. Bj John M. FoTHERGn^L.

3 vols,

The author has produced a good story, in which are found several characters
that show marked individuality'— il/orntwg' Post.

"'(laythorne Hall' treats of a period of fierce political and social struggle ina
style replete with instruction and i&scm&tion."— Newcastle Chronicle.

THE COUNTER OF THIS WORLD. By Lilies

Waterman and Isabella Meddle, Authors of " A Man of the
Day," " David Armstrong," &c. 3 vols.
"The plot of this novel is constructed with care, and worked out with
attention"— i4^AewaM/«.

This novel is powerfully written, and will repay perusal. The style is vigorous
and unaffected"' — Post.

VENUS' DOVES. By Ida Ashworth Taylor.

3 vols.

'venus' Doves' is a graceful and well-written novel. Miss Taylor's studies
of character are finished and delicate, and the actors are cultivated and refined
people. It is a pleasant 'boo\i." —Athena urn.

A very pretty story, very prettily told. "We recommend it strongly as a tale
which is interesting as well as pure and gooA.^'— Standard.

THE MAN SHE CARED FOR. By Few. Robinson,

Author of " Grandmother's Money," &c. 3" vols.
"A genuinely pleasant tale. The interest accumulates as the story proceeds.
It contains some passages and some delineations of character which may compare
with Mr. Robinson's most successful vfov'k.''—Athena'unu

A BEGGAR ON HORSEBACK. By Mrs. Power

O'DoNOGHUE, Author of " Ladies on Horseback," &c. 3 vols.

This story has a great deal of real pathos, and is interesting as a study of
Hibernian characters yl^/;e«fr«»/.

"There is great cleverness in this novel. The plot is good and the studies of
character excellent"— ^co<s»j«n.

OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS.

ILLUSTRATED BY SIR JOHN GILBERT, 3IILLAIS, HOLMAN HUNT, Barret
FOSTER, LEECH, Sands, TEN-noel, ETC.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

I.— SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

•'The first volume of Mess?. Hurst and Blackett s Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking
'Nature and Human Nature ' is one of the best of Sam Sticks witty and humorous productions,
and well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain in its
present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type and good paper, the lesser, but attractive merits of being well
illustrated and elegantly bound." — Morning Post.

n.— JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"The nftw and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless? meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and
this his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one
of nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and many of the scenes are full of graphic power and true
pathos. It is a book that few will read without becoming wiser and heix^v."— Scotsman,

"This story is very interesting. The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children; and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athenaeum.

ITL— THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT Warburton.

"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms' is its
reverent and serious spirit." — Quarterly Review.

Mr. Warburton has fulfilled the promise of his title-page. The ' Realities of Eastern
Travel ' are described with a vividness which invests them with deep and abiding interest
; while the 'Romantic' adventures which the enterprising tourist met with in his
course are narrated with a spirit which shows how much he enjoyed these reliefs from
the ennui of every-day life'' — Globe.

IV.— Nathaniel
JULL\ KAVAXAGH.

"'Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her which
are as individual as they are elegant "We should not soon come to an end were we to
specify all the delicate touches and attractive pictures which place ' Nathan ' high among
hooks of its class." — Atheiueuin,

v.— A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " John HALIFAX, Gentleman'"

"These thoughts are good and humane. They are thoughts we would wish women to
think : they are much more to the purpose than the treatises upon the women and daughters
of England, which were fashionable some years ago, and these thoughts mark the
progress of opinion, and indicate a higher tone of character, and a juster estimate of
woman's position." — Athenaeum.

"This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and ia
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit"— Flowing Post

VI.— ADAM Gramme OF MOSSGRAY.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"madam Gramme' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by ita
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Maitland ' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed." — Morning
Post.

VII.— SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND
MODERN INSTANCES.

"We have not the slightest intention to criticise this book. Its reputation is made, and
will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's novels. The remarkable originality of
its purpose, and the happy description it affords of American life and manners, still continue
the subject of universal admiration. To say thus much is to say enough, though we
must just mention that the new edition forms a part of the Publishers' Cheap Standard
Library, which has included some of the very best specimens of light literature that ever
have been writers"— Messenger.

Vii— CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS
OF THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Eomnn
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has here treated a special subject with so much generality
and geniality that his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously
opposed to every idea of human infallibility represented ifi- Papal domination."
Athenian.

IX.— A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman."

"We are always glad to welcome Mrs. Craik. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to
say, but to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is
fortunate in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect The
reader, having read the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion)
to return and read again many pages and passages with greater pleasure
than on a first perusal. The whole book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy;
and, in addition to its other merits, it is written in good careful English." —
Athenaeum.

"'A Life for a Life ' is a book of a high class. The characters are depicted with a
masterly hand; the events are dramatically set forth; the descriptions of scenery and
sketches of society are admirably penned ; moreover, the work has an object— a clearly
defined moral — most poetically, most beautifully drawn, and through all there is that
strong, reflective mind visible which lays bare the human heart and human mind to the
very core"— Morniiirj Post.

X.— THE OLD COURT SUBURB.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

"A book which has afforded us no slight gratification." — Athenaeum.

From the mixture of description, anecdote, biography, and criticism, this book is very
pleasant reading." — Spectator.

A more agreeable and entertaining book has not been published since Boswell produced
his reminiscences of 3 ohnsoxi."— Observer.



XI.— MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES."

We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming, and there is a certain nobleness La the treatment both of
sentiment and incident which is not often founts"— Athenaeum.

XII.— THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A Colony.

BY SAM SLICK.

A peculiar interest attaches to sketches of colonial life, and readers could not have a
safer guide than the talented author of this work, who, by a residence of half a century,
has practically grasped the habits, manners, and social conditions of the colonists he describes.
All who wish to form a fair idea of the difficulties and pleasures of life in a new
country, unlike England in some respects, yet like it in many, should read this book." —
John Bull.

Xm.— DARIEN; OR, THE MERCHANT Prince.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

This last production of the author of ' The Crescent and the Cross ' has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands." — Globe.

Eliot Warburton's active and productive genius is amply exemplified in the present
book. "We have seldom met with any work ia which the realities of history and the
poetry of fiction were more happily interwoven"— Illustrated Neics.

Xiy.— FAMILY ROMANCE ; OR, DOMESTIC ANNALS
OF THE ARISTOCRACY.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.

It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting book, whether we should
have regard to its excellent plan or its not less excellent execution. It ought to be found
on every' drawing-room table. Here you have nearly fifty captivating romances with the
pith of all their interest preserved in undiminished poignancy, and any one may be read
in half an hour. It is not the least of their merits that the romances are founded on factor
what, at least, has been handed down for truth by long tradition — and the romance
of reality far exceeds the romance of Action"— Standard.

XY.— THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. 'The Laird of Xorlaw' will fully sustain
tae author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags." — Sunday Times.

"*Tbe Laird of Xorlaw' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modem novels"— Observer.

XVL— THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.
BY MRS. G. Bretton.

"Mrs. Bretton had opportunities which rarely fall to the lot of strangers of becoming
acquainted with the inner life and habits of a part of the Italian peninsula which is the
very centre of the national crisis. We can praise her performance as interesting, unexag
ger item, and full of opportune instruction." — The Times.

'• Mis. Bretons book is timely, life-like, and for every reason to be recommended. It
is impossible to close the book without liking the writer as well as the subject. The work
is engaging, because real'' — Athenaeum.

'6

XVII.— NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax'
one of the most popular works of the day. There is a force and truthfulness about these
tales which mark them as the production of no ordinary mind, and we cordially recommend
them to the perusal of all lovers of fiction.' — Morning Post.

Xvii— LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET, QUEEN OF
NAVARRE.

BY MISS FREER.

"We have read this book with great pleasure, and have no hesitation in recommending
it to general perusal. It reflects the highest credit on the industry and ability of Miss
Freer. Nothing can be more interesting than her story of the life of Jeanne D'Albret,
and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive"— Ifor/uw^ Post.

XIX.— THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

"If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between 'John Halifax' and
'The Cantons.' " — Standard.
"The spirit in which the whole book is written is refined and good." — Athenaeum.
This is in every sense a charming novel." — Messenger.

XX.— THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM; OR, NARRATIVES,
SCENES, AND ANECDOTES FROM COURTS OF JUSTICE.

BY PETER BURKE, SERJEANT AT LAW.

This attractive book will be perused with much interest. It contains a great variety
of singular and highly romantic stories." — John Bull.

"A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm and absorb the reader's
attention. The present cheap and elegant edition includes the true story of the Colleen
B&yfn."—Illmtrated Jews.

XXL— ADELE.

BY JULIA KAVANAGH.

"'Adfele' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting. The interest kindled in the first chapter burns brightly
to the close." — Athenaeum.

'• ' Adl'le ' will fully sustain the reputation of Miss Kavanagh, high as it already ranks."
■ — John Bull.

"ramble' is a love-story of very considerable pathos and power. It is a very clever
novel." — Daily News.

Xxii— STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These 'Studies ' are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet, genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and beautiful." — Morning Post.

"These 'Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. The
book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished author." —Saturday Review

XXm.— GRANDMOTHER S MONEY.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"We commend ' Grandmother's Money ' to readers in search of a good noyes Tho
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting"— ^fAe/we«7n.

XXIV.— A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

A book to be read and re-read; fit for the study as well as the drawing-room table and
the circulating library. " — Lancet.

"This is a pleasant book for the fireside season, and for the seaside season. Mr. Jefferson
has. out of hundreds of volumes, collected thousands of good things, adding thereto
much that appears in print for the first time, and which, of course, gives increased value
to this very readable book." — Athenaeum.

XXV.— NO CHURCH.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"ewe advise all who have the opportunity to read this book. It ia well worth the
study." — Athenaeum.
A work of great originality, merit, and power." — Standard.

XXVI.— MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instruct
ve. " — Athenaeum.

'* A charming tale, charmingly told." — Standard

"All lovers of a good novel will hail with delight another of Mrs. Cranks charming
stories'— loan Bull.

XXVn.— LOST AND SAVED.

BY THE HON. MRS. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved ' will be read with eager interest by those who love a touching story.
It is a vigorous uoveV— Times.

•'This story is animated, full of exciting situations and stirring incidents. The characters
are delineated with great power. Above and beyond these elements of a good novel,
there is that indefinable charm with which true genius invests all it touches." — Daily Seics.

Xxviii— LES Miserable.

BY VICTOR HUGO.

Authorised Copyright English Translation.

"The merits of 'Les Miserable ' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of genius"— Quarterly Review.

XXIX.— BARBARA'S HISTORY.

BY AMELL\ B. EDWARDS.

"It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as
barbara's History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very
graceful and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and
sentiments expressed with an exquisite elocution. The dialogues especially sparkle with
repartee. It is a book which the world will like. This is high praise of a work of arrant
so we intend it"— Jas Times.

XXX.— LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

"A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. 'Irving's Life' ongbt to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation." — Saturday Review.

XXXI.— ST. Slave's.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JANITA's CROSS."

This novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as well as
experience and knowledge of the world. The whole book is worth reading"— Athenaeum.

' St Olave's ' belongs to a lofty order of action. It is a good novel, but it is something
more. It is written with unflagging ability, and it is as even as it is clever. The author
has determined to do nothing short of the best, and has succeeded." — Morning Post.

XXXII.— SAM SLICK'S TRAITS OF AMERICAN HTTMOTJR.

Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize. These
Traits ' exhibit most successfully the broad national features of American humour"— Post.

XXXIII.— CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A more charming story has rarely been written. It is a choice gift to be able thus to
render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths with such a searching sagacity, and
to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the writer's owa" — Times.

XXXIV.— ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAO DONALD, LL.D.

No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last." — Athenaeum.

A novel of uncommon merit. Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. "We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie"— PaZZ Mall Gazette.

XXXV.— AGNES

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works." — Athenaeum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there
are always to bo found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement. 'Agnes ' is
a story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers." — Morning Post.

Xxxvi— A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"Few men and no women will read 'A Noble Life' without feeling themselves the
better for the eiiovV— Spectator.

A beautifully written and touching tale. It is a noble hoo]i."— Morning Post.

"'A Noble Life' is remarkable for the high types of character it presents, and the
skill with which they are made to work out a story of powerful and pathetic interest."
—Daily News.

XXXVII.— NEW AMERICA.

BY W. IIKPWORTH DIXON.
"A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and yew— Times.
"We recommend everyone who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
Dixon's very interesting hook"— Saturday Picview.

G

Xxxvii— ROBERT Falconer.

BY GEORGE MAC Donald, LL.D.

"robert Falconer" is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings"— ^fAencEMm.

XXXIX.— THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman."

'The Woman's Kingdom' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories." — Athenaeum,

*' ' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters are
masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax." — Morning Post.

XL.— ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASEXT, D.C.L.

"A racy, well-written, and original novel. The interest never flags. The whole work
sparkles with wit and hnmoxir."— Quarterly Review.

XLL— DAVID ELGINBROD.

BY GEORGE MAC Donald, LL.D.

"A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers." — Trims.

Xlii— A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman."

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags'' — Post

"'A Brave Lady' thoroughly rivets the unmingled sympathy of the reader, and her
history deserves to stand foremost among the author's works." — Daily Telegraph.

Lin.— HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wife
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty"' — Standard.

"A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
Successful novelist" — Daily News.

Xlii.— SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

This is one of the most amusing books that wo ever xed^dL'" —Standard.
'The Americans at Home' will not be less popular than any of Judge Halliburton'*
previous works"— ifarni«sf Post.

XLV.— THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

These stories are gems of narrative. Indeed, some of them, in their touching grace
and simplicity, seem to us to possess a charm even beyond the authoress's most popular
novels. Of none of them can this be said more emphatically than of that which opens the
series, ' The Unkind Word.' It is wonderful to see the imaginative power displayed ia
the few delicate touches by which this successful love-story is sketched out" — The Echo.

XLVI.— A Ease IN JUNE.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"'A Rose in June' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
-with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

XLVII.— MY LITTLE LADY.

BY E. FRANCES Pointer.

"This story presents a number of vivid and very charming pictures Indeed, the whole
■bool^: is charming. It is interesting in both character and story, and thoroughly good of
its MnA." saturday Review.

XLVIII.— Phoebe, JUNIOR.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to ' Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records,
■f Lcebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn"— ylca(i<;my.

XLIX.— LIFE OF Marie ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the most
popular English history of Marie Antoinette." — Spectator.

"This book is well written, and of thrilling interest"— .icademj^.

L.— SIR GIBBIE.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius." — Pall Mall Gazette.

This book has power, pathos, and humour. There is not a character which is not
lifelike"— .Ai/jencewm.

LI.— YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English." — Tho, Times.

There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome"— .^l</j€?JCE«m

'This story is charmingly tol" — The Queen.

LII.— LORD Brandenburg.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-class
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There is plenty of
variety, cheerful dialogue, and general ' verve ' in the book." — Athenaeum.

Liii-IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

In ' It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire ]airs. Oliphant exceedingly. Her story is
a very pretty one. It would be worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of
one ancient Scottish spinster, who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret
Maitland"— 2Y/wi.
