^b

».rt'<?-i;^»i;yf--iTi,

L r 5 R.AFIY

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or Ill Noir



V. 1

\i,>r:

,.%j^:s

n

|l ^ovcl.

BY

A. Soberly.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

^ttblishcrs in ©rbinurs to ^cr ^ajfst^ the (^nnn.

1886.

[All Rights Reserved.]

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/ladyvalerianovel01mobe

i

nii:i^

CONTENTS OF VOL. I,

CHAPTER PAGE

1. A BIRD OF ILL OMEN - - - 1
II. HOW Eric's FORTUNE WAS TOLD IN Kensington
GARDENS - - - 23

III. WHAT Eric FOUND IN THE CITY - - 41

IV. TEN GOLDEN MINUTES - - - 60

V. wizard's gold - - - - 81

VL ST. FRIDOLIN THE HERMIT (RETROSPECTIVE) 102

VII. A BLACK SEVEN (RETROSPECTIVE) - - 116

Vii TOLD IN THE VESTRY (RETROSPECTIVE) - 133

IX. UNDER THE STARS - - - - 162

X. "THE FAIR queen" - - - 185

XL THE GIFT OF THE RED FLOWER - - 208

CHAPTER PAGE

XII. THE tiger's claw - - - - 223

XIII. A CRY IN THE DARKNESS - - - 245

XIV. MRS. Markets BRINGS HER MONEY's WORTH 263
XV. WATCHING FOR LADY VALERIA - - 283

XVI. A COUNTERFEIT PRESENTMENT - - 307

CHAPTER I.

A Bird OF ILL OMEN.

HE month was May, the day Whit-monday,
and the hour by St.
Slave's clock half-past two, when
the mid day express from Dover steamed
slowly into London Bridge Station, between
the densely crowded platforms.

We shall not be more than half-an-hour
late at Charing,'^ observed a passenger in one
of the first-class compartments, with an air
of cheerful surprise. " Not bad that for a
Bank Holidays

'bank Holiday?" echoed his fellow-vol.
I. 1

traveller ; 'why, so it is! Whit-monday,
of course."

If he had had any doubts of the fact, the
many coloured posters that met his gaze ashe
turned impatiently to the window might
have convinced him. He got up and looked
out, up and down the platform, at them and
at the crowd that surged once or twice up to
the carriage he was in, but passed on, being
mostly composed of second and third class
travellers. He drew back again, seeing a
woman, as he thought, about to enter; and
dropped into his seat with a look of intense
annoyance, which melted into a slightly
puzzled expression.

He was puzzled, in fact, at his own annoyance.
He had made sure that one ]monday
was as good as another for this errand in town,
and now in some remote corner of his brain
there upstart a suggestion that the date was
against him somehow, and for all he should
get by coming he might as well have stayed
at Shomcliffe. An exasperating, undefined

little suggestion, that refused to let him catch
it and examine it closely.

I declare I had forgotten all about it," he
answered the old gentleman who had addressed
him, and who was looking at him with some
interest.

He was a pleasant young fellow to look at.
Tall and well set-up, with honest blue eyes :
young eyes, that looked straight at you, and
didn't care how much you read in them ; a
sunburnt, fair face, and curly, light moustache;
manifestly military, apart from the evidence
of the hat-case in the rack above him, lettered
E. Poynter, Esq., the Eoyal Denbigh Eegt."
His companion looked as unmistakably civilian ;
stout, and bald, and grey ; clad in garments
of a City cat, with the Money Market Review
sticking out of his pocket, and the City Press
between his knees.

He eyed the young fellow amicably for a
moment longer before speaking.

''Ah, I expect you army men are too well
accustomed to holidays to make much account

1—2

of an extra one or two. Six weeks' leave
once a month, eh ?"

Poynter hushed good-humouredly.

"I suppose that is the British taxpayers
view of us. I can only say for myself that I
work hard enough for every day's leave I get.
Why, I've been trying to get off by this very
train every Monday for the last two month sand
never succeeded till to-days''

He made an impatient movement as again
the aggravating little imp of a doubt frolicked
across his brain and was gone before it could
be identified.

Ay, ay ! Well now, wdiat have you been
doing that you couldn't get away before ?"^
asked the old gentleman, facing him squarely,
with a look of genuine interest. " Mustering
and marching, pipe-claying and starching, eh ?"

Something of the kind," Poynter admitted,
or worse — musketry. I'm an Instructor,
you see." He spoke in the year of grace '82.
Any other fellow might have managed it
easily. The first Monday after she asked me

I mean, you know, after I came back from
leave at Easter," and he coloured up to his
hat-brim — '^ it was pouring : sleet, hail, cats
and dogs ; and it would have looked odd — I
mean, it would have been no good coming upto
town then. Though it turned out a
glorious evening," he ended injured, to himself.


"That's only one Monday. "What about
the other five ?"

"Next Monday the Duke came down.
Next, I got the men paraded early, and just
as we reached the ranges up came a sea-fog
like a blanket, keeping us dodging about for
half-an-hour waiting to see if it would blow
ofi^; and when it did the targets were wet,
and — well, I lost that morning. Then, a
court-martial — they had no business to put
me on — but they did. Last Monday a shower
in the middle of the shooting. There it is,
you see." And he ended the bead-roll of
his aggravations with an exasperated sigh.

And no other train would suit?"

Not one. Not for me to get to South
Kensington soon after four.'^

The old gentleman had been fumbling in
his pocket-book for the last few minutes. He
here extracted a card, and handed it to him,
saying :

Next holiday you get I hope you will find
time to come and see me, as you will most
likely be in the neighbourhood."

Poynter read, " General Sir John Armadale,
K.C.M.G.," and coloured again under his
sunburn. " Too bad of you to draw me out

about your own shop, Sir John. I'm "

searching for his card case.

Poynter, of my old regiment. I read it
up there," interrupted Sir John, pointing
with a Garnish umbrella to the hat-case ;
and, if I am not very much mistaken, son of
Welcome Poynter, that I knew in 'b2 in the
Black Sea?"

That's my uncle. His son is in the Pile
Brigade : Edric Poynter, same name as
mine."

Confounded nuisance that sometimes. I
used to find it so, I know. Will you dine
with us to-day? Lady Archdale will excuse
your dress."

Thanks. I hardly know — I may be kept
late — at a friend's," Edric hesitated.

"Next time, then," said the shabby old
General, whose eyes had twinkled amusedly
once or twice; and collecting his papers he
got out at Cannon Street, leaving Edric alone
with his meditations.

"Bank Holiday! What was it she said
about Bank Holiday? The idea of my forgetting
a single word of hers! She said
nothing when she gave me her card, I know ;
except, ' Then I shall expect to see you.' "

Six Mondays ago!" he went on. " What
must she think of me? Nothing at all, most
likely. Why should she? I've let all this
time go without ever reminding her of my
existence. I dare say she has forgotten all
about me. I wish I had written, but I don't
see quite what I could have said.

"She did mean that she really hoped to seeme.
That's what everybody says, though.
A social fib, like ' Not at Home.' No ! It
isn't in her to look at one with those clear eyes
of hers and smile — as she did — if it where only
a way of dismissing me civilly when she had
done with me.'

Here the poor youth, who, it may be observed,
wis in a very bad way, took to gazing
for comfort and reassurance on a bit of liuip
pasteboard. " Mrs. Noel Damien, 25, St.
Maur Road, South Kensington," it bore, with
At Home every Monday, 4 to 6," scrawled
beneath in faint, rather sea-sick characters.

It had lived in some inner recess of his
waistcoat ever since Mrs. Damien put it into
his hand on the Folkestone steamer as their
memorable journey together drew to its close.
He had run over to Paris on a few days' leave
at Easter, as dozens of other young fellows
had done before. He had met with the most
everyday party of travelling companions on
his homeward way ; an invalid lady with a

friend, a maid, an unconscionable amount of
luggage, and a Maltese dog. He had only
done as anybody else might have done incoming
forward to ah' his chivalry and his
French when the maid, the invalid, the
luggage, and the Maltese all fell into distinct
and separate difficulties on the way. He had
plunged in fact into a perfect sea of commonplace,
and brought out a pearl — a priceless
gem. He had obeyed the summons of an
imperious, fidgety, ungrateful old woman,
and lo, his reward in the smiles of a goddess !
A nineteenth-century goddess, with her
divinity shining from under a costly fur cloak
and be-plumed hat, who had thanked him for
his aid with such eyes and voice as had never
before greeted mortal senses ; had smitten
him speechless and stupid with the beatitude
of her presence all the way to Bologna, and
carried ois half his life with her when she bade
him adieu at Folkestone pier ; leaving him to
watch the retreating train with an utterly new
and forlorn sense of loss and deprivation, only

endurable by the thoughts of the next blissful
Monday.

Next Monday ; and that was two months
ago.

Charing Cross at last. He secured the
talismanic card with very different treatment
from that accorded to Sir John Archdale's,
and jumped out on to the platform into a
good-tempered hustling mob of holiday-makers.
He hurried off to the cloak-room
with his hat-box and overcoat, and back again
in time to secure the last hansom on the rank.

A woman who had been following him
hurried forward and intercepted him.

"I hailed you first!" she addressed the
cabman indignantly. "You must take me,
not him."

Come now! I never saw you. Move off,
and let the gentleman get in."

She turned sharply round on Edric.

I beg of you, sir, to give up to me. It is
an errand of life or death. I pray you to help
me!"

She clasped her hands beseechingly with a
sudden un-english gesture that made Edric
look at her curiously, despite his vexation at
the hindrance. His first glance showed a
plainly dressed, dark woman, neither old nor
young ; one of the dozens who pass by in the
streets every day ; dressed in a long cloak
with a red lining and a plain straw bonnet
with an eager face beneath it. His second
glance took in the marked points of the face,
the waxy-pale hue with the dusky bloom
on the cheeks, the rippling blue-black hair,
and the long, half closed eyes of that blank
blackness that repels inquiry like a shuttered
window. Her hands were short and plump ;
not working-woman's hands ; the fingers
sharply pointed at their dusky tips ; the skin
velvety.

"Life or death!" she repeated, clasping
them again, and reading his face with that
intent expressionless gaze of hers. Her voice
only was urgent and distressful.

"But I have a pressing engagement too,

my good woman. Xot exactly life or death,
but important in its way," Edric expostulated.
Cabby disposed of the case promptly.

Hi! Four-wheeler! There you are, Missis.
Now, sir, if you please. ' 25, St. Maur Road?'
Is that near the Cromwell Eoad, sir ? all
right!" and they were off and bowling westwards
before the strange woman had stirred
from her post on the platform.

Edric felt her eyes on him to the last, with
a queer fancy that it would have been well for
him to have seen her depart first. The meeting
left on him much the same sensation as
that with which, in a lower walk of life, he
would have been brought up to regard the
croak of a raven, the flight of a lone magpie,
or the crossing of his path by a black cat.
Of course he might have averted the omen by
crossing himself, throwing his left thumb over
his right shoulder, or making two little horns
with his fore and little fingers, Neapolitan
fashion, if he had kno^m how, but he didn't.

So merely including the incident in the

general contrariness of things that clay, he
went on his way with the evil omen — if omen
it were — inverted.

It seemed a long half-hour to St. Maur
Road, lengthened by a mistake of the driver,
whom in his impatience Edric paid and dismissed,
and then wasted another quarter trying
to find his way on foot to the house. He
felt as if he ouo^ht to have made straight for
it by instinct, instead of blundering across to
the wrong; side of the street as he did. Crossing,
he studied the aspect of Xo. 25
anxiously. He fancied he could recognise the
tokens of Mrs. Damien's presence everywhere ;
in the rich gold and bronze and cream tints of
lace and brocade seen through the half-open
window ; in the gay display of flowers ; surest
of all in the great silver bowl heaped high
with roses that seemed to smile a welcome to
him.

The roses — ah ! the roses ! Had he not
safely cherished amongst his most precious
possessions one of their fellows, which she

had herself bestowed on him ; and had he not
enriched the Folkestone florist by a reckless
daily expenditure on rosebud buttonholes
every day of his life since? — the cognizance
of his fair Queen Rose.

Still his heart seemed to sink as he noted
a sort of neglected, abandoned air about the
place. His knock was unrewarded, and fell
holloa as on an empty house. A forbidding-looking,
elderly female, watering some plants
in the area, looked up at him with some astonishment
as the bell sounded ; and a younger
and more attractive one, who had been
louno:ino; in the window beside the roses,
disappeared ; and after an interval reappeared
in answer to his summons, breathlessly adjusting
her cap.

Not at home. Missis is down in the
country," she announced before he had time
to make the enquiry, smiling and shaking her
head. "It's Bank 'Holiday," she added byway
of explanation.

If the proper official had been there to

receive his card with the regulation neutral
aspect and formula, there the matter would
have ended and the street door shut ; but this
girl was so evidently a deputy and new to the
work, that Edric ventured to relieve his feelings
by fruitless expostulation.

I thought Mrs. Damien was always . at
home on Mondays."

Never as I'm aware, sh "We're all out
to-day. The upper housemaid and Mr. Heifer
and Miss Cadogan's maid — only me and cook
left to keep house; and we aren't on terms
and don't speak''

And the young woman bestowed a coquettish
france on Edric with such evident delight in
the occasion of employing her conversational
powers that he had no scruple in enquiring :

Ashen do you expect Mrs. Damien back ?
To-day r

"I beg your pardon — Mrs. folio did you
say, SU-your

mistress— Mrs. Damien."

The girl's eyes opened then widest. "Never

heard of any such person here, sir. This is
Miss Cadogan's house, and has been as long
as I've been in her service — though we spend
most of our time at our price in the country."

But surely," and Edric searched for the
card and looked at it in bewilderment, " this
is 25, St. Maur Eoad ? Is there another St.
Maur Road, or another 25 in this one ?"

The girl shook her head.

Did any lady of the name of Damien ever
live here, or near here? Is it any use enquiring
at any of the other houses ?"

I don't think so, sir. But I can't say for
certain. I only came up from the country
last week myself. This has been Miss
Cadogan's town address for the last two years,
I know. Cook has been here before, but
you'll excuse me from asking her anything,
she being every bit as much of a newcomer
as myself." This last in a raised voice, evidently
intended for the area.

Edric looked at the card again, and at the
house, and at the girl. She, interested and

sympathetic, raised herself on tip-toe to make
out the address for herself over his shoulder.

It's odd, sir, isn't it, to be looking atone's
own house on another person's card ?
There's been some mistake in the printing, /
should say. You might ask at the shops — if
you can find any open; or a policeman, or the
post-office."

He thanked her, and to her manifest regret
departed, leaving her in the chartered freedom
of " Bank 'Holidays' standing on the doorstep,
gazing down the street, her arms rolled in her
apron.

The shops, as she suggested, were closed,
but he found a post-office that was also a
chemist's open, and a civil and unoccupied
proprietor ready to assist him. Pie had wondered,
at first impatiently, how the mistake
could possibly have arisen ; but when all the
assistance that could be rendered by the civil
chemist and the post-office directory ^^I'oved
of no avail; when no other possible ^'No. 25,
St. Maur" anything could be found in the

VOL. I. 2

district, and no Mrs. Noel Damien anywhere,
his wonderment grevr to blank despair.

A private november fog of Lis own seemed
to close around him, putting out the sunshine
and making earth hideous. He ran over the
circumstances in his mind as he sat turnings
the leaves of the overgrown red volume in
fruitless search, from " Court " to " Streets "
and from " D's " to possible " Xoels " in fruitless
search. " I can't set the police after her.
I can't start on a house-toulouse visitation all
round South Kensington," he growled, in
risings wrath. " I'll do one or the other before
I'll olive in, though." The situation felt so
impossible — so absurd — as he was dimly conscious
in the midst of his exasperation.

If she had seemed for a moment to belong
.to the class to whom a fancy name or address
may now and then be a temporary necessity —
the thought was profanation ! Even if he
could have entertained it for a moment,
was there not her travelling companion and
relative, a Countess — most unmistakably a



Countess — and mother of an Earl, well known
to Edric and everybody else, by reputation at
least.

The Countess of Monchalsea. A disagreeable,
viperous-tongued, thankless old woman,
who had ordered him up to her aid as if he
had been a courier, and would have dismissed
him as coolly when she no longer needed him,
if Mrs. Damien would have permitted it. An
old lady on whose help he felt he could not
count for a minute, but who rose in his recollection
as an angel of light at this juncture.
Back to the directory with feverish haste :
M — Mar — Mon — Monchalsea. Only the Earl's
residence was to be found, and that, as the
postmaster happened to know, was let for the
season to the Siamese Embassy.

Augusta Charlotte, dowager Countess of
Monchalsea, evidently possessed no townhouse
of her own.

There the trail ended for the present.
Edric made some random purchases from the
stock of the obliging official, and stepped

2—2

forth into the street slowly and heavily.
What had happened? What had bewitched
her, thus suddenly, out of his reach ? Some
unforeseen change of plans ? Had she returned
to America ? He knew how little
Americans make of the crossing of the ferry,
and some sudden call or some sudden distaste
for England might have sent her back to her
mother's people. Or she might not have
gone even so far. There were plenty of places
which she might fancy to visit in England —
What did that old woman say about Mon-chelsea
?

Monchalsea ! The word made him start
and stop. Her son's place in Lincolnshire,
she called it. Of course, he saw it all now !
Match-making, manoeuvring old harpy. He
had detested that old woman from the first,
and now he knew why. She was already
assuming the airs of a mother-in-law, he
seemed to remember, and Mrs. Damien
laughed and tolerated her. He had actually
let her be carried off before his eyes ; why

hadn't lie stuck to the party, followed her,
besieged her, insisted on telling her all that
he — that everybody knew about Lord Mon-chelsea
? Or no, he didn't fancy himself
doing that \ nor could he exactly, on so short
an acquaintance, call attention to the superior
quality of the devotion he was prepared to
offer.

But there ! never mind what he ought to
have done ; the fact remained that he had
done nothing, and he stopped with a short
angry laugh, and then strode on faster than
ever, as if to out-walk his vexation.

His luck ! his detestable luck ! If he could
but have cursed himself for any neglect of a
chance or want of energy in seizing it, it
would have been a relief, but that was denied
him. It had been fate ; blind impassive fate ;
hopeless to assail or circumvent, that had
stood between him and his chance of happiness,
and he ground his teeth at the sense of
his impotence.

He brought himself to a stop at last ; he

had got somehow to Kensington Gardens in
his aimless course ; holiday-makers were there
as everywhere, and many turned to look
curiously after the tall young gentleman,
striding along so furiously and scowling so
blackly, and he brought himself to with a
laugh, as he recognised his own melodramatic
aspect. Mrs. Damien's card was still in his
hand, and with a burst of somewhat childish
petulance he tore it across and flung it away,
and then wished he could, with any dignity,
turn and stop to collect the scattered pieces.
As it was, he made for the long, shady, horse-chestnut
avenue, and walked slowly on, seeking
for a vacant seat where he could rest, and
consider quietly whether there was anything
left for him to do but to go back to Camp by
the next train.

HOW EDPtIC S FORTUNE WAS TOLD IN
KENSINGTON GARDENS.

cedric found himself, on reflection,
in the position described in the
lano:uao'e of the mills as "at a
loose end."

He had no friends in town just then : the
remnant of the afternoon left him was too
scanty to expend in going farther afield.
The observances of the day were against his
seeking; even the last two resources of the unoccupied
— getting his hair cut or interviewing
this tailor. He remembered Sir John Archdale's
invitation. Affectionate traditions of the good
old colonel's deeds and oddities still lingered

in the Royal Denbigh, and, even in Edric's
mood of direst chagrin, he felt that life had
room for one vexation the more when he
found that card and address had gone fi^om
him for ever.

He searched card-case and pockets in vain ;
unconscious that while he was doing so a dark
figure slowly passed between him and the
sunshine, and paused. It had been but a
faint wavering shaft of light that had flickered
down on him from between the green boughs
above, but the loss of it seemed to send a
strange thrill through him, and he shivered
involuntarily in the shadow. " Someone
walking over my grave," he thought, jesting
with himself, '* or kissing my sweetheart,"
and the north-country version sent a second
shiver through him.

Then replacing in his pocket-book the cards
and letters he had been fruitlessly turning
over, he for the first time raised his eyes, as
the edge of a red-lined cloak swept across the
field of his down-bent vision. Standing face

to slice with him was the woman he had started
from an hour before at Charing Cross.

He was a kindly, courteous young fellow in
the main, but just then he regarded this bird
of ill-omen with sentiments much akin to those
of Nebuchadnezzar when he ordered his Chaldeans
to be cut in pieces as a last satisfaction.

She kept her pleading gaze fixed on him,
despite his stare of wrathful astonishment,
and approached him humbly, extending her
hands with a deprecating gesture.

I ask your pardon, sir," she began, with
a gentle, insinuating intonation that gave to
the last curt monosyllable the deferential grace
that an Oriental can throw into " Sahib " oran
Italian into " Excellent." " I am truly
ashamed that I came to annoy you. I was
then so miserable that I did not think what I
was doing. Will you not pardon me?"

Edric uttered a gruff " Oh, it's all right.
It didn't matter;" looking away from her ashe
spoke.

She dropped her hands submissively and

stood silent ; so still and silent that lie could
not refrain from looking again.

Thank 3'ou!" she said, softly, boring her
head and turning to go.

Edric felt himself to be a brute. " I hope
you got on all right with your errand," he
constrained himself to say, not too graciously.

She turned back with a look of surprise at
his condescension. " How good of you to
ask ! Yes, I did mv work in time. But I
am very, very weary," and she sank on the
far end of the bench.

Edric replaced this card case, and rose with
a cool nod and " Good-day," but as lie did so
she sprang up too, looking abashed.

"Ah! What was I doing? I should have
known you would not like it. I am going
away — quite away, instantly."

Xo, no ! Don't bother," Edric answered
her, impatiently. " Why should you go, or
I object? I'm going away myself, don't you
see? Going home as fast as I can'*

'' Yes, going back as you came. The pity of

it!" Edric heard her murmur, in a clear, low
tone, intended for him if addressed to herself,
with, he indignantly imagined, a sting of
mockery in it.

He looked at her sharply. Her hands had
dropped on her lap, her eyelids were still
humbly lowered, but the corners of her lips
were quivering with some unspoken gibe. At
another moment he might have seen that it
was his best and most dignified course to pass
on unheeding, but he was exasperated out of
all reasonableness past then — consumed with
a wild impatience to " take it out of" somebody.


'what have you to do with my affairs?"
he demanded, roughly. *' I suppose you have
been following; me?"

She remained exasperatingly silent, her
head drooping lower ; but her eyes and lips
flashed one derisive smile at him and were
instantly composed into submissive gravity.

'' What do you mean by it? What do you
expect to get by it ?" he asked, though conscious

that lie was making a false move in
doing so.

"Nothing," she replied, while again that
curious, secret smile played over her lips ;
if you intend to go away at once without
listening to me."

Why should I listen to you ?" was the
not unnatural question.

Because it's worth your while," she answered
him, promptly. " Because I can serve
you as no one else in the world can. Because
— " and she drew in her lips and gave
an odd, meaning, backward shake of her
forefinger before her face as she spoke — " it
is decreed that you shall hear me. Your star
is my star. Your fortune is my fortune.
They are linked together, try to part them
as you may. What ! you are angry and
unbelieving ? You will go your own way
and take nothing at my hands — neither good
nor evil ? Go, then. Defy, if you will, the
power that has brought us face to face here
and bide the end."

Her dark glance was levelled fall at Edric's
perturbed face now. Her extended forefinger
pointed to his breast as if it were a magnet ;
her voice was low, solemn and passionless.

Mad," thought Edric, a little nervously,
impressed in spite of himself. "It's a swindle
of some sort," was his next conclusion. " Perhaps
she's a fortune-teller or a spirit-medium,"
was his final reflection, combining the two
foregoing ones. " Thank you, I think I will
take my chance," he said, with somewhat
forced lightness. " If it's all settled beforehand,
I don't see what good I can do you,
or you me."

Go !" repeated the woman in the same
deep, calm voice, that sounded, nevertheless,
charged with warning or menace. " Go ;
pass on with a jest. Pass on to a life of bitter
fruitless grieving for the fortunate moment
that has passed you by for ever. Farewell !"

Her hand dropped suddenly, she shrouded
herself in her mantle, and bent her dark eyes
gloomily on the ground.

He lingered irresolute. " You profess to
know a good deal about me. Are you a
professional prophetess?"

^' I don't advertise and offer to tell your
character and the colour of your future wife's
hair and eyes in return for two shillings'
worth of stamps, initials sixpence extra, if
that is what you understand by a professional,"
she answered, with a sudden change
of tone to good-humoured contempt. " I have
done a little business in my time with the
magic crystal and the divining rod, but that
was in my good days in Paris, at fifty francs
the consultation. It was only by way of
experiment ; and when I found the truth
wasn't considered sufficient value for the
money, I gave up — being honest," and she
laughed frankly at Edric's puzzled face.

Fifty francs ! that sounds a good deal.
Do you really think you could tell me, for
instance, anything that it would be worth two
sovereigns for me to know?"

You know that best yourself," she answered,

relapsing into her first tone of grave
earnestness. "I have offered you my help freely
without bargain, and it must be accepted as
freely. I have never tried to read your past,
nor your future fate, except as it is written on
your brow, and as your life-path is crossed
by mine."

Edric frowned, punched holes in the gravel
With his stick, looked up, looked down, and
gave his moustache a savage screw ; all of
which the woman noted from her corner into
which she had withdrawn again, like a knowing
old spider, who sees the fly is saving her
the trouble of entangling it in the web, and
can afford to wait and watch the event with
grim neutrality.

I don't understand what you want me todo,"
he said at last, weakly parleying. " Just
to listen to you, you said. Well, I have been
listening to you. Have you anything more
to say to me ? or what else do you want ?"

*' Belief" And again the dark eyes flashed
up into his. " Oh, I know it is a great thing

I am asking, and you are a cautious people.
You do right to question and mistrust. How
can I, a poor stranger crossing your path afc
what you call hazard, hope to prove to you all
you have to gain from me, and all I have to
gain from you, too ?"

Ah, that's the point," said Edric, unaccountably
relieved by the lower level on which
the last few swords placed the case.

It is not in human nature to distrust the
frank avowal of a low motive. Benevolence,
Self-sacrifice, Sense of Duty must all produce
their credentials before they can be accepted as
possible sources of action : but Self-interest,
Hatred, Greed have only to give their names
boldly to be welcomed without further question.
So lie was the person to be ultimately
benefited ! Edric laughed to himself, reassured
and good-humouredly contemptuous, and resumed
his seat, feeling that now he had something
tangible to go upon.

That's the point. You offer me your
help, and expect mine in return. Xow that's

a rather vague arrangement. You must first
convince me that your help is worth something
to me, and then make it plain what you want
as its price."

She looked even colder and more impassive
as she listened, though a gleam of satisfaction
shone in her veiled eyes, and a suppressed sigh
of relief, as if some dangerous crisis was safely
passed, struggled through her closed lips.

"You shall yourself fi the worth of my
knowledge, when you have made your profit
of it. I drive no bargain. Believe in me ;
that is all I ask. Give me your hand," she
commanded abruptly, and he extended it obediently.
" Look at the lines here. See how
the main lines run, and how the lesser ones
meet and cross and interlace. Now look at
mine. The same pattern, is it not ? Just sofar
as the line of life. No, you need not look
there," for Edric had outspread his right palm,
and was endeavouring to compare it with the
other. " That is changed and refashioned
every day by your work, by your will, of

VOL. I. 3

which it is but the agent. The left hand
alone carries your life's secrets. It is a good
hand," she mused, " and a fortunate. I read
happy chances, honours and rewards, and
prosperous love ; but there are dangers "

I've heard all that before from a gipsy,"
interrupted Edric, who was fast regaining his
usual composure. " I'd forgotten it, though.
I'm to live till eighty, and die a general."

And she told you to watch for the coming
of a dark woman, and that your luck was to
come with the number Twenty-nine — if she
Alas worth her money," concluded the strange
woman, calmly.

By Jove ! She did. jSTo ; you're out in
one thing," triumphantly. " She never said
Twenty-nine at all. I remember that distinctly.
She said Five."

'^ Because she only knew the month, and
not the day. She was right so far, you
see.

Edric sat in disconcerted silence. There
was no disputing the calendar. It was the

very day once commanded by Act of Parliament
to be kept " body for ever," in commemoration
of " the unspeakable mercies " vouchsafed
to this kingdom by the restoration of his
then " most Gracious Majesty," as Edric's
mother's old prayer-book put it. The 29th of
May, beyond all question.

'rit is but a poor and uncertain message
that Fate marks for our reading here," she
went on, dropping her hands in her lap.
^' The best that men had before my ancestors
taught them the reading of the great signs
above. You cannot ask me to make that
secret plain to you in a few minutes, nor yet
in a day, a year, a lifetime, unless you are born
with the gift. You must trust me when I tell
you that for to-day your star is as my star ;
3^00 r way as my way ; your thoughts as my
thoughts. We may in our wilfulness and
ignorance cross the great leading of the stars,
but then follow gloom, disaster, annihilation.
A shattered life, or a sudden death."

If she were speaking in all sincerity, why so

3—2

much the worse. He wasn't ofoino; to be convinced
just yet, though.

"That's strong," he observed. " * My
thoughts as your thoughts ?' Suppose you
begin by proving that."

"Why, it is the commonest of gipsy tricks,"
she said, scornfully; "but if it is needful for
your satisfaction you shall see it. You must
cross mv hand with silver, though. The
smallest coin will do. Close your fingers ou
it. The left hand. So. Now I close mine
on it, and speak your thoughts aloud."

He felt the fingers that closed on his thrill
and quiver in sympathy with his quivering
pulses. His thoughts seemed to come with
a maddening, confused rush, while her eyes
seemed to grow blanker as they rested on his
face. Her lips parted suddenly, and her white
teeth showed once in a flash of mirth for a
second before she spoke again, quite gravely
and respectfully.

What shall you think of to drive her from
your mind ? Her whom it would be profanation

to have named by me. And yet — and yet
if my promises were worth anything ; if
Faith, which we are told can work miracles,
can remove mountains, and recall the last
year's snow, could but for one brief minute
bring back to you one of life's sweetest bygone
Roses "

He sprang from his seat in hot indignation,
not unmixed with alarm. Had the witch
really been reading his thoughts, or making
him think her own ? In either case he had
carried the joke far enough. He dropped the
half-crown he held as if it were red-hot, and
looked at her wrathfully, seeking for words in
which to bid her begone from his presence forever.


She rose too, and regarded him with a
gentle, uncomprehending look. ^' Was I
right ? What did I say ? I lose my hold
of your mind when we part so. What is
this for? And she touched the money nth
her foot. " You do wrong to throw it away.
There are many Who would thank you for it."

Give it to them, then, and-and

go !" was what he would have said,
but she had stooped obediently and picked up
the coin and was rapidly crossing the path to
a little group of holiday-makers who were
passing slowly. A man and his wife, indecent
Sunday clothing, looking pleased and
important, discoursing volubly both at once
to a young: over-frown £n.v\ who trudged
wearily along, dragging by the hand a smaller
child, fat, stumbling, and with a face of
invincible misery.

Come along, dearie !" the woman was
saying. ^' Ah, Avait till she sees the Albert
'All !"

The fortune-teller stopped her. " Those
children are tired out."

Yes, miss," the woman answered civilly.
It's a pity, but you see they must go back to
the country to-night, and London takes a deal
of seeing, it do. Her uncle, here, have carried
the little one most of the day. Averse got the
'Houses of Parliament and the Waxwork yet."

The fortune-teller stooped smiling to the
child. '^ Tell auntie to take an omnibus
everywhere," she said, pressing Edric s half-crown
into the little hot fingers. '' Please
let me give it her," and she turned away
before they had thanked her.

The outpouring of Edric's first savage
wrath had been checked, as she doubtless
calculated, by this little scene. He bit his
lip, thankful that his first ill-considered words
remained unspoken, but more and more perplexed
in mind how to bring the interview
to a becoming end. It seemed simple enough
just to say '' Good-afternoon" and turn on his
heel, but this he felt had become an impossibility.
He and this woman, whoever she
might be, seemed to have got outside the safe
shelter of conventional intercourse. He must
either satisfy her claims or prove her an impostor,
as he had some lingering hope still todo.
Before he had time to fairly collect his
thoughts she was back in a few swift steps,
facing him boldly.

'' You have had your proof. Do you want
more that your way lies With mine? Are you
still afraid? What do you think I can do to
you? You are young and strong, and able to
defend yourself if need be. You can leave meat
any moment you choose. I ask no promise
in return. I drive no bargain. I trust
to your honour to reward or not as you shall
see fit. I only say Come!"

Her head was thrown back, her narrowed
eyes were glittering, and her whole figure
seemed to quiver with intensity of purpose as
she waited his reply.

It came at last, dragged from his lips
reluctantly as it were :

Whether I believe in you or not, I will
come."

WHAT Eric FOUND IN THE CITY.

Eric followed his strange companion
in silence across the gardens as far
as the Knightsbridge Road.
We are late !" she exclaimed suddenly.
We have lost time; we must drive."

He assented, and stopped a passing hansom.
Where to?" he asked, handing her in.
She thought for a moment.
First to St. Paul's. As fast as he can go."
*' Why to St. Paul's ?" was his natural
enquiry when they had started, but he got no
answer.

He tried in vain to frame some light
desultory remarks that should break the odd

embarrassment of the position. She sat in
silence, leaving him to his own reflections,
which every instant became graver. Under
his companion's impassiveness he fancied he
discovered a strange agitation. Her dusky
cheeks and lips had changed colour. Her
black eyes where never at rest for a second.
They sought and studied his face furtively,
glanced anxiously at the sun, still high above
the house-tops, then at the streets they
were passing through. Once her lips moved
slightly, and but for the incongruity of the
supposition he could have fancied she was
silently praying.

The infection of her disquiet seized him at
last, and his misgivings grew stronger and
darker; especially when, as they approached
St. Paul's, she suddenly leaned out of the cab
and gave some direction that he could not
catch to the driver. He asked himself over
and over again what had possessed him to pay
any attention to her for a minute, and laughed
uneasily as he recognised the ugly resemblance

of the whole proceeding to a " confidence
trick" played on some country
bumpkin, resulting in a paragraph in the
police reports tomorrow, with some cutting-remarks
from the sitting magistrate on the
extreme folly and credulity of the prosecutor.

Still, he had a not unwarranted confidence
in his ability to take care of himself, and that
and very shame kept him from stopping the
cab and leaving it there and then.

He was in a region entirely strange to him.
The streets he did know had looked curiously
unfamiliar without the usual stream of traffic,
and with closed shutters or iron bars before
the shop-fronts ; but now he had lost his
bearings entirely. They were traversing a
labyrinth of huge buildings shut up and deserted,
with the same Sabbath stillness pervading
them all.

They stopped at last, and his conductress
dismissed the cab, with a suspiciously liberal
payment, Edric fancied ; and then led the
way up a crooked little alley, that ran between

two towering blocks of offices. It ended in a
steep flight of stone steps, leading up to a
frowning grey archway, with iron gates and
sculptured decorations of skulls and crossbones.
Within was a sunny, empty, grey
expanse of flat stones ; a tall church ; a row
of poplars all a- twitter in a little passing-breeze
; a tool shed under a plane-tree in one
corner, and a tabby-cat asleep on its roof.

Edric looked at the gravestones, and speculated
on the possibility of some ghastly joke
being intended ; but his guide passed on over
them, across to the church, and so out by
another gate. Squeezed in between this gate
and the backs of some more tall warehouses,
was a house ; a high, blank-faced, Georgian
mansion, with trim muslin blinds in its
windows, and boxes of flowers, and a vision
of shiny oil-cloth through its open door. At
the foot of its spotlessly white steps Edric's
conductress signed to him to wait, and, after
a moment's consideration, entered the house.

He looked curiously about him, wondering

much at the oddness of the place. Its shadowy
coolness and remoteness ; its emptiness —
himself, the cat, and the sparrows having it
all to themselves, as far as he could see ; its
stillness, in which he could hear the plane-tree
leaves rustle, and the cawing of a flight
of rooks that suddenly speckled the patch
of sky aloft. A distant murmur of voices
now and then reached his ear. It seemed to
come from the open windows of a building
adjoining the vicarage, but within the churchyard
enclosure — a new red-brick building,
one storied and quaintly roofed, trying its
hardest to look two hundred years old, despite
its blushing newness, with latticed windows,
and low-browed doorway into the churchyard.
Under the eaves ran a text. " Except the
Lord build the house " — Edric read before his
guide rejoined him.

Taking his hand, which in his wonder he
did not resent, she led him down the oil-clothed
passage, past an open door, through
which he caught a glimpse of a table covered

with disorderly tea cups, and a red-headed
young gentleman in a cassock, standing with
this back to the empty fireplace, and yawning
profoundly Then down another passage,
dark, and at right angles to the first, which
ended in a door ajar. She softly drcAV it a
little wider open, and, putting her finger on
her lips, motioned to him to look in.

A very pretty picture was there to behold.

The room was large and bare, and full of
light from three latticed windows. At the
end opposite him was a platform, on which
easels and black boards had been hustled into
a corner, and replaced by tangled heaps of
greenery. Trails of ivy, branches of lilac and
hawthorn, bunches of fainting blue hyacinths,
and rosy spikes of foxglove were surrounded
by a little clustering congregation of girls.
Girls in the window-seat, girls on chairs, girls
on the floor leaning against them, girls standing
holding hampers full of flowers ; some
smart, some woefully shabby, all looking
happily tired as with a day's pleasuring. All

were silently listening to a clear and sweet
voice, that made Edric's heart stop, and then
sent the blood rushing through his veins with
a throb of incredulous ecstasy.

His eager eyes, taking all this detail in in
one flash, caught and were held by the central
figure of the fair group, the one to whom all
eyes were turned. A golden-haired woman,
made radiant by the sunlight on her white
draperies, seated on the platform edge above
them all, holding out in her white hands a
cluster of crimson roses.

His Eose! His Queen! His Queen of all
Roses !

So sudden, so overwhelming was the surprise
that he stepped back and passed his
hand across his eyes, as if to make sure he
was awake, and turned questioningly on his
conductress. She was gazing at him with
plank, unreadable eyes, and a patient attitude
of waiting his pleasure.

What made you bring me here ?" he demanded.


She smiled a little deprecating smile,
shrugged her shoulders slightly, turning the
palms of her hands out with a little foreign
gesture of apology. Not a trace of mockery
in her smile, none of the importance of the
peeress in her air ; she stood, the submissive
agent of his will.

I could but follow where your wishes led
me," she said softly. " How should know?"

Edric felt impatiently that he was caught
somehow. But once more Mrs. Damien's
voice — her voice, not her words — fell on his
ear ; and eager to look, if not to listen, he
turned away.

Well he might. The sun of that May day
had shone on fno fairer thing than Queen Rose
in all her beauty, with her shabby little court
around her. Pre-eminently fair, even in these
days of fair women, with a resplendent loveliness,
above all question or criticism. A
beauty of noble outline and rich delicate
colouring, appealing alike to the dullest sense
or the most refined and cultured judgment.

He could have wondered and admired, Edric
thought, had this been but the empty shell,
the hollow mask that some fair faces seemed
to be ; but with bright intelligence, radiant in
those glorious eyes, and a noble, generous
heart, out-speaking from those perfect lips,
he could have knelt and worshipped in sheer
thankfulness for this good gift of Heaven to
men.

His eager gaze followed her as she seemed
to be explaining her roses to the girls around.
One lay on a sort of extemporised couch, at
her feet. A pretty girl, though thin and
wasted, with hectic cheeks, and a poor little
claw of a hand. She kept her hollow, over-bright
eyes fixed on Mrs. Damien, and held
up a spray of briars questioningly.

Mrs. Damien's white fingers gently bent the
red petals of her roses back, and touched
corolla and calyx as she spoke, but the girl's
thoughts went beyond the flowers. She gazed
on the lovely face above them with a yearning,
passionate admiration full of love and pain,

VOL, I. 4

that made Eclric's heart ache with uncomprehending
sympathy. No one else noticed her.

When Mrs. Damien stopped speaking, all
went on making up their posies and packing
them carefully in two large hampers, with an
accompaniment of gay, low-voiced chatter.
It was like a scene in some fairy-tale, Edric
thought, this lovely, golden-haired lady, sitting
amongst her roses, smiling down with her
shining eyes on the pretty group at her feet.

Girls and flowers, both common enough in
their way. Flowers from the woods and
hedgerows ; work-a-day girls from the back
streets, beautiful with youth and happiness
only. He saw them all through the glamour
of her presence, and stood motionless as dreading
to break the enchantment.

Suddenly from amongst the flowers, a black,
clerical figure uprose from the floor, where
it had been kneeling unobserved, unpacking
something, and amidst a murmur of amusement
and approval, produced a large leaf,
heaped with strawberries.

He was a handsome man of about thirty,
with dark bright eyes, and a mobile mouth,
close-shaven ; a very pleasant face to look
at when he spoke smilingly as he was doing-then,
handing his fruit about and then selecting
one large berry. " This will help you
to understand what Mrs. Damien has been
saying," he began.

'' Who is he?" Edric asked sharply, the
spell broken ; bat no one answered. He
looked round to find himself alone in the
dusky passage. His guide had noiselessly
disappeared, and half relieved, half uncertain,
and wholly embarrassed, Edric blundered back
as he came to the hall and open door in search
of her.

No sign of the woman anywhere. The
tabby cat was stretching lazily looking after
something, but it might have been a sparrow.
Edric descended the steps and looked about
and around the church, and across the churchyard
to the old Resurrection Gate, by which
he had entered, but without greatly caring to

4—2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF XXLimM

catch any further glimpse of his mysterious
(Guide. He was much more concerned to find
a decent pretext for returning to his post of
espial, but at the head of the vicarage steps
was confronted by the same young clergyman
he had beheld yawning alone with the tea cups.

"Are you looking for anyone? Can I help
you?" he asked, in a pleasant Irish voice.

Thanks. I am — a — a friend of Mrs.
Damien's, and rather want to see her."

Come in, then, and wait. She'll be here
presently."

Edric followed him into a small room,
sparely furnished with pine chairs and tables
of the severest ecclesiastical pattern; a tiled
hearth, bare boards and cocoa matting. There
was a writing-table in a corner recess with a
large cross suspended on the wall above it, and
a long list of notices all headed " Parish of St.
Fridolin," pinned over the fireplace. That
was absolutely all, except the tea-things.

Vm afraid I can't offer you a cup," the
curate said, glancing at the debris. " We

drained the pot half-an-hour ago. The girls
came in hungry as tanners after their day in
the woods, in spite of their picnic dinner.
They've had a grand time entirely ! Boating
and driving and gathering flowers."

Have you been with them?" Edric asked
rather jealously.

"I? Not I? Mrs. Damien doesn't want
me, or any masculine assistance."

'but there is a gentleman there."

'' Oh, the Vicar, you mean ? Yes, and I
must get him out before long. Pie invited them
all here to tea before Evensong. These are
the odds and ends of Mrs. Damien's acquaintances
in the parish. Friendless girls who had
nowhere in particular to go for a holiday."
Then, with bated breath : '' She's going to
take some others to the theatre to-night ! It's
horribly demoralising — but what will you?
She is queen here, and we can but obey."

He shrugged his shoulders gently, and led
the way back to Edric's former post of espial,
where, with a quizzical expression on his ugly,

clever little face, he awaited the conclusion of
the Vicar's remarks, to not one word of which
did Edric give ear. Which was a pity, as he
might have learned a good deal about the
genesis of a strawberry, and the development
of hips and haws.

He followed the Curate up the room awkwardly
enough. Would she remember him?
Would she frown at his intrusion? How
could he explain his being there at all ? One
moment more and all his misgivings were
SAvept away like evil mists by the glory of her
gracious smile. She held out her slender
white hand. He would have knelt and kissed
it had he had his will ; but shackled by
nineteenth-century conventionality, he only
blundered out an incoherent greeting, and
stopped short in the middle of a tangled
sentence.

"lam very glad to see you here," she said
in her sweet, stately fashion, with her clear,
un-En2^1ish voice. It was as far removed from
what we call Yankee — as far as the South from

the North. "Do you kno\Y Mr. Stannard? —
Mr. Poynter — Mr. Stannard."

The dark, handsome Yicar bowed gravely,
and spoke a few courteous words, regarding
him, Edric felt sure, with some disfavour. The
Curate nodded friendlily.

"Yell be staying for Evensong? Do, and
I'll make it worth your while. I mean, apart
from the benefit of the service, of course. It's
not every day you'll see a church like St.
Fridolin's."

Then the two clergymen bade adieu.

We are going to send some of our spoils
to the hospitals," Mrs. Damien explained. " I
think the hampers must be full by this time.
Elsie, what is it? You have rested too long
on those uncomfortable chairs. Come to the
window."

The pale, pretty invalid had risen to her
feet, and was standing unsteadily, clutching
the back of a chair. Mrs. Damien held out
her arm, and the girl caught at it, wavered,
and would have slipped to the floor if Edric

had not caught her in time. She rested a
mere feather-weight on his arm; her brown,
curly head dropped backwards on his shoulder,
the delicate little face grew a ghastly white.
The girls crowded round in a small ferment of
sympathy and suggestion, but Mrs. Damien
kept them off.

Aunt Mamie. Where is Aunt Mamie?"

As if the name had been a conjuration, there
rose from a corner what Edric had taken to bea
bundle of wraps flung out of the way, but
which suddenly upreared itself in the form of
a mighty, broad-shouldered woman, a Negress,
who came promptly forward with a gleaming
smile.

Coming', Miss Rosie."

She scattered the girls to right and left as
she advanced, towering in the might of her
superb physique, a head and shoulders above
the puny white-skinned children of Japhet
around her. She wore a dark gown, with a
crimson kerchief, a sort of gipsy bonnet
trimmed with white muslin, and great swinging

hoops of gold in her ears. She was a full-blooded
African, only one generation from
Nubia, and of the finer type of negro physiognomy,
with a face that looked as if it might
have been full of mournful majesty before it
learned to be comic. Now it was all grinning
good-humour.

What you been coin', honey?" she addressed
the girl, whose great dark eyelashes
quivered slowly open till her upturned brown
eyes met Edric's in a vacant gaze. ^' Now, ef
de gentleman '11 allow me, repose you come
'long wi' me." And, stooping over her, she
lifted her in her muscular arms like a baby,
and carried her ois to the deep window seat,
Mrs. Damien and Edric following with chairs
and cushions.

Edric kept discreetly in the background
during their further ministrations. A long
trail of briar roses lay at his feet. He remembered
that the girl had been holding it during
the Yicar's lecture, and picked it up. It
pricked his fingers sharply once or twice as he

Stood playing with it absently, waiting for the
chance of another word from Mrs. Damien.
The cluster of girls round the window dispersed
presently, and he could see Elsie,
revived by the fresher air, smiling a dim little
smile of thanks up at Aunt Mamie, who stood
arms akimbo beaming down benignantly on
her.

'you do now very well ; out of de way up
dere, honey. Now, gals, repose we clear 'way
dis yere truck and wash up de teasing. You,
Lofty, go fin Mis' Goodliffe, and present de
compliments of de company, and get de loan
of a broom. An', Mis' Kosie," in a confidential
aside, " repose you jus' take lilly walk and talk
to de gentleman outside der, out o' my road,
eh?"

Mrs. Damien laughed, and prepared to
carry out the suggestion quite as a matter of
course.

I'll come back in time for you, Elsie.
Can you rest quite easily now?"

Here are your flowers," said Edric,

awkwardly enough, moved to address the gu
by some odd, shy look, half appeal, half-question
in her eyes ; " they are too pretty to
lose''

Miss Elsie Paramount — Mr. Poynter,"
said Mrs. Damien, after a moment's hesitation,
performing the introduction with somewhat
marked formality.

Edric bowed, and Miss Elsie Paramount
flushed up to the roots of her pretty curly hair
as she took the roses.

They are only poor, common things," she
said in her tremulous, musical voice. " It
was a pity to gather them. They were lovely
in their own hedgerow but now "

The roses fell as she spoke, covering her
white gown with a pink shower of petals.
She held up the bare branch pitifully for a
moment, and then turned her head sharply
away.

TEN GOLDEN MINUTES.

ES. DAMIEN" passed en and out
through the low-browed doorway
into the still grey churchyard,
where the sinking sun was casting; honos
shadows of the poplars athwart the graves.
Edric followed, the sense of enchantment still
strong upon him.

They sauntered slowly across to the rustling
plane-tree, under which was a huge raised
slab, sacred to the memory of some long-forgotten
parishioner, looking like a dining-table
for ghouls. Mrs. Damien seated herself
in the shade and lifted her clear grey eyes
on Edric with a look of amused enquiry, that

suddenly stirred his guilty soul with the dread
of the explanation he was bound to offer of his
appearance there.

So you know the way to St. Fridolin's,"
she began with a smile. ^' How did you find
us out?"

I came with a — a — friend," Edric was
beginning, horribly puzzled, but got no
farther, for over their heads in its grimy grey
tower St. Fridolin's bell suddenly burst into
deafening clamour.

Mrs. Damien tried to speak, laughed, put
her hands to her ears, and pointed to the open
church door.

Tell them to stop at once," she commanded.

Stop the church bell T he asked wonderingly,
but only received an imperative little
nod in reply.

Xot sorry for the interruption, he sped on
his mission, rather doubtful of the result, and
found inside the great gaunt whitewashed
porch a little dusty old man in a niche with
his foot in a stirrup, hard at work.

Have you any objection to stopping for a
few minutes — to oblige a lady — Mrs. Damien?"
Edric was in some doubt how to make his
request.

Sure — ly, if Madam wishes it," was the
unexpected response ; and, wiping his forehead,
he perched himself on a tall three-legged
stool in the corner.

'' It's very ridiculous having a bell at all,"
Mrs. Damien said calmly, when Edric returned.
" It cannot possibly reach the ears
of any of the congregation, ourselves excepted,
and I want to hear you talk. Tell me how
you happen to be here."

Won t you tell me first how I happen to
find you here, after searching South Kensington
for you in vain?" was the evasive rejoinder.
" You gave me your card, you
remember."

"Oh, I am so sorry!" she said, smiling
up at him. " If I had only known where to
write to you, I would have sent you my new
address. Or I think I should — I am not certain.

I couldn't be sure whether you ever
really intended to come and see me. Let me
tell you how it happened," she continued,
setting aside negligently his outburst of vehement
protest. "The simplest thing in the
world. M}^ whimsical friend. Miss Cadogan,
whom I met abroad, begged me to take her
town house off her hands when I came to
settle in London. I was delighted to do so.
I had tried joint housekeeping with my cousin,
Lady Monchalsea, and found it not a success."
Edric nodded and laughed in comprehension.
'• I established myself in St. Maur Road in
March, and received notice to quit in Mayas
Miss Cadogan had suddenly resolved oncoming
up to town for the season. So I
had to seek shelter elsewhere, close by, nota
hundred yards away. How easy it is to be
lost in London! Why, we might never have
met again but for the chance that brought us
together here 1"

He shuddered slightly and hurried away
from the subject.

You haven't told me what brought you
here yet, Mrs. Damien, nor what St. Fridolin
is to you, or you to St. Fridolin, that you
come to have more authority over the church
bell than the Vicar ; nor who are all these
devoted followers of yours."

Friends of mine, that is all. Better
friends to me than if I had ever done any
real good to one of them. I came here in
search of amusement, occupation, just to see
if I could not make my life of some worth in
my generation. I thought that Mr. Stannard
needed help, even the little I could give."
Her voice dropped tremulously with a suggestion
of disappointment. " You know Mr.
Stannard, of course — the Mr. Stannard of St.
Ermyntrude's ?"

Never heard of him," answered Edric,
in an unenthusiastic, not to say disparaging,
tone.

She flashed a look of pitying astonishment
on him.

'' You can't be much in the way of church-going,

then," was her comment. "Why, when
I came over here, he was the most celebrated
man in town — in the Chmxh, I mean," qualifying
that somewhat sweeping assertion. "And
he gave up everything — popularity, friends,
the chance of advancement — all to come here.
To the horridest, stupidest, everyday sort of
drudgery ; wasting his talents on the odds
and ends of a congregation which he can
manage to collect."

I suppose he had his reasons," Edric
observed sulkily, as she stopped short. Was
this his fortunate chance? he demanded angrily,
as he prodded viciously in the earth between
two flagstones at his feet. To come here just
to listen to the catalogue of Mr. Stannard's
merits — and worse! For he had noticed the
sudden delicate flush that rose to his companion's
cheek, the dilation of her lovely eyes
that seemed to deepen and soften as the sentence
died unfinished on her lips ; and turning
quickly round, following the direction of her
look, fancied he caught sight of a dark figure

VOL. I. 5

disappearing round the church in the direction
of the vestry door. He impatiently rammed
a stray straw down the hole, digging it in and
burying it deep as if it were the Yicar, while
he waited her next words.

"So as I said," she went on, with heightened
colour and lips compressed as if with annoyance,
turning her head sharply from the
church as she spoke, " I came here to seek
for work, and somehow I find that the best
thing I can do for my fellow creatures is to
play. Humiliating, is it not? Did you ever
hear of a woman's mission consisting of looking
her pretties:, dressing her finest, and talking
as amusingly as she knows how ? That's
all I'm good for, I find." She spoke in a little
tone of exasperation, that was evidently the
outcome of some past vexation. "You heard
the Vicar's little moral about garden roses and
their place in creation. I believe he was doing

his best to justify my existence " She

stopped, as if afraid to trust her words.

I didn't hear him, and I shouldn't have

listened if I had thought he meant anything
so uncivil. A rose wants no justification — to
any that have eyes to see."

Queen Rose smiled on her champion. " But
you haven't told me how you came here yet."

Well, you see I — I came up to call on the
Archdales, you know," Edric went on rather
desperately. "Sir John is our old colonel,
and he asked me to call, and — it seems too
absurd, but it's true — I'd gone and lost his
address ; and so I "

Another moment and Edric might have
hazarded the wild statement that he had come
to look for Sir John in the City, and so
brought himself into everlasting confusion
and disgrace, when the cherub aloft that keeps
watch o'er the luck of impostors intervened
on his behalf

The Archdales ? Why, they are friends
of mine. Very great friends indeed." She
laid her pretty finger-tips meditatively on her
lip and looked at him considering. " Don't
interrupt me. I'm thinking."

5—2

Edric willingly obeyed, and a solemn silence
ensued.

^' Can yon play the clarinet?" was the startling
query that broke it.

The clarinet ? No. I wish I did. I
believe I know one when I see it, but that's
all."

The piano, violin, any instrument? Xo!
Perhaps you sing ? Recite ? ^No !" half-impatiently
at Edric's dolorous repeated negatives.


"I can't do anything," he dejectedly avowed,
feeling ready to dash his head against the
nearest tombstone with rage at his own incapacity,
and envy of that young donkey,
Doudney, the comic man of the regiment, on
whose topical songs and banjo he had been
wont to look with his^h disdain. Doudnev
would have undertaken to get up anything
she wanted, from the three-card trick to
ground-and-lofty tumbling, at a day's notice.
I don't know that I'm good for anything
except dancing."

'* Then you're the very person I want," was
the prompt and unexpected rejoinder. " I was
just thinking whether it was safe to ask you
to dine with me on Monday next, the both,
to meet the Archdales. Don't laugh. It was
a very serious question. I have a musical
party in the evening, and have as many performers
on my hands as I can manage. One
more would be fatal. Unless by some happy
chance you lead played the clarinet." She
sighed resignedly. "Now you must go and
set old Totter dale ringing again. It must
be nearly service-time. You shall have your
invitation in due form, if you care to come
up from ShornclifFe for so little."

Edric sped churchyards, treading on air.
To see her again ! To be welcomed to her
home ! To have caught as it were this golden
ten minutes by the wings and held it in his
hand, even though he must let it go again.
He found the old bell-ringer perched on his
stool, and set him a^-oino- with such goodwill
that it seemed to threaten to brings' all

the four little pine-apples, that adorned the
heads of the pilasters at the corners of the
tower, rattling down about his ears.

'•' Xow we must come back to Aunt Mamie,"
said Mrs. Damien, who had risen and was
slowly sauntering towards the red-brick building,
which Edric now discovered, from an
inscription over the doorway, was the parish-room,
"Builded" that year by "Eustace
Stannard, Priest of the Parish of St. Fridolin
the Hermit." " You mustn't begin by neglecting
her. She is a very important person
in my household. If she likes you, she'll call
you * Mars' Poynter,' and brew you coffee or
mint julep when you come to see me. If she
doesn't, she'll speak of you as ' he ' or ' de
roger gentleman,' and scold me every time
I behave civilly to you."

(" Every time you come to see me. Every
time I behave civilly to you." The glorious
possibilities set Edric's heart dancing and
almost took away his powers of reply.)

I remember your speaking of her." (AVhat

Avoid of hers had he not remembered ?) " Your
old nm'se."

'' Yes, and my mother's. She came with
her from Charleston when she married my
father. When I die, she'll go back to another
branch of the Endicott of South 
mother she nursed — or says so. I don't
know how old she is, and she doesn't. I
only know-that she can do the work of three
other women put together, if she may do it
her own way, take her own time, and never
be contradicted ; and would die for me as
readily as tie my shoes."

Edric looked as if he did not consider that
last trait at all extraordinary, and they drifted
on into pleasant reminiscences of their first
meeting and their journey together ; while
through the windows could be seen Aunt
Mamie and the girls, working like elves, clear .
ing away all traces of their presence. Elsie
still rested in her window seat. Her eyes
were fixed on a clear blue patch of sky above
the Church Tower ; her lips moved silently

HOW and then ; she seemed rapt in some
ecstatic vision as she lay pressing, all unconsciously,
the bare thorny rose stem to her
breast.

At the sound of Mrs. Damien's voice she
started, her cheeks flushed, and Edric fancied
he saw a sudden look of repulsion cross her
face. She rose directly and came to meet
them as they entered, slowly and painfully,
but with a pretty smile.

"Is it too much for you, dear T' Mrs.
Damien asked.

"What, Church? Oh, never," was the
surprised response. "It is the very crowji
of this day's happiness. My great joy and
rest."

You good little thing !" Mrs. Damien
cried. " Come, let me help you." Elsie
seemed to shrink away from the offered aid,
and turning, clasped her hands round Aunt
Mamie's stalwart arm, and so passing on, left
the two together once more, for which Edric
blessed her in his heart.

•* Do you educate all your followers up to
that frame of mind ?" he enquired, not jestingly
but in curiosity.

'• I don't attempt it," was the short rep'.
Birdie — as she is sometimes called — is a
rare nature, a sweet devotional soul. She is
self-educated, and a born lady. Her father
is our Churchwarden and an aggrieved parishioner."


They had nearly reached the church again.
She stopped short and held her hand out.

I think I will say good-bye to you now.
After service I have not a spare moment. I
forget, though — how did you say you happened
to find your way here ?"

'• Oh, it's a long story," said Edric, with
brazen self-possession. " I couldn't begin it
now."

He took her soft white fingers once more
in his and held them as long as he dared. It
Alas the last drop of his cup of delight, and
must serve his thirsty soul for days.

'' Good-bye, till Monday, the fifth I" was

the only eloquence Love lent to Speech in his
case, and with a last smile she vanished within
the dusky porch.

He had had some vague hope of sitting by
her, of hearing her voice, of watching reproached
her beautiful face in repose, but a
stern verger made short work of his expectations
and disposed of him on the opposite side
of the aisle.

The church was full of broken lights and
shadows. Huge galleries impended aloft, and
a three storied erection in black oak loomed at
the east end. Sto one, however, used either
gallery or pulpit. The service was brisk, the
music excellent. Edric imagined he detected
some novelties in Mr. de Cressy's performance,
but being of an easy-going and uncritical turn,
was no whit disturbed by them.

An intervening row of worshippers screened
Mrs. Damien from his view. Aunt ]\Iamie,
book in hand, joined in the singing right
heartily, and rolled out fervent " Amens " and
responses with a will ; and beside her, at about

the level of her elbow, he could just catch
sight of Elsie's little bent head, turned once in
his direction, and as swiftly away again, when
she caught his eyes.

The service over, he hurried out as quickly
as he decently could, with a hope of intercepting
Mrs. Damien, but by the time he reached
the door through which she had departed, she
had disappeared he knew not where. His
golden moments had flown beyond all hope of
recapture.

He lingered undecidedly beneath the
porch ; not the great west one where the
bell rang, but the south, older and smaller,
with a curious beast, that may or may not
have been St. Fridolin's Bear, seated in a
niche above. There he was joined in a short
time by de Cressy, hurried and apologetic, pursued
by a parishioner, and with no time to
spare for the promised exploration of the
curiosities of St. Fridolin's.

*' You'll be coming again soon, I hope," said
the sociable little Curate. '' It's worth your

Avliile," and his eyes twinkled comically as he
bade adieu.

Edric readily promised, little dreaming hove'
the current of his life was henceforward to set
towards that grim old tower — that valley of
gravestones, amidst the red-brick heights on
whose topmost chimneys alone the sinking sun
now shone.

He turned again into the church, where
the gloom seemed to have deepened tenfold,
and his steps sounded hollow in the echoing
roof above. He was smiling to himself ; de
Cressy's parting words still rang pleasantly
in his ears. Yes, he should come again — and
with her. He stopped, and the smile faded
from his lips, the flow of gay anticipations
arrested, frozen. The two faintly-burning
candles still • glimmered in their sockets on
either side the lectern, and within the dim
circle of their radiance, seated low on the
cushions surrounding the communion-table,
her elbows resting on her knees and her chin
supported on her hands, sat a woman, her

white face upturned to his and her black
unwinking eyes gleaming out of the gloom.

'you here!" he cried, roughly. "Here,"
answered the echo from the darkness above.

The woman only nodded, her eyes still
holding his, and keeping the grim, expressive
silence that he found more unendurable than
any speech.

'' AVell," he went on, with an effort, " I
suppose you have come to ask for the reward
you said you would leave to my honour. I
don't deny you have done me a service — a
great service — and I am quite prepared to
give you anything you like to ask in
reason."

She rose with one swift light movement and
advanced, her hand outstretched.

You have paid me," she spoke, in the low
distinct whisper that her voice sank into at
times. " You are honest and true. I did
well to trust you. I have no more to ask.
You have faith in me ; that is sufficient."

Edric was young, but not altogether so inexperienced

in the dark ^vays of the world as
to suppose that such a declaration was to betaken
in the literal sense of the words, and he
waited for what was to follow uneasily. But
the woman kept silence.

I see, you don't want money," he said at
length. " Very good. If there is any other
way in which I can help }'ou "

"You can. But the offer must be a free
one for me to accept it," she replied, promptly.
** You can do for me as much and no more
than I have done for you."

I don't quite see how I am to manage
that," he interposed, doubtfully.

When the time comes I will show you,
unless you by that time have repented your
promise."

That is not likely to be the case," he spoke
rather indignantly.

'' Will you give me a pledge that I may
show it sou ? Anything. Your glove, the
smallest trifle you have worn or possessed.
Give me that," and she pointed to his watch-chain,

from which there hung a tiger's claw
mounted in gold.

Edric slowly unfastened it.

Is it of value ?" she asked.

Not much. My whither shot the brute, so I
should be sorry to lose it, that's all."

You shall see it again," she replied, smiling
a little grimly.

I dare say. But you must make your
meaning a little clearer before I give it you."

^' You do well to be cautious," she answered,
with a touch of impatient scorn ; '' but I cannot
satisfy you. Not till the day comes shall
I know what need of you it may bring me. I
shall not ask for gold, believe me. Xot for
gold, nor yet for love" — this with a scoff —
'• nor for a word or deed that mis^ht disgrace
an officer and a gentleman. Even then you
may fail me."

Edric silently laid the tiger's claw on his
open palm and extended it towards her. In
silence she laid her small dusky palm on his,
and thus, hand to hand, with the tiger's claw

between, they stood for one portentous
moment.

I take this, then, as your pledge. When
or where you next meet with it, be it far or
near, be the hour what it may, let who will
be the bearer, you will know it for the token
that the hour of my need has come, and hold
yourself bound in honour to redeem it."

He bowled, more impressed than he cared to
admit to himself.

How am I to find you ?"

Follow the messenger, whoever it maybe."


And tell me — how shall I know you? By
what name shall I remember 3'ou?"

The candles had burned low in their glasses,
so low that a passing breeze — or was it a waft
of a dark mantle — extinguished both at once.

You may call me — Euphrosyne."

Euphrosyne," echoed the dark vault above.
And with the word ringing in his ears, Edric
turned about in the dusky twilight to find
himself alone.

WIZARD S GOLD.

XD the next morning, when he
awoke and looked, behold! all
the gold he had gained by his
bargain was turned into dead leaves."

A fragment of a long-forgotten fairy-tale of
his boyish days ; long-forgotten, till Edric
Poynter woke next morning with the words
on his lips.

It was absurd that it should rise to his
recollection, word for word now, yet not more
absurd than all that had befallen him throughout
the long hours of the past night.

All the day's experiences had been lived
through again in a wild, fantastic guise. He

VOL. I. 6

had been standing in the dark church ot St.
Fridolin's — knee-deep in golden coins, of
Ts^hich he was frantically offering handfuls —
for what ? He could not tell, nor would the
dark-veiled figure on the altar steps answer
him when he asked it. " Xot for Gold, nor
Love," said Euphrosyne's voice, and the dark
veil melted, leaving Mrs. Damien smiling at
him. " Xot the price of a single rose amongst
it all," she said, and passed on, her arms full
of crimson flowers. Then Elsie Paramount's
pretty pale face gazed mournfully out of the
gloom, holding the thorny stem to her breast.
Withered and gone ;" and she sighed herself
away, and the air was filled with the
scent of dying roses, or the faint, subtle perfume
that had exhaled from Euphrosyne's-
garments, that the touch of her fingers had
left on his over-night, and the dead leaves
rustled down — down — down.

The level sun-rays of a last May morning
flooded his room as he awoke, steeping him
in their wizard's gold to the chin ; the rustle

of the leaves was the light fall of wood-ash
fi'om his newly-lighted fire, and the shadowy
form grew definite as that of Private Carver,
his soldier servant, announcing the fact that
it was " A quarter to five, sir."

A hasty plunge into uniform, a sharp walk
to the ranges, and the anxieties attendant on
the shooting of a party of two score recruits,
left him no time to pursue the fable to its application.
And dien, on his return after a
second and more deliberate toilette, he entered
the mess-room in search of breakfast and
letters, the sight of a dainty little envelope
in the rack wiped away from his memory even
the uncomfortable thrill with which he had
first missed the tiger's claw from his watch-chain.


A gracious little note repeating Mrs.
Damien's invitation to dinner, the " At
Home " card for the same evening, and a
visiting card with the new address deeply
underscored. Three actual, tangible treasures.
He was not the churl to grudge their price.

G— 2

He was still schoolboy enough to have made
a red mark against " Monday, the 5th," in the
calendar that hung on his wall, and to have
scored off right joyfully this first intervening
day. Only five more, and yet, with the perversity
of human nature, he almost quarrelled
with the brief interval. Had it been longer,
then he might have contrived to interpose a
call, in place of the one of which he had been
defrauded.

He couldn't very well do so now, of course,
but there were the Archdales. Why had he
not thought of them sooner ? They were
very great friends of hers, she had said. He
ought to call there, at any rate, and, by some
blessed chance, he might possibly meet her
there, or, at least, hear of her : either of
which alone, in his present frame of mind, he
counted worth the trouble of the journey
three times told.

It was curious, and not exactly pleasant, to
find himself once more speeding town wards
again by the same train, and on a similar

errand to that of three days ago. Only three
days, and what a changed outlook ! He remembered
half-incredulously his misgivings,
his savage desperation born of constant thwarting,
his hot and cold shy fits.

Then he was painfully groping for the
dropped end of a cobweb thread of chance
acquaintanceship.

Now he held on to a silken cord of friendliness
and mutual interests. His place, though
possibly a humble one, in Mrs. Damien's regard,
was secured. His welcome was certain ;
his absence would be noted.

A marvellous change. A gain so great that
he would be a churl to grudge the price. After
all — what was it ?

"As much and no more than I do for you,"
the woman had said. Moderate, certainly ;
but he wished she had made it a cash payment.
She was welcome to any help he could
^ give her, of course, but he didn't see quite
what form his help could take. Some superstitious
fancy, he supposed. Even so. She

had been obeying the leading of a superstitious
fane in his case, and what had been the
result ? Why should she not be as fortunate
in her own ?

How did she work it ? Chiromancy ?
Edric opened his strong young hand with its
square-tipped fingers, and gazed perplexedly
at the criss-cross lines of the palm. " Line
of Life, Line of the Heart, Line of the Liver.
Mounts of Jupiter, Saturn, Venus." He had
made them all out by the help of a book ; but:
neither date nor address could he get out of
any of them I

Astrology? That was more possible. But,
according to the encyclopaedia, that could only
be worked with a sort of celestial globe turned
inside out ; an almanac, compasses, and quadrants,
and a whole cartload of " plant," which
she certainly did not bear concealed about her
]person on that occasion. " Written on your
forehead." That was a decidedly uncomfortable
thing to consider, and Edric involuntarily
removed his hat, and gave his sun-tanned

brow and close-clipped fair locks a rub or two
as he reflected on it.

I don't seem to see it, and the more I
look at it the less I like it," was his rather
obscure conclusion, as the train stopped at
Charing Cross, and he gave an involuntary
unquiet glance around before he left the carriage.


No fresh adventure awaited him. The
station had returned to its normal aspect, and
he arrived in due course in Lady Archdale's
drawing-room, awaiting the appearance of his
hostess.

It was not a pleasant room to wait in by
any means. Square and precise, doing much
credit to the labours of the housemaid. Every
chair seemed to stand on its own pattern of
the carpet, either half of the chimney-piece
and chiffonier reflected the other half with
unerring exactness. Everything was one of
a set or a pair; and when Edric placed himself
at one end of the centre ottoman he felt
quite afflicted at the unsymmetrical effect, and

wished he had brought another man in a
grey suit to match, with his stick and legs at
corresponding angles, to balance him at the
other end. Even the flowers looked prim in
their tiny pyramid on one table, and neat little
tufts here and there.

He sat for some time with tolerable patience,
amusing himself with mental fancy portraits
of the "Miss Archdale" whom Mrs. Damien
had mentioned. She would look as old as her
mamma, he decided, and be dressed very much
like her. They would occupy those two low
chairs on either side of the window, and make
alternate little speeches to him, like versicle
and response, and he would keep his eyes on
the clock, and depart in exactly fifteen minutes
after their appearance.

Here a door grated on its hinges, and there
entered, with stately step and slow, a magnificent
bloodhound, deep - chested, tawny
with careworn lines in his wise old
face. He walked solemnly up to Edric, and
sniffed him carefully; then, throwing his head

back, would have made some remark, but
checked himself suddenly, and sat down with
a flop. Edric made some friendly advances,
which met with no response. After a minute
or two the dog got up, and looked him over
again exhaustively.

AVhat are you ?" he said as plainly as
dog could speak. *' You smell honest. You
don't belong here. You're not a visitor, for
nobody's entertaining you. Why don't you
go and tune the piano, or take the gas-meter,
or do something to account for your presence
?"

I want to see your mistress, old fellow,"
said Edric, answering him. " Just fetch her,
will you r

The hound gave a sudden wriggle and wag
of his lonof- smooth tail. " Come alone," it
said ; and he stepped briskly back to the door
by which he had entered, scratched it wider
open, shoved aside a portiere, and looked over
his shoulder with an air of invitation as he
did so.

Edric hesitated, then followed, and beheld
a pretty little interior, with a half-blocked-up
north light, an easel filling nearly all the
available space, and the back of a young lady
in a brown holland pinafore, With her right
sleeve rolled up to her elbow, painting in
some minute detail on a large canvas with
absorbed intentness. The dog was evidently
too well-trained to touch her, but he sat down
as close as he dared and gave a meaning
snatch of a whimper.

'good old Cuss! What is it?" she
answered him, putting her left hand back
to caress him.

He took it in his big red jaw as softly as
any retriever and gave it a gentle tug.

Anything wrong ? Is Puss looking at
the love-birds ? Well, why don't you frighten
her ! Oh, I forgot the mistress's headache.
I must come, must I ?" And to Edicts untold
relief she laid aside her brush, and rose.

Miss Archdale ?" hesitated Edric, in surprise.


'' Mr. Poynter ?" asked the young lady,
holding her hand out frankly, as if pretty
sure of the fact.

Hester Archdale was not beautiful. A
little nut-brown maid with straight dark eyebrows
above quick-glancing wide-open eyes,
a sauce nose and a determined chin, a bewitching
little mouth that took fifty different
expressions in as many seconds, and not an
ugly curve amongst them all, with gleaming,
small white teeth and a dimple at the corner.
A straight, slender, alert young creature, who
looked physically incapable of being sad, or
bored, or fretful, whose laugh was as exhilarating
to hear as a blackbird's song when
the cherries hang ripe, and whose face was as
pleasant to look on as a bunch of fresh-plucked
cowslips.

^' Your card was brought to me ten minutes
ago," she went on ; " but I had no idea that
you were alone here. I suppose my father is
out. My mother is not well enough to see
anyone to-day."

Cuss has been doing the honours-hush

! You are not to know that name.
Daddy gave it him because he was born on
Ash Wednesday, and while we were with the
regiment it didn't matter. But now he is in
society mamma won't have it; so to the public
he is Roswal, and only gets his own name fora
treat now and then, when we are quite alone.
Eh, Cuss?"

The seat hound had been standing looking:
from one to the other with a comprehending
gaze in his red eyes, and now considering the
introduction made and the subject disposed
of, stretched out his two huge paws in front,
and yawned a mighty yawn, like the gape of
an heraldic lion, then swallowed a deep bass
bark hastily.

'• Good boy. He knows his mistress is ill.
Do you care to see his portrait ?" Hester
asked, leading the way back to her studio.

If I do not interrupt your work "

Not a bit. I am only spoiling it, going
on with tired eyes."

She threw open the shutters and turned
her canvas to the light. It contained two
ligures. Koswal dashing through a bit of
tangled thicket in the act of springing on
a small boy in doublet and hose, who, his
tiny toy-sword raised on high, was attempting
to defend himself The dog was nearly
finished, well and spiritedly done. The child
scarcely more than an outline.

"I hope you recognise the scene. The
hound and the young Buccleuch?" Then,
seeing Edric's doubtful look, she picked up
The Lay of the Last Minstrel," and read :

' I-ween you then had seen with joy
The bearing of that gallant boy,
Well worthy of his noble sire.
His wet cheek glowed 'twixt fear and ire,
He held his little bat on high.
And faced the bloodhound manfully.'

But it's no good," she broke ofi^ suddenly;
J shall never get the expression," tossing the
book down despairingly. " Cuss wo?it glare
(you k7ioiu you won't, old Softy), and look at
his paw I"

"It's a very good paw."

But the muscles ought to distend somehow,
as if he meant tearing and rending ; but
nothing on earth will induce him to hiy
anything but a velvet touch on Jock."

The boy, you mean? He looks like a
portrait, and a good one."

My brother, the ugliest child alive, only
mamma can't perceive it. As I had to paint
him for her, I thought the situation might
invest him with sentiment. He can look like
a small hero on occasion."

Cuss here looked from one to the other,
as much as to say, " Why don't you sit
down?" and flopped down himself by way of
example, with a hospitable wave of his tail.

Oh, I am so sorry !" Hester cried, when
Edric demurred ; " and so will Daddy be
if you can't wait to see him. There is so
much that we are longing to ask you."

She had swept a pile of parti coloured
drapery off the only other chair in the studio,
and Edric gladly seated himself, declaring his

readiness to submit to any amount of cross-examination.


"Tell me what sort of a CO. Colonel
Borrodale makes, and what induced Major
Bellamy to retire — we never could understand
that." And so forth and so forth she ran on,
showing a most amazingly complete acquaintance
with the interior economy of the regiment,
its movements and politics. They had
talked themselves into thorough good fellowship,
these two young people, before Edric
again reluctantly rose to depart.

Dear old Daddy, wouldn't he be back
again with you if he could!" she sighed, when
her questions and his answers were alike
exhausted. " Good-bye then, if you must go?
There is one more point on which I should
have liked to have satisfied my mind ; bat
perhaps "

'' And that is "

Rose — Mrs. Damien told me " He

resumed his seat at once ; the reward that he
had promised to himself had at last surely

come. " She would have given anything to
know — what business you had in St. Fridohn's
last Monday."

Edric very nearly jumped m^ again and
fled. He could have done so quite gracefully,
for Hester had only flung the question at him
lightly as it were, with a laugh and a gay
little glance, that left it possible for him to
reply as lightly. The answer did not come
readily, however. He began it, checked himself,
pulled his moustache and looked at her
considering with his honest blue eyes.
Then, almost as much to his own surprise as
hers, broke out with :

I'll tell you all about it ; the whole truth
from beginning to end, if you don't mind
listening ; for I'm bothered, horribly bothered
about it all, and more by having to keep it
to myself than by anything else."

Hester's qjq^ opened wide at this exordium,
as well they might ; but she said nothing ;
merely dropped her hand on Cuss's head and
listened for more. The ice broken, Edric

dived in boldly. He had perforce kept silent
till then on his experiences, as much on Mrs.
Damien's account] as his own ; also from the
little hope he had of any possible assistance
from his usual associates. But now, this
bright, capable little maiden, with her candid
eyes and trust-inspiring manner, seemed the
very fittest of confidantes. It was so easy to
tell her everything, somehow. She had such a
pleasant way of listening ; a wise, considering
little air ; evidently not laughing at him, nor
thrilled, nor absorbed ; only bent on getting
all the facts clear before her, and forming a
just conclusion on them. The adventure
sounded much less romantic and portentous
when he heard himself relate it — with certain
necessary modifications and abridgments as
concerned his own part therein — but just as
puzzling.

Now tell me what you think about it."

XT.

I think she has made a good bargain' said
downright Hester. " She found yon were
looking for Eose, and happened to know where

VCL. T. 7

to find her, and you have given her a sort
of blank cheque m repayment."

*' But how did she know what I wanted?"

Followed you — asked Miss Cadogan's.
housemaid — the man at the post-office. Any
woman with her wits about her could have
done as much."

But wliy did she follow me?"

Ah ! that's the real puzzle of the whole, and
I give it up. You will know when you hear
from her again. I hope you will tell me the
end."

Of course. Only please don't mention it ta
Mrs. Damien. I feel somehow responsible for
brinofinof her and that woman together, and it
has troubled me more than I can tell you.
How could she know Mrs. Damien existed ?"

Oh, Rose knows all sorts of queer people
at St. Fridolin's. I wouldn't distress myself
about that. You'll find most likely that you'll
be called upon to pay two pounds twelve and
sixpence, the exact sum required to prevent a
sick husband and five starvation children from



being turned into the street. Or she'll want
you to buy some new patent toothpick or
beetle-destroyer, or cigar-holder — a reduction
on taking a quantity — or four large oil-paintings,
the last works of her defunct husband.

"Why, my dear " Hester stopped in full

swing, blushing furiously. ' ' I beg your pardon.
I really forgot for a moment that I was not
giving Daddy the benefit of my knowledge of
the world's pitfalls."

Edric smiled pleasantly. " Thank you very
much. We shall meet on Monday, shall we
not ? I will tell you the end of my adventure
if I ever arrive at it. Good-bye''

Good-bye," said Hester, with downcast
eyes and a grave shake of the hand. Roswal
looked up, as if to say, " IVe heard that remark
three times before. Does he rm% mean going
at last?" and finding Edric actually departing,
saw him politely off the premises and returned
to the studio. There, to this surprise, his usually
dignified little mistress dropped on the floor
beside him, and giving him a passionate hug,

7—2

cried, with her eyes hidden in the thick, soft
wrinkles of his neck : "Oh Cuss! dear, dear
old Cuss ! Never tell anybody how foolish I
looked just now. Wasn't it nice of him not to
laugh too much? Cuss, I hope he'll get into
no scrape. Shouldn't you like to go and take
care of him ? And oh. Cuss, won't it be nice
to see him again next Monday?"

Edric caught his train, well satisfied with
his afternoon's work. He found two other
officers from ShornclifFe in his carriage.

"Heard the news, Poynter?" asked one of
them, his great friend, Major Carroll. "We're
off at last."

"Oh! When? Where?"

"Next week, perhaps. To Portsmouth."

"Next week? Oh, come! Who started
that shave?" asked he, with a dismal attempt to
look sceptical.

I didn't. And it isn't a shave. Not at
all. Doudney knows all about it. He always
does. Cabinet ministers invariably confide in
Doudney, don't you know. Portsmouth means

Egypt, and Egypt means fighting. Now don't
you see?"

Doudney's friends in the Cabinet have sold
him before now," was all Edric s reply, but the
news sounded true to him this time. And
widen he re-entered his It, at the sight of his
three precious treasures lying on his writing-table,
the moral of his old fairy-tale rushed
back into his memory, and he seemed to seethe
golden promise of his days to come falling
into sere and dead leaves before his eyes.

And, as Hester said, he had given a blank
cheque in payment.

ST. FRIDOLIN THE HERMIT. (RETROSPECTIVE.)

HEN" Edric, greedily counting his
golden moments by Mrs. Damien's
side in the churchyard of St.
Fridolin's, had resentfully grudged but one of
them to the mention of its Yicar, little he
guessed that with the coming of Eustace Stannard
to St. Fridolin's, a long twelvemonth ago,
began the weaving of that web into which he
insensibly but surely was even then being
drawn.

Twelve months ago. Just at the time that
he, on board the Indian troopship, impatiently
counted the days that lay between him and
England ; just at the time when Rose Damien

in the height of the gay London season began
to weary a little of its excitement, and sigh for
fresh worlds to conquer; two strands drawn all
unconsciously by the finger of Fate, one from
the East and one from the West, to meet and
mingle at their appointed time : while a third
Euphrosyne — dark, watchful, grimly patient,
bided her turn, awaiting the dawning of the
chance that must so surely come to her. Just
at that time began the story of the Vicar's
coming to St. Fridolin's.

It must needs be told here, and the events
which followed it, in as brief a retrospect as
may be.

A year ago, then, Edric might have read in
one of the leading journals of the day the
following paragraph : —

•' It is with considerable surprise and deep
regret that the congregation of St. Ermen-
truce's have received the news of the resignation
of their Vicar, the Hon. and Rev. Eustace
Stannard, who has held the living for barely
twelve months. Mr. Stannard has made his
mark as one of the most powerful and eloquent

preachers of the time. Rumours have been
current that the vacant stall of St. Stephen's
was about to be offered him, but these, we
believe, will prove to be unfounded, as it is
understood that the reverend gentleman intends
to reside abroad for some years. It will
be remembered as a curious coincidence that
Mr. Stannard's father, Lord Altcar (then Mr.
Redgrave Stannard), retired from public life
with the same startling unexpectedness when
the highest prizes of his political career lay
within his reach."

There were variations on the theme, of
course. " Another Secession to Rome," announced
the Grindstone. " Overwork and
affection of the brain," deplored the Acolyte,
The Upper Ten hinted in horror-struck italics
at "The simultaneous disappearance of a lovely
peeress of Ritualistic views, a regular attendant
at St. Ermentrude's ;" while F(?raciYj/ demanded,
"AYho receives and checks the accounts of
the offer tories?" and "Whether a certain
reverend gentleman's connection with the
Turf had not been for many years an open
secret ?"

It was a curious testimony to the man's
character that society, as a rule, took these
more exciting suggestions for what they were
worth, and decided that neither love nor
money was the moving spring of Eustace
Stannard's unexpected proceeding, and contented
itself with marvelling greatly thereat.
Had the truth been known the marvel would
have been greater still. It would have been
the last idea to occur to society that Eustace
Stannard, its spoilt favourite, was only tired
of it. But so it was. His career, from his
earliest college days, had been such a brilliant
series of successes — successes won at so little
cost to himself — that he grew first amazed,
then doubtful, then cynical and despondent.

It was his nature to be keenly critical of
his own work, and bitterly conscious of his
own shortcomings. The praise of men —
except those whose judgment he happened
to respect — was pain and shame to him, and
indiscriminate admiration a positive affront.
Society would not be debarred from its

bestowal, nevertheless, let him receive it
never so ungraciously. St. Ermentrude's was
thronged to suffocation by the most select
of fashionable mobs on the Sundays when it
was known he was to preach. He was quoted,
reported, imitated, discussed in society papers
till human nature could bear no more.

In a fit of sudden mistrust of himself, his
work, and the genuineness of his mission, he
sent in his resignation to the Bishop and
started off in search of some world-forgotten
spot where no man should have heard of St.
Ermentrude's, or care whether he was Lord
Altcar's eldest son or not ; where he should
be able to get at the real, not the fictitious
value of his work, find peace and quiet, and
write articles in the Church Quarterly.

When an early Christian found the temptations
of the world too many for him, he was
wont, we are told, to bid adieu to Rome,
Byzantium, or Alexandria, as the case might
be, and seek in the mountains or desert a
place for meditation and self-communion.

Eustace Stannard went into the City.

In less than a month after his resignation
of St. Ermentrude's, when his wondering
friends had talked the subject out and tired
of it, he revived their flagging interest by
appearing in town again, and a few weeks
later was inducted into the living of St.
Fridolin the Hermit, situated no man in
society except the Bishop knew where.

Let no man look to see St. Fridolin's church
as Eustace Stannard's eyes beheld it first in.
those days of mid-June. It has gone ; vanished
from the face of the earth as completely
as the cell of St. Fridolin himself. It had
a grey old tower that had survived the
destruction of the original building; in the
great fire, in which swung a brazen turncoat
of a bell whose many sins might well have
cracked it. A bell that had rung '' for joye "
at the execution of Mary Queen of Scots, and
later on had rung back King James from
F aver sham, and rung in King William from
Holland with equal enthusiasm.

The body of the church had been restored
by some unknown follower of Wren, in humble
imitation of a classic temple. Bald and uninteresting
without, within it was dingily magnificent
with dark wood work and tarnished
gilding. A great, black, undecipherable altarpiece,
devoutly believed in as a Carlo Marat,
was surmounted by two smirking gilded
angels, between which a dilapidated pelican
pecked at her tarnished breast, under a mean
window containing the arms of the Worshipful
Company of Cheesemonger.

Mr. Paramount, the little old Churchwarden,
still speaks of St. Fridolin's as an interior
unequalled in its chaste magnificence and
solemn splendour since the day's of Solomon's
Temple. It was, therefore, somewhat of a
shock to him, after making it his duty to
explain to the new Vicar that he should resolutely
oppose any modern Ritualistic innovations
or decorations, crosses, altar lights, or
flowers, which he protested against as " unlicensed
ornament and unauthorised symbol'

to have his attention rather sharply directed
to the pelican, the window with '' Azure,
three cheeses in dexter chief Or, etc," and
the three colossal Christian Graces, adorning
the monument to a departed Vicar, and to
be asked where he found " unlicensed ornament
and unauthorised symbol" if not here?

He retreated from the discussion silenced
if not exactly convinced, and Eustace wondered
for a day and a half what he could
possibly have said to affront the old gentleman.

Close by the church, within the churchyard
bounds, stood the Vicarage, in which no Vicar
had dwelt for generations. It was a dreary
abode, with faded paintings and dusty carvings,
with shut-up rooms, ghostly with the
relics of dead-antigone occupants, and crooked
passages haunted by unaccountable echoes.
It suited the Vicar's work, and perhaps his
mood. He furnished as much as he absolutely
required, and installed in charge his
tidy old housekeeper, Mrs. Goodliffe : to whose
orderly soul he brought daily tribulation by

never coming in for a regular meal, and
encouranrinof the inroads of all sorts of uno

o

desirable parishioners over her snowy doorsteps
and immaculate oil-cloth. Here, as the
year rolled on, he lived his busy, monotonous,
joyous life, as secluded from human intercourse
beyond the parish bounds as if he had
been the original Fridolin the Anger {i.e.,
hermit), who, as the parish records told, built
the church and his cell in the marshes adjoining
four centuries ago.

Xow according to all precedent no hermit's
existence could be considered complete without
the temptations of emissaries from the outer
world striving by lure and guile to win back
their lost companion. These were not lacking
to Mr. Stannard had he found time or inclination
to heed them. There followed him at
first a certain influx of worshippers from the
West — such of his late congregation as had
carriages, that is to say — filling the tall pews
with marvels of art millinery, and leaving
suo^orestions of Hesse and Lubin about the

fusty, doomed greeii baize. He was not
at all gratified by their devotion : in fact,
felt a certain grim pleasure in watching the
numbers diminishing as the season waned,
leaving place for the congregation he wished
to draw to him.

September came and went, and he might
have thought himself safe; for town was empty,
and the wicked world disporting itself abroad
over the face of the innocent country. One
day is very like another in St. Fridolin's. But
Eustace was country-bred, and even there felt
the air charged with hints of moorland and
heather, of tramps over the crackling stubble,
and the sharp ring of guns amongst the
yellowing copses. In town it was a day of
semi-fog, and he had preached his morning
sermon to an almost invisible congregation.


Don't you know me, or icoiit you know
me?" asked a voice of him suddenly, ashe
left the church by the vestry door. A
fin-ure in the fog, that seemed to lift and

lighten as she approached, an outstretched
hand — a voice of silver — and the fairest face
eyes ever looked upon. He touched the lira
fingers doubtfully.

I beg your pardon, if for a moment I had
forgotten you. You belong to the days that
seem so far away now. AYhat has brought
you to St. Fridolin's?"

She looked full at him with two great
lovely inscrutable eyes. Eyes at once radiant
with purpose and sparkling with fun. A
long, steady, regal gaze, as of one who felt
her notice an honour.

You are not at all pleased to see me
here," she said, with her usual directness and
a flash of superb astonishment in the violet
eyes at the astounding discovery.

"If you mean there'' — and he indicated the
church — " I know many others whom I would
sooner meet. Those who have a better right
there."

"But will they come?" asked Mrs. Damien,
like Hotspur.

If I can bring them in. That is what I
am here for."

And can no one help you ? Is there no
work that anyone — that I might do?"

The Yicar glanced at the velvet gown and
many-buttoned gloves of his would-be helper,
and smiled with ironical pity.

District-visiting'? In a brouo-ham, with
a footman to hand round the tracts ? Thank
you. I am afraid we are hardly prepared for
that yet at St. Fridolin's. I beg your pardon,"
he added Hastily; "that was an unworthy
speech. Forgive it. Why should I refuse
help so frankly offered ? I really don't see,
though, what you can do for us."

Queen Rose looked so suspiciously meek
that the Arica might have known she felt sure
of getting her way.

'• If you really think there is not a person
here who would be the better for my help and
friendship, I am answered," she said softly.

The Vicar looked at her considering.
Perhaps then, for the first time, his perceval.

I. 8

tions received any distinct impression of her
individuality. She had been erstwhile one of
the undistinguishable flock of brilliant creatures
who used to madden him with their
admiration and soft incense of flattery; who
came to him on Sunday to be excited and
thrilled, as they went on a week-day to the
last new play; ready, when the time came, to
desert him and his teaching at a day's notice
for some newer attraction. The woman who
stood before him was of a different clay.
More beautiful, if that mattered ; more purposeful,
more capable. She would either help
or hinder him mightily, he felt; and somehow
he suspected it would be the latter.

How do you mean to begin?" he asked at
length. Mrs. Damien's eye danced under
their down-dropped lashes.

Can't you give me an introduction to
somebody who belongs here?" I want some
new friends. I have exhausted one phase of
English society pretty much, I think ; I
should like to see another. Don't you think

some people here might care to know me and
let me be friends with them T

I should think they might," admitted the
Vicar, slowly and much against his will. He
was irate with himself for watching the play
of her beautiful lips, and noticing the soft,
dark sweep of her eyelashes against her cheek.
The great eyes flashed up suddenly at him all
alight with eagerness and bright thoughts,
but dropped again under his dark scrutiny.

You had better consult Mr. de Cressy.
He shall call upon you tomorrow." And
then Mr. Stannard bade her a stiff adieu, feeling
rather as if he had taken some unknown
compound into his hands that might prove
valuable, or might go off with sudden
explosion and blow him and his to utter
destruction.

A fine lady's freak," he muttered consolingly,
" and not likely to prove a lasting
one."

8—2

CHAPTER Iii.

A BLACK SEVEN. (retrospective.)

HERE were other and more dangerous
elements fermenting under the surface
cain of his parish, had he but
known it, and he came very nigh upon touching
on some of them the very next day.

It was on that occasion that he discovered
Lavender Row.

It was no small achievement for a stranger,
such as he was. From Lavender Row to the
busiest thoroughfare in the City is but a
stone-cast, and yet men have lived their
working-days through from year's end to
year's end unaware of its existence.

There is a restaurant and a public-house in

the neighbourhood, whose inhabitants might
(erect an explorer ; but the clerks in the
offices of the Mcaraguan and Inter Oceanic
Grammars Company, Limited, occupying the
first floor of the classic pile Which is its next-door
neighbour, though they could, if it
so pleased them, drop pebbles from their
plate-glass back windows down its crooked
chimneys, might be puzzled to arrive at them
by any other route. A little passage, one-flag
wide, with a post in the middle, leads
down beside the restaurant to a two-flag-wide
court, one side of which is formed by a blank
sooty wall, behind which an engine, hard at
some unknown work, measures the minutes
away with alternate stamp and clatter all day
Ions:. Facings it stands Lavender Row, one
of the last bits of the London of the last
Edward.

Three little low tile-roofed dwellings, sunk
three steps below the level of the pavement,
with over-hanging upper stories, low-browed
doorways, and windows that not long ago

were latticed : once, no doubt, fair country
cottages, where the lavender-bushes flowered
amid green pastures, stretching away to the
sparkling river's brink.

No one goes to look at them, no one
sketches them, no one asks how they came
there. There they lie, as forgotten as a dropped
pin in the crack of a pavement.

Even Mr. Paramount can tell nothing about
them. He pays his rent — not an exorbitant
one — to a firm of solicitors in Lincoln's Inn ;
but whether they represent an owner ignorant
of the value of his property, or a City company
too wealthy to concern itself about it, he
has never found out.

A long slant of sunshine struggled into the
little court, and illumined the very house Mr.
Stannard was in search of. A great heavy
door, studded with iron nails, stood wide open
on to a flagged passage, dividing the width of
the house. He entered and knocked at the
first door on the right at a venture. He
fancied he heard a reply, and opened it. The

little interior that met his view remained for
many days on his mind as singular and pretty,
and possessing, he did not know how, some
special interest for him.

It was a small parlour, low and dark.
Heavy beams supported the ceiling, and the
thickness of the wall made a deep window-seat,
in the corner of which, full in the one
narrow beam of sunshine that entered, crouched
a slight girlish figure.

He recognised the lame daughter that was
always at his church warden's side on Sundays
a spare little creature, perhaps sixteen or
seventeen years old, in a childish cotton frock,
with ruffled curly hair, through which the
light shone. Some common scarlet-runners,
trained outside the window, made a bright
background for her delicately pretty face, out
of which two great luminous eyes gazed in
terror at his entrance. He hastened to prevent
her from rising ; but her hand seemed
only just to flutter into his, and be snatched
away, and her eyes glanced wildly round in a

very panic of shyness, as if seeking some way
of escape.

In sheer compassion he gave his message
as briefly as he could, and received her
anxious assurances that whither would not be
home for many an hour to come. Then he
would have gone had not the Lavish seized him
to try and inspire a little confidence in this
forlorn, frightened-looking child, if child she
Averse. The stray shaft of light Alas caught
and reflected on so many bright points — the
shining oil cloth on the table, the brass knobs
of the fire-irons, the glass in the corner cupboard,
and the little glinting road's of brass
knobs in the horsehair-covered chairs — that
it had made the gloom of the rest deeper, and
he had not seen at first that another Avcman
Alas sitting AAdth her back to the AAindow^, over
the fire in the high black armchair, huddled
up, with knees and nose almost touching. She
now rose, and hobbled off without taking
notice of him.

Who is that ?" he ventured to ask.

"A neighbour — Mrs. Beltran — a very kind
neighbour," she answered, in a flutter, but
speaking more freely : as shy people often do
with one hearer only. It was no very difficult
task that he had set himself, after all. When
the first shock of confronting this formidable
stranger — and all strangers were more or less
formidable to Elsie Paramount — had worn off,
she began to find something curiously pleasant
in the grave attention with which her
timid little remarks were received, and a disposition
growing on her to speak of herself
and her interests to an extent that it was
alarming to reflect on afterwards. She had
actually talked to him about the old times
when father was quite well ofl*, before '' the
firm " failed and ruined him. How the
brothers and sisters were scattered, and only
herself and Sampson left. Sampson was in
an office, doing pretty well this time. The
Vicar seemed to understand the doubtful inflection,
and be sorry for her, and then he
talked about himself and St. Fridolin's quite

as if he thought her worth talking to — that
was a comfort to remember.

She was so frail, so pretty, so delicate, and
altogether incongruous — like a daisy in a
street pavement, Eustace thought. He turned
I'or a last look as he left the house, and caught
a shy glance from behind her scarlet flowers.
The great, heavy wooden shutter of the room
overhead had half swung to, and, had he
looked up there, he might have caught the
searching gaze of another pair of eyes fixed on
him with no good meaning, from the depths
of the dark crevice.

Elsie was smiling to herself in a pleasant,
vague musing, when the door opened softly
and the " neighbour " re-entered.

The little black shawl that had been huddled
over her head and shoulders now hung on her
arm, her step was light and springy, and her
bent form erect, supple, full of lithe grace and
strength. She looked at Elsie with a direct,
expressionless gaze, her eyelids gradually
closing till they left mere slits through which

leur eyes seemed to gleam with intensified
brilliance. Her lips curved with a suggestion
of mockery, and waited patiently for Elsie to
speak first.

The Betrays, Elsie's fellow-lodgers, were
exceptions to every rule of life in Lavender
Row. They had lived there for nearly a year
now, and came and went, and eat and slept,
with utter disregard of ordinary habits and
precedents.

Sometimes Mr. Beltran would disappear for
weeks and months at a time, and then spend
day after day at home in bed. Elsie could
hear him stumbling upstairs lightly in the
early grey mornings, and would hear sounds
suggestive of getting up in the course of the
afternoon ; and, later on, had once or twice
encountered in the hall a smiling, dark-complexion
man, wearing very new glossy
clothes, and a great deal of jewellery, Who left
a strong whiff of combined tobacco and millefleurs
on the air as he passed by.

Mrs. Beltran's comings and goings were as

erratic as her husband's ; but, as they seemed
on excellent terms, paid their rent punctually,
and kept no children, pet animals, or other
element of discord about the premises, their
fellow-lodgers ceased to concern themselves
about them. They were " foreigners," and
that accounted for everything.

A nod and a smile as she passed Elsie at
work in her Window, then a word at the open
door, and so it grew to be a habit for Mrs.
Beltran to drop in casually, but only when
Elsie was all alone. There was an odd sense
of latent power about her perfectly fascinating
to the gh'l. Then she would listen with profoundest
interest to the smallest of girlish
gossip, and tell in return of strange countries
and adventures. Indeed, it is to be feared that
sundry flashes of reckless talk, and a daredevil
laugh, with which her narrations were
occasionally spiced, had a wicked attraction in
themselves for the naughty little romantic
child.

Elsie, roused from her dream, looked at her

half impatiently at first, then seemed to awake
more fiillv, with a start.

^' AVas it him you meant ?" she asked, in an
awed whisper.

^' The Dark King' assented Mrs. Beltran.

A large work-basket stood on the table.
Lifting it carefully off, Mrs. Beltran proceeded
to roll off the oil-cloth cover, disclosing the
white wood top, on which were arranged a
number of small playing-cards, arranged in a
peculiar pattern.

It would be useless to describe it in detail,
except so far as that it consisted of the cards of
one pack, starting from the Queen of Hearts,
arranged in a pattern of diagonal lines of
varying length : the spaces between which
where to be filled from the cards of other
packs on some principle knowai only to the
initiated.

The scheme had been interrupted during the
placing of the cards of the second pack, which
had started from the King of Spades. Mrs.
Beltran went on dealing and placing with a

swiftness and dexterity that were in themselves
noteworthy, talking all the time with soft,
mechanical volubility for Elsie's benefit, and
yet with her mind evidently set on the working
out of some problem for her own private
satisfaction.

The Dark King, yes, there, just as I told
you ; he crosses your life, my child. No ; I
have misplaced a card. Your lives do not
cross they meet. For good, did you ask ?
But yes, certainly. Not for love, though.

Do not set your thoughts on him, my little

J)
one.

Mrs. Beltran ! how could I do such a
thing ?" gasped Elsie, scandalised. "He is
the Vicar, and the son of a lord."

*' Eh ?" Mrs. Beltran raised her eyebrows
and looked attentive. " You must tell me all
about him by-and-by. He is so good, you
say. And his sermons so beautiful. When
will you take me to hear one ?"

It was Elsie's turn to look surprised. Delightful
as Mrs. Betray's companionship had

been, it had never suggested church-going
somehow.

1 so seldom hear him," she lamented.
Only on Sundays. I can't go alone, and
father disapproves of week-day services."

Mrs. Beltran nodded again. The second
pack was exhausted, and the cards disposed in
order.

'' You say he preaches this evening. Your
father will not be at home, nor, consequently,
your brother, eh ?" Her white teeth gleamed
maliciously, and she gave a knowing nod as
she spoke, while Elsie sighed. " We will go
then. It will prevent you fretting after them
both. I have nothing more to tell you about
him. You will owe him some trouble and
some good fortune eventually, that is all."

And the next ?" asked Elsie, curiously.
The Fair Woman ?"

Mrs. Beltran drew out a third pack from the
pocket of her apron, which seemed as plentifully
supplied as the sleeve of the Heathen
Chinee. They were not the usual-sized card,

but fully a third smaller, and printed on board
as light as that used for visiting-cards, with
plain, white, glazed backs.

Mrs. Beltran gave the pack to Elsie to cut
three times, then dealt the cards in a heap face
upwards till a Diamond Queen appeared, when
she proceeded to fit the remaining cards into
her pattern, still continuing her careless talk,
so at variance with the intense scrutiny of her
black eyes.

Here she is, you see, following the Dark
King. And here she crosses your path — once
twice. Distrust that fair woman, even while
accepting her benefits. She will turn against
you at last — not till the coming of the Fair
King, though. Aha ! Xo\v cut this pack.
Here he is. You are getting interested in
him, are you ? Little prude I I dare not
hint at his good fortune. A lover for you,
my Elsie. Young, handsome, and rich !
Take care of him and keep him to yourself
when you get him, my little Queen of Hearts."

Oh ! don't I" pleaded the girl, putting up



her hand to screen her hot cheeks, with a rino-
of such pain in her voice that Mrs. Beltran
stopped astonished. " A lover ? No. Tell
that to anyone else — not to me r

The poor, wasted little hands seemed in one
eloquent gesture at once to call attention to,
and plead for pity for, her crippled state, while
her indignant ej'es and flaming cheeks protested
against such mockery.

Even Mrs. Beltran was touched, or had the
heart to seem so.

Who said you were always to be ill and
miserable, and apart from other girls? Didn't
T tell you great things were coming for you ?"
And she began to pass her forefinger anew
over the cards she had first laid down. "Wait
for the first Black Seven "

Tell me that' cried the girl. " That was
to be your card. Don't talk to me about fair
or dark kings. Tell me at once what you are
ffoinof to do for me."

Mrs. Beltran waited until she had placed
the last card of the pack which she had com-vol.

I. 9

menaced with the King of Hearts, carefully
reading it to herself; though, in compliance
with Elsie's request, she communicated no
more of the results to her.

She took out from her pocket the last pack,
handed it to Elsie to cut as before, and commenced
to deal, facing the cards. " Watch
for the Seven of Spades," she said, as the
cards dropped swiftly from her fingers. The
heap on the table grew, and the pack she held
diminished one by one, till within a few of the
end. She looked surprised, and her brows
bent in perplexity.

I must be going to have very little to do
with you after all," and the last card dropped
from her fingers as she spoke. '' Can we both
have missed it ? That is unlucky, very unlucky,"
she said seriously, and taking up the
pack, shuffled it, and gave it to Elsie to cut
afresh.

Again she dealt the cards slowly and carefully
to the end. Long before reaching it her
practised fingers had told her a card was missing.

The Seven of Spades had disappeared

from the pack.

She shook her apron, and turned out the

pocket. Each pack had been held by a little

band of coloured ribbon, so that it would have

seemed impossible for a card to have escaped.

Nevertheless, she looked carefully on the floor

about, and at last went on her knees to search

under the table.
'''Has it slipped into the kilting of

your skirt ?" Elsie asked. " I fancied I

saw "

"I remember!" interrupted Mrs. Beltran,

emero;ino; from under the table. " I know
now ! I was looking over them upstairs one
night alone and dropped them all on the floor.
It has slipped away through the cracks of the
boards there. I nearly lost a letter so one
day. But that it should have been that card !"
And she growled a comment in Creole French
between her teeth that, fortunately for Elsie's
sense of propriety, was unintelligible to her.
She stood for an instant almost white with

9—2

anger, wrenching the pack between her hands
in a vain effort to tear it.

Don t ! AYhat a pity !" cried Elsie, as she,
with another fierce word, thrust them between
the bars of the grate ; '' the card might have
been found again."

The card might have been found, but the
chance was lost. They can never again bethe
first cards touched by your fingers. And
they were running so clearly, too. Ah !" with
a sort of impatient snarl and a stamp. " Let
them go !"

When she turned assail to Elsie, she had
composed her features into a resolute smile.

'' Don't speak to me of them again, but tell
me at what time I shall come to take you with

me to church this evening"

TOLD IX THE VESTRY. (RETROSPECTIVE).

HEN" Elsie and her companion
reached St. Fridolin's that evening,
they found the church akeady
well filled, for Mr. Stannard's Thursday lectures
had become well known as something
worth hearing. There were as many of his
own parishioners as he could reasonably expect
to see, and several strangers.

One carriage that Elsie had noticed on the
previous Sunday was driving away, and the
verger was ushering into the foremost pew its
occupant, a tall, dignified lady, closely veiled ;
while she and Mrs. Beltran found their seats
in a quiet corner of the side aisle, near another

friend from Lavender Now. Eustace found
an excitement, or more justly an inspiration,
in addressing the motley assemblage here that
had been lacking in ordinary Sunday preach -
ino^ to his brilliant congregation at St. Ermen-
truce's. " Those who are here to-night," he
thought, " have come, not for my sake, but
for the sake of what I can give them ;" and
he gave of his best from the fulness of his
heart and soul. He Alas carried beyond himself
by the vastness of his subject, so that he
heard not when poor Elsie, excited, alarmed,
and conscious of being a very naughty girl in
being there at all, burst into an unmanageable
fit of hysterical sobbing, and was led away by
Mrs. Beltran and her friend Mrs. Edge. Nor
did he note the gratifying fact that having
seen Elsie part of the way home, Mrs. Beltran
returned and unobtrusively regained her
place.

The tall lady in front had started at Elsie's
cry, glanced round, and then sunk on her
knees, hiding her face in her hands. She

remained in this attitude, hidden from general
view by the high-backed pew, till the dispersion
of the congregation. Almost all had
gone before she slowly rose and made her
way down the aisle, the old vero-er waiting
obsequiously at the door in readiness to call
up her carriage.

Slowly and more slowly she stepped, till in
the very doorway she stopped. ^' I must ! I
must!" the verger thought he heard her say
to herself, and she sank on the last of the open
seats in the centre of the aisle.

Send Mr. Stannard here, if you please,"
she said to the old man, in a quick, imperative
tone. '' Has he gone yet ?"

Nay, madam, no farther than the vestry,
I dare say." And he trotted off, turning out
unnecessary gas-lights on his way, till only
one flickering standard remained.

Before Eustace could reach her she came
forward to meet him, quickly yet falteringly,
and laid her hands on his arm, peering up
into his slice. "I have something to say to

you. Not here, though. Take me somewhere
where I can speak to you in safety."

Let me take you to the vestry. There
is no one here but ourselves."

She hesitated, looking fearfully round the
dark interior, which was still as a grave,
but for a momentary gentle stir that might
have been the flutter of a bird's wings
aloft, or even the rustle of her own silken
skirts.

I am afraid !" she whispered, " Afraid to
speak ; afraid of dying without having spoken.
I can trust you. You are strong, and brave,
and honest. If there is a man in the world
dio can help me it is you."

"Let me try, at any rate. Your secret
shall be as if it had never been told. You
are sure of that?"

She bowed her head, and he supported her
sup the dark side aisle to the vestry, from the
half-open door of which a stream of light shot
forth.

The vestry was a curiously shaped room, a

sort of three-cornered excrescence on the main
building, cramped and crowded b}^ a great
cupboard reaching to the ceiling, where the
choir surplices hung, with massive doors that
were always swinging open, and a lock that
worked by fits and starts. There where quaint
old chests too, full of church records, a table
many sizes too large, and two chairs. Even
the bright lamp that burned there only half
lighted the place, and left great nooks and
angles of shadow.

The Vicar gave a final and effectual slam
to the swinging door, and placed his chair
against it, offering the other to his visitor ;,
but she stood in the doorway peering out into
the darkness.

*' Is no one there ? Are you sure no one
can hear us ? I thought someone passed us
just now."

Only the verger, old Totterdale ; Til ask
him." The Yicar sounded a small hand-bell,
and the figure of the old man appeared, dark
against the dim grey opening of the porch.

and shuffled hurriedly towards them. The
Vicar went to meet him and returned.

He has been all over the church. It is
quite empty, and he will lock it up for the
night when you go. He is very deaf, and will
wait for you in the porch out of hearing."

They re-entered the vestry, and the lady
sank into her chair, leaning her arms on the
table and resting her face in her hands for a
short time. "Do you know me?" she asked,
looking up at him suddenly.

There was a soft, plaintive inflection in her
speech that reminded him of de Cressy somehow,
but her face was strange to him. It was
the face of a woman long past her youth, but
still wonderfully handsome. Soft masses of
wavy white hair were piled high above a white
forehead in sharp contrast with her dark,
weary, restless eyes. Her delicate aquiline
features had the somewhat over-refined, fastidious
expression that high-arched, fine eyebrows
and raised nostrils give to the face
they belong to. She was a woman to whom

diamonds, trailing silken robes, and the uppermost
rooms at feasts ought to come by right
of birth, Eustace thought, as he looked at her
with quiet attention, waiting for her to speak
again.

No, you do not know me. I am glad of
it. If you did, how could you believe what
I am going to tell you? That I — I, of all
women "

She stopped, her breath came quickly and
heavily, the rings on her unloved hands
grated as she clasped them together. The
next minute she was kneeling at his feet, her
head thrown back, and her hands raised to
him imploringly.

Oh, help me! save me! I am a miserable,
guilty woman. You preached of repentance
and hope — you spoke of confession and forgiveness.
Tell me what pardon there is forme?
What place of repentance can I find"
while my sin stays by me?"

'' None," spoke Eustace, solemnly and
sadly. " But be thankful that there is no

sin from whose burden deliverance is impossible."


You shall tell me what to do," she
moaned. ^' I shall go mad or die, with my
secret untold, if you will not hear me. You
shall tell me what reparation I can make.
Surely the time is not past?"

She rose to her feet, and stood veiling herself
in the folds of the costly lace that draped
her head and shoulders, and shrinking away
from him while she spoke.

How can sou guess the crime that clings
to me? I brought my husband to his death
and renounced my child. Can years of prayer,
or seas of penitential tears, blot out that?"

Tell me the whole story," said Eustace,
gravely and authoritatively. *' You have no
choice now."

It was so long ago, and I was so young
so young and so ignorant. A poor little
neglected child, running wild about our Irish
home, with nobody to care for me but blind
Aunt Kitty ; no companions but my foster-sister,

Katty Magrath, and her little brothers
and sisters. My father never came near the
place. No one did. We had enough to eat
and drink, but I wore clothes like Katty's,
except when I put on my mother's old
jewellery. Once, I remember, Aunt de Cressy
sent me some finery : a green satin pelisse,
like her own daughter's, and a bonnet with
feathers, Avhite and green. I remember my
reflection in the brook as I ran about in them
for months and months barefoot."

She sank into her chair when she began
to speak, and now sat half smiling for a
second at the remembrance.

De Cressy !" interrupted the Vicar. " Are
you any relation?"

'' I am Lionel's cousin. He is your curate,

is he not? Yes, 1 " She stopped short,

her eves fixed in sudden alarm on Eustace's.
"Listen!"

Her lips seemed to breathe inaudibly. Both
sat with attention strained to the uttermost.
There was no sound in all the great echoing

vault of the church, nor in the narrow bounds
of the vestry, and yet by some certain
momentary arousing of that sixth sense to
which no man has given a name, which is not
hearing, seeing, or feeling, but a sort of combination
of all three, each had felt in that
instant's pause that they were not alone. He
rose, carried the lamp to the. door, and threw
its light around once or twice.

The echo from some noise outside, I suppose,"
he said, returning and closing the door
after lira.

She had risen too, and looked fearfully
around the small space about her.

What does it matter," she said at last,
who hears my name ? I am Lady Valerian
Meynell, and my husband was Oliver Meynell
the great, wise, wealthy, and philanthropic
Oliver Meynell. Ah ! you have heard of him,
and of me — of all my good deeds, and of the
children I have brought up to follow in his
footsteps." And she laughed a little cynical
laugh. '' He was a good man too. He reclaimed

me, and made me what I am. I was
afraid of him, you see, and dare not be anything
lout what he bade me. We were happy
too-ether ; but it is not less the truth that
when I married him I had another husband
and a livings child."

She seemed to force the words from her lips
as it were loudly, and with a sort of bravado ;
then her voice fell, and her face grew white
and scared as she went on rapidly :

"Jack never was my husband, they would
have told you ; and they took my little child
from me at its birth, and swore to me it was
dead ; but I knew better."

She paused a moment. Eustace was silent
and attentive.

I never knew what brought Jack to
Glenara — my home," she continued. " He
was the first gentleman I had ever seen,
except my father, and I thought him a prince,
and ran after him like a little dog. He was
spending a month's leave in the mountains,
sketching and fishing, and I used to go off

with him, roaming the glens the summer days
long, without word or thought of harm.
When the time came for him to go, I just
kissed Aunt Kitty, and ran over the hills to
the Magraths, where a strange priest married
us, and off we went to Dublin together. He
to mean me harm — my Jack ! Never ! It
was line fun at first, going about and seeing
sights with him, dressed in all the beautiful
o-owns he bought me ; but it didn't last.
Jack was handsome and rich, and would be a
baronet some day, and there were plenty to
tell him how he had thrown himself away in
marrying me. Then I hated the grand ladies
he knew, who would laugh at me even while
they spoke so sweetly to ' La Belle Sauvage,'
as I heard one call me. And, in truth, no
better than a savage was I when I heard her.
Jack joked me about it when I told him. I
think he had been drinking, or he never would
have spoken as he did. I caught up a knife to
give him his answer, but he twisted it out of
my hand, and threw it out of the window, and

locked me in the room ' till my tantrums were
over.' I saw him go past the window, and 1
knew he was going to her."

Poor child !" sighed the Yicar, seeing
before him not the stately, remorse-stricken
woman, but the beautiful, wild, passionate,
forlorn child of the story.

I called to him. I beat my hands sore on
the door. Someone came at last and let me
out, and just as I was I would have rushed
bare-headed through the streets in search of
him, but that the person, whoever it was, held
my hands and stopped me. Then I saw it
was my father.

Xever mind what he said to me. I grow
sick with rage and shame to this day when I
think of it. He took me away that hour and
put me in the Convent of the Sacred Heart,
where my aunt was abbess ; and then — went
back to Dublin and shot Jack dead in the
Phoenix Park at sunrise next morning."

"Dead !" the Vicar ejaculated, with a long-drawn
breath of relief, despite his sympathy.

VOL. I. 10

She turned sharply on him.

Was he ?" she queried, a world of meaning
in her dark, doubtful gaze. *' I think they
lied to me. I think he let them leave him for
dead to be rid of me. I think — I know " —
she glanced over her shoulder suspiciously as
she spoke and drew nearer the Vicar. " I saw
Its name in despatches long after. He was
alive, and my saintly husband knew it, but
would not give me up to him. Liars all !"
she cried, with fierce sudden passion, 'rand
amongst them all I am Lost — Lost — Lost !"

There was silence while Eustace stood
gravely pondering on this new and serious
feature of the case, and Lady Valerian sat with
quivering lips and knit brow, afraid to trust
her voice again. The flame of anger died out
as rapidly as it had flamed up, however, and
she went on in weary sullenness.

Do you want to hear about the convent :
how they kept me there eating my heart out
for months waiting for news that never came :
and then sent me away — dreading scandal, you

understand ? My boy was born at Biddy
Magrath's — I mean Katty's mother and my
foster-mother, and died — so they told me. I
was too ill to know My father was like a
madman at the thoughts of his own folly, for
Jack was in his grave — or they all thought so
then, for certain, and the wrong he had done
me could never be righted. I must go back to
the convent again ; it was the only place forme
now. I was too ill and wretched to care
what became of me, and let them do as they
pleased."

You went back to the convent as a postulant
?" he enquired.

She nodded.

They would have it so ; but when I got
well and" strong, and felt the hatefulness of it
all, I ran away, about a year after. It was the
best way. They never would have let me go.
I was out marketing with Sister Clare one day,
when we met a nice little man, like a clergyman,
who walked alongside of us, reading bits
of the Bible out loud, and preaching a little

10—2

now and then. Sister Clare crossed herself,
and bid me never listen to a word. He was,
she said, the agent of the Irish Church Missionary
Society, a most pestilential evil-doer.
She was an awful old gossip, and instead of
shutting her eyes and hurrying home, she just
dawdled about watching him gather the people
around him at the street corner and give away
tracts. I watched him too, and settled how he
should help me. Next day, when we went
out, I had a note ready written in my sleeve.
Old Sister Catherine was with me, and she
was just as keen to see what was going on as
Sister Clare. At the first turning we came
face to face with the man, followed by half the
rabble of the place, and in a minute he had
dropped a tract into Sister Catherine's basket,
and put another in my hand, and as he did
so I squeezed the note into his. I knew he
wouldn't fail me. I slipped down the garden
that night, scrambled over a! broken-down
corner of the wall, found my friend in waiting
with a bonnet and shawl, as I had bid him, left

my veil in the nearest hedge, and long before
anyone missed me was safe in the train on my
way to Glenara."

Why did you go there?"

To find my boy— my own Using baby-boy.
All those long, lonely nights in my cell I had
heard him wailing for me. I had felt his little
fingers in the dark, clutching at my neck.
I knew he was living, and I went to seek for
him. The little missionary talked to me all
the way, and I agreed to everything he said.
It made him very happy, and he put the whole
story of my escape and conversion into his
next report. I hope it did him some good
with his employers. He knew Aunt de Cressy
well. She was at Glenara, and he thought I
was going to her ; but when we parted I made
my way at once to Biddy Magrath's. The
little cabin was roofless and empty, and while
I stood wondering and terrified, a neighbour
came past driving a cow. * Save us ! an' is it
Biddy you're seeking' ? Sure, she and Stephen
and the childther are all gone this six months

since.' ' The children ?' I asked. ' How many ?'
Four of them : no less. Katty, an' Xorah,
an' the weekly baby, Stephen; an' it's safe in
America they'll be by this time.' I had lost
him again. I thanked the girl, and, with my
heart breaking, turned back to Glenara — and
then Aunt de Cressy carried me off to England."


But your vows ?" asked the A^icar, slightly
scandalised. She shruD^o^ed her shoulders with
bitter contempt.

They never troubled me. My father found
me out, but when Aunt de Cressy told him the
rich young banker, Oliver Meynell, was in love
with me, not a word would Te hear of the
Sacred Heart again either. I did try to hold
out. I told Oliver the whole truth; every
word. / did not want to marry him.
Xever."

It was a grievous wrong " the Yicar

began.

'' I tell you I could not help it," she retorted
passionately. " I could stand out against my

father ; I could persuade Aunt de Cressy ; but
when Oliver came near me I was dumb, powerless.
His cold blue eyes used to light up
when they looked at me ; his hand used to
hold mine with a grip of steel. I used to
plead and protest, but his look would kill the
words on my lips. I used to turn away from
him, but I felt him drawing me nearer and
nearer, resist as I would."

But did no thought of your husband — of
your baby-boy come between you and him T

"/ could not think of them when he was
there. My mind seemed a blank, which he
could fill as he pleased. He used to talk to me
about the errors of Rome, and the noble sphere
of power and usefulness that lay before me. I
tell you I cared not one whit for him or his
views, or my life ; sometimes I hated him —
always I feared him — but I married him.
Sinful, dishonoured wretch that I was !"

Is ' Jack,' your first husband, alive now?"
Eustace constrained himself to ask. " You
must give me no half confidence."

I never cared to know. He may be. He
is ' Sir John,' I suppose; married to some
other woman, perhaps. He left me willingly,
but my boy was stolen from me. It is for
him I am sorrowing and repenting."

You believe he is still living?"

"Believe! 1 know it. I have been hoping
and seeking ever since Oliver died, and at last
by a chance — I cannot tell you how — I got
news that he still lives. Lives! and away
from me!"

And you want me to bring him to you ;
or, to find him, and bring you news of him?"

Her face lighted with rapture, but his upraised
hand stayed her reply.

I will undertake nothing unless I possess
your full confidence. You have gained news
of him by chance — in some manner you do
not care to make known. Tell me what it
amounted to."

*' The Magraths took my boy for their own.
Their little Stephen died in the fever, so mine
took his place. Afterwards in America, when

other children were born to them, they were
ready enough to part with him to a rich English
lady, who has adopted him and brought
him up as a gentleman — the poor boy !"

The Vicar listened frowningly.

Do you know where the Magraths are to
be found?"

She shook her head. " I have poured out
money like water to find them, here and in
America, and I have failed."

^' Do you know the name of the rich English
lady — your son's present name, of course V

She shook her head again. " I never heard
it.

"Why do you call him 'Jack' when he
must have been known as ' Stephen' ?" he
asked, suddenly raising his keen piercing eyes
to hers.

She frowned uneasily. "I always thought
of him by that name, somehow. 1 couldn't
think of him as anything else. I am sure
that is his name now''

And he is — how old? Between thirty and

forty, or older?" making a random guess at
her age — possibly sixty.

She knitted her delicate brows once more,
and pressed her thin hands over her eyes.

I — I can't think he is that. He must be
young — quite young. Tall and fair like his
father, with kind bright eyes — blue eyes. I
should know them anywhere, and Jack's own
smile."

Mr. Stannard frowned. Was this delusion,
or wilful mystification? He put the question
aside for the present.

'•' You must let me think this over before I
can advise you. You may be much drawn to
your son — your first-born — that I can well
believe," — she gave a low, yearning cry and
stretched her hands out by way of response —
"but are you doing him a kindness in revealing
the sad secret of his birth ? Will he love you,
or owe you any thanks for proving him base
born?"

"Base born!" she almost shrieked, starting
to her feet again. "Never! Could I have

lived till now if I had believed that ? It
was my father's hatred of Jack made him say
the word. Jack never would have wronged
me. Never ! The marriage was a good one.
He swore it when he thought he was dying,
though he couldn't rightly prove it. No; he
may have lived to hate and forsake me, hut he
never dared to do me any dishonour, and,
now that Over is dead, I'll move heaven and
earth that justice shall be done to my boy !"

Stop!" almost shouted the Yicar, startled
out of all his composure. " You must not.
You shall not. Not till I have set before you
what you are going to do. You are going to
blacken the memories of your dead husband
and father ; to bring crushing disgrace on
your other children; and to proclaim yourself
what ? Ask your son if he would not rather
ding believing himself peasant born but honest
than own for a mother the vile creature that
you would make yourself out to be ? It is
the act of a mad woman. You come to me
for help and counsel. I counsel, I command

silence. Now and hereafter, silence. For the
sake of your living children, for the sake of
your dead husband and father, in the name of
your unknown son, I enjoin it. This is the
burden laid on you to bear to the end. Cast
it from you if you dare."

He stopped abruptly, startled at his own
vehemence and the effect of his words. Lady
Valerian had shrunk away under his first
indignant outburst, and cowered down in her
chair beneath his out stretched hand, all
scared and white. Then she began to tremble
violently as in an ague fit ; long - drawn
shuddering sighs escaped her, sighs that
became sobs and ended in a passionate
weeping. The Vicar was used to weeping
women, to the vociferous, unrestrained
lamentations of the lower orders, but he
was struck with the oddly childish character
of her grief It was more like the clearing
shower of tears after a fit of naughtiness
than the scalding drops of shame and
contrition, or even the sobs of hysterical

excitement. He waited for a little, and then
spoke a few encouraging words softly and
at intervals till the fit was over. She looked
up presently, mechanically arranging her
disordered head-dress and draping her shawl
around her, listening with a quiet, subdued
air.

Promise me," he ended, " that you will
drive away the thought of self-betrayal from
your mind. You can do nothing but harm.
Your son has been given into good hands,
you say, and has no need of you. The pain
of the separation has fallen as it should, on
the one who has sinned. What can you do
for him but bring sorrow and shame T

"I can make him rich," she said eagerly.
You do not know how wealthy I am. He
shall have Glenara and all the money Mr.
Meynell settled on me to keep it up. That
was the bribe that tempted my poor father,
money enough to free the estate — which is to
go to my eldest son. Do you think I could
bear to think of Oliver there ?"

Eustace groaned in spirit at the task which
lay before him. Here was an embarrassing
family secret given into his keeping. Lady
Valerian's mind was evidently failing her
beneath the bidden of it. Or did her sudden
frantic craving for spiritual aid simply mean
a desperate effort to secure an accomplice
in some wild scheme of restitution in secret '?
He must have time to think it out before
committing himself further.

'' I will give you help to the utmost of my
power," he said deliberately, " and will keep
your confidence sacred; but I must beg of
you some further help. I want the date of
your marriage and your son's birth. I want
the year when you had the last news of
him. I want his real name — his father's
name''

No !" she almost screamed, then controlled
herself by a strong effort. She kept her eyes
fixed on his, Awhile a sort of dumb struo^o^le
seemed to shake her frame with agony. " I
can't," she gasped at length. " I will not.

When they told me that dreadful day that
I had no right to it, then I vowed that it
should never pass my lips again till my dying
day. I should go mad if I were to see or hear
it now."

She sat panting and trembling, her eyes
glittering wildly in the lamplight, now and
then sending sharp sideway glances at
Eustace.

When shall I see you again ?" he asked.

I will write to you and f^^ a time,"
she said, rising. " I will go now. Goodbye."


Eustace opened the door and looked
out.

"Wait until I have seen whether your
carriage is there," he said, and hastened to
the porch, where he found the old verger on
his favourite three-legged stool, half asleep,
but resolutely maintaining his right to see
everybody out of the church, and the church
locked up to his satisfaction before he departed.


Lady Valerian clung to Eustace's arm suddenly
as they went down the aisle.

We are followed !" she whispered. " There
it is again! No, you needn't look; it is by
no earthly tread. I know it well. Hush !
It is by the spirit of the man I have wronged
of Oliver, my husband. It weill follow me
to my grave."

She hurried out into the clear night air and
cold autumn moonlight.

'• Good-bye," she said again, and then,
bending towards the Vicar, whispered : "I
feared him once, but the days are coming
when my boy will be by my side, and neither
man nor spirit can harm me then." And her
dark eyes sparkled through a sudden rain of
tears.

He hastened back more disturbed than he
cared to own even to himself. He cast one
rapid glance round the vestry as he turned
down the lamp, and, with the latest flicker,
caught sight of a small white oblong at his
feet.

He looked again at it before the light
flickered out, and the second glimpse was so
startling as to make him in all haste rekindle
the lio^ht and look ao^ain.

It was a tiny playing-card. The Seven of
Spades.

VOL. I. 11

UNDER THE STARS.

HE Seven of Spades.

Eustace picked up the card from
the vestry floor. An unaccountable
thrill of uneasy alarm passed through
him as he touched the harmless bit of pasteboard.
" Dropped by one of the choir, I
suppose," he said, to reassure himself. Yet
in his mind there lingered the conviction that
it had not been there when he and Lady
Valerian left the place. He carried it with him
out into the churchyard, and, bidding the old
verger good-night, set himself to think out
the strange story that had been confided to
him.

He wished he could disbelieve it from beginning
to end. Why should it not be the
fiction of a distempered brain prompted by
some secret ill-will of Lady Valerian towards
her son Oliver ? Her manner had been confused
when he pressed for details. She had
withheld every important point of the story,
every fact that might aid his search ; her son's
real name, age, description. Yet she spoke
the truth. He felt it. Her fierce, passionate
yearning for her boy was genuine — past all
feigning. And he must help her.

To and fro he paced under the churchyard
poplars, revolving and rejecting scheme after
scheme.

Could de Cressy help him? The duel must
have been a notorious fact in its day. An
English officer, the heir to a baronetcy, could
not have been done to death in the Phoenix
without open scandal. And yet — if " Jack "
had not been killed ? ]^o ! Eustace shrank
from contemplating that grievous possibility.
Jack must have been shot by Lord Kilmoyne ;

11—2

and with him and the Magraths must have
disappeared the only proofs of the marriage.
Let but Jack be dead, and the Yicar felt equal
to disposing of the claims of his son.

The Magraths. Would further search after
them be of use ? Lady Valerian by her own
showing had utterly failed to trace them.
Given two West of Ireland emigrants described,
to find their address thirty or forty
years later in the United States. A needle ina
truss of hay was a hopeful quest by comparison.
This was the identification of two
blades of grass in the whole hay-stack.

Nothing to be done but await Lady Valerian's
promised letter ; and here at last he turned up
his Vicarage steps and unlocked the door.

On his hall-table lay an unfamiliar cap and
stick. He regarded them with scant welcome
and entered his study, where he found their
proprietor pacing its narrow limits impatiently.
He was a spare, active, elderly man, with a
cousinly likeness to the Vicar, half buried ina
huge travelling-coat, with a Bradshaw in his

hand and an open Gladstone-bag on the table
beside him.

Arbuthnot Corbett ? Of all people ! I
thought you were at Davis !"

IVe been there and come home again, as
I shall from any place you can mention on the
map of Europe. As long as there is nothing
to speak of but solid earth between me and this
home of my heart, back I come to the dear old
smoky chimney-pots as sure as a carrier-pigeon.
But the sea — ah, that's another thing!"

He was rummaging in the bag as he spoke,
and produced a thick blue envelope, which he
threw across the table to Eustace, still talking
beyond possibility of interruption.

So I'm off to Liverpool by the next train,
and to New York by the ' Oceanic' in a fortnight.
The doctors have got their will of meat
last, you see. That is the last bit of work
I am to do for six months at least."

It's uncommonly good of you, I am sure,"
Eustace succeeded in saying. " Come and
have some dinner."

Xo, thanks. Your good housekeeper has
offered all imaginable refreshment. I was
afraid I should have to start without seeing
you. I've just a quarter of an hour longer.
You'll find all I have to say written down
there. Full instructions how to proceed in
tackling the trustees of your Parish charities.
It's a hornet's nest you have thrust your head
into, my man. I've taken counsel's opinion
as to the vested rights of your beadle."

Their talk for the next five minutes was
purely legal and parochial, and then Arbuthnot
Corbett jumped up and began to shut his
bag.

What are you going to do in America?"
asked his cousin.

I haven't a notion. What is a man to do
who isn't to meddle with politics, literature,
science, anything that makes life worth living?
A twelvemonth's ^ change of scene and gentle
amusement ' ! Twelvemonths' Death and
Burial!"

Can I get you any introductions T

^o, don't. I've got a portmanteau full
already. What's the good of them? Give
me something to do, and I'll bless your name
for ever."

Eustace started. " If I thought you were
in earnest " He stopped short. " I believe
I am possessed by a story I have just
been hearing, and am beginning to look at
everything that happens according to its bearing
on it."

Don't disappoint me. You were going
to ask me to do something. Out with it.
Quick! What were you going to ask?"

To find me two Irish emigrants, address
unknown ; also the date of their emigration.
I was just considering it a moment ago as the
most hopeless quest I could undertake."

Arbuthnot Corbett's notebook was out ia
an instant, and his keen face, all alert, was
turned to Eustace's with an expression of
eager interest. "Name ? Number of family?
Place of abode in Ireland?"

Eustace told him as much as he knew

himself, promising to forward any further
information he might receive later.

Mr. Corbett closed his note-book contentedly.
" It's the youngest you want — Stephen,
eh? Do you want him alive or dead?"

I should wish to find him dead," said the
Vicar, more honestly than ninety-nine men
out of a hundred dare have spoken.

'' That means if he's alive he's dangerous,"
and Corbett's sharp eyes twinkled. "Very
good. If he's living I'll cable, if he's dead
you can wait for the next mail. What's that ?"

That'' was the Seven of Spades, which
Eustace had unconsciously held all this time.

Oh, nothing ! A choir-boy's peccadillo.
I was absurdly startled by it just now,
though."

Corbett took it and examined it curiously.
Paris made. An unusual make and one of
a fresh pack. Not a choir boy's plaything,
my friend. Where did you find it ?"

In the vestry. I'd give something to
knows who dropped it."

His cousin without more ado possessed himself
of two of the pins used to fasten up notices
of services and memoranda on the wall near
the Vicar's writing-table, and stuck the card
up prominently above the fireplace.

There, that's incongruous enough to attract
notice. Leave it there and keep your eyes
open when any new-comer enters, and, if my
brains are worth half the sacrifices I am
making to get them back into working order,
you'll hear something of that Seven of Spades
before a month's out. Time's up ! Good-bye.
You shall have a Magrath within six months
if there's one left in the land."

Many days followed, during which Eustace
Stannard went about his Avork pursued by a
vision of Lady Valerian's great, passionate eyes
filled with their agony of fierce impatience.
Every spare moment was devoted to considering
her story from all imaginable points of
view, re-reading and annotating the cipher
notes of the interview, which he had made
with the utmost care and accuracy, or awaiting

her promised summons which never
came.

He had made a few desultory and unsatisfactory
inquiries on his own account meanwhile,
beginning as was most natural with
Lionel de Cressy. It was in a singularly
conscious fashion that he dropped her name
into the conversation the first time that he
found himself alone with his Curate. Lionel
was too frankly surprised to be suspicious.

Lady Valerian !" he exclaimed in surprise.
Where in the world have you been meeting
her? Not in St. Fridolin's, I'll engage."

Why not in St. Fridolin's?"

Would you have all the Meynells turn in
their graves with horror at the thoughts of
one of the name setting a foot in it? Oliver
was a shining light of Exeter Hall, you
know, and his mantle has fallen on his son's
shoulders. It's the way of the firm. You
know the great bankers, Meynell, Meynell,
and Most?"

*' I have seen her name constantly at meetings

and on subscription lists. Mr. Meynell
is her son?"

Yes. He's a good solemn old boy, with
a solemn wife and two solemn babies. We
don't see much of each other. Now the
daughter, Mabel — Lady Charles Brant — and
I are great allies. She's musical, clever and
queer. They're all odd, more or less."

Do you happen to remember the late
Lord Kilmoyne?"

Valerian's father? The maddest old scamp!
The regular, typical, claret-drinking, duel-fighting
old Irish nobleman : the gayest of
young dogs to the day of his death. How a
child of his could ever have married into the
Meynell family passes all comprehension."

Mr. Stannard listened to this biographical
sketch in meditative silence. " Did he not
fight some rather notorious duel ?"

With Fighting Fitzgerald you mean !
That's the only one I know. Ah, t-hat was
a queer story "

But here Mr. Stannard somewhat curtly

suggested that his business was in arrears, and
postponed the narration.

Looking in the Peerage he could only find
Lady Valerian's name entered as the " youngest
daughter of the seventh Earl of Kilmoyne.
Born 1823. Married to Oliver Meynell, Esq.,
1841." That was all. In an old copy, procured
with some difficulty, he found '' Kil-boyne,
7th Earl," and a record of his services
in the Peninsula. He found the younger
brother Claude de Cressy and his wife (Aunt
de Cressy, Lionel's mother), and his sister Lady
Catherine de Cressy {' old, blind Aunt Kitty ').
He found a string of names of Lady Valerian's
generation, all but herself dying in infancy
or unmarried ; but of any marriage previous
to that with Olivier Meynell found he no trace.
It had, if it had ever taken place, l)een kept a
family secret to the last.

So much the harder to prove it, if it had
ever taken place. There was the blot at
starting.

It was a wretched business all round, and

he could do nothing further till more material
was given into his hands.

After all it was Arbuthnot Corbett who
made the first sign.

His letter was dated from Queenstown, and,
preliminaries over, began :

Find sou a Magrath, did you ask ? I've
found you a dozen, I believe, and your man
amongst them. I thought out my plans
during my journey to Liverpool, and decided
on delaying my start till I could see whether
it was not possible to pick up the trail in
Ireland. As the doctors consider the question
of climate quite a secondary one, no one
opposed my eccentric fancy for a winter visit
to Killarney, and once there I made tracks
promptly for the place you named, Glenara.
Did you know it was a castle as well as a
town, both belonging to Meynell, the banker ?
A flourishing region, thanks to his money-bags
and his Scotch agent — shot by this time, probably.


I made friends with the priest, Father

Fahey — a very decent fellow. He threw up
his hands and exclaimed when the name of
Magrath passed my lips. ' Did he know it ?
As if the very life hadn't been worried out of
him, and Father Dennis Moriarty before him,
about that same ! First one coming and then
the other after Stephen Magrath, and no help
could anyone give him at all, not even
Magrath's own sister, Ellen Done. He had
gone to America, wife and children — three
girls and one boy — and that was the last of
him.' ' When had he gone V ' Indeed, Ellen's
memory had not been strong. She used to
say it was either the year of the famine or the
year of the building of Dine Todd's stables
fie. '40 to '49).' I should have left Father
Fahey discoursing, out of all patience, but fora
comical twinkle in his eye, and an interlocutory
' But wait till I tell ye,' that prefaced
each illustration of the hopelessness of all
search, and I was rewarded. ' What would
ye call that now V he ended, with a triumphant
flourish, producing from his pocket-book a

letter. A genuine letter — and recent — and
from old Stephen Magrath himself. It was
written to his sister, the above-mentioned
Ellen Done, enclosing money to enable her
to join him, supposing her to be yet alive and
unmarried. I enclose a copy. Ellen having
died some months previously, the money was
returned ; but there was the letter and the
address — ' Petropolis, Illinois,' and from there
you may expect my next letter to be dated,
that is, if all that's mortal of me be not
delivered to the fishes before we sight Sandy
Hook."

The letter enclosed was brief and to the
purpose. The writer was " doing well in a
large grocery and general store, and hoped his
dear sister would advise with Father Dennis,
or whoever was priest at Glenara now, as
to the best way of joining him. Bridget —
rest her soul — was gone, but Katty kept house
for him. Xorah was married to a German
tailor, and the boy was prospering."

Prospering ! " Jack," the possible baronet,

the certain heir of Glenara and of Lady
Valerian's share of the Meynell wealth, prospering
in a grocery and general store in a
western town ! One of the strongest temptations
of the Vicar's life assailed him then : To
put the letter in the fire there and then, and
telegraph to Corbett to drop the search and
keep silence. So powerful was the impulse
that in sheer self distrust the Vicar folded the
letter, and without another moment's consideration
set out at once to place it in Lady
Valerian's hands, and take the matter out of his
own disposal.

Seagrave Place is a once aristocratic and
still eminently respectable region, A short
street of handsome, dull, old-fashioned houses,
that seemed very silent and lonely when
Eustace entered it about eight o'clock that
evening. Number 11 had been the townhouse
of the Meynells from father to son
for three generations, and Lady Valerian still
clung to it. She had, as in duty bound,
indeed, offered it to her son, Oliver, on his

marriage ; but he, with filial devotion, refused
to disturb her — perhaps moved by Mrs.
Oliver's declaration that she, personally,
would prefer second-floor lodgings in Publico,
so oppressive was the majestic gloom that
enveloped the locality.

Eustace — approaching on the opposite side
of the road — stopped to gaze meditatively at
the lighted windows of the house. They
suddenly grew dim as he watched them —
rather to his surprise — till he noticed the
bright streaks at the edges of the thick blinds
of the lower windows, and guessed that the
inmates had gone downstairs to dinner. The
windows above still glowed with fire-light,
and in one shone a reading-lamp, casting a
queer elongated figure of the tall chair-back
near it on the white linen blind. Another
shadow, and a moving one, became confused
with it for a moment. Presently, a woman's
head and shoulders were flung in grotesque
distortion across the white field of the blind,
and then the blind itself was slightly pushed

VOL. I. 12

aside. Some one gazed out on the streets
below, and then disappeared, giving place
to the tall chair-back again.

It was but a trifle — the action of some
housemaid on the look-out for her friend the
policeman ; and yet it sent a rush of unaccountable
curiosity and misgiving through the
watcher's mind, and made him stay his steps
a space.

The street-door of No. 11 opened suddenly,
but very softly, just as he at last crossed
the road. A woman slipped out and drew
it behind her with noiseless care ; but before
she could descend the steps, Eustace, with
rapid decision, made an impetuous rush, and,
coming perilously near collision, caused her to
start back.

I beg your pardon. Is this Dr. Diarmid's ?"
he asked, using a name he had read on a brass
plate three doors off.

Not here. I do not know him," was the
sharp reply ; and the speaker hurried past him,
and was off, and away doAvn the street into

the darkness before he could say another
word.

Never mind, I shall know your black eyes
and white face again if need be, I think, my
good woman, better than you will know me,"
was his reflection as he turned round and rang
the bell on his own account.

Lady Valerian Meynell, the grave domestic
assured him, was seriously unwell, too unwell
to receive anyone. He was evidently a person
of discrimination, accustomed to deal with Hs
mistress's clerical callers. Mr. Meynell would
see anyone on business for her ladyship any
day by appointment. Mr. Meynell was there
that evening.

Eustace thanked him hastily, left his card,
and departed. He would post the letter before
lie slept, he resolved, with a few lines of explanation
that could betray nothing should it fall
into the wrong hands. The door closed heavily
behind him. It was answered unexpectedly
by the clang of an area gate close at hand,
and Eustace became aware of a portly female

12—2

form wearing a black silk gown, and carrying
a big basket, emerging from the lower regions
of the house, and deliberately wending her
way in the same direction as himself

Mrs. Margetts, the cook, having got the
principal features of the dinner off her mind,
and leaving the minor details to be filled in
bv the kitchen-maid, was taking her evenings
out.

Cook was stout, and the basket heavy, so
that she made but slow progress ; and Eustace,
with a few steps, was able to overtake her.

It would greatly have surprised the good
soul if she could have known the shiver of
distaste with which the handsome young
clergyman forced himself to stop and address
her politely.

'' You are one of Lady Materia ]\Ieyne]rs
servants, are you not ?"

"I am cook at her ladyship's," with an
affable smile, shifting the basket to the other
arm. " And what may be your object in
asking, sir?"

I want some information about a person
who was at the house to-day. I mean no
harm by the inquiry. I am a clergyman, and
a friend of your mistress. Here is my card.
If I apply to Lady Valerian I may make mischief,
so I ask you."

Good Mrs. Margetts nodded and blinked at
the card. " What sort of a person might you
be meaning, sir ?" she asked primly, with
pinched lips.

A youngish woman, dark, about your
height, but thinner \ with a pale complexion ;
in a dark cloak — lined with red." The last
detail suddenly flashed across his memory.

"0— h— h!" said Mrs. Margetts, with a
long-drawn interjection of contempt, as she
recognised the description. " Was it lier you
was meaning?"

'' I suppose so. Who was she?"

** Madame Euphrosyne. At least, that's
what she calls herself"

"I want to know what she is doing at your
house."

Mending lace, that's her trade, or she says
so. It's my belief she's one of those who
iro round corn-cutting and enamelled'. Not
that we've any complexions to make up at our
house, thank goodness! An uppish young
person, with a black bag ; who rings the
visitors' bell, and won't wait in the hall if it
was ever so."

Mr. Stannard nodded comprehension. "How
long has she been coming to see Lady Valerian?"

That's more than I can tell you, sir. It
began after Mr. Meynell's death, I know. My
lady went to France for a change. It was
after she came home that we first saw Madame
Euphrosyne about, and she's been coming, on
and off, ever since."

Mrs. Margetts began to look inquiringly at
the Vicar in her turn, as if expecting some
explanation of his interest in the obnoxious
young person ; and he began to wonder himself
what he was driving at by his questions.
Beyond the fact that the woman's exit from
the house he was interested in had been furtive

and odd, he had absolutely no reason for
bestowing more notice on her than on any
other of Lady Valerian's visitors or tradespeople.
He had acted on an impulse, and
might end in an utterly wrong position if he
went too far.

Can you tell me where she comes from?"

'' Nobody knows, sir. She just comes and
goes. She was at our house to-day, about
live o'clock. I saw her on the steps, that is to
say."

'' Thanks." Eustace argued fiercely with
his irrational suspicions for a brief space, and
then gave in to them.

I know no harm of the woman, I am
bound to say, but I should like to hear more
of her. Her address, and any further information
you can obtain, is worth a couple of
sovereigns to me at any time you like to bring
It.

'' You shall have it, sir," said cook, with
decision. ** A nasty, bold-faced thing ! — Not
that she comes in my way. I'd let her know !

LADY VALERIA.

It's the others can't abide her. — You trust to
Martha Margetts, sir. You shall have the
address as sure as ever is. Good-night, and
many thanks, sir." And Martha Market's
and her basket took their way doAvn the next
turning.

^•'the fair queen n."

jSI'LY a fine lady's freak." So had
Mr. Stannard disposed of Mrs.

cC^^ct^ Damien's offer of assistance. It
recurred to his mind, however, not many days
later, when he paid another visit to the poor
lonely little cripple in Lavender Row. Here
was a case for a lady's delicate ministration, he
thought. The good neighbour, Mrs. Beltran,
had suddenly, and without farewell or note of
warning, disappeared ; paying a quarter s rent
in advance, and taking the key of her room
away with her : and Elsie looked ill and
doubly forlorn.

He found his opportunity the next Sunday

evening : in the church porch, after service,
hastily introduced " Mr. Paramount, my
churchwarden," threw in a word of explanation
— " Mrs. Damien is desirous of knowing
something of St. Fridolin's ; I can think of no
one better able to assist her than you," and
hurried off, his conscience relieved of an
obligation. A precise, unhappy-looking, little
old gentleman made her a formal little clerkly
bow. A gentleman every inch, despite threadbare
clothes and patched boots.

May I ask what sort of information you
require?"

All you can give me," was the comprehensive
reply. "First of all, who is this?"
And she turned to the pale little daughter
hanging on his arm, her great eyes open in
astonishment at her father's new and splendid
acquaintance.

Mr. Paramount' s pinched features relaxed,
and a faint frost-bitten smile played round the
corners of his mouth. " This is my little girl,
Elsie. She belongs to the parish ; born and

christened here, and brought up within the
sound of St. Fridolin s bell."

An electric flash of mutual interest and
sympathy passed in a look from one fair face
to the other before Mrs. Damien spoke again,
slowly and with a radiant smile.

I think I need go no further. I came hereto
look for a friend, and I think I have found
one. I want first of all some one to advise
me and to help me. Do you think Elsie
will?"

Elsie's face flushed with rapture, and her
eyes glowed with soft enthusiasm. " What
can / do?" she breathed in shy, tremulous
tones, as she put her hand in the warm, soft
clasp that sought it.

Mrs. Damien made her sit beside her on the
old oaken bench, and still holding her hand
told her her errand. How she was rich, friendless
and idle, surrounded at home by rich,
many-friend, and well-occupied folk, in no
need of her. How chance had brought her to
St. Fridolin's, where she fancied a niche midst

be found for her ; to all of which Elsie listened
with devotional rapture, and Mr. Paramount
doubtfully, as savouring of homish doctrine
of self-sacrifice and mortification. Still he
would not deny that there was more to do in
the parish than lie could see way to manage ;
much that was not in the line of either curate
or churchwarden ; and, providing there was
no nonsense of Guilds or Festivals mixed up
in it, he for his part would have no objection
to see it done ; which concession gained him
such a dazzling sunshiny smile of thanks that
his miserable little features melted under it,
and lie beamed in return, and, furthermore,
escorted his beautiful new acquaintance to her
carriage with cjuite a dash' of youthful gallantry.


So, regardless of weather or calendar, began
the summer days of Elsie's life. With Mrs.
Damien came the sunshine ; new life ; new
thoughts ; new work. It was tonic to the
poor child's spirit. Her stunted, under-fed
mind grew and expanded, perhaps over-rapidly.

Her beauty developed and refined with her
mental growth, but took an added touch of
wistful sadness. Perhaps with the growing
knowledge of life and all that it held
came a keener sense of her own cruel limitations.


Only a fine lady's freak," had repeated the
Yicar ; but the days of chill October when he
first met her passed and november With its
fogs followed, and still he knew it lasted. He
saw her, sometimes at one of the daily services,
sometimes driving: through the busy streets,
sometimes escorted by de Cressy, making her
way into some very dingy regions sith the air
of being quite at home there.

Only a fine lady's freak !" he persisted.
Came December with its slush and snow.
Still the graceful fur-clad figure crossed his
path, gay and bright and confident of his
sympathy, let his greeting be never so ungenial.


A society paper found its way occasionally
to the dull old Georgian mansion, and with.

much self-contempt he caught himself stopping
when he came to a paragraph in which lier
name might chance to be mentioned. By that
he discovered that she was a personage of note
in her way ; one of last season's beauties who
had been painted by an R.A. and been admired
by a Eoyal Highness. A Baltimore beauty
of good English birth, and connected by
marriage with more than one noble family.
The editor, indeed, was kind enough to speak
of her late husband as " poor dear Noel
Damien," in quite brotherly fashion, and
allude to his love affairs and money difficulties
in a style that must have been highly consoling
to his widow.

Stories of her sayings and doings, of her
charm, her kindliness, her energy, her patience
under rebuffs and disappointments, and, alas !
of her extravagance, capriciousness, love of
excitement, reached him through de Cressy :
who, he noticed with grim amusement, had
fallen desperately in love With her in his own
little odd way — under protest as it were — with

a full sense of the uselessness and absurdity of
the proceeding.

"A fine lady's freak!" said the Yicar to
himself for the last time. The New Year had
begun, and a day of premature Spring sunshine
was lighting up the land. He stood in
the churchyard watching the progress of his
Parish Room. The indefinable stir and promise
of spring was in the air. The chirping of the
astonished sparrows mingled with the music
of the masons' tinkling trowels ; and, as the
year's first streak of sunshine glanced athwart
the smoky slates, Mrs. Damien, with de
Cressy beside her, sauntered up to him.

How fast it grows !" Mrs. Damien was
saying, looking at the red brick box before
her. " We ought to grow a pear tree up the
south side. Or is that too secular? Something
ecclesiastic. Would a vine and a fig
tree be more correct?"

"We!" Eustace winced with an odd, exasperated,
amused, not altogether unpleasant
feeling. Before he could analyse it she went on.

When it is finished, I wonder if you would
let me have it for an evening every week : to
gather my girls in ?"

Your girls : what girls have you found in
St. Fridolin's.^" he asked, rather puzzled.

"All there are," she answered, carelessly.
Out-door workers in the big shops, ,
bookbinders ; I don't know how I
came to find them alL" She stopped with a
certain chilled air of disappointment. She had
detected his wandering attention ; even a slight
frown of impatience. How could she tell that
it was impatience with himself for thinking not
of her words but of the pretty musical inflections
of her sweet voice, of the marvellous gifts
of witchery Heaven showers on women, to bea
snare and a stumbling-block in a man's
pathway.

He recalled his wandering thoughts instantly,
and gave his consent without the
grace of readiness ; then she bade him farewell
and turned away.

He stood meditatively a few minutes longer

just where she left hiui, indignantly addressing
some mental enquiries to a purely
imaginary antagonist. Why was any honest
effort for the good of others to be persistently
sneered down ? Must it not bring its own
blessing, however ill-directed ? Had not
butterflies, idle, mischievous nuisances as he
the antagonist — might be pleased to consider
them, their place and work in creation
as well as popular preachers ? Might not
beauty, grace, and winning ways prove in
the end as great forces for good and evil as
zeal, eloquence, or a Double First ? What
right had anyone to carp and criticise and
doubt ? Or was it himself that he doubted ?

The Vicar cut his meditations short at this
point, and hurried off to interview his builder.

All this time the Seven of Spades held its
place where Arbuthnot Corbett had posted it,
with no result, hitherto, except that of afford -
ing cause for speculation to the Vicar's visitors
and some diversion to Mr. de Cressy.

It was well known in the parish that from

VOL. I. 13

nine till ten o'clock every morning the Vicar's
study was free to all comers ; and Mrs. Good-life,
trotting briskly to and fro on household
errands, was wont to shake her trim little
head impatiently at the rabble of un scraped
shoes that entered on this invitation. A very
motley crew trod in them on one particular
dirty morning some weeks later.

Leave the card up," de Cressy had
pleaded. " Just this one hour longer." Then
in had come a printer's boy with damaged
eyesight, wanting an order for some hospital ;
a slatternly woman with a baby and a claim
on some local charity ; a decent woman with
red eyes, to entreat the Vicar to try and get
her husband to join the Blue Ribbon Army.
Then a burly " Fellowship Porter " who had
taken the ribbon and found it didn't ao^ree
with him, to consult on the best means of
getting clear of his obligations.

Of each newcomer did de Cressy solemnly
demand, " Have you ever seen that card
before ? Or one like it ? Can you offer any

suo-question as to how it came to be found in
the vestry of St. Fridolin's ?" To all of
which he received equally solemn and decided
narratives. Then came a blank interval, and
then — Mrs. Damien!

Mr. Stannard rose ceremoniously to greet
her, and de Cressy dropped into a chair, blushing
to the tips of his ears, and immersed himself
in a pile of reports as demure as a cat in a
dairy.

I have come to say good-bye. I am
going away," she began. " A friend of mine
the only relation I have in the world —
-wants me to go abroad with her, and I don't
see how I can refuse." She spoke hesitatingly,
almost apologetically, de Cressy noticed, and
the Vicar listened without response. " I don't
know that I am doing any particular good or
harm here. Some people may miss me — one
or two whom I have been able to help a
little."

St. Fridolin's cannot be expected to be
ill ways your first considerations Mr. Stannard

13—2

said, constrainedly. " We must be prepared
to give way to other and more urgent claims
upon you."

She looked at him, her eyes kindling as if
in resentment of some latent sneer.

I don't think I quite understand you, or
you me, Mr. Stannard. You talk as if I were
withdrawing my name from a subscription-list.
Friendship — kindly sympathy — are what I
have found to be most needed wherever I
have gone. One can't withdraw such things
at a moment's notice, nor make good the
withdrawal. Not that I speak from personal
experience," she said, with a forced little
laugh. " I should have been grateful enough
for sympathy and advice myself many a time,
if you had found it possible to give it."

*^ You might hare always counted on that 1"
he answered, warmly. " I cannot imagine why
you have ever doubted it." Then stiffly :
Please call upon me for any assistance in
my power, whenever it is needed."

De Cressy looked up at him half indignant.

half quizzically. Mrs. Damien bowed frigid
thanks.

'' Can you spare a few moments to poor
Elsie Paramount ? I found her distressed
beyond all my powers of consolation just
now, and brought her here to tell you her
troubles."

Mr. Stannard's answer was to prepare to
accompany her to the carriage. Mrs. Damien
stopped him on the way.

Be frank with me, Mr. Stannard. Tell
me at once what I have done or left undone
to offend you."

Offend me!" he repeated, confused by this
downright attack. "Why should you suppose
such a thing?"

'' Because, though you know I leave St.
Fridolin's against my will, and only from a
sense of duty, you give me no ' God-speed ' at
parting, no promise of welcome on my return.
Because you are less than courteous and more
than critical — captious and unjust in your
estimate of me."

"No, no. Unjust? As heaven knows,
never." His voice grew low, and quivered
as with pain. " Oh, forgive me if I have
wounded or discouraged you. I have a rough,
churlish nature. Will sou bear with me a
little longer, and believe in my good will ?"

Indeed I weill, if you won't be so careful
to conceal every trace of its existence for the
future," she answered, brightly. " Shall we
take a fresh departure, and try to be better
friends when I come home again? Very good.
Now come to Elsie."

Elsie had been watching this little dialogue
with painful interest from the carriage, little
guessing how small a share she or her concerns
had in it. Perceiving that it was ended,,
she got out slowly and painfully and joined
them.

My child, you should have sent for me,"^
exclaimed Eustace, hastening to help her and
bring her in to the Vicarage, where Mrs.
Damien left her, followed by de Cressy.

No. You must not come to our house""

replied Elsie, with great solemn eyes of mystery.
•' Xever again. You are in danger,
fearful danger, Mr. Stannard, and I have come
to warn you."

Her voice shook with the weight of the
words she uttered. She fixed her eyes on the
Yicar and nodded her head with portentous
meaning;. He would not have laughed for the
world, and looked as much impressed as she
could wish.

I am very sorry to hear that, Miss Paramount.
You are a brave little friend to come
to my aid. Who is my enemy?"

Her colour came and went, and her thin
fingers interlaced themselves nervously. " Oh,
I am so sorry and so ashamed!" she broke
forth after a struggle. " It's father I"

DO

Mr. Stannard knitted his brows in dire
perplexity. He had a certain liking and
much respect for good Mr. Paramount, and
was honestly surprised at his antagonism.

You must be mistaken," he said, gently.
I have never done any harm to your father,

and be could do none to me, even if he
wished it."

Oh, but others could," said Elsie, shaking
her head with a gloomy triumph, "if he chose
to make them. He says there's law, and the
Bishop can help him."

My dear child," Eustace began impatiently,
then checked himself. " Mr. Paramount is
too good a man to do me any wilful wrong,
I am sure, and I promise you solemnly I will
do none to him. I am just as grateful to you
as if there had been real denser, though."

And are you sure nothing very dreadful
is going to happen T asked Elsie, with rather
a disappointed inflection in her voice.

Nothing. Now cheer up, and, like a wise
little girl, try and tell me if there is anything
I can do to show him how much I wish to
be friends."

If it Wasn't for the Galleries !" sighed
she.

What Galleries \ Do you mean those in
the Church ? They are unsafe, you know.

They ought to have been renewed or palled
doAvn years ago."

"He won't believe it'* she went on more
disconsolately. " He says it's all of a piece with
the rest of the Innovations — ' the thin end of
the wedge ;' and the — the Doles and the bread."

I imputed no dishonesty to him or anyone,
you may remember ; but I should have
been wanting in common honesty myself if I
had not called attention to the scandalous
misappropriation of the parish charities. Don't
you see that ?"

It cast reflections on father all the same,"
deplored Elsie, aggravating obtuse. Then
suddenly melting : " Don't think too hardly
of father, please, sir. I think sometimes — "
and her voice sank into an awed whisper,
his troubles must have gone to his head.
He never did such a thing before — to spend
his evenings in a public-house — and such a
low one! The Blue Dog — Oh, Mr. Stannard!"
The poor little maid's voice quavered, and her
head sank.

What troubles V he asked, for he saw her
heart was full.

'' Sam's lost his place. His last chance ;
and the firm won't overlook it. Indeed —
indeed it was not his fault this time."

How did it happen T asked the Yicar,
gravely.

*' Some drunken men frightened a woman
on Monday night, and she gave Sam into
custody. She said it was a mistake next
day, but "

If Sam had been safe at home the mistake
needn't have happened. This is the third
situation he has lost since I came here, is
it not ?"

The fourth," admitted the poor little sister,
and all through no real fault, sir !"

Losing letters, punctuality, difficulties
with the police, and playing the fool in office
hours may be a man's misfortunes, but they
are at least not unavoidable ones," was the
dry comment. It overthrew Elsie's last vestige
of self-control.

'' Oh, don't, don't, please, sir! It must bo
my fault. I've done my best since mother
died, but I can't make our home what it
oucrht to be, and that's what's driving' them
both wrong. We've all gone wrong since
mother died I" The sobs would be stayed
no longer, and she burst into a tempest of
grief.

He cast about for some words of consolation.
Before the first could pass his lips,
with startling abruptness the storm ceased.
Elsie struggled bolt upright in her chair, her
little wet ball of a pocket-handkerchief arrested
midway to her eyes, swallowing down the last
half of a sob, and staring at something above
him, the picture of consternation.

'what is if? Why, you can't know anything
about that Miss Paramount *?" he exclaimed,
for her startled gaze was fixed full
upon the Seven of Spades.

How did it come there ?" she gasped.

That is what I want to know. Did you
ever see it before ?"

"Xever!" she replied, emphatically. "It
was lost from the pack."

Where was it lost ? I know where it
was found."

At om house," she began ; then the recollection
of all the circumstances flashed across
her mind, and she came to a stop with an
imploring look in her eyes, and her cheeks
hotly blushing. She turned away her head
with a little deprecating gesture that pleaded
so eloquently with him to spare her further
questioning that he felt he could not persist.
You must not keep Mrs. Damien longer,"
he said, " and half the parish are waiting to
see me. Good-bye, and thank you for jour
kind thought of me."

That question is answered," he observed
to de Cressy, presently ; " and answered as
I expected. A relic of young Sam Paramount's
presence. His sister recognised it
directly. I might have guessed whose pocket
it came from."

Well, I should not have thought it of

the boy. He doesn't go in for that line of
mischief "

Besides, he's so uncommonly useful in
your Amateur Orchestral Society, eh? I
outfit to have known better than to disparage
the one Clarinet to the conductor."
And with a laugh Eustace tore the card across
and dropped it in the wastepaper-basket.

Then in came an archaeological waiting to
explore ] a genteel female with a questionable
petition and subscription-list ; two girls to
give in their names for Confirmation; a converted
gas-fitter with a Mission — also a new
patent burner to sell; a lay-helper for instructions;
and a rosy errand-boy out of breath to
pay a friendly call, and thank the Yicar forgetting
him his place. He was the last,
except the postman, and when he too had
departed, and the clock struck the hour,
forth sallied Mrs. Goodliffe triumphantly, and
ordering maid and broom to the front, saw
the steps restored to their pristine fairness.

The bells began to ring for the morning

service, but they fell unheeded on Eustace's
ears. He had closed his door gently on the
last comer, and shut himself in with his
thoughts. He had done with them now —
these intruders from without, who had pressed
in with their paltry needs between him and
the gracious memory of her presence, just as
their footsteps had trampled out the trace hers
might have left. He noted the very spot on
his bare deal table where her slim gloved
hand had rested. From the dusky shadow of
her hat, two bright eyes seemed to shine out
reproachfully on him. The scent of the red
rose nestling against her white throat still
lingered in the air — What was that lying at
his feet? The very rose, crushed and trodden
out of all loveliness, where she had dropped
it. He picked it up and held it — not with a
lover's touch, but with a secret passionate
grip like a stolen gem, his breath coming
quickly, and his eyes gleaming almost fiercely.
Then he did a curious thin*. Kneeling:
before his fire, very tenderly he plucked leaf

by leaf away, dropping them one by one into
the heart of the allowing: embers, watching-them
shrivel and vanish in faint, white film
ashes, till nought remained but the crushed
and battered calyx. He looked at it greedily
as it lay on his open palm. " Xot even this,
except of her own free gift." He spoke under
his breath, but even as he spoke he bent and
kissed it — once — twice, and then dropped it
with the rest.

THE GIFT OF THE RED FLOWER.

N the day on which this story
opened, the finger of some med-dung
Fate twining and twisting
the life-threads that had till then been running
so smoothly apart, caught one stray filament,
hitherto floating aimlessly, and tangled it into
the web.

Elsie Paramount woke to her work-a-day
world next morning with a curious sense that
all life had changed somehow ; or her point
of view, perhaps. She opened her eyes to the
same ugly little den of a bedroom, kept spotlessly
clean and trim at a daily cost of such
painful toil as many a fine lady never knows

from season's end to season's end, and limped
forth from it, white and frail, to the old
monotonous round of work.

She found the little parlour newly swept,
the kettle filled and the fire lighted. That
was graceless Sammy's work. His feckless
hands could be as deft as a woman's in her
behalf. What remained to be done cost her
many a slow journey from corner cupboard to
table, and from table to fireplace ; but the
breakfast was ready at last, all in the exact
order of the good old days before " Mother's"
strong arms and brisk feet lay at rest for ever.

Then she went to the open window where
her pots of mignonette stood, overhung by
the scarlet-runners of Sampson's training, and
leant out to see above the blank wall that
bounded her horizon " whether the sky looked
blue to-day." As she did so, a sound overhead
made her start. The ponderous creak
of the great wooden window shutter. Mrs.
Beltran must have come home. Elsie felt a
sudden pang of remorse as she thought how

VOL. I. 14

little she had missed her during the six
months she had been away, and how little
wishful she was ever to see her again.

The little clock in the corner struck; a
brisk step was heard outside, and old Mr.
Paramount appeared, spruce and well-brushed,
if somewhat threadbare at knees and elbows,
with his cravat neatly tied, and his square-toed
boots resplendent.

Good-morning, my dear. Have you slept
well? You are looking better, I think." His
invariable formula, from which Elsie never
dissented. Then out of the big Bible and
worn little book of prayers which she had
laid beside his plate, he conducted a short
service, of which graceless Sammy only received
the benefit of the concluding half as he
slunk into his seat near the door, to be greeted
by a curt " Good-morning, sir," as they sat
down to breakfast.

This was to-day an embarrassed, uncomfortable
meal. Mr. Paramount stirred his
tea viciously, snapped at his bacon, and kept

his eyes averted from the unwelcome prodigal
who ate and drank in a deprecating, apologetic
fashion, helped himself to butter furtively, and
refused another cup of tea with a look that
took away Elsie's last pretence of appetite.

Father," she said, driven in desperation
to break the thunder charged silence. " Have
you heard I Mrs. Damien asked Sampson
last night to play his clarinet at her party
next Monday. She says she can find no one
else to do it so well, and I'm to go and hear
him!"

Delighted, I'm sure," in a sour little tone.
•• It's great news for me to hear that there's
an opening for Sampson anywhere.'^

"Now, father!" pleaded Elsie.

'' I'm going to try Vaux and Viler's again,"
humbly suggested the prodigal. " Young
]mr. Idler said he'd see what he could do."

It's your last chance, I warn you. I have
stretched my influence to the utmost limits ;
you must go your own way if this fails,"
spoke his father, sternly

14—2

*' If I only might!" broke out Sammy, with
a hopeful look. " See here, father ; I know it's
partly my own fault "

Partly !" with a venomous sneer.

*' Well, altogether then ; but a man isn't
born a clerk — even a bad one ; and IVe no
hope of ever making a good one ; and I hate
oh, how I hate the City ! More than I can
tell. I want fresh air. I want room to use
my arms and legs. I only feel a man when
I'm out with my company."

Playing at soldiers," was the acrid
comment.

"Let me make it earnest then !" pleaded the
boy. " There's fighting coming, everyone says
so, in Egypt, if not with France, and I should
be worth something then. I know my drill.
I shouldn't be a raw recruit "

Sam stopped, for his father had sunk back
in his chair, his little grey eyes expanded in
horror, and his whole face convulsed with the
effort to gasp out indignation too mighty for
speech.

"You mean enlist!" he at last exploded.
A son of mine — enlist!"

Why not 1" said Sammy, limiting up his
arguments. " I should at least earn food
and clothing, which I can't do now ; and
besides — " out of Sam's pocket came a well-thumped
pamphlet with " Recruiting," " By
AuTHOiiixr," conspicuous on its first page —
I could get four shillings a day as a regimental
clerk."

"Be quiet, sir! Be quiet I say!" shouted
Mr. Paramount.

Fifteen shillings eventually as a Quartermaster!"
shouted Sammy, louder.

Will you be silent?" choking with wrath.

Fifty pounds a month as a deputy-commissary
in India and the rank of captain —
or if I didn't go to India and can pass the
exam, and get recommended by my commanding
officer — and see if I don't do one and the
other — I may get a commission just the same.
Here it is in print. See it for yourself.
Captain! Major! Colonel! General! Why not

I as well as another?" And Sammy, breathless,
and at the end of his ammunition, held
out the pamphlet to his father, whose only
reply was to plunge forward and strike it
down, while an impious ejaculation, the first
that had ever escaped those respectable lips,
came crashing forth with vigour, making Elsie
start and shiver, and Sammy feel that things
where getting serious indeed.

Mr. Paramount sank back in his chair
panting and glaring, as much in horror at
his own profanity as anything else. ^' You're
driving me mad between you !" he broke out
again wrathfully. " What have I done to
bring this on my old age ? I that have toiled
and slaved to keep you all respectable ! My
boy turns from me to herd with the scum of
the earth, and my girl sides with him against
her poor old father!"

The poor old man's voice dropped into a
shaky, miserable quaver. Elsie's tears had
been quietly falling into her untasted tea for
some moments, and now she sobbed aloud,

rending Sammy's affectionate heart to the
core.

Don't cry, Birdie. I'll give it up. There,"
tossing the obnoxious pamphlet into the fender,
"that's at an end. And now for Vaux and
Idler's." He gave himself a shake, half-sullen,
half-desperate ; and while the old man
brushed his shabby hat with trembling hands :
It's what it must come to, dear, if I'm to be
good for anything in this world," he whispered
as he kissed her.

Day after day passed, and Mrs. Beltran
made no sign.

Elsie knew she was there, and wondered a
little, but was content. She never felt lonely
now. She had fine company of her own who
used to come to visit her in the long still
afternoon hours when the work of the house
was done, and kind motherly Mrs. llidge, who
sometimes looked in to help her, had said
good-bye. In the window stood her invalid
couch, Mrs. Damien's gift, the only one of
any value she had ever ventured to bestow ;

and, once laid on its elastic springs with her
aching limbs supported at the easiest angle,
Elsie used to feel each day as if lifted by the
mighty arms of some strong angel into another
world. Her great work-basket stood beside
her, and endless lengths of plain sewing passed
between her fingers, but the real Elsie was
not there. She was off and away to her real
home, in the fine air-built castle that stood in
Fancy land ; that wondrous land where all the
knights are brave and all the ladies fair ;
where she was no longer lame, awkward, or
shabby ; where she loved and feared, suffered
and dared with the best of them, till some
stroke of the clock or a neighbour's voice, or
maybe a twinge of pain, brought her suddenly
back to Lavender Row, to be poor little Elsie
Paramount again.

There was a new face amongst her dream
heroes now, a new presence that made ail
beside him show faint — colourless — unreal.
' A true knight sworn to vows of utter
hardihood, utter gentleness, and loving, utter

faithfulness to love,' " quoted Elsie to herself
"He is Sir Galahad — no, Sir Geraint " (possibly
reflecting that amongst the Spotless
Knight's merits that of being an ornament
to society was not specified). " Geraint must
have had blue eyes and a fair moustache and
a way of moving about ' the da sky-raftered
many cob webbed hall ' that made ^ Enid at
her lowly handmaid work feel it a joy to
serve so great a prince.' Geraint might have
picked up Enid's flowers with ' Here are your
roses, they are too pretty to lose ' — the poor
common hedgerow blossoms."

And Enid. Enid had her toilette difficulties,
it was some consolation to remember.
Elsie pondered much over some treasured
morsels of mother's finery, wondering how
smart she might make herself without appearing
presumptuous. The invitation to Mrs.
Damien's, enough in itself in the ordinary
course of things to cause her a delight too
great to realise, had now become almost awful
with suggestions of what might or might not

befall her there. Then came a well-remembered,
soft, imperative tap on the door, and
Geraint, Enid, and their glorious company
took to flight incontinently.

It was Mrs. Beltran at last, somewhat thin
and careworn, bat cheery of bearing as of
yore, who glided in and took up her old place
beside the couch.

'rare you glad to see me again, little
one ?"

Elsie's faltered greeting was almost ungracious
in its awkwardness; but Mrs. Bel-than
took no notice, only contemplated her
through her narrowed eyelids with her dark
inscrutable smile.

This is my den that I crawl home to when
the cruel world has ill-treated and got the
best of me. I come here to rest and lie low
till better times. What have you there ?
Lace? Let me see it."

Elsie handed her the fichu she had been
mending. Mrs. Beltran gave a visible shudder
at the clumsiness of the unfinished darn.

Old Limerick point, and good of its kind,"
she pronounced. " Where did you get it ?"

She had already pulled out her pocket work-case,
and was tenderly cutting and drawing
out Elsie's unskilful stitches.

Elsie watched and admired while she
stretched the torn lace over a stiff piece of
glazed stuff, and, mounting a quaint, battered,
gold-embossed thimble on her finger, caught
ravelled thread and broken mesh together with
rapid dexterity. She could talk as well as
work, too, and Elsie could not but respond.
The injured spray grew again under the swift
needle, and Elsie, led on by sympathetic question
and remark, had told the story of the last
few months, with but one reservation, before
it was done.

After all, what did it matter? It was such
a beautiful story. Mrs. Damien might perhaps
barely have recognised the idealised
sketch of herself and her mission which she
drew. Mrs. Beltran apparently did, though,
which was curious.

And Mr. — what — Poynter ? — is her last
lover?"

Why do you say that T asked Elsie, in a
faint little voice.

Poor wretch ! How can a moth keep out
of the candle ? He is bound to scorch and
die, and what the better is the candle V she
mused, with an air of philosophic enquiry.

Don't talk so, please," pleaded the girl,
with pained earnestness. " She is so good,
and so — I am sure — is he. It would be a
beautiful thing for them to love one another."

"Let them. Now, look at the gift I have
brought for you;" and she placed a rough
wood box in Elsie's hands.

Inside, on a bed of cotton-wool, lay a hard,
green, unopened bud, in shape like that of a
large passion-flower. It had a slight spicy
perfume, but the petals were fast bound in
their green sheath.

The girl looked puzzled. " Will it everbloom
?"

'' Perhaps, yes; perhaps, no; only for one

night. It is called the Flower of Good Luck
in the country where they grow. The girls
say it is a charm to bring your lover to you,
or to gain your wish from him. Keep it and
see. It may never open."

Elsie lay back smiling to herself. She felt
Mrs. Beltran's caressing hand on her forehead
once or twice. Her eyes closed languidly, her
breathing grew more measured, and at last
she slept. One little hand lay palm upwards
beside her ; the other had mechanically lifted
itself and was lightly clasped on her breast.

Mrs. Beltran lifted it cautiously, and with
scant ceremony deliberately unfastened the
shabby black gown. A ribbon encircled
Elsie's white throat, and was tucked in among
the folds of her under clothing. She twitched
it ' forth, and with it a small silken bag. A
smile of utter contempt curled Mrs. Beltran's
mobile lips while she examined the contents :
a tiny cross made from two rough morsels of
briar fastened by a silver thread, and some
dry shrivelled petals. She replaced it, fastened

the dress, and lifted the hand into its former
position, and then quietly resumed her work,
contemplating the girl at intervals with her
dark expressionless gaze, with much the air
of a chess-player who, finger on piece, decides
on his next move — pawn, queen, queen's
knight ? The problem was a complicated one,
and the moves many ; but she seemed to see
her game at last, and with a meditative smile
put aside her lace, and standing beside the
couch, laid her hand on Elsie's forehead.
The Fair Prince," she said softly, and noiselessly
stole away.

So there came a night when Elsie found the
dull green bud changed into a splendid scarlet
bloom — rich-coloured, heavy-scented, beyond
anything she had ever seen or imagined ; and
straightway deciding what gift it should bring
her, pinned it on her heart to give her courage
for the asking.

THE T I G E r's CLAW.

WISH I were a duke's Avise!" observed
Mrs. Damien, so fervently
and seriously that Hester Arch-dale
burst into the merriest little peal of
laughter in reply.

^' My dear Eose ! Perhaps you might be if
you tried — but why ? Is this an outbreak of
philanthropy in a new direction, or what ?
And is it a duke in the abstract, or somebody
I ought to know ?" And she lazily extended
her hand and extracted " Dod " from the
dwarf bookshelf at her elbow.

It was the witching hour of confidences.
The warm summer twilight was softly closing

in. The day's routine was over, and the
serious business of evening toilette might yet
be righteously shirked a while.

I don't mean anybody in that wretched
book, Hester. Of course not ! What I did
mean — though I did not put it clearly — was,
I should like to be a duchess."

Oh, I see. Yes. That's quite another
thing, isn't it?" said Hester, in an enlightened
tone. " But still, the duke seems to come
even into that arrangement, somehow. As a
means, if not an end."

"To be one of the English ladies who are
born to lesser royalties, who belong to the
soil, as it were, who have a people of their
own with hereditary claims on them."

Hereditary bondsmen !" interrupted
Hester, scornfully. " Am I never to find an
American who doesn't yearn to be a feudal
tyrant?"

Mrs. Damien disdained to argue that point.
Ah," she broke off impatiently. " You
English at home seem incapable of realising

half the poetry and beauty that have drifted
down into your lives from the old-world
days."

There isn't a duke available," pronounced
Hester, tossing away her red book ; " but I
can tell you what will do as well, if it's a good
old-fashioned, healthy despotism that your
soul craves. Be a country rector's wife.
There's nothing autocratic going that can
touch that nowadays."

Mrs. Damien received the suggestion in
silence. '* Who are coming to-night T asked
Hester, taking a fresh departure.

'' Mr. Lepell and Lady Beatrix. Lady
Monchalsea refused."

Haven't you quarrelled finally with her
yet, Rose ? Your patience and long-suffering
is a marvel."

*' She is dreadfully exacting and capricious ! '
Rose admitted, sadly ; "but she is all I have
in the world of kith and kin, and you know I
feel I am obeying my father in trying to repay
the Monchalseas all they once did for him. I

VOL. I. 15

used to think she really cared for me, too, atone
time. It would have been so easy for her
not to have found me out and made friends
with me at Florence. I wonder what made
her insist on my coming to England at all ?"

I know — perfectly," with a nod of dark
meaning, " and so did Lord Monchalsea.
Likewise his creditors. Xever mind. She
was a very excellent sponsor for you on your
first appearance in English society — a gay old
countess with plenty of money. Xow that
you have seen the folly of it all, and liamrUt
married a duke — or Lord Monchalsea — you
can throw her over and fall back upon me.
I'm a far safer friend."

I can't give her up now. She really does
depend on me, and I was glad enough to meet
her once. I thought my life was over, and
she seemed to offer me a fresh beginning. I
longed so much to get rid of the past. Think
of the years I had spent in the shadow of death

and worse " she ended in a shuddering

whisper.

Hester knew she was thinking, not only of
her lost parents, but of the short year of her
own married life ; the wretched story of a
child-bride sacrificed by her father's ambition
to the fancy of a cynical, worn-out man of the
world, whose life and death were alike unedifying
and best forgotten. " Tell me who
else are coming," she went on, without looking
round.

Mr. de Cressy, Lord Charles and Mabel
Brant "

That means the Beethoven Septem is to
be done after all ! How have you managed
about the clarinet — or have you come down
to the Mozart in A T

I think Mabel will be content with my
forlorn hope. He has practised with Mr. de
Cressy's society, and as no other clarinet-player
was to be had "

Do you mean to say you've got young
Paramount?" Hester exclaimed, turning on
her with wide-open eyes.

Why not ? He seemed delighted to come

15—2

in just for the Septem. You know we have
to get a professional for the horn, that's
beyond any of our amateurs ; so where's the
harm ?"

Oh, none whatever. If everybody is content,
so am I. Only don't turn the boy's
head altogether, as "

Go on, you hadn't finished. Turn his
head as ?"

As you and the Vicar have done for his
sister, I was going to say. I shall expect to
meet her here next."

Perhaps you may," Mrs. Damien answered,
a little confusedly, "for I have asked her to
come and hear her brother's performance.
What can it matter, Hester ? Can't the girl
sit in a corner and listen to a little music
without being any the worse ? Or why
do you grudge her such a tiny scrap of
pleasure ?"

Hester was silent for a minute. " I believe
mean jealousy is at the bottom of it all ! 1
was just thinking over all the people I have

been attacking and disparaging in the last
half-hour. Mr. Stannard, Lady Monchalsea,
Elsie Paramount — everybody you happen to
honour with your special notice, Rose, my
dear. Now you have the key to my character.
But I think in this last case I have some
reason, though I can't tell what it is. Perhaps
it's only instinct, but it seems to make
me mistrustful and uneasy. I wish Elsie
were not coming. That girl is my evil genius;
I felt it from the first."

She can t do you much harm in half
an hour. Aunt Mamie is to take care of her
till Sampson performance comes off, and
she will leave directly after, so I hope the
danger from her society is reduced to a
minimum."

I wish she would stay away," Hester
repeated, obstinately ; " but let her rest now.
AVho else did you say ?"

M}^ prima donna, Praulein von Kreifeldt,
and Mr. Poynter."

"Ah I" with a hypocritical sigh of sham

apprehension, '' don't I know what that portends.
He'll be sent in to dinner with me, of
course, and my life will be one long struggle
to save you all from being swamped in shop,
unless you can put him and Daddy out of
conversation range."

What affectation I As if you didn't revel
in shop yourself, and weren't a perfect regimental
record. Don't despair ; he mayn't
think the entertainment worth the journey
from Shorn cliffs, and we shall get an apologetic
note tomorrow to say he has missed his
train, or been sent on detachment duty somewhere."


Neither fate had, however, befallen Edric.
Iso more had been heard of the orders for
Portsmouth, and he was at that moment
speeding comfortably town wards, trying to
calculate whether he should be too early or
too late in arriving at St. Maur Eoad.

He contrived to be punctual to the hour
named, and followed the broad back of an

overcoat which he seemed dimly to recognise
up the steps.

The overcoat proved to contain Sir John
Archdale, who greeted Edric in a most fatherly
fashion, and introduced him over again to
"my little girl Hester," whom they found the
sole occupant of the drawing-room. Miss
Hester was in a white gown with a yellow
sash and knots of golden pansies about it.
What a bright little creature !" was Edric's
thought, as her laughing glance met his, and
her shapely little brown hand was extended
as her father said, '' One of ' Ours,' Hetty."
But that was all he thought, for — enter his
goddess on a rosy cloud — otherwise Mrs.
Damien in a Worth gown — and poor Hester
passed into neutral-tinted shadow.

The next arrivals were a tall, distinguished-looking
man, with a picturesque beard and
untidy garments, accompanied by a pretty
wife with expressive eyes and the tints of a
Greuze.

Connections of Mr.<. Damien's. Lady

Beatrix was a Bough ton, a daughter cf the
Countess of Monchalsea," Miss Archdale explained
to him, with open eyes of astonishment
at his ignorance. " Not know Pell,
the artist and art-critic, who writes such
exquisite vers de socket and is the All England
tennis champion?"

Cant say I do, in any capacity. What
has he painted?"

Hester knitted her pretty brows considerately.
" ISTotliino^ that you are likely to
know. His theory is that art should be the
outcome of all imaginable perfection in every
other line. An artist should be poet, actor,
athlete, orator, and ever so much more before
he can paint anything."

And he hasn't worked himself up to the
painting yet. I see."

Then in came de Cressy, brisk and friendly ;
and then an interval of waiting that Edric
would gladly have seen prolonged into all
Eternity; for Mrs. Damien called him to her
side with a wave of her great flower-fan and

introduced him to Lady Beatrix, and dropped
him some golden syllables and a priceless
smile or two. Then, with a rush as of a
whirlwind," there entered a tall, wild-looking
lady in trailing, somewhat bedraggled garments
of fiercest terra cotta, who stood peering
up and down for a second through the
nippers perched on her aquiline nose. Her
bodice was laced crookedly, her fuzzy, light
locks had evidently been arranged without
the aid of maid or looking-glass, and the two
hands which she extended to her hostess with
an impetuous rush were cased in long gloves,
three-quarters unbuttoned.

'' Eose, my darling, don't frown on me !
I know I'm ever so late. Don't wait for
Charlie. I ought to have told you before
that he couldn't possibly come. There's a
division to-night, and goodness knows when
he'll get back from the House. I know you'll
forgive him — when it's a question of saving
the country from shipwreck ! And oh, my
dear ! is it all right about the clarinet ?"

Set your mind at rest, the Septem is
saved — whatever becomes of the country,"
Mrs. Damien replied reassuringly, and then
dinner was at last announced.

The dinner was "an interesting one" — or
so Lady Beatrix, Edric's other neighbour,
pronounced. It had a few quaint and original
transatlantic touches about it, which she
pointed out with an air of a connoisseur ; but
it was all one to Edric — the repast of the
Barmecide, or the Feast of Jewels that deluded
the Emperor Hwang-te. His happiness
had got into his head like new wine.

His love, you see, was not a deep, fierce,
seething passion, but only a boyish gladsomeness
in the sunlight of his dear lady's presence
; a great joy in serving her ; a great loss
where she was not. The events of the evening
were likewise enveloped for him in the
same golden haze of unreality.

There was music, he remembered ; something
unusually good, he believed ; but even
had his attention been free, it would have been

wasted on him, his taste being decidedly rudimentary.
He '' liked music " in a vague, uncritical
fashion — that is, he listened if any
tune caught his fancy — and if it didn't he paid
no attention.

He recognised '' the Se^Dtett " by there being
seven performers ; Lady Charles Brant rising
violin in hand preparing to lead. There was
a big, blushing, broad-shouldered youth in
morning dress who came in rather sheepishly,
cabinet in hand, he remarked. Then during
the preliminary fluttering of music-sheets,
screwing and twisting and tuning, and
arrangement and disarrangement of lights, he
found two ladies standing near him, chair-less,
and vacated his place. He sauntered
away through the other drawing-room to the
conservatory beyond, cool and dim, with a
fountain dropping musically on to broad
water-lily leaves, and a tall red bird holding
a light aloft amongst fan-palms and orange-trees.
Just within the doorway a young girl
rested on a long, low garden chair. A slight,

white figure, whose great starry eyes seemed
to meet his with a look of expectation as he
entered. She bowed hurriedly and awkwardly,
looking away before he could return
the recognition.

He had seen her before, he knew, somewhere;
but where? How pretty she was;
how wonderfully pretty, even to eyes filled
with the splendour of Rose's brilliant beauty !
A shadowy, transparent, delicate prettiness,
owing its charm to the subtle changes of light
and shade that flitted across her sensitive face.
How well the dead white of her gown suited
her, with its quaint old-fashioned cut, and the
crimson flower nestling; amongst the folds of
soft muslin and filmy lace! How distressed
she had looked at his stupidity in not recognising
her ! Why wouldn't she look again and
give him the chance? Her shyness seemed to
shroud her like a veil, he thought.

Aunt Mamie was standing near her, and
bestowed a friendly nod and a gleaming grin
upon him. As she did so, the scene at St.

Fridolin's flashed before him. " Miss Paramount!"
he said half to himself, and the
delicate little face turned to his all alight with
pleasure.

He drew a seat near her in silence, for the
music was beginning, and they listened without
speaking for a few moments.

'• That's my brother Sampson !" she said,
with shy pride ; " the one who played the
clarinet solo — Mrs. Damien was kind enough
to ask me here to hear him" — then afraid she
had been forward, Elsie shrank into herself in
an agony of bashfulness.

Edric made a civil remark about Sampson's
performance presently. She was touching the
red flower lightly with her finger-tips, and
stealing a look at him at intervals, blushing
as red as its petals. Her lips parted once as
if to speak, and then closed again in a little
nervous tremor. He began to be interested,
and to wonder what she had to say to
him.

At last the music finally ceasing, he caught

her eyes with a look of such open interrogation
that it forced a response.

Mrs. Damien said I might ask you " —
she faltered, and this preliminary was sufficient
to command at once his prompt attention —
how to go into the army."

'^ From Sandhurst, do you mean, or through
the Militia?" he queried, slightly puzzled.

"Oh, no! jSTot as a gentleman like you
would go in," she hastened to explain, more
fluttered than ever. " I mean people like us —
to be common soldiers."

'' People like you, Miss Paramount" — with
a struggle for gravity — " who are bent on
enlisting, have nothing to do but to find the
nearest recruiting sergeant, and the matter is
settled. Have you a fancy for any particular
regiment % Xo. Then I should recommend
my own, the Royal Denbigh, the most distinguished
ever known, and certain of foreign
service immediately."

"Does that mean fio^htino;? — abroad?"

Yes, but don't be alarmed; you'll be kept

at the depot for a year first, to learn your
drills and to shoot "

*' But he won't like that. He is a very
good shot now. He's been a volunteer these
two years, and knows his drill quite well." .

"And he's more than twenty? That will
make a difference. It will be uncommonly
unpleasant — the life, I mean, and the associates."


They can't be worse than the City. He's
always getting led away. Father says it's
music and the choir practice does it."

'• Brother, or sweetheart, which is it ?"
Edric wondered. But here Lady Charles
Brant struck the first notes of the accompaniment
of her song, and they were perforce
silent.

It was a quaint little Irish love-ditty with
a sad minor refrain to the laughing line of
each verse ; gladsome yet full of presage of
sorrow. Elsie's long eyelashes closed as in
weariness, but Edric noticed the tremor of her
delicate lips.

Sweetheart, it must be. Gone wrong,
I'm afraid," was his conclusion.

Lady Charles's song struck him as " very
pretty," very nicely sung, that was all. How
should he guess how every syllable of its
gladsomeness, dropping into sudden foreboding,
thrilled the poor sensitive child beside
him with a passion of uncomprehended longing,
or touched her with an exquisite anguish
almost too deep for tears?

The song ended. Elsie had taken the red
flower from her breast, and was holding it
clasped in her two hands. Her eyes shone,
and she spoke in feverish, desperate haste.

Will you help him, sir ? If he comes to
you from me."

Edric smiled his kindliest on her. *' I don't
know that I can do much, but I'll do my best
gladly for Mrs. — for your sake," he blundered,
afraid of the remark as it was first slipping
from his lips appearing too pointed. Hester
Archdale came up just as he rose from his
place.

Your brother has sent me for you, Elsie;
the carriage is at the door. You must not ^o
before you choose, though. Is there anything
else you would care to stay to hear ?" Hester
was determinedly gracious by way of amends
for her unreasonable antagonism.

No, I should like to go now. It has all
been so beautiful, so wonderful!" she said,
under her breath, in a tone of soft rapture.

Hester was going to offer her arm, but
Edric interposed, and led the girl to the staircase,
where her brother took her into his care;
and Aunt Mamie joined them with a pile of
wraps.

Hester and Edric lingered awhile on the
landing, watching the little procession depart
out into the night ; Elsie, in her white gown,
looking like a little phantom in the June
moonlight, beside Aunt Mamie's stalwart dark
figure. Edric thought he would tell Hester
about Elsie's appeal. It came natural to tell
Hester everything that happened, somehow.
They seemed to have been friends of quite old

VOL. I. 16

LADY VALERIA.

standing by this time. Aunt Mamie's return
prevented him.

'' Miser Poynter, sal ! Dis fo' you." And
she extended a silver salver to him. On it
lay something loosely folded in a piece of soft
Japanese silk. Not made into a parcel, only
wrapped in a few loose twists, as if for temporary
concealment.

'for me?" said Edric, looking at it with
wonder and sudden unaccountable distaste.
"What can it be?"

He took it from the salver, and his question
was answered as his fingers closed on it.
Through all the soft yellow folds his fingers
could distinguish the hard curve and cruel
point of the Tiger s Claw !

He loosed his hold of the silk, and something
fell glittering down to Hester's feet.
Before he could prevent her she had stooped
and picked it up.

What is this?" she asked, and then as she
raised her eyes to his face he saw that she
knew.

'' Pusson out car gimme him, Miss Hester.
Wait fo' de ansah, sal !"

Say I vdll come," spoke Edric, and Aunt
Mamie departed.

He almost snatched the token from Hester's
hand. " The end of the story has come, you
see," he said, forcing a laugh. " Now I shall
look for the fulfilment of your prophecies."

"Don't go!" broke from Hester's lips in
spite of herself ; "or let someone go with you.
I don't like it "

Nor do I," replied Edric, standing frowning
and drawing the yellow handkerchief
through and through his hands. A subtle,
dead sweet perfume exhaled from it. With
an exclamation of disgust, he threw it down
and shook his fingers as if to clear them of
the clinging odour. Then he suddenly picked
it up again.

I'll not leave that ugly trace behind me.
Faugh! AVhat a hateful scent! No, I don't
like it either, Miss Archdale. I'd much rather
stay here for the rest of the evening. But it's

IG— 2

got to be done, don't you see ? I won't try
to say good-bye to Mrs. Damien. Tell her —
anything ; I leave it to you "

He was unconsciously holding her slim
brown fingers in his as he spoke. " I'm
frightened," she whispered as she drew them
away.

"Why? It's quite respectably early in the
evening yet, not eleven ! And don't you
think I can take care of myself? I'll come
and tell you all about it." And he ran lightly
down the staircase, turning on the last step
to smile a cheery farewell.

A CRY IX THE DARKNESS.

^T was one thing for Edric Poynter
to run down Mrs. Damien's staircase
gaily, even with a touch of
"bravado, under the anxious gaze of Hester
Archdale's bright eyes ; and another to feel
himself shut out by the closing of a door from
warmth, light, and companionship into the
eerie chill of the lonely moonlit street.

"Follow the messenger," Euphrosyne had
enjoined him, and he was prepared to obey,
though with never so bad a grace. He scanned
the length of the pavement from right to left
in search of the possible bearer of the summons,
and had not far to seek.

A man was lounoinsf under the nearest eras

o

g^

lamp smoking a cigarette, which, on seeing
Edric approach, he promptly threw away, and
advanced enquiring, " Mr. Poynter, I believe""
touching his hat as he spoke.

Edric looked at him curiously. A man
of middle height, with a short grey beard
concealing the lower part of his face, and a
hat pulled down over his eyes. His voice
and action might have been those of a well-trained
gentleman's servant, contradicted by
a certain swagger in his air. He touched his
hat again, and held out a small printed
card.

Did you bring me a message just now? —
What's this?" taking the card. "Did Mrs.
Miss — a lady — give you this for me T

I have been sent to give you that""
answered the man, evading the point.

The card simply bore the printed address
of a private hotel in a street which Edric
remembered as being not very far distant, and
unquestionably respectable.

Am I wanted here ?" he asked, partly from
a wish to make the man speak again.

If you please, sir. Shall I get you a cab,
or will you allow me to show you the way?"
There was a certain foreign accent, real or
assumed, in his voice. It was low and smooth,
and with a melodious roll in it. Not an old
man's voice. It went as ill with the venerable
beard as did the brisk step with which he
started off when Edric somewhat curtly told
him to go on and he would follow.

A quarter of an hour's quick walking
brought them, as he had expected, to a street
of large handsome new houses, one of which,
the newest and largest, bore on a glass
pane over the door, " No. 17a," and below,
Privet's Family Hotel."

The front door stood open, leaving fully
visible the brightly lighted hall and vestibule,
with their smart new High Art decorations
and stands of foliage plants. Supper was
going on somewhere evidently, for a clatter
of knives and plates and a strong smell of

fryin^i^ escaped out into the night air, and
black figures of waiters, napkin in hand,
flitted to and fro.

Edric's o;uide waited for him to enter first.
'• Straight upstairs. The first door to the
right," he said, and Edric, rather wonderingly,
followed the direction. He was annoyed
to feel his heart beating a trifle faster than
usual as he stopped before it, but he knocked
boldly. The door was not fastened, and swung
open as he touched it ; and without further
thought, he entered. The man followed close
on his heels. The door closed smartly behind
them, shutting them in, as it at first appeared,
into total darkness.

The dazzle of the gas outside had blinded
him at first, or else something moved away
from between him and the lamp, which he
now saw was burning on a table with a strong
light half shaded so as to throw the room in
darkness, except where a tall young fellow ina
light overcoat — hat in hand — stood gazing
full at Edric with a bewildered, rather aggressive

air. He was in evening dress, Edric
noticed, and wore It Alas himself, he discovered,
reflected in a long mirror on the far
side of the room, and the tall black shadow
at his right hand was Euphrosyne, gazing at
him with gleaming eyes out of the darkness.

I knew you wouldn't fail me," was all
her greeting.

Well, yes, I've come," he admitted, somewhat
disconcerted. " It was in the bargain,
you know. An odd sort of summons, but I
suppose you had your own reasons for preferring
it to a postcard or telegram." Her
velvet-dark eyes studied him as he spoke, as
if reading his mood. Something in this silent
scrutiny irritated him, for he ended sharply :
And being here, what do you want from
me?"

Justification." The word fell gravely and
impressively from her lips. She stood erect,
her clasped hands lightly crossed, her head
thrown back. She was younger than he had
thought, shapely and lithe of figure, and her

face was alight with suppressed excitement.
Anyone might have passed her without notice
at the first glance — not one man in ten after
the second.

Edric looked at her frowningly, wondering
at himself no less than at her. All the way
there he had been divided between a devout
hope that his obligation might resolve itself
after all into a question of money and a
misgiving concerning his balance at Cox's :
now he felt with quick apprehension, that so
simple a method of discharging it might not
be permitted him. She was not a woman to
whom he could offer money, he felt, and she
hardly looked either as if she needed it.

"Will you tell me more plainly what you
require of me ?" he said, his voice sounding
hard and ungracious in his own ears.

I have called you here as my witness."

Still uncomprehending, he only bowed and
looked mistrustfully around him. His eyes
had grown accustomed to the want of light,
and he made out that they were in a small

room ending in a window or curtained recess
of some sort, before which stood a Japanese
screen.

He had faced it instinctively at first, and
when compelled to turn and address Euphrosyne,
had kept his eyes fixed on the reflection
in the glass. The man stood between them
leaning on the table, his fat white hands, with
their big gold rings, showing in the light, his
face in shadow. He looked attentively from
one to the other as they spoke.

What is it all about ? What do you want
me to sav?"

To answer a few questions on the honour
of an English gentleman. Where did you
first meet me?"

Charing Cross Station, Monday week,
three p.m., was the prompt reply.

Where did we part'*

^'At St. Fridolin's Vicarage between half-past
five and six of the same day."

*' You would rather not mention our errand
there?"

I distinctly refuse to discuss it."

'' Do you know a Mr. Monk — Alwyn
Monk?"

'' I've seen him once or twice in my life — if
you mean the man in our regiment."

'' He was not with us?"

Edric burst into a laugh. " Hardly. Hein
South Africa, with the other battalion."

You are sure?"

"As sure as I can be of anything in this
world. That is, I heard a man at mess last
night saying he had got a letter from him.
That's all I. know."

Euphrosyne turned haughtily to the man,
who had nodded attentively once or twice.
You hear? Are you satisfied?"

'^ Perfectly, Madame." He bowed twice ;
respectfully to her, in a somewhat off-hand
fashion to Edric, and vanished softly and
suddenly

Still holding Edric With her eyes, Euphrosyne
sank into a chair, heaving a short sigh of
relief, her soft duskj^ fingers interlaced on her

knee. " I was in a sore strait," she sighed.
'• It came to me as an inspiration — the thought
of you."

Edric felt obstinately resolved against any
show of interest or curiosity. " Couldn't the
stars have helped you?" he asked, indifferently.


She answered with grave patience. " They
never fail, if we have faith and strength to
trust and follow blindly as they lead, or wisdom
to be sure of ever reading them aright.
How else could I have trusted that your pledge
would find you, or that you would obey the
call?"

I am glad to have been of use — though I
don't in the least understand how. Can I do
anything further?" He began to think the
interview had lasted honos enough.

'' Tell me about Mr. Monk. Every trifle is
of service. You need say nothing to compromise
yourself or him. What sort of man
is he?"

'• How can I tell ? I only saw him once at the

depot, and again — at the Derby, I think it
was."

Had you no note or letter in his handwriting
?"

Xot one. Stop, though ; I believe I had!
What was it about ? Oh, I know ! He sent me
the address of a man who sold some uncommonly
good boot varnish. TAa^^'.s not likely to be
of much use, even if I could lay hands on it."

"Try! Try — think again — Monk, Alwyn
Monk. Have you not heard the name lately'*

She had risen, and was pacing the room
impatiently. Xow she stopped, leaning against
the Japanese screen.

*' Tell me anything! Everything you can
think of"

Edric sat down at last, leaned his head on
his hand, and thought hard. " I did hear
something, too, the other night at ness.
What incas it ? — desperately ransacking his
memory. " Somebody had a letter — theatricals,
was it? He's very good at theatricals —
no, that's another man. The adjutant !

That's it! He's going in for the adjutant.
I could let you know if he gets it."

She did not answer for a short space, during
which he beat his brains for any connection,
possible or impossible, that she could have
with his affairs or he with Monk's. Then she
stepped forward again, her eyes eager and
excited, her lips compressed. '' You Avill give
me a line to him. What I shall dictate —
nothing that will harm you ;" and she took up
a pen and placed it in his hand with an urgent
gesture. " Listen. It will do you no harm
to say this to him. ' As Madame Euphrosyne
Girard, of Martinique, has had the opportunity
of doing me some slight service, I wish to
commend her to your kind notice for such help
or advice as she shall need.' "

"I can't write that!" protested Edric.
^' Nobody ever wrote a letter of introduction
in that fashion. Besides, it wouldn't answer.
Nobody would believe I wrote it." He was
making idle, impatient marks on the blotting-pad
as he spoke, and now looked up, not

round to where she stood behind him, but at
her reflection in the looking-glass. It gave
him an odd, uncanny sensation to see her dark
figure leaning over him as he sat, and he
moved impatiently. She seemed to divine his
feeling, for she changed her position and stood
beside him.

What does it matter ?" she urged. " I
may never give it. It is my foolish, superstitious
fancy. It is the sum-total of what I
ask from you. If you refuse, you leave the
account between us still unsettled."

There was a threat in those last words, and
so Edric understood, but still protested : "I
can't put my name to a thing like that."

'who asked for your name? You need
not sign it."

Oh, very well; in that case you shall have
it word for word. Say it again, please."

She repeated the formula slowly, and he
wrote it down carefully, making a rapid resolution
to send a line of explanation to Monk
by the next Cape mail, in case of its ever being

produced. He wrote slowly and deliberately
so as to give himself time to think, Euphrosyne
standing patiently beside him, motionless as a
statue, though once or twice he fancied he
heard her move softly away, and looked up
suddenly at the glass, in which, however, he
could only make out the strong reflection of
his own face against a background of shadowy
blackness. He carefully brought the last words
of his note to the bottom of the paper, ending
in the right-hand corner so as to leave no space
for the possible insertion of a signature.

There. I don't see what good it can do
you. I'm sure I should have been glad to
help you in any sensible fashion. Do you
really mean you want nothing more from me?"

"' Nothing. You are free to go ; to forget
that you have ever met me. To pass me as a
stranger from henceforth. Only remember
this ; that your fortune and mine are still as
one. What strikes at you, strikes at me. As
your prosperity, so is mine, whether together
or half a world apart."

VOL. I. 17

She was speaking in earnest, so Edric
seemed to remember afterwards, and he
listened to her with interest and without the
shudder of dislike that came over him again
and again, of distrust and repugnance mixed
with an odd fascination.

He even held out his hand in his delight at
getting off so easily. " Good-bye. Then for
my sake as well as yours I wish you good
luck in your errand, whatever it may be."

Euphrosyne's fingers clasped his coldly,
then gave a convulsive twitch and tightened
to a grasp of steel.

Stay !" cried an imperative voice, a
woman's ; and with a crash the screen fell.
He must not go — not yet!"

Quick as thought Euphrosyne's left hand
extinguished the lamp, and Edric, blinded and
stumbling, found himself at the door, which
opened suddenly. He stepped out mechanically,
and it shut smartly behind him, and
the click of the lock as the key turned struck
on his ear.

He stood baffled and confused, wondering
what he should do next, Awhile within the door
he could catch a confused murmur of voices
in angry reproach, sobs and broken speech,
ending in one long pitiful wail of anguish
followed by silence.

Euphrosyne had wanted him to go. Very
well then, that was just a conclusive reason
for his staying, till some explanation of all
these mysterious doings should be given him.

So down on the landing window seat he
sat, and people came and people went, and
waiters gazed with polite enquiry, and the
great clock in the hall struck midnight.
Then the door opened, and Euphrosyne,
cloaked and veiled, stepped forth.

At the sight of Edric she started ; her
velvet-black eyes glinted with sparks of anger,
and her lips quivered.

'' You here still '?" she hissed in a wrathful
whisper. " What are you waiting for T

'• You know quite well. Who was that
lady I saw in there just now ? What are you

17—2

and she about ? Do you mean to tell me, or
am I to apply to a detective and find out
myself?"

I have nothing to tell you ! It is not my
secret," she answered, constraining her voice
to calmness.

Then I shall see for myself," and he
pushed past her and into the room. She
checked herself in a protest and let him go,
her eyes sparkling with a malicious triumph.

The room was very still, and the relighted
lamp burning low. In the circle of its radiance
lay a slumbering figure, half covered by a rich
satin mantle. A thin white lady's hand loaded
with shining gems rested on the arm of the
couch, her face was half buried in the cushion,
half concealed by a veil of heavy black lace.
Edric advanced softly, doubtful and wondering,
and stood for a silent moment by the
couch side. She was breathing regularly but
heavily, and when he ventured to extend his
hand and lav it on hers, she did not stir.
Gently and respectfully he lifted the veil and

looked for an instant on the worn, high-bred
features it concealed, and the mass of snowy
disordered hair, then retreated noiselessly to
the doer.

I shall know her again," he said meaningly
to Euphrosyne, provoked by the insolent
smile that hovered on her lips. " I shall find
out all about her, and about you too, you
may depend upon it."

Best let it rest here," she answered,
earnestly. " There is no harm done — as yet."

I shall act as I choose. I am not quite
sure how, but I am clear that you have been
making use of me for no good purpose, just as
you have been using Monk's name as a blind."

He spoke in exasperation, and without
pausing to consider whether his remarks were
altogether judicious. He was unprepared for
their effect.

Euphrosyne flung her head back like a
serpent going to strike. Her eyes narrowed
to two gleaming slits, her lips drew themselves
viciously in to one thin livid line, her

whole form seemed trembling with wrath and
malicious intent.

"If you dare!" she hissed softly; then
rising suddenly erect, she darted her head
forward and breathed into his ear, " Your
only chance now is silence. Take warning.
Every question you ask, every word you repeat,
is another spadeful dug of your own
grave !'*

She turned and vanished within the room,
and Edric slowly departed, pondering many
things.

MRS. Markets BRINGS HER MONEY S WORTH.

iN" American letter dated from Petropolis
lay on the Vicar's table. Its
non-appearance had caused him
much wonder at first, many weeks ago, then
had almost become a relief. He decided that
the trail which Arbuthnot Corbett had started
to follow so confidently had disappeared on
the other side of the Atlantic; that Corbett
had become absorbed in some more exciting
pursuit; or — what was really the case — had
fallen into the doctor's hand once more.

Lady Valerian had also kept silence. He
had sent her the letter as he intended, but

had received no acknowledgment, and had
attempted to see her in vain. He could not
be expected to know that on the occasion of
his first unsuccessful call, Mr. Meynell, espying
his card, had promptly made away with
it, with a hint to the butler which that discreet
functionary was not slow to take. On
his last visit he was told that the family were
out of town, gone into the country for Christmas,
not expected back before Easter.

There he had perforce to let the matter rest.
After all, he had lived long enough amongst
his fellow-creatures to discover that it is not
given to every looker-on to see the end of all
the games that are played around him, and
that a beginning, middle, and end are by no
means the rule in every life-drama — rather
the exception. He himself had lived to see
tragedy end in broad farce, comedy of intrigue
fall flat with an inappropriate moral, mysteries
burst like pricked balls and disappear in empty
air. This might be one of these last, he
thought, and was, he tried to persuade himself,

well content that it should prove so.
But now the letter had come.

My dear Stannard, — Later on you shall

hear what has detained me on my way. Let

me begin here by saying that I have just come

from seeing all that Petropolis now holds of

the Magrath family. In the smart new

cemetery stands a smart new cross, begging

you of your charity to ' Pray for the souls

of—

Bridget Mary, Wife of Stephen Magrath,
DIED 12 JAN. 1879, aged 79,
Also of Stephen Magrath,

DIED OCTOBER 24tH, 1881.

and his daughters,

Bridget Mary Magrath and North Hermann,

WHO both died of fever, OCT. 27th, 1881.

Squeezed in last, ' Stephen Magrath, junior,'
just over the large R. I. P. at the bottom;
with neither age nor date.

This last is your man, without doubt.
He died some time before his father, killed in
an explosion on the railroad here with a trainful
of others. - His name was put on the cross

by a kindly after-thought of some of his
neighbours.

^' In the town I can gather very little about
the family. They were decent folks, and
everybody had a good word for them. Last
fall there had been an outbreak of fever there,
brought into the place by some tramps whom
the Magraths had given shelter to, and all in
the house were stricken down within a few
days. Nor all's husband, Hermann, and the
children recovered ; also the eldest daughter,
Katty, to whom I was referred for further
details. She is a wonderful, magnificently
hideous old witch of unknown age, perhaps
sixty, but thanks to drink, fever, and hardwork,
not looking a day less than a hundred.
She goes about doing odd jobs for the neighbours,
who speak of her as * crazed since the
troubles ;' but when treated like a lady to a
friendly pipe and glass, can speak, and to the
purpose, I have ascertained. Dates are perhaps
beyond her, but the following facts were
given readily enough :

'' 1st. Stephen was undoubtedly Irish born.
She, the eldest, * had the minding' ' of him, the
youngest, on the voyage out. Recollection a
blank as to his birth or their previous life in
Ireland.

2nd. He had been for many years on the
worst of terms with her as well as the rest of
his family. He paid them occasional visits,
but his occupation and means of existence were
alike unknown.

3rd. Was reported to be married. Wife's
name or place of residence unknown.

'' 4th. Age, as nearly as might be guessed,
about forty.

5th. Resembled his sister in personal appearance.
A hawk-featured, blue-eyed, black-haired
type, I should say.

** This is the entire sum of the fragments
of information extracted at considerable expenditure
of time and baccy from Miss
Magrath. There are two members of the
family still unaccounted for — Terence and
Bartholomew — American-born brothers, who

are vaguely spoken of as having ' gone West '
some years ago ; present address unattainable.


'' The editor of the Petropolis Meteor has
been kind enough to obtain for me the enclosed
report of the accident to the train, with
the names of the sufferers, from the papers of
the day, also the obituary notice of the Mag-hath
family. I enclose both. Your man is
killed and buried to all certainty, and I presume
my mission here accomplished. Is that
enough?"

The A^icar answered the question by a long
breath of relief. This news must go, and at
once, to Lady Valerian ; but how, and where was
he to find her? The question was answered,
as questions sometimes are, from a totally unexpected
quarter, ten minutes later, when the
Curate entered.

Martha Margetts, sir, has entrusted me
with her respectful booty, and considers a personal
interview, if not a liberty, as preferable

to letter-writing', there being' no Board Schools
in her tune making the girls that uppish that
not a kitchen-maid as is fit to be trusted with
so much as peeling a potato," repeated de
Cressy, with perfect solemnity.

Martha — who ?" queried the Yicar, amused
but unenlightened.

'' A. highly respectable elderly person whom
I found rino'ino- at the Yicarac^e door last
night when you were out, and in whom, T am
proud to say, I inspired sufficient confidence
to be entrusted with her message. The postscript
seemed the most important part. ' And
be sure you let him know, sir, that Martha
Margetts has got his money's worth fair and
honest, or not a foot would she stir if it was
ever so.' "

I know now. It's all right. Thank you.
Did she fix a time 1"

'• Monday evening, ' the family being engaged
out.' "

'' Monday the fifth? Very good."

De Cressy looked a trifle disappointed

that no further explanation was forthcoming,
but Alas quick to observe that the subject was
not a welcome one, and dropped it.

The remembrance of the ally he had secured
on the impulse of the moment was by no
means a grateful one to the Vicar. However,
good Mrs. Margetts had fulfilled her
part of the contract, and he could end the
business by paying her off with thanks ; and
in this belief he awaited her appearance on the
evening of the appointed day.

Punctual to the stroke of seven, Mrs. Mar-gets'
black silk gown rustled up the Vicarage
steps and into the study.

She dropped hot and beaming into the chair
he offered her, with " Well, sir, here I am, you
see ; but it is a way, it is !" and took a good
look about her.

I suppose you have brought me Madame
Euphrosyne's address," he began, coming to
the point at once, as he seated himself at his
desk and took pen in hand.

Mrs. Margetts seemed to detect a want of

courtesy in this abruptness, for she drew herself
up with a slightly affronted air. " Oh,
yes, sir, I have the address, sir ; yes, I have
the addresses with a disparaging inflection that
plainly implied, "and much good may it do
you."

So I understood by your message. I am

much obliged. It is " holding his pen

suspended.

Mrs. E. Girard, 231, Copthall Street, Publico,"
pronounced slowly and carefully, in a
severely neutral tone, with eyes fixed on a
point of the wall just above his head.

Thank you," with a sigh of relief " You
are sure that will find her ?"

"If so be that you lush to correspond with
her, I should say it would," with the same
uncalled-for emphasis.

Then I think you will find that correct,
and I am extremely obliged to you," handing a
folded paper. Mrs. Margetts brought her eyes
down for a space and lifted them up again.

I have no wish to deceive you, sir, but I do

assure you, I couldn't brlnf^ myself to rob you
of it," more stiffly than before.

•' Why ? It's honestly earned, isn't it ?" he
asked, sharply.

She dropped her eyes to his face again with
sphinx-like imperturbability. '' Asking your
pardon, sir, in sending word as I believed I
had got your money's worth, I did not refer to
the address."

The Yicar waited patiently for further utterance,
but the Oracle was silent. It was evident
that Mrs. Margetts did not mean to be
disposed of with the scant ceremony he contemplated.
She had her story to tell, but it
was clear that she must be allowed to tell it in
her own way.

Any information you can give me without
bringing in your mistress's name "

That's as much as to say I have lost my
time coming here at all, sir. How to tell you
without bringing in my lady's name I know
no more than the dead ; but indeed, sir, it's
but right that somebody should be made aware

of what's going on. If not you, then some
other 'discreet and worthy minister,' as Scripture
says. But as to making observations
unbefitting my place— sar be it from me, sir,
that you may rely!"

Mr. Stannard reflected.

You decline to take this for the address.
Why ?"

Because it's not worth a bad halfpenny,"
was the prompt reply. '' And with your leave
I'll tell you how I came to find that same.
Xot again did that young person cross the
doorstep before we was all carried off at a
day's notice to Rivington, a fine place, there's
no denying — but at this time of year as dismal
as a jail — along of my lady's coming here
so persistent, as you must have been aware,
Sir.

Because of — your lady ?" Mr. Stannard
groped confusedly amongst the scattered
clauses of the statement.

Yes, sir. So it was. St. Fridolin's, by
your leave, is not the thing to be encouraged

VOL. I. 18

LADY VALERIA.

by a family brought up as ours lias been. Mr.
Oliver he felt it, he did — and made remarks
about Ritualists and Romanists in disguise,
that I should not think it civil to repeat ; and
never did he rest till he got her away to Surrey.
She went quiet enough for such a masterful
lady as she was. But Miss Harris, her ladyship's
maid, she said, ' If Mr. Stannard means
to write or call, I do wish he'd be quick, for
my lady is that wearing with her fretting and

fretting "

'* Stop! How could you know anything of
the sort?" asked the Vicar, in ignorance of
that mysterious law that ordains that nothing
shall be concealed in the drawing-room without
being made manifest forthwith in the
servants' hall.

Easy to see, sir. Else why should a
lady never leave the house, no, not for ten
minutes, without giving particular orders that
if you called you was on no account to be let
go away before she came back ? And, says
she, ' Miss Harris, the postbag must be

brought to me immediate,' or she would send
to meet the postman at the office. No, sir,
it was you and none other that my lady wore
herself out expecting and expecting, and you
know best with what reason."

With none at all. There has been some
i>Teat mistake."

'' Then, perhaps, sir, it was riot you that
sent a long thin letter one day?"

No. And I really must object "

' Of course, sir. Far be it from me to open
my lips again. Only when Miss Harris, she
came down into my kitchen in a dreadful
way: * Oh, Mrs. Margetts, like a good soul
come! She's dead or dying!' When we got
uj) to my lady's room, there she was in a
dead faint sure enough, but not dying nor
going to, and we brought her round easy. Of
course, as a friend I asked Miss Harris afterwards
what had been happening to put her
out. Nothing that she knows of, except that
ten minutes before she had taken up the
letters, and had noticed particular that one

18—2

envelope with the postmark Eg. — but where
that had gone she couldn't say — nor what was
in it. ]Not even the envelope could we find
about after."

I really must decline to listen to this''

"Just as you please, sir," assented Mrs.
Marge tts, with alacrity. " Sot another word,
sir, not even to say that while still prostrate,
my lady got her writing-desk and sent Harris
off to catch the next post with a note.
Mad. E. Girard,' and the rest I read all of a
squinny. Then says I : If E. Girard doesn't
spell Madame Euphrosyne, my name isn't
Martha Margetts."

Thank you. That is quite sufficient
for me."

asking your pardon, sir, you may have
observed to yourself that Publico is not Eg.
And for my own satisfaction I must observe
that it was the next of them honos, thin,
lavender-coloured letters that had a Publico
postmark — must have been written on the
spot in answer to my lady's, and put her into

that state of mind, nothing but coming up to
town at once would content her. Mrs. Oliver
were put out, there's no denying. There was
to be a Twelfth-night party at Livingston for
her children, so she couldn't leave, nor her
husband ; and yet they couldn't bear to let
my lady out of their sight. I scorn to repeat
things as is no affair of mine, but I give you
my solemn word. that when the carriage was
overturned in the snow, and my poor lady
carried home insensible, ' Providential ' was
the observation I heard on Mrs. Oliver's lips,
let her deny it if she can."

Was it serious '?"

Serious, sober earnest, sir. Oh, you
mean the accident. It was a bad business —
shock and internal injuries the doctor said ;
but it was the being stopped in having her
way that was really doing my lady harm.
There she lay, week after week — though she
scorned to complain — yet as Miss Harris
says, just dying of impatience. She'll never
be the same woman asrain, sir. Poor Mr.

Oliver ! It makes my heart ache for him, it
does."

I don't want to hear anything about
Mr. Oliver. If you have nothing more to
tell "

"About Madame Euphrosyne? I've just
come to that, sir. Directly we got home a
note was sent as before, and I just put on my
bonnet and went to take a look at Copthall
Street. into. 231 was a little shop, name of
Gilmore, with gloves, and braces, and scents
and fancy French sweets in the window, and
the most impudent young hussy as ever I see
behind the counter, with a satin gown and her
fringe in her eyes. Two young gentlemen
were buying sweet stuff, and her carrying on
were, I do assure you. My lad', as haughty
as you please, was trying to make a chocolate
drop jump into her mouth when she slapped
her hand. ' Is Madame Euphrosyne heres
I says. They were all that busy slapping
their fingers and jumping their chocolate
that I got no answer, so down I sat. 'Xow^

my good woman, what do you want?* says
the creature at last, with her mouth full.
I want Madame Girard or Euphrosyne, and
here I shall stop till I see her.' ' Oh, do, by
all means. If she isn't here by Saturday,,
she'll be sure to look in early next week.
Don't hurry yourself;' and they all laughed
as if she had made a most uncommon joke. I
gave a rap with my umbrella, just so. ' Very
well, my good girl; if she hasn't got a letter
posted at three this afternoon, you'll laugh at
the wrong side of your mouth.' She looked
quite respectful all of a sudden. ' She has
got all of them safe enough. She sent for it
half an hour ago. She never comes herself.
You'll get no good by waiting.' I was of
that young person's opinion, so came array
direct."

'* You are a born detective, Mrs. Margetts,
I am sure you have more than earned your
money already ! I shall be obliged by your
accepting it."

Well, really, as you do make a point of

it," and Mrs. Margetts pocketed the coins and
her scruples simultaneously. ' And now, sir,
you may require nothing farther, but there's a
point or two "

"' Not a word more about Lady Valerian, I
beg," and the Vicar rose.

Certainly not, sir; but you must have
noticed on a Sunday now, how her ladyship
never comes near you."

No more, I request," opening the door.

'• And when it comes to having words with
Mr. Oliver, and threatening to make him
know his place "

Good-evening."

And saying, when Miss Harris, at her
wits' end, brings your name in, ' No, she could
do without you now,' laughing in her haughty
way; and when a lady at my lady's time of
life takes to quarrelling with her nearest, and
going out unknown to everybody', and

making appointments on the sly " Mrs.

Margetts' voice was raised to indignation-pitch,
and her stops were nowhere. " And spending

her nights out of bed walking backwards and
forwards, and writing letter after letter and
tearing them up in tiny bits and burning them
with a match, and sitting hour after hour alone
with — Miss Harris will take her oath of it —
a portrait, a young mans portrait on the table
before her. If I may die for saying so, I'll
say it!" and she caught frantically at the
door handle in a last effort. " It means my
lady is going to be married, and you know
best, sir, whether it is worth your while to
hear that."

I am sincerely rejoiced to hear it," was Mr.
Stannard's emphatic response ; one so entirely
unexpected by the good woman, that, after
standing confounded for a second, she turned
with a bounce and departed speechless.

He looked at his watch. There would not
be time to see Lady Valerian before evensong,
at which he was obliged to take Mr. de Cressy's
usual place this evening ; yet he thought it
might not be too late afterwards, considering
the worth of the tidings he had to bring.

Very grievous news it would be to her, lie
knew; but the certainty would be less agonising
than the cruel suspense she had been enduring.

It was not as if the loss left her desolate.
The miserable sense of alienation from her
first-born son would be spared her, and the
jarring relationships between her and her other
children be more readily adjusted. She might
learn to look more tenderly on her other son
when he no longer seemed an interloper to oust
his brother from his rightful place.

The good of the tidings far outweighed the
evil, if he might but be granted wisdom to
make her see it.

WATCHING rOK LADY VALERIA.

R. Standard felt less confident-when
later on he laid his hand on
the knocker of the door in Sea-grave
Place. Despite his utmost speed, nine
had long since struck, and he felt that his
visit at this hour might alarm an invalid, as
Lady Valerian now was. It would also attract
attention and question if any of the family
should be there. But he must risk it. He
dare not delay longer, even though the servant
who answered his summons assured him that
there was no chance of his being able to see
his mistress that evening.

I will wait till you have told her I am

here. You will find that she is expecting me,
I think." And the perplexed domestic, after
a glance at the name, gave internal thanks
that " Mr. Oliver was there and might have it
out with him himself," and showed the visitor
into the unlighted library, where he left him
with a hastily kindled pair of candles to await
the result of Mr. Oliver's decision.

That came at least promptly. Eustace had
not waited many minutes before he was summoned
to follow the butler up the gorgeous
imitation marble staircase to the drawing-room.
It was a house of exploded splendours. A
typical house, showing what once upon a time
money could do, money alone, unassisted by
art or culture. Everything down to the very
door-mat was gorgeous, and gorgeous only, or
had been so once upon a tune. x\ge and use
had done their kindly work in toning down
over-brilliant be-geldings, mellowing startling
tints and casting a beneficent mantle of wear
and dust over the chilly classicalities of frieze
and marble groups that had once glared

20^

painful in their snowy whiteness against their
surroundings of Axminster and veneer. Otherwise
all remained very much as when it came
first from the hands of the leading upholsterer
of the day, when Oliver Meynell, the father,
gave him carte-blanche to render the house
fit for the reception of his beautiful young
Irish bride, Lady Valerian de Cressy.

Mr. Stannard was ushered into a room
ablaze with light and dazzling with crystal and
gold, reflected to and fro in vast sheets of
looking-glass. The furniture was white and
gold, Louis Quatorze scrolls and twirls and
wreathing of gilded foliage. The hangings
were yellow satin and white brocade. The
candles burned in great twinkling crystal
chandeliers. On every side was buhl, ormolu,
alabaster, looking-glass, gilding, satin and lace.

In the very core and centre of the splendour,
yet not of it, sat a lady knitting. Not Lady
Valerian. A tall spare lady, with smooth
plaited hair, dove-like eyes, and a delicate,
pinched mouth ; richly clad in dove-colour silk,

of ostentatious simplicity of make. Sear her,
leaning on the great buhl table, was an elderly
young man, prematurely bald, with keen grey
eyes and an intelligent face, the last person
whom Eustace could have wished to find there,
Mr. Oliver Meynell in person.

He came forward ceremoniously with a
grave bow.

Mr. Stannard of St. Fridolin's, I presume?
Let me introduce you to Mrs. Mey-
nell''

He spoke with a studied accent of neutrality
that committed him to nothing beyond the
ordinary duties of hospitality, but a distinct
spasm of horror crossed Mrs. Meynell's face at
the mention of the church, and her greeting
could not have been more distant had he been
the Great Dragon in person.

I have called at an unusual hour," Eustace
hastened to explain ; '^ but my days are much
occupied just now, and my business with Lady
Valerian being urgent, I trusted that she would
excuse it."

You had an appointment with my
mother?"

Not exactly. She had reason to expect
me sooner than this. I have not seen or
heard from Lady Valerian for many months,"
he added, and then was vexed with himself
for doing so. Mr. and Mrs. Meynell exchanged
glances, but neither made any comment,
and an awkward pause followed. Mr.
Meynell gave one or two little premonitory
coughs as if about to make some observation,
but checked himself again, and Mrs. Meynell
knitted in demure silence. Mr. Stannard had
said his say, so he volunteered no contribution
to the conversation.

Have I any chance of seeing your mother
to-night ?" he enquired at last, when the
silence grew too significant.

Mr. Meynell cleared his throat desperately
once more.

I — I — can't say, really. To be frank with
you, Mr. Stannard, I should be much relieved
if you could give me your message and be

content without seeing her. Would that be
quite out of the question V

Quite so. I have an account to render to
Lady Valerian and to her alone."

She is very much changed of late. Her
illness has shaken and aged her. I wish to*
spare her any agitation."

Why do you assume that my business will
agitate or distress her ?"

I really cannot say — the unusual hour —
your urgency," hesitated the banker.

As I said before, I could not choose
my time. If this is an unfortunate one
for any reason, I will not persist. Will
you only kindly let Lady Valerian know
that I am here, and ask her to appoint
another."

Silence, almost consecrated silence, fell
again on \k\^ husband and wife at this suggestion.
Mr. Meynell frowned and fidgeted with
a paper-knife he held, and ended by looking
appealingly at his wife. " My mother distinctly
refused to see anyone about an hour

ago, but, perhaps, if you would try again,
Constance "

^' Certainly," she assented, rising with ladylike
readiness. '' Will you please give me the
message exactly as I am to take it ? Shall I
say Mr. Stannard is here, and ask dear mamma
to appoint a time for seeing him another day,
if she does not feel equal to doing so to-night?
Very good."

Mr. Meynell's eyes followed her retreating
figure doubtfully'. Her departure seemed
nevertheless to relieve him of some constraint,
and he turned to the Vicar with a decided air.

'• I am going to speak plainly to you, Mr.
Stannard. I don't particularly care for my
mother to become one of your followers. I
know she went regularly to St. Fridolin's last
year, and, I suppose, your errand here to-night
has somewhat of a purpose to draw her there
again. It is my duty to stand between her
and what I believe to be pernicious, and the
religious atmosphere of your church is to my
mind distinctly unwholesome. I can under-vol,

I. 19

stand that a convert like Lady Valerian Meynell
must be an object of "

'• Stop there, if you please," spoke Eustace,
flushing hotly. '• Am I here to defend my
opinions or to vindicate my conduct as a
gentleman ? Let us take your grounds of
offence separately.

I meant no offence," answered Meynell ^
awkwardly, not to say sulkily.

''I am very 2:lad to hear that, at least."

'• But you mean that I am offensive all the
same. I cannot help it, Mr. Stannard. These
are not pleasant words for me to speak. I
am fulfilling a duty laid upon miC, to shield
a weaker vessel from too severe temptation.
You shall see my mother as you desire, and
I will trust to your sense of honour — poor
worldly substitute for Christian principle — not
to tamper "

Eustace began to feel as if the Christian
virtue of patience was at least strained to its
utmost limits. " M}^ business is with Lady
A'^aleria alone, I tell you. It is a charge of

her bestowing, and from which I shall gladly
see myself relieved. To-night's interview may
I devoutly hope will — prove our final
one."

Mrs. Meynell's return stopped his words
short. She breathed quickly and looked
flurried beneath her sedate composure. " You
cannot see Lady Valerian to-night, Mr. Stannard.
And I can make no appointment for
you either. I have not seen her. She has
gone out."

Gone out !" shouted Meynell. '' Constance !
what are you talking about?"

My dear Oliver," protested his wife.
How should I know your mother's engagements?
She can come and go in her own
house as she pleases, I suppose. She must
have gone out directly after sending that
message to us." And Mrs. Meynell gave
a look at her husband as if to remind him of
Eustace's presence. Eut Meynell's anxiety
was beyond repression.

Gone out. At this time. In her state of

19—2

health. Gone out secretly, without a maid to
attend her?"

We don't know that Harris is not with
her. Of course I could not set the servants
gossiping by making a commotion and asking
questions. We must Avait and see." And
the dove-coloured lady smoothed her ruffled
plumage, and resuming her seat, picked up
the knitting.

Meynell was white to the very lips. '• Where
can she be?" he spoke under his breath, and
his eyes wandered distressed from the composed
figure of his wife to the Vicar's fiice.
*^ Can you give a guess ?" he asked, almost
imploringly.

Eustace shook his head. " Unless she has
gone to seek me at St. Fridolin's. I tell you
candidly that is most likely."

Mrs. Meynell looked up with strong disapproval.
"Hush, lAcaHe ;' and the door
opened to admit the butler with the great
silver tea-tray.

Oliver turned away impatiently, but his

wife managed to maintain a discreet, unruffled
demeanour.

"Should you prefer coffee, Mr. Stannard ?
No? Cream and suo-ar?"

The cream was unsteadily poured, and the
sugar-tongs rattled a little, but she managed
to go through the proper formalities and to
sip her own cup of tea, though Eustace set
his down untasted. The hidden terror that
possessed Meynell was infecting both.

He walked the great glittering chamber
from end to end, stopping to listen to every
chance noise in the street outside, his unquiet
figure reflected and multiplied in all the
mirrors around. Eustace had thought he had
better go, but received a hastily whispered
No. Stay. Let her find you here." That
had decided the question. Mrs. Meynell had
resumed her knitting, but the needles flickered
fitfully, and the silk ran with a jerk and
twist now and then. A great gilt clock on
the mantelpiece ticked the minutes away
noisily. It was a grand allegorical composition,

with a Greek hero in a triumphal chariot
attended by winged Loves and unclad nymphs
bearing garlands. One fat Cupid seemed to
catch Mr. Stannard's eye every time he consulted
it, and to be pointing sardonically with
his golden dart at the small space the minute-hand
had covered since last he looked. Now
and then Mrs. Meynell hazarded a small remark,
to which Eustace replied somewhat, it
must be confessed, at random.

*' It is dear mamma's delicate state of health
that makes it so extraordinary she should have
gone out without consulting us. Oliver and
I heard that the Brants — my sister-in-law and
her husband, who are living here, you know —
we heard that they were to be out, and so came
over to spend the evening with mamma and
prevent her from feeling dull. She did not
expect us, and might very easily have made
some other eno-ao^ement."

*' I — I beg your pardon." Eustace was
on the alert to catch some sounds of coming
wheels. ^' The Brants T

Lord Charles Brant married Mr. Meynell's
only sister. They have no town house this
year, and so during the session "

'' There's Brant !" Meynell exclaimed.
*• AVhat shall I say ? He always is sure to
ixsk questions."

Go down and send him off at once to
Mrs. Damien's to join Mabel. She left word
that he was to be sure to do so if he returned
in anything like reasonable time," Mrs. Meynell
replied promptly ; and Oliver departed to do
her bidding. '* You must be astonished at
Oliver's anxiety," she went on. " He is the
most devoted of sons. / think it overstrained,
especially with a person like Lady
Valerian, who has taken her own way so completely
all her life. She will be only annoyed
dien she finds us waiting here for her."

^leynell returned, and the endless evening
dragged on for half-an-hour longer. Even
the fat Cupid could net disguise the fact that
it was nearing eleven when Eustace made
another attempt to depart. This time Meynell

looked really and unfeignedly alarmed when
his attention was called to the hour.

'' Wait, please wait a few minutes more,"
he urged.

The butler entered to remove the tea-trays
advanced to Oliver, and asked a discreetly
low-voiced question.

Certainly not," was the reply My
mother is too unwell to come downstairs
again. You may all go to hed without waiting
for family prayers to-night. Mrs. Meynell
and I will stay here till Lord and Lady CharlcvS-
return."

The butler's face expressed satisfaction with
the arrangement, and he retired finally, leaving
the three to their watch.

The' don't know she is not in the house,"
Mr. Meynell said, with a meaning look at his
wife. " If I only knew what to do "

The door burst violently open, and a precise
young person, fluttered out of all propriety
rushed into the room.

'•My lady! Oh, sir, my lady! Wherefor

pity's sake, is sbe? I just looked into the
room, and it was empty — and her so ill ! Oh
dear! Oh dear! Is she gone off her head
and wandered away somewhere "

Meynell turned sharply. '' Then you were
not with her?" — but his wife took the word
from him.

*' Xo, Oliver, Harris was not with her mistress.
Harris has been out on her own concern,
she best knows where. If you had not
chosen to go out, Harris, without obtaining
permission, your mistress might have been
spared some inconvenience."

My lady said she shouldn't want me again.
She really and truly did!" protested the remorseful
Harris. " And she being ill, I didn't
like to disturb her just to ask to go out to-post
a letter and match a bit of ribbon, and

the shops being closed " faltered the guilty

one.

'^ A thug which no properly behaved maid
ever does in my experience," Mrs. Meynell
pursued awfully. *' Lady Valerian will speak

to you in the morning. Meanwhile you may
go to bed. I or Lady Charles will see that
she has all she requires for the night."

"Tm sure I didn't stay a quarter of an
hour ; and Anne said if her ladyship's bell rang
she would attend; and her ladyship's orders
were so strict for us to keep away and leave
her quiet."

^' That will do. You may go." And
cowering under Mrs. Meynell's severe gaze,
the culprit departed.

The two men looked in each other's face
uneasily. This fresh evidence of the secrecy
attending Lady Valerian's errand affected both
with apprehension. Only Constance, invigorated
by the encounter with Harris, maintained
her equanimity.

The house sank into deep, deep silence, as
the clock ticked on till midnight and passed
it. The candles burned lower and lower, and
began to cast giant shadows of their sconces
on the floor and wall. The night seemed to
grow suddenly chill, and ]airs. Meynell brought

her white, fur-lined wrap from an inner room,
and sat knitting with it on, a proceeding
which seemed to increase the 
and dreariness of the whole indefinitely.

Are sou sure she is not upstairs after
all?" asked Oliver, with sudden alarm. "Ill
fainting — somewhere. And to be left all
those hours and hours !"

They all started in affright at the suggestion.
Meynell hastily got a light and led the way,
first to the small second drawing-room which
opened out of the one in which they were
sitting. It was empty, silent and chill. Lady
Valerian's rooms were one turn of the stairs
higher. A bedroom in order for the night,
round which Mrs. Meynell searched while the
two men stood outside listening expectant.
She shook her head as she emerged, and they
went on to the sitting-room next to it. Harris
lead made up the fire lately and lighted the
candles on the mantelpiece, which wavered in
the forlorn fashion candles have, burning out
uselessly in a deserted room. A couch stood

near the hire and looked as if it had been
lately occupied. On the sofa-table near it,
stood a large desk and some books, and a
Bible half-closed lay within reach of the
couch. Oliver looked around — behind the
couch and in the great chair by the window —
Mrs. Meynell ran lightly up the stairs to the
upper floor. It was during her absence that
Meynell turned to Eustace.

"Is it quite impossible for you to help me?
To give me any clue to the matter that sq
engrosses her thoughts ?"

Quite impossible," the other had replied
regretfully, touched to the heart by the devouring
anxiety in the banker's manner. '* I
wish I could make you understand how
fervently I wish it were otherwise. I wish I
could place the business in your hands, but I
dare not."

Oliver silently arranged the sofa-cushions
and rugs, and carefully made up the fire
anew. He touched the books on the table.
Something thick in a fold of soft paper

"Hush!" cried Constance, softly, 'the
Brants!" and she shut the door gently.
Voices and steps on the stairs outside ascended
and passed. Lady Charles declaiming about
somebody's " tone," or want of it ; Lord
Charles sleepily acquiescing. Mr. Meynell
looked out at them.

'' You here still, Oliver?" exclaimed his
sister. " How is mamma to-night?"

'' Much better, I hope," he answered,
drawing back and closing the door." He
had had some faint, wild hope that she might
have been with her daughter after all, or that
Mabel might know of her absence. Now
there was nothing to be done but to return to
the dreary brightness of the drawing-room and
recommence the weary waiting. Mr. Meynell
impatiently lighted a taper and kindled more
clusters of alights. " Would you not like to

go home, Constance ? I can always send for
Mabel when my mother returns."

Certainly not, clear," said his wife, cheerfully,
standing to her colours bravely. " It is
comparatively early yet. You forget how
often Charles has kept us all up later than this
waiting for his return from the House. It is
nothing extraordinary. Perhaps, though, Mr,
Stannard may have early services or some such
doings to think of"

^' Hush, what was that ?" Meynell interrupted
; wheels stopping, a sound of the door
below opening, subdued voices in the hall, the
reposing of the door, and a step on the stair-the
right one at last.

Ingot with the weary tread of an invalid, but
with a rapid, light, vigorous step Lady Valerian
entered, and standing in the doorway, confronted
the three. She was wrapped in a long-satin
cloak, her head veiled in lace, which she
tossed back impatiently, as if for air; and, her
head high, her eyes bright, and her face full of"
a strange preoccupation, she advanced slowly

towards them. Each felt more embarrassed
than she was. She did not seem to think an'
explanation needful, nor manifest any surprise
at their presence there.

*' How late you are, mamma!" said Constance,
rising dutifully to meet her, and holding'
out her cheek to be kissed. " We had no
idea you were out, and have been waiting ta
see you all the evening. Oliver had been
quite wretched at the thought that you were
not equal to seeing us."

Lady Valerian kissed her. and held out her
hand to her son absently. '' I am sorry that
you should have distressed yourself about me,"
she said, in an indifferent, conventional tone.
^- Why did you wait ? You are too ready to
trouble yourself about my coming and going,
Oliver," she frowned slightly ; "it is quite
unnecessary."

I am ver' glad," he began, but she seemed
to resent even his tone of relief.

It is very good and dutiful of you, I know;
but noah that you are satisfied, I hope you will

not let me keep you here longer. Did you
want me for any special reason, Mr. Stannarcl?"

For a very special one, but as it is so
late "

I wish to see you, too. You and Constance
will excuse me, I know, Oliver. Goodnight,
my dear."

Eustace felt unaccountably sorry for ]mr.
Meynell as he took his leave with a look of
perplexity in his face, stopping at the door to
gaze back at Eustace with a curious air of
warning and appeal, as his wife made her
serene transit, smiling and reassured.

Lady Valerian watched them go, then
loosened her veil, and laid down her long
mantle. She was greatly changed, he saw.
Her dress hung loosely on her sharp shoulders,
her rings slipped about on her wasted fingers ;
but her whole person was transfigured for the
moment by some strong intense inward ecstasy
that shone in her eyes and rang in her voice
and filled her with strength and joy.

Was it expectation of his news, he

wondered with some dread, and beo^an his
explanations hastily She listened in silence,
with more of courteous patience in her air
than of interest. Her eyes rested on his face
now and then, but for the most part were
fixed on vacancy, and she smiled to herself
once or twice. When he came to his news
from Petropolis, she grew suddenly grave and
attentive. '' Poor old Biddy !" she sighed
once, under her breath.

And there the search has ended. Whatever
interest you may have felt in that adopted
son, Lady Valerian, may end here. I have
executed your wishes, and you have at last,
and at least, found a certainty."

Yes, found a certainty," she assented, with
an inscrutable, furtive smile.

'' And your hopes and fears may rest forever."


^' For ever!" she echoed again, but her smile
brightened, though she drooped her head to
conceal it.

He was silent from astonishment, then

VOL. I. 20

handed her the two letters. '* Do yoa care to
read this and see for yourself?"

"Why should I?" she demanded, with a
face of almost insolent triumph. " What
good is that to me? If it says my son is
dead, it is false!" and she tossed them from
her. '• Ah, forme me! I did wron^x to come
to you, and you have been very good — but my
heart is full, is breaking with joy ! He is
alive. My son, my very son, alive! I can
sall him to me when I will !" And she turned
on Eustace a face all alight with rapture.

You are certain?" was all he could say.

Certain ! and before many days are over
not you alone but the world shall be as certain
as 1 am. Wait, only wait till 1 can take
him to my heart and tell him his father s
name !"

A COUNTERFEIT PRESENTMENT.

RS. Betray was up and astir
jDortentously early next morning.
Elsie saw her red-lined cloak sweep
past the window, and beckoned to her with a
nod and a smile. The imperative need of
sympathy, which besets most women in
emotional crises, had seized her. The reaction
of last night's excitement had left her restless
and unhinged, full of audaciously brilliant
imaginings one moment, and direst misgivings
the next. But Mrs. Beltran only shook her
head and passed on.

The red flower's day was done. The long
crimson petals hung limp and discoloured

20—2

round a shrivelled stem. The golden starry
centre had shrank to a pinch of brown dust.
Elsie, sighing, laid the faded fragments tenderly
in a small tortoiseshell box, one of her few
treasures, to be cherished as precious relics for
the rest of her life.

The shadow fell across the window again
while she was thus busied, and Mrs. Beltran
entered without waiting to be summoned.
She had been walking briskly, and that, or
some secret excitement, had brought a dusky
glow to her cheek, and a light to her eyes.
She held her head erect, and there was an air
of suppressed exultation in her whole bearing
that Elsie might have noticed at any other
time. She composed herself, however, in her
old languid fashion in her usual seat near
Elsie's couch, and taking the girl's hand
caressingly in hers, waited for her confidences.


They were but few and meagre ones after
all. Elsie could not bring herself to part with
her wonderful secret at once. She played

around it as it were, clattering rather at
random about the delights of the past evening,
the ladies' dresses, the music, the compliments
paid Sampson, everybody's great kindness to
her. !Mrs. Beltran listened with a benignant
smile.

Stow and then a sharp, furtive glance shot
through her narrowed eyelids at the girl's face.
She seemed on the watch to catch a hint — a
name. But Elsie kept her own counsel, and
left the most interesting part untold.

'' Look at that !" spoke Mrs. Bertrand with
sudden impatience. " Who is it ?"

It was a cabinet photograph enclosed in an
envelope, with the name of a photographer of
note on the outside.

Elsie looked at it respectfully and cut the
string round it. "Is it your husband?" she
asked, drawing forth the enclosure. Then
she gave an involuntary little cry, and raised
her hands as if to cover her hotly blushing
cheeks. It was a large tinted portrait of a
young, handsome man, and the wide-open.

honest, blue eyes that smiled up into hers were
Sir Geraint's ? — or Mr. Edric Poynter's ?

Ah, I thought that would make you
speak !" Mrs. Beltran said, with a low laugh.
So you knew it," and she nodded well-pleased.


'' It's a bad photograph," spoke Elsie, decidedly,
to cover her confusion. '' Not a bit
like their usual work. Oh, I know it quite
well. My sister — poor Emmie who died —
used to paint for them, and I've helped her
often and often. I should say the negative
had been damaged "

Never mind the negative. Now look at
this portrait — his father. Don't sou think
them alike ?"

She held out her hand for the photograph,
but Elsie kept fast hold of it, while she took
from Mrs. Beltran's hand a shabby old minas
A blue velvet case with a cipher in
gold on the back. Inside was a large, old-fashioned
locket, with a loop for a ribbon, and
a turquoise setting. The gold was coppery

pink, the turquoises faded to all shades of
green and yellowish-blue, and the flesh-tints of
the miniature had bleached to a ghastly whiteness;
but enough remained to shoal that the
portrait had been a piece of clever workmanship
in its day. A likeness of a young officer
of dragoons in an old-fashioned uniform, high-stocked,
small waisted, and epaulette.

'• How exactly alike they are !" she exclaimed.
The hair in the miniature fell in
rippling locks, and the moustache stuck out
fiercely, in odd disconnection with the light
little ringleted whiskers, while the photograph
was close cropped and wore a coat of the
season's cut. Yet the features and expression
of the two were strikingly similar.

She looked from one to the other once or
twice, turned the locket over and smiled at
the dry, faded curl of light hair fastened in
with a knot of seed-pearl, wondering who had
worn and gazed on it and dreamed dreams
over it years and years ago, before her days in
this world had begun. Then she examined

the case and tried to spell out the cipher,
'' ' A ' and ' J ' and a Q,' and some little letters
beside," she read.

'• / make it ' J. A.,' " said Mrs. Beltran,
with a secret smile.

Elsie returned to her study of the face. '' A
good face," she murmured, '^ a kind, brave
face." She rubbed her eves suddenly and
looked at it afresh with a flash of awakened
curiosity. Some bright idea and a merry one
had seized her. She picked up the photograph
[lorrain. '• Yes, I thought 1 knew "

Knew what?" asked Mrs. Beltran, sharply.

Knew how you came by that photograph,"
and Elsie laughed roguishly. " You couldn't
take me in, after helping poor Emmie so long.
Why, I could do it myself."

What do you mean?" cried Mrs. Beltran,
Recovering the photograph with a fierce snatch.
Her face was not good to look at just then.
The pent-up passion within blanched her face
to the lips, and she drew back for a second out
of range of Elsie's ^)^^^.

*sis it a cheat — a trick?" she asked, almost
directly, in her smooth, low tone. " It doesn't
concern me, you know. I do not even know
the people. I must have done wrong to show
it to you. You will keep my secret?" Elsie
nodded dubiously. " There is no harm in it,
but you may tell him all you know when you
see him again, if you like."

*' When I see him again? You mean Mr.
Poynter? I do not know whether I ever
shall," and Elsie's voice trembled.

That is as you choose," and Mrs. Beltran
smiled mysteriously. " What was your wish?
What is he to do for your sake ?"

Not for me — for Sampson — he did say for

my sake " Elsie broke off, flooded with

blushes. Her mind had travelled miles away
from the photograph and its secret, whatever
it might have been, Mrs. Beltran saw, and was
satisfied. She turned away from Elsie and
took up the dead flower in its little shrine,
while Elsie faltered a few words of explanation
to which she hardly appeared to listen.

He lias left sou for ever, and the red
flower is dead and the chance is gone," she
spoke, in her soft, musical voice, in a sort of
melancholy chant. " Gone, all gone for ever !"
Elsie raised two eyes filled with gathering
tears to her face, and her lips trembled
piteously. " Gone ! But they will come
again." Elsie shook her head in forlorn incredulity.


They can come back at my call," declared
Mrs. Beltran. " Past days, lost hopes, a dead
flower." She rose to her full height, towering
over Elsie, and looking down on her with her
face of dark, mysterious power. " What do
you know of the gifts I hold in my hand for
those who trust me ? I would have given you
great things long ago, had you chosen, but
you turned from me to other friends."

They have been good friends to me,"
protested Elsie, horribly nervous, but loyal.
*^ What could you have done for me more than
they do? Can you make me different from
what I am? Can you make me like other

girls? Give me health, strength, and nights
free from pain?"

'' Put yom' hand in mine and have faith in
me," said Mrs. Beltran, solemnly. " You have
asked me a simple gift. You shall have it asa
token that the others which you long for
shall follow it!"

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, Guildford.

C, C. <t Co.

ci

^?

Lady

Valerian

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

V. "2.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/ladyvalerianovel02mobe

Jl W^ovcL

A. Soberly.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :

Richard BENTLEY AND SON,

publishers in Oriiin.irs to leer ittajcsts the (SJuecn.

1886.

[All Eights Reserved.]

CHAPTER

I. HOW HESTER WAITED FOR NEWS

PACE


II. A DEAD FLOWER - - - - 3^

III. MAJOR Randolph Standard - - - 57

IV. DOWN AT Altar - - - - 7S
V. EUSTACE'S Birthright - - - 103

VI. A witch's brew - - - - 123-

viL rsvicE warned! - - - - 13^

VIII. A DAY OF STRANGE Meetings - - 153

IX. " FOR NE'ER WAS DRKlM SO LIKE A WAKING " 160

X. HOW Eric CAME TO Redgrave PLACE - 187

XL IN KENSINGTON GARDENS AGAIN - - 20:3

CHAPTER

XII. LADY VALERIA's LAST VISITOR

PAGE

- 222

XIII. HOW OLIVER MEYNELL CAME TO ST. FRIDO-

LIN'S - - - - - 241

XIV. "COME, LASSES AND LADS !" - - 258
XV. "MISSING" - 270

CHAPTER I.

HOW HESTER WAITED FOR News.

Dec was not unmindful of his
promise to let Hester Archdale
hear the end — if end it . were — of
his adventures.

The Royal'Denbigh being short of officers,
and his chances of a visit to town uncertain,
he had to content himself with writing, and in
the course of the next and following days
began a dozen letters at least. Despite his
most strenuous endeavours, each of them broke
down utterly in the course of a page or two,

VOL. II. 21

and came to an untimely end in the wastepaper
basket.

He made the discovery — by no means a
novel one — that a faithful account of his
experiences was not to be had for the mere
writing down. For one thing, his impressions
of his interview with Euphrosyne changed
completely each time he recalled them. Sometimes
the whole scene became so utterly
meaningless and its conclusion so flat, that
he decided it had been a fiasco from beginning
to end. Euphrosyne and her confederates
had taken him for somebody else, found out
their blunder, and got rid of him — that
was all. Again, it seemed full of sinister
meaning. He ouo;ht to write and warn Monk
forthwith — against what ? Then, again, it was
a crazy freak of a superstitious woman. She
was anxious to prove an alibi, for some reason
of her own ; his evidence came in useful, and it
pleased her to make a melodramatic scene
of it. There it was, clear as daylight. Sometimes
the whole incident seemed pregnant

Perhaps he was unconsciously hampered by
the recollection of Euphrosyne's last words —
however much he persuaded himself he disregarded
them. His account at last, not
achieved till after many days, was a lame
performance after all, only to be sent if
he failed to see Hester. A week had passed
before his chance came, and meanwhile Hester
waited and wondered, and Eoswal and the
young Buccleuch had rather a bad time of it
especially Eoswal.

It was the sultry weather, Hester supposed,
that made steady work impossible, and sent
her off into languid fits of dreaming at critical
moments, or else drove her into sticking
doggedly at her easel long after both eyes and
fingers had given signs of being past all good
work for that day.

Master Jack expressed his sentiments after
the manner of his kind ; grimaced, fidgeted,
insisted on being; bribed into goodness with

21—2

unlimited chocolate creams ; presented his
heels instead of his head for his sister's contemplation
; tried the sharpness of his little
sword on the nearest chair-back ; made art
experiments of his own with charcoal and
turpentine ; and, in fact, generally conducted
himself after the fashion of his elfish double,
till dismissed in disgrace to the nursery.

Roswal knew all about it. He would pose
*' in act to spring " obediently enough ; but ina
limp, uninteresting fashion. " What's the
use ?" his great red eyes seemed to ask
eloquently. " Why should I glare ? If I did,
instead of getting it down on canvas forthwith,
you let the very slightest interruption
a postman's knock, or a stray step in the
drawing-room — set your attention wandering
for minutes together. Cats ? No, I dont
believe you !" It was treatment to make any
dog flop down disgustedly, hang his great
tongue out imbecility and pant in exasperation.


It's the weather, Cuss. I'm just as stupid

as you to-day." It was a glaringly unjust
comparison, but Cuss only blinked the more.
Such a good day too, old dog. Papa gone
off with mother for the whole afternoon ; no
one to interrupt us; but," regretfully, " I cant
paint, somehow. I'm getting nervous. Suppose
we go round to Rose Damien's. She
likes me to be there on a Monday ; and you
shall lie in the conservatory and watch the
gold-fish ; and in the evening we'll have the
horses out, and then, and then, old darling,
you'll get your turn. Anything' s better than
waiting for people who don't mean to come, or
who may just as easily be met at Eose's ;
eh?"

Eoswal came and sat up against her very
hard for a moment to express approval, and
then lumbered downstairs to the hall-door,
so as to lose no time at the start.

There were a few hot days in that year's
June, and this was one of them. The pavement
scorched, the houses reflected heat, the
sun beat through Hester's red parasol, the

wind was a hot blast, the shadow a glow.
Hester and Koswal both rejoiced when, the
fiery transit over, they found themselves
in shelter at St. Maur Eoad, listening in the
hall to the marner of voices above, that
showed no falling off in the number of Mrs.
Damien's Monday visitors. Hester decided
on entering unannounced through the conservatory,
and disposing of Koswal on the way.
He had his own favourite nook under a stand
of palms, where the tiles were cold and damp,
and a lazy little fountain close by dripped
musically into its moss edged basin.

Hester's eyes, dazzled by the outer glare, at
first wandered unrecognisingly from group
to group in the cool, softly-lighted room,
which Mrs. Damien had arranged after her
own ideas of comfort, and which looked
strangely foreign and bare with its polished
boards, filmy muslin draperies, and complete
absence of heavy or needless ornament. All
colour and brightness seemed concentrated in
one spot, where Aunt Mamie stood presiding

magnificently over a table piled with flowers,
fruit, and coloured sweetmeats, till it looked
like a giant nosegay ; and dispensing the
contents of a mighty silver bowl all dimmed
with a chilly dew from the clinking blocks
of ice that floated in a golden-tinted mixture
amongst slices of pineapple, spirals of
lemons, and only Aunt Mamie knew what
besides.

Aunt Mamie herself was a goodly sight.
Her scarlet handkerchief was the brightest
point of colour in the room ; her white teeth
flashed in delighted smiles ; her great gold
earrings swung and twinkled with each movement
; her high cap and apron where so fresh,
so frilled, so marvellously beyond all imaginable
results of mere clear-starch very, that they
might have been whipped to a froth out of
sugar and snow and sent home by the confectioner.


Nobody there !" said Hester, softly.
'' Nobody."

About a dozen people came under that

description, and she proceeded to tell them
over mentally. " The Spells as usual — Mr.
Lepell with his crowd of girl worshippers.
There are the Bostonians, those dreadfully
cultured, pretty girls, who know more about
England than anyone over here can ever tell
them, and have a theory ready made to account
for everything. Lady Beatrix talking nonsense
with her mouth full of strawberries, with all
the men in the room admiring, except her
husband. I wonder dio that is bringing her
an ice ? I've seen him several times here
lately, I think. Handsome, distinguished-looking,
and badly dressed. He must be a
somebody to go about in a coat like that;
besides, she looks so gratified at his attention.
He's not listening to a word she says. He's
looking right over her head at Rose. Who is
Rose talking to ? I wish someone would
move and let me see. A lady — Lady
MonchalseaT Hester's little foot gave such
a vicious little stamp that Roswal lifted his
head with a jerk and looked all attention.

Wicked old woman ! I thought she was
dead ! She shall see / am alive presently."

Mrs. Damien, swaying gracefully in her big
cane rocking-chair, was waving idly her feathers,
and listening with absent eyes to the
authoritative remarks of an imposing lady,
who, seated bolt upright, one foot on a stool,
surveyed the company with a sort of magisterial
air through a great gold eye-glass, all
unconscious of being surveyed in her turn by
the calm, handsome eyes of one of the fair
Bostonians, evidently noting and storing up
her peculiarities for future study — as a type.
Lady Monchalsea had a thin, high-pitched nose
and voice, and spoke in studied phrase.

*' My dear," she was saying, " of course, in
these days, thanks to Cook, every human
creature has a chance of going everywhere.
It is not what we see, but low we see it, that
must be considered."

Mrs. Damien assented languidly; the fair
Bostonian smiled approval.

'' The tourist who infests the Alps may

carry away some recollection of mere scenery,
and enjoy his own vulgar holiday in his own
vulgar way. But to stand face to face with
nature in company with one capable of interpreting
the higher beauty that appeals only
to "

There was a stir of a fresh arrival. A tall
young gentleman, with a close-cropped blonde
head, was standing before Mrs. Damien.
Hester's heart beat a trifle faster, and then
sank down fathoms deep, as he turned a rosy,
vacuous, unknown face towards Lady Beatrix,
while Lady Monchalsea, eye-glass and sentence
held in suspension, frowned portentously on
the interruption. Then the penetrating accents
resumed :

"If it were an every day travelling party
that I where asking you to join, I could understand
your hesitation. What I ofl'er is no
ordinary privilege — to visit the Alps in
company with Professor Montrose."

'* Professor Montrose T Hester exclaimed to
Koswal in astonishment.

And " Montrose " echoed in a low but enthusiastic
whisper from the Boston group.
Montrose,"

The handsome, odd-looking man turned
from his chat with Lady Beatrix with much
alacrity. '' Did you call me, Mrs. Damien V

'' Xo. It was Lady Monchalsea who
mentioned your name." And then, in response
to the appeal of three pairs of lovely
envious eyes, she proceeded to make the great
man known to his transatlantic admirers, and
provide him with three fresh followers on the
spot. She seemed nervous and absent, only
anxious to break away civilly from Lady
Monchalsea.

Lady Beatrix, after a pout at the Professor's
desertion, brightened up as three more masculine
figures appeared on the scene. Hester
disposed of these at a glance. Not one of
them could have been mistaken for Edric fora
moment. One dark — one short — one an old
acquaintance. She watched each in his turn
drift into Lady Beatrix's circle, and Lady

Monchalsea seize her victim once more, like
the Ancient Mariner the wedding guest.

You and I, Beatrix and Augustus Pell,
and Mr. Montrose — I know how much you
will have in common with both the poet and
the artist *'

'' Is that all your party ?" interrupted Eose.

'' We did expect Monchalsea and his wife,
but Zillah is very delicate just now, and keeps
him prisoner beside her sofa. Perhaps Ted
may get a holiday. I hope so. I am an old
woman now, and must have someone to see
after my little comforts ; and Ted knows the
northern Tyrol better than any courier."

Hester started, and sallied forth in hot
indignation. The arrangement was quite intelligible
to her now. The Hon. Ted Boughton
was the last left on his mother's hands of a
large, unlovely, and improbable family, all
the rest of whom had been adroitly disposed
of in matrimony by their sagacious parent in
half-a-dozen seasons. Lord Monchalsea, the
eldest, most unlovely, and most unpromising,

had offered himself to Mrs. Damien within a
week of her arrival in England, to be refused
and to carry his rejected title and affections to
a wealthy daughter of the Tribes within
another fortnight. A sufficient time had
elapsed for Ted to be produced with decency ;
and so — and so "

Mrs. Damien sprang forward to her as if
welcoming the interruption. " Hester ! I beg
your pardon for not seeing you sooner. Have
you been here long V

I have been in the conservatory putting
Eoswal by. He makes 'people hot to look at
him this weather."

*' Just like Henderson," laughed Mrs.
Damien. '' I aren't put a butler into a white
suit ; and besides, he is miserable without his
tea-tray ; so Tve deposed him in favour of
Aunt Mamie. Doesn't she look delightful ?"
Hester detected a harassed air of preoccupation
under Rose's gay tone, and held her
hand fast.

^' I couldn't help overhearing you' she confessed,

with a glance of supreme disfavour at
her old antipathy, Lady Monchalsea, who was
eyeing her superciliously. " Don't you want
to go ? Why don't you say so at once, and
get rid of her T

Eose looked at her with a gentle wistfulness.
I can't decide. Perhaps it would be best
to go — but the wisest decision is always the
hardest. If I thought I should be missed
here — ever so little — by anybody — I would
stay, oh, so gladly !"

She broke off ; the Bostonians were taking
leave, going off with the Professor to see
somebody's pictures. There was a little
outbreak of parting words. Hester heard
'' Zwiesel Alp," " Konigsee," '' Just too lovely,"
*' Eastern Glacier I" etc., etc., to all of which
Mrs. Damien listened, constrainedly smiling,
with the distressed line between her brows
that Hester alone could read.

'' I'm a blind, selfish wretch," she thought,
with sudden illumination, as she watched the
farewells. "She knows I hate the thoughts

of her going back to those Monchalseas, and
she is too shy to tell me what her real wishes
are. Why has she never mentioned the Professor's
name to me ? Perhaps they are old
friends. I like his looks. I like the way his
face lights up when he looks at her. I'm
not afraid of that hulking, smoke-dried Ted
Boughton. He and his mother may do their
worst ; Prose is safe from all clanger from their
attractions ; but this man is of a different
stamp."

A whole romance unfolded itself in the
girl's busy brain before the shabby coat of
the unconscious hero had finally disappeared
through the doorway. She looked for Eose,
anxious to show her comprehension, her sympathy.
Mr. Lepell had dawdled up to their
neighbourhood.

*' You must come, Mrs. Damien. Beatrix
will burn my sketch-book and throw my paint-box
out of the window if I have nobody to
support me. Now with you and Montrose
'*

Mrs. Damien turned away sharply, almost
rudely.

What do you think of the conservatory,
Hester ? Did you ever see the lilies so fine —
though, of course, the best have gone to St.
Fridolin's."

The best of everything goes to St. Fridolin
s, of course. My dear, that is just what
all your friends are beginning to complain of,"
said Lady Monchalsea unexpectedly, in a tone
of iced spite.

Mrs. Damien flushed hotly, and gave her a
haughty, defiant glance.

'don't let St. Fridolin's keep you, Rose,"
eagerly interposed Hester. '' You know we
can get someone to take your lectures. Miss
Coutell is disengaged, and would be only too
glad to come. The parish could very well
spare you for a few weeks. I cannot see why
you should not go."

She spoke even more emphatically than
was needful, keeping her eyes away from her
friend's face till the last words, when she

broke short off, startled at the miserable, half-imploring
look in Mrs. Damien's lovely eyes.
It vanished before she fairly caught it ; and
Rose was laughing a mocking, hard little laugh.

There is independent testimony to the
value of my exertions ! Quite trustworthy,
too ; so I may as well decide at once. When
do you want me, Lady Monchalsea ? The
last week in June ? Yes, that will suit me
perfectly."

'' Have I done wrong ?" Hester asked herself
anxiously ; but she had no chance of even
guessing, for the Spells departed and were
replaced by others, friends of Hester's, to
whom Mrs. Damien abandoned them as others
succeeded.

Aunt Mamie's bowl was running low before
the room cleared again, and Hester could
approach her friend.

Are you angry with what I said, Rose ?
Of course we all want you dreadfully. It
will be hateful without you, and no one can
really take your place."

VOL. n^A-^ 22

Hush, dear. It is all right, and the
question is settled." Then, as if to change
the subject : " I am rather worried about my
poor Birdie. Mr. de Cressy came early, and
says she is very unhappy and longing to seeme.
That unlucky brother has actually enlisted,
and the old man is furious. I know
what she will have to bear, poor child. I
promised to go to her this evening, but Lady
Monchalsea is going to stay to dinner, so I
must wait till tomorrow."

^' I'll go !" cried Hester, springing to a
sudden decision. '^ I've nothing to do here.
I shall be better than nobody. At all events,
I can tell her why you didn't come. Do
let me I"

"The City — this blazing day — and it's
getting late," Mrs. Damien exclaimed. Then,
seeing Hester was resolved : '* You must
drive., I will order the brougham ; but I
dread what Lady Archdale will say. She
hardly likes your going with me in the
mornings."

Hester took her wilful way, as lie generally
did, Eoswal in attendance, much as he disliked
carriage exercise. Shine was hotter, shade was
suffer, as they drove city wards ; air was less,
smells were more. Hester drove straight to
St. Fridolin's, and made her way on foot to
Lavender Eow. It had more the look of a
half-emptied dust-bin than ever. Elsie's
flowers were the only sweet, and her windows
the only clean things about the place. Behind
the blank, black wall the engine's ceaseless
thud and clash seemed to make life hotter to
hear it. The front-door was on the latch,
after the primitive fashion of Lavender Eow,
so Hester entered, and tapped gently on the
low, crooked-panelled door.

Come in," said a gay little voice, stopping
in a snatch of song. Elsie's little sewing-machine
stood on the table beside her, and she
was making it spin along gaily by way of
accompaniment. " Miss Archdale !" she cried,
in surprise, while Hester stood in wonderment
at the girl's changed looks. She wore the

9 9

same little spotted black print gown with the
close little white frill round her throat that
Hester had always known her in, but a pretty
pink colour tinted each pale cheek. Her great
eyes were full of light and life, her pretty lips
where curving with smiles. Even the invalid's
listless attitude had gone, and she was sitting
erect and busy, and rose alertly to receive her
visitor.

**I have a message from Mrs. Damien,"
Hester began, somewhat awkwardly. Was
this the forlorn, drooping creature she had
hurried to console ? " She could not come
herself to you, and sent me to hear what has
gone amiss — with your brother, I mean. We
were all so sorry."

Bayonet you sit down ?" Elsie asked, offering
a chair. " How very kind of you to come sofar
on this hot day. Indeed, I should not have
thought of troubling you. May I make you a
cup of tea ? The kettle is boiling. I expect
father home soon."

No, thank you," said Hester, vaguely dissatisfied.

It was the same gentle, courteous
Elsie, but her manner had just the slightest
touch of gay carelessness in it, almost the
bright sauciness of assured good fortune, that
was puzzling.

What did you wish to know ?" she said,
quite respectfully.

Why, we all thought you were in such
distress about Sampson," she began.

Did you T said Elsie, amusedly. '"' I
suppose to a lady it does seem a very dreadful
thing to enlist, but to us it is different,
and Sampson is sure to get on. He is a
good shot to begin with, and if his instructor
likes he can do much for him ; and he is
over twenty, so it won't count as boy's service."
Elsie stopped ; Hester still more surprised
at her fluent command of the subject.


'• If Mr. Paramount is satisfied "

Elsie's face feU.

Indeed, Miss Archdale, he takes it to heart
terribly ; but if I can only get him to listen to

what Mr. Poynter says, I'm sure he must come
round."

Mr. Poynter ! What do you know about
him '?" Hester tried to ask indifferently.

Elsie flushed hotly.

He was good enough to come and explain
things to us — to me," she said. " He has
been here to-day," in a low tone. " He
is very kind, and will take an interest in
Sammy."

"Oh, well, I am glad it is all so very satisfactory,"
said Hester, trying not to speak curtly
and drily. *' Good-bye, Elsie ; Mrs. Damien
will be pleased to hear of you. You are looking
so well, too."

I have kind friends who take care of me — '•
Oh ! the dog, the dog !"

*' What is it, Eoswal ? Down, sir ! down !'^
For Eoswal had suddenly flung himself at the
door, and was tearing furiously at the floor
with a low, savage growl. He stopped at
Hester s voice, but never moved his nose from
the ground.

Come here !" cried his mistress, imperatively.
"I am so sorry he frightened you. I
suppose it was a cat outside. Xow quiet, will
you ? Good-bye."

She opened the door and passed out, but atone
bound the dog was half-way up the low
staircase, and before she could overtake him
was growling and tearing frantically at a closed
door on the landing above. Hester seized him
by the collar and dragged him away, struggling
rebelliously and screwing his head round, half-choked,
but still obstinate. She gave in and
dropped him in despair at last, when his sense
of what was due to a lady seemed suddenly
restored, and he sprawled downstairs again
obediently beside her.

Once in the street, Hester felt ready to sit
down and cry. Eoswal's misconduct, following
on the rebuff she had received, had quite
unstrung her nerves. The noise had made her
head ache, the hot drive with home at the end
of it seemed unendurable to contemplate.
Instinctively she crossed the crowded street.

after a word to the coachman, and ascended a
short flight of steps between two blocks of
warehouses, and so on through a crooked lane,
under a. covered alley, and out into the open
space in front of St. Fridolin's.

The church door yawned open, wide and
dark. Here at least she should find quiet and
solitude. Here she might rest, weep, pray as
she listed; yet half unwillingly she crossed
the churchyard, Eoswal at her heels. Within
was gloom and emptiness, and stillness so
deep that even her soft footfall on the flagged
aisle seemed to rouse irreverent echoes. She
slipped into one of the seats, and, sinking on
her knees, dropped her face on her arms with a
sob of weariness. Eoswal, after tentatively
licking her elbow, the brim of her hat, and her
boot-heel very delicately, decided that it was
not a case for his ministrations, and departed
to make sure that the horse and carriage were
not absconding in his absence. Finding that
the coachman, who was well used to " our
lady's " ways, had driven round to his usual

position, he returned satisfied to await his
mistress's pleasure.

How long she knelt there Hester did not
know. Another footfall on the flags aroused
her, and lifting her head she saw the Vicar
entering by the vestry door and looking
thoughtfully around. She hoped he did not
see her. There was always a certain unspoken
antagonism between them, though either would
strenuously have denied the fact and professed
the highest regard for the other ; so, still as a
mouse she kept, her bright eyes regarding him
sharply.

Possibly her mood, a most unusual one,
rendered her more sympathetic than usual, for
she noted for the first time the weary look in
his eyes, the anxious lines of brow and lip ; or
perhaps, fancying himself alone, he let slip
aside for a moment the mask of grave impassiveness
that shielded him from the outer
world. However it was, instead of the dignified
parish priest, calm and strong and self-contained,
Hester seemed to see a sorrowful,

trouble-laden man, with eyes full of a hopeless
yearning, and lips set in pathetic resignation.
She looked and wondered, and half rose, and
then he saw her. He seemed to take her being
there for granted ; that was one comfort,
Hester thought.

You are early for Evensong, Miss Arch-dale.
I thought I was late !"

I didn't come for Service. I came to
think and rest," she answered him rather
brusquely.

No better place." He didn't begin upon
Church privileges, or lecture her on neglected
opportunities, as Hester dimly feared. He
only stood with his face slightly upraised to
the light, thoughtfully smiling.

"I've had a very bad day," Hester spoke
out suddenly and unaccountably. "Everything
wrong and wretched from the beginning.
It wasn't my fault. That I maintain. I'm
not going in for any dishonest self-abasement.
I only want peace and quietness to think
things out and see where the misfit lies."

And have you succeeded T

''No, not quite," she admitted. "I still
feel injured, and don't know who to blame."

Mr. Stannard looked courteously, kindly
attentive, and she went on impulsively. " It
is just this : I used to think I was a great deal
to many people, and now I have been suddenly
shown that I am of no use to anybody, and it
hurts."

"I do not understand you."

''I have had to nurse mamma, and manage
the house, since I was c[uite a little girl ; and
daddy used to consult me and call me his
commanding officer, only in fun, but it was
half-true ; and, of course, I was an important
person in my way. Mamma is well again,
and we are all happy about it ; only, she seems
to have taken up life just where she laid it
down a dozen years ago. All the arrangements
of the house are wrong, and must be
altered forthwith ; I am only a little girl, to be
looked after and found fault with and ordered
about all day long. Daddy is wrapped up in

her (so he ought to be), and never takes my
part by word or look. Why, mamma won't
even let a visitor be admitted if she is not at
home to receive him, and begins to think I
ought to go nowhere without her. I can't
make myself twelve years old again."

Don't try. Let Lady Archdale realise by
degrees that you are a grown-up reasonable
woman." She mistrusted his use of the second
adjective, and hastened to strengthen her case.

I had Rose to lean on at least, or so I
thought till to-day, when I found how completely
outside her life I am, how little needful
I am to her. Oh, it hurts, it hurts !"

Tell me," Mr. Stannard said, with a thrill
of sympathy in his voice. " What has she
done r

I am not jealous of her love," Hester protested,
half crying. " I would give her up
gladly to any man worthy of it ; but I am perfectly
justified in mistrusting and despising
the Monchalsea set. And to leave us all for
them !"

She dashed her tears away defiantly, and in
reply to his questioning look told briefly the
story of that afternoon, as she had read it.
Professor Montrose's name came in with a
certain hesitation, and his part in the programme
was slurred over, in her anxiety not
to betray her friend. But she had an uncomfortable
sense that the Vicar was, somehow,
mentally supplying the gaps in her narrative ;
and she hurried on to her vexation about her
fruitless errand to Elsie, laughing at her own
inconsistency in being vexed. Then she
stopped.

"Now tell me the real story. This is all
Prologue, is it not ?" was the unexpected
comment.

She flushed up to her honest brown eyes,
that wavered and drooped for an instant, and
then lifted themselves straightforwardly to the
Vicar's face.

No, those are my real troubles ; the other
is only imaginary."

None the less a trouble."

*' I have been consulted on a very delicate
and important matter. I have been intensely
interested, and kept in suspense for a week,
waiting; for further news which has never
come. Not because there wasn't any, but
because somebody didn't think it worth his
while to come and tell me. I never asked to
be confided in. Perhaps he has forgotten the
circumstance. It's insulting to be thrown over
this way." Hester winked a little wrathful
tear back. " It's not baffled curiosity that
makes me so angry, it's because I'm disappointed
in somebody."

Don't mistrust too readily, and don't condemn
somebody unheard. That is all the
advice I have to offer you. I see you are
quite capable of saying to yourself all that
there is to be said about your difficulties. My
lips could give it no more authority. Besides,
it's service-time " — looking at his watch —
what has happened to old Totterdale ? No
bell !"

He and Hester hurried to the west porch.

and flinging open the great Ijaize doors solved
the mystery.

The congregation, four iD number — two old
men, a girl, and a widow in rusty crape — stood
in a respectful semicircle around, while Roswal,
stretched across the doorway, jealously insisted
that his mistress's privacy should be respected.
His looks were quite sufficient, though a boy's
cap between his paws, and a chewed bit of
broomstick, looked as though an example had
been made of somebody.

Across the churchyard old Totterdale was
seen approaching with a big bewildered policeman
in tow, who looked as if the job were
quite out of his line, while a hatless little
boy gyrated wildly around.

Hester comprehended, explained, apologised,
made Eoswal give a paw to one of the old
men, pacified old Totterdale, restored the cap
with a shilling inside to the owner, and satisfied
the policeman. She felt as if some of her
troubles had melted in the telling, and tripped
back to her carriage with a lighter heart. Once

Lady VALERIA.

there and alone with Eoswal, the cloud descended
again even more blackly. Cuss knew
it, and laid a heavy paw in her lap, with wistful
eyes fixed on her face.

Did you believe her. Cuss ? Do you think
it likely that he would go to her, and forget
about you and me, old dog ?"

A DEAD FLOWER.

AKING Lis way to the orderly-room
on the morning of that self-same
day, Edric had become aware of a
young fellow advancing towards him with a
comically conscious air that made him vaguely
wonder who he was, and stop to look at him
as he saluted. The lad stopped too, as though
rather expecting to be spoken to.

Another time Edric might not have bestowed
a second glance on him. But just then
his mind happened to be running on the
events of that night week — Mrs. Damien's
guests — Hester and Sir John — Elsie Paramount,
with her wistful eyes and timid little

VOL. II. 23

question — " I want to know — how to get into
the army " — and he laughed kindly to himself
at the recollection.

It was the brother himself — the performer
in the Septem — who stood before him, he
realised suddenly, with a faint touch of consternation.


Why — are you young Paramount ?"

Yes, sir," severely repressing his delight
at being recognised.

"And what are you doing here V

Just been to the Colonel, sir. I came
down on Saturday night."

"What? You've enlisted? AYhat made
you do such a thing ?" Edric demanded, discouragingly.


I beg your pardon, sir, but it's what I feel
most fit for."

Well, you know best yourself. I've heard
you haven't done much good in any other
line."

Sampson shifted his feet uneasily, and his
mouth, curiously sensitive and like his sister's,

twitched a little. " I haven't done much good
to myself, or been a credit to anybody, I know,
sir. I hope it won't tell against me. I want
to make a fresh start here. It was the work
drove me wrong — indeed it was. After sitting:
screwed to a desk all day I used to feel crazy
when I o;ot loose again, and didn't know what
I was doing. My head isn't strong enough
for figures, sir."

Edric laughed a little, looked at the alert,
soldier-like bearing of the boy, his open face,
and eyes that looked wistful like Elsie's sometimes.
He wondered how far his promise
to Elsie committed him, and whether the
young fellow knew of it.

What do your people at home say to this T
Sampson's face fell. "I haven't asked
them. I just left a letter to say what I was
going to do. Saturday was my last day at the
office, so I came down here by the afternoon
train. I didn't know then that I shouldn't be
allowed to go back to explain. I think,
perhaps, if my father had it out with me, hiss

23—2

mind would be more satisfied. Shall I ever
be let away again, sir ?"

Edric felt more relieved now he found that
he had done nothing to bring about the catastrophe.
" I can't say, but you'll find you are
anything but a free agent now. Tied tighter
than you ever were to the office."

Maybe, sir. But I shan't have to think."

Certainly not. That's done for you." And
Edric, marvelling at the way in which a
profession and a man seem to fit now and
then, went on his way.

He rather wondered how he could best fulfil
Elsie's timid little request. He hoped she had
not taken his half-jesting words for more than
they were worth — little shy, confiding thing.
He could keep an eye on the youngster and
see how he got on, but he couldn't think of
anything else. Perhaps he ought to go and
see the father, and try to make Sampson's
peace with him ? Yes ; he certainly ought todo
that. Not from motives of pure philanthropy
by any means. He had a very distinct

vision of Mrs. Damien smiling on him ever so
graciously, and thanking him for the kind
interest he was showing in her protege. He
would get the Paramount address, and start
off to town at once. First, to the old father ;
then to the Archdales — he felt, somehow, as
if that interview with Hester would clear
his mind marvellously. Last and late, so
as to avoid the ugly rush of callers, to St.
Maur Eoad.

So he plotted and planned on his downward
way ; and prospered — as such self-seeking
deserved.

As he drew near Lavender Eow, a misgiving
seized him as to the propriety of his interference.
He had a dim notion that a clergyman
was the proper mediator in a family
difficulty, especially when that family was
a churchwarden s. He would make for St.
Fridolin's and consult the Vicar, he thought ;.
and then, just as luck would have it, he came
full upon de Cressy.

ril go with you and show you the way,"

he said, when the case was put to him, "but
I think you'd better tell the story yourself.
My good word wouldn't do much for your
recruit with his father, I'm sorry to say.
There's the house, and there's Mr. Paramount
just going in."

The little old gentleman, umbrella in hand
and a huge roll of papers under his arm, turned
and faced Edric in the narrow passage.

Edric introduced himself, for de Cressy had
fled. '' I have a message to give you from
your son, Mr. Paramount."

Then I must beg of you not to deliver it,"
was the disconcerting reply. " I have no
desire to hear more of him."

Edric was almost tempted to give up the
point and retreat discomfited, but Mr. Paramount
flung open the parlour door hospitably
wide, and he caught a glimpse of Elsie crouching
in her window-seat, her pretty eyes opened
to their widest with startled delight, her hand
pressed on her heart, which had given one
great beat, and then stood still with delicious

incredulity at the sound of the voice outside.


He could but enter and make a second
attempt in Sampson's behalf, addressing himself
to her this time, as her father with ostentatious
indifference began to unfasten his
papers and turn them over. Still, he lias
listening, Edric thought, so he delivered himself
of a little explanatory speech, making out
the best case he could for Sampson, while
Elsie blushed, and murmured her thanks, and
lifted her eyes in shy, grateful glances.

Mr. Paramount fidgeted about, sorting,
selecting, and finally rolling up his papers
again. Then, when Edric felt there was
nothing more to be done but depart, he also
took up his hat, and they left the house in
company.

They walked side by side in silence for some
distance.

I ought to have thanked you for your
kind intentions in coming here," he began,
with a sort of snappish humility. " I'm sure

you meant well. You must forgive a poor old
man whose pride in his family is broken down
for ever. I've other matters on my mind,
too. Public grievances as well as private
misfortunes."

He was guiding Edric by a series of short
cuts towards the more frequented thoroughfares,
and now they stopped at the door of a
small public-house. He noticed Edric's glance
at the name, "The Blue Dog, by P. Garraghty,"
and continued, slightly flurried : "I must
explain. There is a meeting of parishioners
here to-day. We have to concert measures to
stem the tide of dangerous innovation that is
sweeping 'over us. There is a memorial to
the bishop in preparation. The crying
scandal."

Edric was occupied hailing a hansom. " Is
it such a bad case T he asked, inattentively.
I should have thought you could have found
worse elsewhere."

Nowhere, sir, nowhere," with a fiery stamp
of his umbrella ; " that is, not to my knowledge.

Not that I ever attend anywhere
outside St. Fridolin's."

The hansom stopped. "Good-bye. Mr.
Paramount. You must let me say that I
don't see why your son shouldn't make his
way up and be a credit to you." The old
gentleman cut the subject short with an angry
head-shake. " And I'm awfully sorry that
you've other troubles as well ; but — but,"
seeking for a consolatory word, " I daresay
there are many worse places than St. Fridolin's
if you'd only look about you."

Mr. Paramount lifted his hat and turned
sharply away, but as the swing-door of The
Blue Dog closed behind him, a meditative
expression crossed his features, and he shook
his head doubtfully.

As to Edric, he drove as fast as wheels could
take him to the Archdales', only to find Sir
John, Lady Archdale, and Hester, all out ;
and then to Mrs. Damien's, where he found
a crowd of visitors, his hostess languid, absent,
and absorbed in the discussion of the approaching

journey : whilst Lady Monchalsea, triumphant
and dictatorial, sang alternately the praises
of Professor Montrose and the Honourable Ted
Boughton.

He had done a bad day's work, he decided
moodily that evening as he returned to Shorn -
cliffs. He would have been still more convinced
of it had he guessed the unwonted stir
and agitation his visit had left behind him in
Lavender Row. It would more have provoked
than gratified him to know the audacious little
fancies that set Elsie singing over her work,
even while she could have beaten herself for
sheer vexation at the remembrance of her own
childish shyness in his presence. Elsie never
cared to sit dreaming now. Life came too
near and was too feverishly interesting. Was
she not beginning to act a timid little part
of her own in the great world-drama, instead
of sitting a far-off, silent spectator ? Hester's
visit, following close on Edicts, excited her
unaccountably. She unconsciously divined

Hester's disapproval, and as unconsciously
defied it. She tossed her head and sang again
over her lengths of cloth and lining. The
machine began to run rather crookedly presently,
and then came to a stop. She threw
her work aside impatiently, and walked out
into the passage, where she was fain to rest
for a moment before creeping step by step up
the staircase, mounting it for the second time
only since the fall which had lamed her when
a child.

Her face flushed, and she bit her lip and
winced once or twice before she gained the
door which Eoswal had attacked so savagely ;
but she reached it at last, and, turning the
handle, peeped timidly in. The room was long
and low pitched, and the great window-shutter
was closed to keep out some of the sunshine
that even there made itself felt. There was a
curtain screening a bed in a recess ; a tall
press with brass mountings ; an iron cooking
stove in the fireplace ; a couch, and a long
lounging-chair in which Mrs. Beltran was

lying, looking idly at the glints of light on
the beams and rafters above her, and doing
nothing else.

Come in !" she cried imperatively, without
looking to see who entered. " I have been
waiting for you. Lie down there."

A great black tom-cat rose from the soft,
shabby cushions of the couch, and, after
arching his back and turning his green eyes
suspiciously on Elsie, vacated the place in her
favour.

She dropped down gladly, and lay with her
eyes closed for a while. Above her hung a
blurred and tarnished convex mirror, round
which damaged white cupids, noseless and
armless, frolicked in chipped and blackened
garlands of roses, on one of which was hitched
a dried snake-skin. Beneath was a horrible
little human figure into which the roots of
some tree had twisted themselves, helped by
some rude carving. It seemed to be pointing
at Mrs. Beltran, and she gave it a friendly
glance at times.

She looked attentively, but without rising,
at Elsie's white face and closed eyes, and then
extended her hand lazily to a low table near
her on which stood a curious little vessel, a
silver ball standing on three feet, the upper
part perforated, and in one of the holes a
silver tube. She gently drew with her lips
at the tube once or twice.

A sweet-spiced vapour ascended in filmy
spirals and diffused itself through the room :
not a drowsy or languid perfume ; pungent
and stimulating rather. Mrs. Beltran inhaled
it with long, deep-drawn breaths, and the
great cat came with a noiseless run, and would
have sprung at it but for a sharp command
from his mistress that sent him crouching
down with greedy eyes. She lent forward so
as to hold the ball within a few inches of
Elsie's face. The girl's nostrils Quivered, her
eyes opened and looked about brightly, and
she rose with a smile.

"• You were waiting for me T she asked.

Mrs. Beltran repLaced the vessel on its

stand, and flung herself lazily back again, her
long white arms tossed over her head. Her
unbound masses of glossy, faintly rippling,
blue-black hair streamed over her loose
crimson wrapper. Her naked, yellowish-white
foot balanced a velvet slipper on the toe.

Little fool !" she spoke, with contemptuous
good-humour ; " you doubt me, you try to
deceive me, and would like to keep away
from me — if you could." Elsie made a hasty
gesture in protest. " You never meant to
come here and tell me about your visitors,
you know. Don't, then. And don't come tome
in your troubles. Stay away, and try
what your grand friends can do for you."

*' I did send a message to Mrs. Damien,"
Elsie admitted. " On Saturday, after we had
heard from Sammy and were all so miserable ;
and Miss Archibald has been here just now.
She was very kind — but "

'* But just a little too late in showing it,
eh ? You didn't feel to want consoling much
by that time V

** It was just as kind of her to come "

Are you a veritable simpleton or only a
make-believe T Mrs. Beltran enquired in her
level, indifferent tone, with scarce a shade of
emphasis. " Don't you see the worth of all
that ? Can you not see, silly one, how they
will pet and patronise you willingly as long
as you are content to stay, sickly and humble,
well out of their wav ? Eh ? But begin a
little to know your own value. Dare to live
for yourself; then see Miss Archdale look
disgusted, and snub you, and put you back
into your place again."

'' Oh, don't !" pleaded Elsie, with great eyes
of horror. " It makes me feel wicked to agree
with you. They have all been so good, so
good to me."

Have they % How long have you known
Mrs. Damien V

Since October ; nearly eight months."
And what has she done for you in that
time ? Petted you, lectured you on patience
and resignation, given you a handful out of

her wealth in alms, amused herself with your
devotion." Mrs. Beltran was sitting upright
by this time, her dusky hands gesticulating
eloquently, though her voice was still low and
level. " And I ? How many days is it since
you came to me T

Four days ago." Elsie hung her head and
spoke under her breath.

Four days ago ! Is it only that since you
crept here to me to remind me of my promise ?
You brought me your dead flower. You were
faint and sick with crying over it — crying for
your lost chance, perhaps— crying for your
wasted youth — for your share of the world's
happiness — how do I know ? I gave you my
help unquestioningly, and I will do it again.
It would have been an easier task to make the
dead blossom live again. Ah. now you open
your eyes in foolish wonder, while you think
nothing of greater things."

Mrs. Beltran rose with a swift, sudden
movement and stood before Elsie, holding out
to her the little box, in which lay a few yellow

shrivelled leaves and a bare stalk. A wooden
bucket of water stood by the stove. She
lifted it to where Elsie could see into it. On
the corner shelf above stood a large calabash,
fancifully engraved, which she set afloat on
the water like a tiny boat, and then shook the
dead flower into it. She covered the top of
the bucket with the large silk handkerchief
which she had worn knotted round her throat,
glancing as she did so at Elsie's face, all alive
with devouring curiosity.

You must have patience," she said.

'Tour days!" she went on, "and scarcely
as many hours in those as Mrs. Damien has
had weeks. Would I keep you humble, weak,
and dependent on me for your poor little
morsels of enjoyment ? No !"

She was pacing the room now with her
graceful, velvet tread, her glowing robe trailing
behind her, and the cat walking step for
step at her side, his great tail erect and stiff",
only the point waving gently.

Xo, a thousand times no ! I have given

VOL. II. 24

you your youth again ; health and strength ;
beauty — look for yourself in that glass. And
I say to you, ' Go and take for yourself of the
good things that life holds for the young, the
strong, the beautiful !' There is pleasure in
handfuls for the young and strong ; and for
beauty there is — Love !"

She stopped full in front of Elsie, who
covered her burning cheeks with her hands,
while her eyes shone half in delight, half in
terror.

Love ? That means a lover ?" she whispered.


Keep your secrets to yourself, child. I
want none of them. The day may come when
you would give your heart's blood for the
power I hold in my hand. You know I do ?"

Elsie bowed assenting.

The day will come when the world is too
strong for you ; when you will see him drifting,
drifting away out of your reach, and your
grand friends will be the first to draw him
from you. Then come to me, and I will cast

back to you none of your miserable doubts and
cruel thouo'lits of me. You need say but
Help me !' and if lie were at the church door
with Mrs. Damien he should leave her and
some back to you."

Elsie's brows knitted for a second.

'•' I don't think I should care for a lover who
had to be brought back to me," she said, lifting
her head rather proudly " You don't quite
understand me yet. I am grateful — you don't
know how grateful — to you for all you have
done for me, but I don't want you to do anything
more. Give me the health and strength
you promised me, and perhaps I shall be able
to keep the lover for myself," and she laughed
roguishly.

Mrs. Beltran laughed too, secretly a trifle
perplexed by this sudden outbreak of spirit on
the girl's part.

'well done ! You deserve him, and I hope
he'll come soon to take care of you when I am
gone away with my husband."

Gone away T rather blankly.

24 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

** Did you think I should stay here for ever ?
He is in good employment, filling his pockets,
with money ; and in six weeks or so they will
be full and he will come back, and we shall live
in an hotel and go to the theatre every night.
Yes, and you shall come too, and drive in a
carriage, and know what champagne tastes
like." Mrs. Bcltran stopped in her walk and
sank again into her chair, smiling jovially in
frank enjoyment of the prospect. " And when

he's a rich man "

** But the money won't last for ever."
'^ What then ? There's more to be made.
Heh, Zombi?" and she kicked off her slipper
and caressed her black familiar with her small
bare foot. " We've had our bad times together.
A feast to-dav and the bare bones topick
tomorrow, when Morris has left us with
five shilling's to last us till he comes home
again." Zombi winked appreciatively. *' Now
you arc both going to be great gentlemen,
English lords — with estates and an
income and grand relations. Wait, only wait

awhile. You believe in me, if no one else
does."

Zombi rolled suddenly over and caught the
bare foot with all his claws at once, and pretended
to inflict a sharp bite. Then he got up
hind prowled restlessly.

His mistress dropped into sudden silence.
Zombi ended by placing himself in front of her
and uttering a short muffled cry once or twice.
Then shaking' her long; hair down, so that it
shrouded her face like a veil, she commenced a
low monotonous croon in a lang-uao'e Elsie did
not understand. It went on for many minutes,
a melancholy chant with a constantly recurring-burden.


At the first notes Zombi had listen, and,
stepping gravely, begun to pace round and
round the bucket till Elsie grew dizzy with
watching him, uttering his cry at intervals.
Suddenly the song stopped, and he, too, stood
motionless. Elsie dared not break the silence
that followed. It fell on her like the touch of
a cold hand in the warm exciting air of the

place. Mrs. Bcltran rose, and with bowed
head and outstretched hands muttered what
seemed a giving of thanks, and signed to Elsie
to uncover the water.

There, on its surface, floated a flower-gem in
its fairy boat, fresh, glowing, perfumed, and
Elsie, with a cry, fell on her knees beside it.

"Take it," spoke Mrs. Beltran. 'rit will
live — this one — till it has done its work."

Elsie seized it greedily, then raised her eyes
from it to her friend's dark face, alight with
strano'c meaning:.

Its Work ?" she demanded, doubtfully.

Oh, no, I cannot take it !" she cried, with
sudden energy. " How do I know what its
work may be ? Oh, forgive me. You are
wise and strong ; I am weak and ignorant,
and I am frightened — I am frightened ! Not
of you only, but of myself. I dare take no
more from your hands. I am grateful from
the depths of my heart for what you have
already done ; but no more, no more I Oh
forgive me, and take this back !"

She almost flung the flower at the feet of
Mrs. Betray, and walked resolutely to the
door. Mrs. Beltran, gazing at her with a dull,
lowering look, marked how her face flushed
with pain, though she kept back all other sign.
Zombi gained the couch-back with a fierce,
silent spring, his fur on end, his eyes giving
out wicked sparks of green light.

At the door Elsie paused with her hand on
the latch, but it was only to turn a piteous
childish face full of tears on her would-be
benefactress, as if asking forgiveness for all
offence, and then she went away.

Mrs. Beltran resumed her seat, her chin on
her hands, her face inscrutable, except, perhaps,
to Zombi, who placed himself in front of
her, his green eyes on her velvet black ones.
Neither stirred till the cat gently extended his
fore-paws to their utmost stretch and drew
them back, the claws cutting and tearing the
rug with a slow, savage enjoyment. Then his
mistress cut her meditations short with a
lauojh and shrug; of her shoulders, and, throwing

herself back, settled herself to the contemplation
of the good times to come, chanting to
herself a jovial ditty, more curious than
elegant, with a refrain of

Hourre ! Marengo ! raises-moi !''

MAJOR Adolf STAXXAED.

X the Friday following, the scanty
cong-relation of St. Fridolins had
a reinforcement of one. A tall
gentleman strode across the churchyard from
the Vicarage, some time after the bell had
stopped and the last tardy worshipper disappeared
into the porch.

Once established in a pew, his behaviour,
screened from the Vicar's notice by an interposing
pillar, was not edifying, viewed as a
model of church-going deportment. He stood
and turned about as it pleased him, regarding
the sacred edifice with a sort of proprietary
interest, looking critically at the decorations,

the congregation, and the clergyman, and
finally, almost before the last words of the
benediction had been uttered, seizing his hat
and striding, with a lively and secular tread,
straight up to the reading-desk with " Hill,
Eustace !"

Adolf, my dear fellow !" and the surpliced
Vicar took the intruder by the arm and
impelled him into the vestry, where the door
shut them off from the sight of the scandalised
spectators.

The two men clasped bands warmly, and
stood looking into one another's face with delight
and affection beyond words, till Adolf
enquired : " Am I in the way here ? Any fair
penitents about ?"

Nonsense !" said the Yicar, divesting himself
of his surplice. " Come along. "Where
have you come from ? How long have you
been in town V

I came up by the early train, and have
been all over the place since. Agents, Stores,
Truefitt's, every other shop in Regent Street

and half over AYestbourne Grove, hunting for
some stuff that Amy wants. I made up my
mind to set all her commissions cleared off first,
and come here in comfort."

Eustace hurried on to the Vicarage to announce
his brother's arrival, but Mrs. Goodliffe
had already seen Major Adolf, who was a
prime favourite of hers, and guest-chamber
and dinner were, he found, in an advanced
stage of preparation. Returning to his study,,
he found Eandolf standing with his back to-the
empty grate, looking around with a comical
critical air.

So these are your new diggings, eh ?
Father different from St. Ermentrude's, where
I left you. Do you mean to say you consider
this promotion ?"

I think I was right in coming here," said
his brother, sedately. " I am very well satisfied''


Oh, well, you know best. It does t strike
me as the right thing by any means. Eldest
sons have no business to be parsons. I can't

think what my father was about to make one
of you. At any rate, there should be some
reasonable system of promotion that would
give you a chance of retiring as a bishop — orwell,
come — an archdeacon by the time you
come into the property. It would be only
decent."

*' There was no question of the title, you
remember, at the time when I decided to take
orders, and I should have done the same in
any case. Never mind me. Tell me about
yourself and Amy. Is she at Malta V

No, of course not I I brought her home a
fortnight ago. We ought to have been in
England a month sooner, but there was something
going on that Amy could stay for. As
usual, she overdue it, and was awfully bad. I
thought I should never ore her to England
alive. Her mother came to us at Southey,
and uncommonly glad I was to see her. Well,
the affair is over at last, thank goodness 1"

The Vicar looked up with an awakened face.
^' Do you mean to say ?"

Of course I do. Didn't I write and tell
you about the baby ? Such a jolly little
beggar ! Xo ? I suppose I didn't as it only
arrived four days ago. I really had no time for
anything but looking after Amy before it
came."

•• Have you told them at Altcar ?"

'' Well, no, I haven't. I shall see them on
Monday. I want to stay with you till then, if
you'll have me, and I thought it would save-bother
if I kept it quiet till we met. My
mother will be agitating for details, you know,
and I'd rather be shot than write anything
longer than a post-card. I wanted to telegraphy
only Amy wouldn't, as it was only a girl."

A girl r

Didn't I say so ? Awfully disappointing — ■
at least, Amy feels it. I'm just as pleased,
but she, poor little woman, had set her heart
on its being a boy ; and, in fact, was rather
hurt that my father didn't expect her to come
to Altcar — for it to be born there, you
know."

My mother's state of health
Eustace began, apologetically.

Oh, yes, I know ; but Amy said when it
was a question of the birth of the heir "

Major Stannard stopped suddenly in some
confusion, which his brother covered by a
suggestion about preparing for dinner, and
conducted him upstairs, smiling to himself
rather grimly. There was a strong likeness
between the brothers, as they sat facing one
another in the lamp-light at the small round
table. That Major Stannard's hair was lighter
and crisper, his mouth covered by a heavy
blond moustache, and his eyes round and boyish,
instead of deep-set and thoughtful, seemed
absolutely the only points of difference except
that of expression ; and that was less striking
when Eustace brightened up at his brother's
presence, or the recollection of Amy's sufferings
toned down Adolf s high spirits.

The consciousness of the slip of the tongue
into which he had been betrayed was still
present with the Major. He glanced once or

twice at his brother, doubtfully, and at last
put down his knife and fork, and began apologetically.


I say, you know, Eustace, I didn't really
mean anything by what I said just now.
You won't take it amiss, will you ? Of course,
we all know you may marry any day, and
uncommonly glad I shall be to hear it ;
and then, naturally, it will be all up with our
boy's prospects "

Your hoy? I thought you said a girl."

'• Yes, yes, this child is certainly a girl ;
but a boy may come any day, and Amy says
she really cannot settle her mind till she knows
what your views really are : she is sure they
are far too strict to allow of your marrying.
Now, I don't say that, and should be uncommonly
sorry to hear it."

I have taken no vows of celibacy, if that
is what you mean," began Eustace, slowly.

'^ That's right. Glad to hear it." interrupted
Randolph, cordially.

But there may be other reasons. Did my

father ever suggest as much to you ?" he asked,
suddenly and sharply.

Not a word. He seemed pretty clear of
your intentions, though, now I come to think
of it. But I expect he'd be just as pleased as
anyone, when it came to the point, to see you
settled, with a jolly little wife of your own —
like Amy, for instance." Eustace gave a
private shudder of negation. 'dear little-woman
! Ah, you've only seen her ill and out
of sorts" — possibly detecting his brother's
lack of enthusiasm — •" but when things go
right with her, you've no idea what a fascinating,
sweet little thing she is."

Eustace had pushed aside his untasted plate,,
and sat out the rest of the meal in almost total
silence. Eandolf ran on gaily, taking his
brother's attention for granted. It was long
since they had met — more than three years,
except for a brief space one day about a year
ago, when Eustace had run down to Southey
to make his sister-in-law's acquaintance between
the arrival of a down and the departure

of an up-train. He drifted on to politics
at last ; Egypt ; the attitude of France and
Turkey ; all the possibilities of the day.

We shall be in the fun, at any rate,"
Eandolf said, casually. 'they can't do our
regiment out of that."

Eustace started and dropped the glass he
was holding with a crash. *' What ! You ?
I never thought of that. You going on active
service ?"

Eandolf looked with amused contempt on
his brother's alarmed face. '* Of course.
What then T

You ouo;ht not to go, Eandolf. Some
arrangement must be made — some exchange
effected."

What bosh ! Do you quite understand
what you are talking about, my dear boy ? I
think I see myself exchanging just now !
Supposing every officer began to take care of
himself, and go home directly war was declared
"

I know — I know — but yours is an cx-

VOL. II. 25

exceptional case. If you were the eldest son,
with much depending on your life "

•' Which, thank heaven, I am not. I've
thought so all my life. Tm fond enough of
Altcar and the old folks, but to be tied by the
leg to a place — ugh !"

"But as a married man."

Well, if that interfered, it would drive me
to wish myself unmarried almost, and I don't
know how I can put it stronger."

Are you sure that your regiment will be
sent r

It's bound to be, and, to tell you the
truth, that's why I wanted to get my poor girl
safe to England with her friends."

Does she know the possibility ?"

Why, I couldn't keep it from her, could I?
She behaves splendidly about it. We had a
dreadful scene at first. She was in hysterics
for two days because I couldn't promise to
take her with me ; but now that's over we
can settle things comfortably. She has lots of
friends in Southsea who will keep her amused

and won't let her fret. Of course it will be an
anxious time, but she needn't mope more than
she can help."

She had better go to Altcar. I am sure
they will be glad to have her. That will bethe
fittest home for her and the child — if you
have to leave them."

So I thought, but she says it would be too
trying. If my father and mother get anxious
about me she never could bear up, she is sure.
A quiet, sad house like that would kill her.
She thought they might like to take the baby.
There really isn't much room in the Southsea
house, and when I go she must have some
people to stay with her. She cannot bear

being left for a day " Eandolf broke off

and looked earnestly across the table at his
brother, who had sunk into a brown study.
I wonder — won't you — I don't think you did
see Amy at her best," he went on, incoherently,
and, perhaps, you don't understand how full
of real feeling she is. I wish you did'
wistfully. " It would be a good thing for me,

25—2

Eustace, if I never come back again, to know-that
there is someone to stand by the little
woman. She cant bear trouble or sorrow.
It's no use finding fault \vith her for her
nature. She feels things more than other
people, you see ; and if I'm not with her to
help her, she'll die. Won't you promise me todo
all you can for her — and — and — to be a
little patient with her ? I tell you, Eustace, it
makes me mad to think of having to leave her
all alone, to fight her own battles, my poor
dependent Amy !"

Kandolfs broad chest gave a great heave,
and he dropped his face on his hand. Eustace
rose and stood beside him, his hand on his
shoulder.

"You did not need to ask me this, Random.
Who is nearer to me in the world than you ?
God. grant your dear ones may be spared the
need of my care, and have you safe home
again."

Randolf smiled up at him. " You have
always been the best of good fellows, Eustace.

I wonder how many scrapes you have pulled
me through in my time ?"

*' I wonder how many times you have been
tempted to knock me down for an interfering
prig. You've had an uncommon lot of
patience and forbearance with me in your
day, I suspect''

Then they both laughed, and, lighting up
their cigars, stepped out into the fresh June
night and sat on the big tombstone, talking
by snatches or enjoying one another's presence
in silence — a significant sign of good understanding
— till the great June moon sank
behind the chimney-pots.

Major Eandolfs plans for a long day's
holiday with his brother only survived the
arrival of the first post next morning.

How do you get to Richmond ?" he asked,
suddenly.

"You go to Waterloo to begin with. AMiat
do you want there ?"

It's a hideous nuisance, but I've got to
go, it seems. Some friends of Amy's live

there. People she took a fancy to on the
P. and 0. steamer coming home. She has
gone and written to them to arrange that I
shall go down and see them this afternoon
; dine there, possibly. Confound their
civility."

'' Telegraph an excuse."

That won't do either. Amy thinks she'd
like to go and stay with them some day, and
I'm to suggest it if they seem open to the
idea. Don't you see ?"

The Vicar did see, and bowed to the decrees
of Fate and the Hon. Mrs. Stannard. " We
must make the most of the morning, then.
What shall we do ?"

The poor Majors face lengthened dolorously.
Here's another nuisance. Amy says I must
get home by Thursday, so that cuts off the
day I meant to have in town after Altcar.
I've a lot to do about uniform and things of
that sort, so I've only got to-day to do it in.
It's no good asking you to come with me to
Richmond, is it ? Amy suggests that the

Maxwellss will be charmed to see you if I take
you down, but I don't know "

*•' Certainly not." Eustace promptly disposed
of this cool suggestion. " I think I can
devise a better plan. I must go down to
Altcar at once. I — I have a special reason.
I can start this morning, and you can comedown
straight from Richmond. We can spend
Sunday together there as well as here, and I
can come up by the early train on Monday."

Better than nothing," assented the Major,
who was still perusing his wife's letter with a
bothered air.

*^ Amy is quite well, I hope, and the baby ?"
Eustace inquired.

*' All right. She asks after you, sends her
love, you knows, and says — how women's heads
do run on marriage I" broke off Eandolf, with
an impatient laugh. ^' I suppose I can tell
her you have nothing of the sort at present in
view ? It would really compose her mind,
she says, and save her all that she went
through before this baby was born, if she

quite knew your intentions ; so as to know
how to look upon the boy — when he comes."

I am afraid I can give her no comfort,"
spoke Eustace, in a tone that made his brother
look up astonished. "The question will be
decided for me before very long, I daresay.
Whichever way it is decided will be final ; and
I can promise to let her know with all speed.
Will that pacify her mind — until the heir is
born r

If there were a sneer latent in the last
words, Major Stannard did not detect it,
merely giving an approved nod and a murmured
" Good luck to you, my boy," with an
emphatic shake of his broad shoulders, as if he
felt them lightened of the burden of Amy's
last and weightiest commission.

Then he departed to his tailor's, leaving his
brother to arrange for the next day's services.

** To-morrow r exclaimed Lionel de Cressy
when informed of the change. " Shall you be
away tomorrow T

T have a particular reason for wishing to

be at Altcar with my brother, or I should not
think of leaving you just now."

Oh, it's not that. We shall get on right
enough. I was thinking of Mrs. Damien.
You know she is going away T

Eustace nodded, apparently intent on the
papers on his writing-table.

"I told you, didn't I, that I met her at
Lady Yese'y's concert, and she said she wanted
to say good-bye to her girls after Evensong."


Yes. And then T queried the Yicar, still
impassive.

She said, you know, that she hoped she
should see you then. It was her last chance,
she said. She seemed to make quite a point
of my telling you so," said the Curate, enviously.
" Won't it look rather marked if
you don't leave some message, or write or

call r

Lionel had got rather into the way of
regarding his Yicar as a sort of venerable
hermit ; to be revered for his wisdom and

virtues, but also occasionally to be guided and
enlightened as to the customs of the outer
world.

I shall not forget," Mr. Stannard answered,
with a repressed smile playing round the
corners of his mouth. " I will certainly write
or. call. You may be sure I shall not let Mrs.
Damien leave England without my seeing
her."

You ought to call on a Monday ; that is
the day to find her at home," said the Curate,
still in his capacity of mentor, and then left
the Vicar to his preparations for his journey.

The smile soon faded from Eustace's lips,
and the dark shadow that his brother's words
had raised settled down on his face again.
He rested his head on his hands, as if wearied
with long and anxious thought. The morning
had brought him no nearer to the solution of
the difficulties over which he had vexed himself
the night through.

On his table lay a pile of letters, unfolded
and arranged in order of their dates. Under

his hand, while de Cressy had been speaking,
lay another which he had selected from the
rest. They were all in the same writing — a
man's hand — bold and clear, with a family
likeness to his own endorsement, " Letters
from my Father, 1872—1879."

He took them up, one by one, and looked
over them afresh, as if hoping that morning's
light might bring him some new insight. They
were excellent letters to read. More like those
of an elder brother than a father — supposing
an elder brother should ever put himself out
of the way to make his letters specially welcome.
Full of keen interest in Eustace's own
doings, with a few useful hints and morsels of
worldly wisdom dropped here and there
casually, and with no affectation of superiority.
Bits of home news, gossip social and political,
graphic descriptions of the writer's own experience.
Eustace broke off, almost overcome
by the recollection of how welcome it had all
been once upon a time. They extended
through the years of his Oxford life and his

first curacy, and were signed "E. Redgrave
Stannard."

The last was signed " Altcar," and contained
the problem, the key to which he had been
vainly searching throughout all the rest.

This must and shall be explained before I
go further. It has been sheer cowardice not
to have insisted on an understanding sooner.
Not altogether cowardice," he went on, defending
himself against himself. " It's not altogether
cowardice that makes me shrink from
accusing my dear old father of senseless, unjust
caprice ; from facing the fact that I have
been supplanted by my younger brother — all
unknowingly, good old fellow. I am not
afraid of an explanation. It cannot be worse
than the facts which I have already accepted."


His time was flying. He hastily put away
his letters, all but the one, which he carefully
secured in his pocket-book.

I am better off than many an Esau," he
said to himself, with sudden, irrepressible



bitterness. " I have had no choice in the disposal
of my birthright, and I am offered a
handsome sum down in commutation of the
blessing."

DOWN AT Altar.

T was mid - noon when Eustace
Stannard's train left him at the
little wayside station used by
visitors to Altcar Court, and few beside. He
and the man in the signal-box had it all to
themselves, and after a few minutes' talk with
him he left his luggage to be sent for, and
started on a two mile tramp homewards.

His road lay between tall hedgerows in
riotous luxuriance of leaf and blossom, and
rows of stately elms, till it reached a stile and
a footpath, the short cut across the fields to
Altcar Court. Here Eustace stopped, and
drew a lonsc breath of relief as he stood

charmed into idle lingering by all the sweet
country sights and sounds around him. Then
some fancy made him draw forth the letter he
carried, to read it again here. It was addressed
to him at St. Ermentrude's, and was at least
brief and to the purpose.

^' My dear Eustace,

Our old friend Lord Ingilby has just
ridden over on an errand that has disturbed
me much. The living of Altcar is, as you
know, in his gift, and thinking it would gratify
me to see you there, he has written, he says,
to offer it to you. I am about to put your
confidence and affection to a severe test — an
unreasonable one I fear you may be tempted
to think — unless you are prepared to trust my
assurance that I am acting in your interests
alone, as you will acknowledge one day. It
would be a great pleasure to your mother and
myself to have you near us, but think over
our last conversation and you will understand
how utterly unadvisable your residence here

must be. As my eldest son, living at Altcar,
you must, during my life, necessarily be looked
upon as the future owner of the place — a false
position which I particularly desire you to
avoid ; and after my death, however good the
terms subsisting between you and Eandolf,
it would be most undesirable in my opinion to
have the elder brother at the Rectory and the
younger at the Court, a contingency for which
I have endeavoured to prepare your mind.
Time presses, so 1 must add no more. Ever,
my dear Eustace,

Your affectionate father,

'' Altars'*

That was what he read, there, under the
soft green shadows, to the music of the scythe -
clink of the mowers in the field beyond, the
plash of the mill-stream, and the delicate notes
of the yellow-hammer, who was singing him a
friendly little greeting from the hedge.

On the hillside across the valley lay Altcar
Court. A low red cluster of buildings, confessedly

a farmhouse in their earliest design,
that looked as if they had increased and spread
by the natural slow growth of years and not
at the pleasure of man ; now stretching out a
wing, now lifting up a tower, widening here,
crumbling there. A warm, many-hued, softly-tinted,
unshapely, altogether lovely pile ; ivy-wreathed,
quaintly roofed, mellowed to a
thousand beauteous tones of red, grey, amber,
and russet. It was overshadowed by oaks,
whose acorns had dropped in the soil of
Plantagenet England, and overlooked rich
acres of meadow-land, where the kine browsed
deep in the rich pasture, or the long swathes
of new-cut grass lay scenting the air. A
goodly heritage, never to be his.

He had not been born to it, nor yet his
father.

Mr. Eedgrave Stannard at the outset of
his Parliamentary career had considered his
distance from the title so remote as to be
beyond calculation, and the property had long
ago been parted from it. Many years after,

VOL. II. 26

when the greater portion of the Altcar estates
happened to be in the market, he found himself
in a position to purchase them. He was
a man of mark by that time, one on whom
the leaders of his party were understood to
look with appreciative eyes, as certain to form
one of the next Government.

He had lived his life till then, every day of
it. It had run, as compared with, other menas
steam to a foot-pace, and — so people said —
reached its end by so much the sooner. At an
age when most men are apt to think that the
best half of their lives lies before them, he had
quietly dropped his career, and retired to
Altcar Court to veg-state through his remaining
years as a mere country gentleman.

Why he had done so was an open secret.
Amongst the victims of a terrible railway
disaster was beautiful, brilliant Mrs. Eedgrave
Stannard, who was brought home tower husband
crushed and dying. All that human skill
could do was done to hold the life in the poor
shattered, disfigured body, and, to the wonder

of all, with success ; if success it were, to
prison a bright human soul in a lifeless body,
deprived of power of speech and almost of
movement. That so much remained to him
and to her sons Mr. Stannard gave daily,
hourly thanks. Enough of her was left to
him to love and serve, and to that he dedicated
all his days to come.

One celebrated physician, who had been
summoned to the Court on Mrs. Stannard's
account, had a short, serious conversation with
her husband on his own.

I must outlive her," Eustace's father had
said. '' And you must show me how. I
cannot leave her, even to her sons' care. We
Stannards are a proverbially long-lived race,
but in my case there are certain symptoms,"
and he went into detail.

Before the interview was over Mr. Eedgrave
Stannard had pledged himself to retire from
public life, spend his days in the country and
live by rule, as the price of a possible extra

26—2

twenty years of existence, and felt well content
that the bargain was possible.

It was an old story by this time. Time and
custom had long ago done their healing work
in the stricken household. His mother's state
was past hope of amendment or fear of relapse.
His father had put his past life away so determinedly
that others perforce had done the
same, and looked on him only as an ordinary
country squire with possibly unsound views on
questions of agricultural interest, whims about
scientific farming, and no pronounced political
opinions.

Death had been busy during these years
amongst the elder Stannards. Daughters had
been born and fathers and sons had died, till,
unlikely as it had seemed, the title followed
the property, and while Eustace was yet at St.
Ermentrude's his father became Lord Altcar.
He remembered now with an amused smile the
indignation he felt at the extra value to his
teaching this fact seemed to give. It put the

finishing touch to his disgust with society and
impatience to escape from it.

Eustace leaped over his stile and walked
briskly towards the Court, approaching it, not
by the mile-long avenue, but by a path leading
through a copse to a gate opening on a lawn ;
up and down which a broad-shouldered, grey-bearded
old gentleman was dragging a roller, a
youth in shirt sleeves standing respectfully by.
The roller came to a stand within a few feet of
Eustace, and the operator stopped to lift his
hat and to wipe his damp forehead.

Now do you see what I mean, James ?
Slowly. Deliberately. Make its weight felt.
That's the way to roll a lawn. Now don't let
me see you cantering over it again."

James attached himself to the roller and
marched off funereally ; and Eustace, advancing,
was greeted with a hearty " Hill ! It's
you. Glad to see you, my boy," and a cordial
hand clasp.

At work, as usual T

Work ? No, no. This is play. I was in

the hay-field at five this morning. I've got a
few experiments in ensilage going on, and
must see the work done myself. There's no
telling what games those fellows may be upto.


How is my mother ?"

Just the same — or — I hardly dare to dwell
upon it — but that Frenchman's treatment has
done something for her. There is a slight
increase of power in her hand. Mary Liddell
always believed she might be able to write
with it yet. And a new nurse is coming."

Eustace tried hard to look sanguine, but
failed. Every time that he saw his father
some fresh hope had arisen, only to set, like its
predecessors, in disappointment.

When can I see her ?"

Come now, if you like. She has just
gone in. We've been round the vineries.
She's not satisfied with our new man. Too
plausible by half. I'll never engage another
without consulting her. Come on."

After the first surprise of seeing his son had

passed off, Lord Altcar seemed to grow uneasy
and impatient of the tete-astute ^ talking on fast
and rather at random as he led the way to the
house.

*' Come down for a breath of country air, I
suppose ? We've a flower and vegetable show
on Tuesday, and, if you're a judge of
peas "

But I am not, unfortunately ; and I leave
on Monday morning. I came down to be herewith
Eandolf."

"Eandolf! ^i\\i Eandolf r Lord Altcar
stopped short and looked full at his son, a
touch of genuine consternation mixed nth
his astonishment. "What's bringing li'un
down here T

He has been in England for some time, I
find. He brought his wife home before the
little girl's birth. Naturally he wants to see
you all."

Lord Altcar had removed his hat and was
wiping his forehead. He gave an audible
sound of relief.

A girl ? Ha ! No, we hadn't heard of it.
Tm uncommonly glad it's no worse — no difficulties,
I mean." He said no more till they
reached the house, and entering by a wide
window opening on the terrace, found themselves
in a spacious, lofty room, filled with
colour, air and sunshine, or so it seemed —
flowers, rich draperies, pictures, books — all
that iVltcar held of rare or beautiful collected
there round its silent mistress.

She sat in a large chair near the window,
her form concealed in a loose dress of soft,
black, lustreless satin, a large mantilla of
Spanish lace arranged about the head and
shoulders and secured across the lower part of
the face so as to conceal it, like the yashmak
of an Eastern woman, leaving exposed a low
line of white forehead and two great flashing
black eyes. Wonderful eyes ; quick, keen,
eloquent, painfully expressive, proclaiming
themselves too truly the one outlet of the
imprisoned soul.

They had watched the two approach from

the window, and shone with a soft gladness as
they recognised Eustace. Mary Liddell, Lady
Altcar's cousin and constant companion, arranging
flowers at a table near, greeted
Eustace demurely, and discreetly withdrew
with her posies.

There was much to hear and tell on both
sides ; difficult as such a one-sided conversation
might seem. Lady Altcar's eyes held her
son fast, as it were, noting and interpreting
every tone, gesture, and expression he felt.
She heard far more than the mere words that
passed around her, sensitively awake as she
was to each subtle change of mood or thought
in her companions. " She sees me think,"
Mary Liddell said once.

Lord Altcar took a seat out of range of his
wife's eyes, and said little ; though he listened
with interest, once or twice interrupting rather
abruptly, Eustace thought.

Well, dear, I never saw the grapes doing
better. That Muscat-house is a picture, eh T

The dark eyes expressed assent.

Why, I thought you didn't like him ! No?
You don't? Do you admit he can grow
grapes? He can, eh ?" as she made the almost
indistinguishable sign with her head that expressed
agreement.

What then ? Oh, I know. You think
he can sell them too ? That's it. Well I
shall keep my eye on him. I never knew
you wrong yet."

Something of questioning or distress in Lady
Altcar's look as her eyes rested on her son,
made her husband begin to fidget nervously
to end the interview, and he carried Eustace
off to the kitchen gardens to exhibit some new
giant growths ; then to the flower garden,
beautiful and luxuriant, and tended with sedulous
care. " All her idea," Lord Altcar said,
proudly, now and then pointing out some
change or improvement ; and Eustace marvelled
anew at the patience and sympathy
that had lent themselves so successfully to
the service of the unwonted thought.

It was late when they returned to the house.

Lord Altcar insisted on accompanying his son
to his room to see if it were in proper order.

He fussed attentively about him, and then
hurried away just in time to dress. He stopped
at the doorway, however.

You didn't come here only for a holiday,
or to announce Eandolf s visit, eh V

No. On business of my own," was the
rather dry reply.

So I thought. After dinner, please ) and
mind, not a word before her."

Eustace knew the routine of the house, and
descended to the dining-room, passing on his
way through the long suite of splendid, empty,
melancholy rooms, where no woman's voice
was every heard except Mary Liddell's little
half frightened murmurs. He found the
dining-room as he expected, vacant, till at
the stroke of seven a door at the end was
flung open, admitting Lady Altcar's wheel
chair, carefully guided by her husband to its
place at the head of the table. A loose robe
of grey velvet softly shrouded her figure, and

her head and shoulders were veiled in clouds
of filmy white lace, fastened in position by a
sparkling diamond spray. The white fingers
of one hand just appeared from out of the
velvet drapery.

There were people who, when bidden to
Altcar, affected to shudder at the presence of
this silent figure, this Death in Life in their
midst, with its great glancing eyes and voiceless
lips ; but those who knew Lord Altcar
well knew also what that silent presence was
to him ; how half the desolateness of his life
was gone when he knew that his words fell
upon her ears, and saw her eyes answering
him in a language he could read.

It had been Mary Liddell who had first
imagined the possibility of bringing her helpless
charge from her invalid seclusion, and by
gentle insistance carried her point, till Altcar
Court lost much of its forlorn mistresses air,
and life there drifted back somewhat into its
old routine.

Good little Mary ! She followed Lady Altcar

in, dressed in her best black lace frock, in
which, in honour of Eustace, she had ventured
to pin a bunch of carnations, feeling recklessly
coquettish as she did so. She had respectfully
idolised the grave, handsome young clergyman
for many a day, feeling it a great liberty to do
so all the while.

He was glad of her assistance to-day in
keeping the ball of conversation rolling. His
thoughts, full of his errand, occasionally wandered
away from Lord Altcar's good-humoured
gossip, and her timid, anxiously-interested
little questions bridged over many a gap of
silence.

Dinner ended at last. The cloth was drawn,
as Lord Altcar would have it, and the old,
cut crystal decanters in their heavy silver
casters, and the fruit in more cut crystal or
Chelsea china, placed on the dark mahogany ;
and then, at a look from Lady Altcar, Mary
rose, and Lord Altcar wheeled the invalid
chair away.

He came back in a few minutes, having

assured himself that the little summer evening
fire was crackling in the drawing-room grate,
the chair at the proper angle for comfort, and
Mary Liddell provided with something to read
aloud that Lady Altcar was likely to care for.

"Now then, Eustace. Out with it," he
remarked, bustling back to his seat and pouring
out a glass of port.

Do you remember the time you came upto
see me in town, before I left St. Ermen-
truce's T the Vicar began in a low voice, as if
he disliked recalling the circumstance. " You
had a good deal to say to me then about my
future prospects."

Lord Altcar raised his glass to the light and
regarded the wine critically, perhaps to avoid
the necessity of meeting his son's eyes. " Yes,
yes, I remember, of course I do. I don't quite
recall what I said. Something about your
income, wasn't it ? You sec, you had been
getting through a tidy lot of money with
your charities, and your tours in the East and
Greece, and book and engraving collecting

manias. I was afraid, you see, my boy, that
you might fancy that a title in prospect justified
a little more spending, and I thought a
word or two needful. AVhat is it now ? I
don't want you to fancy I grudge you anything
really reasonable. You always spent like a
gentleman, and had something to show for it.
More than could be said of Eandolf, that
last, eh ?"

*' That was not quite all," replied Eustace,
in some wonderment at his father's manner.
This letter followed in a day or two ;" and he
handed it over to Lord Altcar.

Quite so, quite so !" He glanced at it
distastefully. " Yes, you understood me, I
see. It was good of you, Eustace — upon my
soul, it was — to give in to me so handsomely.
You'll see, some day, how it all comes about."
He checked himself rather abruptly, and gave
his forehead a perplexed rub. " Now, what
can I do for you ? What have you come to
say?"

Do you remember a promise you made me

give you then ? No ? I had been airing some
of my views, I suppose." He gave a little
conscious laugh. " They were extreme in
those days, I remember — I was six-and-twenty
then, I am nearly thirty now — I was rather
surprised to hear you approve of them." Lord
Altcar set his glass down sharply, and turned
to look in his face. " You made me promise,
you know, that if I ever changed and thought
of marrying "

What !" shouted his father, making the
glasses ring. " Is that what you have come to
tell me? By Jove !" The last a long-drawn
exclamation of profoundest dismay.

Eustace leant back in his chair watching his
father, who, after draining his glass and setting
it down again with perilous violence, sprang
up and commenced to pace the room in disquietude.
" You never led me to calculate on
this," he said, angrily.

What is your objection V

Why —-why, your views, you know ; I
thought yoii of all fellows would have been

consistent. I counted on you, Eustace." Lord
Altcar was evidently sorely perturbed.

Tell me the truth, father," demanded
Eustace, trying to speak steadily. " Don't
be afraid to speak out broadly what you have
been hinting at. You desire my place for
Eandolf. Do you wish that I should live
unmarried to secure to him the title as well as
the property ?"

Lord Altcar stopped suddenly ; his thick
white eyebrows knitted over his angry eyes,
a startled look on his face.

What ! "What are you daring to accuse
me of?" he flamed forth. 'this from you
to me, Eustace !''

Eustace's heart gave a great joyful leap
at his father's indignation, but he went on
coldly in the very white heat of his emotion.

What other inference could I draw ? You
have been specially careful to explain to me
that the Altcar property was completely dissevered
from the title, that I was not to
calculate on my undisputed succession. You

VOL. II. 27

would do what you chose with it on your
death, and take the consequences of the
world considering you unjust and capricious.
Then — I admit the remark was not intended
for my hearing — you regretted that Eandolf
and I could not change places."

Eustace ! Forgive me," Lord Altcar
broke in, holding out his hand to his son.
What a fool, a cruel, inconsiderate fool I was,
to be sure ! I was distracted myself at the
time, and that's my only excuse. I told you
the half-truth that is ever the blackest of lies.
I wanted to settle your mind on the point
of succession, and to keep a secret at the same
time. T didn't see how the case would appear

to you. I thought — or I didn't think "

*' That the loss of my prospective inheritance
would be so overwhelming as to swallow up
all lesser grievances V ended his son, not
bitterly but with a kindly smile.

Something of the sort," admitted his
father. " I was possessed by a demon of
illusion and confusion and evasion.' I was

going to call myself the greatest fool in
England just now ; but I recollected your
grandfather, who was a bigger in his day, and
whom we have to thank for the whole complication.
Altcar is no more mine than yours,
Eustace. It is Kandolfs, every stick and
stone of it \' and Lord Altcar faced his son
fair and square, his head up and his eyes
frankly opened as he made this astonishing
revelation.

Altcar Randolf s ! And he doesn't know
it?"

Nor ever shall in my time, please God''
replied the old gentleman, with cheerful irreverence.


Altcar Eandolf s T Eustace repeated in
his amazement. " Then what is ours T

Nothing. Every penny belongs to him in
strict justice. Legally he has not a vestige of
a claim on anything."

And I am never even to guess at the
answer to the riddle ? Very good." Eustace's
voice took a shade of disapproval. " As it

27 2

lies between you and him, I am content to
leave it so. No, I can't say content, but I
have no right to demand that it should
be otherwise. Why cannot Adolf be trusted
as much as I am ? A thoroughly good fellow,
with a heart and a conscience ^"

And a wife," added this father, with a
deliberate snarl ; "a wife with a heart and
conscience of a size to correspond with her
brains. There's not room enough in her
for too much of any of them. I won't trust
him. She'd screw the whole business out
of him between two kisses, and come off hereby
the next train to install herself as mistress.
You know she would."

It was extremely probable, Eustace admitted.


''Randolf indeed! Randolf has £800 a
year besides his pay, and gets through as
much again. Give him £4,000 a year, and
he'll spend £10,000. Perhaps you'd like
to see Altcar mortgaged up to the chimney-pots,
and your mother and mc living on an

allowance in some cheap neighbourhood \ I
shall not do it.

Do you think right and justice are dear to
no one but yourself?" went on the old lord
more animatedly. '^ Don't you imagine how
strong the reason must be — the very strongest
reason of all with me — that has restrained me
from putting an end to our false position
at once ? For your mother's sake, Eustace, for
hers only. I am doing no actual wrong ; but
if I were — if I were, I say, and it was to save
her a moment's trouble — I'd break every
commandment in the Decalogue, and take the
consequences !"

Lord Altcar's descending fist set glass and
china ringing. He flung a chair which stood
in his way aside violently and walked to the
window, where he stood tossing the grey locks
off his forehead, his lips working, his nostrils
quivering.

Eustace looked at him half amused, half sad
for a while, then gently persistent began, " It
is only the question of right or wrong "

Only !" sneered his hither. " And it is
always so easy to tell which is which, is it not 1"
He came and stood by this son presently, and
softly laid his hand upon his shoulder. '• Don't
think more hardly of me than you need, Eustace,"
he said, in a gentler, more natural tone,
^' If I were to tell you the story, you would

see " he broke off short again. *' Your

mother is expecting us. As to your affair,
we'd nearly forgotten that, had we not ? Wait,
give me time, and trust me a little. Now,
will you take some more claret ? No. Then
shall we go into the drawing-room ? I hear
Mary Liddell singing."

And they followed the music to where, in
her sweet little thread of a voice, Mary was
declaring that, alas, she —

Scarce can go or creep
While Lubin is away !"

EUSTACE S BIRTHRIGHT.

Adolf STANNARD arrived in
^ due course, to the delight of Altcar
generally. He was exuberantly joyous
at being at home once more, perhaps
relieved by the Sunday postal arrangements
which cut him off from his Amy's behests and
the remembrance of her sufferings for a space.
At any rate he behaved like a schoolboy broken
loose, while his father regarded him with expressively
lifted eyebrows now and then, and
Eustace rejoiced privately that after all he had
not taken upon himself to answer for his
brother's reticence or discretion. He always
seemed comically in awe of his father, and kept

by his mother or Eustace for the most part,
even going the length of accompanying the
Latter to church twice to a protracted, unadorned
country service.

Altcar Church is a huge, rambling structure,
light and lofty, with beautiful Norman arches
carefully clothed in yellow distemper, and
mouldings deep buried in plaster. The rows
of oaken benches down the nave had been
carefully painted and grained, and the fiat ceiling
that had been erected many a year ago asa
temporary substitute for the groined roof of
the " Altcar aisle" was papered in oak, with a
tasty " Gothic bordering " to match. The
family possessed a neat little enclosure with
open-work panels, like an ecclesiastical meat-safe,
into which they shut themselves under the
hatchment of the last of the Torkingtons, the
family who for a generation or two had deposed
the Stannards of Altcar.

Eustace knew and loved it all. He remembered
nearly every fresh country face in
the long rows. The prosperous-looking farmers

with their smart daughters and buxom wives,
the decent old goodies in their Sunday crape,
and the old, old men who were old, old men
when he first knew them, and who, nor yet
their coats, seemed not to have grown one whit
the older in all those years. The clattering
troojD of chubby faced, tow-headed boys and
demure, conscious little girls came streaming
into the Chancel seats as of yore, and vociferated
the petition " Anincli now Parts to keep
this law" with the same jovial unintelligibility.


The Rector, an old College chum, by no
means shared his sentiments. He dined at the
Court that day, and poured his confidences into
Eustace's friendly ear as they walked on the
terrace afterwards.

You've got the best of it, Stannard, if you
only knew it. I'm a town bird myself, every
feather, and I envy you. I'm doing no good
here — the round man in a square hole. You
would shoot, and farm the glebe, and fish, and
talk knowingly about crops and game and

patent manures, and combine the authority
of Squire and Parson."

Why don't you exchange into a town
living then?" interrupted his friend hastily.
The Rector gave a little conscious laugh.

Perhaps I shall some day — when I can
persuade someone to go with me. There is a
powerful reason for my staying here just
now."

Eustace followed his significant o-lance to
where Mary Middle was bending over his
mother's chair. "What, you mean Mary?"
he asked, with rather a dismayed accent.

1 know what you would say," Mr. Fenwick
went on hastily. " And even if she would
ever consent to leave your mother, I could
hardly press her to do so at present. She has
given me a final answer more than once. I
won't take it, you know ; and I hope by staying
here and keeping the subject open I may induce
her to change her mind by the time
comes when she has to find another home."

That won't be in my father's time or mine."

I don't know. I did hope that something
might be arranged. This is your proper price
and your wife's, or — even if you didn't marry,
perhaps your brother's wife might come to
Altcar. Mary would always feel that a
daughter had the best right to her place. I
must trust to time and chance," sighed the
grey-haired, faithful lover wistfully, wondering
at his friend's want of sympathy.

Followed a long evening of sauntering in
and out between the softly-lighted drawing-room
and the warm, flower-scented, dew-gleaming
lawns ; listening to Mary's delicate,
old-fashioned music of "the pigtail school,"
Gluck and Haydn, Mozart and Pacing, till the
Rector took up his post beside the piano, and
Mary's fingers began to stray idly over the
keys.

The father and sons talked softly round
Lady Altcar's chair, her lovely dark eyes resting
caressingly on each face in turn, or drooping
their white lids as in plenitude of happiness.
Mary fluttered up at last full of exclamations

at the lateness of the hour, and bore her away,
and the party dispersed.

Randolf started off to walk home and have
a smoke with Mr. Renwick ; Eustace stood
hesitating, looking at his father, who was
minutely comparing his watch with the 
clock.

What time did you say you must start tomorrow
morning ?"

Six o'clock, to walk to the station."

'every good. I'll go with you. I shall be
glad of your views on a point or two of
business after a night's reflection. Can you
spare me an hour ? Come to the library."

Eustace followed his father into the dim,
splendid old room lighted only by a green-shaded
lamp on the writing-table. Lord
Altcar fidgeted uneasily about for a second or
two, turning the lamp up and down. " Sit
down," he said at last, taking his place
at the table. " I've a long story to tell.
You know too much and too little, Eustace.
Enough to make you form a harsh opinion of

my conduct, and not enough for my justification."
He had got his son's face into the
range of the kemp-light, and glanced sharply
at it as he spoke. " I've been a fool, as I
admitted before, but not a rogue, Eustace."

Eustace only replied by a look, but that
seemed sufficient for his father, who went on
more easily. 'tell me what you remember
about your grandfather Corbett V

I seem to recall a good deal of family
disturbance whenever he came, somehow. I
don't know in the least what it was all about.
I used to be alternately in favour and disgrace,
I think, for I always associate him either with
tips of sovereigns or dry bread and water for
dinner whenever I hear his name."

Lord Altcar laughed. " That's the man.
We all went up and down in his good graces
in much the same fashion. The one idea of
his life was to see his daughter Lady Altcar
before he died. My place in his affections rose
and fell with my prospects. He quarrelled
with us all for a year when my great-uncle

Anthony — the heir presumptive — married ;
and forgave us handsomely all round when
Mrs. Anthony ran away with a courier'"
Lord Altcar laughed again, but exasperated.
I put up with a good deal from him from
first to last. Fortunately I was rich enough
to be independent of him, but — Esmec being
his only child — we couldn't altogether cut ourselves
adrift from him, poor, lonely, crotchet
old fellow ! Uncle Anthony died childless, so
did his younger brother. Two cousins were
killed mountaineering, and it really became
almost possible to count on my chance of tho
succession. Those must have been the days
of the sovereign tips, I imagine."

"No. He gave me a pony. I remember it
quite well."

Yes, that was the time. He even began
to congratulate himself on your being called
Eustace — the family name — instead of Adolf,
after him, as he at first demanded. Just
then the Altcar estate came into the market,
and nothing would serve him but that I must

buy it. Lord Alter would not. His wife
had only brought him daughters, and was
likely to outlive him. So in an unlucky
moment I consented. The property went fora
song — to the tune of £90,000, that is — and
your grandfather advanced the purchase-money.
I was an idiot to put myself in his
power, I know, but I never was a man of
business. My father had invested his money
shrewdly, and I received the income and asked
no Questions ; money difficulties were something
quite beyond my ken. My mind was
full of an impending political crisis, and I let
your grandfather have his way for the sake of
peace and C[uiet. However, all went well fora
long time after."

I remember our all coming down here
together, and how delighted mv mother was.
Grandfather gave me a gun, didn't he? I
know he promised me a hunter, but I never
got it."

I should think not. That was the year
of Lady Alt car's death. Six weeks after Lord

Altcar maiTiecl his daughter's governess, and
within the year came a son and heir. Poor
old Corbett, I don't think he ever quite rallied
from that shock. He wrote furiously, desiring
us never to come near him again, and demanding
the repayment of his money. That
wasn't so easy. I had sunk all my spare
capital in repairs and improvements, the expenses
of the two establishments had been
heavy, and when I came to look into some of
my father's investments, I found them considerably
depreciated in value since his day.
I couldn't even resell the place just then,
except at a ruinous loss. I was just at my
wits' end, when I saw in the paper the death
of my poor little cousin — the baby heir — of
croup. Almost immediately followed a conciliatory
letter from your grandfather, full of a
new scheme. If I would consent, he would
take Altcar off my hands and settle it on
Eandolf, who should take the name of Corbett
on his wedding-day and found a family. He
would get a deed drawn up to that effect as

soon as possible. Poor old fellow, that was
the last I ever heard from him."

Lord Altcar broke short off, and laid his
forehead on his hand.

Was the deed ever executed ?" Eustace
asked.

I don't know. I never thought more of
it. I had just answered the letter when the
messenger came in with the news — you know
your mother — dead, they told me. I had
no thought or care for anything else after
that." His ruddy face grew white, and his
voice shook at the bare recollection.

How long did it all last, Eustace, that
terrible time ? I never seem able to realise it.
So much happened that is missing from my
recollection. You went to Oxford, Eandolf
was at Sandhurst, and sometime in those
terrible months — or years were they ? — your
grandfather died in America. He had gone
to look after some Californian mines in which
he was interested, and was buried at San
Francisco. He left everything to Esmee by a

VOL. ir. 28

will dated many years back, and I never cared
to make further enquiries after the deed, supposing
that it was destroyed when he heard
of Lord Altcar's death following his child's.
Some years after I accidentally came upon a
letter addressed to me, but never sent, and its
enclosure."

Eustace's breath came faster as he watched
his father unlock a despatch-box which stood
near him and take out an envelope.

Head it for yourself, and say whether it is
binding on you and me or not."

There was a long silence in the room, broken
only by the rustling of the sheets as Eustace
turned them over.

I think we have no choice in the matter,"
he pronounced at last, slowly and decidedly.
Altcar or its purchase-money should have
been Randolph on his wedding-day."

I took the papers — just as you see them —
to a lawyer," Lord Altcar said, " and he laughed
at me for fancying myself bound by such a
document, not even signed or witnessed. But

I'm clear in my mind, and so I see are you,
that the old man considered it binding and
believed we should think so''

Eustace sighed perplexedly.

Altcar or the purchase-money to be invested
in an estate of equal value for Eandolf ;
that is how I understand it," he said, considering.


"There's the sting of the whole business,"
groaned his father. " I might have repaid it
but for my own hot-headed folly. I got
chafed and impatient of his incessant reminders
of our obligations to him, tried a short-cut to
wealth in the shape of some promising speculations,
burnt my fingers, lost my head, threw
good money after bad, and escaped utter ruin
by something not very short of a miracle.
Say the hardest things you can to me, Eustace;
I'll admit their justice." He was walking up
and down the room distractedly now, his son's
eyes following him sadly and kindly. " What
am I to do ?" he said at last, coming to a
standstill in front of him. '' Adhere are we ta

28—2

go if we give up Altcar ? How am I to save
up £90,000 in my lifetime ? Do you know
what Eandolf and his wife are livings at the

o

rate of ? Nearly a year's income from Altcar
has twice gone to jay his debts. What is left
to us, do you suppose ? Your mother's dowry
and my savings from the wreck. That is all.
Think of your mother, Eustace, and think of
what her happiness is to me, and tell me what
there is left to me but to keep silence till I
die."

'' If you are still resolved against trusting
Eandolf "

^' How can I ? What dependence can we
place on him ? The whole world would know
the story tomorrow ; or he'd go about thinking
of the secret he'd got to keep till his mind
got so full of it that he couldn't open his lips
without blurting out something fatal. Why,
your mother would read it all in his face the
first time she saw you two together !"

"Then there is no alternative," Eustace
admitted, reluctantly.

You are not thinking of your own deprivation,
eh ? You bear me no grudge for that ?
Xo, that's not your way. It will come hard
on you, my boy. I wish I could have done
more. I have had friends who mio-ht have
helped me, offers of good appointments — but
you know what Sir Henry said — I must take
care of my life for her sake. I'm good for
another thirty years yet, I feel certain, but
only so long as I live like a cabbage in the
fields here."

Eustace turned his face more affectionately
to his father than he had done yet :

Keep us out of title and property as long
as you can, father. AVe are both agreed on
that. Xow. shall I stow away these papers ?"

Yes, you may. But we've not done for
the night yet. What about your marriage ?
Your mother will expect me to tell her all
about it. Who's the lady T

My mother ? What does she know about
it?"

Doesn't she know everything ? Do you

suppose Mary Liddell dare suppress a line of a
letter or a paragraph in a newspaper, or that I
can see her eyes questioning mine and refuse
to answer them ? I suppose, though, I'm
pretty good at deceiving her now and then,
my poor, helpless darling !"

My marriage ? I wish I could speak of it
as a certainty. What you have told me tonight
seems to have put it farther away from
me than ever. I would rather not talk more
about it just now. I suppose I may take
your consent for granted now? Good-night."

*' I shall walk with you to the station tomorrow,"
vere Lord Altcar's last words as
they parted.

The morn was dew-pealed " as when Pippa
passed, and thick-hung with floating gossamer
threads to boot. Eustace and his father, walking
through the long sparkling meadow-grass
to the stile, stopped for the former to wave a
farewell to the close-shuttered windows of the
Court.

Ah, Eustace lad, it's you I'd like to think
of there when I am gone," sighed Lord Altcar,
trudging sturdily along the road beside him.
You love the place as well as I do, and would

do your duty by it ; while Adolf Well,

there, right's right, and I'll say no more, but
the pity of it !"

Eight's right," echoed Eustace, discourage
ingle.

"There's one chance left for us, Eustace,"
went on the old lord eagerly. " Your future
wife — you have told me nothing about her
yet. I hope for your sake she's rich — perhaps
rich enough to be able to join in some arrangement."


'' You mean does she possess the sum of
£100,000 ; and would she be willing to refund
the Altcar purchase-money to Eandolf and
take the property, plus Eustace Stannard V

Don't put it in that way ; though mind
you — she might make a much worse investment.
You'll only fidget yourself into a state
of morbid touchiness if you persist in regarding

it in that light. What can a woman do
better with her money than buy a home like
Altcar and a good husband with it ; and a
title thrown in eventually ? The nonsense
people talk ! What the deuce do the conceited
minxes imagine would induce any man
to afflict himself for life with their company if
he is to get nothing by it ?"

Was that your view when you married ?"

Lord Altcar stopped short and stared, then
gave a laugh. " Your mother was one of a
thousand, Eustace. My remarks refer to the
nine hundred and ninety-nine to whom your '
choice is unhappily limited. Find a pearl like
my Esmee, and let money and lands go to the
winds if they stand between you, say I !"

Eustace nodded approvingly, and the signal-box
came in sight at the turn of the road.

I suppose, though, you are quite certain
that you have found her?" demanded Lord
Altcar, with a sharp side-look.

'^ Quite as certain as that I must lose her
again," was the grave, sad answer. " I think

we need not consider your last alternative
further. The lady I hoped to make my wife
is a rich woman, who must not be entrapped
by fraud into marrying a pauper. She is
essentially a woman of the world ; beautiful
and bright and admired wherever she goes,
and I should have to ask her to share an
obscure, hardworking life that nothing but
love for me and the work could render tolerable.
She is herself the soul of truth and
honour, and I should have to let her discover
that I am more or less of an impostor. There
are my reasons ; so there it must end," and
Eustace walked hastily on, while Lord Altcar
shook his grey head and struck the ground
with his stick once or twice impatiently.

We must get Eandolf to call his little
one Esmee, after the mother," said Eustace,
rapidly, a little at random. " It will be good
to see a small Esmee running about the place.
How Mary Liddell will exult in her !"

Lord Altcar was gazing down the level
stretch of line on which a toy train seemed

to stand motionless with a white fluff suspended
in the air above. There was time
for a hist appeal. " I've been doing you
greater mischief than I thought," he said,
sorrowfully. "Do as you like about keeping
my secret. I've blundered too obstinately to
have the right to exact any forbearance. Go
and tell her what you like. Go at once. Put
the case to her ; I can trust you to spare me as
much as possible. Give her the chance of
showing she's wise enough to know a man
worth loving when she sees him, peer or
pauper, or both at once."

The train was rapidly expanding with a
growing rush and roar that slackened in
obedience to the signals. Eustace clasped
his father's hand silently and turned away.

Good-bye, my boy, good-bye ! Found her
and lost her, eh ! Well for him if no other
fellow has picked her up in the meantime.
Esmee said it was a woman he had on his
mind ever so long ago, and she's bound to be
right."

CHAPTER Il

A W I T C H S B R E W.

Ace again in St. Friclolin's in the
old familiar study, Eustace seemed
to have left himself and his concerns
far away under the Altcar oaks, and returned
to existence as the Yicar of St. Fridolin's only.
He had left something else behind as well,
a load of doubt, of suspicion and discontent
that had been his unconscious companion ever
since he had begun to notice the relative positions
which he and his brother held under his
father s roof.

He was in a trying, anomalous position
himself still, but he knew the worst, and with
certainty, and there still remained the glorious

possibilities of the future. A merry, reckless
little crowd of fancies had sprung into life with
his father's last words, and had been playing
their will-o'-the-wisp gambols though his
well-regulated mind all the way down. They
tempted him to all manner of absurdities, to
a foolish loitering in the churchyard on the
spot where he and she had stood and watched
the building of the room together in the early
spring before the poplar leaves were green ;
to a wistful fancy that the red-rose leaves
trodden underfoot in his study still scented
the air ; to a tender touch of the deal table
where her pretty gloved hand had once rested,
till he sternly bade the whole pack of them
begone, and shut the study door on them.

He set to his work with right good-will,
steadily and systematically, till the last question
was answered and the last visitor disposed
of, and then admitted them again while he
commenced a note to sirs. Damien asking her
to spare him a few minutes that afternoon.

Before the date was written, the door opened



with an impetuous jerk, and de Cressy precipitated
himself in upon his Vicar, his face full of
importance and mystery.

"Are you engaged just now?" he began
without preliminary. '* I want you to come
with me. You know Lady Valerian Meynell ?
She wants you at once."

Eustace caught up his hat and followed his
Curate to the hansom in waiting* reserving all
questions till they were off. " Is she ill ?" he
asked.

"/ should say so, but they won't see it.
I've been there a good deal, lately, since the
Brants came, and Constance and Oliver seem
to be everlastingly on the premises too. I
fancy they're uncommonly jealous of the
Brants. This morning was the first time I
ever found her alone, even the maid away,
and very bad she looked. ' I want Mr. Stannard
!' she said to me ; 'go and fetch him
before they know you have been here. Tell
him to come at once.' So I came. Queer,
isn't it ? Only yesterday Constance asked me

if you were out of town, and looked so
delighted when I said *yes' that I thought I
wouldn't spoil it by saying you were coming
back again."

De Cressy had possessed himself of a latchkey,
and admitted the Vicar unobserved when
they arrived in Seagrave Place. The house
was very still and the drawing-room empty.
De Cressy ran lightly upstairs to the sitting-room
where Eustace and Meynell had searched
in vain that night for the missing mistress, and
returned with an imperative summons : " You
are to go up alone," and Eustace obeyed.

Lady Viileria lay on the couch near the
window, her wraps and cushions tossed about
in disorder as if she had been restlessly
moving up and down. Near her was the
table with her desk, books and Bible, just as
Eustace remembered them. She beckoned
him to approach without a word, and pointed
to a chair beside her. '' I have behaved badly
to you. I thought I had found other help and
better, but you were right after all."

What has happened since we met T he
asked her kindly. " You have been ill, I
hear."

My heart is broken." The words dropped
from her lips one by one deliberately, heavy,
leaden, sad, and her head sank back on her
cushion.

I am too old !" she broke out presently.
Too old to begin it all over again. The
weary work, waiting, searching, following false
hopes, catching brief glimpses of light. I have
seen him. Remember that ! He is alive, and
my own son ; the son I dreamed of."

When did you see him, and how did you
recognise him T

"Never mind that now. I hawse lost him
again. I have been put off and put off. He
has gone away for a time. He has not received
my messages. Perhaps he does not believe
them. Perhaps you were right, and he would
rather live out his days nameless than own
me — his mother."

Her great wild eyes full of agony sought his

face questioningly, demanding comfort. He
had none to give. " Let me help you again,
if I can. Where can I find him T

She shook her head hopelessly.

Who brought you to him T

I may not tell you. One who will still
help me, I believe — but the time is so short,,
so short, I cannot wait."

Do you mean Madame Euphrosyne-girard?"


She looked at him with a blank face. " Do.
you know her?"

A confidence was trembling on her lips
when from behind came a cold, soft voice.
Are you not going to drive after all,
Mamma ? The carriage is waiting, and I have
been here for some time. I beg your pardon,
Mr. Stannard ; I don't wish to hurry you away,
but in my mother's state of health we are
obliged to consider her doctor s orders before
everything. I know you will excuse it."

Good-bye, Lady Valerian." He held her
hand for one last instant. " Remember I am

always at your service whenever you need me.
And remember," he went on, casting about for
some form of warning, " remember how your
known generosity may lay you open to imposition.
Promise me to examine well any
claims that may be made upon you, and irnut
no agent; examine for yourself, or allow me
to do so for you."

Lady Valerian has her son or myself always
at hand' interposed Mrs. Oliver, stiffly, and
he perforce withdrew.

Lionel de Cressy made a wry face as they
walked away. '' I've got myself into disgrace
there now ! Poor dear Connie's face when
she found you were with her mother ! She
and Oliver are simply ridiculous with their
jealousy of us all. Mabel can't stand it, and
she means to get her mother away without
consulting them. Do you know Folkestone ?
I've promised to go to a house-agent's and
engage rooms there at once."

Eustace did not accord the common civility
of a reply. He was wondering what remained

VOL. II. 29

LADY VALERIA.

for him to do, if, indeed, any further interference
with Lady Valerian's concerns was
permissible. He might leave her, he thought,
in her children's hands. If there was any
imposture going on, the unknown son, at least,
did not seem to be a party to it.

It was a melancholy business, I can tell
you," de Cressy was saying, when next Eustace
heard him, his discourse having wandered back
to St. Fridolin's and its politics. " The girls
flooded the spot with their tears. They were
promised a course of lectures on art, hygiene,
and domestic economy, and that didn't seem
to comfort them. Then Mrs. Damien asked
them to plan some grand diversion for the
next Bank Holiday, and Miss Archdale should
carry it out, and that didn't do any good."

Mrs. Damien ?" and a sudden flood of
consciousness rushed over him, sweeping Lady
Valerian and her concerns clean out of his mind,
and filling him full of the excitement of the
living, actual present, and the coming hour on
which the joy or sorrow of his life to come

was depending. " I shall see her this afternoon."


**Ah, I didn't tell her so. She didn't seem
to expect it. We've all seen the last of Mrs.
Damien, I'm thinking," and the Curate heaved
a tragi-comic sigh. " I've felt it coming for
months past. There was something more than
mere coincidence in the way two people I
could name used to be seen at the same
houses nio'ht after nio;ht. He's a fine fellow,
the Professor. Well, here's luck to them —
though he's got more than his fair share of
that same, anyhow."

Do you mean that Professor Montrose and
sirs. Damien are engaged ?" asked Eustace, in
the driest, most matter-of-fact tone, though
his head seemed to grow dizzy with a sudden
rush of recollections, Hester's confidences foremost
amongst them.

You've heard it, then ! And I thought it
was news I was telling you. Sure, I only heard
it myself yesterday, and Lady Beatrix swore
me to secrecy tiU they were aU ofi" and away."

29—2

Then I think we had better observe her
injunction. No, I shall not try to see her.
It would be no good, and I am wanted this
afternoon elsewhere."

He turned sharp round with an abrupt farewell
and disappeared, leaving de Cressy to
soliloquise with a wise little shake of his head.

Now see that ! And after the good friend
she's been to him, not to take a rap of interest
in what becomes of her ! It's buried alive in
his smoky old parish, he is, body and soul!"

Your Vicar's holiday has not done much
for him," observed Mrs. Beltran, regarding him
from the shelter of her half closed shutter.
*' Don't stir 1 He is going away. What does
he want with you V

"Perhaps he had something to say about
father," answered Elsie, stirring uneasily
amongst her cushions, half relieved, nevertheless,
at escaping the interview.

She had found her way back to Mrs.
Beltran's room after all. A fine flush of

heroism lead warmed her heart and strengthened
her determination that her last visit
there should be final. She distrusted her
strange friend and the gifts she brought, and
turned her back on both resolutely. Mrs.
Beltran seemed nowise affronted. Her greeting
was as kindly when next they met, as
before. She made no advances beyond a
careless smile and word in passing, with a
half-amused glance that made Elsie feel herself
rather ridiculous as well as very forlorn
and unhappy. Mrs. Damien was out of reach
now, and she had offended Miss Archdale ;
and, worst of all, her newly gained strength
and vigour seemed to be daily lessening, just
as she had learned their worth. No wonder
the poor child, at the first word of encouragement,
came meekly back to her allegiance
before many of the long, lonely days were
over.

The distorted little image on the wall seemed
to leer down on her with a grotesque triumph
when she re-entered the room. Zombi opened

one green eye and purred, but Mrs. Beltran
kept her exultation, if she felt any, to herself;
talked only of Elsie's health, asked after Sampson,
and read his letters with interest, and
never mentioned Edric Poynter's name from
first to last. Elsie, lying on the shabby couch
in a delicious interval of ease from pain, felt
cut to the heart with remorseful recollections
of her ungracious doubts.

I believe I shall get well now !" she exclaimed.
" I feel so strong, so active, so wishful
to stand and run about. I never did so before."

You must not try yet," said Mrs. Beltran,
with a secret laugh, as she rose from where
she had been kneeling beside the couch. " Not
for a few more days. But remember, till you
are quite well and strong you are to breathe
no word of this to anyone. I will cure you
freely, but that is all I ask in return. Once
let the charm be known to more than two, and
its worth is gone."

Charms ? There are no such things nowadays,"
said Elsie, incredulously.

Are there not ? There were plenty to be
had where I came from — in the West Indies
only you must go to the right place for
them. My great aunt Aurora knew all about
that. She was the oldest negress on the Bel
Espoir plantation. Everyone, from Monsieur
de la Chetardie down to the last born picca-
nine, would shiver if Aurora lifted her finger.
She was — listen," and Mrs. Beltran breathed
one word in Elsie's ear.

Obi I" repeated Elsie out loud, quite unimpressed.
" What's that ?"

Mrs. Beltran's face darkened. " Go and
ask that old black woman I see you speaking
to sometimes. See how her great eves will
roll and her knees shake at the word. You
need not be frio-tenet of me. I am nothing
taught me to read stars, and a few of
her medicines, that is all. But she ! She
knew spells that would make a dead man's
bones turn in his coffin. She could make a
Gri-gri, a fever fetich that would keep the
ship in whose hold it was hidden tossing idly

day after day under the scorching sun, till the
crew, to the last man, dropped plague smitten,
one by one. She knew magic words that you
might write on an egg-shell, and then set it
full of dew in the sun to dry up your enemy's
life as the moisture ascended. She could charm
the rain from the sky, and turn the winds as
she chose with her fan of magic feathers.

Elsie listened horrified, yet greedy for more.
Mrs. Beltran dropped into her chair, smiling to
herself. She tossed back the masses of her
dense black hair, and flung her round dusky
arms above her head. She wore her favourite
red gown, and the wide sleeves fell back,
showing a bracelet made of a chain of shining
black and red berries with a large embossed
gold bead here and there. It slid from her
wrist up her arm to her elbow, and then into
the sleeve. Seeing Elsie's eyes following it,
she slipped if off and tossed it to her.

Look at that. It belonged to my young
Mademoiselle Eva. It was a rosary, only the
crucifix has gone somehow."

From the West Indies T Elsie asked,
curiously examining it.

Mrs. Beltran nodded. "Aurora made her
throw it way before she would do anything
for her, and I picked it up and kept it for a
remembrance. My beautiful young lady ! Nota
soul at Bel Espoir but was ready to fall down
and worship her — except the one she wanted."
And Mrs. Beltran sighed meaningly.

Elsie cast down her eyes and played with
the rosary beads, and there was a space of
silence. " How did it end ?" she asked, tremulously,
at length.

She got her will and married him. "What
more would you have T

Do you mean to tell me that anything can
change a man's feelings — can make him love
against his will T

I never said that anything could. I said
that Aurora could — and did."

And you want to make me believe that
you are as wise as Aurora, and can help me if
you choose. I would not let you. I would

not take love that another might be cheated
out of."

But if there was no one else ? If his
eyes were blind and his heart asleep, and if I
could wake it and make him see his love in
you {

Elsie shrank from her scared, then suddenly
wavered dizzily and dropped back on the sofa.
Mrs. Beltran, no whit dismayed, flung the
window open, and sprinkled her face with
water, looking at her calmly and critically as
she did so.

'* It's a case for a clever surgeon," she
said to herself. "I will tell the old fool of
a father some day, and let him get her cured.
Not yet, though. Not till I have done with
her."

HE rare June sunshine was blazing
clown upon Shorncliflfe. Along the
white road approached a thick
cloud of grey chalk-dust, veiling a hot
little party returning from the ranges, whose
faces shone, whose shoulders were powdered
thickly, whose boots were white. Private
Sampson Paramount trudged along cheerily
amidst them from his first day's shooting. His
nose was skinned, his eyes between sun and
mirage felt ready to drop from his head,
and he hated — how he hated every individual
pebble in the cruel, scorching, bruising shingle
with a separate and distinct hatred ; yet in
his heart there was great joy.

He had got through his drills last week, his
shooting had been the best in his section, and
his colour-sergeant, though not given to compliment,
had vouchsafed a brief " You'll do
for Egypt," that looked as if his glorious
visions of active service might not be sofar
beyond hope of realisation as they had
seemed to the recruit of a fortnight ago.

So Sampson marched along gaily, and the
little red party became as a dark spot on the
face of the winding white ribbon of a road
that curls round the face of the green hill-side,
and disappeared in the heights aloft.

His Instructor, meanwhile, was taking things
more easily— lounging in the stern of a boat
on the canal, smoking a gentle cigarette, and
watching the low green banks on either side
glide smoothly past. The Royal Denbigh had
not yet received its orders for Egypt, though
the premonitory stir and flutter of coming
change might be felt throughout the regiment.
There was much discussion of outfit. Boots
maintained the lead as the subject of most

^

interest, though pressed hard by pocket-filters
and revolvers ; and the more enthusiastic warriors
had already had their swords, hitherto
consecrated to toast-making and magazine
cutting, sharpened to the armourer's utmost
capability.

Edric Poynter hurried to his hut to get into
mufti, and rid himself of the morning s toil-stains.
A number of letters by the second
post awaited him, and while he changed he
glanced at them carelessly, as pretty well
informed already of their contents. The great
square thin one on the top was a card for
the Militia dinner. Three of divers tints with
familiar devices and the Folkestone post-mark
meant tennis, afternoon tea or dancing. No
hurry about any one of them. He leisurely
finished his dressing, and, dropping into his
easy-chair, proceeded to open and chuck into
his waste-paper basket recommendations of
saddlery, pale ale, patent medicines, and, of
course, boots, pocket-filters, and revolvers.
No second dance was needed at them. Two

or three only remained to be opened, when he
started up, showering the remaining handful
on the ground, and held at arm's length, at
the tips of his fingers as though it burnt him,,
a long, narrow, grey envelope. He knew it !

He knew the small, cramped, foreign hand,
though he had never set eyes on it before
" To the Lieutenant Edric Poynter." The
sickly, dead-sweet perfume it exhaled was these
that had clung about him for days,,
though the yellow Japanese handkerchief
had come to a fiery end in a road-mender's
brazier outside Privet's Hotel. He would
willingly burn this too, and unread. But he
dared not. " I thought I wasn't afraid of
her, but I aren't risk that somehow," he said
to himself, and with impatient disgust he-broke
open the envelope and drew forth th
enclosure. Only four lines, and unsigned.

Take this warning and go. Anywhere.
The further the better. There is danger
hanging over you. Go, and let it pass. You

know best whether to believe me or not. Go.
For seven days and nights. — E."

Edric dropped into his chair again with
a chill feeling clutching at his heart. He was
as brave as most men, and the threat of
personal danger would have troubled him
little. It was the notion that this woman,
with her odd knowledge of his life and
thoughts, was using him in some way for her
own purposes, but how ? How ? He sprang
up restlessly and paced his tiny room, two
strides either way.

I won't be dictated to by her," he declared,
energetically. " Danger ? What does
she mean by it ? Is she going to stow an
infernal machine under my bed some night, or
get me shot by accident on the ranges ?
Perhaps she's been at her star-reading again,
and sees a day of ill-luck coming for me.
She was right before. I mustn't forget that.
Oh, confound her !" Each reflection occupied
one turn, including a halt at the window to

stare blankly across at the window of the next
hut, and turn again. " She promised me
some mischief, too. But that was in case
I talked or asked injudicious questions. Well,
I haven't done either one or the other. Worse
luck. I believe Miss Hester could have told
me what to think of it, if I'd told her the
whole story. Wish she were here now. She'd
see through it. Better than the best lawyer
that ever wore a wig. Don't want to pull her
into the mess, though. * Go. Anywhere.'
That means she wants to get me out of ,
and is prepared to make it unpleasant
for me if I stay. Let her do her worst. If
this secret society and moonlight sort of game
is to continue, life won't be worth having. I
]prefer the dynamite. / shall stay''

He picked up the note and tore it carefully
into little bits, lit a match and burnt them on
his fire shovel, threw the ashes out of the
window and then washed his hands vigorously
till the last trace of the faint, sickly-sweet
scent had left them, over and over again, as if

to clear them of all contamination. Next he
unlocked an envelope-case on his table, in the
foremost compartment of which was stuck a
note as promising in its appearance as the
other had been repulsive. A thick, square
envelope directed in an upright, decided hand,
very characteristic, he thought, of the capable,
slim, strong fingers that penned it.

Only one sheet of paper inside, and only
three sides of that covered ; but it bore much
meaning if few words, and Edric seemed to
hear Hester's pretty incisive speech in every
sentence.

Sincerely yours, Hester Archdale." " How
uncommonly like her it looks somehow,"
he soliloquised. " Distinct and downright and
original." Some dozen of young ladies had
subscribed themselves *' his '' with equal sincerity,
but this was the first time he had ever
detected an originality in the proceeding.

So she was glad to receive my letter,
which she found thrillingly interesting. Is
that chafe", now % Whenever I begin to write

VOL. II. 80

or tell a story, all the interest and thrill get left
out somehow. Still, she's the sort of person
who always knows what I mean to say. — So
she goes on : 'It seemed at first as if your
unpleasant acquaintances were getting up a
case against Mr. Monk, but had secured the
wrong man as a witness just what I thought
myself, ' only you say that you could not help
feeling that it was you, and you only, that the
woman was intent upon the whole time.' So
she returns to her first opinion, slightly modified,
that whatever the preliminaries the end
will prove the same, extortion ; and that
Madame Euphrosyne gave me some sound 
no intention of its ever being followed,
when she bid me hold my tongue and keep
clear of her for the future. Ah, I put that
very mildly. In fact I toned down all the
ugly points. I may count on her undiminished
interest if the romance is ' to be
continued,' but for my sake she hopes wee have
arrived at the conclusion. No such luck !
There's more to follow, and the only question

is, whether it will do her any good to hear it.
Better not, perhaps."

He replaced the note carefully, gave a last
glance at the looking-glass, and sallied forth in
search of luncheon and society.

He was provoked to find how little appetite
he had for either. He felt it an effort to
attend to the passing remarks of the few men
he found in the mess-room, answered at random,
and when Carroll offered to drive him
over to the Long-fields' tennis next dav, he
couldn't remember whether he had been invited
or not. He was equally vague when
some other engagements fell under discussion,
till he suddenly remembered that he had left
most of his correspondence unopened on his
table.

I can't stand this !" he said, unconsciously
thinking aloud as he left the mess.

Can't stand what 1" asked Doudney, entering.


'* Eh ? did I say anything ? I meant that
horrible musk of Dalyell's. He has let it

30—2

grow till the place smells like a snuff-shop."


Dalyell, whose special pride was the small
glass shed outside, where the band played, and
the Royal Denbigh sat and smoked after
dinner amongst the flower-pots, made an indignant
retort in defence of his golden cushions
of blossom, but Edric neither heard nor apologised.
He was striding; straight to the Colonel's
quarters, determined to settle the point of his
going or staying once for all.

Leave ? Just now ?" and the Colonel raised
his grizzled eyebrows ; " Tm very sorry, but
it's quite out of the question ; a week, did you
say r'

'' I don't suppose less would be any good."

*' Then you certainly can't have it." Colonel
Borrodale was polite and regretful, but he
looked as if Edric ought to have known as
much without asking.

That's decisive at any rate," thought Edric,
much relieved, " and now my mind's at rest."
And he went off gaily to accept Carroll's offer.

and to appease Dalyell's hurt feelings by offering
to smoke a pet geranium for him, till the
last green insect intruder died of disgust.

Nothing occurred to make him repent his
temerity. He felt at first a certain sense of
relief each day when the post had come and
gone, but that passed away with the rest.

So work went on, and play likewise, and
dances were danced, and tennis tournaments
won or lost. And away in Egypt, Admiral
Sir Beauchamp Seymour was knocking poor
Arabs's fortifications and all his visions of a
free and united Egypt together about his ears.
And Mrs. Damien, loitering in the lovely Salz-
kammergut land — the land of glacier, and pine-wood
and splintered crag — was having her
eyes much opened to the Higher Beauty of
Nature by Professor Montrose, whenever she
could get rid of Mr. Ted Bough ton. And at
Folkestone, the Lees were gathering loungers
daily, and the band of the Royal Denbigh was
playing there twice a week by kind permission
of Lieutenant-colonel Borrodale.

The officers of the Royal Denbigh generally
added the attraction of their presence on these
occasions, mostly disposing of themselves on
the grassy knoll beyond the railings, known
for that season as *' Garrison Point," where
they held a sort of committee of inspection on
the promenaders who drifted to and fro.

The place seems full enough. Not that
anyone is here," slowly enunciated Dalyell,
rather vaguely as to expression, if distinct as
to meaning.

Nobody ever is here before August. My
people never think of coming sooner," solemnly
declared another youth.

The Dodington are here ; I saw it in the
Visitors' List. The Earl and Countess, and
Lady Susan and Lady Patience. I shall leave
cards tomorrow. We used to ^\^j together
when wee were children," said Leicester Smith,
trying to mention the fact casually for the
fifth time that afternoon.

No ! Played with an Earl in your infancy
! Do tell us about it !"

It was with the Ladies Heydown," corrected
Smith, with the simple literalness that made
him the delight of his brother officers. " They

used to come to tea in my nursery

There! oh, there!" He struggled to his feet
and gazed excitedly at an approaching bath-chair.
A pretty, delicate girl in it flushed red
as a rose at the general attention thus drawn
on her, and turned her head sharply away ;
then turning again and darting a look of
anxious scrutiny at the group, bowed hastily
and smilingly.

It must be Lady Susan — Susie / used to
call her !" cried Leicester Smith, whose hand
had fluttered up nervously to his hat. " I
can hardly remember them apart after all
these years. Or no ! — it is Patience. She
always had a colder manner than Susie."

But Edric with rather a grim look scrambled
hastily to his feet, and without a word of
explanation pushed him out of the way and
went after the chair with rapid strides.

He stopped before he reached it. A fit of

caution had seized him, as it generally did,
several seconds too late to be of practical good.
It's no affair of mine, her being here : I've
nothing to do with her," flashed through his
mind. But the girl had half looked round and
seen him. The chairman drew to one side and
stopped, and Edric, stepping forward, reluctantly
raised his hat to Elsie Paramount.

For Elsie Paramount it was, and no other,
that looked up at him steadily and un shyly,
as he had never seen Elsie look at him before ;
with no changeful blushes, but a red spot, the
fire of excitement, burning in each cheek.
And a voice low and deliberate from sheer
intensity of purpose said :

I knew I should meet you ; I have come on
an errand to you."

A DAY OF Strange MEETINGS.

^!DRIC walked silently beside Elsie as

the chairman moved on again,
waiting in some wonder for her
next words. They did not come at once ; the
red spot died out of her cheeks, and she began
to glance up at him in her old frightened way.
Perhaps there were too many listeners about
for her to speak freely. The chairman guided
her to a sheltered turn under the cliff, where
only a few invalids were sunning themselves
on a distant bench.

"You have come down to see your brother,
I suppose T Edric asked at length.

"Yes; a kind friend offered to bring me

here. I had never seen the sea before in my
life," she answered, in the little breathless,
disjointed way that she always fell into when
addressing him.

And what do you think of it ?"

Elsie's eyes turned to the wide, flashing,
foam-flecked expanse below them, but only fora
second. " I have hardly dared to look
at it. It frightens me, and I cannot sleep for
listening to it. Besides — I have been so
afraid of missing you — if you happened to be
here "

The slightest shade of disapproval crossed
Edric's face, and his answer was not promptly'
forthcoming. Elsie felt the cloud, and hurried
to explain.

I wanted to thank you again for your
kindness to us all, and — and — I had something
rather important to say."

Wants to get her brother back again, I
suppose," flashed through Edric's mind, but he
only looked attention.

I don't know how you may take it, sir,

but I can't help it if you are angry. I must
run the risk of that. You may guess how
serious it is when I can risk displeasing you,"
she ended, impulsively.

'*I am sure you can only mean well, whatever
you do. I am not likely to be offended,
I think," replied Edric, smiling kindly, touched
as he always was by the soft, frightened
manner and great pleading eyes, like those of
some graceful, wild creature that would come
for a caress if it dared, shrinking and alluring,
following, and yet alert to fly if approached.

You are sure ? Not if I seem dreadfully
impertinent and interfering T

Wants me to get Sampson made a corporal
forthwith," decided he.

Oh, Mr. Poynter, if you would only do
what I ask you and go away !" was the unexpected
sequel.

** Go away ? Now ? Oh, certainly. I beg
your pardon for detaining you, but I understood
you had something to say to me."

Away from here. From the camp. From

your regiment, I mean. Not for long, but till
it is safe for you to return. I can't explain. I
know how strange it must sound to you, but
indeed, indeed I must ask it. What can I
say to make you listen ?"

She was in earnest, honest earnest, none but
the most dense could have failed to see that.
She was terrified out of her shyness and
desperate at the want of sympathy in his face.
He looked merely stern and perplexed, hardly
curious.

The chairman had left them at a sign from
her ; the invalids had started on a stroll ; they
were alone together. She caught his hand in
her tremulous hot fingers, and held it in an
eager beseeching clasp.

Don't, dont go away without hearing me !
I am telling the truth. There is mischief
about. I cannot tell you how, but — save
yourself ! Oh, it is such a little thing I ask !
A few days — just what you would give to
some pleasure trip — and it is for your life —
your life !"

She was sobbing now in an agony of impatience
at his silence, and Edric, horribly
bothered as he was, could not deal as severely
and sensibly with her as the model young man
with his wits and his principles always at hand
and in good working order should have done.
He, it is to be regretted, thought first of consoling
the poor silly little girl, and then of the
consequences.

Don't cry," and he patted her shoulder
affectionately with his spare hand. " Why,
what can it matter to you what becomes of
me next week or the week after ? You dear,
kind, ridiculous little woman ! Now look up
and tell me all about it. Why am I in greater
danger than anyone else ? than your brother,
for instance T

I can't explain !" she cried, despairingly.
I knew how it would be. You are very good
to listen to me at all, but I can tell you
nothing more."

Well, it doesn't matter, for as it happens
I can't go. I would have gone — I really would,

and asked no questions — if it would have
made you happy," said the inconsiderate
youth, "but I can't. It's a question of duty.
I could not shirk thirty Elsie, at a mere hint of
danger."

But it's your life — your life you risk in
staying here "

That is no concern of mine. It's Her
Majesty's property. Don't you know I'm
going to be shot at in Egypt for 
a day, and I dare say shall come
home safe and sound after all ?"

It was rather a dreary pleasantry, but his
mind was running on Euphrosyne's threat — or
warning — taken in connection with Elsie's
wild errand. What relation, he thought with
sudden intuition, might not the one bear to
the other ? He would make it his business to
find that out at once.

She had released his hand with a shudder
when he spoke of Egypt. He guided the chair
to a bench, and seating himself so as to bring
himself more on a level with the pretty, woebegone

eyes that looked disconsolately at him,
began impressively and authoritatively :

Now listen to me, Elsie. I know you are
expecting me to try and find out what made
you think of coming to me with such an
unreasonable request. It was not the sort of
thing that would have occurred to you to do
of your own idea, I am sure." She gave him
a quick deprecating look and flushed hotly.
He took her trembling; fingers in his to reassure
her, and went on. " I know all about it. Yes,
I do, quite well." He felt the fingers give a
great twitch, and Elsie's eyes turned on him
in dismay. '* I know who sent you. There is
only one person in the world who has the
slightest interest in getting me out of this. I
don't know her reason ; no good one I'm convinced,
but it's a strong one. Now I suspect
it was this mutual friend of ours who has sent
you here. Eh, Elsie ? Don't you know her ?

A dark woman " Here he stopped with

an ill-timed fit of caution on the very verge of
a description that Elsie must infallibly have

recognised. " No ; you describe your friend
first."

You are wrong ! Altogether wrong !"
declared Elsie, wide-eyed and emphatic. " No
one has told me anything. No one."

Then how did you come by the notion ?"
he persisted.

She drooped her head, murmured something
confusedly, sighed, looked up piteously in his
face. " If you would but believe me "

*' Let's make a bargain. You give me a
reasonable explanation of all this, and I'll
make one more attempt to get leave, though
I warn you I shan't succeed. If you won't
speak, there's an end of the matter."

"But I can't, there's where it is," she
whispered, aggravating.

*• Very good. There's an end of it, you see.
Good-bye. I shall call your man now."

Wait, wait ! Oh dear, what shall I do ?
It's no use telling you — but if it's the only
chance — I don't care if you laugh — if it only
makes you mind," she went on disconnectedly.

It was a dream I had — only a dream," and
she forced a laugh.

Only a dream T he echoed in kindly
mockery.

*' It was one night when I had been sitting
np for father. I was very tired, and thought I
should sleep directly ; and so I did, but oh !
the pain and weariness of such sleep. It was
crowded with fragments of visions that I tried
again and again to see clearly, and yet dreaded
to see, for I knew they were terrible, everyone.
Black, rolling clouds full of dreadful
shapes came closing in on me, and I was
fighting them off with all my might when
someone behind me called, ' Open, and let the
secret be made plain to her.' Then another
voice replied, ' What will befall is written —
is written.' Then the clouds parted, and I
saw before me the days of the weeks to come,
one after the other sliding along like great
globes of luminous light or rings of shining
smoke with figures stirring in them. I could
see myself looking out of every one, and other

VOL. II. 31

faces that I knew, and I counted till I came
to to-day, and then I saw you."

Not unlikely. You knew which day you
were coming to Folkestone, and were thinking
about it."

She shook her head. '* I had seen you in
all the others, not as you look now, but in a
red coat, or a dark blue one with braid, and
gold on your cap. To-day you were standing
looking as you did that night "

Quite right. I shall wear mufti to-night.
I am going to dine at the West Cliff with some
people," he annotated. She shivered.

"And then over you fell a great black
cloud — a pall. I knew it was, and it sank and
hid you. Day after day passed and I looked
for you, and still came only blackness, till
seven days had gone ; and then all else melted
away and you were lying with a white sheet
over you, and when I lifted it your dead eyes
stared up at me, and through all was the sound
of the sea !"

Her voice sank to a whisper of horror, her

face grew as ghastly white as the vision that
still held her imagination. Edric felt uncomfortable,
though unbelieving.

It's a coincidence," he said, " an unpleasant
coincidence, that you and somebody else
should have pitched upon this week as a bad
time for me. Well, we can't tell what maybe
the worth of your warning till the week's
over, can we ? And then it won't be
much use. Perhaps it means a wedding ?
Dreams go by contraries, you know. AVas
that all r

Elsie shook her head.

It came again," she went on, in the same
low, awe-stricken tone ; " the same again, and
the third time I could bear it no longer, and
struggled with the shapes, and beat and
crushed them with my hands, and fought till
they rolled down before me in a glittering
downfall of fragments. And I was holding-one
that suddenly grew warm and clasped my

hand in return, and — and " She stopped,

then, with an odd mixture of confusion and

31—2

determination in her pretty face, went on
boldly : "It was your hand, just as you hold
mine now. I saw it as plainly as I do now,
and I dropped it — " here the parallel was not
complete — " and I felt it was a sign given
to me that I might save you — \i\oviuill be
saved !" And both Elsie's hands were laid
imploringly on his.

^' It isn't shown very clearly how you are todo
it, though. Suppose you have already done
so without being aware of it ? If T hadn't
been gossiping here with you I might have
come to grief up there, perhaps. Slipped over
the cliff, got bitten by a mad dog, lost my
heart to some fair-haired fiend who would bethe
death of me in the third volume." Edric
stopped to laugh, looking so cheer' and confident
and handsome, that Elsie smiled too, a
misty, tearful smile. " I'm not laughing at
your visions. It was as right for you to act
upon them as for me to disregard them, but
that's all we can do. How long do you stay
here V

*' Only till tomorrow," with a regretful sigh.
Edric sighed too — with relief.

'' Then we shan't meet again ? So goodbye.
Now dort begin to cry again, like a
dear girl 1"

She smiled obediently, looking so penitent
and alarmed at his tone of vexation that he
could but lift the little hand to his soft
moustache. "I'll come and see you. I will
indeed. Just to show you I'm all right''

"When?"

Oh, I can't promise. Xot for a week or
so — let the dream have a chance of coming
true."

In a fortnight ?"

•' Yes, if it will make you happy. Goodbye,
good-bye."

The bath-chairman was hanging over the
railings in converse with a friend, well content
at the easy fashion in which his hourly wage
was being earned. Edric sent him back to his
duty, and was well pleased to see that the little
group of officers had scattered, and that he

had no questioning to fear on the subject of
this prolonged interview.

He took a turn or two up and down the
Lees, looked in at the club, went to three
afternoon teas, and back to camp. He was
devoured by an odd, restless wish that the day
should come to an end. He wanted to get a
night's sleep over before he began to think
over its experiences. The dinner at the West
Cliff seemed intolerably slow, the conversation
unendurable heavy. There was an open-air
concert in the hotel gardens. Some of the
party strolled out to listen, and he among the
number. But once there, the idea of spending
another hour in the company of the people
he had been meeting and talking to over andover
again since mid-day grew too insupportable
to be entertained, and with an abrupt
farewell he departed.

He walked aimlessly down the town to the
harbour and up again to the Lees. People
were everywhere that night, out under the
white glare of the broad July moon. On the

pier, on the beach, on the Lees above, all the
place seemed alive with sauntering, chattering
figures and their jet-black shadows. The
windows of the houses facing the sea were
mostly open, the gas inside looking faint and
dim in the strong white brilliance. The distant
sound of the music rose and fell like the
surge of the sea, hardly more audible through
the voices of the throng.

Edric leant against the railings idly watching,
wondering whether it was anything in
the full white light that fed the disquiet in his
blood, whether a hard walk to Dover, a swim
in the early grey dawn, and a tramp home intime
for the start to the ranges oughtn't bethe
surest sedative. A tall lady in old-fashioned,
clino'ino; skirts, and huo-e, full
sleeves, with a stupendous hat bowed under
the weight of a forest of nodding plumes, had
stopped just in front of him.

A pair of glasses glinted weirdly in the
moonbeams from under the shadow of her hat-brim.
She looked up and down and around

him, and at last got the glasses levelled full at
him, and then advanced with a precipitous
rush.

You are Mr. Poynter from the Camp,
aren't you ? You don't know me, I think.
I'm Lady Charles Brant, and I want to know
if you will mind coming to see mamma for a
few moments. She recognised you just now,
and sent me."

With pleasure." Edric raised himself and
lifted his hat. " Do 1 know your mother ?"

"I don't know, I'm sure. I suppose so.
She is Lady Valerian Meynell."

FOR XE ER WAS DREAM SO LIKE A Waking.

DON'T think she does know you
either," Lady Charles went on,
peering up at him, "for she
asked me your name when we saw you pass
this afternoon. Of course / ought to have
known it, but then I couldn't tell it was you
or anybody else at that distance. It was confusing,
wasn't it ? She recognised you without
knowing you, and I knew you and didn't
recognise you, and we had to ask the landlord
at last."

Edric had succeeded in recalling the occasion
of his meeting Lady Charles. " You were at
Mrs. Damien's, I think."

The evening we did the septem ! Of
course. Would you believe it, we have never
been able to get that up again !*'

What a pity !" (devoutly hoping she might
not enquire if he knew "the septem" again
when he heard it). " I have one of the performers
in my company now, young Paramount.
He enlisted the week after."

What a sinful shame ! Or no, perhaps
it's lucky. You can send him down here now
and then to practise. Won't you please order
him to come ? We are doing the Mozart
quite now. The Mozart T and her eyes
gleamed through her glasses.

Quite impossible, I'm afraid." Here, to
his relief, they stopped at a large, handsome
house, in the window of which sat a lady
shrouded in a black lace shawl. She drew
back hastily as they approached.

The room in which she sat was half lighted
by a dim lamp, the only light by the time
Edric entered, as she had hastily dropped a
curtain, shutting out the window and the

moonbeams, and stood in the gloom to receive
him : a tall, shadowy figure, holding out a
thin white hand.

'^ Thank you, Mabel ; you may go," she
said, in a soft, imperious tone, and the door
shut behind Edric, who advanced in some
embarrassment. Her hand closed on his with
a clasp that made him shudder ; the thin,
shrivelled fingers burned and throbbed and
clutched at his with such greedy haste, and
her great sparkling eyes shone on him with
such fierce enquiry.

Then he knew her, and stood on guard,
expectant, mistrustful. She held him at
arm's length without a word, gazing and
gazing. Then a shivering sigh broke from her
lips, and she dropped her face in her hands.
So like and yet so unlike !" he heard her
moan.

''Do you know why I sent for you?" she
asked, looking up suddenly. '^ Did you never
have any fancy about nne F Oh, look at me !
Look me in my face well. Tell me, have you

never seen it before ? Never in your dreams,
long, long ago V

She stepped forward to the table where the
lamp stood, and lifting it, let its light fall full
on her worn, majestic features, her deep, woeful
eyes and quivering lips.

I have seen you before," he began, hesitatingly,
but it was not the answer she
looked for. Her face clouded with bitter
disappointment. She put down the lamp
sharply.

"No, I could not expect it. Never mind.
I have much more to say to you, and must
lose no more time. I have so little, so little
left to me now 1"

She sat down on a sofa near and held out
her hand to him, drawing him down beside
her. He was utterly bewildered and filled
with mistrust, and yet at the same time with
deepest pity, and touched by the odd lingering
tenderness of her voice and gaze. Something
of this he must have shown ever so
slightly, for a half smile dawned on her lips,

the distressed lines of her brow relaxed, and
she storied again — this time in content — as
she sat still, holding his hand.

*' Would you stay with me," she said gently,
if I were to ask you ? Would you come and
be a son to a poor, dying old woman, who has
only been living on and on to meet you once
more ? I would make your life happy if
money can do it. I would ask nothing in
return — nothing. A kind word now and then,
and the sight of your face — will you give me
so much ?"

*dear Lady Valerian, you cannot be in
earnest. It's awfully good of you. but if I
wished it ever so much I couldn't give myself
away in that fashion, you know. I must
stick to my profession, for one thing ; and
besides "

"What is there besides?" she asked, in a
sharp, clear tone. '' Are you afraid I shall not
make my promises good ?"

*' Besides, I don't exactly understand what
you want me to do. I couldn't take money

from you. It wouldn't seem at all a right
thing to do — for me, or for any man."

It would be right if I wished it. I would
give you my whole fortune in exchange for
your love."

"There's where it is," demurred Edric,
strong in his convictions, weak in his expression
of them. " I should feel you were being
swindled if I were to pretend to accept your
offer. Why, wee are strangers, you and I — we
know nothing of one another. I have been
fancying that perhaps I am like someone you
cared for once upon a time." She clutched
his hand tighter, and he felt the trembling
that seized her, and heard her breath catch
with a sob. *' Tell me anything else I can
do to please you," he said kindly, " and
I'll do it ; but you mustn't talk of money
again."

She looked up at him in mute supplication,
studying his kind, perplexed young face with
her dark, yearning eyes, driving back the sobs
and words that seemed ready to break from

her lips, holding his hand still in a clasp that
seemed as if it would never slacken.

^' You will take nothing from me — nothing
my love ? And you will give me nothing.
Not a word of kindness, not a kiss. Oh. my
boy, my boy ! The sorrow falls, as he said it
would, where the guilt lies. / must bear it
to my grave, but you — you are happy?
Prosperous ? You have never known the want
of love and care in your life T She looked
greedily for his assent at each pause. " That
is justice — heaven's justice. AYhat am I that
I should beg its mercy ?"

She turned from Edric as she spoke, and he
rose, loth to leave her, yet uncertain how far
it was wise to prolong this strange scene. She
rose too, calm now by comparison, her eyelids
drooping wearily, her beautiful old lips curved
piteously.

You want to leave me now ?" she asked,
looking so wistful, so forlorn and shaken, that
Edric's heart ached as he answered her.

'* It is late. I have some way to go," and

he involuntarily stretched out his arms, fearing
she would faint and fall. She sank into
them and rested there lightly, her eyes closed,
her lips very white. He kissed her forehead
softly, once — twice. " Jack !" she whispered,
and a smile flickered over her face. She raised
her head and looked at him, still smiling.
"I shall die now," she said softly. *'I have
hoped and prayed for death for so long in vain
but now I feel the promise of its coming. You
will not be sorry you have held me near your
heart and kissed me some day — when I am
dead."

She disengaged herself gently, and glided
like a shadow away across the room and back
to within the circle of lamplight almost immediately.


I came here to find you. I knew we
should meet, and I brought this with me to
give you. Do not open this letter. It is for
my son Oliver ; you are to take it to him
when you hear I am dead. This is for you.
Wear it when you give the letter, and always

after. It will be yours by right." She
opened a worn little red-leather case, and
Edric glanced at a handsome signet-ring
inside for a second. '' Do not look at it
again till you put it on your finger for good.
There ; take them, and bid me farewell."

Edric looked at the letter and case with
strong repugnance, and made no movement to
accept them. "May I not leave them here?
Can you not give them to your son to keep till
till — the proper time ? I would rather not
have charge of them."

No, no, no," she repeated, more and more
imperatively. " You must give the letter
yourself — yourself, mind. No messenger will
do. And it must be given unopened, mind
that. Oliver is an honest, upright man, and
weill do his duty. I can trust him. He will
understand how much I have spared him. I
was not always willing to do so. There were
times when I felt I must sjDcak or go mad. I
did speak once. You will find inside this the
name of someone who knows my story. .

II. 32

one that I once felt could have helped me.
Go to him and ask him what I told him once,
and tell him I have obeyed him. I have
hated him — I could not bear to see him again
ever since, but I have obeyed him. ' Silence —
silence to the end,' he said. Go to him,
but promise me, not till I am dead."

I promise, though indeed the more you
say to me the more I am sure you are making
some terrible mistake. I'll keep your ring
and your letter, and I'll ask no questions ;
that's what I have got to do, isn't it V

Edric was beginning to feel the inevitable
reaction from the long-strained excitement of
the scene, the necessity for saying something
brutally out spoken, if need be, to put an
end to this bewildering entanglement of
half-promises, but he was spared the necessity.


There was a sound of carriage-wheels outside,
a ring at the bell, voices in the hall.
She held up her hand for him to listen.

That is my son Oliver's voice. Come,

you shall meet him, that you may know him
and that he may know you."

She beckoned him to the door of the room
and flung it open, standing side by side with
Edric, in the full light of the hall, her hand
laid on his arm.

Lady Charles Brant was outside, standing
on the lowest step of the staircase, her head
tossed back indignantly, with an air of being-called
to account for something and resenting.
A gentleman in travelling; o-arb was
speaking frowning to her. but he stopped
abruptly as the door opened, and turned
round curiously.

Edric felt angry and awkward, and determined
to bring the situation to a close at once.
Without waiting for an introduction to Mr.
Meynell, he crossed to Lady Charles and bade
her good-night, and then returned to Lady
Valerian.

Good-bye. Do you really insist on my
taking this ?" He held out the letter and
case, but she drew back, and he had no choice

?.') 9

but to retain them. Her hand touched his
for the last time. It was chill as death. Her
lips moved without sound. She bowed her
head stiffly. Then he right willingly crossed
the threshold into the free air once more.

The moon was sinking into a hazy bank of
clouds, and the loiterers on the Lees were fast
dispersing as he started off towards Shorn -
cliffs at his best pace, feeling somewhat as if
he had been dreaming some dream a hundred
years long, and that it was about time to wake
up and make an end of it.

It was becoming oppressive. His head
ached with confused memories. Elsie's warnings,
Lady Valerian's strange, passionate words,
what did they both mean ? Adhere should he
find the explanation, and the link between
them that he dimly felt existed ?

Euphrosyne ! Someone had surely spoken
the name close at his ear, so distinctly it fell
on his sense.

Euphrosyne. That was the answer. Despite
Elsie's disavowal, it was she who had sent her.

he believed. It was she who knew he would
meet Lady Valerian, and desired to prevent it.
Why ? What did it all mean, this blindfold
o'ame of fast and loose ? He was o-ettino; too
weary to think. He was of a straightforward,
unimaginative nature. The mystery and
romance of the situation had no charms for
him, while he felt the burden of doubt and
secrecy to be physically exhausting almost.

How soothe windiuo- white road seemed
in that faint light ! How still and how lonely!
He wished he had had the sense to go back to
the hotel and drive home with Carroll. He
must walk more, though, for the future. He
was getting out of condition. Nervous, too ;
or why should he be hag-ridden by the recollection
of that inscrutable figure with its
wicked eyes gleaming at him out of the whiteface?
Why should he keep fancying that he
had seen it quite lately — that he had passed
her while he was too busy listening to Lady
Charles to recognise her, and his perceptions
only retained a dim idea of the impression ?

If she were to appear now ! To rise suddenly
from the shadow of that hedge, black
against the white ground, her dusky finger
pointed straight at the secret concealed in his
breast. He involuntarily stoj^jDed to make
sure of the safety of his charge, and pressed
onwards and upwards more rapidly.

Out on the hill-top at last, where Shorn-cliffs
lay silent and sleeping under the dying
moonlight. There were the garrison police
on their rounds. He looked at them with
quite a novel respect and sense of security.
There were lights still in the Eoyal Denbigh's
mess, sounds of voices and glimpses of scarlet
and gold figures picturesquely embowered in
Dalyell's cherished vegetation, with tobacco-vapour
enough to cause the last of the Aphides
to give up the ghost incontinently.

Edric paused before going on to his hut, but
weariness and a dread of question and remark
carried the point, and he went his way to his
own quarters. Dalyell, who occupied the other
half of the hut, was manifestly still absent,

and Edric hesitated to enter. The flapping
white blind in Dalyell's open window startled
him. The passage between the rooms looked
dark and like a pitfall : though he knew well
that by daylight there was nothing worse to
be seen there than his own spare table and a
furniture-case or two. It was his nerves, he
told himself, that were all unstrung, and playing
him tricks. What else could persuade
him that a dark figure drew back farther into
the dark, and that he had seen a hand rest fora
second on the edge of that table just as he
struck a cisar-lig-ht and looked about him.

He let himself into his room and lighted
the candles, all of them, and his reading-lamp
as well. Then he searched the place thoroughly,
half-ashamed of himself as he did so. Everything
was exactly as he was accustomed to
find it. Then he set about discovering the

o

safest place of deposit for his letter and ring.
His chest of drawers had an arrangement for
waiting ; a desk that pulled out and closed with
a patent lock. He cleared it of everything,

and placed Lady Valerian's deposit therein, then
locked it securely.

Suppose I lose that key or let it get stolen !"
he thought ; " and someone else gets hold of
it. I know what I'll do, I'll sink it in the sea
or better, get a hammer and smash it tomorrow,
and whenever the letter is wanted I'll
burst the drawer open."

He put it under his pillow, and, with a feeling
of being rather ridiculous, took his revolver
from its case, examined and loaded it carefully,
and placed it within reach of his hand, and
making a rapid operation of undressing, at last
plunged into bed in search of the restful,
dreamless sleep he was longing for.

It would not come. Weary as his tired eyes
were, they refused to close. What prevented
them ? Why should he keep counting the folds
into which that curtain fell between his room
and the next ? Why should he fancy that
ever and again the edge drew softly aside as if
someone were about to enter and then retreated.
Why, it was too dark to make out anything

except the forms that he knew by heart ; his
coat and cap on a hook, on the opposite wall,
sword and belt on another, uniform neatly
brushed and folded on the chair beneath, and
on the other side of the doorway the oak-framed
photograph of the Cathedral and the
smaller one of the Deanery, his old home,
below it. That was all, for the light he had
left burning out on the dressing-table had
guttered down and was spluttering to its evil-smelling
end. He watched the sparks lazily,
too lazily to get up and extinguish them, or
light another candle — watched them till they
changed to fiery stars like Elsie's dream, and
rolled away into darkness, '* leaving me lying
here, just as she said"' he murmured drowsily.
One was left. No. From a spark it had
grown into the lighthouse on the end of the
pier, and the waves were rising with a soft
surge and rustle that filled the room. He
would throw the key in now ; but do what he
would it floated, always just out of reach of
his hand. Iron did float. He was in the

midst of a hot argument with Dalyell on the
subject when he found himself awake, saying
conclusively : " What about Ironclads T and
laughed aloud. Dalyell' s musk could it have
been that he had been dreaming of, or the
scent — the evil, sickly-sweet scent — that still
clung to his fingers ? Was it this morning ? He
had closed his eyes again, indignant with himself
for awaking. From the dark there shone
out on him a thousand silver stars in an
instant — they where the glinting of Lady
Charles's glasses — they were eyes — shining
eyes — every one of them, and Euphrosyne's \
It was her heavy black mantle, not the darkness,
that lay across his face and was smothering
him. He hould wake I He must ! He
gave a struggle and a choking cry, and that
moment sank off fast and sound in blissful
unconsciousness. The black robe drifted away
into the soft, dark, swelling tide, a strong grip
held him up as he was borne along. He would
be cast up on the sands soon — at Hester s feet
and here sleep came in good earnest.

HOW Eric CAME TO Redgrave PLACE.

EASOX in, season out, Seagrave
Place wore the same aspect of
gloomy seclusion. Xo coquetries
of floral balcony decoration ever could brighten
it in summer, so no shut-up windows and
neglected doorsteps could add a shade to its
gloom in winter. So profound its solemn
quiet that the knock of an ordinary caller
seemed to reverberate from end to end, and
made the one solitary passer-by look up to see
who had delivered it.

The passer-by was Eustace Stannard, the
house that he involuntarily turned to look at
was Lady Valerian Meynell's, and the visitor

waiting on the steps was, as he recognised
directly, " Mrs. Damien's friend, who followed
her to St. Fridolin's that day. Poor fellow,
how wretchedly ill he looks I I wonder if he
has had any news of her."

Edric likewise recognised '' the Vicar, that
good-looking fellow," and returned his hasty
greeting. His mind was too full of his own
affairs to have energy left to detest the sight
of him, as he had done on their first meeting.
He had hardly room for a passing thought of
Mrs. Damien just then. Then the door opened.

Not at home," pronounced the butler
decisively, before the first words of his enquiry
had passed his lips.

I have come on very important business,
and I think if you take my card to your mistress
she will see me directly," said Edric,
ignoring the social fiction.

'rit is of no use, sir. My lady won't see
anybody." The man looked injured, as if he
had just been going over all the ground before
that day.

She has returned from Folkestone, I
know," Edric persisted, wondering if a sovereign
would clear the way for him. The
butler read his thoughts, but he had a conscience.


I really can't help it, sir," he said, deprecatingly.
*' My lady is very ill, and can on
no account be disturbed. I'm sure I'd gladly
do anything in my power," he added, in the
forlorn hope that Edric might possibly take
the will for the deed.

'•' Can I see Mr. Meynell ?" after a moment's
pondering.

I don't know, sir. You'd better enquire
in the City," making a sudden desperate
attempt to rid himself of the pertinacious
intruder, as a gentleman emerged from the
gloom of the hall within.

He bestowed a withering glance on the
butler, who stood aside resigned to fate, and
advanced with a look of sour dignity to dispose
himself of Edric, who held obstinate possession
of the doormat.

Lacey Valerian Meyncll is quite unequal to
receiving visitors to - day," he announced
stiffly, giving no invitation to enter.

Can you tell me ivhen she will be able to
see me ? It is on a very serious matter that
I have to speak to her," Edric asked, recognising
the gentleman he had met at Folkestone
C' my son, Oliver," she had called him). Mr.
Meynell recognised him too, and with no
friendly sentiments.

I am sorry to say I cannot," he replied,
stiffly.

I should like to send her a note or message
— if I knew what to say."

The butler disappeared at a sign from his
master, who stood grimly and di scour again inattentive
while Edric extracted a pencil and
began a few words on the back of his card,
crossed them out, looked blankly at the banker,
tried again, and gave it up.

I don't quite see how to put it. Perhaps
I had better get you to give a message. Lady
Valerian asked me to do something; for her, and

I can't ; that's all. If she will see me I'll explain
why."

The look on Mr. Meynell's face of suspicious
disfavour grew darker, but he only bowed
gravely.

You'll be sure to give it ?" Edric asked,
as he moved off.

Mr. Meynell's mouth twitched impatiently.
I — ah — I must beg that you will leave it to
my discretion. I cannot promise."

'but it's serious. It's uncommonly serious.
If you won't promise I shall have to get her
told some other way. Of course if she's too
ill — but that makes it all the more serious."

I think you may trust me to do the best
I can for my mother," Mr. Meynell spoke in
grave rebuke. ** Good-day."

'' Good afternoon," responded Edric, rather
sheepishly. " Of course you'll choose the best
opportunity. And you'll write to me, won't
you T The heavy door closed softly on him,
and without further answer he departed.

Mr. Meynell picked up from the floor the

card on which Edric had begun his futile
pencillings, and, tearing it to bits, dropped it
into his waste-paper basket, unconscious that
the offending butler had not only received a
previous one from Edric, but had been incautious
enough to leave it on the great bronze
card-tray : where Lady Valerian's maid, peering
idly about half-an-hour later, espied it, wondered
at it, and ended by carrying it up with the
next delivery of letters to her mistress's room.

Edric was too much absorbed in considering
what he had better have said or left unsaid to
notice that Mr. Stannard, returning from his
errand or visit, was hastening to meet him, till
they met face to face.

Something in Edric's harassed, dejected air
struck Eustace even more forcibly on a nearer
view. " You have been to the Meynells', I
see ; can you tell me anything of Lady
Valerian T ^

*' She's ill — too ill to see anyone, so they
say. She didn't seem so bad when I saw her
at Folkestone not a week ago " then he

checked himself abruptly. ** Are you a friend
of hers V he looked up at the Vicar with a
sudden idea. " Do you think you could get
to see her ? I've a fancy that it is Mr. Mey-
nell's doing that I'm not admitted."

*^ I can try. I think I ought to do so."

Then would you mind saying to her that
you saw me here V

'* That I saw you here ? Is that all 1" looking
slightly surprised.

*' And that she can ask her son what I came
for. That will do the business, I fancy."

Eustace accepted the mysterious commission
without further enquiry, and they parted.

*' It was a chance," Edric said to himself.
'' I'm glad I took it. If she's really bad I
mustn't write agitating letters, and I aren't
speak out to her son — not just yet. Well,
I've done all I know, though bad's the best !
And now — now I'll be off and put the case
from beginning to end before Miss Archdale
before I'm an hour older !"

It was a curious fact that though from the

VOL. II. 33

first day of his meeting with Euphrosyne he
had been possessed with such a dread of being
made a sort of link between her and Mrs.
Damien as to make him almost fear to think
of one in the other's presence, he had no such
misgivings on Hester behalf. Now, with
Euphrosyne drawing her magic circles closer
and closer round him, his love seemed to be a
thing to hide away fathoms deep, as men bury
their treasure at the coming of an enemy, to
be drawn forth, bright and precious as ever,
when the troublous times are over. But as
for Hester, his faith in her was strong against
the wickedest witch that ever wove a spell.
She was perfectly able to take care of herself,
and, on a pinch, of him too.

There was a sense of security, a promise of
help and enlightenment in the very air of her
neighbourhood, he thought, as he ran lightly
up the steps of the Gloucester Eoad Station
and made his way to Sir John's.

The big, old-fashioned barouche was in
waiting at the door, he-perceived, and hastened

his steps. Lady Archdale's plumy bonnet was
nodding inside, and the horses were stamping
and tossing their heads impatiently. Hester
was standing on the doorstep, racquet 'in hand,
adjusting her long chamois leather glove,
waiting to see her parents depart before
crossing to the Square gardens ; and Sir John
was trotting in and out in chase of a dozen
after - thoughts, with constant appeals to
Hetty " and parenthetic apologies to his
wife.

Then remember, when Eigsby's cart calls
that case is to go back. Really very sorry to
detain you, Amelia ! It's all that old fool
Markham's doing. Why he should have made
a point of being out of the way just this
minute "

^* You sent him yourself, dad. Told him to
take Eoswal out gf the way. Til see to your
letters going all right'*

Very good, very good. You're going to
play tennis with Jock and Fraulein, eh ?"

Only till Mrs. Holder comes for me. She's

33—2

SO uncertain it's a pity to waste the whole
afternoon waiting for her."

Miss Hester was in her white tennis flannels
with gay red skirts, and a red-lined hat on her
pretty brown head. She looked as bright and
fresh and sweet as a carnation, Edric thought,
as he hurried up to make his presence known.

Ha, Poynter, is that you T cried Sir John.
** Heard the news, eh ? Let me introduce you
to Lady Archdale. Amelia, Mr. Poynter, son
of a very old friend of mine. No, he isn't
either. I'm always forgetting."

Lady Archdale bowed with prim graciousness,
then beckoned Hester to her before Edric
could do more than interchange a bow.

*' Hester. You had better go at once to
Mrs. Holder's. Now."

Why, mother ! Eunice is sure not to be
ready."

Never mind. I wish it."

Hester gave a resigned little pout and shrug
of her shoulders, and tripped back to the house
to deposit racquet and shoes. Edric followed

her with his eyes, only giving half an ear to
Sir John's important news.

Only heard it myself for certain yesterday.

I went to the Horse Guards '' Here Hester

tripped out again, and the rest was lost.

*' You'll get the orders directly, you may
rely upon it."

*' Oh, just so ; Egypt. Yes, I suppose so,"
said Edric, vaguely. He had been hearing
nothing else for the last three months, so was
not as impressed as Sir John expected. Besides,
just then Hester, in obedience to another
murmured order from her mother, gave him
a farewell bow and smile, and he was too
much concerned at the sight of her retreating
figure to attend to anything else.

Sir John noted his blank looks and frowned.
Why, you don't look half pleased. / should
have thrown up my hat, and bolted off to
order my outfit if I'd been you! But I
suppose you young fellows think it the thing
not to excite yourselves about such trifles nowadays."
And with a shade less of his wonted

cordiality Sir John got into the carriage and
nodded adieu.

I hope there's nothing wrong with that
boy," he grumbled. " Looks seedy and dissipated
— or not that exactly, either. Didn't
cheer up as a man ought to do at the prospect
of fighting. I like him too ; don't you,
Amelia ? I wish I hadn't seen him give that
down look." And the good old General fell
into a brown study.

I wonder where Hester is V Lady Arch-dale
exclaimed in a tremor. " Can he possibly
overtake her ? Ought we to stop ? She
would think nothing of speaking to him
even if I wasn't there ! Girls have no sense
of reserve nowadays. Do stop, John !"

All right !" answered Sir John, who was
used to his wife's fluttering ; *' she's safe
enough. Out of sight by this time. Now
if that fellow doesn't drive faster, I shan't
meet Brabant at the club by four." And the
carriage rolled on unchecked.

Hester s notions of modest reserve were as

strict in their way as her mother's. She had
no intention of going one single step out of her
way to meet Edric, though she was as sure as
of the sun in heaven that he had need of her,
and his look of chagrin at her departure had
gone to her heart. But Edric's ally was at
hand.

Koswal had been sent out for exercise ten
minutes previously, in the hope that for
once the carriage might be allowed to start
without the Square being rendered hideous
by his expostulations. He had decorously
accompanied Markham for the length of two
streets, and then without warning set off north
north-east, south, and so by west home again,
just to see that no treachery was intended
him , entering Bellingham Square by one
corner before Markham arrived by the direct
road at another. He bestowed a plunge and
bark of recognition on Edric in passing, and
tore onwards to the house, disappearing down
the area. Back again, finding himself betrayed
and everybody gone out without him. Over

the railings of the Square at a bound and onto
the tennis-court. Nobody there but Jock
and the German governess, whom he respected
but did not admire. So with another mighty
bound he emerged and executed a ferocious
war dance and song round Edric, as if it were
his fault.

Find her, old boy," said Edric, entreatingly,
"like a blessed old Cuss as you are, and
I'll love you for ever."

Eoswal paused at this appeal to his understanding,
and mentally ran over the names of
Hester's wonted haunts. He sniffed the air,
then the ground, made a few tentative excursions
to various corners, and at last, with a
sudden joyous fling of his nose aloft, and a
sharp bark of triumph, started ofl* at a steady
trot, Edric at his heels.

It was only to the next street after all,
where at one of the doors stood a low pony-carriage
with a young lady in a red-lined hat
inside. Eoswal leaped in on her, causing an
utter downfall of the white umbrella, easel,

sketching-stool, and other artistic paraphernalia
with which the front seat had been piled.
Hester started, blushed, greeted Roswal, and
scolded Edric in her confusion.

You wretch, how did you find me out !
No, I don't mean you, Mr. Poynter ;" and then
they both laughed heartily and joined in reestablishing
order, while a pretty woman in a
cotton gown, with a white veil twisted round
her straw hat, stood looking at them in
silence. " Mr. Poynter !" she said at length,
holding out her hand. " So you have found
your way here at last."

Edric recognised a lady whom he had met
and forgotten once or twice in his lifetime.

I was not exactly coming to call," he
admitted.

'' No ; you know I don't want visitors indecent
weather. Now, Hester, let's be off ;
the light will be lovely for the next two
hours ;" and Mrs. Holder, who seemed in a
desperate hurry, jumped in and took the reins.

Roswal must come," said Hester.

Of course ; and Mr. Poynter too, if he
likes to pay his call there. He won't interruptus
much ;" the last words of this concession
being inaudible in the roll of wheels and
clatter of ponies' feet.

'' Bring him !" Edric heard Hester call.

"Where to, I wonder?" thought Edric in
some amusement at the eccentricity of the
whole proceeding. He followed gaily, to the
satisfaction of Koswal, who covered some score
of miles in his frantic endeavours to divide
his attention between him and the occupants
of the fast-retreating carriage. Finally he
attached himself to Edric, and brought him
safely to Kensington Gardens.

IX Kensington GARDENS AGAIN.

^DEIC paused with sudden distaste.
It was the first time lie had been
there since the ill-omened day of
his meeting with Euphrosyne, and he wished
chance had brought him anywhere else.
Roswal interpreted the stop to mean distrust,
and shot off like an arrow, returning before
Edric had advanced many paces with a
satisfied expression. " I knew I was right !
They are here safe enough," it said.

So past the Round Pond and down the
horse-chestnut avenue Edric took his slow and
reluctant way. What fatality was drawing
him to that spot again ? A superstitious

thrill ran through him. The shadow of a tall,
black-robed figure seemed to cross his path.
He was close to the seat, he thought, where
the gloom of her presence first fell on him.
There it was, and now

The sunshine glinted gaily on a white dress
with gay red skirts, and a tiny shoe holding
a red-stockinged foot. Hester's eyes and
Hester's smile met him in welcome from the
very corner where Euphrosyne had crouched,
dark and silently watchful, while he played
fast and loose with his destiny.

Some distance off, across the grass, he could
see the white umbrella, with Mrs. Holder
under it busy with a study of trees and
slanting sunshine. Hester was at work too ;
and Edric, even in his preoccupation, stopped
to notice the dainty bend of her head and the
pretty poise of her hand as she glanced up
from her sketch-book at a little group before
her — two tiny children released from their
respective perambulators, solemnly propping
up each others wavering equilibrium with

great, grave eyes and mouths puckered with
anxiety.

To think of my finding you here /" Edric
exclaimed, taking the seat next her. " Hereof
all places, where my troubles all began.
And now I have come to ask you to help me
out of the tangle — if there is a way out."

*' There generally is to most tangles ; and
you generally come out of them at the very
point where you went in. It is a good omen."

'' I hope so ; and yet I don't know what
business I have to come and inflict my perplexities
upon you, Miss Archdale, except
that I have no one else ; and I don't know a
creature in the world whose opinion I'd take
before yours."

Hester secretly applauded his discrimination,
but she only said rather primly :

Have you no intimate friend in the
regiment ? Or my father would be a better
adviser than I, perhaps."

'just so," catching eagerly at the suggestion;
*' but I want jjou to tell me first

whether I ourjlit to bother Sir John about the
affair. I don't know whether it's a matter on
which I ought to consult anybody. My own
head isn't clever enough to deal with it. I
feel like a Guy Fawkes that has lost his way,
and doesn't know whether it's coals or gunpowder
he will poke his candle into next."

Hester smiled encouragement, giving, as
she listened, absent touches to the 
that dotted the page of
her book. Edric began, awkwardly enough, to
tell what had befallen him since their last
meeting. •

It was a hard story to tell, and Edric was
not fluent by nature ; besides, he was embarrassed
by a fear of saying too much. He
stopped short.

*' I'm making it all sound ridiculous, I
know. You'll say she was merely a crack-brained
old woman, and laugh at her, and I
don't want you to do that. I am sorrier
for her than I can tell. She's under some
fearful delusion, I feel sure ; but somehow I

couldn't get her told. I tried to stop her and
explain things, but it was no use."

It isn't possible that she has some real
interest in you ?" asked Hester, deep in
thought.

'' Do you mean — is she a longe-lost grandmother,
or anything in that way ? Well,
scarcely. I'm one of half-a-dozen boys, and
I've never heard of Laurie or Jim beinsj
haunted in this fashion. Besides, I think I
know our family by heart ; we are a clannish
lot."

Hester shivered uneasily. '• It aU sounds
like a snare of some sort. You are sure the
other — Madame Euphrosyne — was not in the
background somewhere ?"

Not that I saw."

And the old lady is respectable T

Unimpeachably so ; as you would say if
you heard who she is."

And nothing more was said about your
friend, Mr. Monk T

'' Not a syllable."

*' What can it all mean ? I suppose she's
mad ; but I wish you hadn't taken those
things. Can't you see her again and insist on
a clear understanding, and if she won't have
one give them back again ?"

I wish to heaven I could !" was his fervent
response : " but that's just what I cannot do
now. They're gone."

"Gone! Howl When?"

That same night. I only wish I knew how.
I got back to camp dog-tired, but I made
them safe enough before I went to bed.
Locked them in my writing-drawer, and put
the key under my pillow. I had an early
start to the ranges before me next morning,
and meant to wake at reveille, but overslept
myself, and had to get off in a scramble without
breakfast. I had the key with me fast
enough — here it is — and directly I got back
took a look into the place. Empty ! I declare,
Miss Archdale, I felt as if my wits where
ffoinor I I had to sit down and think hard foro

o

some time before I could be sure that I hadn't

dreamt the whole thing. Sometimes I begin
to wonder now if that's not possible. Suppose
I had been a little off my head that
night ?"

Edric's forehead contracted painfully, and a
queer, uncertain look came into his eyes.
Hester, watching him keenly, read the traces
of the strain his strong; young; nature had
undergone, and instinctively guessed the relief
this confidence must be to him.

Tell me what you did next," she demanded.
Went off to Folkestone with the story at
once J

Just what I did, after I had examined
about a dozen waiting drawers and locks and
about two hundred keys. No one has anything
like mine — drawer or key, and the
armourer says it's impossible the lock can
have been picked. Besides, when could it
have been done ? The police saw no one suspicious
about that night, and Dalyell — in the
same hut — says he came in late and sat up
half the night, but heard no stir in my room."
VOL. II. 3i

•' And at Folkestone you founds



^' Nothing ! The lady had left that morning
for town, though the rooms had been taken
till the end of the week."

You got her town address ?"

And have been there, with the same result.
She is too ill to see anyone, and there the
matter ends. Ought I to go to Scotland
Yard, or would that be the last thing the poor
lady would wish ? Help me, Miss Archdale.
What must I do ?"

He drew a long breath of relief as he asked
the question, and saw her bright little face
grow intent on thinking out his answer.

Have you told me everything V she asked
slowly, considering as she spoke. ** I don't
mean the lady's name — I would rather not
hear it — but is there no suspicion of that other
woman's hand being in this 1"

Now Edric had been far from intending that
Hester or anyone should hear of the warnings
he had received, and, indeed, had been doing
his utmost to forget them himself ever since ;

but there was no resisting the inquisitorial
gaze of Hester s dark eyes, even if he had
not felt convinced that she knew quite well
that some suppression of truth was intended.
So he flung his last remaining scruple overboard,
and told of Euphrosyne's letter ; and,
as a natural consequence, of the appeal from
Elsie that had followed it up. Miss Hester's
pretty, fine eyebrows drew together in slight
displeasure, though it is to be feared many
details of the interview were omitted.

Elsie Paramount ! Rather an impertinent
piece of officiousness on her part. What could
she have to say to you ?"

Edric explained, but Hester's disapproval
remained unabated.

What fanciful nonsense ! It's very kind
of you to take so much interest in her and her
brother, but I think you and Eose and Mr.
Stannard are turning the poor child's head
amongst you ;" and with a tiny toss of her own,
she dismissed that part of the subject and fell
to pondering on the rest.

34—2

*' It's very irrational and feminine to feel
sure of anything without a reason, is it not V
she said at last, " but that's just what I am.
I am quite sure that Euphrosyne has got your
letter and ring."

Edric's eyes flashed at her excitedly. " Then
I am not a monomaniac I I know she has
them ! I can't tell whv, but it has been running
in my head ever since without rhyme or
reason. I feel just like Carroll when he jumps
up, upsets half the furniture, and goes for
something with the poker. It's sure to be a
cat ; but neither you nor he, nor anyone else,
can tell how he knew it was there. ' It gives
him creeps,' he says ; and I've found out the
sensation exactly. But if you are sure, too.
that makes gospel truth of it."

Hester nodded. " See here," and she began
to tell ois her points on her finger-tips ; "weare
not so devoid of argument as I fancied.
Euphrosyne and your lady were in concert at
first. Now they are apart, and she has a
reason for preventing your meeting. Suppose

she doesn't want you to receive that letter.
How do we know what's in it? Something
damaging to her, most likely. Anyhow, you
have met despite her, and the only resource is
to steal it, which she succeeds in doing — shall
we say ? — aided by the good offices of that
young scamp, Sam Paramount."

No," spoke Edric, positively, " that won't
do. You must give up Paramount as a fellow-conspirator.
It isn't in him."

Very well," she agreed, good-humouredly,
but it's a pity. It fitted my scheme of
things so admirably. Of course she would
have had to square him first. And equally of
course he might have let Elsie into the secret
to some extent, which would amply account
for dreams and previsions. However, there's
nothing so dangerous as a too perfect theory ;
so mine may go."

Then you think it is still her doing that I
am not allowed to see Lady Valerian ?" asked
Edric, incautiously ; " or Mr. Meynell's ?"

Hester put up both her hands to her ears

with a look of dismay. " Lady Valerian Mey-
nell I" she cried. " Oh ! I couldn't help hearing,
but I'll never let the name pass my lips.
What can it all mean ? Stop !" and she
checked his next words with an imperative
little upraised hand. " I have an idea." He
held his peace while the thought seemed to
dawn and grow luminous in the brown depths
of her eyes, and then she smiled at him outright
in triumph.

'' Why, I believe I can help you myself justa
little ! I have a friend in the very house,
Mabel Brant. I have been with Rose to Sea-grave
Place to call on her, though I had forgotten
all about it till this minute. At any
rate, I know her well enough to go again. I
am sure that she will help you to see her
mother if I tell her the need. May I ? Can
you trust me to say just enough and no more ?"

Trust you ! I only wish you had the telling
of the whole story I"

Do you ? Would you ? Ought I ? Isn't
it too much of an interference in any

person's affairs ? I know what mother would
say, but I never know how far she's right, and
I've no one else to ask," cried Hester, distracted
between quick terror of overstepping the
bounds of rightful discretion and the keen
sense of power that was tingling through her
to the finger-tips that were burning to dip
themselves into this mysterious pie.

I don't know myself' Edric answered, his
sensitiveness aroused on her behalf. " You've
been awfully kind to me, and I'm afraid I have
presumed on it a little. If you were my sister,
or — or — my solicitor, I should like nothing
better than to throw myself and my affairs
into your hands to be dealt with as you should
choose. As it is, I think you've done as much
for me as I have any right to ask. We might
trust to the chapter of accidents now."

I wish you had done so from the first !"
she exclaimed impetuously, blushing hotly as
she spoke. " This is the second time you
have made me feel intolerably presumptuous
and meddlesome. I've been spoilt with people

perpetually coming to me with their troubles
for help or advice. I've grown so conceited
that wherever I see a difficulty I feel that it's
my business to make an end of it. I want to
manage everything and everybody. Mamma
says it's my besetting sin, but I never believed
her before ! I see it now, and how detestable
and unladylike I must seem."

Hester sprang from her seat as she poured
forth this railing accusation against herself,
with angry tears rising to her eyes and bright,
indignant glances at Edric, who rose too,
altogether confounded and distressed. If he
had argued with her, or attempted to soothe
her, the poor little maiden's suddenly awakened
pride and self-mistrust might have pricked her
into some sharp reply ; but blundering as he
considered himself, he knew better than to
attempt to do either, and only stood with a
deprecating, utterly uncomprehending air till
she stopped speaking.

'* I beg your pardon," he said, earnestly ; " I
had no idea I had ever offended you before.

What a dense dog I must be to cut my own
throat in this fashion ! Offend you ? I couldn't
do it even unintentionally. Only tell me what
I said or did."

She burst into a hearty laugh, as sudden and
unexpected as her anger. " What a vixen you
must think me ! Couldn't you see that it was
myself I was scolding ? "When you gently
suororested that I was neither your sister nor
your solicitor it gave me a sort of shock to
find how I had fallen into my old tricks of
lecturing and dictating, and how meekly you
must have been submitting; to me."

I didn't mean solicitor, T assure you ; the
word slipped in in place of a better."

Suppose we drop the subject and go to
Eunice now." And Hester, smoothing her
ruffled plumage, so to speak, picked up her
sketch-book and stepped demurely by his side
across the grass to the white umbrella. Circumnavigating
it, they found Mrs. Holder,
with intent face and rapid brush, running a
race with the sun, catching the changing criss-cross

shadows on the grass down a vista of
lambent green light and flickering leaves. She
wasted no side-glance on the new-comers, and
Edric stood embarrassed for a second.

Eunice ! It's time to stop. Mr. Poynter
can't stay here for ever on the chance of your
speaking to him," interrupted Hester, cruelly
indifferent to the sudden shimmer of pearly
light on the satin bark of a beech-tree, that
brought out the very effect her friend had been
waiting for for weeks.

Um !" responded Mrs. Holder, brush in
mouth.

I hope Mr. Holder and the boys are well,"
he ventured.

"Eh — h?" mixing something in frantic haste.

"That's all you'll get till I put down the
umbrella and shut up her paint-box presently,"
laughed Hester ; "so you needn't wait."

He did wait, though, for a sunny half-hour
longer, turning over Hester's book and discussing
her studies for her next picture, and
everything else besides under heaven.

"Those babies were the very models I
wanted for a mediaeval child-wedding;, in some
dim, splendid old cathedral — an Italian one, I
think."

Edric could have lounged on the grass all
day listening to her musical chatter, and
watching the deft, brown fingers as they
pencilled little illustrative outlines as her
fancies required ; but time was fleeting, and it
was necessary to recall Mrs. Holder from the
world of Art, which act Hester performed in
her own determined fashion.

'ris that you, Mr. Poynter ! Have you
been long here T she asked, briskly, rapidly
packing up her tools as she talked. '' I
thought I heard Hester talking to someone.

o o

Come home and have some tea ? Xo ? Well,
then, Hester, we must make haste ; I believe
I've asked a lot of people for this astern on.
Was it for music % No ! It was to meet Mr.
Van Cruisers and see his Canadian sketches.
Good gracious !"

They hurried in a party to find the carriage,

and Edric only secured one moment for the last
words which he could not venture on sooner.
Then I am quite forgiven, Miss Hester T

Of course, of course," she said, hurrying
on. " Please don't say any more about it."

Then if you really have brought yourself
to overlook my unhappy remark, and if Lady
Charles Brant should be able to help us "

What then ?" asked Hester, half smiling.

Don't you think you could put my case
before Lady Valerian a thousand times better
than I should T And the crafty youth drew
a long breath at the extent of his own
audacity.

*' Lm not your sister or your solicitor, Mr.
Poynter," with lofty disdain. Then melting :
But it's just what I should dearly love to do.
It seems so hateful to go on at cross-purposes
when a word of explanation may set things
straight once for all. Trust me. I'll see your
old lady and tell her you are a friend of mine,
and how you have lost her ring and letter.
Anybody might do that — might they not V

Certainly. The most casual of acquaintances."


"Then if she wants to see you she can
arrange it, and you'll tell her all the rest."

'height joyfully, though I'm not proud of
my own share in the story."

Good-bye. You may trust to me. If you
and I and Lady Valerian are alive, we shall have
made an end of the mystery before the week
is out."

LADY Valerian LAST VISITOR.

Add," said Hester, perching herself
on Sir John's knee, " I want
you to do something for me."
"What sort of something? Must it be
dune now, or may I get my tea first ?"

They were in Sir John's own special
sanctum : a matted little den at the back of
the house, with bits of old barrack furniture
about, piles of newspapers neatly filed, pipes
and sticks. Here he read, smoked, and did
bits of carpentering with Hester ; and here
she had brought him his tea, having a boon to
beg, and knowing by experience the atmosphere
to be propitious. The general was now

reposing in his own big chair, with his own
special huge china teacup steaming on the low
bamboo table at his elbow, when between it
and him Hester interposed herself.

That tea is too hot for mortal lips yet.
Listen, daddy. I want you to take me to jay
a visit."

Pay visits ! Ugh I I thought we were to
have a ride this evening. There's a little
mare I saw to-day I should like to see you on,
Het. Brabant icoiild buy her, though she's

no more up to Mrs. B 's weight than a

grasshopper."

I wouldn't change Tom-tit for all Tatter-sail's,
and you know it. You are only trying
to evade the question. Will you take me
somewhere, and soon — before mamma comes
home ? Bo — o — o say ' Yes,' daddy !" and
Hester smoothed his grey moustache daintily
with her finger-tips, and put a kiss on it.

'* Where's it to be ?" enquired Sir John
resignedly, looking at her with delighted eyes.

I want to go and see Mabel Brant.

Mamma won't go. It's no use waiting to
ask her. She would make a fuss about the
etiquette of calling, and say she doesn't know
Lady Valerian Meynell, or something."

Sir John put her off his knee and rose
hastily. He crossed the room to the window
and stood looking out at nothing, with his
face turned away from his astonished little
daughter.

Lady — folio did you say ? What's she got
to do with your friends ?" he asked, clearing
his throat.

*' She's Mabel's mother. She has lent them
her house during the session. Lord Charlie
is Member for Southport," Hester answered,
amazed.

Sir John did not speak for awhile, then
muttering something about " the weather
holding up," he returned to his chair and
began stirring his tea with an unsteady hand,
sending it splashing over into the saucer.

Hold up ? Of course it will hold up, for
days to come. Why not, daddy ?" But he

only put the tea to his lips and set it down
untasted, and a second time crossed the room
and stood with his back to her.

What relation is your de Cressy to the
Meynells ?" he asked, in an elaborately casual
manner.

Lady Valerian is his cousin. Do you know
her. daddy ?"

"I? Not I! How the deuce should I
know her ? Confound that tea. IVe burnt
my mouth."

Daddy," spoke Hester impressively, "don't
try to deceive me. You have done so once or
twice in your life, and have always been sorry
after — haven't you ? If you don't want to
take me to see Mabel, say so, and I'll trust you
for the reason, but don't pretend you haven't
got one. It was the fib burnt your mouth,
not the tea."

I declare to you, Hester, I don't know
Lady Valerian from Adam !"

I should think you might though, if you
saw the two together," was the calm rejoinder.

VOL. II. 35

And I'll take you there whenever you
please — as soon as you can get ready.
There !"

Hester waited for no second thoughts.
She was at the door in visiting array as soon
as the hansom.

Sir John was absolutely silent the whole
way till they turned into Seagrave Place.

*' Shall we see Lady Valerian, Het ?" he
asked, pulling his moustache meditatively.
If there's any chance of that, I won't go in."

Why, are you afraid of her ?"

No, little girl. You must trust me for my
reasons, as you said just now."

Lady Charles Brant was at home, sitting
disconsolately in the open drawing - room
window, arrayed in sad green, with a lapful
of art needle work. She sent rebels and
patterns showering to the ground when Hester
was announced, and came flying to the door to
receive her.

"You angel r she cried, with a headlong
rush that nearly landed her in Sir John's

arms. " I mean you, Hester, of course," adjusting
her glasses, which had as usual flown over
one shoulder in her wild career. " How sweet
of you to come ! I'll get you into focus
presently. I was going mad from solitary
confinement."

How is your mother?" asked Hester, when
they had found seats.

My dear, how should / know ? Fm never
let go near her. If I go to the door she's
always either asleep or expecting the doctor.
If I do get into the room, I'm found to be too
exciting and get ordered out again. I know
I'm a bad nurse, and am always upsetting
things, and can never tell one bottle from
another, so I suppose they're right ; but it's
very miserable all the same. And Charlie is
too wretched about the future of the country
under Gladstone's administration — we are all
rushing to destruction, you know — to be able
to spare me an atom of sympathy."

Hester condoled with her a little, and then
went back to her point. " Is Lady Valerian

35—2

really too ill to see anyone ?" she asked
anxiously.

I don't know. Perhaps it's only me they
object to. Oliver says I nearly killed her by
taking her to Folkestone ; but she was ready
enough to go, and we were very quietly happy
together there, till she saw Mr. Poynter one
day ; and Oliver came down and abused him
and me like pickpockets, and took her back to
town next morning."

Oh, Mabel, won't you do me a great, great
favour !" cried Hester, stung to fresh effort by
Edric's name. ** Won't you take a message
to your mother from me, unless indeed she is
too ill to hear it ? If she were to die "

*die! But does anyone think that? I
thought Oliver only meant to frighten me.
Have you heard anything about her ? AVhat
makes you look so strange T adjusting her
pince-nez with a trembling hand in the effort
to read Hester's face. " Have you come to
break anything to me T

Why, how could I V Hester expostulated.

I only know what you have just been telling
me yourself "

I haven't seen her to-day," Mabel interrupted,
looking at her in affright. " I ought
to have insisted on staying this morning, but
Constance was so obstinate, and the kirkpatrick
sent for me for quartette practice.
Oh, I'm a blind, selfish wretch ! I'll go
directly. Constance slant keep me out !"
And, with a "Wait till I come back," she
dashed from the room with a bang of the door
that set all the crystal drops ringing on the
lustres and the glass shades rattling on their
stands.

'' Hester, it strikes me that we oughtn't to
be here under the circumstances," hazarded
Sir John.

Oh, daddy, if I only knew what to do !
if she isn't really ill I must see her somehow !
and if she is — why, it's ten times more necessary,"
and Hester wrung her hands in an
agony of indecision.

'must see her? Must? What's this

mystery, my little girl ? It's not like you,
Het. Come, we'd better go. Visitors can't
be wanted here just now." Sir John spoke
with his authoritative tone, to which all, even
Hester, must needs attend.

'' Daddy, dear daddy, just trust me this
once. It's a fair bargain. I'll never ask
your reasons for not wanting to meet Lady
Valerian if you'll trust mine for wishing to see
her. It isn't my affair, or I'd tell you in a
minute."

Sir John was still looking at her doubtfully,
pulling his grey moustache in hesitation,
when a sudden outbreak of noise startled
both.

A sound of footsteps and voices without,
and one voice above all raised in tones of
imperative command, and then the door burst
open to admit Mabel Brant, who came running
up to them all scared and tearful.

I don't know what to do ! I've said
something — or else it was Constance — that
has agitated her dreadfully. She says such

terrible things about our keeping people from
her, as if I'd do any such thing ! and she has
got up and will come down here, and Oliver
is to go at once for Mr. Stannard and bring
him back. Not our own clergyman, or even
Lionel, but this Mr. Stannard ! Who can hebe
? And Oliver ! Oh, he is angry ! Oh, I
wish Charlie were at home, he wouldn't let
me be spoken to in this way." She stopped
to wipe her eyes, and listened for a second.

There, there — she's coming ! You won't
be offended, but do go. They mustn't find
you here !"

The Archdales were as anxious to depart as
she was to see them go, and were hastening
to the door when she stopped them.

Not that way. You'll meet her. Go inhere
and out by the other door when she has
passed."

They withdrew accordingly by another door
which opened into Lady Valerian's little sitting-room.
The footsteps drew nearer, and standing
within the doorway Hester could see the

whole of the other room reflected in the great
glass opposite. A little crowd at the doorway
grew distinct as she gazed, and she recognised
the tall figure of Lady Valerian half leaning on,
half urging forward a woman in the dress of a
professional nurse, who looked grimly irresponsible,
and followed by Mrs. Meynell
anxiously expostulating. Then came a maid
with a load of wraps and cushions, and lastly
the butler with an air of injured dignity, bearing
a silver salver covered with cards.

Hester watched the little procession safely
into the room, then softly tried to open the
door to the landing. It was locked outside.
The whole place had an air of being half dismantled,
and the room had doubtless been
shut up since Lady Valerian's absence. She
noiselessly made Sir John aware of the difficulty.


We canst get out this way."

We must, Het I What a deuced awkward
position ! Suppose you or I sneezed "

Perhaps I can signal to Mabel for help,"

and she crossed back on tip-toe to the
drawing-room door again.

Lady Valerian had sunk into a great chair
by the window, and someone had flung a
scarlet and gold shawl around her, out of
which her worn face looked ghastly white. She
had ordered the nurse off, and sat listening
with a gloomy, absent face to her daughter-in-law's
protestations, now and then casting an
impatient glance at Lady Charles, who was
sobbing; on an ottoman in the middle of the
room. In the background the butler bore
aloft his salver, impassive and noticing, as a
well-bred butler should be.

I am not dead yet, Constance, and while I
live I will be mistress here," she spoke, feebly
and emphatically. *' You and Oliver mean
well — of course you do ; but how should
you know who have a right to be admitted
to me T Her voice gave way before she
finished speaking. " What was that name
you said ?" she asked the maid, with an
effort.

Name, my lady ? Did you say what
7iameT^ faltering and glancing at Mrs. Mey-
nell for a suggestion. " I don't remember
naming any name, my lady."

Lady Valerian sat upright suddenly, trembling
violently, and deathly pale.

You are false, false 1 One and all of
you !" she cried, excitedly ; then, with a sharp
cry of pain, sank back gasping and struggling
for breath, beating frantically at Mrs. Meynell
when she drew near.

The nurse came back with some restorative
which she administered sternly. " If you will
excite yourself, my lady, I cannot be answerable
to Dr. Diarmid for the consequences.
Now, hadn't you better come right away
upstairs "

Go away !" commanded Lady Valerian,
recovering her composure somewhat ; " and
you — come here."

The butler approached obediently. His
mistress lifted a card or two with a shaking
hand from the salver.

Head them. No ! Mabel, come, you read
them."

' D— D— Dr. MoncriefF; 'Lady Lingard/
The Dean of St. Stephen's and Lady Agatha
Pratt,' ' Mr. Beverley-Bateman,' " she read,
wiping her eyes between each name as she put
down the card.

Her mother sat listening fixedly, her eyes
glancing furtively, now at the cards, now at
her daughter-in-law's face, now dropped on her
own restless fingers, fraying and picking at
the gold fringe of her shawl. '' Is that all 1"
she asked, when Mabel had reached the last.

** This is all, my lady, excepting Mr. Stannard's,
which Mr. Meynell took up to you
himself, and the gentleman's which, through
some mismanagement, came into Miss Harris's
hands unknown to me." A toss of the head
from Miss Harris repaid the accent of disparagement
accompanying the last words.

Is he coming V asked Lady Valerian, restlessly
turning her head to the window.
How long is it since Oliver went ?"

*' Not long, mamma. He might possibly
overtake him. It was not many minutes after
his call that Oliver started," Mrs. Meynell
replied, soothingly. Lady Valerian only sighed
impatiently.

*' I want him. I want him to help me. I
have something I must tell you all before I
die. He knows it, and shall speak for me. I
thought he would come to me. I have waited
and waited for him. Harris, did you say no
other name beside his ?"

My lady, if I was to die for it, I couldn't
bring to mind that T said anything. I may
have been speaking of visitors to Lady
Charles, my lady," said Harris, fibbing industriously,
with an eye to a possible situation
with Mrs. Meynell, not to speak of a certain
douceur from Mr. Oliver.

Lady Valerian turned her head away in sad
scorn. "■ It cannot matter much now," she
muttered. '' I had a fancy that someone was
near me who has the best right to be here. I
should like to have died with my hand in

his." Constance looked in bewilderment at
the nurse, who touched her own forehead and
shook her head from behind the chair. '^ Mr.
Stannard shall tell you all."

ril go and watch for him, mamma," and
Mrs. Meynell gladly hurried away to the more
distant window, while Mabel sank down on her
knees beside her mother and held her hand.

There was a long interval of silence in the
room, endless it seemed to the two involuntary
spectators. The nurse, after a few ineffectual
suggestions, sat silently watching her charge.
The servants had been ordered away out of
hearing by Mrs. Meynell, who stood motionless
at her post. Mabel sobbed and caressed
the hand she held quietly.

Lady Valerian leaned back in her chair, her
eyes fixed absently on the narrow sky above
the roofs. A lingering ray of western sun
slanted across her, catching the splendours of
her scarlet and gold embroideries and the
glancing diamonds on her fingers. It was
reflected in a soft glow on her wasted features

over which a great peace seemed to be slowly
settling. As the golden light slowly travelled
away from her, her lips even seemed to tremble
into a smile, and her eyelids drooped
restful. There was a sound of wheels, and
Constance hastened away to meet the newcomers.


Mabel," spoke Lady Valerian, very softly,
*' I have lost the name. It has gone from me.
Mr. Stannard will tell you. He was here —
not so long ago — and they turned him
away."

Mamma, dear ! You are mistaken, indeed.
No one has been here. Nobody but Hester
and Sir John Archdale "

John Archdale !" The name rang through
the room like a trumpet-call, startling the
listeners without, and staying Oliver's foot
on the threshold. She had sprung to her feet
and stood erect, her head thrown back, her
arms extended, her face alight with sudden
rapturous expectation.

John Archdale I He has come to me at

last. At last 1" Then, with a choking cry,
she sank back, a white, rigid figure, that should
never give word or sign in this world again
while its life should last.

They came crowding in — nurse, servants,
her children, and the hastily summoned doctor.
They made her a couch with pillows where she
had fallen, and there, amongst the Louis
Quatorze geldings and great sheets of shining-mirrors,
she lay breathing away her last moments,
senseless and motionless.

Hester and her father passed unnoticed
through the room, and stood without with
Eustace Stannard till the Doctor's fruitless
ministrations should be over.

1 am John Archdale," said the old General.
Yes, it was my name she called. Poor lady,
poor lady 1" shaking his kindly old head,
and laying his arm round Hester's shoulders
tenderly.

Dr. Diarmid rose at last, and came to the
door.

I can do no more for the poor lady, Stannard.

She's past minding you, but if you
like to try the effect of your priestly offices
there's no objection."

Then Hester heard Mabel's voice upraised
in a wild outburst of hysterical sobbing, and
then, in a pause, the grave tones of Eustace
Stannard speaking the benediction.

Peace be to this house."

Amen !" said good old Sir John fervently,
as he led his little daughter gently away.

HOW OLIVER MEYNELL CAME TO ST. FRIDOLIN S.

DAY of steady, softly falling rain.
Far away in the country, in the
old family vault of the Meynells,
Lady Valerian that morning had been laid to
her rest. Eustace and de Cressy, newly returned
from the funeral, sat in the Vicar's
study, making up the morning's arrears of
work somewhat languidly and disjointed,
feeling that disinclination to set to anything
that a broken day brings forth.

"What brought Sir John Archdale down
there, I wonder ?" de Cressy asked, as he rose
to go. " What has he to do with the Mey-
tells V He glanced out of the window, where

VOL. II. 36

the rain-drops fell thicker and thicker against
the pane. '* There's a hansom stopping outside,"
he announced, without waiting for a
reply to his first remark, trying to peer through
the streaming glass. " I'd better go."

The Vicar heard him putting himself inside
his rattling mackintosh in the hall, and soon
after a surprised exclamation, " Hullo, Oliver !
You here !" followed by the entrance of two
gentlemen : the first Mr. Meynell, the second,
as he had learned that morning, Lord Charles
Brant.

Lord Charles was a small, quiet man, with
a soft, positive manner. Mr. Meynell introduced
him, and left him to explain their
presence there, which he did promptly
enough.

I think I am right, Mr. Stannard, in 
to have been to a great extent in
Lady Valerian Meynell's confidence T he began,
in a clear little voice, low pitched, but incisive.
Eustacejjbowed assent.

We have made a curious discovery amongst

her papers. Mr. Meynell, I should tell you,
does not attach any importance to it ; / do ;
and for my satisfaction we have come to you
for any assistance you can give us."

I have been, against mv own will, made
the recipient of some details of Lady Valerian's
personal history," Eustace interposed ; '• but
I tell you candidly, gentlemen, it must be a
strong necessity that opens my lips on the
subject."

Mr. Me}'neU, whose eyes had been watching
him eagerly since he began to speak, drew a
breath of relief, but kept silence.

** That necessity, unfortunately, exists,"
Lord Charles went on, in his cool little tone.
Will you oblige me by reading this, which
we discovered attached loosely to Lady
Valerian's deed of settlement'' handing a sheet
of notepaper folded lengthwise to the Vicar,
and tell us whether you can throw any light
upon its meaning T

It was dated the year of Mr. Meynell's
death, and ran as follows :

36—2

I, Valerian Mary Meynell, do charge and "
implore my son, Oliver Meynell, to refrain
from exercising any rights given to him by
this deed for at least the space of seven years
after my death ; during which time I beg of
him to make diligent search whether anyone
exists whom he may be ignorantly defrauding
of his birthright. And I pray him to pardon
me for keeping him in ignorance that such a
one may exist, as it is done to spare him the
torments of doubt that consume me — his
wretched mother.

"Valerian Mary Meynell,
nee de Cressy."

Mr. Stannard read and re-read in silence.

What do you understand by this V he
asked at last.

Some screw loose about Glenara," Lord
Charles answered him, promptly. " Lord
Kilmoyne was an unconscionable old scamp
in his time. There were all manners of
chopping and changes, and buying and selling

in the last generation, and it would have
been very much in his way to swindle the
whole Meynell family by keeping an infant
heir-at-law in the background. If Lady
Valerian suspected it, that explains the mystery.
Now I think you cannot honourably refuse to
satisfy us whether you have any knowledge of
such a possibility."

"Nothing that I can tell will help you,"
replied Eustace, thoughtfully, inwardly giving
thanks for Lord Charles's neat little theory,
which might serve to divert his speculations
from a more dangerous direction. He had
decided after one moment's anxious debate
that Oliver Meynell must know his mother's
story, hard as the telling would be, but he
could have wished for any other time or place.
Mr. Meynell might be a cold, precise, self-sufficient
prig, but he had been a good son,
and the earth was lying fresh on his mother's
coffin. " Shall you set any further enquiries
oil foot ?"

"No," spoke Meynell, abruptly, ** certainly
not !"

Then / must," declared Lord Charles.
It concerns the honour of the family. I
accept it as a sacred charge."

The family honour should be as safe in my
hands as in yours, Charles," spoke Meynell,
with sudden anger. " I have given way to
you once in coming here, but, by Heaven, I go
no farther !" He rose to go. Lord Charles
did not budge. His eyes were fixed keenly on
Eustace, who felt that a further reply was
required of him.

"I am sorry I cannot satisfy you. I can
guess the idea with which this was written,
and I can assure you that I firmly believe that
idea to have been a false one. There you must
leave it."

Out of respect to the secrets of the confessional
T Lord Charles asked, in a tone that
was just restrained from being a sneer.

If you like to put it in that way," the
Vicar replied, gravely.

Lord Charles's quick temper was one of the
two disturbing elements in Lord Charles's well-regulated,
orderly little life. The other was
Mabel ; but he never allowed either to get
beyond his control for long.

'then, as you say, there we must leave it,"
he assented, with a forced, courteous smile.
We have no more to ask ; have we, Meynell ?"
1 have," said the banker, unexpectedly,
without moving ; " if Mr. Stannard can spare
me a few minutes."

Lord Charles looked inquisitive, waited to
be invited to stay ; failing that, bade adieu and
left them.

The grey afternoon had darkened in the
pause, and the rain-drops dripped heavily from
roof and cornice.

** It must come now," said Eustace to himself
; " he suspects something, and I may never
get such another opportunity." Yet he felt
he would have given a day of his life to have
been spared the telling of that story.

'^ I see you have become aware of a distressing

family secret," began the banker, to
Eustace's surprise and relief. " I thank you
for respecting it just now. You understood
the dilemma which the discovery of that
paper placed me in — I mean Brant's knowledge
of that discovery. I must either act as
if I really believed it worth attention, or go
into explanations which, for Mabel's sake, I
would gladly avoid."

*' You are quite convinced that it is not
worth attention ?" the Vicar was provoked
into enquiring by the coolness of the other's
manner.

Mr. Meynell turned to him with eyebrows
slightly raised.

*' My father was an excellent man of business,
not at all likely to let even Lord
Kilmoyne jockey him in the fashion Brant
suspects. He saw his title to Glenara clear
before he sank one penny in the place, you
may depend. Now we may consider that as
disposed of"

Not yet. Your mother, 1 know, had at one

time a strong conviction that — that there was
a prior claim to yours, though you were supposed
to be her eldest son."

An awkward, feeble way of putting it ; yet
surely it would elicit some outbreak of surprise
or question. The Vicar sat expectant
with down-bent eyes, listening for the next
words that should fall from his companion's
lips. None came, and he raised his own eyes
to Meynell's face, ashen-grey in the grey twilight,
bitterly chagrined, but still surprised,
incurious.

Poor soul ! Poor mother I" he sighed,
tenderly. " Did you really give any credence
to her wandering fancies ? Before
strangers she was usually self - controlled ;
indeed I thought it was a secret known
only to my father and myself that she was
ever otherwise. Even Mabel suspects nothing.
It is only recently that I have detected any
return of the old trouble. She never gave
way in my father's presence ; he had immense
influence over her : he educated her

in fact, formed her mind and character, and
she made him a noble helpmate. There was
no natural deficiency of intellect. She had a
terrible shock in her early girlhood "

Her husband's death T interrupted
Eustace.

Ha I You knew that ? How T eagerly.

From Lady Valerian herself. I do not
think that was a mere wandering fancy, nor
yet the rest of her sad history. I knew
nothing personally of your mother till she
came to me, and of her own accord told me
the piteous story. Also " — here the Vicar's
voice sank and faltered — 'she employed me
to discover whether her eldest son — her son by
her first marriage — was alive or dead."

Her son ! My elder brother ! Her son by
her first marriage T Mr. Meynell demanded,
hesitatingly, a new expression dawning in his
face of alarm mixed with incredulity. '* Did
370U believe it ? Were there grounds for any
belief in such a thing ?"

You shall judge for yourself. You shall

hear what passed between us as well as I can
recall it. I have some cipher notes of my
first interview with Lady Valerian made that
same evening in my diary, and I can trust my
memory for the rest."

They lay in his desk under his hand with
Arbuthnot Corbett's letters. He took them
out and read them at length ; Mr. Meynell,
except for a pertinent question or two, listening
in absolute silence. The gloom deepened
outside, the rain-drops pattered thicker and
faster as the Vicar read. When at last he
ceased Mr. Meynell was only a black outline
against the bare, white wall, with folded arms
and down-bowed head.

Poor mother ! Poor mother!" he sighed
at last, softly, in the gloom. "What she
must have suffered in concealing this ! Why
could she not have trusted me T he broke
out, in a tone that was full of sorrow and hurt
feeling. " Forgive me ; but it seems hard
that you — a stranger — should have had this
task, which was of right mine."

'* It came easier to a stranger, perhaps."
'* I don't know what more I could have
done either," Oliver resumed, after a pause
of consideration. "That man's — Stephen
Magrath's — death has saved me from a
decision. I may leave the mystery unsolved.
Had he lived it would have been my duty to
seek him out and examine into his claims ; now
there is no need that the subject should ever
again be revived ; even Brant need know
nothing about it " — with a sparkle of satisfaction
in his tone. '* You have acted with
singular discretion and good - feeling, Mr.
Stannard. I am at a loss for words to express
my sense of the service you have done our
family. As I plainly told you I have been
extremely annoyed by the influence you
seemed to have acquired over my mother, and
have been doing all in my power to counteract
it, I want you to see why I endeavoured to
keep you apart. In this case I admit I have
been wrong."

**I think you have," was the reply to this

magnanimous concession. '* Fatally wrong —
as far as your own interests are concerned.
You left her by so doing entirely at the
mercy of this mysterious agent — this Madame
Euphrosyne, or Girard — as I suppose her
name to be. I do not know what other family
secrets may have been confided to her, but
I think you may expect her to trade upon her
knowledge at the first opportunity."

Meynell looked sceptical. " She would not
dare." He evidently considered the subject
disposed of; then searching in his pocket
for something : *' I want you to look at a
photograph I have here, and tell me if you
know the original."

Eustace took it from him. It was a large
one, once coloured, but faded as by much
handling.

I believe I do. I can't be sure, though.
It's like a man whom I have met once or
twice — Poynter, of the Eoyal Denbigh."
Meynell nodded. " Why, your mother knew
him. I met him just outside your house not

long ago — the very day she died — and he gave
me a curious message. He seemed put out
about something."

"This photograph, Mr. Stannard, was
fastened into the leaves of the Bible in which
my mother read every day, and with this
gentleman she had a private interview,
evidently a distressing one, at Folkestone, on
the night before her return. He came to the
house with a wild sort of story on the day you
saw him. Now, Mr. Stannard, can you help
me to any explanation of this ?"

"Not in any way. Believe me, I have
withheld nothing from you. Your mother
never mentioned his name to me."

Mr. Meynell drew a long breath of relief.

I was not always able to be with her, and
I imagine in my absence she gave way to
unaccountable freaks of liking and disliking
people. This may have been one of them.
I think I had better see this gentleman at
once, and find out the extent of his intimacy
with my mother. I will write. No, I'll go to

Shorncliffe at once and see him. He may
have been led to form some expectations from
my mother's fancy for him. I should like to
carry out her wishes as far as is reasonable."
He spoke more briskly than he had yet done,
and looked for approval to Eustace, on whom,
singularly enough, misgivings seemed to be
deepening as they lightened for the other.
"Then that's the last point disposed

ofr

Xot quite. There is still Madame Euphrosyne."


'•' Let her show her face to me, and I shall
have very little scruple in handing her over to
the nearest policeman. I shall take care to be
prepared at all points. I shall despatch a
confidential agent to America to ^0 exhaustively
into the Magraths' history, and
another to Ireland to make further enquiries
amongst the old tenants — if any survive.
Lord Kilmoyne's papers are all in my solicitor's
hands. I shall examine them carefully for any
details of my mother's first marriage — you

know how it was a piece of my grandfather's
mad folly never to acknowledge it openly ? I
have never even heard her first husband's
name — have you ?"

Never. She desired to keep it from
me. She spoke of him as ' Jack,' nothing
more."

Eustace for the first time evaded the other's
look. He was closing his understanding
obstinately against a sudden fancy that had
started up, wild, extravagant, and horrible.

I shall be glad to have it all out !"
Meynell went on, almost cheerily. " It's half-told
bits of family history and half-hidden
family secrets that are the materials for an
impostor's case. Depend upon it I shall go
into the matter thoroughly."

It's an ugly business, having to exhume
a corpse or a dead secret sometimes," was
Eustace's gloomy comment.

'' But necessary now and then, eh 1 When
it hasn't been decently buried and the ghost
takes to walking T Oliver picked up his hat

in excellent spirits at his own smartness.
Good-bye, Mr. Stannard ; you and I will
have the satisfaction of knowing that iliis
skeleton is securely put away at last, without
a chance of resurrection."

VOL. II. 37

COME, LASSES AND LADS !"

,Lady VALERIA passed from men's
minds before rain and sun and
creeping green mould had dimmed
the freshness of the mason's work that closed
her into the great vault of the Meynells at
Rivington. Her deeds lived after her in the
lives of others for good or evil ; much of the
first — more than has been hinted at here —
sufficient, it is to be hoped, to outweigh what
there might be of the latter. Her death was
deplored in many a sermon preached on the
following Sunday ; in the Times obituary ;
and in the reports of a score of charities.
Mabel Brant cried for two whole days without

intermission, and then went, cast down but
not inconsolable, in strict incognita, ^Yitll a
few kindred spirits, to the great Midlandshire
Musical Festival. And Oliver, after telling
Lord Charles as much of Eustace's story as it
was good for him to know, set to work
steadily to dispose of the family skeleton ashe
had proposed, collecting its scattered
bones, so to speak, and preparing to read the
Burial Service over it.

Eustace was doing his best to forget it allas
speedily as he could. He caught himself
wondering once or twice whether he should
ever hear the result of Meynell's visit
to Shorncliffe, and he felt a curious repugnance
to meeting the Archdales, which he
decided must be overcome at once, without
question.

A great friendliness had been slowly but
surely growing up between the ex-rivals in
Rose's regard. Hester could afford to cast
aside her jealousy of the Vicar now that Rose
was as hopelessly lost to him as to her. Some

37—2

dim suggestion of the truth was growing up
in her mind that made her guard her words
more carefully when Eose and her friends
came under discussion, and thrill with pity
when she caught the sudden light in his eyes
when the name passed her lips.

Many messages anent St. Fridolin and its
concerns came to Hester. Once or twice a
formal one direct to him, always received with
inordinate secret rejoicing, despite himself.
He emptied the vials of his own self contempt
on his head as he thought of it, and then
began to wonder, as he entered the Archdales*
drawing-room, whether there had been time
for another letter to have been received since
his last visit. Lady Archdale received him.
She gently discoursed about the weather and
her headaches, and at last calmly mentioned
and glided over " that sad affair at the Mey-
nellie," to the relief of both her hearers.
Hester had entered meanwhile, with a foreign
letter in her hand he felt convinced.

How do your Saturday evening lectures

prosper V he asked, his eyes determinedly
averted.

Just what Rose wants to know, and 1
don't know how to answer. We had Miss
Coutell here at luncheon in the worst possible
spirits. The "girls icoiit take an intelligent
interest in ' Art, Hygiene, and Domestic
Economy.' They all seem to be drifting apart
again, and I can't help it. They miss Rose
so woefully."

]mr. Stannard looked sympathetic, but did
not trust himself to speak.

That dreadful Bank Holiday !" she went
on. " Last Whit Monday Rose only took the
friendless girls with her, you know. This
time she wants them all to join, and I don't
believe the place exists that will suit them.
Most of them want the country, or the seaside,
or, as a compromise, the river. Little
Lydia Hicks — the pale girl with a pocket
always bulging out with penny dreadful — is
yearning for ruins, or a castle, and has infected
some of the others. Lofty begs for a

band and fireworks, and so do half-a-dozen
others. Must we try Somerville ? Will you
chaperon us, mother, if Mr. Stannard and Mr.
dc Cressy come too V'

"Indeed, Hester, you must leave them to
themselves in any case. I can't think of your
going anywhere with twenty girls in a gang
on a Bank Holiday !"

'^ It does seem an unmanageable undertakings,"
Hester admitted with a sigh. " But
Eose trusted them to me, and I know they'll
all do whatever I suggest. Only I haven't a
suggestion left in me. Or if I had a plan, I
don't know how I could carry it out."

From her babyhood upwards, nobody had
ever heard such a frank confession of total
incapacity from Hester's lips before. Even
Lady Archdale was startled and touched.

My dear, I really wish I could help you,"
she began.

"I think I see my way," spoke Eustace
suddenly. " If you really will help us. Lady
Archdale, that'' with an inspiration of diplomacy,

" would remove the only obstacle in
the way."

Lady Archdale looked interested but neutral.
She was at heart always glad to please Hester,
when she was sure it could be done without
involving personal exertion or violation of her
own precise little code of social laws.

Don t you think a day at Altcar might
suit all views ? We have river enough for a
water-party, and the ruins of Ingilby Castle
within a walk. Then there are the gardens
and conservatories to see, and now I think of
it, there is the Foresters' Fete coming off
somewhere in the neighbourhood, so even a
band and fireworks might prove attainable."

Hester clapped her hands delightedly.

Lady Archdale began to demur. "But
your mother "

Will you let me write and consult her ?
I am very sure, though, that your party will
be more than welcome."

''My party !" Lady Archdale seemed to shy
at the responsibility at first, but being gently

led to approach and examine it, ended by
allowing herself to be saddled therewith.
Then they fell to discussing details and calculating
postal deliveries, till they finally settled
that the Vicar's scheme, if practicable, might
be presented in form to the audience of Miss
Coutell next Saturday evening lecture, time
being short and precious. The plan was suggested
by an impulse of sheer good-nature on
Eustace's part, and of all concerned he was
the one who cared least about the expedition ;
yet, oddly enough, in the result, that day's
work was to have no small bearing on his life's
future bliss or bale.

His letter to Altcar brought forth the
response he had calculated on, in the shape of
a telegram of welcome, followed by a perfectly
rapturous epistle from Mary Liddell, closely
written, many paged, and filled with much
matter for reflection of various sorts.

"I am so glad that you are coming, if only
that you may tell me whether I am fanciful
in seeing a change in Lord Altcar. He seems

to me to have grown strangely restless, talks
oddly about the property, and wearies for news
of Eandolf.

"Mr. Fenwick says such anxiety is only
natural just now. We have many fears and
little news of Eandolf. His wife indeed writes,
but not reassuringly. Her last letter was full
of indignation at ' everybody ' — the Southsea
everybody — ' expecting her to decline an invitation
to a Fancy Dress Ball, under the circumstances.'
Neb. The circumstances, whatever
they might be, were too unimportant to

mention."

»

Eustace stopped to smile at this scintillation
of feminine malice in Mary's gentle little
chronicle.

Mr. Eenwick speaks cjuite severely about
poor Mrs. Eandolf. He declares that her place
is here, that the house and the parish want a
lady at their head, and you know, dear Mr.
Stannard, I could not put myself forward to be
that. Mr. Eenwick had found a trained lady-nurse
for your mother, a Mrs. Burnett, an

officer's widow. She has lost her only son in
Afghanistan, and when she speaks of him I
can see a look in your mother's eyes that tells
me she is thinking of her own boy in Alexandria
and the perils that may surround him.
This makes a great bond of union between
them, so that I might almost consider my
occupation gone. Dear Esmee is undoubtedly
the better for the change in every way, and I
am happy and thankful to be superseded thus.
As Mr. Eenwick said in a beautiful sermon
last Sunday "

*' Eenwick indeed 1" Eustace broke off, with
a laugh. " Five Mr. Fenwick in a page !
This must be seen to."

The letter ended, " Send me the names of all
the girls. I want to send a proper invitation
to each. I have already written in Esmee's
name to Lady Archdale, so I hope we have
compromised her beyond all possibility of
retreat."

Lady Archdale did look finally and helplessly
committed to the undertaking when she

and Hester appeared on the following Saturday
evening, a few minutes before the gathering
of Miss Coutell's audience in the Parish -
room.

To them entered presently the Yicar, with a
handful of cream-tinted gold-bedight envelopes,
one of which he presented to the little
lectures.

She laughed and read it, and shook her wise
little head. '' It's uncommonly kind of your
people to wdsli for the pleasure of my company,
but my vision of a holiday doesn't contain the
shadow of a girl in it." She was going t^
pocket it, but stopped with a stony stare at the
card that struck Eustace with terror.

Anything wrong ? Do let me see it.
'Miss Coutell and friend.' I suppose my
father thought you might wish to bring somebody.
Isn't it right ? We are old-world, 
people at Altcar."

Well," and the little lady sighed resignedly,
you will have to make it very clear that it
means a female friend, that's all."

Must I ?" he enquired, dubiously. " I
don't think any limit was intended."

There may be brothers," hazarded Lady
Archdale, perplexed.

They can't be brothers to all the other
girls."

Let us accept the situation," spoke Eustace,
daringly. " There may be sweethearts. Why
not V

Lady Archdale looked at Miss Coutell, Miss
Coutell looked at Lady Archdale. Then both
looked at the Vicar with a gaze under which
even he wavered, but Hester made reply for
him :

I suppose I might go with a sweetheart, if
I had one. Why not the girls ? I will answer
for the good behaviour of every one. There
are all sorts among them, I know, but Lady
Altcar agrees to accept all sorts; and I am sure
they will be alike in this, not a girl will bring
forward anybody who won't do her credit —
for Eose's sake."

It was getting time to decide, for approaching

voices were heard without, and Mrs.
Goodliffe bustled in with a message to the
Vicar.

Before anyone could interfere, Hester had
picked up her invitation, and handed it to her.

Down to the ground curtsied the worthy
soul at the sight of the cream-and-gold compliment
paid her, hastily rummaging for her
spectacles. " And a friend ! That is thoughtful
now !" she exclaimed. " If I might take
the liberty, ma'am, Miss Sparks — most respectable
— has charge of warehouses "

May they all prove to be respectable Miss
Sparkles," was Miss Coutell's comment, as the
door opened and the first of her audience
entered.

So the invitations were distributed, and
replies requested to be sent in not later than
the following Saturday.

MISSING.

LL the girls were ready with their
replies long before the week was
out, and the Vicar, glancing over
the list, smiled to himself to see how Hester's
confidence had been justified. Saddest of all
seemed the few girls who had no friend to
brins. More than half the rest brought other
girls, sisters, fellow-workers. " Mother " came
in two or three cases, and in one "Grannie,"
vouched for as being equal to anything in the
way of gaiety. Of the dreaded men-friends
there came a father, a doubtful uncle, and two
brothers. There remained three, unquestionably
engaged to their fair introducers, but, as

after close enquiry nothing else could be
found against them, the Vicar thought that
might be overlooked. Altogether, he did not
fear to present himself with the list at Lady
Archdale's.

He made a solemn resolution that Rose's
name should not pass his lips this time, if he
could possibly help it, and kept sternly away
from Hester and her teacups for at least ten
minutes.

'* Look at my Edelweiss," Hester said, suddenly.
" Did you ever see such overrated

stuff r

From Mrs. Damien ?" he asked, his eyes
greedily devouring the fluffy, weedy contents
of the box she was opening.

Not exactly. It doesn't grow on the
Boulevards. Why, you heard me telling Miss
Ooutell on Saturday — or if you didn't it was
because you ivouldnt listen," was Hester's
mental parenthesis — " Eose is in Paris."

He waited to hear more, with a look which
Hester was beginning dimly to understand.

They had got as far as Stachelberg. Lady
Monchalsea broke down suddenly ; nobody
knows what ailed her, and nobody knew what
to do with her, till Rose, with her usual taste
for making a social martyr of herself, actually
brought her back to Paris ; only just in time,
as it happened. There is a doctor there whom
she had consulted before, and he says a second
attack might have prevented her travelling
home at all. Of course Teddy Boughton is in
attendance on his mother," with a malicious
glance at the Vicar's impassive countenance.

And Professor Montrose T he asked,
though his heart seemed to stand still with
the effort.

Professor Montrose is on his way — to the
Danube," she ended, her last words lost in the
bustle of her mother's entrance.

She was in a greater flutter than usual this
day. Her consent had already been many a
time repented, and as the day drew near her
misgivings multiplied beyond all her daughter's
powers of reassurance.

When some vexed point had been settled
finally for the twentieth time, the Vicar rose
to go.

Sir John's compliments, and will you
please see him for a few minutes before you
leave," said Markham, appearing at the door.

What can daddy want with you V wondered
Hester. " You know he has begged off
going ! Perhaps it's to ask to be taken now.
He's ashamed to come to me."

Sir John was standing at the foot of the
stairs. ** I want you for a minute," he said,
without other greeting. '"' Hush ! come this
way." Eustace followed in obedient silence
to the little back room, where Sir John carefully
closed the door and locked it before
speaking a word. He took a newspaper out
of his pocket, and began to unfold it with an
unsteady hand.

I've been regularly upset by a piece of
news here. It's a local paper that someone
sent me. It'll all be in the Times tomorrow,
and I'm at my wits-end how to keep it from

VOL. n. 38

LADY VALERIA.

them. You know what Amelia is — and to
think we only saw the poor lad a few days
ago. There, there ! read it for yourself. He
was a friend of yours, wasn't he ? or of Mrs.
Damien's — you're all in the same boat. Poor
hoy ! poor boy !" Sir John pushed the paper
towards Eustace with a sort of groan, and
dropped heavily into his chair. He, turning
to a conspicuously marked column, read inlarge
type :

"MYSTERIOUS Occurrence."

and below :

*' Disappearance of an Officer of the
Royal Denbigh. Latest Particulars.

Much excitement has been caused in
ShornclifFe and its neighbourhood by the
sudden disappearance of a well-known and
popular young officer, Lieut. Poynter, of the
Royal Denbigh Regiment, which left the camp
yesterday for Portsmouth, en route for Egypt.
Last Monday the missing gentleman went upto
town, it is ascertained, for the purpose of
making some last preparations. He was seen
at two shops. [Names and addresses in full.]

At the latter he mentioned that he should
return to Shorncliife by the six o'clock train,
and ordered that a certain parcel should be
sent to meet him at the Charing Cross Station.
He is known to have been at the Army and
Navy Stores, and later on at the office of
Messrs. Cox and Co. Here he interchange-ed a

CD

few words with a friend, and here we lose all
trace of him. The mystery of his absence
deepens with each day, and it is now impossible
to resist the conclusion that only some
serious fatality or foul play can account for it.
Mr. Politer was the second son of the late
Dean of Leinster. His elder brother is
attache to the embassy at St. Petersburg."

Lower down came,

"Further Particulars. — The gentleman
who last saw Mr. Poynter was Major Power,
of the Engineers. He informs us that he
walked from Craig's Court towards the City
with the ill-fated gentleman as far as the Bank,
where they parted : Major Power to meet a
friend at Liverpool Street, and Mr. Poynter to
keep a business appointment — in Lombard
Street — according to Major Power's belief."

*' What do you make of it ?" demanded Sir

38—2

John, hardly giving Eustace time to glance
over it. " Confound these papers with their
penny-lining bloodthirsty suggestions ! Nothing
could happen to a man in Lombard
Street on a Monday afternoon. Unless he was
run over and carried off insensible. By Jove !
that might account for it, though. Why don't
they try the hospitals first ? If I could only
get off quietly, I'd run down to Shorn cliff e
and say a word to the Colonel. I forgot,
though — they're at Portsmouth by this time.
That fool of an editor ! He aren't have put
that trash in if Borrodale had been about.
It'll be all over the country in a day or two."
Sir John looked up appealingly in Eustace's
face. " What am I to tell Amelia — and
Hetty ? She'll be as sorry as I am. We both
took a liking to that boy. So like what his
father was at his age. My old friend Welcome
No, that was his uncle ; I'm always forgetting
— Poor lad ! poor lad !"

Lombard Street ?" said the Yicar, inattentively.

" Have you a ' Post Office
Directory ' here ?"

Sir John looked almost wrathful.

** There, on that shelf. What the deuce has
that to do with poor Pointer ?"

*' Xot much, I am afraid ; but it may help
us to one point. ' Bankers.' Here it is.
Meynell, Meynell and Mott, Lombard Street.'
I thought so. Sir John, I think I can perhaps
carry the trace of your friend one step farther.
It's only a chance. I am making gr a mess at
where he might have gone after parting with
Major Power. I can go and ask the question,
at any rate."

You'll come back at once, or telegraph ?"

'' Don't expect too much. Whatever I find
you shall know of it."

'' Good luck to you. I shall say nothing to
Amelia or Hetty till I see you again. If I'm
only let keep it to myself, that is."

Eustace started off with no very clear idea
of what he expected to learn from mr. Meynell.
He had wondered once or twice what the result

of the banker's meeting with Edric had been,
but had been quite content to hear no more of
the matter. Now he felt he knew enough to
justify at least an enquiry ; Meynell himself
would hardly deny that.

Mr. Meynell was in his private office and
disengaged. He looked ill and worn, and
pushed aside some papers, as he rose to greet
Eustace, with an impatient sigh, as if this
interruption were only one more care added to
the burden under which he laboured. Eustace
had no desire to prolong the infliction, and
came at once to the point, assisted by the fact
that a daily paper with a marked paragraph
uppermost lay on the table before
him.

Young Poynter's disappearance ?" replied
the banker, wearily, to his first remark. " Yes,
of course I have heard of it. Most extraordinary
thing — but you are the second person
who has been here to-day about it. The
other came from Scotland Yard, I believe.
Why, unless they are making a house-toulouse

visitation throughout Lombard Street, I can't
conceive."

'then you have no reason to suspect
Mr. Poynter was coming here on that
day?"

My dear sir, why should he come here ?
Oh, I see, you are thinking of our last interview.
Yes — yes, I certainly expressed an
intention then of making his acquaintance."

You certainly expressed more interest in
him then than you do now," said the Vicar,
and then felt himself to be uncivil, as he
always did sooner or later in Mr. Meynell's
company.

He did not seem offended, but passed his
hand wearily over his forehead.

So many things have happened since then.
I have had much to occupy my mind —
harassing, vexatious matters. You must forgive
me if I did not at once recall all the
circumstances you allude to. Yet it is not
so long ago either. It was the day — the day
of my mother's funeral."

Something in his face and manner always
became, if not more conciliatory, at least less
ungenial, whenever he alluded to his mother,
or to Eustace's connection with her.

Let me think. I had an impression, you
know, that he might prove a sort of — of
protege of my mother's. Someone she had
taken a chance fancy to. I was prevented
from going to see him as I intended ; and
when I went down to Shorncliffe on Tuesday
he had, as you see, already gone."

Gone ! but where ? Did you make no
enquiries ?"

*^ How could I tell T replied Oliver, rather
snappishly. " And what could I do ? I saw
his Colonel, who didn't seem quite to know
what to do either. He said Mr. Poynter had
asked for leave some short time previously —
said that nothing under a week would do —
didn't get it ; and there, I imagine, you have
the whole explanation. He has simply gone
off without it ; and there the matter might
have ended but for the Sensus of the local

reporter, who couldn't let such a chance of a
sensation slip."

Mr. Poynter will owe him no thanks, if
that is the case. Nor his friends either. I
have just come from the Archdales. The old
General is in great tribulation about it."

** After all, I daresay he isn't the first
officer in the world who has been absent without
leave for a day or two."

"It is unfortunate for him that he should
have happened to select this particular
moment," said Eustace, trying to reconcile
himself to the banker's view. ^^ It weill look
bad, won't it ?'*

Oh, he'll get back in time for the start,
never fear. The whole thinoj mio;ht have
been overlooked if it had only been kept

quiet. Now " Meynell shrugged his

shoulders.

Well, it's a pity. He was a fine young
fellow. Good-bye, and thanks."

Mr. Meynell held out his hand readily, but
drew it back with an exclamation of impatience

as a quick little step was heard
outside, and, with the merest formality in the
shape of a knock for admission, the door
opened to admit the boyish figure of Lord
Charles Brant.

Sorry to intrude, Oliver, but I've something
to say which won't keep a day longer
than we can help. Good-day, Mr. Stannard.
You are the very person I could have wished
to find here," he began, with his usual soft
rapidity of speech. '*' Now, have either of you
seen this ?" producing an evening paper from
his pocket. "Ah, yes, I see you have it there-how
did you get it T

If you mean the account of Mr. Poynter's
escapade, I can assure you my attention has
been concentrated on it since mid-day to-day.
I have had little chance of turning to any
other subject," his brother-in-law answered,
with a pettish attempt at gaiety. *' That
paper was bestowed on me by a detective who
came to make enquiries here ; Heaven only
knows why."

I do too. I sent him."

You did !" Men ell's face grew white
with sudden passion. " I — I — can't believe
you capable of playing a poor, practical joke
on me, Charles."

'* No. That sort of thing isn't in my line,"
Lord Charles went on, staying his further
indignant speech by a deprecatory sign with
his hand. " Least of all at present, or on
this subject. It is a very serious business,
Oliver."

I don't see why it should be — to us."

"No, I don't imagine you do just yet,
but you'll change your opinion when
you hear what I have got to say. Did
you ever hear that our late mother had
been specially interested in this very Mr.
Poynter T

Meynell looked as if he would like to have
denied it, but with Eustace's eyes upon him
and the photograph still in his pocket-book,
he could but assent.

'* I believed so myself at one time, but I

find I am mistaken. I have even been down
to Shorncliflfe to meet him, with no result."


Lord Charles's little suspicious eyes twinkled
astonished approval. " I am glad 'to hear you
did that. I'm uncommonly glad to hear it.
You'll see why presently. Now you saw that
young man yourself one night at Folkestone.
Mabel told you about his interview with Lady
Valerian "

*' A mere casual visit."

"Hardly. Mabel says from the time her
mother arrived there she was always on the
watch for someone, day and night."

But we have no proof that this was Mr.
Poynter. Mabel's eyes are rarely trustworthy.
It may have been some chance likeness,"
objected Oliver.

** I admit all that, and that you have had
no evidence to go upon, nor had I till Mabel
returned to-day from Midlandshire. The
people she was staying with there were
friends of the Pointers — guardians in fact of

the younger boys — and the Colonel telegraphed
to them for news of him."

Eustace was beginning to wonder what all
this was to lead to, and whether he might not
as well depart.

Lord Charles gave him one penetrating
look and went on : "I have been since at
some pains to trace his movements on that
day. I call your attention to them. He came
up to town by the train arriving at eleven,
and the first place he went to was" — holding
up an impressive forefinger — " our house in
Seagrave Place. Not to see either Mabel
or myself, but because he thought you still
lived there. He got your address at Queen's
Gate and here. He left no name, but the
description is unmistakable. Next he went to
Queen's Gate. Constance was not at home.
Next, he came here."

Here I" exclaimed Meynell, confounded.

'' He saw some deputy's deputy who assured
him you had not come in yet, and that you
were not expected before three o'clock. (He's

a bright youth that, of a fine imagination.)
Again he left neither card nor name."

** Why did I not hear of this sooner V

Because it never occurred to you to
enquire, I suppose. I confess I was somewhat
startled myself when facts became clear to me.
Now, Oliver, here we have this young fellow
in close and secret communication with our
mother. After her death we have him endeavouring
to obtain a private interview with you.
Private, mind you, or why should he not have
written and made an appointment or given
his name anywhere ? We know that Lady
Valerian lives and dies in fear of an unknown
claimant to her father s estate. Just recall to
your mind the wording of that paper on which
we consulted Mr. Stannard on the 11th of
last month."

I recall it perfectly ; but you must forgive
me if I utterly fail to perceive the slightest
connection between the two subjects," said
the banker, stiffly.

And you must forgive me if I decline to

shut my eyes to the very obvious connection
that exists between them ; and now, Mr.
Stannard, I appeal to your honour as a gentleman,
can you not of your knowledge confirm
my view ?"

On my honour as a gentleman I never
heard Mr. Poynter's name on Lady Valerian's
lips, nor any allusion to him of any kind."

Lord Charles flushed hotly with vexation.
I am bitterly disappointed, I own. I looked
to you to supply the missing clue."

What could you have done with it ?"
drily enquired Oliver. '* Established a motive
for the young man's being kidnapped and
made away with on his second visit here V
His brother-in-law's disappointment seemed
a source of demure gratification. " Will you
kindly suggest what course you wish me to
pursue for the present ? I confess my inability
to deal with so complicated and delicate a
case ; or shall we await Mr. Poynter's return
to his duty ?"

I wish you would take this more seriously,

Oliver. I am not a lawyer or a detective, but
I am pretty sure that either would tell you
that if Mr. Poynter never returns to his duty,
Meynell will be a marked name. What are
you doing ?" For, with an exclamation of
impatience, Meynell had taken up a pen and
was writing rapidly.

'* Expediting that desirable event," he
answered, pressing the slip of paper on his
blotting-pad and handing it to Lord Charles.

It was a notice of reward : " £100 to anyone
who shall give information that may lead
to the discovery of Mr. Edric Poynter, etc.,
etc."

*' You are making it very hard for that poor
fellow to show his face again, Charles," he said,
good-hum surely.

Then Eustace took his leave of them, and
returned to bear what comfort he might to
poor old Sir John.

Sir John's misgivings had evidently been
justified. He had not been allowed to keep
his secret to himself. The open newspaper

lay upon the table, as if under discussion,
when Eustace re-entered the room, and Sir
John stood in the window, his back to the
room, his shoulders squared and obstinacy
expressed in every line of them.

I tell you, Het, it can't be done. Not by
me, at least."

But something must be done, and done by
you, daddy. It's your affair beyond all others'.
A friend of ours — an officer in the Eoyal
Denbigh — why, daddy, what icill they think
of you in the regiment if you make no sign ?
You must go at once to the Horse Guards."

Never, Het !" he shouted, so roughly that
his daughter started back as if from a blow.
** Of course I could make a disturbance if I
chose, but I won't. Do you want to ruin the
boy : Cut off his last chance ? Ah, here's
Mr. Stannard. What news V Sir John
listened with a certain dismal complacency as
Eustace made his meagre little report.

D'ye hear that, Het ? Meynell's opinion.
The opinion of one of the leading men in the

VOL. II. 39

City. Stands to reason he must know the
world. Just what I was saying when you
came in, Mr. Stannard, and I'm afraid we're
both right. It gave me a turn at first — thinking
of murder — but it's not. I wish to
Heaven it was !" he broke off angrily.

You think he's gone ?"

*' I don't think ; I knoiv. I've seen it all
before. It wasn't for nothing that my head
went running on poor Harry Sanderson all day
after we met this boy, Poynter, just outside
here, and I told him what I'd heard at the
Horse Guards. Weren't you there, Het ?"

What did he do ?" spoke a strained little
voice from the window.

Do ? Why, looked bothered and sick at
heart, and down on his luck. Everything a
soldier ought not to look. Just poor Sanderson's
face when we landed at Varna and heard
we were to go to the front directly. ]\Iy
greatest friend. As fine a fellow as ever
stepped. And nothing wrong with him
but nerves, or imagination, or something.

Nothing that the first sight of the enemy
or the first volley about his ears wouldn't
have mended for good and all. Now listen,
Hetty ; two days after we landed he disappeared
; fell into the harbour ; robbed and
murdered — take your choice which. There's
a fine tablet to his memory in a church I know
of, and his name is down on the memorial
cross we put up to those who fell in the
Crimea. His sweetheart mourned him faithfully
to the end of her life."

The newspaper wavered, but Hetty made
no sign.

Nevertheless, four years after, I was called
by the police to identify a man found drowned
with my name in his tattered pocket-book.
A miserable, half-starved, opium-sodden scarecrow,
but Harry Sanderson, and no other. I
gave a name at random, and the parish buried
him. What mad panic had driven the poor
wretch to fly, how he must have skulked in
hiding, and drifted lower and lower, who can

tell ? Aud to think that just such another "

39—2

LADY VALERIA.

But you shall not think it ! Nobody has
any right to think it !" cried Hester, standing
forth, her eyes blazing, her lips a-quiver.
*'No one is ever likely to know two such
miserable stories in a life. What has he done
that we should begin to cast shame on him
when he is not here to defend himself — when
he must be lying dead — he 77iust /"

"Why! Why! Het ? What does the
girl mean ? What do you know more than
anybody else ? Eh ? Speak up if you do."

I don't. Why should T, any more than
the Meynells ?" Her voice dropped as if she
were sullen or ashamed of her outburst, and
she began nervously to smooth and fold the
paper, her face turned from them.

'' Now what about your mother, Het ? You
mustn't break out before her like that, you
know. Bless my soul, no ! And is she to be
told? and am / to do it, or you, or Mr.
Stannard ?"

"There's no reason why you should not tell
her; I am sure Mr. Stannard's presence will

be a comfort. There are so many last
questions, which were forgotten when he was
here before, about Monday's arrangements. I
don't suppose you need be afraid that any
other subject will agitate her much at present."

Sir John frowned in perplexity at Hetty's
unusual tone ; but toddled off, rather enjoying,
in the secret depth of his soul, his importance
as the bearer of such awful tidings, now that
his first alarm and grief had worn off.

Eustace lingered irresolutely. Something
in Hester's tone, and the sudden droop of her
figure as her father left the room and she
believed herself alone, arrested him. She was
not ill or fainting as he fancied, however.
She only dropped her arms on the back of Sir
John's great chair, and her face on them,
reminding him as she did so of the day when
he found her alone in St. Fridolin's, and, by
association, of her half-spoken confidences.
Perhaps the recollection helped him to understand
the meaning of her face when she raised
it and met his unexpectedly.

*' Do you believe that ?" she asked, under
her breath.

He was taken aback, never having formed
an opinion of his own. Sir John's theory
seeming as plausible as Lord Charles's, he had
not considered it necessary to hold any special
views of his own, so far.

"I don't avant to agree with your father,"
he said, heartily, " and I won't if you'll give
me a single good ground to go upon."

*' I don't know whether I can. I don't
know how much 1 ought to tell — if telling
would help. I haven't had time to think
yet," she said, wearily. " I made him a
promise and I ought to keep it — or so it
appears to me just now," and she pressed her
hands to her eyes again.

Edric had been so careful to omit all
mention of any menace from Euphrosyne, that
to Hester's mind he merely conveyed the impression
of a commonplace intriguer, possessed
by some means of Lady Valerian's confidence,
and anxious to keep the manipulation of the

affair to herself. The last interview, as transmitted
to Hester's imagination through Edric's
halting description, was an unusual and
eccentric experience — nothing more ; the freak
of a crazy-pated old lady who had taken a
romantic fancy to Edric's bright face and
broad shoulders. The loss of the letter was
serious, of course. It most likely contained
or referred to some gift to Edric which she
wished her son to confirm. Something worth
stealing, and which had been stolen, awkwardly
enough for Edric, but there was an end of it.
Edric had begged her to keep silence on the
subject. He had gone as near to exacting a promise
from her as he could with any propriety.
Could she disobey him now to any purpose ?

What sort of a man is Mr. Meynell ?" was
the unexpected outcome of her reflections.
*' A good man V

I think he is — in his way. I think he is
honourable, benevolent, anxious to do right."

'will you find out whether he and Mr.
Poynter ever met after Lady Valerian's death V*

J happen to know they did not."
"Then tell him that J\Ir. Poynter was in
great trouble about something he had to
deliver to him, which was stolen from him the
same night that Lady Valerian gave it to him.
I have no right to say more, unless he sees in
this any clue worth following up. You must
please not speak of this to anyone else. Now
let us go to mamma. She wants reassuring
on several points — that she is clear of all
responsibility about tickets, and that Mr.
d^ Cressy, as well as you, will be at hand to
support her from the first."

She led the way with a nervous little laugh,
and Eustace, startled at this unlooked-for
confirmation of all the suppositions he had
heard discussed, followed ; little guessing that
two ends of the tangled meshes that involved
them all had that moment been laid in his
clasp.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, Printers, GUILDFORD.

G., C. it Co.

^

lo

mm

^'/x?-

5t ^''■'^'''i-^/^

LIBRARY

OF THE

UNIVLR.51TY

OF ILLINOIS

M7\z-e.

u

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/ladyvalerianovel03mobe

Jl Shovel.

BY

A. Soberly

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :
RICHARD BE XT LEY AND SON

publishers in (Drbinanj to *)cr-Sttajestu the (Queen.

1886.

[All Rights Reserved,]

CHAPTER

I. THE HEIRESS OF Altar
II. A CALL FOR HELP -

III. STEPHEN Marat CLAIMS HIS BIRTHRIGHT

IV. WHAT LIONEL DE CRESSY SAW IN THE

CHURCHYARD

V. THE SPELL OF THE ROSE
VI. "ON THE TRAIL" -
VII. " Peccant !" -
VIII. "NEAREST TO HAND"
IX. ON Board THE " BARRACOUTA "
X. THE CAPTAIN'S CONSCIENCE -
XI. INTERMEDIATE.— SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER -

PAGE.






SO








Chapter

XII. "SEE THE CONQUERING HEROES COME!" - 218
Iii. "IF ONE WHISK OF FATE'S BROOM SWEEP

OUR COBWEB IN SUNDER" - - 232

XIV. BARONET OR K.C.B. 1 - - - 253

XV. "HOMMAGE A EUPHROSYNE" - - 272

XVI. "ROSES SHALL BE WHERE ROSES WERE" - 285

CHAPTER I.

THE HEIRESS OF ALTCAE.

Whatever Bank Holiday did elsewhere,
it dawned down at Alt car
in full August glory. The untimely
summer rains had kept the fresh green
tints on the foliage, and filled the brooks to
their rushy brims ; and now the sun came
shining warm on the sodden earth and down-beaten
corn-fields, bringing hope to the heart
that the harvest might yet be saved, and the
Thanksgiving Service something more than
an opening for church decoration. Altcar
being on the way to nowhere in particular,
the train with the party from St. Fridolin's
vol. in. 41

stopped pretty punctually at the signal-box,
where the pointsman exhausted his last remaining
faculties of wonderment at the sight
of the arrivals. A considerable demand on
them had already been made when two
waggonettes, the great barouche and pair
which Lord Altcar insisted on keeping up
for Mary Liddell's sole behoof and embarrassment,
the farm pony-cart, the brake from the
Ingilby Arms, and Mr. Renwick in a nondescript
vehicle of his own invention, all drew
up in waiting ; and the subsequent discharge
on his slip of a platform of a whole trainful,
or so it seemed, of young ladies with a lesser
following of men-folk, Lady Archdale, her
daughter, the Vicar and Mr. de Cressy, " fairly
bowled him over," as he told his wife at tea.

There were all sorts there," as Hester had
said. All sorts amongst the girls and their
friends, from the smart young brewery clerk
who bore himself so gallantly, to the dilapidated
little widower whose betrothed, a strapping
young lass, had taken him in hand for
the sheer satisfaction of setting him and his

dilapidated young family and business "in
the straw-bonnet line " all to rights aa'ain.
The girls, to a girl, were smart and tidy,
some exceptionally stylish. The party naturally
divided itself into several little groups,
but was, after all, so much the more manageable.
Elsie, everybody's friend, was missing.
Hester, doing penance, as she frequently did,
for her harsh thoughts of the girl, had made
a point of going to see her, but uselessly.
Gone to the seaside," was good Mrs. Ridge's
explanation of her absence the first time ;
and on the second Hester was received by a
respectful, dark-eyed woman, a fellow-lodger,
who took her messages, but could in no way
enlighten her as to Elsie's doings.

Hester sent her the card of invitation and
a note as well, but to neither did any answer
come.

All the rest were there, brimful of excitement
and curiosity. Mr. Stannard handed
Lady Archdale into the Altcar carriage, with
de Cressy to take care of her.

Ought I not to take some of them with

41—2

me ?" she murmured graciously, entering into
the spirit of the day. And he, looking round
to see who would be least embarrassed or
embarrassing by such honour done her, made
a happy selection of " Granny," a neat, alert,
rosy-faced old lady, who stepped in briskly
and rolled off in state.

Then Hester and he set to work to make
a judicious distribution of the rest, which was
in time felicitously accomplished with Mr.
Fenwick's assistance. He eventually undertook
the guidance of the party to Altcar
Court, while Eustace made his way there by
the short cut to anticipate their arrival. It
was still morning prime, and he was surprised
to see a little group on the terrace evidently
awaiting him : his mother, as he made out,
Lord Altcar, and Mary Liddell. Down the
terrace steps and grassy slope of the lawn
came the old lord to meet him ; his white
hair flying and his blue eyes beaming delightedly.


"Ha, Eustace! Got here all right? I'm
glad to see you. I'm uncommonly glad to see

you! Yes, there's your mother. She would
come out. Mrs. Burnett found her wanting
to be dressed an hour earlier to-day, and she's
as bright as can be. We're all ready for your
flock. Mary is in her element, and we mean
to make a regular fete of it. Glad of the
chance to show somebody she isn't the centre
of everything yet !"

Eustace deferred enquiries till he had greeted
his mother and answered the loving queries
that shone in her eyes. She looked to Mary
meaningly, and Mary obeyed the look.

u Did you know that we have Mrs. Randolf
here and the baby ?"

11 Amy ? No, I hadn't heard. I'm very
glad. Aren't you all delighted ?"

No one answered for an emphatic second,
then Mary spoke up loyally :

It's quite the proper place for her, of
course ; and baby is the sweetest little thing
in the world ; and with poor Major Stannard
abroad, she must feel terribly tried and
anxious."

Lord Altcar gave a sort of grunt by way

of comment, and one of the maids tripping
along the terrace brought " Mrs. Stannard's
dear love, and when Mr. Stannard can be
spared she will be glad to see him."
• "I had better go to her at once. Ren wick
was going to bring them round by Chesterton
Woods to see the view from the mill, but they
can't be very much longer now."

The great drawing-room was empty. But
as he entered by the window at one end, a
door at the other opened, and a small figure
in a trailing white cashmere breakfast-gown
appeared. Running childishly up, she flung
her arms round his neck, lifted a soft little
pink mouth to be kissed, and then, dropping
her curly flaxen head on his breast, sobbed
hysterically, to his no small embarrassment.


Oh, Eustace ! My dear, dear brother.
Oh, I am glad to have you ! I thought you
never, never were coming to me. And he
trusted me to you !"

I didn't know you wanted me, my dear,"
he said, drawing back from her embrace,

somewhat disconcerted. No one told me you
were here."

Amy manifested great determination to
control her sobs by the aid of a blue-bordered
and monogrammed handkerchief, glancing
over it piteously now and then.

"There. I am better now" — faintly and
with a tearful smile. " It was only seeing
you upset me. I must learn to be brave,
now that I have baby to think of" — pressing
a little plump white hand on the blue satin
facings that presumably covered her heart —
but it is hard sometimes to bear things,"
and she sobbed anew.

When did you come, and where is
Adolf, and how is my niece ?" enquired
Eustace, letting her rest on his arm, but
gently and firmly conducting her to a neighbouring
sofa.

Very well, poor little unconscious darling!
She feels nothing. It all falls on me. When
did we come? Last week — or was it a fortnight
ago? It seems as if years had passed
over me."

Amy clasped her hands carefully on one
side of the cascade of lace down the front of
her robe, and raised her great blue eyes
appealingly to her brother-in-law.

Tell me about Eandolf. Has he gone
back to Malta, or what?" he asked, seating
himself near her and feeling, he didn't know
why, uncommonly sorry for her.

Y — y — yes, he has gone. It was his
p — parting wish that I should come here, and
I have obeyed him. But oh! it's dreadful,
Eustace! Oh, don't forsake me ! Remember
you are all I have in the world now," and she
dropped on his shoulder again in tears.

Eustace reflected that he had a good many
people in the world on his hands besides Mrs.
Randolf, and, expecting every moment to hear
the carriage-wheels on the gravel outside,
performed his ministry of consolation rather
brusquely.

Of course I'll take care of you, dear, but
what on earth's the matter? If you won't tell
me plainly, I can't help you."

She sat up again, and spoke rather sullenly.

It's not pleasant to be made to feel every
hour that you're of no particular importance
to anybody. I have no self-assertion in me —
absolutely none — but dear baby shall be considered
! I have her position to maintain, let
them trample on me as they will!"

Who wants to trample on you? No one
here, surely ?" and Eustace against his will
caressed the little hand that lay in his.

Oh, I knew you'd take my part. If you
had been here it would all have been so
different. I feel the chill of that home-coming
yet. No carriage to meet us. Only the
brougham and Mary Liddell. Not even an
apology. Not a creature to receive us — dear
baby, I mean. Only your father hoping
we hadn't had a cold journey, and asking
if baby hadn't better go to the nursery at
once!

I see. You had visions, of pealing bells
and bonfires blazing, and the cheers of a
devoted tenantry to welcome baby to her
ancestral halls?"

Amy lifted her great eyes. " Well, why

not? It's always done everywhere for the
heir, isn't it? I did say something to your
father, and all he said was, ' Wait till he
comes as if dear baby wasn't his only grandchild."


Amy, dear, this is dreadful nonsense.
I'm sure Randolf wouldn't like to hear you
speculating on the deaths of all three of us :
my father, your husband and me, which must
happen before baby comes to her inheritance.
Now you must keep the rest of your sorrows
till the day's work is over, for I hear the
carriages. Won't you dry your eyes and
come and see my visitors?"

Amy was on her feet directly, adjusting her
neat little fringe at the glass; then, with a
backward glance and surreptitious kick at her
train, she took his arm.

Of course, dear, whatever I may be feeling,
it shall spoil no one's pleasure to-day. Now
we will go down to the Great Hall and bid
your friends welcome."

Eustace was infinitely relieved by this
change of tone, and thanked her cordially

as she swept beside him down the few broad
steps to the entrance-hall, where de Cressy
was assisting Lady Archdale out of the
carriage.

Very prettily and shyly did Amy step
forward to receive her and Hester, at whom
she cast a sharp second look and a third at
Eustace, who she was relieved to find was just
as interested in the arrival of " Granny."
Then the first waggonette drove up with
its load and Mrs. Goodliffe, who was fascinated
forthwith by Amy's recognising her at once
'• from Randolf's description," aided possibly
by a few words from Hester. Then came the
second waggonette, and then the rest, till the
great vaulted hall was full of figures and
voices, with little childish Amy for a centre
casting" winning; looks and smiles around as
she bade them all welcome to Altcar. in her
high, clear, infantine treble.

We have made some little plans for the
day's amusement, and must make the most of
our time together, as it is so short. We shall
dine directly, but there will be time for you

to see the house, if you care to do so, first.
The picture galleries and the old state apartments
where King Charles once slept — Mrs.
Bates," introducing the stately old housekeeper,
" knows them all far better than I
do. Shall I put you all in her care for a
short time ? And you will come and rest in
the drawing-room, will you not ?" timidly to
Lady Archdale ; adding in an anxious little
undertone, " Oh, I hope they will be happy.
I've never had anything of this sort to do
before."

Lady Archdale smiled gracious encouragement
on the shy, confiding little creature, and
followed her; Hester electing to keep with
the girls.

Amy," spoke Eustace rather sharply,
where are Miss Lid dell and my father ?
Should you not have sent for them ?"

u Dear Eustace, how do I know? In Lady
Altcar's sad state we have to be so guarded " —
this in explanatory parenthesis to her visitors.
As neither of them came to help me, I had
to do the best I could all alone. You know

I dare not bring a crowd about your mother
without leave."

He strode off without reply, and found
poor Mary alone with Lady Altcar, not daring
to leave her post in Lord Altcar's absence,
despite one or two imperative glances from
her charge, wistfully listening to the sounds
within.

Where's Mrs. Burnett to-day ?" he asked.
Not on duty ?"

Oh, yes, but she had to go out on an
errand for Cousin Esruee, and hasn't got back."

And my father ?"

Here Lord Altcar turned the corner of the
house, hot and breathless.

Very sorry, my dear, but I had totally
forgotten to take the readings of the thermometers
this morning. Observations are
worth nothing if they are not regular and
accurate. What ? Has your party come,
and you out of the way ? What a shame !
Why don't you bring everyone out here,
Eustace ?"

His voice penetrated to the drawing-room,

and was answered by the appearance of the
two ladies followed by the two clergymen.
Amy dutifully presented the strangers to her
mother-in-law, and then shrank away into a
position of conspicuous loneliness, while Mary
sped away joyously to join the party of inspection.


I like him," Amy thought, as she noticed
de Cressy's glance of discreetly veiled admiration
stray towards her forlorn little blue and -
white figure. " I feel as if I could talk to
him and he would understand me, better even
than Eustace. I feel as if I must talk to a
clergyman in my state of mind." And she
sighed, and thought of Randolf, and how
detestable life was without a devoted slave atone's
beck and call. There was a real genuine
tear of self-pity shining in each blue eye when
she lifted them to the Curate, to whose softheart
her piteous little smile went straight and
true. He drew near to her at once, and, in
the fashion of his country, had contrived to
express the tenderest interest and unlimited
sympathy in the course of five minutes' conversation

before the sound of the gong
announced luncheon.

Mary Liddell was bringing back the first
division of her party as the others re-entered.
She had learnt everyone's name with marvellous
speed, and had taken Hester to her heart
of hearts. The girls had looked at pictures,
and listened to legends, and refreshed their
toilettes, and were now keen for the next item
of the programme ; but here a slight change
had to be made. Mary was to have played
hostess at the long table in the great dining

CO

room, Lady Altcar not being allowed to risk
the excitement of so large a gathering; but
this arrangement Mrs. Randolf scattered airily
to the winds.

Of course I shall take dear Lady Altcar's
place. TVe must not all desert our guests. I
am sure Mr. de Cressy will come and support
me."

But then — I must stay with Cousin
Esmee," said poor Mary, dismally. " It won't
do to let her be the only lady, as Lady Arch-dale
is to have luncheon with her. Somebody

else must be there ; and you promised
yesterday "

My dear girl, you can do as you please.
It's quite clear where my duty lies ;" and,
escorted by de Cressy, she made her stately
entry into the room where by this time all the
rest had assembled.

Eustace from the foot of the table watched
her with quiet amusement as she presided,
distributing her gracious, condescending little
speeches broadcast, and enjoying to the full
the subdued whispers of admiring criticism
that she knew her pretty smiles and dainty
laces and picturesque gown were exciting.
He was glad that she should be enjoying herself,
but wished he hadn't seen poor Mary's
downcast look when sent back to her duties.
He must see that it was made up to her later ;
and meanwhile the feast was going merrily,
and Mrs. Bates and Mrs. Goodliffe were deep
in interchange of confidences, with the Vicar
and the Major for heroes ; and the good things
went round — the good things of a repast never
equalled in the most fashionable novel that

anyone had ever read — with gold plate, and
hot-house fruit and flowers, and ices and
marvels of confectionery; and with the dessert
came the crowning moment of Amy's life at
Alt car.

There was a moment of expectation, no one
knew exactly for what. Mr. Renwick thought
Grace," and looked at Eustace for instructions.
The brewery clerk wondered if there
was going to be any speaking, and if so,
whether it wouldn't fall to him to propose
the ladies ;" but, on a sign from Amy, the
door was flung widely open, the footman
announced sonorously, " Miss Esmce Stannard,"
and there entered majestically a procession
of three.

First, a little heap of fine linen and rich
lace over shimmering satin, borne aloft in the
arms of, secondly, a dignified nurse, rustling
in black silk and clanking with jet ; lastly, a
subordinate carrying a load of spare fleecy
wraps.

The thrill that the apparition of a baby
always seems to excite amongst womankind

vol. in. 42

of every station of life ran through the feminine
portion of the assemblage, and even the
less impressionable masculine element was
stirred with interest when the pretty childish
mother rose, and, taking the other infant in
her arm?, turned to the company and said,
with the dignity of a Queen Regent displaying
an infant monarch to the populace : "I felt
I could not let you go without seeing my
daughter ; the only representative of the line
of Altcar in this generation."

Without enquiring into the precise significance
of this description, it sounded sufficiently
impressive to warrant a burst of general enthusiasm.
De Cressy, full of his nation's chivalry,
sprang to his feet, and with a " Moriamur-
pro-Rege-nostro-Maria- Theresa" air, raised,
not his sword, but his glass on high, and gave
Miss Esmee Stannard's health, with three
times three !" received with tumultuous acclaim.
Then the Queen-mother made her stately progress
round the room with the royal infant,
allowing each in turn a look, a touch of the
baby majesty's soft hand, or whatever other

token of devotion and loyalty suggested itself ;
in the midst of which a door at the other end
of the room opened, and Lord Altcar, Mary
and Lady Archdale appeared, attracted by the
burst of clamour.

Hullo! what's this? Handing the last
entree round?" asked Lord Altcar, not altogether
inaudibly.

Amy cast him a glance of wounded feeling
in return for the cruel jest. ' ; This is not a
house for children," she murmured, nestling
up to Lady Archdale. " I keep my poor little
daughter as much out of sight as possible, and
steal away when I can to the nursery for an
hour's play with her."

Lady Archdale and all the rest within hearing
looked touched and sympathetic, while
the nurse pursed up her lips dubiously and
received the baby with the elegance imposed
by a stiff, tight waist and two delicately ruffled
wrists ; and then the procession departed with
the same state with which it entered.

Almost as good as the bonfires and shouting
retainers," Eustace could not help 



ing as Amy passed him, whereon she fluttered
back to her seat by de Cressy like a wounded
dove.

Lord Altcar meanwhile was addressing his
guests and explaining the programme for the
rest of the day. Boats were in readiness to
convey those who didn't prefer driving to the
point nearest to the scene of the Foresters'
Fete in Lord Ingilby's park ; after exhausting
which entertainment a ramble through the
woods would bring the party to the castle
ruins, where a gipsy tea was to be disposed
of. There was to be a miscellaneous entertainment
at the schoolroom later on, after
which fireworks, a torch-light procession, and
supper were to conclude the day's amusement.

Even the baby's reception was eclipsed by
the burst of applause which followed this
announcement. Mr. Renwick almost forgot
grace entirely, before, with one accord, the
assemblage rose to prepare for an immediate
start a-pleasuring.

"You are making a magnificent entertainment
of it," said Eustace to his father as they

lingered in the hall ; ,; someone has taken
some trouble to get all this up."

It's our good little Mary here. I haven't
seen her so keen about anything before. It
has been a real comfort to me to find out
something I could do to give her pleasure.
After all it's not much. Lord Ingilby is a
Forester, or a Druid, or both ; at any rate, he
always throws his grounds open on these occasions,
and gives a sort of entertainment to his
tenants. It was only to join forces with him
this year. Hullo, Mary ! What are you doing
there? Where's your bonnet?"

I'm not going out," answered Mary with
a dim little smile, proceeding on her way to
Lady Alt car's rooms.

Not going with them? Then who is?"
barring her passage — ;; you're not going in
there, anyway. Mrs. Burnett has got back,
and Esmee doesn't want to set eyes on you
again till bed-time."

But — but Lady Archdale is not going-out.
Someone ought to stay with her,"
objected Mary, still downcast.

Where's Mrs. Randolf ? Didn't she say
nothing should induce her to go to the Fete ?
Why can't she stop and entertain her ?"

But she is going. She is putting on her
walking-dress "

Are you talking of my mother ?" asked
Hester, tripping up. " She is disposed of for
the afternoon. She is to be driven over to
see her old school fellow, Lady Ingilby, and
we are to be trusted to chaperon ourselves for
the rest of the day."

There! you hear. Now be off, and don't
keep everybody waiting." And off sped Mary,
her sedate little feet almost dancing in the joy
of her deliverance. She was in plenty of time
after all, and was ready before Mrs. Randolf.

It was not the work of a minute to assume
the coquettish boating costume and sailor hat
that eventually delighted the eyes of Amy's
admirers. The rest had dispersed to make
the tour of garden, greenhouse, or Home
Farm, as various fancies led ; and when she
reappeared only de Cressy was visible, in
dutiful attendance on her pleasure.

All gone but you?" she said, with a little
plaintive smile. " Why did you wait forme
?"

"No. They haven't started yet. Is this
the way?" — for Amy was crossing the lawn
in a different direction to the broad path
leading down to the water's edge, where at
the landing-place was moored a whole flotilla
of different sized craft ; from the great gaily -
decked barge with a band on board, whose
powerful horse was lazily cropping the grass
beside the tow-path, through various styles of
tub, down to the Rector's canoe.

i; Ah ! I forget you would rather be with
the others. I cannot bear to be a kill-joy,
and yet there are times when I feel as if their
noisy mirth would madden me. Listen !" and
she turned and laid a tiny hand on de Cressy's
arm. They had gained the shelter of a little
thicket of flowering shrubs within sound of
the ripple and wash of the river. From the
landing-place came voices laughing, calling,
joking, in all the fun and excitement of embarkation.
The band on the barge began to

bray out cheerfully an air from " Patience,"
there was an irregular splashing of oars, and an
occasional shriek from some nervous passenger.

Can you blame me for having no heart for
it all ?" Amy demanded, with reproach in
her blue eyes. De Cressy felt as great a brute
as if he had done any such thing, and eagerly
suggested a compromise, to let the others start
and follow them leisurely at a long interval,
thereby reducing the strain on Amy's feelings
to a minimum.

Slowly drifting down the stream in the
wake of the distant music, under the green
arching branches, stopping to gather handful s
of wild flowers, or sweeping out again into the
sunshine over golden sand and shallow, misgivings
did now and again arise in the Curate's
mind that listening to Amy's sorrows, told
over a lapful of forget-me-nots, with her eyes
as blue looking into his for sympathy, was
not precisely the help he was expected to give
that day; but he comforted himself with the
reflection that the others had Hester and the
Yicar.

To the light-hearted — the lighthearted.
Let those who have known the sadness of
life minister to each other's griefs;" and he
turned to the forget-me-not eyes with new
sympathy.

A CALL FOR HELP.

\T was in no holiday spirit that Hester
had begun that day. A weight lay
like lead at her heart ; a weight
that would have dragged her back from any
pleasure seeking of her own; that urged her
to rash and unreasoning efforts to rid herself
of its burden. To wild visions of a personal
interview with Mr. Meynell ; of appealing to
Daddy to use his influence — she did not quite
know to what end : of going" herself to Shorn-cliffs
to make enquiries. She could not sit
with her hands folded while days were flying
and detectives were blundering, and Edric's
own people writing anxious appeals and
offering increased rewards unavailingly, and Sir

John driving her mad by ominous shakes of
the head and references to " that unlucky lad,
Sanderson." " Oh, to be a man and a brother
officer for one brief day !"

You'd be at Portsmouth, then, and no
better off that I can see," was Master Jock's
comment.

Hester was pressing on with his likeness at
every available hour, partly moved by gratitude
to her mother for acting so handsomely in
the Bank Holiday difficulty, partly by the consideration
that the last remnants of the young
gentleman's infantile loveliness were fast disappearing.
They had early morning sittings
and picnic breakfasts together in the studio,
before the day got hot or Jock cantankerous.
They shortened the long, light, sleepless nights
for Hester, and were a source of huge delight
to her model.

Jock and Fraulein were o;oino; off on
some private expedition of their own on that
special Monday. " You'll come to me all
the same at six tomorrow ?" Hester bested

CO

him.

All right, but you must have sausages.
Xo? Eggs then, and me to boil them."

Hester agreed, with a further promise of
marmalade.

And a story. A good one. I'll tell you
what. I'll have all about Mr. Poynter."

Mr. Poynter ! Why ? What do you
know about him ?"

Lots. You bet. I know what Fraulein
and Mr. che Cressy were saying last night in
the gardens, when she thought I'd gone in to
bed."

Don't say 'you bet,' and tell me directly."
But Jock only crowed like a cock.

Next morning, when he had lighted the
little gas-stove, boiled two eggs, one hard and
one soft, by the cook's egg-boiler, opened a
fresh pot of marmalade and made a telephone
of the bladder, he repeated his demand, and
listened with a queer knowing air to his sister's
version of the story that was never done
telling itself over and over again in her poor
little tormented brain.

Is that all ? Didn't they find blood anywhere

? Hadn't he a mortal enemy ? Do you
think he's in disguise ? — Xo ? I know he's
dead, though."

Why, Jock ? What did you hear V
You ask Mr. de Cressy. I'm to keep my
mouth quiet — you've just said so." Nor could
threats or entreaties extract more. She had at
first been feverishly anxious for a chance of
questioning the Curate, but Fate and the Hon.
Mrs. Randolf were too many for her that afternoon
; and she suffered the cares of the expedition
to absorb her as no personal ones could
have done. To be always at hand for everybody's
reference in everybody's emergency was
the smallest part of her self-imposed duty, and
her first quiet moment was when she found
herself with some of the youngest and wildest
girls in a boat, on the watch to prevent their
upsetting themselves or it in their wild
ecstasies at the sight of the flowing water, the
great bulrushes nodding over their heads, the
tufts of scented meadow-sweet and purple
loose strife. Snatches of talk from the two
ffirls in the bows floated to her over the

head and shoulders of the boatman in the
middle.

Believe it or not, as you like, Nelly Parsons
— I saw her with my own eyes."

Elsie Paramount ! In a carriage ! With
a lace sunshade ! I like that !"

I'll just tell you how it was " — here Hester
lost the sense — " like any Duchess ; only she
paid ready money. I wasn't serving, so I
went and gave a look " — " open carriage and
pair, and in the corner Elsie Paramount as
plain as I see you — she kept her sunshade
down, you know" — "only her old shabby
black straw hat on " — " Eddie Ridge says she
hasn't been home for a day or two."

Hester began to feel languidly curious, and
would have asked for more particulars, when
the boatman stopped pulling.

Someone hailing us, miss. Can you
hear ?"

Hester heard an eldritch screech from the
bank above, and perceived a small 
making vigorous signs as lie burst
through a low fence and shrieked some

words which were drowned by the sound of
the band in the barge which was following
them.

He wants Mr. Stannard," said Hester.
He is in one of the first boats. He started
long before us."

The boatman shouted to the boat in advance
to " Pass it on !" and after some little time,
for they had been coming fast down with the
stream, Eustace met them returning, having
disposed of his boat-load. They had shot out
from between the high banks to the lower
level of the water-meadows, and between the
rows of mop-headed poplars could see the
fields beyond, across which a horseman was
rapidly approaching, waving something yellow.

"It's my father!" Eustace called to Hester
in some alarm. " What can be the matter ?"

Lord Altcar reined in his smoking horse,
patting its neck.

A brisk ten minutes that, old boy ! I
believe I'm hotter than you, though !"

Eustace scrambled to shore through the
sedges and took the telegram.

It came a quarter of an hour ago. Just
as Brickbat came round, as luck would have
it. In another five minutes I should have
been off. I knew if I could catch you
here there would be a mile of road saved,
besides the chance of missing you altogether
once you got into the park. What's it
all about ?" tossing a shilling to the
rook-boy, who grinned, ducked, and disappeared.


Lord Altcar, in his days of Parliamentary
work, had had a private wire laid to the
Court, and for the convenience of the neighbourhood,
which was not large enough to
have an office of its own, still kept it up,
though not without many a grumble at the
useless expense.

Who's Meynell, and what does he want
you for ?"

Eustace was asking himself the same question,
wondering.

It was addressed to him from the nearest
telegraph - office to St. Fridolin's, and
ran :

Come to me at once. I am in great
trouble. The worst has happened. I shall
await your reply here."

You see he has been to St. Fridolin's in
search of me. I ought to go to him at once ;
but when is there a train ?"

"Not till late from Alt car, but one stops at
Ingildyke — the station j 11st beyond the Park.
You had better take Brickbat — that'll give
you plenty of time ; but can you desert your
flock in this way V

De Cressy will " the Yicar began,

but stopped with a flush of annoyance ;
Lionel and his fair freight were nowhere
visible. Only the great barge came slowly
trailing along, stopping at a shout from
Eustace.

In it was Mr. Renwick, and in him was
comfort to be found. He undertook at once
the charge of the rest of the day's entertainment,
and, moreover, promised to escort the
party up to town, spending the night at St.
Fridolin's.

vol. in. 43

As you are going back to the Court, will
you telegraph my reply for me?" Eustace
asked his father, pencilling on a card as he
spoke. " Here it is, ' Coming back at once.
Train arrives ' when ?"

It's a slow one. You'll not get in before
seven."

There it is, then. Will you give my love
to my mother and explain the case V

"But what am I to explain % What does
the man want with you V

That I don't know. It's his wanting meat
all that is the alarming thing. Do you
know anything of the family?"

u No, except by name. Stop. Don't
hurry," as his son was about to mount.
You'll only have to wait at Ingildyke.
Tell me, who is that most charming girl ?"

Which one ? Do you mean Miss Arch-dale?"


So she is not your lost Pearl, eh?" said
Lord Altcar, in a lowered voice, replying to
Eustace's tone rather than to his words. " I'm
uncommonly sorry to hear it. She is a girl

after my own heart. I mean to join the party
presently just to make friends with her.
There's a look in her face that shouldn't he
there. As for yourself, Eustace 5 '

But Eustace swung himself into the saddle,
and Brickbat gave an impatient little dance,
cutting short his words. He gave more than
one sharp, scrutinising side way glance at his
son's face as he walked beside him to the
corner of the field where a gate had to be
opened.

Come down again soon. I would have
run up to town before this, only I didn't like
leaving your mother and Mary to the mercy
of that little hussy, Mrs. Ranclolf. Eustace !"
in a sudden explosion of feeling. " Can you
stand the thought of that minx as mistress
here ? I swear I'll live to a hundred rather
than give her the chance! If I thought I
couldn't, I'd set to work to-day and construct
a will that should throw the property into
Chancery for generations to come."

Eustace laughed as he turned Brickbat's
head in the direction of Ingildyke, and listened

43—2

to some last shouted directions about leaving
him in the Stationmaster's care to await the
groom's arrival, but the laugh was a bitter
one. His father's words had touched him
more deeply than he cared to show. The lost
Pearl ! Ah me ! Was the old wound never
to heal ? Must he go till the day of his death
wincing at the random touch of a careless
finger ? He had always told himself that it
w r as a pitiful thing for a man to let his life be
spoilt by a woman. There was a time for love-sickness
in every man's life, he had supposed,
but the attack would pass, and it must be a
poor constitution that it could permanently
enfeeble.

He laughed again more bitterly as he ran
over all his old cut-and-dry axioms. His
scheme of life had been so perfect. It had
been a deliberate attempt to arrive at his own
actual value that had taken him to St. Fridolin's,
and it was reserved for him there to
learn the full extent of his weakness and his
strength. There she had come smiling by,
and witched the heart out of him with a

bright glance and a few soft words, and at
first he had all but hated her for it. And
there, one day, he knew not how, there had
come to him a knowledge — bitter-sweet,
poignant, exquisite — that he held in his hand
the destinies of two, not one alone as he had
fancied. He had done his utmost gently to
unlink and dissever the thread of his life from
hers, and now that he had succeeded was he
to waste his later days in bewailing his success
? Was he not strong enough to set
before himself other hopes and aims ? Was
there no other woman in the world in whose
love, if he might win it, rest and joy might
yet be found ? He asked himself the question
indignantly, and something answered for him,
41 No ! A thousand times no !"

He thought of his father's words and of
Hester, then put the thought away with a
quick repulsion, as if he were offering her
some indignity. Not Hester, nor another,
was for him while his life should endure. He
saw his future barren and chill but clear before
him, and now let the dead past bury its dead.

After which conclusion he settled himself back
in the carriage and thought over every look
and word of Mrs. Damien's from the first
moment he had beheld her to the last.

The train took its leisurely way back to
town, and the smoke of London had gathered
round him before his thoughts returned to the
cause of his journey, and he began to wonder
at Mr. Meynell's summons. He had not
arrived at any conclusion by the time the
train entered the station, and on the platform
he caught a glimpse of a face he could hardly
believe to be Oliver Meynell's — so white and
ghastly was it — peering anxiously into each
carriage as it drew up.

You've come," he said, with a gasp of
relief, as Eustace got out. " I thought you
would, though I could explain nothing in my
message. The carriage is here. AYill you come
home with me?"

Seen in the gloom of the carriage his face
looked whiter and more scared than at first.
He cowered into a corner and sat silent till the
Vicar made some exclamation on seeing that

they were driving to Seagrave Place instead of
Queen's Gate.

Do you live here now?" he asked.

Here? Xo. That is, I am here at present
since Sunday. The Brants are away, and I
cannot go home to Constance and the children
with this hanoinof over me."

He said no more till they were alone together
in the great, empty, gloomy diningroom.
The butler hastened to fetch lights,
but his master ordered them away impatiently,
and they sat in the gathering twilight.

What did you suppose I meant by that
message?" he asked, standing upright on the
rug before the empty fireplace.

11 1 have been trying in vain to imagine.
Something serious has happened. Nothing
else would warrant the wording. I am at a
loss to understand why you should need
me."

Because I felt I could not live through
another day alone with the knowledge I have
gained," broke in Meynell, in a tone so like
his mother's that Eustace started. i; You

know the story. It comes from a fresh
quarter this time, that is all. I had a visit
on Saturday from Stephen Magrath."

I don't believe it," said Eustace, sturdily.
In the first place, he doesn't exist."

He does. He says he had his own reasons
for leaving America quietly, which may explain
the report of his death."

And he made some claim upon you?"

And a good one. Stannard !" — approaching
and laying a heavy hand on his arm —
that man — Stephen Magrath as he calls
himself — is my elder brother."

I don't believe it," again said the Yicar,
but Meynell was silent. " What is his story?"
he asked.

His reputed mother confided his whole
history to him, and gave him, by way of
token, some few valuables that she had preserved
— a miniature of his father, his signet-ring,
watch and chain ; and with these as
credentials he contrived to gain admission to
my mother, I don't know how or when, but
recently, within the last twelve months. She

grave him a letter to be given to me after her
death, acknowledging him and pra) T ing me todo
the same. Poor mother! poor mother!
Xo wonder we often thought her mind wandering
or How could she live without the burden
of this secret driving her raving mad ?"

Eustace was always touched by the change
in the dry harsh tone that the mention of
Lady Valerian caused. Devotion to her was
as nearly a passion as the man had ever felt
in the course of his formal, orderly, measured
existence. He walked to the window, and,
leaning on the frame, gazing out into the
dusky street, added in a strained, low tone,
She says she could not look in my face
again, knowing that I knew her story. Why,
do you think, should she say that?"

"How can I tell?" said the other, almost
roughly in his alarm.

She was afraid you would be angry at
finding yourself supplanted." Then impatiently,
as Meynell shook his head : " Then
she feared you would resent her want of confidence
in you — this long concealment of

anything so important to the family. Won't
that account for it?"

He longed to hear Meynell's answer, while
recollections of some of Lady Valerian's wild
words and his own wilder imaginings flashed
across his mind, and his heart filled with a
great pity and dread. But Meynell was silent.

Tell me more about this man," after a
long pause. " What is he going to do next ?
What are you ^oino; to do?"

"What can I do? If I could doubt him,
could I doubt my mother ? She writes as
one convinced. She lays stress on the likeness
" He broke off abruptly, and

walked up and down the room a few times.
"Magrath spoke fairly enough. No threats
or big words. He of his own accord suggested
waiting two days for my decision. I have
been able to do nothing meanwhile." (Eustace
caught himself wondering whether Mr.
Magrath might not possibly have taken the
fact of the two days being Sunday and
Bank Holiday into consideration himself.)
Nothing but wait and wait."

After all, what do you want me here for?"
asked Eustace, not unnaturally.

If Oliver had spoken the truth he would
have answered, u To persuade me out of my
reluctant belief;" but that he could not do.
'* I wanted to see you and tell you all this
to-night, for I must have my answer ready
tomorrow morning. He is to come here at
ten. You will come, too ? I shall need a
witness."

I am to regard Magrath's position as an
established fact ? You don't want any help
from me in disputing the claim?" Eustace
asked, only half satisfied. ' ; What does he
claim?"

"I do not know yet. He must go over it
all again to you. I have thought it out, and
each time it seems more conclusive to me,"
said Meynell, with an uncertain, despondent
look.

It's not quite in my line — I mean, had
you not better consult with your leal
advisers % It seems such a very serious
undertaking — bringing an elder brother into

the family on his own simple assertion.
I think your sister has some right to be
consulted."

Mabel ? No, no ! Perhaps she need
never hear of it." Oliver spoke hastily, ina
shaking voice. " It need not affect her in
any way. Any money claims / can satisfy."

You think he'll be satisfied with money,
without further recognition V Eustace was
getting more and more dissatisfied himself.
He longed, to ring for lights and have a good
look at Meynell's face. Sitting in the dark,
hearing these despondent, uncertain remarks
in reply seemed to confuse him. " If your
mind is quite made up as to the course you
mean to take, and I am only wanted as a
friendly witness, I can have no objection to
assist you so far. I shall come at ten
tomorrow, then."

Can you not come sooner % Come to
breakfast. I will send the carriage," Oliver
begged eagerly. " I may have more to say to
you. She trusted you, and I know I have
3 7 our sympathy."



That you have," spoke Eustace, cordially,
giving the limp hand placed in his a hearty
clasp. " I must confess I don't enter into
your views of the situation, but I am content
to be left in the dark."

I should have thought you might have
seen that I hope — I humbly strive — to take
this dispensation in a right spirit," said
Oliver, nervously and hastily. " L — I — a —
accept it as chastisement, and bow before the
rod. I may have been setting inordinate
store by the things of this world, and this
may be sent as a warning." Eustace dropped
his hand, but he went on as if he were repeating
a prepared speech, gaining confidence at
the sound of his own voice. " These are not
the worldling's views, but as a minister you
might have been expected to enter into them.
I might have counted on spiritual counsel
and — prayer" (this last with a gulp, as if he
should have disliked it uncommonly) ; "as it
is" (in sudden apprehension of Eustace proffering
one or the other), "I will say goodbye."
The limp hand had grown suddenly

hot and twitched uneasily, Eustace felt, before
he dropped it. " Is the man trying to take
in himself or me ¥' he thought as he walked
down the street. " Both, I verily believe. I don't
know yet what made him send for me, but it
strikes me forcibly that for all the good I can
<lo him I might as well have stayed at Altcar."

STEPHEN Marat CLAIMS HIS BIRTHRIGHT.

s<!HE few who attended the early
service at St. Fridolin's next
morning were much impressed
by the sight of the Meynell carriage in
waiting to carry off the Vicar at its conclusion.
It was earlier by twenty minutes
than the hour named when Eustace found
himself in the house in Seagrave Place. He
found the banker restlessly pacing to and
fro in the dining-room, looking haggard and
worn, with hollow, anxious eyes and hot,
shaking hands. Eustace regarded him wonderingly.
He recognised fully the gravity
of the situation, which had in truth cost him

a wakeful hour or two that night; but he
had not believed it in Oliver Meynell's cool,
languid-blooded nature to take anything
deeply to heart; and here he was, advancing
to meet him with the faltering step and bent
head of a man made old in a night by sudden
calamity.

"It is good of you to come. I am very
lonely here," he said in a low, hoarse
voice.

I am glad to be of any service," said
the Yicar, with the expression of friendly
neutrality he had resolved to himself to maintain.
" I wish you had selected a more
competent adviser."

You had my mother's confidence," said
Oliver, hastily. Then, with a wistful look:
I wonder how this business appears to you
as an impartial observer ?"

There can be only two ways of looking
at it," answered Eustace, in spite of his
determination to express no opinions whatever.
" This man Ave are expecting either
is your brother, or he is not. In the first

case he ought to be acknowledged and received
into the family — if there is no good
reason to the contrary. In the second, he is
an impostor whom it is your duty to resist
and expose — unless you have your own
reasons for letting him off. In either case
you give me to understand that he is to be
regarded as a dispensation of Providence, and
I am pledged to suspend all judgment."

Mr. Meynell had sunk into a great leather-covered
chair beside the fireless hearth. He
held the arms in each hand, and sat with his
head bent down.

'• That is it," he said, softly and low, without
raising it. ;; You have guessed the truth.
God help me!"

I was dealing insincerely with you last
night," he went on with an effort. " I was
trying to deceive myself. I can't light this
man, and he knows it ; and I can't tell you
why. I admit his claim — not that I believe it ;
the man himself inspires me with mistrust ;
and yet I feel if his story were tenfold more
unlikely I should do just as I am doing now.
I have thought of it in the night-watches; I

VOL. III. 44

have tried to bring myself to send for Dr.
Bards well as a faithful minister who should
deal with the matter righteously, and I cannot.
What am I to do ?"

Wait. That is the one thing certain. We
must see and hear this man, and judge him
fairly. That is the one clear duty. After
that, if any sacrifice such as you dread is demanded
of you, remember that you will not
be alone in making it, and your sister has a
riffht to hear and iudo;e for herself first. That

O JO

is the plain sense of the matter."

He spoke as a worldling, and was careful todo
so. He knew that was expected of him for
one thing ; and for another, had he taken
higher grounds he would have utterly failed
to afford any satisfaction to his hearer, who
only brought himself to tolerate him as a
man by ignoring him in the capacity of a
priest, though he recognised it oddly enough
in the next five minutes.

Thank you. Xo, I suppose there is nothing
else to be done. Now here is breakfast,"
and he rose to his feet, and turned his back to
the opening door.

The butler entered, bearing, however, not a
tray, but a massive Bible and book of Family
Prayers. He was followed by the household,
reduced to a scanty train in these later days,
two of whom carried a small red-covered bench,
in front of which they ranged themselves indue
order of precedence, in waiting for Oliver
to officiate.

I can't!" he exclaimed, under his breath.
I am too ill and unstrung. But I cannot let
them see it. Will you take my place? As
you are a clergyman they will not think it
strange." So it came to pass, by one of Fate's
odd vagaries, that Eustace Stannard conducted
family devotions in the house of the Meynells !

The breakfast that followed would have been
a very nominal repast as far as Oliver was
concerned, had it not been from his sense of
hospitality. It was long and elaborate, and
carefully served, and answered one good purpose
: that of getting through the interval
that lay before ten o'clock.

Ashen it ended at last and they left the room
for the library, it wanted but a few minutes of
that hour.

44—2
LIBRARY

UNIVERSE of uxmoto

The r kept silence at first by mutual consent,
till the very ticking of the clock grew oppressive.
Mr. Meynell drew out his watch and
compared it in silence ; then walked restlessly
from door to window, sitting down at last
cowering and shivering as with cold.

He is late," he said, speaking at last.

No. It is just the hour." As Eustace
answered, the clock struck and a knock
sounded on the door outside.

Mr. Meynell seemed to gather himself
together at the sound, rose from his chair, and
stood a sort of ghastly shadow of his usual
important self, upright and dignified, on the
hearthrug.

A gentleman to see you, sir," the butler
announced, and the new-comer entered.

A man of middle height, well dressed in the
usual morning attire of an English gentleman :
dark hair, slightly grizzled on the temples ;
with a silky black moustache and wavy small
beard on the chin only ; complexion tanned ;
a quiet, watchful eye and a flash of white teeth
when he spoke or smiled.

There was something foreign about him ;

perhaps his figure, which was that of a corpulent
Frenchman, before he abandons all hope of
girding himself into symmetry ; perhaps his
shiny pointed-toed little boots \ perhaps a certain
florid city of speech and gesture.

So much the Vicar noticed while the man
crossed the room and extended his hand to Mr.
Meynell, who, after a second's hesitation, took
it ; and then turned on Mr. Stannard with an
enquiring look, and as one who had the right
to enquire.

; My friend Mr. Stannard, of St. Fridolin's,"
said the banker. " He was in Lady Valerian's
entire confidence, and in justice to her memory
I wish him to be here."

Eustace detected a certain flash of recognition
as his name was mentioned, but the
stranger only bowed politely.

a Ah! Her ladyship's spiritual adviser,"
he murmured. ' : Now, will you kindly present
me to Mr. Stannard?"

Meynell winced. " I have already explained
who you are. The supposed son of
Lady Valerian's foster-mother, claiming to be in
reality my elder brother."

That's so, and I'm prepared to prove it.
That's what I am. The son of Lady A r algeria

by her marriage with " He stopped

abruptly, for Meynell had raised his hand
suddenly, as if to ward off a descending-blow.


Suppose we leave names out for the present?"
he asked, with a quick glance and nod
of comprehension. " It's facts we have to settle
first. Names aren't wanted between friends.
We'll consider the question of the first marriage
as settled. / don't want to dispute it.
Maybe you do, though?"

That marriage will never be questioned by
me," spoke Oliver, firmly and defiantly.

The other drew a long breath, whether of
relief or astonishment Eustace could not divine.
You know you give me points by saying
so?" he asked, stroking his glossy imperial
and looking at him with half-contemptuous
admiration. " You know I don't mind admitting,
if you had pressed that point, I might
have had some difficulty in making out my
case. My respected progenitor — long ago
gone over to the majority — has doubtless

repented his culpable carelessness with regard
to his son and heir's interests. But you, my
brother, make amends for all," he continued
in an outburst of admiration : "you have the
sentiments of a good son and a true gentleman.
I, too, hope to show that I am at one with
you in all that concerns the family honour.
The circumstances of my early life and training
may have been against me, but I trust to
prove that the sentiments innate in the heart
of a gentleman exist and are paramount here"
and he drew himself up and laid one hand on
his breast with an air — theatrical, perhaps —
but which seemed to come naturally to the
man. " Let the marriage be admitted by you.
Let me feel that you in your heart acknowledge
my claim to a brother's place, and I gladly do
my share ; and for the sake of one equally dear
to us both I resign from this moment name,
kindred, social position, and am content to die
as I have lived, plain Stephen Magrath."

Magrath's voice shook, and he stopped as
if affected at the contemplation of his own
magnanimity. Eustace looked at Meynell,
who made no response, but stood dejectedly

leaning against the mantelpiece, his face
shadowed by his hand.

There are still a few formalities to begone
through before we proceed to discuss
future arrangements," he observed. " You
are prepared to prove your identity with the
boy that Stephen Magrath and Bridget, his
wife, took out With them to America?"
Magrath nodded. " He was well known to
many residents in Petropolis, and was always
considered to be dead and buried."

The man's face fell for an instant. " Do
they really think me dead, then?" he asked.
I wasn't on good terms with them when we
parted. They were all jealous of me. Couldn't
understand why I was always treated better
than the others. Poor old Biddy. She kept
the secret well."

He paused, and meditated for a moment.
If they really think me dead," he began,
addressing Meynell, "isn't it better to leave
it so? Why should we take them into our
confidence ? I have been taking steps to
obtain evidence from Petropolis ; but I will
give that up, unless you require it. It would

of course be so much more time gained for
you," he added, with a frank smile.

It might be advisable for you to do so,"
the Vicar assented gravely. " Your story
hardly fits in with that of your relations out
there. Then, supposing that difficulty disposed
of, and that you are Stephen Magrath
of Petropolis, you have still to go a step
farther back and prove yourself Lady Valerian's
son."

For that I have my mother's letter given
to me with her own hand before her death,
fully acknowledging me, and begging her son
to do me justice. That would be one strong
argument for a jury' he said, as if to himself,
checking it on his finger. " Then my father's
portrait and signet-ring, his watch and chain
preserved for me by my reputed mother. She
felt the burden of her secret weigh heavy on
her as she grew old, but she dared not have
written to her foster-child even if she had
known how. She could only give me the
tokens, and beg me to go to Europe and do
the best I could for myself. I have shown
them to my brother there. They would be

three more pieces of evidence in my favour.
Fifth — pouf !" snapping his fingers with the
first approach to insolence in his tone — " I
have my case clear. Why waste time going
over it? The burden of disproof will rest
with you."

He turned boldly on Meynell, who shrank
back, helplessly.

What do you expect in case of — in case
we concede your claims?" he asked, miserably.
Marat smiled a little furtive smile of irrepressible
triumph.

Nay. That is for you to say," he answered,
courteously. " Offer to me what terms seem
to you just and worthy of you to offer, and I
shall not make difficulties."

The Vicar saw he had the game in his
hands, and that interference was useless.
Whatever the secret of Lady Valerian's marriage,
this man's knowledge of it gave him
power to make his own terms.

Do you mean that I am to give up Glenara
to you?"

"No, no, that would cause public scandal.
I do not desire that. Can we not make some

private arrangement? I am no man of business,
and am content to leave all details to
you. I have not been exactly brought up to
being an Irish landlord," he said, with a short
laugh, "and don't covet the berth ; so if you
see any way to commuting my claims, I'm
in. I've lived too long over there," with a jerk
of his head presumably in the direction of
America, " to take kindly to the old country's
ways at my time of life."

You would take money down and go
away?" asked Mr. Meynell, with a gleam of
hopefulness in his look. " How much?"

What was the last valuation of the Glenara
property V demanded Magrath, promptly.

Under sixteen thousand pounds. It has
just been revalued."

"Shall we say sixteen thousand, then? I
shall be strictly within my right in expecting
that, I assume. Sixteen thousand !" he repeated,
with a sort of lingering, admiring
affection. "It is much to receive, but I also
relinquish much."

Indeed? You propose to relinquish ?"

The distinction of being openly acknowledged

as a relation would be much to me, I
confess," said Mag-hath, with a wave of his
hand. " 1 may have cherished my small
ambitions with respect to a position in
English society, to which, I trust, I should
have been found equal. But since, for family
reasons which Ave have agreed not to discuss,
this has been deemed inadvisable, T submit. I
do not even ask to see my sister Mabel. I
should have liked to have seen Mabel," he
repeated, regretfully drawing out one end
of his silky moustache to a point ; " but let
that go. You offer me the £16,000 in full
of all demands, with this gentleman for
witness, and I accept."

And what security do you offer that this
is to be the last of your claim?" asked
Eustace.

Sir ! Do you reflect that you are speaking
to a man of honour?" demanded Magrath,
sternly, though with a comical twinkle in his
eye that seemed to express his enjoyment of
his own performance.

Perfectly. But / speak as a man of
business, you see. There may follow demands

from — if not you — your heirs or representatives
some day for arrears of rent — no one
knows what — unless you make us safe against

it."

Mao-hath wave him another of those s;ood-
humoured, twinkling glances, so oddly at
variance with his exalted bearing, but replied
in the same tone of injured feeling : " Had
you honoured me with your attention for a
few moments longer, I would have explained
how I propose to place in the hands of my
brother forth with every token of my identity.
My mother's letters, my dead father's ring and
watch, his portrait and any further possessions
of his which I may' be able to obtain from
America. What more can I do than give him
the means of destroying my identity for ever,
if he shall so please?"

He extended his hand, on which was a
massive signet-ring, a sardonyx with a
peculiar setting. "It has names, dates, etc.,
inside," he explained. " I wear the watch
and chain. I have a fancy that I should like
to keep that, if you did not mind. The crest
and cipher should be taken off, and there

is nothing else remarkable about them, you
can see. Then," feeling in his breast-pocket
and producing a faded, blue velvet case with
a cipher in gold on the back, " we need
not open this — the likeness would speak
strongly to anyone who had known the
original, but will tell you nothing. There,
behold my inheritance! A valueless one but
for the knowledge in my brother's possession,
and this."

He drew out a pocket-book and selected
a paper, which he carefully unfolded and laid
before Eustace, who recognised the writing
before he read one word.

He looked at Oliver for permission, but
as he still stood silent and impassive, his face
half concealed by his hand, he read :

Oliver, my dearly loved and much
wronged son, have pity on me. With the full
knowledge of the love I bear you has come the
full knowledge of the wrong I have done you,
for you are doubly wronged. Not only must
I take from you your inheritance, but my love
must go with it to your supplanter. I cannot

help loving him — my eldest born. They took
him from me at his birth, but my love
endured. They told me he was dead, but
1 felt that he lived, and the hope has kept
me alive to this day. You can find out for
yourself the story of mv first marriage. It
was known to your father before he married
me — no, I cannot write to you about that.
Go to Mr. Stannard, of St. Fridolins, and ask
him to tell you what he knows. He did
his best for me, but it was not through him
that my lost one has been found aorain. He —
your brother — will bring you this. Not till I
am dead. You will forgive me more easily
then. Think of my piteous story, Oliver.
Think, could I look you in the face knowing
that you knew it? He will wait, he promises
me, and you will act honestly by him. I can
trust you. Ask him for j:>roofs, if you will ;
I need none. He has his father's face and
voice, and is, I solemnly declare to you, my
son — my very son, whom I shall see but once
more in this world. I write this in readiness
to give into his hands. I write it deliberately,
in my full senses. Ask your sister, who shall

witness my signature to this, though she
is ignorant of its contents. My good, dutiful
son, I grieve for you and your pain ; but I die
happy, trusting in your love and loyalty tome.
— Your Mother,

"Valerian Mary Meynell.
(Witnessed) Mabel Geraldine Brant,
14 June, 1882."

Eustace read the letter aloud, slowly and
thoughtfully. A low moan broke from Oliver
as he ceased, and Magrath heaved a decorous
sigh. : ' You will bear me witness that it
reached you with the seal unbroken. Rather
a heavy risk for an impostor to run, eh?"

Mr. Meynell turned on him wearily and
impatiently. There was evidently no further
fight to be expected from him.

''• You shall have your money. It may
take me some little time to raise such a sum ;
the property itself would not fetch the half
if we were forced to sell now "

Why sell?" interrupted Magrath, eagerly.
Pay me the value by instalments. I didn't
expect a cheque for the lot on the spot,.

though I shouldn't think you'd find any difficulty
in drawing one Pay me off in

so many months — by Christmas, if you like —
and come! I'll meet you fair and square.
I'll be content to deposit these valuables with
a mutual friend — let us say Mr. Stannard — in
the interval. He shall give me a receipt,
though!" with another confidential wink at
the clergyman.

"By Christmas? That is short enough
time for the arrangement I must make.
Shorter than law would have demanded. I
have to provide for Mabel's portion, too*'
Meynell said, with gloomy anxiety.

You don't think, then, that my sister and
brother-in-law would be willing to assist you
in bearing the inconvenience of this sudden
call'' enquired Magrath, with a veiled purpose
in the observation.

For your own sake I recommend you
not to make the experiment," was the hasty
answer. " Charles would not see the urgency
he would never agree to compromise. He
would demand that the whole case should be

vol. in. 45

carried into Court before he would listen to a
single argument in your favour!"

Well, for my own part, I should be far
from objecting to that course, " Magrath
observed, with a slight swagger. If he
merely spoke with a sort of light, gay
malignity to arouse Mr. Meynell, he succeeded.
Oliver turned furiously on him.

Dare to hint it ! Dare to threaten to open
your vile lips in public — to make her name
a scandal in men's mouths ! Man ! I would
kill you sooner. Take my money — if it were
my heart's blood it should be poured out like
water in her defence — but hold your peace,
at your peril ! If I am sinning in this, not
on me — not on you be the curse, but on him
the idle, flattering scoundrel who came into
her life to blast it in its girlhood ! Oh ! may
the burden of the woe he has caused rest on
his soul to all Eternity !"

Magrath nodded assent. " Bad luck to him
now and for ever by all means," he murmured
; then, looking at Meynell with new
respect as he turned away and buried his face
in his hands : " Poor devil!" he ejaculated ina

tone of heart-felt pity, i; he takes it hard.
If it were my — being my mother. I like him
for it. He won't get out of it at her expense :
you see " — in an explanatory parenthesis to
Eustace — " it's a high-toned line to take that
oughtn't have occurred to you or me." The
Vicar was too much absorbed watching his
friend to disclaim. He was witnessing an
unexpected revelation of Oliver Meynelhs
character, and was too full of interest sympathy
with the sacrifice being offered up before
his eyes to attend to the other for the moment.
Poor devil!" repeated* Magrath softly, and
approaching Meynell laid his hand gently on
his shoulder : " Cheer up, Mate !" he said, in
the first tones that Eustace recognised as
natural. " The game's not over at the first
deal." Meynell only motioned him away
with his hand, and he retreated, studying him
curiously with a sincere, half-contemptuous
pity ; in which Eustace could detect no trace,
however, of remorse or misgiving. " I suppose
he was uncommonly fond of her. If
I had guessed it would have gone with him

like this "

45— 2

You would doubtless have kept silence V
How do I know V enquired the other,
with his favourite meditative action of stroking
and twisting the long, fine tip of his silken
moustache to a point. " Who can speak for
himself in advance ? Yesterday I was Stephen
Magrath. To-day I am nameless. To-morrow
I shall be — who?"

Here Oliver Meynell lifted his ghastly face
and looked towards them. " I spoke hastily
and sinfully just now. I pray that my words
may not be reckoned against me ; they were
unworthy of a professing Christian. Such
a slip as may give the enemy occasion to
blaspheme."

Magrath looked horribly puzzled, but stroked
his moustache in silence, making a deprecatory
motion with his hand as if nothing were further
from his intention.

Go now ; I can trust myself no longer.
Go. You shall have your rights."

Eventually. Of that I am assured. I
candidly confess I should like the handling of
a note or two by way of earnest. Don't inconvenience
yourself. Notes, or cheque, or gold."

His eyes flamed as he watched Meynell open
his writing-table drawer and take out a cheque-book.
He stood looking over his shoulder
till he saw the amount filled in, when his hand
went up again to his mouth to conceal a smile
of complacency. He caught Eustace's eyes
fixed meaningly on him. He advanced to
the table with a flourish, and taking up a
sheet of letter-paper, made a neat, workmanlike
parcel of the letter, watch and chain r
miniature and ring ; Meynell handed him
string and wax, and he secured them carefully,
with an occasional glance of high content
at the tempting slip of paper in the banker's
hand. The work done, he turned solemnly
to Eustace. " Take this. In your hands now
rests the honour of the de Cressys. On the
day when my brother's last obligation is discharged
they are his, to deal with as he shall
see fit. Till then you will hold them in trust
for both of us." Eustace accepted the obligation
gravely, and wrote a carefully-worded
receipt which he handed to Magrath, who was
occupied in writing another for Meynell in a
neat, clerkly hand. He made a pause at the

signature, and a hot flush mounted to the
banker's pale cheeks as lie took the paper and
quickly put it out of sight. In another minute
Magrath had picked up his curly-brimmed
hat, bidden a graceful adieu to both, and with
a jocund step and smile departed.

To meet again'' he said, as the door
closed on him.

Meynell cast himself into a chair, all spent
and trembling.

Don't leave me just yet," he pleaded.

Eustace rang the bell, and meeting the
butler at the door gave him an order.

"I don't mean to go for some time," he
answered. " I have a great deal to say to you,
and when you have had a glass of wine, and
can listen quietly, you shall hear it."

He is a scoundrel," said Eustace, presently.
"No, that is too black a word — a rogue in
rain. He knows that we both disbelieve
him utterly, but as he has got you in a cleft
stick, he doesn't care even to take much
trouble to play his part thoroughly. I think
he anticipated a harder fight, though."

"My hands are tied," groaned Meynell.

He knows what I hoped even to conceal
from you."

The difficulty of proving your mother's
first marriage? That would have been his
affair, surely"' suggested Eustace, who, to tell
the truth, had been much exercised by the
apparent inconsistencies of the situation.

If he could, I'd take his hand and acknowledge
him before the whole world. Xo, it can
never be done. The man he calls his father
knew he was free. Knew it so well, that he
dared to leave my mother without another
message or sign. Dared openly, not many
years after, to marry another woman, and this
man knows it."

Lady Valerian had hinted as much, Eustace
could not but admit ; though then he had
taken refuge in unbelief. Even now he determined
not to be convinced, but mentally
marked that point for future examination.

How did this Magrath come by your
mother's letter, do you suppose ? Will you
give me something safer than paper to enclose
this precious parcel ? What a stroke of impudent
cleverness it was to make us the

custodians. He knows it's safe and accessible,
and prevents us making any attempt to
deprive him of it." There was a small, soft
leather case with a lock in MeyneU's writing-table
drawer. He gave it to Eustace, who
locked the little parcel inside and handed the
key to the banker. He was purposely avoiding
discussion till the wine which he had
poured out and pressed on Meynell should
have done its work. He had taken one £class
distastefully, then held it to be refilled. It
was fine, delicate, yet generous wine, brought
in their honour from the secret recesses of the
famous Meynell cellar. Port of the sunny
vintage days when this century was in the
young twenties. Not to be lightly squandered
on Lady Valerian's clerical friends, nor even the
Brants. Lord Charles was a blue ribbon, and
affected new-fashioned, fizzing messes, and her
ladyship anything gassy and sweet that called
itself champagne.

The sun and grape of Portugal did their
work well this day.

What can we do ?" asked Oliver, his voice
steadying as a pinker shade dawned on his

pallid cheek. " Is it possible you see a gleam
of hope for me ? I'd give twice that any day
to prove that this villain and my mother have
nothing in common. Do you — can you
believe that that letter is not hers V

"' Tell me, have you ever seen that runs;
before ? Think of it, and try hard to remember.
A sardonyx, and a very fine one ;
a deep-orange, flecked with brown " (Eustace
had had his gem-collecting fever in his time) ;
"and the setting— this," he pencilled the outline
on paper.

But Meynell only shook his head. " Xever
that I know of."

shave, I firmly believe, while by his own
showing that man was still in America.
Think again. Never on your mothers
hand?"

"Never!" spoke Meynell, positively this
time. " I know the rings she used to wear, and
this was never one."

u Then she must have put it on for a special
purpose the second evening I met her. I seem
to see it clearly. How her rings slid loosely
on her thin fingers, and this one all but fell

once. She looked at it, too, with a meaning
air, and seemed about to call my attention toit,
but checked herself. Yes, I could almost
swear to it."

How did he get it?"

How did he come by that letter ? I have
asked you that before. There is, I think, no
question of your mother having written it, but
not for him — that I cannot believe."

"For whom, then?" eagerly.

There you must help me. May she not
have written it under a delusion, for some
purely imaginary son ? That agent had buoyed
her up with hopes of meeting him again. If
we could but lay hands on her !" Meynell
shook his head sadly.

No, that won't do. I know she was not
herself many a time. I know from what my
father told me there were peculiarities about
her mania; strong delusions on some points,
while on all others she was perfectly rational.
But I cannot believe she would go so far as to
write this with nothing definite to go upon.
No, he has persuaded her into recognising him,
poor soul!"

Impossible!" Lady Valerian's wild words
still ran in the Vicar's head. " Young — quite
young ; tall and fair, like his father, with kind,
bright eyes — blue eyes !" Impossible for dark,
gipsy-faced Magrath to have passed for one
moment as the one she was seeking. " I
should like to have seen that miniature," he
said, regretfully.

: It was faded almost out of recognition,
but could never have been like him. There
was an inscription on the back, with the names
in full and the date," Meynell replied.

"He stole it! he forged it. The cipher on
the watch was too sharply cut to have been in
wearing as long as the rest of the case. If I
could have only had a watchmaker's opinion on
the state of the works. Meynell, you cannot
let this go on. It is impossible to see this
imposture flourishing before our eyes and not
strike it down. It must be done ; if only for
the sake of your mother's memory. Xo wrong,
of which she was the innocent victim, can be
so great as that a vulvar adventurer like this
should be permitted to make her his tool now
that she is dead."

He had started up, and made a few hurried
steps to and fro in the room. Meynell started
up too, and stood beside him, upright and
determined, his eyes alight.

You are right! It shall not go on. If I
had had the courage to trust you wholly from
the first I might not have given way as I have
done. It was the shock, so terrible and unexpected,
confirming what I had been gathering
with dread from my dead father and Lord
Kilmoyne's letters. I had been shutting my
eyes to the truth as long as I dared, and it
seemed to start up in this man's person and
strike me powerless. Let us only keep it all
from Mabel. Brant is, perhaps, not so
thoughtful of her as he might be, and if he
fancied there was madness in her family "

They need not know." Eustace stood
with bent head considering. " There ought
to be another chance for us. I feel it, if I can
but lay hold of it."

I wish you could stay with me," Meynell
said, with a sigh. " Alone with my thoughts
I begin to mistrust myself, till I feel as if my
mind were giving way. I must go to the

City to-day, though," he ended, with a sort of
satisfaction.

Eustace looked up. " That woman Euphrosyne.
What have you heard of her ?"

Nothing. The police here and in Paris
have been at work, but to no purpose."

Try them again. Offer double the reward.
She's our chance, Meynell, if we can
but lay hold of her. She is either working
with this man or on her own account. If the
latter, she will side with us against him. If
the former, she must be bought up, frightened,
worked upon till she confesses. Only let me
meet her face to face for half-an-hour "

You shall, if money can do it. You
shall do what you .please. I put myself in
your hands unreservedly. You have my full
authority to act as you think fit. Send forme
at any hour, night or day, and I'll come.
Tell me what you would have me do, and I'll
carry it out to the letter."

Meynell, in his excitement, seemed only
anxious to commit himself beyond all possibility
of retractation.

Don't pay off Magrath a day sooner than

you can help. Show no suspicion, and give
him as little as he will take at a time, and
go home straight to Mrs. Meynell and the
children. If they don't do you more good
than I can, I'll never offer a word of advice
again."

%< I do miss them woefully," with a faint,
half conscious smile. " You must see little
Yah some day. She is my mother's living
image. Yes, I'll go back to them."

Have you heard anemone of that poor
young Poynter V Eustace asked, as they
passed into the hall, and private topics must
be abandoned.

Not a word. The police are entirely at
fault. I shall withdraw the reward next
week. It was all one of Brant's mare's nests
from the first. 1 am sorry for the young
fellow, but I can have no conceivable interest
in finding him."

So the two parted — Meynell heartened and
hopeful in his own despite, Eustace to go back
to a long day of the labour in which he used
to delight, but which had lost its salt and
savour now for some reason. Life seemed

sometimes a very dreary, ugly, unholy mystery,
not worth the solving — sometimes, not
always. He had a brave, trustful nature,
though not a joyous one, and he had early
taken to himself the saying of the wise man
in its full truth : " There is in man a Higher
than love of happiness. He can do without
happiness, and in place thereof find blessedness."


WHAT LIONEL DE CRESSY SAW IN THE
CHURCHYARD.

E. PARAMOUNT wishes to speak
to you, sir," announced Mrs.
Goodliffe with no goodwill, as
she admitted her master on his return, late
and weary, from the parish round that had
occupied him from the time of his parting
from Oliver Meynell. " And dinner has been
waiting this hour," she added despondently.

"It's no use asking Mr. Paramount to
dinner. Bring some tea as soon as you
can," Eustace suggested, passing on to the
study.

The severe air of distant politeness that
the little old gentleman reserved expressly for

his Yicar had given place to limp dejection,
relieved by a dash of defiance at intervals.

I'm in trouble," he began, with a sudden
effort. " I don't say it's of your causing,
because I object to making a statement incapable
of proof. I don't expect you to be
sorry for it. I wouldn't come here to ask
your pity for myself. I am aware that in
your eyes I have been for long an inconvenient
worm that must be crushed and trampled out
of the way, and I make no objection. It's for
my little girl I want your help. She's always
been devoted enough to you to satisfy you,

sir."

Elsie ? Is she ill ? I am indeed sorry "

'*' Not in body. She's better and stronger
than she has been for years. She can walk
quite a distance now. It's her mind, sir, that's
ailing ; and as I'm of no account in her eyes,
I've come to see what you can do. Maybe
she'll tell you more than she will me," in a
tone of angry suspicion, which the Yicar let
pass.

I wish I could help her. I wish Mrs.
Damien were at home. It may be a case for

vol. in. 46

womanly help and counsel, not for the interference
of us clumsy, uncomprehending
men."

Maybe so. If my poor Emmy had lived
perhaps I haven't been so careful of her as
I ought. She's a good girl, and not a week
ago was singing over her work like a little
bird, and I — not being in spirits myself — was
sharp with her, but she never answered back.
She doesn't sing now."

Do you think a little change or company
"

When I said I'd get a holiday and take
her away, she fell a-crying and begged me
not. I'm fairly at my wits-end ;" and the
poor man rubbed his head distractedly.

What has become of her friend — her
fellow-lodger ?"

Mrs. Beltran? Gone away with her husband.
They've been to see Elsie since, and
had her to spend the day and go sight seeing.
It mayn't have been good for her; may have
set her murmuring at her lowly station."

The Vicar might have asked some questions
more, but that the door was flung open to

admit che Cressy, followed by Mrs. Goodlifte
with her tea-tray, at sight of which Mr.
Paramount would have risen and fled, bad
not de Cressy insisted on relating an astounding
School Board anecdote, which he was
bound to hear and discuss. De Cressy was
always solemnly exempted by the old gentleman
from the commination pronounced by
him on all the doings at St. Fridolin's — parties
being youthful and irresponsible — mainly
on account of his connection with a firm
which he held in deepest respect. A relative
of Meynell, Meynell, and Mott could not for
certain go very far astray.

Lionel made a few remarks on yesterday's
expedition, not feeling exactly satisfied as to
his own share therein.

Do you know if the Archdales stay long
in town?" Eustace asked suddenly, thinking
of entreating Hester's help for Elsie.

"lam not sure. Why, here is Miss Arch-dale
!" and three surprised faces greeted
Hester, as she tripped in, followed by Sir
John.

She laughed merrily. " My visit is to

46—2

Mrs. Goodliffe. Have you discovered your
loss yet V

The old lady looked up from her tray,
which she was busily rearranging with extra
tea-cups.

"Mine, Miss Hester? Why, no! Law!
If it isn't my rain-cloak ! Why, where did
it come from? Then whose did I bring home
last night?"

You and my mother exchanged, it appears,
but you left your purse in the pocket.
Yes, indeed, there it is. Mother would not
have slept to-night if I hadn't thought of
coming here at once with it."

Think of that ! I am ashamed. I am
indeed. You take sugar, miss ? And Sir

John r

Hester sat down by Mr. Paramount, speaking
softly and kindly to him about Elsie, till
he almost forgot that he was breaking bread
in the house of his enemy ; while Eustace
wondered at the quaint turn of chance that
brought him to share two meals in one day
with the two people in all the world most
unfriendly to him.

So they sat round the wide-open window in
the soft evening light, clear and warm though
moonless, talking or listening to de Cressy's
account of the humours of the Foresters' Fete
and the village concert, till Hester rose to go.

I want to ask you something first,' 1 she
said to the Curate, who was accompanying
them to the door. ' ; I will not detain you
long."

Sir John lingered behind, and they stepped
out together and passed through the churchyard
gate.

Jock overheard something he was not
intended to listen to the other day. Something
you said to Fraulein Klitz — about a
friend of mine — Mr. Poynter. Do you mind
telling me what it was V

"Miss Archdale — I couldn't — / To think
of your coming to ask me that question hereof
all places !"

Why here? x\nd why is it something I
may not hear? He is dead, I know." Her
lips quivered and her eyes grew appealing.
11 You cannot have worse news to tell me."

It was not in de Cressy to resist her; he

looked slightly embarrassed for a moment,
though.

It was nothing worth telling after all —
not to do any good, that is — and you'll be
only laughing at me, maybe, when you hear
it. Fraulein Klitz didn't, but she's credulous
and sentimental, and I couldn't help telling
her; it came out somehow in our conversation
the other night."

What came out, and what makes you
think I could do such a thing as laugh —
laugh?" the word came out with a half-sob.


It was this. That same night the poor
fellow disappeared, I saw him, Miss Archdale,
as plainly as I see you, standing on these very
flags, late at night, in the full light of the
moon."

Saw him — and you have told no one ?
The police "

Let me tell you how it was. You know
at that time we had no thought of what was
going to happen to him, of what had happened
to him, I firmly believe. It was the night of
our weekly practice here. Half-past seven to

half-past nine — and a very good one it had
been — there's a great deal of real musical
talent going about here, believe it or not.
Well, maybe we had stayed a trifle beyond
our time, and it might be ten o'clock by the
time everyone had gone, and young Kendall
and I had put the things up and the room to
rights, and turned the lights out. You seethe
gate over there," — pointing to the old
archway in the far corner at the head of the
little flight of steps, — 'that's supposed to be
locked every night, but for the convenience of
one or two of us it had been left open till the
practice was over, and I sent Kendall across
with the key to lock it. I stood at the window
watching him, for it was light as day. and ashe
disappeared by the West end of the church,
I saw a figure come slowly round the East
side. I thought it was some loiterer, and
watched him, meaning to send Rendall after
him when he came back. Then I suddenly
recognised him. It was Mr. Poynter, though
how I came to know it — or why he should be
there — I could not say. He crossed the
churchyard slowly, his head bent, to that

great stone you see under the plane-tree, and
sat down."

Why didn't you go out to him ¥'
"Why should II" was the not unnatural
answer. "I waited to see Avhat he would do
next. In a minute or two he rose and came
on here, right up to the window."

"Oh!" Hester caught his arm impulsively.
"And then?"

He stood looking full into my face, Miss
Archdale, with no more sight in his eyes than
the dead. He might have been walking in
his sleep, for anything he saw of me. I was
just frozen to the spot for a minute, and then
out I went after him. Just then round
the church came Rendall giving a shout as if
the place was on fire, and I stopped to
listen. When I looked round again, I was
alone."

He had passed out of this gate, of course.
Oh, why didn't you run after him ?"

"Why should I? We didn't suspect anything
wrong then, and that young donkey
Rendall was in such a panic, it put everything
else out of my head. Some of those little

blackguards of boys had filled the lock with
mud, and he must needs force the key in and
had bent the wards. I went off to get a
locksmith I knew of to set it to rights, and
the rest slipped out of my mind entirely, till
Fraulein Klitz told me of the disappearance,
and the trouble you were all in about it, on
the Friday. She took it for a death-omen —
what I had seen — and I began to think the
same, till I felt ashamed to mention it. I'm
as sure of what I've seen as that the church
stands there. But it's another thins; to swear
to it in a witness-box."

Mr. Paramount had taken his departure.
Sir John, accustomed to Hester's endless
conferences on parish work, had lighted a
cigar, and was philosophically waiting the
conclusion of the interview, sauntering up and
down under the poplar-trees.

"Show me the place — the very place,"
Hester demanded ; and they crossed to the
great tombstone where Edric had once sat
with Mrs. Damien in the golden moments for
which he was to pay so dearly, traced his
steps to the window, and on to the wicket-rate

beside the large one at the foot of the
Vicarage steps.

Come, Het, your mother will be getting
anxious. Awe had time to settle the affairs
of all the distressed old women round St.
Paul's. Good-night, Mr. de Cressy."

Good-night, Miss Archdale. I beg your
pardon for detaining you so long."

THE SPELL OF THE Ease.

Sjp^v^ OR the first time for many a day,
ft pK^ except Sundays, Elsie's dark little
*&i^l> corner in St. Fridolin's was filled
on the Friday following her father s visit to
the Vicar. She glided in, white and thin like
a little shadow, as her father had said, but
walking easily and without assistance, to the
eleven o'clock service, and Eustace was glad
to find her awaiting him in the porch afterwards.


She gave him a wan smile, and for once did
not wait for him to speak first, but began with
feverish haste:

"I beg your pardon for asking, but can you
tell me where Mrs. Darien is now, please?"

She was in Paris when I last heard,
nursing an old friend, Lady Monchalsea. As
soon as she got better they were going to
Dieppe, and then for a month's cruise in Lord
Monchalsea's yacht — I don't know where."

A month !" she gave a sort of despairing
little cry. "Not home for another month!"
She raised a pair of great sunken eyes to his,
and then turned away, her fingers twisting
and working as if in struggle with some out

on

break of distress.

She was a kind friend to you. Do you
want her so badly?"

Oh, I want her — I want her ! I was
wicked and ungrateful when she left, and now
I don't know what will become of me."

"Let me try to help you. I can see that
you have been in great trouble, my poor child.
Have you felt neglected ? I thought you had
some new friends to take care of you."

Out broke the storm at this — violent, irrepressible.
She sank on the wooden bench
where she and her friend had sat hand in
hand, years and years ago it seemed, and
sobbed and sobbed, begging the Yicar in

gasps to leave her — leave her! She was an
unhappy girl, and wanted to die. What did
it matter if she did die there ? Oh, if she only
could !

Elsie, you are saying a great deal more
than you intend me to believe," he spoke
sternly at last. " If you were half as bad as
you declare, it would be my duty to fetch
your father and find out all about it. Now
stop crying, or I shall go for him at once."
Elsie did stop for a moment, and tried to dry
her eyes with her soaked pocket-handkerchief,
but the sobs continued.

Get up and take my arm." And without
more ado he walked her across to the
Vicarage, where Mrs. Goodliffe was on the
look-out for them.

"Pretty dear! Overtired, is she? I've
got some good news that will cheer her," and
she took the girl into her kind old arms.

Eustace returned to the church to await
the organist, with whom he was to have a
consultation on the possibility of remedying
the defective bass of the splendid old " Father
Smith." The close, weary summer was tell-lady

VALERIA.

ing on him — or so he assured himself as he
paced the aisle dejectedly — tired, oh! so tired
of his life and its work. " It takes a happy
man to do really good work," he was saying
to himself. " One can give out to others only
what one holds one's self. I am a failure
here. De Cressy would make a better thing
of it if he were a year or two older. Should
I do better anywhere else, though ? At
Altcar ? No. I cannot put myself in Randolf
s place down there. It would be a false
position all round. They don't want me,
either. Does anyone?"

A step on the threshold that surely he
knew from a thousand. A flash of sunlight
through the open south door, and up the aisle
there sped with hurrying, elastic tread, as in
joyous haste, a bright figure, with shimmer of
silk, and rustle of lace, and slim outstretched
hands.

Mrs. Damien!" he cried, and stood still
in amaze, silent and unresponsive from very
incredulity.

Home again," she smiled into his face.
Yes, home" and her bright gaze flashed

round the great dim spaces aloft, and smoke-darkened
walls, as if she loved them. " Did
you not think I should come here first?"

You are very welcome," was all that
Eustace dare say, and even then dreaded that
the tremulous accent said too much.

I came yesterday with a friend. He was
in haste, and so was I, once my face was set
homewards."

A friend " he stopped himself, and

she suddenly flushed hotly, and a smile
danced round her lips.

Not Lady Monchalsea, unluckily. She is
still very ill, and I have promised to go back
to her for some time — when my errand here
was done " and again she flushed rosily.

You lost your holiday," he began, embarrassed,
half angry, desperate to hear more.
'• I heard how you left your friends."

Oh, I was so thankful, so glad to leave
them all. It would have been wrong to stay,
and I was at my wits-end for an excuse to
go. We were all at cross purposes and very
unhappy," she went on half laughing, in
incoherent explanation ; all blaming one

another for what was nobody's fault, I
suppose, though Lady Monchalsea will tell
you I behaved atrociously," and her eyes
dropped.

Professor Montrose?" the name slipped
out unawares, and he raged at himself inwardly.


Don't speak of him," she commanded
imperiously, raising her hand as if to stop
his lips. " I cannot bear to hear his name
made light of. Noble ! generous ! I will
honour him to my latest day. He was far
too great and good to have been in our
frivolous, silly set for an hour. Oh, how I
wish I had never gone ! Now tell me about
St. Fridolin's. My girls ?"— shaking off the
distasteful subject with a graceful gesture of
her pretty head.

One is in sore need of you — Elsie. The
others are much as you left them a month
ago."

They had a happy holiday I know, thanks
to you," and then she stopped, confused. " So
they want me back? Not more than I want
them. Ah ! my place is here. I am needed

by someone!" she declared joyously. " Aren't
you glad to see me?" she demanded, in pure
gaiety, turning suddenly on him.

Am I glad?" broke from his lips, and his
eyes finished the sentence.

Then you did miss me? just a little ?" she
went on with dancing eyes, but the sweetest,
tenderest tremor round her perfect lips.

Miss her ?" How could he answer ?
What words did language hold to tell his
mighty heart-hunger for the joy of her presence ;
his greedy rapture over her looks, her words,
that held him spell bound, powerless to do
ought but gaze and gaze ?

She knew quite well — the witch — without
need of look or sign.

"Then you do care for me?" she asked
softly and shyly, putting her two hands out to
him, unloved, white, appealing.

'* Care!" he gave one great sob, and for all
answer dropped his lips on those delicate,
tremulous fingers, holding them for one
minute, one short minute of wild delight.

Then why don't you say so?" and the
hands were withdrawn in a flash, and she was

vol. in. 47

standing before him, upright, saucily defiant,
altogether adorable. Then, while the sound
of her audacious words seemed still to echo
in the grey height above, her colour suddenly
rose, deepening from brow to chin, her great
lashes quivered downwards, and in a second
she stood before him, the shyest of drooping
roses.

u Because I should say too much if I spoke
at all ! Because to tell you how I have
missed you, how I care for you, would be to
say more than you might choose to hear.
Because I cannot stop half-way, nor tell you
of my love without begging for yours in
return, and that it is hardly fair to do," he
broke out, hoarsely and low. " I have been
seeing the grey, ugly, practical side of life, and
I know how much more marriage means than
the first hot fancy. If I thought that I could
make you happy, not only now, but in the
long years to come, then I would seek your
love. Then I would never rest till I had won
it. Now— dare I risk it?"

But — if it were given unasked? But — if

/ dare risk it?" said a soft voice in answer,
low, but perfectly clear and decided.

Eustace looked at her wonderingly, half
despairingly, then caught her hands and kissed
them again and again with hot passionate
kisses, that seemed the real speech of his heart
hurrying to contradict his half-hearted words.

My Love, my Queen ! It is for your sake
I would bid you leave me."

M And yet you love me ?" she queried,
letting her hands rest in his, and laughing
low in very fulness of contentment. " And
you would not marry me, you say? And I
am never to be told why?"

He might have dropped her hands and taken
advantage of the opening to tell her how he
was trying to act for the best. How that long
a£0 he had decided on his scheme of existence :
and that pleasure and light words and sweet
follies of love-making had no part therein ; and
that if love were to be admitted it was to be a
severe and passionless sentiment, shared by
some noble creature with a taste for self-sacrifice,
and a heart given to the dirtiest work of
the world ; with whom he might tread the

47—2

path of life, serenely exalted alike above its
pitfalls and its allurements. A most lofty,
ascetic, and distinctly uncomfortable ideal ;
fortunately unreliable. And here was he
bound, heart and soul, at the feet of this
smiling, pleasure-loving goddess, with her gay
dresses and her worldly chatter, and no conceivable
resemblance to the pale saint of his
dreams, beyond the sweet voice and honest
eyes. All that is what he should have considered
had a chance been given him. but it
was not ; for the warm slender fingers closed
round his as he tried to withdraw them, and
the great lovely shining eyes lifted themselves
to his and held them fast.

Tell me why ?" her lips repeated.

Then it did come clearly to his mind that
the saint would have accepted St. Fridolin's
dirt and iniquities as the very crown and glory
of the life he was offering her, while to this
fair woman an explanation was due as to why
it was not merely a preliminary to Alt car Court,
and again his mind misgave him. Lastly, there
fell from his lips the very oddest answer ever
given by man.

Because I am not sure how much you
love me."

She gave him one quick, fiery glance, and
dropped his hands as if his touch scorched her,
then turned slowly away, her head perfectly
erect, her teeth set deeply in her round red lip,
and stepped softly down the dusky aisle.

Then he knew that for good or evil she
carried his heart with her. " Eose !" he cried,
and was at her side again. " Tell me "

u How can I tell you anything — if you wont
ask me?"

There was an end of the matter. Out of
the gloomy church they passed to the low
south porch, and there the slanting sunbeams
came and found them an hour later. The disappointed
organist lingered, sending his great
waves of music rolling and surging through
the empty church and out over their heads
unnoticed. De Cressy fidgeted in and out of
the Vicarage in vain search, and two little
girls, coming for Confirmation tickets, trotted
away disappointed. No one thought of the
south porch, where Eustace sat, with Rose's
hand in his, pouring out his tale of trouble

and doubt and would-be sacrifice, fully and
freely, reading it all afresh by the light of her
eyes. He told her everything, and she dropped
sweet little words of sympathy into his ear and
bewitched one misgiving after another out of
him, till he laid all plain before her.

So it is for me you are afraid, after all !"
she cried. " For me and St. Fridolin," with
a gay, little confident laugh. " I am not the
sort of wife to bring home here ! Oh, I quite
understand your views, and, if I did not want
to marry you myself, I should quite agree
with them. I'm not one bit jealous of my
shadowy rival — your ideal, Eustace — and
never shall be. Don't you see, dear, what an
immense advantage I possess over her ?"
stooping down as she stood beside him, and
dropping her voice impressively. " Your
saint, my dear, is non-existent, and — / am
hereon

the trail."

H, Rose, Rose! It's good to have
you home once more ! We've all
been wearying for you. I could
hardly believe my eyes when your note came
to me just now. But must you really leave us

again so soon

I promised," said Mrs. Damien, with a
regretful smile. ''I cannot desert that poor
old lady yet. I must see her safely through
the cruise of the Mallard. Beatrix is no
sailor. AVe must make the most of our time
together. Come and take off your hat, and
begin at once. You're going to give me the
rest of the day, of course."

No, no ! Don't tempt me. I've only

an hour or so free. Mother is at Eastbourne,
and I am in charge at home. Painters,
plumbers, and decorators are to be turned
loose on the premises next week ; the rooms
are half dismantled ; Friiulein Klitz is in bed
with a swelled face ; the cook has gone for a
holiday, and Daddy has asked the Tremletts to
dinner."

Mrs. Da mien laughed merrily at Hester's
report. " Bring them all here," she suggested.

I wish I could. Why !" — looking round
in some surprise — " how long have you been
home T

Since yesterday evening'

And you have got into perfect order
already! All your pretty things about, and
the place full of flowers as if you had been
here for weeks."

Aunt Mamie here rose from her knees in a
far-off corner, where she had been lending
a last artistic touch to an arrangement of
gold-striped curtain and hydrangeas in a dark
red pot. She welcomed Hester with one of
her gleaming smiles.

What do you mean by all this splendour

out of the season? You don't expect to have
any visitors, do } T ou \ I thought ice were the
last people left in town. Daddy, Fraulein,
Jock and I play tennis in a howling wilderness
every evening."

De buds don't wait to ask de dominic
what time to blow," Aunt Mamie replied,
sententiously. " Heh, you car, Mars Jock ?
Repose you come 'long an' see what I got down
blow. I les some berries car, I disremember
'exactly what, but crying' out dey was — ses
crying out fo' some chilled to come 'long an'
eat urn."

Jock needed no second suggestion to slide
off the chair on which Hester had posted him,
and trot off hand in hand with Aunt Mamie.
You'll tell me a story," they heard him
bargain.

Good old Auntie. I think Lady Mon-chelsea
will miss her more than she will me.
I tried to persuade her to let me leave her in
Paris, but she would by no means consent to
my travelling alone with Lord Altcar "

"LordAltcar! Was he with you? I never
knew you knew him. And in Paris ! Why,

I saw him on Monday!" Hester exclaimed,
with a whole volley of notes of interrogation
in her voice.

That did not prevent him from being in
Paris on Tuesday, and bringing me home with
him on Thursday, and returning to Altcar
again yesterday."

"But why? Oh, I know you told me in
your note about ' special private business
and I, politely, have not referred to the subject;
but all the same, I feel it is a dark
mystery, and if you laugh and get so pink-checked
about it, no sense of propriety shall
prevent me trying to find it out. You never
used to have secrets from me in the good old
days."

Mrs. Damien's face disappeared behind her
palm-leaf fan, and a very meek little voice
protested, " I'm sure I'm quite willing to tell
you everything you wish to know, if you'll
only mention what."

What took Lord Altcar to Paris, and
what brought you back to London?" was the
prompt response to this invitation.

He came to Paris to ask me to marry his

son, and I came to London to ask his son to
marry me."

Hester collapsed utterly.

Rose !" she cried faintly presently. " Xo,
don't answer. Don't wake me. Let me dream
it out. I've fallen asleep in this rocking-chair,
you know, while you were talking. I won't
tell my dream, lest you should laugh at it.
Dreams go by contraries, and I know when
I'm awake that, though you believe in Mr.
Stannard as a priest to an absurd extent, you
hate him as a man as utterly as it is lawful for
any Christian to do."

Hester f and Rose put down her fan to
give a supplicating glance, and put it up again
to hide her hot cheeks. " Don't laugh, please,
dear, and don't be so astonished. I know
quite well that I'm not the right woman for
him to choose, but that's his affair ; and if he
won't be wise and give me up, what's to be
done? Lord Altcar said that it was as certain
that he loved me as that he never would tell
me so, unless I asked him. What could I
do?"

"It's very creditable to Lord Altcar' s penetration

to have found it out, considering that
his opportunities of seeing you together were
limited."

"Why! It was you who told him so!
You false, treacherous girl!" And Rose
dropped her fan and leant forward to seize her
friend's wrists. " Look in my face, and. deny
it if you dare. Lord Altcar said that he had
long known that his son's affections were engaged."


I'm sure he didn't put it in that stupid,
old-maidish form."

Well, perhaps he said ' Devoted heart and
soul.' "

That's better."

But he could not discover to whom till
you enlightened him."

I never, never did any such thing ! He
came and talked so nicely to me that afternoon
about St. Fridolin's, and drew me on to tell
him all I could about his son's work there.
We were sitting with Lady Altcar in the evening
while the others were at the fireworks, and
he wouldn't be referred to Mr. de Cressy; so,
as you and the girls are all I know anything

about, I talked about you. I said nothing
more than the whole parish knows — that I'll
swear. Yes, I did give him your address in
Paris before we left."

Eose did not look altogether implacable.
u We have all three fallen victims to the craft
and o'uile of that wicked old man somehow, I
suspect. He lit the match and ran away from
the explosion this morning ; but is coming
back tomorrow to stay at the Vicarage.
Eustace" (Hester had to think for a minute who
that might mean) " has written to suggest that
he shall bring Miss Liddell with him to introduce
her to me, and I shall ask her to stay here
till Monday. I want you and Sir John to dine
here tomorrow, unless you are too incensed
with Lord Altcar to break bread with him.
On Monday we are all going to Altcar, to
Eustace's mother. I wish it was over. Suppose
they don't think me good enough !"

Hester laughed and protested, and then the
two fell into a happy, idle, disjointed talk, half
mirthful, half sad ; not with " the sadness of
pain," but that which " resembles sorrow, only
as the mist resembles the rain" — a lingering

for the good days past, even in the
greater brightness of the days that had come.
Had come to one of them, that is. Hester,
even in her unselfish delight in her friend's happiness,
felt that all her little whimsical fancies
about being superseded and left out in the cold
had become grim realities, soften the fact as
she might. Even sympathy with her own
troubles was denied her. She could not bring
herself to name Edric and the dark shadow
that hung over his fate to Rose in the midst
of her new joy ; and yet, beside it there seemed
little that could befall in the world of consequence.


What have you been doing all this time? ,,
Rose asked, in her turn. " You are thin and
tired-looking, Hester."

"It is the usual town look. Everybody
seems the same just now. You were worse off
in Paris, were you not?"

Never mind me any more. I want to
talk about you. How is the picture going
on?

Very well. I want one more sitting, and
then Jock's penance will be over. I can do

the figure from a model. I shall be able to
make studies for the background next month,
if we go to Scotland. Papa doesn't seem able
to tear himself away from town, while a creature
remains in it that he can meet at the
club. 1 don't mind. One place is as good as
another."

There was a sound of dull hopelessness in
her words that made Rose look inquiringly at
her. " I'm sure you are not well, dear. How
I wish I hadn't to leave you here ! Will you
come back with me ?"

"No, no! It can't be done. Now I must
go. I shall not see you before to-sorrow
evening, then V

Hardly. I went to see poor little Elsie
this morning, but she was lying down to get
rid of a headache. I must go early to St.
Friclolin's and see if she will come for a drive,
perhaps bring her home to luncheon ; and in
the afternoon I must go to meet Miss Liddell.
Till eight o'clock, then, tomorrow."

They descended together in search of Jock,
whom they found in Aunt Mamie's own special
pantry sitting swinging his heels on a table,

while Aunt Mamie, hard at work with her
suffering irons, was setting the frills of one of
her marvellous caps.

Tore him all to bits V 1 they heard him ask,
with interest enjoyment.

Ebbery morsel. Not muff les of him to
fill a walnut-shell coffin."

And his bones ?"

Cracked urn, an' ground um all to powder."

And drunk up his blood out of a calabash ?
Just as he said he would. Jolly!" And
Jock's boots gave an appreciative flourish.
Hester! you should just hear this. Aunt
Mamie's stories are prime. Won't you tell her
one ? Did you ever hear of a Jus Ju house ?
It's a place where some people go to church (I
wish we did), with elephants' tusks and crocodiles'
skins and teeth and skulls and all sorts
of jolly things in it. Come home to tea ?
What do we want with tea V 1

A plate with a pile of strawberry hulls on it,
an open pot of preserved ginger, some flakes of
pastry, and a general blissful sickness overspreading
the young gentleman's countenance,
sufficiently explained this indifference to life's



grosser needs ; but Hester was inflexible, and
carried him off.

Isn't Aunt Mamie fun V exclaimed Jock in
ecstasy, as he capered along homewards beside
his sister. " Hester! Do you think I may
go and stay with her tomorrow and Sunday?
I was to ask mamma — oh, she's not at home ;
well, you and Fraulein can give me leave. I'll
let you paint me as much as you like all the
morning if you will. She'll take awful care of
me, she says, and I'll see that she goes to church
on Sunday. Say ; yes, you may,' Hester,
there's a good old thing !"

; We'll see what papa says this evening.
If he says ' yes,' you may go : don't let her
frighten your wits out with those horrid
stories of hers, though. I wonder how you
can ask her to tell them."

;i I tell you they're jolly. Fraulein knows
some good ones; Wehrwolves and Black
Huntsmen and wicked barons, but they're
nowhere beside Aunt Mamie's. Bears and
snakes and witches and ghosts — real good
ones. I'll tell you about the ghost at the
Endicott' — that was her old family, you

yol. tit. 48

know — tomorrow while you're painting, if
you'll remind me. A sensible ghost — not
like that stupid old thing of Mr. de Cressy's.
That meant nothing.

Nothing ! It meant a haunting shadow
over one life at least ; so Hester told herself
with a sudden pang. A grim secret terror
that never left her side for an instant. It rose
with her in the morning, walked beside her
through all the day's duties, and that very
night laid a sudden cold clutch on her very
heart at some casual words of her father s.

Het, I forgot to tell you. I shan't go
down to Eastbourne next week, I think. You
may start Fraulein and Jock off on Monday
without waiting for me. The Royal Denbighshire
to embark on Wednesday. Wouldn't you
like to come down to Portsmouth and see them
off ? I must go. I wouldn't miss being thereto
say ' Good-bye ' to them on any account.
You won't come 1 You aren't half the girl
you used to be, Het. I wonder if we shall
see that boy Poynter there. I'd give a hundred
pounds to have him turn up in time. It would
be the only thing to save him. Amongst us

all we might pull him through, then ; if he
doesn't, I don't know how it will go with him.
How white you look ! Go to bed, little girl.
Good-night."

Jock secured his father's permission, and was
in a high state of good spirits and amiability
when he presented himself in the studio next
morning. Fortunately for Hester, he required
no special amusement during the sitting, but
entertained her with the whole of Aunt Mamie's
legends, beginning with the headless dog that
attended the Endicott family, and ending with
a peculiarly ghastly and gory story of a hunt of
a murderer through a swamp, personally conducted
by the murdered man's ghost.

"And the dog was a regular man-hunter!"
he explained with much gusto ; " trained to
catch negroes. And what do you think, Aunt
Mamie says Roswal is just that sort. A
Spanish bloodhound, a man-hunter ! I wonder
if Roswal has ever tracked anybody down and
torn him limb from limb ?" he went on, with
thoughtful enjoyment. " Don't you wish
Mr. de Cressy had had him the other night?"

Why, Jock, Roswal has never been out of

48— 2

our house since he was born. How could he
ever learn to do such dreadful things T

But his father might have done, and I
dare say he knows how to, all the same. Now
if Mr. de Cressy had only laid a bit of the
blood-stained clothes "

But there weren't any blood-stained clothes.
Do keep your head still for a moment !"

Well, his glove then. Lay it on that old
tombstone, and hold tight to the leash while
he dashes forward to the spot where the
murderer is lurking in concealment — that's
what I should do."

I wish you'd try and fancy yourself the
murderer a little ; and look as if you thought
he'd got you. Now tell me another story, and
keep as still as you can for five minutes ; then
I shall have done with you."

Hester finished her work, and saw Jock off
to St. Maur Road in high glee ; visited Fraulein
Klitz in bed, and brewed her a fresh poppy-head
fomentation ; ordered the dinner for
Sunday, and then set herself to live through
the long, lonely, haunted day as she best might.
She generally found work in plenty for her

active little fingers, but to-day it would not
last out the morning, somehow. A card came
round from Mrs. Damien : " Cannot come to
see you, as I expect Miss Liddell early. Have
seen Birdie. Unsatisfactory'' and on it she
pondered as she paced the quiet half-dismantled
rooms with Eoswal's big head under her hand.
She did not care to go out aimlessly alone,
even if she had not known how much her
mother disliked her doing so.

It recalled somehow the day when Rose's
departure was decided on, when she in a fit of
restlessness had started for St. Fridolin's, to
Elsie, with such scant results. Then, with
the remembrance back came the shadow closer
and blacker. " Do you remember," it seemed
to breathe in her ear, " what you missed by
going that day ? Do you remember your
foolish mistrust and anger ? How you crept
off to the church to give way to your fit of self-made
misery — your jealousy of poor little
Elsie ?' Hester pressed her hands to her ears
as if there was a veritable voice sounding
there.

I'll go there again," she suddenly decided.

I don't know why, but I feel it will be better
for me to be there than anywhere else. Mother
doesn't mind that. I'll go and wait in the
church till evensong. I shall be home long
before it's time to dress. Roswal, you must
be content with Markham for the rest of the
day."

Roswal had no intention of doing any such
thing ; but like a wary clog he let himself be
sent into Sir John's study, where he flopped
down with ostentatious obedience while Hester
shut the door, and, her footsteps once out of
hearing, sprang through the window and made
his way through the kitchens to the front area.
There he lay low, till, as he expected, a cab
made its appearance with Markham on the box.
He watched Hester enter, and then whisked out
and followed at a discreet distance till he knew
it was safe to proclaim himself.

Ugh, you brute!" as Markham spied him
with disgust. Hester, resigning herself to the
inevitable, ordered the cab to stop and admitted
him, expressing herself strongly ; while he
crawled in, and dropped at her feet with a
hypocritical air of self-abasement.

'• Well, all you've got by this is that you'll
have to be shut up in the Vicarage cellar till 1
want you ; or else go home by Underground
with Markham." Roswal lifted first his head
deprecatingly, and then one paw, which, after
one or two purposeless flourishes, he dropped
on Hester's knee.

'• Oh, Cuss, do you remember what a bad
dog you were last time we came here ?'
she cried, with a laugh that was half a
sob, and Cuss blinked appreciatively. They
alighted at the Vicarage, and Markham
departed, with instructions to return in ths
evening for his young mistress. Before
visiting Mrs. Goodliffe, Hester paused,
attracted as she always was by the stillness
and solitariness of the grey, bare churchyard ;
and half involuntarily sauntered through the
open wicket. The windows of the Parish-room
were open, and somebody was sweeping and
arranging things inside. She thought of
de Cressy's story, and shivered.

Cuss ! if it had been you who had been
there," she exclaimed impulsively. " What
could you have done, old dog?" Some chance

reminiscences of Jock's anecdotes flashed
across her mind and made her start. " Could
you have traced him, do you think? Is there
any truth in such stories?" Her cheeks began
to burn, and her eyes to shine with a sudden,
wild notion.

Come here," she cried, and walked across
to the great tombstone. " Who was here,
Cuss ? Can you find him?"

Roswal obediently began to examine the
stone and all around with an affectation of
extreme care, casting about in his sagacious
old head for his mistress's possible meaning.

A scent a fortnight old is not a hopeful one
even if ghosts do leave any trail ; but he
searched, nevertheless, with much inward
perplexity and searchings of mind. He
decided at last that Hester was minded to
revive an old game of her youth, in which he
and she were to be lost together, and he was
to triumphantly discover the lost track and
bring her home, with many barks and tail-wagging.
Following up this happy notion,
he forthwith nosed out a path direct from the
tombstone towards the Vicarage, and invited

her to accompany him thereon. They paused
at the-window of the Parish-room as in duty
bound (they having stopped there on their
way), then on through the wicket-gate, and
so along the quiet little street to the point
where they had left the cab. Here he wagged
his great tail and awaited further instructions,
while Hester, who had watched his movements
with feverish anxiety, stopped discouraged.

11 Is that all, Cuss ? Can't you tell what
I want ? Oh, I know ! I outfit to show you
something of his, and I have nothing —
nothing — only this."

It was Edric's letter, the one he had written
in sore disappointment at missing her on the
very day that she had been recalling ; the day
she made the grand blunder about the Professor,
and everybody's troubles began. She
had read it ; poring over each blunt, artfully
constructed sentence ; and had thought over
the queer story it contained till her head grew
dazed, without perceiving in it the slightest
clue that miodit warrant her disregarding
Edric's humbly hinted wish for the matter to
be considered confidential.

Why should I have told anyone, and
whom V she argued with herself. " Daddy
could not help me, and mother would be
terrified at the mystery. I wish I had consulted
Mr. Stannard at first, but I do not see
what he could do more than apply to the
Meynells, and that he has done already."

She called Roswal back to the tombstone,
and then drew the letter from its envelope and
let him smell it. u Find him ! Find him,
good dog !" she begged him urgently.

Roswal had dim recollections of a letter
entering into some performance in the days
when he was a puppy and supposed to be
capable of learning tricks. His wrinkled old
face grew keen; his eyes sought first the letter
and then Hester with interest desire to comprehend
her plans. Then he smelled everything
carefully all over again, round and
round in a widening circle. Then he stopped,
threw his head up, and gave a sudden despoiled
bark.

You have found something. Oh, good
Roswal, what!"

Roswal had found something — an idea!

He was to take Hester somewhere, he was
sure — but where ? Somewhere that he knew,
of course. Nobody expects a dog to do more.
He saw it wasn't to the church, or the Parish-room,
or home again, and he felt he had
exhausted the resources of St. Fridolin's, till a
sudden inspiration seized him. He had yet
one more association with the place. " Come
along ! I have it!" and with a confident air.
he made straight for the old resurrection-gate.
his mistress keeping pace with eager steps, and
then, once down in the little crooked alley,
made straight as an arrow for Lavender
Row.

Here, why here f Hester exclaimed to
herself. There seemed something ominous in
this retracing of her footsteps ; but Roswal
led on, right up to the door, open as usual,
and at the top of the three low steps stood and
waited.

Hester entered with uncertain tread, and
knocked, but faintly, on Elsie's door. There
was as faint a response from within, and she
turned the handle. The room seemed empty
at first, and silent, except for the noisy tick of

the tall clock in the corner. The old, well-polished
furniture stood in dreary orderliness
around the walls, and Elsie's couch was
vacant. Venturing a step farther in, Hester
heard a slight movement, and saw Elsie
crouched on the floor at the couch-side,
resting her face against the cushions as if in
pain.

Come in !" she cried. " What is it ?"
Then she turned a little white, scared face
round, and raising her dulled, woeful eyes,
beheld Hester. She scrambled to her feet, and
stood steadying herself by one frail, shaking
hand on the table-edge.

Are you ill V Hester asked, startled into
forgetfulness of her purpose by the change in
the girl, and advancing w T with outstretched
hand. " What is the matter? Can I not help
you ?" Elsie's face had grown small and
peaked, and her eyes glowed unnaturally
brilliant out of two great, dark circles. Her
lips looked hot and fever-dried, and, as she
tried to answer Hester, a little hectic spot
burned in each white cheek.

I am not ill," she said, speaking hoarsely

and ungraciously. " What can I do for you,
Miss Archdale?" and her tone seemed to require
an explanation of the intrusion.

Hester felt checked and discomforted as she
had done before, and by the same unaccountable
consciousness of defiance and mistrust on
Elsie's part. She drew back embarrassed,
especially when the sense of her position returned
upon her. Roswal stepped slowly in.
and leaned against her for approval. " I

came " she hesitated : then, struck by a

sudden thought, went on more freely : "I
want you, if you will, to tell me what news
you have had from your brother?"

•' We have heard nothing for a lone' time.
The regiment was to move directly, when he
last wrote ; he has been too busy, I suppose."
She spoke stiffly, almost sullenly. She had
been longing herself with fierce anxiety for
some word from him on her own account, and
had raged or sickened with disappointment at
his silence, day after day. She was in no mood
to give gracious replies. " I will get you his
last letter, if you wish to see it."

She walked away to the old-fashioned,

brass-bound work-box in which she kept her
treasures, Hester watching her with pained
curiosity. There was a change in her in more
ways than one. In her dress for one thing.
Instead of her usual little print gown with
its trim white frills, she wore a silky summer
material ; soft toned and quietly made, but, to
any woman's eyes, representing the price of a
dozen cottons or serges, and the slipper that
peeped from under its skirt was delicate kid,
instead of stout-soled leather.

Here is the letter," in a tone that said
distinctly, " Take it and go!"

A glance at the date showed Hester that it
could tell her no fresh news. " Then you
have heard nothing since? — I mean, of Mr.
Poynter ?"

Elsie clasped her fingers suddenly and
strained them across her breast. " Why do
you come to me for news of him ?" she
demanded, in a high, unnatural tone. " What
have I to do with you or your friends ?"

"Forgive me!" Hester pleaded. "It was
by a wild chance that I came here — from the
place where he was last seen on earth. We

have followed his footsteps to this house, and
I ask of you — which of you who dwell here
was the last to see him before he passed away
from amongst us all?"

Her voice was quivering with excitement
when she began to speak, now it broke suddenly.
Elsie continued to hold her with a
strange, fixed, unresponsive gaze. " I can
tell you nothing," her lips formed almost
silently.

The two girls faced one another for an
instant longer. Hester's face eager, tremulous,
disappointed, mistrustful. Elsie's a blank.
She kept her fingers tightly clasped, ignoring
Hester's proffered hand, and hardly bending
her head in farewell.

Good-bye ! I am sorry if I have offended
you. Come, Roswal !" And the door closed
on her.

What does it mean?" cried Hester, laying
her hand on Koswal's tawny forehead. " Oh,
Case, what is she hiding from us 1 And why
does she hate me so?"

A bill-sticker swinging his paste pot came
along. The police, excited to some last exertions

before the withdrawal of the reward,
were strewing bills broadcast over St. Fridolin's
district. Farther on, a figure in the
well-known blue and red was hurrying along
with a handful of letters for Lavender Row,
and the top one of the pile bore a direction in
Sampson's handwriting.

"What does she mean?" Elsie had cried,
sinking on her couch when she was once more
alone. " What does she know ? What does
she suspect of me? Only one night more!
I cannot be mistaken. Oh! it could not have
meant that it was through her that the tidings
were to come to me."

Struck by a new terror she raised her head,
and gazed blankly out at the dun, frowning
wall before her window. The bill-sticker was
at work making bold and rapid flourishes
with his brush across a bill, on which over
his shoulder she read, unheeding of the sense :

MISSING ! £100 REWARD !"

and before she could take in the rest, came the
postman's knock on her door.

PECCAVI !'

R. PARAMOUNT, walking briskly
homewards a few minutes before
this customary hour, stopped within
sight of his own door, indignant at the appearance
of a white parallelogram flaunting the
smoky umber of his usual out-look, in defiance
of the shadowy legend ;i Bill-sticks Beware."
that adorned the top left-hand corner of the
wall ; still legible if you knew where to look
for it. He raised his neat umbrella, and would
have proceeded to execute judgment on the
offending placard forthwith, when the sight of
a name in big capitals arrested his upraised
hand, and with the other he hastily perched
vol. in. 49

his glasses on his nose with an exclamation
of dismay.

• Missing. Mr. Edric Pointers Since the
thirty-first of July. 1 — Absconded, eh 7 ?" — with
a gloomy nod — " a lesson to Sampson. Well,
well, I'm sorry, too. He was a pleasant,
gentlemanly youth. 'Height, Jive feet eleven,
fair complexion] that's him. ' Information to
be given to Meynell, Meynell, and Mott' Dear,
dear, that's serious. I wonder if Elsie knows ?"
And he trotted indoors to convey the news.

No Elsie was to be found, however, either in
the parlour or in her own little room, and depositing
a huge roll of papers on the table, he
went off to exchange his office coat for the
more ancient suit retained for home wear.
When he came back Mrs. Ridge was busy
laying the table for tea.

No, I haven't seen her," she answered him.
I thought perhaps some of her West End
friends had called for her and taken her out.
Mrs. Damien's back, and a good thing too, say
I. There's ladies that is ladies, and she's one
of them." The slap with which the good
woman applied a lump of butter to the loaf

she was cutting expressed so strongly that she
had something to say on the converse side of
the proposition, that Mr. Paramount was
moved to enquire :

Who else are you alluding to, Mrs.
Ridge T

I name no names," with a nod indicating
that she could if she chose ; " and far be it
from me to cast a word up at poor little Elsie ;
yet foreigners will be foreign, and living for
months like the birds of the air, with no
cooking to speak of, and next week in a
carriage and pair, is not my view of what's
right and respectable." And with a significant
nod for the conclusion of this dark saying,
Mrs. Ridge bustled off to fill the teapot at the
kettle, to which a neighbour was kindly
lending a boil up."

Mr. Paramount was anxiously pondering
out the " bearing of these observations," as
alarmed and mystified as she could desire,
on her return.

Is there anything wrong ? Anything that
I ought to be told ? About those friends of
Elsie's T

49—2

I make no insinuations. I only say that
if — as I was given to understand — the Bel trans
have left England for Continental watering-places,
why, good riddance and no loss to
anybody; and as to fretting after them, don't
you give it no encouragement, like a sensible
man."

Then with a last artistic touch to the plateful
of radishes balancing the pickles on the
other side of the dish of cold beef, Mrs. Ridge
departed, leaving Mr. Paramount to digest her
exordium with his tea as he best could.

Despite the disquiet she had succeeded in
arousing in him, his enjoyment of the tea and
radishes, and, most engrossing of all, the
contents of the parcel of papers which he
opened and read as he ate, he found his
thoughts going back perpetually to the handbill
outside.

I wish I could find him — for his own
sake as well as the reward," he thought. " It
can't be a case of embezzlement, surely! A
fraudulent bankruptcy ? I shouldn't have
believed it of him. Most extraordinary that
it should have come under my eyes just now''



And dipping a radish into his salt he turned
again to his paper.

It was a journal of ancient date, with a full
account of a forgotten Ritualist prosecution ;
and Mr. Paramount plunged into it with much
zest, stopping now and then to mark a point
here and there. When he had finished one
paper he took up another.

"It's most extraordinary," he repeated.
That young man was the first to turn my
thoughts in this direction. i Go and look atone,'
he said, and there has not been a Sunday
since that I haven't been to two or three. I've
been the round of their Sundays, Dailies,
High and Low, Festival and Mission services.
I've seen the worst. If there's no law in the
land that can stop some of the goings on that
I've been a witness to, then it's clear we at St.
Fridolin's have no case whatever. He'll get a
verdict. There's no denying it — and I don't
care if he does."

He poured out and swallowed another cup
of tea — a cold one, for he had neglected to
cover the pot — and took up his papers again.

Where can Elsie be ?" he wondered. It

was very forlorn and comfortless without her.
Would Mrs. Ridge come in and take away
those tea-things, or must he sit with them
under his eyes till Elsie returned ? He
hovered about unsettled and uncomfortable,
with no place to sit down to and spread his
papers out. At last he cleared a corner of the
table and resumed his studies.

We've no case !" he repeated, pettishly.
I won't be put into a witness-box and be
made to cut a ridiculous figure just to gratify
Bowles and Garraghty. They may show up
them as much as they please, and I dare say
they will. Why, it might injure me with the
Firm, and I should never hear the end of it
from young Mr. Ebden — and the others all
take their tone from him."

He got up and wandered restlessly in search
of Elsie. No trace of her in her little bedroom,
where the old man lingered awhile,
looking round the shabby, comfortless den, so
carefully kept with its few poor little scraps of
adornment. There w T as her mother's picture,
a steel-grey shiny daguerrotype, which had to
be unhooked and held at an angle before any

trace of form or feature was visible, except
where the brooch and gold chain had been
lavishly be-gilt. Sampson hung, red-coated,
velvet-framed, in spick and span newness, a
handsome soldier-like figure from which the
old man turned with an impatient ; * Pish !"
and beside him a list of services at St. Fridolin's.
On the meagre toilet-table stood the old
watch-stand with his dead wife's watch in it —
run down. He took it up with an injured
feeling, and wound and set it carefully, touching
the little silk watch-lining on which his
Emmie had proudly embroidered her initials
the day after he gave it her, with a forget-me-not
wreath. The paper was dropping from the
damp walls ; the ceiling black with age. He
looked at the pinched and spare little bed and
at the crazy furniture.

A poor place for a delicate child like
Elsie," he said to himself, shaking his head
sorrowfully. " But she never complained or
asked for better."

Were the quaint corner-cupboard and the
rickety chest of drawers as poorly punished
within as the rest ? he wondered. He tried

one drawer. It was locked, but a shake
jerked the paltry bolt out of its worn groove,
and he peered in curiously. There were some
tidy, scanty piles of undermine, and at one
side, carefully wrapped round with soft paper,
lay a handsome lace handkerchief for the neck,
and underneath it a showy painted leather
glove-case, with gilded mountings, strongly
scented with " Sandringham Bouquet." He
touched and gazed with strong repugnance.
How came these here, these showy, costly
gewgaws, so unlike the rest, so unlike Elsie?
He opened the case. Inside were half-a-dozen
gloves of different tints and extravagant
length. He snapped the lid down angrily,
and returned moodily to the deserted parlour.
It's a fine thing to me to profess to
manage a parish, isn't it V he asked himself,
bitterly. " If I make no better hand of it than

I do of my own house " Somehow the

usual resource of holding the Vicar accountable
for all things evil that befell would not
serve to-night. He picked up his papers,
impatiently. " We've no case," he kept on
repeating. " The suit is as good as given



against us, if ever "we let it begin. It's not
too late. Bowles and the rest may go on at
their own risk. I've done with it," rolling up
the papers into a bundle, " and I'll see Gar-rarity
this very evening and tell him so, and
I wish that ' Blue Dog ' had been burned to
the ground before I ever set foot in it," he
ended, viciously. " Yes, I'll give them fair

warning, and then " He was walking

excitedly up and down the parlour now, and
speaking half aloud. " Then, I'll go straight
myself to the Bishop and withdraw the whole
Memorial. I will ! I'll explain my position
to the Bishop and put myself right with him,
whatever happens. It's the straightforward
and manly thing to do, and Bowles and Gar-rarity
may swallow it or not !" Even in his
unhappiness there was a gleam of comfort in
the thought of making things unpleasant,
from perfectly jure and exalted motives, to
his quondam associates of whom he had long-ago
sickened.

The heat of his determination carried him
through the process of dressing again to go
out. Some thought of Elsie's possible return

checked him on the threshold, as he sallied
forth. "Why, it's Saturday!" he exclaimed.
Where are my wits ! She's at her lecture,
of course. And Mrs. Damien is home again,
too. Of course she'll be there." And lie
went his way with a lighter heart.

When he had gone, a door opened softly on
the upper floor, and from the empty, shut-up
room that the Betrays used to occupy there
stole a trembling little figure and crept step
by step down the broad staircase. She had
spent hours, each holding a lifetime of agony,
there in her loneliness. Lying on the bare,
dusty boards clutching Sampson's letter with
its fatal tidings to her breast, choking with
strangled sobs, biting her fingers cruelly to
keep back the hysteric shrieks that struggled
to break forth, till spent with the struggle she
lay still from exhaustion, and for a few moments
hoped she was dying, till a sudden stab
of pain wakened her to life and anguish once
more. She had rushed up there for quiet
when the first sentences brought home the
meaning of Hester's words to her, and kneeling
at the half-opened window she read with

catching breath and half-distraught brain; till,
as she stood o-azino- blankly oat in incredulous

(DO «/

horror, there before her she read the ghastly
confirmation of the story. The great black
letters showed plain enough across the road.
They were seeking for him then, and the
search had led them there, and under this
second blow she fell to the ground as one
dead.

She could not measure the time she lay
there senseless, any more than she could that
of waking torture that followed. She heard
her fathers footsteps below and kept silent,
locked in with her misery. One idea now
possessed her; the thought of Mrs. Damien.
I must go to her and tell her all," she said
oyer and oyer again, as she crouched silent,
listening for a chance of escape. She heard
her father leave the house, and stole out and
down the stairs. It was still early, not more
than eight o'clock, and, except in Lavender
Row, a bright evening. She dressed mechanically,
counted the money in her purse, and
made her way out of the house.

She thought she knew how to make her

way to Mrs. Damien's. Her father had taken
her there once before, and she had driven
many a time to the house with her kind
friend. She must go first to the Mansion
House Station to-night and take the train.
She took a wrong turning to start with in her
preoccupation, and had to ask her way back
through miles — it seemed — of unfamiliar
streets. There was a crowd at the station
that terrified her, and when she at last got to
the ticket-place, all recollection of the station
she was to ask for had gone out of her mind.
St. Maur Road," she said, desperately.

No such place on this line," said the ticket -
clerk, with pardonable sharpness. " Now, pass
on."

I mean out near Kensington, " she feebly
persisted.

All right." A ticket and some change
were pushed over to her, and she moved
on.

There was another crowd and a worse one
on the platform, and Elsie, jostled and
frightened, but for the sharp spur of her
purpose would have turned back weeping.

The train, when it did come, was crowded,
and she ran from one door to another searching
in vain for a seat. A fatherly-looking old
man beckoned her and helped her in at last,
and she crouched down beside him, shaking
in every limb. She took courage after a time
to show him her ticket and ask when she was
to get out.

Kensington ? That's two — three — five —
yes, jive stations off. I don't go on so far.
Don't get out at South Kensington by mistake"
(which, if she had done so, would have been
the very best thing for her). He left her
soon after, and she sat watching nervously for
her journey's end to come.

The novelty and miseries of the way sometimes
drove the thoughts of her errand from
her for an instant — but for an instant only.
Back they came after each stoppage, making
her fret at the length of the road and spring
up in nervous terror of missing her destination.
It seemed hours from the time of
starting, when she took courage to make a
second appeal, this time to a very little boy
with a very capable air.

"Know Kensington?" he replied. 4l I
should just think I did, and I only hope
you've plenty of time to spare if you mean to
get there this way. You should have changed
at Gloucester Road, you know. We shall beat
Hammersmith directly."

The look on her face startled even this
complacent child. "There, there! Hold up!
don't cry about it ! i'll see what I can do for
you when we get out. They all know me,
here."

He was as good as his word, and with his
aid and that of a kindly porter, she found
herself in the direct road once more ; but the
time had been slipping on during her wanderings
; and worse, her strength was fast slipping
away too. She began to walk with the old
painful drag, and sudden shoots of pain in the
injured side made her stop and gasp for
breath many a time during the last and worst
part of her weary pilgrimage : the long endless
miles of streets that lay between the
station and St. Maur Road. The night was
getting dark and clouded, and ten o'clock was
sounding from some neighbouring steeple as

she neared her goal. She was fain to hold by
the railings to steady herself, as she peered
up doubtfully at house after house, trying
to make out the number. Nearly all were
dark and shut up ; only from one came a
stream of soft light over flower-filled balconies
into the road, and to it, as a beacon, she
instinctively made her way. She had reached
her journey's end at last.

She stood swaying backwards and forwards
for a few minutes, lacking courage and
strength to mount the steps, and, when she
slowly and painfully dragged herself up to
the door, her faltering knock — drowned in the
festive bustle within — remained unanswered.
It seemed impossible to try again, but after
long waiting she did so. This time the door
was opened, but no friendly face appeared —
Henderson's or Aunt Mamie's or one of the
smart maids she knew, and who knew her —
only that of a stranger, overwhelmed with
responsibilities, and with dessert and ices on
his mind. He gave one hasty glance at Elsie's
dusty, draggled figure. " Xot at home," he
pronounced sharply before she had uttered a

word, and would have closed the door had she
not pressed forward desperately.

But I must see her!" she almost shrieked.
Go and tell her I am here."

I tell you I can't. We've company tonight.
Come tomorrow, like a good girl.
There, be off!" he exclaimed, distractedly.
Or, look here, if you'll give me your
message, I'll take it when dinner s over, but
you shan't come in now." And with visions
of plate-and -drawing-room-ornament robberies
rising to his memory, he shut the door,
resolutely this time.

She staggered back, too overcome to make a
further attempt, and sat down on the steps to
think what she was to do next. Go home
attain? How could she face the toil? All
that had passed since she left Lavender Row
seemed like a long nightmare. How could
she gather up strength to encounter it a
second time?

The night darkened, and a rain-storm came
driving up from the east, of all points the most
detestable. First came whirling little gusts,
dry and cutting, flinging dust and gravel into

eyes and mouth, with stinging arrows of rain
that hardly seemed to wet the ground, only to
spatter viciously Elsie's thin little cape till it
clunof to her bowed shoulders. Then more
drops and bigger, and every now and then the
driving, piercing gusts swept down from some
unexpected quarter and beat her head down
on her huddled up knees.

She was soaked to the skin and chilled to
the bone before she had sat there long. What
did she care ? Why should she stir? What
shelter should she seek if this one was denied
her? She even felt a dreary joy in her
suffering when some fiercer blast than the
rest showered its blows on her, leaving her
stunned and breathless in its passing. She
could not live through this, and there would
be an end of all the trouble she had caused,
and which she could never mend by living.
Mrs. Damien would be sorry, though. She
wished she could get up and go from that door
to some other where nobody would know her
when they found her dead there in the morning.

Down came the rain again, savagely
pelting ; so that the man who opened the

vol. in. 50

door to call up a cab for the Archdales, if such
a thing might be found, merely discharged a
whistle into the darkness, and shut the door
again, going to the window to watch for the
result. Elsie hardly noticed him, nor yet,
later on, the four-wheeler that drew up at her
feet. Then, in an interval of comparative
quiet, the door once more opened and a
gentleman stepped out, and almost over her.
She managed to raise her head to the rush of
warmth and light that poured down on her,
and he saw her face.

Hullo ! What's this ? Hester, look here.
Isn't this one of your girls? Dead or
fainting, or something."

Within, in the warm, flower-scented ,
the party was dispersing in
languid, unwilling fashion, reluctant to break
the charmed circle that held the evening's
pleasure. Lord Altcar had the larger room to
himself, sauntering leisurely round, looking at
pictures and bric-a-brac, or returning with
frowning brow and pursed lips to the working-out
of a project only less artful than the one
of which he had contemplated the triumphant

result that very evening. Mary Liddell, with
a photograph upside down in her hands, was
undisguisedly watching the lovers as Eustace
bade a ten-ininutes'-long farewell just within
the soft green shadow of the conservatory
palm-leaves. They were the first real lovers
unsophisticated Mary had ever seen, and she
thrilled from fingers to toes with gentle excitement
and curiosity. Eustace in love, and
looking like a lover, too ! It was altogether
wonderful and delightful. Twould he talk to
Eose like lovers in books? AVhat did he say
when he proposed ? Did he go down on his
knees — and oh ! mould he — did he — ever kiss
her ? And Mary blushed and trembled
vicariously at the audacious imagining. How
thankful she was that it had not fallen to her
lot to act the heroine's part in any such scene.
How small and incompetent she would have
felt, while this splendid Rose could never come
short of perfection in whatever position she
found herself. Most heartily did good little
Alary give thanks that her hero had found just
such a lady-love as she could have wished to
bestow on him.

50 -2

There! The farewell was over. Had he
kissed her hand in that one brief minute when
Lord Altcar's back was turned, and Mar) 7 , all
aglow at her own tact and dexterity, had
screened herself behind the biggest photograph?
What was the noise outside? Here
were the Archdales back again, and Hester at
the door, saying, " Rose ! Rose ! Do come
here for a minute!" Mrs. Damien came
forward, startled at Hester s tone; but before
she reached the door, Hester was pushed
aside, and Elsie, breaking from Sir John's
sustaining arm, stood in the midst of them
a soiled, draggled, forlorn little figure,
turning her wild eyes from one to another
and holding out her shaking hands as if for
pity.

"Elsie! my Elsie, what has happened to
you?" And Rose, hurrying up, made as if
she would take the woebegone little creature
in her arms, but Elsie waved her back.

Don't come near me or touch me ! Listen
to what I have come to tell you. To tell
everybody. It is right you should all know
what a wicked wretch I am. You will never

forgive me. Never! I did not know what I
was doing, but I killed him. I did indeed!"

There was a second's pause, while her
hearers looked at one another, all at fault but
Hester, who, white and scared, seized her
father's arm and gasped out two words.

"What?" roared Sir John. "Poynter?
Does the girl mean him?"

Elsie nodded faintly, the little flash of
strength that had given her voice to begin
her confession was fast flickering out.

She doesn't know what she is saying.
You killed?— You ?"

How did you do it f* demanded Lord
Altcar, striking in sharply.

I poisoned him! 1 The words came out as
she had been rehearsing them over and over

again in her mind through the last long hours
of woe — distinct and unmistakable. Then,
tossing her arms despairingly, she gave one
feeble cry, and fell in a senseless heap at Rose's
feet.

CHAPTER VIII.

NEAREST TO HAND.

S that all?" asked Sir John, in a
disappointed tone. " Can't you
get anything more out of her?"

Elsie had been tenderly carried away and
ministered to ; Alt car and his son had departed
— the latter to seek out and return with
old Mr. Paramount — and Hester had vainly
endeavoured to induce him to follow their
example ; but the good General, devoured by
curiosity, refused to budge.

First, they ought to stay and see if they
could be of any assistance ; next, he wanted
to hear the doctor's report ; lastly, to say
good-bye to Miss Liddell, who had at once
risen to the emergency and taken the direction

of the treatment, while Hester had stood by,
unhelpful and unsympathetic.

Do you mean to say you are going to let
her stand here and make such a statement and
never try to find out what she means by it ?"
he demanded impatiently.

My dear Sir John, what can we do? The
poor creature is quite unconscious, and may
remain so for some time. She has evidently
had some great shock, and the journey here
through last night's storm has nearly killed
her."

But when she comes to her senses ?" he
persisted.

Do you think we should question her ?
The very last thing we should dream of
doing," spoke Mary, rather indignantly.

Oh, very well. Then I think it's a great
pity she didn't hold her tongue altogether, if
that's to be the end of it. Good-night, Miss
Liddell ; come, Het !"

Troublesome baggage !" he grumbled to
himself, descending the stairs. " AVas she off
her head, then, or did she really do it, eh ?"
'don't ask me!" Hester spoke with a

catch in her breath, setting her small, square
teeth viciously. " I don't want to talk. I
feel as if I could not breathe in the same
house with her."

Mary Liddell met them next morning with
an unpromising report, when they called to
inquire on their way to church.

Still unconscious, for the most part, with
fits of delirium. I fear there is very little
hope. Her father is here, but she does not
know him. Rose was with her all night, buta
nurse came this morning, and, fortunately,
she likes me to be with her. I wish I could
stay, for Rose's sake, but I must go home
tomorrow. It is all so very sad." And Mary,
who had her own poor little private vexations,
looked wistfully for sympathy into Hester's
impassive face. "It will be a terrible grief to
Rose. And to happen just at this time, too !
And Esmee is longing to see her. I cannot
bear to think of her disappointment when I
go back alone."

"Inconvenient young hussy!" again exploded
Sir John. " Making a nuisance of

herself all round — and all for nothing. You
don't think, Het— that Poynter— eh ?— I don't
wish to impute any wrong doing to the poor
fellow, but he might t have encouraged the
fancy."

Never!" cried Hester, with a stamp of
her little foot. " He has never thought of
her for one minute. I'll answer for it !"

Gone mad for hopeless love, like a girl in
an old ballad, then — that's it, is it ?"

Had the end of all Joy on Earth come,
Hester wondered to herself, as she crept along
reluctantly under a grey, cold sky to Ainsleigh
Gardens next morning. Pleasure and light -
heartiness had long ago died out of her life,
she thought ; and here was the blight falling
on even joyous, fortunate Rose in her first
days of happiness. The bright little dwelling
had acquired in a day the aspect of a
house of sickness : a scent of disinfectants ;
a tray with some newly-washed cups and
basins left forgotten on the landing ; and Rose
herself coming down the stairs with a wan
face and blue lines under her tired eyes.

Just the same," she said. " I am going

to rest now. I must take the night-nursing
if she will let me ; but she has turned against
me, and will hardly let me touch her. Oh, it
is a piteous sight I Poor, gentle little Elsie I
There she lies, with those great vacant, staring
eyes, except when she breaks into fits of mad
raving. Hester, it's terrible! And her poor
father — remember, Hester, not a word to him
of last night's scene. We are all pledged to
secrecy about those strange words of hers. I
have managed to find out that she did know
of Mr. Poynter's death. She, perhaps, was
told too abruptly — and if there were any little
girlish liking — he was always so courteous
and kind to everybody — oh, Hester, if it was
my doing, this trouble! / brought her hereto
meet him."

It was her own folly and presumption."
Hester ! I never heard you so bitter. If
you could but see her and her poor old
father!"

I am thinking of you, Rose. What can
you do ? How can you leave her % You must
feel torn in pieces amongst them all. What
shall you do?"

' The duty that lies nearest to hand,' "
quoted Rose, smiling composedly. " And, fortunately,
there is no mistake in this case as to
which it is."

Hester flung her arms round her and kissed
her passionately, then entered the drawing-room.


Mr. Paramount was sitting dejectedly at
the window, shaking his head sadly as Mary
Lid dell urged him to accompany her to afternoon
service.

You are very kind, ma'am, but I don't
feel as if I could leave my poor little girl.
Xo, she doesn't know me, I am aware, but
there might be — if it was only a minute — in
which she might look for her old father and
miss him, as she has been doing many a
time of late. God forgive me ! If you were
to hear her " — turning to Hester — " tossing
and crying : ' Where is he ? Bring him to me !
Will he never come again?' and then, after a
bit, the same all over again : * Where is he V —
you'd never forget it. And to think of the
times when I didn't come back to her, night
after night, leaving her all alone to fret ; and

then, maybe, when I did come, I perhaps
spoke to her sharply if I didn't find things
just as I liked — and she so patient and hardworking
and uncomplaining ! My poor little
girl!" And he turned aside to wipe his
eyes.

Hester seated herself near him, and, as if he
found a fresh listener a relief, he began to
pour out anew all his woes in full measure.
She hadn't the heart to check him, and listened
for a chance of diverting the stream. He
got on at last, by way of the " Blue Dog,"
to other less painful topics ; and gave her
the account of the abandoned prosecution at
full length.

I shall endeavour to obtain a personal
interview with the Bishop early next week,"
he said, with the slightest shade of his old
importance. " I feel it is due to myself to set
his lordship right on some points on which I
may have misled him. Not that my views
are changed as far as my own personal opinions
are concerned."

Then why give way ?" asked Hester
absently.

Because it don't seem to matter to the
world whether old people like me worship or
not. It suits the young ones ; that I can't
deny ; and the old ways did not. I've learned
my lesson, ma'am. The world is not as we
old people would have it, but then it is made
for the young people. It is they who fill
it. and they must rule it, and all that is
left for us old ones is to wait patiently till
we're cleared out of their way."

4i I think you are altogether wrong," she
answered him gently. " You were the young
people of the world once, and had your good
days. It is on the young folks that the
burden of the world's work rests. You
should show patience with them if they cannot
stop to put themselves back to see things
from your point of view. A man must live
his own life and think his own thoughts — not
those of his father."

Ah, teaching was different in my day.
You are one of the young ones, Miss Archdale,
and the world is made for such as you. Useful
and strong."

And happy — don't forget that. We have

no sorrows, and that is what makes us so
selfish' and she laughed an mirthful little
laugh. Then she perceived that Rose was
beckoning to her softly, and she rose and left
him shaking his head over the truth of her
last observation.

I want to relieve the nurse, but Elsie will
not let me come near her. Can you help
me ?"

I'll come," said Hester, steeling, herself
against the repugnance that seemed to paralyse
her.

The pretty guest-chamber had assumed the
regulation hospital look of comfortless emptiness
and order. Bare boards, thorough
draughts, cloths soaking in disinfecting fluid
suspended here and there.

From the uncurtained bed, a strange little
fever-scorched face, that once was Elsie's,
looked round at them from under its ice
bandages. She beat the air fiercely when she
saw Mrs. Damien. " I don't want you! Don't
look at me! Don't let them all look at me!"
she screamed to the nurse, who interposed
herself, and signed to Rose to retire. Elsie

twitched her head, trying to see past her to
Hester, who approached doubtfully. Elsie's
great shining eyes never left her face till she
got quite close ; then she feebly extended a
thin, burning hand. Hester took it gently,
almost caressingly, and Elsie drew it to her
cheek and held it there, muttering some indistinct
words over and over to it.

I will stay here as long as she will let me,"
Hester said, sitting down beside the bed.

The nurse stayed to give some instructions
and to take another look at her patient. " I
haven't seen her so quiet to-day," she whispered
approvingly. " You mustn't mind her
calling out now and then. If she £sets violent,
just you ring the bell."

There did not seem any fear of that. Elsie
lay gazing at Hester with the same fixed,
unrecognising stare for some minutes.

Where is he V she suddenly demanded.

Safe and well," answered the other
steadily.

You will bring him to me ?"

Surely I will."

It is the new moon," said Elsie quietly.

and her eyelids drooped for a few minutes
and she lay still. Then with a start she roused
herself to demand afresh :

Where is he ? You will bring him tome?"


When the nurse returned she found her
patient lying dozing, and Hester singing
softly.

You want to stop and nurse her ?" exclaimed
Sir John. " I'll be shot if I can seethe
fun of it. I thought you detested her.
Do you expect to find out anything from
her ?"

"No!"

What does she talk about, eh?"

Nothing of consequence. She has fancies
about a bird which flies about the room and
won't be driven away. Sometimes she counts
the days to the next new moon ; sometimes
she raves about somebody she expects, who
never comes. That's all."

Well, of course you must do as you like.
It won't matter to me, as I shall be at Portsmouth
for some days. I'll settle it with your

mother. I dare say they will all be glad
enough to have you. Father you than I,
though, Het."

I believe it is the duty that lies nearest to
hand," she answered gently.

VOL. III. 51

F Elsie's cry could have been
answered, what would she have
seen ?

Looking through Edric's eyes a fortnight
previously — very little. He was lying on his
back, and they — at first but dimly noting
things of the outer world — fixed themselves
languidly on the convolutions of a corner of
gilt moulding directly above him. What was
it ? It seemed of a part with the odd shapes
and patterns that had been dancing before his
eyes for a whole series of ages, or so he
thought, only this one didn't move or change.
Two little gold leaves, with a star between.
He lay looking at it in stupid wonder, till his

tired eyelids dropped again, and then re-opened
to find it still there. This time he was moved
to follow the lines of the gold to their end.
They enclosed an oblong space ; a panel, in
fact ; but what was it ? and how came it there
right above him ? and why was he lying outstretched,
stiff and prone, powerless to raise
hand or foot ? He was dead ; that was it.
Dead ! He said so to himself, quite seriously
and uninterested the first time. Then a
sudden chill and horror as the thought shot
through him, followed by a rush of angry
blood through his veins, and he shouted
aloud, and would have struggled up, but could
not.

He was fairly awake now and conscious,
though bewildered.

It was no death-torpor that numbed his
strong young limbs, but veritable earthly
fetters. He was bound down with some sort
of strong, yet elastic, web closing round his
throat, so that any attempt to rise half-strangled
him. A curtain hung before him,
intercepting his view of the cabin; for such it
was ; and the thud, thudding at his head he

51—2

now recognised as being, not his own fevered
blood, but the throbbing of the screw, mixed
with the wash of waters outside. But how
had he come there? He tried to piece the
small, disjointed scraps of recollections that
floated across his brain into a coherent whole.
In vain. He was vaguely conscious of his
wits being somewhat disorganised, and his
strength unequal to any vigorous measures of
escape; so he lay and blinked at the ceiling fora
little while longer, and then took note of the
fact that somebody was, as noiselessly as might
be, opening the cabin door.

He gave a shout, the best he could, and the
door closed smartly; that was all that came
of it.

Then he made a dash at the curtain which
blinded him, fruitlessly, for the web pinioned
his arm too straitly. Could he reach it with
his head ? No. Then he gave it up, and lay
looking at the wavering green folds impatiently,
with gathering wrath. Once he even
tried to blow them aside, and caught himself
laughing foolishly at his failure.

I must be getting light-headed," he spoke,

half aloud, and felt ready to cry for a minute.
Light-headed ; that is it. I've had fever,
and they've had to strap me clown. Is my
hair cut, I wonder ? Who's doing the
musketry ?" And off he went into a doze over
the question ; or rather, a sort of faint for want
of food.

The door opened again, audibly this time,
and a smart, active man in his shirt sleeves
entered, bearing a tray, which he deposited on
the table, and stepping to the berth, examined
Edric's face closely. The result seemed to
discompose him slightly. He gave a low
whistle of dismay, hastily unfastened the
netting, and hauling up Edric's arm, felt his
pulse, then his heart, then lifted an eyelid.

Run it too close," he murmured. " Yet
who'd have thought of a young fellow of his
build giving out like this?" He got a basin of
soup from the tray and forced a spoonful
between Edric's lips, a second followed, with a
drop or two of brandy added; and presently
he gave a nod of satisfaction as his patient's
eyelids quivered apart and his eyes looked
dully on him. He went on feeding him

cautiously, and even tenderly, supporting his
head on his arm. " Now, suppose you go to
sleep on that," he said, as the bowl was
emptied, " and don't bother to ask questions.
You're all right, you'll find." And he picked
up his tray and departed with a nod of good-humoured
encouragement.

Edric, perforce, obeyed him, and ten minutes
later, when the man stole back again, was
sleeping quietly, breathing regularly, with a
natural colour on his cheeks. His visitor
bestowed a look of doubtful satisfaction on
him, and then deftly and rapidly drew the net
back into its old position, and secured the
straps and buckles that held it to the edge of
the berth.

Ain't modern we shall want to hold him
when he wakes," was his comment. The
waking came some hours after, and with it a
rush of remembrance and fierce dismay at
what had befallen him. He recollected everything
perfectly now. How he had come up to
town with a fixed intention not to return
without having relieved his mind by a full
explanation with Mr. Meynell of all his dealings

with Lady Valerian. How he had pursued
the banker from Seagrave Place to
Queen's Gate, and thence to the City. How
he had been baffled in his attempts to obtain
an interview there, and had started off to dispose
of his own business before making a
second attempt. He remembered the feeling
of dogged exasperation that seized him when,
on his second visit to Lombard Street, he found
that Mr. Meynell had gone home unwell, and
was not expected to return that day. How
he vowed obstinately that if he stayed in town
all night his errand should be discharged, and
the sense of impatient annoyance with which
he recollected his promise to Elsie Paramount.
From that point his recollections began to get
confused. Did he start back again to Queen's
Gate or not ? He seemed to see Elsie's face of
delighted welcome when he entered, and had
some notion that she had prayed him earnestly
to stay for a few minutes longer to see her
father. She was sure that when he knew that
Sampson was really going to the war he would
send him his forgiveness. Had he stayed ? or
was that all part of some uncomfortable dream,

in which he was one moment sitting at the
window with the sunlight shining in through
Elsie's scarlet creepers, and twinkling on the
old gold-wandered china cups and saucers and
worn, bright silver of Elsie's tea-tray ; and the
next, cold, cold moonlight, and he was wandering
forlornly through St. Fridolin's Churchyard
after parting with someone — was it
Euphrosyne ? — under the grey resurrection -
gate. That was the last of it, strive for
another link of the chain as he might. Had
there been an accident that had knocked all
the sense out of him ? Even so, how came
he here ?

The curtain had not been replaced, and he
could make out the details of his surroundings.
A trim little cabin enough, and prettily decorated.
" Could he be on board the troop-ship
on his way to Alexandria ?" he thought,
with an instant's flash of hope. No ! These
bonds, these hateful bonds! and with all his
new-found strength he tried to wrench the web
away from his throat. He could move freely
to a certain extent, turn on either side, or
change the position of a limb that felt cramped,

but that was all. He tried one crafty device
after another, and failing each time., resigned
himself to wait as philosophically as he
might.

Somebody must come in time, and meanwhile
the dodge is to keep as cool and rational
as I know how " — a practical demonstration of
his unimpaired reason.

It was no easy task that he had set himself.
He had not come there of his own goodwill
for certain. Then he must have been drugged
and entrapped on board — but how and why ?
Stories floated through his mind of men who,
for their chance knowledge of some dangerous
secret, had been waylaid and done to death, or
kept in lifelong concealment. What if he
were one ? He shivered as he lay and thought
of it. In prison at sea, too ! Out of chance of
escape or danger of witnesses. Once on blue
water, and a knock on the head and a heave
over the side after nightfall, and there would bethe
end of it, with none but the Ashes to
tell how he had disappeared from the company
of living men. No, that was too ghastly a
supposition to be entertained, especially in

broad daylight, with the sun shining through
the port-hole, and the cheerful coming and
going of footsteps overhead. There was more
than that. Just outside his door came the
rustle of a gown, and a voice in very un Parisian
French exclaiming, " Rosita! Rosita! Viens!

Papa m'a dit " Edric did not hear what,

only a sonorous rumbling reply from the neighbouring
cabin.

All was quiet after that, and it seemed a
weary while to the next opening of his door,
and the entrance of the same civil, dark, foreign-looking
man. He gave a congratulatory smile
on meeting Edric' s eager look.

Didn't like to disturb you sooner, sir.
The Captain* s compliments, and he hopes you
feel yourself better."

Very much so, thank you. Will you give
my compliments to the Captain, and ask him to
look in here for a minute V

The man bowed, and seemed about to start
off at once with the message, but checked
himself. " The Captain is at dinner just now.
Shall I bring you some first ?"

Yes, you may," said Edric, bent on taking

things coolly. * ; Xo. Stop. First tell me
where I am, and how I came to be here V

I can't say, sir. I only came on board
myself at Gravesend."

You don't know the meaning of this V
and Edric held up a pinioned arm.

I suppose, sir," with a politely embarrassed
smile, " there was no other way in which they
could keep you in."

"What did they tell you about me?" he
persisted.

You'd been rather violent, the Captain said,
but you'd sleep it off; and I was to take care of
you and let you want for nothing in reason.
I'm sure — except for allowing you to have
spirits, or to go on deck without leave — I'm
willing to do everything I can, sir."

What vessel is this?"

The King Malachi, from London to Dublin,
Captain Shandy."

"Dublin!" Edric breathed more freely.
Then when you get there you'll find out
your mistake," he said, as quietly as he could.
Now, listen to me — What's your name ?"

a Hudson, sir. Charles Hudson."

Then take notice of this, Hudson. I've
been brought here without my knowledge and
against my will. I am in my sober senses,
now. Look at me for yourself. I expect you
to remember, and to bear witness for me some
day, that the first thing I do is to protest
against my being here at all. My name is
Poynter; I am an officer in her Majesty's
service — you can see for yourself if you look
at the letters and cards in that coat-pocket — -
and the first thing I shall do when I set foot
on shore is to go to the police and bring
to punishment all who are concerned in this
rascally business. Now you may get me some
dinner. Can you get me out of this thing-first,
that is "

The Captain's orders, sir. But if you
won't get me into trouble by doing anything
violent, trying to make away with yourself,
or doing anybody a mischief "

Edric laughed, even while hard put to it to
smother his exasperation. He felt his position
too serious to complicate it by giving way to
indignation with this subordinate. By-and-by,
he would have it out with the Captain, or

know the reason why. So he gave the required
parole, and Hudson unstrapped him and
assisted him to rise. He felt giddy and
cramped, and by no means fit for violent
strufforles for liberty, even if the man had not
locked the door and pocketed the key at first,
giving ostentatious glimpses of a revolver in
his waistband.

I should like to dress," said Edric, having
had so much conceded him.

Certainly, sir. Shall I fetch you some hot
water ?" was the unexpected reply.

After a careful toilet, during which Hudson
proved himself an admirable valet, the dinner
arrived. A knock came to the door — a fat,
foolish-faced young man came in with a tray
when it was opened, and scurried off like a
scared rabbit as soon as Hudson had received
it. Being sharply recalled to await orders
about wine, Edric beheld over his head a great
brawny sailor apparently guarding the door,
and peering in on him, his grisly old face alight
with curiosity.

The dinner was an excellent, well served
little meal, and a pint bottle of champagne

arrived, " with the Captain's compliments,"
while it was in progress. Edric was glad of
it — he felt shaky and spent, as though by some
great effort, before the meal was half over.
He was feverishly anxious for the interview,
though sorely dismayed to find how little hold
his mind seemed to have over the facts he
wished to set forth. He examined his coat-pocket
and found it had been emptied of all
papers ; only his handkerchief remained (and
that fortunately was unmarked, otherwise it
might have been seen to be Major Bellamy',
or any other officer for whom his laundress
happened to wash). Two small coins — half
sovereigns — remained in his waistcoat-pocket.
That was all.

I think you will find your things safe
in the Captain's hands," Hudson observed, ashe
saw him searching. " Should you like a
cup of coffee V

Edric assented wearily, and it came in due
course, with some more of the Captain's compliments,
and he would be with Mr. Poynter
directly.

His fatigue must have been too strong

for the coffee, for no sooner had he swallowed
it than his eyes closed gently, his head fell
forward, and Hudson, re-entering to make the
place tidy for the night, found him soundly
sleeping, past all his efforts to waken.

"So he won't see the Captain to-night.
What a pity!" he whispered, with a queer
smile. "Come in, William! Now then,
Peterson, if you please." The grisly old sea-dog,
that Edric had seen on guard, stepped in,
and gently lifted Edric into his berth and then
withdrew, leaving him to the ministrations of
Hudson, who deftly undressed him and made
him comfortable for the night, with the web
strapped securely over him as before.

He woke next morning refreshed and
vigorous, despite a racking headache — a very
different man to deal with from the Edric
of yesterday. " What have I been doing'*
he demanded of himself indignantly, " that I
find myself still here? Confound this thing!"
tearing at the meshes that enveloped him.
How did they get me into it again % Hudson!
I say, Hudson!" he shouted lustily.
w They don't keep me here another twenty-four

hours without explanation. Hudson! Captain
Shandy! Fetch the Captain ! Hollo! Hollo!"
and lie made the narrow space ring with the
power of his strong young lungs.

He waited and listened. There was no
sound in reply, and yet there were footsteps
overhead, and the grey dawn stealing in at his
port-hole. "Hudson! Hollo! Help! Help!
I'll try what fire and murder will do if that
doesn't fetch him," he savagely determined, ashe
stopped again to listen. This time there
w T ere steps without, and the door opened to
admit Hudson.

"Did you call me?" he asked, with the
same air of civil readiness as before.

"Call you? Yes; I did. Just get me
out of this at once, if you please. Did you
think I should not make a row when I found
it on again ?"

I don't think I'd do that again if I were
you," Hudson said gravely, without making
any attempt to release Edric. " There are
other passengers in the ship."

So much the better."

Who don't understand a word of English,"

he went on quietly; " and if you alarm them
they will certainly complain to the Captain, and
well, it might be made unpleasant for you."
"Let me loose!" was all Edric could say,
struggling with the rage that choked him.
Hudson, regarding him calmly, went on to
advise :

If you'd only give your parole to remain
quiet, you might have as much liberty
as you liked, I am certain. I'd take your
word, and go surety for you. It's a good
ship ; your cruise will cost you not a penny ;
you have sustained no injury for which a jury
would give you a farthing damages — even if
you knew anyone to sue, which you don't.
The Captain has acted in perfect good faith in
receiving you, and taking precautions for your
safe keeping ; and the more disturbance you
make, the more you will confirm the description
he has received of you. You will be
released at the end of the voyage, and may
satisfy your mind by doing your worst then.
Xow, sir, it's early for breakfast, but if there

is anything I can get you " he ended in

his old tone of respectful politeness.
vol. in. 52

You are mistaken on one point," Edric
answered him deliberately. " I do happen to
know who to thank for this. I suppose you
are in her pay. I know who has very good
reason for wishing me well away. I don't
know what your share in the job may amount
to, but if you'll trust me, you'll find it better
worth your while to make terms with me. I
think I may promise you an advance on whatever
you expect from her."

Hudson smiled secretly behind the hand
that twirled his black moustache, and shook
his head.

No, sir. I don't see my way to help you,
however much you offer me. It's not to be
done."

Perhaps you will name the sum at which
you rate your services," Edric persisted, still
constraining himself to calmness.

You quite misapprehend the situation, I
assure you," Hudson replied, with a deprecatory
wave of his hand. " I deeply sympathise
with your unfortunate position, and
if it rested with me alone I should be most
happy to assist you out of it."

Well, you can begin by undoing this,"
interrupted Edric. " I'll promise to keep my
hands off you, if that's what you're afraid of.
What do you mean ?" as the other shook his
head.

11 Captains orders," replied Hudson, throwing
his old, worn-out pretext in his prisoner's
face with a grin. " You don't expect me todo
any such thing. You shall not be kept in
bonds a moment longer than necessary, I give
you my word. You had fair warning to go
quietly out of the way, or, if you didn't, it
would be so much the worse for you. You

didn't take it " an expressive shrug drew

his attention to the result. "I am deeply
distressed that we couldn't have kept on
friendly terms. I have no ill-will to you ; not
the slightest ; and whenever we meet again am
prepared to let bygones be bygones, and offer
you the hand of a gentleman in friendship."

"You are an insolent scoundrel!" growled
Edric between his set teeth savagely, " and I
hope, for your sake, I may never set eyes on
you again. I tell you plainly I shall not let
bygones be bygones if I can help it."

52—2

It was too humiliating to lie there helpless,
hurling empty menaces at his captor, who
only raised his eyebrows in polite deprecation,
and Eclric turned his head away and closed
his eyes in bitter, impotent wrath. Hudson
gazed on him for a few seconds longer with
a half-amused, half regretful air, and with a
gentle shrug of his shoulders departed.

How the next hours passed for Edric were
only known to himself, and he could never
tell. In a sort of dumb frenzy of rage,
mortification, and bewilderment, that might
have driven a man of stronger mental calibre
stark mad. Fortunately for Edric, he was
not one of those whom Nature has cursed
with a powerful imagination. His mind
always declined to occupy itself with anything
not actually present to his senses, and,
by so doing, spared him the torture of speculating
on all the possible results of his involuntary
desertion, on his friends' anxieties,
and the dangers still hanging over him. His
bonds and imprisonment were the present
evils, and quite sufficient ones.

"I'll lie quiet for two hours," he determined.

" That rascal must have wound up
my watch ; I can hear it going under my
pillow. There will be people about by then,
and, if no one conies, I'll make row enough
to raise the dead, and take the consequences"*
He was spared the experiment, for before
the allotted time had expired the door was
opened, and the " William " of the previous
night entered gingerly, with a breakfast -
tray.

Good-morning," said Edric. as naturally
as he could.

William dropped the tray on the middle of
the table with a clatter, and jumped aside.
There was a suppressed guffaw outside that
Edric seemed to recognise as matching the
weather-beaten old visage that had peered in
on him before.

Thanks. Xow come here and undo
this."

William, carefully leaving the door open
to allow of a rapid retreat, stepped forward
with evident apprehension and proceeded to
release Edric, who, between indignation and
shame at being discovered in his bonds, presented

a wrathful, hollow-eyed spectacle indeed.


'• What has become of Hudson?" he inquired,
in as casual a tone as he could
compass.

William stared foolishly, but replied not.

u The man who was here last night. What
do you call him ?"

Him? That's Mr. Gardom. Went ashore
with the pilot this morning, sir."

What !" and Edric, half released, made
such a furious bound that William, undoing
the last buckle at arm's-length, bounced away
to the full length of the strap, to which he
held on tight.

At the Start, sir. Two hours ago."

There, that will do. Thanks, I can
manage the rest. Are you the steward ?
Yes ? Then perhaps you will get me some
writing materials."

Edric's first proceeding, when he had extricated
himself from his bondage, was to
stow the accursed web away carefully under
the mattress of his berth, with a view to its
deliberate destruction later on. Then he

dressed in better spirits, planning his appeal
to the Captain. It was a relief to his mind
to have extorted Hudson's frank admission of
complicity. It was one step to knowing the
number of his enemies. There was the Captain
still to be dealt with. " Supposing he is
some piratical blackguard, all the more likely
that he is to be bought over. I dare say for a
good round sum he'd be glad enough to save
my passage and put me ashore. The first
thing to be done is to get at him."

He turned his attention to the breakfast,
and fell to with an appetite that seemed to go
a long way towards restoring William's confidence,
when he reappeared timidly with pen
and ink. Still keeping the extreme space
of the cabin between them, he delayed long
enough to allow Edric to discharge three
questions. " What's the Captain's name — not
Shandy, I imagine?"

William hesitated, but a gruff voice without
was heard to utter : " Pollock ; that's it."

"Thank you! What ship? Where for?"
shouted Edric to the voice.

Barracouta. Valparaiso," and the door

was smartly clapped to, and William's voice
was heard in tones of expostulation in the
passage.

So that was to be kept from me as long as
possible," he observed to himself. " And yet
I am to be treated tenderly. I wonder why \
Do they want me for future use, or what? It
surely would have made a simpler job of it to
have dropped me into the river on Monday
night than to send me half round the world
just to come home on the first opportunity."

He gave up the consideration of this apparent
waste of power and money on the part of
his adversaries, and devoted himself to utterly
dislocating and destroying, with the aid of a
carving-knife, every strap and fastening of his
recent hempen prison ; and a tough job he
found it. This completed, he addressed himself
to the composition of his epistle to the
Captain, and a very effective appeal he made
of it at last. He got the half-sovereign in
readiness for William, reserving the other as
an auxiliary aid.

He passed the next few minutes examining
his cell, and wondering how it was

expected he could be kept in it. supposing he
had shown fight at first — come to with all his
senses about him, or upset that cup of coffee
instead of drinking it — and found the question
partially answered by signs that precautions
for his safe keeping had evidently been taken.
The door had been strengthened till he found
it impossible to shake it, and the partition
between the cabins was extra stout — at least, so
he judged from the fact that no sounds passed
to him through it. Reflecting; that all this
represented the free spending of money, he
was the more driven to speculate on what the
interests could be that were dependent on his
imprisonment, and the less able to arrive at
a conclusion.

William accepted the letter and the half-sovereign
with a troubled air that justified
Edric's misgivings. He had posted himself
so as to see through the door to where in the
gloom outside there loomed the tall form of
William's auxiliary, gazing amiably in on him
as a valuable caged bird, to be pounced on and
seized should he attempt flight. Edric extended
one hand for a second behind William's

back, with the little gold coin displayed
therein. " I want a few minutes' talk with
Captain Pollock, that's all," he said loudly
and distinctly, with an expressive nod towards
the passage.

11 Yes, sir," replied William sheepishly,
clattering cups and plates together with unnecessary
energy.

Outside the door he bit the coin to test its
quality, and after gaping doubtfully at the
note for a minute, ended by disposing of it
behind a tray in his pantry, and inventing a
polite verbal reply to be delivered when he
took in luncheon. Edric hadn't expected
much from him; his reliance now was placed
in the fact that his message had been heard by
two, and that at sight of the gold the twinkling
left eye of the old sailor had for some
seconds been promptly obscured by a long and
portentous wink.

THE CAPTAINS CONSCIENCE.

^DRIC's first flush of hope and good
spirits faded as the day went on.
He had counselled patience and
the trial of every possible fair means first
to himself ; after that — what ? Could he
appeal to the other passengers. He heard
them pass and repass once or twice ; the girls'
voices chattering Spanish or French as before,
the man's voice an indistinguishable bass
rumble. Supposing he did attract their
attention, what could he say to them 1 His
knowledge of French was fair for an Englishman,
but hardly equal to a description of his
position delivered at the top of his voice
through a two-inch plank.

And what could they do for him % There
was a certain absurdity in his situation after
all. He had time to look at it in every light
before the next meal of the day appeared. He
turned away from it with disgust. He was
beginning to mope like a caged animal, and
listened to William's mendacious statement,
li Captain Pollock's compliments, and he'll
attend to your note immediately," with sick
incredulity. Another sailor was on guard
without, but he hadn't the heart to repeat
the former manoeuvre. He sent the food
away, and sat moodily tracing the long chain
of his mysterious experience, link by link,
back to its beginning on that memorable Whit-monday.


If I had— if I hadn't !" He ran over the
profitless string of conjectures — then stopped
and started up. There was a fresh footstep
without, a knock on his door, and Captain
Pollock in person entering inquired :
Good-day, Mr. Random. I understand you
want me. Is there anything I can do for
you?"

Edric turned to his visitor with a sudden

glow of relief and confidence. It was the
feeling with which Captain Pollock inspired
most people from the first glance. A great,
strong, broad-shouldered Northumbrian, with
a brown, wrinkled face, bright, far-seeing eyes,
and a kindly smile under his black beard.
The very roll of his North-country accent was
inspiriting after Hudson's glib nasal speech.
He looked Edric over with a sharp, considering
air, as if he had found something that was
not exactly what he had expected it to be.

I've sent you several messages, but I don't
believe they ever reached you. I am very
glad to see you here now. I think you will
find you are under a mistake in having me
here at all," Edric began, looking him full in
the face. i; To begin with, my name isn't
Gardom."

Captain Pollock's forehead wrinkled. ; " Aye ?
Xot Gardom ? What then ?"

Edric Poynter — Royal Denbigh — orders
for Egypt — kidnapped — brought on board
unconscious." Edric ran over the old formula
which he had been rehearsing to himself so
often. " Have you any objection to telling

me who you suppose me to be ?" he concluded.


Your berth was taken in the name of
Mr. Arthur Gardom, by Messrs. Sewell and
Swayne, part owners of this vessel and very
good friends of mine. You are consigned to
a firm in Valparaiso that I also know well,
Broadley, Passport, and Co., and to them or
their agents I am bound to deliver you : and
there the matter ends as far as I am concerned."


And how came you to take a dangerous
lunatic on board ?" asked the maniac in
question.

I didn't hear that you were dangerous,"
Captain Pollock replied, with a smile. " This
voyage is to make another man of you. Should
you like to go on deck at once ?"

Eclric looked at him with keen disappointment.
" You mean to treat me kindly, but
not to believe me. You have paid no attention
whatever to my statement of my real
name and position. How am I to convince
you ? Look at me. Do I look like a madman?
Are even madmen sent to sea for a

long voyage without the commonest travelling
necessaries?"

Your brother " began the Captain.

Do you mean that scoundrel Hudson ?
He my brother ! Captain Pollock, use your
own eyes for one moment, and say whether
anyone in their senses would believe such a
thing."

Captain Pollock did use his eyes deliberately,
and scanned Edric from head to foot. " If
not, what is he then?"

He told you I was mad, I presume. Did
he show you a single doctor's certificate ? If
he didn't, I demand by what right you dare
turn your ship into a private lunatic asylum
without any lawful warrant ?" Edric's temper
was getting the better of him at last. " I
believe my letters and papers are in your
care. I insist on your at once examining them
and seeing whether they don't bear out my
story."

Come into my cabin and talk it over,"
said the Captain, linking his arm friencllily in
Edric's. " You shall tell it all over again
from the beginning."

Captain Pollock ushered his visitor in, offered
a brandy and soda, and supplied him with a
cigar, then composed himself to attention.

First let us look through these," he said,
producing a neat, sealed packet. " I was to
put this into your hands when we parted, but

as you authorise me " He finished the

sentence by cutting it open.

Inside were purse, card-case, cheque-book,
and a few letters. Edric's face fell as he
examined them. The card-case was empty,
the cover — with his name inside — torn off the
cheque-book, the letters had their envelopes
removed. All else, including the contents of
the purse, was absolutely intact.

The Captain smoked and watched his
troubled face in silence for a short time.
Well, what do you make that prove?" he
asked at last, not ill-naturedly.

Everything I" declared Edric, dashing
them down before him. " Look how the
name has been destroyed throughout, and ask
what that means. Look at the money here :
are madmen usually trusted with sums like
that and cheque-books? Read the letters.

They are of little importance, but are not
likely to have been addressed to a raving
lunatic. Why has the card-case been emptied'?
It tells as much for as against me, all this."

Captain Pollock nodded at each suggestion
as if he admitted its justice, but kept silent
awhile.

I don't mind telling you that I feel inclined
to believe you, but it's clean against
my better judgment. — What has got the lad?"
For Edric, excitedly fumbling in the purse, had
suddenly wrenched out a tattered strip of green
silk with a loud i; Hurrah !"

Look here ! In the card-pocket of my
purse ! I never use it now except for stamps,
but the last time I did use it, this by blessed
luck slipped inside the torn lining. There !"
and he flung down in triumph a card : " Mr.
Edric Poynter, The Royal Denbigh," with
South Camp, Alder shot," pencilled beneath.


The Captain looked it all over, back and
front, and returned it with an encouraging£
nod. " That goes a long way. Xow begin
and tell me all the rest over again."

vol. in. 53

There was a considerable difference in his
way of listening this time ; he asked a pertinent
question or two, and knit his black brows
thoughtfully over the answers.

Now, suppose I take all this for gospel,
what's the next thing to be done ?"

Put me on board the first homeward bound
ship we meet."

"Aye? I thought as much. Now listen

to my version of the story. Your well,

I won't call him. brother comes to me and

introduces himself, with a letter from Messrs.
Sewell and Swayne, and explains how he
wants his brother carefully looked after. You
aren't dangerous — only queer in the head —
crossed in love, he hints. For the lady's sake
as well as your own, the sooner you are out
of England the better, but you obstinately
refuse to join your family in Chili, and must
be got on board by stratagem. I didn't fancy
your company, I don't deny, but having a
vacant cabin, and your brother undertaking
all the responsibility of getting you off quietly,
why, I didn't like to refuse. So here you are !
and the question is, what's to be done with you ?

You must let me have time to think a bit over
my share in the business, and I'm not a quick
thinker, except in my OAvn line. Just you
leave me to turn it over in my mind for half-an-hour,
and you go on deck and get some
fresh air. You'll find Don Ramon and the
senoritas up there ; he's no end of a grandee ;
been over to Europe on a diplomatic mission,
and is bringing his nieces home from .
If you can talk French to them,
or Spanish, I'll introduce you by-and-by."

Edric needed no second telling or other inducement,
he was off and on deck before the
cigar had returned to the Captain's lips.

On deck all was white and dazzling with
sunshine. The Barracouta was careering
along with a fair wind, and every rag of canvas
spread. The sea was one boundless expanse of
sparkle with a dim outline on the port quarter
that was Ushant, though he didn't know it
and the sky was cloudless blue. There was
the intoxication of hope in every breath he
drew of the strong, free air ; in the flashing
white wings of the sea-bird that swooped down
from aloft, and hovered in the air in their

53-

9 *)

wake ; in the merry, bird-like chatter of the
two little ladies who, in resplendent French
toilettes, were perched on camp-stools in a
sheltered corner, beguiling the time with a
strip of convent-worked embroidery, the
feuilleton in a limp and dog's-eared French
fashion sheet, and a box of Everton toffee
between them. He took off his hat and stood
bare-headed in the breeze, looking so bright
and handsome that Rosita nudged Mercedes,
and Mercedes, stooping to bite off the end of
her silk with her little white teeth, laughed
frankly, and shot him a side way glance of
approval from her languishing brown eyes.

Little he cared for the two beauties.
Symphonies in black and yellow." They
might keep their coquettish smiles, for him.
He should be a free man in another hour, if
there were any trust in human nature. It was
only to signal to some passing vessel and to
send a boat off with him. Perhaps that very
steamer, slowly creeping up from the horizon,
might take him off. Should he go and call
the Captain's attention! to it ? No, time
enough. She and the Barracouta were miles

apart yet, and the Captain was a man of his
word ; and, meanwhile, he could lean against
the bulwarks and watch her approaching, and
calculate the time that separated him from
England. Nine hours back to Plymouth.
Then a telegram to Colonel Borrodale and
another to Sir John — he was within an ace of
saying Miss Archdale. The first train to

London ah! Here was Captain Pollock

at last. Surely never before had a half-hour
lasted so unaccountably long. He came forward
leisurely, exchanging a few words with
Don Ramon, who stood, long, lean, brown and
melancholy, gazing over the waters ; made a
pretty speech in rough and ready Spanish to
the pretty little senoritas, and then at last
crossed over to Edric.

Will you come this way? I want to talk
to you about your business, and let you see
what I have made of it." The light of hope
suddenly flickered and died down in Edric's
heart, quenched — he didn't know why — by
the Captain's look and tone. " I've thought
over the case," he said, "and not to keep you
in doubt, I'm sorry for you, but I can't let

you go." And he brought his hand down
heavily on Edric's arm.

Can't let me go ?" he echoed, gazing
blankly first into the other's face and then at
the steamer that was nearing them every
moment, and with it his hopes of liberty
growing sweeter and stronger.

I'll tell you why. I've been considering
the rights and wrongs of it all, and trying to
find where my responsibility comes in, and
what I'm justly answerable for. There are
three parties in this case, you see. You and
me, and the parties who have given you into
my charge. You have been badly used, that's
plain, though your story doesn't come out as
clear as I could wish. You were hocussed
and brought on board insensible, and yet, by
your own showing, you went nowhere except
to call on a banker and have tea with a churchwarden.
You are sure you didn't flash those
notes anywhere, and go in to have a drink
after with a friendly stranger from the country
who had lost his way in London ?"

If I had, how much money should I have
had left to bring on board, do you suppose?"

'* That's true. Well, a lawyer might make
something of it all, but I'm not one ; and I believe
your story ; not because I think it's a good
one, but because I like you, and that's no
reason at all. Anyhow, I'm clear of all share
in that transaction, you'll allow. As to
Messrs. Sewell and Swayne, whether they've
been taken in or whether that letter was a
forgery I can't pretend to say. That's not
my concern either. Where my responsibility
does come in, and where I see no chance of
shirking it righteously, is that I've contracted
to convey you to Valparaiso and deliver you
safe to Broadley and Passport. There's no
getting clear of that. I've made an engagement,
and I'm a man of my word. Whoever
shipped you off counted on that, and if he
were the greatest scoundrel unhung, I'm bound
to keep faith with him. I owe you something
for not having made more enquiries before
allowing you to come on board, and I'll make
it good. Once I give you over to Broadley' s
agent I've got out of the bargain, and I'm
yours to stand by you in any further trouble,
and I promise you a free passage home in this

or any other ship you choose. What do you
say to that ?"

What do I say ?" Edric's eyes were fixed
on the homeward-bound vessel growing nearer
and nearer. " That you have made me a very
handsome offer ; but once out there, I may as
well hang myself as avail myself of it. I see the
force of your arguments, but they mean ruin,
that's all. I am done for as far as my profession
goes. I shall have simply skulked
out of the fighting and every chance of
promotion. How am I to show my face
again? Why, even by this time, what do you
suppose is being said about my absence ?"
He gave an impatient groan and turned
away.

And I've given an undertaking not to let
you communicate with England, if I can help,"
exclaimed the kind-hearted Captain, in sore
vexation. " That doesn't apply to me, though,"
suddenly relieved. " I'll write a line, just
whatever you please, to "

To my Colonel. Thank you. It may do
some good."

Captain Pollock expected something of a

tenderer nature to be required of him, perhaps,
but accepted the commission.

Cheer up, my lad," he said, kindly, "and
don't be thinking too hardly of me. Just try
and realise how I stand. All that I've got
weighing on my mind, day and night, for
weeks to come. This ship and her crew and
her cargo — thousands of pounds' worth down
below there — not to speak of Don Compose
over the way, who considers himself worth the
lot. I don't like this vessel, never mind why;
I don't like my first engineer — he's a fool. I
don't like my first mate, as able a man as ever
stepped, in a general way, but bound to go off
his head in the first emergency. Xow to get
through a job like mine takes a clear head and
a clean conscience, and both I mean to hold
to. It's a question of right and wrong, do you
see, and if we were to talk from now till tomorrow
we can't make them change places."

Edric wearily assented ; it was evidently
hopeless to argue the point further. Captain
Pollock had something more to say, however.

I don't see why we shouldn't have a
pleasant time together after all. It shan't be

my fault if it isn't. You must give me your
word, though," and his eyes grew stern, " that
you'll make no attempt at escape. I don't see
at present when or where you could, but there's
no telling what chance there may be."

What should you do if I tried T

Put you in irons directly." And Edric
saw he meant it.

All right. I'll risk it."

Very good. Now we understand each
other." And the Captain turned away with
a secret smile.

Days slipped by, as they do at sea, in
pleasant deceitfulness, for which reason,
perhaps, Edric for the first time in his life
started a diary. By way of record he made a
careful entry of all his strange experiences,
noting down every small detail that Captain
Pollock, William, under whose charge he had
specially been placed, or the sailors who had
seen him brought on board, could supply. It
was a scanty chronicle after all, only worthy of
note because the writing of it led him at length
to a discovery of quite a different nature from
any he expected to make.

It may safely be asserted that nothing in the
world was ever yet written without being
intended also to be read. Even the most
private of personal chronicles have a way of
adjusting themselves as if for the inspection of
another pair of eyes, and so Edric found ; and
one day asked himself for whose benefit he was
adding those elaborate notes explaining his
motives, as he had assuredly no need to do for
his own consideration. He was writing this
all with a fancy that someone was to read it
some day; but who? He remembered the
visions that he used to indulge in of the time
when Mrs. Damien might care to hear of the
chance that had brought him to her again. He
had imagined the delights of the telling often
enough; but he had never rightly succeeded, he
also recalled to mind, in picturing her raised
to much enthusiasm about his concerns. She
used to smile and look gracious ; that was as
far as he ever got. No, it was not her comments
he was anticipating, her criticism he was
deprecating for one single line. It was all for
Hester, every word of it ; and here he put
down his pen and laughed at himself, and

finally got up and went on deck to think it all
out under the stars. Had he fallen in love
and out of it, and into it again without knowing
it ? He was not given to self-analysis —
wouldn't have known how to have set about it
if he had wished, but he had always prided
himself on knowing his own mind, and now it
appeared as if he didn't, and that was disconcerting.
So to begin — he had held Mrs.
Damien, of all the women he had beheld, as the
loveliest, wisest, most to be adored. The rose
of the world, that was clear. Had he wavered
from that opinion? Not a jot. She was the
most beautiful creature the sun had ever shone
on. Most to be adored? Certainly ; and
nothing would give him more pleasure than to
see a crowd of worshippers worthy of her at
her feet. She was worthy an Emperor ; he
only wished he could wed her to one. Why
not to himself? He wasn't an Emperor, so
that doesn't enter into the question. Wisest ?
He hadn't known Hester when he settled that
point, so he could not be blamed for modifying
his opinion a little, otherwise his faith was untarnished
by a shadow of wavering. That was

certain, and very satisfactory ; he need bother
no more about it. If he and Mrs. Damien
never met again in this world, he would have
the content of thinking his feelings, such as they
were, towards her would be none the worse.
But Hester ! that was altogether another
question. If he didn't think he was to meet
her again — and that as soon as steam, sail and
the Powers above would let him — or if she
were to forget him, or meet another fellow in
his absence who dared to win her affections

Well, he might just as well jump overboard at
once without further consideration, for there
was an end of everything. After which he
returned to his cabin and wrote down this conclusion
in the most emphatic language his pen
could command, sealed it up and directed it
For Hester — some day," and retired to rest
much relieved by the performance.

(Er tract from Edric's Diary of the folio wing
day.)

The weather changed again about midday.
Wind blowing strong enough to drive
the ladies below after luncheon. The and

the old Don have been very gracious and
friendly to me, and I joined them in the
saloon, where Rosita sang us some French
song she had learned at the convent school,
and Mercedes gave me a lesson in Spanish.
Then they proposed a round game, and I was
just wondering what to make of my hand — for
they will use that distracting pack with kings
and queens of Spain and patron saints, and
naval victories and bull-fights, instead of our
court cards — and the three were simultaneously
explaining the rules of the game tome
in three different languages, when there
came a sudden crashing report, that sent the
cards flying from Mercedes' hand and the
glass jingling down in the steward's pantry ;
and then came another shock and a greater ;
the shock of abrupt stoppage in full speed, of
an instantaneous change from the ceaseless
sound and vibration, that from lone habit we
have ceased to notice, to absolute quietude.
It was almost sickening, the stillness for a
second ; there was row enough directly after :
shouting and trampling and hissing of steam.
The girls shrieked and flung themselves on

Don Ramon, and I rushed upstairs. After all,
it was only a slight explosion in the engine-room,
they told me. The engineer had got
badly scalded, unfortunately ; and, worst of
all, Captain Pollock had managed to comedown
the hatchway head-foremost, and was
picked up insensible. I ran back to reassure
the others, as well as my limited knowledge of
French would allow ; but I'm afraid I didn't
make it very clear — totally forgetting the right
words for ' engine ' explosion,' and ' hatchway
' in my confusion — for they shrieked the
more. I went back again after helping the
Captain to his berth, and told them that at
worst it would only be a few days under
canvas while the damage was being repaired.
But Don Ramon was unappeasable. He commanded
his children to go and make their
preparations to leave the ship directly, and I
saw him on deck folio wins: that unlucky first
mate about and demanding to be set on shore
at the earliest moment.

I am sorry for the Captain ; he is a right
good fellow, and has been uncommonly pleasant
to me. William, who seems knowledgeable

in broken heads, declares that ' he has
seen many a worse himself, when he was in
the medical line as a boy ' (carrying round the
bottles and basket, I presume); and I have
promised to stay with him, and am writing
this in his cabin."

extract from Edric's Diary, two days later.)

It seems so strange to read that over, and
to think that while I was killing time by
writing it, fuming at the delay this accident
would cause, or watching the Captain's pulse
and applying lotion — wondering now and
then what the sounds outside might mean —
that on the other side of a plank my deliverance
was being worked out. To this minute
I don't understand how. One or two things
may have happened. Either the damage
proved greater than I was told at first, and
there was actual clanger, or the mate got into
an uncalled-for panic and Don Ramon drove
his last remaining wits out of him. Anyhow,
when William next appeared it was with an
imperative request that I should lose no time
in getting ready to leave the ship. A large

Portuguese vessel, homeward bound, had been
signalled, and would take us off as soon as the
boat could be lowered. My preparations were
soon enough made. I'm o*lad I retained sense
enough to write a line for the poor Captain,
reminding him that I had given no parole,
and saying I believed he would be as glad of
my escape as I was. Good, sympathetic old
fellow ! William's last words were that "he'd
be all right tomorrow, if he were left quiet
and not bothered.'

•• So here I am on board the Rex Fernando,
bound to Vigo. Hoping, by good luck, to
reach Gibraltar as soon as the regiment''

vol. in. 54

INTERMEDIATE. — SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER.

(Hester to Rose.)

I " St. Agatha's Convalescent Home.

Y dearest Rose,

I have such good news for
you that, though I know the
Mallard will be out of reach of a post-office
for the next few days, I must begin to tell it
ta once*

By this time you will have read my letter,
sent off in hot haste, with the news of Mr.
Poynter's safety. I will enclose in this his
own account of all his wonderful experiences.
It was written, you will see, during his return
voyage from the Cape Verd Islands to Gibraltar.

He telegraphed directly on his arrival,
but the message was delayed in transmission,
and reached my father in Scotland within a
day of his letter. He, like the dearest of
daddies, cast gun, grouse, and the expostulations
of a wrathful entertainer to the winds,
and came tearing up to town to make a nuisance
of himself at the Horse Guards till he
was perfectly assured that Mr. Poynter's involuntary
absence from duty would do him no
harm. When it was satisfactorily arranged he
wrote to me.

I was in the depths of discouragement
about poor Elsie that day. ' She may just as
well go home Dr. Bevis had said. ' She is
getting no stood here.' He came in — the <iood
old man is everybody's Father Confessor — I
showed him the letter. ' The very thing you
want to rouse her,' he declared.

' But no one has ventured to mention Mr.
Poynter's name to her since that night,' I objected.
' So much the better. The shock will
be the greater. Go and give it her at
once.'

' But if it does more harm than good?'

54—2

11 ' Nothing can do her more harm than
going on as she is now.'

"This was final, and we walked together
to find her. She had wandered from the
gardens up into the pine-woods above. I
knew her favourite seat, where she would
spend hours looking listlessly out to sea,
without book, or work, or company.

"' Run away to her! Don't be afraid. If
she takes it fainting, call to me. If she takes
it crying, so much the better. Let her cry
for a week, if she can

I ran up the soft, sandy pathway. I was
never more nervous in my life than when
Elsie turned her great, solemn, unsmiling gaze,
first on my face, and then on the letter I
carried. Well, she took it crying. Down on
the ground she flung herself, amongst the
heathy grass and the pine-needles, clutching
them in her hands and beating the earth,
shaking from head to foot with hysteric sobs,
till more than once I started to run after Dr.
Bevis. In the end he was right. When she
had cried herself into a fit of utter exhaustion,
she looked up at me with a more natural look

than I had seen on her face for weeks, and,
when I helped her to get up, said : ' Have you
been waiting by me all this time?' and gave
me the ghost of her old thankful smile.

I sat by her bedside that night till she
fell asleep, and she made her confession to me.
It seems a shame to repeat it. but I have
given her my promise to do so, to you and
Mr. Stannard as well. She is in the mood
to-day to stand, taper in hand, in a white
sheet at the door of the nearest church, calling
upon the whole congregation to witness her
contrition. Poor little child ! As we fancied,
she had been making to herself a hero of
that very unromantic character, Mr. Poynter,
dreaming about him and making too much
of a few kind words and actions. I don't
much wonder at her. He looks the character
sometimes, and she did not see enough of him
to find out that he is really very much like
other people." (Marginal note in Mrs.
Damien's hand: "Oh. Hester, Hester, what a
handful of dust to throw in the eyes of a
confiding friend") " Then the silly girl
must needs confide in a friend, a fellow-lodger,

a mysterious foreigner, who dealt in
love charms and conjurations and such black
arts; and she told Elsie's fortune, and filled
her head with nonsense, and at last actually
induced her to try the effect of a love-philtre.
Mr. Poynter came one evening ; Mrs. Beltran
was on the watch, secretly prompting, and
the opportunity offered itself. Three drops
in the bottom of a teacup and the trick was
done. He didn't seem any the worse, and
left directly. I suppose the action of the
drug was slow, for you see he says he remembers
wandering for hours through street
after street in bewilderment, not able to recall
what his errand was. Mrs. Beltran took her
departure, promising that by the next moon
1 the charm would have worked leaving poor
Elsie half mad with fear and uncertainty.
Then, the very day that she had counted
on, came — too abruptly, through my fault, I
fear — the news of his disappearance.

Here she came creeping in, with a letter
to Mr. Poynter. ' Would I please read it and
forward it to him?' A full and humble confession,
which I have forthwith disposed o

with the aid of a match. It has been no
doubt a great relief to her to write it ; but it
will be a greater some day to know that he
has never read it.

Still he must know somewhat of the story.
What is to be done, Rose? He is bent on
finding out and bringing to punishment this
woman — for I believe Mrs. Beltran to be no
other than a certain Madame Euphrosyne,
with whom he has had some queer dealings,
and who has her own reasons for wanting him
out of the way — but how can it be done
without involving Elsie? Think of her story
being told in a police court! And yet how
can I ask him to forbear, and let the woman
escape? He has written to his solicitor, he
says. What can be done, Rose? If he only
would wait till he comes home, or till I can
explain the case to him, I'd be grateful to him
for ever after."

(Marginal note : " Tell him so")

(Rose Damien to Eustace Stannard ; with

the foregoing enclosed.)
If Hester is right in her guess, it explains
why you or I have never chanced to see this

Mrs. Beltran on our visits to Lavender Row.
I knew the woman at Cannes. A terrible
tragedy occurred in an American family we
knew there, and she was suspected of being
an accomplice. She chose to stay and brazen
it out, going everywhere in public, and rather
enjoying the uncanny reputation she had
acquired. She must have known who I was,
and might object to my recognising her in
London under a different name.

Only a fortnight longer, and then

What will my reception be, I wonder, when
next I show my face in St. Fridolin's?"

(Eustace Stannard to Oliver Meynell.)

I have had the woman we are seeking
here under my hand at St. Fridolin's, and let
her slip ! I do not see what we can do but
await Mr. Poynter's return from Egypt now.
Let us hope Sir Garnet's calculations may
prove correct. Any news of Magrath lately'*

Oliver Meynell to Eustace Stannard. )

Rivington, Nov. 4th.

I have received a most extraordinary letter
from Magrath. He regrets he agreed to compromise,

and seems disposed to insist on the
actual possession of the Irish property. He
wishes me to appoint a day for an interview.
May I count on your help? I suppose he will
expect you to be present.

Will you tell me what you think it
means?"

(E. Stannard to 0. Meynell.)

It means extortion. Will Saturday, the
18th. suit you? I am going away tomorrow
for a few days. I see the Royal Denbigh are
coming home."

SEE THE CONQUERING HEROES COME!

^*^^HE morning of the eighteenth
of November dawned with a chill
yellow fog, through which Mr.
Paramount groped his way to his office,
welcoming it, miserable and cheerless as it
was, as a promise of screen and protection
on the errand he had in view. Nobody would
see him, and he didn't want to be seen. Not
that he was ashamed of what he was going todo.
Anyone might have business in Piccadilly
or at Charing Cross. It was only that
his presence there might be misconstrued by
anyone who might meet him there about
eleven o'clock. Anyone like our Mr. Ebden
for instance, a flippant youth, who smoked

and read sporting papers all office hours, and
whom he was disgusted to find in old Mr.
Lovibond's office when he went in to ask
permission to depart for the rest of the day.
The grave senior partner gave it without
asking questions, like a gentleman ; but young
Ebden must needs wink and grin, and enquire
whether Trafalgar Square wasn't the nearest
way to everywhere that morning, and whether
he had secured a reserved seat on one of the
lions ?

"Hullo! Don't go," as Mr. Paramount
was about to withdraw without pursuing the
subject. " We've got to congratulate you on
the last lustre shed on the name of Paramount.
Xot seen the Penny Pictorial? No?
I bought it on purpose for you. Look here !
Here's fame. Something like a British
warrior, eh?" And he unfolded and displayed
an exciting woodcut, one of a series, " Heroes
of the rank and file." This one in particular
represented " Private Sampson Paramount at
Tel-el-Kebir," as he appeared in a cloud of
dust and smoke, his foot on a pile of turbaned
corpses, warding off a flight of cannon-balls

with his naked sword, and with his other arm
supporting a very limp general officer. In
the left foreground, a bursting shell, a cataract
of shattered limbs and masonry, and the
special artist of the Pictorial sketching him.
Even old Mr. Lovibond, who seldom encouraged
his nephew's sportiveness in office
hours, rubbed his glasses and requested to be
allowed to see, returning it with the dry remark :
That the young man had apparently found a
vocation more to his taste than office work."
By this time the poor old father, utterly
miserable, could only murmur indistinct
protests and depart, carefully pocketing the
journal, however.

Elsie will like to see it. I can post it
to her without any comment," he reflected.
Dear, dear ! to think of her so happy at that
lovely place, with roses and myrtles under her
windows, and pleasant company, and yet she
wishing for nothing so much as to come horns
and make her old father comfortable. Perhaps
there is no place like London after all.
I've thought of a great many things I can do
to make her life easier. That'll she sav to

her pretty new room, I wonder! I've had
one good child at least, only one, to stay with
me. Well, there ! I've forgiven Sampson,
and I won't let him see that I'm there to look
on him in his disgrace to-day. I ought to
keep away, but I must see for myself that the
boy is safe and alive. ' Lance-thrust through
the forearm, and collar-bone broken,' that's
what the papers said. If he'd only stayed
safely at the office! He'll think of that
now."

He had many similar reflections with which
to beguile the long, slow omnibus journey,
that ended in a region of fog — a few shades
paler than at the farther end. He peered
about at a street-corner for a minute, intending
to make his way to Whitehall, Mr. Ebden's
remarks having set him against Trafalgar
Square; but he got bewildered and hesitated,
made a few uncertain steps, and, somehow, got
caught up and absorbed in a stream of sightseers
making steadily for Charing Cross. He
was too confused to resist ; and so, unknown
to himself and against his will, by a moment's
irresolution changed the course of his life for

the rest of his days, gave a romance to St.
Fridolin's, and ended this story.

The streets were thickly lined by an
orderly, expectant crowd ; orderly, because
hopeless of finding a place once lost in the
evermore thickening fog. Why they should
wait at all was a matter of wonderment. It
was cold ; it was damp underfoot ; only one in
ever) dozen had a chance of beholding more
than a misty outline of the passing troops
they had come to welcome ; and yet they
waited, cheered by occasional rifts and flashes
of sunshine through the cloud-curtain. Mr.
Paramount, drifting along, found himself in
Cockspur Street, where a voice from King
George's statue invited him to " Come up

'ere, guv'nor !"

He was very doleful by this time. He had
no fear of being seen, but, alas ! no chance
either of seeing. His spectacles got blurred
directly, and with utmost striving he could
not flatter himself he should obtain a place in
the inner line. " They are coming!" There
was a stir and a thrill, and suddenly and with
electric effect the fog lifted, and cut flashed in

full glory the brief sunshine. He ran along
behind the close serried line of backs and
shoulders, making desperate efforts to find a
gap. In vain. He could hear the measured
tramp of feet, and the approaching roar of
voices. u Here they come. Hurrah !" and
the crowd jammed closer. "Oh, what is it?
Who are they'' he demanded, piteously.
1 ' Indians!" said someone. " There's a swell.
Look at him!" He made another struggle
forward. The turban of a mounted Bessaldar
and a glimpse of his green tunic were visible
for one instant, and then the peephole closed.
Tramp, tramp, they all passed by. Glimpses
of helmets, breastplates, horses' ears — these
were cavalry then — and Sampson would be on
foot. Another chance, and he desperately
wedged himself in. Infantry now, he could
see. " Is this the Royal Denbigh ? Do
oblige me by telling me," he appealed to his
neighbours. " Xo, Marines. Bravo, Jollies !
Hooray I" and the helmets passed. " They're
coming now, though. Look out!" "Oh,
do let me in to see, only for a moment!" he
cried, regardless of appearances. A well-dressed

man in front turned round. " Have
you anyone there ?" he asked, good-naturedly,
trying to turn edgeways and make a place for
him. " My son's there! He's been wounded,
and I shan't see him!" cried the old man,
recklessly. " Let him in," the gentleman
begged of those surrounding, himself setting
the example. "Let him see his son pass.
This way, come along!" and two or three
strong arms promptly seized and hauled him
forward, till he found himself the centre of an
amiable group round the base of a lamp-post,
one or two having obligingly swarmed up
higher to make room for him. " Now, then !
"Which is he ? This one V s as Sir Evelyn
Wood at the head of the Infantry Brigade
rode into view. " Not there. Nor there," as
the Seaport Highlanders in white helmets and
tartan trews marched by. " He's in the Royal
Denbigh ;" and eager to prove that it was
under no false pretence he came there, he
managed to extricate the Pictorial from his
pocket and display it, with a result contemplated
by him. " Paramount, is it ? Then
look out ! Here they are ! Go it, Denbigh !

Hooray ! Hooray ! Which of them is it ?"
"There, there!" pointing' excitedly to a sunburnt
face and an arm in a sling. " There goes
Paramount! Well done, Sampson ! Three
cheers for Paramount of Assassin! All
right, Tel-el-Kebir ! Let him see you I"
And willy-nilly, up the post, despite protestations
and appeals, he was shoved, just as
Sampson, catching his name, raised a pair of
wondering; eves to behold his father aloft,

O ml '

waving the Penny Pictorial frantically and
shouting with the best.

Bravo Denbigh s ! Hooray ! Hooray I"

Then he dropped to his feet in confusion.
Thank you, thank you, my dear boys ! I
must get home now. Will you help me ?
And take this " — emptying his pockets of all
their loose silver — " to drink Corporal Paramount's
health. "

Helped by one and another, he found himself
on the outskirts of the throng, all a-
tremble, his hat crushed, his clothes twisted
and rumpled, and his old eyes full of tears,
tremulously murmuring : " God bless the lad !
If poor Emmie could have lived to see this I

vol. in. 55

Now I must go home and say nothing more
about it." But Fate was too many for him.

A very different party of spectators had
been watching the show from a window in a
hotel overlooking Trafalgar Square. A group
of pretty women, some very fine gentlemen
indeed, and a general officer in full splendour.
The procession passed away. Luncheon disposed
of, two of the party stood in the recess
of a window looking out on the street below.

"Randolf ought to be here soon," the
gentleman said. " I have to meet Meynell
at half-past three."

"If he doesn't come before you leave, I
hope he'll stay away altogether. Fancy the
situation ! ' Major Stannard,' I shall say,
1 you have been asked to come here expressly
to make the acquaintance of your future
sister-in-law. Is not this a delightful surprise
for you ? Telling Lady Monchalsea
would be nothing in comparison."
"What did she say?"

Everything that was disagreeable, of
course. But it served to amuse her for the
whole cruise."

How ill Eandolf looked ! I hope nothing
is wrong," the Yicar observed, after another
interval.

He looked unhappy and careworn as well
as ill ; very like you when you first came to
St. Fridolin's. Oh, Eustace, see ! Can that
be Mr. Paramount ? Yes ! He has been,
after all, to see his son. Oh, if we could only
catch him and make him acknowledge it !"

I'll bring him!" and off darted the Vicar
after his churchwarden, while Mrs. Damien,
hurriedly calling Hester to her aid, arranged
the details of his reception.

Mr. Paramount was soon overtaken, but to
induce him to return was another thing.

"Mrs. Damien wants me particularly!" he
exclaimed, unhappily. "I — I really " looking
first at his dusty coat and then piteously
at Eustace. " Please make my excuses."

Oh, I see you have been in collision with
the sightseers. You shall make yourself presentable
first at the hotel, if you like. AYe
all came to see the show to-day."

Mr. Paramount tried to look personally
uninterested and still demurred, but was

55—2

finally carried back in triumph, and, after
preliminary smattering, was introduced into
the presence of his treacherous adversaries.

I wanted you particularly just now," said
Mrs. Damien, with her most irresistible smile.
I have good news of Elsie ; but that is not
the reason. I want to present you to your
son's Colonel, Sir John Archdale."

Mr. Paramount had seen the old gentleman
he knew as Miss Hester's father time aftertime
at Ainsleigh Gardens and St. Fridolin's
without attaching the smallest importance to
him ; but under the might of the Tailor-creator,
" clothing man not only with wool,
but dignity and a mystic dominion," the scales
dropped from his eyes, and he bowed with
deepest deference to the gold-laced, scarlet-clad,
medal-and-order-bedecked warrior who
stood before him, and who at a signal from
his daughter made him a brief, gracious little
speech. He complimented him on his son,
that promising young soldier; implied that he
ought to be grateful to Providence for having
returned the paragon to him in good condition ;
made a graceful allusion to the recruiting of

our army from the upper classes, and dismissed
him to luncheon with military brevity.

Hester conducted him to the table, and
made room for him beside Lady Beatrix
Lepell, who greeted him with her wonted
joviality, and recommended the mayonnaise.
She and Mrs. Damien were again the best of
friends. " For Heaven's sake, Trixy, if you
must quarrel with somebody, don't let it bethe
one woman of all your acquaintance whose
nose and chin are not out of drawing," her
Augustus had besought her. They plied the
old gentleman with dainty fare and pretty
little veiled compliments till his head felt
giddy. He was not unduly exalted ; on the
contrary, he rose from the table very meek
and subdued. It all brought home to him so
forcibly the inscrutableness of the ways of this
world, and of the young folks whose world it
is. He bade a polite adieu to all.

You will get home more easily now,"
Mrs. Damien said ; " see how the streets have
emptied!" and she stepped out on the balcony.

The fog still hung about, but not thickly,
and the passers-by in the streets were distinctly

visible. A carriage drove up to the
hotel entrance and stopped almost immediately
beneath them. Mr. Paramount retired hastily
into the room again.

"I couldn't be mistaken!" he exclaimed,
with suppressed excitement. " It's Elsie's
friend I told you about, ma'am, Mrs. Beltran.
Oh, dear, dear, I'm sorry to see them about
again ! They are staying here, I presume.
To look at her now, and to think they once
lodged in Lavender Eow ! With your leave
I'll stay here a few minutes longer till they
have gone. I confess I feel some reluctance
to meeting Mrs. Beltran."

Mrs. wkoV shouted the Vicar, springing
to his feet. " Beltran — did you say Beltran ?"

I certainly did. No harm, I hope?"

It's too good to be true. And coming inhere?"


I saw her enter. The gentleman drove
away in the carriage."

Come along! I'd give a hundred pounds
to be sure you're right! Come, you must
keep watch that she does not get away while
I send a telegram to Seagrave Place."

Xo, stop!" and Hester, catching a word
or two, sprang to intercept him. " Stop, tell
me first. What do you want with her ?
Who are you talking about ? Not Elsie's
friend ?"

Miss Archdale, I cannot wait to explain.
We must secure her at all hazards."

Then go at once, if that's what you mean
to do. I want her too, and so does somebody
else I"

Before the door had slammed on the two
she was across the room, and had seized
astonished Sir John by the arm. " Daddy,
where's Captain Poynter to be found'? We
must have him here directly !"

"Why, Het, how should I know? He's
gone home by this time ; or, if he hasn't, I
don't know how it's to be done. Where do
you expect to find him?"

In St. James's Park, of course. They
can't have done more than got back there yet.
Off at once, Daddy, if you ever hurried in
your life, and bring him. See the Colonel ! —
Sir Evelyn Wood !— the Duke ! Say it's for
life and death ! Say that / want him !"

IF ONE WHISK OF FATE'S BROOM SWEEP OUR
COBWEB IN SUNDER."

R. PARAMOUNT was waiting excitedly
at the head of the staircase,
when ten minutes later the Yicar
came striding up.

It's all right!" he said in a loud eager
whisper. " She's in there. No. 47. I saw
her again when she stopped to speak to the
chambermaid. There's no mistake."

Did she see you?"

Me? No. And she wouldn't have believed
it if she had seen me here ; would she ?
Or anyone else."

The champagne was pink in the cheeks of
the little old gentleman, his eyes were shining.
The world had been turning upside down with

him in the last few hours. He had been cheering
Sampson from a lamp-post, lunching with a
lord and a lady, and now he was joining in a
conspiracy with the Yicar ! Vogue la galere !

We had better go and confront her at once,
without waiting for Meynell. She might
come out, and we couldn't exactly make a
scene in the corridor," Mr. Stannard decided
after a moment's reflection. " Come on. You
are quite certain of the woman? Very well.
Please address her directly as Mrs. Beltran."
He beckoned a passing chambermaid, and after
a brief conversation they proceeded down the
corridor to Xo. 47. The girl opened it with
her pass-key, knocking as she did so.

; Two gentlemen to see Mrs. Beltran," she
announced, and the Yicar and Mr. Paramount
entered as she spoke.

It was one of the handsomest rooms in the
hotel ; gay with gilding and polished wood,
and satin and lace draperies. A bright little
fire crackled on the tiled hearth ; the air was
a trifle over-perfumed by scents from the gilt
and silver-mounted bottles that sparkled on
the toilet-table, the scented linings of costly

raiment, and the quaint odours of Eastern
stuffs. Tall mirrors reflected a chaotic assemblage
of rich and delicate woman's gear — furs,
velvet, fine linen and laces, trinkets, millinery,
gloves, fans, slippers, ivory brushes, bangles,
covering the bed, the floor, and the tables :
while to receive it two large Saratoga trunks
yawned open at one side of the room.

In the centre stood Euphrosyne, upright,
with head thrown back, meeting the intruders
with a gaze of haughty displeasure in her
steady black eyes. She was a striking figure.
She had taken off her dress for convenience
of working, and was clothed in an under-garment
of yellowish silk, trimmed heavily
with lace, that left her round dusky neck and
long lithe arms bare. In her black satin
corset, and heavy swinging skirts striped with
satin bars of yellow and crimson, she looked
like a " play-actress," Mr. Paramount thought,
and would have retreated in modest confusion
had he been able. As it was, impelled by the
Vicar, he blundered forward a step or two,
faltering :

"Mrs. Beltran! I hope I see you well," ina

manner wildly unlike his usual acrid precision.


Mrs. Beltran neither stirred nor spoke, nor
withdrew her steady, disconcerting gaze from
her two visitors till the maid retired and
the door closed. Then she bestowed a slight,
contemptuous smile on them, and demanded :

"What has brought you here, gentlemen?
I am not prepared to receive visitors — as you
see," with an expressive gesture of her dusky,
unclothed arms that made Mr. Paramount
blush again to his ear-tips, and vainly strive
to back out through the shut door. " Your
errand must be very urgent."

11 It is. Very urgent," spoke the Vicar
stiffly, his calm eyes resting on the picturesque
figure before him, as indifferently as if she
had been a district-visitor in a mackintosh. " So
urgent that I was obliged to insist on seeing
you, though I was assured downstairs that
there was no such person here. As Mr. Paramount
is an old acquaintance of yours, I
brought him with me. I am Mr. Stannard
of St. Fridolin's.

She had been studying him through her

dropped lashes as he spoke, and gave him
another cool bow when he stopped, but never
stirred from her position in the middle of the
room, erect, her head thrown well back, her
long, dusky soft arms with their broad bangles
of dull gold dropped in front of her, the fingertips
lightly linked.

I have had the honour to be one of your
parishioners. In what can I serve you?"

By remaining here till my friend Mr.
Meynell shall arrive. I have reason to believe
that you can give him some valuable information
on family matters, and have telegraphed
to him to come at once. We need not detain
you long," he answered, polite, but uncompromising.


"You are quite sure that I possess it?"
raising her eyebrows slightly.

As sure as I am that your name is
Madame Euphrosyne Girard, and that it was
you who overheard my conversation with Lady
A^aleria Meynell one evening last year, and
traded on the knowledge you then acquired."

Profited by it," she amended, unmoved.
Then with a half-smile : " Perhaps, if I am to

receive any more guests, it might be better
to make some slight toilette. You will excuse
me?" and turning to an array of silks and
satins on the bed, she picked up a soft, plush
tea-gown, deep orange colour, fur-edged, and
heavy with glittering embroidery. She got
herself into it in an instant, and stood before
the long glass fastening the gold clasps, and
studying the effect of the long trailing folds
with complete indifference to the presence of
spectators.

"Why do you stand? Please sit down,"
she threw to them carelessly over her shoulder
as she gave a readjusting touch to the great
solid twist of black hair piled up on her small
narrow head, and fastened there with a great
gold pin.

Mr. Paramount willingly dropped into a
chair. Eustace remained standing. For all
Euphrosyne's ostentatious sang-froid, he felt
that she was on the alert to take him at a
disadvantage when she could. It was the
sleepy stillness of a cat with every muscle
contracted for the spring. She moved quickly
and softly round the room, closing open

drawers and wardrobe doors, clearing the
table of its accumulation of chiffons, tossing
them aside into the open trunks, and disinterring
chairs from the piled up treasures of
millinery, till in a few moments the room
assumed a perfectly orderly appearance. She
looked round complacently.

May I offer you some coffee? Chocolate?
A brandy-and-soda?" she asked with her hand
on the bell. " Mr. Meynell is long in coming."

Her offers were hastily declined by the
two, who felt as anxious for Mr. Meynell's
appearance as she did. She picked up the
poker and adjusted the fire ; tried to lift the
great brass coal-scuttle and failed, and turned
appealingly to Mr. Stannard, w 7 ho responded
by advancing with somewhat ungracious reluctance,
but was anticipated by Mr. Paramount,
who trotted forward and performed
the office of stoker with neatness and dexterity.

It smokes, I am afraid. It is the fog, I
think. " She lifted the window slightly as she
spoke, and closed it again with apparently no
result ; none at least visible to the occupants
of the room, neither of whom could see that

in that brief moment a white silk scarf had
been hastily flung oat and secured by the
shutting down of the sash : an unostentatious
but distinct signal to anyone who knew whereto
look for it. Almost in the same moment a
footstep in the corridor halted outside, and a
knock at the door announced Mr. Meynell's
arrival.

The banker entered ; his pale cheeks a trifle
flushed, his sharp grey eyes alert.

The fog has delayed me," he began directly,
addressing Eustace. " What have you to tell
nie?"

He had taken in Euphrosyne in one direct,
inquisitorial glance as he spoke. She met it
smiling graciously, and seemed to await an
introduction, standing, a gorgeous, red-gold
figure, between the dying day and the flickering
firelight.

Mr. Meynell — Madame Euphrosyne, a
lady well known to your mother. Her surname
in those days was Girard, also — as this
gentleman can tell us — on occasion Beltran,
by which name her husband is also known."

Euphrosyne bowed, her eyelids drooping

with superb indifference, but her ears losing
no word or tone of the conversation. Mr.
Meynell's lips twitched eagerly. He checked
the words on them, however, and turned on
Mr. Paramount.

Who is this V he demanded with scant
courtesy. " Is it necessary to bring in outsiders
V

Mr. Paramount, my friend and churchwarden,
has done us the great service of
identifying this lady, and I believe can assist
us further. We may rely implicitly on his
discretion even in such a delicate investigation
as this."

Mr. Paramount bowed, all aglow at his
ancient enemy's just appreciation of him, and
the honour of a personal interview with the
great banker.

We need not refer particularly to the
painful story your mother confided to me
on our first interview. Madame Euphrosyne
admits that she was a concealed listener to the
conversation, and has presumably profited
by it. I have no doubt she made the knowledge
pay well in ministering to your mother's

hallucinations during her lifetime, and since
her death has been concerned in the production
of the claimant who professes to be your elder
brother."

Mr. Meynell's eyes snapped angrily. He
winced at the allusion to his mother's hallucinations
and frowned at the mention of his
elder brother," but spoke no word for a
moment.

u You can prove this — or we shall eventually
— no doubt V he asked, willing to leave
the initiative in the Vicar's hands.

I think I can " he was beginning.

Pardon !" interrupted Euphrosyne with a
graceful gesture bespeaking attention. " I
regret the trouble you give yourself. I am
quite willing to admit all you require. What
you have said is the truth — the perfect truth.
I have no wish to deny one word. I did overhear
Lady Valerian's story, and I did see my
way to take advantage of my knowledge. Xot
at the moment : for there was search to be
made, and proofs to be brought together, and
money was scarce and had to be earned before
it could be spent. In the end I did succeed,

vol. in. 56

and,beforeher death, I did bring to Lady Valerian
and cause her to recognise her eldest lawful
son, Stephen John, the adopted child of
Stephen Magrath and Bridget his wife, your
mother's foster-parents."

Personated for the occasion by your husband,
Morris Beltran," added the Vicar. " Our
friend, Mr. Paramount can help us to prove
that."

By my husband, Morris Beltran," she
assented calmly. "By whom else? How
should I otherwise have known the story, if
I had not married him under the name of
Stephen John Magrath ? We changed the
latter, for reasons of our own, to Beltran. No
harm in that."

There was dead silence. The banker's jaw
fell, and he looked from Eustace to Mr. Paramount
in turn, as if for support under this
fresh shock. Eustace was gazing at her with
utter contemptuous unbelief, mixed with some
secret dismay, and some admiration at her
light-hearted audacity. If the lie were improvised
for the occasion it was a perfect stroke of
genius ; if it had been prepared beforehand

there was more trouble in store for them. In
either case they had come to a dead-lock,
having only made the discovery that the foe
they had to fight was double-headed.

There was nothing left for it but to withdraw
now. They had no shadow 7 of pretext
for detaining her. Listening at a keyhole is
not felonious, and Meynell was already beginning
to look agitatedly at her, in dread of
what more she might know, and perhaps be
disposed to reveal.

Madame Euphrosyne appeared quite to
understand and enjoy his perplexity. The
fire on the tiled hearth was blazing high now,
and she stood warming first one and then the
other gold - embroidered toe; now and then
contemplating her reflection in the mirror
above the mantelpiece with lazy approbation,
studying the effect of her bare round arm
against the dark fur edge of her wide open
sleeve, adjusting her bangles, or darting a
glance at the glimpse she could catch of the
crestfallen three, her eyebrows arched, with
an expression of supreme indifference. Eustace
watched her face in the glass likewise, and

56—2

she saw he did, and made the smallest
indication of an impertinent grimace. Then —
like the flash of a lantern — a great look of
white terror shot over her face ; her hand
involuntarily raised itself, and her head bent
forward to listen. There were voices in conversation
without. She turned round, speaking
half aloud. " One, Two, Three" she said
in a husky, awe-stricken tone. " Two, and all
well. Three, and all lost. Who is it that
comes ?"

A heavy knock on the door. Meynell, who
was nearest, opened it, and a tall figure in full
uniform entered, followed by a policeman. He
stopped in front of Euphrosyne, and looked at
her full in the face. " Madame Girard, as I
supposed. Then, policeman, I give this woman
in custody."

The policeman made one step forward.
Very good, sir. What's the charge ?"

Euphrosyne, her lips parted, her eyes dilated,
stepped softly backwards a pace or two and
dropped as if crushed into a large armchair,
seeming to shrivel and draw together into
a small crouching heap, from the middle of

which her black eyes glittered, terrified
watching.

"Who are you? How did you come here"'
she panted.

11 You know who I am well enough, and
what I want you for," was the uncompromising
reply. li I don't imagine you did expect to
see me again so soon. I saw you never recognised
me when I passed you this morning.
I did you, however, and I vowed I would not
lose the chance, if luck sent me in your way

again.

At Edric Poynter's entrance he had passed
the Yicar with a hasty nod of recognition,
intent on his errand. Xow as Eustace looked
at him there flashed across his mind a sudden
glimmer of the truth, a vague guess not yet
capable of being put into words, of where the
clue to this strange entanglement might lie.
He pressed forward eagerly.

Captain Poynter, we are all equally concerned
in this. Here is Mr. Meynell," who
advanced hesitatingly.

11 At last !" Edric exclaimed, holding out
his hand. " I have tried again and again to

see you. I ought to have written, but Lady
Valerian insisted so strongly on my seeing you,
that I felt bound to try and do so, though I
was not able to deliver what she entrusted tome.
A letter and ring, which were stolen
from me the very night I received them —
stolen by this woman, as I did not discover
till a few weeks ago. I put them away as
securely as I could, one night, and she contrived
to get into the room and open the
drawer with the key from under my pillow. I
don't know how she managed it, except that
our doctor asked if I had been performing an
operation, when he came in next morning ;
the whole place reeked of chloroform, he said.
One of my men, who knew her well — young
Paramount, you know "

What, my son Sampson ?" asked the interested
father.

Yes, that's the man," replied Edric, breaking
1 off to recognise and shake hands with him.
He knew her well enough, and wondered to
see her prowling about that night. Later on, he
watched her leave my hut long after my return,
but thought it was no affair of his, and made

no enquiries. Pretty conclusive, is it not ?
I think a magistrate would say so, at least.
She has started me off on a voyage half
across the globe since, for some reason connected
with it. That I can't bring home to
her yet ; the theft I can. So, policeman, do
your duty."

The light of conviction flamed higher and
higher in Eustace's mind as he listened. He
looked to Meynell for some sign that he, too,
shared the illumination, but he only frowned
perplexedly and kept silence.

Not for a few minutes," pleaded Eustace.
A few words more of explanation from you
now may be everything to us. An hour later
it may be valueless." He glanced again at
Meynell as Big Ben slowly sounded three
o'clock. " I hope — I cannot help feeling —
that the right end of the tangle is in our
hands at last!"

The policeman retreated to the corridor at a
word from Edric ; and Eustace, after a whispered
question to the banker, produced and
laid on the table the small black case containing
the proofs of Magrath's identity.

AVill you tell me exactly what was stolen
from you?"

A letter in a long blue envelope, sealed
with a coat of arms. In one corner of the
envelope, very faintly marked, my initials, and
the date '30th June, 1882.'"

"What else?"

A rather large red leather case with a
broken fastening. The ring inside was — I
really don't know what stone — reddish-brown,
engraved. I only had a short glimpse, but I
believe I could swear to the setting."
Meynell's attention was at last awakened.
He came eagerly forward.

a AVe are justified in opening that case, Mr.
Stannard, after hearing this ?"

I think so." And the Vicar slowly, and
with some reluctance even, broke open the
seals which Magrath had placed on the enclosure.
He beckoned to Mr. Paramount to
stand near and observe what followed ; and
then, his hands trembling with excitement,
removed the paper.

The case is gone, but here is the ring."

The same ; I'm positive."

And, I hope and believe, the letter."

They all closed round him to look at the
crumpled blue envelope, addressed to her son
in Lady Valerian's unmistakable hand, in one
corner of which, as Edric had said, were pencilled
faintly, but still distinct, his initials and
the date of that memorable night.

Eustace's eyes flashed triumph at Meynell,
who still pondered frowningly, as not yet
clearly seeing the bearing of this discovery.
Edric was simply dumbfoundered.

"Didn't she take them, after all ? Young
Paramount will swear to seeing her leave my
hut that night. And how did you come by
them r

Your case is only the stronger. Captain
Poynter. They were brought to us by that
woman's husband. Can't you see," turning
impatiently on Meynell, " Mr. Poynter has
been employed to personate the elder brother,
by some device ?"

I can't understand," began Meynell,
slowly. " Do you mind telling me the circumstances
under which you received this V

Edric looked embarrassed.

I have been wishing to do so for sometime,
you know. They were strange enough.
I had better wait till we are alone. I don't
understand them myself. I think she mistook
me for somebody else. She asked me to give
up my profession and live with her as her son,
and called me ' Jack ' "

Meynell stopped him by putting the letter
into his hands.

You will understand it all when you read
that," he sighed. " I can trust your honour
and discretion, and will give you any further
explanation you may need. You were got
out of the way to prevent the fraud being discovered
before those swindlers had escaped
with the spoil." And he darted a glance of
venomous wrath at Euphrosyne, as she sat
crouched in her chair, apparently forgotten for
the moment. She had drawn into herself, as
it were. Her black eyes had a dull, unseeing
gaze ; her lithe limbs drooped inert ; she
looked like the fabled snake, who, in the last
extremity, had turned on itself its deadly
fangs, and died rather than live in the hands
of its pursuers. Or was it the snake feigning

torpor or death, while gathering force for a
more deadly spring?

I don't wish to say anything more about
that part of the business," Edric hastily interrupted,
wishing devoutly that Mr. Paramount
were out of hearing, instead of listening, wide-eyed.
" I got safe to Gibraltar in time to
overtake my regiment, and had kind friends
who put the case before the authorities in the
proper light, so I have actually suffered no loss
in the lone-run. But what am I to do with
Madame Girard ? Is she to get off ? Look
here," he said, turning to her, ' ; Mr. Meynell
is going to hear every word I can tell him of
your dealings with his mother. You threatened
me with all sorts of mischief, you know,
if I didn't keep silence ; but I only wish I had
gone straight to him at once, and let you do
your worst."

Tell it him all now !" She spoke in a low
tone of menace. " He'll thank you. There is
another pleasant surprise in store for you all."
Her dull eyes began to glitter wickedly, and
she pointed to the miniature-case. " Open
that, and tell him whose the portrait is. Look

again at the ring. Say that I stole it, if you
dare ! If you do not know the coat of arms,
there are initials inside. That ring belongs
neither to you, nor me, nor him, but to the
person who gave it to Lady Valerian de Cressy
to Sir John Archdale."

She sprang suddenly bolt upright, and discharged
the name like a shell into their midst.
Eustace felt a clutch at his arm, and Meynell,
with a smothered groan, sank into a seat
beside him. Mr. Paramount blinked and
wondered, but Edric, after a moment's stare
of mystification, recovered his wits.

So much the better ! We can settle it all
at once, then. Why not ? He was outside a
minute ago ; I asked him to wait. Sir John !"
flinging open the door, " Sir John!"

No !" faintly cried Oliver, and Eustace
hurried to prevent him — too late. Sir John
had actually been engaged in discourse with
the policeman within a pace of the opened
door, and, before it could be closed, had
inserted his inquisitive old face, saying :

I'm here. What does anybody want with

c<

me ?"

Baronet OR K.C.B.r

5^n^^HERE was a dead silence in answer

F^ft-^sSi to the General's question. Mr,

5^JJ2n .

<^XJi f M Meynell turned in his chair and hid

his face away. Euphrosyne, for the first
and last time in her life, stood blank and
disconcerted. The Vicar held his breath,
fearful — he knew not why. The name as pronounced
by Euphrosyne in her tone of menace,
and the look on the banker's face as it passed
her lips, had been sufficient revelation of
the nature of his unspoken dread, which yet,
despite his own shadowy misgivings, seemed
on the face of it too wildly incredible to entertain.
Sir John, umbrella in hand, his shabby
old brown overcoat surmounting his gold-striped

legs in hideous incongruity, his jolly
old face charged with amiable inquisitiveness
he to be Lady Valerian's gay young lover ;
he the hero of that tragedy of stormy passion?
He could as soon suspect the policeman, whose
heavy tread was heard pacing his beat solemnly
and injuriously (except as to the extent of his
possible reward) outside the closed door. Sir
John? He looked no more capable of carrying
a guilty secret, concealed in his honest
old heart, than of wearing a hair shirt and
knotted cord under the smart padded breast of
his tunic.

I don't wish to intrude, but I felt sure
I heard my name — somebody called me ?" he
asked, looking from one to the other of the
blank faces.

I did," spoke Edric, the only unconcerned
one of the party.

We're all at cross-purposes, somehow. I
charge this woman with helping herself to
something belonging to me. Never mind how
I came by it. Shed no right to it, anyhow
; and she seems to think it sufficient
to say it belongs to you. I thought the best

way was to have you in, and settle it forthwith."


Eustace's heart lifted itself in thankfulness
as he watched Sir John's perplexed old face
perplexed only — crossed by no shadow of
guilty misgiving. " Mine, is it ? Let me see
it ;" and he took the ring from Edric's hand,
hitched his glasses on his nose and turned
it over curiously. " Yes. There's the crest
right enough."

Eustace laid a reassuring hand on Oliver
Meynell's shoulder. He looked up, and a
flash of wild hopefulness quivered over his
ghastly face as he rose, and, leaning on the
Vicar's arm, listened with trembling eagerness
for Sir John's next words. " Well, I daresay
it is mine, if everyone had their own," he
said cheerfully. " Poor Jack's ring ! Where
did it turn up from ? Do you see his initials
inside? — J. le Q., that's for le Queene,
his mother's name. I don't know how you
came by it," turning to Edric ; " but if ever
you care to dispose of it, I should like to have

it."

I hardly know whether it is mine to

dispose of," Edric answered doubtfully. "It
was given to me certainly, but under a misapprehension.
Am I at liberty to tell anymore
?" looking for permission to Oliver.

"Tell everything!" he replied in feverish
haste. "We have no reason for concealment.
Nothing of the truth can do half the deadly
mischief of that woman's falsehoods. Let
her — let all the world know what there is to
tell!"

"Of course, of course!" cried Sir John.
What's the good of secrets ? Not that I'm
ever let to have any of my own ; but I've
gone through enough with those of other
people to get a sickening of them for life.
Poor Jack's affair now "

Lady Valerian Meynell gave it to me
last summer at Folkestone. She had a fancy
that I might prove to be some relation of hers."

Lady Valerian, of course. I might have
guessed it. Poor thing, poor thing!" and
Sir John shook his old head sorrowfully. " I
was at Seagrave Place that day, you know,"
in a half-aside to Eustace. " Curious, wasn't
it ? The first time I had gone near her since

her wedding. Her second marriage with his
father " — nodding towards Mr. Meynell —
you understand. A lovely creature she was
dear, dear!"

The air seemed full of a rising light of
hope. Sir John's cheerful prosing were dissipating
a whole thunder cloud of black doubt
and mystery. Euphrosyne sank into her
chair, sullen and lowering, yet watchful of
events, regarded stealthily, at intervals, by
old Mr. Paramount with a sort of fascinated
glance of utter centralization.

What did you know of my mother's first
marriage ?" asked Meynell, with an effort that
felt as the rolling away of a mountain's
weight.

"Why, nothing, or it might never have
happened. He was a wild one, was Jack!
Nothing bad in him, though. I've got his
letter — the last he [wrote, the most beautiful
thing you ever read, keeping up the story
to the last of his death being an accident —
written, in fact, just to clear that old scoundrel
Kilmoyne."

"I thought he was shot in the Phoenix. "

vol. in. 57

cried Eustace, as excited as Meynell. " Do
you mind telling us all you can about the
business? By way of beginning, who was
Jack ? I'm afraid I don't understand very
clearly yet."

Jack was my cousin — Sir John Archdale
the head of the family. We were both
in the service — he in the 8th Dragoons, and
I in the Royal Denbigh. We were both
stationed in Dublin at the same time, and the
first I knew of his marriage was some joke
about my having left a wife behind me there,
which brought old Sir John (he was alive
then, and my guardian) down on me in a
tearing rage, to ask what I had been up to.
You see," turning apologetically to Meynell,
we had never heard Lady Valerian de Cressy's
name mentioned, and he had an uncommon
talent for getting into scrapes, had Jack. I
had just promised to go and make enquiries
when the letter came. He was lying mortally
wounded, shot by that mad old Irishman
in his blind rage, and his last thoughts were
to screen' him and provide for his poor little
wife. He sent me his will, the certificate of

his marriage, and a letter to my mother — the
only lady friend he had in the family, begging
her to take care of his dear little girl. You
shall read it all for yourself."

But why was the letter not acted on?"
The news of his death came directly after,
and it killed his old father. It was a month
before I could get back to Dublin, and then I
could find no trace of her. Lord Kilmoyne
was abroad, no one knew where, and Glenara
shut up. I dare say I ought to have done
more, if I had only known how ; but I was a
young fellow, my leave was running out, and
the regiment going on foreign service, and I
should have been rather puzzled what to do
with the young lady if she didn't choose to
accompany me home. I was only a distant
sort of cousin. Jack was the last of the elder
branch ; the. baronetcy became extinct in him.
It never occurred to me either that there might
be a possibility of his leaving an heir. So off
I went to Corfu, and was forgetting all about
it, when my mother wrote saying she had met
the de Cressys somewhere, and they had a
beautiful Irish niece with them. I knew she

57—2

meant Lord Kilmoyne's younger brother and
his wife (the Protestant branch of the family,
not on speaking terms with the elder lot), and
didn't think at once who the ' Lady Valerian '
might be. Directly I realised it, off I started
for England, and reached London just in time
to hear of her approaching marriage with
Meynel], the banker's son. I went to the de
Cressys, of course. They knew all about it,
and were as kind as they could be, but begged
me to keep out of sight of their niece. The
shock of Jack's death had unsettled her wits,
and at the time of her baby's birth and long
after, she was quite out of her mind, and the
restraint of the convent made her worse. She
used to rave about her baby — wouldn't be
persuaded that it was dead."

And was it ?" cried two of his listeners
simultaneously.

No mistake about it. The de Cressys
had their wits about them enough to know
that a baronetcy and property depended on
the child, and got everything made safe before
they exported the Magraths at their own
expense. However, the grievous thing was

that poor Lady Valerian, after her last attack
of mania, had completely forgotten all that
went before it — her child, her husband, her
married name — but in all other respects was
perfectly sane, and with care might become
entirely so. Mr. Meynell was devoted to her,
and only asked to be allowed to take care of
her for the rest of her afflicted life. Well, I
didn't force myself on them, you may be sure.
I went to the wedding — I thought it the right
thing to do, somehow — and went back as I
came, never to set eyes on the poor lady again
till I heard her call on her dead husband,
John Archdale, and fall dying at my feet."

The tender-hearted old General ended his
story in his pocket-handkerchief, while Eustace
held out his hand to Meynell, who clasped it
fervently. One look shot from one face to
the other: a look of recognition of the unspoken
dread they had shared between them ;
of thankfulness for this great and unexpected
deliverance — and that was all that ever passed
between them, then or thereafter, on the subject
of those terrible days.

"Now, what's to be done?" demanded Sir

John briskly, examining the ring, and closing
the miniature case with a brisk snap. " I've
been let in for telling you a long history. I
suppose it has some bearing on your business
here," and he peered inquisitively at Euphrosyne,
who gave him back a darkling scowl.
You needn't look at me like that. I've
heard of you before. My little girl — that is
I've heard queer stories of hocussing and
kidnapping, besides your games with Captain
Poynter's property, that will have to be explained."


Not by me!" she answered, with a wicked
little smile and a venomous glance and meaning
nod towards poor Mr. Paramount, who
received it with innocent dismay.

What does she mean, gentlemen ?" he
asked piteously. " I'm sure I know nothing
'! And Sir John, remembering

Hester's strict injunctions that poor Birdie's
miserable little story was to be suppressed at
all costs, retreated within himself in confusion.


Euphrosyne kept her unblinking black
malicious eyes fixed on the two for a moment

longer, then lazily erected herself, and rose to
her full height before them all.

Xow, gentlemen, is there anything further
you want with me? I should really be obliged
by knowing how much longer you intend to
occupy my room. Come," turning sharply
on Edric, ;; are you going to take me to prison
or not?"

I should uncommonly like to do so," was
his candid reply. " I mean to settle accounts
with your blackguard agent Hudson, or whatever
you call him, the next time I come across
him. If you'll tell me where to find him. I
don't mind letting you off."

It's a bargain," she said, with perfect
composure. " The address of my next letter
to him will be 'La Provided, Calle Reilly,
Havana.' We have business connections in
Cuba who may prove useful."

Does she mean her husband ? Have we
let the scoundrel off?" asked Meynell in an
undertone of Eustace.

I suppose so," he replied in the same
tone. " But what should you have done with
him if you had got him ?"

A knock at the door interrupted them.
The manager of the hotel wished to speak to
Captain Poynter, who accordingly departed,
leaving a somewhat embarrassed party behind
him.

Euphrosyne was the exception. She lounged
indifferently to the window, opened it, and
deliberately drew in a long white scarf.

My signal to Morris," she explained carelessly.
" I suppose he had some difficulty in
making it out through the fog, he was so long
in answering it. He is safe and away by this
time." And, in spite of herself, she gave a sigh
of relief.

He can be got at again if we want him,"
Eustace was provoked into remarking ; " and
there is sufficient evidence to warrant a charge
of conspiracy against you both."

She bowed in acquiescence. " Certainly,
if you can get him — hardly against me alone.
None at all, if the party most interested refuses
to come forward."

She was looking hard at the banker as at
an ally, with a steady, confident gaze.

He moved restlessly in his chair. His eyes

were angry, but his mouth was compressed
into gravity.

You deserve punishment — the severest
the law can inflict," he said, in a low, repressed
tone. " I am only thinking whether I have
the right to inflict it on you, at the cost of
such pain to others as the public telling of
your story would cause. I put away from
me all thoughts of unchristian private vengeance,
and for my part forgive you."

Especially as there is nothing to be got
by doing anything else," she interpolated
irreverently. " But as a public duty, you
would like to have me hanged or whipped,
would you not ? So ! Here is Captain
Poynter and his policeman! Send me away
to gaol, then !"

It was Edric, but not the policeman. The
manager had considered the presence of that
functionary to be detrimental to the character
of the hotel, and had begged that he might be
dismissed as soon as possible.

"So I'm going to send him off, if nobody
here wants him?" he enquired, looking round
for instructions.

No one spoke. " I think I must be going,"
observed Sir John in a flutter, suddenly recollecting
the lateness of the hour and his engagements.
"Glad to have met you, though,"
shaking hands with Oliver. " I've rather
made a point of keeping out of sight of all of
you ; but now I hope we may meet again.
Good-day, good-day," to the Vicar and Mr.
Paramount; "good-day," sharply and with a
curt nod to Madame Girard, who returned
him a magnificent sweeping curtsey. Then
he bustled off, followed by Mr. Paramount,
who had been longing to go for the last
quarter of an hour, but who had not quite
known how. He imitated Sir John's brevity
in his farewells, but was not allowed to escape
as easily. Euphrosyne held out her hand,
which he could not refuse to take, though he
shivered with distaste.

Give my love to your dear little girl,"
she said, holding him with her great mocking
eyes. " Remember what I told you. It is a
case for a clever surgeon, not for the old
woman's treatment she has had. You will
take better care of her for the future?" He

winced and she laughed, and with a parting
pressure that set him flushing pink with embarrassment,
tossed him away as it were disdainfully,
and he too departed. Edric, mindful
of Hester's injunction to " Come back and tell
all about it," was preparing to follow.

"Stop!" cried Euphrosyne imperatively.
I am become weary of you all. You do
not amuse me any longer, and I am determined
to make an end at once. Xot from
fear of you. Xot one of you all dare lay a
finger on me," and she threw her head back
and folded her arms defiantly.

"Impudent hussy!" muttered Meynell between
his teeth, but did not accept the
challenge.

I have taken good care to make myself
safe; but the game is lost," and she made an
impatient motion with her dusky hands as if
throwing a hand of cards face upwards on the
table. "It was my husband's fault; or mine
for letting him disobey me. Twice he has
done so, to his own ruin. Once when he
paltered with you " — speaking to Meynell —
instead of insisting on open acknowledgment

of his rights and the immediate possession
of the property; and again when he let you
live to destroy us," shaking a forefinger at
Edric. "This is your day, and so I warned
him. I felt the evil was at hand, though we
thought you safe on the other side of the
world. Ah! if I could have done the work
myself!"

Mr. Meynell listened aghast, and Edric
began to feel creepy.

I had the game still in my hands when
you came in," she said to Eustace. " But I
knew there was another to follow you, and if
another — he meant ruin. Then he came, and
I threw up the deal. Do you know, for one
moment, I thought of ending the game once
for all. It was so pleasant to think of you all
standing round me dead. Murdered in your
midst! And the fright, and the scandal, and
the policeman going off — not with me — and
the distress of the manager here — he is an
uncivil wretch — and the histories in your
journals tomorrow! But I thought I should
not be there to enjoy it all, and so I held my
hand. Now I think, instead of myself, I will

make an end of your blindfold blundering ;
they amuse me no longer. That will pay me
best, too. Morris is the purse-bearer, and now
he has left me, I shall have to follow him, and
that idiot of a manager will have me settle
with him before I leave; and there will be my
travelling expenses, and my last little purchases"
— she checked the list off on her dusky
fingers — "one hundred — two hundred," she
said to herself. " Ah ! but that is too miserable
for a great millionnaire prince. It would
disgrace the name of Meynell, so shabby an
offering to the memory of a mother. Let us
say five — unless you would like to make it a
thousand."

Are you speaking to me?" demanded
Meynell, irate and astonished. " You don't
expect one sixpence of my money, do you ?
Xot one sixpence ! Pay you — you audacious,
shameless, swindling adventuress ! You maybe
thankful to get off as you are doing. And
I hope " — with a desperate struggle back into
his ordinary manner — " that this may be a
lesson to you, and the turning-point in your
life, if you rightly use it ; and that gratitude

for the mercy shown you may incline your
heart "

She snapped her fingers in his face deliberately.


You don't expect any such thing ; and
you don't care if I starve or hang, so long as I
get out of your way. So I will. Pay me
well, and you have seen the last of me. On
the faith of Euphrosyne!" and she raised her
hand with dramatic solemnity.

"But why? Why?" protested Meynell,
distracted at her persistence. " What should
I get by it T

Ah ! now that is business-like and
rational," she said, nodding with satisfaction.
What shall you get by it? The worth of
five hundred pounds, every penny. First,
you dispose of me for ever. Second, I handover
to you some interesting family relics and
papers confided to me by your lamented
mother. Third, I give you the answer to the
puzzle that has been vexing all your souls,
and tell you how your elder brother came to
be produced and acknowledged. Lastly, I
will sign my name to anything you please.

It may be useful in case Morris ever attempts
to try the same trick again on his own account
with any others of the family. He might, but
I can make you safe against him." She spoke
slowly and weightily, and let each word tell.
The others were not surprised to see a look of
interest dawn on the banker's face as he
frowningly listened. He had started from his
chair in his first high indignation, and now
began to pace the room thoughtfully, absorbed
in some mental calculation. He came to a
stand in front of Euphrosyne at last.

I will give you two hundred pounds for
your information, not one farthing more, and
not that unless it appears to be worth it."

She drooped her eyelids and lifted her chin
in contempt, studying him sharply all the time.
He was in hard earnest, she saw. "Good!"
she said suddenly, holding out her hand as if
to strike it on the bargain. " These friends of
mine shall see fair play." Both the others
w r ere too curious to hear what she would say
next, to protest against the description.

"HOMMAGE A Euphrosyne."

HE day had darkened to night, and
the candles on the mantelpiece had
burned low during their interview.
Euphrosyne rang the bell and demanded fresh
ones. "And my chocolate," imperatively.
She drew up her large chair to the hearth, and
stretched out her gold-embroidered slippers to
the blaze luxuriously.

Sit down," she requested Eustace ; " and
you " — to Edric — " just open the drawer there,
and take out my writing-case."

He obeyed, finding a gorgeous papier-mace
concern, as little suggestive of correspondence
as anything holding stationery could look.
Some sheets of grey-lined paper slipped out,

and as lie replaced them, he recognised with a
shudder the same faint sickly scent that had
clunor to his finders twice before. There was
a gilt and glass penholder, with a bent pen,
and, after some search, a penny bottle of ink ;
but Eustace produced his pencil in preference.

You will write my story down, and I will
sign it. I do not apologise for the trouble ; it
will repay you."

The chocolate came in a dainty silver
service, and she sipped it meditatively, as if
arranffinff her ideas, and then beeran fluently
enough :

I met Lady Valerian Meynell for the first
time in the early spring of 1880 at Cannes.
I had crone there to recover some washes due tome
by my mistress, la Vicomtesse d'Escarel.
I had been her maid when she was a child, and
had done her good service many a time ; kept
her secrets and helped her in her trouble?.
She had married twice. The first time to a
young English sailor who had taken her silly
fancy. She loved him frantically, as she did
everything else, before she married him, and
hated him as frantically after. So — he died.

vol. in. 58

Her next marriage was different. Her father
brought her — a young beautiful widow — to
Paris, and arranged a marriage for her with
the son of his old friend the Comte d'Escarel.
Ah! What a difference! No more caresses
and worship ; no more pretty tyrannies. The
Vicomte was a man of stone and iron ; a grim
rigid puritan ; and she trembled before him.
He hated me ; and when I was ill and dying-left
me in Hospital, and took her away to
Cannes. I believe in my fever I refused to go
with them, and implored to be left in Paris.
It was the place of my destiny, so my stars
had told me. So they let me die there, as they
thought ; and she nearly died of terror when
I found her again. She would give me money,
and could meet me secretly now and then, she
said ; but that was all she dare do for me.

It was enough. I had married since we
parted. My husband was in the States, and 1
must await his return somewhere, making the
best use I could of the time till we should
meet again. So I got her to introduce me to
her friends in Cannes as a deserving poor
woman who mended lace, and was knowing in

toilet secrets. I mended lace — and other
things too — and made friends for myself, picking
up here and there bits of knowledge that
might be useful some day. Nerve-troubles
were the fashionable maladies in the semi-invalid
society just then. It began to be
whispered that I possessed a cure for headaches
and sleepless nights — a knowing little
secret not to be discussed with the doctors.
Xever mind the stage-effects I got it up with.
The patient who wore one of my magnetised
crimson scarves tied over her brow and submitted
herself to my treatment unresisting,
most certainly did lose her headaches, and as
certainly did sleep, and occasionally talked in
her sleep too, in a fashion that might have
astonished her, if she had ever guessed it.
One day I met the rich English widow, Lady
Valerian Meynell. I mended some lace for her
nothing else. She didn't want her eyebrows
accentuated or her complexion adjusted to the
shade of her last new gown, but she was
nervous and low-spirited, and her friends
persuaded her to try Madame Girard's magnetic

cure."

58—2

You dared to practise on her ?" demanded
Oliver, with kindling eyes. Euphrosyne dismissed
the interruption as frivolous.

I got her own history frooi her own lips ;
of course I did ; and I cured her too, for a
time. Then I set to thinking what I could
do with my knowledge. At first I hoped to
find something wrong with the first marriage,
that it might interest the Meynell family to
know. For a time I had actually a fancy that
the lover might prove to be the good respectable
Sir John we had here just now ! Ridiculous,
was not that?" with a smile at her hearers
which no one returned. " As that would not
do, I began to think of the son. You know
that was her weak point. It took no conjuring
to find that out."

I had never guessed or heard of it !"
sighed her son.

He was alive, or so she had told me, and
she was bent on finding him. Well, I would
find him for her. I called on her in England
with news from America next summer. It was
so simple ! She had no knowledge of having
breathed a word to me or any living being on

the subject, and I startled her into believing
me. Her son, I said, had been adopted by a
wealthy English lady, and his foster-mother
had sent me from her death-bed with the
tidings. I went and came from time to time
with news of him, good or bad as the occasion
seemed to require, and — I see what you want
to know — yes, I did get a fair supply of
money. But then I wanted it all. Morris
was trying his luck as clerk in a French wine-merchant's
then. He got good pay, but he
spent it all again. Then he went to sea fora
short time. Then he was a waiter in a
-restaurant. Wherever he went he picked up
money in handfuls somehow, and then stopped
working to spend it all again. I did not care,
I had my grand plan working in my head,
and he was no use to me as yet. At last my
lady got suspicious and restless — I have you
to thank for that," in an aside to Mr. Stannard.
" She wouldn't see me, and things
grew serious, though chance befriended me
when she was carried out of your way down
to Rivington. You didn't follow her, and I
guessed how long her patience would hold

out, and at the right moment sent her Mr.
Eclric Poynter's photograph."

"That's a lie! I haven't had one taken
since I was a small child."

Ah, what a pity I cannot show it to you!
It was such a good likeness."

I suppose you mean this," said Meynell,
searching in his pocket-book, and producing
the photograph he had shown to Eustace. " I
thought it was taken from life."

No, only from this," stretching back to
the table and picking up the miniature case.
It held the same faded old portrait she had
once shown to Elsie in Lavender Row. She
looked at it and passed it to Eustace, whom
she persisted in regarding, as her husband had
done, as her special ally. " Do you see any
likeness?"

He looked from it to Edric. " A slight
one. Yes, now I look at it again, a striking
one," he passed it on to Meynell, who assented
grudgingly.

Compared with the original and with Edric,
the mode of treatment was clear enough. The
features were a copy of the miniature with

dexterous touches of alteration, such as any
worker in photography could detect easily, as
Birdie had done. The face had been left
untouched, but the hair, moustache, coat, and
scarf were those of the period, and might just
as well belong to Edric as to half-a-dozen
others in his regiment. It was not Edric, nor
was it the miniature, but a strong link between
the two.

That was a convincing proof, you see.
The original must be somewhere, and Lady
Valerian was frantically impatient to be brought
face to face with him. That was a difficulty,
was it not? Again chance helped me, and
kept her at Rivington, while I searched London
far and wide, till within a few days of her
return I saw the very face I wanted at London
Bridge Station. You were in a first-class
compartment, and I had got into the next
compartment (I had not a first-class ticket,
so I could not join you), and I tried with all
my might to listen from the window to what
you were saying. A chance word or two was
blown to me while we waited outside Cannon
Street. Then I stopped you on the platform

at Charing, and had a look at you, and then
followed you. It was my luck, I said, when I
saw you turn away from Mrs. Damien's door,
and found you were seeking her."

How did you do that ?"

Asked at the shop where you went to
make enquiries, of course, and picked up the
card you threw away in the Gardens. So I
followed you still, and read your face as well as
your hand, and made you tell me a great deal
more than you ever guessed. Then I made
my plan. You should be ' Jack Lady
Valerian should leave all her fortune to you,
and when she died, Morris should step into
your place and inherit. But it needed to be
carefully arranged. I had got you safe, and
knew where to find you, and how to bring
you back when I wanted you. That was the
first step."

If I had guessed it ! That was the meaning
of all your enquiries about Monk?"

Perfectly. A name selected almost at
random from amongst your officers. Anything
to keep you on view and unsuspicious.
You know how it succeeded, and I thought it

only remained for me to persuade her to make
a will in favour of Stephen Magrath, of somewhere

in America. But I found your English
law was too much for me. I went to see a
lawyer, and he frightened me. There would
be endless difficulties in my way ; proofs of
identity required ; certificates — more than I
could imagine. So I thought I would content
myself with a letter that her son would regard
as a sacred trust. She wrote it as strongly as
I could wish. I had to get it for Morris to
deliver after her death ; which I knew was not
far off.

"You did!" asked Meynell, with sudden
affright.

It was no doing of mine. She died quite
too soon for my wishes. One day I found
she had been taken out of my reach altogether;
taken to Folkestone, where you and she might
meet any day. Thy did you not go as I told
you ? You had warning in plenty."

I couldn't. And if I had known why
you wished it, I wouldn't have left on any
consideration," was Edric's response.

11 So you got the letter, and suffered for it.

Not as I could have wished, though. Ah,
that idiot husband of mine! Our lines of life
travel apart for one day — one brief day; and
in that day he should have made you safe forever.
I warned him of it. The chance once
past, harm to you meant danger to me. Tell
the rest yourself; I know nothing of it. I
have done now." She pushed her chocolate
from her, shut her lips tightly, dropped her
hands in her lap, and sat, her confidences at an
end, speechless and imperturbable.

Mr. Meynell had got his money's worth, all
but the signature. It took him and Eustace
some little time longer to put the notes of the
narrative into a form which should be a brief
acknowledgment of the fraud, and the part
which at her suggestion her husband had
played : during which Euphrosyne gave no sign
except a glimmer of her bright watchful eyes
through their long eyelashes at Edric, waiting
impatiently enough for the end of the scene.

Now, you may sign this," Mr. Meynell
spoke at last. He read the paper over to her
carefully.

Gospel truth, every word. Accept my

testimony," she murmured, affecting to
smother a yawn.

A chambermaid was summoned as witness,
and Euphrosyne, rising majestically, affixed
her small involved signature. " Euphrosyne
and then paused.

"Which of them?" she asked, graciously
offering a choice of surnames.

Your husband's," said the Vicar.

I am not sure which that is. One name
is as good as another to Morris."

Your own, then."

11 That I never knew at all," was the disconcerting
response. " Girard-betray," she
at last selected, and affixed it with a long
straggling noose like a rat's tail at the end.
The witnesses signed, the chambermaid was
dismissed, and the business was ended.
Edric departed right gladly, Euphrosyne
standing on the hearth in her glittering gown,
bowing him adieu with the air of a Queen
concluding an audience.

Mr. Meynell detained the Yicar one moment
while he put the promised cheque into
Euphrosyne's hands. She looked at the

signature with sparkling eyes. " Ah, there is
use in a name like that!" she cried. "How
good it looks, and how respectable! I will
fling it in the face of that idiot manager."

Oliver paused again on the door step, and
fumbling in his pocket extracted a thin little
book which he laid on the table, and then left
her alone.

She made use of her solitude to contemplate
the cheque a moment longer affectionately,
then picked up the small tract and examined
it curiously. She read it all through attentively,
looked at it all round with a puzzled
face, as if trying to arrive at the motive of the
gift ; finally, taking up the discarded penholder,
she inscribed, in a neat flourish across
the title-page :

Hommage a Euphrosyne " de la part de

Son humble Serviteur,

Oliver Meynell,

carefully copying the signature from the
cheque.

Then she stuck it prominently in the
chimney-glass for the edification of future
visitors and the further discomfiture of her
foe the manager.

ROSES SHALL BE WHERE Roses Were.

S that the end of the story ?" asked
Randolf. He knew the truth at
last. Eustace had had his way.
and Lord Alt car, with low voice and averted
face, had given him in brief the facts of his
withheld inheritance. He had listened with a
curious, sad, half-indifferent smile, his eyelids
wearily dropped over his bright blue eyes,
making no sign at first except to stretch out a
long wasted hand, and let it fall on his father's
knee with a half-deprecating, half caressing
motion.

So Alt car is actually mine ?" the faint
voice went on. " It seems odd to think of.
Xot that I shall want much of it, or for

long. This room for a few weeks, or days,
more, and then a corner in the churchyard
over there."

Don't, lad, don't !" pleaded Lord Altcar,
clutching the thin hand in his great powerful
grasp.

I wish I had known it, too," he went on
meditatively. " It would have been almost
Letter to have told me when 1 came of
age."

So Eustace said, but I wouldn't listen to
him. He wanted you to know it as soon as he
did. Perhaps I ought to have trusted 3-ou, but
I feared — I knew how the telling of a secret is
his the letting out of water ; first a drop, a
driblet, then a stream that no man can stem.
I've blundered throughout somehow, and I can
take the sharpest words you like to give me,
for I have done you wrong — but it was for
her sake."

'father!" looking up astonished. "You
don't think I wanted the money ? Don't you
see I could have made some arrangement —
signed some deed that should have set it right
again ?"

His father only answered by a sigh that was
a groan, and hid his face.

It's not too late now," and Randolf s weak
voice rose with a shade of animation. " It was
money that was left to me — not land or anything
he could tie up for another generation.
I don't want poor little Esmee to be a great
heiress either. I wish you'd tell me what I
can do. I must make my will in any case —
and at once. There is little time enough to
waste."

Lord Altcar fairly fled from the room, leaving
the two brothers together.

They were not in Randolf s old beloved den
in the highest gable-nook of the house, nor yet
the great guest-chamber which he and Amy
had occupied before, but a disused sitting-room
adjoining the library that the boys had
considered their own special domain in days of
yore. There was still over the high mantelpiece
a trophy of whips, fishing-rods, and foils;
some amateur attempts at bird-stuffing under
glass, on a high shelf ; and the cupboards
round the walls contained vestiges of sundry
youthful arts and industries. Eustace had

routed out some discarded tools for wood-carving,
and was at work copying a damaged
fragment of oak panelling from the Church.
Lady Altcar's reading-table and shaded lamp
stood in the broad window, where her wheeled
chair had its accustomed place, and Mary
Liddell's work-frame and basket of silks was
near. It seemed a centre of home comfort and
interests, rather than a chamber of death, as it
too certainly was. None knew it more surely
than Randolf himself, from the day when they
brought him home and laid him there.

Poor old Pater ! he takes it hard. I hadn't
a notion that he cared for me so. I'm glad I
haven't known this all these years, too. I'm
such a forgetful fellow — who can tell the
mischief I oughtn't have made ? No fear of
that now for the future."

You poor old fellow, don't be so cut up
about saying good-bye to me. Won't you
believe that it's better that I should leave off
while my happiness lasts, rather than outlive
it all, as I might do ? Who knows "

Here the doctor was announced, and a
cheery young surgeon from Ingildyke, a newcomer,

to whom Randolf had taken a sudden
fancy, came in, fresh and rosy from his ride
through the frosty air, and Eustace left him
with his patient.

During his visit he maintained the hopeful,
capable air that was potent tonic in itself to
more than half his patients ; but outside with
Eustace, it faded away to an expression of
grave pity.

"Poor fellow ! Is he anxious about himself,
Mr. Stannard ? I notice that he never asks mea
single question now. It was a relief at first,
but may mean that he has made up his mind
to the worst." Eustace nodded speechlessly,
but his eyes appealed for a word of comfort.
It did not come. u Those great strong muscular
men are always the hardest hit, and Colonel
Stannard had gone through enough to slay a
giant before he gave in. He brought the seeds
of fever with him from Egypt, and instead of
coming home and putting himself under treatment,
like a reasonable being, he tells me he
went off on a fortnight's leave, travelling day
and night to see Mrs. Stannard in some stuffy,
undrained little hole on the Riviera; and when

vol. in. 59

he collapsed there, insisted on his man bringing
him back to England in the heart of the
winter's cold. It was madness — sheer madness.
Many a worn-out old farm-hand has a
better chance in a struggle with death than
he."

Eustace assented sorrowfully. The doctor
had yet another word to say.

I could have hoped something from his
temperament. He ought to be, judging by his
looks, one of those men filled with the love of
life and its pleasures, who cling hard to it,
won't give in or believe that the end has come.
They meet the doctor half-way, just as the
opposite natures side with Death against him.
Colonel Stannard doesn't want to live. Why
is that V and the doctor's sharp eyes fixed
themselves on the other's face.

Eustace only answered with a sad look.
The words had set before him a truth that he
had been dimly guessing at for some time,
and yet turned from as incredible. Randolf,
of all men ! He to give up life in disgust
and heart sickness ! What could it mean ?
Better to leave off now while my happiness

lasts." Did he fear to outlive it ? Who
could tell ?

Not Amy, apparently. She poured forth
her soul on tinted scented sheets of foreign
post, besieging Eustace for daily, hourly
reports ; almost indignant with him for not
fixing precisely the date of her husband's
recovery. " I can make no plans as it is
now," she bewailed, " and I should like to
know whether we may accept the Maxwellss'
offer of their house for next season. They
must know before January. It's very trying
not to know what to look forward to. Nobody
knows what it has cost me to be so faraway
from all I love ; but it is not for my
own sake alone that I must study my health
a little. Another winter at home, after all I
went through in the summer, would have
killed me, I believe. To indulge my feelings
now, and fly home to my dearest Eandolf,
would be mere selfishness. Besides, I feel
bound to the Maxwellss. It was quite on my
account they made up the party to come here.
How could we tell that the campaign was
going to end so soon?" she pleaded injured;

59—2

or that Randolf would have been so foolish
as to follow me here ? I know I can trust
him to you, dear brother. That is my one
comfort. We found Mentioned horribly dull,
and shall try Nice. The Maxwellss know the
very. best people in the English set there, and
the shops are too exquisite."

No ; Amy had no idea.

He watched his brother with new anxiety
the rest of the day. It passed as usual. At
the accustomed hour Lady Altcar was brought
in and placed where her eyes could rest on her
son's face, and his hand reach her caressingly
now and then. He gave her his customary
cheery report of himself, trying in vain to
evade the clear, sad eyes that he felt read the
truth unerringly in his face. Then Mary
Liddell came in and read aloud to them, and
Lord Altcar tried to drop in casually with
some small news of the day, and hurried out
again, not trusting his voice.

During all this, Randolf dozed or watched
them interestedly, or now and then tried to
talk in his old off-hand fashion, and that was
the most trying of all. The second post

brought Amy's regular letter and a box of
Nice flowers, roses, mignonette, and carnations,
with which Eandolf strewed his bed,
for the little one to see ;" and presently Miss
Stannard made her appearance, smiling and
rosy, blue-ribbon, with the freshest of pink
cheeks and white frocks, in the arms of proud
old Aunt Mamie.

Her appearance at Altcar was the result of
sundry minute but unobtrusive perquisitions
into the nursery arrangements that resulted in
Lord Altars hurrying up to town one morning,
and returning at night in triumph with
Aunt Mamie, and cashiering promptly the
elegant creature in authority, who departed ina
genteel fury, threatening an action at law
forthwith for causeless dismissal, and appealing
to all the noble families whose scions she
had reared to bear witness to this injustice.
So good old Auntie reigned in her stead, and
Baby Esmee grew big and handsome and
saucy, the one great joy of her father s life.
She sat on his bed picking up blossom after
blossom with her tiny finders, and holding
them up to him with funny little noises of

admiration or enquiry. They saw him suddenly
stretch out his hand for one, and hold
it thoughtfully, smiling. Then he looked
round for Eustace, and seemed about to speak,
but checked himself, and surrendered the
orange bud again to Esmee's impatient clutch.
I want my father'' he said, as if he were
continuing the same train of thought.

Randolf's request to his father was an
urgent one. The telegraph was set to work,
and the carriage met the last train and brought
back one of the partners in the firm of Lord
Altcar's London solicitors.

He stayed all next day, and not till the
afternoon of the next did they learn the result
of his visit. " I've made my will," Randolf
announced to all assembled around him. " It
really wasn't such a formidable business, after
all. My father and the lawyers had arranged
all the technical beforehand. I had nothing
to do but listen and sign. I've left you something,
Mary ; I can't understand why you
never got that Egyptian jewellery I sent you,
or the mother her embroideries. Amy got
the other things safe enough. What do you

think I have left you, Eustace, as a wedding-present
? I hope you won't decline it," and
he toyed restlessly with his little girl's downy
curls. " What do you think of this wee
woman ? Will you and your Rose be her
guardians ? I don't want to slight her
mother," he went on anxiously, " but she is
too young, and says herself the burden of
responsibility is too much for her. No ; I
don't think she will grudge you the charge.
You once promised me to take care of her.
She has plenty of friends of her own now.
Take my little child instead, Eustace — you
and your Rose."

When the time comes," was all Eustace
could say.

Esmee stretched out her baby arms to him
from her throne on the pillow, a white blossom
crumpled up in her fat white fingers.

"There! Do you see what she is giving
you ?" and Randolf gave a shaky laugh.
What I put in her sash yesterday. It
comes to help me to broach the subject. An
orange-blossom ! Eustace, when are you going
to get married ?"

The first week in January."

Randolf shook his head impatiently. "Why
should you wait so long? I did look forward
to being at your wedding, old boy. The New
Year ! When I shall hardly see the old year
out ! Are you waiting on my account ? What
sense is there in it V

It had been on his account, though they
could not tell him sou

Let it be sooner," he pleaded, with his
old impetuosity. " Can't you get a special
licence'? Can't it be tomorrow, or next
week?" He stopped, sighing impatiently,
and said no more till they were alone.
"Can't it be done? Promise me to go and
talk it over with Eose. I want to see you
married before I die."

Eustace had plenty of business at St.
Fridolin's, if excuse were needed. Mr. Renwick
was now in charge while his exchange
with Eustace was being effected, and the two
had much to consult upon. So up to town
he went right willingly.

Randolf beguiled the time of his absence
by settling the details of the ceremony.

Tell Rose I want her in all her finery,"
he had said — " gown, bridesmaids, and all ;
and a wedding-breakfast, mother. No shirking
or stinting on my account. Triumphal
arches, and bonfires and illuminations at night.
Eustace need not protest, or try to get out of
it now — now that he is really the heir," he
ended, under his breath.

They promised him all he wished, and he
lay with flushed cheek and shining eyes counting
over the guests that were to be bidden,
and the possibility that he might be " made
up just for the day," till far into the
night.

Eustace was at his bedside by morning's
light, and found him many degrees worse
than when he left him.

What does she say ?" he asked so wearily
as to seem almost indifferent.

Next week, if you wish it."

That is as I0112 as I can wait," was all he
answered.

So it comes to pass that four days later,
when the first snow is falling, Altcar holds

a mighty gathering under its white-hooded
roof-tree.

Randolf, awake and eager from early dawn,
is being dressed by his servant and Eustace,
slowly and with long intervals of rest between
each stage. He has had to give up the notion
of rising from his bed, and has to content
himself with being trimmed and shaved and
put into his scarlet tunic and sash.

The world is making itself white for your
wedding," he says, laughing and looking at
the heaped up window-sill.

And you look like the bridegroom,"
answers Eustace, adjusting his white pillows,
and covering the bed with a white bearskin.


Four stalwart labourers enter at the first
stroke of the bell from the great white tower
of St. Anne's, and lift the light bed through
to the library, converted into a temporary
chapel. Its deep recesses are heaped with
tall white lilies and green foliage; and Aunt
Mamie, coming in, resplendent and picturesque,
adds yet another touch of bridal whiteness
as she places on his coverlet his little baby

daughter. At the far end a small conception
is already gathered : neighbours and
tenants ; Mrs. Bates and her subordinates
a-flutter with satin ribbons and flowery
breast-knots ; Mrs. Goodliffe from St. Fridolin's,
in the stiffest of silk and her real lace
lappets. There is another representative of
St. Fridolin's at hand : Mr. Paramount, erect,
spruce, and dignified as befits his new position.
A private request from his Yicar, a
ready assent from the great banker, and the
world has changed for him. Mr. Meynell
may think it no great boon that he has
granted — a modest post with a promise of
a pension on retirement — but to the disappointed
little man it means position, independence,
security — all the lost household
gods of his good days brought back in
triumph, and set up in their shrines once
again. He is part of Meynell, Meynell, and
Mott now, and young Mr. Ebden has no
power to vex his spirit more. Birdie leans
on his arm, a little shrinking figure in white
fur and cashmere. She has longed for and
dreaded this day. It is a kind thought of

Rose's to bring her there. She and Edric
must meet sometime, and the occasion will
help to pass off any embarrassment. So she
is there, starting at every footfall, and longing
to hide herself from all eyes, till Mary Liddell
comes to greet and reassure her, and find hera
shadowed nook whence she can see, herself
unseen. Mary is in shimmering satin and
soft grey feathers, like the meek domestic
little dove that she is, looking shy and becomingly
fluttered, as conscious of a personal
interest in the coming ceremony, and terribly
disconcerted by some confidential reference to
her by Mrs. Goodliffe concerning the internal
arrangements of the Vicarage — " which I am
aware does not look now as it will do when
it has a lady at its head " — making Mary
blush to the very tips of her slim, grey-gloved
fingers, and retreat hastily to receive
the next comers. Enter the one bridesmaid —
Hester — splendid in velvet and satin of wallflower
tints of orange and brown, with Sir
John in full magnificence.

11 Full dress ! That's three times this year
I've had to get into uniform. What do you

think a man's made of, to stand it ¥' he has
groaned ; but Hester is relentless.

Xow there is an anxious pause, and the door
opens wide. It is to admit Lady Altcar, veiled
in white and sparkling* with diamonds, on
whose lap Mary has laid a bunch of white
roses. Eustace guides her in and places her
beside his brother's couch ; then, followed by
another figure in scarlet and gold (" My son's
Captain," Mr. Paramount tells everybody
within reach, confidentially : " distinguished
himself at Assassin "), takes up his place
before the extemporised altar, and awaits his
bride.

Then for the last time the great door swings
open wide, and, leaning on Lord Altcar's arm,
she enters, and with her a sudden burst of
wintry sunshine.

•W TT *K "Jp '/?

It is a farewell," says Hester. " There is
a note of sadness in the very clash of those
bells." She is standing in the window of the
deserted library, whence a few minutes since
she and her companion have watched the departure
of the bride and groom on their brief

honeymoon. "It is farewell to St. Fridolin's."


Why not ?" says Edric, unsympathetically.
" There must be an end as well as a
beginning to everything. St. Fridolin's has
had its turn of being everybody's first idea. I
wonder when mine is to come ?"

You are not going to resume that old
subject," says Hester, severely. " It's quite
time there should be an end to that. You
cannot have anything fresh to say."

But I have. You are bound to marry
into the Royal Denbigh some day, you
know "

Granted. And then V

Brown is going to retire next month.
Carroll's engaged to an Austrian Countess.
The choice is at last narrowed to me or a
subaltern. Hester, you once wanted to take
my affairs in hand and set them to rights forme
"

And you wouldn't let me. I have not
forgotten that."

Nor I the lesson of pluck and pertinacity
you instilled into me then. Fm resolved to

act upon it now, and better the instruction.
I'm like the drowning man whose life you
have saved ; you are morally responsible for my
future. I don't pretend to be much, but think
what you could make of me ! Hester, when
will you take me in hand for good and all?"

When you can offer me the command of
the regiment." And the bargain is sealed on
the spot.

There is an echo of the wedding-peal faraway
in smoky St. Fridolin's, where up aloft
in the cold brief sunshine the bell does its
wildest and wickedest as old Totterdale puts a
whole fearful of goodwill into every tug of
the rope. The wedding feast, lacking at
Altcar, is to be held at the Vicarage. There
is a mysterious hint of great doings to
come when the bride can take her share in
them, but her friends round St. Fridolin's are
well content as it is. They have lost their
Vicar. The Kino is dead; but long* live the
King! Mr. Ken wick has made good way
amongst them already, and will be the more
popular, as he will be a happier man than
Eustace has ever been there.

And the pretty story of Rose's work there
and her beauty and her marriage will be a
short-lived romance, brightening many a dingy
life for a day, as do the roses she has sent asher
parting gift to all.

Sweet Queen Eose ! Fair Queen of Eoses !
I would fain hold you with my pen-tip awhile
longer in my sight ere you pass from me into
the Land of Lost Fancies.

In vain, in vain. Fainter and more
shadowy grow the dream-forms that have borne
me company so long. Edric with his bright
boyish smile answering the glance of Hester's
bright eyes — Elsie's little wistful face. Even
the grey old walls of St. Fridolin's are tottering
and melting away with a clang of wedding-bells
dying in the air above them. One last
smile from a fair face — a handful of scattered
rose-petals turning into snowflakes as they fall
and the vision fades and my story ends.

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

a., c. i- Co.
