I

VOL. I.

FITZGERALD Molly

% <§t0rg i)f §0lj^mmn ^if^

BY

J. Fitzgerald Molly

In robe and crown the king stept down
To meet and greet her on her way ;
It is no wonder,* said the lords,
She is more beautiful than day.' "

Te^tntson's Beggar Maid.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
1882.

All rights reserved.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/itisnowonderstor01moll

rO

C

o

i

c

MRS. EDWIN ELLIS

CHAPTER I.

IN MARCUS PHILLIPS* STUDIO.

"Stow, Capri, sit quiet," said Marcus
-^^ Phillips, holding his brush in the

air and looking meditatively from his canvas

to the girl's face before him.

**Ah! that is easier said than done,

Marc," she answered, familiarly, calling him

by an abbreviation of his name. " You

know I can seldom stay still — unless when

1 am thinking deeply."
Then you do think ?"

VOL. I. B

Such a question to ask. Do you believe
I am always the child I appear ?"

I should be sorry if you were not," he
said, dashing in some reds on the canvas.

Ah ! Marc," she said, after a slight
pause, "there are times when I think and
think until my head aches, and I lie awake
at night wondering how my life will goon."


She tossed her head back as she spoke,
and gave a quick, impatient sigh.

There, you have moved again. You
would test the patience of Fra Angelico
himself, Capri. Turn your face more this
way ; that's better."

And, nothing loth, the artist went, and,
taking her face between his hands, set it in
the required position.

"Now about your life, Capri," he commenced.
"Every man and woman has a
destiny to fulfil ; would it not be better to

permit Fate to work the riddle of your life

out r

I don't know, Fate seems so slow."

*' And you are so young,"

"Not so very young," she answered,
thoughtfully. ''I am just eighteen ; and
besides, we who are born in the south
mature quickly. I shall soon be what is
termed a young lady, have to wear a long
dress, brush my hair, and call you Mr.
Phillips."

She laughed merrily as a child at this
verbal picture of herself.

I can never imagine you looking like a
stolid piece of English humanity," said
Marcus.

'• From which may all the saints preserve
me," she answered. Then, after a moment,
she continued, in a lower and more serious
tone, " I often wish. Marc, I was not such a
Bohemian as I am. It's all very well and

b2

pleasant when you are young, but here in
England one must grow respectable and
rich when one leaves one's teens, especially
women."

Must one ?"

Yes ; not that I care so much about
respectability, it always seems to make
people dull and heavy and stupid ; but then
I do care for money."

*' There are better things than money,
Capri," he answered, laying down his brush
suddenly and looking at her seriously.

I don't know what they are," she replied,
looking down.

*' Perhaps not now, but you will some
day."

''No, Marc, I never shall. Women are
often older than men in thought and experience
; believe me, there is nothing so
good in life as gold."

She moved her head deliberately and

crazed out through the attic-window. Over
the roofs of the opposite houses she could
see the tops of a few green trees that grew
in the neighbouring square.

Few have known or know the want of
money more than I, Capri ; but I have not
lived until now without discovering where
its power stops short. It can buy many
valuable things, I grant you, but never
honest friendship, never true love."

He looked at her as he spoke, but her
eyes where turned from him, and refused to
meet his.

"You can live without these, you cannot
without gold," she answered, shortly.

And what a hard, cold, sunless life it
would be without them," he said, going
over to the chimney-piece and filling his
pipe with bird's-eye. Then he struck a
light, came back, and took up the brushes
once more.

** Money attracts friends, just as flowers
attract bees," she commenced, *' and money
buys love every day."

This time she laughed a little bitterly,
and looked the painter in the face.

I wish the man joy of his bargain who
buys love."

''Do you?" she asked, curtly. 'but
then such strong phrases as buying or selling
are not used ; ' marriage settlements ' is
the correct phrase. Cupid, perhaps, has
grown old and wise now-a-days, and thrown
off the bandage from his eyes At all
events, he sees sufficiently well to fire the
heart of a woman with love only for men
with heavy rent-rolls and good balances at
their bankers."

You are unjust."

"No, I speak the truth. We no longer
live in Arcadia, Marc; I wish we did. The
poor, dear old gods and goddesses fell in

love much as they pleased, without any
thought of money, or carriages, or clothes,
or things, and a happy time they had of it,
I suppose."

The artist made no answer for a few
minutes. Then he took the pipe from his
mouth and said,

Something has gone wrong with you
to-day, Capri, or you would not speak so
bitterly,"

Her face flushed in an instant.

"Perhaps; there would be nothing new
in that."

"Tell me all about it; that will relieve

you."

«/

And bore you."

"Cannot you trust me? You know you
promised to look on me as your friend."

She jumped up suddenly and flung her
arms impetuously round his neck, knocking
the palette from his hand, which descended,

paint-side downwards, on the floor.

You are the best and dearest friend
man or woman ever had," she said, and,
with the freedom and impulsiveness of a
child, she kissed him heartily on the forehead.


The warm blood came into the young
man's face, a bright, yearning light dawned
in his eyes.

Now, Capri, what is it ?" he asked,
when she had released him from the pleasant
burden of her arms, and hastily resumed
her seat once more. Then, while waiting
for her answer, he took the palette up,
washed off some of the colours which, in
their fall, had got confusingly mixed.

She did not speak, and he went on,

'' You can tell me while I put in these
few touches. We must take advantage of
the light we have ; then you shall make
some coffee. I have got a French roll, a

chicken and ham sausage, and we will be

as jolly over them as "

** As Bacchantes. Ah! Marc, I sometimes
think you must have been a fawn, and have
lived in old Arcadia. The air and freshness
of the glad golden age seems to cling about
you. I feel quite satisfied you danced in
the cool, sweet, fragrant woods to the
sound of Pan's pipes, and sported with the
dryads bound in chains of sacred myrtle
and roses, and rollicked with mad glee at
the revels of Silenus."

How happy I must have been !"
"And would be still, but that you fell in
love with one of the daughters of men, for
which offence you were turned out of
Arcadia, made human, and sent into this
matter-of-fact, beef-and-plum-pudding-eating

age."

I wish I could go back," he replied,

lausfhiDCf at what she had said.

I fear it would be no use your going
back, now you have lived among the children
of men and tasted the fruit of knowledge.
Once having been human, you
could never again regain your old fawn-like
simplicity ; just as those who have once
sinned, repent as they may, can never regain
a something they have lost."

"Perhaps 1 could. I might remember
my humanity as a dream."

"And do we never long for things we
have seen and known in dreams ?" she
asked, thoughtfully, and sat there silently
whilst the artist put some touches here and
there on the canvas.

At last he looked up and said,

*' You have not yet told me what it was
that put you out of humour to-day."

*' Oh ! it was nothing new, the same old
thing over and over again. Pa has had a
quarrel with his landlady for rent ; he has

not a penny now, and won't be paid his
pension until the end of next week."

*rand meanwhile "

Meanwhile he lives on his wits or borrows
from his friends. I'm getting sick,
terribly sick, of it all. I have known it
for years and years, until I have come to
believe it is like Tennyson's brook, and will
run on for ever."

And how do you manage, Capri ?"

Oh I I always come right somehow.
Pa says Mrs. Fum's bark is worse than her
bite, and I know she must have been ' put
out,' as she calls it, or she would never
have spoken to him as she did to-day. I
teach her two daughters singing, and I have
made them like me — I never have much
trouble in doing that with anyone — and
their hearts are safe passports to their
mother's, so for my sake Mrs. Fum will say
no more to Pa. But it's miserable to have

a father who is always on the watch to take
ill a friend or borrow from a chance acquaintance,
and wretched to live in a back
pair for which sou are always in debt. I
often steal up and down stairs like a culprit.
I know I cannot bear it much
longer ; some last straw will break my
back one days, and then I'll "

"You'll what?"

God knows ; I do not — I wish I did :
go on the stage if I can, but Pa will not
allow that. Besides, I do not quite want
to leave him yet; if I did, I suppose he
would go to the bad — not that my staying
saves him much as it is."

But then he is your only relative,
Capri ; you often told me so, and you must
not leave him until you give some one the
right to protect you for life," he said, looking
at her wistfully.

I suppose you mean until I marry

some one. That may be a long time —
longer than I can afford to wait," she
answered.

They were both silent for a while after
her last words. Capri was thinking of
her future life, and the painter was wishing
to heaven he was not so poor.

Pa is so foolish, I cannot respect him
if I try ever so hard," she said, after a few
minutes. "Last quarter, when he got his
pension, he ordered a supper and half a
dozen of claret without ever letting me
know, and asked Lord Harrick — for next
to a good dinner he best loves a lord —
and some young men, mere acquaintances,
with good names and bad manners, whom
he met at the gymnasium where he gives
fencing lessons, and he never asked newton
Marrix or dear old Pallamari, who
have often proved his best friends."

You see, your father is not Bohemian

enough to care for the society of a music-teacher
or the company of Newton Marrix,
an author still at the foot of Parnassus."

Perhaps not, but he appreciates their
occasional loans. Yesterday he asked one
of his gymnasium friends with the good
name and bad manners for a sovereign
in advance of his fencing lessons, and he
blankly refused."

She laughed, half bitterly, half ,
at the thought.

I often wonder at Captain Bankers
having such a Bohemian daughter," said
the artist.

I will tell you my history by-and-by,
Marc, in confidence, just as actors did in
old dramas, when they brought their chairs
down to the footlights, and discoursed to
the audience of their bosom secrets."

'every well, now I have done for today,"
he said, holding his brush up in mid-air,

and looking at the canvas critically.

Capri came, and, standing behind him,
looked over his shoulder long and anxiously
at the half-finished picture.

"You have made me look very beautiful,"
she said to him, softly; "but why
didn't you paint me as some other character
than Cophetua ?"

''' I don't know. I thought it suited you
best. Whom would you have me paint you
as — Ophelia, Desdemona, Cleopatra ?"

No, Marc, none of these. I suppose,
woman-like, I am hard to please. Ophelia
and Desdemona were foolish creatures, who
suffered for their love, and I am not sufficiently
majestic for Cleopatra. After all,
the beggar maid may suit me best.

In robe and crown the king stept down
To meet and greet her on her way ;

It is no wonder,' said the lords,
She is more beautiful than day.'

Beauty, after all, does a good deal in this
world of ours, Marc."

"And is often a fatal gift."

That depends, my friend," she answered,
looking at the canvas again, and then
at the reflection of her face which she
caught in a little mirror that hung on the
wall of the attic studio.

She saw that hers was the divine gift of
loveliness. A smile of satisfaction came
into her face, and made it beam with
pleasure. Her features were "Grecian in
their cast; the forehead low and square,
the brows straight and well marked, the
nose delicate as chiseled marble, the mouth
full and ripe, at once indicating sensitiveness
and love of pleasure. Her complexion
was of a clear olive tint ; her dark, almond-shaped
eyes, liquid, tender, and bright ; her
hair, almost black, was relieved by an
under-tone of dusky gold.

Marcus Phillips gravely watched the
almost child-like delight she exhibited at
her reflection, as she stood gazing at it in
the little square of mirror. With an
artist's instincts he loved all that was
beautiful, but he never told or hinted to
the girl how much she owed to nature.

Beauty often gains much in life," said
he, removing the easel, and placing a little
table in the centre of the room. " It gains
much, but its power falls short oftentimes.
It is like money, there are some things it
cannot give."

"Ay, but there are many good things it
obtains for one. Xow get me some coffee,
Marc, and don't philosophise. Besides, I
have not lived so Ions; in the world without
seeing and knowing its value. Human
nature is human nature, and a woman's
lovely face has often ruled the wisest,
bravest, and best man before now. ' It is

VOL. I. c

no wonder, said the lords.' Now I'll boil
the water, and you lay the table as well as
you can, for all men are awkward at such
things."

She knelt down on the hearth, fanned
the smouldering embers to a flame, boiled
the water and made coffee.

The artist tidied the room, picked up a
palette-knife from the floor, removed some
paint-brushes from the chairs, placed the
canvas against the wall, laid the table, and
finally produced a fresh French roll and a
chicken and ham sausage from a little
black-looking cupboard set high up in the
wall.

Then they sat down as light-hearted as
two children.

It's a pity you are poor. Marc ; no, I
mean that you are not rich, which is almost
the same," the girl said, suspending a
morsel of sausage between her Hps and the

plate, and looking into the artist's handsome
face.

Why is it a pity ? I am quite happy,
Capri."

''Ah ! you do not understand the pomp
and grandeur of wealth." She answered
him half jestingly.

So much the better, say I."

If you were rich, you would have a
studio with ruby velvet curtains, a stained
floor, and Persian rugs, statues of old gods
and graces, Italian engravings. Queen
Anne furniture — have a little more coffee,
there's plenty in the pot, Marc — quaint
carvings, and sketches on the walls. Ah !
would not all that be beautiful ?"

Then I am certain I would not be half
so jolly as I am now. And I could never
sit down to a table I laid myself, and drink
tea alone with you."

"It's not tea, but coffee. But, if you

c2

were rich, I'd come and see you, and we would
drink tea out of six mark china cups, and
have it brought in by a page ; and you
would have a new velvet coat, and get
your hair cut — though that would be a
pity — and wear a tall, shining hat "

In the studio ?"

You interrupt me. No, not in the
studio, of course. Then I would come
dressed in silks, and you would paint me
like one of Rubens' women, in rich-hued
velvets and with braided hair."

She sighed as she spoke and looked
round the studio, which had a small square
of very threadbare carpet, looking like a
little island in a great ocean of room, a
sofa and a few chairs mercifully covered
with cheap chintz.

'what is the use for sighing for the
moon when one must stay down on the
earth ?" he asked.

*' "Well, the moon will come down to you
some day : I mean you will be rich. Pal-lanark
says you have genius, and he knows
a great deal about art."

Pallamari is an indulgent friend."

** But his criticisms are honest. Besides
in your work I know there is that nameless
something that makes one look at it
twice and remember it honos afterwards."

^' I am sorry the hanging committee at
Burlington House does not think so."

But you know well enough that the
committee's opinion is worth nothing. An
honest Royal Academician sent in a picture
anonymously last year, and it was rejected.
"When you become famous and
daub, you will get fifty times the price
you do now for the careful work you call
pot-boilers,"

When did you turn prophetess ?"

^* Never mind when. You will become

famous, I know ; but, my dear Marc, you
will have to wait."

If I had anyone to wait with me, I
should not mind," he began, in a low, earnest
voice.

You are but twenty four, and a mere
boy yet," she replied, with a merry little
laugh that had a sweet silvery peal in it.
Why should you want anyone to wait
with you and be a drag on you for years,
perhaps half starve on love in a London
attic. Now don't frown at me in that
way or I will cry. I am only cruel to be
kind."

He did not answer her, a troubled look
came into his face, he turned his eyes away
from her.

Now, it's different with a woman," she
went on again, after a few seconds' pause ;
"men toil through the best days of their
lives for fame or independence ; a woman

with a pretty face, and without an ounce of
brains in her head, gets some one to fall in
love with her in an hour or a day and she
secures both at one stroke. '^

*' Capri," he said, suddenly, and her
quick ear detected that his voice was harsh
for once, "you are preaching down your
heart — your better self."

His frank, blue eyes looked at her questioningly
; she lowered her head and made
no answer, for she knew he had spoken
what was true.

Take some sausage, Marc, I am not
saying anything wrong. Circumstances
make us all what we are. I often think
my whole life, so far as it has gone, has
been a mistake. I cannot see why I came
into existence at all ; but, once being here,
I must do the best I can for myself, yet
it takes such a time waiting before the best
comes."

'* Time is woman's greatest enemy."

*' Don't get epigrammatical," she said.
Then, changing her voice to a softer key, she
went on. " Since my earliest days I have
known what the want of money means and
it made existence hard for me. Indeed I
think I never really was a child."

"If so, I am sorry, very sorry for you,
Capri. A happy childhood is the best
part of life ; no period afterwards, no matter
how bright, can make up for its loss."
He was thinking, as he spoke, of his own
earlier days.

*' Perhaps not," she said, tapping her
spoon against the empty tea-cup. " One
cannot shape one's earlier life any more
than one can help being born. If my
darling mother lived, I think I should
be happier than what I am now, and
better."

"And so should I if mine lived," said

the artist quickly, for he was glad to have
this bond of sympathy between them.

** My mother," said Capri, and a thoughtful
light came into her great dark eyes,
sang in the opera at La Scala in Naples.
She was a lovely woman, too handsome to
live long, people said, and they were right.
Even as* I remember her in her last days,
she was wonderfully beautiful, and had a
pale, patient look in her face which I shall
never forget. Pa, who was in the English
army, was staying at Naples on sick leave
when she was young. She fell in love with
him."

Capri paused a moment. She was never
certain as to whether the church had pronounced
a benison on her parents' union,
so on this point she wisely held her tongue.

*'My mother continued on the stage,"
the girl went on, " and I was born on the
island which gave me its name and little

more. Then she lost her voice and fell
into a consumption, and was able to earn
no more money. Pa was always, I am
afraid, a scamp and selfish. "When she
could hold her engagement no longer at
the opera, his love for her grew cold. He
had to go back to England ; this broke her
heart and hastened her death."

The girl's voice was soft and plaintive,
her eyes liquid as if with tears.

My remembrance of my mother brings
to my mind the face of a woman who
suffered much with great patience. Some
friends of hers were kind and good ; they
were humble people, but they loved her,
and afterwards loved me for her sake.
She was unwilling to die ; she wanted to
live for my sake. She often clung about
me, kissing me passionately, her pale face
wet with tears. One day she lay white and
cold ; some one said she was at rest, and

that her heart was broken. I had never
seen death before. Then I learned that I
was left alone in life, and all the world
seemed a blank. I stayed with mj friends.
Brown-faced Teresa, who said her rosary
by day and night, loved me as if I had been
her child. God had sent me to her, she
said : the old padre taught me to read and
write ; it was all he could do for me. Before
I was eight years old I knew Dante
and Tasso from cover to cover. Old Baptista,
with eyes as black as coals, gave me
lessons in music and singing; he played
the organ of our little church where I sang.
He said I had the voice of an angel."

Capri paused for a while ; the artist was
looking into her eyes and listening to
every word she said.

I think I could have lived happily for
life with those good, simple people. Marc,
and I often wish I had been allowed to

remain there. But it was not to be.
When I was about ten years old, Pa came
to Naples and said I should return to
England with him. I cried as if my heart
would break. I begged and prayed of him
to let me remain with my good old friends ;
it was no use. "We came to England : Pa
had lost his money, and had to retire from
the army. After a while he commenced
giving fencing lessons, which he soon
found to add considerably to his means,
and so that is my early history," she added.
I sometimes wonder if I shall ever see
Capri again. It is a beautiful place, Marc,"
she said, a wistful look coming into her
face. " I think the sun never shines so
bright as there, and then the sky is so
clear and blue. It haunts me some days
like a dream. I see the little cabin where
I used to live up on the beach, see the
bare-legged fishermen in their red caps.

the brown-sailed fishing-boats drawn upon
the sands, the great yellow nets out
drying in the sun ; see Naples lying asleep
in the light, and further on Vesuvius, and
hear the sea beating in for ever on the
coast like eternal music."

"It has made you a poetess."

It would have done the same with
anyone living there."

But if you had never come to England
I should not have seen you."

"Perhaps not, perhaps yes. I believe
in Fate. If we were destined to meet we
should do so, though I never left the island
and you never wanted a fencing lesson."

"Who can say?"

And now, Marc, the dearest delights
come to an end, you know, in this weary
world, and so have your sausage and roll
and my talk, and so I must get home," she
said, rising up from the table.

^'When will you be able to give me
another sitting?" he asked, willing to keep
her as long as she would stay.

I cannot say. I may be able to look
round tomorrow. I will if I can. I always
like to have a talk with you ; it's the
next best thing to having a chat with
myself. I must talk to some one, and
you understand me better than anyone
else."

*' Try to come, if you can."

I shall; but perhaps it would be better
for you to finish up that pot-boiling landscape
in the corner."

*' Oh ! that is only a couple of hours'
work, and 1 shall put it on the easel when
you are gone."

*' What will you do with the * Beggar
Maid,' when it is finished ? Shall my face
adorn the picture-dealer's window ? Perhaps
some rich gentilhomme may take a

fancy to my face, and ask who I am, and
come and make love to me."

** I hope not," said the artist, knocking
the ashes out of his pipe slowly and
deliberately.

Thank you for your kind wishes, Mr.
Phillips," she said, at first assuming an air
of indignation, and then breaking into one
of her bursts of rippling laughter. " However,
there is no fear of the gentilhomme
coming. Kings never marry beggar maids
now-a-days, and Lords of Burleigh are
few and far between ; alas ! for the unromantic
days upon which I have fallen."

*'I will send the ' Beggar Maid ' to the
Academy on chance, I think."

''Ah! to be humor on the walls of
Burlington House, and have admiring
crowds before me all day long from May
to August, would not that be glorious?"
she said, clasping her hands delightedly,

and looking at the young artist rapturously.
A bright light came into her eyes
at the prospect, her face beamed with
smiles.

I shall send it in, Capri."

"Do," she said. "But I am afraid it
will be of little use."

She was thinking more of herself than
of him.

Never venture, never win," he said.

True, Marc ; and now I must really
go. Thank you for your pleasant afternoon.
Help me on with my ulster — don't
tear it, for it cost but thirteen shillings, and
is very tender. Actio, caro mio, oh ! how
you press my hand," she cried out, comical.
'^ Good-bye, dear old Marc," she
added, and in another second she had
gone.

CHAPTER 11.

NEWTON Martin GIVES ADVICE.

npHE room seemed robbed of its bright
ness when Capri had gone. All the
pleasant colouring vanished, all the grace
and picturesqueness which her figure had
lent the room departed, and the attic
studio stood out in its unlovely, realistic
bareness.

Marcus Phillips looked round him once,
then placed the pot-boiler on the easel
before him, and sat down before it to
work.

VOL. I. D

His bead was as handsome as a young
god's, and the dreaminess of genius lurked
in his blue eyes, that deepened to violet in
the shade. His features were clearly cut
and handsome, his hair was bright brown.

For all his bright hair and the soft,
dreamy light of his eyes, Marcus Phillips
was thoroughly a manly man. He was
almost six feet high, and made in proportion,
his shoulders broad, his limbs well
formed and supple.

So far as kindred and friends went, he
stood quite alone in all the world. If he
were to die in the morning, leaving behind
him ten thousand pounds and an unsigned
will, he knew of no relative who could lay
claim to his wealth.

His was a case of isolation. Such siu-
srular instances sometimes occur, and form
marked contrasts to other members of the
human race whose sisters, whose cousins,

and whose aunts spread themselves like a
vast network over half a country, and in
turn knit themselves into other prolific
families, until the chain of relationship
bids fair to include the population of Great
Britain.

Marcus Phillips was alone in life. His
father died while he was yet quite a lad ;
his mother married again, and he was sent
to school. He still remembered, as if it
but happened yesterday, how the news of
his mother's death had been broken to
him by the head-master — recollected his
journey to the house, which was from that
time his home no more.

At the age of eighteen he was battling
with the world. It was a hard struQ^orle,
for he was almost penniless, and was
minus experience. His mother's husband
had children of his own to provide for,
and had neither the desire nor intention

d2

of adopting him. He left the household
which had once been his home, and came
to London. Our great capital has ever
had strong attractions, sometimes fatal,
for the young. There is something in its
noise, its commerce, and its eternal bustle
that stimulates to action ; it looks so
mighty, so far-stretching, that they imagine
there must be room for yet another
life within its vastness. Its broad thoroughfares
are bright and pleasant, its
grimy, narrow streets offer a refuge and
hiding-place in times of misery, and its
river looks dark deep and silent if the
worst comes at last, and all hopes die
within young hearts.

Marcus Phillips came to London, and
for the first time learned how terribly
selfish is the great world. The crowd
ignored his existence ; not one individual
in the vast throng heeded him, or reached

him out a helping hand. Not fitted by
special training for any pursuit, he was
utterly helpless, and was seemingly flung
among his fellow-men as weeds are cast
upon strong currents to sink in a helpless
struoforle. Alone and unknown amono^
millions, his lot was sad ; but fate one day
took pity on him, and threw a vagabond,
otherwise an actor, in his way — a man
with a tender heart and a disreputable
character, for tenderness is not at all confined
to respectability. This man, hearing
the lad's story, proposed that he should,
as a general utility member, join his company,
which was just then going into the
provinces. So he commenced life as an
actor, and communicated the intelligence
to his step-father ; not that he cared in
the least for that individual's opinion ; he
flung the news at him as a gauntlet; it
would be sufficient to part them for ever,

he knew, and this was what he most
desired.

In good time an answer came. Marcus
Phillips' father declared that, as a religious
and upright man who sought salvation, he
could hold neither bond nor fellowship
with one who had become a strolling
player, and whose soul, he was candid
enough to admit, was on the straight road
to eternal perdition. Puritan prejudices
still linger in provincial breasts, and members
of the profession theatrical are yet
looked on as the children of one who shall
be nameless.

For three years Marcus Phillips made
tours through the provinces, north, southeast,
and west. Among a fraternity of
Bohemians he passed a very happy time, a
free and merry life that knew few cares
and fewer responsibilities. When one is
young, and can earn enough to keep body

and soul together, the world looks fair
and pleasant, and the young actor found it
so ; moreover, the experience of men and
women which his profession afforded was
one of the most valuable lessons he could
learn.

Among one of the companies with
which Marcus Phillips travelled, was a
scene-painter, who took a fancy to the
young man, and for love of art taught
him to mix colours and handle a brush.

It will do you no harm, my boy, to
learn all trades," said the artist, who,
though the mildest of men, was the villain
of the company, who invariably wore a
black beard, jack boots, and a slouched
hat, and nightly died at the end of the
last act in a most agonizing manner within
eighteen inches of the footlights. " It
will do you no harm," he repeated. " I
once travelled with a manager who painted

Lis own scenes, played the piano in the
orchestra between the acts, took the lead
in the piece every night, and altered the
company's costumes."

And then this mild man, whose chief
pride lay in the enactment of nightly villany,
went on with the painting of a cottage
interior.

Marcus Phillips was soon found to have
an eye for colour and design, and that intuitive
love for this new art which is often
the best test of the direction in which a
man's genius lies. In a short time the
pupil's works were before the master's,
and one day his friend said to him,

Phillips, my boy, if I were you, I
should leave the stage, and go in thoroughly
for painting. Nature intended you for
an artist instead of an actor. You may
have a bit of up-hill work at first, but,
when I see a bit of good painting, I know

it; and some day you may^vrite E. A. after
your name, I bet my life' said the scene-painter,
with all the glowing hopefulness
of friendship.

' A bird in the hand is worth two in the
bush oldman, "replied Marcus. "You know
I have very little put by — we actors are
not provident people. And then, I daresay,
there are dozens of men in town and
out of it who could cover a square of
canvas better than I, and who are yet
more out of elbows than your obedient
servant. If I went to London and set upas
an artist, I should probably starve'

"I know a trick worth two of starving*'

'•' What's that r"

Don't give up the stage yet for a while,
but get an engagement in town, and take
lessons in painting. Be an actor by night,
an artist by day."

"That would certainly be a glorious

tiling, and I have a mind to try it, old
man."

'' If you take a friend's advice, you
will."

I can always come back to the provinces,
if I don't succeed."

Leave out the ' if,' and say there is no
such word as fail," said the scene-painter,
dramatically waving his right hand.

You are right," said Marcus.

^' Erase such a word from the bright
lexicon of your youth," said the scenic
artist, in a lofty tone. Then he added,
more gently,

"I wish I had life again before me but
you see I am married to the leading lady,
and have children four."

Marcus gave him his hand in sympathy,
the scenic artist pressed it affectionately.

Marcus Phillips came to town, got an
engagement to play a small part at the

Ophelia Theatre, hired an attic in Fitzroy
Street, and set up an easel. He worked
hard and fast. He had energy and perseverance,
for he knew he had much to
learn. Labour, however, is said to overcome
all things. He took lessons in figure-modelling
from an artist in Kensington, and
learned fencing as a branch of his theatric
cal profession from Captain Bankers.

After three years of hard work, he began
to paint pictures which commanded a
reasonable price at the dealers', and in
order to devote himself entirely to painting
he gave up the stage. One cannot
burn the candle at both ends.

On the afternoon on which the chapter
opens, when Capri had gone, the young artist
stood before the pot-boiler in silent contemplation
and idleness, for his thoughts
followed the girl to her home. He was
loth to believe her so mercenary as she

declared herself ; her character had many
sides ; she was so much a child of impulse
that it was difficult to say when she really
spoke from her heart, and she probably did
not always know herself. Her life was
not cast in pleasant lines ; she was almost
alone in the world. True she had a circle
of literary and artistic male friends who
learned sword exercise and fencing from
her father, and who were all more or less
poor and had the advantage of commencing
life with strong hopes of achieving
great things in the future.

Capri was a favourite with them all, and
they were ever ready to give her passes
for the theatre or tickets for concerts or
picture-galleries when they had them ; they
lent her their books, too, and sometimes
would come and read her a chapter or a
poem in manuscript hot from the feu sacre
of their souls.

Yet Marcus pitied her ; the outward view
of her life was bright enough, but the
seamy side was not over-pleasant. We
have all two sides to our daily lives, separate
and diverse from each other as heaven
from hell.

Capri was a stranger to the simple, homely
pleasures of domestic life, which so often
tend to briuo* out all that is best in our
natures and cast our characters in happy
and useful moulds. None of those home
influences which sweeten and protect the
lives of most girls were hers ; she had few
female friends, her opportunities of meeting
them were limited, and there was little sympathy
between her and English girls of her
own age with whom she happened to come
in contact.

So Marcus Phillips pitied her, not suspecting
just then that his feelings were of
a deeper kind. Love often comes in the

guise of pity ; between sympathy and love
there is only half a step : one is the reflection
of the other.

Capri, on the other hand, knew that the
artist was in love with her. Women's perceptions
regarding matters of affection are
quick indeed. A woman knows a man is in
love with her before he has dreamt of the
existence of his passion. Capri fathomed
his heart, and read his secret with strangely
opposite feelings. She was proud of
winning his love : it was a gift for which
any woman might feel grateful ; yet she
felt unworthy of the gift, knowing herself
incapable of valuing it at its proper estimate.


Whilst the artist was yet thinking over
what the girl had said to him of the value
of money and beauty in the world's eyes,
he heard a tap at the door and in came his
friend Newton Marrix.

Ah, New," be said, giving him his haud.
*' You have just come in time to give your
advice — always valuable, old man — about
this pot-boiler. Do you think the sky too
yellow?"

Call it golden."

Well, golden. You see the public likes
a good sunset, something between Turner
and eggs and bacon."

"No, not too golden," replied Newton
Marrix, who was a rising author, and inclined
to be severely critical on art matters,
as became a literary man.

** ril deepen the yellow — gold, I mean."

"Don't you think a line of crimson
light "

'* Otherwise carmine."

"Down near the sea would be an improvement,"
said the young author, standing
a little way off, with his right hand

shading his eyes, and gazing hard at the
canvas.

Very well, I will put it on while you
are here, until you see the effect. You
will find some cigarettes on the little table
beyond ; there is tobacco in the jar on the
chimney-piece, if you have brought your
pipe."

Capital idea."

'' The pipe or the sunlight?"

The sunlight, of course. You must
have a reflection down in the waves, which
I fear are terribly green."

Nothing like plenty of colour for my
friend the British public."

The waves must beat round the sun's
feet," said Newton Marrix, poetically,
whilst he filled his pipe. Pipes and poetry
harmonize capitally.

The sun's feet ?"

'' Yes. Don't sou remember what Swinburne
says?

Break again like waves that beat
Eouncl the sun's feet'"

Very well. I will put the sun's feet in
water — give them a bath."

"I protest, Marc," he said, raising both
his hands melodramatically.

'^ This bit of canvas is a stunner now,"
said the artist, as the brush moved nimbly
in his hand. 'red sun, golden clouds,
green sea, white-sailed boat, yellow sands.
The British public will have its money's
worth of colouring, or know for what."

"upon my life, Marc, it's a charming
little picture, for all its glare, and ought
to fetch thirty guineas."

It will bring me ten."

'well, never mind, in a dozen years a
canvas of the same size will fetch you a
hundred."

VOL. T. E

''I hope you may turn out a prophet in
your own country."

''I hope so, for your sake, old man."
How is your new novel getting on ?"
Oh ! slowly. I have killed one man
to-day in poetic justice ; and some of the
other people may well tremble in their
shoes, for I shall certainly murder a couple
more of them !"

Cold-blooded monster."
Then my heroine has two husbands
living, and she elopes from the second,
and all the characters fall in love with
those they should not a la elective affinities.
For if a young author wants to get
a hearing, Marc, my boy, he must make
his books fit for nobody to read, in order
that everybody may read them."
'* Is that the secret of success ?"
One of them. The melodramatic
villain, with an evil face and dark eyes.

and the sweet ingenue have gone out with
the last generation. The villains of today
in real life and fiction wear spotless
linen, look as innocent as angels, and smash
the decalogue in kid gloves as a sort of
mild pastime. The heroines are no longer
dear innocents, fresh from Arcadian
schools, but are wise in their generation,
like the children of darkness."

It may be so in fiction, not in real
life."

"Ah! Marc, my boy, fiction is but a
reflex of the time, a portrait of domestic
history. The colours are true. Everyday
you walk through E-egent Street, the
Seven Dials, or the Strand, you pass by
men and women, the story of whose lives,
if published, would read stranger than
all fiction, and wilder than romance has
ever pictured. It is the improbable which
is always probable, some one has said, and

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

truly. At least, this is how we moralists'
continued the young roan, smiling, and
throwing the mighty ^' we " into his conversation
with a careless self-satisfaction,
*' reconcile ourselves to the use of incidents
that seem wild in our pages."

Human lives are often strange mysteries
which we cannot understand, and
human hearts are stranger still," said the
painter, philosophically.

*' Better live without them," answered
JSTev/ton Marrix. *' They are luxuries we
cannot afford in these days ; a man is
much jollier sans heart."

Not better."

*' Yes, in pocket," said Newton Marrix,
speaking lightly, and without the malice of
cynicism .

** However, in fiction you authors have
a certain advantage over us artists."

I cannot see it."

*' Well, we cannot paint wives running
away from their husbands, and so Eortb,
or people falling in love with an utter
disregard to common-place morality."

"No, but you can paint studies from
the nude ' sweet, white bodies,' you know,
and a few ' lean, lithe limbs ' with never a
shred to cover them. That is what will
bring you before the public in a short
time, and make more money for you in six
months than all the pot-boilers you could
paint in as many years. Only try that
style, old man."

Marcus Phillips only laughed as he bent
over his canvas to fill in the green waves
with his palette knife.

Only try it, Marc," his friend went on.
"■ Then you can get Mervin of the Telegram
to write an article running down the nude
in art generally, and your pictures in particular,
with a few telling sentences about

pandering to vicious tastes of the present
day: that bait always fetches the honest
Britisher and his spouse the indignant
matron, who knows as much about art as
the King of the Cannibal Islands, and
imagines nudity means nastiness."

Then you would have me damned at
once and for ever."

'dear boy, you mistake. Mervin's
article would be answered by a dozen
writers every day for a week ; you could
write a score of them yourself under different
names, and by the time you have
been denounced and defended, your name
would be in all men's mouths and your
fame established."

"The nude in art is never profane tome,"
said the artist.

"Nor to anyone of taste, culture, and
education ; but to the Philistines abroad it

is a red rag. These asses bray as loud as
lions roar, over a new step in high art
which means civilization, and the world is
full to overflowing with such donkeys."

'* They are useful in their way sometimes."


Yes, I grant you. Their noise attracts,
they roll themselves over and over
in the roadway of public opinion in paroxysms
of passion about some advancement
in thought or art, now over a picture,
again over a poem, a new era in music, or
the announcement of strange psychological
facts ; the dust they raise causes the world
to look. In this way they unconsciously
fulfil their mission."

"And benefit those they sought to make
their victims."

Just so. But, Marc, I came to take
you to Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's afternoon

at home ; so come on, old man, and you
can talk of high art there until you are
blue in the face."

'ran unartistic colour for the features.
However, I do not know Mrs. Stonexx
Standing."

That does not matter ; you soon will.
I will introduce you. She is very kind,
and she will be glad to see you, for she
takes an interest in all artists."

'* Well, I had better change my coat."

'' Not at all. She has a weakness for
velvet coats, especially if they are daubed
with paint. You will look all the more
artistic as you are ; and don't attempt to
brush your hair, that would be monstrous ;
you would never be forgiven. Let your
scarf flow with Byronic carelessness and
grace."

It looks deucedly untidy."

*' No matter. To look as picturesque as

possible is the first duty we owe to ourselves
and to our neighbours in artistic society.
You know, Marc, women's eyes are
the true mirrors in which men see themselves
; if a man's personal appearance succeeds
in pleasing a woman, he has achieved
a victory of which he may feel proud.
They are the best judges of what befits a
man outwardly."

Are they as wise concerning the inner
man?"

"The inner man is never considered in
society, my dear boy. Morals or brains
are only secondary considerations to dress.
A well-fitting coat is better any day thana
good character. If a man only dresses
to please us, we care little about what his
soul is like; we are generous enough to
leave that to himself and Providence.
Come along, old man."

One moment, New."

You will make an impression in Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning's rooms, I'll swear."

"I hope she will allow clean hands," said
the artist, running to his bed-room to wash
off the paint stains from his fingers.

Hurry up," was the only answer he received.


In a few moments the author and artist
were on their way to Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's
afternoon at home.

Chapter III.

THE Tending LESSON.

i^APTAIN DANKEPtS rented two back
^-^ rooms, commonly called "a back
pair," of a house in the Euston Road,
convenient to 'bus and rail*' as he announced
in the advertisements in which
he offered to teach sword exercise and
fencing.

By this profession, as he was wont to
term it, he added considerably to his income,
meaning his half pay as a retired
captain of an infantry regiment. The

captain was not a man who invariably
called things by their proper names, when
he imagined other names added in relative
proportion to his dignity or importance.


Now that the days of duelling are over,
a fact the captain deeply regretted, there
exists no great thirst for a knowledge of
sword exercise and fencing ; at least not to
the extent which the captain desired.
His pupils were principally actors, amateur
and professional, and young men given to
climb horizontal bars, winding themselves
eel-like round poles, boxing and other physical
exercises.

Among this latter class was one to whom
the captain paid considerable deference
and attention. This was Lord Harrick,
who was just two and twenty years old,
the inheritor of a rent-roll valued at
seventy thousand per annum, and the inheritor

of a large fortune which bad accumulated
during the fourteen years of
his minority.

Richard, sixth Viscount Garrick in the
peerage of Great Britain, and Baron Lesson
in the peerage of Scotland, was a
young man remarkable for nothing in particular.
He was quite a different personage
from his immediate predecessor. The
last peer had been a remarkable botanist,
and a naturalist of great renown, who had
spent his days in hunting for rare specimens
of insects ; moreover he was a little
crabbed-looking man, who wore thread
gloves and read religious tracts with great
attention.

The present peer was quite a different
man. Diversity of character between
father and son is the commonest things
now-a-days. The sixth Viscount
Harrick did not care a button for all the

insects in Europe, so long as they left him
in peace ; and ho had never written a line
in his life since he left school.

He had a certain amount of respect for
money, as became one who daily experienced
its market value in the world, and
all that his possession of the filthy lucre
ensured him from his fellow-men. Yet he
was liberal in a measure, and was known
to lend money without security; he had
pensioned his last mistress handsomely,
and had once paid the debts of a kinsman
who had appealed to him, a young cornet
in the Guards, who had the extravagant
tastes of a duke and the income of a parish
beadle.

The Jews had never had Lord Harrick's
name on bill or bond during his long
minority; he never gambled or bet, save
at the request of his acquaintances, for
their pleasure and profit. He was what

is commonly called a good-natured fellow
in his way ; his manner was often genial
with his fellow-men, and he was generally
liked, even by his friends.

It was scarcely possible for anyone to
have less character ; his general bearing-was
common-place, and natural grace was
a things of which he was utterly guiltless.

O Iso

He never offended society by any attempt
at originality, or made his friends envious
by the brilliancy of his humour or the
keenness of his wit. When he talked, he
spoke the greatest nonsense outside the
range of idiocy, but he made an excellent
listener, a fact that gained him considerable
appreciation. He was a very neutral
individual indeed, whom his tailor dressed
well, and who looked exceedingly harmless.
He had no talents of any kind, not
even for horse-racing or politics, the two
ofreat attractions of English life.

Nature, in sending him into existence
as the sixth viscount of his line, and the
inheritor of a goodly rent-roll, had perhaps
come to the kindly consideration that talents
would bore him, and had therefore withheld
them ; or perhaps Providence foresaw
they would prove a burden of which he
would far better be rid. As it was, he
had less imagination than his groom, and
was not so accomplished as his valet, who
was a genteel young man, that played the
English concertina and read Byron to the
upper housemaid.

He would have been considered dull but
for the variety his money afforded his
friends, and foolish but that he was wise
enough to please them. He had no ideas,
for those who are born to wealth never
require any. They buy their thoughts on
current subjects in the daily press, just as
one buys bread from the baker. Their

minds are made up for them by the editor
of their favourite organ. The-wisest
thoughts clad in the best language, sparkling
wit, and sound sense can be bought
for a penny any morning in the year. It
is only your needy man who has ideas,
sent him by Providence that he may coin
them into sovereigns. It is his mission.

Altogether, Lord Harrick was looked
on as a model member of society; he was
all that a peer should be, and matrons
regarded him generally as a man who was
destined to make as excellent a husband
as any girl need desire, for his income
could afford a magnificent settlement, and
his dulness would be certain to secure his
wife from any interference with the pleasures
of her life.

When Capri went home from the studio
in Fitzroy Street, she found her father
was still out, and her landlady's youngest

VOL. I. p

daughter waiting for her music-lesson.

'* Come along, dear," said Capri to her
pupil, who was fully as big as herself ;
and Capri, quick in all her movements,
went up side by side with her to what she
was pleased to call the salon, and set the
girl down before the wiry piano, and commenced
the lesson at once.

Capri usually lavished affectionate caresses
and terms of endearment upon her
two pupils, which all bore fruit, as she
intended, in various ways. Her landlady
was never unkind to her even when the
rent was due a month, and the delicate
little presents the landlady's wooden-figured
daughters presented in the shape
of pretty ribbons, articles of cheap jewels
very, and an occasional pair of gloves were
all thoroughly acceptable to Capri, who
had more than an ordinary woman's love
for finery.

On tills evening Capri was more affectionate
than usual, and took greater pains
in the training of her pupil's voice, and,
when the music lesson was over, kissed
the girl more affectionately than ever,
remembering all the while the captain's
debt for rent.

Then, when the pupil had gone, Capri
sat down to the piano, and, striking a
few chords that gave back a feeble, wiry
sound, she half sang, half hummed snatches
of opera airs and parts of serenades and
homely songs she had heard in her childish
days long ago ; she sang them very sweetly
and with a slight touch of pathos,
remembering the island that had been her
early home, the honest, kind-hearted,
brown-faced peasants who had been her
first and best friends. Sitting there alone,
the memory of the place rose up before
her : she saw the fishing-boats drawn up

f2

on the yellow beach, the high cliffs looking
white and scorched in the sunlight
the blue sea sparkling out beyond and
rolling in upon the sands with a voiceful
music which yet often echoed in her ears
through the quiet hours of the day and in
the silent watches of the night.

She was so lost in thought that she
did not hear a rap on the half-open
door and a footstep enter the room. Suddenly
she stopped, and looked round.

Miss Capri," said Lord Harrick, bowing,
" I fear I disturb you;" he laid down
his hat on a chair, and walked across the
room to where she sat.

*'No, you don't," answered Capri, turning
round from the piano.

If I don t, pray play on."

Oh ! by all means. I thought you did
not care for music. I was afraid it would
bore you."

Capri was nothing if not laconic. Lord
Harrick let his eye-glass drop suddenly
from his eye and smiled ; he was used
to her manner, and flattered himself he
got on thoroughly with her.

In appearance he contrived to make
himself as much like a groom as possible,
and probably in this respect fell in with a
design which Nature had originally intended
before she changed her mind and sent
him into existence as the heir to a peerage.
ISTow-a-days, however, our modern lackeys
dress so much like gentlemen that it
becomes excusable for gentlemen to dress
like lackeys.

Lord Harrick's red hair was cut perfectly
close to his head ; he had no whiskers,
but wore a slight moustache. His eyes
were very round and blue, and had a
continued look of wonder in them. His
face was oval and full, his complexion of

that ruddy tint which often accompanies
red hair. On this occasion he wore a coat
at once short and tight, a coloured corded
waistcoat, with many brass buttons, and
trowsers that, clinging to his legs, betrayed
an anatomy not at all like Apollo Belvedere's
in its symmetry of form.

*' I always like to hear you sing or
play," he said to Capri, sitting down on a
chair near the piano, whilst he tapped
his chin with the tortoiseshell handle of
a cane which he held in both his hands.

"Do you?"

Yes ; but it is not often you allow me
that pleasure," he said, looking at her
steadily with his round, blue eyes.

I had no idea you were musical," she
answered, and then, with sweetness and
very great feeling, she commenced a
song which her friend, old Pallamari, had
just composed.

Thank you," he said, when she had
finished. "It is very charming, 'pon my
word," and he smiled at Capri as if he
were well pleased.

"Do you like it, Lord Harrick?"

I do indeed. It's — it's capital."

"Well, an old friend of mine, Signer
Pallamari, who is a music-teacher, composed
it. He wants to have it published, but
that would cost him five pounds, and he
cannot afford five shillings, so he must
only resign himself to his fate."

"Indeed," he said, uneasily.

He would willingly have given Capri the
money there and then to please her, yet he
did not know in what words to shape his
desire.

The publishing of this song might
serve him very much, and it would give
him much pleasure, and perhaps profit."

Where does Pallamari live ?" he asked.

The girl's eyes brightened and flashed
on him with almost childlike delight.

He only lives a few doors away, quite
by himself, in an attic that is all the world
to him. He teaches music. It was he
who taught me when I came to England,
and never charged a penny ; and he plays
the violin like Paganini. It almost makes
me wild with a thrilling, strange sensation
when I hear him."

Capri spoke hurriedly, her face changing
in expression with every thought, her
dark eyes full of light, her hands clasped
close together.

Lord Harrick put his hand into his
breast-pocket.

Will you do me the favour of giving
this to Signer Pallamari, and say it came
from a friend of yours who admired his
song, and wishes to see it published ?" he
said, handing Capri a note.

The girl glanced at him gratefully, and
gave a sudden exclamation of surprise.
She took the note, and held it daintily,
almost reverentially between her fingers.
Tt was a privilege rare to her.

'how good you are, Lord Harrick,"
she said, looking at him with a light and
pleasure in her eyes that repayed him for
his generosity. *' You are so kind. I
shall always like you for this," she said,
frankly holding out her hand.

He took it in his, and pressed it quickly,
his blue eyes grew rounder, the ruddy
colour of his complexion deepened. Capri
withdrew her hand.

After this little sentimental scene, the
viscount looked slightly confused, his right
hand fumbled at his watch-chain, and then
drew out his watch.

'rit is after six," he said.

'ris it? Then Pa is late again. He

will not be long though. He has been
busy to-day," she went on, drawing a little
on her imagination, for she had not the
faintest idea of what her military parent
had been doing all day, and she more than
suspected that he was imbibing a convivial
glass with some boon companion at that
moment, forgetful of his remunerative
pupil.

Since you are so fond of music' she
went on, ''I will play to you till he comes
in."

'* You are awfully good, you know — but
I am rather in a hurry this evening. And
I wish Captain Bankers would keep his
appointments," he blurted out, and then
looked red and confused because of his
gallant speech.

''Ah, Lord Harrick, you are scarcely
complimentary," she said, good humoured.
" Now, you ought to be glad, or at

least to sap you were glad, even if you
did not mean it, that Pa is not in just
yet, in order that I might talk or play to

you."

"Ought I? Well, so I am," he said,
recovering himself, "only I never like to
be kept waiting, you know."

Not even when I am here to talk to
you ?" she asked, archly, smiling at him
merrily.

Lord Harrick looked conscious-stricken
and a little foolish. Women had never
spoken to him in this way before, as Capri
did. He liked it coming from her lips,
for there was a mixture oF the child and
coquette about her which pleased him.

I did not mean quite that," he went
on, not very well knowing what he meant.

She interrupted him.

^*As a just judgment here comes Pa,"
she said, hearing the parental steps ascending

the stairs, and, as she ended, Captain
Bankers entered the room.

You saw at once he had been a soldier.
He was now the remnant of a handsome,
well-built man, carefully preserved and
brushed, rather dissipated of aspect, but
with something of the gentleman clinging
to him yet. His cheeks were unpleasantly
streaked with red, though they had not
yet arrived at the blotchy stage ; his eyes
were rather uncertain in their gaze, and
had a general watery appearance; his nose
assumed a pale, pinkish hue. His face
was closely shaven but for a heavy military
moustache which was dyed and waxed
with considerable care ; his hair, rigorously
parted at the back, was brushed with almost
painful force over each ear. His
waist, however, was the captain's great
pride. It was slim as a boy's, and seemed
a pivot on which his body turned and

swayed with every gesture and movement ;
his coat, buttoned tightly and without a
crease over this part of his frame, suggested
the idea of a corset. His frock
coat, fastened high at the throat, was a
trifle threadbare and glassy about the
sleeves and elbows, and no vestige of shirt
was visible on the black horizon of his
breast. His tall hat had acquired an unnaturally
brilliant polish, as if it had been
carefully black leaded in the morning
along with the grate. His boots shone
like reflectors, and in one hand he dangled
a glove, from which all colour had long
since faded, with the grace that had something
in it of an antique fop. He bowed
ceremoniously to Lord Harrick, raising his
hat in one hand with a gesture slightly
theatrical, whilst he arranged his hair with
the other.

*fear I am late, my lord' he said

laying down his hat and holding out his
hand a little timidly, as if he were not
quite certain Vv^hether it would be taken ina
responsive grasp or not. ''I have just
been giving some sword exercise lessons at
pupils' houses. Capri, my love, where are
the foils ?"

In the corner," she answered, pointing
to the spot, but without offering to fetch
them.

Then, as Captain Bankers went for them,
she cast one look at Lord Harrick, half
comic, half sentimental, and, kissing her
finger tips to him, noiselessly slipped out
of the room.

He looked after her pleased, amused,
and half bewildered ; then smiled to himself.


"Ton my word, she is an awfully nice
girl ; I am sorry the captain has come in,"
he said, mentally.

Then the two men took off their coats,
rolled up their sleeves to the elbows, put
on the gloves, and took up the foils.

"Now, my lord," said the captain,
falling into position at once, ** right
foot forward, right knee slightly bent;
that's it — rest on your left leg so — very
good."

Lord Harrick followed his instructions.

Xow thrust at my right breast," said
the captain, preparing to defend himself
heroically against so cold-blooded an onslaught.
"Strike harder. Bravo! Now
defend yourself," he continued.

The foils struck each other vigorously
for some moments, with a sharp, quick
sound, then they paused awhile for breath.

This always reminds me of poor
Byron," said the captain, with an assumption
of tender melancholy, as if speaking
of some close friend. *' Then we were

stationed in Corsica, I fenced with him one
day for a wager, and lost."

'•'He fenced well?"

I never saw a man handle the foils
more gracefully, and he was vain of the
accomplishment."

"And he boxed well, did he not ?"

"Yes ; but he got beaten by one of our
men, a stout Yorkshire fellow, whom he
rewarded with a bottle of brandy for beating
him black and blue. After that he
never mentioned the subject before us
again."

They had rested by this time, so the
captain said,

We will now try the quarter parade,"
and the foils struck each other with some
force once more. Once Lord Harrick
suddenly lowered his foil, and, the captain's
foil grazing his arm somewhat
roughly, blood appeared.

'damn it!" he said, hastily, smarting
from the slight pain.

I am sorry," commenced the captain.

Oh ! it's nothing ; it was my own
fault," he said, ashamed of his impatience,
and he took out his handkerchief to stop
the blood.

'' Stay, I will have it properly bound for
you," said Captain Bankers.

Don't trouble, thanks." But the captain,
not heeding him, had opened the door
and called out,

'^ Capri, Capri, come down, my love."

Captain Dankers invariably used terms
of endearment in addressing his daughter
before s transfers.

She came downstairs at once, and stood
in the doorway a moment with a look of
inquiry on her face, and then went over
to Lord Harrick.

Are you wounded ?*' she said, with an

VOL. I. G

expression more like amusement than
anxiety.

''I am' he said; 'but there is no
necessity to trouble you, Miss Capri."

'' But then you are bleeding. How
terrible !" she went on, in a tone that perplexed
him; he could not tell whether she
was joking or in earnest.

My dear, bring a basin of water and
some linen," said the captain.

She left the room, and in a moment returned
with some tepid water and a strip
of linen cloth. Then she dexterously
rolled his shirt-sleeve higher up, took off
the handkerchief which he had bound
round his arm, and commenced to bathe
the spot from which the blood yet continued
to flow.

*' You are awfully good," he said, feeling
it very pleasant to have his arm taken hold
of by her soft, delicate fingers.

'* I think Nature intended me for a nurse,"
she replied. '* A nurse on the battle-field,
you know, like Florence Nightingale, or a
Sister of Charity."

I should like to be one of the lucky

soldiers who "

'' Who would get shot at in order that I
might attend him."

"Exactly, Miss Capri."
She looked round the room to see that
her father was not within earshot.

I think I should scream if I saw you
shot, or stabbed, or anything dreadful that
way," she said, coyly.
'^ Would you really?"
'' You just try," she answered.
Sut Lord Harrick did not see the utility
of going so far to test her nerves.

It took some time to stay the blood that
would come to the surface of the skin
again and again, until the water in the

g2

basin was crimson ; and all the while her
fingers, touching his arm lightly, and meeting
his fingers, sent a thrill of pleasure
through his veins.

When the blood was almost stayed she
bound his arm with a soft linen cloth.
The pleasant sensation kept tingling in
his veins every time she touched him in
fastening the bandage round.

He was sorry when the operation was
over. It was agreeable to have her face
so near his, that now and then, as she
bent down, her hair touched his cheek
softly, to have her plump little hands grasping
his thick arm, to have her laughing
eyes looking into his half earnestly, half
quizzing, yet with almost childlike
vivacity, and without a sowpqon of boldness
in their look.

'' Now," she said, when the tying was

quite complete, " I have healed the wounded
; is not that one of the corporal works
of mercy ?"

I know from experience it is."

Then I begin to feel quite heroic, and
to learn for the first time that I have not
lived in vain."

Thank you very much," he said.

The captain coming over to them at
that moment, Capri took up the basin to
depart.

"I am sorry to have given you all
this trouble," he said, looking at her
steadily.

It has given me something to do,"
she replied, "and that is always a pleasure,"
and, smiling frankly at him, she
departed.

*' Now, captain, let us continue."

Very well ; we will get on to

tierce ; let your thrusts be quick and
strong."

And once more the fencing lesson was
continued.

CHAPTER IV.

Marcus PHILLIPS ENTERS SOCIETY.

MEANWHILE Newton Marrix and his
friend Marcus Phillips were travelling
towards Kensington in the Underground
Railway, on their way to Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning's afternoon at home.

How frightfully hot it is !" said the
painter.

Yes, travelling in the Metropolitan in
summer is equal to taking a trip to Hades.
In one's flight underground one has all
the elements for dashing up an epic of

regions infernal : stifling heat, intense
darkness, odours of sulphur, and shrieks,
though the latter come from engines, and
not lost souls."

Your imagination is vivid. New, my
boy, you begin to make me feel uncomfortable."


Nothing like a good imagination combined
with common sense ; then it does
not run away with one and make life a
dream."

To most of us it is a great reality."

'rit comes as one takes it, I find; to
some it is a very serious thing, to others a
great joke. One looks on it as a tragedy,
another as a farce ; but we are too hot
to trouble our heads about such things
now, old man, and here we have come to
our destination, the High Street, Kensington
Station. There, that is rhyme, is it
not, ' destination and station ' ? I shall

discover some clay that I was born a
poet."

And then you shall die one."

"Perhaps. Some Greek philosopher
says no man can say he has a happy life
until death comes. I will reverse that
piece of philosophy, and say no man
can say he has had a miserable existence
until the end arrives. I may become
a poet and miserable ; for misery
is essential to a true poet so far as
I can judge. Ah, Marc, to die in the
odour of poetic sanctity I would give
up "

Your ticket, sir," said the collector, as
they reached the top of the stairs leading
from the station.

'' There, that prosaic man has completed
my sentence. I can say no more." And
they passed out from the station into the
street towards Mrs. Stanning's house.

Mrs. Stonexx Standing had by her versatile
talents gained a certain fame that
bade fair to exceed the limits of dilettante
circles. She had composed a song, " The
Blade of the Green Grass," which was
sung in many drawing-rooms during the
season, and at one or two fashionable concerts
; had written a volume of poems that
caused considerable attention in the literary
world on account of their almost classic
purity, and to which the Athenceum devoted
a column and a half, whether in praise or
blame no man might say; had written a
society novel in three volumes, of which
the Contemporary spoke well, and which
was largely demanded in the lending libraries,
and ran through two editions in
twelve months ; had exhibited a watercolour
sketch in the Grosvenor Gallery,
which was hung beside Mr. Burne Jones's
picture of " The Golden Stair."

Her talents were well-nigh as versatile
as Mademoiselle Sarah Bernhardt's ; she
might almost be called a genius, but, fortunately
for herself, perhaps, she stopped
short upon the threshold of that mystic
porch which leads to supremacy over fellow-beings
or starvation, fame or a garret.

Her name was inseparably connected
with art in all its branches. Her home
was the rendezvous of all young actors,
authors, artists, and musicians. Her word
carried weight in all matters of vital importance
in Eestheticism, such as the contrast
of certain shades, the arrangement
of a fold of drapery, the tone of a picture,
the sufficiency or insufficiency of grace ina
pose, the harmony or discord necessary
in a symphony. Her opinion was an
authority which was never questioned, and
ever scrupulously respected.

She was a young and wealthy widow,

who could afford to indulge her fancies
much as she pleased, and enjoy that untrammelled
liberty which only a widow
can command. Moreover, Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning was beautiful. Her complexion
was clear and fair ; her eyes, large, grey,
and tender, had a yearning, almost spiritual
expression in their depths ; her lips were
most delicately shaped, the upper one
short ; her chin slightly protruded ; her
well-shaped forehead was crowned with a
wealth of brown hair of a warm shade,
like the colour of an autumn leaf. She
looked about twenty three years old, her
actual age numbered four summers more.
Her face was singularly handsome, not
so much from form or colour as from
expression. It was her mind's mirror,
not her soul's mask. It had great gentleness
of repose, and often the sadness
which deep thought imparts. In conversation

it reflected every varying tliouglnt
and humour that crossed her mind, as
seas reflect the yellow sunlight and purple
shadows of the skies.

The gossips of society wondered among
themselves who was to have the honour of
sharing her hand and heart, and many a
Bohemian looked into her calm grey eyes
for some encouraging glance, for some
ray of dawning love-light, and looked,
alas ! in vain.

Lady Everfair and society at large were
much concerned reo^ardino- Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning's choice of a second husband.
Next to the news of an approaching
divorce, Lady Everfair delighted most in
the tidings of a marriage,

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning was too young,
and fair, and wealthy to go through life
without a protector, society said, as if
husbands were a kind of Ulster coat to

wrap young women in against the storms
of the world. A year ago it was whispered
in every drawing-room that a certain
marquis, who had had two wives, and who
wears a wig and takes snuff, had offered
to raise her to the peerage, an honour she
had promptly declined. It was well
known too that Fillmore Eating, the
famous English baritone, had sent her a
proposal secreted in a bouquet, and all the
world could tell that honest John Gray-worth,
who was madly in love with her,
asked her to marry him, and on being
refused had left England and gone to
Palestine, where he studied religious art
and painted his last famous picture.

If Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's heart was
ever touched, she made no sign or motion
which the outer world, ever carefully on
the watch, could discover. Society indeed
thought it was very doubtful if she had

ever loved, ever been stirred and tempestuous
by a great passion.

Mr. Stonexx Stanning, when he married
her, was more than twenty years her
senior. She was eighteen, he was forty.
She was the daughter of an unsuccessful
artist who had married for love, poor fellow.
brought three daughters into the
world to half starve and harass themselves
throughout the brightest days of their
young years.

Felice was the vouno-est, and with her
]mr. Stonexx Stanning, a successful financier
of great wealth and some culture, fell in
'love. The young girl, who had learned
the benefit of gold by lacking it all her
life, and who had but too wide an experience
of the straits and shifts of shabby
gentility, and the recourses to which the
want of a sovereign or two will reduce a
household, and knew the bitterness of that

humility pill wliicli hard circumstances
will force down the throats of the bravest,
sensibly accepted her wealthy suitor, and
showed him so much gratitude that he
mistook it for love to his death day, and
was all the happier for his illusion.

They lived for six years without a hasty
or unkind word passing between them,
which is very much in married life. Felice
Alas surrounded by all the luxuries that
wealth could purchase or taste suggest.
She had introduced her sisters into society,
and they in return paid her the compliment,
and did themselves the justice of marrying
well. The world went well with her ; she
made an exemplary wife, and, when her
husband died, he showed his appreciation
for her in the most sterling way by leaving
her an income of a clear six thousand a
year.

During the three years of her widowhood,

lovers had come and gone at her
bidding. She was yet free.

Society grew impatient and tired of
speculating as to whether she would again
enter the holy bonds of matrimony. It
believed her previous experience of that
state had been sufficiently fortunate and
happy to warrant her risking a second
venture in that most uncertain of all lotteries.


But Mrs. Stonexx Stanning considered
liberty a boon, and she had as yet seen no
man for whom she would forfeit it, or with
whom she could walk hand-in-hand through
all her future days.

Her home in Kensington was a pleasant
retreat, and her weekly five o'clock teas
were social reunions to be long remembered.
Her drawing-room was long and narrow
; through the bay-window at either
end a pleasant vista of flower-beds, smooth

VOL. I. H

cut grass, and foliage was to be seen;
within the room a bewildering yet grateful
view of all things artistic and beautiful
met the sight. In the centre, a grand,
square piano stood ; on the up-raised cover
was a picture painted on a golden background,
of Alcestis, rising weird and fair
from Hades, with the light of a great hope
in her eyes, and the lustre of a new dawn
gleaming on her fair spiritual face.

Chairs of every period and design, from
the gilt-back, crimson-gained gin-crack
of to-day to the massive Elizabethan, rich
in figured velvet and carved oak, were
scattered about. Pictures of all kinds and
sizes, not one corresponding in design or
shape with the other, covered the walls
except where the brackets rested ; a watercolour
sketch beside a chalk study by
Landseer, an old Florentine engraving
next a modern photograph, an etching

of Charles Persons beside a painting in
oils by Ettje, a pencil sketch by Hogarth
close by an early English print. Many of
the pictures were the gifts of their painters,
all of them had some interest connected
with them. Carved naiads, the work of a
famous artist in wood, supported brackets
on which antique vases were set, each one
of which had an historical legend of its
own. Altogether, the room had a most
artistic effect, the ensemble was considered
delightful.

When Marcus Phillips and his friend
arrived it was full of people, not one of
whom the artist knew. jSTewton Marrix,
on the contrary, seemed acquainted with
everyone, shook hands, and nodded, and
smiled with easy familiarity as he pushed
his way through the crowd.

'• Come along, Marc," he whispered,
'there is our hostess, in pale yellow,

H 2

talking to that tall man over there. His
name is Mr. Freaks."

The tall man had piercing grey eyes
and long, yellow hair, and stooped a little.
He was a personal friend of Mr. John Ruskin,
and as such was a high authority on
art, whose words were usually treasured by
admiring young ladies who thought they
painted, and who, after listening to Mr.
Freake's discourse on art, went away bearing
in their breasts the conviction that they
were likewise authorities in themselves,
only separated from the great art-critic by
the thin wall which Mr. Freake represented.

When the disciple of art delivered himself
of his ideas, he frowned so terribly
and spoke so dogmatically that even the
most advanced of the vous: ladies never
dreamt of contradicting him. He had
commenced life by taking very serious
views of it, and thinking, as he believed,

of the grave responsibilities of existence.
His thoughts indeed were so heavy as to
render him so likewise ; he was very much
in earnest concerning all things.

Young men often set out in life with
such views, as others of another class
launch out into verses that overflow their
friends' albums, and plague their mistresses
by most pathetic appeals to their hearts or
sonnets to their eyebrows. These are
stages through which they graduate, just
as children pass through whooping-cough
and measles.

When Newton Marrix approached Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning she held out her hand to
him very cordially.

Allow me," said the author, " to introduce
a friend of mine, Mr. Marcus Phillips,
artist, at your service."

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning smiled and bowed
gracefully.

''Do you exhibit, Mr. Phillips?" she
asked, opening a handsomely painted fan
covered with quaint Egyptian figures
worshipping at the shrine of Osiris.

I have not yet been fortunate enough
to please the hanging committee at Burlington
House," he answered.

"Which is almost a merit," said Mr.
Freake, who never waited for an introduction,
or indeed thought one necessary when
he wished to speak to men and women.
*' Paint for art's sake," he continued, " not
for the mere sake of exhibiting, not for a
popularity, which means degradation in
these days, not for the sake of having your
name on men's lips ; paint for all that is
divine and true in your vocation."

As Mr. Freake concluded he looked seriously
into Marcus Phillips' eyes, and then
sighed.

At present I paint pot-boilers for the

sake of the dealers," said the painter, prosaically,
•'! have not yet time to think of
the ends to which art tends."

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning gave him a sharp,
sudden look. She was quick to read men's
minds.

'' But what he calls pot-boilers, are really
gems," said Newton Marrix.

Or seem so to the enthusiastic criticism
of a friend," said Marcus.

His last canvas, a little sea-bit, is
charming," said the author to his hostess.

*' It is most dijB&cult to paint the sea," said
Mr. Freake, turning his eyes on the artist's
face once more as if to look him through
and through. " The sea is a special study
in itself, not merely a back or foreground
for a wide stretch of green or blue space
on which to place a yellow-sailed boat.
The sea is an inspired element, in turn it
should inspire the true artist."

nature should always do that," put in
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning.

** Yes, but especially the sea," responded
Mr. Freake. *' The sight of it even on
canvas always fills me with a sense of
liberty and freshness, if it is well painted
; but I have seen sea-bits like strips of
blue glazed calico, which look much less
like the real thing than a gilt paste-board
crown does to a royal coronet. Give me the
seas Claude painted," Mr. Freake said, and
when he had finished he ran his long fingers
through his auburn hair, and gazed
before him as if he were addressing some
invisible individuals.

Canaletto's seas are all beautiful too,"
said Mrs. Stonexx Stanning, looking at the
art-critic.

'* He was untrue to Nature," replied Mr.
Freake, shaking his head sadly.

*' And Nature is ever so beautiful, it

seems a sin to rob her of her due," said the
painter, " I find I can never do her sufficient
justice."

"Who can?" asked Mrs. Stonexx Stanning,
examining the figures prostrate before
Osiris ; then she raised her grey eyes
and continued, '' What more fair and lovely
sight does all the world contain than a
ray of sunlight on a lily leaf ?"

Mr. Freake clasped his hands and smiled
delightedly.

"None!" he exclaimed, 'none; a violet
in a hedge-row holds a glimpse of heaven
for us. Why cannot we have towns now,"
he went on, as some disconnected thought
struck him, *' as the early Florentines had,
with garden strips and trees between each
house, with here and there wide spaces
where men miofht behold clear skies and
pure."

"But just think," said Newton Marrix,

in a most commonplace manner, ^' over
what a space London would necessarily be
stretched in that case ; it would take us as
many hours then to get from place to place
as it does minutes now."

"But is time our only object?"

'rit is a great object to most people.
Now-a-days we hurry from week to week,
and from month to month, breathless
through all our days."

*' Is this wise and well ?" said Mr. Freake,
in a pathetic tone.

*' It may not be, but it is a necessity."

Alas ! we grow more and more like
soulless machines."

Not while art remains to us," said Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning.

Mr. Phillips is painting a study which
he calls the 'Beggar Maid" said Newton
Marrix, when Mr. Freake had wandered ina
hopeless way down the room, and stood

finally before one of Charles Herons' etchings
of old Paris. *' I wish you could seethe
picture."

Perhaps Mr, Phillips will let me some
day."

''I shall be delighted," said the artist,
blushing and stammering, for he wondered
if his hostess would very much mind
climbing up four pair of stairs to his attic
studio.

As Mrs, Stonexx Stanning spoke, she saw
that a child of genius had just entered the
room. This was Lucius Martyn, the poet.
Nature had certainly endowed him richly,
even if the Muses had not, as some of his
friends hinted. He was tall and lithe, his
face was handsome, yet pale and wasted.
He wore a velvet coat and ruffles.

He was a protege of Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's,
to whom his last volume, " The
Death of Dear Days," was dedicated. The

book had produced a sensation in the
esthetic circles, and caused attention of a
certain kind in the literary world. He
was certainly a genius, stranded, perhaps,
on the sands of a fashionable morbidness,
but one who would come all right in a
decade of time.

"Ah! Mr. Martyn," said Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning, when the poet approached her
slowly, for he never was guilty of a quick,
ungraceful movement in his life. " We
have just been having a discussion on
pictures. This is a young artist, Mr.
Marcus Phillips, who is painting the
Beggar Maid.' I am going to see his
studio some day."

The poet bowed. A faint smile crossed
his wasted face.

*'I should like to share the pleasure of
your visit," he said.

"I will be liappj to see yon," replied
Marcus.

'' Poets," said Mr. Freake, who rejoined
the little group at that moment, 'rare not
always the best critics of pictures. Too
often their imaginations run riot with their
judgments. Some item, let us say a ruddy
leaf in a landscape, or a moss-grown bough
by the pathway, or a wild flower hid among
the grass in the foreground, produces in
their minds an illusion which they are incapable
of subduing, but which gives to
the painting they criticise an undeserved
value which overlooks grave faults and
inharmonious blemishes it may possibly
contain."

This speech was not at all apropos but
Mr. Freake never took such matters into
consideration for a moment. He always
expressed the thoughts which came to his

mind, it was quite immaterial whether the
subject was suitable or not. Anything he
had to say at any time was always worth
hearing, he considered.

'' We are children of emotion," said
Lucius Martyn, in reply to Mr. Freake's
remark.

And so, in judging a picture, attribute
your own feelings to the artist's inspiration,
which is a total mistake."

"Perhaps," said the poet, a little wearily.

"And painters seldom have poets for
critics," Marcus Phillips remarked.

"Nor have we novelists either," said
Newton Marrix. " Oar reviewers are the
dry bones of the profession — men who
have magnificent pasts before them, as
Heinrich Heine once said, and who consider
it their duty to sacrifice young authors as
holocausts upon the altars of their vengeance."


I never read reviews," said the poet.
^' What does it matter what the outside
world thinks of one's work ? It cannot
understand it. When mv friends, fulfilling
their true office, tell me of unpleasant
things which the press has said, I always
think of poor Walter Savage Landor's words,
The worms must have eaten us before it
is rightly known what we are. It is only
when we are skeletons that we are boxed
and ticketed, and prized and shown.' ''

*' How well and truly said !" replied
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning.

*' Yes," said Lucius Martyn ; " it has the
sad, sweet beauty of decay in its lines."

He had raised both hands in speaking,
and then let them drop suddenly, with a
gesture expressive of utter abandonment
and weariness.

Just then Miss Raven, the violinist,
came up to Mrs. Stonexx Stanning.

I have just been having my music-lesson,"
she said, '' and then I came in to
you for some tea."

She was a fair-faced girl, with hair of
dead gold, and eyes that were bright
from the exuberance of youth and joyousness.


I am so glad you did," replied the
hostess ; " and how has your lesson progressed
?"

Oh, very well ; I have just been going
over Chopin's funeral march ; it is very
delightful. Ah, how do you do, Mr.
Marrix ?" she continued, recognising the
young author.

*' Where have you left your violin ?" he
asked — " your soul, you used to call it."

^^n the hall."

May I bring it up by-and-by ? If you
are not too tired, perhaps you will play us
something."

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning looked at lier
entreatingly and smiled.

Yes, I shall ; I will play your favourite
movement from Pacing," she said, turning
to her hostess. '' Did I tell you I am
going to play at one of the dilettante circle
concerts? You will all come and hear
me, of course ?"

Of course," they answered in chorus.

The drawing-room had grown more
crowded ; some one had sat down to the
piano, and was playing the '* Qui Tolls "
from Mozart's Twelfth Mass, and several
notables had come into the room. Echini,
the Greek conspirator, who wore a crimson
velvet skull-cap crowning his long blue-black
locks, had entered with old Lady
Snarebrook, around whom gossip threw a
halo of interest and faded romance from
the fact of her knowing Louis Philippe,
not wisely, but too well," as Lady Ever-vol.

I. I

fair whispered. The Dowager Lady Snare-brook
was yet a handsome and dignified
old woman. Nature had done much for
her, and where the kindly mother stopped
art took up the work.

Count Basano had come too, for Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning loved foreigners. He
was an old Eoman noble, with a merry
twinkle in his dark eyes ; he bowed with
the grace of a past generation, and invariably
carried a pinchbeck snuff-box, presented
him by Pio None ; he wore a faded
velvet coat with the air of a senator's toga.
He was a connoisseur in all things relating
to art, and from his general air of decay
and age might have been mistaken for an
object of virtu.

A fashionable authoress and editors
was present, and one or two young actors
of the new school, the priijia donna of
English ballad-singers, and a dramatic

reader. It was altogether a goodly group,
and decidedly picturesque.

As it was the first West End " at borne "
Marcus Phillips assisted at, he was delighted
to look upon so many celebrities,
and charmed with all of them.

"What a noble head that Greek has!"
said Marcus Phillips to the poet. " I
should like to paint him. You would recognize
his nationality in any crowd."

Probably," replied Lucius Martyn,
wearily.

He had sunk into a low chair in an
attitude of languor, and passed his hand
across his brow as if seeking to rouse himself
from a dream.

Are you not well ?" said the painter.

Well ! How can anyone, possessing
as I do the nervous and artistic temperament,
be well, while the world lies aweary."

"What is the matter with him and the

i2

world now, I wonder ?" thought the artist,
but he discreetly held his peace.

I am sick of the bitterness of things
too sweet," said the poet, presently; an
absent, flickering smile played upon his
pale face, his eyes fixed themselves in
dreamy vacancy.

^' I am sorry," said Marcus, sympathetically,
not very well knowing what else to
say, and beginning to think, from all he
heard during the afternoon, that the world
was wrong, and certainly in a bad way.

'' I am glad that you are sorry," said
Lucius Martyn, in a desponding tone,
"though I do not know why you should
be ; but I rejoice, because sorrow mellows
the heart, and subdues the juvenescence
of youth, as time softens and harmonises
the glaring colours in a fresh canvas."

But don't you think it a pity the freshness
of youth should go ?" asked Marcus

Phillips, wondering still more at what he
heard.

Certainly not. If one but thinks deeply
on life, no freshness can remain to the
thinker. Freshness is but ignorance. Happiness
comes from the inexperience of life."

The poet sighed very sadly indeed, and
laid his head back on the soft cushions of
the chair with languid grace.

*' Who is that foreign-looking old man ?"
asked Miss Eaven of her hostess, both of
whom were now at the far end of the
room.

That is a dear old friend of mine,
Count Basano."

Ah ! he is dressed so badly, I thought
he must be some one in particular. How
he talks and gesticulates ! He looks tome
all hands and eyes."

*' He is the last representative of an old
line."

*' He looks ancient enough for the
purpose."

Come over until I introduce you. He
is a great musical critic. I am sure you
will be delighted with the old man."

**I£ so, I hope the delight may be
mutual."

*' Can you doubt it for an instant ?"

And the ladies went up and spoke to
Count Basano.

'' Shall we go, Marc ?" said Newton
Marrix, joining his friend just then. "• Let
us get away, and have a long walk and a
smoke, and come home in the gloaming."

Wait a moment, old man. Miss Raven
has just taken up the violin ; don't let us
go yet. See, who is that playing the piano
accompaniment ?"

That is Hal Vector ; a very good fellow.
You must know him ; a genius, too.
We are all geniuses here, Marc. You

breathe the atmosphere of the gods."

'' Listen," said the artist, interrupting
his friend's flow of eloquence, and looking
down the crowded room to where the
young violinist stood.

The first notes of Pacing's weird, sweet
music sounded through the room ; the
great hum ceased suddenly, all heads turned
to where Miss Eaven stood by the
great, square piano, on whose upraised
lid the picture of Alcestis rising from the
shadows of Hades glowed in gorgeous
colours.

When the music ceased, there was a
faint clapping of hands, and a general outburst
of admiration. Count Basano ran
over to Miss Eaven, and whispered something
to her. She smiled, nodded, and
took up the violin once more. Then she
commenced Chopin's "Ave Maria."

Clear, full, and sweet the notes rang

120 IT IS NO WONDER.

above the heads of the listeners ; then
came a few wild, plaintive chords like the
cry of a soul in darkness for help and
light ; there was no sound or movement in
the room, the notes rose and fell with a
wondrous charm, a spell had fallen on
all; then the amen came like a farewell
prayer, and the last chords trembled
into breathless silence.

Ah ! brava," Count Basano called out,

"bella, bellini; brava, signora mia,"

A
and," going up to Miss Raven, he took hold

of her hand and kissed it with the air of a

courtier.

**Itis divine," murmured Lucius Martyn,
from his low chair. '* It is the breathing
of a soul new-born, and all lovely in
its nudity," and he closed his eyes and
sighed heavily.

Marcus Phillips looked at him with
sympathy ; there was something in the

poet which, in spite of his languor, interested
the artist much.

'* I think we had better go now, Marc,"
said !Newton Marrix, once more ; " it's
getting so decidedly hot."

The two friends made their way slowly
through the room until they came to
where Mrs. Stonexx Stanning stood.

'' We are going," said Newton-must

you really go so soon ?"

^' I fear we must."

'^ I am always at home on Thursdays
through the season, Mr. Phillips."

And what day may 1 hope for the
pleasure of your visit to my studio ?"

'' Oh ! let me see — say Saturday afternoon
; will that be convenient ?"

Thanks, quite convenient."

The hostess reached out her hand, and
gave one brief glance into his eyes ; then
they passed on.

When the door of Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's
house closed upon them, Newton
Marrix took his friend's arm, and
said,

I congratulate you, old man ; this is a
red-letter day in your life."

How so ?"

VYhy, because Mrs. Stonexx Stanning
has promised to come and see your pictures,
of course."

It's very kind of her."

*rit's a piece of luck many a young
artist would give a year of his life for. If
she likes them, and mentions them to her
friends, and perhaps gets one of them
exhibited at some gallery, you may bid
good-bye to your pot-boilers for ever and
a day. She is the patron saint of all
young artists ; her father was a painter —
I may add an unsuccessful one — and she

understands all about the craft and the
drudgery of its ways."

"She is very kind, I am sure," replied
Marcus, and then he thought once more of
the four flights of stairs to be mounted
before the attic studio could be reached ;
and then the memory of its general bareness
came on him unpleasantly.

"Will you come on Saturday, New,
and help me to make all things square
before Mrs. Stonexx Stanning comes ?"

All right, I will," replied the rising
author. "We shall both do the honours,
then. I hail Saturday as an auspicious
day in your career ; we shall have a burnt
offerings of cigars to invoke the favour of
the gods. Try a weed, old man."

They smoked in silence for some time,
walking down the old Kensington Road in
the gathering twilight of this soft April

evening, Marcus Phillips with his head
raised watching the purple shadows stealing
across the sky, drinking ii pleasure
from the freshness of the budding trees
and the sense of early spring that came to
him in the soft, fragrant air, Newton garrick
with his eyes down, thinking out the
plot of a novel on which he had been
working for six consecutive hours that
day.

"Well, Marc," he said at last, " what do
you think of Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's at
home ?"

I enjoyed it much. There were several
faces there that interested me. I do
not know. New, if you study physiognomy.
I have all my life, not theoretically, you
know, but naturally," replied the artist.

'indeed

His only books
"Were women's looks,
And foUj is all they taught him.' "

*^ No, I don't mean women's looks in
particular, and not at all in the sense you
mean. But I know of notbinor more interesting
than to watch the faces of people,
it always gives you the index to their
true personality. Words may deceive you,
but faces never."

'' Ah ! my boy, there are some people
who go about through life with masks,
painted masks no more like their true
faces than heaven to Hades."

That may be, yet the mask must and
does slip off occasionally, and when we
catch but a glimpse of the real face we are
startled into recognition of it by the contrast
it presents to its covering."

"Perhaps you are right; but again,
there are some people with features as
impenetrable as those of a sphinx, hard
and cold as a piece of grey stone."

"Even so they do not cease to be representatives

of characters and minds. To
ray thinking every face is a book. Some are
not worth reading, others are poems full of
a heart-sweet melody, others sad and full
of yearnings they can scarcely express or
understand, others are fraught with violent
passions or full of a miserable story.
Some have their life-histories printed inlarge,
clear type so that all who look may
read ; with others it is written in a language
that few can understand, and takes
time and patience to study. I being an
artist am quick to feel and see these
things. A sudden glance, the turn of an
eye, an expression come and gone in a
second serves me as an index and synopsis
to the whole volume."

Are you never misled?"

I have never been yet. I suppose it
is a gift I have of translating expressions
as some have the gift of languages."

I must say," said the author, " I have
never minded visages much. I find that
a handsome face is always pleasant to look
at of course."

There I cannot agree with you, if you
mean by a handsome face perfect features ;
on the other hand, I have seen the plainest
faces become perfectly lovely under the
influence of certain feelings. The beauty of
a face all depends on the reflection of the
mind. Had you watched Count Basano's
face this evening whilst he listened to the
Ave Maria,' you would better understand
my meaning ; every chord gave it a fresh
meaning, each beautiful, with a childlike
simplicity and full of emotion. Take
another face we know, Capri Bankers', her
expression is never the same for three consecutive
minutes. That is what makes it
so difficult to paint. I no sooner strive to
catch one expression than it is gone before

I look up from the canvas again, merged
into another and different look as thoughts
blend one with the other in unconscious
harmony. But a face which interested me
much this evening was "

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's ?"

No, Lucius Martyn's. There is a story
under that cover which it will take time to
read."

He is a good sort, I daresay," answered
Newton Marrix, carelessly, '' but he always
seems to me as if he were playing a part ;
he poses on the stage of society. Ever
ready for his role, and never forgetting fora
moment that the eyes of an audience are
upon him. There is too much art about
him, yet it has become to him almost nature.
He does not know, I'll swear, when he is his
real self, and when he is but the personation
of some ideal to whom he strives to
live up"

Do you remember what Fabian de
France says in the ' Corsican Brothers ' ?"
asked the artist falling into an Irving-like
attitude, and raising his right arm he let it
fall suddenly and stiffly. '' ' What you in
cities gain in art, you lose in nature ' "

'' Lucius Martyn has."

"Do you know, Xew, what he meant by
saying he was ' sick of the bitterness of
things too sweet '?"

It's some set phrase meaning nothing
in particular."

"When I expressed sympathy for his
sad state he declared he was glad I was
sorry. I like him somehow, though I do
not quite understand him."

''My dear boy, these are set phrases made
up and rehearsed weeks before with corresponding
expressions and attitudes practised
before a glass."

No, you must not say that," replied the

VOL. I. K

author. " You take away the flavour and
freshness with one fell blow."

^' Do I ? Oh, you will soon get enough
of that. You will hear the same words and
phrases used again and again on every
available occasion until you feel that it begins
to pall."

*' Yet it amuses one while it is fresh."

His phrases are very much like his
book, and that was awful rubbish ; each
page a little island of letter-press in a wide
sea of toned paper. Didn't the reviews
rub their hands in glee over the opportunity
it 2:ave them of hacking: him to
pieces ?"

Evidently the poet's misfortune was a
cause of enjoyment to Newton Marrix, who
laughed agreeably as he finished the last
sentence.

** He is an awfully good fellow, you

know," he said, presently, " an awfully good
fellow, but a great idiot."

And taking out another cigar he lit it
and smoked in peace.

k2

CHAPTER y.

THE BEGGAR MAID's PICTURE.

rpHE day appointed for Mrs. Stonexx
-*- Stanning's promised visit to Marcus
Phillips' studio came at last. The young
artist counted the days : Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning and her friend would be the first
visitors who honoured his studio with what
he might call a private view.

.newton Marrix arrived early on that
Saturday afternoon to help his friend " todo
the honours," as he said, in his attic
studio.

Now then, Marc," said the practical
young author, as he entered the painting-room,
" let us see what is to be done," and
immediately he divested himself of his coat
as a preparation for labour, flung it on a
chair, and put his hat on top of it. Then
he folded his arms and gave a sharp, quick
glance round the room.

I will clear away all these palettes and
paint-pots in a second or two," said the
artist, looking down at the mess which
surrounded him ; for he had been working
-at the " Beggar Maid " picture until his
friend came.

It is almost time for you to have
finished, old man, they may come early."

We must place the ^ Beggar Maid ' in
the best light," said Marcus, waving a
brush which he held in his right hand in
the air.

Here she is in her own proper person''

said Capri, who had come up the stairs
three steps at a time, and dow stood like a
picture framed by the doorway. A flush
brightened her cheeks, her dark eyes
sparkled with animation, her black hair,
with its shade of dusky gold, crowned a
face that an early Greek sculptor might
have given to a goddess.

Here I am, Marc, and I have come to
help you to clear up the studio before the
visitors arrive. A woman's eye can work
wonders sometimes, Mr. Marrix."

She had heard from the artist that Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning and Lucius Marty n were
to come and view the " Beggar Maid "
picture.

Certainly a woman's eye can do more
work than two men's hands," said the
author.

It is very good of you to come," said
Marcus Phillips, his face lighting up with

pleasure at sight of her; then he looked
from her back to the canvas.

He had succeeded in painting almost a
perfect portrait, yet there was a subtle
look in her face which escaped him ; he saw
this, and sighed impatiently.

I cannot paint you as you really are,"
he said, regretfully, touching the picture
lightly with his brush.

'* You are ungrateful to your muse," she
answered him. " I am satisfied with it,
and, when my woman's vanity is appeased,
it should be the best criterion that your
work is genuinely good."

She came over and stood beside the
artist. He looked into her face and
smiled.

** You are right, Capri," he said.

"It's the best thing by a long way you
have ever painted, old man," said Newton.
Marrix; "but you are too much of the

true artist ever to feel satisfied with your
work." And, so saying, the author came
over to where Marcus Phillips and his
model stood, and all three stared in silence
at the picture for some time.

Capri was the first to speak.

I wonder what I shall think of it in
forty years to come ?" she said. " It is
my living, breathing self now. Perhaps
then I shall put as much paint on my
cheeks as there is now on the canvas, and
sigh for the youth I have left behind with
as much regret as I feel impatience with
it now." And she laughed merrily, showing
her even rows of white teeth. For an
instant a serious look came into her dark,
liquid eyes.

Why trouble about the future ?" said
Newton.

Just so," answered Capri. " Adieu to
moralizing. Let us commence to work."

"What shall we do?" said the author, in
shirt sleeves. " Command your most
humble subjects, Queen Cophetua."

'' "Will you obey me in everything ?"

^' Most willingly."

^' First remove the ^ Begfofar Maid ' to
Marc's sanctum, out of the dust, and all
the pot-boilers and studies must follow."

*' Yes, your majesty."

'' I have spoken to the landlady, and she
has graciously consented to lend a square
of Turkey carpet, positively its first appearance
in this room, and for one afternoon
only."

"A Turkey carpet!" said both the
friends at once, and Newton Marrix gave
a long, low whistle.

Yes, and a new one, too ; and here it
comes," she continued, as the maid came
toiling upstairs with a roll of carpet.

^' Capital idea !" said Newton, seizing

hold of it, and dragging it into the room
as anxiously as if it were a half-drowned
body he were pulling in from the sea.

"Now clear away the palettes and pots,"
commanded Capri. " Ah ! Marc, how untidy
you are ! You are walking on your
palette-knife and best brush."

Newton Marrix took the pictures into
the bed-room, whilst the artist cleared the
floor of all the paraphernalia that lay about,
and then the three lifted the carpet into
the centre of the studio, and commenced
spreading it out.

*sit covers a multitude of stains and
blemishes," said Marcus Phillips.

"And stains are deadly sins to eyes
polite," answered Capri.

"Now where is that broken vase. I
have got some primroses to fill it with.
Ah! here it is; but it is filled with tin-tacks,
buttons, and shirt-studs, and sleeve-links.

Ah ! you poor bachelor. How
helpless and untidy the best of you lone
male creatures would be, only you have
the fairer portion of humanity to look after
you. Every one of you would go to rack
and ruin."

*' So he would," said Newton. *' I shall
forswear bachelor life, now that I have
heard that homily."

None of your irony, Mr. Author. You
literary men always make the worst of
husbands. I only wonder women can ever
have anything to say to you."

'^ Your majesty is severe."

Truthful, you should say. Now this
piece of terra cotta looks antique," she
said, dusting the urn-shaped vase.

In a moment she bad arranged the
bright, fresh primroses in it, and fixed it
skilfully on a bracket against the wall so
that the side which was cracked and broken

was completely hidden. Then Capri
got down from the chair on which she
stood to arrange it, and stood contemplating
the effect of her work.

It looks stunning," said Newton Marrix.
" How bright the primroses look in
that old red vase 1"

'^ Yes, it will be all right, if Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning does not ask to examine it, and
find it has a broken back, poor thing. You
see there are two sides to everything, my
friend."

^' I will take care of that."

Now, Marc, where are your chalk
studies ?" she asked.

*ein the portfolio," answered the artist.
What are you going to do with them ?"

I am going to hang ' Hercules,' ' Venus
de Medici,' and some others of them on
the wall. It will look artistic, you know."

"Good idea. You are full of them this

afternoon," said the author. " Come,
Marc, my boy, produce the studies. Why,
by-and-by we shall not recognize your
den."

I shall have transformed it to a place
of delight," said Capri.

Your presence is sufficient to do that""
answered Newton.

So now you are paying compliments ;
a minute ago you were ironical. Oh !
perfidy, thy name is man."

That is a new reading of an old
phrase."

"And a more correct one. Because
Shakespeare was a man, he said, ' perfidy,
thy name is woman,' and pandered to the
base prejudices of his sex."

I am silenced."

*'If such a thing was possible, it would
be a boon."

Now that is unkind. Let me hang the

chalk studies for you," he said, handing
them to her.

Capri, however, jumped ou a chair, and
with some tin tacks, which she held between
her red lips, commenced to hang them with
an artistic regularity.

"There," she said, '*I shall place the
Dice Thrower ' next Apollo Belvedere, and
Venus beside the Theses. How do they
look?"

Very well," said the author from the
other end of the room, where he was dusting
a plaster cast arm and foot, and bringing
them from their obscurity into a more
prominent position.

Marcus Phillips did not speak, but stood
closely watching the subtle grace of Capri's
limbs as she raised her arms above her
head, or turned her face round to address
a question, or bent her shapely neck.
Whatever movements she gave she fell

into poses classic and tender in their
grace.

"Now, Marc, bring out your pictures
and we have done," she said.

The two young men carried out the easels
and set the pictures on them in the best
light. There were two sea-scenes intended
for pot-boilers, but reserved for exhibition
this afternoon. Also an interior
sketch of Canterbury Cathedral, which the
artist was loth to part with even when his
shillings were few, because the painting
was from a sketch he had made whilst his
old theatrical company stayed in the cathedral
town. There was a view of the
lonely Yorkshire moors bloom with purple
heather, tinged here and there with ruddy
gold from the rays of an autumn sun going
down in crimson glory behind a crag
that suddenly rose bare and grey in the
midst of the wild loveliness of the scene.

This was also a recollection of his theatrical
days. There were some minor
studies too of river scenes and spring
mornings on the mountains, and twilight
on the hills, and sunsets on the sea, all in
various stages of development, and all
more or less touched with that subtle beauty
which was destined to make them live.

Last of all came the picture of the ^' Beggar
Maid " fresh from the brush. It lent a
glow of beauty to the whole room, this
portrait of Capri, with its dark, liquid eyes,
its pale olive complexion, and its black
hair with an under-shade of dusky gold.

The studio indeed seemed transformed :
the deep rich colours of the Turkey carpet
brightened the place wonderfully; the
great bunch of yellow primroses in their
terra cotta vase glowed against the background
of faded wall-paper; the chalk
studies, fixed where they looked to best advantage

in a spot sure to attract the first
glance of the visitor, looked wonderfully
artistic.

The two sea-scenes rested on the chimney
piece, with the plaster cast arm between
them, the other pictures hanging
against the walls ; altogether the studio
presented a most picturesque effect.

The three friends stood at the far end
of the room, surveying it critically, Newton
Marrix with his head on one side . like a
meditative canary, Capri's quick eyes travelling
from spot to spot, striving to see
what she could suggest or change, Marcus
looking steadfastly at the picture of the
Beggar Maid."

I think we cannot do any more," said
the author, " except to burn some pastilles ;
it is the perfection of art to minister to all
the senses at once."

"Ah, Marc," said Capri, leaning against

VOL. I. L

the wall, with her arms hanging downwards,
in an attitude of listless repose, ^* I
wonder, when you become a respectable
artist — that is, of course, when you have
plenty of money, and are famous, and
have a Persian carpet, not lent by any
obliging landlady, but all your own — will
your studio give you half the pleasure this
one does now?"

She had turned her dark eyes questioningly
to his face.

I doubt if it will, Capri," he answered
at once, smiling at the earnestness with
which she put the question. " I am quite
happy now in my present state."

*' And we all are hopeful for the future,"
put in the rising author.

There is pleasure, after all, in struggling
— don't you think so, Marrix?" Marcus
asked his friend.

Yes, when it is not prolonged ; but a

continued struggle, my boy, is exhausting
and death-dealing in its hopelessness.
Once the heart gets overcharged with the
bitterness of life and disappointment, no
after-success can give it its old health and
vigour aofain."

I think you are right," said Capri, a
thoughtful, serious expression coming into
her eyes, that now looked black under the
down-turned lashes.

I know all about struggling," said the
young author, folding his arms across his
breast in a pose that would have suited
a hero, whilst he laughed bitterly, yet
triumphantly, like one who had conquered
much. " It makes me shudder to think
of the petty hardships, and worries, and
cares gone by, the weary task of trying to
force your name under the eyes of a public
that wishes to remain blind to it because
it has no interest in you or your existence,

l2

the articles and papers declined, without
thanks very often, from newspaper and
magazine editors, the weary, patient waiting
on the decision of publishers, the unkind
criticism of reviewers because one is
young and unknown ; it makes me sick
to think of it. I only wonder how one
can survive it all ; but I suppose young
shoulders are made to bear much."

*' One thing they don't bear is a load of
patience," Capri put in, a saucy, merry
look coming into her face.

'' Patience only comes with age," said
Marcus Phillips, sagely.

^' Then I wish I were old," said Capri,
with one of those sudden changes which
formed the most interesting trait in her
character. '' I have no patience with
myself or fate, and sometimes I hate
both. Fate is so slow about bringing
me what I want, or I am so slow about

obtaining it, that I grow sick of waiting."

"And what may your particular need
be ?" asked Newton Marrix, half amused,
but wholly interested by her earnestness.

'* Mine is the want common to all men
and women — money. Metaphorically speaking,
I have cried out to Dame Fortune
until T am hoarse, and I supplicate in vain,
for she is often deafest when we cry loudest,"
Capri said, holding out both her
hands and gesticulating as she frequently
did in moments of excitement. " The
fickle jade is deaf and blind to me," she
went on, "and yet "

"And yet?" repeated the author, interrogatively,
as he watched her bright eyes
flash and her face glow with expression.

I know 1 shall be rich some day," she
answered. " All things come to those who
wait." Mvvv^lM/v»<^^i*A >v*^ JIm*^ t*-

She dropped her arms suddenly with a

melodramatic movement that had much
grace in it, and walked straight up to the
easel on which her portrait lay, and smiled
at it with a pleasure and vanity that had
something childlike in its simplicity.

There," she said, changing her tone
again in a minute and facing Marcus
Phillips, 'rit's four o'clock."

The clock downstairs is fast."

'' Well, your guests may arrive any
minute, and you have to wash your hands
and put on your best coat. I am off."

'' Not so soon."

"Yes, I must go. Your landlady will
send you up tea at five o'clock, she told
me. She seems quite proud of having
distinguished people calling on her lodger ;
but I think she will never forgive them if
they do not come in a carriage with prancing
horses for the edification and benefit
of her neighbours. Carriages don't come

every day to Fitzroy Street, you know."

Cannot you wait ?" asked Marcus.

The girl shook her head in answer.

*'Do, Capri; I should like you to see
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning and the poet Lucius
Martyn."

^'No, I think I had better go. I should
certainly like to get behind some curtain
and hear all they had to say about my
appearance, like Peg Washington in ' Masks
and Faces.' Do you remember ? But then
they would be sure to discover me, and it
would be all like the screen scene in the
School for Scandal.' "

A listener would be sure to hear something
good of herself in this case," said
Newton Marrix, gallantly.

*' Would she? I am doubtful of that,"
cried Capri, not the less pleased with his
compliment for all her pretended want of
faith in its sincerity.

"You had better wait and learn from
experience."

''I would like to borrow a cap and
apron from the maid and bring in tea,
only I fear they would recognize me," she
said, laughing at the suggestion; "but it
would not be safe to try it, I fear."

I wish you would give them the chance
of comparing you with the picture. Will
you not stay ?" asked the artist once more.

"No, I must really go; but will you
both come to-night and tell me all they
say?"

"We shall," said Newton Marrix, readily
promising for both.

"Very well; a rivederci, mien amici," she
said, making a graceful little gesture and
extending a hand to each. " Recollect,
Marc, the foundation of your fortune, like
my own, depends on my face."

"Then," said Newton Marrix, "he is

sure to have luck," and, bending down half
playfully, lie kissed her finger tips.

"What a pretty speech !" she answered,
well pleased, and she gave a peal of rippling
laughter.

'now, Marc, you may kiss the other
hand, or they might grow jealous."

The artist bent down his head and
touched her delicate little hand with his lips.
As he did so a pleasant thrill ran through
her frame, and the blood came quickly into
his cheeks.

Newton Marrix let go the hand he held,
and went over to the opposite end of the
room to move the easel nearer the light, a
proceeding which it suddenly dawned on
him was necessary to the picture : and he
found the canvas required so much re-adjusting
that he had not settled it until he
heard Capri's quick, light tread descending
the stairs.

The street door bad scarcely closed upon
the girl when a handsome Victoria drove
up, and Mr. Freake, Count Basano, Lucius
Martyr, and finally Mrs. Stonexx Stanning,
got out.

The footman gave a terrific ring at the
bell, which warned the friends upstairs
that the guests had arrived, and the peal
was followed by a resounding knock that
was heard half-way down the street, and
had the effect of making the maid-of-all-work,
who was endowed with a nervous
temperament, jump half a foot off the
ground-floor, and smash a china plate she
happened to have in her too sensitive
fingers at that " very perceive moment," as
she afterwards said in describing the accident
to her mistress, who was unsympathetic
enough to scold.

Here they are, old boy," said Newton
Marrix, in a whisper, as Mrs. Stonexx

Stanning, followed by lev three friends,
ascended the fourth flight of stairs.

Marcus went out to receive them. It
was a trying moment for him.

'^Ah! Mr. Phillips," said Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning, in her soft, musical voice, as she
extended her hand to him, "I am come
to play the critic, and I have brought three
friends with me."

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning acted as the advance
guard ; Marcus could hear the footsteps
of the others ascending. It seemed
to him at that moment as if a dozen critics
had come to sit in judgment on his
*' Beggar Maid."

"I am very glad to see you. It is kind
of you to come," said the artist, frankly ;
a pleasant light came into his honest blue
eyes, a light that did not escape Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning's sharp glance.

"If we are formidable in numbers weare

not in judgment," said Mr. Freake, ashe
entered the room, and looked into the
artist's face, as if he could see through and
through him.

Ah ! bless me," Count Basano gasped,
as he shambled into the studio, breathless,
after his ascent ; he put his right hand
on his heart, and sank into the chair
nearest him.

*' Ah ! my children," he said, after a
second or two, as he extended his hand
first to the artist, and then to Newton
Marrix, " I do grow old every day."

Time mellows the soul and sweetens
the fruit of wisdom," Lucius Martyn remarked,
to no one in particular, as he
slowly, calmly, and with a totally unruffled
air, strode into the room some moments
after his friends.

Ah ! grazie, grazie, mio amico," said
the count, rising and bowing, for it

seemed to him something polite had been
said regarding his advanced years, though
he could not tell very well what it was.

The poet took no notice of the count's
florid bow whatever, but walked, without
looking to his right or left, straight to the
easel on which the picture of the "Beggar
Maid " hung, and, putting his long, lean.
lithe arm half way round his slender body,
he rested his head upon his left hand,
and stood before the canvas in a critical
attitude.

The picture is quite fresh ; I have
been working at it until an hour ago — nor
is it quite finished yet," Marcus said to
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning, placing a chair for
her before, but at some distance from, the
easel, in the best position.

Lucius Martyn drew aside, and Count
Basano came over and stood behind Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning's chair, putting up his

double-barrel eye-glasses with deliberation
and care, as if he expected them todo
their duty on this occasion.

Mr. Freake viewed it from different
parts of the room. No one yet spoke. It
was a critical time for the young artist.
He thought the silence would never end,
yet he did not dare to break it, but stood
there mentally counting the seconds and
hazarding guesses as to what was passing
through their minds. At last he ventured
to look at Mrs. Stonexx Stanning s
face, hoping to read her judgment there.

A calm, thoughtful expression rested in
her eyes ; as they met his, a new light came
into them which he yet scarce understood ;
the first faint dawn of a radiance which
might brighten and warm her whole life.
She lowered her lashes, and her mind went
back to the picture before her, from which
it had evidently strayed for the moment.

'^Mr. Marrix, this is a finished picture,"
she said, decisively, with the air of one
whose opinions were invariably accepted,
'' the face is life-like, the colouring very
lovely."

She had given the cue, then they all
spoke.

"It is most beautiful to look upon," said
the poet, as if he were continuing some
remarks previously addressed to his hearers.
A faint smile crossed his weary face, and
his friends, watching him, knew that the
picture gave him pleasure.

The drapery reminds one of the earlier
manner of Giovanni di Masaccio," remarked
Mr. Freake, critically, shading his eyes with
his outstretched hand.

The count was last to speak.

Said he, " This is no fancy sketch ; it is
alive ; it is a portrait ; she is beautiful ;
where is she ?" He raised both his hands

gesticulations, and looked around the
room, as if expecting to meet the fair
original of the picture before him.

*' Look at the eyes," said Newton Marrix,
promptly, to save his friend the
trouble of replying to Count Basano's
question.

*' They are most sweet and tender,"
replied Lucius Martyn ; and then he sighed,
and let his right arm fall to his side ina
helpless, listless way, as if that limb were
minus bones.

There was another pause. Mr. Freake
gave a preparatory cough, ran his fingers
through his long hair, and commenced ina
tone that left no doubt of the high repute
in which he held his own opinions on art.

Of course, Mr. Phillips, this picture
shows promise," he commenced, ^* I must
say great promise, yet there are some evidences
about it which mark it as the work

of a young man ; for a modern canvas
there is too close a following of Hannibal
Caracas's style in the posture of the arms
and the general contour. iN'ow-a-days we
look in vain for the soft, sweet outline
which renders Correo-mo's works things of
glad beauty, in vain for the harmonious
tints that consecrated the canvases of the
great Verona master."

Mr. Freake, as he concluded, extended
one hand towards the " Beo^ojar Maid "
picture, and the other towards his hearers,
at whom he looked as if expecting them to
second his learned opinions. For the first
time in Mr. Freake's experience Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning paid no attention whatever
to his remarks.

The hair is wonderfully managed ; the
undertone of gold is beautiful," she said,
fixing her eyes on the picture.

She felt quite well, though she did not

VOL. I. M

see him, that Marcus Phillips had his eyes
turned to her face ; she knew that her last
words had given him gratification and
pleasure.

It is all good," said the count, in broken
English. He had been staring at the
work all the while through his double-barrel
glasses. ^' For a young artist, it is
good, very good. You will have success,"
he said, turning to Marcus Phillips. " I
know the work of what you call genius
when I see it, for I have lived a long time,
and I have seen many young men begin,
and I always know if they will do good
work in the world."

You give me great hope, count," said
the artist, watching the old man's animated
face, and seeing his dark eyes bright \vith
animation as he spoke.

There was one young man in E-ome
ten years ago," the Italian went on. " His

name was Paolo Contadini. His maestro
said he never would do anything, for
he dreamt all day, and would only draw
things from what he called his mind,
his brain. But I say, ' Let him have his
dream, he will wake some day ;' and at
last it came. It was but Endymion ; but
ah !" said the count, raising his eyebrows,
and shrugging up his shoulders, ^' that
Endymion. I shall never forget it as long
as ever I live. He was there again that
shepherd, Endymion ; he was divine. He
would be great man, but he died, that boy,"
and the old man sighed.

To make room for other great men, I
suppose," said Newton Marrix, in his 
way. " It is a wise law of
Nature that some of us must go to the
wall, or under ground, to make room for

others. Consoling, is it not ?"

m2

Count Basano shrugged his shoulders.
He did not understand.

^' I always think," commenced the poet, ina
dreamy tone, while a weary expression
gave a strange look to his weird face,
that death in the bloom time is little
less than divine. There is a grandeur in
bidding farewell to earth whilst the purple
blood beats rapturously in the veins
of youth ; whilst the fragrant freshness of
life's morning crowns the earlier days, and
promises a vista of unknown delights
which the mid-day can never realize ;
whilst love, and hope, and ripening life,
and wakening passions make all things
sweet to sight and sense, this sudden passing
into a labyrinth of dark, cold shadows,
this rest, wrapped in the heaviness of
brown clay, is a joy which but the blest
can know ; a fate which men thought,

/ in the earlier days, came alone to those
beloved of gods."

The listened to him gravely, for there
was some subtle force in the poet's words
that always compelled attention from his
hearers, whether they were willing or not
to give it, and irrespective of their private
opinions. At last Marcus Phillips, who
was interested in the poet, said,

But those expressions are against all
preconceived ideas."

And preconceived ideas are mere prejudices.
Too often fatally false."

Then he paused, looked round him,
sighed once, and continued —

What is more glorious in history than
the voluntary life sacrifice to the Eumenides
of Cravings and Aristides in the dead
days ? Friends whom love had bound
soul to soul ; youths with god-like limbs,

and features perfect as Praxiteles' dream
of loveliness, who went to death in their
prime for the weal of Athens and the preservation
of her people ; and in later times
the early deaths of that trinity of divine
singers, Shelley, Byron, and Keats before
any had matured, and one had even blossomed,
seem to make us think the gods
have not forgotten their favourites even
now."

Had Byron lived, who knows what he
might have done ?" said Mr. Freake, speculatively.


"Ah," said Newton Marrix, catching up
the same tone, " he might have suppressed
' Don Juan ' in his old days, and taken
to write homilies in verse."

What do you think of this moorland,
Mrs. Stanning?" asked Marcus, taking
the picture from its place on the wall,
and holding it up before her for inspection.

The four visitors fixed their eyes on the
view of the Yorkshire moors, looking
mutely at the prospect it presented of
a wide sea of purple heather in the foreground,
ruddy-tinted where the sun rays,
breaking from excess of light through the
clouds, fell upon it in slanting rays of
glory.

*rit is full of peace," said Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning ; " the freshness of a moorland
breeze seems sweeping over it : it is delightfully
fresh."

It brings one face to face with Nature,"
Mr. Freake remarked.

*' Nature is the reflection of God's face,"
said the poet, clasping his white hands.

"That is why it is ever so happy and
eternally peaceful," Mr. Freake responded.

"You have not exhibited, Mr. Phillips?"
said Mrs. Stonexx Stanning.

"No," answered the artist. "I have

not been fortunate enough to get hung
yet."

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning thought for a
moment, and then said,

Would you like to exhibit at the Grosvenor
Gallery this season ?"

Newton Marrix, who overheard the
question, could scarcely contain his delight,
or restrain himself from answering for his
friend. Here was a prospect for Marcus
Phillips of which he had scarcely dared to
hope.

There is nothing which I would like
better — nothing that would serve me
more," the artist answered, readily.

The colour came to his face at the mere
thought of this piece of unexpected good
luck ; the prospect that it would open
up for him. the service it would assuredly
do him, flashing on him suddenly. Was
it possible that this realization of his

ambition could come so soon, that his
picture would hang before the public, his
name be echoed by the critics and spoken
of by the press, his canvas hung among
the best masters of a new school ?

I may be able to get you an invitation
to exhibit," said Mrs. Stonexx Stanning,
quietly shall try."

How can I thank you — how can I tell
you all that it may mean for an artist
commencing life ?" said Marcus Phillips,
gratefully.

I know it all," she answered, remembering
her past days, and her father's pictures
returned year after year to the hopeless
man whom fame had ignored, and
fortune mocked to his death-day.

How easy it is to do a little good
sometimes !" she reflected, as she watched
the young artist's face, and saw there
a bright, hopeful expression, that sought

to thank her more than his words.

Then she cast her eyes round the studio,
and for the first time noticed the general
bareness of its aspect. It brought back
memories of her past life, and spoke to
her forcibly of her father and his patient,
struggling existence. How he would have
regarded anyone who could get his pictures
sold or exhibited ; he would have
blessed him as a heaven-sent messenger.
There, in Marcus Phillips' studio, she
thought of her early days of deprivation,
of the miserable efforts made to support
the shabby gentility of life, of the weary
struggle to keep up what was called appearances
in the eyes of the world, until a
man came who offered her his name and
fortune, and she became a wife whose
heart-love had never once been touched,
whose days were hollow and fruitless.

Fate had left her free once more ; rich

fashionable, still young, and fair, but no
man's love was sacred and dear to lier, no
life had yet touched hers with that secret
sweet affinity which renders existence one
long dream of delight.

With all her talents, her wealth, her
troops of friends and acquaintance, she
felt herself solitary. Not one of all the
throng which daily surrounded her had
ever yet moved her, had ever woke her
heart from the cold thraldom that held it
as a spell, had ever stirred her nature to
its depths by that subtle power which
men call love.

Some one speaking startled her from
her reverie, a voice that seemed to her
just then like the key-note to her thoughts,
perhaps an answer to the hope just dawning
within her.

It was good and generous of you to
come here and see my pictures, Mrs. Stanning,"

said the artist, in a slow, musical
voice that somehow filled her with an unwonted
pleasure, and I am most sensible
of the kindness of your criticism, believe
me."

"I am pleased with your pictures."

"The knowledge of that will help me
to do better work," he said, not with the
tone of a man who implies a compliment,
but with that simplicity which is ever a
guarantee of truth.

She looked up at him as he said the last
words, a faint colour coming into her
cheeks ; she made him no reply.

"I think," continued Marcus Phillips,
sitting down beside her, " helping young
people on is one of the best actions manor
woman can do in life."

'' A slight service often seems of great
magnitude to them."

*' Because it is the beginning which is

most difficult. When once a firm footing
is made, the remainder of the pathway is
comparatively easy; a single success is
rare; like begets like," he said, speaking
earnestly. His blue eyes were lit with
animation.

'' But does success mean the end of all
things, is there nothing else left to be
desired?" she asked hire, softly and slowly.

The question came unexpectedly, but he
was fortunately saved the trouble of replying,
for just then the maid-of-all-work
entered the studio with a shining face that
spoke volumes for yellow soap, and arrayed
for the occasion in a fresh apron
and dainty tongue-shaped cap placed on
the extremity of a head which nobly disdained
a more pronounced badge of serfdom.


She placed a tea-tray on a little three-legged
table lent by the landlady for the

evening. Mrs. Stonexx Stanning took off
her gloves and made tea, and the artist
thought the studio had just then a comfortable
and, what common-place folk
would call, a home-like appearance.

'' If only Capri were here," he thought,
*' how she would enjoy it all !" But none
of those present, except Newton Marrix
and himself, knew of her existence ; they
had never even asked who was the original
of his " Beggar Maid."

The picture lay on the easel opposite
where Marcus Phillips sat, so that when
he raised his eyes and looked at it now
and then it almost seemed to him as if
Capri were with them. Thinking of the
girl with her Greek face, her hair of dusky
gold, and her ruddy, luscious lips, he forgot
the presence of the woman before him,
and was silent and utterly heedless of Mr.
Freake, who held forth on the abominations

of modern machinery and the general
bashfulness of the days on which we have
fallen, and was sighing pitifully for the
honest barbarity of past ages.

Mrs. Stonexx Staining having made tea,
and said many agreeable things, stood up
from the little table, and the whole party
rose at the same time. The pictures had
been viewed, Mr. Freake and the poet had
each ventilated their ideas, the fragrant
tea Marcus's landlady had sent up had
been sipped, and there was nothing else
for them to do but depart.

The artist and Newton Marrix went
down with them to the door, where the
Victoria was drawn up in readiness, and
the horses prancing, impatiently tossing
their heads np and down, so that the
silver-mounted harness glistened, and made
a pleasant jingling sound. The artist's
landlady felt her heart throb with pride as

she looked from behind the curtains of the
first-floor windows at the sight. It was
something to have lodgers visited by people
who came in their own carriages ; it was
not a thing which happened every day in
Fitzroy Street.

You will remember that I am always
at home on Thursdays," said Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning, as Marcus handed her to the

carriage.

Thanks, I will remember it with
pleasure."

Then she gave him her hand, smiled
pleasantly, and in another second had
gone.

'^ Wei], old man," said Newton Marrix,
when they gained the studio, after racing
upstairs like schoolboys, '* I congratulate

you."

Do you think I shall be asked to exhibit
at the Grosvenor, New ?"

Think ! A word from Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning is enough. I am as sure of seeing
a picture of yours hanging on the walls
of the Grosvenor Gallery this season, as I
am that January will follow December."

How will Capri like it if I send the
'Beggar Maid's'' said Marcus, stopping
before the picture meditatively.

She will be half mad from joy ; for,
Capri, thy name is vanity ! She is a true
woman, Marc' said the author, with the
air of a sage.

It is a great chance for me, !New. I
cannot say how glad I am, but I feel it all
the more," said the artist.

'rit is luck, my boy. I know you have
genius, but what is it without luck? A
dull, dead weight that prevents a fellow
getting his bread like his less gifted but
more happy fellow-mortals. It is all humbug
about genius forcing its way to the

VOL. I. N

front wherever it exists ; impudence is more
apt to do that."

Do you think so ?"

"I am sure of it. Ask the successful
men and women before the public to-day
if they owe their fame to some chance or
accident — which is nothing but luck, or to
their genius, and they will tell you it is
due to the former ; for the genius starves
oftentimes in a garret, and is huddled
into a pauper's grave, now just as in the
olden days. What would Chatterton have
been had Horace Walpole given him a
helping hand when asked ? Would the
world have ever heard of Moliere or Fully,
but for Louis the Fourteenth ? Let us
have a cigar, Marc, my boy, my nerves are
unstrung with all the jargon Freake and
the poet talked."

CHAPTER VI.

THE Beggar MAID's EATHEE.

TT was almost nine o'clock when Marcus
-^ Phillips, accompanied by this friend,
ascended the somewhat dark and narrow
stairs which led to the rooms occupied by
Captain Bankers and his daughter.

The artist knocked at the door when
they reached the landing, and heard Capri
call out,

Who's there ? — come in," all in one
breath.

We have come to tell you — " Newton
commenced as they entered the room.

N 2

"All about the critics," interrupted
Capri, anxiously.

Not all," answered the author, laughingly,
*' for it would be impossible to remember
the magnificent things Mr. Freake and
the poet said. Like most of the best sayings
in daily life, they must be lost to the
world for ever."

They are what you call great guns on
art topics, I suppose."

Yes, great pop-guns," answered the
author, flinging himself down on a chair.

Then all three laughed.

** Pa is out," said Capri, as if that fact
was far from being disagreeable, and, so
saying, she drew a love footstool before the
fire, and sat down, clasping her hands
across her knees with the air of one who
was about to make herself thoroughly
happy. Her two friends drew their chairs
at either side of her.

The artist was not at all sorry that Captain
Dankers was out just then; he felt
very comfortable as he lay back in a great
arm-chair, the seat of which sank under
his weight until it left him in a hollow
from which it would be no easy matter to
extricate himself by-and-by.

The room looked very cosy seen in the
merciful, searching light of a dim lamp.
The rusty, crimson marine curtains, which
it made one cringe to touch, were drawn
across the windows ; the wide-seated, high-backed,
antique sofa, which was a snare
and a deception to all who ventured to sit
on it, had its favourite chintz covering
carefully smoothed out; and though the
carpet was sadly thread-bare and showed
as much pattern as a piece of over-used
blotting-paper, it fell into harmony with
its old companions, the horse-hair chairs,

which would have made a tender-limbed
child shriek if placed upon them.

Yet, with Capri sitting on a low stool
by the hearth, the room had a pleasant and
home-like look. The firelight flickered on
her dark hair, and turned it to bronze here
and there ; the ruddy blaze reflected itself
on the yellow keys of the open, old-fashioned
piano in the near corner, and
now and then flashed dimly on the brass
bars of the canary's cage hanging between
the windows.

Capri had lowered the lamp and placed
it at the end of the room on a chefEonier,
black with time, that contained many
mysterious-looking drawers. On the wall
above it hung an old engraving of Arthur,
Duke of Wellington; and beneath this
picture were two crossed foils, rusty and
bent from long service.

*' I have good news to tell you, Capri, '^

said Marcus Phillips, looking down into
the lovely mobile face, noting with an
artist's eye the graceful curving lines into
which her dress had naturally fallen, and
marking the long delicate fingers that
interlaced each other as she clasped her
knees.

'* Good news ?" she said, quickly, with
one of those childish impulses that gave
its greatest charm to her manner. " Tell
me all about it, Marc."

'* I wish you had been there, Capri."

"So do I," she answered, unclasping
her hands and resting her chin upon her
palm.

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning was pleased with
my pictures, especially with the * Beggar
Maid,' and said many kind things about
them, praising all."

And the poet, the real live fashionable
poet, what did he say ?"

Ob," said Newton Marrix, intertwining
his fingers in a weird clasp, and looking
dramatically wild, " he said the ' Beggar
Maid ' was all beautiful to look upon."

*did the poet actually say that ?" she
asked.

He did indeed."

'' Oh, you will make me too proud ; perhaps
he will write a poem about me."

Ah, who knows indeed ? then you would
live for ever," said the author ironically.

Count Basano, who came also, praised
your picture, Capri, and said it was alive,"
said the artist.

I am so glad," she answered, her face
lighting up with excitement and pleasure.
I often told you. Marc, my face should bethe
beginning of your fortune. Am I nota
prophetess even in my own country ?"

*' And with such a good beginning what
may not the end be ?'* the artist asked.

I hope and trust very fair and bright
for you," she replied, with a half abstracted
air, looking straight before her into the
fire. A little blaze jumped up just then
from the smouldering embers and showed
a wistful look in her dark eyes.

And your future ?'' he said, hesitatingly,
and then paused. He would have
added, "will it not be bound up with mine?"
but the words died on his lips, and Capri
repeated after him.

"And my future; I am not at all sure
what it will be. I am sometimes half afraid
to look forward to it ; and yet, and yet I
wish these slow days of ray present life had
passed, and that 1 had really commenced
to live," she said, impatiently beating one
of her little feet upon the floor.

'* It will all come time enough, believe
me, Capri ; you are now standing on the
brink ' where the brook and river meet.

"And looking down I can only see my
face shadowed in the rippling waters near
me ; the tide beyond shows no reflection of
any future."

I hope it may always be as happy as it
is now," said Marcus Phillips.

The girl smiled, but made no reply,
and Newton Mann said rather impatiently,


Don't let us speculate about the future
whilst we have good fortune to think of in
the present. You have not told all the
news, Marc."

** Oh, is there more to be told ?" said
Capri, starting up, her whole expression
changing in a minute. '* Tell me the news,
the whole news, and nothing but the news,
Marc."

'* The best was kept for the last," he
said.

*' How could you sit there moralizing, as

is your wont, poor boy, while you had
good news to tell me ?"

"It was not I who moralized."

'' Have you sold a picture ?''

"No."

^^ Then "

Then the news is this. I shall probably
be asked to exhibit in the Grosvenor
Gallery this season, and if you or the Captain
have no objection I shall send the
Beggar Maid ' picture."

Capri jumped to her feet in an instant
and flung her plump arms above her head
in demonstration of her joy. It was a
graceful natural pose ; she looked like a
Greek figure on a sculptured urn.

Oh, dear Marc," she cried, aloud, " I
could dance for joy, I am so glad. This is
good news indeed. How could you have
sat there so long, you undemonstrative
youth, and never told me this ! How

did it all come about, tell me quick ?"

She asked both questions in the same
instant, and only from want of breath was
it that she paused to listen.

'' Mrs. Stonexx Stanning liked the picture,"
Marcus commenced. " It was your
face, I think, that pleased her. She has
great influence in art circles ; she asked
me if I would exhibit, and said she would
probably get me an invitation to contribute
to the Grosvenor Gallery."

Head certainly for probably," said
Newton Marrix, drily.

*' Oh ! to think of it," Capri went on,
demonstratively. *' Mrs. Stonexx Stanning
must be an admirable good woman ; I feel
she must, though I know nothing about
her. She must be your patron saint,
Marc."

Perhaps she is."

To think of your picture hanging in

the Grosvenor Gallery, and your name in
the catalogue ; and imagine all the world
of London staring at my face, and all the
people whispering my name ; why, it is
just as good as being a fashionable beauty
and having my photograph selling in the
shop-windows between a bishop and a
ballet-girl."

Just as good," remarked ISTewton Marrix,
a smile breaking over his face.

And to think that it has come so soon,
for I knew it would come sooner or later."

What ?"

Publicity."
*' For you or me ?"

*' For both."

'* Will your father have no objection to
my sending the picture?" said the artist,
doubtfully.

*' Objection ! I should think not, especially
when it will cost poor Pa nothing.

But I would not listen to bim even if he
did," said the girl with determination, and
with a firm, decided tone that the artist
had never heard in her voice before.

After a slight pause, she commenced
once more.

This will be the first step in my life,"
she said, with anxious eyes, and an absent
smile on her lips.

'' What will be ?"

Having my portrait hung before a
London crowd. I may call it a portrait ?"

But how will the public know whose
face it is ?"

Everyone will know it in a short time.
Trust the gossips and the society papers
for finding that out."

We shall see, Capri."

I know it will be the first step, Marc,"
she said more gently. " The curtain may

go up and the play begin sooner than I
thought, after all, my friend."

She sat down again, this time on the
threadbare hearth-rug, hugged her knees
with her arms and looked gravely into the
fire. All traces of her late excitement had
died away from her handsome face. Her
dark, almond-shaped eyes looked almost
black, and beamed with light and happiness.


It makes me feel almost wild with delight
to think of this prospect," she went
on as if speaking to herself. '' Already I seethe
eager crowd before me. And you have
made me look so lovely on the canvas, dear
old boy — I see their critical, speculative
gaze ; I hear the whispering of my name
passing from mouth to mouth ; I see myself
engraved in the weekly papers, photographed,
spoken of in the reviews, sought

for — oh! it is all too much happiness."
Then she stopped, adding quickly, after a
moment's pause, "And it will be so good
for you, too. Marc. It will bring you so
much before the public. Ah ! my friends,
the gods are good after all, and mortals
not half so bad as we sometimes think."

She gave a low rippling laugh that left
a musical echo in the ear long after she
had ceased.

There was so much childlike exultation
in her vanity that in the artist's eyes it
screened the latent selfishness lying beneath.
Marcus Phillips and the author
listened to her, pleased with her vivacity,
watching the fitful changes of ber bright
face as the firelight fell upon it, and noting
the happy light shining in her dark eyes.

The artist had never seen her so bright
and fascinating as to-night, and with a
keen sense of pleasure he watched her

olive face crowned with its hair of dusky
gold, and every moment saw fresh beauty
in her features and the graceful outline of
her delicately moulded limbs.

Once she laid her hand on his shoulder,
her fingers touched his neck softly, and
the artist felt the blood coming through
his veins in a hot, quick surge, and he
could scarce restrain himself from clasping
her in his arms.

From all you have said, I am sure you
could write a novel," said Newton Marrix
to her in his business-like manner. "Why
don't you try? — you have plenty of imagination."


Perhaps I may some day. It would
do me no benefit now. I should get very
little for it, even if I were lucky enough
to get it accepted, and it would never make
my name ; women have a quicker way of
making it than by writing books, and I

VOL. I. O

cannot afford to have frowns in my forehead
from thinking out three-volumed
novels, and reading the criticisms, Mr.
Author," she replied, quickly.

They all laughed at the girl's answer,
and then Marcus Phillips stood up to go.

What !" said Capri, ^' are you thinking
of leaving me on such a night as this
without staying to supper ? I will not hear
of it. We shall make a sacrifice of tripe to
the gods, and you two youths shall drink
libations of beer. Sit down again, sirs."

In a second she had vanished and ran
downstairs to speak to her landlady about
some supper, and to send one of her pupils
round the corner for a pint or two of that
grateful, filling, and comforting beverage
known as Burton. She tripped downstairs
quite briskly, and then, calming herself and
smoothing down her hair and dress, she
knocked demurely at Mrs, Fum's sitting-room

door, and entered the apartment
where that good lady was darning some
household linen, while her daughters
learned their lessons for the coming day.

In a moment or two Capri's manner had
changed completely ; she was no longer
the impulsive vivacious child ; when she
crossed the threshold of her landlady's
sitting-room she became a demure, respectable,
and eminently proper young lady.

"Ah dear, how are you getting on with
your French ?" she said to one of Mrs.
Fum's daughters in a tender, affectionate
tone, bending over the girl and looking
into the book, which bewildered her with
the confusion of its most irregular verbs.
Don't forget to come and ask me to explain
anything you cannot understand,"
Capri said ; then stooping down she kissed
the girl's round ruddy cheek and passed
on to where her admiring mother sat,

o2

looking at Capri's winning, affectionate
ways approvingly from under her spectacles.
" Mrs. Fum," commenced Capri,
without further hesitation, " two of Pa's
friends have come to see him ; one of them
has some good news to tell him about a
picture, and as I knew Pa would like to
see them I have asked them to have some
supper."

Capri spoke as if she were but half
satisfied with herself for asking them
to stay, and in the same tone continued,

'•' So if you would kindly cook the tripe I
have got in, and send out for a pint or two
of Barton for them it will very much oblige
me," she concluded, laying an emphasis on
the pronoun, and giving motherly Mrs.
Fum an appealing little smile which that
good woman had not the heart to resist.

*' Well, if it weren't that you asked me
1 shouldn't do it. Miss Capri, at this time

of night, that I shouldn't," lie said, " for
there, the captain has had my bill sent upto
him twice this week, and he has never
took no more notice of it than if it was
never asked from him," said good Mrs.
!Fum, indignantly.

He said to me this morning," replied
Oapri, drawing on her imagination, and
assuming a regretful air, 'that he felt
quite sorry and put out about it, he did
indeed ; but that you should surely have
the amount next week."

'' Ah ! well, if he had only come and
said as much to me I would have been
satisfied," said the landlady, whose wrath,
like that of most good-humoured people,
was easily pacified.

You know he never likes saying anything
to you about the bills until he is
able to pay them," said Capri gently, in her
softest tone, and Mrs. Fum, who knew

no such tiling, but was in too amiable a
mood to contradict her just then, rose upto
prepare the tripe at once.

I'll send it up to you, my dear,"
she said, almost sorry now that she had
made any reference to the captain's habits
of disregarding her bills.

At which speech Capri very sweetly
smiled her thanks, and, without saying
any more on the subject, she bent down
and kissed the other red-cheeked daughter
and glided softly out of the room, confident
that this last stroke of policy would have
its due weight in Mrs. Fum's maternal
and ample bosom.

When Capri got outside the door she
laughed softly to herself.

'' Good, silly old woman that you are,
with your two wooden-figured, apple-checked
daughters, you make me tired of
this miserable, petty life I have to lead,"

she said, and then she ran upstairs quickly
to her guests.

Dear young soul, she do love children,"
soliloquised Mrs. Fum, as Capri left the
room, " and she has such nice ways with
them, and anyone as do is sure to have a
good heart, and I'm sure she has one, poor
young lady. Ah, me ! it's only a pity she
hasn't a better father," she concluded.

Capri had often thought so too ; but
then unfortunately parents are not left to
the selection of children, any more than
children are sent into the world according
to the desires of parents. "We are all at
odds with each other.

Now," said Capri merrily, as she regained
the sitting-room upstairs, where
Newton Marrix and the artist were having
a quiet chat in her absence, '' while supper
is getting ready I shall play you some music
if you like."

If you please," said Marcus Phillips,
placing the music-stool for her at the
piano.

*' What shall I play ?" she asked, totally
abandoning her demure air, and returning
to her natural vivacious manner.

Without waiting for an answer she sat
down to the piano and struck a chord that
made the wires vibrate and echo along the
sounding-board.

Improvise," said JSTewton Marrix, for
improvisation was one of Capri's gifts.

"Tes, improvise," repeated the artist,
'rand we shall sit quieter than mice behind
a wainscoting and listen."

"After such an offer you cannot resist
I'm sure," said the author, poking the fire,
that had fallen lower and lower, until he
succeeded in making a blaze spring up
that threw its warm light on Capri seated
at the yellow-keyed instrument.

'' So be it," she said. '' I must hope for
inspiration."

'^Nayj it must come Then Tve are here,"
cried out the author.

'' True ; I had forgotten that."
Then she struck the keys with firm,
resolute fingers bringing out a melody
full and clear that had a triumphant ring
in its measure, which suddenly changed
into a slower, softer harmony, deep and
sweet, that gave but a bare suggestion of
an air through which weird minor notes
sounded now and then in strange contrast
to the full melodious chords, like a sudden
sob in the throat of a singer.

Under the influence of the music Marcus
Phillips closed his eyes, laid back his head
on the chair, and thought strange things.
Then most abruptly once more Capri
chant-ed the time and went back to the
stirring march-like measure she had started

with, and then under some sudden
impulse she quickly glided from one key
into another, from sharps to flats, from
flats to naturals, from naturals to minor
chords, sounding strange, inharmonious
groups of notes that by-and-by unwound
themselves in scales as if seeking escape
from the thrall of discord. Then suddenly
she ceased.

It was very characteristic playing, and
the girl's hearers felt and knew it was.
Indeed there are few things to those who
care for or understand music which so
quickly reveals the mind and character of
a player as his or her playing.

I am afraid," said Capri, standing up
quickly as she finished, 'that I can give
you no more music to-night, for I feel if I
were to go on much longer I should laugh
or cry, or do both at once, and it is better
to eat one's supper than do that."

Though she made an effort to laugh
after her last words, yet the tone of her
voice was almost pathetic.

"Do you know, dear Marc," she said,
presently, " such a night as this may never
coral again ; all your later triumphs, and
I hope and trust you may have many, will
have the freshness rubbed off them ; tonight
you enjoy an experience you may
never know again ; you have unexpected
success in the present, and all the future
before you."

I believe I shall always remember this
night," said the artist, and turning his
head to where she stood in the dim light
he could just see that her sweet dark eyes
were filled with an expression that touched
him deeply and made him happier than he
could say. She lowered her lids until the-long
lashes touched her cheek ; not venturing
to return his gaze.

Presently she raised the lamplight, and,
taking out a tablecloth from one of the
mysterious drawers, commenced to prepare
for supper.

''I don't think we shall wait for Pa,"
she said, knowing that her father's habits
were far from regular, " and indeed I
think we shall be more comfortable without
him," she ventured to add, looking at
Newton Marrix as if to challenge his
opinion on the subject.

The author quite agreed with Capri
mentally. He had no love for the captain,
but he held his peace, wonderful to be told.

In a few minutes supper, in the shape of
a dish of tripe, exhaling a very savoury
odour, came, and they were all about to
sit down when a foot was heard upon the
stairs.

*' It is Pa," said Capri, looking at her
friends, and her face fell in an instant.

However, she was equal to the occasion.

Oh ! Pa, we have been waiting for
you," said Capri, as the military man entered
the room. Looking up at him quickly
as he came within the radius of the lamp
she noted that his nose seemed a trifle too
red, and his manner had that bearing of
solemn and weighty dignity about it which
the captain always assumed when he drank
more than was good for him.

The more he imbibed the more his sense
of respectability increased ; with every
fresh glass he drank came back keener
recollections of past dignities ; with every
bottle demolished his importance swelled.

Have you waited for me, my love ?" he
said, going over and kissing her forehead
affectionately ; for in the presence of
others he invariably played the part of a
fond parent.

When he approached Capri, the odour

of his breath gave evidence that he had
met some kindred spirit on his homeward
way.

"Ah! gentlemen, how do yon do?" he
said to Marcus Phillips and the rising
author, as if he suddenly became aware of
their presence in the room for the first
time just then.

He bowed with stilted ceremony, and
then shook hands with both. His entrance
seemed to have rather a damping influence
on the spirits of all three, and to have
brought with it a chilling effect that at
first made itself disagreeably felt.

The captain's manner, in its usual bearing
towards Marcus Phillips and his friend,
was one of mild and tolerant patronage,
except on sundry occasions when he found
it necessary to borrow small sums of them,
which he had no sooner received than all

count of them immediately left his memory
for ever.

On these various occasions when the
gallant captain was, as he termed it, echard
up," and found it expedient and profitable
to pay private visits to Newton Marrix's
rooms, or Marcus Phillips's studio, his
character and manners underwent a sudden
change ; he became, verbally, the
victim of a hard-hearted, unfeeling, and
ungenerous world : he assumed a meek
patient bearing under the weight of pecuniary
trials and troubles ; he suddenly
became a solicitous parent, weighed down
with anxiety for the future welfare and
happiness of his dear child, the sole hope
of his life ; and finally acted as a judicious
adviser to his young friends, whom want
of experience of the world had left ignorant
of its ways ; and would then dwell

with considerable feeling on the changes
which time brings about; of the past
splendours he had known, of the importance
in which he had been held, and which
somehow, though through no fault of his,
but merely a caprice of fortune, had deserted
him in his latter days, and placed
him in a position in which a temporary —
merely a temporary loan would be of
service to him, and relieve him from those
difficulties which might fall upon the best
of men at any time.

"I have made them stay to supper,"
said Capri when her father had shaken
hands with the young men, and told them
with the air of a grand goigBio r, that he
was pleased to see them."^^^'^^^^

"I have made them stay to supper," repeated
Capri, hoping her father for once
would say something pleasant.

"I am delighted that you have, my

dear," he replied in a tone of severe politeness.


You are very kind," said Marcus Phillips
bowing, and the captain was pleased
at the deference the movement of the
artist's head showed him.

After this favourable beginning Capri
made a desperate effort to revive her good
spirits again, and when her father was
seated and had helped them all to some
savoury tripe, and she had poured out her
guests some beer, she commenced :

"Marcus has some good news to tell you."

She thought it better to give the artist
his name in full instead of lapsing into the
familiar abbreviation before her father.

** I shall be glad to hear any good news
Mr. Phillips has to tell me," he said, loftily,
taking care not to use the artist's Christian
name.

Capri mentally resented having him called

VOL. I. P

Mr. Phillips ; she therefore said abruptly,

*' I am going to be hung."

''My love!" said the captain, throwing
back his shoulders and staring at her with
astonishment. She did not heed him.

Yes, it is all settled," she went on
calmly, " I am going to be hung."

And all through Mr. Phillips's exertions,"
put in Newton Marrix slily.

The captain, pretending not to hear him,
looked over at Capri and addressed her.

"My love, explain yourself; you trifle
"with my feelings."

"Oh, do I?" she answered flippantly,
half amused and half tired of his assumption
of affection and surprise.

My dear ?"

Well, I am really going to be hung —
on the walls of the Grosvenor Gallery."

"With Captain Dankers' permission,"
said the artist conciliating. Then he

added, " I shall be invited to exhibit at the
Grosvenor this season, and I thought of
sending the ' Beggar Maid ' picture."

"Which is my portrait," added Capri.

The captain laid down his knife and fork
slowly, and after an impressive pause of a
second or two put out his hand, which
shook somewhat, to Marcus, and commenced.


*' My dear sir, in the first place I congratulate
you heartily, most heartily as a
friend — I may say an old friend."

For once in a way there was some truth
and little affectation in his words. If the
struggling artist had lent him a guinea
when they were few and far between in his
coffers, surely the amount in times of need
would increase to a threefold proportion
when success would render loans matters
of greater ease to the young man.

And are you not pleased at the prospect

of having my picture before the world ?
You have seen the * Beggar Maid have you
not ?" said Capri from the opposite side of
the table.

Yes, yes, my love," replied the captain,
remembering the cause of his visits to Marcus
Phillips' studio, and not wishing to
have the recollections of them brought up
at the present moment. " I have seen it
in its early stages, and considered it even
then an admirable, even a wonderful picture,
I may say."

"Indeed you may," said Capri shortly,
for she thought by the captain's manner
there was something disagreeable about to
follow, and she wished to show him she
was on her guard.

Capri was right in her apprehensions
for presently the captain commenced
gravely.

*' I cannot as a parent set my face too

strongly against the modern craze for
the exhibition of female beauty. It is one
of the unwholesome signs of the times," he
said slowly, with a magnificent air.

IS'one of his hearers thought well of answering
him, and after a slight pause he
continued :

This craze, gentlemen, invades and
destroys the sacred sanctity of home life."

He made an impressive gesture with his
riofht hand as he concluded, and looked at
the two young men to see what effect he
had produced.

Capri could scarcely restrain herself from
making some sharp reply to this speech of
her fond parent's, knowing as she did that
he merely spoke for the sake of giving
some opposition, and to exert a more effective
patronage over the artist when by-and-by
he was prevailed on to give consent
to the exhibition of the picture.

Cut me some bread, Marc, and give
Pa some too ; lie has none," she said, as if
by this common-place remark after the
late outburst of eloquence she sought to
relieve her mind.

The ' Beggar Maid ' can scarcely have
the dreadful effect you refer to," said Newton
Marrix a little sarcastically, 'ras it is
not solely a portrait, and few of those who
see it will know the original."

They will suppose it some model who
sat for two shillings an hour and a cup of
coffee," Capri said quickly.

My dear," said the captain reprovingly,
'' you speak too fast."

His dignity was slightly offended at the
idea of anyone mistaking his daughter fora
professional model.

Have some more tripe, Pa ?"

I referred to a fashion in these days,"
said the captain, taking no notice of

Capri's kind invitation, " which bids fair
to make every woman who can lay any
claim to beauty an exhibition, and render
her face familiar to a vulgar crowd, and
her name a — a — a byword in men's
mouths," said the captain with the loftiness
of severe virtue.

These sentiments would bring down
the gallery of a transpontine theatre," said
the girl, who had now lost all patience.

For a time, the captain made no reply, bub
stared at her with o-atherino- wrath in his
watery eyes, which, by a sudden transition,
turned to pathos when he remembered the
presence of his guests. For a moment
none of them spoke, then the captain said,

Do you insult your old father, Capri ?"
and sought for his ex-white handkerchief,
which was hidden in the recesses of his
coat-tail pockets.

No, Pa, no," she said, sorry that she

had spoken so hastily. *' Don't let us have
a scene. I was out of patience ; that was
all. Don't mind your handkerchief for
this time, Pa dear."

Getting up she glided softly round
the table until she got behind his chair,
then she put one arm round his neck
tenderly and set her lips lightly on his
forehead. But he did mind his handkerchief
notwithstanding what Capri said, for
it was indispensable to the character of an
injured parent, which he was playing just
then. After much fumbling he found it,
and applied it to his eyes judiciously.

I can well understand your sentiments
about the exhibition of portraits," said
Marcus, anxious to sooth him.

Yes, yes," he replied, his voice somewhat
muffled by the effects of the handkerchief
yet applied to his face, "but that
my daughter should make such remarks,

should be so lost to the sense of duty due
to a parent, touches mj feelings quickly,
sir."

A slip of the tongue, Pa dear ; you
know women will say foolish things sometimes
— you know I am too voluble," she
said with an air of cheerful self-reproach.
Don't say any more about it."

'' No error of the heart, I am sure, my
love," he replied, now quite conciliated
by these handsome apologies of Capri's,
which he was quite unused to receive.

Of course not," said the girl.

And I am sure, in this particular
case," he went on, not only quite pacified,
but anxious to harmonize with the feelings
of Capri and her friends, '' no matter what
objections I may privately entertain to the
exhibition of faces whose charms should
be kept sacred to the home circle, on this
occasion I say I waive all such private

feelings, no matter low strong they maybe,
in the interests of my young friend —
I may say my gifted and talented young
friend." And so saying he put forward
his hand and grasped the artist's across
the table.

Matters were beginning to take a more
cheerful and comfortable turn. The artist
thanked the captain for this little speech,
and in return the military man helped him
to some tripe, and took some himself ; and
Newton Marrix, who had finished, began
to tell them the plot of a new play which
would be jut on the boards of the Ophelia
Theatre for the first time on Saturday
night, and to which performance he was
going with a friend of his who knew Mr.
Darlington, the manager, and who could,
do a good thing for him in the press.
Then the captain, who became more and
more genial, sent for another pint of Burton,

and told some old anecdotes of Charles
Kean that they all had heard fifty times
before, but which they now laughed at
heartily, from sympathy with and to please
the narrator. He told them what Phelps
had said to him at supper one night.

"Captain," he said, 'relinquish the
sword, take to the buskin, and you will
make your fortune."

He was a young man then — a gay young
spark about town, he might say — and he
liked a red coat too much to throw it off,
because, sir, the colour had such an
attraction for the ladies."

Newton Marrix insinuated slily it was
not the colour of the coat, but the man, in
which the great attraction lay ; at which
the captain was yet more pleased, though
he made an attempt to deny the soft
impeachment.

He then went on to tell them of the

charming Helen Faucit, and recited for
them, with many wild gesticulations and
wreathed smiles, an ode which he himself
had composed about the bewitching actress,
and had had printed on white satin, sir, with
his initials signed, and which he carefully
hid in a bouquet which he flung from a
box to her feet when she played Lady
Teazle, and how, by gad, the poem afterwards
found its way into The Keepsake,
though upon his honour he never knew
how ; and after a while it came to be
whispered at White's Club, sir, that he
was the writer of the verses, and didn't
he get quizzed about them right soundly,
he could tell you, until his name at last
reached the lady's ears ; and one night,
sir, she smiled her thanks to him as he
was in his usual box at the theatre, to the
chagrin of his brother officers who were
with him at the time.

I have gone through it all, my dear
boys," he said, by way of conclusion, as he
helped himself to some beer, " and a gay
young dog I was too, I can tell you, in
my time ; but I am only an old fellow
now, and good for nothing," he ended,
with a pathetic sigh.

The two young men assured him he
underrated himself, and was good for
much yet and comparatively young, after
which courteous speeches on their part he
brightened up once more, and, with a half
empty glass in one hand, stood up to
propose Marcus Phillips's health.

It is my privilege on this occasion," he
commenced, with as much ceremony as if
he were at a Lord Mayor's dinner, putting
his left hand on his slender waist, and so
making a curve of his arm like the handle
of a teapot, " and on the eve of what, I
trust, may prove a great success to my

youn and gifted friend, to propose his
health and wish him that celebrity, that
fame of which, by his industrious efforts
and superior talents, he has proved himself
so eminently deserving. 1 trust that,
having up to this time been so favoured
by the Muses, Fortune herself may attend
him, that Venus may throw her flowery
fetters about his heart, and — and — and I
wish you every success in life, my dear
boy," he suddenly finished, lapsing into a
more common-place but honest strain.

Marcus said a few words of thanks, and
told him he felt far more than he could
express, and he would always remember
his kind wishes.

So the night grew old, and it was almost
twelve o'clock when Marcus and his friend
got up and said good night.

''I think," said Capri, who had been a
long time silent, not because she paid

attention to what was passing, but because
she thought much — "I think that is the
prologue of the play Pa has spoken of."

'' Why do you think so, Capri ?" asked
the artist softly. They were standing
apart from Newton Marrix and the captain,
who were lighting cigars which the former
supplied in a most amicable way.

"I do not know; only I feel that the
curtain may go up at any moment and the
performance commence for you and — me''

I hope, then, it may be a pleasant
comedy," said the artist, looking into her
pale face.

So do I with all my heart," she answered
earnestly.

She gave him her hand, and he let it
rest in his palm for a few seconds.

Newton Marrix came over just then ;
they were ready to depart. The captain
hid them good night again and again demonstratively.

Capri said little more, and
was thoughtful.

As the two friends went down the narrow
stairs she held the lamp with a light,
graceful grasp above her head as she stood
upon the lobby watching them descend.

The faint rays fell upon her bowed head
and turned her hair to burnished gold, and
flickered on her pale olive face.

Looking up for the last time from the
dark stairway to where the girl stood like
a saint in a shrine, the deep shadows
behind her, the pale yellow glare of the
lamp lighting the angles of her delicate
figure, Marcus Phillips thought he read a
new meaning in the depths of her dark
liquid eyes.

CHAPTER Iii.

IN THE Grosvenor Gallery.

rriHE first days of May arrived, bringing
-*- with them breezes so deliciously
fresh and invigorating that they seemed
to have travelled all the way from the
Yorkshire moors, the Devon lanes, or the
Norfolk coast. They swept over the close
London streets, greeting the poor, pale-faced
toilers, and bringing them back in
the midst of their work remembrance of
the peaceful country lying fair and placid
in the early spring sunshine.

Great heat had come suddenly in those
VOL. I. Q

days of early May ; it was close and heavy
in the city ; the streets looked white and
bleached in the sun ; the few trees in the
squares put on their greenness once more,
and after long months of cloud and
fog the sky looked wondrously clear and
blue.

At the street corners baskets of lilies
of the valley that had come up from the
cool shelter of their native woods, and
purple violets, that grew wan and faded
exposed to the heat and glare, and yellow
primroses fresh from the leafy hedgerows,
and rich-hued wall-flowers that looked
sadly defected and crushed, and leaned
against each other for support in this their
hour of trial and death, were all being sold
for a penny the bunch.

There were other signs, too, that spring
and the London season had commenced.
Bond Street was lined with a double row

of carriages in the afternoons ; the opera
season was announced, and rumour had it
that a new tenor was engaged for Covent
Garden Theatre who had never before sung
out of Italy ; the Row was filled in the
mornings with riders, and all the celebrities
and beauties and people worth seeing in
London were on view in the afternoon ;
three new plays lead been produced at
three different theatres ; and the picture-galleries
in all their attractions were opened,
and filled with well-dressed bustling
crowds all day long. This year the
Grosvenor Gallery was the special attraction.


The painters of tHe pre-Eaphaelite school
were strong in number in Sir Courts Lindsay's
gallery ; their selections of subjects
and general treatment were remarkable,
and caused wide attention ; many of their
canvases were considered by some as

q2

masterpieces, by others as so much waste
of labour and good paint.

One picture which a young artist had
given to the world and the Grosvenor
Gallery was a vision of Jephthah's daughter,
standing against a background of flame-coloured
sky, her blue-black hair bound
round her shapely head and filleted with
dead gold, her round dusky breasts,
half covered with a robe of pale green
was caught at the lithe waist by a white
girdle that, falling over the outer garment
almost to her naked feet, marked the contrast
of one brown limb, nude and divinely
shaped.

This picture was the great success of
the season, and next in popular favour
came the " Beggar Maid."

The public who plumed itself on knowing
all particulars about painters and
pictures, wondered they had never heard

of Marcus Phillips before, and for this
reason it was almost inclined to leave his
canvas unnoticed.

The world will seldom allow itself to betaken
bj surprise ; it is a liberty which it
rarely lets pass without resentment ; yet
an artist who could paint a face like the
Beggar Maid's " was not to be neglected,
and so, after a slight debate with itself, it
consented to take this picture and the
young painter into its favour.

Whose was the face he had painted,
people asked each other ; not a professional
model surely, or it would have been seen
in many disguises before from Iphigenia
to some common-place Mariana in a
moaned grange.

It was a lovely face, the people agreed,
one that haunted you with a subtle, half
hidden look in its eyes long after it was
passed by, that made people return again
and again to gaze on it afresh.

Marcus Phillips fixed an afternoon in
the first week of the exhibition on which
to take Capri to the gallery.

I am dying with impatience'' said the
girl. " and yet I half fear to go. I am
sure the sight of the picture hanging therein
all its glory will make me cry, Marc."

*' Nonsense, Capri."

'rit's not nonsense, sir. It sets me into
a fever when I borrow a paper from the
news shop round the corner and read
what the critics have to say about me."

They have said nothing pleasant?"

**]Srot that I know of, Marc. Do you
know I should like to stand by the picture
all day, wrapped in an invisible cloak, and
hear the people's remarks as they passed
by me," she said. Her eyes brightened,
and a glow came into her pale olive
cheeks that deepened the rich tint of her
skin.

You would soon tire of that, I fancy,"
said the artist.

We never tire of hearing others talk
of us, if they say pleasant things."

*' Well, you shall sit before the ^ Beggar
Maid ' as long as you like when we go,"
replied Marcus Phillips, looking down at
her fondly, and half dazzled by the sight
of the girl's beauty.

Well, I shall prepare my wardrobe for
the occasion," she said, wondering if she
could make her father give her a guinea
for a new dress ; for it was long since she
had had one.

Is there any way I could help you ?"
asked the young man timidly, looking away
from her as he spoke.

No, my dear Marc, there is not," she
answered gratefully, quickly divining his
meaning. *' I shall make the best of my
resources, trust me," she said, with a

saucy laugh, and no more was said on the
subject.

At last Wednesday came, the day on
which Capri was to see the picture hanging
in the gallery, and early in the afternoon
Marcus Phillips called for her.

Come up," she shouted from the top
of the stairs as he entered the hall.

She had been anxiously expecting him,
and was waiting.

When he went into the sitting-room,
however, there was no one to be seen.
He remained quite quiet for a moment,
and then Capri sprang from behind the
door, where she had been hiding, with a
joyous little trip, stopped short as he held
out his hand, made him a grave bow, and
said, "How do you like me now?" with
emphasis on the last word, to mark the
difference in her appearance between the
past and present time.

Oh !" said Marcus, holding up his
hands in astonishment, and then was
silent.

That is all you men ever say. How
do you like my new hat ? Isn't it aesthetic ?
I trimmed it myself. I hope you admire
me," she said, all in one breath.

She was much changed surely, and
though in one sense she looked handsomer,
yet the alteration seemed to take away
some of her old charms.

Her dark hair, with its underside of
gold, was brushed low upon her forehead,
underneath the wide leaf of a Rembrandt
hat that cast a softening shade upon her
lovely olive face. Her shoulders were
covered by some soft grey material that
clung to the shape of her maturing figure,
and her dress of the same colour touched
the tips of her shoes.

I told you, Marc, I should grow quite

respectable some day," she said, looking
down at her dress admiringly.

*' And you have kept your word," he answered
her with a merry laugh. " I
should scarcely have known you."

^' Look at my gloves. Six buttons ! not
one less. Old Pallamari gave them to me
when he heard I was going to the gallery."

'* And the silver bracelet ?" said the
artist, noticing on her wrist a handsome
silver bangle.

''Oh! the bangle," she said carelessly.

Yes."

Lord Harrick gave me that the other
day."

Lord Harrick ?" he said, in surprise.

'eyes; I bound up a cut he got here
while fencing with Pa, and next day he
sent this. Pa said I might accept it.
Don't look so cross. Is there anything
dreadful in that ?"

A shadow passed across the artist's face
for a moment, but the girl either did not,
or pretended not to see it, and turned
away her head to stare into a little square
of mirror that hung against the wall.

Marcus Phillips made no answer. The
incident displeased him, but he felt he had
no right whatsoever to object, and he was
anxious that this afternoon should not beclouded
by any words of his that could
cause her annoyance.

'' They will never recognize the * Beggar
Maid ' in a Rembrandt hat," said Capri
lightly as they drove to Bond Street. '' I
wonder if the place will be full ?"

It is sure to be," answered the artist,
from whom all signs of displeasure had
now departed.

I hope I may hear what they say of
me. Marc."

That is hardly fair to them. Though

walls are said to have ears, I never heard
that pictures had."

When they came to the hall, and Capri
saw the flight of white steps, and the two
servants in blue livery behind the check-gates,
and the crowds of people cording up
and going down, she felt somewhat awed.
She had never been before to the Grosvenor
Gallery, and it was all delightfully
new and fresh to her to-day. She felt as
if she were a part of all this imposing
display, as if it were all more or less connected
with her, or she with it; for did
not the crowd come to stare at her portrait,
and talk about it, and criticise it?
was not her face one of the great attractions
of the Grosvenor ? She thought that
all those who passed stared at her as she
and the artist pushed their way to the
centre room, where the picture hung.

Capri sank down before it on a low

velvet couch, and could not speak for sometime.
There was the picture of the *' Beggar
Maid " in all the glory of its gorgeous
frame, hanging among many other pictures
which she could not look at just
then, and which had not the slightest
interest for her.

Here was the realization of one of her
ambitions face to face with her now ; here
was one of her dreams turned to fact in
the broad light of sober day. Had anyone
told her a month ago that her portrait
would be exhibited in a Bond Street
gallery, she would have laughed incredulously
at the words, yet here was the
picture hanging in a prominent position,
with all the London art-world talking of
it ; and here she sat quietly, as if all that
had come to pass was a matter of course,
and not at all a fact to be wondered at.

The greatest events of our lives, which

oftentimes we scarcely dared to anticipate,
when they happen assume the most commonplace
aspects ; the anticipation, we
find, far exceeds the realization. So Capri
thought. She was almost surprised at
herself resting so calmly before the picture
hanging there in all its wonderful charm
and beauty.

*' Oh, Marc," she said at length under
her breath, ^' it looks beautiful. I think
it looks far better here than in the studio."

'' Probably its surroundings add to the
effect," said the artist.

I cannot help saying it looks very
lovely ; and then what a splendid room,
and those servants in livery, and the flight
of white steps. Do you know it all seems
a part of my belongings to-day."

They both laughed at this opinion.

'' But your picture looks better than all

the others," she continued ; '* you have
made me look so beautiful."

"It is Nature who has done that, not
I," he answered honestly.

She felt the colour coming into her face,
and a wonderful happy sensation filling her
young heart.

After this they did not speak for sometime,
but sat staring at the " Beggar
Maid." It was so familiar to them in
every shade and line that it seemed like
an old friend ; for all that they examined
every inch of it over and over again, and
looked at its various effects seen from
different points of view.

Then, after a while, Capri let her eyes
wander to the other pictures by way of
contrast ; not that any of them had much
interest for her, or in her eyes could
compare with Marcus Phillips' works, but

she glanced at them patronizingly, believing
that her inspection of them would but
heighten her appreciation, if that were
possible, for the " Beggar Maid."

After a time she looked from the pictures
to the visitors at the gallery. It
was always interesting to the girl to watch
people : it was a study and a lesson, she
told herself. One often learns much by
the observation of trifles.

The gallery was well filled, the sofas
and chairs were all occupied, and groups
of people kept coming in and out continually.
One old lady went round the
room, spectacles on nose, and catalogue
in hand, paying far more attention to the
latter than to the pictures, satisfied with a
mere glance at each, but determined to
see all, after the manner of Cook's excursionists
visiting the lions of a Continental
town.

Another lady, who was determined to
see nothing in the gallery, sat in a corner
of one of the crimson velvet lounges, reading
'' A Man's Mistake," which she had
just got from the library below-stairs ; she
was so much engaged by the novel that
she did not deign to raise her eyes to the
pictures around her.

A stout country clergyman walked
slowly round, wondering in his mild way
at the eccentricity of the talent which had
produced many strange pictures, and pausing
now and then to examine more closely
some studies from the nude, which the
collection plentifully supplied. Some young
ladies came in dressed in brick-coloured
gowns of coarse flannel, which hung about
them in a fashion supposed to represent
high art — very high art indeed — and whose
great hats, the wonderful combinations of
many styles and periods, served to make

VOL. I. R

their wearers as odd, and certainly as ugly,
as possible. They were rather sad of aspect
and angular of figure, and they
paused and posed continually in attitudes
which, though carefully studied from the
antique, lacked its old grace utterly.

The girls in question came along slowly,
catalogues in hand, making various comments
on each picture.

"Look at these oddly-dressed girls with
satchels hanging by their sides ; let us
hear what they say," said Capri.

The girls in brick-coloured flannel were
just before them then.

Seventy-seven," one of them said.

' What a Soul did Dream " answered
the other, referring to her programme.
It is taken from a poem. The treatment
is supremely lovely."

It is too divine."

They both sighed.

Seventy-eight," said the first speaker.

'•'The Sleeping Hermes'" she bearing
the catalogue said, letting her left area
droop by her side, whilst she laid her right
hand, with her fingers well apart, against
her cheek.

Seventy-nine."

^'The ' Beggar Maid.' "

They went over with a slow, sage air to
the picture, as if to examine it critically,
and then drew back to get the different
effect which distance might afford.

Does it please you ?" asked number
one, clasping her hands together and resting
them against her left shoulder.

Capri held her breath to catch the
reply ; she thought the answer would
never come.

Yes," replied number two ; " but it is a
face sublimities, idealized."

One can readily see that at a glance."

r2

The eyes are very wonderful ;

Love-lights within their shadows dwell,
What your heart holds may no man tell,' "

she said, gravely addressing the " Beggar
Maid."

The face is too lovely for real life,"
the plainest of the girls remarked.

*' Eighty. What is that?" the other
asked, and they passed on their way.

Capri's face flushed with pleasure ; her
vanity was satisfied for the moment, for
had not her own sex, who are ever the
most critical in their examination of
female beauty, declared her too beautiful
for real life ? The words were like sweetest
music to her ears.

A family group, consisting of a stout
mother, provincial paterfamilias, two fat
boys in short jackets, evidently tortured
by gloves and the stiffest of white collars,
and three girls in the shortest permissible

dresses came next and stood between
Capri and the picture, with all that
charming politeness which may be witnessed
every day in an English picture-gallery.


She did not care much to hear their
criticism ; she noticed that the stout
matron gave a blank stare at the '' Beggar
Maid," as if the picture personally offended
her virtue because the paterfamilias had
looked at it a minute longer than at the
other canvases, and had pointed to it with
his catalogue as he murmured,

Pretty face that, my dear."

'* Was she a beggar, mother ?" one of the
stout-limbed boys in the short jackets
asked.

Yes, dear," she replied, for all her
information on the subject came from the
catalogue.

I never saw a beggar like her before,"

said the boy, who evidently belonged to
the realistic school.

No, of course not, because the police
takes them up, you know," said the other,
and this explanation settled the question
satisfactorily for the youthful and inquiring
mind.

They passed on, and their places were
soon taken by two of our jeunesse donee
with hay-coloured hair and foolish faces,
who knew as much about pictures particularly
and art generally as the heathen
Chinee.

On they came arm in arm, with sticks in
their hands, whose handles continually
found their way to their mouths.

Fine girl that, Ally."

Yes, if she were properly dressed."

What is the picture called ? let us see."

They opened the catalogue and found the
number.

Seventy nine : the ' Beggar Maid,' "
read out he that was named Ally.

'what beggar maid?" asked his friend.

Oh, some one that Cophetua was sweet
on ; I forget the story."

Cophetua — was he a foreigner ?"

Yes ; of course he was. It's only those
foreigners-who are spoony enough to fall
in love with beggar maids, and that sort of
thing."

*' Pretty girl, though she is rather dark ;
she was a foreigner too, I suppose."

Of course. Look at the next picture."

*' Eighty : the ' Sleeping Hermes.' "

'poor little beggar, how cold he must be."

They grinned and passed on.

Capri caught snatches of their conversation
and could scarcely restrain herself
from laughing aloud.

These are some of the patrons of the
fine arts, I suppose," she said.

*' Certainly, we are all artistic nowadays
; it is the fashion."

Their knowledge is not too profound,"
she said smiling, and showing her rows of
white teeth, all the whiter for the contrast
to her cherry-coloured lips.

Knowledge is not at all necessary to
those who patronise, as our friend Newton
would say."

Oh, Marc, there he is at the end of the
gallery, and there is some one with him, a
tall, stout lady ; look what a dress she has
on."

'' You are a true woman, Capri."

"Why, sir?"

"You notice the dress almost the first
thing."

No, it is not feminine so much as artistic
perception ; I have an eye for effect,"
she answered with a pretty assumption of
indignation that made her look very childlike

and winning as she pouted her lips,
knit her straight dark brows, and looked
saucily out of her bright eyes.

Who is she ?" she asked, presently.

I'm sure I do not know."

Not Mrs. Stonexx Stanning ?"

No, certainly not," said the artist quickly,
as if comparisons were doubly odious in
this case.

Newton Marrix and his companion came
along slowly, he explaining the subject of
each picture and telling anecdotes of the
artists, in a very voluble manner, she listening
attentively.

When they were within a few yards of
where Capri and the artist sat, Newton
Marrix recognized them, and saying a word
or two to heady with him they both advanced.


"Ah, Miss Capri," he said, extending his
hand, " this is a surprise ; and, Marc, old

fellow, you did not tell me you were coming
to-day. Mrs. Lordson," he continued,
turning to the lady who stood beside them,
let me introduce to you my friends Miss
Capri Dankers and Mr. Marcus Phillips."

Pleased I'm sure to meet them," said
Mrs. Lordson, with a nasal accent which,
though slight, betrayed her transatlantic
nationality.

The artist stood up and asked her if she
would not take his place on the sofa ; and
she sank down at once with that luxurious
sense of rest after fatigue which only a
corpulent person can thoroughly enjoy.

Thank you, I'm glad to sit awhile,"
she said, arranging her ample skirts of
dark ruby satin, trimmed with a profusion
of old point lace that would have realized
a small fortune.

Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson was an
American widow, who had come over to

England with the avowed purpose of entering
London society. To force such an
entrance, to see herself surrounded by the
upper ten thousand, to rub shoulders with
men and women known to the world ab
large, or with beings whose names were
inserted in De Brett's ''Peerage,''* was the
great ambition of this daughter of the
Republic.

The late W. Achilles Lordson had been
in his day an enterprising pork-butcher in
Brooklyn, and had died two years ago,
leaving his childless relict the mistress of
a large annuity, which was more than
sufficient to cover her most extravagant
desires.

After her grief had been partially assuaged,
she started for Europe in company
with a large party of her own country
people, of whom, however, she soon tired.

She had wintered in Florence, gone onto

Rome, come back to France, remained
four months in Paris, but '' not liking them
foreign people, that one never knew what
they were saying, in their own foolish way
jabbering like monkeys," as she told Newton
Marrix, she came over to London and
settled herself in a pretty house situated in
May Fair.

She had not been a fortnight in town
when chance threw her in Newton Marrix's
way. They were introduced by a common
friend who was about to start for Norway,
and Newton was asked, as a favour, to
show the sights of the great show to Mrs.
W. Achilles Lordson ; a task he readily
consented to undertake.

In the smart young author who fluttered
in and out of society in butterfly fashion,
who knew everybody worth knowing, and
whom in turn everybody knew, Mrs. W.
Achilles Lordson saw a man who would

probably prove most useful and agreeable.
On the other hand ISTewton Marrix recognized
in the widow just stranded in a town
quite foreign to her, a woman with social
ambitions which he might help to gratify,
and great wealth, whose friendship might
afford him many advantages.

With such a mutual though unexpressed
understanding, they had commenced an
acquaintanceship which offered to flow on
pleasantly for both.

Mrs. TV. Achilles Lordson was tall, and,
like most of her countrywomen, her jBgure
was erect and well shaped ; it was a trifle
stout, perhaps, and rounded, but this gave
her a more imposing appearance. Her
face, which in warm weather was apt to
become singularly glossy, was a great
blank upon which Nature had written but
two words — capital ones in their way —
^'good nature."

Sbe was a showy and what most men
would call a fine-looking woman, whom
one could not help noticing in a crowd.
When she walked she flung back her head,
thrust her ample bosom forward, and
swung her right hand. If her gait was
not graceful, it was certainly far from
being awkward. Altogether her appearance
had an air which, even if pronounced,
had a freedom about it not unpleasant, and
decidedly refreshing.

Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson evidently had
an eye for colours and jewellery, two points
of taste in which she lavishly indulged,
and which invariably marked her appearance
; moreover she had a passion for old
lace. In the first place it was expensive,
in the second it was especially associated
in her eyes with respectability.

I am glad to sit down really," she
said, accepting Marcus Phillips' offer.

Her skirt half covered poor Capri, who
had never before sat alongside of ruby
satin, and now for the first time had a
nearer approach than a shop-window to
old point lace.

Mr. Phillips is the painter of number
seventy-nine," said Newton to Mrs. Lordson.

"Really, now," she said, looking with
something like awe at a live artist, who
stood beside her with a pleasant smile on
his fair face, and a frank look in his blue
eyes that pleased her.

And," continued the author, when he
had given her sufficient time to recover
her surprise, " Miss Dankers is the original
of the ' Beggar Maid.' "

La, you don't mean it ?" she said with
evident surprise in her eyes ; and she
stared at Newton Marrix, and then at the
picture, and back again at Capri, who was
beginning to enjoy the scene.

Well, I'm sure," she exclaimed, when
she had compared the girl's face with the
^' Beggar Maid's," and had apparently satisfied
herself that Capri was truly the
original. Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson
thought that after these announcements she
should, not feel surprised if one of the fat-limbed
boys in the short jackets belonging
to the paterfamilias group, was presented
to her as the original of the " Sleeping
Hermes."

She rose with an effort from the sofa
and went up to the " Beggar Maid "
picture, and came back again and stared
at Capri, who took it all good-humoured.


Is it not like me ?" asked Capri.

'^ Like you ? I should think so."

*' A fact which nobody can deny," said
Newton Marrix.

*' It would not be complimentary to me

if" they did," said Marcus Phillips. *rit is
as much a portrait as a picture."

La, it is beautiful," said the American,
"and so is the young lady too," and once
more she sat down, highly pleased with
her chaperon for having introduced her to
two such remarkable persons at once as the
young artist and the original of a picture
of which she had heard much.

Capri's eyes fell on the thick gold chain
suspended from her cameo brooch to her
waist, with its wealth of massive ornaments
; and then looked into the matron's
good-natured face, and smiled with a childlike
look of delight. The smile, sunny and
winning, went straight to Mrs. Lordson's
heart, and warmed it like a ray of light.

How lovely you are," she said, bluntly,
in a motherly kind of way, looking
straight into Capri's face with a steady
gaze of admiration.

VOL. I. S

'' Mr. Phillips has idealised my picture, I
suppose," answered Capri, suddenly dropping
the familiar " Marc," and pretending
not to know that the good woman's remarks
were made regarding herself, and
not her picture.

Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson wondered
what she meant by idealise, and took a
mental note of the word in order that she
might ask Newton Marrix its signification
when they were alone, for already she had
come to regard him as her Mentor.

"We are going to the end of the room
to look at ' Jephthah's Daughter,' " said the
author, speaking for himself and Marcus
Phillips.

Yes, 'tis fine," said Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson, who had just seen it and heard
the details of its merits enumerated by her
friend.

The American and Capri were left alone.

•* Have you seen 'Jephtbah's Daughter?"
sbe asked.

No ; we have not been long here."

It's fine, I can tell you."

I should like to see it. by-and-by,"
said Capri.

'you must. It's in the per-Eaphaelite
school, you know," said the American, who
had a strong desire to air her knowledge
of art.

Capri maintained a very serious face.

"Is it some one's portrait?" the girl
asked ; for she thought every face in
the gallery must be like hers, a portrait.


Like enough," replied Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson. " I should never have known
that picture was a likeness of you only for
meeting you here ; so it may be the same
with ' Jephthah's Daughter.' But I will ask
Mr. Marrix. He will be sure to know, he

sis

such a clever young mau. He knows
everything."

*' He is very agreeable," said Capri.

*' And has a lot of intelligence," said the
widow.

She took up an enormous black and
gold fan that hung by her well-proportioned
side, and fanned herself energetically.
Capri looked at the fan that sparkled and
flashed and half dazzled her sight, and
wondered how much it had cost.

*' YoM like my fan ?" she said, noting the
girl's admiring glance.

It is very handsome."

*' Isn't it fine ? It cost me twenty
dollars, that it did," and she opened and
shut it with evident gratification.

*' Where did you buy it ; in America ?"

'' No, my dear, in Paris. That's the
place for gloves, and boots, and fans !"

Capri wondered why it was that people

like Mrs. Lordson bad plenty of money,
while she, who had taste and was refined,
had not a penny in the world to bless
herself with. It was strange !

A group of young girls in faded blue
and olive-green robes, cut in a fashion
partly Greek, partly Japanese, partly early
English, passed in front of them at that
moment.

"La ! how queer they dress," soliloquies
Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson. '' They do
look frights, some of them. It makes
one think they are not in their right minds
until one gets used to them. They remind
me of the poor young thing, Ophelia,
that I saw last night at the theatre, who
went out of her mind, and got on in a
dreadful way that quite gave me a turn."

It is fashionable to dress in this way,"
said Capri, smiling at the American's
remarks.

'' Yes. Mr. Marrix says it's 'esthetic."
So it is," said Capri. " It is high art."
Do you like artists and writers and
poets, and all that lot r" she asked, turning
round to Capri.

*' Yes," answered the girl, " they are
very nice people."

We have few of them in the States,"
she said confidentially, " and they seem a
little odd in their ways to me."
'' They are all Bohemians."
Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson did not understand.
She made another mental note,
in order to have her Mentor's opinion by-and-by.


I adore art myself," she said, presently
She had privately made up her mind
that she would become a patroness of art ;
for she had a just, sensible, and popular
idea that money can do anything and
everything now-a-days.

Do you stay long in town ?" Capri
questioned her timidly.

"Yes, I think I'll settle down in London.
I have taken a house in May Fair,
a small place, but large enough for one :
for I have neither chick nor child belonging
to me in life."

How lonely you must be." said Capri,
sympathetically, in a low, sweet tone, and
she looked into the widow's good-natured
face with her most trusting child-like
expression.

Yes, I am lonely sometimes," said Mrs.
W. Achilles Lordson, with a sigh that made
her capacious bosom heave like a billow ;
but then, when one lives in the world and
goes about, one has not much time left for
thinking."

As she spoke she looked into Capri's
face, and thought how sweet and beautiful
it was.

And you, my dear," said the American,
familiarly, '^ I suppose you have a lot of
brothers and sisters at home ?"

Oh ! no," the girl replied wistfully, as
if the possession of those relatives was the
one thing in life she most desired.

You are an only child?"

"Yes, I live all alone with Pa. My
mother has been dead many years. I
barely remember her."

Capri cast her eyes down. Mrs. Lordson
thought they were full of tears.

''My !" she ejaculated, and put up her
heavy gold-rimmed glasses, to take a
keener look at Capri's slender figure, clad
in its quiet grey colour.

Just then Capri lowered her arm, and
the silver bangle, which was too large for
her, fell to the ground. The girl bent
down to pick it up. She had thought it
handsome and valuable, but now, from

contrast with the massive bands of gold
that clasped Mrs. Lordson s fleshy wrists,
it looked almost shabby.

'' What a pretty bangle," said Mrs.
Lordson, wishing to make herself agreeable
to the girl.

"It is simple," said Capri. 'rit was
given to me by Lord Harrick."

Lord Harrick !" said the American
lady, on whom the viscount's name had the
due effect which Capri intended.

Yes, he is a friend of Pa's," she remarked,
as if peers of the realm were commonplace,
every-day acquaintances of hers.

"My ! Do you go much into society?"
she asked, after a slight meditative pause.

** No, we live very quietly. See, here
are our friends back."

At that moment the artist and Newton
Marrix opportunely returned, before Mrs.
W. Achilles Lordson could ask any further

questions of Capri concerning her borne.

Come and see me soon, dear," said the
American, turning suddenly to Capri.

"With great pleasure," answered the
girl, quite pleased at the prospect.

Some morning when I am quiet, say
Monday next, if that will suit you."

*' It will suit me very well."

Come about twelve, and we will have a
quiet chat."

"I shall be very glad," said Capri,
eagerly, for the proposal filled her with a
delight she could scarcely contain.

She had accomplished a move in the
right direction, and was pleased at the
impression she had made on the wealthy
American's mind. She had not wasted the
first opportunity to advance herself which
fate had thrown in her way.

When the two young men returned Mrs.
W. Achilles Lordson stool up and rustled

her ruby satin dress that caught the light
in its luminous folds, and jingled her
lockets and charms and bracelets noisily,
and folded her gorgeous black and gold
fan.

"I think we will go now," she said,
turning to Newton Marrix. "I am half
dazed like with all these pictures. Don't
you think they give one a headache ?" she,
who adored art, asked of Capri.

*• No," said the girl, who had but little
experience of galleries, but who spoke as
if she were a veteran picture-hunter.

'' We shall come some other day and look
at the rest," said Mrs. Lordson. Then she
turned round to where Marcus Phillips
stood, and said, in a most gracious manner,
" Mr. Phillips, yours is the picture
that pleases me best in the gallery," and
she smiled at him good-naturedly, as if to
encourage him. Already she had commenced

to play at being an art-patroness.

"You give me great pleasure," said the
artist, bowing to her.

Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson thought he
made a finer bow and looked better,
though only an artist, than Senator B.
Woulfetone Flanagan, who was known to
possess some six or seven million dollars,
or even than J. Washington Mangletor
himself, who ran for the presidency last
fall.

Good-bye, my dear," she said to Capri,
seizing her hand and giving it a grasp
which the girl feared would burst her new
glove that was a size too small. "You
will come on Monday ?"

'* I shall with pleasure."

I hope to see you again, Mr. Phillips,"
she concluded, giving the artist's hand an
honest, vice-like grip.

Then she jangled all her jewellery and

rustled her ample skirts once more, and
swept out of the gallery beside Newton
Marrix.

"Oh, Marc," Capri said eagerly, when
they were gone, " why did you not speak
more to her ? She has taken a house in
Mayfair, and adores art, she says."

Well ?"

Well, of course, if she takes a house
and adores art, she will want to buy pictures,
and she has plenty of money," said
the girl sagely, looking up at the tall, fair-haired
man beside her.

'what a wise little woman you are in
your generation," he said.

"" And what a dreamer you are in yours,
dear old Marc," she replied, imitating his
tone.

Perhaps."

You should cultivate that woman's
acquaintance. If I were you, I would

invite her to my studio — she would be
delighted with the idea — and then I should
sell her a pot-boiler for a good round sum."

What a mercenary creature !"

I always told you I was."

*' And I never believed you."

But you will some day."

I hope not, Capri."

Well, about Mrs. Lordson : she knows
as much about art as a cat, but she will
fill her house with it to make up for her
ignorance. People like her always do
that."

sewell?"

*' You save her from collecting a lot of
rubbish."

'how can I do that?"

How dull you are ! Why, by selling
her some of your own pictures ; she will
make a better purchaser than your hardhearted
bargaining old dealers. You will

serve her and yourself at the same time."

A shadow passed over the artist's face ;
he did not answer the o-irl immediately,
but looked away from her.

*' What are you thinking of, Marc ?" she
asked after a pause.

Shall I tell you ?" '

"Certainly: you must, now you excite
my curiosity. That is it?"

I am thinking it is a pity you are so
fond of money."

Perhaps it is," replied Capri, not displeased
with him, but softened at his unexpected
answer.

Now, in turn, will you tell me of what
you are thinking ?" he asked, watching the
half regretful look that came into her dark
eyes.

"I am thinking it is a pity that the
world renders it necessary for us to think
of money."

It is a pity if it does, for it takes away
much of the pleasure and freshness from
life."

'maybe," she answered, with a sigh;
come, let us go round the gallery."

CHAPTER VIII.

A MORNING CALL.

ON the day Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson
had appointed, Capri punctually presented
herself at the little house in Mayfair,
dressed in her quiet grey costume, with a
band of dark crimson velvet round her
throat, the only spot of colour visible in her
whole attire.

Though her dress was as simple as well
could be, and its hue as neutral as the severest
British matron could desire for a
young girl, yet there was something, not so
much about its shape and colour as about

VOL. I. T

the indescribable way in which it was worn,
that at once gave it an unstudied grace,
which made the plain material and its quiet
colour almost picturesque.

Capri had smiled at her reflection in the
little square of mirror hanging on the wall
in her bed-room with a complacent, gratified
air, when she had completed her toilette,
and fastened the bright-coloured satin round
her neck by way of artistic contrast.

She had told her father of the meeting
with the wealthy American widow in the
Grosvenor Gallery, and of the invitation she
had given her to go and have a quiet chat
with her; and that judicious parent was
pleased that Capri should keep her appointment
with Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson, for he
considered a closer acquaintance with that
lady might prove . of advantage to either
Capri or himself, though in what way he
could not exactly define.

The captain was a man who was fond of
glancing into the future in search of any
bright spots its horizon night probably contain.
Moreover, he had a speculative mind,
like many others with little to engage them.
He was ever ready for any change or good
luck that could possibly befall him.

If he woke up any morning in the year
to receive a telegram declaring him heir
to a title and estates, by sixteen sudden
deaths at one fell blow, he would
not have been much surprised, and would
have regarded the sixteen deaths but as the
timely interposition of Providence on his
behalf

He was ever waiting for fortune's favours,
yet for all his readiness they never came,
and so the captain learned patience.

In the present case he was interested by
Capri's account of Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson.
She was an American ; she was wealthy ;

t2

she had asked his daughter to visit her.
With such materials to commence within
the present, what might not the future
promise?

The captain filled his pipe, for cigars were
luxuries only to be enjoyed in the evening,
and had a quiet smoke thinking over
Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson while Capri proceeded
towards Mayfair.

The clocks of the neighbouring churches
were striking midday in a wonderful jangle
of different tones as she gave a timid rap at
the great brass knocker of the little door,
which represented the head of some animal
as yet completely unknown to the most
learned naturalist.

In order to rap one was obliged to get
hold of the two fierce-looking front teeth,
and strike them against the grizzled chin of
the monster ; the mouth was a receptacle for
letters.

The grotesque animal had eyes that
glared as fiercely as it was possible for
bronze to glare. Capri thought they sought
to rivet her to the doorstep by a sullen
malignant glare which, if she but looked
away for a moment, might develop into a
half comic wink.

She had not long, however, to wait ;
the door was flung open by a page in
spick and span new livery, the buttons of
whose jacket from chin to waist far outnumbered
his years.

His hair was light, and sleek as brushing
could make it ; his face shining and
rosy, so that altogether he was so dapper
and new of aspect that he looked like an
automatical boy that had been just sent
home to order from the stores.

Mrs. Lordson ?" said Capri, who grew
more timid in the presence of this glittering
specimen of humanity.

"What name?" he asked, with a sudden
snap-like manner, and then looked impenetrable.


"Miss Bankers."

"Walk up to the drawing-room, please,"
he said, as if repeating a lesson, and looking
at Capri from head to foot.

He showed her upstairs, flung the door
open and announced her.

"Miss Bankers."

Capri stood in the majestic presence of
Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson.

That lady was seated in a low square-backed
arm-chair, which she amply filled,
arrayed in a flowered yellow damask morning
wrapper, trimmed with many and many
a bow of olive-hued satin ; a lace cap just
rested on the back of her head, and a thick
gold chain, from which a massive locket was
suspended, was fastened round her full
throat ; her stout fingers were littered with

rings, and even at that early hour she was
resplendent with jewellery.

The windows of the drawing-room were
raised, and admitted the fresh, sweet odour
of plants and flowers that crowded the little
balcony outside, around the ornamental
metal work of which vine tendrils were
trained. It was shaded by a pretty awning
of pink and white lawn, which threw a
delicate shade into the room.

It was deliciously cool after the heat of
the morning outside, Capri thought ; but the
blaze of colour the apartment presented,
and the costly objects with which it was
filled, almost dazzled her.

Never before, except on the stage of the
Lyceum Theatre, had she seen such furniture.
The chairs and couches were upholstered
in yellow figured satin, which was fully
thrown into relief against their ebony backs ;
the window-curtains were of the same gorgeous

colour, somewhat toned down by the
costly lace which overhung and half covered
them. The carpet had a background of
orange, over which purple passion-flowers
and plants, such as never grew in terrestrial
gardens, twined themselves into bright-hued
garlands.

An upright piano, resplendent in ebony
and gold, stood in one corner of the room ;
a huge Corean jar in the other ; and between
the windows a pedestal surmounted
by a Greek double-headed vase, bearing
the faces of Hercules and Omphale, which
Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson had bought for
its weight in gold, and which she fondly
imagined made good her claim as a lover
of art in all men's sight.

Old china and many quaint, delightful
specimens of porcelain stood on shelves and
brackets about the walls.

The effect of the room, taken for all in

all, made one inclined to feel rather seasick
on this bright morning, but it was all
new to Capri, and the great glare had not
yet time to act upon her nerves.

*how do you do, ray dear?" said Mrs.
W. Achilles Lordson, smiling with that
good-natured expression which compensated
for much that her face lacked or lost, as
Capri entered the room.

The stout lady did not rise from her
chair, fur that would prove an exertion she
was not prepared to undergo in the
morning.

'' Very well, thanks," said Capri, a little
shy at feeling herself suddenly in the midst
of such splendour.

"I am glad to see you, my dear," said
the matron kindly, pressing the girl's hand.

'' How delightfully cool it is in here !"

It is. My blinds are well managed."

Capri looked out at the pink and white

awning and the bright flowers outside.

'* Are you hot, my dear ?"

"Just a little'

'' Well, take off your hat and jacket ; for
I hope you are prepared to spend a couple
of hours with me at least," she said pleasantly.


Capri readily declared she would be delighted,
and laid down her jacket, not without
some hesitation, on one of the 
chairs.

'* Why, child, you look twice as well
without your hat! How handsome you
are !" and the matron gazed at Capri as if
she were a picture or a statue.

A warm hue came into the pale olive of
her face, and light into her dark eyes.
Mrs. Lordson's words gave her a keen pleasure,
which she was quick to show, and for
which she felt grateful.

These complimentary words prepared her

to like the American. A little word frequently
means so much, though it is often
spoken so lightly. It is a pity we do not
think more before we speak, it would oftentimes
render us so much more agreeable to
others.

^' Come and sit by me," said Mrs. W.
Achilles Lordson.

The girl took a little stool, and placing it
at the matron's feet sat down there, and
looked, with a winning, child-like glance into
the broad, coarse, good-natured face above
her.

That's right' she said when Capri had
settled herself " What is your first name ?
I have made up my mind that you and I
are to be friends, and I shall not call you
Miss Bankers, my dear."

I am glad of that," replied the girl.
*' Almost everyone calls me Capri."

"Capri?"

Yes ; I am called after the island where
I was born."

"La ! child, who ever heard of the like?"
asked Mrs. Lordson, smiling.

"Very few, I believe."

And where is the island, my dear ? It
is not a desert one, I hope, for your poor
mother's sake."

No," answered Capri, who could not
restrain a smile. " It is near Naples."

Oh ! you are a foreigner then. That is
the reason you are so dark," she said with
charming natural bluntness.

"My mother was a foreigner, a Neapolitan,
whom my father married when he was
abroad."

Is he a foreigner, too ?"

"No, he is an Englishman; they lived in
Capri when I was born, and for some time
after. I came to England some years after
my mother died, when Pa retired."

"Retired from what?" asked Mrs. Lord-son,
already interested in what she heard.

From the English army," replied Capri,
looking up to see the effect of her words.

"Oh! I see. Is he a colonel?"

Colonels were as plentiful in Mrs. W.
Achilles Lordson's land as blackberries are
in September in an English lane, and familiarity
with those gallant countrymen of hers
had bred a contempt in her bosom for their
rank.

However, during her short acquaintance
with European life, she was just beginning
to see there was some contrast between the
military men yclept colonels on the other
side of the Atlantic and men of the same
title in England.

Still she liked the sound of the word
colonel. It was fine, she thought, and
miorht have ever so many glorious and
heroic associations connected with it; indeed

she might, had she chosen, now be
Mrs. Colonel H. Johnson Walworth, but
the colonel kept a fruit-stall and swore
dreadfully when his apples got bad, and
was utterly ignorant of art.

She was rather disappointed when Capri
said her father was but a retired captain,
but she reflected that a captain in the
English army was a good thing after all.

*' And where do you live, my dear ?" she
asked.

'ein the Euston Road," replied the girl,
without hesitation. ''Pa is not very well
off now ; we live very quietly."

I see," said Mrs. Lordson, grasping the
situation at once, and remaining thoughtful
for some little time.

'' Well," she said, after a slight pause,
with the air of one about to give confidence
for confidence, ^' last fall but one I came to
Europe."

"Last fall?"

"Yes; last autumn, as you say in England."


'*I beg your pardon."

My husband had died in the previous
spring, so I wanted to knock about to cheer
myself up and get lively again, and I went
to Italy and France."

How delightful that must have been !"

I can't say it was. I did not care for
them foreign places much. What is the use
in staying among people that do not know
one word of what you are saying, and only
make frightful signs at you when they
jabber away in their own tongue as if they
sought to make themselves understood in
that way. Not that they can help their
language, poor things ! but it always annoyed
me, and I left the Continent, though some
of the places were fine, to be sure ; and they
have plenty of art, my dear. They live for

art, and the money they can make out of
travellers."

And you got tired abroad ?"

*' I did, I assure you, and I made up my
mind to come to England, though I was
told it was dreadful slow and old-fashioned,
and the people were that stand-off and
knew nothing about surprise parties and
hops ; yet I rather like them, and intend to
stay for some time."

She ran her hand through Capri's hair
that shaded from dark to russet gold as it
caught the light in falling through her
fingers.

Then turning the conversation suddenly,
she asked,

*' How do you like my room ?'^

It is beautiful," said Capri.

It cost a pot of money, I can tell you,"
and she smiled, pleased and gratified by the
girl's response.

I suppose it did," answered Capri, trying
to make a mental calculation of what
the sum might amount to.

"There is a cabinet there I bought in
Italy. It belonged to Catherine de ]medici :
do you know about her ?"

''A little."

There is a statue in the ducal palace in
Florence to Venus de Medici, who was
a shameless thing, for she is carved without
anything to cover her, though a fine woman,
I admit ; but I never saw one of Catherine ;
there may be one in some of them galleries
abroad, but they confuse one so with their
queer names that no one can remember the
half of them."

The cabinet that had belonged to Catherine
de Medici was a gem of ebony, inlaid
with ivory marquetry. Capri rose to examine
and stare at it with homage.

I have never seen anything half so

VOL. 1. u

lovely," said the girl under her breath, and
she wondered how much it had cost, and
thought that there must be no limit to Mrs.
Lordson's wealth.

That lady smiled complacently.

T have always had a taste in that way,"
she remarked in a cool self-satisfied manner.
"You know, I adore art — I live for
it," she went on, turning her eyes from the
Corean jar to the costly porcelain lying on
the brackets ; '' but I have something much
finer to show you here,"

She turned to a coffer, which Capri had
not noticed before. It was shaped like an
ancient sarcophagus, and quaintly carved
exteriorly, but worn and almost black with
age.

It is not much to look at outside."

Mrs. Lordson opened the lid, and Capri
uttered an exclamation of delight, and fell
back a step or two reverentially. Inside,

on a background of rich crimson, were
painted cherubs swinging wreaths of golden
roses, and purple fruits, and yellow leaves ;
the fillets of the moulding were in dead
gold, heavily ornamented with arabesques
of palest pink, and bordered with a row of
beading in dark green.

It was a gorgeous-looking piece of workmanship,
a triumph of art.

"What do you think of that, my dear?
There are some of your English connoisseurs ^w
would give one of their eyes for that. It
formerly belonged to the Sechan collection.
That will show them how I love art," lie
concluded triumphantly, for the good woman
measured the beauty of art by the sum
it cost her.

It must have cost so much money," said
€apri, looking up at her.

'money! — 1 should think it did. I
bought it at a crreat sale in Paris. An arch

o

u 2

duke and a. French marquis bid against rae,
but I carried it off in spite of them, for I
had set my heart on having it, and have it
I would, at any price ; but it did cost me
some dollars," she replied, looking at Capri,
who was duly impressed with her magnificence.
*' The girl is very beautiful," Mrs.
Lordson thought, as her eyes turned towards
her new acquaintance.

Capri stood in the subdued light, her
dark hair contrasting the purity of her
complexion, a look of wonder, mingled with
longing, in her great eyes.

She is like a picture," Mrs. Lordson said
mentally, looking at her again, "or like one
of them statues in the foreign galleries, only
far more lovely, from the warm colour and
life that lights her face."

*' Do you sing?" the matron asked aloud
presently, and she pointed to the open
piano.

•' Yes," the girl answered, without hesitation,
going over to the instrument. " What
shall I sing you ?"

Anything you like, my dear. I am
fond of music. I delight in it, for it is in
itself an art, you know."

Capri had never sat down to such a handsome
instrument before. It had just come
from the maker's hands, and was brilliant
in its ornamentation of bright gold, the
notes were white and stiff, and when she
struck them they sounded deep, clear, and
ringing. She sat down quietly, struck a
few chords, and began Schubert's 'song
of Miriam " in a voice at once plaintive
and full of rich, tender melody. The sound
rose higher and higher like a beseeching
prayer, and then settled down into a subdued
hush, so sweet, so low and lingering
did the last note end.

Capri had insensibly the power of touching

others by her voice ; it seemed to find
an echo in the hearts of those who heard
her, and stir within them their most subtle
and best emotions.

When Capri had finished she left the
piano, and, seating herself on the stool by
Mrs. Lordson's feet, laid her head upon the
matron's knees with a pretty child-like
action, as if she were seeking for protection
and love. Mrs. Lordson did not speak for
some time. She laid her plump hand kindly
upon the dark head and stroked it softly.
The glossy hair was soft and silken to the
touch, and the pale, clear face looked very
gentle, and winning, and loveable just then.

I suppose you have plenty of friends,
Capri ?" Mrs. Lordson commenced, after
some time.

"Friends? No," said Capri, making no
mention of her visits to Marcus Phillips'
studio, or her occasional pleasant chats

with her father's pupils, who frequently
were not only punctual to the hour fixed
for their fencing lessons, but came half an
hour in advance, to have a friendly gossip
with her.

No ?"

You see I live quite alone with Pa, and
see very few persons — one cannot be too
particular in a city. Pa is nearly always
out, and I don't see much of him either, so
I am left a good deal to myself," she said,
finishing her words with a little sigh.

That is not well for a young girl like

you."

'* Perhaps not; but I have always been
used to it, and I do not much mind
now."

After this Mrs. Lordson was silent again
for some time, as if thinking, and kept
stroking Capri's head gently meanwhile.
Suddenly she said,

^' Would you like to come and live with
me?"

It was the question which all the time
Capri had been hoping and praying she
might ask her ; a desire which she feared
was too great a boon to have fulfilled, yet
here were her wishes granted, her hopes
gratified.

Capri felt her heart give a great throb,
and she mentally acknowledged that fortune
had been very good and gracious to
her indeed.

"Dear Mrs. Lordson, I should be delighted,"
she said, her eyes sparkling with
pleasure at the mere prospect. " It is the
one thing which I would most desire in
life."

'' Well," said the matron, " you see I live
all by myself; and, though I shall probably
go into society a good deal, yet I feel it
lonely to have no one to speak to now and

then. I begin to feel dull, so I thought I
would get a companion, and I took a fancy
to you, my dear, when I saw you in that
gallery."

'*I am glad you did. It was a lucky
visit for me," said Capri, raising her dark
eyes to Mrs. Lordson's face.

So, if you are willing, and your father
satisfied, I will give you a hundred a year,
and you can come and live with me as soon
as you please."

Poor Capri could scarcely believe she was
not dreaming. A hundred a year, and live
in Mayfair, not in two or three rooms ina
dingy road, noisy with the sound of cabs
and busses, and a hundred distracting street
cries, from early in the morning until late
at night, but a house in an aristocratic
quarter, and such a house too ; it was like
a prospect of Paradise.

If she were alone she would have jumped

for joy and danced about the room ; the
mere thought of the exchange almost overcame
her. She was dazzled with the idea
of living this new life ; the full glory and
benefit of the change flashed across her
quick mind in a second, and made her
breathless for a time.

^' Oh ! dear Mrs. Lordson," she said, when
she had calmed herself sufficiently to give
an answer, " how can I thank you?"

'* By coming to me as soon as you possibly
can; that is, always providing the captain
does not object."

Capri remembered her father with a little
chill. However, she resolved that nothing
should prevent her accepting this wonderful
offer. She had her way to gain in the
world, and this would be the first step in
the right direction. She made up her
mind there and then that her father should

exercise no influence over her in this
matter.

I think Pa will not mind when he knows
it will be for my advantage," she replied,
though she entertained lurking doubts in that
direction.

Very good, Capri."

"To-day is Monday. I shall prepare
and come to you on Saturday. Will that
suit ?"

'eyes, child, it will, if you cannot come
sooner. But I suppose you want to make
some preparations. Let it be on Saturday."

"Thank you."

Oh ! I almost forgot to ask you," she
said suddenly, " if you know much about
art."

Yes." said Capri boldly, for she knew
Mrs. Lordson could never sit in judgment
on her in that direction.

'that is all right."

"Mr. Phillips, who painted my picture,
has taught me a good deal about art ; and
so has an old friend of mine, Signor Pallas
who discovered some urns in Pompeii,
and who knows every monument and statue
in Rome; and he has talked of them tome
over and over again until I fancy I
know them all."

"The girl will be a perfect treasure,"
thought Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson, but she
said aloud,

"I am glad of that, my dear. It is the
duty of every one of us to have a good
knowledge of art," she went on in an eloquent
tone. *' It ennobles and raises our
minds, you see — at least so I am told, and
you know I adore art."

It is delightful," said Capri, trying to
keep the conversational ball rolling.

"Try to remember all about it, and

them statues and urns and things, and we
shall have a talk over them all when we are
together."

Capri resolved to gain as much information
on the subject, and make the best use
she could of old Pallamari's sources of
knowledge, by becoming as familiar with
the names and localities of statues and
pictures as possible ; she trusted the rest to
her fertile imagination.

Signor Pallamari," she said, for the
title of courtesy sounded less familiar and
better than the habitual " old " applied to
her friend, '' has lived half his life in art
galleries and among artists; it is always a
pleasure to me — one of the greatest pleasures
— to listen to his explanations and anecdotes
concerning art and artistic life."

"Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson said she was
glad of til at ; that to make art popular
would be the object of her life, a scheme in

which she hoped Capri would aid her.

Capri readily declared it was the ambition
of her life to make its true value known
to the lower class ; she only longed to commence
the good work at once.

The American was of opinion that in
England it was not only the lower classes,
but even the higher, and, if she might say
so, even the educated classes, which required
to become more familiar with the true
principles of art, and it would be to them
her exertions in the future would first
appeal.

Capri was pleased to hear this ; so far as
she could see, the class to whom Mrs.
Lordson made reference thought too much
of mere physical pleasures of life, leaving
the higher, more ennobling pursuits to lie
neglected.

Just then, when Mrs. Lordson had warmly
expressed lier approbation at the girl's

sentiments, they heard a loud ring and knock
at the door, and Capri rose to depart.

You need not stir, my dear, just yet ;
it's Mr. Marrix, I think, I expect him atone
o'clock," and she consulted a little
jewelled case watch the size of a florin.

In another moment Xewton Marrix
entered the room. The first tiling Capri
noticed was that he was carefully dressed,
and looked remarkably bright and well.

You did not expect to see Miss Bankers
here, I suppose?" said Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson when the young author had
shaken hands with them and sat down on
an ottoman opposite.

I scarcely expected such a pleasure."

'well, I asked her to call and see me
this morning, and the result is that we
like each other so well that we are going
to live together in future. She will be
my companion."

'' I offer my congratulations to you both,"
he said ; " I am very o;lacl."

'^ Well, that is pleasant," said Mrs. Lord-son,
as if it were a relief to her to find he
had approved of her action.

I have secured stalls at the Lyceum for
Saturday night," he said. "There is a reproduction
announced for that night, and all
the best people will be there."

You are very good," said the matron,
delightedly.

And Mrs. Stonexx Stanning has asked
me to leave you her card, and say she will
be pleased to see you at her at homes on
Thursday afternoons during the season."

He handed her the card which, as a
special favour to himself, Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning had consented to let him have.

My ! How kind she is," said Mrs.
Lordson. "You will call for me next
Thursday, and we shall go."

Newton Marrix accepted the order and
promised obedience.

Mrs. Wilson Farmer, the authoress, will
call on you on Wednesday and have lunch,
and so will Count Hassan. I have asked
both, using my carte blanche, and knowing
you had no engagements for Wednesday."

I am delighted."

"The count is a great connoisseur. I
have told him of your coffer "

And the Medici cabinet ?"

"Yes."

*' La, I am so glad."

"So is the count?"

"And Mrs. Wilson Farmer, is she agreeable?"

Most agreeable ; but she does not care
a straw for art."

"My! What a pity!"

She only lives to write."

I hope she won't put me into one of
her novels."

VOL. I. X

No danger of that."

I am afraid of those people."

Not of me ?"

Of course not."

I must get some of her books tomorrow
from the Grosvenor Library and read them
before she comes ; one always knows authors
through their books, and besides," she added,
turning to Capri with an air of superior
wisdom, '' it always flatters them to show
by some reference that you are familiar
with their writings and know some of their
characters by name."

*' You know our weak points," said Newton
Marrix, smiling.

I have studied human nature."

"Then be merciful in your judgments."

I always am," said Mrs. Lordson with a
gentle sigh. " By-the-way, does the count
speak English ?"

"He does."

Well, that is pleasant. Have you asked
anyone else to luncheon ?"

No, unless my friend Marcus Phillips ;
he knows the count."

'every good. I shall be happy to see
him."

Capri heard the artist's name mentioned
with pleasure as among those who were to
lunch, and thanked the author with a glance
of her bright eyes which did not escape
him. Marcus would see the house, and
would be able to call on Mrs. Lordson and
see her, Capri, at the same time, when she
was settled as the matron's companion.

Where do we go to-day ?" Mrs. Lordson
asked of her guide, philosopher, and friend.

"To Windsor. We shall start after
luncheon."

Capri stood up to leave.

Come, my dear, you must have some
lunch before you go," and she took the girl's

arm and led her into the dining-room.

By the time she had finished she felt
quite familiar with the place ; she was certain
she would get on well at her new
duties. Her spirits rose.

When she at length left, she went down
the handsomely-carpeted steps with an air
of perfect complacency. The page opened
the door for her ; she passed out without
seeming to perceive that miniature man, and
with as much dignity as if she had been
used to the attendance of pages all the days
of her life.

The sense of a coming change was already
upon her.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM House.

H

■x^

s'ys-y>?^^N\'f ^;sr

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS

2>Z3

VOL. II.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/itisnowonderstor02moll

% Step 0f §0lj^mian pfc

BY

J. FITZGERALD Molly

In robe and crown the king stept do-wn
To meet and greet her on her way ;
It is no wonder,' said the lords,
She is more beautiful than day.' "

Ten>-tson's Beggar Maid.

IN THREE Policies.
VOL. n.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1882.

Ail rights reserved.

IT IS NO Wonder.

CHAPTER I.

IS THIS A DREAM ?

TTTHEX Capri got out into the street she
^ ^ was sorely tempted to run from a
sense of gladness within her; she could
scarcely contain herself at the prospect of
this sudden luck which had befallen her.

The sun was shining brightly as if in sympathy
with her mood, and as an omen of
her future success. She felt an undefinable
sense of happiness in the air ; felt as if she

VOL. II. B

could forgive anyone who had ever injured
her, and make friends with the world at
large.

Everyone who passed her by seemed
merry and cheerful, seen through the happy
liofht of her younsj eves. She felt that she
must get home quickly and tell her good
fortune to some one, or she would die with
the weight of its happiness.

She thought she would just go home first
and see if her father was in : if not, she
would run to dear old Pallamari and unburden
herself to him ; he was always sympathetic,
and he would be certain to rejoice
with her in this change of prospects.

Opening the door of the house in Euston
Road with her latch-key, she quickly ran
up the stairs that now seemed to her
darker and narrower and more stuffy than
ever, and entered the familiar sitting-room.

There was no one there, but oh, how

changed the place seemed to have grown during
her two brief hours of absence ! She
could scarcely believe she had lived in these
rooms so long without feeling their utter and
now most detestable shabbiness.

With the glare of Mrs. W. Achilles Lord-son's
yellow satin furniture, velvet carpets,
lace hangings, and Medici cabinet yet in her
eyes, the contrast was terrible.

The poor shabby-genteel room looked
quite shamefaced, and all the more so from
the stamp it bore of having seen better days.
The once crimson curtains were now a
horrid brick colour, darned here and there,
as the unmerciful and searching sunlight, now
shining through them, too plainly showed :
they were thick with a coating of dust which
no amount of shaking would dislodge. The
carpet looked wretchedly threadbare, unless
where the centre table had driven it shelter
and protection ; and the sofa, for all its

chintz covering, had a broken-down looking,
deceptive appearance.

The table was weak-legged, that could be
easily seen, though its infirmity was sought
to be covered by a washed-out cover ; and
the poor old piano in the corner, how yellow
and worn the notes looked ! Above it hung
a picture supposed to be a landscape in oils,
but so black with time and smoke was it
that the artist's original idea was completely
lost sight of; it presented a magnificent
blank of many shades.

The old-fashioned wall-paper, with its
great bouquets, looking like veritable last
roses of summer, so faded were they, was
cracked and discoloured ; all wore a miserable
aspect of dinginess in her sight, such as
she had never noticed before.

What would not money do, she asked
herself, what wonders could it not work.
It was only gold which wrought the difference

between this faded room and the handsome
drawing-room in Mayfair, bright with
colour, luxurious and fresh and sweet with
many plants and flowers.

Yet what a difference !

Ah, money is the great lever that moves
the world," she said, with a short bitter sigh.

Why should people like Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson, who were vulgar, and could not
appreciate the subtle beauty of those things
which surrounded them, have wealth, while
she, to whom objects of art and loveliness
made all the difference in life, was poor,
and had to live in a room like this in a
dirty, noisy thoroughfare? However, it was ;
well the worst of her days had gone by. V
The future offered well, and she was not
one to miss opportunities that might present
themselves.

A smell of cigars was hanging about the
room ; so different from the odour of fragrant

plants and flowers fresh cut From the
gardens, which filled Mrs. Lordson's apartment.
It gave her a headache, she fancied,
and changed her mood in a minute. She
had come in full of spirits, and bright with
hopes for the future, radiant because of
the good prospects which had so unexpectedly
befallen her, happy as a morning in
spring, looking confidently and joyously
towards her coming days, prepared to be
pleased with all the world ; and yet a few
brief moments, the sight of a dingy room,
the smell of stale cigars, and the contrast
between money and poverty had changed
her completely, and made her miserable.
She felt heavy and depressed, and inclined
to regard all things with bitterness ; she
thought that hers had been a wasted life, sofar
as it had gone ; that she had not been
sent into existence to pass her days in a
back-floor shabby pair in the Euston Road,

and lead a life made up of petty shifts,
and small worries, and continual efforts to
keep up an appearance that was at best a
wretched make-belief of respectability.
And yet the fairest and brighter years of
her young life had gone by in this manner ;
had been squandered in attending to trifles ;
wasted on efforts to keep things straight
for the sake of a father who had but small
claims on her sympathy or affection.

'' How did I bear it all so lone ?" she said
to herself, remembering the loans extracted
by the captain from acquaintances and
friends, thinking of his manners, bombastic
and patronising, or servile and humiliating,
according to the people he addressed ; and
calling to mind her own flos to the landlady,
her hypocritical and politic smiles to
Mrs. Fum's daughters ; the apologies for
small debts due to the tradespeople, and
the thousand little humiliations she had to

endure, and little acts of meanness she had
to inflict on herself.

"It was all so petty," she said, indignant
at the memory of these facts which rose
before her. '*I think my conscience would
feel more easy under one good crime than
under the whole miserable list of those
shabby little tricks and pretences."

She shrugged her shoulders, and a hard
look came into her eyes, a disdainful smile
crossed her lips. She dragged one of the
horse-hair chairs by the back across the
poor, faded carpet to the table, on which
lay a tattered volume of Shakespeare, coverless,
greasy, and dog-eared from long and
faithful service. In her vexation she took
the book up, and flung it in the fire-place.
She watched its flight through the air, saw
its leaves flutter, and some pages drop to
the ground, and then heard it fall with a
thud inside the fender.

She felt all the better for this act, trifling
as it was ; she longed to break or tear
something. It would have relieved her
feelings immensely at that moment, but it
was a luxury she could not afford.

Just then she heard some one coming up
the stairs. She thought at first she recognised
the step, but then again, on listening
more attentively, she came to the conclusion
it was some visitor to the tenants of the
upper floor. The tread lacked the swiftness
of familiarity. If it was anyone for her, it
was probably the baker's bill — she owed
him a few shillings — or the laundress, who
was about to look in for the trifle due to
her since last week.

Presently the footsteps, which were lighter
than those of the baker's boy, or yet the
washerwoman's, stopped outside the sitting-room
door, and a tap sounded.

Come in," she said, without turning

round ; perhaps, after all, it was but one ot
the wooden-figured, red-cheeked children
coming for an early music-lesson.

Some one entered in answer to the permission
she had shouted out in a voice not
too amiable and sweet.

Miss Capri !"

Oh ! Lord Harrick I did not expect
you so soon," she said very bluntly, and
without rising.

'' Did you not ?" he said, stammering.

He looked so shv and younsr, with his
round wdiiskerless boyish face, that she could
not help smiling ; at which mark of friendliness
on her part he smiled too, and bade
fair to recover from his bashfulness quickly.

''Pa is out," she said.

** Well, I was passing in this direction,
and I thought I would look in, though T
knew it was half an hour or so too early
for my lesson," he said apologetically.

He stretched out his hand, into which she
placed her fingers coldly.

'' If you will not mind, I shall wait until
the captain comes in, Miss Capri."

Pray do," she said, making an effort to
be polite : she was out of humour, and had
no desire to see him or anyone else just
then.

Thank you."

She got up and handed him one of the
roughest and ugliest of the horsehair chairs,
which she hoped would hurt him.

'' Take a chair."

"You are very kind."

Am I ? I was afraid I was not."

She sat down exactly opposite him, at
the other side of the table, leaning her
elbows on it, with her head on one hand.
She had taken off her hat ; her hair was
tossed upon her low forehead, her great
liquid eyes had a troubled look in them

which he had never seen before, but which
now interested him, and made her look
vet more charming than he remembered
to have seen her at any previous time.
A faint colour lit up the purity of her
olive complexion, her ripe lips pouted like
a child's. She had the most lovely face he
had ever seen. In every way she was
charming. There was something seductive
and infinitely graceful in her ways — so
much in her manner of the girl, from which
she was passing, mixed with the gentlewoman,
into which she was developing.
Then the warmth of her rich southern
beauty, her sweet voice, with its musical
inflections, the very change of her various
moods, all combined to charm, dazzle,
and fascinate him more than he could as
yet understand or yet express.

Sitting before her now, he could only
stare at her mutely, a proceeding Capri did

not seem even conscious of; he could not
speak, for all his mind was engaged in thinking
of her beauty, wondering why it was
that she filled him with an admiration and
a feelings with which no other woman had
ever inspired him before.

Merely to sit so near her, to look into
her face, was a pleasure that almost intoxicated
him, to touch her hand was in itself a
delight that stirred him with a sensation
which he had never before experienced.

As Capri had raised her arm to support
her head, the silver bangle rattled and
reminded her of his present ; she suddenly
felt touched with gratitude, and was sorry
for the abruptness with which she had just
received him, and which he had taken so
good-naturedly.

As a recompense she resolved to act with
more amiability towards him for the future,
and, full of this good intention, she raised

her dark eyes to his. They were sunny
with light. He roused himself from his
abstraction and said,

*' Do you know where I have been ?"

He smiled so good-humouredly that she
could not help doing so likewise. Her
depression was fast passing away.

"No. How should I?" she replied.

Can't you guess ?"

She thought he had been to the Grosvenor
Gallery to see the "Beggar Maid"
picture, but she said,

Where have you been ? Let me see, to
luncheon, I suppose."

"No, that is not what I mean," he answered.


Well, to the matinee performance of
merely Players'"

No."

"To the Academy ?"

'' Wrong again, but nearer the mark."

"To the Grosvenor Gallery?"

'' Yes."

And so have I. How did you like it ?"

"Oh! it was capital, especially one picture."

"Mine?"

Yes, of course ; it is stunning."

I'm shad you like the ' Berar Maid'"

"" Everyone likes it. There was a great
crowd round it when I was there. They
were all talking of it among themselves."

"What did they say of the 'Beggar
Maid?"

'* A great many good things."

Capri's good spirit rose triumphantly again.
She gave a clear, rippling, musical laugh.
Lord Harrick laughed also.

Clever fellow who painted you."

Why ?"

Because the picture is — is capital."

What does capital mean ?" she asked
quizzing.

Capital ? Well, I mean the picture is
handsome, charming — what shall I say ? —
well, it is wonderfully like you."

You are growing quite like a courtier.
When did you learn to pay compliments ?"

"Did I pay a compliment?" he asked,
innocently. " I only said what was true."

There is another," she said, well pleased,
her face rippling into smiles.

Lord Harrick was delighted at the progress
in her friendship he was making.

Capri laid one hand on the table, small,
delicate, and shapely, and in a moment
Lord Harrick put forward his and playfully
covered it with his large palm. For a moment
she strove to take her hand away, but
the more effort she made the closer he
pressed it, until she let it rest placidly
beneath his.

In an instant, and quick as electricity,
when their hands met a thought flashed

upon her that made her faint and giddy fora
second.

Was it possible that Lord Harrick loved
her ?

The idea had never crossed her mind
before ; now it broke upon her with a suddenness
that almost took away her breath.
Did he love her, or was his manner assumed
to make time pass pleasantly to himself?
Was this but the customary conventional
flirtation which he would forget in the next
hour, and perhaps never recur again to, even
in thought ?

Her quick feminine intuition assured her
that he had fallen in love with her. Then
in a flash the full force of what the possession
of this man's love, honourably given —
for she could not dream for a moment that
it could be otherwise than honourable —
might mean came upon her.

It dazzled and scared her. The prospect

VOL. II. c

was too bright ; it was too much like a fantasy
to which some wild thought had given
rise. It was a dream over which she must
not spend a moment's serious thought.

For a second her breath had ceased ; her
face changed, the almost child-like look had
departed, the smile vanished from her lips,
a look of anxious thought came into her
eyes.

Was it possible he loved her ? No. Tt
was but a foolish thought. She drove it, or
rather strove to drive it, away from her
heart, but already it had changed from a
mere thought into a faint hope that altered
the whole world for her.

And so you like my picture?" she said,
resuming much of her old playful manner,
and going back to their conversation.

Like it !" he repeated. '* It is stunning
! You know I am not soot at talking.

and finding words to say what I mean —
but "

Yes, I know," said Capri, anxious to
spare him any effort on the present occasion.
" I think — I fear I have been often
unkind, perhaps rude to you," she added
suddenly.

"Oh ! no, don't say that, or you will
make me feel deuced uncomfortable," he
said, pressing her hand tighter yet.

Whilst he spoke a new light came into
his round blue eyes, the quick blood warmed
in his veins.

If I have 1 am sorry for it now," the
girl went on, without pretending to hear his
last sentence. "And I say so to-day because
I am going away from here soon —
very soon." She spoke in a low musical
tone that had just a subtle touch of pathos
in it, watching his face keenly the while.

c2

Going away ?" he repeated.

He uncovered her hand in the surprise
of the moment, and leaned back in his
chair.

You are jesting with me !"

Capri saw the glow of pleasure which a
second ago crossed his face, now died slowly
away ; saw it, and made a mental note of
the fact.

No," she answered, " I am quite in
earnest."

His face had fallen. She saw an anxious
look coming into his eyes, as they stared
fully at her across the table. He did not
speak, and, after a moment's pause, she went
on.

*^ Shall you feel sorry ?" she asked very
gently.

*' Confoundedly — I mean awfully sorry."

Capri looked up at him suddenly ; she
saw he was in earnest.

The look of her soft dark eyes brought
the light and colour back again to his face ;
he put out both his hands across the table
and took hers within them.

"You are really going?"

Yes, I am going to live as companion
with a Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson, an American
lady to whom I have been introduced
by a friend."

Going to live with her in America?"

"No, mayfair."

"That is a difference."

A very decided difference."

They both laughed.

Mrs. Lordson has just come to England,
and seeks the society of ' a young personas
the advertisements say."

"Well, Mayfair is not so far," he said,
quite relieved. She was not going away
from town, after all ; he was not to lose

sight of her as he first feared ; he felt against
happy again.

I may not stay with her long," Capri's
soft voice said, "for she is rich and a widow,
and so may marry any day and have a
companion for life, when my occupation will
be gone."

'how awfully jolly that will be!" he
answered, looking into her dark eyes that
now under his gaze drooped until the long
black lashes lay upon her cheek.

'' For Mrs. Lordson to have a companion
for life, do you mean ?"

No."

To have my occupation gone ?"

No. I — I didn't mean that quite, you
know ; what I meant was, will it not be
jolly when the old girl marries, and you are
free again."

*' That depends, Lord Harrick," she said
with a little sigh, and affecting at once a

more serious manner. " I suppose I cannot
be always free," she added.

^* No, I suppose not," he said, putting the
ends of his light moustache into his mouth
in an absent-minded way ; for the future
freedom of Capri seemed to present a new
train of ideas to his mind, which he was not
quite prepared to think out just then.

Neither of them spoke for some time ; the
room was quite still ; the sunlight fell slantingly
through the red merino curtains on to
the carpet, whose threadbare aspect it cruelly
exposed ; the rumbling noise of buses and
cabs in the road outside fell faintly on their
ears ; the chimes of St. Pancreas' Church
sounded distinctly ringing a quarter to three ;
the house was unusually still.

The silence between them continued for
some time, and silence between two young
people in such circumstances is either dangerous
or disagreeable.

To them it was not disagreeable. Capri
was wondering again if he were really in
love with her, and if so would he make her
his wife?

It was a maddening thought. Would she
become a viscountess — the future Viscountess
Garrick ? She felt that he loved her ; she
was conscious that she could make him love
her ; it was a power she had of winning
people and making them like her, compelling
them as it were, by the mere strength of
her desire and will ; it was a dangerous gift
for herself as well as for others.

She glanced briefly at her chances of success
in this game of love, with Lord Harrick
as the prize. He had not seen much of the
world; he was young, and at twenty-three the
most sensible young men are unphilosophical
enough to marry for love ; to them love is
all-sufficient in itself, they never stay to reason
where the grand passion is concerned.

The viscount was not the wisest of young
men, and the chances of his yielding to her
influence were therefore greater ; he was dull
and placid, yet sagacious and strong-minded
enough to follow out his own will where his
pleasure was concerned.

Then both his parents were dead : he
was his own master ; his guardians had no
longer control over hiiu ; his nearest and
only relative was his grandmother the
old Duchess of Dewshire, whom he saw
about a dozen times in the year and who
would have but little influence over him.

Everything seemed to aid her in her
chances of success ; here she had a clear
ground to work upon, she had a new project
to study for, a something worth living
to experience.

She put her hands to her face and closed
her eyes ; was it after all but a mere mad
dream, a hopeless desire, a wild imagery that

made her blood throb and her brain dizzy.
The picture that rose before her dazzled and
blinded her mental sight, and made her
head swim round and her heart beat
wildly.

And yet why was it impossible ? Were
there no Lords of Burleigh now-a-days ?
Miss Mellon had married a duke, and Miss
O'Neil a baronet, and Adeline Patti a mars
quis, and they were actresses, and she — she
was a beggar maid ; would this man be her
king, her Cophetua ?

No, no, it was merely a foolish, childish
dream, she thought ; her mind taking many
changes in its wild uncertainty.

She become a peeress of England and
Scotland ; she w4io had often gone without
a dinner all day and to bed supperless ; she
who had known actual hunger when the
funds were exhausted, and she was too
proud to solicit a landlady's small loan ; she

who had to pinch and save and endure
many petty miseries, and to suffer little
humiliations from the tradespeople with a
smiling face and an air of patience ; she who
lived up three flights of stairs, in a shabby-genteel
room that smelled of cheap cigars,
and had a dissipated look in its general
belongings; she who taught music to her
landlady's daughters until her head ached,
for a shilling a lesson ; she who had never
known a home or its comforts, or the sweetness
of domestic love and care.

No, she was only an untutored, self-willed
Bohemian, with a pleasant face,
ready wit, and a smooth tongue ; and her
late success with Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson
had half turned her brain. So she told
herself, striving to preach down this new
hope that had taken root in her heart ; and
she resolved to think no more of love and
Lord Harrick coupled together. This was

only a passing flirtation, which he would
probably forget as soon as the door closed
upon him.

She took down her hands, which covered
her face while she thought, and laid them
on the table. Her face was flushed with a
faint colour that lit up the delicate olive hue
of her clear complexion ; her dark hair, with
its tinge of russet gold, was dishevelled,
and fell carelessly and gracefully over her
shoulders ; her eyes had a serious look very
lovely to see. Nature had made her most
beautiful. Her delicately-shaped little hands,
that had no trace on them of the daily work
they did, were stretched out before her,
and once more Lord Harrick took them in
his.

As he did so the silver bangle on the
left wrist jangled musically. Both of them
looked at the ornament.

*' Do you ever think of me when you put

this on?" he asked her, more timidly than
was his wont.

How can I help doing so ?" she answered
evasively. The bangle had begun
to resume its beauty in her eyes again, once
removed from the sheen of Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson's more massive jewellery.

She felt his hands fasten round her more
tightly, saw the light coming into his blue
eyes once more, and noted his face slowly
reddening.

*' Will you allows me to come and see
you when you are settled in Mayfair?"

*' I am afraid," she answered, resolutely
striving to banish all idea of him as a lover
from her inind, — "I am afraid my time will
not be quite my own ; but 1 shall probably
see you if you call on ]airs. Lordson."

I don't know her."

** But you can if you wish."

How ?"

She is going to Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's
afternoon tea on Thursday. You sometimes
go there, I heard you say once, and
Mr. Newton Marrix or Mrs. Stonexx Stanning
will introduce you, if you wish."

I will go next Thursday," he answered,
quickly, " though I think the people there
are usually too artistic for me. I don't get
along with them very well."

While he spoke Capri was looking at his
closely-cut red hair, thinking what an
abominable colour Nature had made it, and
at his round, ruddy-complexioned face that
had no expression in particular to speak
of, and at his stout, square-shaped hands,
which held hers in a firm grasp. She wondered
to herself why he had been sent into
existence with such an unattractive appearance.


I should not like to lose sight of you,"
he said presently.

Would you not ?"

"And — and I hope you would miss rae
if 1 did."

I can scarcely say until you put me to
the test," she said, smiling.

Could you not ?"

'* No ; and I trust you will not give mean
opportunity of testing ray feelings on
that point," she replied half quizzing,
and with her old humour coming back to
her.

Are you jesting with me ?" he asked
seriously, and with an anxious look crossing
his face that almost made her laugh.

"No," she said. *' I hope to see all my
old friends — you among them — from time
to time. I think I should feel very lonely
if I did not."

A deeper colour came into his cheeks, and
as he stretched across the table she could
feel his hot breath on her face.

'*Do you know " he said, and then

he paused.

"What?"

"That — that I like you very much."

She did not move, but lowered her eyes.

His face was close to hers now, his breath
felt more warm on her cheek ; she felt a
thrill pass through the hands that held hers.
At that moment he would have given half
of all he possessed to kiss her. Suddenly
there was a step heard coming up the
stairs, and Capri rose slowly. He unclasped
her hands. They both recognized the
accustomed footfall.

*rit is Pa," said the girl in an unconcerned
way, quietly putting back her chair.

Lord Harrick was disturbed, and muttered
something under his breath that had
not the sound of a blessing. He wished
the gallant captain fifty miles away at that
moment.

The footsteps approached nearer ; the
handle of the door turned and Captain
Dankers entered.

"Ah! Lord Harrick," he exclaimed, taking
off his hat with a flourish, and giving a
bow worthy of Beau Brummell in his best
days.

Never before did the viscount think hoi
such an objectionable person*

*' Punctual to-day," he went on. ^' I
think we fixed three o'clock for our
lesson."

And the captain took off the coat which
tightly clasped his willowy figure.

Yes," said the young man, going over
to the corner at once and taking up his
foil. " Yes, I know ; three o'clock. Weare
both in good time."

Capri took up her hat and put it on.

"Where are you going, my dear?" said
her affectionate parent, elevating his eye-vol.

IT. D

brows, and regarding her with what he
believed was a most affectionate smile, especially
assumed for Lord Harrick's benefit.

*' I am going to see old Padre Pallamari."

Very well, my love."

I shall come back in an hour."

Lord Harrick stepped before her to the
door and opened it.

Good afternoon, Miss Capri," he said,
holding out his hand and bowing as she
passed.

She placed her hand lightly in his without
raising her eyes.

Good day," she replied.

In another instant the door had closed
behind her.

CHAPTER IL

PADRE PALLAMARI.

OLD Padre Pallamari lived in a neighbouring
street that branched off
the Euston Road. A quiet, dingy little
thoroughfare that had once seen better
days, and now lived on its past reputation
for gentility.

It had a faded kind of aspect, and looked
forsaken and solitary. All the houses on
either side were as like one another as it
was possible for builder to build them.
They had all the same small doors, painted
dark green annually by contract ; each door

d2

had a brass knocker, all facsimiles of each
other ; each round-topped fanlight had a
little chalk image of a pig, or a bust of
Byron, or a painted flower-pot ; and many
of them had, in addition, a card on which
the word '' Apartments " was written, prominently
displayed.

It strove bravely to be a respectable little
street, in its quiet, unpretending way, having
its door-steps whitened every morning in
the year, and its spotless muslin curtains
carefully drawn across the little windows of
its best front parlours, to exclude all vulgar
gaze — it was even genteel.

A French monsieur lived at No. 3, who
taught dancing in various fashionable academies
in the suburbs. It was a sight to see
monsieur leave his rooms at midday, his
beautiful black locks glittering from pomade,
his moustaches waxed with an elegance that
defied criticism, and gave to his appearance

an air of lofty distinction, his patent-leather
boots shining with a lustre that put to shame
Day and Martin's best blacking. The whole
street agreed he was a credit to it, he was
so smiling and polite, he walked so daintily,
he bowed so handsomely, and was so
generally elegant.

Over the way, at Xo. 10, a scene-shifter
and his wife, who was a theatrical seamstress,
lived.

They were most respectable people, too,
Mrs. Gubbins, at Xo. 12, said. They came
in late at night, it was true, and carried
great bundles in their arms oftentimes, and
seldom went to church, either on Sunday or
any other day, but these things were part of
their profession, poor creatures ; yet they
were popular, for they gave passes to the
play occasionally, of which the street was
glad and quick to avail itself, talking about
its projected visit to the theatre for days

previous, and wearing its finest clothes when
the night came, and the passes admitted it
gratis to some seats in the undress gallery
of the Ophelia Theatre.

A mysterious old gentleman lived in this
street also, who was never seen by man,
woman, or child to speak to anyone, who
never came out until twilight, and then went
no one knew where : who wore a gold-rammed
eye-glass, which he was never seen
to use, suspended from his neck by a dark
blue ribbon, and who was believed to be a
little wrong in the upper story, but quite
quiet and genteel.

He had the front pair in No. 8. Some one
once said he was a marquis who had left his
friends, and now lived in disguise, because
the next heir-at-law strove to get rid of him
by giving him a poisoned nut after dinner,,
which he was saved from eating by having
an anonymous note, bidding him beware,

thrust secretly into his hand just at the very
instant when he was about to raise the
poisoned fruit to his lips.

This story gained wide popularity with
the street, until Mrs. Gubbins said that little
Miss Banks, the dressmaker, who was very
romantic and read the London Journal
weekly, had got that story from her favourite
magazine, and had somehow mixed up the
characters of the marquis and the mysterious
lodger inextricably.

Indeed, the street was rather displeased
at finding the old man was not, after all, a
marquis, whose life had been almost miraculously
saved by a note from " an unknown
friend," and after a while it went boldly
over to the idea that he was the injured
peer ; his gold-rimmed eye-glass, which he
was never seen to use, with its blue silk
ribbon, was almost sufficient to prove he
was ; so the street declared little Miss

Banks was right, and the mysterious lodger
became from that hour, quite unknown to
himself, an object of public interest.

It was altogether a snug neighbourly
little street, that had its foreign musician,
in the guise of an Italian organ-grinder, to
visit it every Friday night, and soothe its
mind with selections from *' La Fille dftu v.
Tambour Major" : the air of a popular comic /
song, and a droning hymn.

Old Padre Pallamari lived at No. 13, at
the top of the house.

It is near heaven, mia filia," he once
said to Capri, when the girl had said the
ascent of four flights of stairs was too much
for him — " it is near heaven ; we have all
difficulty in reaching there," and the old
man laughed over his joke, and shook his
brown head merrily enough.

He was a great favourite with the children
— for even this street had children —

little models in themselves of respectability
and general gentility. They had learned
to call the old man padre, and their shrill
English tones pierced his ears, but touched
his old heart all the same. He was on
friendly terms with the whole street ; the
women liked to see him passing by, his old
brown wrinkled face ever covered with
pleasant smiles. Little Miss Banks always
stopped the noise of her sewing-machine to
salute him through the open window with
<i huona journal or buena sara, two phrases
which he had taught her, and which caused
her to be regarded by the street generally
as a talented linguist.

Even the mysterious lodger, who was
never before seen to recognise any of his
neighbours, once raised his hat to him, and
old Padre Pallamari ever afterwards, when
they met, had something pleasant to say to
the supposed marquis.

Pallamari was indeed the father of the
street ; he had grown to love his title of
padre, and waited to hear it upon the children's
lips when he came out amongst
them.

Once, when he was in Miss Banks' room
having a friendly cup of tea and a social
gossip with the kind-hearted little woman,
she had called him caro mio padre and in a
moment of enthusiasm and gratitude the
old man had raised her hand to his lips.
She thought she saw tears in his eyes.

An attic room up four flights of stairs
was his home : it was his world. It served
him as bed and reception-room. Here he
received his pupils, when they chanced to
come to hint, with the air of a prince and
the simplicity of an artist, so that they forgot
it was an attic bed-room, and not a
salon. He kept a fire burning in it summer
and winter ; the fire seemed to him a friend

into whose cheerful face it was always
pleasant to look. It was useful, too, for
culinary purposes, for the padre was his
own cook, did his own marketing, waited
on himself, washed his own linen, knitted
his own stockings, and was altogether very
comfortable and happy in his attic, and
almost as independent of the outside world
as Robinson Crusoe was on his desert
island.

Capri had known him ever since she came
to London, a brown-faced little foreigner
to whom everything in the city was new
and strange and detestable, and when she
could not speak a dozen words in English.

Fortunately for her, her father had lived
in the same house with old Pallamari in
those days, and Capri at first sight looked
on the old man, who was one of her people,
and spoke her own tongue, as some one sent
by Providence specially to save her from

the utter misery and loneliness which
threatened to break her heart.

The dark-eyed, wilful Southern child
had brightened the old man's life, and
brought him back a thousand happy memories
of his own land and earlier days, which
he had believed buried in his heart for ever
and ever.

The padre was her friend, her father.
She still remembered how he comforted
her by his gentle words, his kindly smiles,
his talks of Italy, in those bygone days of
her grief, when her heart yet bled from
the parting with the friends of her childhood
and the scenes where her young days
had gone by ; days that were pleasant as a
dream of heaven.

How tender and gentle and good he was !
He taught her English, and the sounds so
harsh to her ears gained something of music
falling from his lips ; by and by he gave her

lessons in music ; she had already sung, and
had, he said, a voice sweet as an ancrel's.
And how he had played to her up there,
shut in from all the world, played on his
old sweet-toned violin until the music rose
like the prayer of a soul in trouble, floating
upwards to God's feet, till but the echo
remained in mid-air.

In those days he was her comfort, her
stay, her only consolation ; she thought
she would have died if it were not for
him.

Capri's mind went back to all the past
as she sought the old padre this afternoon.
He must be the first whom the news of her
good fortune should reach. He would rejoice
with her, she knew ; he was sympathetic,
he knew her better than anyone else
in the world. He was more of a parent to
her than the captain ; he was the truest
friend she had in life. How glad he would

feel now to hear of the good luck which
had befallen her !

She pictured his delight as she ascended
the flights of stairs in No. 1.3, and in anticipation
heard him congratulate lier again
and again in his kindly, voluble, enthusiastic
way.

"Come in," he said, in a cheery voice,
when she rapped at his door.

She entered the apartment which he called
his home. It was a square room, a little
bare, yet with a look of comfort, because of
the fire, and a big arm-chair, a little rugged,
but very snug for all that, and some strips
of carpet and coloured mats thrown here
and there upon the floor.

It was somewhat dark, because the window
was high and set in the deep embrasure
of the wall ; but it was the padre's home,
and to him it had no imperfections. Here
he had laboured, he had driven voice to his

dreams, his hopes, and sorrows through
his violin. It had the sanctity of association
for him.

A very little v/ill often create heaven in
an attic for an artist or Bohemian.

A square of Persian carpet, a faded
velvet curtain, a copy of an old master, the
white sensuous body of a plaster cast god
or goddess, a quaintly carved chair, and a
copy of Dante, Shelley, and Walt Whitman
will make a paradise for which children of
art oftentimes would not exchange a palace.

Padre Pallamari had not many of these
things, but yet he was happy in this home
of bis, bounded by four time-stained walls.

Just as Capri stepped up to him he was
busily engaged in spreading a coarse, spotlessly
clean cloth on the table, preparatory to
eating his dinner. When he saw her he
uttered a long-sounded " ah !" his face
brightened, and he held out both his hands

to her in welcome. To him her face was
always a pleasant sight.

She went over, folded her arms around
his neck gently, and affectionately kissed him
on either cheek. The old man's eyes brightened,
his features lit up with pleasure.

'^ Ah, mia filia," he said, almost smothered
by her embrace.

When she had released him he continued,

Let the old padre have the pleasure of
eating his dinner with you."

*' Thank you, padre," the girl replied, nothing
loth.

She took off her hat and sat down on a
box that often did duty as a chair, whilst
the old man laid the table, and presently
took a savoury-smelling stew from the pot
on the hob.

It was a light palatable dish, cooked as
only Italians can cook, and made up of
many vegetables, much oil, and a little meat.

Capri just then thought it delicious, though
eaten off a cracked plate of no particular
pattern, and with a three-pronged steel fork
that had long ago lost its handle. It was
flor more enjoyable than Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson's lunch, though it was served on
painted plates, and the glass of sherry she
drank was half a century old.

'* After all," she thought, as she faced
the poor old Italian, " after all Bohemian-isti
is a very happy thing. Bohemia is a
pleasant land enough to live in if one could
only curb one's fancies and desires and live
contentedly within its pastures ; what a pity 1
find it so hard to do that ; the world tempts
me, I suppose, the world or some one whose
name I'll not mention."

She wondered if she were about to leave
this merry land, and all its careless, good-hearted,
happy people for ever. She had
often wished to do so, and, now that the

VOL. II. E

possibility of its fulfilment was at hand, she
felt sad and reproachful.

The delight Mrs W. Achilles Lordson's
offer gave her had died away for a time.
Now that she determined to leave this glad
republican state, where liberty and good
nature flourished to a luxuriance unattained
in any other phase of society, a sense of sorrow
touched her that softened her manner,
and made her more gentle, and winning,
and lovable than she had been for months
before.

She did not tell the old man a word of
the news which filled her mind, until
they had quite done dinner ; then she tapped
her landless three-pronged fork upon the
plate and commenced quietly,

*' Padre, some good luck has happened tome."



*^ Care mia."

*'I came to tell you first, even before

Pa, because you are my truest friend."
"Filia mia."

'rand you I hope — I know will be glad."
*' I shall always rejoice with you, Capri,"
he said, raising both his hands.

'' Dear old friend, I know that," she replied,
looking into his bright brown eyes,
full of kindness and love for her.
What is it, my dear ?"
I am going to be very happy."
"Ah, I know. You are about to marry,
and you have not before told the old padre,
but he has eyes and sees, he has wits and
guesses your secret, he has a heart and
feels pleasure for you and the handsome
young artist who is so brave and clever and
good."

No, no, no !" cried Capri, turning red
at the reference to Marcus Phillips. She
was inclined to feel angry at the old man's
words.

T7 o

'^No!" he said, taken aback, but he did
not feel inclined to give up his point soon.
Ah !" he continued, his eyes sparkling
merrily as a new thought entered his mind
*^I have it now, care india."

'' What is it, padre ?"

*' You have just made the grand discovery
that you have fallen in love.
But the old man had seen it honor a^o.
Believe me he is sharp, very sharp is that
old man."

*' Wrong again," she said, smiling at his
sudden look of disappointment.

'' I can guess no more. What is it?"

I am going away, to live as companion
to a rich woman, an American."

Going away !" he repeated, starting up,
his eyes expressing sudden surprise and
grief. *' Going away !"

Yes ; going away from the Euston
Road and Pa, but only to Mayfair."

*^ Ah, my daughter, you relieve me," he
said, drawing a long breath.

"Is it not crowd news?" asked the crirl,
wondering that he did not congratulate her.

She is rich ?"

She has offered me a hundred a year."

"Sacred"

The old man raised up both his hands to
Heaven. A hundred a year ! It was a
fabulous amount to him. It was wealth.
He rushed forward and embraced Capri,
and the brave good-hearted old fellow
laughed and cried almost in the same
breath.

You will become a great lady," ha said,
the tears still standing in his dark eyes.
'' My little Capri will become a fine lady."

I shall become a companion, a human
machine without a will of my own."

*' But you will be rich. You will have a
hundred a year."

Which Pa will be good enough to take
charge of for me," she answered, laughing a
little bitterly.

You weill live in a great house."

No, the house is small, but splendid."

Sit down and tell me all about it, filia
mia," he said, coming over to her, and taking
a chair beside her. He kept one of her
hands in his.

^' Well, I was first shown into the ,"
she commenced.

And that ?"

'' Has furniture upholstered in yellow
figured satin."

"Sacre!"

'' A velvet carpet ; white background,
with purple passion flowers."

He threw back his head and raised his
eyebrows.

Curtains of yellow satin and old lace,"
she went on.

Superb !"

Piano of ebony and gold."

'' Ah !"

A Greek vase."

Magnificent !"

'' A cabinet which belonged to Catherine
de^Medici."

How fine !"

Old porcelain."

Sublime !"

Flowers and plants in the balcony."

'glorious!"

And a new page in the hall."

Ah ! it is Heaven."

He made a fresh gesture with every exclamation.
His eyebrows travelled quickly
up and down his wrinkled forehead, his
fine dark eyes expressing continual wonder.

He had lived so long in his little attic
that he almost forgot the outer world.
This room had been his home, his own

special sphere ; a room which bounded all
his care and hopes, his joys and sorrows.

He had almost forgotten what the head
monde was like ; all his early life was merely
a dream to him now ; there was nothing to
remind him it was a reality, and not a shadow,
but the picture of his dead Rosalie,
with an eternal smile upon her parted lips,
hanging above the chimney-piece.

Capri's description was like a page of the
"Arabian Nights" to him, a vision which he
could never see, for he would live up herein
his attic until the long night came for
him and he slept for evermore ; live up here
alone save for his violin that spoke to him
like the voice of his dead Rosalie, in tones
that no other ear might interpret ; his violin
to whom he poured out his soul here in the
almost unbroken silence of long and solitary
hours.

And Capri was going away from him,

Capri whom he had learned to look on as
his daughter, to whom all the love of his
faithful, warm, old heart was given ; she
was going away to another life amongst
different people, and he might see her no
more, never at all events as the same
charming, child-like, wayward, impulsive
Bohemian Capri. Ah ! never again.

'' It is all beautiful, care mia," he said,
*every beautiful," referring to her description.

He silently brushed away some tears out
of his dark old eyes, tears that trickled into
the crevices of the brown wrinkled lines in
his old face, and ran down his cheeks.

'rand the good signora, what is she
like?"

Then to cheer him Capri gave a comic
description of Mrs. W. achilles Lordson,
and told him she was very fat and wore a
dress of ruby satin, and covered herself
with the glory of many jewels ; at which he

held up his hands and laughed and said
something about the body of Bacchus, which
remark was not at all appropriate to the
person of Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson.

Capri told him too of Mrs. Orisons
adoration of art, and of her special delight
in the painters of the " per-Raphaelite "
school, and a little anecdote of the statue of
Venus d^ Medici, and many other things,
until the old man was quite merry once
more and almost choked with laughter.

'' Ah ! it is droll," he said.

'' Is it not ? We live in strange times."

'^ You will kill the old padre with laughter,
my dear."

Well, I will spare your life a little
longer."

'' And she worships at the shrine of art ?"

'not only that; she is about to become
one of the priestesses in the temple of art.
She will reign as the patroness of genius."

You jest."

It is true ; it requires no knowledge of
art whatsoever to become its patron nowadays."


"Sacre! they are strange, the English."

"The grave-digger in Hamlet said they
were all mad."

*she was wise, my dear."

You will come some day and visit Mrs.
W. Achilles Lordson."

"Never."

** She Day make you the fashion."

'* The saints protect me."

"Nay, you must come and play the violin
to her some day ; she will be charmed."

Never."

And she will get you engagements in
the West End drawing-rooms. You will
be sure to interest her, padre mio. I shall
say you are the last of the Cenci family,
and, to impress her with a sense of the importance

of your antecedents, I shall read to
her Shelley's great tragedy of The Cenci,
Leave all that to nie. I shall do the verbal
painting of your character, so that when
you come you will be regarded as a lion."

Ah ! heavens, you jest !"

*'No, I am quite serious. A lie, Byron
says, is but the truth in masquerade. And
the means would justify the end."

"My dear, that is false ; there is nothing
like truth."

"Perhaps not; but it is not always agreeable.
However, you will come and see her
when I am there."

Care mia, I know these people of
America well. I know them, I have seen
them in Rome long ago. They are the
men who talk aloud and spit out in our
churches, look at the old masters through
an opera-glass, and call the cicerone ' boss.'
"They are the women all loud colours and

jewellery, who think our palaces barracks,
our princes beggars, and our Coliseum an
exhibition of ruins arranged for their benefit."

Caro niio padre, they have improved
since then."

May be they have — it was time."

He paused for a few moments, as if his
thoughts had taken a new direction, and
then raised his eyes to her face.

Ah ! well, so you go away to this grand
lady for ever," he said.

"No, not for ever."

So you think now, my daughter."

What a little wretch you must believe
me, to say such a thing. I shall often come
back here and see you."

He smiled — a grim sad smile it was — and
shook his old brown head.

Ah !" he replied, '' you never come back,
you who go away, you never come back
again."

"That is unkind, padre," she replied,
pouting her little mouth, and glancing reproachfully
at him.

'' Never the same, care mia ; you will
come back never the same," he persisted.
*' You go away out into the world that is
bright and good to young people, and very
pleasant, and the world changes you ; gives
you new thoughts, new likings, and a new
heart instead of the old one and simple.
You meet with new faces, and you forget
old friends. It is ever the same — ever the
same."

Capri was touched as she listened to him.
Some inner consciousness told her this was
the truth which the old man spoke, ay, the
truth, though disagreeable. Her whole
nature was touched, for she loved Padre
Pallamari, who had been her best and
truest friend when she was friendless and
neglected.

'* Dear old padre," she said, in a sweet
low voice, putting her soft delicate arms
gently round his neck and kissing his forehead
affectionately. " I shall never, never
forget you. You have always been so good
and generous, you have been more to me
than my father."

Mia filia," he said with a sob in his
husky throat.

I shall come and see you often, indeed
I shall ; and you must promise to come and
see me whenever you like. A little distance
cannot make such a difference, cannot divide
us. May fair is not so far away."

Ah ! care mia, it is not the Mayfair
which will divide us, but the world."

Capri, with her arms still round his neck,
patted him on the shoulder, and promised
afresh to see him often, and to write to
him.

He was so lonely, so generous, so simple,

like all noble natures, that the girl at that
moment mentally wished he loved some one
more worthy of his kindness and affection.

She had never remembered him, or any
of her friends, never considered what they
might feel at her going away, when Mrs.
W. Achilles Lordson had asked her to come
to her as her companion. She thought only of
herself and her future prospects aud gain,
and the recollection of this selfishness came
back on her now with a feeling of pain and
self-reproach.

Why did people care for her, she wondered,
when she was so ungrateful for their
affection, and could not care for them with
equal love.

Then the remembrance of Marcus Phillips
flashed across her mind. Would he rejoice
with her good fortune, or would he feel
grieved, and think with the old padre that
the world would separate them ; make her

like him less than she did now, or think of
him less frequently? Should her residence
in Mayfair make any difference between
them?

"■ Poor, dear old Marc," she thought,
^' he thinks me far better than I am ; if he
only knew what a hard-hearted, selfish,
miserable creature I really am, and how little
heart I have left!" then she gave a quick,
impatient sigh.

She was recalled to herself by Padre
Pallamari's voice.

Ah ! well, Capri, I am glad of your good
fortune, very glad, my dear ; I was a foolish
old man to say these things, and we shall
think of them no more," he said, raking
an effort at being cheerful, for he saw how
sad and self-reproachful her eyes looked
u st then.

When he spoke, his low musical voice,
with its kindly gentle tones, went to the

VOL. II. F

girl's heart ; she felt a lump gathering at
her throat, and her eyes grew dim. She
strove bravely to keep her tears back ; there
was no use in crying.

I shall come in every day until Saturday,"
she said.

And Saturday ?"

'* I commence my new life in Mayfair."

"It will be a new life, my dear."

'the old one was happy enough sometimes."


'' And other times ?"

"Miserable."

*' I hope the coming one will be bright
and fair for you, care mia."

I know you do ; and now I must go
and tell Pa."

He does not know yet ?"

"No."

She said no more, but kissed the old man
on either cheek and quickly left the room.

The old padre sat down quietly after she
had gone ; then he looked at the face of his
dead Rosalie with the calm smile still on her
parted lips.

"Ah ! they all go," he said aloud, "and
they come back to us never more."

He took his violin from its case in the
corner and drew the bow across it once.

"You will never leave me," he said, almost
in a low whisper, leaning his cheek
softly against the violin, — " you will never
leave me."

His tears fell hot and slow upon the
strings.

p2

CHAPTER III.

THE CAPTAIN SPEAKS LIKE A FATHER.

Then" Capri went home she found her
^ * father in a meditative rood, sitting
in his shirt sleeves, sraokinsr one of Lord
Harrick's cigars and sipping whisky and
water with an air of placid contentment.

The captain was a man ever ready to take
his ease at his inn, or anywhere else where
he possibly could. At the present hour he
lay back in the great arm-chair with a
sense of luxury, his knees crossed, his feet
in slippered ease, his eyes half closed, enjoying
the flavour of a cigar whose like, take

it for all in all, he might never meet again.
His mind was in thorough repose, evidently
helped into that condition by the
aid of the whisky and water he had imbibed.


Lord Harrick had gone, and Gapri knew
that none of the other pupils were expected
before eight o'clock, so she thought this the
best season to broach the subject of Mrs. W.
Achilles Lordson's offer.

''I suppose you have had your dinner,
Pa?" she commenced in an amicable tone.

'^ Yes, I had something out," he answered,
taking the cigar from his mouth
and letting the fragrant smoke escape from
between his lips slowly, as if he enjoyed it
thoroughly.

The "something out" meant a good
dinner, of which he was particularly fond,
as Capri knew ; he never neglected himself
in this respect, yet she asked the question

by way of paying him a little delicate attention
which might have a conciliating effect.

She sat down at some distance from him,
and watched him carefully for some time.
The captain was in himself a study worthy
of a philosopher. Capri sat looking at him,
thinking of all the years she had spent with
him, and wondering how it was that no
close or tender tie bound them together ina
common bond of affection and sympathy.

She, his only child, had little in common
with him, had little respect for him ; and he
who should have loved and cared for her
had let her grow up without ever giving her
the slightest signs of interest, and none of
affection.

Had he cared for her poor mother?. she
asked herself; had his love for her outlived
the first fever of his passion ? She feared
not. Perhaps this was the reason he had
so little affection for her.

*' There is no use, however, in thinking
of the past," she said ; '' let bygones be
bygones. My life shall take a different
course in the future."

"I have been to Mayfair," she commenced,
"and seen the American lady; she
has a handsome house."

"Plenty of money, I daresay; all the
Americans have," remarked the captain,
remembering the gay companies of transatlantic
visitors he had shown the sights of
Naples to in bygone times. " All these
Americans have," he repeated ; " they are
rich people and hospitable."

He was thinking of the dinners and
suppers to which he had been bidden
in the past pleasant time when he lived
abroad by friendly Yankees.

I daresay she has plenty of money ; she
has made me an offer "

'offered you a loan?" said the captain.

brightening up, for Capri's words fell pleasantly
on his ears.

*' No," answered the girl irritably, half
ashamed of the question.

What else ?"

*' She has asked me to live with her as
companion."

The captain took the cigar from his mouth
and sat upright in his chair.

''To live with her as a companion !" he
repeated.

'eyes."

"And you?"

And I accepted at once."

Without consulting your father, or
knowing what his feelings might be in the
matter, or caring what this step might cost
me ?" he began indignantly.

"The salary was good," she went on,
taking no notice of his indignation, but
holding out this excuse, which she knew
would turn away his wrath.

How much r" he asked quickly, and in
an altered tone.

''A hundred a year."

The captain lay back in his chair and
gave a long low whistle, expressive of surprise.
Capri saw the mention of the salary
had the desired expect in tranquillizing him,
and remained quite calm, waiting for him
to make the next move.

A hundred a year ! A splendid offer.
I may say, indeed, a liberal offer !"

'' Such a one as I may never again receive
in a life-time."

You are right. Shakespeare says,
'There is a tide in the affairs of men,
which, taken at the flood, leads on to
fortune.' "

"This is my tide perhaps."

'' And you may be right, after all," he
said in placid tones.

I thought so, and acted on my
thoughts."

You are an extremely sensible girl for
your years !" he said, inclined to be pleased
at everything she said, ^^ extremely sensible."

'' Experience teaches us all."

"And," he continued, not pretending to
hear her last remark, '' delays are sometimes,
in cases like this, extremely dangerous.
You probably thought of that when you at
once accepted the lady's offer without consulting
me."

"No," she said bluntly. 'there was no
necessity on my part for delay."

'the only necessity would be to consult
me."

'who, I foresaw, would feel quite
satisfied."

"You did?"

At the prospect of the salary."

The captain's face fell. He looked grave,
and turned away his eyes. He was silent
for some time, puffing at his cigar slowly,

and now and then wetting his lips with
whisky and water while he thought.

If Capri were removed from his hearth and
home, would that sever any influence which
he held over her now ? Once separated
from him, she would recognize his authority
no more, he feared, not that she obeyed it
much now, but in the future she would
have money; the sum of eight pounds six
shillings and eight pence would be paid to
her monthly. He began to wonder how
much of that salary, which of course a girl
could never require, would fall to his share.
Probably he could make good terms with
Capri now, and to accomplish this he must,
on second considerations, commence to throw
some obstacles in the way of her accepting
the engagement.

He slowly resumed his cigar, smoked in
deliberate silence, and then commenced
solemnly.

However liberal and generous Mrs.
Lordson's offer might seem to you, I thought
that you would have hesitated about
accepting it until you had consulted with
me. It is a duty which a daughter owes
her parent — her sole surviving parent," he
added, remembering that the last words had
an appealing effect, and helped to round offa
sentence in fine rhetorical style.

Well, Pa," the girl answered honestly,
but not without a slight infusion of bitterness
in her tone, " I have, up to this time
of my life been left so much to myself todo
as I liked without care of any kind, that. .
if I failed to remember your interest in me
now, I must be excused."

The delicate irony struck the captain, but
he warded it off carefully with his verbal
armour.

"Until now," he remarked blandly, 'you
had not come to a period of life when a

parent's advice and guidance were necessary."

Then he arranged his moustache carefully
for some time before continuing.

If I have heedlessly let you do much
as you pleased," he remarked, with emphasis
on the last words, " it was an error
caused by affection rather than want of
paternal care."

Capri smiled and thought,

*poor Pa, how he acts even before me ;
I suppose that is how acting comes so naturally
to me ; I inherit my mother's face and
my father's powers of acting, two good gifts
by the way for which I should be grateful to
Dame Nature. And yet I wish, oh, how I
wish, he had been a different man, I misfht
then be a different sir."

The captain saw the smile which crossed
her face at his words, and guessed what direction
her thoughts had taken, and thought
it better to change his tone again.

'' Your accepting this lady's offer will
leave me very lonely, quite solitary in life,
indeed, quite solitary," he said with a pathos
which the whisky and water had done
much towards inspiring him with.

But you see so little of me you will
scarcely feel the change," she answered,
^' we see but little of each other from morning
until night, and you know we have little
in common with each other."

This he knew to be true, yet he was
not going to relinquish his ground just
yet.

"That may be," he said, "but a man's
home is lonely without the face of a relation,
or the familiar features of even a friend, not
to put the case in stronger words. Though
1 may see little of you," he continued, looking
at her reproachfully, "still the mere
knowledge of your presence is a comfort you
can little imagine."

Capri could not indeed imagine it ; she
had never before heard a word from him
which could lead her to think she was of the
least interest to him.

"Very well," she said quietly, growing
very tired of the conversation, "very well,
then, I shall stay at home with you."

She stood up as if she understood an end
had come to their conversation, and her
staying at home had been finally decided on.
She had not the faintest idea of altering her
determination to accept Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson's offer, but she believed her prompt
announcement of submission to his wishes
would bring her father to say what he really
meant; all his previous expressions were,
she thought, but the words of a part which
he was carefully playing.

*' No, no' he said, "as a parent I could
not bring myself to do you such an injustice,
indeed, I could not, my dear ; it would bea

wrong to you, and a selfish one on my
part, in which I could not indulge by any
means," he continued, remembering the
promised salary of a hundred a year.

As you like," she said, with affected indifference.


If he was playing a part, why should she
not do so likewise ?

'this is an offer the like of which you
may never receive again ; and at your present
age my home is not suited to you as
the daughter of an English officer. Whilst
you were young it did not so much matter,
but now it is different. No, I will not allow
my affection to stand between you and
your prospects."

^* Besides," said Capri, with a merry light
in her eyes, *' we could not always live together
; one of us might marry, and then
the other would leave."

The captain thought it best to ignore

this piece of unseemly levity ; he made no
reply.

^' Tour salary," he commenced, after another
meditative pause, '' will be more than
you shall require for your wants, my dear."

'* You shall have the half of it, Pa," the
girl said quickly, anxious to spare him any
self-respect he still retained.

God bless you, my dear," he said with
emotion, '' you have always been kind and
thoughtful to your old father."

Capri was not conscious of ever being so,
but she made no answer.

"Then it is all settled," she asked aloud.

'certainly, my dear," he was flowing over
with amiability now.

"Mrs. Lordson wants me to go to her on
Saturday."

Very well," said the captain with a sigh,
finishing his whisky and water, and smacking
his lips afterwards.

VOL. II. G

'rand, Pa," she said, quite merry once
more at having gained her point so quietly,
and at their agreeing with such mutual satisfaction,
*' if you really do feel lonely after
me, why "

"What, my dear"'

Get married again," she answered laughingly.


The captain looked grave.

Capri," he commenced.

Oh, I will give my consent," she said, repressing
the smiles that sought to break over
her face, " only please yourself, and I will
never interfere with you where your affections
are concerned."

My dear."

And I will come to the breakfast and
cry, ' bless you, my children.' " With a
sagacious nod to her parent she quickly left
the room.

When once outside the room her humour

changed. Her face became serious and
almost grave, a tender light came into her
dark eyes, smiles were no longer on her
lips.

"Poor Marc, I wonder what he will
think," she said aloud.

g2

CHAPTER IV.

GUY RUTHERFORD APPEARS.

Then Capri had left Lord Harrick, toe
visit old Padre Pallaiiiari, the young
viscount went through his fencintjj lesson in
an absent-minded manner, for he was yet
thinking of the girl's bright winning face.

He never spoke much to the captain during
his lesson, but on this occasion he was
almost silent, and answered the military
man's remarks in monosyllables. Before the
time for his lesson had expired, he said he
was tired and had enough of fencing for that
day ; he put up his foil and, offering a cigar

to the captain, bade him good day and went
slowly down stairs.

He lingered a quarter of an hour in the
Euston Road, hoping to see Capri returning,
and then calling a cab drove to his club
in Pall Mall and walked to the reading-room.
Here he knew he was not likely to
be disturbed. The room was almost
empty.

The daily papers never had much attraction
for him, but to-day they had even less
than ever.

Politics interested him but little, and the
records of passing events still less. The
world might metaphorically turn upside
down, but it could make no great difference
to him ; he would still retain his accustomed
level.

People might go on getting drowned, or
killed, or swallowed up in mines, or burned,
or married, or buried by earthquakes ;

science might make the most startling discoveries,
which men would first call mad,
and afterwards hail as wondrous ; art produce
fresh marvels ; philosophy evolve principles
even wilder than had hitherto dawned
on men's minds ; but none of these thim^^s
could touch him personally.

They were outside his province. The
daily papers could tell him nothing that he
cared to read about, so he entertained an
utter disregard for them, and went on in the
even tenor of his way, undisturbed even by
the most startling bulletins, served in the
most sensational manner which the editors
of evening papers could devise.

However Lord Harrick went to his club
daily. It was a convenient place to lounge
about; he played billiards there occasionally,
met acquaintances and friends, and
strangers that sometimes interested him ;
stared out of the windows at the continual

Stream of human life flowing to and fro on
its ceaseless ways below ; had lunch there,
sauntered about the smoking-rooms, and
made it, in fact, a place of general convenience.


To-day, when he entered the club, he did
not, as was his wont, go to either the smoking
or billiard-rooms, but walked straight
to the reading-room, and sat down in a retired
corner near one of the windows looking
out into Pall Mall.

Just then a great many thoughts entered
his head, and presented themselves to his
mind in rather a confused state. It was
unusual for ideas to act in this way towards
him, they had never been guilty of doing
so before, and now he was somewhat disturbed.


However, he did not resent the intrusion,
but let his reflective powers take their course.
Reflection to him was a novelty. His agent,

his servants, and his friends usually spared
him that trouble, and made up his mind for
him on the respective subjects which came
within their various provinces, and generally
with considerable satisfaction and profit to
themselves.

Now, however, a matter for thought, on
which he did not care to ask the advice of
any of these faithful servitors, presented
itself to him face to face, and at first he was
quite unable to meet it ; yet, though it bewildered
him, he was not willing to escape
from its presence.

He was thinking of the possibility of
making Capri his wife. Her pale, olive face,
with its wonderful eyes, sweet, liquid, and
tender, haunted him. What a lovely woman
she would develop into in a few brief
months! What winning, charming ways
she had ! No woman's memory had ever
so haunted him before, or woke those strong

feelings within him such as now stirred him
with a subtle force.

He could not read or smoke or talk, he
could only sit there and think of this handsome,
wayward girl who had so suddenly
lit a spark within his heart that now sprang
to flame, and gave him no peace or rest.

Should he make her his wife ? Ashy should
he care what society or his friends would
say ? Hang his friends ; a man must please
himself, and not them, especially in a matter
of importance like this. True he would consult
his friends, or ask their opinions, if he
were about to buy a horse or select a house,
but this was a far different matter. He
had no immediate relatives to trouble him
about any step he might think well of taking.
He had never known his mother's
face ; he scarcely remembered his father ;
he was completely master of himself.

He was very much alone in life ; how

much so he never felt before ; now this fact
dawned on him suddenly for the first time ;
he was quite of an age to think of settling
down and marrying ; he was twenty-three.
He wondered this thought had never struck
him before. It was certainly time for him
to make a home and take to himself a wife.
It was a duty he owed himself; but that
this wife should be an obscure girl, whose
father was a fencing-master, and who lived
in a couple of back rooms in an unsavoury
road, was a very different matter. There
was the rub.

What would society say ?

True he cared little for what is known as
society. It was to him a word that conveyed
but little meaning. Society is a body
of people who make their own laws, such
as they are, have their own ideas on certain
subjects, and their own prejudices almost
impossible to conquer. Yet for its laws,

opinions, and prejudices, he cared but little ;
he could live independently of them, but
would his future wife be satisfied to do so
likewise. What to a man is of no importance,
is frequently the breath of a woman's
life. Lord Harrick was quite conscious of
the fact that mothers and single daughters
looked on him as a special prize in the
matrimonial lottery, and " made up to him,"
as he termed it, in all kinds of ways and
through all sorts of subtle devices.

The knowledge of this fact was forced
even on his unobservant mind by long experience
; he believed that almost every girl who
approached him beheld in him solely a man
who was destined to become an eligible
husband, who might possibly by some wile
or charm be made to offer her his hand and
title.

He knew that in their regard it did not
matter much if he were as profligate as Don

Juan, as base as Judas, as repellent as the
public executioner. He had a title, which
would completely cover all sins were they
redder than scarlet ; he had money, which
would guild all shame; and render it bright
and attractive in the eyes of the world at
large.

All this rendered him rather tired of the
society of the fairer sex belonging to the
upper ten thousand, none of whom had
ever interested him or touched his heart as
Capri had done.

This girl," he thought, *' never tries to
please me. I like her for that somehow ;
the others are all so deuced civil ; they like
everything I like, they hate everything I
hate, they are determined to agree with mein
everything, and they smile at a fellow
when there is nothing to smile about, and
are always turning up where a man does not
want them. Now Capri does none of these

things, and "does not seem to care for me
so far, and I like her for that, though it's
seems odd of me to do so. She is an awfully
winning girl, and I am sure I should be
happy with her, happier than I could be
with any other woman, and settle down a
steady kind of man, if she would marry me.
Would she, I wonder? Perhaps there is
some other man whom she has seen and likes
better; but she is young yet, and has not
opportunities of seeing many others ; she
may like me. When I took her hands today
she did not withdraw them, that is a
favourable sign ; and she wears the bangle
I gave her, and when I asked her if it reminded
her of me, she said how could it
help doing so. I would have spoken to her,
only for the captain coming in just at an
awkward moment."

He fell into a dream of happiness, in
which he pictured himself a contented ^

happy man, with Capri as his wife. The
Telegraph, which had rested on his knee,
fell to the ground at his feet unheeded ; he
stared out into Pall Mall as heedless of
what was passing there as the man in the
moon.

Whilst he was lost in thought, a man a
few years older than Lord Harrick strolled,
rather than walked, into the reading-room,
a man who was destined by Fate to play no
unimportant part in the viscount's life.

This man was Guy Rutherford.

His face was tanned by exposure to
tropical suns, his small, perfectly-shaped
head was covered with crisp, brown curls,
his eyes were of grey-blue shade, deeply
set under the square low forehead and
straight brows. In the shadow his eyes
looked royal blue, in the light they were
grey.

The lower portion of his face was rather

full, his raoutb, which was a little sensuous
perhaps in its expression, was covered by a
tawny moustache, his neck, full and shapely,
supported his head with an exquisite grace ;
it was the neck of a marble divinity.

Altogether his appearance was more
striking than handsome ; his face was one
that left an impression on women when far
better-looking men were overlooked and
forgotten.

The softness of great sensibility was in
every feature, which gave his face an expression
that might readily have been misjudged
for effeminacy, but that the firmness
of the chin corrected the first opinion.
His was a countenance that bewildered
those accustomed to read men's faces as
books.

It had a combination of tenderness and
strength, of good and evil, of delicacy and
force, of happiness and pain. Not that

these expressions were apparent at once ;
one after the other, as he spoke or thought,
they flitted across his face brief as lightning
flashes, but sufficient by their force to reveal
the outlines and shade of characteristics
before unknown, unsuspected.

His figure was tall and straight as an
arrow, muscular yet slight, and perfect in
its outlines. When he moved or stood his
limbs fell into natural poses that had something
voluptuous in their grace, and reminded
one of the traditionary beauty of the
athletic youths of Greece.

Turning from one paper to another without
paying attention to any, as if they bored
rather than interested him, he came at
length to that corner of the room where
Lord Harrick sat indulging in his day-dream.


This man with sunburnt face started a
little as he recognized the viscount, smiled

to himself, showing his white teeth, and
advanced a step closer.

^'Harrick," he said, placing one hand on
the viscount's shoulder, and stretching out
the other.

Hallo ! Guy," said Lord Harrick, starting
up and grasping the outstretched hand
heartily and with genuine pleasure. " Who
would have thought to have seen you
here ?"

And they shook hands acrain and asjain,
for they were old friends.

Not you at all events, I suppose."

'certainly not."

'' When I last wrote to you I was in
Egypt."

Yes ; that was more than a year ago, if
I remember rightly."

'* I have lived there since."

And how long have you been in town ?"

Only two days."

VOL. II. H

"Sit down, Guy, and tell me all about
yourself."

*' My dear fellow, I have so little to tell.
A man does not change much in five years."

*' Sometimes."

*ray, sometimes; that is true."

'■' And you have changed."

One seldom recognizes an alteration in
one's self ; the process is so gradual."

You have got over a lot of ground since."

I have," he answered, somewhat wearily.
^' I am like the Wandering Jew. I may bea
descendant of his. I would claim him as
an ancestor, if I knew the old man settled
down, and had a family. He is just as
respectable, and far more ancient than the
Norman robbers whom I am said to spring
from."

*' I suppose so."

I meant to have looked you up,
Harrick."

'* You did?"

But Fate has spared me the trouble.
She is usually kind to me."

His voice was low, with a peculiar clearness
in the accents ; it had an undertone
of music, like rhythm in verse.

And what is the strangest thing you
have seen since ?"

Guy Rutherford laughed.

"Shall I tell you?"

By all means."

I have seen nothing more surprising
than something I have come across to-day."

In all your travels ?"

"In all my travels."

'rand that?"

And that was Lord Harrick indulging
in thought."

He laughed aloud, putting his hands on
his friend's shoulders, and looking into his
face. Lord Harrick laughed too, but looked



ed conscious-stricken and made no reply.

"Come," said Guy Rutherford, seating
himself opposite his friend, with a careless,
easy air. " Come, tell me all about it, old
fellow. I know, from past experience, you
do not often indulge in this luxury. It must
be caused by one, or all, of three reasons."

'' What are they ?"

*' Either your wife, if you have one, has
eloped "

Wrong. I am not married."

You have lost your mistress."

I have no mistress."

Then it is the worst of all. You are in
love."

'•' Nonsense," said Lord Harrick.

"Unbosom yourself to an old friend,"
said Guy Rutherford lightly, '' and tell me
all about it, old fellow."

"I see you have not lost your old habit
of bantering your friends."

Xo ? I told you I was not much
changed."

*' Do you know, I wish you would live at
home, as an Englishman should. Turn a
respectable member of society, as the saying
goes, and — and "

'' Get married."

•''You might do worse."

I tell you what it is, Harrick. You
want me to share your misfortunes."

'' Misfortunes ?"

Yes. You have fallen in love, old
fellow. Deny the soft impeachment, if you
dare ? Well, I knew it would come to this
some day. You are going the way of all
viscounts, who are sent into the world to
marry, beget heirs, that in due course and
in turn support the honour and glory of the
British aristocracy, and, having fulfilled this
glorious mission, are removed by Time to a
-comfortable shelf in the family vault."

^'What nonsense you talk, Rutherford !"
"Truth often lies in nonsense."
"" Have you any engagements for tonight
?"

"No. You see I have only been in
town two days," said Guy Rutherford, as if
apologising for being free, *' and, with the
exception of a visit which my tailor has promised
to do me the honour of paying at six
o'clock, I am quite at your service."

Then dine with me at my house
in Park Lane to-night at eight o'clock."
*' With great pleasure, my dear Harrick."
"And then we can have a quiet smoke
and a long chat afterwards. I want to hear
all about yourself and your travels."
'' All right, old man."

"Eight o'clock."

*' I shall not forget. I am anxious,
too, to ask you after many people whom
I have neither seen nor heard of for

the past half dozen years during my absence."


I have an appointment at five," said
Lord Harrick; 'but, if you have spare time
before dusk, you can do one thing which I
would like."

He paused, as if he had not considered
what he was about to say.

'' And that ?"

Merely to humour a whim of mine."

'what is it?"

Go to the Grosvenor Gallery and look
at a picture there — number seventy-nine —
the ' Beggar Maid ' it is called. I know
the original, and merely want to know what
you think of the beggar girl's face."

I will go."

Lord Harrick got up and shook hands.

"Good-bye till dinner," he said, and left
the room.

When he had gone, Guy Rutherford sat

down once more, rested his head on his
right hand, and thought.

There was no doubt Lord Harrick was in
some mental state of confusion, out of which
his friends could not help him, otherwise he
would never have had recourse to thought.
Harrick, he said mentally, was a right good
fellow, who was never troubled with a
serious idea in his life. If circumstances in
the present hour drove him to think, it was
unkind of Fate.

Now what was it that made him think ?
He never gambled ; he seldom bet. Even
if he did both these things, and lost money,
it would make no difference to Harrick,
who could never feel the loss by any possibility.
There was only one thing which
could make him think : of course he was in
love ; but with whom ?

That was the point of interest. What
manner of woman had succeeded in winning

his heart ? What was she like — like
could it be the face of the picture he had
asked him to see in the Grosvenor Gallery,
number seventy-nine, the " Beggar Maid " ?
Harrick had said he knew the original, and
no doubt the original was the lady of his
heart.

Having come to this sagacious conclusion
Guy Rutherford jumped up.

'* The sight of this picture will give me a
key to my conjectures," he said. Then he
smiled. "Poor Harrick," he continued, " I
must go and see this modern marvel that
has made you think."

He got into a cab, and drove to Bond
Street.

CHAPTER y.

LOOKING BACKWARDS AND FORWARDS.

T ORD Garrick had known Guy
-*-^ Rutherford at Harrow, and afterwards
at Cambridge ; and though there was
little which harmonised in their characters,
yet they had always been what is known as
good friends.

Guy Rutherford, like the viscount, was
almost alone in life ; he had few relatives
living, none of whom were of close kin.
Both his parents had been slain in the
Indian Mutiny whilst he was yet a baby,
then being reared in England by some
friends.

Clever, bright, courageous, and original,
he was as a boy always in trouble with those
who ruled the destinies of Harrow School,
for of all things on earth he hated discipline
; and he never knew what obedience
meant.

The beaten tracks he held in lofty contempt,
and, whilst he read with avidity, it
was to please his natural thirst for knowledge,
and not in compliance with the wishes
of his masters.

At Cambridge his studies were erratic and
fitful; he scorned all ideas of taking out
degrees. He seriously alarmed, and indeed
scandalized, a very respectable don, by offering
to burn sacrifices to a statue of Silenus
holding the infant Bacchus, a facsimile of
the Borghese marble which he had in his
rooms, and before which he also swung incense
and sweet-smelling, aromatic herbs.

He wrote a satire in Greek verse on an

unpopular proctor, and cruelly exposed the
ignorance of a pompous dean, and altogether
the university was by no means sorry when
he departed from its sheltering wings.

He was just twenty-one when he left
college, and, freed from the restrictions of
all guardianship, he determined to shake
the dust of English soil from his feet, and
travel abroad. In vain his late guardians
spoke to him of the duties of landed proprietors,
and the obligations of Englishmen
to their tenants. Guy Rutherford had an
estate on the borders of Cumberland which
he seldom saw, and which brought him an
income of a clear eight thousand per annum.

It was now five years since he left England.
During that time he stayed in every
capital of Europe, strayed here and there,
backwards and forwards, just as the whim
or caprice of the moment led him. Everywhere
he went there was some fresh attraction,

some new pleasure. All his days were
spent in an enjoyment that feared or knew
no monotony. It was all delightfully fresh,
and the sense of freedom and ease he
enjoyed was utterly unlike anything he experienced
during the days of his minority
in England.

At Paris, Vienna, and Rome, his name
was familiar in foreign mouths. At once
young, handsome, winning, and wealthy,
society had opened its doors, and extended
its hands to him everywhere. There was a
nameless something in his presence which at
once attracted, a subtle power in his manner
which soon fascinated. The light in his
eyes, the smile on his face, the grace of his
bearing, were forces which won their way
wherever he appeared.

He was the favourite of the Paris salons,
the straight-browed, dark-eyed women of
Austria smiled upon him, and the hearts of

Eoman maids and matrons went out to him
unsought. Women seldom looked upon his
winning, handsome face, without experiencing
that interest which is often the forerunner
of passion ; and his memory remained
long after his presence had left them.

Foreign society would have certainly
spoiled him sooner or later, if some great
change had not come to him, which caused
him to leave it all suddenly behind him one
morning, and go — no one knew where. He
was staying at Vienna then, and the women
of that fair city, seeing themselves deserted
by their favourite without seeming rhyme
or reason, laid their heads together, and
discovered a cause for his abrupt departure.

He had fallen in love, they said, with the
young Archduchess Vatamie, who was gifted
with a beauty fatal to men's souls, and
burdened with a husband whose years

4/

were more than hers thrice told. But why

bad he left? they wondered. Ay, why had
he left, and so suddenly ? Had he been
in love with any of them, they would
never let him depart so long as a spark of
love burned in his soul. The Archduchess
Vatamie must have been silly to let him go,
or he must have been stupid, as some of
these Englishmen were, heaven help them.
If he were in love, and there could be no
mistake about that, there was all the greater
reason that he should stay near the object
of his passion. Could it have been that the
archduchess was cold ? Scarcely, she was
too young to feel cold to such a handsome
gallant ; and though she was haughty and
severe outwardly when she knelt in the
church or drove on the promenade, yet
there was a smouldering light in her eyes
which boded no good to those whom they
looked on with pleasure.

But the motive for his departure was yet

left unexplained. It was strange ; but he
was an Englishman, and there was no
accounting for their acts.

The night before he left he had been
more brilliant and looked more handsome
than ever. He had been to the masquerade
ball given by the English ambassador. He
had gone as a cavalier, in pale-blue velvet
and lace, a merry, careless smile upon his
face. Women had smiled on him, their
eyes sparkling with a passionate light under
their masks, their lips whispering words
that scorched their souls, their fragrant
breaths sweeping over his face as they
pressed close to him in the shady grove
beyond the lamp-lit gardens, with a warmth
heavy and sweet from amorous desire, raising
their mouths to his in kisses that burnt
like flames. He had given them words that
lacked the force of passion, kisses that were
cold, glances that had no fire in their

brilliancy, sighs that had no echo in his
soul. Had some new, strong passion entered
his heart, and made these lesser loves
seem trifles light as thistledown, made
their kisses, and soft murmuring, and gentle
caresses, and languishing passion wearisome ?

Towards the morning cr hours a cotillon
was being formed. It was to close the
brilliant scene of the night's revels. Xo
one there passed through the figures with
such grace as Guy Rutherford. A Russian
princess had asked for him. She desired
that he should lead her through the dance.
A search was made through the salons and
gardens, but he was nowhere to be found.
The cotillon was delayed, yet he never
came.

It was then discovered that the young
Archduchess Vatamie was also missing.
Everyone was in a state of suppressed
consternation but her husband ; everyone

VOL. II. I

but he noticed her absence. He was quite
undisturbed. The friends of the young
archduchess were delighted beyond measure
; they prepared themselves for a new
scandal, than which nothing could be more
refreshing just then, when the record of
each others' sins was becoming tedious as a
thrice-told tale.

The Archduchess Vatamie had not yet
fallen, 'eat least, so far as they knew," said
the gossips, whispering in the corners with
cheerful smiles upon their lips, whilst they
nodded mysteriously, not inclined to give
her the benefit of a doubt. " So far as they
knew, but then one should never be surprised
at what happened," and this time
they waved their fans, and looked at the
archduke calmly taking snuff near the doorway.


The archduchess had been proud, and
cold, and haughty, and never took an interest

in the scandals concerning her dearest
friends, which was unjust and unkind of her ;
and repulsed lovers, and strove to be better
than her neighbours, but now at last the
moment had come when they were avenged,
for of course she had gone away with the
handsome Englishman, and they could never
see or recognize her again.

However, when the cotillon was finished,
the archduchess was found seated in an
alcove of the balcony quite alone, her face
pale, a weary smile on her lips, a strange
look in her great dark eyes.

Her friends regarded each other with
looks of blank astonishment ; they bit their
lips and whispered to each other, shaking
their heads.

But the fact remained that she had not
gone ; after all their expectations of a fresh
scandal with many delightful details, very
shocking, and only to be listened to because

i2

of the moral lesson they afforded, here she
was going home quietly with a husband
who might have been her grandfather.

It was a cruel disappointment.

To make matters more complex, Guy
Rutherford was not seen again. In the
morning it was known he had left Vienna.
No one knew where he had gone.

The Archduchess Vatamie went to church
and took the holy water from her husband's
hand, which quivered a little from age, much
as usual ; if there was any change, it was
that her attendance was more regular than
before. Her black lace veil was more closely
drawn across her face, perhaps her steps were
iiore listless than of old, and her smile was
like a mockery of pleasure upon her lips.

It was strange, the gossips still said.

One day she was missing from church
and public promenade, and it was soon
known that a violent fever had seized her.

which threatened her young life. It was a
fever of the brain, said the physicians, but
the husband said it was but the result of a
cold.

Be that as it may, it increased very
rapidly. Gossips said the archduchess had
revealed many things better kept quiet in
her delirium, when the gates of reason were
unhinged and her mind wandered abroad in
strange ways.

The struggle for life was brief; perhaps
life had become worthless to her.

She died one night with the sound of an
English name upon her lips.

Guy, Guy," she cried, half rising in her
be(^, her dark eyes dilated, as if she beheld
some sight invisible to others, her face upturned
as if for a long, last kiss, her bare
arms outstretched.

Another moment and she lay back, folded
her arms above her breast tenderly, lovingly,

as if she held some precious burden
there, then spoke the name once more and
went to sleep for ever and for aye.

Six days afterwards Guy Rutherford returned
to the Austrian capital, pale, haggard,
and worn, with the scared look in his eyes
of one who had seen a ghost.

He drove straight to the gates of the
palace which death had visited before him.
The place was silent ; a dreary spell hung
over it ; the shadow of the dark angel yet
hovered about it ; she whom he sought had
gone hence.

An old man bent down with sorrow had
told him the news ; without a word he left,
without resting he departed from the city
again.

Since that time the suns of Africa had
scorched and burned his skin. He was sick
of civilisation and its ways ; he panted for
change. He spent his days amongst strange

races, on the bronzed, arid plains and
yellow wastes of Egypt, where the burning
sands swept in golden clouds above him,
where no brown patch of shelter was to be
found from the fierce crimson suns that
scorched the flesh and made the blood
seethe in the veins.

After two years of this life, a longing to
see some English faces, and grasp friendly,
English hands, and hear the once familiar
sound of the English tongue again, came
upon him with a force all the stronger that
it had spared him so long. He was half
ashamed of submitting to this feeling of
home-sickness, yet he turned his face towards
Britain once more.

It was much the same to him where he
lived now ; he had no hope to live for ;
no anchor to chain him to any particular
spot upon the globe ; the world lay all
before him, and so he returned to England

after an absence of over five years, old inexperience,
bronzed from travel, and with
that acquired polish which a meeting
and mixture with many men can alone
give.

By eight o'clock he was sitting opposite
Lord Harrick at dinner. It was a snug
little room, well lit with wax lights, and
redolent with an air of comfort which only
English rooms possess. The dinner was the
inspiration of a French cook ; the wines
were old, and sparkled temptingly. The
two friends faced each other across a dining-table,
as they had not done for years
before ; both felt a general sense of satisfaction
and pleasure in each other's presence.
Save for the servants they were alone.

How strange it seems to me you have
remained here in England ever since, Harrick,
while I have been drifting about the
world backwards and forwards, knocking

myself against all kinds of odd corners in
life, like seaweed flung about at the pleasure
of the waves, whilst you have remained
here as quiet, and solid, and stationary as
the lions in Trafalgar Square."

Yes, deuced strange," said the viscount,
across the table. " In those five years you
have met many strange people."

'* I have ; and I have lived at least
twenty years; and you "

*' Well, I cannot say I have lived more
than five."

"What have you been doing all this
while?"

Well, I have stayed in town during the
season, gone to my club daily, rode in the
Eow, put in an appearance at the House
occasionally, and all that sort of thing."

And out of season ?"

Asked some men to shoot with me in
the autumn, or to Harrick for the fishing,

and so on. To look back on it, I never
know how the time has gone by ; though it
hangs heavily enough on my hands sometimes."


** And you call that living?"

"What else am I to call it?"

Well, perhaps after all you are right.
Of course you take some interest in the
state ; like politics, visit your estates now
and then, and meet your neighbours and
friends in the little circle known as society.
I am not sure that you are not right,
and yours is not the better way of living,
Harrick."

Guy Rutherford paused, and looked down
at his plate.

'you are wrong, in some of your statements,
my friend ; I have no particular
interest in the state or in politics, and I care
but very little for society."

*that is rather a loss if you live in

Pendant ; abroad it does not so much
matter."

'' Do you think so ?"

*' Yes, here where you are so eminently
dull and sober, politics keep one interested ;
it is a pleasant, healthy game to look on
or play at, just as good as lawn-tennis or
any other pastime, perhaps more exciting
when you have not a dull minister or a
weak cabinet ; and then society always
interests when it does not bore; it is a
perfect comedy, and deserves careful study."

I never thought of it in that light
before."

Now that you think of it you agree with
me?"

^'Ido."

As for me, the life I have been leading
is well enough. I am a thorough Bohemian
in my tastes and habits. I have no great
interest in my existence. 1 have not yet

found the cue to my life. I don't care two
straws for society, I hate politics, and my
tenants and people are all looked after by
an agent whom I have never yet seen, but
who understands them far better than I,
and makes a living by this superior knowledge."


And how do you pass your life abroad ?"

"It is impossible to explain. Out of
England things interest us which your
thorough, solid Englishman could never condescend
to notice, could never unbend himself
sufficiently to enjoy. We live for art,
and love, which is in itself an art, and for
pleasures light as air, and as impossible to
describe."

"Yes, that is all very well, until a fellow
reaches the age of five or six and twenty
years, then he begins to look about him,
and thinks of settling down."

Just as dogs and other domestic animals

do," replied Guy Rutherford, laughing merrily
at the viscount's words.

*^ You are not serious."

I am indeed."

How then do you intend to pass your
days? — always in wandering about without
a home, without a domestic tie, almost without
a friend, save those whom one meets in
crowded rooms and foreign hotels, and
whose friendship is not worth the purchase
of an hour ?"

You are becoming quite philosophical,
Harrick."

"And you are becoming quite ironical,
Rutherford."

** Well, I beg your pardon, old man; but
really the life I lead suits me best. I think
it was Epicurus who said men's passions
were the winds that blew them across life's
sea. That is the pleasantness way of getting
across that great dark space ; and I am

quite satisfied to be wafted over by such
winds."

I hope you are jesting," said Lord
Harrick, raising a glass of hock between
him and the glare of the wax lights that
rested on the centre of the table.

Don't look so serious. Why, it is you
who have changed, and not I, since last we
met."

Believe me, Guy, you should settle
down ; marry and settle down."

'' I fear I can never do that."

Why not ?"

I seldom know what quietness and peace
are. I have been always a restless kind of
individual. There must be something like
quicksilver in my blood. Dear Madame
Errante said it was the feu sacre the poetic
temperament, and that she possessed it likewise."


"Who was she?"

*ran admirable creature. She had three
husbands in as many years. Number one
shot number two through the heart in a
duel ; number three in good time ran number
two through the body with his sword.
She was a lovely woman, Harrick, with a
divine face ; she had a voice like an angel
singing out of heaven, and a soul like
another angel living out of hell."

The servants had by this time withdrawn.
The two friends lighted their cigarettes and
commenced to smoke.

''I never knew you had a poetic temperament,
Rutherford. I was ignorant of your
being a poet," said Lord Harrick.

*' I am ignorant of it to the present moment.
One may never write two lines of
verse, and yet have the sacred fire in his
veins. It scorches the blood, I think, and
makes one different from the generality of
his sober, solid neighbours. It is a perpetual

flame, to which the blind, round-limbed
god's torch is but a spark at best."

Guy Rutherford lay back in his chair, and
laughed again.

Lord Harrick was silent for a few minutes,
then he broke the silence by saying,

tell me, Guy, seriously, have you seen
no woman you could wish to make your
wife ?"

Lord Harrick fixed his round, blue eyes
on his friend's face in a questioning gaze ashe
leant across the table. For a moment
Guy Rutherford's eyes met his in a glance
which Lord Harrick could not interpret.
The question woke to life a new light in
his friend's face, that died out as quickly
as it came.

^' There is no woman living whom I would
care to make my wife," he answered.

He lowered his head ; there was no smile
now on his lips, his voice was low and serious,

and Lord Harrick noticed the shadow
which passed across his face.

** Speaking of women," he said presently,
rousing himself as it were from a reverie,
'' I went to see that picture in the Grosvenor
Gallery — the picture of the ' Beggar Maid.' "

Lord Harrick was silent. He was most
anxious to know his friend's opinion of
Capri, and yet he hesitated to ask any
questions.

Rutherford poured himself out some
wine, and drank it with a slow deliberation
that was torturing to his host.

'the * Besfcrar Maid ' is a handsome crirl,
I never saw a more lovely face, Garrick"'
he hesitated just for a second, and then
added slowly, 'save one."

Where did you see that one ?"

"Abroad; and there is a strange resemblance
between the two faces that I cannot
define, but which haunts me somehow."

VOL. II. K

He was silent again as if thinking deeply,
then he asked abruptly,

Is the original of this picture — for I
think you said you knew her — a foreigner ?"

I know her," replied the viscount, much
relieved by what his friend had said, " she
is the daughter of a retired English officer."

'* She does not look like an English girl."

*' Her father was married abroad to a
Neapolitan."

'' Ah, I thought she had a foreign look."

"She was born on the island of Capri,
after which she is called."

*' You interest me already; Capri, Capri,
what a pretty-sounding, musical name !"

Resting his arms on the table, Guy Rutherford
waited to hear anything more about
the girl which his friend might reveal. Lord
Harrick smoked on for some time, then in a
confidential tone went on,

'the fact is, Guy, I have fallen in love

with the girl. I came to meet and know
her in this way."

I am all attention."

I take fencing lessons from her father
at his rooms ; I saw her there continually ;
few men could see her, I think, without
falling in love with her."

Judging from her face I can quite believe
that."

At all events, I fell in love with her
long before I was aware of it. The fact only
same to my knowledge a few weeks ago."

How ?"

In this way. I got the skin rubbed off
my arm whilst fencing ; it commenced to
bleed, she tied it up for me, before she had
finished I knew I was desperately in love
with her."

"It sounds quite romantic. I should
never have thought that you went in for
romance, but we never know what pleasing

k2

surprises our friends have in store for us ;
however, seriously speaking, my dear Harrick,
let me ask you, has the young lady any
other relatives besides this father, who is, I
gather from your remarks, a — a fencing
master."

"No," replied Lord Harrick, briefly, ^' he
is her only relative."

Then, after a meditative pause, he continued
:

*' There is nothing derogatory in a man
gaining his living in this manner, if he has
no other ways of getting it. It is true
they are deuced poor, but what does that
matter?"

'' My dear fellow, I am the last person in
life to object to a man because he has not a
balance at his banker's. I have rubbed too
many prejudices away in knocking about
the world to retain this thoroughly English
one."

I know that," he answered.

But, having fallen in love with this girl,
what do you intend to do? What, have
sou decided, is to be the sequel ?"

I intend to go on loving her."

A very pleasant occupation ; but, let me
ask you, do you propose marrying her,
or "

I mean to marry her'" said the viscount,
shortly, as if anxious to interrupt his friend.

He had not quite made up his mind, upto
that time, whether he would offer Capri
his hand, or see her no more, and strive to
forget the passion she had awakened in
him. Now, however, Guy Rutherford's
-question seemed to provoke a decisive 
^y which he meant to abide. He had
drunk more wine to-night than was habitual
to him ; his face was flushed, and he felt,
much stronger mentally.

Certainly I mean to marry her," he

repeated, as if to sustain himself in his
decision. " I shall be proud of such a wife.
There is not a handsomer girl in all England.
You do not know her, Guy. She
has the most winning ways of any woman
you ever met."

*' And I have met many."
But none more winning than she."
*then, my dear fellow, if you think she
will make you happy for life, marry her by
all means."

** I intend doing so," said Lord Harrick,
who, at the same time, was grateful that his
friend should advise him to a course so
acceptable to his own views and inclinations.


*' A man," said Guy Rutherford, speaking
in a serious tone — *' A man never made a
greater mistake than to heed what his
friends say or think when he has made his
choice."

''I agree with you there' said the young
viscount, yet more pleased.

If you are unhappy, what does society
or the world care?" continued Rutherford,
philosophically. " If you are happy, what
need you care for them ?"

Let us drink to her health," said Lord
Harrick, filling both glasses.

"The health and happiness of the future
Viscountess Harrick," said Guy Rutherford.

Lord Harrick started a moment at the
sound of the name, then laughed aloud.
They stretched across the table to chink
their glasses, and so violently did Lord
Harrick's glass come in contact with his
friend's that Guy Rutherford's glass split,
fell from his hand, and lay smashed on the
table.

Neither spoke for a moment ; the crash
had occurred so suddenly that both were
surprised, Guy Rutherford somewhat startled.

'* Don't mind ; fill up another glass," said
Lord Harrick, laughing a little nervously.

Rutherford did so.

They both raised the wine to their lips,
and drank to Capri's future happiness. As
Guy laid down his glass, he saw that there
was blood upon it.

"The broken glass has cut my fingers,"
he said, as he wrapped his handkerchief
around them. "I am not so lucky as you
to have some one near who would bind
them up for me."

Lord Harrick laughed as if his friend had
made the best joke in life.

** I wish I had the same chance of falling:
in love as you had ; circumstances favoured
you, Harrick."

Now that you have come back to England,
you must stay and give yourself the
chance of falling in love, old fellow."

'' If I honestly did, I think it would make

me a better man, it would give me some
purpose in life, something for which to
live."

He rose from the table as he spoke, and
prepared to depart.

All in good time," said his friend, following
him out into the hall.

Guy Rutherford held out his hand and
said good night. The light of the lamp fell
full upon his face, and Lord Harrick saw it
wore a tired, careworn look.

"Good night," he said. "Shall I see
you tomorrow ?"

"I think not; I intend going down to
Cumberland to play the part of an English
squire for a week or so."

How glad your tenants will be !"

"Will they? I'm afraid they will be
rather disgusted. I'll walk to my hotel;
it's a splendid night. Good-bye, old fellow."

Good night."

CHAPTER VI.

LOVE TOOK UP THE HARP OF LIFE.

A WEEK after Lord Harrick and Guy
-^^ Rutherford had dined at the viscount's
house in Park Lane, Marcus Phillips
received a letter from Mrs. Stonexx Stanning.


It was early in the morning when the
missive arrived. The artist was up betimes ;
he had taken his breakfast and commenced
to work on a canvas, the subject of which
was of much interest to him.

The sunlight came in through the attic
studio window in a broad beam of glory
that brightened the artist's heart and lit up

the room, showing its bareness with a realism
that was cruel. The studio seemed different,
very different indeed from what it
was on that agreeable afternoon when Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning and her friends had come
to see his pictures, and criticise them, and
drink tea, and talk high art. The square
of carpet lent for the occasion had been
speedily reclaimed by the landlady; the potboilers
had gone to various picture-dealers,
the chalk studies had been returned to the
portfolio, the yellow primroses had faded
and died long ago, and Capri was absent.

How different it all seemed now, the
young artist thought, as he filled his well-coloured
pipe from the tobacco-jar and lit it
before taking up his palette preparatory to
work. He could well believe that it was
all a dream, but that one happy circumstance
reminded him it was a reality ; that
circumstance was the exhibition of his picture.

That picture, he believed, would help
him in the present and the future; it had
indeed already helped him in a measure, for
it had made his name known to the crowds
who stared at it daily, made it known to
the press who criticized it, and to that share
of the public which plumed itself on being
learned in all things concerning art and
artists. Already it had gained him a better
price for his pot-boilers ; the dealers had
begun to treat him with more attention, one
of them who had rejected his canvases over
and over now wrote to him to say he was
prepared to make him offers for any pictures
he might send.

Marcus Phillips began to feel himself a
rising man. He had written his name in
full in great red letters, at Newton Marrix's
suggestion, across the corner of the " Beggar
Maid " picture, and he resolved that every
canvas he sent out should now bear the

same signature, and should, moreover, prove
worthy now of an' eminence that name
miorht attain in the future.

He had begun to tire of the pot-boilers,
which were often crude sketches, little better
than studies, outlined on the inspiration of
a moment, and dashed in without thoughtful
study; most of them as inferior work as
his natural genius and true artistic sense
could possibly turn out.

True, they had brought money in, money
he was frequently absolutely in need of;
they had proved good friends to him, and
he would always entertain pleasant and
grateful recollection of them ; but, if this
picture of the " Beggar Maid" sold well, he
should have no future need of them, and he
believed and trusted it would meet with a
liberal purchaser : and he then resolved
to paint no more pot-boilers ; he determined
that good, careful study is alone

worthy of an earnest mind and a true
artist, so he would turn out no more work
in the future which did not strive to excel.
And the future, what might not the future
hold for him !

He was yet young ; and youth is mercifully
seldom without hope.

Whilst the blue clouds of smoke slowly
left his lips, and vanished by slow degrees
in the air, the young artist suspended his
brush and indulged in a day-dream.

He saw himself in the future working
carefully and steadily, gaining ground, slowly
perhaps, but surely ; his name coming
continually before the public, the offspring
of his imagination hanging in massive frames
upon the walls of various galleries.

He took a pleasure in thinking of all this,
not so much for his own sake, as for the
sake of one who, he believed and trusted,
would share this celebrity with him. To

give her a name famous in art, to secure for
her a home made beautiful by all that art
could supply, and happy as love could make
it, this was surely an object worth living,
worth toiling for in the present.

The thought of having Capri, with her
beautiful face, her soft sweet voice, as his
wife and companion for life came to him
with a swift delight that reflected a happy
radiance on his face. Truly, with Capri as
the angel of his home, no man could ever
be more blessed.

The thought of her beauty came like a
glad vision before him ; he saw her dark
liquid eyes so full of tenderness, of light,
and vivacity ; her rich clear olive face, her
classic head, with its wealth of dusky cold
hair; her form so full of race in its very
careless movement, all rose before him and
dazzled him.

He heard her voice, full of music, that

was glad and sad by turns, suiting itself to
every thought she expressed, harmonising
itself to every mood of his.

**Ah, Capri," he said aloud, 'you little
know how well I love you."

He loved her, but did she know that he
did? He felt that her woman's quickness,
her swift intuition had fathomed that knowledge
which he had no desire to keep secret
from her : that she had long ago made the
discovery that her love was the highest
happiness which life could hold for him.

Though in words he had never told her
that her affection meant heaven and earth
to him, surely his eyes, his acts, his whole
bearing towards her did. A man is quick
to express such a feeling as this, even unconsciously,
and a woman quicker to interpret
it, quicker to read in trifles light as
bubbles on the surface the secrets which
hearts hold.

He would not tell her of his love until it
was in his power to offer her a home worthy
of her. It was not yet possible for him to
give her that independence which he wished
his wife to enjoy ; but that he trusted
would come soon now.

Already he had gained the first step on
the rugged pathway of success, and now
with a brave heart, a strong arm, with hope
and courage he would push on firmly, and
secure independence and fame.

It would be but happiness to toil for her
sake, to labour on faithfully and unwarily
with such a goal in view as Capri's bright
face to greet and cheer him after strife and
struggle. Surely that would be a blessed
reward.

No shadow of her mercenary words, her
ambitions, her worldly philosophy, came
across his mind as he sat there dreaming of
Capri. He only thought of her as she ap-vol.

ir. L

feared at her best, a winning, wayward girl,
budding into the sweet flower of womanhood,
full of gentle ways and tenderness ;
full of faith in the man she loved, truehearted,
noble, and good.

Lover-like, Marcus Phillips clad the girl
who had gained his heart with many ideal
attributes, exaggerated all that was good
in her, diminished all that he believed unworthy
of her, and idealised her until she
stood before him as one of the most bewitching
women that ever God sent on earth.

He was rather glad that she had gone to
Mrs. W. achilles Lordson as companion, for
he believed she would be more comfortable
and happy there than at home, and that the
exchange was all for the better; and yet, being
human, he could not help being jealous.
With this rich American woman, Capri
would enter into a new sphere of life, she
would acquire habits and tastes which as

his wife she might not be able to gratify ;
she would probably meet with many men
who would admire her — none could help
doing so. Would she remain the same
generous-hearted girl to him ?

He did not doubt it for a moment. This
new life of hers would but prove a crucible
out of which she would come to him by-and-by
purer and brighter than ever.

Thinking of it in this light he felt pleased
that she had gone to Mrs. Lordson. He believed
her stay in Mayfair would give her
-an experience of those riches and that life
for which she longed, and show her that
existence holds something truer and nobler
than those worthless things on which she now
set such store ; something which no wealth
could buy, no position command, but which
an honest manly heart like his could offer,
nay, could and would give her as long as she
lived.

l2

He remembered now with a keen pleasure
how she had kissed him when she came
to say good-bye previous to her departure
for Mayfair, kissed him with almost the
innocence and purity of a child ; he saw
that her heart was touched, and that there
were tears shining in her great dark eyes,
though she had laughed and striven to
be gay. She had made him promise ta
come and see her in what she called her new
home, and had declared she would always
remember what pleasant days they had had
together, and what merry, careless hours
they had passed in the studio, when she had
sat for her portrait and when they were both
so poor.

Always she would remember the past ;
for she assured him, in her bright, half
petulant manner, that they had done
with it for ever — that they had both
shaken hands with poverty, and were now

going to grow rich, and maybe famous.

Marcus Phillips thought that in her words
and thoughts she had coupled the future of
both their lives, and this thought made him
inexpressibly happy, not imagining that she
was already dreaming of a coming time in
which he had no part, of an existence to
which he would be but a stranger.

*rand all the good luck comes from the
Beggar Maid,' Marc," she had said ; '' it
will always be pleasant to think of that."

He told her that that thought would bethe
pride of his life, that he should always
regard the picture as the foundation of their
fortunes.

She had looked wonderfully charming
and bright that day, for the dawn of a
great hope beamed on her face, her eyes
were lit with brilliant expectancy. The
artist was perfectly happy in the belief that
she loved him, for he measured the depth

of her heart and feelings by his own.

"Ah, Capri, my sweet girl, I would do
anything for your sake," he said aloud, ashe
finished his pipe.

A rap sounded at the door, and woke
him from the full blissful sense of a day-dream
which he might never enjoy again.

Come in !" he shouted a little abruptly,
half displeased at being disturbed whilst he
was mentally so pleasantly engaged.

The maid-of-all-work entered, holdings a
square envelope in the corner of her apron
between her finger and thumb.

Letter just come for you, sir," she said,
handing it out to Marcus.

Thank you," he said, taking it from her
and recognising Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's creston
the back at a glance. " An invitation to
a reception, I suppose," he murmured to
himself in a confidential manner, opening
the envelope slowly.

It was not a card however : it was a
short friendly note. It said :

"Dear Mr. Phillips,

If you can manage without
too much inconvenience to call on me today
about twelve o'clock, I shall feel glad,
as I have a business matter to speak of
which will be better arranged verbally.
*' Very truly yours,

'' Felice Stonexx Stanning."

Business matter!" said the artist aloud,
as he finished the letter. ''I will swear
it's my first commission I am about to get,
through Mrs. Stonexx Stanning from some
of her friends."

He danced a step or two, singing and
holding the sheet of grey ribbed paper
above his head triumphantly. A vision of
endless commissions rose before his eyes ;
rows upon rows of pictures, bearing in their

corners the name of Marcus Phillips, spread
before him. Was he about to realise in
part the vision in which he had just been
indulging ?

It seemed so to him just then. The
world was lit with hope, and to youthful
eyes there is no brighter light in heaven or
on earth ; radiating the present, it fills the
future with a golden haze that may reveal
undreamt-of splendours in the coming time.
Who knew ?

Marcus Phillips was quick to call on Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning ; he was impatient to learn
what was the business matter that she
wished to speak of to him ; he was anxious
to know the particulars about the commission,
as he believed it to be, and commence
work as soon as possible.

He put down his palette and brushes,
took off his painting-coat, sadly smudged
here and there with colours, and flung it on

a chair, brushed down his long light locks,
and made himself look as generally tidy ashe
could.

Before twelve o'clock had struck he had
reached Kensington, and was sitting in the
little morning-room of Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's
house. It was a very pretty, artistic
apartment, where the foot fell noiselessly
on white flossy rugs soft as down ; and the
easiest of luxurious low-seated chairs were
scattered about, piled with cushions of pale
green velvet, worked with golden sunflowers,
purple pansies, and dark blue
forget-me-nots.

A small conservatory opened out of this
room at the far end, the glass doors of
which were painted with mediaeval, pale-faced
saints and patient martyrs, with eyes
devotionally upturned, and palm branches
held gracefully in their wan hands. The doors
stood partly open, and the great crowd of

plants inside gave out a delicate fragrance
that filled the air without rendering it
oppressive.

Here Marcus Phillips sat wondering what
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning had to say, letting his
eyes wander all over the room, until at last
they fixed themselves on an etching which
hung on the opposite wall of Mademoiselle
Sarah Bernhardt's famous picture, "La Jeune
Fille et la Morte''

It had an attraction for him which, though
painful, he could not resist. He stared at
this picture of a young girl, with her round
charming face and sweet eyes, over whose
shoulder a half-veiled skeleton face looked
mockingly, and whose sweeping, half defined
grave-clothes mingled with the dress of the
shapely living figure. Again and again he
looked away from the picture, yet, in spite
of himself, his eyes returned to the same
spot. It was a weird subject, yet it attracted.

At length he turned his back to the wallon
which it hung, and faced the glad midday
sunshine, conning through the carefully-shaded
window. He had scarcely done so
when the door softly opened, and Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning came forward and greeted
him kindly.

There was something in her manner which
at once pleased and soothed him ; a delicate
gentleness that hinted at rather than expressed
friendship. It seemed to the artist
as if he had known her not weeks but years.
There was an entire freedom from restraint
between them, which is seldom the result of
a short acquaintance, and not always the
experience of a lengthened one.

Her tall figure was draped in a soft,
cream-coloured morning dress that clung; to
her and hung about her in graceful curves
and folds ; her bright brown hair was coiled
in bands around her shapely head, and

fastened with a string of small pearls, and
altogether there was a freshness about her
which was charming.

'' You have received my note, I see," she
said, vvhen she had shaken hands with the
artist, and seated herself opposite to him.

Marcus said he had, and that he was glad
she had made such a pleasant request, which
he was very happy to obey. He was beginning
to feel that there was a something
undefinable in her manner, in her very
atmosphere, that calmed him, and made
him mentally a stronger man.

** And now," said Mrs. Stonexx Stanning,
tell me all you have read or heard since
about your picture."

There was a sunny look in her grey eyes,
which the artist caught just then ; a light
which he thought made them very beautiful.
When he looked at them again, Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning lowered her lashes, and

bent down her head above a vase of lilies
of the valley which stood upon the table
beside her. Then Marcus Phillips noted
how shapely her head was, and how delicately
and gracefully it was set upon her
neck, but noticed it with very much the
same feelings as he would look upon a
statue.

Any other man would probably have
fallen in love with this woman ; her gentle
manners, her soft low voice, and graceful
ways were attractions that would have won
their way to many male hearts, and quickened
them into a warm affection ; but Marcus
Phillips looked upon her now unmoved,
for the boy-god had bandaged his eyes, and
stopped his ears, and stolen his heart, and
so the artist was blind and deaf to her
charms.

I have read so many things, and heard
so much about the * Beggar Maid,' that it

would be a difficult thing to remember
them all," he answered her, with a merry
laugh.

The press has been much troubled over
the picture."

Yes. One half the critics say the face
and flesh-tints are the best part of the
picture; the other half declares emphatically
the drapery alone is dexterously painted,
and that the facial expression is not carefully
studied."

^'And so the wise judges disagree, and
are * wee of each other.' "

Exactly,"

'* You need not mind the press very
much," said Mrs. Stonexx Stanning encouragingly.


You are very good to say so."

The public has declared the ' Beggar
Maid' one of the successes of the season.
I hear it talked of wherever I go."

*that is very gratifying to me."

And I have promised more than half a
dozen friends to introduce them to you."

It will give me great pleasure to know
them."

*' I give a reception on the second Thursday
July. Will you unceremoniously accepta
verbal invitation, and come ?" she asked.
*' You will then meet those friends of mine
I mentioned as wishing to know you."

"Thank you many times," said Marcus
Phillips, who was delighted at the prospect.

He now felt more certain than ever that
he was about to become famous.

A few words like these will often set
young men dreaming ; they are slight
foundations, on which they erect magnificent
aerial palaces.

The artist's next thought was of Capri.
He wondered if she would be present, or if
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning knew the wealthy

American with whom the girl of his heart
was staying.

You will remember the date ?" said
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning, in her sweet flexible
voice.

'* Certainly. I shall look forward to it
with great pleasure."

She smiled, as if she were well pleased.

'speaking of your picture," she said,
after a slight pause, and with the air of one
who was continuing a train of thought.
*' Is the ' Beggar Maid ' a model, or the
creation of your imagination — a fancy
sketch?"

"She is not a professional model. The
face of the ' Beggar Maid ' is a portrait of a
friend of mine, Miss Capri Bankers, who
was kind enough to sit to me."

'' She is handsome."

*' The picture is said to be a faithful
portrait, nothing more."

'' Then she must be very lovely," said
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning quietly.

*' She is indeed," answered the artist
warmly.

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning looked at him
quickly, then saw the colour mounting to his
face, and read the riddle of his heart aright,
and sighed very softly as she turned her
head away ; so softly that Marcus Phillips
never heard her. She lowered her eyes, a
shadow crossed her bright face ; she was
silent for some time, but Marcus Phillips
never noticed her, he was too much occupied
with his own thoughts, and did not yet
dream that her interest in him had deepened
to a warmer feeling ; that her heart, so
long impregnable in its wintry seclusion,
had now awakened to a new sense and a
fuller life and had gone out to him without
his seeking, and almost without her knowledge.


VOL. II. M

Of human hearts we have but slight
knowledge and less control ; we cannot
sound their depths or measure their circumference
; they are mysteries which we
can seldom understand ; their ways are ever
new to us ; we are powerless to give or
take them ; their wilfulness is wholly independent
to reason, they ignore our interests,
they are despots that blindly follow their
own inclinations, knowing that they often
rush to misery and ruin. To-day they are free
as air, owning no sovereignty, no bondage ;
tomorrow or the next day a fatal moment
comes, and they are led and bound captives
whilst all life lasts.

It is strange !

Marcus Phillips was the next to speak ;
he was anxious to know if Capri would
probably be present at the reception ; the
fact of her being invited would give the
occasion additional interest to him.

"Miss Bankers," he said, "is now acting
as companion to I\Irs. Lordson ; perhaps you
may know that lady ; she is a friend of Mr.
Newton Marrix."

'* An American?"

Yes."

I remember. She came here to one of
mv afternoon teas."

ml

The artist was pleased to hear this ; there
was now a greater chance of his meeting
Capri here.

When Mrs. Lordson came here," began
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning, " Miss — Miss "

Dankers."

Miss Dankers was not with her."

*' I believe she only went to stay with her
last week."

Indeed ! And where did she stay before
then?" she asked, with some show of interest.


'with her father."

M 2

Her father?" (interrogatively).

'eyes; a retired English officer."

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning took up the lilies
of the valley and put them close against her
face.

Marcus Phillips began to wonder if it was
to ask lira about Capri she had written to
request his calling on her this morning, but
presently she commenced, with rather an
apologetic tone,

I was a little curious about the picture,
Mr. Phillips, on account of something which
happened yesterday, and which I thought it
best to say to you personally."

He made no response, and she continued :

''A friend of mine, who has not had the
opportunity of meeting artists or artistic
society, being very much struck with your
picture, wishes to purchase "

The ' Beggar Maid ' ?"

'eyes; in order, he says, to add it to his

collection, and, as he knew I took an interest
in the picture, he has asked me to make
you an offer for it."

While she spoke, the kindly, gentle look
which the artist had first noticed when she
greeted him came back into her eyes, but
they had a look far graver than before.

^' How generous of you to take such
trouble !" he said.

At his words a bright light came into her
face.

"I do not know, of course, what sum you
expect for the picture."

I have not quite decided on what I should
ask."

"My friend has asked me to make you an
offer of two hundred and fifty guineas."

Two hundred and fifty guineas ?"

Did he hear aright; he could scarcely
credit his senses; at most he had expected
half that sum for his canvas, but here

was an offer made him which at once outstepped
his highest expectations. This was
indeed a good fortune for which he was
unprepared.

The mere thought of it made him confused
; a multitude of ideas thronged in wild
disorder across his brain, as he pictured to
himself the result of this sudden wealth, undreamt
of and unhoped for in his most
sanguine moods ; here was a price offered
that far exceeded his expectations ; it was a
glorious beginning, his star was surely in
the ascendant. With such a commencement,,
what might he not accomplish in the future.
It was a fair prospect upon which the sun
of his fortune had risen so brightly ; if the
dawn was so bright and prosperous, what
might not the day bring him. A great
hope filled his soul.

What should Capri say to this good news ?
Would not two hundred and fifty guineas

suffice them to commence their married life
on ? He, or rather they, need wait no
longer. He could at once, if she consented,
take her from the dependent position in
which she was now, and make her his wife.
The idea filled him with pride and delight.

All these thoughts flashed across his mind
in an instant. Mrs. Stonexx Stanning saw
that he was pre-occupied, though he said to
her,

This is indeed good luck ; I had not
expected such an offer."

I am sincerely glad," she replied, whilst
a look almost of pain came into her calm grey
eyes.

I feel that I owe it to you."

''No, no ; you owe it solely to yourself."

"You have come in the guise of good
fortune to me, I cannot tell you how I thank
you," he said.

*' Perhaps you may some day," she answered

unthinkingly; then she closed her lips
resolutely, as if she had said too much.

He made no reply, but looked at her in
wonder ; her shapely head bound with its
coils of bright brown hair was slightly bent.

I have had no other bid for the picture,"
he said presently.

^* You are satisfied then with that offer
which my friend has made."

''I am more than satisfied," he replied,
"I consider it a handsome sum."

But the picture is well worth it."

And you told him so ?"

I did."

You are indeed a good friend."

He looked at her with a bright grateful
glance in his blue eyes ; her eyes met his
for a second, then her dark lashes fell over
them again.

You had better get the picture marked
sold," she said in a moment.

'' I shall to-day."

*' My friend will send you a cheque probably
tomorrow."

The artist thought that this remark was an
intimation that their interview had drawn
to an end.

May 1 ask you," he said hesitatingly, ashe
stood up, " the name of the purchaser ?"

'lord Harrick."

Lord Harrick !" he repeated slowly.

He had never seen him, but he had heard
Capri mention his name on two or three
occasions. For an instant a shadow fell
upon his face, but it passed as quickly as it
had come, leaving it all the brighter afterwards.


He was anxious to leave the house and
be alone, in order that he might uninterruptedly
think of his success. The presence of
a second person seemed to subdue the delight
which he felt at that moment; he

wanted freedom in order to indulge his
thoughts without restraint.

*good morning," he said, holding out his
hand.

His face, lit up just then with hope, was
very frank and winning ; there was a sunny
look in his dark blue eyes, which often
afterwards rose before Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's
mental vision.

'good morning," he said, "and let me
thank you once more for all your kindness ;
believe me I am fully sensible of it."

"It is a pleasure to me that fate has
made me the instrument of bringing you
your first success," she answered, giving him
her small, shapely hand.

"It is our good angels that bring us all
luck," he said gallantly.

A faint colour came into her cheeks ;
and she thought of the words long afterwards.


The door closed upon lira, and Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning was alone.

The fair, young, and wealthy widow sank
into a chair, placed her head upon her hand,
and fell into a reverie.

What was it in this man that touched her
heart, and stirred her deeper feelings till
they quickened to a new, glad life, and
made her feel that existence held something
higher and sweeter and better than she had
ever known before ? This man, whom she
had seen but a few times, of whose history
she knew so little, who she suspected was
in love with another woman, or rather a
girl, if she might judge from the picture,
who was just at that most seductive age
when girlhood ripens to womanhood.

It was strange. He had touched without
knowing it some chord in her heart that
sent a melodious echo through her lonely
life; terribly lonely all the more that she

was the centre and attraction of crowds ; a
chord which no other man's hand had yet
struck or wakened.

Do what she would, she could not close
her eyes to this fact. It was a truth which
persistently forced its way to the surface.
Whenever she looked into her heart, there was
the reflection of this new-born love, tender
and sacred : a love which must be screened
from all eyes, hidden in the sanctity of
secresy ; for with her woman's intuition she
felt that the man to whom her whole heart
went out, was ignorant of the part he had
begun to play in the drama of her life ;
that he never even suspected the existence
of emotions which he had awakened.

Perhaps even if he did he would be heedless
of them, for the thought of another
woman filled his heart.

Should he remain blind to the fact
for ever that her love was his to cherish

and care for and guard from all the
world; his to train round the tendrils of
his heart, till it blossomed and flowered
in the full warmth of his affection,
and sweetened all his days ? Should the
world as long as she lived remain barren
and fruitless to her; should existence become
but a mere waste ?

Throughout her days in the past she felt,
rather than knew, that she had missed something
from her life which other women
possessed, and held as sweet and sacred ;
she had missed it, but her days were passed
in peace, and the calmness of resignation,
and without vain regrets. She had been
cold, for the spark had never come till now
to fire that sacred flame smouldering,
unknown to herself, in the depths of her
heart.

Now she learned what that subtle tenderness,
that boundless joy was, that had

escaped her for years ; knew the faint, delicious
feeling of sweetness, the birth of new
hopes, and the brightness that another human
life could lend to hers, knew it and was sad ;
for that sweetness, the fulfilment of these
new hopes, and the fulness of that other life
might never be hers to have and enjoy.

With the knowledge of this new feeling,
and the sense of this new passion, came a
tone of sadness she had never known before.
Much of her life had gone by that was
wasted and fruitless, and many fair years that
could never be regained. Looking back on
them they seemed empty and valueless, and
she had never dreamt of it, never knew it
before. Now the knowledge came to her
in full force.

All the store of gentle, womanly love
that her heart held had never been touched ;
all her tenderest affections had lain as a
germ that had never been stirred and quickened

to life and light by a passion like that
which now filled her soul, and which she
was utterly powerless to conquer or suppress.


Hopeless though her love was, it seemed
to rise wave-like with daily increasing vigour,
and fill her whole being with a sense of its
depth and might, and the sound of its voiceful
melody.

Did this love awake now but to be
wasted on one who was ignorant or careless
of it? — would the day ever come when he
should turn to her, and wake to a sense of
all that awaited him ? Should she have to
wait through long and tedious years for
this, even if it ever came, wait while she
played a hollow part in that society of which
she was a centre, her heart aching from the
weight of its load, whilst she smiled the
while, wearing a close-fitting mask before
the world, which she dared not cast aside ?

And yet, for all this new sadness that
came upon her life, she would not, if she
could, reduce her heart to its old state of
coldness. The knowledge of what love was
gave her a new power and strength, and, in
one brief hour, woke her to fresh depths of
feeling which she had never before fathomed,
to a sense of the golden mines of tenderness
within her, of which she was all unconscious
heretofore.

She would not, if she could, return to
her old neutral feelings, though then she
was in the possession of a peace which
might never be hers again ; never whilst
this aching void was in her heart ; never
whilst the one man for whom she alone
cared in all the world — this man who was
the sun of her whole existence — was unconscious
or heedless of her love.

Had she never seen Marcus Phillips, she
would probably have been spared a knowledge

whose fruit was bitterness as well as
joy. She might have gone down to her
grave with her sweetest, most womanly
feelings all undeveloped. She would have
been unconscious of the pleasure that mutual
love can give, and blissfully ignorant of the
grief that an unrequited affection causes human
hearts. "Would this have been wise and
well ? Was she a gainer or loser by the
v>^isdom which had come to her unsought ?

It is better, after all, to have loved and
lost, she thought, than never to have loved
at all ; and, so saying, she sighed just once,
and rose from her reverie.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER VIL

ABOVE BOHEMIANISM.

VTJHEN Marcus Phillips was out of doors
^ * once more, he felt as happy and sped
along as lightly as if he were again a schoolboy
out for a day's bird-nesting or nutting
amongst the pleasant woods. His face was
so bright just then that it seemed almost
radiant ; the passers-by looked at him and
wondered what it was made the young man
so pleased with the world at large, which
was dull and commonplace enough to them.
His dark blue eyes lost their look of serious
dreaminess and were beaming with light,
for a great hope filled him with delight and

confidence that made the earth look young
and fair, and lit the future with wondrous
splendour. He thought the sun had never
shone so brilliantly in May before, at least
on our island ; the air was balmy and sweet,
the sky cloudless and azure, and the very
people in the street, he thought, looked
bright and happy, as if they knew of his
success and shared his feelings.

An old woman, wrapped in a tartan
shawl, sat at a fruit-stall, on which a little
pile of some oranges and gooseberries were
arranged with neatness and order that were
the outcome of an abundance of leisure;
and, as Marcus Phillips passed her by, he
thought her just like a picture. Her figure
was quaint, her pose most natural, her face
sunburnt, her eyes anxious and patient;
the hues of her shawl made an effective background
against the brighter colours of the
fruit.

n2

Even the most commonplace things were
suggestive to lira of beauty, whilst he enjoyed
this happy mood. He would like to
have made a sketch of her had he time ; as
it was, he satisfied himself by throwing her
sixpence and hurrying on, merely overhearing
disjointed exclamations of her surprise
and gratitude.

In his flight further on he saw a little
crossing sweeper, with rough hair hanging
down over his pale face and bright, watchful
eyes, his thin hands crossed on a broom-handle
as he rested himself against a lamp-post,
his trousers in flitters showing his
skinny legs and knees capped with hard
crusts of dirt ; and his figure struck the
painter as a perfect study, and a subject for
one of his future canvases. He stopped and
spoke to the lad, who touched his old, worn
cap, and put out his hand almost with the
same gesture, so much had practice done to

render the action perfect. He looked up
into the artist's face with a shrewd, speculative
gaze pitiful in such young eyes, as if
he were striving to see what manner of
alms-giver Providence had sent in his way
this morning. Marcus Phillips put a shilling
into his palm, sadly dirty and hard as a
navvy's.

The lad looked at him with surprise,
opening his eyes wide, bit the coin to test
its genuineness, and then a smile crossed his
poor, pinched, haggard face that reflected
itself over the artist's heart and made it
lighter than before.

Marcus Phillips then hailed a cab that he
just caught sight of and drove quickly to
Mayfair. He wanted to tell Capri of the
good fortune which the picture — which he
regarded almost as much hers as his — had
brought him, and that her prophecy had
come true in a measure.

He felt sure the girl would rejoice over
the news. He fancied her dancing about
the room, with her rounded arms raised
above her head in a favourite gesture ; or
perhaps she would fling one arm around
his neck, and kiss him, as she had often
done before in moments of excitement or
tenderness. He almost felt her kiss already
on his cheek, and pictured her bright, vivacious
face close to his, undergoing rapid
changes of expression as she listened to
him ; her dark liquid eyes looking into his
with a world of tenderness and love in their
depths. Then he thought of Mrs. W.
Achilles Lordson, and wondered if she
should be present, or if she would leave
them to themselves, to enjoy each other's
conversation without interruption.

The cab drove up to Mrs. Lordson's house
just then ; he sprang out, and rang and
rapped vigorously. The boy of many buttons

opened the door, and was about to
usher him up when a young man with a
round face, red hair, and tightly-fitting
clothes came downstairs. Marcus Phillips
noticed that his face was flushed, and that
the page, whose movements hitherto were
as stiff and pert as if he were pulled with
wires from behind by some invisible hands,
now flung wide the door with a sweeping
gesture, and bowed his page's head low
indeed as this other visitor departed.

Then the artist followed the boy, who
scarcely condescended to notice his existence,
and was led upstairs and shown into
the drawing-room. Before his name was,
however, mentioned, the artist had time to
note that Capri was alone in the room, and
that she stood gazing out of the window in
an absent-minded way, her head lowered,
her arms drooping, and her hands clasped
together.

She started as if she had received a shock
when she turned round and saw Marcus
Phillips ; and he felt, in some way which
he could not define, that she was uneasy
and confused at meeting hit. Her face
was flushed, not with that soft, delicate
pink shade which served to light up her
clear complexion, but with a crimson blush,
as if some sudden start had driven the
blood quickly from heart to head. Her
eyes lowered before his, and the artist
would have been sorely puzzled at the
change in her, if her voice and words had
not assured him.

I am glad to see you," she said, giving
him her hand, not quite in such a frank
way as in the olden time. " It is good of
you to come and see me, for I know you
do not usually like leaving Bohemia in the
mornings, when you are working."

She has changed, the artist thought ; but

her manner was more gentle to him than it
had ever been before, and almost shy, and
this lent a fresh attraction to her ways.
Could it be that her surroundings had
already altered her, or did she feel that
on entering on this new life she must subdue
her feelings, as one who had left her
old, child-like days completely behind, and
had gone out into the world a woman?
What a pity it was, if so ; if that old charmer
freshness, and frank vivacity, and impulsiveness
were left behind for ever.

It then occurred to the artist suddenly
that perhaps he was interrupting some duty
which she had to perform for Mrs. W.
Achilles Lord son. Perhaps this trifle in
itself was the cause of the change. He
grasped at every trifle that would account
to him for the alteration.

"I have not been working to-day," he
said, seating himself near her, '^ I commenced

in the morning, but I received a letter
which made me come out."

Which made you come here ?"
Not in the first place : my coming here
is the result of another visit ; but first let
me ask you if 1 am interrupting you in anyway
?"

''No," she answered, "I was not in the
least engaged when you came in. Mrs.
Lordson is at her toilette, and that duty occupies
her for an hour at least, so we shall
have time for a good long chat ; and I am
anxious to hear all the news since I left."
*' I have heard some good news to-day."
'tell me what it is," she said eagerly,
her old expression of pleasure was coming
back, the feelings of shyness and restraint
were quickly wearing away.

I came to tell you as quickly as I could,"
he said, delaying the news as long as possible
for the sake of watching the expressions

of interest and expectancy that crossed
her face, ''or as fast as a hansom could
carry me, but when I got to the hall below
I had to wait until the page had shown out
a young man with red hair : imagine my
impatience. By the way," he said suddenly
'* who was that visitor?"

"LordHarrick."

"LordHarrick?"

It was the second time he had heard his
name mentioned that day. The sound
grated on his ears unpleasantly.

He knows Mrs. Lordson ?"

Yes, he called early to know if he might
drive her down to Richmond tomorrow."

'lord Harrick," he said, as if speaking to
himself, "is the purchaser of the 'Beggar
Maid' picture."

A sudden shock shot through the girl ; her
olive face paled ; for a moment her breath
was suspended, a new light came into her

eyes ; she leant back in her chair and placed
her hand across her forehead. Lord Harrick,
who took no interest in art, and cared
very little for pictures, had bought the
Beggar Maid " picture, because it was a
portrait of her ; that she felt sure was his
sole reason. At this thought the blood
came rushing back again hot and quick to
her temples and face; she lowered her
head.

The artist's words had fallen on her ears
with almost the sense of a shock. Why had
the viscount bought this portrait of her,
she asked herself, was it that he was in love
with her, genuinely in love with her, that
he wanted to have her face continually before
him, or— could it be — that he wanted
to place this picture among the ancestral
portraits as that of his wife the Viscountess
Harrick ?

'* Oh, Marc," she exclaimed, calling him by

his old familiar name for the first time that
day, " the news startled me, it was so unexpected,
you told me so suddenly," and she
laughed a little hysterically as she spoke.

Marcus Phillips laughed outright. He
thought it was the news of his success alone
that affected Capri. It was not the expression
of joy and exuberance and playful
mirth which he had expected and pictured
to himself; he supposed it was a deeper
feeling of pleasure and interest which produced
this effect on her ; and then no one
knew or could foretell what mood Capri
would indulge in under given circumstances.

'' What did he pay you. Marc," she asked,
quickly.

She wanted to know how much he had
given for the picture which was her portrait ;
she thought she could gauge the depth of
the viscount's affections by the sum he had
paid for the canvas. The artist thought it

was her interest in him which prompted the
question, and answered her.

** As yet he has not paid me anything."

You said he bought it ?"

Yes ; he has made me an offer through
his friend Mrs. Stonexx Stanning."

'' Which you have accepted ?"

*' Yes."

'' How much has he offered ?"

"Two hundred and fifty guineas."

She opened her dark eyes very wide, and
stared at him in astonishment. Lord Harrick
had given that sum because it was her
portrait. It was well. There could be no
longer doubt that he loved her. Her suit
seemed to prosper daily.

She did not think of Marcus Phillips just
then, or what that sum would do for the
struggling artist as a commencement in life;
or how it would serve him to have the little
coloured ticket stuck in the frame of the

*' Beggar Maid" picture, announcing it already
sold ; she only thought of herself and
of her chances of becoming the future Viscountess
Harrick.

The painter sat there before her looking at
her face ; noting the look of joy and something
like triumph that her features expressed.

Of course it was all on account of him
these feelings possessed her, he thought, all
because the news of his c^ood luck had come
so suddenly upon her. He watched her in
silence ; her face, lovely in its every varying
expression, was always ^ sight worthy of
study. He did not disturb her whilst she,
unconscious of his presence, looked away
thinking of what the future might bring her,
and building up bright visions in which the
artist had no part.

At last her eyes met his, and for the first
time she thought of all this sale would mean
for Marcus Phillips. She blushed, when

she remembered her own selfishness, and he,
noting the colour, attributed it to a flush of
pleasure.

I am so glad," she said to him, " this
is good news indeed, Marc. It will make
your name. I think the days I so often
spoke about and pictured are coming at
last, when you will be rich and famous and
have all you desire in life."

Riches and fame are not all that I desire
in life, Capri. There is something more
than these things which I require."

He looked at her very earnestly, and
spoke with slow determination in his voice.

Riches and fame will bring you everything
else in good time," she answered, turning
away her head uneasily, and pretending
not to understand the drift of his remarks.

'' All that I desire is very little, and yet
how much," he said, leaning his elbows on
his knees, and placing his face near to hers.

"That sounds contradictory," she said, not
meeting his gaze, but looking around the
room, "does it not? and, by the way, you
have not told me how you like Mrs. Lord-son's
furniture. How it glares in one's
face ! When I look away from it with tired
eyes, 1 sometimes continue to see great
patches of yellow colour before me, as if
that shade haunted my sight."

Marcus Phillips took his elbows from his
knees, and sat back in his chair, disappointed
and displeased at the light manner in
which she had replied to his serious remarks.
Capri was evidently not herself to-day, he
thought, she sounded out of all harmony
with her usual character.

A moment ago he was about to offer her
his great heart and all the strong honest
affections of his manly nature ; he was about
to ask her to become his wife, and she had
flippantly changed the conversation to speak

VOL. II. o

of Mrs. Lordson's furniture. This had unhinged
him, and for the moment made him feel
irritable.

'the chairs give me a headache," she
went on, in the same tone ; " at first I
thought the display they made very imposing,
but familiarity has worked its dire effect,
and now they sometimes worry me frightfully.
When I am here by myself they
seem to stand out from the wall with their
ebony arms to their stout sides, and their
backs to grow like the corpulent persons
of city gentlemen in satin waistcoats,
and say to me, ' Come, what do you think
I'm worth ?' So I feel quite subdued when
I realise how much they are worth, but I
fancy I prefer the old horse-hair chairs
at home with all their roughness, and sometimes
a sight of them would be an inestimable
relief."

Capri spoke after the manner of one who

cares very little for what she says, but speaks
for an object. Her intention was to distract
the artist from approaching any serious
questions as to her future ; she feared that
a distinct answer might be required from her
now, as to whether she was prepared to love,
honour, and obey him through all her days.

So words came to her at will, and, without
giving him time to make any reply, she
rattled on.

'' Does not the room give you a headache,
Marc ? When Mrs. Lordson, in ruby satin,
sits on one of these chairs, the effect makes
me feel almost sick."

He made her no answer, but sighed ; and
she afterwards thought he had fixed his eyes
on her reproachfully.

Capri," he said presently, not heeding
her words, " will you come to Hampton or
Kew some day this week, and let us spend
a few hours together?"

o2

*' How can I ?"

*get leave of absence for the day from
Mrs. Lordson, and let us go out into the
fresh air among trees and fields. You
know we have promised ourselves that treat
for some time, and we will forget all about
Mrs. Lordson, and ray picture, and enjoy
that freedom and happiness vt^hich we Bohemians
only can relish."

A new thought had occurred to him before
he spoke. He would propose to Capri
to spend this day with him, and then take
that opportunity when she was more frank
and happy, and more like her old self than
she was now, to ask her to become his
wife ; to tell her that she had his heart and
his love, and, without her, fame and wealth
would become useless to him and life itself
but a mere dreary waste.

*^ We shall go to Twickenham," he continued,
" and have a glorious day on the water.

I will pull you on to Kingston ; imagine how
delightful it will be under the shade of the
trees, gliding smoothly along with only the
songs of birds, the plashing of water, and
sour voice breaking the silence. You will
sit in the stern of the boat, and sing to me,
Capri, and in turn you shall pull if you like,
whilst I take your place and smoke."

Yet Capri made no answer.

Let us say "Wednesday. Will you fix
on that day ?"

There was a frank, boyish brightness in
his face, a look of pleasure in his dark blue
eyes, and a sense of happiness in his whole
manner which she was loth to dispel. She
looked at him wistfully, and then gave a
low, quick sigh.

If only she had never seen or known Lord
Harrick ; if this new dream, this wild ambition
of becoming his wife, had never entered
her head, how happy she could be ; how

she would dance for joy at the prospect of
spending a day such as the artist had spoken
of with him.

A month ago, and she would have considered
it the acme of happiness, she would
have felt most grateful to Marcus for the
projected holiday; but her life had changed
since that time. The current of her whole
existence had turned into a new channel. She
had since then dreamt strange fancies full of
ambitions and vanities ; a fever now filled
her blood and scorched her veins, and the
peace and calmness of her old life had passed
away from her for ever.

^' You forget, Marc," she said gently, as
if to render the disappointment which she
knew he would feel, as light as possible,
you forget that I am not my own mistress
now."

*' But surely Mrs. Lordson will spare you
for one dav."

*' I don't know that ; this is the middle of
the season, and every day I accompany her
somewhere or other."

But one day is not much," he pleaded,
looking into her eyes. " You just ask her;
think, Capri, how happy we shall be, we will
forget everyone and everything in the world
but ourselves."

'' I fear that is not possible whilst we live
in the world," she said, looking out of the
window wearily, " I begin to learn that since
I commenced my new life."

"Why not?"

You are vet too much a Bohemian to

ml

see ; and though I have not left the pleasant
land of Bohemia very long, yet I have commenced
to view things differently from what
I did whilst I was one of the careless race."
The light and brightness began to fade
from the artist's face as she spoke, a disappointed
look came into his eyes.

*' A month ago I could have gone with
you and forgotten all the world but ourselves,
as you say ; but now I should remember
at every step we took that Mrs. Grundy
watched me all day through her searching
spectacles, in order that she might afterwards
say unkind things of me in whispers.
A month ago and I would have danced
about the room in joy at such a proposal as
you have made just now ; the freshness of
the country, the great trees in their leafy
greenness, the bright sunshine, and a sight
of the river and a row with you would
have meant nothing short of paradise tome."


'why may it not mean so still, Capri ?''
he asked her almost sadly.

Well, now I find that a young woman
may not go off in the morning, and spend
the day with no other companion than a
young man. It would, it appears, terribly

outrage the conventionalities," she said,
with a smile on her saucy lips, and a
slight ring of irony in her voice.

Hang the conventionalities !"

With all my heart, Marc ; but until
the execution takes place respectable Mayfair
would rise in protest of my spending
the day with you, and I must not outrage
it, if only for Mrs. Lordson's sake."

Do you respect the opinions of the
world so much ?"

Ah, my friend, the world is wise."

With the wisdom of the serpent," he
said harshly, as he rose and walked to the
far window.

Ah, Marc, I have eaten the golden fruit
Mrs. Lordson held out to me, and so I have
come to the knowledge of good and evil,
and have left my old Eden for ever."

She did not speak in bitterness or irony
now; there was a touch of pathos in her

voice. She looked at the young painter and
thought he had never appeared to her so
handsome and manly before.

Are you more happy for your newly
acquired knowledge ?''

"Perhaps yes; perhaps no. I have had
hardly time to think yet, but I cannot go
back if 1 would."

"Never return to happiness, do you
mean?" he asked her, turning suddenly from
the window and facing her.

No, I did not say that ; but I could not
go back to my old existence having once
known what my present life gives. You
know my past days were not all sweetness,
Marc ; they may have been wholesome, but
they were bitter enough sometimes."

"I fear you have changed already," said
the painter reproachfully.

No," she answered lightly, " I don't
think I have. You know I have always

entertained practical ideas, but I have only
been able to realize what they mean quite
lately."

You set too much value on appearances
and on the verdict of the world."

"Not too much ; you must take the world
at its own estimation, otherwise you will
offend it grievously ; now the world considers
its opinions law."

A law that I should laugh at."

"Therefore you are a Bohemian; the
world at times pets and at times tolerates
you ; but you are outside its boundaries, and
it never forgets that — never."

It seems to me, Capri, that a Bohemian's
life is not only far happier, but far more
honest than the life of your mere worldling,"
said Marcus Phillips.

"And far poorer," said she, "rand that is
the old rock we always split on. Now
riches buy all things that are beautiful, and

the presence of beauty makes one happy. Is
not that true ?"

'' Happiness lies in the heart, and not in
external things."

^' You as an artist," she went on without
heeding his last remark, " know how much
surroundings mean to a nature like mine, at
once sensitive and artistic ; how much
handsome rooms and pictures, and beautiful
dresses and ornaments and pleasant faces
represent."

Ay, but there are some things, true and
honest friendship, strong affection, undying
love, whose absence could never be compensated
for by the handsomest surroundings
the world can give. Don't let the world
deceive you, Capri ; don't let it harden your
heart, don't let your better self be ruined by
its false ways. Believe me, true and honest
affection is the greatest boon and blessing on
earth."

I do not quite know that," she said
slowly, rising up at the same time, for the
conversation touched on a topic she was
anxious to avoid, '' you cannot know what
power handsome dresses or brilliant jewels
have on a woman's heart ; they are things
which recoup her for much she may have
lost."

She laughed as she spoke, and for once the
rippling music of her voice seemed harsh and
out of tune to Marcus Phillips's ears.

He walked over to where she stood in
the centre of the room, and said,

Well, Capri, will you not come with me
say tomorrow or Wednesday?"

He ignored her last remarks as if he did
not credit her sincerity in giving vent to
such sentiments.

*' I cannot indeed," she said, seriously, ^' I
could not even ask Mrs. Lordson's permission."


If you like I will make up a party and
ask old Padre Pallaraari — a breath of [fresh
air will do him a world of good — or Newton
Marrix and your late landlady's two
daughters, they will be glad to come."

She shrugged her shoulders deprecatingly.


"They would bore us to death, and I
have had quite enough of them," she said ;
*' then Newton Marrix is going down with
Mrs. Lordson and Lord Harrick to Richmond
on Wednesday, I believe."

'rand you?"

"Oh, I shall probably chaperon Mrs.
Lordson, I am always included in every
arrangement that she makes ; I stand in
the position of a fifth wheel in a carriage."
She laughed nervously as she finished her
sentence.

He did not say any more. He saw that
Capri was uneasy, yet he could not assigna

reason for her being so ; neither could he
make up his mind as to whether she was
really changed, or whether her present manner
was the result of some new mood she
was just then indulging in, which would
wear away and have utterly changed in the
next hour.

He wished he knew. As it was, he felt
keenly disappointed. All the pleasure he
had known but a short while before, deserted
him now and left him dispirited and
wretched. Some cloud, whose shape and
colour he could not yet discern, came between
him and the sunshine of his life. He
began to feel miserable, and yet to rebuke
himself for his misery, as he did not quite
know from what cause it sprang.

He could say no more to Capri that day,
all that he had meant to tell her had vanished
from his mind. Had she but let him
speak of his love, let him tell her how he

loved her, longed for the day when her
life should be united to his, when for ever
and for aye their feet should tread the same
pathway, he would have been satisfied.

Even now in leaving he made a final
effort to speak, but his throat felt dry, the
words refused to come, and looking at her
face he knew she was in no humour to listen
to any tender sentiments he might express.

'* Good-bye," he said, quietly holding out
his hand and gazing into her face with a
calm, grave look.

"Good-bye," she answered, taking his
hand ; but for the first time since she had
known him her eyes refused to meet his.

The artist pressed her hand tightly, and
the colour came mounting into her cheeks.
Neither of them spoke ; some imperceptible
shadow had passed between and parted
them.

Marcus Phillips suddenly let go her hand,

and the next instant the door closed softly
behind him.

Capri stood quite quiet in the same spot
where he had left her ; stood as if in a trance,
her eyes fixed on the closed door as if she
expected he would return again, her lips
tightly pressed together. His parting so
quietly disappointed her ; had she pained him
by her light words ?

Suddenly on the impulse of the moment
she started, ran to the door quickly, rushed
down the first flight of stairs, and called out
softly,

Marc, Marc !"

The closing of the outer door was the
only response she received. He had not
heard her.

Looking down she saw the boy of many
buttons staring up at her surprised. The
sight of him recalled her to a sense of her
dignity in an instant.

VOL. ir. ?

"Shall I call him, ma'am ?" he asked.

"No," she answered, drawing back.

She went back to the drawing-room, and,
throwing herself into one of the gorgeous
yellow chairs, she covered her face with her
hands ; and tears came into her eyes.

Oh, Marc, Marc, my love, have I been
cruel to you ?" she said, with a sob in her voice.

The bang which the outer door had given
still rang in her ears.

Have I been cruel, when I meant but
to be kind," she said, sobbing again, "dear
old Marc, may God bless you always !"

Had he but heard her then ! Ah had he
indeed !

But he had gone into the street with a
new sense of depression and weight in his
heart. He felt half stupefied, and wondered
if it was still the same sun that was shining,
which had made everything appear so fair
and bright an hour since.

Now all was changed.

The sky was cloudless as before ; the hot
sua had made the pavements white, the
passers-by looked half broiled, and wiped
their foreheads with their handkerchiefs, or
fanned themselves with the same useful
article, according to the dictates of their wisdom,
and yet all was altered.

The atmosphere seemed to have lost its
exhilaration, and become dull and oppressive,
the sun was all a great blaze and glare, the
streets were noisy and disagreeable.

In one brief hour all the earth had changed
for him.

p2

CHAPTER Yin.

APPROACHING A CRISIS.

Wednesday morning came round,
^ and Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson was
in a state of excitement. Lord Harrick was
to call for her in his trap at twelve o'clock,
in order to drive her to Richmond.

'*La, to think of it all," said the American,
as she forced her stout hand into her light
gloves, which were a size too small, and
looked in despair at her round arms, that
broadly resented the liberties eight buttons
were striving to take with them. " To think
of being driven in his own trap by a lord,
a real ' viscount.' My ! if only Mrs. B.

Ulysses Hatchway, of Illinois city, was by
to see her, or Colonel Johnson Walworth,"
who had offered her his hand and heart,
both of which she had rejected ; the one because
it handled fruit all day long, the other
because it had no true appreciation of art.

If only they were by to see her step into the
"viscount's " trap. She could write to them,
of course, concerning the interesting fact,
but she felt sure they would not credit her
statements; people seldom believe in the
good fortune of their friends, and unfortunately
the press in England did not notice
such "personalities" in its columns usually,
as the American papers did.

If Myra Smithson bought a fashionable
sack, or H. Brickbat Ferguson sported a
new diamond ring, or the Rev. Pew Hear-him
lighted an additional candle on his altar,
or Miss Willie Greate of the " Morning
Star " ballet changed the colour of her wig.

you saw it all beautifully in print the morning
after, along with several little items of
neighbourly gossip and scandal, such as that
Mrs. Hercules Burlington was shortly expected
to elope with Colonel Popgun, or
that Mrs. Jackerton had worshipped her
husband for remaining out all night, or that
pretty Miss Freeing had promised to shoot
her lover for deserting her in favour of repaired
Mattie Dodson, who kept a mangling
establishment down west.

In Europe the press was certainly behindhand,
and seldom dished up pleasant personalities
like the worthy editors in the new
country.

True, Newton Marrix had some interest
in the press, and might be able to get the
fact of her drive with Lord Harrick mentioned
casually — ;just casually, as if it were an
every day event, in some of the society
papers. She would see what could be done

in that way ; and if the desired item was
inserted, if it were only in three lines, she
would make it a handsome thing for the
editor ; for she would buy up a complete
edition of the paper, and, first marking the
lines recording her drive, would post them
to all her friends, showing them that she
was moving in high society and was on
familiar terra with a lord, with a real '* viz-count,"
a title which they might happily
believe was next in rank to his royal highness,
and so take additional comfort and
satisfaction to their democratic souls.

The old country was all very well, but it
was to be regretted that it was so singularly
behindhand in many ways after all. Nowhere
was a lord coming to drive her away
in his trap, that would have his crest probably
painted all over it, and no one would
notice the event ; perhaps even her neighbours
would not stare from the opposite

windows, and so half of the gratification and
pleasure would be taken from the trip for
this republican lady.

She was waiting in the drawing-room
ready dressed, determined not to keep Lord
Harrick waiting a minute.

She had on a dress of purple hue trimmed
all over with lace -, the skirts seemed voluminous
and made Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson
look stouter than was even her already
ample person. A black satin cape, upon
which some millions of black beads, glittered
with every movement, covered her broad
shoulders ; a Parisian bonnet, declared to bean
inspiration of the great Worth's, depended
from, rather than lay upon her head ; she had
a bright little bouquet in her breast ; her
light gloves were buttoned to the elbow,
and she wore some heavy gold bracelets on
her wrists.

If her appearance was not picturesque it

was at least attractive and highly coloured,
and her besom swelled with pride at the
glorious ensemble of her toilette.

newton Marrix had not yet come ; he
was an agreeable young man, who had never
disappointed her as yet, and he would be
sure to put in an appearance at the proper
time.

So Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson sat at one
of her drawing-room windows, where turning
to the left she could see the first signs
of the advancing trap, and turning to the
right she could at leisure observe the effect
of her resplendent appearance in an opposite
mirror.

Capri was watching too, sitting very quietly
by her patroness, with a look of pleasure
and anxiety in her eyes, which she strove in
vain to suppress. She looked wonderfully
handsome and artistic to-day in a Rubens
hat of ruby velvet, so dark in hue that it

looked almost black in the shade. The
brim sheltering her face cast a shadow over
it that lent a richer tone to the olive of her
complexion, and gave a darker hue to her
eyes.

Her dress was of pale brown, slashed with
velvet the colour of her hat, and the silver
bangle which Lord Harrick had given her
was the only ornament which she wore.

'' She looks like a picture," thought Mrs.
W. Achilles Lordson, who now contemplated
the girl with some satisfaction. She had
begun to feel not a little proud of having asher
companion the original of the '^ Beggar
Maid " picture which caused such attraction
in art-circles this season.

Capri's name had been spoken of in the
society journals a hundred times. If she
drove in the Row with Mrs. Lordson, or sat
on a chair in the Park, or went to a theatre,
or visited a gallery, or was present at a

conversazione, the public was duly informed
of it at the end of the week, when the gossiping
papers were published.

Those who were in society, and those who
were not, had grown to know her name ; it
grew as familiar on the lips of the public as
that of any popular actress or professional
beauty.

The great Van der Weyde had requested
her to dve him a sitting:, with the view
of having her face afterwards exhibited
in the windows among the dream of fair
women and others daily stared at by the
mob, and sold for a shilling per head.
Capri, prompted by her love of notoriety
and admiration, and acting on Mrs. W.
Achilles Lordson's advice, had consented.
He had photographed the " Beggar Maid "
picture which was also for sale. The (graphic
had given a lithograph of the now famous picture
as a supplement, and altogether Capri

became as well known as the most popular of
the fashionable beauties whose rival she bid
fair to become.

By these means her features had grown
so familiar to the public that, when she
appeared before it in her own proper person,
it recognized her and pointed her out
to its country cousin as an object of curiosity
and interest second only to Miss Amy
St. Somebody of the Ophelia Theatre ; and
Capri got stared at thoroughly with all that
good taste and feeling which the British
public invariably betrays, whether in a west-end
drawing-room or on an east-end pavement.


Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson felt proud of
all this, for to her mind she had a kind of
partnership in the honour and glory of
Capri's notoriety. It reflected itself on her,
she thought ; at all events it helped to have
Mrs. Lordson's name placed on visiting lists

where it would never otherwise have appeared,
and got her tolerated in rooms where
her parti-coloured presence was a hideous
glare discordant to the chaste pre-raphaelite
colours of her surroundings.

Capri pleased and humoured and made
herself useful in a thousand subtle wa^-s to
her patroness. Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson
wondered how she had been able to seton
alone before they met. She was quite
satisfied she could never manage without her
now, having once realized the benefit of the
girl's good taste and quick judgment on
matters near and dear to the feminine
heart.

Capri was the happy possessor of that
sense greater in itself than any of the eve,
tact ; and with tact she managed the wealthy
American to her entire satisfaction ; wound
her to her will without Mrs. Lordson ever
once dreaming that she obeyed the girl

implicitly ; for in the concealment of its
power and force true tact lies.

She had begun to tone down her patroness
in many ways already ; it was only on such
an occasion as this gala day that Mrs. Lord-son
neglected Capri's delicate hints and
insisted on appearing in all the glory of
many colours, and the girl was too politic
not to bend now and then ; her control rose
all the higher afterwards.

In many quiet ways Capri hinted to the
matron that many of her words and ways
were too pronounced for the nervous feelings
of the sensitive society in which she
now moved ; and Mrs. Lordson was quick
to catch and profit by her seasonable words.

Capri sang and played " like a real angel,
I'm sure," said Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson,
adding the last words in consideration of the
fact that she had never yet had an opportunity
of hearing the vocal abilities of one

of the celestial choir. Capri helped to
receive visitors and entertain them, and went
about with Mrs. Lordson wherever the
pleasure of that lady's presence was requested,
and elsewhere.

Mrs. ^Y. Achilles Lordson was a woman
whose amount of common sense saved her
from many blunders into which she often
would otherwise have fallen. Through its
useful medium she now clearly began to perceive
that Lord Harrick's visits to her house
were paid not altogether for the purpose of
enjoying the pure and gentle delights of
her conversation, and of hearing her opinions
on the world at large, and art in particular,
as she at first fondly imagined.

She began quietly to study the young
viscount after her own fashion, and to come
to some distinct conclusions. He called
often to see her, was the most constant visitor
she had, a fact by no means disagreeable.

She also observed that whilst Capri was
in the room his attention was seldom given
to anyone else, that when the girl spoke to
him he brightened visibly ; that his eyes
followed her wherever she went, that he
was dull and listless when she was not present,
and answered all conversation addressed
to him in monosyllables ; that a word
from Capri made him change colour, and
made his round blue eyes sparkle with
pleasure, that in all he said or did he strove
to please her, and that in fact he was very
much in love with her.

*'La!" said Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson,
he has lost his heart to her, and he a real
viscount. I know the signs well," she continued
with a sigh, '' it was just the same
with Lordson when he came in the evenings
to pay his addresses to me, though of course,
he was not quite so shy as Lord Harrick
is, but then it is true he was not a viscount,

and a great pity too ; I'd make a fine viz-countess
myself."

She was too sensible to feel any jealousy,
or to imagine the tickets for concerts, the
boxes at theatres, the invitations to flower-shows
were all given in order to accompany
her to those various places, as many women
might foolishly have done in her place.

This drive to-day she knew, though verbally
offered to her, was really meant for
Capri's enjoyment ; but Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson accepted it all the same and made
no remarks. It was enough for her that a
real lord visited continually at her house,
accompanied her to theatres and concerts
and in walks in the Park, and was now
about to drive her in his trap to Richmond ;
these things were in themselves acts of which
she felt quite proud.

It was quite possible that Lord Harrick
might marry Capri ; there is no knowing, she

VOL. II. Q

said to herself, what a man in love may do ;
he was young and impressionable, Capri was
a singularly handsome girl, her appearance
might almost be described as distinguished,
and he was a man whose actions were uncontrolled
by meddling relatives, so there was
no reason why he should not marry her.
It was not only possible but probable that
he would, and the good woman determined
to give every chance that lay in her power
to Capri in order that such a desirable event
might take place.

This would indeed be something great to
have achieved or helped to achieve — the
marriage of her companion to a "viscount"
her companion, why it would render Mrs.
Lordson famous in society ; and then she
was quite certain she should earn the gratitude
and eternal friendship of the viscountess
by her present exertions to throw the
young people together and forward their

union; indeed, she was acting just like a
mother to Capri.

And what could not the girl, when she
became the Viscountess Harrick, do for her
in turn, when she took her proper station
in society as the wife of a peer of the
realm ? Could she not fling wide the
golden gates of the most aristocratic society
in the world for Mrs. W. Achilles to pass
superbly through ? Could she not make
her one of themselves almost, if not in
name at least in friendship ?

The good woman closed her eyes, for the
scene which rose up before her was dazzling
in its brightness. Already she felt herself
shaking hands with half a dozen duchesses

D

real duchesses, mind you, perhaps with
coronets on their heads, and velvet trains
trimmed with ermine, such as she saw in a
picture of the coronation of the Queen : she
felt her arm resting within that of a marquis

q2

or an ear] as she was led down to dinner
in some historic mansion, and heard herself
talking high art as she exhibited the
wonders of her cabinet and Greek vase to a
countess whom, after being spoken to by
dukes, and duchesses, and marquises, she
treated as a mere commonplace individual,
very much indeed, though not altogether,
like the generality of womenkind.

She sighed to think that such bliss might
yet lie in store for her. It was some good
fortune that had sent the girl in her path
that day when she visited the Grosvenor
Gallery ; it was some good impulse that had
prompted her to ask Capri if she would
become her companion. There was no
doubt now in her mind that Capri would
make this brilliant marriage which would
take London society by storm, and then
Mrs. Lordson's triumph would come afterwards.


She arranged it all to the uttermost satisfaction
of her hopeful mind, and smiled
complacently to herself over such pleasant
prospects as the future held in store for
her, and then slowly opened her eyes and
looked at Capri speculatively, and noted
the effect of her very charming costume,
and told herself that this girl's face was one
that would certainly grace the peerage.

CHAPTER IX.

ONE SUMMER DAY.

II /TRS. W. ACHILLES London might
-*-*-■- have continued her thoughts much
longer, but just then the sound of horses'
feet and the rolling of wheels outside called
to her mind the great event of the day.

Capri could scarcely restrain herself from
running to the window and looking out,
but she did, making a strong effort to keep
down her curiosity and impatience. A
knock that might have awakened the seven
sleepers, had they chanced to lie dreaming
under Mrs. Lordson's roof, sounded through
the house, followed by a ring which pealed
louder than a village bell-crier's.

*'La, how much there is even in a knock
and ring," thought Mrs. Lordson. '' Xow
whoever could do it in that style but one
of the nobility themselves ? It's quite aristocratic.
Ah ! if only Mrs. J. Washington
Mangletor were in the street to hear the
noble music of that sound !"

As it happened, it was only one of Lord
Harrick's footmen, who in this manner announced
his master, but Mrs. Lordson was
ignorant of the fact, happily, and started to
her feet immediately.

"Mr. Marrix has not come yet, my dear.
I hope he may not be late," she said to
Capri, as she shook out her ample skirts.

It would be impossible, of course, for a
'* viscount" to wait for him, it was a thing not
to be expected for a moment, so she hoped
the rising author would appear in time.
Just as she spoke a little tap sounded at the
drawing-room door, and Newton Marrix

entered breathlessly. Mrs. Lordson brightened
visibly at his appearance.

*'I was afraid I should be late," he said,
when he had shaken hands with the ladies,
and had partially recovered breath.

So was I," said Mrs. Lordson candidly.

I have been very busy all the morning
correcting proofs."

"You literary men are always busy."

We are the slaves of the public."

"Your chains are invisible to human
sight' said Capri.

But they gall all the more."

They must not to-day," she answered.

No, I have thrown them aside for the
present," he said, smiling at her.

"That is pleasant to know," said Mrs.
Lordson.

Lord Harrick's trap is at the door. You
are ready ?''

Quite. We must not keep him waiting. '

Mrs. Lordson once more shook out her
plumage until her purple silks rustled in
self-exultation, and the millions of beads
covering her ample shoulders shot bright
glances, and flung tiny gleams of sundays atone
another in the general excitement of
the moment.

She went down the little stairs with the
air of one heading a royal procession, followed
by Capri, and Xewton Marrix, and
her maid, the latter armed with shawls and
wraps.

Lord Harrick was just dismounting from
the box seat ; one of the footmen held the
horses* heads, the other stood by the door
of the trap. As the viscount turned, a sight
of Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson, in a blaze of
purple and glittering beads, suddenly burst
on him. The effect would have probably
stunned him, but that over her shoulder
he caught a glance of Capri's face, looking

wonderfully charming and delighted.

To her indeed it was almost as good asa
sight of Paradise, when the page flung
wide open the door. There was the bright
sunshine outside, dazzling in the blue unclouded
sky, making everything look fair
and happy, and there was the light trap,
with two well-bred horses tossing their heads
and jingling their harness, ornamented with
silver-mounted crests that delighted Mrs.
Lordson's republican soul ; and there were
the footmen in chocolate-colour liveries ;
and, last of all, Lord Harrick.

In the sunlight his hair seemed to her
redder than ever, his face more ruddy and
expressionless, his eyes more round and full
of wonder at nothing in particular, his clothes
tighter, his collar more stiff and straight
and desperately determined to cut his neck
with its unbending corners, and his aspect
altogether more groom-like than usual.

He was in high spirits, and gave little
short spasmodic laughs, which spared him
the trouble of answering Mrs. Lordson's
florid remarks and demonstrations of delight.
He grasped Capri's hand very tightly when
she said " good morning," and stared at her
face under the shadow of the Rubens' hat.

'' Delightful day," said Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson, looking up at the sky.

Lord Harrick laughed, and said it was
glorious.

*the fates favour us," said Xewton Marrix.


And the weather too," answered Capri.

Then they all laughed in chorus.

The viscount assisted Mrs. Lordson into
the trap, and Capri was about to follow
when he said,

*' Would you not like to sit up in the box,
you will have a much better view of the
country, and all that sort of thing," he spoke

now without stammering, and gave himself
credit for his diplomacy.

Like it ? Capri was delighted at the proposal,
but she made no answer, contenting
herself with looking at Mrs. Lordson anxiously
for her approval.

The good-natured, large-hearted American
smiled whilst the girl hesitated.

"Go, my dear," she said, ^'you will, as
Lord Harrick says, have a far better view of
the country up there, if you don't think it
too high," she added archly, knowing very
well that Capri was overjoyed at the idea.
"For my part," she continued, "it would
give me a lightness in the head, I'm sure it
would, and I might fall off at any moment.
La ! to think of it makes me nervous."

Capri gave her a grateful smile and allowed
herself to be handed, or nearly lifted,
into the box seat. Lord Harrick now carefully
settled a light rug round her legs and

feet, lincrerincr longer over the action than
was at all necessary, and then took his place
beside her.

Newton Marrix sat opposite Mrs. Lordson,
and, Lord Harrick having taken the ribbons
in his hands, the two footmen got into the
body of the trap, sitting opposite each other
with folded arms and immoveable muscles,
like a pair of porcelain ornaments, and with
about as much facial expression.

At first Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson thought
it was an injury to her dignity that one of
them should sit on the same seat with her,
though at the extreme end, almost within
reach of her regal-hued silks, whilst the
other sat on the same side with Newton
Marrix ; but then after awhile, looking at
them sitting there, exhibiting as little symptoms
of life, and apparently heeding her
conversation as much as if they were stuffed
ornaments, or Egyptian mummies, she

began to think they added much to the appearance
of her dignity, and for that purpose
were probably sent into life by Providence,
exactly a match for each other, in
height, appearance, complexion, and general
bearing, with a consideration for her
feelings, for which she should feel deeply
grateful.

Lord Harrick cracked his whip, the perfectly
trained horses started, and away they
rolled.

The day was brilliant and glorious, and
the faint breeze that came to them in their
rapid motion delightfully cooling. Soon
they left streets and squares behind them
and got into the straggling suburbs, half
country, half town, looking horridly raw,
with rows of brand-new lath and plaster
houses destined to send numbers of innocent
tenants to their early graves. By degrees
the suburbs were passed, and they were

rolling along the broad country road, with
sweet-scented green fields on either side,
and now and then clumps of wide-branching
trees, under which cattle grouped picturesquely
in the cool shade.

A sense of delicious ease and exhilaration
came over Capri, such as she had not known
for years. How strange it was that she
should sit there beside Lord Harrick in his
trap, watching his satin-skinned horses trotting
along, and tossing their heads now and
then to make a pleasant jangle with their
trappings ; that she should sit there calmly
enjoying this fair day among scenes which
were new to her, although for half a lifetime
they lay within a few miles of her.

Instead of being now in that close,
dingy room in the Euston Road, patiently
teaching one of the wooden-figured children
music for a shillings a lesson, or busvinf^
herself about getting an economical dinner

for her father, and wondering whether he
would come home with the signs of having
met a boon companion, there she now sat
beside Lord Harrick, driving in such state
as she had never known before.

She thoroughly enjoyed the present, and
her head was filled with feverish dreams
and hopes of the future, in none of which
Marcus Phillips had any place.

Lord Harrick was very kind. He spoke
more than usual ; his words came freer ;
he seemed more self-confident and happier.
He pointed out to her with his whip places
of interest they passed which Capri had
often heard of, but never seen. She could
scarcely answer him, she was so bewilderingly
happy. It all seemed like a delightful
dream to her : the freshness and
brightness of the day, the picturesque
scenes through which they passed, the
rapid passage through the air. It was ail

fresh and new to her, and all glorious.

She had opened her large crimson sunshade
to protect herself from the mid-day
glare, and the light coming through it casta
shade upon her pale face that was wonderfully
becoming.

Lord Harrick took every opportunity he
could of looking at her ; an attention that
pleased her much. Once or twice her great,
dark eyes, full of luminous happiness, met
his with a full, sunny look, the like of which
he had never been rewarded with before.
It made the blood come into his face as
if he were a school-boy. Once he placed
his disengaged hand on hers, and pressed
it. There was a magnetism in the touch
that thrilled him, but Capri seemed unconscious
of it, and gave no returning motion.

He had never been so happy in his life
before. To sit beside this girl, to feel the
light touch of her form now and then press

VOL. II. R

against him, to take her hand and hold it
in his own, to look into her lovely face and
watch the expression of pleasure lying like
light in her dark eyes, to hear her voice
sweeter than all music fall on his ears was
a delight which filled him with such rapture
as he had never known till then.

Ah ! if she were only his wife, if she were
solely his for ever and ever ! At the
thought his breath came heavily, his broad
chest swelled, rose, and fell, and all the
blood ran hot in his veins.

At last they drove into Richmond Park,
and the girl could no longer contain her
delight.

How beautiful it all is !" she said, in a
subdued voice, looking at the dark old oaks
and the great wide sweep of park lands
where the deer stood in picturesque groups
beyond.

The sunlight fell in broad, unbroken

yellow beams upon the green sward, and
sparkled like fire upon the distant Thames,
of which glorious glimpses came to them
between intervening boughs and the fresh
leaves of clustering trees.

*at is all delightful."

I am glad you enjoy it so much."

** It seems strange to me that such beauty
should have lain so near town all these
years, and I never to have seen it before ;
and I suppose there are hundreds, thousands
of the population that have never had
a glimpse of it yet."

"I am fortunate," said Lord Harrick,
taking the opportunity of placing his face
near to hers as he lowered his head in passing
beneath an outstretched bough, " I am
fortunate in being the first to show you the
place."

You are very good," she replied,
honestly grateful to him for the pleasure

r2

he gave her — " very good, and I know I
shall never forget this day."

She sighed as she spoke, as if regret was
mingled with her joy.

He smiled, both pleased and gratified, ashe
listened to her.

She is delightfully fresh," he said to
himself. " What a pleasure it would befor
a man to pass his life with this girl !
What eyes she has ! they seem to go right
through a fellow and touch his heart."

To indulge more fully in such a sentiment,
he slackened rein and drew the
horses up under a clump of trees, where
Thompson is said to have written the
greater portion of his " Seasons."

They all got down, and the footmen produced
a light luncheon and some bottles of
champagne.

'' La !" commenced Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson, when she had seated herself on

some rugs taken from the trap and spread
upon the grass — " it's all charming, I'm
sure. I never spent such a delightful day.
And to think that a poet wrote under these
trees, as Mr. Marrix tells me ; why, it's
quite romantic and altogether enjoyable !
Is it not, my dear?" she said, turning to
Capri.

'eyes," answered the girl briefly, for
she thought just then that Mrs. Lordson's
highly-coloured presence was like a great
blur upon the quiet landscape, and the
matron's voice somehow startled and disturbed
her peaceful dreaminess.

"Yes," said Newton Marrix, who was
always ready to fill up the blanks in the
conversation, " the author of ' The Seasons '
may well have written here the lines commencing
—

But who can paint
Like Nature ? Can imagination boast
Amid its gay creation hues like hers,

Or can it mix them with that matchless skill
And lose them in each other as appears
In every bud that blows V "

The author waved his hand as he ended.

Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson looked at
Newton Marrix with delight and pleasure,
and was much impressed with his apt
quotation.

*' I once saw our great poet Mr. Longfellow,"
she said, taking a lead, as she considered,
in a literary conversation. " He
wore very long hair and a ' Down South ^
hat, and a coat which I'm sure he may have
had for twenty years ; and Colonel H.
Johnson Walworth told me that the poet
suffers greatly from corns in the fall, poor
man."

Lord Harrick laughed, and Mrs. Lord-son
felt proud of being able to amuse
him with such interesting details of personal
gossip.

Oh yes," she continued, " and I saw
Horace Freely also ; he is dead, you know,
but J. Henry Pinkerton, the reporter who
interviewed him for the Illinois Gazette
told me all about him."

** Was he eccentric?" said Newton Marrix.

*swell, Mr. Freely told Pinkerton he
wrote most of his articles with his night-cap
on ; that he wrote with a quill taken from a
pet goose, and that he went to bed with
stockings on ; but, la, these notable people
like poets and artists and authors are that
queer, you see."

It's the eccentricity of genius," replied
Newton Marrix, mildly. " Mr. Ruskin tells
us in one of his letters that he went down
to the Pizzia in Venice in a flowered 
one morning, quite unconscious of
the fact all the while."

My ! he did," said Mrs. Lordson.

And I," continued Newton Marrix,

Q,i^^

knew a mathematician who, having gone
to live in a house in the country, was found
sitting beside the fireplace in his study reading,
just where the rain came down, with
an open umbrella over him, the rest of the
room being perfectly dry ; and when a
friend suggested to him that he might move
his position, he said the thought had never
occurred to him."

Poor old chap," said Lord Harrick.

*' I heard Mr. Whitman speak once in
our institute," said Mrs. Lordson, determined
on carrying on a conversation on the
ways and habits of literary men.

^' How did you like him ?"

Well enough as far as that goes. They
call him a poet ; but, bless you, he wore a blue
flannel shirt, without coat or waistcoat — to
be sure the night was hot — and he held an
umbrella in his hand, which he pounded
the stage with. They told me he wrote

beautifully about grass ; but he did not look
half such a poet as Mr. Lucius Martyn,
whom I drank tea with at Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning's, and who spoke real poetry all
the time."

You must not judge by appearances,"
said the author.

No, that is true. But then poets ought
to look poets."

Perhaps Nature does not permit them."

Then they should not write."

Capri felt rather uneasy and somewhat
ashamed at Mrs. Lordson's reminiscences of
great men, and turned the conversation.

*' I feel so happy," she remarked, looking
at Lord Harrick as she munched a biscuit.
I think I could live here for ever."

*' I believe a few weeks would tire you
of it," replied Newton Marrix ; " Richmond
is a dreary waste in winter."

*' Would you like to live in the country?"

asked the viscount, thinking just then of his
big Elizabethan red brick house shut in
among its vast park lands in Yorkshire ; and
of Harrick Court situated in the wild loveliness
of his native highlands. What would
she say to these places if she saw them ?

Capri declared that she had grown tired
of town life, and longed to spend a few
quiet months in the country.

When the luncheon was eaten and the
champagne disposed of, Lord Harrick said,

I think we might drive on to Kingston
or Hampton Court and come back again.
Dinner is ordered for seven o'clock at the
Star and Garter.' "

"A most delightful arrangement," answered
Mrs. Lordson, beaming with smiles.

*•' It's a capital idea," said Newton Marrix;
the drive home in the early night will be
splendid, and we shall have a moon up
about ten o'clock."

Will the place look more beautiful by
moonlight?" asked Capri.

"Far," said Lord Harrick.

Capri's eyes met his for a second, and a
colour came to her face.

*' Why, if it looks better then," said Mrs.
Lordson, "it will be a real fairy-land."

Do you like a drive home in the moonlight,
Miss Capri?" asked the viscount.

I have never had one."

It is a pleasure then in store for you,
and I hope you will not forget your first
experience."

She felt that he was looking at her, but
she did not dare to raise her eyes. She
knew that his words had an under-meaning
which she was quick to interpret.

What would happen during the drive
home in the moonlight ?

At his words her heart beat fast, a thrill
of delight passed through her, a great hope

sprang up in her soul. Was her ambition
about to be realized ? Would he ask her
to become his wife ? The thought that the
question — on the answer of which her fate
for ever might depend — would probably be
asked her in a few hours made her confused.


Will you allow me to smoke a cigar ?"

Lord Harrick's voice recalled her to
herself once more.

Certainly."

He struck a light and commenced smoking;
the horses were brought from under
the clump of wide-spreading trees, Mrs. W.
Achilles Lordson was assisted into the trap,
Capri was lifted into the box, the viscount
took the ribbons in his hand, and once
more they were journeying on through the
park again.

It was delightful ; they startled herds of
deer now and then, passed under great,

wide-stretching branches, beneath which
Capri and Lord Harrick had to stoop their
heads ; swept past acres of soft green sward,
and by beds of ferns in all the beauty of
varied hues and strength of wild luxuriance,
where rabbits played, and rollicked,
and leaped ; and then they drove out once
more into the broad country road.

Capri was filled with pleasure at the
prospect of seeing Hampton Court ; and it
was one of the sights which Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson had longed to see since she came
to England. Newton Marrix had been telling
her of its royal associations, and her
mind was fired with the memories of its
past greatness.

For Capri the day was simply glorious.
She had not spoken to Lord Harrick since
they continued their drive. He smoked
two or three cigars, and contented himself
with looking into her face now and then,

and was apparently satisfied with the pleasure
which he plainly saw reflected there.
She let her eyes wander over the scenes
they passed, quietly taking in their beauties
and letting them reflect themselves on her
heart with no words of comment.

She was in a dreamy state of enjoyment,
and was far too happy to interrupt the spell
that bound her, by talking ; when at last
they left the Park and came into the road
once more, she said,

*'I think I have never been so happy for
so many consecutive hours before."

"Are you never happy, then?" he asked,
making some pretence of settling the rug
around her.

'eyes, for an hour or so at a time; but
my days are chequered, shade follows sunlight,
as surely as day follows night. I
think it will be so all my life."

"Why?"

'' Because I fear my life is not destined to
be a happy one."

*' You speak from a short experience."

I speak rather from an intuition."

Or what you mistake for such."

Perhaps."

Lord Harrick said no more. He wanted
to tell her he should strive to make her life
happy if she would permit him, and yet the
words failed to come, possibly because at
times he still wavered in his opinion as to
whether it would be well for him to make
this Bohemian the future Viscountess Harrick
or not.

The only answer he made to her last words
was to glance into her dark eyes. They had
now an expression he had never seen before,
one of placid, uninterrupted happiness,
repose, and dreaminess ; a look that softened
her face inexpressibly, and made it more
gentle and lovely than he had seen it yet.

The girl's silent mood continued when
they were in Hampton, and walked through
the quaint old gardens.

It was all like a dream ; it was far too
delightful to have any connection with the
waking life that she had known. It was too
placid and happy to be by any possibility a
portion of her every day existence that was
rendered feverish by hopes, and restless by
little plots, and weary by boredom, and
heavy by acting.

To-day she was free from all these things
save when the thoughts of her ambition
haunted her. The air was fragrant and
fresh, the sunshine brilliant, the scenes that
met her eyes charming.

It was worth while having lived for such
a day as this.

Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson was demonstrative
in her expressions of pleasure, and insisted
on seeing Henry VIII. 's favourite

walk, the tree which Mary had sat under,
the window where Elizabeth watched and
waited for Lord Essex, the knoll where the
first Charles had played with his children,
the maze and the gardens.

They were all shrines at which the good
woman paid humble homage : she was bewildered
at seeing so many spots sanctified
by royalty, and gave vent to her delight in
many exclamations, as Newton Marrix, ever
her attendant spirit, pointed them out and
gave some interesting details concerning
each.

When they bad seen every spot of interest
that the author could remember, and had
talked over their associations and marvelled
over their beauties they drove back to Richmond,
and drew up at the " Star and
Garter."

The prospect of dinner was agreeable to
three of the party. They felt that after

VOL. n. s

the excitement of the day their physical
powers required sustaining. Mrs. W.
Achilles Lordson declared herself quite
hungry, and Newton Marrix certainly felt
that he was.

They had just a quarter of an hour to
cool and rest before dinner was announced,
during which time the matron had begun
to grow impatient at the slowness of the
old country.

Capri had no appetite. She just tasted
the soup, declined the fish, played with the
entrees when they were served, but had
some fruit and an ice-cream by-and-by.
The unusual excitement of the day had
been almost too much for her. She lay
back in her chair languidly, leaving the
conversation entirely to Newton Marrix
and Mrs. Lordson. The young author's
spirits seemed to rise when he had had
several glasses of hock and some dry champagne.

He kept pouring out a flow of
words, clever, vivacious, with a sparkle of
wit about them now and then, at which
he laughed a good deal, his hearers joining
him from sympathy. Lord Harrick was
grateful to him for keeping up a conversation
which, without his aid, would certainly
flag and fall dead; and he mentally declared
that Marrix was a capital fellow,
whom he should often ask to dinner.

The blinds of the windows in the room
where they dined were not drawn, even
when the lights were brought in with
dessert ; and Capri looked across the table
with its wines, and glasses, and fragrant
flowers, out beyond, where the sunlight
had faded in the sky, leaving a dull golden
glow westward, which was dimly reflected
in the river below. Before they rose up
from the table, Capri went to the window.
The yellow glow had quite faded, a pale

s2

young moon rose up from behind a battlement
of fleecy clouds, and soared slowly
into the hazy azure of the sky. Capri
thought she had never seen anything so
beautiful as this since she had left her
native island. Almost under the window
the smooth river flowed peacefully on, reflecting
the tender, silver light above.
There was something mystic in its beauty,
yet something infinitely restful and soothing.
The branches of some trees opposite
stood out against the sky, every leaf perfectly
defined against its blue background.
A boat passed noiselessly down the tide,
looking like a shadow upon the luminous
water ; the shore beyond was wrapped in a
purple haze ; a few stars came out in the
heavens. It was all like a picture.

If only Marcus Phillips was here to see
it. Dear old Marc. It was the first time
she had thought of him that day, and a

feeling of reproach at her forgetfulness
came upon her. She had been so happy,
and yet she had not once remembered
him till this scene had in some way recalled
him to her mind. She thought of
her last parting with him, of the disappointment
which she saw on his face, of the
troubled, almost reproachful look which his
eyes expressed. She heaved a little sigh,
and then started when she heard Mrs.
Lordson's strong voice calling to her, and
immediately afterwards the matron came
over to where Capri had remained, wrapped
in a shawl of many colours, and quite ready
for her drive home.

Lord Harrick and Newton Marrix were
walking up and down outside smoking
while the horses were being put to the
trap.

Well, I declare, here you are dreaming,
my dear," said Mrs. Lord son.

It is such a glorious night," replied
Capri ill excuse.

Ay, all young people think the nights
are glorious when the moon is up. They
are yet strangers to neuralgia."

Capri could not help laughing.

Go, my dear, and put on your wraps,"
said Mrs. Lordson, kindly.

Presently the trap came round, and
again they were all seated in their
old places, driving towards town once
more.

The moon had risen higher in the sky ;
the road looked a white, broad strip in the
pale light ; here and there the branches of
trees cast dark shadows that lay like a blur
upon the highway. All nature was calm ;
no sound but the tramp of the horses' feet
and the roll of the wheels broke the silence.
A light breeze, refreshing after the great
heat, crossed the land, carrying with it

delicious odours of hay and hawthorn and
honeysuckle, and a thousand sweet-smelling
shrubs and wild-flowers that during the
long day had lain hidden from the sun,
deep in the cool hedgerows, and only now
ventured to put forth their heads and waft
their sweetness on the air because the dewy
nio;ht had come.

Newton Marrix kept up a monologue,
quoting Shelley's lines to the "Orbed
Maiden," and some of Byron's rhapsodies
to nicrht, which Mrs. Lordson listened to
with a pleased attention.

Capri said little. Lord Harrick had
asked her permission to smoke a cigar in
driving home, and did not speak either, after
the weed had entered his lips, so there was
a complete silence between them for some
miles of their journey. The girl was sorry
her visit was ended; this one summer day
that had been the happiest she could remember

since she left the island where she
had first drawn breath ; it had been bright
and pleasant, and she should always remember
it, no matter what the future brought
her.

The excitement was past, but the reaction
left her pleased and content, and she went
over in her mind all the little incidental
pleasures she had enjoyed since morning.
To end all, this drive home in the moonlight
was quieting and enjoyable, and
altogether she felt very happy.

By and by Lord Harrick finished his
cigar, and drev/ himself a little nearer to
Capri, so that he was quite close to her
now. Every movement he gave he touched
her, and every time he touched her gave
him a fresh pleasure. He too had been
thinking, and his thoughts had shaped
themselves into a resolution. He now felt
more satisfied and happy.

"Are you tired?" he asked Capri, iu a
tone which the others, sitting behind, could
not hear.

"No," she answered, "I am too happy
to speak. Have you ever felt that words
distract your happiness?"

Sometimes."

"The whole day has been very enjoyable,"
she continued, looking at him gratefully.
He had given her a very great
pleasure.

In the moonlight he could see that her
dark eyes sparkled and were full of liquid
brightness. They were silent again, and
could hear Newton Marrix quoting Walt
Whitman's ^' Scene in Camp" for the benefit
of the poet's countrywoman. The horses
dashed along the road at a brisk pace.

"Miss Capri — Capri," said Lord Harrick,
putting his face very close to hers.

"Well?"

I wish you would let me often give you
a day like this."

You are very good ; indeed you are
very kind," she answered.

He laid one hand on hers, as he had done
in the morning, and pressed it tighter and
tighter. He longed to throw his arm around
her and clasp her to himself.

She was calm. She noted the picturesque
grouping of a herd of cows lying in the deep
fragrant clover under the shade of some
trees, and watched a little road-side stream
sparkle as the moonlight fell upon its
surface.

Had the moment come when he was
about to ask her to become his wife ? — and,
if it had, could she now await it with such
calmness ? She wondered at herself vaguely.
Was this the calmness of triumph ? In a
moment Lord Harrick spoke again.

I wish," he said, '' you would let me

give you trips like this, when you enjoy it
so much, and — and I wish you could care
for me."

'* Believe me I am grateful."

But that is not what I want. I wish
you could like me, care for me better than
for other men."

He said the last words rapidly, and with
an earnestness that surprised and startled
her. His lips were quite close to her/ipow, J^
she felt the arm that touched her quiver,
felt that the hot blood had flushed his face.
She made him no answer.

I wish you could care for me."

*' I do."

Do you ?" he said, catching at her
words.

She pressed his hand.

Care for me better than for any other
man, and love me, for I "

At that instant the near horse shied at a

large white stone that lay by the hedge-side,
the trap swerved suddenly across the road,
and Capri, who was almost jostled from her
seat, uttered a cry, and clung to the rail of
the box-seat.

The viscount pulled the horses straight ina
minute.

Damn you !" he said, in a passion, as he
raised his whip in the air, and lashed the
animals again and again until they dashed
forward blindly at a furious pace. • They
had now entered the suburbs. The rows of
the lath and plaster houses lay as if sleeping
in the moonlight, with drawn blinds and a
general air of peacefulness and repose ; only
the sound of the galloping horses and trap
disturbed the nocturnal stillness.

Lord Harrick still kept the horses well in
hand, for they were yet restless. His love-making
humour had been startled, and returned
to him no more that night ; he did

not speak till they drove up to Mrs. Lord-sons
door. Then he lifted Capri down
from the box with more care than she could
have believed it possible for him to use.

Good night," he said, pressing her hand.

Good night," she answered, leaving her
fingers resting in his palm, but not raising
her eyes.

It is only a postponement," she said to
herself, as she entered the hall. She sighed
once. Was she sad or glad ?

CHAPTER X.

ONLY A RAG.

rpHE second Thursday in July came round,

-*- the day fixed for one of Mrs. Stonexx

Stanning's grand receptions, and that lady

made high preparations to receive her guests.

Bohemia hurried to wash its hands, brush
its long hair, and put on its dress-clothes, in
some cases just released from number one
round the corner ; for Bohemia was going to
meet society, and wear its most respectable
airs and graces for the occasion.

Every poet and painter and author in
London worth knowing, and very many
who were not, were bidden to Mrs. Stonexx

Stanning's rooms for this especial night.
Bohemia to a man adored Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning, and felt proud of her in its own
way; for she had been its daughter long
ago, and had known all about its careless,
happy-go-lucky ways, its manners and
habits, its pot-boilers and its struggles, and,
though she had left it to make a wealthy
marriage, she loved it still in her heart ;
and, when freedom again allowed her, had
thrown wide her gates, and opened her
arras to receive her own people once more.
Yes, Bohemia felt proud of Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning, and fond of her likewise. Did
she not give it an opportunity of meeting
the best people in town, introduce it to
very useful personages, who bought its pictures,
read its books, sang its songs, and sat
to it for portraits ; and did she not often
take its struggling children by the hand,
and, with smiles of encouragement upon

her grave sweet face, cheer them and help
them into the world's notice ?

For days before the date of her reception
came round, it was spoken of throughout
the length and breadth of Bohemia. Fonds
Eonconson, the 3^oung actor, meeting Miss
Burneblack, the novelist, in the Strand, asked
her if she were going there. The lady
was of course bidden — did Mr. Fonds Ron-jonson
think any artistic gathering could be
complete without her ? He did not : if such
a thing were possible, he knew how she
would be missed ; the young man sighed at
the very thought.

Jack Pallet, the rising portrait-painter,
made an engagement with Mr. De Charivari,
one of Punches artists, to take him up on
his way to Kensington ; Hal Vector was to
call at the Ophelia Theatre, and drive Miss
Amy St. Somebody there, after she had
killed her husband and gone mad in the

last act of the new sensational play written
for her by Mr. Quills ; the great actor of
the Arena Theatre, it was whispered, would
be at the reception also ; together with Sir
Justin Layton of the Royal Academy, and
many other notables of the art-world.

At ten o'clock the guests commenced to
arrive. An awning of coloured silk stretched
from the entrance to the road ; the doors
stood open, revealing a sight of the wide
hall, with its great bronze figures supporting
clusters of waxen lights, and the broad
oak steps covered with dark crimson velvet
pile, and lined at either side with palms
of wondrous growth, and myrtle and many
tropical plants.

The drawing-room looked charming, lit
with rose-hued tapers held in curiously-wrought
sconces that had once adorned an
Eastern temple, and which were covered
with damascene work, said to be the in-vol.

II. T

aspiration of that great artist in bronze, Mohammed,
son of Eiz Zein. The pure radiance
fell upon the numberless pictures on
the walls, and touched the soft filmy
Oriental curtains, with their background of
dead gold, upon which arabesques of dull
red flowers, and rare-plumaged birds, and
strange grotesque symbols of the Eastern
faith were curiously intermingled.

In the corners of the room stood tall
Corean jars, decorated with the sacred song
hang, and edged with leaves and branches
of peach-trees in full flower; where pale
greens and rich blues, faint yellows and
deep gold and black, made wondrous harmonies
of colour. A yellow rose-tree filled
the fireplace, its branches, thick with buds,
clinging to the white marble pillars on
either side ; its fragrance sweetening all the
air.

The room, with its subdued colours, its

soft lights, its wondrous pictures, and artistic
effects, was a dream of beauty long to be
remembered.

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning stood near the
drawing-room door, waiting to receive her
friends. A dress of pale amber, slashed
with white satin, fell in folds around her
lithe figure ; a yellow rose lay half hidden
among the lace at her breast, another was
fixed among the coils of her rich, brown
hair. She looked fair and handsome tonight,
a happy smile on her lips, a calm
light in her gentle grey eyes, a blush upon
her cheeks that brought into relief the clearness
of her complexion.

'' How well our hostess is looking tonight,"
said Lady Everfair to her friend,
Mrs. Fruitage.

Lady Everfair was quite satisfied that

she herself looked charming likewise, for

her maid had that evening spent two

T 2

agonising hours in repairing the ravages
which time had been rude enough to make
upon her ladyship.

Wonderfully well," said Mrs. Fruitage,
in reply ; " it is quite astonishing how some
people can preserve their youthful appearances.
I never could, I know. I was old
while I was yet young."

*that was a bad habit you gave yourself,
my dear."

'true: I feel the results of it now;
when I am old I look no longer young.
Now there is Lady Gabriel Folks "

*who looks young while she is old,
which is astonishing, considering all she has
gone through. Why, I am sure the ordeal
of a divorce court would be more than I
could survive."

Ah ! she is an excellent wife now, my
dear."

"When she had grown old and ugly.

She has also become severely religious ;
you should hear her speak of poor Lord
Rockstrands, who only attempted bigamy,"
said Lady Everfair, who delighted in saying
the hardest things in the world of
her friends ; for friendship is nothing if
such charming freedoms may not be taken
with it at every opportunity.

I know she is fond of giving advice."
'* Tedious as a sermon, no doubt."
Hush ! she is coming this way."
Ah ! dear Lady Gabriel, we were just
talking of you, I am so glad to see you
here ; and how well you are looking ! Not
fatigued, I hope, after all the exertions
about your concert in aid of the Heathen
Chinese' grandchildren, poor dear little
things?"

Not at all : it was a great success. It
has enabled me to send two hundred pounds
towards the funds. When the missionaries

last wrote to me they mentioned that sixteen
of the children had forsworn gambling forever."


'how consoling !"

Yes, such comforting news enables one
to work in so worthy a cause."

"It is so good of you."

What a strange lot of people are here
to-night ! I was told Sarah Bernhardt was
coming, and some people from the Arena
Theatre."

"So we have heard. Mrs. Stonexx Stanning
is the patroness of artists, you know."

It is hard to have to meet such people,"
sighed Lady Gabriel, " but I suppose one
must talk to them. One does not need an
introduction, of course. I want to ask one
of them to give a recitation, or play something
at my house for the benefit of the
Purified Cab Drivers' Society, in which I
am much interested."

Your exertion is quite wonderful," said
Mrs. Fruitage.

*' Wonderful !" repeated Lady Everfair.

I am told that class of people," said
Lady Gabriel serenely, 'rare extremely
good-natured. It is their redeeming
quality, if anything could redeem their
lives, poor things !"

*' Yes, certainly good-natured," answered
Mrs. Frumage. *'Ihad almost said charitable
; and charity begins at home with
them in more ways than one, I am told."

Dear Lady Gabriel smiled and passed on.
She had caught sight of Hal Vector, and
wanted to engage him to sing at one of her
charity concerts.

Wonderful woman," said Lady Everfair,
when her friend was at a safe distance.
** How she ever managed to get into society
again after that affair is more than I can
understand."

Better not understand such things."

'* I wonder she did not ask us to subscribe
to the Bishop of Sinnerssouls Coal
Fund. His grace is her fastest friend, and
declares her the best, most injured woman
in life."

There is Lady Ariadne and Mr. Messieurs.
They have just come in. What a
charming picture that was of her in the
Grosvenor last year !"

'flattering. How attentive Mr. Messieurs
is ! He is certainly the outcome of
this strange era."

"And a very curious outcome too, my
dear. Poets are allowed such licence 1"

'* It always has been allowed them."

*' In manner and conduct, I mean."

^' Verily this is an age of liberty."

"Alas for the age !"

*' Try to catch Lord Chantilly's eye when
he looks this way again, I want to speak

to him. There he is, talking to his very
dear friend, Mr. Laving, who is asking him,
I am sure, how Lady Chantilly is. He is
the most amiable of husbands, and the best-natured
of men."

"His wife considers him admirable."

''Ah, what a brain she has, my dear!
Her head is as full of plots as a certain
place is of lost souls."

Yet an admirable woman."

Just then a murmur ran through the
room, and many heads were turned towards
the door. Some one of note was evidently
coming.

Who can it be ?" said Lady Everfair,
putting up her gold-rimmed glasses preparatory
to a good stare.

** Perhaps Sarah Bernhardt."

"Too early for her. She is playing in
Adrienne Lecturer ' by this time."

Then possibly it's Father Ignatius, for I

heard he is in town, and Mrs. Stonexx 
is sure to have asked lira."

Oh ! if the father comes in his sandals
and robe, will it not be delightful ? I must
really get some one to introduce me."

Perhaps he will sing. They say he hasa
delightful voice."

It was, however, neither the actress nor
the monk; it was only Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson, in a dress of white-figured velvet,
with a stomacher of rubies ablaze with light.
She was followed by Capri in a Greek dress,
and last of all came Newton Marrix.

Bless me, who can it be ?" asked Mrs.
Frumage.

What fearful shoulders she has !"

And what rubies !"

"They are magnificent !"

They both stared as Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson walked slowly across the room,
bowing to some acquaintances whom she

had met at Mrs. Stonexx Standing's before.

there is Mr. Marrix following in her
train," said Lady Everfair.

** Let us beckon him over, and inquire
who she is," said Mrs. Frumage.

Ah ! Mr. Marrix, how do you do ? The
room is getting so hot, is it not ? By the
way, who is that tall, stout lady with the
shoulders ?"

With the shoulders !" repeated the rising
author, in a tone meant to imply surprise,
and looking in the opposite direction to
that in which he knew Mrs. Lordson was
then.

"Not that way," said Mrs. Frumage.
Look towards the other end of the room.
The lady we mean came in just before you."

That lady is Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson.
She is a friend of mine."

Ah ! a friend of yours ?"

Yes ; an American."

"Dear me!" said Mrs. Frumage. *how
charmingly she is dressed ! And the girl in
the Greek costume is her daughter, I suppose
? Lovely face I"

*'No; that is Miss Bankers."

"The original of the 'Beggar Maid'
picture ?"

Yes."

Dear me, how interesting ! I have been
longing to see her. She is very handsome,
I am told."

She is much admired," he answered.

"How many persons you know!" said
Lady Everfair. " We are quite at a loss to
find out who many of Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's
celebrities are. She ought really to make
them wear tickets, or have them numbered,
and have catalogues printed for each night."

It would be so convenient," put in Mrs.
Frumage,

So it would," answered Newton Marrix,

"if it were necessary, but many of the
artists here to-night are known all over
Europe."

*' Who is that tall man there, looking at
the Corean jar?" asked Lady Everfair,
pretending not to hear Newton Marrix's last
remark.

'that is Mr. Grange. He is almost as
deaf as a post."

*' Poor man !"

'rand he is the musical critic for Fair
Vanity''

Indeed ! And that little lady with the
curls and piercing eyes ?"

"That is Miss Rampage, the authoress.
She is a famous wit, a thing she resents in
everyone else, as if she alone held a special
patent for its use."

Then I hope she will make a good use
of it."

She has done so already."

^'How?"

'' She is engaged to marry that young
man beside her ; a very good fellow,
thoroughly natural, and very ignorant ; with
no brains to speak of, and two thousand a
year."

Lady Everfair put up her fan and laughed
behind its shelter, for laughter never became
her expression ; and, moreover, her
maid had warned her against indulging in
such a violent delight, which might destroy
the careful work of hours.

"He is a most amusing young man," said
Mrs. Frumage, when Newton Marrix moved
away to join Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson.

When he reached that quarter of the
room where the American was, he found
she was talking to a foreign-looking young
man, with dark blue eyes and a complexion
scorched by tropical suns. Lord Harris
was talking to Capri.

Mrs. Lordson, on seeing Newton Garrick
approach, introduced him at once to her
new acquaintance.

"Mr. Newton Marrix, Mr. Guy Rutherford,"
she said, waving her great white fan
set with rubies. " Mr Rutherford has lived
much abroad," she continued, 'rand we
were discussing points of mutual interest."

Guy Rutherford looked straight in Newton
Marrix's face, smiled and bowed.

Mr. Marrix," went on Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson, "is an author whose name you
have heard, I am sure."

I am not quite so certain of that," said
Newton Marrix.

"Being so much abroad, I fear I have
not," replied Guy Rutherford, in an apologetic
tone.

''Do you stay in England?"
^^ " No, I go to Belgium on Saturday, and
heaven — if it interests itself in such matters

knows where I may roam after that. I
thought to have stayed a while in England,
but I find your conventional atmosphere is
too strong for me ; I find I must have freedom
and air once more."

He smiled pleasantly, and so did Mrs.
Lordson sympathetically, not well understanding
what he said.

"I quite envy you having such an unsettled
future before you," said Newton
Marrix.

Why ?"

"When your course and actions in the
future are unsettled, then expectation steps
in "

'' To be disappointed," interrupted Rutherford
somewhat bitterly.

Not always, I hope."

I fear so. I have trained myself never
to expect any pleasures or gratifications ; I
leave ray life to chance or fate, call it what

you will. I have no purpose in life that I
know of. Why I came into existence is a
mystery too deep for me to speculate on. I
have no hope from any future, and have no
work to do that I can see. I am at sea
and in darkness," he ended, with a smile on
his lips which the grave look in his eyes
contradicted.

La, how dreadful these young men
talk !" thought Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson ;
but she said nothing, for she hai wisdom
enough to know when she should hold her
peace, and in this respect rose superior to
the generality of her charming sex.

Capri had overheard Guy Rutherford's
last words as she stood near, and looked at
him with an awakening interest.

Now you no longer envy me," said Guy
Rutherford to the author.

I am not so sure of that. My purpose
in life is not such a very exalted one that I

VOL. ir. u

should not envy a man devoid of aim or
object. 1 have to cover certain or uncertain
reams of paper with ink."

A glorious profession "

And to create some hundreds of puppets,
whom I must dress and place in certain
positions, in order that, when I pull the
strings, they may fall in love with or
murder each other, or flatter and cheat each
other as the case may be in the closest
imitation of natural puppets on life's stage."

How delightful it must be to work the
puppets, and make them obey sour will !"

'' Delightful," echoed Mrs. W. Achilles
Lord son, waving her fan to and fro whilst
the precious stones glittered with her every
movement.

Just then Herr Rachznt sat down to the
grand piano, on whose upturned lid the fair
Alcestis rose against a golden background,
from the purple darkness of Hades. The

great composer struck a deep-sounding chord
in the bass, then paused two minutes. The
murmur of conversation suddenly hushed.
The great musician raised his left hand once
more, and struck a second chord, more ringing
than the first, to which a few weak notes
high up in the treble made faint response.
Once again the bass chords pealed, answered
this time in quick succession by responses
in the treble ; and then the harmony, if it
may be called so, scampered riotously up
and down the keyboard, running in and out
of all kinds of keys with the charming irregularity
of children playing at high gates ;
now speeding from fiats to sharps, and onto
naturals, winding intricate scales of sound
round and round itself until it became helplessly
entangled and almost lost in the
meshes, and cried out imploringly from the
key-board in a wild fury of passion, stamping
all over the notes with utter recklessness,

u2

making a melee in the bass that rose to a
storm, and then suddenly ceased.

There was a long pause as the famous performer
rose, put on his spectacles, and ran
his fingers through his long hair. A murmur
of applause then sounded through the room,
it was whispered that he had excelled himself
to-night. Adrien Messieurs said he was
inspired. Mrs. Frumage waved her fan,
and Mrs. Lordson was subdued to silence.

"How wonderful," said Capri, who had
never before heard Herr Rachznt, and she
mentally wished that old Padre Pallamari
was present to hear this great master.

Miss Raven had now taken up her violin,
and had commenced a sonata. Just at that
moment Capri saw Marcus Phillips enter the
room. She felt her heart give a great throb,
a pleasant light sparkled in her eyes.

She watched him approach Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning, and with a woman's quickness

she noticed the smile which came over her
hostess's face as the artist spoke to her.
Marcus Phillips sat down beside Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning and said something which Capri
could not hear, from the distance that separated
them, but saw a look of pleasure reflected
in Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's countenance.

Presently the artist's eyes went wandering
over the room in search of some object ;
at last they met Capri's eyes, and he bowed
and smiled across to her, but the smile
quickly vanished when he saw Lord Harrick
beside her, bentinck down to make some
remark to her in a manner that savoured of
confidence and friendship,

At last the sonata ended in a wild long-drawn
note that quivered in the air. Mrs.
Frumage beckoned Lord Harrick across
the room, and Mrs. Stonexx Stanning and
Marcus Phillips went to speak to Capri, who
was now talking to Guy Rutherford.

Capri held out her hand to the artist.

Are you not late — how I wish you had
been here when Herr Rachznt was playing !'*^

I should have been here sooner had I
known you would come early," he answered,
in a low voice, intended only for her ear ;
but, low as it was, Mrs. Stonexx Stanning
heard the words. She turned and spoke to
Guy Rutherford.

Capri did not reply immediately to the
artist ; when she next spoke she asked him
how he liked her Greek dress.

You are like a picture that has stepped
from its frame and lost its way," he answered.

And so she was. The girl had never
looked better. Her lithe graceful figure
was draped in a soft-texture creamy robe,
buttoned on the shoulders, with wide, falling
sleeves that left her delicately-rounded
arms bare. Her dress was edged with a
deep border of Grecian design worked in

threads of gold. Two narrow bands of
golden tissue were bound around her small
shapely head. She had no ornaments ; a
lily was fastened in her girdle. The heat
of the room had given a faint colour to her
face : her great eyes, like fathomless wells of
liquid light, sparkled from the excitement
which the novelty of the scene caused her.
"I am glad you like my Greek attire,
Marc," she said in her old easy manner.

''I should like to paint you in that dress,
and call you Helen of Troy."

She looked into his face and smiled ; he
had not seen her look at him with that once
familiar expression since she had migrated
to Mayfair, and now his hopes brightened,
and he grew happy once more.

*' 1 should like it too," she answered,
*' but I am afraid the public would tire of
me ; besides, I have been photographed in
this costume leaning against a huge vase.

Have you not seen the photographs in the
stationers' windows ?"

'' No."

Newton Marrix came up quickly before
Capri could say any more ; she turned to
look at an aryballos, signed by Xenophon
and magnificently ornamented by a
wonderful crowd of figures in relief.

Do you see that man smiling down
there near Mrs. Stonexx Stanning?" asked
the author.

Yes."

'mark him well; he is a little great
man of whom all who dabble in literature
must beware," said Newton in a tragic
whisper.

*^ He looks harmless enough."

"Yes, poor man, he is more ignorant
than the butter-merchant round the corner ;
yet, so strange are the contradictions of
literary life, that he is considered an authority

in literature and art— in other words,
a critic, than which there is nothing easier
to become in these days."

Unhappily for those criticised."

He imagines himself a very fiery dragon
of the press ; believes that he can murder a
literary reputation in a printed line. It's
true.

All fools are conceited."

"When Adrien Messieurs published his
volume of poems, * Passion's Death,' last
year, this critic emptied the little vial of
his wrath upon the poet. Becoming suddenly
virtuous for half an hour, he denounced
the book as un-Christian, emasculating,
abominable, unfit for reading, and
then in the next sentence asked what the
whole volume meant. He finished by
declaring Messieurs a mere boy."

It is a clever boy that could write such
poems."

"And yet less clever than Shelley or
Keats, whom the survey rouges of their
day pelted with all the foulness they could
scrape from the slimy bottoms of their putrid
hearts."

'but Messieurs must know there is nothing
easier to do than write a few disparaging
lines without any genuine criticism."

Yes, he does, I daresay. But you see
it is a mistake to imagine we have done
with the Grub Street critics now-a-days.
That race of asses is yet continued by some
strange decree of providence. The class
of vulture like Heron, who hounded Voltaire,
Settle and Shad well, who stung Dryden as
ants might a lion, Dennis, who sought to
crush the rising genius of Pope, — still lives
with us, eats with us, drinks with us; it is
an immortal race who would stab its best
friend in the dark, or sing its enemies' praises

in half a dozen different papers for a dinner
at the Gaiety or a sovereign."

"You are severe to-night, New."

No ; I only speak of the rogues and
fools of which literature more than any other
profession or calling is full. The latter
drivel in the faces of clever men and shout
their twaddle into the public ears until that
long suffering class for peace sake begins to
take them at their own estimate."

** Peace I cry."

Well, let us come down and see the
little great man. Smile upon him when I
introduce you, and make him believe you
think he is somebody. You had better
make friends with him ; he is an art-critic
too, bless the mark ; for these fellows dabble
at everything ; literature, science, art, knowing
as much about them beyond the set
technical phrases as a crossing-sweeper."

Yet he goes about a great deal."

Yes, he talks well and most agreeably,
for he has a good memory and has accumulated
an amount of stolen wit from the
books he has reviewed, ere he hastened to
sell them in Bookseller's Row for half price.
But he is a desirable man to know, be civil
to him, for it's the small vermin that are
more annoying than the larger creatures of
the species."

Guy Rutherford had turned to where
Capri stood.

Is that the artist who painted the * Beggar
Maid ' picture ?" he asked, a light which
some foreign woman had once called dangerous
coming into his eyes.

Yes, that is Mr. Phillips," she answered,
carelessly.

He made no further remark to her just
then, but presently murmured as if speaking

to himself rather than intending to be overheard
by her —

It is no wonder, said the lords,
She is more beautiful than day."

Capri glanced up at him suddenly, but his
eyes were fixed on some object at the further
end of the room

Looking at him then she saw for the
first time that look of almost woman-like
softness in his face which his eyes when they
glanced straight at her utterly contradicted.
Capri still gazed at him, there was something
about him which attracted her strangely
; she noted his shapely classic head covered
with crisp brown curls, the low straight
brows, and delicately cut features.

It was a handsome face, she thought, a
face that a woman might remember through
life.

*'Do you know," he said, turning his
head towards her once more, ** I think I
could paint you?"

You are an artist then ?"

"Yes, I dabble in all the arts, and if I
were not leaving town at the end of the
week I would ask you for the favour of a
sitting."

Capri gave a low short musical laugh ;
she was pleased at what he had said.

'•' Why do you wish to paint me ?" she
asked.

"Shall I tell you?"

His eyes looked into hers, but the light
she had seen there before had now gone,
and she noticed a shadow crossed his face.

Do," she said, becoming suddenly serious
in sympathy with his expression.

Once I knew a face which at times yours
strongly resembles. Not like you when you
smile, but very like you when you think ;

and in your graver moments there is often a
look in your eyes which haunts me."

He spoke slowly and deliberately, and
the girl saw a look of genuine sorrow rest
on his face.

'ris she dead?" she asked him almost
under her breath, and with a reverence in
her tone as if she spoke of a sacred
subject.

Yes, so they told me."

Capri lowered her eyes. She reproached
herself with having been vain enough to
imagine he wished to paint her portrait
from love of her faces She had wronged
him in thought and misunderstood him.

I am sorry," she said in an altered
voice, 'that I have even unconsciously
given you pain."

Would it be pain for us, I wonder, to
see a ghost ?" he asked.

That depends," she answered, '* on

whether the ghost would bring us back
pleasant or unpleasant memories."

That is true."

"I overheard you," the girl continued,
looking at him with an interest she did not
care to conceal, " saying to Mr. Marrix that
you had no future to live for. Will you
think it strange of me if I say that is perhaps
because you live too much in the past.
Old men may do that because all the world
lies behind them, but young men should
live in the future."

*' I shall remember what you say," he replied,
looking at her now with that light in
his eyes which was dangerous to women's
peace.

"And I, too, will remember what you
have told me."

"Very well, let it serve as a link between
us. Here comes Lord Harrick."

A fresh murmur ran through the room ;

the hum of voices suddenly ceased ; the
great actor from the Arena Theatre had
come. He looked tired and pale ; his long
hair, quickly turning to grey, almost touched
his broad shoulders ; his wonderful grey
eyes glanced quickly round the room, and
met many familiar faces.

Miss Lesson and a group of young girls
stood round the piano. Mr. Hal Vector
was just going to sing his new song,
What Sorrow said to the Swallow," the
words of which were written for him by
Adrien Messieurs.

Let us go and have some ice-creams
before he commences," said Lord Harrick to
Capri.

There was something unusual in the
viscount's voice that made her look up
suddenly. He met her eyes with a shy
glance, and laughed a little nervously.

'' Shall we wait until the song is over ?"

VOL. II. X

There will be too great a crush
then."

She laid her hand upon his arm and
went out of the room and down a long
passage, crowded with palm-trees and
bronze statues, towards a conservatory
that opened at the end, which for this
occasion was turned into a buffet, where
cooling drinks, and delicious ice-creams, and
fruits were being served.

Towards this spot they bent their steps ;
but they never reached there. Half way
down the passage was an alcove, where a
great crimson ottoman stood. The spot
was almost completely shaded by wide-leased
plants and palm branches, which met
over the entrance. It was a very shrine of
Cupid's fashioned for flirtation.

"Are you not tired?" said Lord Harrick,
as they arrived at the alcove. 'let us
rest here a moment," and, without waiting

for her to reply, he put aside the tall
branches with his hand and entered.

Capri felt that the moment she had so
often longed and hoped for and thought of
had come ; she was sure he was about asking
her to become his wife, and now at this,
perhaps the most important moment of her
life, when all her desires and ambitions
were about being satisfied, there was no
sense of gladness in her heart, no thoughts
of triumph in her mind.

And set the prospect that lay before her
almost bewildered her ; a title, presentation
at court, a house in town that had many
historic associations, a manor in Yorkshire
and a castle in Scotland, family jewels which
had belonged to the Stuart, a position
which in her wildest dreams she had never
thought of until lately, and all that power,
and pomp, and dignity which money invariably
brings in its wake, all, all would be hers!

x2

It was a dazzling picture that rose before
her mental vision. Was it all but a dream
from which she should awake presently ?

*' Capri," commenced Lord Harrick, when
he had sat down beside her on the ottoman,
"do you remember the day I got that
scratch in fencing, and you bound up my
wrist ?"

I do," she answered, not looking at him.

He took one of her hands in his.

It was only a bit of rag, you know," he
said, speaking in a lower and gentler tone
than was his habit usually, '^ that you bound
my wrist with, but — but — I have kept it
ever since."

Capri glanced at his hand holding hers,
and was sorry for him that it looked so
large and red, and that his fingers were so
short and broad.

Why have you kept it ?" she asked
innocently.

*' Because it was once yours."

He pressed her hand, hesitated a moment,
then put it to his lips and kissed it
again and again. She made no resistance,
but remained perfectly passive, and awaited
her fate from his lips. She would do nothing
to hasten or control it in any way.

''Capri," he went on, ''do you know I
have been in love with you ever since that
day?"

No, I did not know that."

She could faintly hear the music in the
drawing-room, and when the door opened
once she could catch the words of " What
Sorrow said to the Swallow." Some one
came down the passage, and she counted
the sounds of the footfall, and listened to
the murmur of voices in the buffet beyond.

"But I was in love with you all the
while ; it commenced that day, I think."
That was strange."

"Not in the least. I intended to have
told you about it the night we came from
Richmond, only for that con — that horse
shying."

Once she raised her eyes to his. The
blood had come into his face and turned it
to a deep red, his round good-natured
looking e3^es almost sparkled ; she felt hi
hot breath sweeping over her neck and
face.

Capri, have you nothing to say to me ?'^
he asked. "Do you — can you care for me
will you be my wife ?"

The great crisis of her life had come at
last, the words which above all others she
had longed and hoped to hear had crossed
his lips. His face was close beside her.

"You surprise me," she said hurriedly;
her throat was dry ; she could hardly speak.

"Then did you never think I loved

you?"

I did — but I did not think— this would

come so soon."

"Now that it has come, what do you
say ? Will you be mine, Capri ?" he paused,
waiting for her to speak.

Just for one moment she thought of
Marcus Phillips, thought how happy she
was in his presence, though he was poor
and unknown to fame ; the memory of his
face came between her and Lord Harrick,
his frank blue eyes smiled upon her, she
heard his voice ringing in her ears ; for a
second she hesitated.

Then she remembered, as in a dream,
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning had smiled when he
approached her. That recollection decided
her. It was a pity Marc was so poor.
Poverty was a thing of which she was
heartily sick. If she married the artist, she
would be a drag on him during the best days
of his life, she would shackle him and spoil

his future ; whereas, if she parted from him
now, he would probably make a wealthy
marriage with some woman more worthy of
him than she was, and in years to come
they would both make merry over their
boy and girl love, and laugh at the time
they thought themselves heart-broken because
she had married a wealthy peer.

By such thoughts Capri hardened her
heart whilst Lord Harrick sat there looking
into her changing face, and waiting for her
reply. For answer she gave him both her
hands.

You will be mine ?" he said, in a low
quick voice, pressing her hands whilst he
spoke.

I will."

He put his arm around her, drew her to
him, and kissed her lips again and again.
In the fervour and passion of the moment
he did not notice that she was almost as

cold to him as a statue, for in moments of
emotion we but see our own feelings reflected
in others.

Meanwhile Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson was
talking to Lady Ariadne.

You are fond of art, T believe ?"

La, I adore it' said the American, wondering
how it was that Lady Ariadne looked
so charming, though she had never a scrap
of velvet on her, and no jewellery save a
string of pearls laid against the whiteness of
her breasts. " I adore it, and I'm sure
there's no gallery in Europe I have not been
to ; and I bought a coffer and a Greek vase
in Paris that cost me some money, I can
tell you."

Lady Ariadne turned her face away
wearily, and looked at Adrien Messieurs;
the poet gazed into space.

'' What queer creatures the aristocracy and
poets are," thought Mrs. "W. Achilles Lord-son.

"They never take any more notice of
you than if you were a-stick." Then she
added aloud, by way of impressing her
hearers,

*' Yes, they cost me a lot of money, and
I'll be happy to show them to you and the
gentleman — the poet — any day you will
call ; they are rare, and worth seeing, I can
assure you."

Thank you' said Lady Ariadne, calmly.
You are most kind."

Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson's ruby stomacher
glittered, she waved her great fan to
and fro, and re-arranged the folds of her
white velvet skirts. She felt assured she
had now succeeded in impressing Lady
Ariadne.

It has been a most charming reception,"
said Mrs. Frumage, as she and
her friend, Lady Everfair, prepared to
depart.

"And Herr Rachznt plays like an angel.
He would be a delightful creature if his
breath was not so odorous of garlic."

Newton Marrix laughed.

"We have been speaking to Mr. Phaeton,"
said Lady Everfair. " You know him,
of course ?"

** Slightly. I hope you found lira interesting



''He would be charming, I imagine, if
one knew what he was saying, but as he is
a dreadful bore "

'' And a philosopher."

Which is very much the same, I never
know what he is saying."

*' But he is really a clever man. He can
spell Mediterranean twice in a breath without
missing a letter."

You will really be the death of me some
day," said Lady Everfair, laughing behind
her fan.

My dear, you have said so before," said
Mrs. Frumage.

'rand yet," said Newton Marrix, "we
have been happily spared what would prove
an inestimable calamity."

He bowed low as he spoke. The countess
smiled on him serenely.

How picturesque Miss Bankers looks !"
remarked Mrs. Frumage.

Capri was standing by one of the large
Corean vases, a great Indian fan hung on the
wall above her head ; her red lips were parted
with a smile, and a look of satisfaction
rather than pleasure rested on her face.

Guy Rutherford watched her from the
opposite side of the room, his eyes taking
in every detail of the picture she presented.


She is a lovely girl," he said to himself,
as he still gazed on her olive face, and the

perfect grace of the pose into which her
limbs had naturally fallen.

Shall I stay in England after all, or
go?" he asked himself.

Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson rose and made
her way through the dispersing crowd to
make her adieux to Mrs. Stonexx Stanning.
Newton Marrix and Capri followed in her
train.

As the girl passed the door she paused
a moment to speak to Marcus Phillips.

"Good night," she said, '' I shall call to
see you if I can tomorrow ?"

The artist smiled and pressed her hand.

Lord Harrick and Guy Rutherford saw
Mrs. Lordson to her brougham.

Good night, Capri," said Lord Harrick to
her, as he assisted her in, '' may I call and
see you in the morning ?"

"Yes," she answered cheerfully, giving

him a smile at the same time, which he
thought of for half the night.

He closed the door and the brougham
drove away.

Rutherford," he said, taking his friend's
arm when they had lit their cigars and were
walking homewards in the cool night air.
Rutherford, old fellow, I have asked her
to be my wife."

There was a slight pause, for Guy
Rutherford expected Lord Harrick to continue.


"And she?" he said at last.

Consented of course," said the peer.

They walked on again in silence. Guy
Rutherford threw back his head and looked
up at the few stars visible against the dark
purple background of sky.

You do not congratulate me."

Then Guy Rutherford took the cigar from

his mouth and spoke as if he were continuing
a train of thought.

"Men have risked body and soul for
women not half so lovely as she."

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME,

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, Blenheim House;,

3 0112 052938757

VOL. III.

% Story d §0^miajt fife

BY

J. FITZGERALD Molly

In robe and crown the king stept down
To meet and greet her on her way ;
It is no wonder,' said the lords,
She is more beautiful than day.' "

Tkn'xtson's Beggar Maid.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. m.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
1882.

All rights reserved.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/itisnowonderstor03moll

IT IS NO WONDER.

CHAPTER I.

FAREWELL.

IT was almost evening on the next day
before Capri could make good her
escape from Mrs. Lordson, and, on pretence
of going to see her father, take her way
towards the attic studio in Fitzroy Street.
She had scarcely slept during the night ;
it seemed to her as if the whole scene at
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning's had been merely a
dream. At times during the long night,
she brought herself to believe that Lord

VOL. III. B

Harrick's proposal was an imaginary incident
which had but existence in her overwrought
mind.

But it was true, quite true, she repeated
to herself over and over again, as if to
stamp the fact in her mind beyond possibility
of further doubt. She went over
the scenes of the night in her mind, remembered
the alcove half screened by the
tall palms where she had sat with Lord
Harrick, felt him press her hand, heard
him say that he loved her, and wanted
her to become his wife, and remembered
her answer.

Yes, it was all true. She was to become
the future Viscountess Harrick, that
was quite settled. She, Capri, who had
run bare-legged about the strands of her
native island long ago ; Capri, the daughter
of a singer of La Scala ; Capri, the
Bohemian who had lived half her life in a

back pair of rooms on the third flight of a
lodging house in the Euston Road ; who
had taught music for a shilling a lesson,
and who looked on a present of a pair of
gloves or a ribbon from her pupils as
providentially-sent gifts. Could it be possible
that this great change would come in
her life to transform it, and make it brighter
far than anything she had ever thought
of in her most ambitious day-dreams ?
Had she not once said to Marcus Phillips
that it was the improbable things which
were possible ; and but a few months ago
what could have been more seemingly
improbable than that which was now about
to happen ?

It was truly wonderful ! so Mrs. Lordson
said when Capri told her of the proposal
over their coffee and toast the morning following
Mrs. Stonexx Standing's reception.

'you take my breath away," said the

b2

American lady, staring at lier in amazement,
and laying down her Rose du Barri
cup with a haste which threatened to smash
it to atoms. *' And yet I knew it was coming.
I saw it. But now that it has come,
and you have told me of it so suddenly,
my dear, it does take me aback. To think
of it all, Capri ; you will be my lady and
a real viscountess. Well, life is strange,
I'm sure.

Very strange," replied Capri thoughtfully.


And yet my only wonder is that he
did not ask you the day we went to Richmond,"
she said, for the observant woman
had seen Lord Harrick plainly make love
to Capri on that day, and marvelled why
the viscount had not proposed on such a
favourable occasion.

He only asked me last night," replied
Capri.

"It was the Greek dress, my dear, that
completed the charm ; and very well you
looked in it, I'm sure."

Capri laughed, or made an attempt to
laugh, which ended almost in a sob. The
prospect of her future made her glad, but
she was far from being happy.

And to think you never told me the
news last night," said Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson, munching some dry toast. '' How
could you keep it so long from me ?"

The good woman felt inclined to be indignant
at such a sweet morsel of intelligence
being kept from her a few hours.

Dear Mrs. Lordson," said Capri in her
most gentle tone, looking at the matron
out of her great dark eyes with a world of
seeming confidence and affection in them,
"you are the first I have told. I could
hardly realize it last night. It came like
like a shock to me — I was surprised,

and almost unprepared for this offers
She raised her eyes to Mrs. Lordson's
face, and went over and laid her hand
gently on the matron's plump arm.

'* Oh, my dear, I knew he would propose
sooner or later before the season was
over," she replied, lying back comfortably
in her chair, and opening wide her eyes
at Capri's confessed want of perception.
*' Anyone with half an eye in her head
could see that by him, my dear," she continued
good-humouredly, quite forgiving
Capri for her reticence, "and I'm sure it's
proud he should be of having won such a
handsome wife, though I say it to your
face, my dear, and its a beautiful viscountess
you will make, Capri, and I shall give
you a trousseau and a wedding-dress, the
handsomest Worth can make," added the
good-natured matron, delighted at the
prospect which the excitement and bustle

of the coming marriage would afford her.

*you are too good, too generous and
kind," said Capri earnestly, who was genuinely
touched by her words, '' much more
so than I deserve." There was no smile
now upon her face.

Tut, tut," said Mrs. Lordson, rising
from her dainty little table ; and putting
one hand on Capri's shoulder she kissed
her on the forehead gently.

At midday Lord Harrick called, and
placed a quaint pearl ring, that had been
an heirloom in his family for centuries, on
Capri's finger ; it had historic associations
he told her, Mary Stuart had given it to an
ancestress of his on the eve of that ill-fated
monarch's execution. This ring was the
seal of their engagement.

Capri looked at him gratefully, and
thanked him, and admired the antique setting
of the pearls in their band of massive

gold. Lord Harrick felt glad that such a
simple act of his had given her so much
pleasure.

Capri in a white cashmere dress, her
face pale from excitement, her dark eyes
seeming larger and more luminous than
ever, her dark hair with its shade of dusky
gold brushed closely round her small head,
looked wonderfully handsome.

Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson stayed with
them a little while to offer her congratulations
in demonstrative terms ; and, having
asked the viscount to stay to luncheon,
left them alone. Capri was silent and
grave towards him ; but as Lord Harrick
had not seen her in one of these moods before,
and was moreover very much in love,
he thought this change suited her far
better than did her more lively humours.

She listened to his plans for the future,
for their future, as if she had no personal

concern in the arrangements, listened
without making a suggestion, wondering
now and then in her own mind why Providence
had made his hair so red, and his
eyes so round and blue and full of wonder
at nothing in particular.

He took her hands in his as he had done
that day long ago in her sitting-room in the
Euston Road when she had told him she
was going to live with Mrs. Lordson. She
was somewhat cold, absent-minded, and
nervous this morning after her sleepless
night, and the prospect before her of
breaking the news of her engagement to
Marcus Phillips ; the thought of what the
artist would say and think hung over her
like a shadow and depressed her. She
wondered if the luncheon time would
ever arrive when Mrs. Lordson's presence
would relieve her from being face to face
with her promised husband. Another day,

she told herself, she could bear with him
much better, but to-day he irritated her
and made her strangely fretful and unhappy.
Of course that feeling would wear
away; in their future lives they would harmonize
or tone down to a placid indifference,
she thought, it was only because her
spirits were low this morning that she felt
his presence an insufferable bore. Time
and a short experience of married life
would change all that.

She answered his questions as briefly as
possible, and listened to his love-making
as if his words were addressed to some
invisible person. She had no responsive
terms of endearment for him ; and bore his
kisses with the air of a pet pug disturbed
in his comfortable dreams by the caresses
of his mistress.

Lord Harrick was insensible to her coldness;
no thought of her indifference occurred

to him. His own affection was so
great that it reflected itself in her ; he
believed she loved him, and he was quite
happy in the fool's paradise which he fashioned
and shaped for himself.

During their interview Capri smiled but
once, and that was when Mrs. Lordson
entered the drawing-room to say that
luncheon was served. Then Capri had to
take the usual drive in the Row with Mrs.
Lordson, after which she was at liberty.

After the excitement of the previous
night, a sharp reaction had set in which
lasted all day ; that was what continued to
make her dull and unhappy, she told herself
; for we like to make matters clear to
ourselves occasionally, and enter into
mental discussions and explanations with
ourselves which somehow never have the
effect of settling the point at issue or
quieting our minds. As she prepared herself

for her drive that afternoon, the sight
of her face in the mirror startled her
from the look of sadness that it betrayed.


*'No one would ever think to look at
you," she said, addressing her reflection,
*' that a great piece of good luck was about
to happen," and she smiled, but the smile
was a wretched attempt at gaiety that
made her look more miserable yet.

If, however, she had felt depressed
during the day, she felt her heart sink as
she entered Fitzroy Street and rapped at
the once familiar door of the house where
Marcus Phillips lived. It was the same
maid who had opened that friendly portal
for her many a time in the light-hearted
days just gone by, that now admitted her.
The abigail drew back to a more respectful
distance now, and was far less familiar
in her replies.

Mr. Phillips was in," she said, and
offered to announce Miss Dankers.

Capri thanked her, but preferred going
upstairs and announcing herself. So up
she went, not running as she had done so
often during those merry months when
she sat for the " Beggar Maid," but ascending
the four flights slowly and gravely
which led to the studio. She rapped
timidly, and, when the artist shouted out
Come in," she could hear her heart beat,
and hesitated a second or two before turning
the handle and entering the room.
Marcus was standing before a picture, a
pipe in one hand and a palette-knife in the
other.

Why, Capri," he said, coming over to
her at once in his old familiar manner, " I
did not know your rap, or I should have
run and let you in. I am so glad you
have come at last."

At last," sbe said, striving to smile.

'* You have not been here, I think, since
you migrated to Mayfair ?"

No, I believe I have not."

And I was afraid you had forgotten
your promise of last night."

*' You see I did not," she answered him,
looking round the room.

He had evidently made some preparations
for her coming. There was a great
bouquet of flowers on the bracket, that
looked fresh and bright, the paint-pots
were all cleared away from the centre of
the room ; there were no brushes or
palette-knives on the floor, the easels were
put away in the corners, and altogether
the studio had the look of having had a
general clearing up.

The artist himself seemed included in
the tidying arrangements ; his long light
hair was brushed back, its curls meeting

the collar of his velvet coat ; he had on a
blue shirt, fastened at the neck with a
crimson scarf. He looked more picturesque
and handsome than ever, Capri thought,
and the look of happiness that came over
his face as she entered the studio struck
her with keen reproach.

I could not get away sooner to-day,"
she said.

He did not notice that her manner was
unusually quiet and subdued.

Sit down here," he said, drawing over
a great high-backed, curiously-carved
chair upholstered in velvet, that, in the
pride of its days, owned a crimson colour,
but which was now sadly faded to a dull
neutral tint.

"What a handsome chair !" she said byway
of delaying the moment of her confession
as long as she could. "You bought
it lately?"

Yes, in Ardour Street. It dates from
Louis XI."

'' It is a gem," sbe said, sitting down on
it quietly with lier face to the light.

*' I thought of you when I was buying
it ; I said to myself how well you would
look in it, and now I see that I was
right."

Capri made him no reply, she did not
even smile at his words.

"Now tell me why you did not come
sooner, Capri, for I have been expecting
you since midday, until at last I had almost
given up all hopes of your coming."

He had seated himself on a camp-stool
a little in front of her ; leaning his elbows
on his knees, he gazed up into her face.

She did not speak for a while ; she took
off her hat and laid it on the ground beside
her, then she leaned her head, with its
undertone of gold, against the faded cushion

of the chair and placed her hands on

its grotesque! j-carved arms.

She looked more like a picture now than
ever, Marcus Phillips thought, as he looked
into her face with pleasure and delight.
Capri was thinking how she would best
commence what she had come to say. If
she could only begin, the rest would follow
with comparative ease ; but every time
she attempted to begin, her heart beat so
rapidly that she felt incapable for the time
of utterance.

At length she summoned courage and
said, as calmly as she could,

Dear Marc, you have always been so
good and kind to me "

'* Don't say that," he interrupted, wondering
what she was going to say, and
making it all the more difficult for her to
get the words out.

'* That I fear," she continued slowly,

VOL. I[[. c

unheeding his words, " I may give you
pain by what I have to tell."

Nothing that you can say will give me
pain, Capri," he answered her, with a
world of love and gentleness in his voice.
*' Only tell me if there is anything I can
do for you — if there is any way I can help
you."

No, no," she said hurriedly, and without
looking at him ; his words were to her
more reproachful than she could bear.

"What is it?" he asked quickly, in a
voice that sounded hoarse and low; the
light faded from his face.

She could answer him more easily now.
She drew a long breath, and said slowly,
though every word caused her a strange
pain,

I have promised Lord Harrick to
become his wife."

** Oh Capri !" he cried out, like a man

stricken to the heart with steel, and with a
reproach in his tones that haunted her for
long.

He buried his face in his hands, and
there was silence in the room far more
terrible than all reproach.

'' Marc, Marc," she whispered low, after
a while, seeing the strong man's tears
dripping through the fingers covering his
face.

He made no reply.

'' Only speak to me, dear Marc," she
ventured to say presently, in a low trembling
voice. " I know I am wicked, and
wretched, and ungrateful to you ; but only
speak to me. Say you can forgive me."

He never answered.

Once or twice she saw his breast heave,
saw the veins stand out in his forehead, and
the hot tears drop slowly on his knees, and
heard the sobs in his throat as he strus:-

c2

gled to command himself. She had expected
to see him pained, but she never
dreamt the news she had to tell would
cause him such bitter grief.

"Marc, say something," she said, rising
from her chair and standing beside him.
She could bear the silence no longer.
Tell me that I am worthless ; that you
hate me, despise me, only speak."

She laid her hand lightly on his shoulder.
He shuddered at her touch, and rose up
at once. A sudden change had come over
him, such as comes to men in moments
when they are brought face to face with
peril and death, moments in whose space
the agony of a life is concentrated. All
light and colour had faded from his face,
his eyes looked sunken, his features
drawn and haggard.

Tell me," he said, in a voice which
Capri would never have recognized as his.

^' Tell me honestly. Do you — do you love
Mm r

It was lier turn to hide her face now :
her eyes, for the first time since she knew
him, could not meet Marcus Phillips'
gaze.

Love him !" she repeated, as if the
question had presented itself to her mind
for the first time, and now awoke a train of
unpleasant and almost repulsive thoughts.
^'Xo."

And you have promised to marry this
man. Will you dare to swear 'love, honour,
and obedience ' to him at God's altar ?
and turn the most sacred of rites into a
farce and a hollow mockery?"

She did not speak, but stood cowering
there before him, her head lowered, her
frame trembling in every limb.

Will you walk through life with him
till death releases you ? serve him as your

lord and master, cling to him, find your
happiness in his love, be faithful to him
in all things, rear up his children and
yours because he gives you an empty-sounding
title and a settlement of a few
thousands a year? It is a just barter."

The words fell on her ears, and cut her
more cruelly than whips could scourge the
flesh; cut her all the keener and deeper
because of the force of their truth.

^'It is a just barter," he went on, the
words falling hurriedly from his lips. His
face was now flushed with anger, and his
eyes flashed with a fire that was new to
them. "A just barter. But which of
you will have the better bargain ? A few
months, and you will tire and sicken of
this contract, you will loathe him and become
disgusted with yourself ; the title and
the money for which you sell your life,
your happiness, your very soul, will have

lost their value in your sight, and weigh
light as thistle-down against an hour of
the love you now close your heart to ; you
will hate and despise them, your existence
will become a horrid mockery, and a living,
hateful lie before the world."

*'0h! Marc, Marc," she sobbed out
bitterly, cowering down before him ; she
could bear no more. Salt tears gathered
in her eyes and blinded her, the room
swam round her, and the sound of her
voice fell like a cry on her ears.

It was a cry that struck Marcus Phillips
to the heart ; he could not hear it unmoved.
In a moment all his wrath died
out, and only his love and pity for her
lived and triumphed. In an instant he
was on his knees before her. She had
sunk back into the chair; he took her
hands in his, and laid his forehead on her
knees.

Capri, forgive my words, forgive me,
mj love, m}^ darling, whom I would die
to save from pain or ill. I sought to save
you from yourself ; from the love of the
world which has filled your heart and
sickened it with a craving for hollow
pleasures, for vanities in which there is
nothing real, from a prospect which now
blinds and dazzles you, and prevents your
seeing the pit-fall on the brink of which
you stand; from a compact which robs
you of your better nature, and closes your
soul against a love that would brighten all
your days."

"She put her hands upon his shoulders,
and put her arms round his neck tenderly,
and passed her fingers through his hair,
sobbing all the while as if her heart were
breaking, whilst hot tears ran down her
cheeks like rain.

'' Capri, my love ! — Capri, I have been a

wretch, a brute, to say such words to you,
forget there and forgive me."

Ah ! Marc, there is nothing to forgive,"
she said, when her sobs had partly subsided,
and she could manage to speak.
*your words are all too true, I fear. I
know it is because of their truth that they
strike so hard."

He turned white, and his breath came
thick and heavy.

Then, if you think so, surely — surely
you will not marry him

There was a cry of pain in his voice,
though he strove to speak calmly, a sound
of dull despair, like the wail of a strongman
in his death agony.

I have promised," she said, slowly and
deliberately, " and I must keep my word."

As she spoke she withdrew her hand
half reluctantly from his head yet laid
upon her knees. He had awaited her

answer breathlessly : the second that elapsed
before she spoke seemed to him an
hour.

*must?" he said, making a last effort
to save her from herself. "Must, even
though the act brings you a life-long
misery ?"

'' Yes," she replied, and her voice sounded
harsh and hoarse.

She dried her eyes ; how lovely they
looked, the artist thought, softened with
tears that yet hung like dew upon the long,
dark lashes. He rose to his feet without
another word. She held out her right
hand to him ; he hesitated a moment, then
took it and pressed it gently in his own.

A long, quivering sigh came from her
heart ; tears rose once more to her eyes,
but she strove bravely to suppress them.

'' Sit down," she said calmly.

He obeyed her passively as if he were a

child ; her collected manner had the power
of subduing him.

After what has passed between us,"
she commenced, *' I may now speak to you
as — as a friend."

For answer he pressed the hand yet
within his own.

*'I could have written you the news of
my engagement," she went on, " or have
let you hear it from some one else ; but I
thought it best to tell you myself, for I
knew it would cause you less pain hearing
it from my lips. I knew that — that you
loved me," she said, very gently.

*' Loved you, and love you still, with all
my heart and soul," he cried out fervently,
looking into her face.

"You see I speak plainly now; I knew
you loved me," she went on not returning
his glance, and speaking hurriedly, without
appearing to notice his last sentence,

though in reality it sank into her heart,
"and I also knew that I was and am unworthy
of you, that I could never wait
patiently like a good wife until you became
rich and were able to give me all I
desire ; never be able to subdue my ambition
and love of position and wealth, and
all that money can bring. Why I should
long for all these things, Heaven only
knows ; but the yearning for them was
early implanted in me, and grew with
my growth and strength. It is the working
out of some fate, I suppose, which we
cannot understand. It is all the stranger,
perhaps, that I should care for them, never
having tasted until lately all the pleasures
and benefits, and therefore not knowing
what the deprivations of them meant ; now
that I have experience, I never could
renounce them."

She paused a moment. Her hand was

now in his, and lie felt lier slim fingers
twitching nervously.

*' Last night," she continued, '' he, Lord
Harrick, offered me far more than I had
ever hoped or longed for : wealth, position,
title. I had but one word to say, and they
were mine."

*' And you said it ?" he broke out
bitterly.

'consider how much they mean to mea
penniless, homeless, almost friendless
girl. I said the v/ord, and I shall marry
him."

When she ended there was silence
between them for some time.

You do not know what love is ; truelove
overcomes all things."

For all answer she sighed,

Is the honest affection of a heart worth
all these things which you gain ?" he asked
her in a low voice.

One cannot have everything in life,"
she answered evasively. 'love is very
sweet and precious," she went on, " but
love is of little account in a hard,
sordid world like ours." She cast down
her eyes, for the tears were dimming them
once more.

Love is all-sufficient where hearts are
true," he answered.

But love and poverty have such hard
battles in life, and the strongest is sure to
conquer sooner or later."

The stronger is "

** Poverty. I have seen it all my days."

How can you harden your heart?"

If he only knew how far from being
hardened it was then, only knew how she
longed to give up the world and flinging
herself into his arms seek protection in his
love for ever ! In the silence that followed
a great struggle went on in her heart : all

that was good and bad in her nature rose
in arras and fought against each other.
All that the future promised came up
before her in its most seductive brightness ;
all that the past had made her suffer stood
out in darkness, in vivid contrast. She
should keep her promise to Lord Harrick.

'* Marc' she said after a while, " you
have always been good and generous tome,
and you gave me your love, a prize of
which the best woman on earth miofht feel
proud, whilst I have acted like a serpent ;
I feel I have, and yet I cannot help myself.
It is a pity I ever crossed your path,
and yet our old life, our old friendship, was
very dear and precious to me."

And how much more precious to me,
God only knows," he said, looking into her
face lovingly.

'Tor the sake of the past time can
you forgive me ?" she said, lowering her

voice and speaking in a pleading tone.

For answer he took the hand he held in
his and kissed it.

Just for a moment, whilst his lips rested
on her fingers, the blood rushed into her
face, a bright happy look came to her
eyes. Next moment it was gone.

'' Will you make me a promise ?"

I can refuse you nothing," he answered.


^' Promise that you will always be my
friend," she said, almost in a whisper.

Before heaven I promise you."

The words fell with reverence on Capri's
ear.

There is one thing more which I would
like to say, if you will allow me, as — as a
friend," she said, and then hesitated.

Say whatever you please."

*' If so, I will say that I believe a good
and true woman, who has already been a

friend to you, has — has given you her
heart."

Oapri !" he said, starting up as if the
words stung him.

Sit down, Marc. I do not wish to
hurt you. Remember I say this as a friend.
I have watched the woman I speak of
when you approach her ; one of our sex
never errs in these matters ; we see at a
glance what you men may not come to the
knowledge of for years ; this is my reason
for speaking to you now, Marc."

Say no more," he said, rising up again
and walking to the window.

Capri rose too.

The light was fading in the sky, the
tree-tops in the neighbouring square
waved above the roofs of the opposite
houses. Once she looked on the bouquet
of flowers resting on the bracket — the
flowers which he had got to make the

VOL. IIL D

studio bright and pleasant for her coming.
She went over unhesitatingly, reached up
her hands, and took out a purple-leaved
pansy.

He turned just then and saw her.

'' Good-bye, Marc," she said, holding out
her hand to him ; she strove to steady her
voice ; she looked at him through a mist
of tears.

With one sudden stride he stood before
her, and flung his arms around her, and
clasped her to himself passionately. He
felt her trembling in his grasp, felt her
heart fluttering wildly, heard her breath
coming fast.

'' Oh ! Capri, my darling, must we part
must you say good-bye? Why — why
must you leave me ?" he broke out wildly,
pressing her closer and closer to his breast.

His whole frame swayed with passion,
his voice was like a cry of pain.

A great convulsive sob rising from the
girl's heart vas the only answer he received.
He bent down his head till his
hair brushed her cheek, to which the blood
had leaped flame-like ; his lips met hers ina
wild, fervid kiss that had in it all the
force and flavour of his passion.

'^ Capri, Capri, have some heart ! Did
you but love me as I love you, you would
think all heaven and earth too small a
sacrifice for my love."

The words broke from him with a cry
almost of despair. All the sorrow of his
soul was in the sound.

She did not speak. Still clasped in his
arms, she laid her head on his shoulder
and silently Girded.

"It is not yet too late," he went on.

Give all your ambitions up, and I shall

love you, worship you as woman never was

loved or worshipped before."

d2

He felt her whole frame quiver ; her
hands clung to him tenderly, lovingly, as
if loth to take themselves from his touch.
Then suddenly, and in an instant, she disengaged
herself from his clasp, and stood
before him.

"Good-bye, Marc," she said, between
her sobs, which she strove in vain to
suppress.

He stood motionless as a statue now.
None could tell, from the exterior calmness
which quickly came upon him, of the
great passion that swayed his soul, and
made him almost mad from the effort of
suppression. His face was deadly pale,
his eyes were fixed, his lips white and set.
He did not answer her last words. She
turned towards the door, hesitated, looked
back once, and ran to where he stood,
acting on a sudden impulse.

*' Good-bye, dear Marc," she said once

more, and reaching up her face she kissed
him on the lips.

In another second she had left the room,
sand Marcus Phillips was alone.

CHAPTER II.

Let ALONE.

rilHE door closed behind Capri with that
-^ hollow sound, it seemed to the artist,
with which the dull earth falls upon the
coffin of one we have loved. He listened
to her footfall going down the stairs, and
the full sense of all he had lost for ever,
the true knowledge of his sorrow came
upon hard.

With a cry breaking from his lips, he
flung himself face downwards upon the
couch where the girl had so often sat in
by-gone, happy days, and lay there as the

evening wore on, and the coming night
chased the last sundays from the sky.

He was stunned by the blow which his
fondest hopes, his brightest prospects of
happiness, his tenderest affections had so
suddenly received. He lay quite still and
silent, with the sense of a great sorrow,
which at present he felt that he but half
comprehended, weighing him down. He
only knew that all the world was lost to
him, that suddenly all his life was rendered
dark and terribly drear, that his
whole future was shrouded in dense blackness
upon which not the slightest ray of
hope or comfort beamed.

When early in life a great sorrow falls
upon us, we believe that never again can
we know happiness or peace ; that no
spring will come for us and melt the
wintry wilderness of our hearts, that no
comines suns can make the flowers of dead

hopes rise from their ashes, and bud and
blossom with fresh fragrance for us in any
future time. So Marcus Phillips thought
now. All existence had lost its flavour
for him ; his future life he believed would
be a hopeless waste of time, without pleasure
and devoid of happiness ; his days
were dead in the very freshness of their
early dawn, and nothing could ever rouse
them again to the old lightheartedness of
the past. He had never before suspected
the depth and force of his love for Capri.
It is only strong situations which enable
us to know ourselves. Few men, and
fewer women can gauge their hearts, for
human hearts are ever mysteries. Half
a century may pass, and at the end of
that period we may discover in ourselves

some new feelings, or passions, or power of
which for the greater part of a life-time we

\ may have been ignorant. Circumstance is

the great crucible which tries us and
shows us of what metal we are really
made, for we only come to the knowledge
of ourselves by results.

Hours passed by, and the young artist
still lay there almost motionless, bearing
the weight of his keen disappointment as
best he could. A little while ago he
would not believe that any woman's heart,
above all, the heart of this girl whom he
loved, could have been so hardened to all
claims of affection, so deaf to all entreaties,
so cruelly cold to all assurances of affection.
He would have gladly sacrificed all things
to her love ; he would have died to save
her from pain or misery, and she on her
part would not give up her ambitions, her
craving for dignity, position, and wealth,
even to follow the dictates of her own
heart, and enjoy the happiness which their
mutual love would ensure. This cruel

disappointment in her was one of his bitterest
pangs. He went over the whole
scene of her farewell again and again,
lived it all over once more ; heard the first
cruel announcement fall from her lips
which had made the sudden tears leap to
his eyes ; repeated his scathing words ;
heard her cry out in anguish ; saw himself
kneeling at her feet whilst he pleaded
for her happiness, for the exercise and
judgment of her better self, even as good
angels plead to men for their souls.

Then in their last farewell he felt his
arms once more wind around her, felt her
heart — gone wild in the trouble of its great
agony — beat against his breast, felt his
lips pressed to hers, heard her last words,
Good-bye, dear Marc," sound like a death-knell,
and felt her scorching kiss meet his
lips for the last time.

With such memories he lacerated his

heart until it bled afresh ; he took a morbid
kind of pleasure in the infliction, as we
all do in opening up our wounds for the
purpose of crying over them anew. All
the scene came back to him there in the
darkening room with a force and reality
that mocked and tempted him, as devils
mocked and tempted the first hermit. He
stretched out his arms yearningly, as if he
yet beheld her before him ; then a dull sob
broke from his lips, for the misery of life
was strong upon him.

Through the uncurtained window he
watched the dull blue of the sky, crossed
by darkening clouds ; by-and-by the first
faint stars came out pale and wan, far
bedded in the purple skies. Far down the
street the melancholy notes of a German
band woefully out of tune played a waltz
hopelessly out of all time, a waltz that
would fain have been cheerful, but which.

played by those stolid Teutonic musicians,
sounded like a horrid mockery of itself, at
which the unchanging note of the bassoon
brayed in hoarse derision.

When this had ceased, the quiet air of
the summer night was again disturbed by
a piano-organ playing an air from a popular
opera-bouffe immediately underneath
the window. It jarred painfully on his
feelings, and he never afterwards could
listen to the tune without the sense of that
night's misery coming back upon him.
He heard the organ-grinder play his half-dozen
airs over and over two or three
times, to the intense delight of some
country folk lodging in the first floor, who
rewarded the musical foreigner with many
smiles and twopence.

Then came silence once more for an
indefinite space, broken on suddenly by
the sounds of footsteps outside. A knock

sounded at the door, immediately after it
was opened, and Newton Marrix entered.
The room was now in darkness, and
Marcus Phillips felt sure he could not be
seen, and hesitated a moment as to whether
he would let his friend go away without
revealing himself to him, or make his presence
known. He felt but in little humour
for Newton Marrix's conversation, and yet
the presence of a friend at that moment
made him feel as if he were less alone in
life ; the sight of a friendly face was a
comfort which he could not afford to dispense
with just then.

*' Out, by Jove," said the author, stumbling
over a chair as he prepared to quit
the studio again.

'' No," said Marcus, " I am here."
"What the deuce are you doing there in
the dark, old man?" he said in surprise.
** You have been asleep surely," and, so

saying, he came over to the couch, feeling
his way slowly, and sat down.

Asleep ! Perhaps I have," said Marcus
Phillips, holding out his hand.

His friend grasped it heartily, and then
he felt that something, though he could
not imagine what, had happened amiss to
the artist.

'' Shall I strike a light ?" he asked. " I
have matches in my pocket."

"If you don't mind, I had rather we
remained in the gloaming. It's the best
part of the twenty-four hours, I think.
Everything is softened and subdued, and
I always find this time most soothing,
don't you?" he asked, not caring to encounter
the glare of the gaslight just
yet.

Gloaming ?" said the rising author.
'why, it's quite dark, Marc."

Ah ! so it is, I believe. It's a darker
shade of gloaming."

"Marc," said Newton Marrix, placing
his hand on his friend's shoulder as he
still lay on the couch. " Marc, old fellow,
what is the matter? What has gone
wrong with you ?"

The artist felt the friendliness of Newton
Marrix s motive. He pressed his hand,
but did not speak.

What is it ?" the author asked again.
^' Make a clean breast of it to me, old man.
Is it anything about your picture ?"

No. I wish it was."

Then Newton Marrix was silent. His
thoughts took another direction. He felt
it must be something about Capri.

It is this. New," he said, making an
effort to speak calmly. " Capri has promised
Lord Harrick to marry him."

His friend gave a long, low whistle to
express his astonishment.

"Promised to marry Lord Harrick ?"

"Yes."

By Jove ! what a clever girl !"

"Marrix!"

I beg your pardon, old man, I do indeed.
But for some time I saw there was
a flirtation going on between them, but I
never thought it would come to anything
serious." Then he added, thinking of his
friend's disappointment, " But probably
this is only a rumour. It may not be
true."

*at is too true."

You heard it from '*

'' From herself."

"When?"

Just now, before you came in."

Newton Marrix was silent. He began
to realize the sense of all the disappointment

and bitterness which his friend felt.

"Never mind, Marc, old fellow," he
said, with a tone underlying his words
that was almost as tender as a woman's,
*' Never mind. Keep up your heart."

'^ It's easy to say that. 1 feel as if all
the world was a blank to me now."

** Yes ; because the sense of your sorrow
is yet keen. That will wear away by-and-by,
old man. I know all about that
sort of thing myself," he added with
amusing self-complacency.

"You cannot tell how I cared for the
girl, how I hoped for and looked forward
to our marriage as the brightest reward of
all my life."

Does she know this ?"

'-' Yes."

Then knowing it, and marrying Lord
Harrick, I say she is unworthy of yon, she
is, upon my soul."

VOL. III. E

No, no, Newton. She is a free agent,,
and can make her own choice. She is in
every way worthy of the tenderest love
and care the best man on earth can give
her," he said, starting up from where he
lay on the couch.

He might himself think hard things of
her, and speak words that fell upon her
like stripes, until she winced and cried out
from pain, but in his presence even his
best friend should speak no light word of
her.

Ah ! that is all very well and very
fine, old man. Lord Harrick will give hera
title and a settlement, and that is all she
will ask of him, that is what she marries
for, believe me," Newton Marrix said, somewhat
bitterly.

*' That is ungenerous of yoii," the artist
answered, almost angry with his friend for
speaking what he knew to be true.

*but it is a fact," he replied stoutly,
not willing to give up his ground. *' She
makes a sacrifice, throws away the love a
man had freely given her, a love such as
she will never meet again. I only hope
her new life may bring her happiness," he
ended, with a short cynical laugh that
said plainly, " but I know it won't."

Marcus Phillips rose and walked up and
down the room. When his friend had
finished he stood before him suddenly
Newton Marrix did not heed him, but went
on —

** She is unworthy of you, Marc. Never
think of her again, avoid her "

"Stop," said the artist. ''Capri is
worthy of the truest affection. If I were
not to think of her, life would become even
a greater blank than it looks to me now."

"Time will cure you. It patches up
and heals many a broken heart."

e2

UNIVERSITY QF

"In fiction!"

*' No, lovers always are true to the last
or die gracefully of broken hearts in the
world of fiction."

You are unfeeling."

But sensible."

** We shall not speak of the subject again,
promise me," and he held out his hand.

I promise," said Newton Marrix, and
lie gave his friend a true and honest grasp
in which there was both friendship and
sympathy.

We may have a light now, I suppose,
and a cigar, and then we will go out somewhere,
old boy."

He struck a match and lit the gas, then
he turned round and faced Marcus Phillips.
The artist seemed to have grown ten years
older since last he had seen him.

"You have not seen my last picture and
my first commission," Marcus said, trying

to brighten up, but the effort was a failure.

No," said the author, going over to
the canvas and looking at it longer and
more attentively than was quite necessary.
It's a charming little picture," be remarked
presently. '' As well as I can
judge by this light, the reflection of the
trees in the water is capital ; the river
looks so calm and flows through that old
brown weir so naturally that I can almost
bear the splash and the monotonous flow
of the water among the tall green reeds
lower down."

Marcus Phillips came over and stood
behind bis friend.

You like it. New ?"

Like it ; I think it delightful," be replied
with friendly enthusiasm. " Eyesight
of the place makes me long to runaway
from town and rest in some cool,
shady spot like this."

The artist thrust his hands into the
pockets of his velvet coat. In one of them
he found his pipe ; he took it out and filled
it from the tobacco jar on the chimney-piece.


'' Have a cigarette ?" he said, handing
Newton Marrix a box of Richmond gems.
Thanks, I have my pipe with me, and
I shall take some tobacco instead ; but.
Marc, whilst you have such a profession,
and a chance of making your name, how
can you think the world a blank ? Live
for art, and art alone, in the present, everything
else will come to you by-and-by, old
man."

Having delivered himself of this piece
of advice, Newton Marrix lit his pipe.

Marcus came over to the picture and
looked down on it with light and pleasure
stealing over his face, such as come
upon a fathers bending above the little

figure of one he has brought into life.
"Ay, art is a noble thing; a man may
forget everything, even his own heart, in
worshipping at such a shrine."

He took up a brush that lay on the
shelf of the easel, and commenced touching
the canvas here and there lightly and
rapidly.

His friend stood by his side, and watched
his face as well as he could see it from
the clouds of smoke that escaped his lips.
He saw that his profession was the one
thing in his life which could cure the
artist of his heartache, saw that in contemplating
it all other things were almost
forgotten.

Do you know, Marc, an idea has just
struck me."

That's nothing new ; ideas have a
knack of doing that, I know."

Yes ; but this is about you."

"" With a philanthropic idea of benefiting
me, I hope."

Of course."

Then let me hear it, by all means."

*' Well, I think you should go abroad
and study art for a short time — say in
Italy ; it would do you a world of good in
many ways."

He knew that Newton Marrix meant he
should go away more for the purpose of
forgetting Capri than of studying ; it was a
delicately-given hint, and he appreciated
his friend's kindness.

I daresay it would do me good," he
replied thoughtfully, '' I daresay it would,
but I fear I cannot manage it this autumn's

'' You should try."

I shall go down into the country instead,
and study rural life in Kent or
Sussex next month."

*' Yes, that would be all very well in its

way, but you want a thorough chancre ;
want to see new faces around you, fresh
sights, different scenes, and, above all, a
glimpse of the picture-galleries and those
glorious art-gems half hidden in the dim
old churches, and all those associations
which the continent only can afford."

** Yes, it would be all very well, but, as
I said, I fear I cannot manage it for a
while longer — not this year at least."

Not manage it when you have sold your
Beggar Maid ' picture !"

''I shall strive to get the picture back
again ; I am glad to say I have not touched
the money yet."

Nonsense, my dear fellow ; consider
what a price you have got for it. I think
you were deucedly lucky in the matter."

So did I ; but that does not matter. I
would rather not sell it to 1dm"

"And if he is willing to give it up,

which I doubt very much under the circumstances,
what will you do with it.
Marc ?"

I have not yet made up my mind."

You cannot keep it yourself. It would
set you mad to have it before your face
here in the studio every hour of the day,
it would simply mean distraction at the
end of a week ; and then if you dispose of
it, why not Lord Harrick have it as well
as anyone to whom the dealers would sell
it for probably a very much lower figure ?"

'well, there is no use in talking about
it ; I have made up my mind to strive at
least, and get it back from him. I shall
ask the friend through whom the purchase
was made to request him to give it back
to me."

That friend is Mrs. Stonexx Stanning."

'' Yes."

Believe me, Marc, she is a good, noble-hearted
woman."

'' I know that," lie responded briefly.

*' A woman whose affection will bless
the man she bestows it on through all his
days."

Marcus Phillips remembered Capri's
words, and then went back in thought to
that morning visit when Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning had written and asked him to
call. There was something in her manner
which he could not then understand, but
which he now read with a new light.
What Capri had said was probably true,
though he had not suspected it before.
There was a tenderness in Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning's manner which few women had
shown him.

I only wonder," said Newton Marrix,
*' that she has not made some fellow happy

long ago by taking him for better or
worse."

Probably she prefers liberty."

'* Maybe; but then liberty is all very

well for a man, but for a woman "

It is also well, if she desires it."
You go in for equality of sex."
"I think it advisable. I believe it
would be better for both men and women."


"Well, I take it that liberty, that is
freedom from the matrimonial yoke, means
solitariness to women. It is not well
for them to be alone, and I only wonder
why Mrs. Stonexx Stanning, who is
young, wealthy, and handsome, has not
married."

She may be happier as she is. Now
she does not reign over one subject, as if
she were married, but over many."

'but women should not reign."

You are a despot."

*rit is her duty to be an obedient subject,
loyal and faithful in all things."

You are tyrannical."

"• But, jesting apart, it does seem strange
to me. She has refused two capital offers.
She might now be a peeress, if she had so
desired."

So I have heard," said Marcus Phillips,
quickly. " Shall we go out ?"

"By all means. You want something
to stir you up, old man."

Where shall we go ?"

To see the new burlesque at the
Gaiety."

jSTo, I don't feel in the humour for
that to-night."

If you are inclined for tragedy, let us
go to the Lyceum ; if we can get in, we

shall yet be in time for the last acts of
'Othello'"

No, I am not in a murderous frame of
mind either."

Then you speak, and I'll obey."

"We shall go and dine somewhere
first."

Good. If you continue to exercise
such wisdom, I will be subject to you in
all things."

And afterwards "

We can philosophize. Philosophy always
comes easy to a man who has dined
well, my dear boy."

'* Hang philosophy !"

*with all my heart. Your wisdom
increases : philosophy means wisdom ; it is
only fools who are wise : wise men are
fools. Granted. Now where do we go
after dinner ?"

*ewe shall take a walk through Hyde
Park ; the cool night air will do us good."

*' Then let us to dinner. ' Cry havoc
and let slip the dogs of war'"

CHAPTER III.

A NEW BOND.

"Text day about one o'clock Marcus
^^ Phillips knocked at Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning's door, and was shown into the
same morning-room where but a short
time ago he had waited with some impatience
to hear what that lady had had to
communicate to him. The apartment was
scarcely changed. The faint fragrance of
the flowers in the adjoining conservatory
pervaded the room, some tea-roses were in
the old Greek vase on the little table, the
picture of " Youth and Death " hung in its
accustomed place on the wall, the midday

sun came in softly through the half-drawn
curtains. All was the same.

Yet what different feelings possessed
him when last he had sat here ! Then
great expectations had filled his mind
when he heard of the offer made for his
picture. Triumph, and hope, and happiness
had elated him then, and made him
dream wild dreams of the future, and
Capri, and bliss which now could never be
realized.

His heart grew heavy as he thought of
it all, thought of how gladly he had rushed
to tell the news to Capri, of his meeting
Lord Harrick in the hall of Mrs. Lordson's
house, of how the girl had seemed changed
to him in a way for which he could not
then account. It was all over now, this
dream and hope of his which could never
be fulfilled ; it was all a thing of the past
which he had better blot out from his

VOL. III. F

memory for ever ; bis life gone by filled
with the love of this girl could have no
part with his future days.

Whilst he was still pondering over these
things, with his head lowered and a look
of sorrow on his frank fair face, the door
softly opened, and Mrs. Stonexx Stanning
entered. Going up to him she gave him
her hand, and opened the conversation
with some general remarks about the
weather. A dress of red brown shade
fell in folds about her tall, graceful figure ;
around her neck and shoulders she had
wound some black lace ; a crimson rose
lay on her breast. She looked pale today
; her bright brown hair was brushed
low upon her forehead, in her grey eyes
there was a half wistful, anxious look that
Marcus Phillips had never noticed in them
before.

For the first time it now struck him

that the fact of his calling to ask her to
request Lord Harrick to give back the
*' Beggar Maid" picture was a somewhat
delicate situation; and the thought made the
young artist feel nervous. He did not
want or wish to tell her anything of Capri ;
he should not tell her that it was the fact
of the girl's engagement to the viscount
that made him anxious to have back the
picture; he did not wish to mention her
name in any way if he could avoid doing
so. Mrs. Stonexx Stanning would be sure
to hear of Lord Harrick's approaching
marriage sooner or later, and might then
draw her own conclusions from the fact
that he (Marcus Phillips) wished to possess
the portrait ; but he would not mention
Capri's name to-day.

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning asked him if he
had lately been to Mr. Rossetti's studio,
and commenced to detail to him the 



sects of some works in which that artist
was then engaged. But while she spoke
she was wondering why it was he had paid
her so early a visit. She noticed that his
replies to her were not always to the purpose,
and were given in an absent-minded
way that showed his mind was not engaged
on the topic of their conversation.

You were so kind about my picture,"
he commenced at last, when she had
paused and the opportunity was given him
to begin without seeming abruptness,
that I feel great reluctance in giving
you any additional trouble about it ; and
yet I fear I must, as it was through your
hands I had the pleasure of receiving the
offer and the cheque for it."

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning looked up at him
quickly when he had commenced to speak ;
she wondered more than ever what he was
about to say.

It was really a pleasure to me' she
answered, by way of helping him, for she
saw that his words did not flow readily.

*^ And it will perhaps seem a whim, and
may be a piece of injustice on my part,
when I say that I am anxious to return
the money and have the picture back."

He had now stated the object of his
visit and felt much relieved.

Have it back from Lord Harrick ?" she
said, somewhat astonished at his words.

'eyes, I am particularly desirous that he
should not retain the picture."

Silence between them for a moment or
two ; then he added hurriedly,

•' I would rather that anyone else than
Lord Harrick had it."

"When he had spoken he felt hot and
confused and uncomfortable under Mrs.
Stonexx Standing quiet gaze.

She turned away her head as her eyes

met his ; but last night she had heard the
rumour of Lord Harrick's engagement,
and now she knew for a fact what she had
merely suspected before, that Marcus
Phillips loved the original of the " Beggar
Maid " picture. Her face grew a shade
paler; she sighed under her breath.

It was true then that he loved this girl,
and she who had given him her heart unsought,
she must live a cold loveless life.
Fate was hard upon her. She had given
him the treasure of her love, and with
indifferent eyes he had paSsed by unheeding
her.

"I think it likely that Lord Harrick
will not give back the picture under the
circumstances."

She said the last words very softly and
gently, taking it for granted at once that
Marcus Phillips knew of Capri's engagement.


He felt that she understood him. He
did not look at her immediately, and without
raising his eyes continued,

I shall be sorry to give you this
trouble, and if you allow me I will
write to Lord Harrick myself on the
subject."

The idea of doing so had just struck
him, and he gave voice to it quickly. She
did not reply at once. He looked at her
now and saw that her head was lowered
and her clasped hands laid upon her knees.

He saw in that glance that she was both
beautiful and graceful, more so than he
had ever thought before.

If you think it wise to have the picture
back," she said slowly, laying a stress upon
the first words, " I think it will perhaps
be better for you to write to him."

It may not be wise," he answered,
"but it will be a satisfaction to me to have

the canvas, and I am glad you think I had
better write to him myself."

*not," she said quickly, 'that I should
think it any trouble to write. I would do
anything I could to serve you."

The words escaped from her before she
was aware of them.

'* I do not doubt that," he said frankly,
and he rose up to go and took her hand.

In that clasp he felt that she understood
him fully.

"Must you go so soon?" she asked.

"I have called at an almost inexcusable
hour, and I fear I may have disturbed

you."

*' I am quite disengaged," she replied
softly, and he thought her tones invited
him to stay. He sat down again.

She was loth that he should go so soon.
She noted the change wrought in his appearance
since she had seen him in her

rooms a night or two ago, saw that the
look of frank joyousness was gone from
his face, that sorrow looked out from his
bright blue eyes, a sorrow that had no part
with the usual expression of his fair sunny
countenance.

She read the meaning of it all aright,
and felt a strong desire to give him, if she
might, some kind words that would lighten
the burden of his present sorrow. Between
them at this moment, though he
scarcely suspected it, there was a strong
bond of sympathy. They both suffered
from that intense feeling of solitariness
and pain with which unrequited affection
afflicts; and in his trouble Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning felt as if she approached nearer
to him than before.

Yet from the bottom of her heart she
pitied him. Her love for him was so pure
and true and unselfish that she would have

sacrificed her own hopes and chances of
future bliss through life to see him happy.
The mere fact of being in his presence
brought her a strange feeling of restfulness,
satisfaction, and pleasure.

The sun shone in brightly through the
drawn blinds, the fresh fragrance of the
flowers came into the room borne on the
midday air.

'' Do you intend leaving town," she asked
him when he was again seated.

Yes, I have made up my mind to go
away somewhere and work hard for sometime."


It is what I was about to advise," she
said, " a thorough change will serve you,
hard work will do you much good."

*' I feel that," he answered, *' I must
have my mind occupied ; and town feels so
hot and oppressive just now that I imagine
I can scarcely breathe ; the pavements seem

like red-hot ploughshares over which
those martyrs to circumstance who cannot
escape from the city must daily plod. I
must leave."

Brittany is very lovely in the autumn,
and there are many parts of it which are
yet sacred from the presence of Cook's excursionists.
Do you know the country ?"

"No, not in the least'"

She looked at him now, and her soft
grey eyes were full of sympathy and a
feeling stronger than friendship. Marcus
Phillips felt calmed and soothed under the
influence of her gaze, and touched more
by the tone of her voice than by the words
she uttered, for the sound of a voice is
oftentimes the true key-note of feeling.

You should go to Brittany, the change
of its quietness from town life would serve
you much."

I feel that absence from London for

some time would do me much service in
many ways."

There was a pause just then. Mrs.
Stonexx Stanning felt that there was something
she must say before they parted,
yet the words refused to come. When
most we want to express ourselves words
fail us. Thoughts burn in the brain,
desires rise in the heart ; but the tongue is
silent, and will not give them voice, and
we are helpless and confused.

Marcus Phillips sat there as if held by
some spell.

The scenery in Brittany is very fine,"
she said ; '' it will be useful to you as a
study ; it always serves one to come face
to face with Nature."

*' I think it must."

I know it does. The great mother
teaches us so many things if we only
have patience to listen to her voice, and

read her lessons aright. Nature is a great
teacher, her ways are full of sweetness and
peace."

The artist listened to her words that
somehow brought him a balm and calmness
which last night he thought it
would take years, or at least months to
produce.

Then she summoned courage to speak
to him as she desired ; the words came
at last to her lips ; her voice was soft,
low, tremulous, and sweet as music, and
had all the charm and influence of melody
for him.

*' Mr. Phillips," she commenced, "I shall
not pretend to feel ignorant of a sorrow'
which has come to you."

He never started or moved, but sat
there looking at her graceful head slightly
bowed, watching the effort which the
words cost her.

'* I know that a grief has come to you,
which perhaps shakes your faith in woman's
friendship, and makes all the world
seem a blank."

He did not speak ; he felt his face grow
lot and flushed.

Such sorrows," she went on bravely,
when they have passed, make hearts all
the stronger; life is rendered noble by
endurance. Remember," she continued,
with a tremulous sound in her voice,
that others have had to bear such
sorrows before ; to bear them patiently,
bravely, mutely, unknown to the world."

That is true," he said, speaking for the
first time since she touched on this subject.
" But I fear that, when sorrow
comes to us, we imagine it is darker than
ever before shadowed other hearts."

*' That is true ; I speak to you now
because when one is young the weight of

a great grief seers to crush out all hope,
and to make us believe that in suffering weare
solitary."

It does."

**I have known what such pain is," sbe
said in a subdued voice, lowering her
head till her lips almost touched the
single crimson rose in her breast : a bright
flush swept gradually over her face, and
she lowered her eyes. " I speak to you
now in all sympathy."

I thank you from my heart," Marcus
Phillips said, for he felt her words were
strong links that bound them closer yet
in a bond of sympathy and mutual understanding.
*' I thank you from my heart ;
believe me, I shall always remember what
you have said."

He was deeply touched by her words.
In a second a bright look came over her
face and made it more soft and beautiful

than usual. Yet sbe quickly subdued her
feelings and went on :

There are some natures that sorrow
hardens and turns cruel and cynical, it acts
as a blight ; there are others which it softens
and subdues. Do not let the keenness
of your disappointment make you lose faith
in the friendship of women."

Your words have saved me from that
fate ; very little would have made me
believe a woman's heart nothing but a
myth ; would have launched my life into
a cold cruel sea of darkness and doubt and
scepticism ; you have rescued me from this
danger."

He spoke quickly, as men are apt to do
when the words bubble up hot from the
heart, and something like tears shone in his
honest blue eyes.

God bless you," he said once under
his breath, but she caught the words, and

remembered and repeated them to herself
over and over again long afterwards.

Could he but know the wealth of love
which lay in her heart for him ; could he
but feel the tenderness which she yearned
to show him ; could she but have told him
that he, aud he alone, was the one man on
earth to whom she would gladly trust the
keeping of her heart and honour, by whose
side she would walk along the rugged wa's
of life even till death met them on the
way.

But she dared not tell him this. Her
lips were closed ; yet when her eyes looked
into his he read the history of her heart
in them plainer than words could speak it
far, for words are weak and powerless to
tell of feelings that sway, and passions
that stir us deeply.

He had no doubt now that the nature of
the woman before him was both true and

VOL. III. G

noble, that her affection was a sacred gift
which deserved to be treasured and held
as the most precious thing in life by the
man to whom it was given. He thought
of all this while the words of sympathy
she had just spoken rang in his ears.

Had his affections been his to give he
would have offered them to her, all unworthy
though they might be of her acceptance
; but they had been offered to
another, who had flung them away as worthless
things in comparison with money and
position. His heart was not yet quite
his own ; though it had been rejected, jet
it vainly, hopelessly, foolishly clung to the
woman who had put it away from her forever.
Time would probably restore it to
his keeping once more, but at present it
was not his to give or take. It had gone
long ago out of his keeping ; gone astray
and o^ot torn and bruised and wounded.

He sighed deeply as he thought of this,
and wondered why it was there was so
much sorrow and pain in the world. He
had thought life fair and happy and bright
but a little while ago, until this sorrow had
fallen on him, which had seemed to open
his eyes to the griefs and pains of others,
and place him in direct unison with the
miseries of existence.

There was no smile on his face as he
rose up to say good-bye ; his voice was
suppressed and scarcely sounded like his
own ; the shadow of sorrow was yet in his
eyes, but it had now a more softened
expression.

"You are a true and kind friend," he
said earnestly, holding out his hand.
Believe me, I thank you for your words
most heartily."

*' Good-bye," she said.

As she rose up the crimson rose lying at

g2

her breast fell to the ground. He stooped
and picked it up, but did not restore it to
her.

May I keep it ?" he said simply.

'eyes."

Then she gave him her hand ; it trembled
a little as he pressed it ; in another second
he had left the room.

CHAPTER lY.

XI NE MONTHS After.

Atone months came and went since Mrs.
^ ^ Stonexx Stanning gave that reception
at which Lord Harrick had proposed for
the girl who in due time became his
wife.

Society remained much the same. It is
a stream which for ever and ever goes on
in its broad, rippling flow, though men
and women may come and go, and love,
and marry, and sin, and sorrow, and die.
It is ever the same. Onwards it rolls
eternally with a musical, rippling sound,

and a bright, smooth surface that never
hints at dark undercurrents, dangerous
whirlpools, and dank, deadly weeds that
have firm root in the slime below.

Nations may rise and fall, crowns be
lost and won, empires be swept away, but
society continues the even tenor of its
course unmoved. What though its lions
of last season have grown tame with the
tameness of familiarity, that some of its
most prominent leaders have gone to the
antipodes, or the family mausoleum for an
eternal rest, what though its pets have
begun to bore, or have taken that slight
step outside the pale which prevents their
soiled hands ever being taken again in the
pure clasp of its votaries ; yet strange lions
are imported, new leaders step forward,
and fresh pets present themselves, and so
the wheel goes round and round and nothing
is changed.

The same smiles even, though worn on
different faces, meet you, bright eyes look
j pleasantly into yours as of yore, the same
words greet you, the same musical murmur
of sweet voices charged with pleasant
messages falls on your ears. It is ever the
same.

Nine months ago and Capri had become
the bride of Richard, sixth Viscount Harrick,
had stood by his side in the Chapel
of Henry the Seventh in Westminster
Abbey, where the ceremony had been performed
by a bishop, assisted by canons
and minor dignitaries, with all pomp and
ceremony befitting the position she was to
fill in the future. She heard the bishop's
voice, low and solemn, asking her if she
would take this man for her wedded
husband to live together after God's ordinance
in the holy estate of matrimony ?

She would.

Would she obey him, serve him, love,
honour, and keep him in sickness and in
health, and forsaking all other keep only
unto him as long as both should live.

She would.

The low quivering voice of the bishop
fell on her ears as if the words were not
addressed to her, but to some one else in
whom she was interested. It was like
the voice in a dream, and sounded faint
and far off, and had little meaning for
her.

Was it after all a scene in a dream that
would merely pass away in a minute or two
and leave not a trace behind. It could
not surely be a reality. All her movements
were mechanical ; when she spoke it seemed
as if some one else talked with her voice ;
when she stretched forward her hand to
receive on the fourth finger the ring that
made her a wife and a viscountess, it

seemed as if some other will than her own
prompted the action ; when the bridegroom
took her hand in his to plight her his troth,
it had no feeling of being clasped. It
might have been a hand of clay or stone
for all the pressure she experienced.

Then she felt herself kneeling down before
the altar, yet acting mechanically
rather than obeying any will of her own,
and heard the prayer addressed to the
eternal God, creator and preserver of all
mankind, giver of all spiritual grace, the
author of everlasting life, to send a blessing
on this man and woman His servants; that
as Isaac and Rebecca lived faithfully together,
so these persons might surely perform
and keep the vow and covenant betwixt
them made (whereof the ring given
and received was a token) and might ever
remain in perfect love and faith together.
Amen.

Those whom God hath joined together
let no man put asunder. Amen.

She had looked wondrously handsome
enveloped in clouds of lace, though her
great dark eyes had a new gentleness in
their look which might almost be mistaken
for regret, though her olive-complexioned
face was much more pale than ever,
though there were semi-circles of blue
.under the sweep of her long lashes, though
no smiles were on her lips.

It was a triumphal moment when the
ceremony was over. The sun shone in
through the magnificent window above the
altar, scattering bright patches of rich
colour all over the old oak stalls and the
carpeted floor and the pale marbles of the
cold monuments. The great organ rang
out with the notes of a wedding march that
swelled through the empty aisles, and sent

great waves of rejoicing sound through
the dim chapels, and died away in melodious
echoes along the vaulted roofs when
the pianissimo parts sound hushed and
soft, but full jubilant harmony still.

Capri had laid her hand upon her husband's
arm and walked down through the
grey chapels of the abbey, her head bowed
over the great bouquet she held in her
disengaged hand, her train of white satin
and old lace sweeping the crimson carpet
for yards behind, whilst the crowd on
either side whispered and gave audible
murmurs of admiration, and the joy-bells
rang out loud and clear in the glorious sunshine
of an August midday.

It was all, she thought, like the last
chapter of a society novel, where the noble
and happy bride, after almost insurmountable
troubles, was united to her lover, who

had bravely borne so much anguish for
her sake ; like the ending of a charming
romance.

And yet it was all real, and though she
was a bride she was neither noble nor —
happy, and between her and her husband
the course of courtship had run most
placidly on, never as much as crossed by a
shadow. It was all genuine, and not a
Family Herald supplement romance, for all
the bell-ringing, and white lace, and orange
blossoms, and yellow sunshine.

No doubt the crowd of people who
stared at her scrutinizingly envied her,
and thought her as happy as could be, for
she was surrounded by all the appendages
and make-beliefs of happiness, and she
looked wondrously beautiful.

But, though gratified, she felt far from
happy, as she walked between the lines of

people waiting to see lier in the Abbey
yard, treading over the grave-stones of
forgotten men and women, whose very
names were obliterated from the flasks laid
above them by the traffic of passing feet ;
but who had once lived, and loved, and
married, perhaps as she did, and slept, now
that the restless fever of life was done with
for ever and for aye.

She almost wished herself like one of
them this bright fair morning ; wished
that the whole tragedy or comedy — whichever
fate might make it — of her life was
done with, that the heart-pangs, and the
ceaseless yearnings within her, and the
weariness had ceased, and that the time
for restfulness and sleep had come.

The happy pair — as the newspapers
called them, for newspapers are ever polite
when you have plenty of money', and

never tread on the editorial corns, or want
them to accept articles — went abroad fora
prolonged honeymoon.

Paris, with its bright cloudless days, its
brilliant nights, its gaiety, its vivaciousness,
its grace, its beauty, its thousand delightful
sights opened out before the eyes of
Capri, Viscountess Harrick, as a child's
Christmas dream— as a vision of Paradise
itself.

It delighted her. In the gay capital she
breathed an air more kindred to her than
she had known since she had left that
island washed by the blue waters of the
Mediterranean, and smiling beneath the
glory of a southern sky.

From Paris they had gone to Florence
and Eome, where they wintered, and where
the young viscountess became the fashion.
Lord Harrick happened to know the English
ambassador, having been at the same

college Tvith him at Cambridge, from which
period a feeble flame of friendship existed
between them, which sprang and warmed
into existence whenever they met, and
lapsed when they parted.

This old college friendship, however,
was of some service to Capri ; in less thana
week from her arrival in the Eternal
City, she felt perfectly at home among the
crowds of foreign princes, American millionaires,
and English aristocracy whom
she met at the receptions at the Palazzo
Ciari, the ambassadors residence.
The ambassador's wife became her fast
friend.

Capri's appearance on this stage of
society was a complete success ; her rare
beauty met with a homage it had never
known before; the sight of her face in
reception-rooms was the signal for a well-bred
murmur of admiration, her presence

was looked on by hostesses as a favour,
her entertainments were crowded. Her
success was a surprise to herself ; and a
surprise that she welcomed because of the
excitement it caused her. She enjoyed
this new life thoroughly, its varieties, its
seductions, its strangeness, kept her from
thought ; she had not time left for reflection
; she had no leisure to look into her
heart., the whirl of the excitement in
which she lived drowned its voice. If she
was not happy, because she could neither
see nor hear, she was at least satisfied.
/ If one could only live without a heart,
life would be in the main a very pleasant
thing. That troublesome organ so often
mars lives that would otherwise and
without its interference prove pleasurable
existences.

The new Viscountess Harrick felt this,
and in the life she had begun she strove to

close up lier heart with all its old remembrances,
to set a seal of forgetfulness over
it, to fix a clasp upon it that might open
no more. In the present she succeeded,
and was satisfied.

Yet she never felt quite secure ; the
door which she strove to bar might burst
open at any moment, and the thoughts
and feelings of the old time come back to
her. Memory sometimes, and when least
expected, called out to her from the locked
chamber with a voice that thrilled her, and
which she hurriedly closed her ears to ; for
the past was dead, and its ghost must lie
quiet in its grave, and not startle her byword
or vision. She told herself that she
was happy ; she repeated it to herself over
and over again with strange persistency.

She might in time — who knows, for we
educate ourselves to credit strange fallacies
sometimes, and to have faith in living lies —

VOL. III. H

have come to believe that she was indeed
a very contented, happy woman, even
though she was minus a heart, but for one
little fact.

That was the appearance one day in
Eome of her husband's friend, Guy Rutherford.
Lord Harrick was glad to welcome
him in a place where, though acquaintances
were many, friends were few, and both he
and his wife saw a great deal of him.

He knew the old city so thoroughly, all
its objects of interest were quite familiar
to him, he knew every picture worth seeing
in its galleries, every statue in its
sculptured halls, every shrine in its churches.
His Italian was as fluent as his English,
and he had learned and stored up in his
memory many quaint old legends and
curious lore connected with all that he
pointed out. He was the most charming
and delightful of guides. All that he said

concerning ruins and relics and objects of
art came fresh to his lips, as if it had just
then occurred to him, and had not been
stored up in his recollection until it grew
antiquated and pedantic.

His expressions were always happy, and
depended entirely on the mood in which
he was in at the time he spoke ; so that,
hearing him repeat a legend, one was sure
never to have the same reflections or ideas
twice mixed up with his descriptions. Variety
was perhaps his great charm. If he
was bright and sparkling with wit to-day,
tomorrow he was serious and philosophic.
One half the day he talked of all things
under Heaven and on earth ; the other
half he was silent and distrait but in all
his moods there was a fascination that
made him dangerous to the peace of
women's hearts. In him Capri felt a need
was supplied to her which she had missed

h2

since the evening she had said farewell to
Marcus Phillips in his studio. She could
scarcely, even to herself, describe the feeling
of want which he satisfied. It was
not love, certainly not ; all that was over
and done with.

In a subtle manner, which she but half
understood, he read her thoughts before
expressed, attuned himself to her moods,
comprehended without a word from her
her feelings, understood her as if her soul
was reflected in his mind — understood her
as no man or woman had done before.
There was a secret affinity growing up
between them which neither of them seemed
to cultivate, but which yet day by day
grew and strengthened.

They were friends, she told herself,
nothing more. The world could never
see or fathom the depth of this feeling
which had shot U23 so suddenly, and now

bound them close together; interest to
interest, heart to heart, soul to soul. It
had taken but a few brief days to knit
together this bond of friendship which they
felt should last through life to death.

This common understanding lay deep in
both their hearts, though no word or expression
had ever passed between them to
show that either was at all conscious of
its existence. It was enough that they
felt it. Our truest feelings need no outward
expression, need no verbal interpretation.
When hearts are in perfect unison,
there is no need for words : intuition takes
their place, and speaks with a subtle force
and power that beggars all language.

To Capri itseemedasif she had never lived,
in the full, broad sense of the word, until
now, had never known the value of existence.
This man, who was almost a stranger to
her, was the counterpart of herself, without

which her existence had been robbed
of half its value. All those years back
she had lived on, ignorant of the force and
depth of her life ; she now woke to a
sense of its vast importance, woke to see
what ? This man's touch it was that
had roused her to consciousness, that had
waked her to a consciousness of her sordidness,
selfishness, baseness, to show her that
she had sold herself body and soul for a few
golden coins and an empty sound affixed
to her name. What did he think of her ?
At the thought of how miserable and
degraded she must look in his eyes, she
cowered down her noble head and blushed
in shame. She would have torn out her
heart and trampled on it if she could. He
alone perhaps of all her friends or acquaintances
knew her, knew that she had
made a barter of herself. She did not
see the depth into which she had fallen

until be had coin to her; and vet no
words of his had ever hinted at the sacrifice
she had made.

If he had but come in contact with her
life before ! There was a strength in him
to which she responded, and which Marcus
Phillips utterly lacked. For Guy Rutherford
she felt that she could have made all
sacrifices gladly, had she but known him
before she had sworn love, honour, and
obedience to Lord Harrick.

But she must not think of the past.
She would gain strength to be true to her
vows, and yet retain the friendship of this
man who had become — it seemed to her —
the necessity of her life.

It was only a friendship she entertained
for him, nothing more, she told herself ;
and, satisfied with this assurance, she
closed her eyes and suffered herself to
walk through love's ways blindfolded.

Whilst the bandage was on her eyes life
went on very smoothly and happily. The
days went by as dreams, following each
other in quick, pleasurable succession that
scarcely gave her time to breathe. At
times her pleasures rose to a pitch of
feverish excitement that made her wonder
if this present happiness would last. Her
life was full of a strange sweet pleasure ;
her beauty visibly heightened ; her gratitude
to her husband increased in a manner
which astonished him and placed him in a
fool's paradise ; her gentleness to the outer
world was the talk of Eome ; the charm of
her manner was wonderful ; she was in
love with life.

With society she had become a favourite.
Even women liked her. She gave
them no cause for jealousy or pain ; her
beauty was too pronounced to admit of
two opinions, and she had few rivals. At

all receptions given by her circle, she was
looked for as the great attraction. And
Capri enjoyed it all ; it was so new that it
had not yet had time to weary her, and
she accepted it all in good faith. It was
all too delightful not to be true.

At length a little incident helped to
raise the bandage which, in pity for herself,
she had bound round her eyes so
tightly, and showed her clearly for one
brief moment the danger in which her
friendship for Guy Eutherford placed her;
just as lightning with a sudden vivid
blaze reveals clouds in the heavens which
we did not picture before.

Capri had been to a masked ball, attended
by Guy Rutherford ; Lord Harrick was
dining that nio^ht at the ambassador's.
The ball was given by the Princess
Planting, in a vast suite of rooms hung
with purple velvet in her magnificent old

palace. It was a brilliant scene. Wax
lights blazed in antique sconces of silver
and gold that had belonged to ill-fated
Borgia. Heraldic arms wrought in gold
gleamed from the purple background of
the velvet hangings, the varied colours and
costumes of the guests created a bewildering
effect. Capri's spirits were high, she
danced much, and it was almost morning
when she took Gus Eutherford's arm and
got into the carriage.

He had scarcely spoken through the
night ; he had danced with her but once ;
there was no coolness, no misunderstanding
between them. She lay back in the
carriage tired and rather pale ; her mask
lay on her knees. Suddenly she felt that
he was looking at her with eyes that were
luminous from the passion they expressed ;
in that instant her heart gave a wild

throb, and then Ts^as still as death, her
breath ceased, a tide of blood swept with
a mighty rush through the current of her
veins.

In a moment he was beside her ; before
she could move, his arms were flung around
her, and his lips met hers in one long
kiss. A great joy filled her and shook her
frame.

Capri," he said, in a low hoarse voice,
I love you !"

There was no need to tell her that. She
could never more rub the fact from her
memory. In another instant she remembered
all. She drew herself up, her eyes
glanced at him once, and he released his
arm.

That was all. She could not trust herself
to speak just then. She feared her
heart might betray her. Could she blame

Ili, chide him for the brief happiness he
had given her ? Could she call him traitor
and thief, and load him with reproaches
because for a second he had forgotten
that she had sold herself to another
man?

But in that second what had he not
revealed to her ? He had shown her that
their friendship, which she had thought so
fair and pleasant, was love — a love that
the world would pronounce guilty; he had
shown her the dark precipice on the yawning
brink of which they had so fearlessly
stood.

She covered her face with her hands,
tears that scalded her eyes and burned her
cheeks fell from her long lashes, her head
swam, her heart beat violently.

They had almost reached home — her
husband's home — before he spoke. Then

his voice was low and penitent, but as full
of the old sweet music as of sore.

Will you forgive me ?"

On one condition."

"And that?"

That you leave me tomorrow."

Leave you ?"

She remembered afterwards that he
spoke the words with almost a cry in
his tones.

Ask me anything but that. If I
leave you, I leave all happiness behind
me."

Never had his voice sounded more persuasively,
never had it fallen with such
dangerous sweetness on her ears.

A great sigh which she could not suppress
escaped from her lips. She could
not reply to him.

'' Let me stay here, near you."

^'No, no, no."

Her voice rang out the words more in
appeal than command.

*' Then I go."

Silence again.

She looked at him once. It might be,
she thought, for the last time. The 
shone in on his face, which
was deadly pale. There was a strange
light in his eyes which she feared. They
were nearing the palazzo now where she
lived.

'' Let us say farewell."

Good-bye," she said, stretching out her
little, delicately-shaped hand, with its
clusters of rings.

He took it and covered it with kisses,
and pressed it once to his heart. Then
the carriage stopped. He handed her out.
She ran lightly up the steps ; the shadow

of the great portico covered her from his
gaze ; in another instant she had entered
her husband's home.

CHAPTER y.

Receiving SOCIETY.

TN the first week of May, Lord Harrick
-^ and bis young wife returned to town.
They had come back for the commencement
of the London season.

Harrick House, which had not thrown
its doors open to London society for a
quarter of a century, now became the
centre of attraction ; the great luminary
around which the moths of fashionable
life hovered in numbers. For nine months
past it had been in the hands of a famous
decorative artist, who deigned to travel

from Paris once in every three months to
see how his employed worked. The famous
frescoes on the walls of the diningroom
were restored ; the ceiling and doors
of the great drawing-room were painted
by a Roman, whom his disciples — for he,
like all great men, had founded a school —
declared a heaven-born genius ; the double
flight of white Carrara marble steps leading
from the hall was repolished ; the conservatory
was filled with foreign plants ;
the famous portraits by Sir Joshua Reynolds,
Yandyck, and Lely, which had long
been shrouded, were now uncovered and
saw the light once more ; and carpets sent
from Ispahan were laid upon the floor.
The old house that had so long lain idle
and dusty woke up to a scene that rivalled
its splendours in the reign of the Regent.
It was now a blaze of costly magnificence.
No money had been spared by its lord to
VOL. III. I

make it worthy of his bride, and success
was the strand result.

Within a week of her arrival in town
the young Viscountess Harrick had been
presented at a court drawing-room by her
husband's maternal grandmother, the old
Duchess of Dewshire, who resolved to do
all she could for her kinsman towards
remedying what she considered his foolish
mesalliance.

The duchess was a pleasant old lady
who had lived long enough in the world,
and seen sufficient of its ways, to become
tolerant of its oddities. Her grandson
had made a false step, it was true; it was
wrong and unwise of him to have married
a girl who was the daughter of no one in
particular, and was the companion of a
very vulgar American woman ; but her
grace had known and heard of young men
who had done far worse — young men who

had placed the honour of their house in
the hands, and their coronets on the heads
of women whose deeds society was supposed
to be utterly ignorant of, and whose
names were never mentioned to ears
polite.

The Duchess of Dewshire was perfectly
aware of the fact that her grandson had
no brains worth speaking of, but had instead
a certain stubborn will of his own
which persons minus brains frequently
possess. She had often felt uneasy as to
his selection of a wife ; she feared that
he might give his name to the first woman
who was shrewd enough to please his
fancy, and felt disquieted as to whom that
person might be. She would gladly have
undertaken to arrange an alliance for him,
but when she had hinted at the idea, he
had not received it with too good a grace.
Mistresses could be bought any day or

i2

secured by intrigue, but he would select
his own wife, he thought. His old kinswoman
considered he was yet young, and
though celibacy in a youth with seventy
thousand a year was a target at which
seventy thousand virgins might daily
shoot, yet he might pass unscathed and
end happily after all. It was a chance.
Young men were sometimes wiser than
one suspects when their matrimonial
affairs are concerned. Some of them
are sage in their generation as latter-day
experience has shown. There was hope
for him too in her grace's bosom.

But he had suddenly put an end to all
these placid speculations by announcing
one morning to the duchess his approaching
marriage.

In her alarm her grace had pushed her
wig all awry, let her pug-dog fall from her
lap to the ground, and for the first time

in its life forgot to soothe its whine with
a caress.

By-and-by, when Lord Harrick spoke
very plainly of his determination to marry
Capri, in a tone of sullenness — for sullenness
sometimes does duty for strong will —
and had explained that the girl was the
daughter of a retired English officer in
impoverished circumstances, the dear old
duchess breathed more freely and thanked
heaven (without having a very distinct
idea of where or what kind of place it
was) that after all her grandson s future
bride was not some one who had just been
some one else's wife, or an actress, or a
danseusej or anything else dreadful in that
way.

"When Capri, just before her marriage,
had called to see her grace at her special
invitation, she had liked the girl, and told
her grandson that when they returned to

town she would present her at court
aud do all she could for her towards introducing
her into society, and the old
lady was faithful to her word.

She travelled from Scotland for the
purpose of attending the first drawing-room
of the season, and presenting the
new viscountess. Her critical gaze was
more than satisfied at Capri's self-conscious,
cool and dignified bearing.

The young bride walked through the
presence chamber as if she had been the
intimate of courts all her life, and received
the kiss of her sovereign with all the air
and grace of a French marquise of the sixteenth
century.

It was wonderful, the old Duchess of
Dewshire thought. The bride of a noble
earl, who was daughter to a marquis, had
been presented immediately before Capri,
and had blushed like a school-girl when

Her Majesty's lips brushed her cheek, and
stumbled painfully over her train in backing
from the royal presence. Capri had
gone through the trying ceremony with a
composure that might be almost mistaken
for indifference.

The Viscountess Harrick had looked
wondrously well in a robe of ivory-tinted
silk, sewn with seed pearls, a ruff of rich
old lace encircled her neck and bosom, her
breast ablaze wich diamonds, the famous
heirlooms of the Harrick line.

Next afternoon the Duchess of Dewshire
sat in Lady Harrick's magnificent carriage,
which had been built by order by an
American firm. The dark chocolate-coloured
panels were luminous with the
quarterings of the family arms ; the servants
were gorgeous in violet and silver
liveries.

Found Rotten Row Lady Harrick swept

three times, then she ordered the carriage
home, dropping her grace at her residence
on her way. That night she was to dine
with the duchess, to meet a cabinet minister
who had just achieved a great victory
for his party, a famous and enlightened
bishop whose see lay in a great manufacturing
town, a well-known historian
and biographer, and a royal duke and
duchess.

Lady Harrick had not been a week in
town before her card-basket contained
more than half the names in Foster's peerage.
Her appearance had been even
more successful in London than in Eoman
society.

Society, indeed, had been prepared to
give her a recognition, to receive her in a
way which would indicate the honour it
conferred, and make her remember she
was one new to its order and ways ; but

the new viscountess changed all that. She
stood upon the dignity which her husband's
rank conferred upon her, and received
society when it came within her
walls with a gracious self-possession
that aggravated its temper to an astonishing
degree.

At her first reception there were not
half a dozen commoners present ; in her
invitations to those of her own rank she
had been most select.

At length that nio-ht came when she
was to be seen in the most trying position
of hostess. She stood near the doorway,
looking superb in a dress of pale green
velvet, cut and shaped after some mediaeval
fashion ; a net of dead gold caught her
dark hair, and contrasted strangely with
its russet under-tints ; a wide belt of gold,
curiously wrought with figures of knights
and crusaders and quaint coats of arms

that had once belonged to Diane de Poictiers,
clasped her waist.

Around where she stood flowers had
been placed that now afforded her a background
of dazzling colour ; the portrait of
Anne, Viscountess Harrick, the beauty of
the second Charles's court, hung on the
wall above her, and the pale warm light of
a hundred tapers falling upon her, softened
the clear pale olive of her face, and turned
the velvet of her clinging dress to many
wondrous shades.

She stood there for long, like a sovereign
receiving her subjects, according to them a
gracious and courtly welcome. Her husband
looked at her proudly, yet marvelling
if she could be the girl whom he had first
met in a dingy room on the third floor of
a Euston Road lodging-house; the girl
to whom his gift of a paltry silver bangle
had seemed so precious, who was a 

Bohemian, the friend of a host of
young authors, artists, and actors who
came to learn fencing and sword exercise
from her father.

Could it be the same who now received
the choicest representatives of the first
nobility in Europe with a calmness that
had almost a haughtiness in its bearing ;
the same who now wore velvet and barbaric
gold, and looked like a royal princess
of the Middle Ages ?

The idea began to dawn upon him that
he had never known or half understood
this woman whom he had elected to become
his wife ; a strange, vague feeling which
he could not comprehend seemed for ever
to come between them and keep them
wide apart, when he most longed that their
lives should be wholly united, when he
most desired that her will and mind should
be one with his, and his thoughts and

M.

ways one with hers. They were not in
perfect harmony, some subtle feeling, which
he could not overcome nor understand,
held them asunder. Would time level the
barrier and bring them close together
heart to heart ?

In her manner she was ever gentle to
him, obedient to his wishes, even thoughtful
of what pleased him, he knew and felt
she was grateful to him ; but she was no
longer the girl who had won him by her
vivacious happy manner. The old merry
light was now seen seldom in her dark
eyes, the pleasant smile of past days was a
stranger to her lips, her words were never
now spoken with that satirical flippancy
that had charmed him. With her change
of circumstance and position she had assumed
a staid and grave air, which, though
perfectly natural, was not half so winning
as her old ways.

Recently a passiveness to all things had
fallen on her. With the eyes of a lover
he had watched it steal upon her by degrees,
watched the deadly languor, like
some fatal disease, grow upon her, until it
left her listless and dull, and set the seal
of a great mental weariness on her face.

In vain, through the nine months of
their married life, he had waited, and
hoped, and watched for one look of affection
— it never came.

One expression of tenderness, one impulse
that would show she harboured at
least some affection for him, would have
repaid him and made him happy, but
these never came, and as day after day,
and month after month wore away, and to
him his wife presented the same cold,
placid exterior, his hopes of winning her
love gradually faded. Yet who could tell
what time miofht do for them ? Time's

changes are wonderful. Those who have
commenced married life in love have ended
by hating each other; those who began it
in indifference and misunderstanding have
finished by loving each other above all
others. Everyday existence showed such
contradictions. It was strange, but true
human hearts are great mysteries.

There was no knowing what time might
effect between Capri and himself. The
gulf that somehow divided them might be
filled up ; they who stood now wide apart
might gradually by some common love be
drawn together in closest bonds. There
was courage and some hope yet left in his
heart.

So far as he was concerned time had
not lessened his love, but rather strengthened
it. The girl whose bright, happy
face had gained his fancy was dearer to
him — even though the change had come

upon her — as his wife. His affection for
her, whose heart he was now conscious he
had never won, strengthened with the
knowledge that some lack of affinity parted
them. If he only could overcome it
and make her learn to love him !

He had gladly given her all he had :
dignity, title, wealth, affection, and he
would gladly give her all the world, if he
possessed it, for the gift of her love in
return. She was his, it was true ; his
wife, and yet some stranger passing her
door outside was almost as near to her ashe
her lord and master was. He felt this
without being able to understand it. He
would give half the years of his life that
her feelings towards him were reversed.
There was nothing on earth he desired so
much as her love. His rank and money
had bought her, he began to think, but
her heart was not included in the bargain ;

she gave him herself, bat she could nob
give him her love. And he had blindly
thought that she cared for him, that their
affection was mutual, but now he saw it
was all on one side ; he had seen but the
reflection of his own love in her, and
mistook it for the genuine flame.

Had his marriage, after all been a mistake
? It was a cruel thought that made
him feel intensely miserable ; and yet, if
he were free again, if the past was restored
to him once more, would he act
differently from what he had done ?

Looking at her now, surrounded by a
group of the noblest men and women of
their generation, watching her as she
gracefully received the compliments of a
foreign ambassador, and parried the repartie
of a great statesman, acknowledging
her proudly to be the fairest woman
of the brilliant through which filled his

drawing-room, he wished in his heart she
was the simple merry Capri to whom he
seemed nearer in the months gone by.

Every whim of hers had been gratified,
every desire was fulfilled almost before she
gave it expression, everything which he
imagined could give her the faintest pleasure
was promptly done. She thanked him,
and strove to make him feel that she
was grateful for all his kindness to her ;
but that something which he longed and
waited for was lacking. Even if she
would, she could not give him her love ;
it is not of that property which can be
given and taken at mere will.

This night of her first reception the
young Viscountess Harrick was very
charming. Her olive face was pale, the
rich masses of her hair were laid above
her low, broad forehead, framed by her
cap of dead gold threads, her dark eyes

VOL. III. K

were luminous and filled with. a half sad
expression that, whilst it puzzled the
imagination, touched the heart.

Hours passed by, guests arrived and
departed. Names known all over two
continents were announced from servant
to servant ; up and down the great flight
of Carrara marble steps, covered with cloth
of imperial purple, men and women came
and went whose names were the passports
to Courts.

Lady Harrick welcomed and received
their adieux with all the grace of one " to
the manner born'' In her new role she
was perfect ; as a hostess she was delightful.
An old peer who had known Lord
Harrick since he was a boy, congratulated
him on his happy marriage, and paid him
a few graceful compliments, after the manner
of the old school, on the felicity in his
choice of such a wife.

Lord Harrick shook: his hand very
warmly, and was grateful to him, for he
liked to be told he had done wisely ; it was
re-assuring.

So the guests came and went. It was
a brilliant scene — a distinguished gathering.
It was long past midnight when
those who had come to see the young viscountess
in her new home departed, and
the last carriage drove out of the courtyard,
making a loud clatter in the quiet
air of the early morning.

It was all over, husband and wife were
alone once more. Capri stood on the
hearth, her head bent, her forehead laid
against the white marble of the chimneys
one arm hung listlessly by her side,
the velvet of her train lay about her feet
in massive folds.

You are tired, Capri," her husband

k2

said to her very gently, coming over and
standing by her side.

^' A little," she answered without moving
her position.

'you have fatigued yourself with all
these people."

"into, it is not that. The night is hot.
I only feel it now."

Do you know whom I have had a
letter from this afternoon ? " he remarked,
by way of keeping up the conversation.


No," she replied, now raising her head
and looking at him.

"Guess?"

"Not my father?" she said quickly.
You have given him such a generous
allowance that surely he could not think of
asking you for more money — or of returning
to England."

No, it is not the captain ; he only

writes once a quarter. Make another
guess."

•'I cannot," she said listlessly, letting
her forehead once more touch the marble
of the chimney-piece.

*• I heard from Guy Eutherford."

A hot flush came into her face, her
heart gave a great plunge and then beat
rapidly against her breast, she never moved
a muscle.

I thought he was in Egypt," she remarked
presently, and her voice had a
low nervous tremor in its tones.

'' Yes, when he left Eome so suddenly
you remember "

I remember."

He wrote to me to say he was going
to Egypt for some years ; he thought of
settling down there he said. But he is a
fellow one can never depend on, he is
always tossing about the world. I knew

he would come back to England soon."

She had known it too — known it and
feared it, and yet the sudden announcement
of his returning came upon her like
a shock. She had secretly and in spite of
her better self longed to meet him once
more, hoping to see him if only for a
minute, and now, when her hopes and
longings were about being fulfilled, she
trembled at the prospect.

'' He has said he is coming back ?" she
asked affcer some time. Her husband had
said that he knew he would come, but it
did not follow from that that he was really
returning.

*' Yes ; he will probably be in town by
the end of the week," he answered, yawning
as he finished the sentence.

She raised her head. The great glare
of the lights blazed before her eyes, the
smell of the flowers grew suddenly oppressive;

she put her hand to her forehead
wearily.

"I have a headache. I think I will goto
bed. Mr. Rutherford comes to town —
when did you say ?"

** The end of this week. How tired
you look, Capri ; the room is too hot for
you ; you should not have stayed here."

He took her hand in his and felt that it
was burning ; and as he held it he could
feel that it trembled.

*' Yes," she answered, " I am tired and
hot and nervous ; the night has been a
strain on me, I suppose. I shall go upto
bed."

He took her arm playfully, walked
across the room and opened the door for
her.

'' I am going down to my den to have a
cigar," he said.

He let go her arm, and stood for a moment

to watch the slight graceful figure,
with its sweeping velvet skirts and dead
gold ornaments, ascend the broad staircase
leading to her rooms.

Then he went to the smoking-room,
which he called his den, yawning on his
way.

CHAPTER VL

MY HEART IS SAIE.

4 WEEK after Marcus Phillips paid
■^-^ that morning visit to Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning he left England, selecting Brittany,
the place of which she had spoken, as
the spot in which to spend his holiday.

Newton Marrix wrote a little paragraph,
which went the round of the press, to the
effect that the young artist had gone
abroad for the purpose of studying the
picturesque scenery of Brittany, and hinted
that the public might look forward to

seeing some views of that country from
his brush next season.

But Marcus Phillips just then thought
very little of what press or public said or
thought of him. All his ambitions lay
dead within him : dead as the hopes for
happiness that once strengthened and
flourished in his heart. He felt exhausted
mentally and physically, and recognized
the fact that a total change was absolutely
necessary to his condition. He left England
with a strange absence of all regret
at parting from friends and associations,
left with a sense of weariness and defeat,
and with a chillness of heart which it
would take time to overcome. He had
written courteously to Lord Harrick, asking
the viscount to let him have back the
picture of the " Beggar Maid," concerning
which he had changed his mind. He

assigned no reasons for this request; he
felt that he could give none.

Next day brought him an answer. Lord
Harrick stated that if Marcus Phillips
considered the picture of greater value
than the price originally offered, he would,
on being told the amount, enclose him a
cheque for the sum, but that having
purchased it he did not feel inclined to
return it : so the artist could do no
more.

When the Grosvenor Gallery closed on
the 1st of August, the '* Beggar Maid"
picture was removed from its walls to
Harrick House, where it was hung in my
lady's boudoir, for Lord Harrick felt assured
the sight of the picture would be
certain to give his wife pleasure.

On the first night of their return he had
taken her to the elegant little room, furnished

after the style of Madame de Pompadour,
and showed her the picture — this
vision of herself as she was when first he
had known and loved her, and then waited
patiently for some exclamation of pleasure
from her lips. But no such sound fell on
his ears. Capri remained silent, her eyes
fixed thoughtfully on the canvas ; her face
grew a shade paler, for the full memory of
her farewell scene with the artist in the
darkening studio that summer evening
came back to her forcibly.

The whole scene returned to her. As she
stood there she saw the strong man moved
to tears and sobbing like a child ; heard
his voice cry out to her in warning against
the life she had chosen, felt his arms
around her, his lips pressed to hers, heard
his entreaties to her to be true to her
better self.

She had almost forgotten his love. It

MY HEART IS Said. 141

had passed from her life to rake room fora
newer, and deeper, and stronger feeling
than she had ever known or dreamed of
before. A great light filled her heart
which she dared not encourage, and beside
the glory of whose rays all lesser
flames dwindled down to insignificance.

As she looked at the canvas all colour
left her cheek. Somehow the picture
seemed a stern reproach to her. It spoke
of hours and days that she might never
know again ; of a past that was buried
for ever and ever. This picture was not
only a portrait of herself, it was far more :
it was a mirror in itself of her past life.

The face of this " Beggar Maid " was
truly that of the Bohemian Capri. There
was a child-like sweetness in the expression
of the eyes, a half merry, half serious
look about the lips, a charm at once nameless
and undefined about the face which

she had lost, and for which one sought
now in vain in the face of the Viscountess
Harrick. The countess was certainly a
reflection of the young girl who had looked
so anxiously forward to life ; the girl of
many moods who had dreamed strange
dreams of what the future might hold for
her ; the untutored child at once wise and
ignorant of the world and its ways. She
saw all her past days reflected in the
face before her as if it were a mao-ic
mirror, and she shrank back from its revelations.
The eyes of that picture seemed
to meet hers in a reproachful gaze ; the
face was like the ghost of her former self.
Something had separated her from that
past as fully as if her soul had entered
into the habitation of another body.
There was a great blank between it
and the present which she could not
bridge over. On that memorable day

when she signed her name to the marriage
registry, it seemed as if she had signed
the death-warrant of her former self, the
memories of which rose up at times before
her like chilling spectres. It was bitter
now to remember those dead days because
of the sweets they had known, and which
then she had not realised, but had held in
her estimation as lighter than thistledown.
The crown of sorrow was beginning
to press itself around her brow. A
year ago she would have laughed at the
mention of it ; she would have believed it
impossible that it should ever wound her,
now she realized its existence and felt its
weight.

She stood by her husband's side on this
the first night of their arrival in England,
looking at the picture of the " Beggar
Maid," whilst her face grew pallid and her
hands clasped tightly one above the other.

"It was thoughtful of you to have it
placed there," she said at last, iu a cold
tone that chilled him even whilst the words
gratified him. '^ But, you see, it does not
match the room quite. I think I will
have it moved."

She could not bear to have it always
facing her there ; its haunting face would
make her miserable. It must leave the
boudoir.

Her husband was rather disappointed
that the picture had not given her more
pleasure, and sorry that she desired to have
it moved from where he had had it placed.
But he agreed with her in all things.

Does it not suit the room ?" he said.
*' I had not thought of that. Where shall
we have it moved to, Capri ?"

To the morning-room. I think it will
match it better."

She would not often see it there. The

morning-room was one she was not likely
to use much.

Very well," he answered. '' I shall give
directions to have the change made."

No more was said on the subject.

When Marcus Phillips left England he
travelled for a week through Brittany, and
having taken a fancy to the little commune
of St. Jucet, settled down there. There
was something peaceful and soothing in
the sight which greeted him at every turn
of the English Channel, blue almost as the
Adriatic, and reflecting lights and shades,
sunlight and clouds, like a vast mirror.

In the sea there is a sympathy with all
moods. It can be gay with us in our
periods of joyousness ; it can be mournful
in our hours of sadness. The murmur of
its voice speaks to us for ever of a thousand
wonders held in its vastness, of a

VOL. III. L

thousand scenes wrought in its strength.
Its great roar fills us with some sense of
its own triumphs, its whispers touch our
hearts indescribably, its boundless freedom
appeals to us and fills us with a sense of
wonder and joy.

Marcus Phillips lived in a fisherman's
hut, resting on the broad ledge of a promontory
that rose above the great patch of
yellow sand upon the beach. In the foreground
lay the wide bay, rippling with
light all through the day, vast and mystic
at night, and tremulous under the pale
light of the stars it mirrored. The situation
was magnificent, and filled him with
delight. There was a healthy, vigorous
influence in the lives of those around him
that strengthened and served him to a
greater degree than he could have believed
possible.

He lived as simply as possible. He rose

early in the morning, had a breakfast of
brown bread and milk, and then took his
easel, and canvas, and camp-stool away to
some sheltered spot on the headlands, or
down to a cosy nook by the shore, where
he worked till his sketch-book was covered,
or his canvas began to glow with the
beauty of the lights and colours that lay
around him.

He seemed to catch the sparkle of the
waves tossing under the rays of the yellow
sun, and the white foam of the crests as
they dashed themselves, with a vast voiceful
melody, upon the shingle and sand ; to
catch and transfix them with his brush to
the canvas before him.

The homely life he led among the fishers
of this little hamlet brought to the surface
all that was best and truest in his nature ;
here, face to face with Nature, he strove
bravely to fight with the sorrow and 



get the bitterness of the disappointment
which had at first weighed him to the
earth.

The recollection of that farewell scene in
the studio grew gradually less painful and
bitter to him, less vivid to his mind. Capri
was the wife of another man now; through
all the coming years she could never be
nearer to him than a friend, and he strove
to banish as far as he could all recollections
of her and those days just gone by from
his mind.

At first this was the great difficulty of
his life.

Her face would come between him and
his daily work over and over again, her
eyes would look up into his from the canvas
he worked at ; on the faces of young
girls he caught some passing expression
which brought her before him with the
vividness and reality of life. Her voice

sounded in his ear when no other voices
-were near him ; he often fancied he caught
her very expressions ; he was haunted by
her memory.

But all this gradually died away; he
exerted his will to banish her memory
from his mind, he strove to close the book
of his past life and fix on it the hasp of
forgetfulness.

And then he felt that a great void had
come into his life. His was a nature that
required to love, that needed some life to
cling to and care for, some one to strengthen
and aid him in his efforts. It would be
utterly impossible for him to go on leading
a loveless, colourless existence; he must
have faith in some woman, he must lovesome
other life.

Almost without being conscious of it
his thoughts began to busy themselves
about Mrs. Stonexx Stanning. It was the

most natural thing in the world ; he had
been told that she cared for him, and his
own observation had given him evidence
that such was the case. He must care
for somebody ; one woman was beyond the
pale of his affection, another slowly but
surely began to engross it by degrees.

She it was who had been his best
friend, had gained him the notice of the
public through the invitation to exhibit in
the Grosvenor Gallery. Her words were
ever kind to him, and he felt that her
thoughts were so likewise. He remembered
all that she had said to him during
their interview on the last day he had seen
her; thought of it again and again with
an increasing interest and pleasure.

He began to think over her life ; to
wonder vaguely if she were satisfied to live
solitary without love and companionship
through all her future days. Was she in her

heart content to live such a barren and
sunless existence ? Did her position and
the society of her friends and acquaintances
afford her all that she required ? Was
there no longing for a fuller, deeper life
shared by another, within her heart ?

He pondered over all these things
quietly ; speculated as to whether in her
first marriage she had been wholly happy ;
as to whether she had given her husband
the full measure of her love, or whether he
had ever really touched her heart.

He had heard that Mr. Stanning was
many years her senior, that she had
married him before she was out of her
teens, that he was rich and she was
poor. There could not have been much
love between them, he considered, and
somehow he felt glad to think there had
not been.

Then he thought of the two offers of

marriage which had been made her since
her husband's death, and which she had
refused. Her acceptance of one of them
would have made her a peeress of Great
Britain and Ireland, and if she had ambition
she would have overlooked the blemishes
of age and gout in the man who
proposed to become her husband. But
her second suitor had been young and
handsome, and his name was famous as an
artist, and he had loved her passionately,
and yet she had refused him likewise.

Society had declared her cold, but Marcus
Phillips knew that hers was a heart
that could beat warmly for the man she
cared for and loved. He felt assured of
this. There was a gentleness and tenderness
in her manner which could never
spring from one who was naturally cold.
Yet why had she not married again ? He

felt his face grow hot as he remembered
how she had looked into his eyes that day
they parted ; he saw that they were full
of tenderness for him ; he thought of
her face expressive of gentleness and
sympathy ; he recollected that her hand
had trembled in his when she had said
good-bye.

The remembrance of that hour came to
him ao^ain and ao-ain. Her words returned
to him also. She had said that
sorrow made the heart stronger, that
nature was rendered noble by endurance :
and he felt that when she said the words
she spoke from the experience of her life.
Had she not almost told him so ? She
had said that when one is young the
weight of a great grief seems to crush out
all hope, to make ns believe that in suffering
one is almost solitary, that she had

known what pain was, and she spoke to
him in sympathy. All these words came
back to him, and seemed to form a chain
between them that bound them together.
He began to comprehend that Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning had given him all the affections
of her noble nature, he began to realize
what a treasure such a voluntary gift
must mean to the recipient.

When he had left her that day he had
dried the crimson rose that fell from her
breast, and had brought it with him,
carefully preserved between the pages of
his volume of Walt Whitman's " Leaves of
Grass." He kept it, he told himself, as a
memento of her kindness, in gratitude and
remembrance more than out of any other
feeling. He believed so, for oftentimes
we do not know our own hearts. He
never fancied that the crimson rose, with

its dried and faded leaves, was the seed of
a flower destined to spring up and sweeten
their united lives.

CHAPTER VII.

HOME AGAIN.

11 Marcus PHILLIPS worked in 
any all through the long autumn ;
the fairest season of the four.

On the broad headlands the corn and
colza turned to hues of deepest gold that
glittered and rippled like a great amber
seg, in the full sunlight, and by-and-by
fell beneath the quaint reaping-hooks
of the peasants, and was bound in stout
yellow sheaves by the strong brown hands
of their womenkind.

Fields of late clover turned to dull red,
the fruit hung ripe and mellow on the
trees, the sea lost the smoothness of its
glossy surface, and changed from deep
blue to palest green, and flung up marathon
the wide brown strand. The suns set
in a blaze of crimson glory that streaked
the westward sky with bars of fire long
after the great day-god had withdrawn
behind his screen of purple clouds.

The fishermen went out on the sea in
rafts constructed from the timbers of
wrecks, and bound together with coils of
red-brown rope, to gather the sea-weed and
heap it — in glittering green piles oozing
with brine — far up on the beach, where
the white crested waves might not reach it
and drag it back once more to the fury
and liberty of its native element.

All day the sounds of flails made a
merry noise in the barns, dashing the grain

in golden showers from the sheaf ; and at
night the drone of the peasant's bagpipe
made a pleasant monotonous murmur, save
when it was drowned by the sound of the
winds whistling far out on the sea, and
sweeping over the land with a shrill cry
that had something of the force and wildness
of the coming winter in its sound.

Marcus Phillips was loth to quit the
scene. Here he had grown strong mentally
and physically. The place had given
him back a peace which he had thought a
little while ago it was impossible he should
ever know again. Among the scenes by
which he was surrounded the love of his
art had returned to him with more than
the old force and ardour ; here the dawn
of a new hope had begun to brighten the
grey-hued horizon of his existence ; a hope
whose fulfilment might warm and make
sweet and beautiful all his future days.

Not without regret did be leave the spot
which had come to have many pleasant
associations for him, a spot which he would
always regard with kindly feelings.

At last, when all colour had faded from
the landscape, when the fields were turned
to sombre brown, and the trees grey and
leafless, and the death of the year set in,
he left for London once more, having made
many vows to return annually.

A November fog hung thick and heavy
over the city on the day that he returned
once more to his old quarters in Fitzroy
Street. How pleasantly familiar every
spot seemed ; he was delighted to hear
again the roar of traffic in the busy
thoroughfares; how thoroughly businesslike
everyone looked ; no one seemed to
notice him, or to care in the least that he
had returned once more, or to pay the
faintest attention to the fact that he had

come back again strong in mind and
health.

He had written to his landlady announcing
his home-coming, and she was ready
to welcome him when his cab drove upto
the door, and tell him she was glad
to see him back, and to hope that he was
well and much benefited by his stay
*' abroad."

He felt grateful for her attentions, for it
is always 'sweet to know there is an eye,"
and a tongue, and a friendly hand to greet
our coming.

There was a great fire in the studio
that gave a cheerful, homely look to the
room, and made it brighter than he imagined
it was possible for it to appear.
It was a good omen which he at once
accepted for his future prospects.

In less than a week after his arrival he
had given the finishing touches to one of

the best of his pictures painted at St.
Jucet. The subject was merely some
peasants on an old brown timber reef
gathering varach with long prongs dripping
with brine. It was the result of his
most careful work. The green and blue
tints of the sea were wonderfully caught,
these peasants with their rough, honest
faces, in which the wind blew till it made
them ruddy under the bronzed skin, were
studies from life ; the yellow colouring of
the sky where the sun had sunk was a
triumph of art.

Newton Marrix, when he saw it, declared
that it was the best picture he had
seen for years, that his friend had improved
more than he could have expected,
and that the committee at Burlington
House would never think of rejecting
such a picture if it was sent to them.
When it was placed in its frame the
VOL. ui. M

artist took it with him to Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning's home in Kensington. How
familiar the house looked ! He had
thought of it many a time since, pictured
to himself how it would look when
he returned, and now it did not disappoint
him, nothing was changed in his
absence.

Mrs. Stonexx Stanning was in the .
She had just returned from
the South of France, where she had found
time to write a novel, now in the hands of
the publishers.

The artist laid down his picture at the
door, and went eagerly forward to greet
her. There was a welcome light in her
grey eyes very pleasant for him to see, as
she took his hand and asked him how he
was.

In a few moments he was sitting near

her, talking with a quiet familiarity that
almost surprised him.

And you like Brittany?"

*rit is a delightful place ; and just the
very spot that suited me."

'' I thought it would."

Your recommending me there adds a
fresh obligation to those I already owe
you."

"You owe me none," she answered him.

''I can scarcely tell you how it has
served me, not alone physically but mentally.
During the rest and quiet I enjoyed
there I had time for thought and consideration,
and I now see many things in a light
far different from that in which I had seen
them before."

I am glad," she said calmly, her eyes
meeting his in a quiet unflinching gaze
that gave him courage to proceed.

M 2

'^ I have often thought and repeated to
myself your words, ^ Sorrow makes the
heart stronger' "

'^ Have you found it so ?"

"I have. I have conquered sorrow."

"• And are happy ?" she asked quickly,
and almost under her breath.

*^ I cannot answer you that question ; a
very little time shall decide it."

Did she understand what he meant, he
wondered. A bright look flashed into
her eyes for a second, a rosy colour came
upon her cheeks.

'' Have you worked hard ?" she said,
slightly confused, and as if attempting to
change the conversation.

He did not answer her immediately.
Would he now ask her the question which
should decide whether he was happy or
not ? He saw that she turned to him as

if expecting an answer, and with a smile
lie said,

'you shall see."

He went to the door and taking up his
picture placed it on a chair, where a
favourable light fell full upon it, bringing
out its wonderful combinations of colours,
and its delicate effects of shading.

'rit is delightful," she said, going over
to it and examining it carefully ; "it
shows careful work and study."

*' Will you do me the favour of accepting
of it ?"

He was standing near her as he spoke,
and he saw a wave of colour sweep over
her face, and a happy look come into her
eyes.

She did not hesitate for a moment, but
said simply,

"I will accept it with pleasure; you

are very generous and kind to think of
me."

*' It is neither kindness nor generosity,"
he replied, still looking at her
fixedly.

^' Then it is thoughtful, you will allow
that?"

*' I painted it for you."
Once she looked at him quickly for a
second, then lowered her eyes.

^' You have taught me," he said, in a
low voice that sounded full of music
to her, "to be strong when strength
was most needed, you have given me a
sympathy which has caused a strange hope
to spring up within me, you have given
me your friendship, may I ask — may I
dare to hope that you will give me something
dearer than all these, something
better, something which I have learned to
regard as most noble and true — may

I ask you for this your affection — your
love."

Her head was lowered and slightly
turned from him ; he could see her neck
changing from white to crimson. He
hesitated for a moment, and then took her
hand, and, with feelings more of affection
and respect than passion, raised it to his
lips.

She did not answer him yet, but remained
quite quiet outwardly ; her head was
still lowered, her bosom rose and fell
gently ; her hand still rested in his.'

Have I asked too much ?" he asked her,
in a low voice. " Have my hopes been too
rash? I know — I fear — I do not deserve
what I have asked, but I offer you the
devotion, the love of all my days."

She hesitated to speak no longer.

'marcus," she said, turning her head
slowly round, and letting her hand remain

still in his, " I have given you long ago
all that you have asked me for to-day. I
have given you the affection which no
man before had ever wakened in me ; my
love went out to you unasked."

'' Thank God," he replied, looking into
her calm, grey eyes. *' I have found the
best and richest treasure man could
possess."

He saw a happy smile break over her
face, saw a blush dye the fairness of her
cheeks.

"You will be mine," he said, and he
kissed her hand once more.

His words were more precious to her
than all the world besides ; his love far
above rubies. The great blessing of her
life had come ; after many barren years
the flowers of happiness and peace were
to brighten all her days. Yet before she

pledged herself as his wife she must speak
of what lay in her thoughts.

"Marcus," she said, calling him by his
Christian name once more, '' our hearts
are not our own to give and take at will."
She spoke slowly and with a simple deliberation
that gave force to her words. "I
know this. If it were otherwise much sin
and sorrow would be spared the world."
She hesitated a little, and then went on
bravely, though the words cost her an
effort. '' Are you certain that your affection
is quite free — that your heart is yours
to give ?"

'* If it were not so," he replied quickly,
do you think I should dare to offer it to
you, do you imagine I would do you the
injustice of asking for your love?"

Do you think me ungenerous, unkind
?" she said softly.

*' No matter what happens, I can never
do that."

Thank you. I asked you this question
because, you must remember, we do
not always know ourselves."

"Perhaps not always ; but in the quietness
and peace of the life I have recently
led, I have had time to look into my own
heart and gauge it fully."

'' That is well."

'* And I have found that the passion
which a few months ago filled my life has
burned itself out and left scarce a trace
behind. In its stead a purer, steadier, and
yet deeper affection has sprung up that
has changed and strengthened my life
more than I can say."

When he spoke he looked frankly into
her face, and she saw truth shining from
his clear blue eyes. A great fount of
happiness sprang up within her. Suddenly

all the world had grown fair and beautiful,
and the future grew luminous with glad
expectations.

Having told you that my affection had
gone out to you unsolicited," she said,
simply, "I will say also that a return of
your love is the sweetest thing under
heaven to me."

'^ Ah ! you have taught me to know ray
own heart ; in loving you, I have come to
the knowledge for the first time of what
true and pure affection means."

She had never heard more welcome
words than those he spoke, she had never
known the crown and bliss of existence till
now, never realized before how happy love
can render life. Yet the treasure which
he offered her seemed in her eyes so great
that she could scarcely realize it was hers
really and wholly to accept. Her very
love produced fear. Was his heart hers

in very deed, hers undivided to have and
hold through Hfe till death. She could
brook no partnership ; better that his love
should never be offered to her than that
she should hold but a divided sway over
it. His avowal had made her whole life
full of sunshine, and yet this shadow crept
over it slowly and coldly.

She could not endure the thought that
his proffered affection was but the outcome
of gratitude for words of kindness
she had given him in an hour of disappointment
and sorrow ; she could not
bear to think that this wealth of love he
offered her, how sacred and dear heaven
only knew, was but the reaction of a great
depression which but a few months ago
had rendered his days cold and desolate.

If his love was really hers to have and
hold and enjoy till the end came, how
happy would all existence become, into

what a paradise would earth turn, what
new great jos would sweeten all her life !

Was it but some blessed dream, some
illusion held out to her, some hope which
she could never realise when this hour of
her delirium had passed ? She sighed deeply,
half from jos and fear. His words yet
rang in her ears with tenderness and sank
into her heart.

She must strengthen herself, she must
put his love to the test, it would be better
for both of them hereafter.

**Doyou doubt me?" he asked, a little
reproachfully, she thought.

No ; I know you believe all that you
say."

*'My love for you is the purest and
noblest I have known. Your words, your
actions, your life have all inspired me with
an affection that could not be otherwise
than great and true."

T do not doubt your words ; they are
the most welcome I have ever heard from
man's lips." She paused a moment, as if
to gain strength and courage, and then
went on firmly. " My heart is yours,
shall be yours till death. If in three
months time you repeat to me the words
you have spoken to-day, then I shall become
your wife."

'' That is but a small sacrifice to make
for such a prize," he answered, '^ though I
am afraid I shall find the time terribly

long."

I will teach you patience."

It is a hard lesson, but with such
a mistress, what might not one learn —
Felice."

He added her name to his sentence, as
if by an after-thought; how musical and
sweet it sounded ; he could not help.

for the life of him, repeating it once
more.

Felice."

'^ Yes," she replied with a pleased happy-look.


In these three months my love shall
grow and strengthen with a threefold
power," he said, looking at her, and
smiling into her face, and thinking never
had she seemed so fair. Her calm grey
eyes were raised to his, and he saw the
glad light of a new happiness in them
which stirred him deeply.

*'I shall count the days till then. You
will put me to no further test ?" he asked.

No," she replied quickly.

'* I fear my patience would not last."

She laughed softly, and her laughter
was like music.

And at the end of three months ?"

"I am yours."

She cast down her eyes, the pink blush
came once more like a soft glow upon her
cheeks. He did not hesitate a moment, but
raised his lips to hers and kissed her once.

CHAPTER Viii.

*'IF THEY DO^-'t live HAPPY."

XTIIYE brief months have passed away
-■- since that foggy day on which Marcus
Phillips had returned from Brittany.
It was now April, and early spring came
once more and changed the face of the earth,
making her fresh and fair in all men's sio-ht
again. The green had come on the trees
and brightened the hedgerows, the early
primroses opened their yellow leaves to
the hot sunshine, daisies were in the wide,
verdant fields, the chirp of birds sounded

VOL. III. N

softly in the air ; nature had once more
burst the bonds of death, and her resurrection
was heralded with gladness all over
the earth.

At the end of the three months' probation
to which Marcus Phillips had to submit,
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning promised to
become his wife. The date of their marriage
was fixed for April.

Society received a shock from which
it did not recover for nine days when it
heard the news. It had made up its mind
that Mrs. Stonexx Stanning was cold and
passionate, and that she would never
marry again, and here, contrary to all its
theories and beliefs, she was going to
take for a husband this young artist,
whose name no one had ever heard of
until last year, when he exhibited his
*^ Beggar Maid " picture. Moreover, he

was penniless, society soon discovered, and
she had five thousand a year. It estrange
altogether, this fancy of hers for
this fair-haired, blue-eyed young man
quite unknown to fame. But odd fancies
did strike women now and then. Society
does not like to feel disappointed, and was
inclined at first to resent Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning's choice of a husband.

She had refused a marquis and a well-known
painter, and had now consented to
marry this young artist. It was true that
the marquis was old and had the gout,
and had had two wives already, and wore
a wig, and took snuff, but these are all
small and insignificant trifles weighed in
the balance of a title, and Mrs. Stonexx
Stanning in refusing his suit had certainly
proved herself wanting in taste aud
judgment.

N 2

Then the other suitor was a man who
had made his name, and his name in return
made some thousands of pounds
annually for him. He had left England
because his offer had been declined, and
why she had refused him society could
not tell ; it only shook its head over her
eccentricities.

People occasionally were foolish enough
to believe in hearts and affections and all
that sort of thing, and to make fools of
themselves now and then by marrying for
what they stupidly called love : and of
course they paid for it by-and-by, because
love, of course, was all sentimental talk
and depended on the imagination ; it had
no reality whatsoever. Yet it was a diversion
to watch the courses of such people.
Their acts of folly were amusing to look
on at; like a comedy played in a West

End drawing-room, instead of on a public
stage.

It was droll.

Then the interest in the comedy might
deepen by-and-by ; it frequently did, when
the lovers grew tired of each other, as
lovers of course always did.

And are always sure to do, my dear,"
said Lady Everfair.

Perhaps a vein of tragedy might run as
an undercurrent through the lives of those
ridiculous enough to have faith in hearts
and believe that love existed now-a-days.

As a sentiment love was well enough,
and very good amusement occasionally to
sigh over and play at when one had nothing
else to do. It saved one from beings bored
very often, and under its imaginary influence
one could say graceful things, and
in return have sweet little words whispered

back in one's ear, words light as air that
meant nothing at all in particular and were
never intended to convey any serious
meaning; but which were very pretty and
pleasant in themselves, and destined to be
forgotten completely the next hour or the
next day, when one's fan was put aside,
and the rose which had been kissed and
given with a little sigh had fallen to pieces
or been flung out of the window.

Yes, sentiment was all well enough, but
as for love, that demanded sacrifices and
made people — especially young people who
knew no better — terribly in earnest with
each other. That was always unsafe, too
pronounced, and indeed scarcely good
taste, unless conducted with delicate tact
and grace.

However, early in April Marcus Phillips
and Mrs. Stonexx Stanning were made man

and wife. The five months previous to
their marriage had been a very happy
period for both of them ; and though the
artist did count the days as he had promised,
yet he found they fled by very quickly,
for scarce one of them passed but he saw the
woman he loved. When he worked it was
under her inspiration ; on all he did he had
her opinions and suggestions. Already
their lives had begun to blend, and when
at last the sacred tie of husband and wife
bound them, their happiness was complete.

When, late in May, she who had been
Mrs. Stonexx Stanning returned to town as
Mrs. Marcus Phillips, society felt inclined
to overlook the eccentricity of her choice
in a partner for life, and desired to take
her to that organ which did it duty for a
heart.

She had always been agreeable, her home

had been the centre of attraction, she was
a pattern hostess, she had ever succeeded
in amusing and pleasing her guests by the
continual variety which the representatives
of the aristocracies of birth and genius
presented, and her manners had a charm
that was irresistible.

Altogether society was inclined to forgive
her the disappointment she had
caused it ; it even hoped she was happy,
and then gave a deep sigh as if it knew
full well that hope was vain.

To her first reception the whole London
world came as of yore. Again Bohemia
was there to a man, and Bohemia's wife
and sister to a woman. They were all
geniuses and all very happy, and they
amused Lady Everfair immensely; indeed
so pleased was she with one of them who
sat next her, and told her who everyone
was, that she declared them quite delightful

people, and hinted playfully that she
would become one of them if she were only
young enough.

On overhearing which remark, Newton
Marrix gave her to understand that he
considered her little past eighteen, and
that if she would become Bohemia's fair
queen, Bohemia's children would serve her
more fondly and loyally than ever sovereign
had been served before, for homage would
be given to her not from duty but love.

At which pretty speech Lady Everfair
smiled delightedly. She had first striven
to frown severely at the young author's
deliberate compliments, by lowering her
handsomely-shaped brows — works of art
in themselves.

Of course Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson was
present, and as usual had been accompanied
by Newton Marrix, who every day
had grown more indispensable to her.

The good lady was decked with diamonds
that blazed and glittered all over
her ample person, and lay on the coils of
her dark hair ; her costume, too, was
highly coloured, and though her general
appearance was effective, yet a disappointment
which she had received that morning
its shadow on her still.

In the scorning Post Mrs. W. Achilles
Lordson had read the announcement that
Lady Harrick had given a reception, and
with bated breath read the long list of the
guests' names. There were three duchesses
and one duke, one marchioness, seven
countesses, six earls, and the wives of
many barons and baronets, together with
some foreign princes. And she, Mrs. W.
Achilles Lordson, had never been asked.
Here was an assemblage among whom it
would have been her greatest delight to

have moved. She had pictured to herself
that when Capri returned she would be
her constant guest and dearest friend ; she
would receive those who called on the
young viscountess as if they were her own
visitors, but now she saw there was an end
to all those pleasant speculations.

She had called on Capri once since her
return, and had found her kind and polite,
but somewhat cold and reserved, and Lady
Harrick had never returned her visit. Mrs.
Lordson was beginning to see that a barrier
existed between them which her late
companion was in no way willing to remove.
This last slight — as she called it —
of Capri's showed her that she was to expect
no friendship from the girl to whom
she had been so generous.

The world in general, and Capri in particular,
was ungrateful, Mrs. W. Achilles

Lordson told Newton Marrix that day, and
ingratitude is never a pleasant thing to
encounter: and the reflection of this annoyance
dimmed the good woman's delight
to-night in Mrs. Marcus Phillips's drawing-room.


However, under the pleasant influences
around her, by-and-by her brow began to
clear, and the indignation which all day
she had been feeling, to evaporate. She
congratulated the bride and bridegroom
warmly, and began to think they were a
very contented pair, and vaguely to wonder
if it were yet too late for her to enter the
married state again.

When the good woman came to the
conclusion that her host and hostess were
mutually blissful, she was quite correct.

Mrs. Marcus Phillips was happy with a
happiness of which her whole life had
been barren, and for which she had craved

all her days. It appeared to her now as
if her whole existence had lain cold and
dormant, and waste, and this new love was
the sun that had risen bright and glorious
to wake her to a lio;ht never before realized,
to a fruitage never before known.

into the artist's life had come a calm
sense of felicity, a knowledge that some
great treasure had been given to him of
which he felt himself scarce worthy. Day
by day revealed to him some new traits in
the woman who had become his wife,
which showed to him more and more the
value of the love she had freely given to
him. He looked forward to the future ashe
had never before done ; he had ambitions
still, not for himself, but for her to
whom he had given his name ; that name
he would do his best to give to fame. In
the present his whole life was bright with
joy that reflected itself on all things ; he

rested in the certainty of a perfect and
mutual love. For him the present was
full of peace, the future radiant with hope.
This was true happiness.

CHAPTER IX.

Airs. London's triumph.

nne earls summer months came and
-■- went, the London season advanced ;
town had never been so full, presentations
had never been so numerous, court 
had never been so brilliant orwell
attended to the memory of the oldest
dowager.

For these three months Harrick House
had thrown wide its doors to the cream of
London society. It was far easier to gain
an entry to a Drawing-room at St. James's

Palace than an invitation to a dinner, ball,
concert, or reception given by the new
viscountess. People angled, and plotted,
and smiled, and manoeuvred for invitations
; but Capri Viscountess Harrick had
commenced life with a high hand, and it
amused her to watch the anxiety of
people seeking to gain admission within
her doors who had formerly been prepared
to patronize her graciously; it
amused her, but never moved her to grant
their desires.

The entertainments at Harrick House
were most exclusive ; indeed the more exclusive
they became, the harder the uninvited
sought for admission. Mrs. W.
Achilles Lordson was fully aware of that
fact ; she had set down Capri as an
ingrate, she had despaired of ever setting
her foot within Harrick House by invitation,

when one day the long looked-for,
but now unexpected invitation came. The
favour of Mrs. Lordson's presence was
requested at a concert to commence at
eleven o'clock on a certain Wednesday
night, when a royal duke was to play a
violin solo.

The prospect of such an honour almost
deprived the good woman of breath. She
laid down the card in her ample lap, clasped
her hands, and threw back her head
with a proud and happy gesture. The
moment of her victory had come at last ;
she was to be received within the walls of
Harrick House, she was to hear a royal
duke play a fiddle, she was to be surrounded
probably by duchesses, and marchionesses,
and "nobles of high degree."
"Would she wear her diamonds or her
rubies ? they were as fine as any duchess

VOL. III.

could have. Would Monsieur Worth be
able to build a costume for her in time ?
She must telegraph to Paris at once and
ask him ; but then it had best be written
in French. Where was Newton Marrix ?
He must do that for her. She would
telegraph for him first.

As she stood up, the envelope on her
lap tumbled to the ground, and a little
note which she had not before seen fell
out. She sat down again hurriedly, and
read it over two or three times. It contained
a few unceremonious lines from
Capri, commencing "My dear Mrs. Lord-son,"
asking her and Newton Marrix to
come and dine with her on the evening of
the concert. The dinner would be quite
private, Lady Harrick added, the only
other guest would be a friend of Lord
Harrick's, whom she believed Mrs. Lord-had

previously met, Mr. Guy Rutherford.
Mrs. Lordson was delighted, and her
conscience smote her for having thought
for a moment that her dear Capri was
ungrateful or forgetful. Then she read
the letter over once more. This time she
noted that the dinner was to be quiet and
private, and she did not feel so pleased
at that. After all, a duke would not take
her down to dinner, it would only be Lord
Harrick, and she felt a little disappointed.
However, she consoled herself by remembering
that at the concert the music-room
would be surely filled by those so favoured
by providence as to have their names in
the peerage and baronetage, on whom she
might gaze unabashed. It was a glorious
prospect which made her happy for days.
She was astonished rather that Newton
Marrix took the fact of his invitation so

o2

coolly; it took a little from her enthusiasm.


The night of the dinner and concert was
one which she never forgot, and whose
anniversary she ever afterwards religiously
kept. Capri received her most kindly
and with a show of friendship which quite
touched Mrs. Lordson's heart and made
her keenly feel the depravity of that organ
which had censured the viscountess as
ungrateful.

The dinner was a very cosy, pleasant
little meal. Capri talked a good deal
with Newton Marrix. Guy Rutherford
paid a great deal of attention to Mrs.
Lordson. Lord Harrick said little to anyone.


But then the concert, at which, besides
a royal performer, a prima donna was to
assist. It was the proudest night in the

life of this daughter of the Great Republic
when she trailed her violet velvet skirts
down the great, white marble steps, leaning
on the arm of a noble marquis as she
descended to the large music-room off
the hall. In leaving the drawing-room
she had rubbed shoulders with the Duchess
of Dewshire and actually survived that
ennobling event.

La," she said to Newton Marrix in a
whisper, "to think of it all, and see the
prince and the old duchess, and the Marquis
of Mountebank and all the great people
talking and laughing with Capri as if
she were one of themselves."

So she is," said Newton Marrix.

"It is wonderful," said the American
lady from behind her large fan, which she
afterwards wielded so vigorously as to
cause a strong current of wind to blow the

author's long hair about in an artistic,
dishevelled manner.

Then she is the handsomest woman in
London," continued Newton Marrix, " and
for splendour her entertainments are
scarcely equalled by royalty."

'rand to think that I first brought
her out," she exclaimed, for she would fain
have some of Capri's honour and glory
reflected — no matter how faintly — on
herself.

*' Ah," said the young man, '^ it was
your mission."

Mrs. W. Achilles Lordson looked solemn,
and said it was.

This conversation occurred during a
short interlude that took place in the concert.
There was a great hum and murmur
of voices all through the room, a
faint rustling of the delicately-perfumed

programmes. The Marquis of Mountebank
had fallen asleep ; his mouth was
open," and his wig slightly disarranged, a
pinch of snuff yet rested between his
jewelled fingers, but for all that he looked
every inch a marquis, Mrs. Lordson
thought, and was a very delightful man
sleeping or waking ; though in the latter
condition he was apt to grin idiotically at
nothing in particular, and stuttered over
words that were generally senseless.

Suddenly silence fell upon the room as
if an angel had passed through the air ; it
was only, however, the royal duke who
had stepped on to the platform, fiddle in
hand, and was now bowing very courteously.
Then the solo commenced, and, after
about five minutes, ended in a long-drawn
note, and was applauded with a heartiness
that made the foreign prima donna, who

was to sing immediately afterwards, wonder
exceedingly.

The last item in the programme was set
down as a song for the hostess. It was a
little air which Padre Pallamari had
written, and published with the five
pounds which Lord Harrick had asked
Capri to give him long ago. Capri had
written to ask her old friend to come and
play for her guests ; but he had steadily
declined. It was a pathetic little ballad,
*' If we had never met, Love," and as she
sang the words, feelings of power and
pathos expressed themselves with a force
of which she was scarcely conscious. Indeed,
she half forgot the audience before
her, and as she ended saw them through a
mist that, in spite of her, gathered in her
luminous dark eyes.

And so it was all over ; the night had

been a great success, royalty was charmed,
society was delighted, Mrs. Lordson was in
ecstasies. The royal carriage with its
crimson liveries drove away, the other
guests slowly left. The Duchess of
Dewshire congratulated Capri, and kissed
her on either cheek affectionately as she
departed. The Marquis of Mountebank
saw Mrs. Lordson to her brougham, and
made her a foolish little speech which she
never understood, but which she afterwards
came to think meant to imply a
compliment.

It was all over, and Capri was standing
alone in the drawing-room, listening to the
wheels of the last carriage as it rolled noisily
away, when Guy Rutherford entered.

I have just come to say good night,"
he said, putting out his hand, " and to
thank you for your song." Then he added,

in an altered tone, ^' If we had never met,
Love !" and hummed a bar or two of the
air she had sung.

*^ Good night," she said.

Her hand trembled a little in his grasp.

CHAPTER X.

LOVE Conquers.

T T was a morning early in August.
-^ Capri was in the small drawing-room,
lying on a lounge near the window, one
hand lay under her head, an open book
rested on her knees, her eyes looked
vacantly out on the garden beyond, bright
in the yellow sunshine, rich in its glow of
colour and blossom.

But to-day she heeded neither flowers
nor sunshine; she felt depressed and

weighed down with a weariness that filled
her with its wasting bitterness. Life had
become to her tame and colourless and
void. The excitement which buoyed her
up whilst her guests surrounded her, the
knowledge of her success, was an alleviation
from . the dull torpor that had now
become her normal state.

There was something missing from her
days without which all her youthfulness
lost its brightness, all the sweetness of
life lost its flavour.

She had won the game for which she
played, won almost without a struggle ;
the things for which she had longed and
hoped had come to her ; but in return
something which was dearer than all she
had gained, dearer than she had ever
imagined anything could be to her, was
beyond her present reach.

All existence lay bleak and colourless
before her, without a love which it was
forbidden her to possess. If only she
could have affection for the husband who
had given her so much, raised her from
poverty and dependence, cared for her far
more than she deserved ; if in return fate
had made her love him, she would have
been happy and glad ; but that was impossible.
He was almost a stranger to her
yet ; though she had been his wife twelvemonths,
there was no affinity between
them, but rather a void over which neither
of them could reach. She wondered if she
would have been happy, or at least contented,
if she had never seen Guy Rutherford.
** If we had never met. Love !" she
said to herself over and over again. If
they never had.

As it was he filled all her life. The

touch of this hand burned her, his words
thrilled her with a strange sense of happiness,
his mere look subdued her; in his
presence she was content, satisfied. What
strange power did he hold over her ? She
felt unable to shake it off ; he fascinated
her; in his absence she longed for
him, when he stood before her a feverish
delight took possession of her. How was
it all to end, she asked herself ; would she
ever gain strength to conquer her heart
and become a true wife to the man to
whom she had sworn love, honour, and
obedience ?

At times she hated herself; the knowledge
that she had sold herself for position
and wealth filled her with bitterness ; she
regarded herself as a slave bound in hateful
bondage, who must be subject to her master
in all things and have no will beyond his

desires. She had voluntarily placed a
shackle round her neck which only death
could undo ; she was degraded in her own
sight. Her heart cried out against a serfdom
which with her own free will she had
accepted ; all her old Bohemian precepts,
all her hereditary tendencies of the singer
of '' La Scala," came back to her and made
her call out for liberty. She struck her
heart against the bars of a stern uncompromising
fate which must for ever imprison
her. Would the restlessness ever leave
her veins ? Would these yearnings for a
love that must not be hers ever be stilled ?
Would the fever burn itself out, and the
pain be stifled, and her rebellious heart
know rest, if not happiness ? Would death
come and bring her peace ? Now she
was tempest-tost the storm of a great
passion was in her breast, and raged

through her veins ; life had become insupportable.


If only they had never met !

Since his return to town he had been
with her much. The friendship and association
begun in Rome was continued in
London as if a break had never occurred,
as if that scene in the carriage on their
way home from the Princess Planting's
masked ball had never happened, as if he
had never told her that he loved her.

Naturally and quietly he fell into the
same habits with regard to her and her
husband. He was continually their guest •
he accompanied them in their rides ; they
met in society frequently. During the
season, and since his arrival in tou^n, there
was scarcely a day that Capri did not see
him, and every day his presence became
dearer and more dangerous to her, though

no words passed his lips in addressing her
that the world might not have heard.

But Guy Rutherford was a man who
had little need of words to express himself.
When he spoke to her there was a
tenderness in his voice, a look in his eyes
that told her more than all words could
have said. Did he know, she wondered,
the power which his mere presence held
over her, did he know that her heart
longed and ached for his love ? Ah, God I
if she were but free to give him the wealth
of her affection, but free to follow the
dictates of her heart !

She lay on the sofa there as these
thoughts passed through her mind, lay
heedless that the world outside was steeped
in the golden sunshine of this early
August morning, and was full of innocent
gladness. She only thought of her own

VOL. IIL P

life, and of the shadow that darkened and
made it miserable.

Suddenly a little tap sounded at the
door ; she knew it was not the knock of
one of the servants. In a moment she
started to her feet, her heart gave one
quick throb, then by an effort she calmed
herself and sat down once more.

The knock sounded again. Would she
bid him enter ? What was this strange,
wild feeling that made her heart bound
and sent the blood rushing to her head ?
Why did this fierce struggle rage within
her ? She would end it at once.

'' Come in," she said, in a low, hoarse
voice that was unlike her own.

The door opened softly, she heard a
light footstep fall on the carpet, but she
did not turn round her head.

*' You will excuse me calling so early*'

<jruy Eutherford said, in the most conventional
manner possible.

His coolness nerved her, his presence
calmed her. Yet she made no answer.

*' I called to see Lord Harrick," he continued,
" but I find he is out ; so I thought I
would do myself the pleasure of seeing you
instead."

He has gone to his club," she said,
giving her hand to her visitor.

So early," he replied, as if he were
not aware it was Lord Harrick's invariable
custom.

He always goes out in the morning."


*' I have not interrupted you, I hope,"
he asked, sitting down on a low ottoman
near her.

"No," she said, striving to be calm, "I
have not been reading."

r2

She turned away her head, and looked
out on the garden, where the sunlight was
dancing on the leaves of a green tree that
stood in the centre.

Neither spoke for some time, neither
moved.

Do sou intend riding this morning ?"

'* No, it is much too hot."

Her eyes were now fixed on the blaze
of mingled colours which the flower-beds
presented : they would not meet his.

He gave a short, quick sigh as if impatient,
got up and walked to the opposite window.
Capri made neither sign nor motion,
but remained as if she had suddenly turned
to marble. Interiorly her heart was all
aflame.

Guy Eutherford once more crossed the
room, coming over to where she sat. On
his way he passed a little table on which

some books lay ; he took up the first volume
that came to his hand ; it was Henry
Carey's translation of Dante's " Vision of
Hell," illustrated by Gustave Dore.

A new thought seemed to strike him.
Opening the book, he carried it over, and
seated himself once more on the low ottoman
by her side. In bending his head
over the volume, his crisp brown hair
touched her hand ; it sent a thrill through
her which she could not suppress.

Do you like the illustrations ?" he asked
calmly.

It was a most commonplace question,
but conversations that commence with
trifles sometimes end in tragedies.

Some of them," she answered, scarcely
giving his question a thought, for she felt
it had little connection with the main
current of his mind.

As a draughtsman he is superior."

Perhaps."

** Do you like his larger pictures ?"

The * Entry into Jerusalem ' is very
fine."

Look at this engraving of ' Francesca
da Rimini and Paolo Malatesta;' to my
mind, it is the best thing Dore has ever
done."

He held the book open before her, and
with some feeling akin to pity in her eyes
she looked at the figures of the murdered
lovers " together coming which seem so
light before the wind."

"It is very beautiful," she said quietly.

There was a tone in her voice which
touched him indescribably.

*' Let me read the passage for you," he
said. '' I will commence at Francesca's
speech."

Capri lowered her head. Then he began
slowly. His voice vas full of music and
feeling.

If thou are bent to know the primal root
From "whence our love gat being, I will do
As one who weeps and tells his tale. One day
For our delight we read of Lancelot,
How his love thrilled. Alone we were, and no
Suspicion near us. Oft times by that reading
Our eyes were drawn together, and the hue
Fled from our altered cheek. But at one point
Alone we fell. "When of that smile we read,
The wished smile so rapturously kiss'd
By one so deep in love, then he, who ne'er
From me shall separate, at once my lips
All trembling kissed. The book and writer both
Were love's purveyors. In its leaves that day
We read no more."

His voice was full of melody, and it had
a strong fascination for her ear. She
listened to him reading the old story of
an unforgotten love of a by-gone age, and
the words burned themselves into her
heart.

He paused when he had finished, and she
did not dare to break the silence. The
lines had touched her strangely. He
closed the book and laid it down beside
him on the floor. Then with a rapid
change of manner, with a voice that was
tremulous from eagerness, he spoke.

*' Capri, what has happened that you are
so cold to me to-day?"

The colour left her olive cheeks, a sunday
falling through the window changed
her hair to dusky gold, a hot fierce light
passed into her eyes, yet she did not
speak.

He laid one hand on her knees softly,
almost caressingly ; he looked into her
face, now quite pale. She did not look
at him, but turned away her eyes. A
great struggle raged hot and furious in
her heart, but she made no outward sign.

Once more he spoke ; this time hurriedly,
and his voice was hoarse and passionate.

Will you not speak to me ? Why are
you so cold ? What have I done ?"

"Am I cold?" she asked, the words
falling from her lips in measured syllables.

Can you ask me?"

"Why, oh! why have you returned?"
she said, the words breaking from her lips
like a cry.

I could not live without you."

Into her dark eyes a warm light came,
a sigh low and soft broke from her lips,
then the light died suddenly away again ;
she was struggling yet.

"I could not stay away," he went on;
"I tried hard, God knows; I fought with
myself bravely, but my love for you conquered.
Even if your presence meant
death to me, I felt that I must see you."

Still silence on lier part. How her
heart beat against her breast in the tumult
that beset her.

Capri," he said very softly, " do not
be cruel ; if you knew how valueless, how
hateful all things became to me without
you, how weary life grew, you would not
ask me why I had returned. "Your love
has become to me the only thing I value
in all the world."

He looked into her face ; the passionate
light in his eyes almost scorched her ; she
could not look at him, but covered her
face with her hand ; her fingers quivered
and twitched convulsively. He took one
hand in his and drew it towards him very
gently ; and when he spoke again, his voice
had in it the strength of a great resolution.

Capri, Fate has been cruel and unjust
in giving you to a man who cannot love

you as I do. Will you be cruel also?
Will you not let me stay near you, where
I may see you from time to time, may
hear your voice, may touch your hand ?"

He raised her fingers to his lips ashe
spoke and kissed them fervently ; he
saw her bosom rise and fall quickly,
watched the hot blood surge into her face,
and then heard her cry out in a voice half
choked by sobs,

Oh, leave me ; if you love me as you
say, leave me for ever!"

Capri, is it no happiness to you that I
remain ? If my presence is a pain "

"Oh, no, no!" she sobbed out, "it is
not that, but you must not remain ; leave
England, Europe, and forget, as I will
strive to forget, that we ever met."

I at least can never do that."

His lips were set ; into his blue eyes the

wild light of passion came once more, his
face had an expression that was almost
fierce. She did not dare raise her eyes.

"Capri," he said presently, in a quick
husky voice, for the passion raging within
scorched his throat and made his veins
burn as if liquid fire ran in them.
Why should two souls be parted ?
"Why should you and I cast ourselves in
that hell of torture which separation would
certainly mean? Why should we let a
cruel fate sever us for ever — only think of
for ever — when our hearts are already
one ?"

She listened to him now with eyes staring
and wild ; the hand that held his
opened and shut convulsively on his
fingers.

You cannot know, Capri, what existence
is to me without you ; you cannot tell

how you have grown into my life as never
a woman's love has grown before ; you
cannot feel how I worship you."

Only a deep quick sob interrupted
him.

^' For a year of life with you, I would
barter the remainder of my days, I would
endure an eternity of torture, an endless
hell : only tell me that you love me."

God !" she cried out, " I am lost."

Her voice had the sound of a great
despair, like the wail of a soul that is
damned.

I love you dearer than life !" she broke
out, in a passionate wildness that awed
him by the strength of its very fierceness.
'when I first saw you T feared you, for
my heart went out to you even the, and
when later Na I met you in Rome, I knew
that my soul stood in peril. T strove to be

true and strong, strove to overcome the
love for you that sprang up in my heart,
but I strove in vain."

*'My love ! my love !" he said.

I cannot live and endure the strife
that has filled me. My whole life is a
mockery, a miserable waste, a wrong to
the man who has given me his name. The
temptation of your love has been too strong
for me — take me body and soul !"

She reached out her arms to him yearningly
; he clasped her to his breast.

"My love! my darling ! you are mine !
Nothing can separate us now through life
till death !"

A shudder ran through her frame ; she
laid her head upon his shoulder ; he raised
it between his hands and kissed her on
the lips.

CHAPTER XL

ox THE BRINK.

rriHAT night Mademoiselle Sarah 
hard was to play at the Gaiety
Theatre. The piece in which she was to
appear was '' La Dame aux Amelia."

Lady Harrick had had a box engaged
for her some weeks previous, and had
looked forward to this night. Only that
morning at breakfast she had reminded
her husband that this was the date on
which they had arranged to visit the

Gaiety ; he was to accompany her ; it had
been all decided.

Just before luncheon, however. Lord
Harrick came home, and met Guy Rutherford
coming quickly down the stairs.

'^Ah! Rutherford," said the viscount,
"you are the very man I wanted."

His friend started at first, but took the
hand Lord Harrick held out to him.

"You will stay to luncheon, will you
not ?"

No, thanks. I fear I cannot. The fact
is it is later than I thought. I have an
appointment at two o'clock ; the time slipped
by me unnoticed as I was speaking to
Lady Harrick."

I hope you told her so."

"I did not."

"Don't you pay compliments to ladies ?"

Sometimes."

Lord Harrick led the way to the diningroom
as he spoke ; he was in excellent
humour.

** Do stay to luncheon, Guy," he asked
again.

I cannot to-day. I am rather in a
hurry. I called in to see you, but found
you were out," he said carelessly, "but I
found Lady Harrick in the drawing-room,
and I have outstayed my time. I have to
see my banker by two o'clock."

"Well, if you can't stay, I'll tell you how
you can oblige me to-night."

'' To-night ?"

** Yes; I promised Capri to go with her
to the Gaiety, to see — I forget what."

'La Dame aux Camelias'?"

Exactly. She wants to see Sarah
Bernhardt playing."

"Well?"

VOL. III. Q

Well, I have just met Saintsbury.
He says he expects a division to-night
in the House, and he makes a point of
my coming and voting on his side. It's
deucedly unpleasant, you know ; and I
don't want to have Capri disappointed."

Of course not," said Guy Eutherford,
looking away from his friend's face.

Don't you see, I must go to the
House. I must positively, and if you
will be so good, Eutherford, as to take
Capri to the Gaiety, you will oblige me
very much."

Guy Eutherford was silent, then a sudden
thought struck him.

*with pleasure," he said quickly. "I
shall take her with pleasure."

Thanks, old man."

Unknown to either of them, she had
entered the dining-room at that moment.

She started on seeing Guy Rutherford
there talking to her husband. Her face
was perfectly colourless ; in her eyes was
a happy light, which in those latter days
was new to them. Lord Harrick turned
round and saw her.

Capri," he said, '' I am awfully sorry,
you know, but Saintsbury, whom I met
to-day, makes a point of my going down
to the House to-night — expects a division
and that sort of thing, so I have asked
Eutherford to go with you to the Gaiety
instead of me."

Was there a fate in this? she asked
herself. Seeing she was expected to make
some answer, she said,

"You cannot come then?"

Xo. I am awfully sorry, you know,
but when Saintsbury put it in the way he
did, I must really go."

q2

*when will the division take place?"
asked Guy Eutherford.

*' It is impossible to say. It may come
on at nine or ten, or not perhaps until one
o'clock in the morning."

Capri kept her eyes down and made no
remark.

'will you not dine with us, Rutherford
?" Lord Harrick asked his friend,
'that is if you are not already engaged.
We dine an hour earlier to-night, on account
of the theatre, do we not, Capri?
Come at half-past seven, will you ?"

Thanks," he replied. ^' I have already
promised to dine out."

He was determined not to break bread
at the table of this man, on whom he was
about to inflict a great wrong.

I shall be here at half-past eight," he
said, turning his back to Lord Harrick

that he might not see his face, and looking
straight at Capri.

Their eyes met once, but that short
glance was sufficient. She understood all
that he would say.

Good morning once more," he said to
her, holding out his hand, and pressing
her fingers in his hot palm.

Then he said lightly,

'' I wish I could interest myself in
politics, Harrick."

You know I care very little about
them."

You ought. They afford a pastime
without which Englishmen would
bore each other to death ; an occupation
for which they should thank the
sods."

He walked to the dining-room door ashe
spoke ; seemingly he did not see Lord

Harrick's band outstretched as he passed
him.

All revoir," he said, waving his hand
and smiling.

A servant opened the door, and he
passed out.

All that day Capri lay in her boudoir ;
she had, she said, a violent headache, and
left word that she was not at home to any
callers ; she must not be interrupted. In
the afternoon the carriage came round to
the door as usual ; she sent the horses
back to the stable, and that evening she
was absent from the Row for the first
time since the commencement of the season.
She could not tell how the weary
time passed, each hour seemed a month,
the day an eternity. If only this summer
day was dead and the night had come ; if
only the cruel suspense, the slow fever

ON THE BRINK. 231

that consumed lier were ended. The
little clock on the chimney-piece ticked,
and the silvery chimes of the quarters rang
until she felt almost distracted. Surely
never did hours creep by at so slow a
pace before, never did time drag on so
miserably.

It was different she supposed to others ;
it was a glorious summer day, and the
world was steeped in sunshine and full of
happiness ; out in the country it was very
peaceful and merry, and there were probably
pale-faced holiday-makers from the
city, and innocent children, and lovers who
thought the hours fled all too quickly, and
sighed to think that the nio^ht would come
SO soon. But for her there was a fever in
her veins of a great impatience, and she
could find no rest nor peace until the irrevocable
step was taken.

She lay quite still on the sofa of that
pretty boudoir, her body exhausted, her
mind wildly confused. All things seemed
strange and bewildering since the moment
when she had cried out that she was lost.
The sense of a great change was upon
her, a weight of which she could not relieve
herself lay upon her heart, her
temples throbbed feverishly, her head was
hot and dizzy, her pulse rapid and uneven,
her lips hot and parched, her nerves unstrung.


She started at every sound, she could
scarcely think with coherence, she could
not read, she could only lie there waiting
for the slow hours to go by ; she thought
it was six when the little clock chimed four
with a sweet, silvery sound that left a
musical echo behind.

Would the day never end?

The sun glared in through the closely-drawn
blinds, with something like a
triumph, she thought, in its brilliancy that
mocked her ; the light hurt her, and she
closed her eyes. Then the stillness of the
house on this afternoon startled her;
presently she leaned up on her elbow to
listen to noises and the tones of voices
which she imagined she heard. No, the
place was quiet as death.

After a while she lay back again ; then
she thought her strength deserted her, a
great fear fell upon her. That if she
grew ill, and was too unwell to go to the
Gaiety that night ? She held her breath.
"What if she were suffering already from a
fever ! What if a violent illness seized
her and death came ?

She was about to pray that the silent,
white-winged death-angel would come and

still her heart for ever, but her courage
failed her, and she remembered that she
dared not raise her voice in prayer. She
closed her eyes, and though the heat was
oppressive she shuddered suddenly. If
she died what should become of him ?
Would he live on after her, in time forget
her, grow happy perhaps and speak the
same words to some other woman that he
had spoken to her that day, kiss her lips
as he had kissed hers, press her to his
heart as she had been pressed in the
fervour of a wild love ? Oh, no, no, surely
that could not be, that could never happen
; she had given herself to him body
and soul that morning, and he was hers
for ever and ever. She would rise from
her death-bed to follow him if needs be,
nothing should part them; she would be
happy even in hell if he were by her.

Would the day never end ?

She turned from side to side exhausted
and weary. The hateful sunlight still
streamed into the room through the rose-heed
curtains ; it was yet but five minutes
past four o'clock. How were the slow
hours to pass ? Every minute she grew
more hot and weary, and after a while her
mind began to wander. She lost all control
over her thoughts ; she was but half
conscious now. Did she dream? She
stood in Marcus Phillips's studio ; the
young artist was there too, and his blue
eyes looked pleadingly into hers. How
happy he was seeing her there before him,
a welcome smile was on his lips, he spoke
to her, but she could not catch his words,
yet she knew that they entreated her
not to leave him. She loved him now ;
she was happy in his presence ; the lookin

his frank face filled her with delight.
Suddenly his features altered to those of
Gay Rutherford, but she was not surprised
either at the change or at seeing him in the
artist's studio. He looked into her face,
and his eyes scorched her with cruel light
like rays of fire ; she thought to escape,
yet she could not move hand or foot, but
stood there helplessly and trembling before
him. All her love had turned to fear.
She watched him take up some brushes
that lay upon the floor and commence to
paint her portrait, but the only colours he
used were red and black that stood out in
glaring contrast to each other from the
canvas.

In a minute the portrait was finished ;
something like a crimson robe covered the
figure and wrapped it round and round
like flames ; the eyes started from their

sockets, wild and liagrorard with the light
of madness in them. Suddenly it all
faded, and again on the canvas a face
appeared, shadow-like at first, that presently
grew and grew until she recognized her
own features once more, but ah, what a
change ! It was pallid like the face of one
long dead, there was no light in the wide
open eyes, there was a scared expression
on the features ; the skin had a bluish tint,
the hair hung limp and dishevelled.

She flung out her hands in despair, fora
terrible fear that she could not understand
was upon her. Then she sank down,
down, down, and in a moment she was a
child once more, happy and innocent, without
a shadow of sin or care upon her, a
merry child with dark hair that turned to
burnished gold in the warm sunlight.

It was a summer morning, and she stood

outside the fisherman's hut that was her
home. What a wonderful cabin it was,
too, inside ! There were bright-coloured
pictures of the saints hanging on the rough
walls ; an old wooden crucifix black with
time hung at the far end. She could seethe
sad downcast face of the figure, and
its meek head crowned with a little wreath
of thorns, see the drops of red paint to
represent blood on the pierced hands and
feet, which she now raised her innocent,
childish lips to kiss. In a corner was a
shrine where a tiny lamp burned feebly ;
the red-brown fishing nets hung upon the
walls with coils of rope and old baskets,
aod over the fire a pot of soup for the
morning meal simmered slowly.

Outside there was a great blaze of sunlight,
the boats lay high and dry upon the
yellow beach, fishermen in blue shirts that

numbered many patches, and red caps,
were spreading fishing-tackle in the sud,
the cry of quails and the musical splash of
the waves beatings on the shore filled the
air with a monotonous sweet sound ; out
beyond the sea stretched wide and blue,
sparkling under the rays of the sun. She
ran down upon the beach, where the sand
looked dry and scorching, but it sank
under her, the waves rose with a mighty
roar and rushed in upon her, she cried
aloud for help, and the face of one she
knew bent over her and dragged her to
him. It was Guy Rutherford.

With a great sob she awoke, and found
her maid had just entered to announce
that it was time to dress for dinner. Fora
few moments she could hardly realize
that her dream was not a reality ; the
handsome boudoir, the face of her maid

looking at her with curious eyes, were
more unreal to her than the scenes which
had just passed before her. Then in a
second she remembered all.

When the gong sounded that day for
dinner Capri came down wearing a dress
of a deep creamy hue. She had no ornaments,
not even the engagement ring that
had once belonged to Mary Stuart; a
crimson geranium was fixed just above her
heart. Her face was pale ; her dark hair
was coiled round her small head ; a shadow
rested under her eyes ; her manner had
the nervous bearing of suppressed excitement.


Before reaching the dining-room she
hesitated a moment, then went towards
the morning-room, turned the handle,
entered and closed the door softly behind
her. She crossed the room swiftly until

she came to the spot where the '' Beggar
Maid" picture hung. She looked up at
the face as if reading: it in a new liofht,
looked at the sweet, wondering expression
of the great dark eyes, and the happy,
almost childlike smile playing about the
lips.

Involuntarily she looked into an opposite
mirror, and in one swift glance saw
the contrast between her past and present
self. She was yet as handsome as her
picture, perhaps even more so, but some
old nameless charm had left her which the
face of the '' Beggar Maid " retained.

What was it that had gone ?

She could scarcely tell ; a great weariness
had now grown to rest like a shadow
on her face, a craving look in her eyes, as
if she sought in vain for what she needed.
In the " Beggar Maid's " face a happy

VOL. III. R

brightness shone, and innocence beamed in
the eyes.

And it was once so like me," she said ;
then added, half under her breath, '' Poor
Marc !"

She stepped lightly on to a chair that
stood under the picture.

Good-bye, Capri," she said to the portrait
softly, whilst a low sob gathered in
her throat. " Good-bye to you and all the
old days. Good-bye."

A mist of tears came into her eyes and
almost blinded her. She raised herself on
her toes, and, putting her lips to those of
the picture, kissed them, as if the portrait
of her old self were a living thing.

Good-bye for ever."

She got down from the chair, walked
across the room quickly and down the
white marble steps to the dining-room.

She was alone with her husband " for
the last time' she said to herself as she
sat down. Lord Harrick was in a state
bordering on excitement ; for though he
cared but little for politics, the prospect of
the expected division pleased him ; he
began to think that after all politics would
not prove a bad pastime ; they would just
be as interesting to him as billiards or
ecarie. He spoke to Capri about the bill
which was then passing through the Upper
House, and what Saintsbury had told him,
and what the Telegraph bad said concerning
it that morning.

To all of which she listened patiently,
without making any response save an occasional
yes or no. He did not notice that
her face was almost colourless as a marble
statue that time had mellowed and softened,
and that she trembled when he spoke

r2

to her. All he felt was that she was
quieter than usual, and very gentle when
she replied to him. He remembered
afterwards the strange look that was in
her eyes when he happened to glance up
at her suddenly.

Before dinner was quite over Guy
Eutherford came in ; if his manner was at
all changed it was that he talked more
and seemed in better spirits than usual.

Have I come too soon after all?" he
asked, addressing Lord Harrick. " I fear
I have, though I thought I should be too
late. I got away rather sooner than I
anticipated, and I came along in a
hurry."

*' Not a bit too soon' said Lord Harrick.
'why, it is half-past eight," he added,
taking out his watch.

So it is," replied Rutherford.

'' I have promised to be in the House by
nine."

'' You have plenty of time yet."

"I shall drive down with you as far as
Charing Cross, Capri, and then have a
cio-ar and walk over to Westminster."

Without answering she rose from the
table.

Are you ready, Lady Harrick ?" said
Guy Eutherford.

"Quite ready," she replied, though a
choking sensation gathered at her throat
that almost prevented her getting out the
words.

The brougham pulled up at Charing-cross,
and Lord Harrick got out. Then
the horses trotted briskly along the
Strand. When Capri and Guy Rutherford
were alone, he bent forward to her
and said,

Mine at last."

For ever."

The first act of " La Dame aux Camelias"^
was over, and the second half way through
by the time Lady Harrick entered her box.
All eyes were fixed on the stage. Arian
Dual was telling Marguerite Gautier of
his passion. Then Sarah Bernhardt's voice
fell on the audience like music, and her
promises of fidelity to her lover rang
through the silent house with a fervour
that touched women's hearts and made
men hold their breaths. The great actress
was at her best to-night : the audience
was held fascinated by that nameless power
which the world calls genius.

Soon came the end of the scene where
the Comte de Gray's name is announced,
and Marguerite after a moment's hesitation,
during which the whole house was

hushed to silence, falls into the arms of
Arian Dual amidst a storm of applause.

The act-drop descended, then Guy
Eutherford looked at Capri once : her face
was colourless. She hud not spoken to
him since they entered the house. He
drew the curtain half-way across the box,
and taking her band bent down over her
as she sat there in the half light.

My darling, are you ready ?"

A smile broke over her face ; she raised
her eyes to his.

"Let us go," he said, almost in a
whisper.

She rose up without a word and left.

Half an hour afterwards, and they were
journeying down to Cornwall fast as a
Great Northern express train could carry
them.

Chapter XII.

LOST;

TT was the close of an August day. A
-*- fresh wind blew in sudden gusts from
the sea, ruffling the water far beyond, and
sweeping fitfully over the Cornwall coast.
The day just dead had been close and
oppressive, the atmosphere heavy, the sky
cloudy and threatening, but now that evening
had come the sun broke from the
clouds in a burst of sudden glory and then
sank down into the sea in a great blaze of
yellow light. The scene was imposing.

The ocean turned to deeper green ; far
out the crests of the waves rose white
and angry ; clouds like flames of a deep
orange hue burned low down in the westward
sky ; the wind rose higher and sighed
across the land.

At a window of a farm-house, built
far in from the cliffs, two figures stood
watching the sunset. The position of the
house commanded a sweeping view of the
sea along the beach, and far out until sea-line
and sky-line met and mingled in a
purple haze beyond. It afforded also a
view of the cliffs for a wide distance,
rising dark and steep, their grey nakedness
covered with scant vegetation.

How glorious the sky looks ; the yellow
clouds almost seem to touch the sea ;
and look ! there is a red bar of light now,
See how it glows like fire !"

Yes. I think it means we are going

to have a rough night. The sea is rising
rapidly," replied Guy Rutherford.

'' Shall we have a storm ?"

I believe so," he answered, watching
the sky, and then looking out to sea, where
the waves rose higher and higher every
moment.

They could hear the roar of the sea,
and the waves dashing themselves against
the cliffs and rushing in upon the beach
below.

I feel afraid of the sea when it cries
out like that," said Capri; "it seems tome
strong and merciless, so terrible and
relentless in its passion."

^' It is like the human heart, Capri. Don't
you think so?"

*' I never have before," she answered,
gazing out before her thoughtfully.

"I often compare the ocean to a heart.

One hour it is fair, and calm, and happy,
then the first breath of a tempest sweeps
over it and rushes its surface, a stronger
blast, and it rises with the wildness of a
passion which must exhaust itself before
it can be appeased."

His voice died away in silence. Twilight
fell upon the land, the orange and
crimson clouds faded in the west, a pale
moon rose in the troubled sky, the wind
swept fitfully in from the sea with ever-increasing
vigour.

You will see the sea at its best tonight,"
said Guy Rutherford, breaking the
silence that followed his last words.

I am afraid of it," she answered.
You know I am not a coward, but this
coming storm fills me with dread."

In the twilight he saw that her face had
a white, scared look.

Afraid whilst I am near you," he said,
drawing her to him closely and tenderly.

She put her hand into his and said,

Never whilst you are near."

"My darling!"

They stood at the window, still looking
out at the gathering storm. There was
no light in the room ; Capri had laid her
head, as if for protection, on Guy Rutherford's
breast, his arm was round her.

Outside on the headlands they could
hear the fishermen shouting to each other,
and presently Guy could discern a group
of them as they stood near the edge of the
cliffs holding on their hats and pointing
out to the distance that looked to him a
vast space of grey vapour. The moon
grew brighter by degrees, but continually
got lost among the great masses of dark,
jagged clouds that hurried past in a drear
endless procession.

The sea turned from green to black save
where the silver light occasionally struck
the waves far out, making their crests
sparkle as they rose in their strength, and
then fell back again into chasms of purple
space ; the shriek of sea-birds was borne
on the dark winds ; the storm gathered
strength and power with every moment ;
the sea grew majestic, and the land lay
hushed and subdued.

Night had come now. Suddenly all
traces of the moon were lost behind heavy
banks of clouds ; land and sea were alike
wrapped in darkness, and the darkness
brought with it a sense of mystery and
undefined dread. Far out the winds
shrieked ; the waters were lifted up, and in
rage dashed against the grey, impregnable
cliffs that flung them back again into the
black seething waste.

'' The sea has gone mad to-night," said

Guy Eutherford ; " if the moon comes out
by-and-by and lights it up it will be a
glorious scene."

Capri made no reply ; he could not see
her face, which had grown white even to
the lips, but he felt her clinging closer to
him, one hand that he held in his trembled
as if from fright.

You are nervous to-night, Capri."

Perhaps I am. The day has been so
hot and the atmosphere so heavy that I
have felt depressed since morning."

''My little woman!"

She put up her lips to his face and kissed
him.

^' Shall we go out and look at the sea?
If we are not both blown away the breeze
will do us good."

Guy, do not leave me !" She caught
his arm in both her hands.

"Leave you ! Certainly not. You are
not well, Capri. We shall leave this place
next week and g^o abroad. The air is too
strong for you."

It's not the air, only I am nervous, as
you say ; and promise me, dear, that you
will not leave me to-night."

You excite yourself unnecessarily."

"Promise me," she persisted.

I promise."

The words fell from his lips slowly and
distinctly. Capri seemed relieved ; and she
breathed more freely. Just then a dull,
heavy sound was heard as if from the sea.

It's thunder," she said in an alarmed
tone, drawing suddenly back from the
window a step or two, and linking her
hands tighter around his arm.

Guy Rutherford did not speak, he stood
there waiting listening. In a few seconds

the same dull, booming sound fell upon
their ears once more.

There is another clap."

"No," he replied, *rit is a signal gun.
Some ship is in danger, probably off the
coast."

Silence again in the room ; then came a
blast of wind that shook the house as it
swept over the land, and in the lull that
followed the signal gun again was heard.

The ship cannot be far off," he said.

Capri clasped her hands round his arm
tighter yet ; she did not speak.

'' I must go out and try to see what it
is. You stay here and I shall come back
presently."

"Your promise!" and then she added,
We will both go out."

Very well, come if you are not afraid
of being blown away."

I will have no fear of any kind while
you are with me."

They went out. Two or three men
were hurriedly making their way down a
narrow path that led from the cliffs to the
beach. They were shouting to each other
with their hands to their mouths, but the
wind was so high that Guy Rutherford
could not catch what they were saying.

He followed with Capri hanging on his
arm. She had tied a handkerchief tiofhtlv
over her head, and put on a heavy Ulster
coat that prevented her dress from flapping
about. As they went along they
could hear the minute gun, seemingly
sounding quite near them, and again further
off. The wind swept in from the sea
in a fierce gale that prevented them at
times from taking a step in advance.

Down on the beach there was a group

VOL. in. s

of fishermen and their wives and boys,
sheltering themselves under an overhanging
cliff. The men had on their oilskins,
their hats were tied on their heads with
handkerchiefs, covering their ears and
fastened under their chins ; some of them
carried lanterns in their hands, that cast a
dull yellow glare on the darkness, and
brought the outlines of the figures into
semi-relief. The women's dresses blew
around them, rustling and crackling in
the gale. The boys shouted to each other
excitedly, but their voices were almost lost
in the mighty roar of the sea, and the dull
grating sound of the stones and pebbles
being sucked back into the waters by the
retreating waves.

"What is it?" asked Guy Rutherford,
when at last he was able to make his way
towards the little crowd that looked with

white faces out towards blackness beyond.

"A ship, sir," one of the fishermen said.
"A ship; and she's drifting, as well as we
can make out, on these reefs in front of
us. It's one of the worst spots on the
coast."

The man's moored face was fixed and
almost stern ; and there was an unflinching
light in his eyes. Wrecks had but little
terror for him, he had seen them year after
year since he was a boy ; had seen human
lives struggle vainly with the might of the
tempest, and sink helplessly into the blackness
of night. It was their fate.

Guy Rutherford could not see the ship.
He must wait until the moon escaped from
behind the mass of dense clouds.

She has no chance," said an old man.
'' The wind is blowing her fair on to the
reefs."

s2

One of the women groaned.
How far does the reef run ?"
*for more than a mile we reckon it."
The gun sounded again, booming out
there where the darkness of night hid all
things.

Great God, could nothing be done for
these lives dear to father and mother, and
Sweetheart, and wife, and little children ?
must the cruel sea swallow them before
the eyes of strong men ? would no struggle
be made to rescue them from death's
grasp ? was there no humanity and pity
left in the hearts of those who watched
their agonies ? It was terrible.

Just then the last of a long train of
rugged clouds swept by, and the moonlight
fell in a sudden flood of white light
upon the angry sea. All eyes looked outby
one common instinct towards the reefs.

There was nothing but a long black line
of rock, around which the waves stroked
and dashed themselves in remorseless f ure,
but out beyond the reef those on the
beach could see the dark outline of a ship
rising and falling, rising and falling, and
drifting every moment nearer to the spot
that must inevitably prove its doom.

The moonlight was so clear that presently
they not only saw the hulk but the
masts rising clear and straight against the
sky. The sails were torn in shreds, and
fluttered wildly, the cordage, snapped and
broken, was tossed about in the wind, the
dark figures of the sailors hurried to and
fro like phantoms; some of them were
striving: to cut down the masts.

The elements went mad at the prospect
of this prey ; the waves rushed round and
round the ship with the fury of a thousand

demons ; the wind howled ; and there was
terror and fury in its voice.

Capri looked on ; her lips were set, her
eyes full of horror, her face pale as the
dead. She cluns^ to Guy Rutherford yet.
His eyes were fixed upon the ship.

'' Can nothing be done ?" he said, turning
to where the men stood, the salt spray
dashing in their faces, the tempest crying
in their ears.

The younger men made no answer ^
some of them turned away their heads.
The old man who had before spoken said,
after a deliberate pause,

'nothing, sir. There's no boat that
ever was built could stand a sea like that ;
she would be dashed to pieces before she
was twenty yards from the shore."

In his set face was the look of one who
sees death advancing, and is powerless toward
off his blow.

Capri held her breath and listened to
the fisherman with a painful eagerness.
A great fear came upon her, her hands
were clenched tightly until her fingers
ached. She could not speak.

The clouds crossed the moon again,
and all was intense darkness once more.
Then there came a period of painful suspense.
Would those clouds ever clear
away ? The boom of the minute gun
sounded at irregular intervals : and once
the cry of strong voices fell upon the
ears of those who watched upon the
shore.

When the moon shone out again they
saw that one of the masts had fallen.
The clouds had now gone by, the light
remained. Every moment the ship came
closer and closer to its doom ; the lives of
those on board hastened to a desperate
end. Again their cry rose above the

hoarse fury of the sea and wind, with a
wild supplicating sound.

*' Can we do nothing to save them ?"
cried Guy Rutherford again, turning round
to the fishermen.

They muttered some words which he
could not catch, and turned their backs to
him. He set his teeth, and an angry light
came into his eyes. One of the women
was sobbing wildly. Two years ago she
had watched her son from this very spot
go down to his grave. Her voice fell on
the men's ears to-night like an appeal for
those in deadly peril.

By-and-by one of them, after speaking
for some time to the others, said a boat
might have a chance of getting to the ship
before she split on the reef, if she were
put out lower down on the beach. Guy
Rutherford caught at the words at once.

"A boat," lie repeated. "Get a boat,
and I shall go iu her, if any man comes
with me. Can you see these men, with
lives as dear to them and others as yours
or mine, perishing before your eyes without
striving to rescue them ?"

Capri heard him with a sickening fear
at her heart, but she never uttered a
sound, never moved a muscle.

The waves flung themselves on the
strand with a hoarse sullen roar, dragging
huge stones and pieces of timber and
great coils of sea weed with them in their
retreat, which they had flung up but a
moment before.

The noise was deafening. The men to
whom Guy Rutherford had spoken made
him no answer, but gathered together in
consultation. Apparently they came to
no agreement ; two of the number turned

away, the remainder seemed inclined to follow
them. Guy Rutherford could not hear
them ; he thought he saw his opportunity,
however, and went forward to where they
stood, Capri still by his side pale and
anxious.

'take down one of your boats," he
said, in a voice that had in it more of
command than entreaty.

They did not appear to notice him.
Still undecided they looked at each other,
and then glanced out at the sea. Guy
Rutherford lowered his brows, a look of
scorn came into his eyes.

Have you women's hearts in your
breasts ?" he asked. " Will you see these
men going down alive into their graves,
whilst you stand by and make no effort to
save them ? If I could go alone I would.
Let but one of you come and I will go — if
you are not all cowards."

He flung the last words at them with a
scorn that made the sluo^ojish blood run
hot in their veins.

'ewe have women and children depending
on us," shouted one of the
men.

All of you ?"

I shall bring my father's boat down,"
cried out one of the youngest of them, a
broad-shouldered, bronzed-faced fisherman
scarcely more than a lad. " Who will come
and help me ?"

He ran up the beach, and some of the
others who were left, now half ashamed of
themselves, ran after him ; the example of
one man stimulated the rest.

But even as they moved a wild cry was
heard above the fury of the sea, a cry
that had in its sound horror, and agony,
and despair. Then those on the beach
could hear a crash and the sharp sound of

splitting timbers. An answering cry from
the women and boys on the shore went up
into the night air. A second afterwards
and they saw the ship sink ; she had parted
on the long-stretching black reef.

Then a great wave, high and steep like
a solid wall of water, dashed itself against
the rock with a fierce, hissing sound.
When it had passed, the white moonlight,
shining pale and clear, showed the dark
hulk fixed and raised high above the sea,
and the figures of some men who had clambered
on to the reef standing there clear
and defined ; their hands were outstretched,
their faces turned towards the shore,
their cries rang out above the wail of the
tempest.

By this time the boat had been brought
down upon the strand ; the men who had
before been so tardy now hurried themselves

in putting in the oars and preparing
her for her perilous voyage.

The gale increased, the Tvind rushed in
from sea in mad fury ; the waves rose
higher and higher and fluno^ themselves

DO O

with might and main against the cliffs
with an angry roar ; a few large drops of
rain fell with a rattling sound upon the
southwestern of the fishermen; far in upon
the headland the bell of the little grey
church, under whose shelter lay the pale
and torn corpses of many bodies that the
sea in its cruel sport had cast upon the
shore, rang out wildly as if crying in
fright to heaven for mercy.

The boat was now ready, and an eager,
excited crowd gathered around her. Men
shouted orders from one to another, women
cried and wrung their hands, the shrill
voices of boys called out in excitement.

The young fisherman who had brought
down the boat was already in her. They
waited but the retreat of the waves to
launch her on that short voyage that
meant victory or defeat, life or death.

Capri had not spoken during the scene
she was dazed and bewildered. Her
face was as white as one whom the sea has
flung stiff and murdered on the rocks.
She had not tried to stay Guy Rutherford's
efforts to rescue the lives of these
men out there even at the peril of his
own.

In this hour of trial she was strong and
brave. For an instant Guy Rutherford
stepped outside the ring of those around
the boat ; Capri was still by his side.

Capri, my love," he said, trying to
speak in his old cheery manner, 'you will
wait here for me till I return ; or stay, go
up to the house and wait there."

He bent down over her and looked into
her white face.

*• Your promise !" she said simply. The
strength of a great determination was in
her eyes. " I shall go with you even unto
death," she added, and her voice was low,
but the winds did not drown it before it
reached his ears. He did not try to dissuade
her, but flinging his arms around her
there in the shadow of the cliffs, he clasped
her close to him and kissed her once. It
was his last time.

"I have never loved you dearer than
now," he said.

All this had not taken a minute ; in a
second he made his way through the little
crowd filled v/ith the excitement of its
own thoughts and hopes and fears, aud
stepping into the boat lifted Capri in and
placed her in the stern before anyone there
had time to question his act.

With a ringing cheer that had at once
in its sound something of triumph and yet
of a wail, the boat was pushed out from
the strand. Guy Rutherford had taken
the stroke oar — there were three other
men in the boat.

Once Capri looked behind her. The
little crowd of white-faced women and
stern-looking men on the beach, the gleam
of lanterns seen against the high grey
cliffs, seemed to sink down, down, down,
and then suddenly rise above her. The
church bell yet continued to ring out to the
wild, pitiless sky, the waters surged and
foamed about the boat, and flung clouds of
salt spray in the faces of the rowers.

Again the boat sank between two great
walls of sea, then rose with a bound.
Capri clung to the stern, she uttered no
word or cry. The four men worked as
they never had worked before, straining

nerve and muscle and strength in their
efforts ; their faces were white and set, a
great determination looked out of their
eyes.

They were being driven back again in
spite of all their efforts ; the sea was too
strong for them. The rain came pattering
down in heavy drops, clouds crossed
the moon, the wind roared in the darkness,
the waves struck the boat with a
sharp hissing sound, yet the four worked
with the energy of despair. Now a monstrous
wave half lifted the boat out of the
water and flung her several yards in advance
; and once the white light fell full
upon the sea.

Suddenly there was a crash : one of the
stout oars snapped like a child's toy;
Capri saw it tossed about by the waves in
triumph. The man in whose hands it had
broken took up a second oar that lay in

VOL. III. T

case of need at the bottom of the boat and
put it out.

The were nearing the reef, and could
see before them about half a dozen figures
standing on the black rocks ; the sea was
dashing about their feet in furs, as if
hungry for their lives. They shouted to
those in the boat, and a fainter answer
like an echo came from the shore. The
boat was now within ten yards from where
the survivors of the wreck stood watching
her in an agony of excitement and suspense
; another wave might carry the boat
close to them. They called out to those
strangers who were risking their lives for
them with eager words and prayers that
were lost in the great tumult of many
sounds.

The wind gave one fierce blast, followed
by a sudden lull ; the boat sank between
two vast waves, then with its freight of

five human lives was lifted up and with a
sudden crash dashed violently on the sharp
peaks of the reef.

The boat snapped in two.

Capri without a cry flung herself into
Guy Eutherford's arms ; they folded round
her in an eternal embrace. The next instant
a wave swept the reef. When it had
gone those upon the shore saw nothing
there but the sharp, black peaks steeped
in the white glory of the moonlight.

THE END,

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN :Macdonald, BLENHEIM HODSS

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

MESSRS. HUPtST AM) BLACKETT'S

LIST OF New WORKS.

Griffin AHOY ! A Yacht Cruise to the Levant,

and Wanderings in Egypt. Sykta. The Holy Land. Greece, and
Italy in ISSf. By General E. H. Maxwell, Cab. One vol.
demy 8vo. With Illustrations. 155.

A Christian WOMAN; Being the Life of Madame

Jules Mallet, nee Obekka^ipf. By Madame de Witt, nee
Guizot. Translated by Mrs. H. X. Goodhart. With a Preface
by the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman." One vol. Foolscap
8vo. OS.

:MY old playground revisited ; a Tour

Df Italy es* the Sprts-g op 1881. By Bexjamis- E. Ejex-xedy. 1

vol. crown 8vo. With Illustrations, by the Author. 6s.
A chatty record of how an Italian tour may be pleasantly made by travellers
who have plenty of leisure and money'' — Scotsman.

A VISIT TO ABYSSINIA ; an Account of Travel

IX Modern EthI(jplv. By W. Wixstax-ley, late ixh. (Queen's Own)
Hussars. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

Mr. Instantly may be congratulated on having produced a capital record of
travels, cast in a popular mould. The narrative is written in a lively and entertaining
style, and abounds in capital character sketches of the men with whom the
author was brought into contact." — Athenaeum,

Mr. "Instantly's personal adventures are in themselves sufficiently amusing,
and. did they stand alone, would be well worth reading; but he has much to say
besides about the strange land he explored, and the inhabitants wno live in if —
Daily Telegraph.

LIFE IN WESTERN INDIA. By Mrs. Guthrie,

Author of '• Through Russia," •' My Year in an Indian Fort," (fcc,
2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. 21s.

This is a remarkable book, for the variety and brilliance of the pictures which
it sets before us. Mrs. Guthrie is no ordinary observer. She has a keen eye for
scenery, and can describe what she .sees with much vividness. Then she is a botanist,
at home in the vast variety of the Indian flora, something of an archaeologist,
and has more than an ordinary knowledge of Indian history; and she notes
with a keen interest the life and character of the native population. Altogether
this is a charming book, in which we can And no fault, except it be an embarrassing
richness of matter which miles us feel that we have given no idea of it to
oar readers ; we can only say. Let them judge for themselves'— Pa// Mall Gazette.

Mrs. Guthrie's ' Life in "Western India " is worthy the graphic pen of this accomplished
writer. Her familiarity with Indian life enables her to portray in
faithful and vivid hues the character of Hindoo and Mohammedan tribes, noting
the peculiarities of their social and religious traditions, and representing their
personal habits and manners with picturesque fidelity." — Daily Telegraph.

"A most charming and delightful book'— ZTom^ Xewsfor India.

CATHARINE OF ARAGON, and the Sources

of the English Reformation. Edited, from the French of Albert

Du Boys, with Notes by Cel\.rlotte M. Yonge, Author of " Their

of Redclyffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

This book is valuable as an able compendium of documents about Catharine,

and also as a statement of the causes which led to the English Reformation. It

should be read by all who want to take a comprehensive view of the period. Miss

Yonge's work ia thoroughly and conscientiously done." — Graphic.

MESSRS. Hurst AND BLACKETT'S
NEW WORKS— Continued.

ROYAL WINDSOR. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Second Edition. Volumes I. and II. Demy 8vo. sos.
CONTENTS OF VOLS. I. AND II.— Castle Hill, Norman Keep, First King's House,
Lion Heart, Kingless Windsor, Windsor Won, Geoffrey Plantagenet, Windsor
Lost, The Fallen Deputy, The Queen Mother, Maud de Braose, The Barons'
War, Second King's House, Edward of Carnarvon, Pert de Gaston, Isabel
de France, Edward of Windsor, Crecy, Patron Saints. St. George, Society of
St. George, Lady Salisbury, David King of Scots, Third King's House, Ballad
Windsor, The Fair Countess, Richard of Bordeaux, Court Parties. Royal Favourites,
Rehearsing for Windsor, In the Great Hall, Simon de Burley, Radiate
Bridge, A Feast of Death, Geoffrey Chaucer, At Winchester Tower, St George's
Chapel, The Little Queen, At Windsor, Duchess Philippine, The Windsor Plot,
Bolingbroke, Court of Chivalry, Wager of Battle, Captive Little Queen, A New
Year's Plot, Night of the Kings, Dona Juan, Constance of York, The Norman
Tower, The Legal Heir. Prince Hal, The Devil's Tower, In Captivity Captive,
Attempt at Rescue, Agincourt, Kaiser Sigismund, The Witch Queen, Sweet
Kate, The Maid of Honour, Lady Jane, Henry of Windsor, Richard of York,
Two Duchesses, York and Lancaster, Union of the Roses.
'Royal Windsor ' follows in the same lines as ' Her Majesty's Tower,' and aims
at weaving a series of popular sketches of striking events which centre round
Windsor Castle. Mr. Dixon makes everything vivid and picturesque. Those who
liked 'Her Majesty's Tower' will find these volumes equally pleasant. "—4<Aen«i/m.
"A truly fine and interesting book. It is a valuable contribution to English
history; worthy of Mr. Dixon's fame, worthy of its grand BuhiecV— Morning Post.
Mr. Dixon has supplied us with a highly entertaining book. ' Royal Windsor '
is eminently a popular work, bristling with anecdotes and amusing sketches of
historical characters. It is carefully written, and is exceedingly pleasant reading.
The story is brightly told ; not a dull page can be found." — Examiner.

These volumes will find favour with the widest circle of readers. From the first
days of Norman Windsor to the Plantagenet period Mr. Dixon tells the story of this
famous castle in his own picturesque, bright, and vigorous way"— Z>ai7i/ Telegraph.

"Mr. Hepworth Dixon has found a congenial subject in 'Royal Windsor.' Under
the sanction of the Queen, he has enjoyed exceptional opportunities of most
searching and complete investigation of the Royal House and every other part of
Windsor Castle, in and out, above ground and below ground"— Z>ai7?/ News.

VOLS. III. AND IV. OF ROYAL WINDSOR. By

W. Hepworth Dixon. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. sos. Completing
the Work.
CONTENTS OF VOLS. IIL AND I"V.— St. George's Hall, The Tudor Tower, A
Windsor Comedy, The Secret Room, Treaties of Windsor, The Private Stair,
Disgracing a Knight, In a King's House, The Maiden's Tower, Black Days.
The Virgin Bride, Elegy on Windsor, Fair Geraldine, Course of Song, Windsor
Gospeller, Windsor Martyrs, A Royal Reference, Hatchment Down, The
People's Friend, St. George's Enemy, Lady Elizabeth's Grace, Queen Mary,
Grand Master of St. George, Deanery and Dean, Sister Temperance, Elizabeth's
Lovers, Dudley Constable, The Schoolmaster, Peace, Proclaimed,
Shakespeare's Windsor, The Two Shakespeare, The Merry Wives, Good Queen
Bess, House of Stuart, The Little Park, The Queen's Court, The King's
Knights, Spurious Peace, King Christian. A Catholic Dean, Apostasy, Expulsion,
Forest Rights, Book of Sports, Windsor Cross, In the Forest, Windsor
Seized, Under the Keep, At Bay, Feudal Church, Roundheads, Cavalier
Prisoners, The New Model, Last Days of Royalty, Saints in Council, Changing
Sides, Earshot Lodge, Cutting Down, Windsor Uncrowned, A " Merry "
Caesar, Windsor Catholic, The Catastrophe, Domestic Life, Home.
"Readers of all classes will feel a genuine regret to think that these volumes
contain the last of Mr. Dixon's vivid and lively sketches of English history. His
hand retained its cunning to the last, and these volumes show an increase in force
and dignity"— .4 </u'na?«m.

"Mr. Dixon's is the picturesque way of writing history Scene after scene la
brought before us in the most effective way. His book is not only pleasant reading,
but full of information"— G^ra/>/!ic.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW V^OUKS— Continued.

CONVERSATIONS with M. Thiers, M. Guizot,

and other Distinguished Persons, during the Second Empire. By
the Late Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M.
SiMPSO>r, 2 vols, demy 8vo. SOs.

Among other persons whose conversations are recorded in these volumes are:

Bang Leopold; the Due de Broglie; Lord Cowley; Counts Arrivabene. corneille,
Daru, Flahault, Kergolay, ^ilontalembert ; Generals Lamoriciere and
Chrzanowski; Sir Henry Ellis; messieurs Ampere, Beaumont, Blanchard,
Buffet, Auguste Chevalier, Victor Cousin, De Witt, Duchatel, Ducpetiaux,
Demon, Dastard, Duvergier de Lausanne, Leon Faucher, Frere-Orbau, Grim-blot,
Guizot, Lafltte, Baume, Lamartine, LanjuLnais, :Mallac, ilania, ile'rime'e,
Magnet, Jules ilohl, Montanelii, Dillon-Barrot, Quetelet, Ke'musat, Eogier,'
Rivet, Rossini, Horace Say. Thiers, Trouve-chapel, Yillemain, "Wolowskl-
Mesdames Circourt, Come, History, &c.
"This new series of Mr. Senior's 'Conversations' has been for some years past
known in manuscript to his more intimate friends, and it has always been felt that
no former series would prove more valuable or important Mr. Senior had a social
position which gave him admission into the best literary and political circles of
Paris. He was a cultivated and sensible man, who knew how to take full advantage
of such an opening. And above all, he had by long practice so trained his
memory as to enable it to recall all the substance, and often the words, of the long
conversations which he was always holding. These conversations he wrote down
with a surprising accuracy, and then handed the manuscript to his friends, that
they might correct or modify his report of what they had said. This book thus
contains the opinions of eminent men given in the freedom of conversation, and
afterwards carefully revised. Of their value there cannot be a question. The book
is one of permanent historical interest. There is scarcely a page without some
memorable statement by some memorable man. Poetics and society and literature
the three great interests that make up life — are all discussed in turn, and there is
nodiscussionwhichisunproductiveof weighty thought or striking fact" — Aihc/ixum.

CONVERSATIONS with Distinguished Persons

during the Second Empire, from 1860 to 1863. By the Late
Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M. Sdipsox.
2 vols. Svo. 303.
Among other persons whose conversations are given in these volumes are :— Prince
Napoleon; the Due de Broglie; the Marquises Chambre, Lasteyrie. Pallas
Vogue'; Marshal Random ; Counts Arrivabene, Circourt, Corneille, Kern
Montalembert, Re'musat, Zamoyski; Generals Chandelier, Fe'ne'lon,
Trochus; Lords Cowley and Clyde; Messieurs Ampere, Beaumont, Chamber,
Chevalier, Cousin, Dayton, DroujTi de Lhuys, Duchatel, Dufaure, Demon,
Duvergier de Hair-anne, Guizot, Lamartine, Lome'nie, Auvergne, LanjuLnais,
Maury, Marochetti, Mason, Merriment, Dillon Barrot, Pellets, Pietro, Renal,
SL Hilaire, Slide, Thiers, De Witt; Mesdames Circourt, Come, Moil, &c.
•'Mr. Senior's 'Conversations with M. Thiers, M. Guizot,' &c., published about a
year and a half ago, were the most interesting volumes of the series which had
appeared up to that time, and these new 'Conversations' are hardly, if at all. less
welcome and important A large part of this delightful book is made up of studies
by various critics, from divers points of view, of the character of Louis Napoleon,
and of more or less vivid and accurate explanations of his tortuous policy. The
work contains a few extremely interesting reports of conversations with M Thiers.
There are some valuable reminiscences of Lamartine, and among men of a somewhat
later day, of Prince Napoleon, Drouyn de Lhuys, Montalembert, Victor
Cousin, Renal, and the Chevaliers"' — Athenceum.

'sit is impossible to do justice to these 'Conversations' in a brief notice, so we
must be content to refer our readers to volumes which, wherever they are opened,
will be found pregnant with interest"' — The Times.

"Many readers may prefer the dramatic or literary merit of Mr. Senior's 'Conversations
' to their historical interest, but it is impossible to insert extracts of such
length as to represent the spirit, the finish, and the variety of a book which is
throughout entertaining and instructive"— i'aJurrfai/ Review.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW WOUKS—ContiJiued,

HISTORY OF TWO QUEENS: CATHARINE

OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Second Edition. Vols. 1 & 2. Demy 8vo. sos.

"In two handsome volumes Mr. Dixon hero gives us the first instalment of a
new historical work on a most attractive subject. The book is in many respects a
favourable specimen of Mr. Dixon's powers. It is the most painstaking and

elaborate that he has yet written On the whole, we may say that the book

is one which will sustain the reputation of its author as a writer of great power
and versatility, that it gives a new aspect to many an old subject, and presents ina
very striking light some of the most recent discoveries in English history"—
Athenaeum.

"In these volumes the author exhibits in a signal manner his special powers
and finest endowments. It is obvious that the historian has been at especial pain
to justify his reputation, to strengthen his hold upon the learned, and also to
extend his sway over the many who prize an attractive style and interesting narrative
more highly than laborious research and philosophic insight'— Morning Post.

The thanks of all students of English history are due to Mr. Hepworth Dixon
for his clever and original work, 'History of two Queens.' The book is a valuable
contribution to English history'— Daily News.

VOLS. HI. & IV. OF THE HISTORY OF TWO

QUEENS: CATHARINE OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN.

By W. Hepworth Dixon. Second Edition. Derby 8vo. Price sos.

Completing the Work.
"These concluding volumes of Mr. Dixon's 'History of two Queens ' will be perused
with keen interest by thousands of readers. "Whilst no less valuable to tha
student, they will be far more enthralling to the general reader than the earlier
half of the history. Every page of what may be termed Anne Boleyn's story affords
a happy illustration of the author's vivid and picturesque style. The work should
be found in every library"— Poi.

HISTORY OF WILLIAM PENN, Founder of

Pennsylvania. By W. Hepworth Demon. A New Library Edition
1 vol. demy 8vo. With Portrait. 12s.
Mr. Dixon's ' "William Penn ' is, perhaps, the best of his books. He has now revised
and issued it with the addition of much fresh matter. It is now offered in a
sumptuous volume, matching with Mr. Dixon's recent books, to a new generation of
readers, who will thank Mr. Dixon for his interesting and instructive memoir of
one of the worthies of England"— jE'.ca??u'n€r.

VOLS. HI. & IV. OF HER MAJESTY'S TOWER.

By W. HEPWORTH DIXON. DEDICATED BY EXPRESS
PERMISSION TO THE QUEEN. Completing the Work. Third
Edition. Demy Cvo. sos.

FREE Russia. By W. Hepworth Dixon. Third

Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. With Coloured Illustrations. sos.
"Mr. Dixon's book will be certain not only to interest but to please its readers-and
it deserves to do so. It contains a great deal that is worthy of attention, and
is likely to produce a very useful eUect."—Sahtrday Review.

THE Swimmers. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Third Edition. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
"A lively, interesting, and altogether novel book on Switzerland. It is full of
valuable information on social, political, and ecclesiastical questions, and, like all
Jlr. Dixon books, is eminently readable"— Z)ai7y News.

MESSRS. HUEST AND BLACKETT'S

NEW V^O'^KS— Continued.

OUR HOLIDAY IN THE EAST. By Mrs. George

SuiixER. Edited by the Rev. G. H. SuiiXER, Hon. Canon of Winchester,
Rector cf Old Akesford, Hands. Second axd Cheaper Edition.
One vol. crown 8vo. "With illustrations. Gs. bound.
' Oar Holiday in the East ' may take its place among the earnest and able
books recording personal travel and impressions in those lands which are consecrated
to us by their identification with Bible history." — Daily Telegraph.

"A most charming narrative of a tour in the East amongst scenes of the deepest
interest to the Christian. No one can rise from the perusal of this fascinating
volume without the pleasant conviction of having obtained much valuable aid for
the study of the inspired narrative of Our Blessed Lord's life." — Record.
"An attractive volume, which is very agreeable reading." — John Bull

MY JOURNEY ROUND THE WORLD, via

Ceylon, Xew Zealand, Australia, Torres Straits, Chdca,
Japan, and the United States. By Captain S. H. Jones-Parry,
late 102ad Royal Madras Fusileers. 2 vols, crown 8vo. Sis.
A very pleasant book of travel, well worth rea-dingy"— Spectator.
"A lively account of the author's experiences ashore and afloat, which is well
worth reading." — Daily Xeics.

"It is pleasant to follow Captain Jones-Parry on his journey round the world.
He is full of life, sparkle, sunlight, and anecdote." — Graphic.

DIARY OF A TOUR IN SWEDEN, NORWAY,

AND RUSSIA, IN 1827. By The Marchioness of Westminster.
1 vol. demy 8vo. los. >

"A bright and lively record. So pleasantly are the letters written which Lady
Westminster sent home, that her book is most agreeable; and it has this special
merit, that it brings clearly before us a number of the great people of former
days, royal and imperial personages, whose intimate acquaintance the traveller's
rank enabled her to make." — Athenceum.

ROUND THE WORLD IN SIX MONTHS. By

Lieut-Colonel E. S. Bridges, Grenadier Guards. 1 vol. 8vo. 15s.
The author may be congratulated on his success, for his pages are light and
pleasant. The volume will be found both amusing and visei\iL"—Athenseum.

TALES OF OUR GREAT FAMILIES. Second

Series. By Edward Walford, Mea. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
Contents :— The Old Countess of Desmond, The Edgcumbes of Edgcumbe and
Cohere, The Inches of Galway, A Cadet of the Plantagenet, The Proud
Duke of Somerset, Lady Kilsyth, The Dalzell of Carnwath, The Ladies of
Llangollen, The Foxes, The Stuart of Traquair, Belted Will Howard, An
Episode in the House of Dundonald, The Ducal House of Hamilton, The
Chief of Dundas, The Duke of Chances and Princely Canons, The Spencers
and Comptons, All the Towards, The Lockhart of Lee, A Ghost Story in the
Noble House of Beresford, A Tragedy in Pall Mall, An Eccentric Russell, The
Lady of Fathom House, Two Royal Marriages in the Last Century, The
Eoyles, The Merry' Duke of Montagu, The Romance of the Earldom of Huntingdon,
Lady Hester Stanhope, The Countess of Xithsdale, The Romance of
the Earldom of Mar, Margaret Duchess of Newcastle. Lord Worthington. The
Callers of Wentworth, The Earldom of Bridgewater, The Cares of Beddington,
A Chapter on the Peerage, The Kirkpatrick of Closebum, The Clifford
Earls of Cumberland, The Homes of Polwarth. The Ducal House of Bedford,
Tragedies of the House of Innes. The Ducal House of Leinster, The Royal
House of Stuart. The Great Douglas Case, The Radcliffe of Derwentwater,
The Rise of the House of Hardwicke, Field-marshal Keith.
The social rank of the persons whose lives and characters are delineated in

this work and the inherent romance of the stories it embodies will ensure it a.

widespread popularity. — Examiner.

MESSRS. HUEST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW Wombs— Continued.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mra.
Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. Miss.

"Madame de Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his Use. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the snhiect."— Saturday Review.

"This book was well worth translating. Mrs. Simpson has written excellent
English, while preserving the spirit of the French." — The Times.

M. Guizot stands out in the pages of his daughter's excellent biography a distinct
and life-like figure. He is made to speak to us in his own person. The best
part oi the book consists of a number of his letters, in which he freely unfolds hi
feelings and opinions, and draws with unconscious boldness the outlines of his
forcible and striking character." — Pall Mall Gazette.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE m SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol, small 4to. 5s. bound.

"These letters, the work of a pure and devout spirit, deserve to find many
read er s. ' ' — A athenaeum.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissively
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly find even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, '£. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of theliie."— British
Quarterly Review.

This touching and most comforting work is dedicated to The Queen, who took
a gracious interest in its first appearance, when printed for private circulation, and
found comfort in its pages, and has now commanded its publication, that the
world in general may profit by it. A more practical and heart-stirring appeal to
the afflicted we have never examined." — Standard.

LIFE OF MOSOHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.

2 vols, large post 8vo. With Portrait. 24s.
This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. We need scarcely state that all the portions of Moche
diary which refer to his intercourse with Beethoven, Hummel, Weber, Czerny,
Sporting, Rossini, Auber, Hal^vy, Schumann, Cherubim, Spohr, Mendelssohn, F.
David, Chopin, J B. Cramer. Clement, John Field, Habeneck, Hauptmann, Kalk-
brenner, Kiesewetter, C. Klingemann, Laplace, Dragonetti, Sontag, Persian!,
Malian, Paganini, Rachel, Ronzi de Begnis, De Heriot, Ernst, Donzelli, Cinti-
Moreau, Heard, Bochsa, Reporte, Charles Kemble, SchriJder-Devrient, Mrs.
Siddons, Sir H. Bishop, Sir G. Smart, Staudigl, Thalers, Berlioz, Veluti, 0.
Young, Bale, Abraham, and many other artists of note in their time, will recall a
flood of recollections. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called the ' Music of the
Future,' and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr. Liszt, Rubensteiu, Dr. von Billow,
Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a liberal spirit. He recognizes
cheerfully the talents of oar native artists: Sir S. Bennett, Mr. Mac-barren,
Madame Goddard, Mr. J. Barnett, Mr. Hullah, Mr. A. Sullivan, &c The
volumes are full of amusing Sinecdotes."—Athenieu7n.

CELEBRITIES I HAVE KNOWN. By Lord

William Pitt Lennox. Second Scries. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
"Lord William Lennox makes good use of an excellent memory, and he write
easily and pleasantly"— /"aW Mall Gazette.

MESSES. HURST AND BLACKETT'S

NEW ^O^KS— Continued.

HOLIDAYS IN EASTERN FRANCE; Sketches

of Travel in Champagne, Franche-Comte, the Jura, the Valley of
the DouBS, <S:c. By M. Bentham-Edwards. 8vo. Illustrations, loss.
"Miss Edwards' present volume, written in the same pleasant style as that which
described her wanderings in Western France, is so much the more to be recommended
that its contents are fresher and more novel'' — Saturday Review.

Readers of this work will find plenty of fresh information about some of tho
most delightful parts of France. The descriptions of scenery are as graphic as the
sketches of character are lifelike." — Globe.

A LEGACY : Being the Life and Remains of John

Martin, Schoolmaster and Poet. "Written and Edited by the

Author of " John Halifax." 2 vols, crown 8vo. "With Portrait. 2l3.

A remarkable book. It records the life, work, aspirations, and death of a

schoolmaster and poet, of lowly birth but ambitious souL His writings brim with

vivid thought, touches of poetic sentiment, and trenchant criticism of men and

books, expressed in scholarly language." — Guardian,

THE YOUTH OF QUEEN ELIZABETH. Edited,

from the French of L. Weesener, by Charlotte M. Yonge, Author
of " The Heir of Redclyffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
iL "Wiesener is to be complimented on the completeness, accuracy, and research
shown in this work. Hiss Yonge appears to have successfully accomplished
the task which she has undertaken." — AtlienxurrL

THE VILLAGE OF PALACES ; or, Chronicles of

Chelsea. By the Rev. A. G. L'L'Estrange. 2 rots. crown %xo. 2l3.

Mr. L'L'Estrange has much to tell of the various public institutions associated
with Chelsea. Altogether his volumes show some out-of-the-way research, and
are written in a lively and gossipping style'' — The Times.

•'Mr. L'L'Estrange "tells ua much that is interesting about Chelsea. "Ure take
leave of this most charming book with a hearty recommendation of it to our
readers." — Spectator.

AN ACTOR ABROAD; or, Gossip, Dramatic,

Narrative, . AND Descriptive : From the Recollections of an
Actor in Australia, Xew Zealand, the Sandwich Islands, California,
Nevada, Central America, and New York. By Edmund
Leather. Demy 8vo. 15s.

PLAYS, PLAYERS, AND PLAYHOUSES, AT

HOME AND Abroad ; With Anecdotes of the Drama and the
Stage. By Lord William Pitt Lennox. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

COACHING ; AYith Anecdotes of the Road. By

Lord William Pitt Lennox. Dedicated to His Grace the
Duke of Beaufort, Keg., President, and the Members of
the Coaching Club. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

THE SEA OF MOUNTAINS : An Account op

Lord Dutferin's Tour through British Columbia in 1876. By
MoLYNEUX St. John. 2 vols. With Portrait of Lord Dufferin. 2 la.

MESSRS. HURST AND Blackett
PUBLICATIONS— Continued.

MEMOIRS OF Georgians, LADY Chatterton

; With some Passages from her Diary. By E. Engage
During. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

LIFE OF THE RT. HON. SPENCER PERCEVAL ;

Including His Correspondence. By His Grandson, Spencer Walpole.
2 vols. 8vo. With Portrait. sos.

MY YEAR IN AN INDIAN FORT. By Mrs.

Guthrie. 2 vols. craven 8vo. With Illustrations. 21s.

A YOUNG SQUIRE OF THE SEVENTEENTH

CENTURY, from the Papers of Christopher Jefferson, of Bellingham
House, Cambridgeshire. Edited by John Cord Jefferson,
Author of "A Book about Doctors," &c. 2 vols, crovrn Bvo. 21s.

RECOLLECTIONS of COLONEL DE Bonneville.

Edited from the French by Charlotte M. Yonge,
Author of the " Heir of Redclyffe," &c. 2 vols, crown Svo. dis.

THE THEATRE Francis IN THE REIGN

OF LOUIS XV. By Lord Lamington. 1 vol. demy Svo. 15s.

HISTORIC CHATEAUX: Blois, Fontainebleau,

Vincennes. By Lord Lamington. 1 vol. Svo. 15s.

A MAN OF OTHER DAYS : Recollections of the

Marquis de Beauregard. Edited, from the French, by Charlotte
M. Yonge, Author of " The Heir of Redclyffe," &c. 2 vols. 21s.

MY YOUTH, BY SEA AND LAND, from 1809 to
1816. By Charles Loftus, formerly of the Royal Navy,
late of the Coldstream Guards. 2 vols, crown Svo. 21s.

MY LIFE, FROM 1815 to 1849. By Charles Loftus,

Author of " My Youth by Sea and Land." 2 vols, crown Svo. 21s.

Costs ESPANOLAS ; or, Every-day Life in

Spain. By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-Bury. 2nd Edition. Svo. Miss.

Turkish HAREMS & Circassian HOMES.

By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-Bury. Svo. Second Edition. 15s.

-MEMOIRS OF QUEEN HORTENSE, MOTHER

OF NAPOLEON III. Cheaper Edition, in 1 vol. 6s.

RECOLLECTIONS OF SOCIETY IN FRANCE

AND ENGLAND. By Lady Clementina Davies. 2nd Edition. 2 v.

THE EXILES AT ST. GERJilAINS. By the

Author of *' The Lady Shakerley." 1 vol. 7s, 6d. bound.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
PUBLICATIONS— a??ztow^c/.

WORKS BY THE AUTHOR OF 'JOHN HALIFAX.

Each in One Volume, elegantly printed, found, and illustrated, price 5s.

^ JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman.

A woman's thoughts

ABOUT WOMEN.
A LIFE FOR A LIFE.
NOTHING NEW.
MISTRESS AND MAID.
THE woman's kingdom.

CHRISTIAN S MISTAKE.

A NOBLE LIFE. •

HANNAH.

THE UNKIND WORD.

A BRAVE LADY.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE. •

WORKS BY THE AUTHOR OF * SAM SLICK.'

Each in One Volume, elegantly printed, bound, and illustrated, price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN

NATURE.
■SMSE SAWS AND MODERN

INSTANCES.

THE OLD JUDGE ; Or LIFE

IN A COLONY.
TRAITS OF AMERICAN

HUMOUR.

THE AMERICANS AT HO:\IE.

WORKS BY IVIRS. OLIPHANT.

Each in One Volume, elegantly printed, bound, and illustrated, price 5s.

ADAM Gramme.

THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

AGNES.

THE LIFE OF THE REV

EDWARD IRVING.
A ROSE IN JUNE. .

Phoebe, JUNIOR.

WORKS BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

Each in One Volume, elegantly printed, bound, and illustrated, price 5s.

DAVID ELGINBROD.
ROBERT FALCONER.

ALEC FORBES.
SIR GIBBIE.

PUBLISHED BY Hurst & BLACKETT.

THE QUESTION OF CAIN. By Mrs. Castel

Hoed, Author of " A Golden Sorrow," &c. 3 vols.

THISTLEDOWN LODGE. By M. A. Paul,

Author of " Thu's Troubles," &c. 3 vols. (In January.)

THE SILVER LINK. By Mrs. HouSTOUx\, Author

of " Recommended to Mercy," &c. 3 vols.

STRANGE CHAPMAN. By W. Marshall, Bea.,

Author of " Morsel Digby." 3 vols.

TIME AND CHANCE. By Mrs. ToM Kelly.

Second Edition. 3 vols.

"The story of these lovers (the artists Euy and Tngha) is well told in 'Time
and Chance,' and some aspects of diggers" life in South Africa are vividly described.
" — Athenaeum.

"time and Chance' is a good healthy novel, which will instruct as well as
interest. " — Illustrated A^ews.

"Avery pretty story. There is a good deal of quiet humour and not a little
genuine pathos to be found in the tale." — Scotsman.

MISS DAISY DIMITY. By the Author of "Queene,"

A Jewel of a Girl," &c. 3 vols.

There is a charm about this book which makes it difficult to lay it down." —
John Bull.

Daisy herself is life-like, and is altogether an attractive heroine"— is. James's
Gazette.

There is the charm of originality in the author's treatment of the subject, and
the heroine is a living personage whose girlish emotions of alternating hope and
alarm are gracefully and vividly rendered. Altogether we are glad to take this
opportunity of offering 'Miss Daisy Dimity' the handsomest compliments in our
repertory." — Pall Mall Gazette.

TILL DEATH US DO PART. By Mrs. J. K.

Render, Author of "Godwin's Ordeal," &c. 3 vols.

"Mrs. Spender is one of our most clever writers of fiction, and the novel before
us may be regarded as one of her best." — Court Journal.

"One of the most attractive and valuable novels that has been published of
late. The studies of men and women in it are excellent"— <Sco<snjan.

LITTLE Fine. By Mrs. Macquoid, Author of

Patty," " Beside the River," &c. 3 vols.

"Very pleasant reading." — PaU Mall Gazette.

"In these volumes Mrs. Macquoid reveals the skill in the delineation of varying
types of character, the unmistakable dramatic power, and the quiet grace of style
which invest all her books with such real charm"— ^co^s/na/i.

TOO FAST TO LAST. By John Mills, Author of

The Old English Gentleman," &c. 3 vols.
The author of ' The Old English Gentleman ' has produced another novel which
will bear favourable comparison with its predecessor. It is an interesting story,
full of life and inc\d.Qni."— Sunday Times.

WANTED, AN HEIR. By C. L. Pirkis, Author of

A Very Opal," &c. 3 vols.
"A pleasant and interesting novel"— 5f. Jajnes's Gazette.
A thoroughly interesting, original, and well-written story"— /o/jn Bull.



PUBLISHED BY HUEST & BLACKETT.

MY LORD AND MY LADY. By Mrs. Forrester,

Author of "Viva," "Mignon," &c, Tfdrd Edition. 3 vols.

"This novel ^vill take a high place among the successes of the season. It is as-fresh
a novel as it is interesting, as attractive as it is realistically true, as full of
novelty of presentment as it is of close study and observation of life"' — The World

love story of considerable interest The novel is full of surprises, and will
serve to while away a leisure hour most agreeably." — Daily Telegraph.

HIS LITTLE MOTHER, and Other Tales and

Sketches. By the Author of " John Halifax." 1 voL Bids. 6d.
This is an interesting book, written in a pleasant manner, and full of shrewd
observation and kindly feeling. It is a book that will be read with interest, and
that cannot be lightly forgotten"— .S<. James's Gazette.

A MAN'S MISTAKE. By the Author of "St,

Slave's," " Janita's Cross," &c. 3 vols.

'A Man's Mistake,' like the other novels by the same author, is written in a
pleasant style'' — Athenaeum.

"A carefully executed study of provincial life in the well-known style of the
author of ' St Slave's.' The character-painting is admirably done'" — Academy.

HARRY JOSCELYN. By Mrs. Oliphant, Author

of " Chronicles of Langford," &c. 3 vols.
"In 'Harry Joscelyn ' Mrs. Oliphant makes judicious use of sharp and telling
contrasts. Nothing can be better than her pictures of the bleak Cumberland fells-and
their rough inhabitants, except her clever sketches of Anglo-italian life in
Leghorn. Harry himself is a clever and interesting study." — The Times.

AMONG THE HILLS. By E. Frances Porter,

Author of " My Little Lady," &c. "2 vols.

bliss Pointer has undoubted power. She showed this in her first novel, ' My
Little Lady ' ; she has proved it yet again in her new venture, which is, moreover,
a distinct advance upon its predecessor. For depth and sincerity of feeling, quiet
pathos, and good taste, ' Among the Hills ' may take rank among the better-class
fictions of the day." — St. James's Gazette.

A touching and powerful story." — Spectator.

RESEDA. By Mrs. Randolph, Author of '' Gentianella,"

&c, 3 vols.
"'Reseda' is pleasant to read, and will sustain its author's reputation. It is
calculated to give a good deal of pleasure to lovers of modem fiction." — Post.

LOVE, HONOUR, AND OBEY. By Iza Duffus

HaPvDy, Author of " Glencairn," &c. 3 vols.
A very clever story. It is likely to attract many reader" — John Bull.
A story of strong interest and power." — Post.

Strict Y TIED UP. By the Right Hon. A. J. B.

Beresford Hope, M.P. Third and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. 63.
"A clever story. In ' Strictly Tied Up ' we have vigorous sketches of life in
very different circumstances and conditions. "We have the incisive portraiture of
character that shows varied knowledge of making 'We have a novel, besides,
which may be read with profit as well as pleasure, for the author deals occasionally
with burning topics of the day." — The Times.

IVY : COUSIN AND BRIDE. By Percy Greg,

Author of " Errant," &c. 3 vols.
'Ivy ' can be recommended pretty strongly to persons who are able to recognise
accurate drawing of character, and still more strongly to those who appreciate
pathos.' — Saturday Review.



LODGERS PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

THE Fifty-first EDITION TOR 1882 IS NOW READY.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as-well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal.

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently de .
ceased members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the subject" — Spectator.

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— Pos(.

The best existing, and, we believe, the best possible Peerage. It is the standard
authority on the subject." — Standard.



OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS,

ILLUSTRATED BY SIR J. GILBERT, MILLAIS, HL'^^T, LEECH, FOSTER,
Pointer, TEXNIEL, Sands, HUGHES, Tambourine, &C.

Each in a Single Volume, elegantly printed, bound, and illustrated, price 5s.
1. SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking,
Nature and Human Nature' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous
productions, and is well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain
in its present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type, and good paper, the lesser but attractive merits of
being well illustrated and elegantly bound." — Post.

2. JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man — a Christian gentleman; and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought. Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and
written with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass
freely from hand to hand as a gift book in many households"— Examiner.

3. THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT Warburton.
Independent of its value as an original narrative, and ita useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened Among its greatest and most lasting charms is
its reverent and serious spirit" — Quarterly Review.

» 4. NATHALIE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

* Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good." — Athenaeum.

5. A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well-written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical Whoever wishes to give advice to a
young lady may thank the author for means of doing so"— Examiner.

6. ADAM Gramme. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"A Story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its admirable pictures
of Scottish life and scenery. The author sets before us the essential attributes of
Christian virtue, with a delicacy, power, and truth which can hardly be surpassed-Po5^

7. SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS & MODERN INSTANCES.

"The reputation of this book will stand as long as that of Scott's or Rulers Novels.
Its remarkable originality and happy descriptions of American life still continue tho
Subject of universal admiration." — Messenger.

8. CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS OF
THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal "Wiseman has treated a special subject vrith so much geniality, the
his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously opposed
to every idea of human infallibility represented in Papal domination"— .4 tAenasu/n.

9. A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"In 'A Life for a Life ' the author is fortunate in a good subject, and has produced a
work of strong effect" — Athenaeum.

10. THE OLD COURT SUBURB. By LEIGH HUNT.

"A delightful book, that will be welcome to all readers, and most welcome to thos*
who have a love for the best kinds of reading." — Examiner.

\ 11. Margaret AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

•' We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it amie ch3ivmmg."—Athenasum.

12. THE OLD JUDGE. By SAM SLICK.

The publications included in this Library have all been of good quality ; many give
information while they entertain, and of that class the book before us is a specimen.
The manner in which the Cheap Editions forming the series is produced, deserves
especial mention. The paper and print are unexceptionable ; there is a steel engraving
in each volume, and the outsides of them will satisfy the purchaser who likes to see
books in handsome uniform"— £'a;ammer.

13. DARIEN. By ELIOT WARBURTON.

"This last production of the author of 'The Crescent and the Cross 'has the same
-elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands." — Globe.

14. FAMILY ROMANCE.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.

"It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting hoo"— Standard.

15. THE LAIRD OF NORLAW. By MRS. OLIPHANT

"The 'Laird of Norlaw ' fully sustains the author's high reputation"— <SMnctoj/ Tiniest

16. THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

•'Mrs. Bretton's book is interesting, and full of opportune instruction"— rome*.

17. NOTHING NEW.
BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

' Nothing New ' displays all those superior merits which have made ' John Halifax '
sone of the most popular works of the day"— Posh.

18. FREER'S LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET.

"Nothing can be more interesting than Miss Freer's story of the life of Jeanne
D'Albret, and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive." — Post.

19. THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

"If asked to classify this work, w e should give it a place between 'John Halifax ' and
The Cantons.' "Standard.

20. THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM.

BY PETER BURKE, SERGEANT AT LAW.
A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm." — Illustrated News.

21. ADELE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

'" Adele ' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh ; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-paintings"— yKAen^wm.

22. STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These ' Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. The
took will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished SMXhov."— Saturday Review,

^ 23. GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

"We commend Grandmother's Money ' to readers in search of a good novel The
'Characters are true to human nature, and the story is ini&T6stmg."—Athenmum.

24. A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS. By J. C. Jefferson.

A delightful book." — Athenaeum. " A book to be read and re-read ; flt for the study
as well as the drawing-room table and the circulating library"— Lances.

U

We advise all who have the opportunity to read this hoo^"—Athengtum.

26. MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN Halifax, GENTLEMAN."

A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive."
— Athenaeum. " A charming tale charmingly told." — Standard.

27. LOST AND SAVED. By HON. MES. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved ' will be read with eager interest It is a vigorous novel"— themes.
"A novel of rare excellence. It is Mrs. Norton's best prose work"— ^xamtVjer.

'^ 28. LES Miserable. By VICTOR HUGO.

AUTHORISED COPYRIGHT ENGLISH TRANSLATION.
"The merits of 'Les Miserable' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of genius"— Quartered Review.

29. BARBARA'S HISTORY. By AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as ' Barbara's
History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very graceful
and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and sentiments
expressed with an exquisite elocution. It is a book which the world will like"— ri'mej.

30. LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
•' A good book on a most interesting theme'— Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. Irving's Life ought to have a niche
In every gallery of religious biography." — Saturday Review.

31. ST. Slave's.

"This charming novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, aa
well as experience and knowledge of the world. "— Athenaeum.

32. SAM SLICK'S AMERICAN HUMOUR.

•' Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize"— Post.

33. CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
A more charming story has rarely been written. Even if tried by the standard of
the Archbishop of York, we should expect that even he would pronounce ' Christian's
Mistake' a novel without a fault"— rim*.

34. ALEC FORBES. By GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last" — Athenaeum.

35. AGNES. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"agnes' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant former vror^s."— Athenaeum.
"A Story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers.''^— Pwf.

36. A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF *' JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax' speaks
out of a generous heart the purest truths of lile."— Examiner.

37. NEW AMERICA. By HEPWORTH DIXON.

A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and welL"— TH'nw*.
"We recommend every one who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
Dixon's very interesting hoo"— Saturday Review.

38. ROBERT FALCONER. By GEORGE MAC DONALD.

' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and Searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and ieQUngs^'—Athenaevm.

U

39. THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

' The "Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the
purest and noblest kind of domestic stories.— Athenaeum.

40. ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.

"A racy, well-written, and original novel. The interest never flags. The whole
work sparkles with wit and humour." — Quarterly Review.

41. DAVID ELGINBROD. By GEORGE MAC DONALD.

The work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of rea,deTB."—Ti?nes.

42. A Leave LADY. By the Author of "John Halifax.'^

"A very good novel; a thoughtful, well-written book, showing a tender, sympathy
with human nature, and permeated by a pure and noble spirit" — Examiner. '

43. HANNAH. By the Author of "John Halifax."

• ' A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a
wide circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

44. SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

"This is one of the most amusing books that we ever read." — Standard.

45. THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"The author of 'John Halifax 'has written many fascinating stories, but we can
call to mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful
sketches in this work." — United Service Magazine.

46. A ROSE IN JUNE. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. oliphant, and may hold ita
own with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

47. MY LITTLE LADY. By E. F. Pointer.

There is a great deal of fascination about this book. The author writes in a clear,
unaffected style; she has a decided gift for depicting character, while the descriptions
of scenery convey a distinct pictorial impression to the reader"— T'ime.t.

48. Phoebe, JUNIOR. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"This novel shows great knowledge of human nature. The interest goes on
growing to the end. Phoebe is excellently drawn"— T'/mes.

49. LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

"A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the
most popular English history of Marie Antoinette-spectator.
"This book is well written, and of thrilling interest." — Academy,

50. SIR GIBBIE. By GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius"— /"aW Mall Gazette.

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There is not a character which is not
lifelike." — Athenaeum.

51. YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

' Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English." — The Times.

There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome." — Athenaeum.

52. LORD Brandenburg. By AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-class
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There is plenty of
variety, cheerful dialogue, and general 'verve' in the book." — Athenaeum.

"lord Brandenburg ' is pleasant reading from beginning to end"— .Academy.


